New 1962 Rambler American Convertible, automatic top standard. 125 HP Overhead Valve Six won more economy tests than all other U.S. compacts combined.
For Go-Peopie! 'Q2 Rambler American
So beautiful you won’t believe it’s the economy king!
Look inside, look outside. You’ll see quality of workmanship, features and appointments you’d expect to pay hundreds more to get.
New! Double-Safety Brake System. Tandem master cylinders, one for front brakes, one for rear. If one is damaged, the other still works.
New! Self-Adjusting brakes, standard. Bonded brake linings.
New! E-Stick No-Clutch-Pedal Transmission. Most of the ease of full automatic drive at Ji the cost.
New! Easier steering. 19% more road clearance.
New! 2-yearor24,000-mile battery. New! 2-year or 24,000-mile coolant. Refill radiator after 2 years.
New! 4.000-mile oil change.
NOW! [.ounge-Tilt Seat with headrest. Adjusts hydraulically for knee-comfortable height Optional.
RAMBLER World Standard of Compact Car Excellence
from abstract ideas...fundamental knowledge at Esso Research
Existence of a solvate between the butadiene monomer and the carbon-lith-ium bond of the “living” polymer is indicated by butadiene and styrene copolymerization experiments, conducted by Esso Research scientists, using butyllithium initiation.
This hypothesis is supported by such observations as the homopolymerization rate for styrene which is six times that of butadiene. But in copolymerization the initial rate is that of a butadiene homopolymerization and the copolymer initially contains only 10 mole % styrene.
' In other experiments with tetrahydrofuran, the copolymerization rate is ’ increased, the reaction is of first order with respect to the ether, the styrene in
the initial copolymer increases to 30%, and there is a shift in the structure of the polybutadiene segments from 1,4 to 1,2-enchainment.
A mechanistic model for this reaction has been developed. It suggests that the copolymer structure and the polymerization rate depend on the monomer concentration at the locus of polymerization. Butadiene appears to be 100 times more effective than styrene in the competition for the reactive site, perhaps due to the formation of a pseudo-6-membered-cyclic structure of low energy.
An ether may solvate lithium, making the C-Li bond more ionic, and thus increase polymerization rate. The stereochemistry would be altered by the
solvation at the reaction site, increasing 1,2-enchainment and the availability of styrene. Solvates containing different amounts of ether may be formed and affect the 1,2-structure more than they affect initial copolymer composition.
These studies raise questions such as: can spectrophotometric evidence for the solvate be found? Can the temperature stability of such intermediates be determined? Will experiments with other monomers, ethers and solvents correlate with this mechanism?
... adaptedprom a scientist’s paper at Esso Research and Engineering Company P. 0. Box 45 B, Linden, New Jersey.
3
THE PUREBRED NATURAL SHOULDER SPORT JACKETS
$34.50 $39.50
I
Our good looking sport jackets include handsome tweeds, shetlands, cheviots and classic blazers. We invite you to see them soon. The Campus Shop’s distinctive collection of sportswear also includes odd vests and trousers, jackets, sweaters and Ivy sport shirts.
^ILBEBTS ^^ampus^hop*^
On the Campus—Notre Dame
The Scholastic
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY . .
PAY	PAY	PAY
1/3	1/3	1/3
IN JUNE	IN JULY IN AUGUST
No Carrying Charge
Being well dressed . . . looking the part of a successful gentleman . . . is no problem while you’re a student at Notre Dame. Get the clothing you need when you need it . . . and choose from the most famous brand-names in America . . . charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay for it next summer. This convenience costs you nothing extra — there is never a carrying charge nor interest to pay. Drop in at the Campus Shop soon.
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS . . .
On the Campus—Notre Dame
November 17, 1961
5
On Campus
feiWinan
(Author of “Barefoot Boy With Cheek”, “TheMany Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)	'
IT’S LATER THAN YOU THINK!
All year long you’ve been promising yourself to go there. Now the semester is nearly over and you still haven’t set foot in the place. Shame on you!
But it’s not too late. Right now, this very minute, before you weaken, lift up your head and forward march to the place you have been avoiding ever since school began. I refer, of course, to the library.
Now here you are at the library. That wasn’t so bad, was it? Of course not! Go inside. What do you see? A sign that says “NO SMOKING.” Go outside. Light a Marlboro. Smoke. Go back inside.
Because now you are ready. Now your trembling resolution is rigid. Now your pulsing psyche is serene. You have been calmed by mild Marlboro. You have been soothed by that fine selectrate filter, by that fine full flavor that dotes and pampers and caresses, that lifts the fallen, repairs the shattered, straightens the bent, unravels the knotted, rights the askew, and fastens the unbuttoned.
In the center of the library you see the main circulation desk. Look in the card catalogue for the number of the book you want, write the number on a slip, and hand it to the efficient and obliging young lady at the desk. The efficient and obliging young lady then gives the slip to an efficient and obliging page boy who trots briskly back into the stacks, curls up on a limp leather encyclopedia, and sleeps for an hour or two. Then, puffy but refreshed, he returns your slip to the efficient and obliging young lady at the desk, who tells you one of three things: a) “Your book is out,” b) “Your book is at the bindery.” c) “Your book is on reserve.”
Having learned that the circulation desk hasn’t the least intention of ever parting with a book, let us now go into the periodical room. Here we spend hours sifting through an imposing array of magazines—magazines from all the far comers of the earth, magazines of every nature and description—but though we search
*
diligently and well, we cannot find Mad or Playboy.
Next let us venture into the reference room. Here in this hushed, vaulted chamber, we find the true scholars of the university—earnest, dedicated young men and women who care for only one thing in the world: the pursuit of knowledge.
Let us eavesdrop for a moment on this erudite couple poring over heavy tomes at the comer table. Hush! She speaks:
SHE: Whatcha readin’, hey?
HE: The Origin of Species. You ever read it?
SHE: N o, but I seen the movie.
HE: Oh.
SHE: You like readin’?
HE: Naah.
SHE: What do you like?
HE: Hockey, licorice, girls, stuff like that.	-
SHE: Me too, hey.
HE: You pinned or anything?
SHE: Well, sort of. I’m wearin’ a fellow’s motorcycle emblem ... But it’s only platonic.
HE: Wanna go out for a smoke?
SHE: Marlboro?
HE: What else?
And as our learned friends take their leave, let us too wend our way homeward—a trifle weary, perhaps, but enlightened and renewed and better citizens for having spent these happy hours in the library. Aloha, library, aloha!
€1 1941 Xlax Shulman
* *
GLANCES
The familiar seen from an extraterrestial vantage point is what J.J. Pottmyer, senior chemical engineer, offers us via “Some Historical Fragments” . . . page 9.
Glittering brass and military pomp at tonight’s Tri-Military Ball... page 11.
Coming in the wake of the “twist” affair, another clash of artistic judgments . . . page 12.
Next month will see a plebiscite on permanent hall residence plans; the pros, cons, and background informa- . tion . . . page 13.
Also coming soon after Thanksgiving, the Notre Dame Law School’s annual Law Day for juniors and seniors . . . page 14.
Art Graham’s report on recent Senate doings . . . page 16.
Going to the movies? See John McGuire’s “In Town and Around”; also bridge fans’ “Kibitzer’s Korner” ... page 19.
One man’s answer to the question, “So how was the play?” a review of The Cocktail Party . . . page 20.
The University Art Gallery opens its latest exhibit of the works of Belgian painters; a modest sampling ... page 22.
Reading of the poetry of Rev. Raymond Roseliep, by the author; a review . . . page 23.
And a cartoon feature, by Larry Sicking . . . page 24.
How should we stack up in the remaining games with Syracuse, Iowa and Duke? See . . . page 29.
Bob Bill, senior tackle, chats about the good news from Pittsburgh . . . page 30.
“A Voice in the Crowd” makes itself heard . . . page 31.
The Green Bay Packers’ Paul Hornung, “Golden Boy” of ND’s team several years ago, played his last game of the season Sunday before going on active army duty. An interview for alma mater . . . page 32.
Father Tom Brennan “the younger” gives his views on “Specialization and the Role of General Knowledge” in the Scholastic “Forum”... page 37..
The makers of Marlboro, who sponsor this column, could write volumes about another one of their fine products— the unfiltered king-size Philip Morris Commander—but we’ll only tell you this: Take a leaf from our book. Enjoy a Commander today.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class I mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a	t
postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. magazine is a member of the Catholic School Pres* Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by	‘
Spencer, College Magazines Con>.. 420 Madison	:
Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation	,
and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC, printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscrip'	J
tion rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all	:
manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185,, Notre	|
Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material t’J-’	|
comes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.	p
The Scholastic r
6
The Notre Dame

	Vol. 103	No. 8 November 17, 1961
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
:	news editor .
JOHN McCABE,
Ken Arnold, Joe Caspar, . Pete Clark, Jim Wyrsch.
news sloff—John Buckley, Vince De Coursey, .	Dick Maher, Ted Pinto, Steve Stopp, Steve
■ Stuecheli, Don Wharton.
features editor
TOM HOOBLER
features sfaff—Carl Wiedemann, R. E. Mc-
Gowan, Brian Barnes, Tom Cullen, John Festa, Mott Cosgrove.
sports editor
WILLIAM CARY,
John Bechtold, Bob Chiappinelli, Terry Wolkerstorfer.
sPPrH staff—Jim Higgins, Frank Hinchey, Dave Fuys.
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN,
Patrick Saxe, Robert Sajnovsky.
Photography—Brian Beck, Wei Clark.
layout editor
STEVE POD LAS
business manager JAY WARD,
*	Art Berry, Bob Buckley,
f	Tom Dalum.
tod salesmen—George Maguire, Rich Rogge-veen, Phil Tomber. .
. i ,
| circulation manager
f	JAMES CREAGAN
j	faculty advisor
t	DONALD COSTELLO
?	7 • -	'	■	■
k
I
A FIRST STEP: Another sign of Notre Dame’s continuing concern for improvement in academic facilities and curricula appears in the activities of , the special faculty committee of the Arts and Letters College. The committee has recently completed a preliminary study of the AB school, publishing a lengthy report on the curriculum and administration, with emphasis on faculty opinions concerning controversial matters.
One particularly significant item which the committee considered was the status of the sophomore comprehensive examination. Originally intended to give both the students and faculty a general idea of the educational level attained by two years of study within the College, the comprehensive has declined, in prestige in recent years, with fewer people — students and faculty — taking it seriously. Essentially meaningless grades, given to the hundredth point, have not made the exam any more respected. Some of the alternatives presently being considered range from the postponement of the whole business until the senior year to replacing the grading procedure with letters of recommendation to be appended to the records of outstanding performers at the interview.
Another area considered was the implications of the common freshman year to be put into effect next year. The committee was enthusiastic for the possibilities of more effective freshman counseling programs in this connection, and also studied the possibilities for course options in the freshman year.
Despite the tentative character of the report, we feel it is an encouraging sign of significant progress. However, the report did reveal that perhaps the weightiest single problem to be overcome is a lack of unity among the departments, a lack of ability of each department to see how it relates to the unifying goal of a liberal education.
OREMUS: With weariness and some small grief, we note that the existing powers at a nearby Catholic girls’ college have come out rather strongly against the female figure. As the incident has been widely publicized and is covered in this week’s issue (see page 12), we wish only to express here our doubts as to the validity of rejecting the nude as an art form (feeling that, for once, tradition is on our side). It is a fairly well established theological position held by the Catholic Church (and defended against dissenters ranging from the Manicheans to the Jansenists) that the body is not evil — is not a creation of Satan (in fact, it has even, at times, been called “the temple of the Holy Ghost”). Further, perhaps it is not too much to expect that those who would attend Mr. Dunn’s exhibit would be sufficiently acquainted with Western art to realize that representation of the nude human figure is hardly original with him, and that they would be mature enough to view his painting without severe temptations to immorality. But perhaps again, these enthusiastic guardians of virtue consider that the Church has erred in acknowledging the existence of the naked body and in having it incorporated into some of the finest ecclesiastical art. There may be some justification (though we doubt it) for this overzealous censorship of art; but we do question the advisability of being more Catholic than the Catholic Church.
If this episode were only an isolated occurrence, it might more easily be — if not ignored — at least played down. However, recently we have seen at , our neighboring institution other indications of this simplistic approach to art and morality — chief among which was the directive forbidding the students to attend the South Bend production of the Broadway play, Advise and Consent. Since the administrators gave no plausible reason and since no objection to the play was raised in other Catholic quarters, one can only presume that it held threats of some vague, but terrible, evil for these particular girls. Let us pray for their deliverance from evil.
— W. & Z.
7
COVER—This week, Steve Enright, senior architect, and I teamed up to portray the traditional spirit of Thanksgiving in a local emporium of note.
— PAT SAXE
ESTABLISHED 1818
^en’s |UrnishhigsJJats ^Sbocs
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • PITTSBURGH • SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANCELES
headquarters for undergraduates OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP
AND OUR "346" DEPARTMENT
These two fine departments have everything for today’s undergraduate... from new unfinished worsted suits to traditionally correct evening wear.. .all reflecting our distinctive styling, quality and taste. University sizes 35 to 42, "346” sizes 36 to 46.
University Suits, $65 to $80 • Topcoats, $80 Skiwear, from $11' Outerwear, from $30 ‘'346” Suits, $90 to $ 105 • Topcoats, from $95 Tweed Sport Jackets, $65 to $75 Button-down Oxford Shirts, $5.75 and $6.25








REPERCUSSIONS
POINT OF ORDER Editor:
I wish to comment on two remarks attributed to me in the last issue of the Scholastic regarding the “twist” motion before the Senate.
In the first instance, I was quoted completely out of context. In speaking against the motion, I said that any dance can be made vulgar and suggestive through the intent or design of the participants. I further stated that if we were going to ban the twist, then we might also consider banning the pony, the fly, and countless other dances. I stated that the twist was a vulgar expression of social and emotional immaturity — but implied that it was made so only by the intention of the dancers.
At no time did I say that “we have degraded the Senate by adverse publicity.” I stated that we had already given the twist enough free publicity, and that by even considering such a ridiculous resolution, we had degraded the reputation of the Senate.
I should like to emphasize that I voted against any motion seeking to ban the twist.
Paul R. Charron 243 Lyons
GUEST REMARKS Student Body President University of Notre Dame Dear Mr. Buckley:
Thank you for your nice letter and for your many courtesies during the visit of our University Band to the campus of Notre Dame. We were all so completely gratified by the treatment accorded our band by your Notre Dame band and we all enjoyed your show immensely.
Incidents of the kind that occurred following the game are not the responsibility of the majority, and certainly everyone involved understands that on every campus you are apt to have that one half of one per cent who are inclined to lose their heads. Fortunately, all that our band lost was a few hats, and we are happy to forget the whole matter as of right now.
I have talked with Mr. Biam about the possibility of the Notre Dame Band visiting our campus when we play Notre Dame next fall. I certainly hope that it will be possible, and I hope that you will bring pressure to bear from the officers of the band to see that this trip is made a reality-
John P. Paynter Director of Bands Northwestern University
The Scholastic
8
Some historical fragments
by J. J. POTTMYER
The following article is an introduction to a thesis presented in partial fulfillment of the requirements for a doctoral degree in Extraplanetary History at the Alpha Centauri Historical Institute.
■
Although the Exploratory Expedition to the planet Earth brought back no less than four fragments of Terranean printed matter, two of these fragments — both pamphlets by a common author — have remained in relative obscurity. Most modem historians are well acquainted with the text on medieval history of the Earth which has been extensively analyzed. The fragment entitled the Scholastic has also recently been studied by such eminent historians as Ruellio.
While it is unfortunate that a more extensive collection of Terranean literature could not be obtained, the Expedition cannot be blamed for the early abandonment of its project, being constantly plagued with heavy snow falls. Through an error in navigation, the Expedition was forced to land in the area of the Great Grey Blot, so named because of the permanent cloud formations always hovering over the area. The expedition was primarily interested in the anatomy of the human beings. This interest was generated as a result of electromagnetic radiations from Earth which, when decoded, revealed the Terraneans to have trip-hammers in their heads and pipes for intestines.
Ruellio, after a thorough study of the Scholastic, has fairly conclusively proven that the Terraneans belong to a decadent and doomed society. The Terraneans lived in communities segregated according to sex, making propagation of their race rather difficult. The communities were ruled over by aristocrats who could be distinguished from the common people by the fact that these aristocrats always wore black uniforms. Some self-government was allowed the common people, but this consisted primarily of legislation regarding the morality of the ritual movements gone through when the members of the female and male communities were allowed to meet.
The two fragments of Terranean literature which have thus far escaped the notice of scholars are bulletins of a religious nature. For students of Terranean history, they offer considerable philological information, not only regarding the names of the com
November 17, 1961
mon vices of the Terraneans, but also concerning such rare words as “Peace Corps” and “Tom Dooley.” Tom Dooley was long considered to be a criminal on the basis of a certain ballad monitored by sensitive radio receivers on our planet. However, these two pamphlets brought back from earth present a more heroic aspect of the character of this enigmatic figure.
These pamphlets definitely fix the location of the “Library” which was referred to in the Scholastic. An examination of the journal of the Expedition by Captain Blovio reveals that this “Library” is nothing other than a huge pit. Thus it is neither a repository for books, as suggested by Ruellio, nor a temple to a primitive god named Excellence, as suggested by other historians. It now appears that a “Library” consisted of nothing more than a pit for burning refuse. The fact that books were burned by the Terraneans cannot be denied in view of the fact that three of the four fragments of their literature were found in metallic containers along with such other bits of refuse as wrapping paper, bottles, and “Schlitz” cans.
The picture of the author of the two pamphlets brought back from Earth is much better known than his name. Being ill supplied with samples of Terranean cursive writing, the signature of the author of the bulletins has remained an enigma to historians. Thonseric gives him the name of “Glen Boormun.” However, a better translation might be “Glen the Boring.” This latter translation is supported by the fact that both pamphlets consist of comments on a limited number of themes — study habits, retreats, blasphemy, athletics, indulgences, and Tom Dooley.
TGffi WORK of Glen the Boring seems to be largely that of compilation. In this respect it is similar to that of the Scholastic which published literary works of the past along with news items and commentaries on gladiatorial combats. This tendency to republish the literary work of the past has been considered by Ruellio as evidence of the inability of a decadent society to produce significant works. Glen, on the other hand, chose to publish in very fine print long legalistic catalogues of “indulgences” and letters from the “missions.”
The following are a few illustra
tions, selected at random, from the religious fragments, which give a fair indication of life on Earth at the time of the Exploratory Expedition.
CLOSED RETREAT: Three weeks from now, a closed retreat will be held on campus. Better hurry to sign up, as there is room for only 25. Cancelled cuts will be given for Saturday classes.
OPEN HOUSE: The Knights will hold Open House in the Council Chambers before the game Saturday. Highlights of the last winning season will be shown. Be sure to see these historic old films.
A letter was quoted in entirety on the reverse side of this bulletin:
“When I joined the Peace Corps, Father, I must admit that I had some illusions of becoming another Tom Dooley. I see now how mistaken I was. I am teaching English to the natives. Actually, I sometimes have my doubts as to whether I am teaching the Native boys more than they are teaching me. I led a somewhat secluded life at Notre Dame, as you may be aware, leaving only once in four years to attend a Y.C.S. Convention. At any rate, these are really grand people. I sometimes wonder about their dietary habits, though.
Yours in Tom Dooley, Joe Christian
The other bulletin contained the following items:
RETREAT: There are still over twenty openings for any who may wish to make a closed retreat beginning tomorrow. Cancelled cuts will be given ...
IN YOUR CHARITY: Please pray for the following. Deceased: Joe Christian, '60, eaten in a stew. Ill: President of the University, injured in an airplane crash. Seven special intentions . . . RALLY TONIGHT 7:30 FIELDHOUSE.
LEAGUE: Most of you should have been enrolled in the Antiblasphemy and Temperance League by this time. In the event you haven’t gotten around to seeing your Hall Chaplain about this, you are reminded that in this league you have only one essential obligation — to refrain from swearing and drinking. In return yoU may share in the spiritual benefits of membership. As a member of the Antiblasphemy and Temperance League, you have a share in the prayers of all members of the League and are entitled to the following special indulgences ...”
9
ENGINEERING can start here... or here... or here... or here... or here... or here
If you are completing studies in engineering, economics, math, science or business, have maintained high averages and are interested in a rewarding professional career, IBM Systems Engineering may be just the career for you.
An IBM Systems Engineer studies problems in industry, science, business and government, and then organizes the most effective electronic data processing techniques and machine systems to solve them. The problems are fascinating and exciting—and include automation of: process control and manufacturing operations, inventory control, document preparation, highway planning, weather forecasting, and complete business control
systems for utilities, transportation, banking and insurance, to name but a few. New techniques of automatic data processing are making headline news almost daily.
Your present training, combined with one of the most comprehensive training programs conducted by any company, prepares you for this fast-growing, dynamic new profession. Openings exist in all principal U.S. cities. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For more information describing the opportunities at IBM, see your College Placement Director or, if you desire, write or call—
W. F. Wahl, Branch Managei IBM Corporation, Dept. 882 618-620 N. Michigan Street South Bend 1, Ind.
Phone: CE 2-8251
You naturally have a better chance to grow with a dynamic growth company.
DATA PROCESSING
10
The Scholastic
MILITARISTS DANCE TONIGHT
This evening, from nine to one, the Tri-Military Council of Notre Dame will present the “Autumn Re->	view,” the 1961 Military Ball. Peter
i	Palmer will provide some genial notes
I and harmonious voices for those i wishing to dance and listen.
; As usual a triad will fulfill the role of military queen. Providing the Air Force portion of the triangle will be Miss Chris Raaharge. Miss Raaharge is from Vallejo, Cal., a senior at Armstrong College, enjoys swimming and gambling, and is described by her date as “very pert.” Her date tonight is John McReynolds, Air Force and General Chairman of the ball. He is an accounting major from Knoxville, Tenn., an Air Force group commander, and was publicity chairman for the Military Ball in 1959 and I960. He also enjoys gambling.
The Navy will provide the hypotenuse of the triangle. Miss Angela
MISS ANGELA RICCININI
Brunette for the Navy
Riccinini, from Patchogue, N. Y., does accounting work with the New York Telephone Company, and her date for the evening says she “skis with ardor.” Her escort is Jim O’Hanlon, a senior history major from Seaford, N. Y., who won a freshman track numeral, is presently a member of the Herodotians History Club and commander of Navy’s Bravo company. He is an ardent ski enthusiast.
November 17, 1961
MISS CHRIS RAAHAUGE Blonde for the Air Force
Completing the triangle is the Army’s sweetheart, Miss Jane Molloy. Miss Molloy, a sophomore at St. Mary’s majoring in Home Economics, hails from Middletown, Ohio. Her companion tonight is William Bish. Bish is a senior General Program major, executive officer of the Army Brigade, president of the Sorin Cadet Club and plans to go to law school. He is interested in St. Mary’s.
Other chairmen include Army men Brian Conway, publicity; Peter Jarema, decorations; and Mike Furesz, miscellaneous; Air Force men Donald Koeppel, refreshments; Lindsay Kramer, accomodations; and Gregory Risch, entertainment; Navy men Larry Soletti, business; Tom Eiff, communion breakfast; and Joseph Chocale, tickets.
To complete the weekend the Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., will give the Sunday morning communion breakfast talk. The talk will begin at 11:00 a.m. and will take place at the Morris Inn.
GRAD DONATES BUILDING
Alfred C. Stepan, Jr., 1931 Notre Dame graduate and member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, is the donor of the new student activities building.
To be called the Stepan Student Activities Center, the $350,000 building now under construction will seat
3,000 for concerts and convocations.
The donor is the founder and president of Stepan Chemical Company and president of the Lyric Opera of Chicago, and has been decorated as a Knight Commander of the Holy Sepulchre.
The Stepans, from Winnetka, Ill., have seven children; three of their sons are graduates of Notre Dame and a fourth, Paul, is a ND freshman.
WHO’S FOR WHO'S WHO?
Seniors have until Nov. 20 to file their nominations for the 1961-62 Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities. After that date, the 35 winners will be chosen by a board of .j representatives from the major campus organizations. The chairman is Paul Tschirhart, appointed by the Blue Circle.
Publication in Who’s Who is a recognition to those seniors who have made outstanding contributions to the school, in both scholastic and extra-	1
curricular achievement.	ji
The men chosen will have their j names published in the nationally	j
distributed directory of distinguished seniors and will be featured in a special section in the Dome.
MISS JANE MOLLOY
SMC for the Army
Junior Tschirhart will head the board consisting of representatives from the same groups as last year, with a few possible additions: student government, the Dome, the Scholastic, WSND, YCS, the Hall Presidents’ Council, and each of the four college advisory boards.
Chairman Tschirhart urged all seniors to nominate themselves for this honor. Name, address, school and major, activities, awards, and scho-
11
lastic average should be included in the letter of nomination, to be turned in to him at 349 Badin.
CENSORING REALITY
SLOAN DONATES $1,000,000
The College of Engineering of the University of Notre Dame has received a $1,000,000 grant from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, said that it will be used to strengthen the faculty, improve and expand the laboratories, and establish a Computer Center. Notre Dame will implement the grant to provide a total of $2,500,000 for engineering development in the near future.
As a result of the grant, the University will be elegible for an additional $500,000 from the Ford Foundation’s Special Program in Education. The portion of the grant spent on laboratories will be matched by the National Science Foundation.
The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation was founded in 1943 by Alfred P. Sloan, Jr., former president and chairman, and presently honorary chairman of the board, of the General Motors Corporation. It provides funds for research and education to Universities and other nonprofit organizations. The foundation sponsors scholarships for college undergraduates, fellowships for post-doctoral research in the physical sciences, and programs in other educational and research activities. The foundation contributes substantially to research in cancer and opthalmology.
BOM PROF TAKES CHAIR
Prof. Thomas P. Bergin, head of the Department of Business Organization and Management at Notre Dame, will hold the newly established Jesse H. Jones Professorship of Business Administration.
A native of Watertown, N.Y., Dr. Bergin graduated from Notre Dame in 1945 and joined the faculty of its College of Business Administration two years later. He became head of the BOM Department in 1952. He holds a master’s degree from the University of Vermont and a doctorate from Syracuse University.
The new faculty chair honors the late Jesse H. Jones, Houston, Tex., businessman and philanthropist, who served at various times as Secretary of Commerce, and chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, and Federal Loan Administration during the administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt.
The Professorship has been under-(Continued on page 36)
12
In the past two weeks a storm of controversy has arisen over the alleged censorship of the John J. Dunn art exhibit at St. Mary’s College. So much has been said both nationally and locally that the Scholastic deemed it necessary to present the situation as it exists. Last Sunday in an attempt to separate fact from hearsay a reporter interviewed Dunn and received the following information.
For those unknowing, John J. Dunn is a respected English artist presently teaching at St. Mary’s under a one-year contract. He was a former lecturer at King’s College, and has studied in Liverpool and in Edinburgh. He has shown his work, mostly ceramics, in England and in France. Two of his ceramics have been purchased by the British royal family. His first American show was presented in New Hampshire in 1959.
Dunn was aproached some time ago with the proposition of showing his artwork at St. Mary’s. The present and former head of St. Mary’s Art Department reviewed both his sketches and his ceramics and found nothing objectionable in them. Sunday, November 5, was set as the opening date for the show.
Dunn supervised the placing of his artwork on Friday and Saturday and left the exhibit Saturday thinking the matter settled. Saturday afternoon or evening a member of the administrative faculty at St. Mary’s, not a member of the arts faculty, reviewed the paintings and described them to Sister Maria Renata, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s College, as “improper,
IMPROPER, VULGAR, AND SUGGESTIVE?
vulgar, and suggestive.” Sister Renata, without first looking at the paintings, ordered the sketches in question to be taken down. (The sketches are a collection of nudes — see cut.)
Sister Renata later had one of the drawings brought to her and agreed that it was “vulgar, suggestive, and improper.”
Dunn was not consulted about the removal of his paintings and consequently when he appeared on Sunday for the opening he was surprised and uneasy about this turn of events. He went through with the opening, but later that evening he removed all of his paintings, explaining that he “objected to censorship in any form. The implication was that there was something improper in the drawings themselves. There is nothing improper in them, and I did not want people to come and see the drawings with the mistaken impression that there was something improper in the drawings themselves.”
The incident did not end there, and probably won’t end for some time. Dunn feels the criticism as made by Sister Renata was not objective, and that by labeling his drawings as “improper, suggestive and vulgar,” she considered his motives in sketching the work as being such. Dunn believes that his personal, not his artistic, reputation has been damaged.
Dunn contends the intention of his artwork was to elevate and to inform, and was certainly not to corrupt. He singled out both the favorable San Francisco court decision on an Allen Ginsberg recording and the New York court ruling on Joyce’s Ulysses as being examples of the legal distinction between the intent to inform or to elevate and the intent to corrupt.
People have been most sympathetic to Dunn. Several of the members of the faculty at St. Mary’s (including one who was until recently highly placed at St. Mary’s) have made it a point to see Dunn and express their shock and distress over the incident. His mail has been universally favor- ■ able. The London Daily Mail, the South Bend Tribune and the Chicago Tribune have had stories about the affair. Perhaps the final and effective word on the matter was expressed when a random questioning of St. Mary’s students brought these comments: “a rude and officious way of handling things”; “and unfortunate and damning occurrence.”
— by Jim Wysazh
The Scholastic
PERMANENT HALL RESIDENCE
By Pete Clark
After years of neglect and misunderstanding, a Stay Hall Residence plan will be proposed this year and voted upon by the student body on Dec. 14. A similar referendum was held two years ago when the students voted three to two in favor of the plan; however, nothing was done at the time. Its failure can be blamed on the attitude in past years: with an imposed discipline, there was no reason for Stay Halls, and so the popular arguments about “true university community spirit” went unheard. Only the recent changes in Administration policy have made Stay Hall Residence practical.
Everyone who has enjoyed the comparative freedom of the past months will agree that the present attitude toward discipline is vastly preferable
SIMON ST. LAURENT
Putting it to a vote.
to the past stringency. However, too few students realize that this relaxation is an experiment to see if, “Given enough rope, we will hang ourselves." The Administration must decide, after a reasonable trial period, whether the student body can, in fact, discipline itself, or whether the former method of imposed discipline is still needed.
The alternative to the old Student Manual is some form of self-discipline enforced either by an honor system °r by a strong tradition of responsible
behavior. The methods of an honor system, involving as it does students informing on each other, are foreign to Notre Dame ideals, and so our task is to add to the Notre Dame traditions a tradition of maturity that will preserve the freedom we enjoy now.
The removal of strict Administration discipline has left a vacuum which should be filled by an accepted norm of mature behavior if we are to enjoy the responsibility of selfdiscipline. The logical source of such a norm should be the example of the more mature students; but the vacuum exists because too few of the older students appreciate their position, while those that do are not given the opportunity to be effective. The study of both of these problems by concerned student leaders has resulted in the Stay Hall Residence Plan.
Actually, Stay Hall Residence is a proposal which incorporates the means to self-discipline — mixing the classes — with further benefits, chiefly the growth of a “community spirit.” However, this community spirit, while admittedly a desirable improvement, is not nearly so vital a need as are mature and effective examples of responsibility.
By mixing the classes in a definite numerical ratio, the Stay Hall Plan will provide continuous and close contact of mature upperclassmen with the more impressionable underclassmen.
Some people may question the value of upperclassmen as examples, but there are two essential considerations which should not be ignored. First is the natural role which the older students should have as leaders and teachers; this role is not realized now because the contact it requires is not available. Second is the effectiveness of the “social consciousness” that the older students would have to acquire when they are put in the “goldfish bowl” of a mixed hall. Every older student would be considered an example; the pressure of this very real responsibility will help each man to fulfill his position.
The doubts about the effectiveness of upperclassmen as teachers have resulted in most of the proposed plans leaving the freshmen out of consideration. However, in view of the present argument for Stay Hall Residence, it would seem that the freshmen, far
from being ignored, should receive the most attention, since it is in the first year that most students form the habits and attitudes that will guide them for four years. Particularly when there are good reasons to believe that the upperclassmen will live up to their responsibility, there is no point in neglecting the most critical year of the student’s development.
Aside from the most obvious benefit of self-discipline, the proponents of the plan cite the growth in community spirit, the strengthening of hall spirit, and the healthy improvement in interhall competition in all fields as additional results of Stay Hall Residence. It is reasonable to expect that a student who may live in the same hall or even the same room will be more interested in the care and growth of his community home.
Hall governments will be continuous, with men working up through the natural hierarchy of leadership. The Hall Presidents’ Council will be a more useful organization; and student government in general will benefit from the development of able leaders. Halls will acquire unique characters and traditions deriving from their residents; desirability of a hall will no longer be decided by age or condition but by the individual interests of the students in that hall. There will be a greater opportunity for real intellectual dialogue between the classes, while the quality of hall athletics will be greatly improved. As reports on this plan often summarize, there will be most of the benefits of a fraternity without the major disadvantages.
Most students, recognizing the need for something to fill the “discipline vacuum” left by the Administration’s relaxation, will agree that Stay Hall Residence is a satisfactory substitute, but many wonder about the specific details. Several plans have been proposed; most differ only in the mechanics of room preference and selection. However, these details are properly in the realm of the Office of Student Accounts and so they should not affect the basic decision to accept or reject Stay Hall Residence.
The general outlines of any plan would contain these items: students could stay from year to year in the same hall (or possibly the same room); classes would be equally divided in each hall; interclass rooming would be discouraged; and students could change halls easily if they wish. Any plan will probably retain the present system of choosing rooms in order of classes and academic average.
(Continued on page 15)
November 17, 1961
13
REV. THEODORE J. MEHLING, C.S.C.
On Monday afternoon, November 13, the Reverend Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., Provincial Superior of the Indiana Province of Holy Cross Priests died in Santiago, Chile. Father Mehling had arrived in Chile last month to make his last official visitation to the Holy Cross Fathers who conduct a college and a seminary there. His twelve-year tenure of office was to terminate in July, 1962.
A native of Fremont, Ohio, Father Mehling entered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1924 and was ordained in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, in June, 1933. He served at the University first as an instructor in English and later became Director of Studies. In 1946 he was appointed President of the University of Portland at Portland, Oregon. Just four years later he was named Provincial of the Indiana Province of Priests. Since that time he has directed the activities not only of the Holy Cross priests at Notre Dome, but those of more than 700 religious in the United States, Chile, Africa, and East Pakistan.
Notre Dame is saddened by the loss of one whose cooperation and encouragement have seconded all her progress. May he rest in peace.
14
FOR FUTURE LAWYERS
Law Day for 1961 will be held on Dec. 13. This third annual presentation by the University of Notre Dame Law School will enable undergraduates who are interested in legal study to witness a law student’s activities and to question professors, lawyers, and students about the study of law.
The program will commence at at 8:30 a.m. with registration, followed by introductory messages from Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University; Prof. Joseph O’Meara, dean of the Law School; Louis N. Roberts, president of the Law School’s Student Law Association; Vincent J. Romeo, general counsel for Miles Laboratories in Elkhart, Ind.; and Patrick Brennan, prosecuting attorney for St. Joseph County. In addition, guests will have the opportunity to witness and participate in actual class sessions throughout the day.
Special features of the day’s activities will include a demonstration of Moot Court; an American Bar Association film; explanations by professional men concerning uses of their legal education; and a presentation of co-curricular activities, including Gray’s Inn, Moot Court, the Student Law Association, and The Lawer, a periodical law review.
In conjunction with the Law Day announcement, Dean O’Meara ex- j tended an invitation to all undergraduates to witness the Law School’s ’ practice court. Each Saturday, members of the senior class argue a case before a jury in the Federal District i Court in the Post Office Building downtown. Federal Judge L. M. Swygert hears each case. The prac- • j tice court will continue each Saturday ; until Christmas vacation. The trials last all day, but observers may enter and leave at any time.
Senior law students, who were placed by Dean O’Meara in some of the nation’s top law firms and large corporations will speak on the practice of law. The Law School has received with enthusiasm a similar program of summer work.
Chairman James A. Wysocki expects a turnout comparable to last year when over 300 attended. Assisting the chairman are Charles J. Griffin, Classin J. Gramm, James L. Lekin, Charles P. Sacher, Thomas F. Conneely, and James E. Carroll.
Cancelled cuts will be available for all juniors and seniors who attend, and freshmen and sophomores are cordially invited to come when they have time.
CHAIRMEN OF THE THIRD ANNUAL NOTRE DAME LAW DAY
The Scholastic
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
JUGGLER
FALL 1961
THE CREATIVE VOICE
Numerous changes will highlight this year’s edition of the campus literary magazine, the Juggler. The first of three issues, it will be available next Wednesday.
Book reviews and a new improved art section will return to the magazine after a year’s absence. Both were discontinued after last year’s first issue. The cover has undergone considerable change also. Lighter colors and a sharper contrast will now introduce each publication.
As the campus literary quarterly, the Juggler gives focus to the creative and critical works of Notre Dame students, both graduate and undergraduate. According to its editor John Reishman, “the Juggler's approach is different from the defeatist secularism found today in many other college magazines. The Juggler is known for its realization of the connection between art and Christianity.”
The magazine consists of the outstanding short stories, poems, critical essays, and art work of the students of Notre Dame. Anyone may contribute to the Juggler, and even if the article is not accepted for publication, it will be returned to the author with a critical appraisal.
Assisting Reishman this year are assistant editors: Ray Kelley, Terry Burke, and Mike McCarthy. BillVeeder is the associate art editor. Prof. Frank O’Malley is the faculty moderator for the Juggler.
Individual copies of the Juggler will be sold for 75^. The subscription rate for all three issues is $1.50. Subscriptions can be obtained in a few halls from the Juggler representative in the hall; students from halls without representatives can see John Reishman in 389 Dillon.
November 17, 1961
'Residence'
(Continued from page 13)
The student decision for or against Stay Hall Residence will be left to a student referendum on Dec. 14. There will be two questions: (1) “Are you in favor of a Stay Hall Residence Plan?” (2) “Do you think freshmen should be included in such a plan?” The Senate committee on Hall Residence, headed by Simon St. Laurent, intends to provide extensive publicity of the plan before the vote.
Through hall discussions, brochures, a radio debate, and other means, they hope to eliminate any excuse for ignorance of the proposal. This vote is one of the most important decisions the student body will be asked to
THE CHICAGO CLUB OF N.D. invites YOU to their ANNUAL THANKSGIVING DANCE in the GRAND BALLROOM of the CONRAD HILTON
FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 24 — 9:00 P.M.-1:00 A.M.
DAN BELLOC’S ORCHESTRA
DOING IT THE HARD WAY
(GETTING RID OF DANDRUFF, THAT	' •
easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH
tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover SHAMPOO every week for positive dandruff control.
cuamdaa KeeP y°ur hair and sca,p OnAMrUU really clean, dandruff-free 1
FITCH
LEADING MAN'S
Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as 1-2-3 with r FITCH 1 In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one |? rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand-l» somer, healthier. Your scalp
make, for on it may depend the future of the Administration's present policy. A favorable vote should result in some form of Stay Hall residence next year.
— Peter Clark
NABICHT CAFETERIA
★
1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria ★
FREE PARKING
i
15 .
Ant Q^akam
VALID NEW SYSTEM?
Monday night, Chris Buckley, SBP, asked the Senators to begin considering the role of student government in
the future. “Is the word Student Government a misnomer, or should we begin accepting the responsibility of governing our own society on campus matters?” Buckley said many Catholic schools in the coun
try are waiting to see how the new system works out at Notre Dame.
The Student Body President was urging the Senators to be ready for the new responsibilities that will be thrust upon them with the approach
of permanent hall residence.
In the next few weeks a lot of publicity will be given to permanent hall residence and on Dec. 14 a referendum will be held. If the student body approves the stay hall system, the Senate will probably be given the responsibility of working out the structural details.
Such a system will mean a complete revision of student government For example, the Senators will probably all be juniors and seniors, and many Senate functions will be handed over to the halls.
Given the necessary freedom by the administration, the Senate will be able to make Notre Dame the kind of school that the “new administration” and many students would like to see: a self-governing student body held in check by an honor system and social expectancy, rather than administrative decrees.
A loan of $400 was given to the Amateur Radio Club. The Senate in
keeping with their tight financial policy made sure that this loan would be paid back. Meece investigated the ability of the club to pay the loan and Castaldi checked their books.
After some wrangling the Senate appropriated $75 to the Fine Arts Circle for a lecture. The club came to the Senate after making its commitment. Dick Meece objected that clubs who did not use the appropriate channels should not receive money.
Joe Simoni, International Commissioner, reported on his trip to a student conference in New York to hear Prime Minister Nehru and other U.N. officials speak. Simoni said Nehru was well received by the students. . Chris Buckley also attended the conference.
Although the student gets little benefit from these excursions, there is a need for effective Catholic leadership at these conferences, something which Notre Dame is in a position to give.
SIC FLICS
3L V
KING
“Look! Fiedler’s back from












vacation!”
IGAI^TTES |
£
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!
AGED MILD, BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
16
The Scholastic
your HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
Pat Weaver, National College Queen
What does this lovely College Queen want in her diamond ring?
Top , Evening Star Engagement Ring $225.00 Bride’s Circlet............. $ 60.00
Bottom
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring $425.00
Bride’s Circlet_____________ $ 30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for diamond quality and Permanent Value.
★
CREDIT (with no interest) AND LAY-A-WAY
AVAILABLE TO
NOTRE DAME MEN
★
Miss Pat Weaver, America’s National College Queen, revealed her feminine taste as well as her practical sense when asked about diamond rings. She selected as her favorite the lovely Artcarved Evening Star —one of Artcarved’s awardwinning designs. Why did she choose it? Because of its breathtaking beauty and guaranteed quality. You see, every Artcarved ring is guaranteed, in writing for all the years to come by America’s most respected ring maker. You buy it with confidence—wear it with pride.
Visit your local Artcarved Jeweler and see why Artcarved diamond rings have been the choice of millions for more than a century. Perhaps you can start hinting for yours now!
NATIONALLY ADVERTISED IN AMERICA'S LEADING MAGAZINES
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
121 W. WASHINGTON
CE 4-1311 &
**ortwd Artcarved imt,
EVENING STAR First choice of America's College Queens
J. R. Wood A Sons, Inc:, Dept. CP-31 216 E. 45th St, New York 17, N. Y.
Please send me more facts about diamond rings and "Wedding Guide for Bride and Groom.” Also name of nearest (or hometown) Artcarved Jeweler. I am enclosing 10t to cover handling and postage.
Name_________________________________________
Address______________________________________
City_________________County or Zone
State______________________________________
November 17, 1961
Hence the Cypress Room. It’s your shop—set apart from our other fine men’s furnishings.
And it’s packed with all the latest and smartest campus fashions for fall.
The rich and mellow Cypress Paneling ... the authentic Colonial decor ... the handsome coach light ... the informal Coke and coffee bar and the many other appointments combine to create a friendly and casual atmosphere for you. Come in
We at Rasmussen’s have
recognized the real need for an exclusive, young men’s shop in the area for some time.
Cricketeer Clothes • H. I. S. Wash Slacks London Fog Rainwear • Arrow Shirts Repps & Foulard Neckwear by Reis* Thane Full-fashioned Sweaters • British Byford Hosiery • Gulf Stream Slacks • H. I. S. Outdoor Jackets* Cricketeer Sport Coats
soon and shop or browse with the other young men who are on their way up.
18
The Scholastic
iM's lo^er
This is the last preview of Michiana entertainment before Dec. 15. Thus, for your convenience, and as a matter of course, I shall include here all of the fare — cultural and otherwise — that will hit the Bend and area before our next publication.
Of Special Interest. The Cocktail Party runs its course this weekend. It would seem to need just a slug of something for support ... a little weak somewhere. Who diluted it with what? Perhaps our group bites off more than it can chew. I’d rather venture that than question the talents of T.S. Eliot. You see it, then form your own opinion.
The combined Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Glee Clubs will perform twice before the middle of next month. Admission free as an added enticement. Tuesday at Washington Hall (8:30 p.m.) and Dec. 10 at O’Laughlin auditorium (8:00 p.m.).
The Rev. Patrick Maloney, C.S.C., will exercise his tenor voice on the evening of Nov. 30. The all-lieder recital will be heard on the Washington Hall stage at 8:30 p.m.
On Dec. 11 the music department will present the American Woodwind Quintet at Washington Hall. (8:30 p.m.) Admission is one dollar.
Saint Mary’s will present Gilbert and Sullivan’s Pirates of Penzance on Dec. 4 at 8:15 p.m. In O’Laughlin, of course. It’s a Tyrone Guthrie special from the Stratford Festival in Canada. The Stratford company has, in the past, limited itself to Shakespeare. This is the first non-Shakespeare tour of the company in the U.S. They are branching out. Next year, if the tour is successful, they will travel with HMS Pinafore. Tyrone Guthrie, however, is synonymous with success.
The Indianapolis Symphony will come to SMC on Dec. 6. The Symphony is conducted by Izler Solomon and will play O’Laughlin at 8:15 p.m. On Sunday 19 the Stecher and Horowitz piano duo will appear in O’Laughlin: the home of Michiana culture.
The French pianist, Michel Block, will appear with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra on Sunday, Dec. 3, at 4:00 p.m. on the stage of the Morris Civic Auditorium.
The South Bend Art Association has two programs coming up — either might be of interest. On the night of Dec. 8 at 8:00 p.m. the Art Center will sponsor three movies: Annapurna, a documentary of one of the French Himalayan expeditions; Mark Tobey: Artist, the world as seen by that famous American ; and Japanese Calligraphy, a rediscovery of an ancient oriental art. Tonight Sol Hurok will present Galina Ulanova and the Moscow Ballet in its beautiful Portrayal of The Ballet of Romeo and Juliet. A winner of the Canes Film Festival award. Plus Ballet by Degas with accompaniment by composer Irma Jurist.
The Avon. The Truth with B.B. (Bardot, don’t you remember?). Only, this is supposed to be where she shows her stuff ... as an actress. Copped the best actress in Europe award for it. . . . Henri-Georges (Diabolique) Clouzot is the director.
The Truth will be followed by La Dolce Vita after the former does a two-Week stint. If, perchance, it doesn’t make two weeks, Bed of Grass will be its substitute. In any case that takes us well into December.
(Continued on page 25)
November 17, 1961
This week’s column is devoted to the television match between Purdue and Notre Dame, which will be shown on the Blackwood Bridge Hour on the night of the twenty-seventh.
The Notre Dame team, consisting of Carl Williams, Tony Astrologes, Bob Peters, and myself, was chosen by a two-step process. First a general elimination tournament was held at the Student Center in which the two pairs in both directions (in a tournament, it is customary to sit the same direction, EW or NS for the entire event) were allowed to form two teams for a knockout match that would decide the team to play Purdue. Opposing us were Frank Christopher, Jim Mark, Paul Donis, and David Joyce.
The actual match was played and televised at Indianapolis, Ind. The four men on the Purdue team bid according to the Kaplan-Sheinwold system, one built around the weak no-trumph, as did basically my partner, Peters, and I. Our teammates played a modified Goren system. The match was an exciting one, with several big swings and several psyches and preempts muddying the bidding waters. In the end, it was the Notre Dame team that was the victor by 1700 points, due to its surprisingly superior slam bidding, as can be seen from the following two hands that will appear on the show.
Hand 2 Board 5 NS Vul.
N (Dealer)
S—J 6 5 H—8 5 2 D—Q 7, 6 4 C—K J 3
W	E
S—A 10	7	4 2 S—3
H—A Q	J	4	H—10	9	7 6	3
D-J	'	D—A	K	10 8	3
C—Q 10	2	C—A	9
S
S—K Q 9 8 H—K D—9 5 2 C—8 7 6 5 4 (Continued on page 26)
19
The intense difficulties of presenting The Cocktail Party, even to a college audience, raises the question of whether the play is ultimately stageable or not. I’m sure that T.S. Eliot intended it to be staged and did not write it as a play in form only. Its popular success, however, could not have been due to the fact it was frequently done by amateur groups because Its rigors apparently do require professional talent, both in acting and directing, for a successful performance.
The text of the play contains problems extrinsic to the performance. There is quite a bit of philosophical import to The Cocktail Party, almost too much to grasp in one, or several, readings, let alone one viewing. The effect is that of being surrounded by people who keep firing highly rites-related mystical, symbolic, philosophical statements — that also have literal meaning — at the listener. The job of retaining and interpreting what is said and what is meant at the first viewing
is almost overwhelming. The audience is asked to juggle and at the same time contemplate such insignificant themes as the cocktail party itself, East and West, the reality between unreal people, man as an object, a pawn, or an insect, role-playing in life, delusion and reality, the Platonic idea of the well-ordered man, martyrdom, determinism and freedom of choice, Christianity and paganism, and, last and greatest, the divine and the human, salvation.
The proliferation of themes is not a weakness but a strength, a demand on the viewer. The same problem of handling many lines of thought and imagery would assail a person seeing a play by Shakespeare for the first time without having read it previously. The Cocktail Party requires nearly the same intensity of aproach for full understanding as do the plays of Shakespeare. The Cocktail Party 1S enjoyable even if the viewer knows nothing about it, but he will be more
The Scholastic
2G
I?UE
Cocktail Party
than a little confused and will miss much of what is really there.
The idea of presenting The Cocktail Party was an admirable one but ill-fated. If low aim is crime and not failure, no crime was perpetuated, but an admirable failure. The cast fought the good fight but they were beaten from the beginning. If we believe, with Albert Camus, that Sisyphus is content and indeed noble, then the efforts of those connected with The Cocktail Party were not without some significance and nobility.
The best, however, of a difficult situation was not made — there were glaring weaknesses in the presentation. The fault was not, I believe, with the Play, which is a fine one, but with the actors for not being professionals.
Because the play is in verse the Performers often had obvious difficulties in articulating “nots” and “wills” to preserve the poetry without sounding stilted. I had the constant desire to ask the actors to repeat some of the lines they dashed off, or to see the dialogue printed somewhere, like the sub-title English in a foreign language film.
It was hard to believe that the actors were the middle-aged and older characters they were supposed to be, not necessarily because of the makeup (though Joe Harrington could have been a little grayer), but because they didn’t seem or act middle-aged. Perhaps they were all a bit too vital, too enthusiastic.
This overenthusiasm, or overact-lng, to use a stronger term, marred
November 17, 1961
many scenes. The cast pushed terribly and unnecessarily hard to make the dialogue move and sound spontaneous, but I think The C. P. is a more relaxed play. They exerted themselves without real need. The party scenes, instead of dragging, were too rushed, the lines tumbling over themselves, to be delivered and done with.
Unfortunately the worst overacting was done by Joe Harrington in the leading rold of Edward Chamberlayne, mainly because of what I take to be a misconception of the character of Edward. Edward is a person overtly and professsedly in the situation of J. Alfred Prufrock. There are mentions or allusions to the poem. Edward talks of or is told of descending the stair dressed to play a certain role, being only a beetle the size of a man with nothing more inside than what comes out when a beetle is stepped on, (“to spit out all the butt ends of my days and ways”). He desires to desire, he fears encroaching age. He is basically inert, passive, mediocre, a doormat. In complete contrast, Joe Harrington is volatile, vigorous, irascible, and energetic; and, of course, not Edward Chamberlayne. The script prepares us to believe that Edward is near a breakdown, but Joe Harrington doesn’t. Whether this heavy-handedness results from acting or directing, I don’t know. In this comedy with heavy themes, the tendency was the heavy-handed one of making the high comedy too funny and serious moments overly dramatic, spoiling both. But even if Mr. Harrington’s concept of Edward were correct, his acting was much too stiff and turgid; he became a harsh-speaking mannequin.
On the contrary, Sally Douglas as Edward’s wife Lavinia was, far from being stiff, extremely fluid and natural. She was the most exciting character by far, as a rather diabolical Lavinia.
"THE MOST POLISHED ACTOR"
a devil’s advocate tormentor of Edward. This concept of Lavinia as dynamic but completely self-controlled is a fascinating one and feasible one, ■ and theatrically very pleasing.	f
However, Miss Douglas tended to I control the scenes she was in a little too much, and sometimes upstaged, inadvertently I think, the others. When the center of attention should have been elsewhere, she often held it. Her delivery was too often rather high-schoolish, her only other major shortcoming.	I
Peter Quilpe as a character is weak | and ineffectual, and not very mature, j but in the hands of James Strahs he becomes insipid, puerile, and un- : convincing. This supporting role is very difficult, and it is a problem to make Peter weak and somewhat silly, but not a cipher. But James Strahs doesn’t come close to succeeding. Peter appears as all of fourteen, and when he comes on the stage the feeling is that someone just walked off, which is less than the effect of a cipher. i Peter Quilpe as a character is unable to communicate with or understand . those around him, but Mr. Strahs is unable to communicate with the audience.
Jeanne Klein at first appears wellcast as Celia, but as the play goes on she doesn’t show the strength that Celia must have to act as she does. Her serious lines are much too dramatic and choked up. She substitutes emotionality for mettle.	;
Julia Shuttlewaite and Alexander ' MacColgie Gibbs are really double roles. They appear as gay, flippant, and a bit boorish, but they are actually the guardians of the first four mentioned, those who know themselves, and those ruled by the spirit who are the henchmen of Reilly, the
(Continued on page 23)
LE CHEF-D’OEUVRE OU LES MYSTERES DE L’HORIZON, by Rene Magritte
OPUS 7, 1949, by Victor Servranckx
From the nineteenth of November i to the seventeenth of December the University Art Gallery will have on display an exhibit of contemporary Belgian painters. The exhibit will consist of 45 paintings representing several schools of art, including surrealism, constructionism, and abstract expressionism.
This is the first exhibit of modem Belgian painters to be shown in the Midwestern United States. The only other time a collection of this type has been shown anywhere in the United States was ten months ago in New York City. That exhibit was assembled by Belgians to show the ” evolution of their national art; the • exhibit to be shown at Notre Dame . has been put together by the Arts Club of Chicago with American tastes , -£jn mind.
In conjunction with the exhibit, Felix Standaert, the Belgian consul in Chicago, will deliver a lecture on ‘ the paintings on Monday, November „ 20, at 8 p.m., in the Art Gallery. ■
The artists that are represented in the exhibit are: Gaston Bertrand, Pierre Alechinsky, Maurice Boel, Anne Bonnet, Jo Delahaut, Paul Delvaux, ' Octave Landutt, Jacques Maes, Rene j Magritte, Marc Mendelson, Luc Peire, | Victor Servranckx, Rik Slabbink, Louis i Van Lint, and Henri-Victor Wolvens.
22
FIRST MIDWESTERN EXHIBITION OF
BELGIAN
PAINTERS
RAPPEL A L’ORDRE, by Jo Delahaut
'The Cocktail Party'
(Continued from page 21) philosopher-king. They assume the guise of levity and pretend not to know Reilly. Indeed, Alex actually works for the government as an official “guardian.”
Angela Schreiber as Julia and William Cook as Alex are both unable to do either role convincingly. They overplay the people that Julia and Alex pretend to be so much that their act within the acting of the play is not believable. Then the transition to their real selves, alone with Reilly, is from the ridiculous to the sublime, a transition that the audience can hardly make. The real selves of Julia and Alex are not believable because of the great transition and because their acting is simply unconvincing, their delivery hollow.
For The Cocktail Party to avoid disaster, the role of the psychiatrist, Sir Henry Harcourt-Reilly, must be handled very well, and Richard Kavanaugh certainly brings it off very well. Reilly is the imposing figure of the divine agency in human affairs, the counselor and director, the philosopher-king. In this role Richard Kavanaugh hardly falls short of his triumph as Iago in Othello.
Mr. Kavanaugh is easily the most polished actor in the play; that is to say, the best. He needs all his acting skills to make Reilly both a believable human character and a savious, an establisher of ideals, which he succeeds in doing. Mr. Kavanaugh has a good deal of stage magnetism and can hold together the scenes that he is in, yet not obtrude in those scenes where he is merely an onlooker. Had the rest of the cast come up to the standard set by Mr. Kavanaugh, the play would have been both more rewarding and successful.
The purely technical aspects of the play — sets, costuming, lighting — were excellent in contrast to some of the acting and directing. The production staff cannot be found at fault.
The cast is rather a second-half team in that they finish very strong or stronger than they began. Only in the end do they begin to weave the magic spell, to bring about the miracle °f creating an illusory yet distilled and essential reality upon a wooden Platform. Perhaps they handle the end of the play better because the characters are now much better adjusted and the actors not longer have to play tormented souls.
I felt that the performance kept me constantly on the perimeter of something important, that I was about to be given some smashing insight, some
November 17, 1961
CRITI9UE
FATHER
RAYMOND ROSELIEP'S
POETRY
Last night at 8:00 Fr. Raymond Roseliep, who took his doctorate at Notre Dame some years ago, returned to read poems from his recently published first volume, Linen Bands. In the introduction to the book John Logan raises the touchy and perennial problem of the priest-artist relationship. We had the opportunity a week ago to see the difficulty incarnated in Bro. Antoninus and we have a similar opportunity with Fr. Roseliep. As far as contemporary religious poets are concerned, at least these two, the tension of offices has not been resolved. Attempting to distinguish in principle between the most genuine kind of poetry and that which is artificially motivated is impossible. And yet, how can we feel entirely comfortable when the poet, before reading his poem, announces .that the following expresses his perception of similitude between two persons via the unity of the Mystical Body? This was the case with “No Laughing Matter” but it was also the spirit of “Hospital, 3 A.M.” The difficulty implied is not only Fr. Roseliep’s but belongs to a host of modem writers, poets and novelists. To regard “Christ,” consciously or unconsciously, as a kind of deus ex machina may be theologically tenable. On a literary level, however, it becomes inadequate and often incredible. It amounts to distorting Christian innocence to naivete.
There are other issues more uniquely pertinent to Fr. Roseliep. One of them can be phrased in a question: What kind of experience and poetic expression is significant enough to be called poetry in any profound sense? It seems that poems which deal almost exclusively with “college students I have had in class” or “my father” or (worse) “my mother” are not suffi
grand intuition that would yolk together the disparate themes rampant in The Cocktail Party. But on the perimeter the performance left me. In terms of the cannibal critic who likes to get his teeth into a work, the performance let him get only skin deep.	— Carl Wiedemann
FR. RAYMOND ROSELIEP
ciently significant, in this particular case, to merit our extended attention. And yet they form the bulk of his poetry.
There is a poetic form also to be considered. But again, we find that Father's use of language is likewise undistinguished and far too full of homey linguistic juxtapositions. This is not to say that there are not some very fine lyrical moments in Fr. Roseliep’s poems. “Out of Love” and “Danse Macabre” are such instances. Why these are more successful poems is because they are creations with an inner power and life. They stand without “symbolic explanations” (which, incidentally, are most annoying and pretentious on the poet’s part) or other such crutches. With the exception of such “moments," some extraordinary phrases, and a sense for quiet rhymes, Fr. Roseliep’s verse embodies a kind of popular sentiment, undistinguished in either perception or expression. The “folksy” literateur is rarely more than folksy. Frost, who has this surface quality, is beneath a very sophisticated seer.
The last poem which was read, the title poem, “Linen Bands,” Father described “as not necessarily the best but at least the most important” of his poems. Its subject is his own ordination to the priesthood, the binding of hands, all the terrible weight of his new office. He is quite right in regarding this as the touchstone to his other poems. For a critic it adequately dramatizes the devoted religious who must struggle with the demanding artist in himself. His certainty about where his commitments lie can only be an artificial one.
— Michael Murray
23
THINGS WE’D LIKE
TO SEE ON T.V
Television is often boring, and announcers are often terribly boring; this is why we portray Hal Pal, our typical scintillating sycophant, announcing
24
and here is our special, on-the-spot, up-to-the-minute reporter . . .

and here is M. Ford with the news
and there have been no automobile accidents reported yet this evening
and here is our new addition to the staff, B. Eazie with the weather
and here is Reverend Goodingsworth with the prayer for today
The Scholastic
'In Town'
(Continued from page 19)
Campus Clubs. Sunday at 2, 6, and 9 p.m., the Jersey Club will present Pillow Talk with Doris Day and her pillow. Very gay, very amorous. Just right for a pre-vacation tonic. Nonmembers are invited. Big screen if possible.
The California Club comes through on Dec. 8 with Father of the Bride in 127 NSH at 3, 7, 9 p.m.
The Student-Faculty Film Society will show God Needs Men on Dec. 3. Also shown will be a short film analyzing the technique of the great British chase, Odd Man Out.
The Colfax. Bob Hope, Patriot of the Year contender, comes through with Bachelor in Paradise. It is a rollicking sort of thing, of course, where Hope promotes his subtle, situation-type comedy as apposed to the slapstick of some of his motion picture contemporaries. Bob is a writer — living in “Paradise” — a modem housing development, where he is determined to find out about young married couples and how they behave. A whirlwind sort of thing — and madcap — yah, Paleface — with Lana Turner, Virginia Grey, Paula Prentiss, Jim “MSU” Hutton. Funny flick.
After vacation: Comancheros with John Wayne. A “... rugged adventure drama...”
(Bachelor: 1:10 — 3:10 — 5:10 — 7:10 — 9:10.)
Granada. Holly Golightly isn’t her real name. Neither is Lulu Mae which is really her real name. She hasn't any real name — but neither does her cat. Her cat is called cat Names aren’t for uncaged wild things.... So not for Holly, or Lulu, or whatever shrugs off her complexities with a bun and coffee before Tiffany’s at six in the morning. And returns to her Japanese-managed apartment in NYC (Mickey Rooney is the Oriental — pathetically funny). She’s a phony . . . but a real phony. “I’ve been taking care of myself a iong time,” her philosophy. “He’s a super-rat dressed in rat’s clothing,” her grudge. George Peppard is her °Pposite. Audrey Hepburn is her billing.
An excellent film. An enjoyable him. And there is even some thought behind it. Definitely the best lines of the year. And a good story. Hepburn should be congratulated. . . . Peppard lauded. The movie, Breakfast at Tiffany’s, should be seen.
Susan Slade with Connie Stevens and Troy Donahue comes next. A money-maker production. If Parrish (Continued on page 36)
November 17, 1961
Notice To SENIOR and GRADUATE MEN Students who will complete their education and commence work this year. If you urgently require funds to complete your education, and are unable to secure the money elsewhere, Apply to STEVENS BROS. FOUNDATION INC.
A Non-Profit Educational Corporation 610-612 ENDICOTT BUILDING	ST. PAUL 1, MINN.
Here’s deodorant protection
YOU CAN TRUST
Old Spice Stick Deodorant.,.fastest, neatest way to allday, every day protection! It’s the active deodorant for active men...absolutely dependable. Glides on smoothly, speedily...dries in record time. Old Spice Stick Deodorant —most convenient, most economical deodorant money can buy. 1.00 plus tax.
STICK DEODORANT
S H U UT O N
25
Get with it, man! You belong in traditional Post-Grad Slacks
Smoothest pair of slacks that ever hit a campus! Trim, tapered Post-Grads have the authentic natural look other slacks try to imitate! Belt loops and cuffs are standard equipment Pleatless? Of course! Pick out a few pair today-at stores that are "with it”. Only $4.95 to $9.95 in blends of Orlon*and other washable fabrics.
Don't envy H+S... wear them
'kibitzer*
(Continued from page 19)
The East-West hands have a slam in hearts between them, only losing a club trick to North’s king. In our room, the Purdue team held the slam cards:
N	E	S	W
P	4H	P	IS
P	2D	P	3H
P	4H	P
The bidding is straightforward, but the Purdue team was not able to find the extent of its fit and settled for game.
In the other room, our teammates bid the hand in the identical fashion for the first two rounds, then made an important change:
NE S W
P	4D!	P	4NT
P	5H	P	6H
East, played by Williams, gave his partner an exact picture of his hand when he rebid a secondary suit twice, showing at least 5 cards in each red suit. Astrologes can now see slam if partner held the diamond and club ace. Finding this to be so with the Blackwood Convention, he confidently set the contract. Through careful play, Williams fulfilled his contract, while the Purdue East made only eleven tricks. This hand was +530 points for ND.
Hand 5 Board 22 EW Vul.
N
S—7 6 3 H—10 2 D—Q 9 2 C—A K 10 8 2
STUDENT TRAVEL... STUDENTS CAN AFFORD!	40 ITINERARIES featuring: Western & Eastern Europe Scandinavia • Africa South America • Japan round-the-world 54-80 days	from $600
TRAVEL-STUDY PROGRAMS work camp & hosteling programs also available 40-70 days	from $600.	SPRING VACATION TRIPS Bermuda • Puerto Rico Hawaii from $195
STUDENT TRAVEL PUBLICATIONS International Student ID Card	$1.00 Hostels & Restaurants Handbook	 1.00 Work, Study, Travel Abroad	 1.00	
U. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION Educational Travel, Inc., Dept, cn 20 West 38th Street, New York 18, New York Oxford 5-5070 " USNSAis a non-profit organization serving the American student community'*	
S—Q H—5
C—Q
J
4 3 10 7 4
9 6 4
E (Dealer) S—10 9 8 H—Q J 9 7 D—8 3 2 C—J 5 3
S
S—A K 5 4 2
H—A K 8 6
D—A K 5
C—7
The North-South pair can make a small slam in spades, giving up a trump trick to East’s ten and ruffing a heart in the North hand and sluffing the other on the good club. In the first room Purdue bid the hand this way:
E	S	W	N
P	2C	P	3C
P	3S	P	4C
P	4H	P	4S
P	5S	P	5S
South’s opening bid is an artificial one, showing a powerful hand. His partner made an encouraging free bid and South bid his spade suit. North expressed his preference for clubs, and South bid his secondary suit, hearts. When North preferred spades, South made a slam try by cue-bidding his diamond ace. North, having bid his hand, returned to spades, and 12 tricks were easily made.
At our table, I held the South hand and my partner the North. The bidding took a different turn:
E	S	W	N
P	IS	P	IN!
P	3H	P	4S!
P	4NT	P	5D
P	6S		
	(Continued	on page	36)
26
The Scholastic
CAPRI
Chrome cap, five barrel colon. $1.95 gift-boxed
CAPRI MARK IV Gold or chrome finish. $3.50 gift-boxed
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
MACMILLAN
Screw Tape Letters LEWIS
Dialogue With Death KOESTLER
•
UNIVERSAL
The Civil War Digest NEWMAN
Winston Churchill — Era & the Man
COWLES
Middle Aged Man on a Flying Trapeze
THURBER
BANTAM
The Gathering Storm CHURCHILL
Ben Hur WALLACE
Ten North Frederick O’HARA
Hitler — Study in Tyranny BULLOCK
POCKET BOOKS
Roget's Thesaurus
Handbook of Chemistry & Physics
Special Price $7.50
Available at NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame Bookstore
on - the - campus
27
November 17, 1961

There's actually more rich-flavor leaf in L&M than even in some unfiltered cigarettes. You get more body in the blend, more flavor in the smoke, more taste through the filter. So get Lots More from filter smoking with L&M ... the cigarette that smokes heartier as it draws freely through the pure-white, modern filter.
%LL
HERE'S HOW 1029 STUDENTS AT 100 COLLEGES VOTED!
xoq jo iped ut ue baeh
%££....ajoui jo Hoed v %g£-*"MOEd e ueqt ssaq Q %Z£”sso| jo >ped b j|bh
%I9....»N
%6£....SOA(N3WOM)	A
%G9....on	Vf
%G£....so A	(N3W)
•°N Q
S9A v
ERNIE DAVIS LEADS ORANGE AGAINST IRISH
Green Close Season Against Hawks, Duke
by BOB SCHEFFING
Tomorrow afternoon a rejuvenated Notre Dame team will tangle with mighty Syracuse, a perennial Eastern power and this year’s leading contender for the Lambert Trophy. The Irish will have to halt a three-game Orange win skein to continue their resurgence. Syracuse has beaten on successive Saturdays Holy Cross, Pittsburgh, and Colgate. Other Orange wins were over Oregon State, West Virginia, and Nebraska. Only Penn State and Maryland have bettered the Saltine Warriors this year.
Styling the vaunted Syracuse attack is All-American halfback Ernie Davis. As his coach Ben Schwartz-walder so boldly put it, “Davis is the best running back in the country.” The 210-pound senior has already given indications of the truth of this statement by shattering Jimmy Brown’s rushing records at Syracuse. Davis can do many things, most of them well. He can thrust his stocky frame through tough defenders, or he can use his speed to cut around the ends. When his ground game has been bottled up, he has managed to grab seventeen passes, three for touchdowns. Carrying the ball a large percentage of the time, Davis usually finds stacked defenses, brutal gang tackling, and piling on, yet he has still totaled 100 points and thrown one scoring pass.
Directing the team at quarterback
DAVE SARETTE
Leads Orange offense
for the third year is Dave Sarette. His passing has improved to the extent that his completion average is over 60 per cent. Sarette has fired for seven touchdowns this year against only five interceptions. His understudy Bob Lelli has clicked on 70 per cent of his pitches for two touchdowns. The Orange have here a good one-two punch.
Playing the other half is Syracuse captain Dick Easterly. Easterly has been an alternate quarterback the past two seasons and is used mainly on defense or as a blocker in Schwartzwalder’s platooning schemes. Pete Brokaw, an erratic performer with great potential, will take over on offense. Brokaw started last year and showed great form during spring practice.
Gary Fallon will open at fullback for the Saltine Warriors. This 210-pound senior saw heavy duty at halfback, where he had a 8.7-yard average last season. Fallon is a determined blocker who is second only to Davis in rushing statistics. He is backed up by John Charette, who played guard last year, and by sophomore Bill Schnoover. Charette is big, moves well, and is a solid tackler.
The starting ends for the Orange are Ken Ericson and John Mackey. Ericson has snagged three touchdown passes so far in addition to handling the kicking chores. Alternate ends Bill Meyers and Walt Sweeney are expected to help out on defense.
Playing outside tackle in Syracuse’s unbalanced line is John Brown. Weighing 230 pounds and hampered by a knee injury, Brown can still run the hundred in 10.8. Inside tackle is manned by Dick Feidler and by Tom Spillett.
George Francovitch, also a senior, . will open at right guard. He weighs 235 pounds, and is very adept at pulling out to open holes for Messrs. Davis, Fallon, and Brokaw. At the other guard will be Dave Meggyesy, the team’s fastest lineman, who played halfback in high school. He has an adequate replacement in Brian Howard, a converted end, if they should want to switch Meggyesy to tackle where he played last year.
The center position is well handled by Bob Stem. The 210-pound senior has been such an inspiration to his teammates that he was named permanent co-captain after Easterly was sidelined with a broken hand. He leads the Orangemen in tackles and made eight straight stops against
ERNIE DAVIS All-American halfback
Penn State. He is spelled by top sophomore prospect Henry Huettner, a 235-pounder with good agility who looks to be a future Syracuse great.
After Syracuse, Notre Dame journeys to Iowa City and then to Durham, N.C., to finish out its schedule for 1961.
This year’s Iowa team won’t be a nationally ranked power, but it is a very fine ball club. The Hawkeyes have managed to do fairly well after their two stars, Wilburn Hollis and Larry Ferguson, were shelved with injuries. Matt Szykowny has replaced Hollis at quarterback, but there has been no standout to fill in for Ferguson, who will be a doubtful starter against Notre Dame. Jerry Burns has had his problems in his first year as head coach, but he should have the Hawkeyes squared away in time to face the Irish.
Duke will be meeting Notre Dame for the second time on Dec. 2. The Irish won the first game, played in South Bend, 9-7.
Duke’s strongest asset this year is its halfback corps. Five lettermen * returned from last year’s Atlantic Coast Conference and Cotton Bowl champs. Joel Arrington and Mark Leggett are the best of the quintet, being named to the all-conference team. Jay Wilkinson, son of the Oklahoma coach, has also shown great ability in his first year as a Duke back.
Walt Rappold will be quarterbacking the wide open offense for the Blue Devils. Rapport has a fine completion record as does his alternate Gil Gamer.
November 17, 1961
29
AS WE
by BOB CHIAPPINELLI
With each passing Saturday it becomes more evident that the unsung star of this 1961 Notre Dame team is left end Les Traver.
Hampered by a Notre Dame offense which prefers to restrict most of its activities to the ground, Traver has labored away in relative obscurity for much of his career.
Not until after his spectacular late-game spree against Navy did Les begin to receive the acclaim he so rightfully deserves.
He followed that show with another standout performance in Pittsburgh and suddenly everyone on campus became aware that Notre Dame has one of the country’s finest ends.
But, despite his excellence, Les Traver will not make All-American, mainly because of the above mentioned fact that his team concentrates on a ground game.
And yet, he is, in my opinion, the equal or better of Notre Dame’s last All-American end, Monty Stickles.
Traver
Granted, he doesn’t have the gamewinning toes of Stickles. But there the Stickles’ superiority stops. In blocking, tackling, and all around effort Les outstrips Monty, and in pass catching he is probably the equal of his big predecessor.
The only problem for the pro club that drafts Les Traver will be to decide whether to use him at defensive halfback or offensive end. It won’t matter much, though. He has the stuff to do either job well.
30
Irish
tackle
thinks
“We’ve
Got It
Back”
by BOB BILL
as fold to TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
Our game with Pittsburgh last Saturday was a game of decision for us. We had to win against Pitt to break our losing streak and regain our spirit and confidence before playing Syracuse, Iowa, and Duke. And we did.
Saturday we all played together, we played like a team, something we hadn’t been able to do against Northwestern or Navy. I don’t know what we had in our first four games that we lacked against the Wildcats and Middies, but we had it back against Pitt. It’s hard to explain, but after Michigan State, there was just something missing.
Now, though, we’re the same team that we were against Oklahoma, Purdue, Southern Cal, and State. We made some mechanical errors against the Panthers — those fumbles really gave me a big scare. But we were able to recover, and in most cases we kept ourselves from being hurt by our mistakes.
Just as Gerry Gray felt that the pass interception in the second half against Michigan State started a period in which we couldn’t do anything right, I think we reversed that trend Saturday. We proved to ourselves that we were once again a fighting team that wouldn’t quit, and that we could make our own breaks.
When? In the fourth quarter we got the ball on a fumble on Pitt’s 40. We were moving well and drove for a first down around the 20, only to have it called back on a penalty. Then
BOB BILL
we got the first down again, but George Sefcik, who was bpthered by a bad shoulder, dropped the ball on the 19 and Pitt recovered. But we were able to hold them and force them to punt; Angie returned the punt to the Panthers’ 47, and then Chuck O’Hara broke lose for the winning touchdown.
You really have to give the backs credit for playing a great game. Dabiero, Sefcik, Gray, Naab, O’Hara, Budka — they were all great. Any time we gave them any blocking at all, if we got them even a small hole, they broke loose for big yardage. And a big factor in the game was our ability to come up with the big run or pass play when we needed it.
Our inability to come up with the big play when we needed it hurt us a lot against Northwestern and Navy. We could move well between the 20’s, but inside the 20 we often bogged down and couldn’t score. And when we needed crucial or long first down yardage, we had trouble. But Saturday the big play was no problem for us at all.
Our offense moved well Saturday, and the addition of a passing game to our strong running game should losen up the defenses even more. .
Now we’re positive that we can go all the rest of the way. All three games will be tough, but we’re confident that we can finish 7-3.
As for Syracuse, that’s my game. I’ve been waiting four years for this one. My brother Mike played for Syracuse, and all I’ve heard from him is how Syracuse is going to beat Notre Dame. But we’ve got other ideas: this is going to be our year.
The Scholastic
Cage Preview...
With less than three weeks remaining before Notre Dame opens its 196162 season against Bellarmine College of Louisville, Ky., Coach John Jordan and his assistant Jim Gibbons have been putting their charges through extensive practice sessions.
Six lettermen will be returning along with a good group of sophomore aspirants to form the nucleus for the Irish in the oncoming season. Graduation took last year’s captain Bill Crosby and the VT' pivot man, John Tully.
The probable lineup will feature two-year veterans at four of the five starting positions. Playing at the high post in Notre Dame’s double pivot offense will be John Dearie, a 6'6/2" senior from New York City. Carl Roesler, a 6'7’/a" senior from Fort Wayne, Ind., will be working out of the low post position. Completing the 1-3-1 attack are captain Armand Reo, a 6'6/2" senior from Waterford, Ind., Eddie Schnurr, a 6'1" senior from Louisville, Ky., and Tom Finnegan, a 6' sophomore, also from Louisville.
Reo was the scoring ace for the Irish last year. He has a fine jump shot and is a good rebounder. Finnegan is the only tentative starter who lacks game experience. In recent practices he has improved rapidly and is an accurate shooter.
With only three starters, the Irish will be using its advantage in experience to offset the depth problem.
The starting quintet is backed up by Ted Romanowski, a senior; juniors John Matthews, John Andreoli, and Ed Malloy; and sophomores Dick Erlenbaugh, Sam Skarich, and Dick Orsagh. Matthews and Andreoli are both lettermen and saw much action last season as starters in a number of games.
Matthews is one of the fastest men on the team and is very effective on defense. All the varsity reserves are over six feet. Orsagh, who is 6'6", has been bothered by a bad ankle and has not been practicing as much as the other varsity members. Erlenbaugh, 6'3/2" from Elmhurst, Ill., plays the pivot and forward posts and could be useful in relieving Dearie or Reo. Ed Malloy, who is 6'1" and from Washington, D.C., will help out in the backcourt.
Notre Dame once again is faced With a tough schedule of 23 games, which features only nine home games and fourteen road trips.
.	— Frank Hinchey
November 17, 1961
Voice in the Crowd
Have the Irish regained the mental attitude that carried them to opening victories over Oklahoma, Purdue and Southern California; or did they just get the breaks denied them against Northwestern and Navy, when they beat the Panthers of Pitt last Saturday? The answer to this question will decide the place of this season in Notre Dame football history.
If the Irish squad that meets Syracuse tomorrow is the same gutty outfit that played against Michigan State, then the verdict of the game and of the season will be a favorable one for the Irish. However, if the team which plays the Orangemen is the lackadaisical squad that met Northwestern and Navy, then the boys from Piety Hill will bury the Irish for this game and this season.
Critics of Coach Joe Kuharich, much heard from after Northwestern and Navy, became less vociferous this past week after Pitt. However, there remain certain mechanical problems which have been apparent since the Oklahoma game, but as yet have only been partially corrected. The Irish pass defense, despite the interceptions of Frank Budka and Daryle Lamonica, is the most notable of these problems.
FEARLESS FRANK
The reason for the change in attitude of both the team and the student body from one of gloom, based on team after Michigan State, to one of hope the much-heralded, but before last Saturday erratic, sophomore quarterback Frank Budka. Budka’s passing against Pitt recalled the better days of big George Izo. For the first time in many a game, the most feared weapon in Notre Dame’s attack was passing rather than running. Budka also stole the show on defense, intercepting two Panther passes and generally making a pest of himself to the Pittsburgh eleven. Because of Budka’s arm, Les Traver also finally received much deserved recognition for his outstanding passcatching.
If the Irish lose to Syracuse, a five-five season is probable. This, while being an exciting year, would make the season a dis
appointing one, especially after the fine start. The same comments that have been heard in the recent past (the administration is antifootball, spirit is dead at old ND, etc.), however untrue, would be voiced again this winter.
To prevent this from happening, Notre Dame will have to maintain their newly developed fine passing attack, while correcting the lapses in pass defense which have been frequent in past games. Budka will have to prove that he is not a one-shot wonder but a passer in the Izo-Guglielmi-Lujack tradition. The performance of “Fearless Frank” tomorrow will quite likely shape the public image of this season’s Irish squad.
THE FINAL ‘‘IF’’
After viewing all the tangible “ifs,” there remains what Green Bay coach Vince Lombardi calls “mental reaction.” Lombardi feels that all teams go through periods of depression or slumps during any single football season. It is apparent that this happened to Notre Dame after the Spartan encounter. It appears that the Irish snapped out of this seasonal slump during their performance against Pitt. With Syracuse shooting for a bowl bid, the Irish will have to retain their new spirit and to regain the old spirit which highlighted their early season rise.
TOMORROW
Notre Dame should continue its comeback, thanks to the Budka-Traver passing combination, and take the measure of the Orangemen in one of the most exciting games of the Kuharich tenure, 27-26.
— John Bechtold
the performance of the was the performance cf
Budka
ICE SKATES $9.95 up •
RECO SPORTING GOODS 113 N. Main St.
■'took for the Log Front"
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN
BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
•
Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38
LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
VOLCANO Restaurant
The very finest of American and Italian food
World9# finest pizza
Visit the
LAVA ROOM
Entartainmcnt nitfhthf
219 N. Michigan
Phone: CE 3-21 Hi
HE CAME, HE SAW, HE
To every person in the world who has not seen a football game, Paul Hornung is merely a 25-year-old Notre Dame grad who will be forced to discontinue his insurance business in Louisville, Ky., because of the return to active duty of his Army reserve division. However, to millions of avid pigskin fans and young girls, the Berlin crisis is taking away the sports world’s most colorful personality, the famed “Golden Boy.”
As Sport put it: “Paul Hornung is a professional football star who runs for touchdowns, throws passes for touchdowns, catches passes for touchdowns, kicks extra points, kicks field goals, looks like a Greek god, commands a handsome salary, charms countless women, drives a white Cadillac and numbers among his friends jockeys and governors, star
THE HERO
Teammates and fans carry Paul Hornung from the field after the Irish edged Iowa, 17-14, at South Bend in 1955.
The Scholastic
lets and vice-presidents.”
Hornung was his usual cocky self, when interviewed after last weekend’s Green Bay-Chicago game. He had scored 19 points against the Bears, including the winning 52-yard field goal, and had dominated the offensive attack of the Packers. However, his mood was that of a businessman who had just completed another routine day at the office.
The fact that he was entering the service in a few days seemed to be a minor problem. “I hate to leave for the service now, but a lot of the boys are getting out to play on the weekends so maybe I will be fortunate enough to."
His evaluation of his team was that of an unbiased observer, rather than that of a five-year squad member: “The last four or five weeks we
32
WAS DRAFTED
THE GOLDEN BOY
haven’t been playing two good halves. We seem to play great for one half, then slack off the second half. I hope We can get together and play sixty minutes instead of thirty.”
Hornung, who is not noted for his conservative play on or off the field, will be missed by the Packers. ‘‘Paul is a great football player,” says coach Vince Lombardi, “We hope to have him on the weekends." Quarterback Bart Starr expressed the general reaction of the team: “We hate to see Paul go, but we can’t concern ourselves with that. We will have to just win without him if we have to.”
Hornung excused himself at this Point, explaining he had a plane to catch. He hurriedly lit a Marlboro and slipped out of the locker room to become one of the thousands of people that have made him a legend in his own time. — John Bechtold
November 17, 1961
Cross
Country
Notre Dame’s cross-country team has had two weeks of rest to catch its breath, but will need all the breath it can draw this weekend in two big meets. The first of these is the Central Collegiate Conference championships which last week were incorrectly reported as taking place Nov. 10, but which will be staged this afternoon at Chicago’s Washington Park.
Seven varsity runners and twelve freshmen will represent Notre Dame in both the senior and junior divisions. The field will be made up of the leading teams of the Midwest, among them Loyola, Western Michigan, Bowling Green, and Central Michigan.
On Monday, Tom Dempsey, senior captain of the Irish, Frank Carver, sophomore standout, and Bill Clark, leader of the freshman group, will head to New York City for the Intercollegiate Amateur Athletic Association of America (IC-4A) meet in the Bronx, N.Y.
Penn State, Villanova, Manhattan, Army, Harvard, Yale, Cornell, and Brown head the list of teams. For Carver, the IC’s will provide a stem test for his fast-developing ability. In this meet he will get a chance to avenge a defeat sustained in last year’s freshman division meet when Cornell’s Steve Machooka edged him out for individual honors. Villanova will send Vince Zwolak and Pat Traynor against the huge field, and Yale will start its best, Bobby Mack.
Dempsey feels confident Notre Dame’s two best will show up in the top ten and, although this would not make up for a dismal season, it might soften the impact to be felt by Coach Alex Wilson after the last meet, Nov. 27.
This will be Dempsey’s fourth appearance at the “Eastern championships,” and another trip back home where he wrote a new record book while at Archbishop Stepinac High in White Plains. So far this year he has been running in the shadow of Carver, who may rewrite the book in the next three years at Notre Dame.
Already the Ivyland, Pa., sophomore harrier has one school mark to his credit, a 19:32.5 clocking on the Burke Golf Course. This eclipsed a 1953 record held by Wes Santee, top American miler of a few years ago. This winter Carver will be shooting for the two-mile mark indoors, while Dempsey goes after Ron Gregory’s mile mark and then on to a 4:05.
— J. C. Higgins
AN UNPAID TESTIMONIAL
Richard the Lion-Hearted says:
I mould never have surrendered Ingland ...if I’d had
Jockeu
® BRAND U
support
C’mon, Dick! You’re rationalizing. Jockey support1 might never have secured you against the Emperor2. But it certainly would have provided snug protection against the physical stresses and strains of your active life. Your armorer never tailored a coat of mail more knowingly than Jockey tailors a brief—from 13 separate, body-conforming pieces.
1.	Other “imitation” briefs (copies of the original Jockey brand) have no more Jockey support than a limp loin cloth.
2.	Richard the Lion-Hearted, 1157-99, surrendered England and a huge ransom to secure his release from Henry VI.
Get the real thing. Look for the name JOCkeif on the waist band
^Jockey briefs COOPER'S, INC. • KENOSHA,WIS,
33
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
Pick Your Own All-American Team!
End.....................................................
End.....................................................
Tackle..................................................
Tackle..................................................
Guard...................................................
Guard....................................................
Center..................................................
Quarterback.............................................
Halfback................................................
Halfback................................................
Fullback................................................
Coach...................................................
Lineman of the Year.................................... Back of the Year........................................
RESULTS WILL APPEAR IN THE NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL REVIEW, DEC. 8, 1961. Drop ballots in box at south end of Huddle near the “Riders Roundup” board.
RAH! RAH!
ALBRIGHTS
MODEL 22AW
Raleigh bicycles were made for college life and the student body. And speaking of bodies a Raleigh is measured by frame size, not wheel size.
For example: Collegemen over 5'9* specify 23’ frames. Men under 5'9* specify 21’ frames.
Try a Raleigh out on Campus — You’ll feel better for it — Raleigh you will!!
For all details see your campus Raleigh dealer.
2720 Lincolnway West Mishawaka Telephone BL 5-8988
IRISH FOOTBALL STATISTICS
In the Notre Dame 26-20 victory over Pitt, Angelo Dabiero picked up 58 yards on 14 carries to maintain his rushing lead of 444 yards and a 6.9 average. Halfback George Sefcik moved into the number two spot with 300 yards on 60 carries for a 5.0 average. Charlie O’Hara took over the ground-average honors with his 10.1 average for 72 yards.
Les Traver almost doubled his yards-received with 4 receptions and 124 yards against Pitt, giving him a total of 257 yards — an impressive 23.4 yards per catch.
Completing 5 of 9 passes for 133 yards against Pitt, Frank Budka boosted his completion percentage to 43 per cent. The 59-yard pass to Traver was his first TD pass of the season. Lamonica went 0-5 to give him 18 completions in 48 attempts this season.
Perkowski upped his scoring total with two extra points to give him 22 points, while Sefcik, O’Hara, and Traver all broke into the scoring column with one six-pointer apiece.
Defensive figures show Buoniconti leading with tackles, and Dabiero in interceptions with four.
The Scholastic
34
Rugby
The present plans of the newly formed Rugby Union Football Club are directed towards preparing a limited schedule of play for next spring. Initiated through the efforts of Robert Mier, the club has been staging practice for over one month. The team will play its first public intrasquad game this Sunday.
Although American football is derived from Rugby Union football, the two are quite distinct in their present forms. Rugby is played today as a sport in the British Isles, France, South Africa, New Zealand, Brazil, and Australia.
There seems to be no reason why the USA should not join this somewhat select group. In the opinion of some, college football has concentrated more on spectator interest than on the interests of the players. According to Rugby advocates, their sport takes into consideration that every athlete cannot be a specialist at his position.
Rugby’s essential rule is that play continues until an infringement takes place. This has two major effects. First, initiative is the main essential of performance, for while the ball is in play, each man is free to develop plays. Second, the plays which do develop cannot be predetermined, so that the practice of formal plays is not nearly as valuable as it is in American football. For the college student, this means that he does not have to devote very much of his valuable time to formal practice sessions, and no matter what position he plays, he is called upon to perform the complete range of activity—pushing, running, and kicking. There are no substitutions, so that each man knows that he will receive the athletic opportunity for which he has presented himself.
FOR THE SEASON
Linemen of the Week: Norb Roy and Tom Hecomovich, Jim Kelly, Ed Burke, Nick Buoniconti, Les Traver, Bob Lehmann, and again, Les Traver.
Backs of the Week: Mike Lind and Angelo Dabiero, Daryle Lamonica, Ed Rutkowski, Mike Lind, Angelo Dabiero, George Sefcik, and Frank Budka.
IRISH BACK OF THE WEEK
Sophomore quarterback Frank Budka, making his first really extensive appearance of the season, completed five of nine passes for 133 yards and one touchdown. Budka directed all four Irish scoring drives, throwing to Les Traver 59 yards for one score, and 40 yards to set up another. Budka was also a defensive standout, intercepting two Pitt passes, and recovering a fumble caused by his own vicious tackling.
IRISH LINEMAN OF THE WEEK
Senior end Les Traver picked up against Pitt where he left off against Navy the previous Saturday. With only 5:50 of the first quarter gone, Traver shook loose and hauled in a 59-yard aerial from Frank Budka for the game’s first score. When the scoreboard clock in Pitt Stadium showed 14:59 of the final quarter elapsed, Traver had caught four passes for 124 yards, and made another outstanding contribution to the Irish defense.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
An Agency Representative will interview undergraduate Seniors and Graduate Students for positions with our Organization on November 27th and 28th on Campus. Please consult the Placement Bureau, Administration Building for information concerning these positions and to schedule an appointment.
Exams? H
Here’s the easy and ({'■if
safe way to keep mentally alert:
It’s the safe stay awake tablet—NoDoz®. And it’s especially helpful when you must be sharp under pressure. NoDoz helps restore mental alertness in minutes.
NoDoz keeps you alert with the safe awakener found in coffee and tea. Yet NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable.
Plan now for your
^BERMUDA
College Week 1962 bigger, busier, better than ever!
•	Informal welcoming dance to start the fun.
•	College Day at the Beach ... the biggest beach party of the year.
•	All-day cruise to historic St. George. Luncheon, Calypso music, Gombey Dancers.
•	Round Robin Tennis Tournament.
•	College Week Golf Competition.
•	College Talent Revue.
•	Fun Festival with jazz concerts, choral groups, dance contests.
•	Barbecue Luncheon.
•	Sightseeing.
•	Special Golf and Tennis Trophies. ALL YOURS AT NO CHARGE
The BERMUDA
Trade Development Board
WO Fifth Av®., New York 20, N. Y.
SCHOLASTIC CIRCULATION
Those faculty members who have not received their copies of the SCHOLASTIC are requested to notify Jim Creagan, 243 Alumni or Prof. Donald Costello, 315 Main Building.
November 17, 1961
Absolutely not habit-forming, NoDoz is so safe it is sold everywhere without prescription. Take it while driving, studying, < working, or entertaining.
ANOTHER FINE PRODUCT OF GROVE LABORATORIES
35
TURBOW
\OPTOMETR1ST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington —Phone CE 4-5777
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
•	WATCHES	• DIAMONDS
•	RADIOS	• SHAVERS
Expert Watch Repairing ★
SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO N.D. STUDENTS
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 S. Michigan SL Phone AT 7-3630
'News & Notes'
(Continued from page 12) written for a five-year period by a recent grant of $50,000 from Houston Endowment, Inc. The foundation was created in 1937 by Mr. and Mrs. Jones for “the support of any charitable, education or religious undertaking.”
SMC COPS BRIDGE HONORS
The monthly master point session of the Notre Dame Duplicate Bridge Club was held last Sunday in the La Fortune Student Center. With six tables in play, a guest from St Mary’s, Miss Mickey Rinkle, paired up with Lou Brenner and took top honors, thereby becoming a Junior Master of the American Contract Bridge League in her first venture at duplicate bridge. Other top scores were: Bob Peters-Tony Astrologes, .563; Dave Joyce-Kevin Regan, .555; Ross Amann-Joe Haynes, .548; Mike Doran-Bob Gaert-ner, .537; F. Smith-Les Renkey, .522; L. Hauer-John Saunders, .504.
The next duplicate session will be this Sunday at 1:30 p.m. in Room 2-C of the Student Center. There is no charge for play, and partners will be furnished if . necessary. More St. Mary’s girls have been especially invited.
'kibitzer'
(Continued from page 26)
Not being strong enough for a forcing opening, I contented myself with the natural bid of IS, planning to jump in hearts. The 1NT response was a forcing bid, and I jumped in hearts as planned. Partner’s 4S bid was lucid — it showed, after his ’ original bid, a hand too good for a simple raise and not quite good enough for a double raise. Armed with this knowledge, South simply checked for aces and bid slam. ND gained 500 points on the hand.
In the final analysis, our victory was closer than the score indicates; the Purdue team were very good sports, and Mr. Blackwood, our host, made us as comfortable as possible. Anyway, it was fun.
W. J. Guillaume
I BENDIX® I
I YORK |
| offers opportunities for growth, |
|	advancement and improved	|
|	technical proficiency for:	|
I	MISSILE	|
» . <<
I	ELECTRONICS	I
I	EHSTG-IlSrEERS	j
g	Challenging design opportunities in Microwave	S
g	Components and Systems, Radar Circuits,	S
g	Transistor Circuits, Test Equipment and	|
|	Reliability Analysis.	§
| See your College Placement Director | |	for interview appointment.	|
| ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS |
|	MONDAY, NOV. 27TH	|
| THE^zrx^CORPORATION I
I YORK DIVISION • YORK, PENNSYLVANIA /
#	an equal opportunity employer.
'In Town'	’
(Continued from page 25)	i
could, why not try again? Not so hot.
{Breakfast: 1 — 3 — 5:05 — 7:10 i — 9:15.)
River Park. Next weekend the RP will screen The Honeymoon Machine and The Last Time I saw Archie. Both re-runs. Did you see them? More important: The last of the Indiana Series. . . . The Entertainer (in English) with Laurence Oliver and Joan Plowright. Excellent film. Very enjoy- i able. Get five guys and cab on down. Only a quarter a piece. Wednesday (oh, well) at 7:30 and 9:15.
{Honeymoon: 8:20. Last Time: 6:30 — 9:50.)
State. The Devil at Four O’Clock in its final week. Take advantage of a good picture while it’s here and see it. i Frank Sinatra, Spencer Tracy, drama, j a jungle island, and a ferocious vol- ■ cano. (Complete with flowing lava.) k This is the real thing. True to life adventure. Sinatra is good. Tracy better. And the story — if taut and even overly sentimental — is sound and, sigh, new ... in a trite sort of way.
It will be replaced by Elvis Presley and Blue Hawaii. Yes ? No.
{Devil: 1:20 — 3:50 — 6:20 — 8:50.)
— John McGuire
The Scholastic
36
FORUM
SPECIALIZATION AND THE ROLE OF GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
by Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C.
seems clear, that if there is such a thing as Christian intelligence, its cultivation should be the aim of the Catholic educational system, and the Catholic colleges and universities its principal educational source. Perhaps driven by the forces of history, by the necessity to compete with the secular educational system, it was necessary to imitate many aspects of the secular system. But — the question must be faced sometime — to what extent does imitation approach surrender? There are many educational institutions whose attendants are almost exclusively Catholics, but that is no answer to the question: are we cultivating intelligence, developing Christian knowledge?
At the Catholic colleges philosophy and theology are required courses. But the Philosophy Department, as well as the Theology Department, is just one department among many departments, which means that the unifying power of philosophy, the connecting view it achieves, is not functioning. Specialization dominates the Catholic colleges and universities, just as it does at the secular universities.
As everyone who thinks about these things realizes, the greatest achievements of human intelligence in our times have been realized in those specializations which use mathematical theory, measuring instruments, and experiment, in the attempt to understand the universe. There is no question about the greatness of that achievement. We know things about
outer space, about the molecular, atomic, and sub-atomic structure of matter, about mass energy relations, never dreamed of before. The inventive consequences of those knowledges have enabled us to revolutionize human existence, through the mass production of food, shelter, clothing, medicine, machines, gadgets, and so forth. More people have more of the things they need than in any previous moment of history. But I think it can be seen, though we will not attempt it here, that the use of mathematical theory, measuring instruments, and experiment, takes only a partial view, does not exhaust what there is to be known about things.
Is it permissible to suggest that perhaps that great success was achieved at a sacrifice which need not have been made? So thoroughly has specialization infiltrated college and university life, that we are forced to ask the question: have the colleges and universities surrendered their traditional function of educating men and women, and become the functionaries of industry, producing and training the experts and specialists industry needs ? Is the specialist,. as specialist, an educated man? Have we sacrificed, and unnecessarily, the function of the university in its deepest sense: the cultivation of educated men and women?
General knowledge, in its deepest sense, belongs to the educated man. A specialty concerns itself with an aspect, a part: geology, botany,
37
November 17, 1961
zoology, psychology, we used to say; astrophysics, geophysics, physical chemistry, micro-biology, bio-physics, and so forth, we say today. Suppose one man became an expert in all the specializations — granting, of course, that he also knew how to read and write, and the like; and had some acquaintance with the activities of leisure — would such a man be an educated man? Would he possess general knowledge in its deepest sense? Is the sum total of the specializations the deepest meaning for general knowledge?

“The natural wisdom which gives us the intellectual room in which to receive the content of the revelation is not available in mathematics, nor in the sciences which apply to mathematics. That natural wisdom is available in philosophy . .
Vt HAT I am about to say will come, I am sure, as something less than an anticlimax, but: the deepest meaning of general knowledge is discoverable in philosophy. Philosophy, in its deepest meaning, differs from the specializations in that it studies, not an aspect, or part, but the whole as whole, what exists in its entirety, and as entire, being and the laws of being. I have no intention of offering here any detailed explanation of what that means, and I cannot even begin to talk about the great contribution of literature and the other fine arts, history, and the rest, to the complete view. Nevertheless, the chaotic, anarchistic, intellectually barbaric, situation revealed in the Progress Report, prepared by the Special Committee of the College of Arts and Letters, October, 1961, simply could not and would not exist if the unifying power, the connecting view, available in philosophy were functioning. Whatever else the educated man needs, he needs at the roots of his intelligence, the connecting view, the comprehensive view, in which he sees, and respects, the place of each
38
specialization in the whole, and their relationships to one another.
The philosophical insights I am talking about have nothing to do with faith of any kind, religious or otherwise. Those insights are available to any normal and fully functioning human intelligence. Nevertheless, philosophy is necessary to the cultivation of Christian intelligence. The individual intelligence, which is cultivated within the limits of the assumption that the use of mathematical theory, measuring instruments, and experiment, exhausts what can
be known about things, is closed to the Christian revelation. There can be no deep intellectual relationship between such an intelligence and the revelation. The natural wisdom which gives us the intellectual room in which to receive the content of the revelation is not available in mathematics, nor in the sciences which apply mathematics. That natural wisdom is available in philosophy, and the possession of those philosophical insights, by the individual intelligence, does give us the intellectual room in which we can see even the need for the revelation. Again, I cannot develop that here, except to say that the deepest insights into the meaning of the rights of man, the right to life, political rights, economic rights, educational rights, the significance of the activities of leisure, some beginning knowledge about God, are not available in mathematics and the sciences which apply mathematics. But they are the deepest concern of philosophy. And the Christian revelation, in its own way, is very much concerned with the meaning of man.
OuR knowledge and experience of the Church ought not to be limited to the intellectual experience of what we call scientific theology: dogma and moral. There is a lived experience of Christian existence, in the liturgical life of the Church, and out of my ninety-nine years experience as student, teacher, religious and priest, I must say that where the knowledge of the Church is limited to the scientific theology, isolated from the lived liturgical experience of the Church, there is something of a vacuum.
The central action of the Church ■ is the redemptive action of Christ, at the heart of the Christian Mystery. The Mass is not a private devotion, but that central action, offered by the Body of which Christ is the Head, we the members. It is a corporate activity, and each of us, Christ, the priest, the religious, the layman, offers the Sacrifice, together, each in his own way. To be a Christian means to participate in that redemptive action of Christ, as a member of that Body, the Church — and in a sense, that is all it means. Of course, if we are Christians in that sense, we will act as Christians. But then, “What I do is me,” and not something pasted on from without, originating in a moralism which is almost a superstition, and which often enough occupies the central place, as if prior to worship. If we are going to cultivate Christian intelligence, Christian knowledge, in its deepest sense, we cannot limit the knowledge of the Christian revelation to the merely scientific theology, valuable as it is.
There is a knowledge about that lived liturgical experience which can be classroom knowledge, and it is being expressed by such theologians as Louis Bouyer, Henri De Lubac, Jean Danielou, Romano Guardini, Dietrich von Hildenbrand, Gerald Vann, Josef Goldbrunner, Michael Mathis, and others. In that kind of knowledge about the Church, it is even permissible to speak of love.
It would seem, then, that insofar as specialization dominates the intellectual life of Catholic colleges and universities; insofar as general knowledge, in its deepest sense, the connecting view, is not functioning; insofar as we limit the meaning of the Christian revelation to scientific theology, we are not actualizing the magnificent potentialities we have. And it would seem that those deficiencies are rather basic to Christian education.
JABBER
SNAP


Snap up your appearance with Arrow Tabber Snap.
Here’s a college shirt with the distinctive tab collar minus the nuisance of a collar button to hold the tabs in place.
The tabs snap together under the tie knot giving you the. crisp, clean “savoir faire” look.
Try Tabber Snap for a change of pace in striped oxford, white and colors. Sanforized labeled.
$5.00
J -ARROTT
From the
* Cum Laude Collection"
Arrow introduces
A new Tab collar
Give your neckline a lift with the Tabber Snap collar so ingeniously contrived it takes only seconds to adjust the tabs under the tie knot.
Smart for college men who want a distinctive collar change and true comfort. See us for a complete Arrow selection of shirts, ties, underwear.

IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend