I
Vol. XIX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 3, 1886.
No. 29,
The Early Crocus.
The Ides o£ March were but a week departed
When these bright blossoms from the lap of earth (That lap so lately frozen, that their birth
Seemeth most wonderful) in glory started— Pearl, gold and amethyst,—unwonted splendor
To eyes bereft of color through the days Of gloomy winter, when the sun’s pale rays Never descend upon a tint so tender.
I told a man—(this was to be a sonnet, But that bad man threw a wet blanket on it.) I told a man to Nature’s works addicted:— Birds, beasts and fishes on his walls depicted With fruit and fiow’rs proclaimed, ’twould seem his taste—
(Ah! let no poet fervor on him waste!)
“ I’ve found the Crocus!” such my greeting joyous, Deeming that mutual raptures would employ us; But he, with saddened brow: “It happens oft,— Birds of ill-omen cheerfulness have scoffed At, many a time before. The robin, thrush And blue-bird make melodious every bush; But crows and ravens, magpies and jackdaws Now grow profane, yet not without their caws. E’en the gay parrot, left to fight it out With spiteful monkey, has been known to shout Language, to say the least, most unbecoming, As when the waterpipes, in need of plumbing Provoke profanity from those who ought to Know better, as good little boys are taught to— Then wonder not,—’tis no unusual thing To find the crow cuss at an early spring.”
Yet this man’s calling is—(Ah! what the fruit?) To teach the young idea how to shoot.
Boyle Dowell.
Put the best construction on everything. You know the judge is always supposed to be on the prisoner’s side. There are a. thousand instances of behavior we meet with in the world-which will admit of two constructions.
The Saracens in Spain.
BY FRANK H. DEXTER, ’87
It seems to be a common custom at present for one who writes a book, or story, to preface it with a conventional introduction, either to give tone to his work, or to crave the indulgence of the reader for whatever imperfections it may possess. Partly out of deference to the popular fashion, and partly out of desire to address the reader more directly as. to the subject matter and aim of these papers, I deem it not improper? in'beginning, to indulge in a few explanatory remarks.
The story of the invasion of Spain by the Moors and Arabs, though so important in the history of nations, is one that seldom occupies the pen of American writers; for while it opens a vast field for instructive research and of interesting information, it is, at the same time, veiled, to a.great extent, in doubt, and prolific in fictitious and highly-colored circumstances. Of the beginning of the period of which these papers treat, History is exceedingly -barren in facts of an impartial nature, and the information that we do possess has come to us wrought upon by the influences of an unsettled and very romantic age that followed.
“ The shifting cross lights of historic testimony” have done a great deal towards complicating matters, and have cast about this eventful period a confused mass of fanciful facts and legendary traditions, the truth of which can be ascertained only by a laborious perusal of ancient chronicles and direct reference to Spanish archives and mouldering documents. It would be folly to pretend to have resorted to any such profound research fbr the matter herein contained; nor is it expected to convey any greater information than some few days and hours of careful, yet pleasant reading, and the limits of a simple historical essay will permit. My aim will be accomplished- if, by'the following humble effort, I succeed in directing the reader’s attention,to a few of. the most;important events in . the subjugation of. Gothic Spain by the Saracens, and of their results upon the national history of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
that.unfortunate country. The subject will be dealt with in as comprehensive a manner as possible, since to attempt a complete narration would but result in an accumulation of details that would exhaust the reader’s patience, and go far beyond the intention of the present essay. These papers will be more in the nature of a cursory review of a period, rather than a precise and tedious record of events; and that the ground may be covered as briefly as possible, all circumlocutions of description will be avoided.
The story of the Saracens in Spain may be viewed in three aspects—the invasion^ the occupation^ and the expulsion. This, with a few reflections, bj' way of conclusion, on the effects which this great movement had upon Spanish civilization and progress, will be the plan here followed.
I.—THE INVASION.
The peninsula of Spain, known from the earliest times, has been the theatre of many political changes, and the scene of many a bloody conflict. ■ Lying, as it does, near the continent of Africa, to which it serves as a threshold, and flanked on either side by two great seas,upon which passes the commerce of the world, it has always been a position of importance to European nations. With the beginning’. of the Christian era it came into the almost complete possession of the Romans, under whose influence it attained a high degree of civilization; but when the barriers of Roman rule and protection fell, with the dissolution of that empire in the fifth century, it was occupied by the Visigoths, the most powerful of the Germanic tribes.
They were a stern and noble race of warriors, who brought with them a valorous and independent spirit into the sunny lands of Spain. However, the tranquillity which the country experienced after their occupation and the influences of the Roman inhabitants, who still formed the larger portion of the population, tended to turn the minds of the conquerors from the affairs of the camp and battlefield to the pursuits of the more peaceful arts. Less attention was paid to military discipline, and the people soon began to lose that hardy,’ad venturous spirit which characterized them in former days. The government, originally an elective monarchy, eventually vested in a particular family, and the crown became hereditary. This proved to be a source of great mischief; for frequently the question of descent gave rise to contentions which exposed the throne to the intrigues of jealous and vengeful princes, and threatened to involve the state in wreck and confusion.
Witiza the Wicked, who ascended the throne in the year 701, exasperated the people’ by his excesses, and ’ caused himself to be deposed by Don Roderick, a young prince of royal blood, who assumed the crown in 708, and was destined to be the last of the Gothic kings of Spain.
The youthful Roderick signalized the beginning of his reign by several brilliant exploits, and it seemed for .a time as if the old, warlike spirit of their ancestors were to be revived. The people
relapsed, however, into their former quiescent condition—ceasing to maintain simple habits of life or to bring with them into army and court a disinterested spirit, willing to subject itself to any discipline for the general good. Though it may be said that the race had degenerated, there were still among them many heroic and unselfish souls to whom subsequent events served but as a test to bring out their noble qualities and their unswerving fidelity to God and their country.
Such was the condition of affairs in Spain in the beginning of the eighth century, at the time that another, but more important change was being wrought in the East.
THE ADVANCE OF ISLAMISM. ■
The whole Christian world was resounding with the report of the rapidly-acquired conquests, and increasing power of a fanatic race, called “ Saracens,” who had spread themselves over the North of Africa and parts of Asia, and who threatened to eventually overrun all Europe.
The seeds of Mohammetanism, scattered by the Prophet himself among a few desert tribes, had flourished and developed into a prodigious system which, at this time, was deeply rooted in all the nations of the East. The policy of this monstrous institution was one of extermination and advancement by conquest. Palestine, Syria, Egypt and Persia had successively yielded to their armies who, flushed with victories and eager for plunder, stood at the very threshold of Europe when the events referred to were taking place in Spain.
At the foot of the Atas Mountains, whose parallel ranges defined the limits of the Moslem power in the West, were stationed the camps of Muza-ben-Nosier, an Arabian general of great experience, who had been entrusted, by the Khalif at Damascus, with the command of the forces in Mauritania, or Western Africa—the Province of the Moors, or Western Arabs, as they were called. Often did he ascend one of these mountains to observe the surrounding country; and, as he discerned, in the distance, the misty peaks which indicated Spain, many were the ambitious schemes of conquest he planned to put in execution against the tottering kingdom of the Goths. His fierce and fanatical warriors loudly clamored, too, to be led against the “ Christian infidel.” But great as was the danger thus threatening Spain it might have been averted, had not her ruin been accelerated by treachery from within.
History is somewhat at variance as to the real cause of the invasion. Spanish historian and Arabian chronicler, whose respective religions were mutually opposite, unite in attributing it to the designs of Providence; the one considering it as a punishment of a just God on the sins of a degenerated peo-pie; the other, as an auspicious omen of the favor with which Allah viewed the spread of Islamism. Certain it is that the conquest of the Goths was a direct consequence of the advancing power of the followers of Mahommet, whose way was opened into Spain by the declining condition of their unhappy "country, made still more defenseless by the execrable conduct of a traitor.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Don Roderick, it will be remembered, was king. Among the nobles that surrounded his court was one who stood high in the royal favor, and who was destined to take an important, but infamous part in the history of his country’s ruin. This man was Count Julian, a relative of Witiza, the deposed king, and a person of unbounded ambition. Though admitted into the confidence of the king, and entrusted with positions of great importance, he cherished, beneath a placid exterior that hypocrisy taught him to assume, a deep hatred of Roderick, looking upon him as an usurper, and the destroyer of his own family’s aspirations to the crown. The fires of passion were prudently smothered, however, in his own bosom until an opportunity should present itself when he could successfully gratify his revenge in the achievement of his ambitious designs. An excuse for flinging aside all allegiance to the crown was soon found in an insult offered his house by Roderick, who, after the first few years of his reign, began to plunge himself into excesses shameful to him as a Christian and unworthy the character of a monarch.
If Count Julian had previously shown himself possessed of some great qualities of mind, he seemed now to cast aside all thoughts of duty to God and his country; and in his terrible thirst for vengeance, determined not only to avenge his dishonor on Roderick alone, but to overwhelm all his people with bloodshed and ruin. His sagacious mind took in the circumstances of the defenseless condition of the Gothic kingdom, with the aggressive policy of Islamism; and, that he might more readily and effectually secure the downfall of his native land, called to his assistance the neighboring Saracens and Moors of Africa.
. Muza-ben-Nosier, spoken of before, was ever ready to pursue new conquests, and it was with gratification that he listened to the proposals of Julian, for he saw in this an opportunity for the successful crowning of his hopes. Having obtained permission from the Kaliph Waled Almanzor, at Damascus, to prosecute his enterprise, he fitted out a force of twelve thousand men and placed it under the command of a veteran soldier, Taric-ben-Zeyad, a warrior hardened by many years of experience at the head of the Saracen armies, and well adapted for the present position by his great courage and undaunted zeal. The expedition was composed mostly of light Arab warriors, though in the camp there was a motley assemblage and blending of the members of various Eastern nations and African tribes. The former of these were descendants of the original Eastern Arabs, or Saracens as they were afterwards called, who first received the Koran; the others consisted of those whom the fortune of conquest or the allurement of plunder attracted to the banners of the Prophet.
Among the latter were those who inhabited that portion of Western Africa, called Mauritania— whence the name Moors—including the Berbers, and numerous other tribes in that district. To prevent confusion, it may be said that though a distinction was recognized as to Arabs and Moors, Saracen was a general term applied to all who
professed Islamism, or Mahommetanism. The prevailing element in the first campaigns against the Christians was Arabian, and it was with such a body of warriors, seasoned by long service, and possessed of a semi-civilized refinement by contact with the polished nations of the Orient, that Tarik undertook to strike the first blow in the subjugation of Spain.	'
CAMPAIGN OF TARIK.	.
Late in the year 710, he crossed the straits of Hercules, separating Africa from Spain, and landed on a rocky promontory, called the Rock of Calpe, where he encountered and defeated a body of Christians under Theodomir, a Gothic noble, famous for the vigorous resistance he opposed to the invaders of his country. In commemoration of this victory the Saracens gave to this rock, the name of Gib-el-Tarik, or the Rock of Tarik,—the Gibraltar of the present day.
Large reinforcements began daily to arrive from Africa to support their brethren, while whatever regular troops of the Christians that could be hastily collected by Roderick were sent to check the tide of invasion which threatened to break over his kingdom. It was now that the perfidy of Julian displayed itself in having previously caused the larger and better portion of the royal army to be sent to a distant province. Prince Ataulpho, a relative of the king, who was placed in command of the Christian forces, met Tarik and his turbaned hordes at Calpe, the scene of his countrymen’s former defeat. A desperate battle ensued, in which the Prince and the valiant Theodomir displayed a heroic courage and performed many feats of prowess worthy the ancient fame of their race. Nevertheless, they were defeated, and Ataulpho was slain.
The whole country was now filled with terror and confusion—the dreaded Saracen was already in their midst. With lightning rapidity, the news ■ flew through the kingdom, rousing the inhabitants to a patriotic enthusiasm, and stimulating them with the desire of offering up their lives, if necessary, to preserve their freedom and defend their Faith. Though Roderick had long since given up the practice of arms, and devoted himself to the gratification of his desires, he now turned all his energies to avert the terrible storm which was blowing.' over the southern shores of his kingdom. From his capital of Toledo, he dispatched messengers calling on all those capable of bearing arms to repair to Cordova and place themselves in readiness to march under his banners. His subjects retained some of the old-time affection for their king, and responded to the call with alacrity. They thronged from all sides into the level plains before Cordova, where many of them saw for the first time the tents and trappings of an army. Many had no weapons at all, and very few possessed defensive armor. Want of experience had made them strangers to the art of war and unprepared to cope with their" fanatic foe, fresh from the fields of a.hundred vic- . tories. There were among them, however, many valiant noblemen in whose breasts still burned the. old, martial fire of the.Goths, and who, by word and example, inspired their countrymen with cour-
4&>	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
age and animation. The voluptuousness into which others had fallen was exhibited in their ignorance of military discipline and in their gorgeous accoutrements which were more adapted for the ornamentation of a castle hall than the winning of a battle.
THE FORTUNES OF THE GOTHS ON THE FIELD OF '	GUADALETE.
Earlin the month of July, the Christian army, consisting of about one hundred thousand men, with Roderick at their head, began their march southward. In a few days they arrived at the River Guadalete, or, as the Arabs afterward called it, Wady-al-Ete, the river of death, near Xeres, where they found the hosts of Tarik already encamped. Continual reinforcements from Africa had swelled their force to more than double the original number; while side by side with the quarters of the Arabian soldiery was the camp of a select body of Christian warriors from the regular army, whom the treachery of Julian had drawn over to the Moslem side, under the delusion that they were to help place the sons of Witiza upon the throne.
The beams of the sun which rose from behind the Sierra Nevada, on the nineteenth of July, of the year seven hundred and eleven, were reflected from a forest of glittering spears and silken banners, - disclosing, at the same time, long lines of moving troops of both armies filing down into the plain which lay between the two camps.
Tarik and all his warriors were mounted on fleet Arabian steeds, this being the Saracens’ favorite method of fighting. They were all perfectly disciplined and equipped; for the strict rule of the Koran was observed ^vith religious precision in the camp as well as in the mosque. Roderick came forth arrayed for battle and standing in a sumptuous chariot of rich workmanship, round .which were gathered the noblest and bravest of his train—the order observed by the Gothic kings on going into battle. Those troops who were poorly - armed occupied the position between the centre and the outer circle of their better equipped companions, while the captains, encased in heavy armor, rode about the field disposing and encouraging all.'
A clashing of cymbals and a fierce rattle of drums announced a charge of the Arabian horsemen, who swept like a lightning flash full up against the Spanish infantry. The Goths responded with their ancient war cries, and braced themselves to sustain the shock of the chargers who were turned, back only to careen about and hurl themselves against another portion of their determined foe. Thus did the battle proceed—-the Christianson one side, untrained and poorly armed, fighting with the energy born of despair to defend their homesand freedom; the Saracens on the other, perfectly accoutred, and infused with a fanatic zeal in behalf of a religion which taught them the surest way of securing Allah?s favor was by shedding the blood of their enemies.
For seven days did the battle rage. It seemed for awhile as if the Christians would be victorious; but after the first few days their foot soldiers began to suffer dreadfully, while many of their leaders
had fallen. None of them lacked courage, but all fought desperately until they fell, exhausted from weariness, or beneath the strokes of the Saracen sabres. Roderick^iwho had thrown aside his gorgeous and cumbrous trappings, was always present in the heat of battle, encountering and slaying the bravest of the Moslem generals. Half his army had perished, and on the seventh day the wearied survivors began to waver before the repeated and well-directed assaults of the Arabian cavalry. Struggling valiantly, they, at last, gave way before the enemy, who pursued them with terrible slaughter.
When last seen, Roderick was among his fleeing subjects, fighting bravely, and endeavoring to lead them safely from the field. On first missing him it was thought that he Jiad perished among the slain; and as his horse and garments were found near by in a marsh, others believed he had met his death in the waters of the Guadalete. For a long while there were many rumors afloat, but it was not until two hundred years later that a definite clue to the fate of the unhappy Roderick could be obtained. On a tombstone, found in a church of Viseo, in Portugal, the following woids were inscribed:
T	“ HIC REQUIESCIT RUDERICUS, ULTIMUS
REX GOTHORUM.”
This seemed to confirm a tradition then prevalent among the Spanish people that, after the fatal battle in which he- lost his crown, he secretly retired to an isolated monastery, in Portugal, where he devoted the remainder of his days to solitude and prayer, in atonement for the sins of his past life.
Thus, with the defeat and disappearance of Roderick, fell the kingdom of the Goths in Spain, whose princes ruled over this sunny land for the space of two hundred years.
(TO BE CONTINUED.)
Annunciation.
Vers une humble maison dans un humble village . Un archange puissant vole du haut des cieux.
Et 1’ceil de 1’Eternel le suit. .' . . A son passage, Tout s’incline, et 1’espace etincelle de feux.
Et devant une enfant, courbe, respectueux, Le messager divin dit un secret message.
Et la Vierge timide a change de visage. ...	’
Puis, douce, obdissante, Elle a baissd les yeux.	•
Chantez alleluia, psahnistes d’lsrael!
Car cette pauvre enfant qtii s’appelle Marie, Si pure qu’Elle tremble en voyant Gabriel,
C’est la fille des rois, c’est 1’Alma dTsai’e, L’Epouse du Tris-Haut, la Mire du Messie. Prends la harpe, 0 David, et chante Emmanuel! ■ j- ' 	' l. e.
Living blood and a passion of kindness will distinguish God’s gentlemen from Fashion’s. ; i
■	.	'	i
- -	_	-	'	i
5
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	46i
Architecture.
The art of building has been cultivated by mankind from the earliest periods of society, and from the construction of the meanest huts we may deduce the origin of all buildings. These huts were originally constructed in a conical form, which is the simplest in structure; but being inconvenient by reason of their inclined sides, the form and construction of the huts were entirely changed by giving them the shape of a cube.
In the course of time mankind improved in the art of building, and invented means of rendering their houses both durable and convenient. Stones were placed upon the ground for foundations, the roofs were elevated in the centre by means of rafters, in order to support the materials for covering and to allow the water to run off. When afterwards the rude builders wished to erect more stately residences, they imitated those parts which had composed the primitive huts. The upright trees which were used in their rude huts were the origin of columns, and the stones used as foundations to them were the origin of the bases and capitals. The beams, joists and rafters gave rise to the architraves, friezes, and cornices.
The Greeks, whose genius prompted them tgj unite elegance with convenience, obtained their ideas of building from the Egyptians. But the government under which he lives influences the mind of man, and the Greeks, having lost their independence, lost also their ascendency in works of genius, and the Romans from that period were the promoters of the art of architecture. Julius Caesar and Augustus were the patrons of Viturvius, the eminent Roman architect; and though'they employed him in but few works of magnificence, the rules for architecture which he gave were highly esteemed, and are still a standard among the moderns. The five orders of architecture, the Tuscan, the Doric, the Ionic, the Corinthian and the Composite, were carried by the Romans to the highest perfection; and though -the people of modern times have improved the general structure of buildings, to the beauty.and symmetry of these columns nothing has been added.
To give an idea of the orders, we must observe that the whole of each is divided into two parts at least—the column and entablature; and of four parts at most, when there is a pedestal under the column, and an acroterat, or little-pedestal, surrounded by the entablature; that the column has three parts—the base, the shaft and the capital; the entablature has three likewise—the architrave, the frieze and the cornice.	’
The origin and name of the Tuscan order arises from Tuscany, which was originally inhabited by a colony from Lydia. Because of its strong and massive proportions, it is called the Rustic order, and is usually employed in buildings of that character. It is composed of few parts, devoid of ornament, and capable of supporting heavy weights. Wherever strength and solidity are required there we will find the Tuscan order. The Trajan col
umn at Rome is of this order. Its column. is seven diameters highland its capital, base and entablature have very few mouldings or ornaments.
The Doric order is so called from Dorus, who built a temple in Argos. It is of a grave, robust and masculine appearance, whence it is figuratively termed the Herculean order. This order possesses the same character for strength as the Tuscan, but is enlivened with ornaments in the frieze and capital.
The Ionic takes its name from the people of Iona. The column is more slender than the Doric, yet more graceful. Its ornaments are remarkable for their elegance, and are of a style between the richness of the Corinthian and the plainness of the Tuscan—they are simple, graceful and majestic. Contrary to all authors, Michael Angelo gives a single row of leaves at the bottom of the capital to the Ionic.	■ .
The finest of all the orders is the Corinthian, first used at Corinth. It is expressive of delicacy, tenderness, and beauty. An acanthus entwining its leaves around a votive basket that adorned the grave of a young lady, suggested to Calineachus the capital which is so rich and graceful.
The Romans were the inventors of the Composite order. It partakes of the Ionic and Corinthian orders—chiefly the latter.
Gothic architecture has numerous and prominent buttresses, lofty spires and. pinnacles, large and ramified windows, Ornamented niches and canopies with sculptured saints and angels,delicate lacework, fretted roofs, and a profusion of ornaments. Its most distinguishing characters are small clustered pillars and pointed arches formed by the segments of two intersecting circles. This style is supposed bv some to be of Arabian origin, while others think we are indebted for it to the Anglo-Normans.
F.J.W.
, [From “TJie Ave Maria''] The Chains of Columbus.
The Cittadino^ of Genoa, in October, 1885, made the announcement that, in view of the approaching fourth centenary of the discovery of America, Chevalier Baldi, of that city, had determined to, make public a secret, jealously kept by him for the last twenty years—namely, that he is. the fortunate possessor of the identical, chains wherewith Bobadilla, the minister of King Ferdinand of Aragon, loaded the person of Christopher Columbus when sending him back to Spain, a prisoner, in 1500. To secure this treasure, Chevalier Baldi undertook a long and expensive journey to America, but, for private reasons, had hitherto concealed the fact of his success. The Cittadino is now enabled to furnish the following most interesting particulars connected therewith:
Ferdinand, or Fernando, son. of Christopher Columbus, notes in his memoirs (chapter Ixxxv): “ The Admiral had determined to preserve these fetters as a relic, and a memorial of the recompense awarded his many and great services; which in
462
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
tention he earned into effect, since I always beheld these chains suspended in his chamber, and he ordained they should be buried with his mortal remains.”
Other historians relate the same fact. Humboldt was the first to make known that the chains in question1 were not found in the coffin of Christopher Columbus when opened for the purpose of transferring-his bones from the sepulture of the Franciscans of Valladolid, to Seville, whence they were later transported to San Domingo, where they were recently discovered by Mgr. Coccia, in the Cathedral of that city. It was thereupon whispered that the fetters had been spirited away by order of the court of Madrid, to which they were a memorial of shame. This report was set^t rest by the owner of the house wherein the great Columbus breathed his last in almost abject poverty—an innkeeper of Valladolid, who declared that the aforesaid fetters had been preserved ever since, in his own family, with great veneration. On learning this, Chevalier Baldi did not relax in his efforts until he had succeeded in securing the precious treasure.
Learned archaeologists fully recognize the au- thenticity of these chains, which is further luminously illustrated by an inscription (the abbreviations and symbolic signs after the fashion of the 15th century) which is graven on the circlet of iron destined to be soldered at the wrist of the prisoner. The inscription reads thus:
“ THE SHAFT OF CALUMNY BESTOWED THESE FETTERS ON DON CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS,
DOVE (‘COLOMBO’) OF GOOD TIDINGS, A CITIZEN OF GENOA.
DIED IN MY HOUSE OF APOSENTO, VALLADOLID, MAY, I506, IN THE PEACE OF CHRIST.
F. SCO M. RO,* IN TOKEN OF JEALOUS REMEMBRANCE FOREVER.”
The cluster of fetters weighs 3,225 grams, and is divisible into four parts. It consists of a chain to be fastened at the ankle, with a band to encircle the waist; this is one metre eighty-nine centimeters in length; a smaller chain, with handcuffs, sixty-five centimeters long; two separate links, united together, fourteen centimeters in length, and a kind of padlock six centimeters in size. The chains have a complex length of two metres seventy-four centimeters. The entire cluster numbers thirty heavy links, oval in shape. The several links vary in length from seven to nine centimeters, and in width from three to four centimeters. There are also a band, or manacle, for the ankle, similar to that visible on the Chains of the Prince of the Apostles, in the Basilica of S. Pietro in Vinculis, in Rome, wrought in two parts, to open on a hinge; and two handcuffs, one of which wants nearly an eighth of the.circlet; they are formed in the guise of a bracelet, or armlet, to shackle the wrists, and have no closing pivot, but simply a lock-hinge.
These most precious fetters are carefully enshrined within an urn-shaped coffer, of exquisite workmanship of the 17 th century, wrought in ebony., inlaid with other valuable woods, and with emblems
* The name of the innkeeper.	,
in ivory referring to the acta et gesta of Columbus. The front of the coffer has a small group in bronze, with the figures of Hercules and graceful little genii. The interior is lined throughout with crimson damask, and the fetters lie in a gilt casket, 'closed with an iron network—the same which served to contain them ere they were collocated within the urn. This latter is, in its turn, kept in a box lined with satin, adorned’with a fine escutcheon of Genoa, in gilt bronze. The outer cover bears a small monument to the heroic navigator, consisting of a statuette and four bass-reliefs, all in gilded bronze. The ensemble of the shrine is worthy the treasure it contains.
Scientific Notes.
—A recent study of the geology of the Saguenay by the Abbe La Flamme, of Quebec, convinces him that the abysmal gorge of that river owes its depth to the simple action of the water continued through such long periods that the caiion of the Colorado is called recent in comparison.
—The strips of papyrus that were taken from an Egyptian excavation several years ago, and placed in the Berlin museum, are said to contain parts of Hie great work of Aristotle on administration, and, in particular, passages from the most valuable part of that work—that treating of the civil administration of Athens.—Science.
—M. Jules Jamin, “ Perpetual Secretary of the Academy of Physical and Natural Sciences,” died last month in Paris, at the age of 73. . He was a distinguished French scientist and the author of several important works, the most remarkable of which is his “ Cours de Physiqzte a V Ecole Poly-tcchniquey He died in the most Christian sentiments, receiving the Last Sacraments with most edifying devotion. The funeral took place from the Church of Saint Sulpice.	-
—The growth of the Telephone, says the Scientific American, is one of the most remarkable in. the history of inventions. ‘ In.August 1877, there were only 7S0 instruments in use in this country, while in February, 1885, there were 325,574. There are about 18,000 in Canada, and 13,000 in Great Britain. The number of exchanges has grown from 100 in 1S80 to 782 in 1885. In January last there were 137,223 miles of telephone wire in this country. There are 5,186 persons furnished with employment by the exchanges. More different patents have been issued on the'telephone than in any other single line of.invention in this country. The total number for the ten years is 1,521.
—The following are the requirements for a truly good, pure, potable water, as prescribed by a scientific commission in Belgium a short time ago: (1) It must be clear and transparent; (2) it must be of agreeable taste, and not warmer than 150 C.; ( 3) it must contain some air and some carbonic acid; (4) .it should not contain more than twenty milligrams of organic matter per litre; (5) it should not contain more than 0.5 milligram ammonia per
THE NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC.	463
litre; (6) it should not contain algae, infusoria, or bacteria; (7) upon addition of some cane sugar no bacteria must be developed; (8) the water should not contain nitrites, nor sulphuretted nitrogen, and not give a precipitate with sulphide of ammonium; (9) it should not contain more per litre than 0.5 grain mineral salts.
• College Gossip.
—The trustees of the East Tennessee Wesleyan University, at Athens, Tenn., have amended their charter, changing the name of the institution to the “ Grant Memorial University.” The school was organized in 1867, and General Grant’s name heads the list of the donors.—Ex.
—Book-lenders might do worse than adopt as a model for their advertisements the following announcement, which is at present adorning the notice-board of a certain Oxford college: “ Mr.--, having lent a volume of ‘Jowett’s Plato ’ to some one, and being unable to remember to whom he has lent it, ventures to point out to the unknown borrower that, under the unusual circumstances of the case, he would be quite justified in returning the book to its owner without waiting for a more' direct invitation.”
—Bowdoin is considering the proposition to form a society, to be composed of professors and students, for the purpose of “ discussing subjects of.scientific interest.”—Ex.
Such a society has long existed at Notre Dame. The “ United Scientific Association,” with its three departments of Natural and Physical Sciences and. Mathematics,—each directed by a Professor and all subject to one general director, with a membership recruited from the ranks of the students,—was organized in 1868, and since then has developed and flourished, and become one of the first associations in the University.
—The facilities for the higher education of women in Great Britain are steadily increasing. Not only have the University of London, the Royal University of Ireland, the Victoria University, and the Irish College of Physicians and Surgeons freely opened all their examinations and degrees to women, but the Scotch colleges of Physicians and Surgeons at Edinburgh have just decided to throw open to women their conjoint examinations and triple qualifications in medicine, surgery, and midwifery. This latter movement has only been accomplished, however, after a protracted contest.
—As stated in the Provinzial-Schulcollegium^ the maximum of daily school work considered in Prussia to be compatible with health is fixed at from seven hours a day for children of years, up to nine hours for those of and upward. The - standard is thought too high by' many German teachers and doctors, and Dr. Roth states that 64 per cent, of those who should work after graduation are much below the normal standard of health. The standard in Denmark is still higher, and a recent Government investigation finds- that 29 per cent, of the boys and 41 per cent, of the girls are “sickly ” from confinement and mental strain.
—It has been suggested more than once recently to Harvard, Princeton, Yale, and other colleges, that they should adopt the plan which has been very successful at -the University of Virginia. There the students during examination sit together, and without being watched or spied upon; but when their papers are finished, each one is endorsed: “ I have neither given nor received assistance,” and the name is signed to it. Each man is simply placed on his honor, and a violation of the pledge is almost unheard of. In the very rare instances where students have been known by their fellows to have cheated in this regard, they have been forced—by the students, not by the faculty—to leave the college, and have been marked men for the rest of their lives.—Baltimore American.
—The « Blair Bill.”—Another exemplification of the influence, of politics upon education is seen in the “ Blair Bill,” which proposes that Congress shall make a gift of seventy-seven- million dollars, to be divided among the States of the Union to help them maintain their schools. The success of the bill, as we write, is said to be uncertain; but, whether it pass or not, it has had so extensive a backing as to well illustrate the sort of influence which politicians would bring to bear upon education. The tendency to make education a charity, and to bring school-houses into the same category with poor-houses, is sufficiently strong; but this measure, by an audacious stretch of constitutional power, would give the stamp of nationality to the charity policy. The scheme proceeds upon the peculiarly American assumption that anything can be done with money, and that the Central Government has only to scatter millions enough and all the people will be educated. But the assumption is false; there are things which no amount of money can do, while the evils of its lavish distribution are not only palpable and certain, but may resultin the absolute defeat of the object intended. That the distribution of this seventy-seven million largess among the States would be profoundly injurious to the interests of popular education does not admit of a doubt; and the American Congress would have to make the experiment but once more to paralyze and destroy the existing common-school system of the country. For, by the results of all experience and the very necessity of things, those who expect to be helped will depend upon help, and put forth less effort to help themselves. Whatever lessens the interest taken by parents and citizens in the working and character of the schools, whatever tends to diminish their direct responsibility in regard to them, and to weaken the sense of obligation to make sacrifices for the instruction of the young, strikes a demoralizing and deadly blow at the springs and incentives of all educational improvement. Our people have yet to learn that one of the highest benefits of a popular educational system is in training parents and citizens to the efficient discharge of their social duties; and a national policy which undermines these obligations cannot, be too strongly reprobated.—Prof.E.L.Tbumans, in “Popular Science Monthly " for April.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, April 3, 1886.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Nineteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning tlie whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it;'parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—The Scholastic is requested to announce that there is no suspension of classes at Easter. The “ Easter Vacation” which has so often been mentioned about this time does not exist. At no time in the year do the Faculty so strongly object to the absence of students as during Easter week, and it is hoped that no such absences will be recorded during the present session.
The Laetare Medal.
About four years ago, the Faculty of the University of Notre Dame inaugurated the custom of bestowing each year a public mark of appreciation of the worth and services of some Catholic personage distinguished in letters, science or art. This tes-timonial is in the form of a beautiful gold medal, known as the “Laetare Medal ” from the day chosen for its presentation-—Laetare Sunday., The propri-:ety of this custom at once commends itself to one who reflects that a great Catholic institution of learning honors itself in such a public recognition of the merits of a distinguished son of the Church. . No better proof could be given of interest taken in the pursuit and advancement of knowledge, while, at the same time, those entrusted with the education of youth furnish a grand incentive to study in fixing the attention of the student upon brilliant and worthy examples deserving of imitation.
The first year:(1883), Dr. John Giln/ary Shea, the distinguished Catholic historian, whose name is a household word in every Catholic family in the land, was made the recipient of the “ Laetare Medal ”; the following year* it was given to Mr. Patrick C.
Keely, of Brooklyn, the eminent architect, whose genius is imperishably stamped upon so many temples devoted to the worship of God; and last year the distinction was well bestowed upon Miss Eliza Allen Starr, of Chicago, whose writings on subjects of Catholic art and literature have been so widely and. favorably known throughout the country.
This year the “Laetare Medal” is conferred upon that eminent Catholic layman and scientist, General John Newton, of New York City, and all will say that the honor is right worthily bestowed. The life and public services of General Newton—his career during our late Civil War and subsequent brilliant exploits in scientific fields, crowned by that immortal monument to his genius, the removal of great impediments to the commerce of the Metropolis in the explosions of Hell Gate— are too well known to need any recital here. He stands to-day oneof the foremost men in our country by reason of his scientific attainments, and not less to his praise and honor is the fact that he is an exemplary Christian. No subject, therefore, could be found more worthy of the honor which Notre Dame seeks to bestow, and we have no doubt that this testimonial will meet with the approval of the public at large.
To-morrow (Laetare Sunday) the presentation will be made in the name of the University by Mr. Maurice F. Egan, of the N. Y. Preeman's Journal. The Medal is of heavy gold, in white and blue enamel and exquisitely wrought. One side bears the-name—Gen. John Newton—surrounding a field of blue, surmounted by compass, sword and scroll, indicative of the works of the distinguished recipient; on the reverse is the inscription: “Presented by the University of Notre Dame,” encircling a scene from the Hell Gate explosions, beautifully engraved; and the whole is attached to a gold bar with the name“ Laetare Medal.” The accompanying address is in Latin, well printed on watered silk embroidered with gold, the cover of which is beautifully ornamented and bears an allegorical representation of Science painted with exceeding skill by Signor Gregori. The address reads as follows:
INCLYTO DUCI JOANNI NEWTON.
Illustrissime Vir:
Universitati Nostra Dominae gratissimum munus est et decus offerre quotannis pignus honorificum civi cuidam eminent! quern publica fama de Patria et de Religione bene meritum esse proclamat.
Porro. inter tot et tarn egregios viros qui hisce tempo-ribus Rempublicam dotibus ingenii et preclare gestis ornant et amplificant, nullum sane reperire est cujus nomen clari-ori luce quam tuum splendeat, aut qui virtutibus illis quae -civern, ducem, Christianum decent, magis quam tu, polleat, quique ideo dignior sit quern sui cives laudent et honore prosequantur.	-
Quum enim, ante hos quinque et viginti annos, integri-tas Patriae nostra in discrimen adducta est; quum jam Foederati Status in eo erant ut violenter separarentur, Tu vitam pro legibus exponere non dubitasti, et siren ui militis ducisque periti officiis functus, protua. virili parte; mirum in modum,-exoptatam hanc etlaetissimam obtinuisli victoriam, quae cruento diuque ancipiti bello finem dedit, pacem et concordiam restituit, unionem et integritatem Americae servavit. Itaque, haud indignus altero illo heroe quem sibi Virginia, magna parens virorum, filium, ut Teipsum, viridi-cat, quas Washington in cbndenda instituendaque patria
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	465
collegit, Tu, in eadem defendenda restituendaque, lauros adeptus es.
Pacificis autem artibus, non minus quam bellica laude, insigniris. Ut enim cietera taceamus quae tuie gloriae satis essent, quis non miraretur ilia recentia et stupenda ingenii tui opera quorum fama per orbem vulgata est? Ubinatn enim sunt rupes ilia; giganteae qua; montium instar, mediis in fluctibus dorsum immane levantes, mortem aut naufragia nautis minabantur? Quae quidem opera adeo ardua vide-bantur ut nonnulli ex tuis amicis, quamvis ingenio Tuo minime diffidentes, rei tamen difficultate territi, anxio et ancipiti animo eventum tanti inccepti expectarent. Tu vero recentioris scientiie auxiliis et inventis fretus et armatus, saxa et mare aegressus, victoriam novam et incruentam, sed non minus gloriosam quam priores retulisti, et nomini illi, quod jampridem celeberrimus alter ille Newton im-mortale fece at, novam famam decusque novum addidisti.
Dum autem hos triumphos Tibi cum omnibus civibus gratulamur, nos Catholici, iisdem gloriamur, quippe qui Religionis nostra; summo decori sintetmaxime inserviant. Catholicam enim fidem profiteris impavidus, et cum tot et tantis ingenii viris quorum adlueres vestigiis, documento es earn scientiis non adversari. Quod quidem non mirum est quum scientia et Iides sorores sint, et ab eodem Deo Optimo Maximo procedant, qui “Pater luminum et Deus scientiarum” nuncupatur. Exemplo denique tuo ostendis Catholicos, quemadmodum ab initio Rempubiicam nas-centem adjuvarunt, foverunt et amplificarunt sic nunc eos esse qui omni ope et opera eamdem adultam adjuvent, foveant et amplificent.
Qua; quum it:i sint, Illustrissime Vir, quum adeo Rempubiicam et Religionem honoraveris, confidimus fore ut Deus et-Respubb.ca Tibi debitum premium tribuant. Sed liceat quoque huic Universitatbcui nihil sanctius, nihil an-tiquius est quam patria, fides, scientia; et artes, honorare Te, non quidem quantum vales, sed quantum potest, et ideo accipere libenter digneris hoc pignus quod viro de Patria et de Religione optime merito offerunt
Universitatis Nostre Domina;
Professores et Alumni.
Invincible Hibernia.
It is not easy to realize that these days are so full of moment to a gallant people and so productive , of events destined to be of historical and worldwide importance. Outwardly there is but little to indicate that such is the case. Peace reigns throughout the world. Monotony marks the succession of the days and the weeks. Even the months and years pass in stately procession without material disturbance in international affairs. The exhibitions of discontent that from time to time break out in the chief centres of population bear witness to nothing more than temporary and mutable evils —the number of hours men shall work in a day and the compensation they shall receive for their services. Crime is not unusually prevalent, and its atrocities are not exceptionally startling. It would appear, indeed, taking a comprehensive view of matters, as though the nations of the earth are drawn together by a bond of common amity and committed to a policy of peace by settled plans looking to the promotion of their several interests. The temple of Janus is closed, and a profound calm has settled upon the world.
In view'of such facts it wants more than common observation and reflection to realize that, under the prevailing calm, events of extraordinary weight and magnitude are assuming shape. In a few days the attention of the whole world will be eagerly directed to them. Already in some quarters
anticipation seeks, with a feverish intensity, to penetrate the shadowy span of intervening time. And in the contemplation the enthusiasm of long-cherished expectation already registers the fervor of, a great triumph in prospect. Thus are the sons arid \ daughters of Erin in every land directing their hopeful vision to true and brave Hibernia, majestic sentinel of sea and ocean. They view the immediate future with a feeling of trustful confidence in the favorable issue of the momentous events now in-course of development. They look eagerly for the bonfires on the hills, and listen intently for the first shout of coming victory. For with bonfire, and song, and the exultation of triumph they desire to celebrate it, and to unite in an acclaim of joy and thanksgiving that shall resound in every land and be heard throughout the world.
After more than seven centuries of conflict, and-several centuries of tyranny, spoliation, persecution, poverty, misery, murder, rapine, cruelty, injustice and misrepresentation, invincible Hibernia, whose lofty spirit was never broken, and whose steadfast hope was never crushed, turns again upon her burly antagonist. And not with the traditional shield and spear, for of these and all the means of warfare he has deprived her, but with a patriotism which appeals to the favor of Heaven, with a pathos that arouses the sympathy of the world, with an eloquence that thrills the heart of mankind, and with a vehemence of denunciation that withers and shames the brutal oppressor and spoiler, she encounters him in his own legislative halls, and forces him to abate and recall in large measure his tyrannical assumption of domination and authority.
What an inspiring spectacle! It fills the world, with wonder and admiration. In the luminous records of patriotism, wherein the great, noble and self-sacrificing deeds of mankind are inscribed; Hibernia may proudly refer for her own history to the first pages. Her experience affords the world the grandest lesson of sublime patience, unflinching courage, heroic fortitude, and invincible patriotism that can be found in all the records and annals of nations and the ages. And now affairs are hasten- . ing to a climax. Her wonderful self-control is consternation to the enemy.. And yet how diffi- ? cult to realize that within a few days the seal of comparatively successful consummation shall be set upon the sanguinary conflicts and bitter.struggles of seven gloomy centuries!
But so it is! Mr. Gladstone, the greatest public . man of English blood that in our day lives, is soon to submit his plan for-the legislative independence of Ireland. The infamous act of union of the year 1800, conceived in iniquity, fostered and directed by conspiracy, and consummated through the foul agencies of mendacity, corruption, bribery, treachery, is to be repealed, providing Mr. Gladstone and his friends of the Liberal party, assisted by the Nationalists under the leadership of Parnell, can . muster and command the requisite force to annul it. Should it be revoked, or.should “home rule” . be conceded to Ireland, a very irriportant advance . . in the direction of national independence will there- . by be made. Ireland will again have its own Par- .
466	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
liament, and a tendency toward complete separation and absolute independence will be the natural and legitimate result. When this result shall have been attained—and every patriotic Irishman hopes in his own day to witness its realization—invincible Hibernia will take her place among the nations of the earth as one of the most beautiful, brilliant and progressive of their number. The ingenious and brutal schemes of the burly tyrant whom she so scornfully repudiates will then be of no avail to degrade and pauperize her children, or to withhold from them the means and opportunities of developing the powers with which nature has so richly endowed them, or to seek.by the agency of penal laws to destroy their faith, or to misrepresent and caricature them before the world, in the interest of justifying his sanguinary and oppressive rule.
The sons and daughters of Erin love independence, and to do so is a part of their nature. In every land and every age they side with those who struggle for it. Under its banners they have given their lives and found graves in all quarters of the globe. They are prouder of their history and prouder of their seven centuries of unconquerable defiance to misrule than the more powerful enemy whom they so valiantly fought can possibly be of his deeds. And either .now or soon they will force from him the concession of “home rule.” And then, with opportunities more equal to achieve success in the various fields of labor and enterprise, they will prove more than-a match for their English competitors. By nature, indeed, they are second to no race in the world in brilliant qualities of mind, generous qualities of heart, and splendid qualities of manhood. All races that have learned to understand them are now.' friendly to the realization of their patriotic aspirations; and the sentiment of the civilized world is—Speed the day which will show the bright.possibilities in store for that gallant people as freemen, for that beautiful island as an independent nation, for brave and invincible Hibernia as the youngest daughter of Freedom.
A Plea for the Constitution.

The Blair educational scheme is as fascinating as the serpent of Eden. It whispers to the people of the United States: “An emergency has arisen in the nation, quick action is necessary to save the grandest Government the sun ever shone on; gross ignorance threatens the life of liberty. If this bill passes ‘you shall know good from evil’; being enlightened, you shall perceive what is best for your country and what not.” If the States eat of this forbidden fruit, they will fall from their high estates, they shalltruly know good from evil, being then surrounded by evil, and will be driven from the Paradise of State autonomy by the fiery sword of imperialism. My countrymen, be not deceived; flee from temptation!
Again, the Blair educational billsings to the people, to the States, with a Siren’s voice; but woe be to them if allured to its embrace, for they shall be
crushed thereby, and 'the macerated frames of State governments will lie as bleaching- skeletons upon the fields of centralization.
There is no emergency. Education alone will not protect from crime. If the Senator from New Hampshire will look at the statistics of that division of the country, whence he comes—the New England States—lie will find a greater proportion of those who can read and write, and there, also, more crime and more looseness in morals and the family relation, than in any other part of the United States.
How slv and subtle and insinuating- is the Sena-tor from New Hampshire! Speaking to his bill, he says: “It is only for a temporary purpose to advance those portions of the country which are below the proper standard of education where illiteracy prevails to such an extent as to.be dangerous to the public welfare. It has no purpose, so far as I know there is no purpose on the part of any one interested in the enactment of the bill into a law, that the aid shall be permanent. I myself am one of those who would be very reluctant indeed to see the school system for the states become permanently dependent upon aid from the general Government. It is entitled a bill for temporary aid.” And yet the Senator knows, if he knows anything at all, that if the system ever becomes fixed upon our people, if the opiate ever once pervades them, the lethargy engendered will render them so dependent, will extract so much of individual vitality, that strength will not be left, even if there is the will, to throw off the burden.
“ While the citizen leans on the mighty arm of the Republic,” says a classic writer, “ his own proper strength departs from him. He loses, in an extent proportioned to the weakness or force of his original-nature, the capability of self-support. Uncle Sam’s gold—meaning no disrespect to the worthy old gentleman—has in this respect, a quality of enchantment like that of the devil’s wages. Whoever touches it should look well to himself or he may find the bargain to go hard against him involving, if not his soul, yet many of its better-attributes; its sturdy force, its courage and constancy, its truth, its self-reliance, and all that gives the emphasis to manly character.” Let the system be once fixed, and it will fasten itself to the Government with indissol uble grip. For that “ monster custom, who all sense doth eat,” and “devil of habit” will tie the people with unrelenting cords. Indulge to-day-, and that shall lend a kind of easiness to further indulgence. The Senator from New Hampshire, we repeat, knows this if he knows anything, and yet he says: “I would oppose it, if it were-proposed to make the system permanent.” If it would be wrong as a permanency it is wrong as a temporary measure. The time cannot affect the principle.
. If -the principle is once adopted.what is to pre-. vent the,Government from furnishing .clothing to the.child, and. food, while it attends school? and, further, what is to prevent it from feeding and clothing all the poor of the land; .all done for the “ general welfare ” of the country ?. And, further,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
what is to prevent the Government from supporting laborers out of employment, and how is the Government to prevent all men who work for their living, from ceasing to do so at once, that they may receive sustenance from the National Treasury? Why should a man toil and moil, and be at so much trouble to pick himself up out of the mud, when the strong arm of his Uncle will raise and support him? Why should he work for his living when he can be made happy, at monthly intervals, with a little pile of glittering coin out of his Uncle’s pocket?
Finally, it will come to the spectacle of all men seeking,support from the Government with no one to support the Government. Then what?
No, no; the bill must not pass. Let all men who love the Constitution resist its proposed “ violation by men who have always professed to be its dearest and truest lovers.” Let Southern statesmen escape from their bewitchment and return to the land marks of their fathers, with whom a Democrat was something more than a name. Let them be real followers, and not pretenders, of Jefferson, who believed in strong enough central power to harmonize the action of all the States, yet, at the same time, “ in a simple and restrained federal Government, exercising in a limited way only such powers as are absolutely needful.” Let all understand that the perversion of the £c general welfare ” clause of the Constitution will in effect annul and expunge that repository of our liberties, and give Congress unlimited powers; and let all remember that this Government is not an absolute democracy, but a democracy with constitutional limitations.
James Norfleet, ’79.
Books and. Periodicals.
—■Kunkel's Musical Review tor April is a very interesting number. In addition to a collection of entertaining articles and instructive miscellany, there are several very beautiful and valuable pieces of music, as follows: “ Paganini Witch Dance,” by -Jean Paul; “Jennie’s Favorite Gavotte,” by Carl Sidus; “ Merry Sleighbells ” (4 hands), by Carl Sidus; “Puck March,” by Claude Melville. There is also a song, the music of which is somewhat pretty, but with- words as silly and as unpoetical as could be imagined.
—St. Nicholas for April opens with a bright and amusing fanciful story by H. C. Bunner, entitled “ Casperl,” which is illustrated by O. Herford, and by the frontispiece—drawn by L^on Moran. Edward Everett tells how the “ Vacationschools in Boston” were started; and Charles Barnard, in a story called “Sophie Conner and.the Vacation-school,” explains the inside workings of one of those popular and paradoxically named institutions. Henry Sandham contributes eleven drawings illustrating both articles. A very interesting “ Historic Girl ” is told about by E. S. Brooks. Her name was “Woo of Hwang-ho.” She was a Chinese girl, brought up under Christian influ
ences, and became the only woman who ever ruled the “ Middle Kingdom ” as “Empress Supreme.” Frank R. Stockton brings us a little nearer home in his “ Personally Conducted ” paper, in which he describes the perils of Alpine climbing, and relates how he himself made the ascent of the Rigi .—by railway. And there is another of the “New Bits of Talk for Young Folk,” by Helen Jackson (H. H.). Other stories and sketches include: “ Ben’s Sister,” a lost-in-the-snow story by Maria L. Pool; “ An Imprisoned Whale,” a natural history sketch by Edmund Collins; and “A Visit to . Shakspeare’s School,” by the Rev. Alfred Danker. There are poems and verses by Harian H. Ballard, Sydney Day re, and Caro A. Lloyd; and pictures by R. B. Birch, Alfred Brennan, and James Monks.
—Three anecdotal articles in the Century for April form a most entertaining account of the famous Confederate cruiser Alabama and her duel with the Kearsarge. P. D. Haywood, who was . a seaman on the Alabama^ describes “Life on the Alabama''’ with graphic humor; Lieutenant Commander John McIntosh Kell, in his paper, givesan authoritative account of the reasons which impelled Captain Semmes to try issues with the Kearsarge^ ■ and of the incidents of the fight; while Surgeon John M. Browne of the Kearsarge contributes the Union history of that stirring event. In point both of illustrations and anecdotal interest, these articles are perhaps second to none that have appeared in the Century War Series. In “Memoranda on the Civil War,” Captain Charles King replies to General Pope, in vindication of his father, General Rufus King. Professor John J. Tigert makes a suggestion in regard to “Government Aid in the Marking of Battle-Fields ”; and Colonel L. B. , Northrop, the Confederate Commissary-General, replies to., criticism by Generals J. E. Johnston, Beauregard, and Imboden. A portrait of Longfellow after an ambrotype of 1848, showing the poet in a»guise unfamiliar to the public of later years, is the frontispiece of the number. It accompanies a paper by Mrs. Annie Fields giving “ Glimpses of Longfellow in Social Life,” with , many anecdotes as set down both by Mr. Longfellow, and by the author’s husband, the late James T. Fields. Mr. Cable’s paper on .“ Creole Slave Songs ” is as fully illustrated and as entertaining as his February article on “ The Dance in the Place Congo.” Mr. and Mrs. Pennell conclude their descriptive and pictorial narrative of their novel trip from Florence to Rome, entitled “ Italy, from a Tricyle.”. A profusely illustrated paper on “ Toy Dogs,”—the pug, spaniels, and terriers,—by James . . Watson, completes the Century series on typical dogs. Dr. -Washington Gladden contributes an essay on “Christianity and Popular Education.” “ Topics of the Time ” contains a discussion of the personal and^rt questions, which are suggested by the proposal to erect a national memorial to Gen- . eral Grant; also an editorial entitled “ Good Signs . on the Lecture Platform.” In “ Open. Letters ” the Rev. Dr. Charles S. Robinson writes of “ The . Tinkering of Hymns,” Courtlandt Palmer of « The	-
Tool House,” as an aid in manual training.
468
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.	'
—Cold!
—Stroke!
—Navigation.
—Burn the stubble.	.
—Items are scarce.
—The day we celebrate.
—Change in the weather.
—March went out like a lion.
—M’Garry took the matches.
—Three weeks more of Lent.
—To-morrow is Ljetare Sunday.
—Who received the boxes last Thursday?
—Send us some “Personal” and “ Local Items.”
—Prof. Lyons went to Chicago on Thursday.
—A raging lion is a monarch; so is a surveyor.
See?	'	■
, —The grounds around the lakes are being put in order.
—The “List of Excellence” will be published next week.
—The Scholastic box is in the Students’ Office.
Don’t forget it.	»
—Competitions next weekin the Course of Modern Languages.
—Will the man who stole the nubbins please step up and get a chromo?
—Another criminal case is docketed in the Mootcourt for this evening.
—Sherman has joined the Knickerbocker company of the Sorin Cadets.
‘—Honor, like gold, is preserved by the wise, but soon parted with by the fool.
—Let all corresponding secretaries see to it that reports are handed in on time.
—As we go to press to-day there are indications • of the permanent return of Spring.
—Work is being rapidly pushed forward on the interior of the extension to the Church.
—We learn that a belfry, with a bell in it, will soon ornament St. Aloysius’ Seminary.
—The play of “ The Miser” is now published in book form. Call on Prof. Lyons for a copy.
—The incandescent light is such a great favorite that there is talk of procuring a 500-light dynamo.
—A large sixty (60) foot chimney is in process of building in connection with the Steam-house at Mt. St.' Vincent. .	.	;
—We anticipate a fine boat race in June. We understand that the crews will commence practising immediately. '	.
—Preparations are being made for the grand Oratorical Contest. It promises to be unusually close and exciting..	..	;	.
—The genial secretaries of the societies have been under the weather during the week. Hence the scarcity of reports. . :	.	.	.
—An item;which appeared in these columns last week should read: “Navigation opened eighteen days earlier this year than last.”
—The gentle voices of ye umpire and ye coxswain are now heard borne upon the balmy zephyr, or reverberating along the shore, o	o
—The Band took a ride to the Farm last Tuesday. Though the weather was somewhat disagreeable, yet a pleasant time was had.
—Mrs. James O’Neill, of New York City, spent a few days at the College last week visiting her son Jamie, of the Minim department.
—Prof. Edwards, our esteemed Professor of History, who was quite ill during the week, is now, we are glad to say, happily convalescent, and will soon resume his duties.
—Prof. Stace has completed the design and drawn the plans for the new Astronomical Observatory. In a few days, ground will be broken for the foundations of the structure.
—Tt is rumored that among the great events of this month will be the grand Scientific soiree, for which the members of the Scientific Association will soon begin active preparations.	'
—Notice is hereby given to those who are inclined to run through St. Edward’s Park that the hyacinths and tulips which are now shooting out would be completely lost if trampled on.
—It is reported that ground has been staked out for’the foundation of “ Library Hall ”—a building to be erected on the premises in front of the Church and to correspond to Science Hall.
—The weather during the past week has been decidedly unpleasant. However, there’s a good time coming, and it is some consolation to think that its coming cannot be much longer delaved.
—The Philopatrians are exciting great curiosity > by their reticence in regard to the nature of the plot of their new play. Of course, their entertainment, when it does come off, will be a pronounced success.	‘
—Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., is expected to return from Valparaiso next week, when he will resume the direction of the Department of Modern Languages—a position for which he is so eminently well qualified.
—Our friend John says that the cold, blustering wind and snow of Thursday, the 1st inst., seemed to be an April fool joke of the Clerk of the weather on those who were congratulating themselves on an earty Spring.
—During the coming week the mechanicians of Science Hall will undertake the construction of an Edison dynamo of 25 candle-power. They finished their, steam-engine yesterday, and are well pleased with their work. .
—Our friend John, while at one of the sessions of the .Moot-court the other evening, was greatly impressed by the complete indifference of some speakers to old-fashioned rules governing the gram-, matical structure of sentences.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
469
—The final examination of the Law .graduates in June will be very thorough—more so, in fact, than is required upon application for admission to the bai\in any of the States. It may continue for two or three days.
—The Philodemics are hard at work preparing for their literary entertainment, which is set down for Wednesday evening, April 14. Much is expected of the young gentlemen, and they should see to it that the expectations are not disappointed.
—Here is a problem that has puzzled some of the best arithmeticians: “ If a man puts $ roo in bank the day he is 21 years of age, what sum must he add to it yearly to have $50,000 the day he is 50 years of age, receiving 6 per cent, compound interest on his money?”
—It is reported that party spirit runs extraordinarily high in a certain department. Isn’t it nearly time to look for a change? The scheming of a few wire-pullers, who always take good care not to face the music themselves, ought not be to allowed to occasion any hard feelings.
—We understand that the building of the turret on the Exhibition Hall and the opening up of the Dome are among the improvements to be made in the near' future. Prof. Gregori is already preparing designs for the frescos that are to ornament the vaulted ceiling of the Dome.
—A very commendable work and a skilful piece of engineering is the grading now being carried on between the College and the Presbytery. The former unsightly and awkward declivity will, in a few days, be changed into a gentle slope, which will add to the attractiveness of the scenery.
—Mr. A.D. Laughlin, formerly of McCoy’s and Burke’s Hotels, in Chicago, and so well known to travellers from Notre Dame, has become a Boniface himself, and is now proprietor of “Laughlin’s European Hotel,” 167 and 169 Madison St., Chicago. He is ready to extend a greeting and welcome to all his Notre Dame friends when they visit the Garden Citv and call on him.
—The Light Guards are making remarkable o	O
progress in drill, and it would even now be difficult to find in Northern Indiana.a military organization that can excel them in proficiency. The commissioned officers of the Senior Company are Capt. F. Combe and Lieutenants Cusack and De Haven. The Junior Company is commanded by Capt. West and Lieutenants Benner and Cartier.
—The second regular meeting of the Lemon-nier Boat Club was held Thursday, April 1. The following officers, left over from the last meeting, were elected: Treasurer, P.J. Goulding; Recording Secretary, J. A. Ancheta. The office of. Corresponding Secretary was laid over. The following persons were elected to membership: Messrs. C. Sfiaide, Noncolas, H. Luhn, Moon, and O’Donnell. It was announced that navigation would be formally opened on April -31. In the absence of the commodore the captains are to have the responsibility of affairs at the boat house.
—Prof. Stace has kindly furnished us with the
followinginterestingextractfromcomparativenotes on the seasons of this year and last,— from which it will be seen how much further advanced is the present season.
1885.	1886.
Lower lake thaws, April 5;	March 18.
Upper lake thaws, “ 6;	'	“	19.
Snowdrifts disappear, “ 20;	“	24.
First crocus,	“3;	“	24.
Frogs croak,	“ 6;	“	19.
In 1885 the hepatica did not bloom until April 18.	This
year it was found in abundance on March 29, looking as if it had been blooming several days. Erigenia bulbosa was also found.
—Among the visitors during the week were: Misses Mary and Philomena Ewing, Miss Alice Cox, Lancaster, Ohio; Miss Susie Smith, Reading, Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. George King, Miss King, Sacramento, Cal.; Mr. J. W. Cobbs, Cadillac, Mich.; Mr. H. Sleight, Terre Haute, Ind.; Miss Ida J. Cartier, Ludington, Mich.; Mr. F.A. Foin, son and daughter, Durango, Col.; Mr. J. R. Campbell, Attica, Ind.; Mr. A. H. Gordon and son, Elkhart, Ind.; Mrs. E. N. Blakeslee, Miss Ida Smith, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Monsh, Mrs. F. Kellner, Mrs. P. Deuser, Mrs. A. Baschamang, Louisville, Ky.
—Our suggestion is, that American Catholics might have a summer assemblage of a week or two, which would attract attention to Catholic views of philosophy, history and literature. - There are lecturers, like John Gilmary Shea, Brother Azarias, Bishop Spalding, John Boyle O’Reilly, Eliza A. Starr, and others, whom the public would listen to with attention. There are enough Catholics of education to travel a distance for the purpose of spending a week at such an institute. Waukesha, in ourown State; Notre Dame, Indiana; Georgetown, near Washington; or one of the Catholic colleges near New York City, would be a popular location for such a rendezvous. It would prepare a way for the coming Catholic University. — Catholic Citizen (Milwaukee).
—The University Moot-court .convened on the 37th ult., in St. Cecilia Hall, the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society being present. The case was that of the State of Indiana vs. Adams and Pretchard upon indictment charging the prisoners with murder. A jury was impanelled consisting of Messrs.-Koudelka, Jeffs, Rheinberger Combe, Brownson and Courtney. The counsel for the State were. Messrs. Finlay and Ancheta; for the defense, Messrs. Byrnes and Goulding. The witnesses for the prosecution were V. Burke and W. Jess; for the defense, J. Conlon and J. D. Willson. Owing to limited time, the case was not as fully argued as had been intended; and, for the, same reason, Judge Hoynes was prevented from charging the jury at length, as he would otherwise have done; yet the members of the Society and of the Faculty, who were present expressed themselves as highly pleased with the proceedings. The jury, after a short deliberation, returned a verdict of murder in the second degree. The counsel for the defense-moved for a new trial, which motion will be argued at the next session of the court. .
47°	the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list.includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs- Ancheta, Ashton, Ashford, Aubrey, Archam-beault, V. Burke, M. Burns, D. Byrnes, Becerra, Bowles, Bryar, F. Baca, A. A. Browne, F. Brown, W. Breen, P. Burke, Conlon, C. Crowe. J. Crowe, Coady, Congdon, G. Craig, Chapin, Jno. Cusack, Jos. Cusack, Cassidy, Cooney, Crilly, Carbajal, Dexter, Dolan, Dohany, Dooling, Egan, Finlay, Ford, Goulding, Griffith, A. Gordon, Gallardo, W. Glenn, Hamlyn, Hagerty, Houck, Hampton, Ilagenbarth, Harris, Holden, Judie, Jackson, Koudelka, H. Kenny, J-Kenny, Karst, Kendall, Latshaw, Larkin, Ley, G. Morrison, Murphy, Mathers, Murdock, McErlain, McGuire, Miller, Moon, Neill, Nancolas, O’Rourke, P. Prudhomme, C. Paschel, H Paschel, P. Paschel, Padilla. -T. Ryan, E. Ryan, Remish, E. Riley, Rothert, Rochford, Regan, Rhein-berger, Rodriguez, Shaide, Straus, Stubbs, Saviers, Sheridan, Snapp, Triplett, zY. Williams, W. Williams, White, Wagoner, Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Austin, Arts, Ackerman, Akin, Berry, Benson, Bodley, Brabrook, Baur, Bacigalupo, P. Brownson, Boos, Bowles, E. Benner, F. Benner, Bunker, Borgschulze, Clarke, Curtis, Cleveland, Colina, Courtney, Cleary, Chute, G. Cartier, D. Cartier, Cavaroc, Coles, Coad, Chaves, Corbett, Cain, S. Campbell, E. Campbell, Duffield, Dillon, Darragh, Dickinson,'Dungan, Dunning, Decker, Edgeworth, Epple, Frain, Finchk, Flood, Fehr, Fitzgerald, .Fitzharris, Fontanel, Grothaus, Goebel, Galarneau, Garrity, Gordon, Houlihan, Hayes, T. Hake, A. Hake, Hiner, Hall, Hoye, Inderrieden, P. Jacobs, N. Jacobs, Jeffs, Joyce, Kern, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Levin, Luther, Lesh, Long, McCourt, McConn, McVeigh. McPhee. McIntosh, McNamara, McCart, Meehan, Myers, Mulkern, Mitchell, Macatee, Mo-hun, Mulberger, Nealis, Noud, Newton, Nations, O’Connor, O’Gorman, Oxnard, O'Kane, Portillo, Press, Preston, Regan, C. Ruffing, A. Ruffing, Robinson, Ramirez, F. Smith, S. Smith, N. Smith, Shields, Senn, Spencer, Steele, Scherrer, Stattman, Servis, Talbot, Tewksbury, Towner, Tarrant, Tiedrich, Vanselow, Valasco, Warner, Walsh, Welch, Wa-braushek, Wagoner, L. 'Vest, Williamson.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Ciarcoschi, J. Connors, E. Connors, Chute, Cobbs, Campeau, Dewald, Dunford, Dungan, L-Doss, T. Falvey, E. Falvey, F. Falvey, Farmer, E. Garber, F. Garber, Grant, Griffin, O. Haney, Healy, Hillas, Huis-kamp, Inderrieden, Jewett, Jones, Klaner, Kellner, Lan-denwich, Mainzer, Maloney, Moncada, Mason, McIntosh, Morgan, McGill, Martin, Murphy, C. Mooney, H. Mooney, Mitchell, Noonan, Nussbaum, Nester, C. Nealis, Paul, J. Peck, F. Peck, Piero, Quinlin, Riordan, Ramsey, Rowsey, Steel, Stone, Sullivan, D. Sweet, G. Sweet, W. Smart, A. Smart, E. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Taft, Williamson, Munroe.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.] \
COLLEGIATE COURSE.,
Messrs. Sheridan, Mathers, Becker, Browne, Saviers, J. Ancheta, Goulding, Dolan, Burke, Murdock, Wagoner, Craig, C.'Combe, Baca, Brownson, Goebel, Courtney, Ewing, P. Wagoner, Rothert, Dr Byrnes, M. Burns, -Cleary, Stubbs, Hagenbarth, C. Crowe, Hull, Harless, White, W. Cartier, Congdon, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Hamlyn, Hagerty,-O’Connell, Newton, J. Crowe, Mulkern, P. Burke, ' Meagher, Houck, R. Byrnes, ConlonO’Donnell, Bryar,
C. West, L". Chute, Neill. - ; J	"
List of Excellence.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Arithmetic—Masters Cobbs, C. Scherrer, F. Peck, Dunford, McGill, E. Scherrer, J. Peck, E. Connors, E. Garber, H. Mooney, L. Doss; Grammar—Masters McNulty, F. Crotty, Landenwich, A. Smart, E. Doss, Nester, Jones; Geography—Masters Piero, McIntosh, Bailey, Nussbaum, Jewett, Riordan; Reading—Masters Crotty, Cobbs, Martin, Munroe, J. Connors, E. Scherrer, Quinlin, G. Sweet, E. Connors, C. Nealis; Christian Doctrine—Masters P- Sweet. Campeau, McCourt, C. Mooney, B. Nealis, Inderrieden, Tillenburg, Griffin; Orthography—Masters McGill, Martin, J. Peck, Sullivan, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Mainzer, Taft.
Seton Hall College.
Very Rev. President Corrigan writes that the buildings left uninjured by the fire which on March 9 destroyed the College brick building are so extensive that they were able to resume studies on March 24. The spacious upper story of Alumni Hall will form a study-room, and the lower story will serve for sleeping apartments. The Seminary stone structure will comfortably supply diningrooms as well as class-rooms, and also students’ bed-rooms, if needed. He also sends the following appeal, which we gladly publish:
“ Seton Hall College, South Orange, N.f,
“ March 23,1886.
“ After the generous response to the soliciting of subscriptions for the erection of our Alumni Hall, it would seem a trespass upon the goodness of friends to ask for new aid for our Institution; but, owing to the fire which, on March 9, destroyed the College brick structure from roof to foundation, I have been urged to have recourse again to the well-wishers of Seton Hall.	_
“ Happily, the buildings left uninjured are sufficiently extensive to afford temporary accommodations for the College as well as for the Seminary department; and studies were resumed last week for the Seminarians, and will be resumed this week for the Collegians.
“ Our loss by the late fire was $35,000. This was partially covered by an insurance of $14,000 on the burned building, and $4,000 on its furniture.
“ Already have some either given or promised help. The list begins with a thousand dollars from each of two friends; then follow contributions down to fifty dollars.
“ The aid thus volunteered is most encouraging to start with, and strengthens the assurance that an appeal now will not go unanswered. I look, therefore, with great confidence for assistance from the friends of our Institution, and. from my own personal .friends. The sooner the aid comes the better will it be.
“ It is needless to say that many Masses and earnest prayers will be offered for our benefactors.
“ With hopefulness in your kindly generosity, I am, “ Sincerely yours,
“JAMES H. Corrigan, President."
—BOSTON CULCHAW.
“ Is it the Dothness of the Do, Or the Doneness of the Did? ”
Propounded a Hub tutor to A little Yankee kid.
4	- ' ■ -	- -	.	...
The Bosting urchin’s answer free
. At oncely t -ok the bun:
“ The pwopah tham to use would be
The Didness of the Done.”
- \	—-California Maverick.
THE NOTRE TAME SCHOLASTIC.	471
Saint fftary's Academy.
One Mile West of DTotre Dame University.
—Miss Mary Smalley, of Jefferson, Ohio, a former esteemed pupil of the Academy, is a welcome visitor.
—At a late parlor reception, the Misses Minnie Rend and Mary Scully furnished some excellent instrumental music; Miss Hannah Guise sang to the great pleasure of all present, and Miss Grace Stadt-ler recited in a very creditable manner.
’—Miss R. B. Fenton has received the intelligence of the appointment by President Cleveland of her father, the Hon. Mr. Fenton, of Mackinaw, Mich., to a foreign Consulship, and she, with her sister, will accompany him to Europe before many months. May happiness attend them!
—The Senior members of the Preparatory classes held a delightful reception on Tuesday evening. The Misses Haas, Shields and Claggett took the part of hostesses admirably. The vocal music of ' the evening was given by the Misses Florence Wynn, Ray Smith and Florence Robb. Miss Lillie Haas recited, and when the moment foi’ dispersing arrived, all expressed their heartfelt wish that another such pleasant evening might soon come again.
—At the last meeting of St. Agnes’ Literary Society little Jessie Wallace won a prize offered for the most complete list of sacred articles employed in the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass. Her clear, emphatic reading, and her unabashed courage when hard words caused a temporary suspension of her ready speech, as well as her diligence in gathering the list, proves the little girl to be the possessor of a resolute will, and a quiet independence, which will be of great service to her in her future scholastic career.
—Among the visitors of the past ten days were the following: Rev. Michael Horgan, Mrs. Isabelle Burke Clendenen—a pupil of the Academy in ’58 —Justice Scully and Mrs. Scully, Mrs. J. H. Slovin, Col. O’Keefe, Mr. M. Cummings, Mr. Clifford, Mrs. Stumer, Mrs. Burns, Mr. and Mrs. Clampetta, Chicago; Mrs. E. Brown, Mr. S. H. Hickson, Miss M. [ess, Dubuque, Iowa; Mrs. Crotty, Rockford, ' Ill.; Mrs. James O’Neill, New York City; Mrs. M. Nester, Marquette, Mich.; Mrs. Laskey, Mr. Wynn, Toledo; Mrs. C. J. O’-Dell.
—The Annual Spiritual Retreat closed on Thursday, the 25th. 'Rev. President Walsh, of the University, conducting it, assisted by Rev. Father Fitte. The sermons of both Rev.- gentlemen were replete with lessons of priceless value to their youthful listeners. Refreshed, strengthened, and better prepared for the active duties of the closing session, the pupils come from their retreat resolved not to lose the graces they have been so happy as. to secure. . “We have never; made a better retreat,” is the universal.declaration. During the three days devoted to these important exercises, the nonCatholic pupils followed their usual class duties.
—Too great importance cannot be attached to the eloquent conference given during the retreat on “The dangers of trifling reading.” If it be true (and of it there can be no doubt) that “a bad book is worse than a bad companion” what a fear-* ful responsibility rests upon those parents, or teachers, who leave the reading of children, or pupils, to their own capricious choice. Alas! the cruel concessions that arise from a false security! The Church has erected its barriers, and its “ Index,” has been instituted to guard her children; but how . few are thoroughly informed respecting the prohibitions! On the other hand, how many, though believing themselves to be good Christians, think there is no danger if, by the light of their halfinformed intelligence, they can see no harm in a: given publication. The blind lead the blind, and we see the results. The line of demarkation between good and evil is so nearly obliterated to their defective vision that it is the last thing thought of by most readers. There are some minds—if we must credit the assertion of many who are experienced in the knowledge of human nature—that are so really the slaves of idle curiosity, that a prohibition is to them equivalent to an invitation. If a given book, or article, be cited as dangerous, they are not content till such book, or article, be studied. They wish to find out why they are prohibited. Like Eve, they generally pay a heavy penalty, for their foolish curiosity. Fortunately, there are many happy exceptions to this rule. Docility is to some a noble, inbred trait, and a word of warning from a parent, teacher, or friend, is sufficient to prevent them from.wasting their time on books of questionable value.- There are some children who would not read newspapers, because they have been told by those whose judgment they most trust, that the larger proportion of newspapers generally contain reading-matter dangerous alike to mind and morals.
O	O	-
Health.
If there be one physical advantage which, com- . pared to others, may be counted as priceless above the rest, undoubtedly it is health. Without this blessing every other is robbed of its charms. Beauty -is a mockery; wealth an aggravation; talent an \ incubus, and even genius itself a crippled power, which often brings more misfortune to its posses- .; sor than even intellectual stupidity. One condition alone can make its want tolerable, and that is Christian faith, which transmutes all evils into good. ,
Precious as a malady may become, when accepted in the spirit of asceticism, in ordinary cases, , to induce disease by any wilful act, either of neg- . lect, or otherwise, would be a positive sin. But youth is.the time when health may be made the. ; fortune of future years, or when its conditions may . be so foolishly tampered with that it may be. lost	,
forever.	■	;
This shows the necessity of the surveillance of ~ = those who are experienced, since young people are . not supposed-to be capable of guiding! themselves;
472	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
much less are they capable of setting up the standard for others. There is no better friend to health, (setting out of the question the ordinary conditions which are supposed—that is good food, pure air, regular hours, and the like,) than the spirit of moderate gayety. Immoderate hilarity, an inveterate and boisterous levity is not the gayety to be encouraged. The moderately cheerful are, as a rule, the most happy, and consequently the most healthful people anywhere to be found.
The person who will laugh hysterically on the slightest provocation is, ten to one, accustomed to live on excitement, and let her be for an hour without it, and she is inconsolable; while the constitutionally cheerful, are ready for the bright and the dull day alike.	‘
We would amend an old saying, and command, “ be cheerful, and you will rid yourself of much that predisposes to bad health.” A fit of ill-humor is worse than a bad cold; and dissatisfaction with yourself, after you have done your best, in any given lawful effort, is more depressing than a toothache.
Brooding' over what cannot be amended is far from wise; and morbid dwelling upon the unpleasant side of life, when there is no necessity to think of it at all, save to be sorry for, and amend our errors, is worse than'useless.
In the consideration of health, many forget that to the mind and soul, as well as to the body, conditions must be supplied to ensure the health of each. Exercise is essential to bring about so important a result. No matter how ruddy the cheek, or how bright the eye, telling, as they do, of complete physical satisfaction and nutrition, if the mind be obtuse, and the wants of the soul neglected, the being is without health. Mental drill ‘ in science and the arts, when not carried to excess, gives health to the mind; the observance of the laws of God and His Church impart health to the soul; and, with physical health, we have a sound mind in a sound body.
Obituary.
In the midst of life, we are in death. Died on Saturday, the 27th inst., Miss Katie Brown, of Dubuque, Iowa. The warmest condolence is proffered to the afflicted family, old and cherished friends of St. Mary’s, and above all, to the devoted widowed mother. A Mass was said for the repose of the soul of her dear child by Very Rev. Father General Sorin, in the Convent Chapel, when the large Community of Sisters offered their Holy . Communions for the; same intention! A loving, docile daughter, a bright, diligent and promising pupil, a faithful child of Mary, it would seem al, most impossible to add to her claims upon the heaven towards which all true culture tends; and while her devoted mother, her affectionate rela-. tives, teachers and friends, ^deplore her loss, they . can but thank God that she was taken in her guileless innocence, and that she: has been rescued from
the dangers of a treacherous world. The esteemed Christian mother accepts her heavy cross with the most touching sentiments of pious resignation. Dear child! Long will her sweet memory remain in the hearts of those who learned to love her in her blameless career at St. Mary’s; and while they grieve with the bereaved mother for the earthly hopes departed, they must rejoice with her also that the peril of life’s contest is over, and the victory has been gained by her beloved child. May she rest in peace!
■	Roll of ‘Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. '
Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Alwein, Andreus, Barlow, Bruhn, Butler, Brady, Blair, Bubb, Blacklock, Bascha-mang, Beckmann, Carney, Clendenen, Chaves, Considine, Claggett, Coll, Carmien, Cox, Carroll, Dillon, A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, A. Duffield, Dart, Desenberg, B. English, A. English, Ewing, Egan, Fuller, Faxon, Fehr. Farnsworth, Fenton. Flannery, D. Fitzpatrick, Griffith, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, H. Guise, Green, A. Heckard, B..Heckard, Horn, Hummer, Henry, Haas, Harlem, Kearney, Kearsey, Kearns, Kingsbury, Kennedy, Lang, Lyons, Levy, Lauer, Livingston, Laskey, Lawrence, Moon, Munger, Morrison, J. McHale, M. F. Murphy, S. McHale, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, Morse, M. McNamara, C. McNamara, Murphy, Monahan, Neff, Nagle, North, H. Nester, Otero, Patrick, Riedinger, Rose, Robb, Rend, C. Scully, M. Scully, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Stadtler, Shields, Shephard, Stafford, Stocksdale, Thornton, Trask, Williams, Wolvin, White, I. Wynn, Walsh, F. Wynn.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses L. Bragdon, S. Campeau, M. Clifford, M. Coll, M. Duffield, L. Griffith, F. Hertzog, A. Keyes, M. McEwen, L. Nester, C. Prudhomme. G- Regan, E. Sheekey, M. Smith, B. Snowhook. 2d Tablet—Miss F. Steele.
' MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, L. Caddagan, E. Kendall. M. Lindsey, E. Qualey, H. Rhodes, F. Spencer, D. Lee, Rawson, J. Wallace.
Class Honors. •
[The following-named young ladies are best in classes —according to Competitions held during the past month.]
Literature—Misses Horn, Murphy, Dillon, Wolvin, C. Scully, Lawrence, Griffith, Kearsey, Kearney, Morrison, Donnelly, English, Fuller, McHale, Sheekey, Keyes, B. Heckard, Shepard, Williams; Geometry—Misses Horn, Murphy, Wolvin, Griffith, Clendenen, Dillon, K. Scully, L. St. Clair, Williams, Neff, Kearsey, J. McHale, Morrison, Fuller; Rhetoric—Misses Kearns, Trask, Lawrence, B. Heckard, B. English, Carmien, A. Duffild, G. Faxon, G. Regan, Guise, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, Thornton, Nagle, M. Scully, N. Donnelly, S. McHale, Clifford, Patrick, Beckmann, Stadtler, Rend, Lauer. Rose, Van Horn, A. Riedinger, M. Smith, F. Hertzog, L. Griffith, M. Morse, Chaves, L. Meehan, C. Kingsbury; Algebra—Misses N. Brady. Carroll, Trask, B. Heckard, Kearns, Sheekey, Regan, Keyes, Snowhook, A. Donnelly, L. Williams, Patrick, M. Lyons, Duffield, Faxon, Carmien, North, Gordon, Farnsworth, Guise, Kingsbury, Walsh; Philosophy—Misses Carroll, Clifford, Lauer, Van Horn, Brady, Patrick, Rose, Rend, Stadtler, Blair, White, Dart, Meehan, Kingsbury, Farnsworth; Smith, A. Riedinger. Addie Gordon, Stocksdale, Balch; Physical Geography—Misses L. Haas, N. Meehan, A. Kennedy, M. Murphy, F. Robb, B. Desenberg, M. McNamara, G. Flannery, M. McEwen, M. Ducey, H. Smart, M. Mason, F. Spencer, M. Duffield, H. Stumer; Geography—Misses E. Blaine, D. Lee, E. Qualey, M. Paul, O. Boyer, B. Pierce.. ...	.