e Notre D a m e ■ S ch o 1 a s t i c
131
if
4

f
£
COMMENT
While we are sitting back bursting with enthusiasm because of the way in which our football team soundly walloped Carnegie, there are some who are not in such a position that they can laugh and make'merry. Reference is made to those varsity men who gave their all that Notre Dame might remain undefeated; they have been wearing black eyes, nursing sore spots, and taking their breaths “in short pants,’ ’as it were; but have we done anything to help them?
It is true that on Saturday afternoon we belong to Notre Dame, it is “oui- team,” and we take the greatest pride in saying that “we” won. As was said, we are all for them when the week-end comes round, but what about the rest of the time? Congratulations on the fine performances of certain individuals are always in order, but what we are advocating is the continual enthusiasm which should be manifest not only on Saturdays but
every day, and for everyone on team.
The football season is a long this year for Notre Dame—and
the
one it’s
a hard one. The hoys must be kept in the proper spirit. That they can continue with the playing end of the games and are well qualified to handle themselves on the field we can have no doubt. However, that is only half the battle;, there is the mental side of the story, and it is the duty of the student body to take care of it.
So far the 1930 edition of “Irishmen” has proved an unbounded success; the nation is looking at them. They have made Notre Dame famous in the football world. We claim Notre Dame as our Alma Mater. Why not, then, do something to deserve this praise? We can do something and it requires no effort. Show your enthusiasm; smile and give the boys a few words of encouragement every day whether you know them personally or not; let them know that you appreciate what they are doing; keep up the fight during the whole season; the team will appreciate it and will know that their efforts are bearing fruit, that they have the student body behind them. Do this little thing fellows, and watch the boys fight for
you.
W. V. B.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi CrasMoriturus
• EMIL L. TELFEL.... HARLEY L. McDEVITT
Founded in 1872
... .Editor-In-Chief Graduate Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
John E. Bergan...... James J. Kearney.... Edward E. Brennan. . Walter V. Beesley. .. Alfred E. Gall...... James K. Collins.... Austin Boyle......... Paul J. Hallinan.... Richard J. O’Donnell
............Managing .Assistant Managing Assistant Managing ..............Makeup ..............Makeup ............Features ..............Script
Editor Editor Editor Editor Editor Editor Editor
Ramon G. Frank E. W. Leslie
Smith ... Seward. Raddatz
___Associate Editor ___The	Week The College Parade .Music and Drama ___Campus Clubs
William C.
Karl.
Assistant
News Editor Nezus Editor
NEWS STAFF
Neil G. Hurley...........
Edward R. Brennan James' Carmody % William Fitzgerald	Myron Crawford Anthony R. Schreiner William Corr F. Granger Weil	John Pick Lawrence Dunda Sanguinet Williams
	SPORTS STAFF	
John A. Kiener
James E. McFeely, Jr. William J. Magarrall
Cleve Carey
Robert Balfe
Sports Editor
Henry B. 'Asman
BUSINESS STAFF
James H. Rorke............Local	Advertising Manager
James L. Rizer.........Foreign Advertising Manager
John R. Blanda............Local	Circulation Manager
Andrew McGuan...........Foreign Circulation Manager
Frederick Bauer Merle Baldwin Raymond J. Naber John p. Hess
Vol. LXIV
OCTOBER 24, 1930
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week—Daniel C. Williams-------------------- Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan----- Campus Opinions—Myron E. Craivford------------- Music and Drama—Frank Setvard------------------ Campus Clubs—W. Leslie Raddatz----------------- Telling the World—Neil C. Hurley--------------- College Parade—Ramon G. Smith------------------ The Story of Casasanta’s Boys—James Carmody---- The Wink--------------------------------------- Panthers Growl as Jinx Confronts N. D.—John A. Kiener. Rockmen Put Skids Under Skibos—Edward Carey---- “B” Team Defeats Duquesne Frosh—George Belting- Splinters From the Press Box—J. A. K----------- Interhall Sports—James E. McFeely-------------- On Down the Line—C. C--------------------------
No. 5
133
136
138
140
142
143
144
145
146
148
149
151
152
155
160
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for .mailing a special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
3
The Notre Dame Scholastic
133
♦ THE WEEK ♦
a
I
1? HE Caledonians are conquered! The ould sod of Cartier can grow in peace again. Carnegie Tech, led by such canny Scots as Karcis and Rosenzweig, have been convinced at last that you can’t break Irish traditions and remain healthy. Somebody should tell visiting teams never to bring their bands to Notre Dame. The mad Mustang musicians, for all their savage harmony, merely played an Exit march for the Southern Methodist team. Navy had the Elkhart band to inspire them with “Anchors Aweigh,” but faded before the Irish attack. And last Saturday the Kiltie band played the Swan Song for Carnegie’s championship hopes. But for- all the futility of their playing, they certainly were one of the most spectacular groups of musicians ever- seen at Notre Dame. Their “Parade of the Frozen Knee-caps” was the most unique in our football history. Not content with forming an intricate shamrock, they let loose a sky full of green balloons that floated lazily upward into the wide expanse of the clear October blue. (Hey! Hey! “The Week” is getting poetic). Just imagine Scotchmen throwing their money to the winds like that—and in a depression period, mind you. I tell you, this would not be regarded favorably in Edinburgh or Edinborough, or whatever the capital of Scotland is. By the way, where are the Scotch band caps of yesteryear? In 1928, no Soronite could sign in after the Scotch hop without first showing his purloined hat to the night watchman. But no such rush for the Aberdeen chapeau took place at the “Scotch Soiree” last Saturday night. It has been booted about that a certain dusky blues singer did drive from the minds of the dancers all thought of home, the kids, and even the Scotch caps. Notre Dame seems to be venting a particular wrath on the Smoky City. Not content with defeating Tech, and having the reserves down Duquesne, she is now filing her teeth for a hearty meal on the Pitt Panther.
^1' HE cultural erudition of the humble canine is putting us to shame. Last Monday night, a little puppy of unknown pedigree and ownership attended the Chesterton lecture. He sidled down the aisle with all the assurance of an English major, and tried to procure a seat in the front row. It was truly pitiful to see him ejected from the hall by a burly sophomore. He was ungraciously and topsy-turvily cast out into the cold October night. But the cultural yearnings of the dog family are not easily suppressed. Our furry friend easily gained entrance into the hall again, and soon was listening to the paradoxes of Chesterton from a balcony seat. He was raptly intent on a discussion of Thomas Hood, when an usher- demanded his ticket. When the dog presented it, the usher gasped. “Goodness, he cried, “This is too dog-eared! Out, hound!” Evidently the usher had taken to heart the statement of Mr. Chesterton that “a pun sharpens things to a point.” At any rate, the dog was cast from our midst, and the cause of learning suffered another set-back. How many Notre Dame men would suffer such humiliation in their search for knowledge? However, one thing is certain: the Chesterton lectures have not only preserved their early vigor and erudition, but are improving every night. Fads and fancies soon wear out, but the jolly Mr. Chesterton continues to charm and enlighten the student body.
TT HE campus clubs have organized at last. Those clubs which have not survived for lack of a financial report, will have to suspend activities for the semester, but the remainder of the clubs can now be about -their- business of arranging smokers, banquets, and Christmas dances. Most of the city and state clubs admit no greater purpose than the holding of a Christmas dance in the home town. They are, at best, a social outlet for provincialism. But there exist at Notre Dame organizations with purposes that transcends mere sociability, and at the same time are not mere adjuncts to school work. The Wranglers, particularly interested in the discussion and debate of current topics, are responsible for the success of interhall debating and the Northern Indiana oratorical contest. The personnel of many of our successful debating teams have had their first baptism of fire in the heated arguments of Websterian Wranglers. The Scribblers — the Bohemians of the campus — interest themselves in literature. Never did Will Shakespeare and his Mermaid Tavern fellows argue with more gusto and enjoyment than the Scribblers at their weekly meeting in Howard hall. The Spectators, organized only last year, have grown to an amazing maturity. They are a human seismograph, sensitive to intellectual tremors that shake our cosmos. They are worshippers at the shrine of the Idea, and through the hazy incense of tobacco smoke, they scan the changes of the moving world. The Classical club turns to the solid foundations of antiquity for study. Organized only this fall, it promises to exert a powerful influence for a revival of the classics on the campus. These, then, are the clubs that are rich not only in social life, but in intellectual stimulus. To have graduated from Notre Dame without belonging to one of these clubs, is to miss one of Notre Dame’s most valuable experiences, for if the spirit of intellectual curiosity is alive anywhere in the student body today, it is alive in the happy fraternity of these four clubs.
I NDIAN summer has gone. That’s the insidious thing about Indian summer—it always goes. Last Friday, Jack Frost or Father Neptune or somebody (who is the god of weather anyway?) breathed a frosty breath upon these parts. The temperature dropped from 50 to 45, then to 40, then to 30. The bear market in weather continued so the students began to liquidate their holdings at Livingston’s. By game time, the sheepskin again ruled the sartorial world of Notre Dame. There is a rumor current on Wall Street that the James brothers who sold ice water at the Navy game for fifteen cents a glass are not worried about the cold snap. They have made enough to retire and live comfortably for the rest of their lives on the proceeds earned at the Navy game. Even the loudspeakers on the south end of the stadium were affected by the sudden chill. It developed a bronchial congestion on Friday night, and between the halves at the game Saturday, it sounded like a drunken Chinese laundryman trying to i-ead a stock ticker.
134
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Coming Events
These dates are subject to change teithout notice.
FRIDAY, Oct. 24—Scholastic staff meeting, 7:00 p. m., Room 222, Main building.
SATURDAY, Oct. 25 — Football, Notre Dame vs. Pitt at Pittsburgh, (gridgraph in gym, 1:00 p. m.— “B” team vs. Wisconsin at Madison. —Reserves vs. Northwestern at Evanston. — Mishawaka vs. South Bend, Notre Dame stadium, 1:30 p. m.—Cross country at Evanston.— Movies, “The Big Pond,” Washington hall, 6:40-8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, Oct. 26—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00.—Interhall football, 9:30 a. m. and 1:30 p. m.—Benediction, 7:30 p. m.
MONDAY, Oct. 27 —A. S. M. E. meeting, 7:45 p. m., Badin hall basement. — Italian club meeting, 7:45 p. m., Room 2, Walsh hall.— Connecticut Valley club meeting, old Law building, 6:45 p. m.
TUESDAY, Oct. 28 —Blue Circle meeting, 6:30 p. m., south room of library.
WEDNESDAY, Oct. 29 —Lecture, auspices of Law club, new Law building, 7:00 p. m.—Meeting, Engineers’ club, north room of library, 7:00 p. m.—Scribblers meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard “rec” room.
THURSDAY, Oct. 30 — Spectators’ meeting, 7:45 p. m., Journalism room, library. — Classical society meeting, 6:30 p. m., Journalism room, library.
NOTICE!
This year, for the first time in the history of the sophomore cotillions, formal engraved invitations will be issued. These are included in the regular price of the cotillion ticket.
❖------------------------------❖
BISHOP GILFILLAN OF
ST. JOSEPH COMMENDS
FR. CARROLL’S BOOK
One of the most interesting commendations received by the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., on his new book Patch, is a letter from the Right Reverend Francis Gilfillan, Bishop of St. Joseph, Missouri. The letter is an enthusiastic eulogy of Father Carroll’s latest literary work, a story of the life of an 11-year-old boy in Ireland.	,
Bishop Gilfillan writes: “Patch is authentic! I can swear it, if necessary. You have traced him to his lair; and you were there first; no man can take away that glory. The shreds and patches of the others are foolish mimicries beside the presentation of this incomparable youngster— he is so genuine and real. And the Shannon countryside—and the neighbors—and the kinsfolk and acquaintances—and the people of the house— all drawn to scale, nought overdone, and nought set down in malice! And ‘the mother’ thinking—the rich irrevocable things of a heart that hath not openings, but is shut fast, being full!
“Dear Father, without at all wishing it, you have taken a high and solitary seat among the children of the Gael.”
It is hearty praise, and well-deserved. Patch is a true description of boyhood life in Ireland, told with simplicity of style, and depicting the wistfulness, the joy, and the pathos of the life Father Carroll himself once lived.
SCRIBBLERS HEAR PAPERS BY SEWARD AND
BRENNAN
The Scribblers held a meeting last Wednesday night in the Howard hall “rec” room. At the meeting a short story, entitled “A Lady of Beauty” was read by Frank E. Seward. Louis A. Brennan also read a short story. There was considerable discussion about the stories. Next Wednesday papers will be read by President Emil L. Telfel, George Spalding and Frank O’Malley.
Application for membership are still being received. Students desiring to join this organization should turn in their names and qualifications along with two papers as evidences of literary ability to Louis A. Brennan, secretary, 245 Corby hall.
SAUNDERS HANDLES STADIUM CROWDS VERY EFFICIENTLY
Much favorable comment has been received by the athletic association over the very capable manner in which the crowds at the Southern Methodist, Navy and Carnegie Tech football games were taken care and seated so efficiently. Credit for this great work is due mainly to John F. Saunders, senior athletic manager in charge of the stadium and his corps of efficient workers and ushers.
The crowds present at the past three games totalled better than 108,000 people, more than any other games at Notre Dame have attracted in five years time. It was a great task to seat them without trouble, but thus far this year there has been but one person injured at all of the games.
Saunders, who is associate manager of football, took charge of the new stadium at the opening of the school year and has developed a very good management at the bowl. He is being assisted in his work by junior managers Charles Weiss and Charles J. Spangenberg. These men, working independently of the other managers, have accounted for much efficiency in the stadium personnel.
"DOME” ACTIVITIES TO BE ANNOUNCED BY SIGNS
Dome bulletins in the form of placards are to be put up at various points on the campus in the near future. From time to time during the year notices of interest pertaining to the yearbook will be placed on these bulletins. Since the success of the Dome depends mostly on the assistance of the students it is hoped that these notices will be read and that the bulletins be unmolested.
The first bit of cooperation will be required from juniors and seniors in regard to their Dome pictures. It is necessary that they appear at the appointed place, very likely the K. of C. council chambers in Walsh hall, at the appointed time. Juniors this year must wear coat and vest for their pictures. *
Only those seniors whose names have been approved by the director of studies as having full credit standing in the 1931 class will be eligible for the cap and gown section.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
135
CHESTERTON COMPARES CARLYLE WITH MACAULAY IN LECTURE
Former Much More Modern In Views, He Says
Mr. Chesterton gave the eighth lecture in his series on Victorian literature in Washington hall last Wednesday before an appreciative audience.
He mentioned the change in the general attitude of the Victorians, which took place about the time of the great success of Macaulay and Carlyle.
Carlyle More Modern
“Although Carlyle,” said Mr. Chesterton, “was five years older than Macaulay chronologically, he was one hundred years younger than Macaulay in his views.” Carlyle represented the first and most important revolt against the customs and smug complacency of the eighteenth century. Macaulay carried on the views of the previous century.
The writings of Carlyle show the influence of his Scotch peasant ancestry and the strict Calvinistic doctrines of his youth. To a more marked degree they showed the influence of his voluminous reading among the German authors as well as his idolatry of Goethe.
Ultimate Reality Carlyle’s Aim
The great and good quality of his writings which have made them lasting was his attempt to get down to
K. OF C. EXEMPLIFIES FIRST DEGREE
The first degree was exemplified for 20 candidates by the Knights of Columbus last Monday evening in the Walsh hall chambers of the council before a fair representation of members. The second and third degrees will be exemplified on Sunday, November 2, in the South Bend chambers as in previous years. On the morning of the same day, a first degree will be conferred on those-new members not present last Monday.
The candidates receiving the first degree are: Irvin P. Cratty, Robert J. FitzSimon,- Paul D’Olivo, Paul Hughes, F. Mussina, F. Kelley, A.
the ultimate reality. Carlyle’s style presents to the world a grim humor, particularly noticeable when we see • how his belief in German transcendentalism led him to see the comic in the views of the rationalists. Nevertheless, Carlyle was caught between two fires in his violent opposition to the atheistic rationalists and to the Church of Rome, whch he conceived as the enemy of reason.
Mr. Chesterton went on to say that Carlyle put forth the theory that all the English civilization came from the Teutonic tribes who swept down on and obliterated all the old Greek and Latin civilization. The motive for his belief was the desire to find a substitute for Rome as a basis for all English culture and religion.
Broke Smuff Assurance of Period
Concluding his lecture, Mr. Chesterton said that the chief contribution of Carlyle was the breaking of the ice on which all the old Liberals had been skating so surely. A smug assurance of prosperity, in spite of starvation in many quarters, was characteristic of the Liberals. Carlyle broke this polished veneer, although himself was almost lost in the crash, and thus cleared away the aura of deceitful positivism so that the later Victorians were able to discuss more vital, modem and essential matters.
Monarek, R. Nachowey, J. Nelson, F. Noll, R. Schive, G. Wenz, R. J. Pell-man, F. Marley, W. Taylor, J. W. Kennedy, A. Strosmiller, A. R. Schreiner, and G. Murphy.
Louis Buckley, grand knight, was pleased with the attendance at the meeting and with the interest shown by the members
NOTICE!
There will be a meeting of the news and sports staffs tonight at 7:00 o’clock in the Publications office. All candidates for staff positions must be present.
QUESTION FOR DEBATES ANNOUNCED
With the debating season a few weeks away, the Reverend Francis Boland, C.S.C., coach of the varsity debating team, announced that one of the questions which will be used this year is: “Resolved: that the States should adopt a system of compulsory unemployment insurance.”
Great interest should be taken in this question because of its timely appearance. It will be argued pro and con during a time when the country is in the midst of a great industrial depression. Everyone, from the president of the United States to the humblest workman, is concerned with this question of compulsory unemployment insurance. It is the most important economic problem of the present day, and as such should evoke no little interest in the varsity debates for the year.
GADEK, PRESIDENT OF SCIENCE ACADEMY
William V. Gadek was elected president of the Academy of Science at the first meeting of that organization this year which was incidentally its fiftieth gathering. Other officers elected were Lawrence Zell, vice-president, and Timothy Sullivan, secretary. Three juniors, John Papera, Vincent Whelan, and Joseph Raymond were elected to the executive committee. Twenty five members voted.
The meeting was opened my the Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., moderator, who made an appeal for co-operation and loyalty to the organization.
A.S.M.E. TO HOLD MEETING ON MONDAY EVENING
The Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers will hold a meeting next Monday evening in Badin hall basement. The branch on this campus is one of a hundred or more established at different universities throughout the country. The purpose of the society is first, the keeping in touch with modern industry, and seccondly, the development of the individual member with regard to presentation of technical argument.
Application for membership should be submitted to Joseph O’Hora, 202 Sorin hall.

136	The Notre Dame Scholastic
“ Glances at the Magazines
This column is a new feature, one without precedent in the Scholastic. Consequently we make our bow a bit timorously. Yet we hope to provide something of interest to you, somethings perhaps to your advantage. We shall try simply to point out articles of particular interest or worth as we see them. All the magazines reviewed in this week’s column can be had at Bill Kirby’s news stand in the cafeteria. .
Perhaps the best investment in magazines you can make this month is to buy the Ladies' Home Journal. Oh, don’t say pooh, pooh, or pish and just pass it by as feminine piffle. Because the Journal is more than just home and fireside stuff. It isn’t just a ladies’ gospel. It has stories of a very high literary standard, stories by G. K. Chesterton, Wilbur Daniel Steele, and Edith Wharton that are well worth reading. Mr. Chesterton’s contribution is another of the famous Father Brown stories. The popularity of the little parish priest who sleuths so surprisingly equals that of Conan Doyle’s great Holmes. “Light,” by Mr. Steele, the best of our American short-story writers, is an excellent psychological study artistically done. “Diagnosis,” by Edith Wharton, and stories by F. Britten Austen and Juliet Tompkins are very good. And if you go in for handsome ilustrations have a look at John La Gatta’s conceptions of Grantland Rice’s sportswomen. The Journal offers a rare treat for your thin dime; if you scorn the fashion designs don’t fuss, but hand them over to the roommate to be cut out and lovingly glued to the wall.
November Scribner’s has a complete short novel by W. R. Burnett; a new solution for the divorce mess by Katherine Fullerton Gerould; and the entertaining “As I Like It,” by William Lyons Phelps, containing intimate glimpses of literary personages. But most interesting of all is Milton Waldman’s “If Booth Had Missed Lincoln.” Everyone at some time or other entertains himself with speculations as to what might have happened if certain things had been different, in history. Here such a speculation is carefully worked out for you, and
you’ll enjoy it—though probably disagree with the author’s small regard for Lincoln’s ability to achieve greatness in the crisis of reconstruction.
Harper’s has “The Vanishing Sinner,” a not very vigorous attack on the modern attitude of “irreverent snickers” whenever sin is mentioned. The author is Rev. Ralph W. Sockman, D.D., president of the New York federation of churches. “Pity the Poor Athlete” is more discussion of professionalism in college football and of similar problems—you’ve heard them all before. There are three short stories, the best “A Prisoner of Memory”; and “The Survival of the Cutest,” an exposal of a common failing in many published autobiographies.
When asked by the editor of Forum to list the twelve greatest dates of history, Mr. H. G. Wells found that he couldn’t possibly limit himself to twelve, but must include fifteen dates. This new “Outline of History” is no more scholarly than his previous one. When he omits the birthday of Christ as an illuminating but not cardinal date, we wonder at his conception of great historical events. There’s not space to give his list, but see it for yourself. In parenthesis Wells relegates Napoleon to oblivion by characterizing his career as “vulgar.” The last “date” is the Russian revolutions of 1917. Nathan Asch has an amusing story in this issue of Forum.
The Red Book and Cosmopolitan are as always filled with short stories of about equal merit. Red Book features the adventures of a feminine Raffles from the pen of Arthur Somers Roche, and full page photographs of theatrical celebrities. Cosmopolitan has “A Masque of Liverpool,” a poem of considerable length by John Masefield, England’s new poet-laureate. Of late Masefield is contributing regularly to the Cosmopolitan.
“From Norway to Notre Dame,” Mr. Rockne’s series of highly interesting episodes in his own colorful career, is still running in Collier’s Weekly. And Frank Wallace’s Huddle, the football story of New Dominion, has much Notre Dame atmosphere. It appears in College Humor, and has been very well received.
GRIDGRAPH IN GYM TO
BRING PLAY-BY-PLAY
REPORT OF PITT GAME
The gridgraph will be used for the first time this season tomorrow. The presentation of the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game will begin at one o’clock in the gym. Arrangements have been made with the Western Union to bring a play-by-play report of the game directly to the booth in the gym, and from these reports the game will be visualized on the gridgraph board.
At the request of a number of students the “sound” apparatus will not be used. Last year the game was announced through an amplifying system, the gridgraph showing merely the position of the ball. Many students requested a return to the former system of showing the plays on the board, and the first game will be presented in this manner.
The gridgraph shows each play, tells who carries the ball, and who makes the tackle. A lighting system will be used that will make each play clear and distinct.
“CATALYZER” MAKES INITIAL APPEARANCE
The Notre Dame Catalyzer, official publication of -the department of chemistry at the University, made its initial appearance of the school year on the campus yesterday. The magazine, which is edited by William L. Terre this year, has some very interesting articles relating to the department of chemistry.
The leading contribution, “Hardness Testing,” was written by August T. Sieron, a graduate of the College of Science in the class of 1930. Assisting Mr. Terre in editing the magazine are Joseph Toussaint and R. P. Allard, members of the Chemists’ club.
K. OF C. HEAD IMPRESSED BY CAMPUS
The honorable Martin Carmody, Supreme Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus, was • a visitor on the campus last Saturday. While here he conferred with the officers of the local council and congratulated Grand Knight Louis Buckley on the splendid showing made by the campus council in activity and membership. He also conferred with the students of the boy guidance department and their director, Professor Ray Hoyer.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
137
A* I
CALDWELL SPEAKS AT
A. I. E. E. MEETING
The Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held their second meeting of the school year in the south basement of Badin hall on Monday night.
Chairman Earl Brieger appointed H. J. Perry chairman of the publicity committee, with J. M. Strong as his assistant. Mr. Coomes, chairman of the progressive committee, suggested that a summary of the latest events of importance in the electrical engineering field should be read at each meeting. This suggestion was given instant approval, and Mr. Brieger appointed Mr. P. F. Murray to present these digests.
The following student papers were presented: “The Life of Oersted,” by Mr. Andres of the sophomore class; “Brazing by the Resistance Method,” by Mr. Lambert of the junior class; and “The Radio Compass,” by Mr. Murray of the senior class.
The principal speaker of the evening was Mr. Caldwell, chief engineer of the Kennedy Radio Corporation who presented a paper on “Short Wave Receivers and Adapters.”
SENIOR DANCE ATTENDED BY 300 COUPLES
Those who attended the “Scotch Soiree,” the dance sponsored by the . senior class, last Saturday night after the navy game, reported it to have been a success.
The dance was held in the K. of C. ballroom and the music was furnished by the Windy City Blue Blowers. In addition to the excellent dance music, Touise Umble, the noted blue singer of the Carolina Cotton Pickers, as well as Ted Gravely, radio tap dancer, offered added attraction.
It is estimated that approximately three hundred students attended.
CASASANTA TELLS WHY BAND DOES NOT PARADE
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the University band, in answer to many inquiries, gave out a statement recently explaining why the band does not parade between the halves.
Mr. Casasanta said that the visiting team, through courtesy, is always allowed to parade first. The rest of the short period is given over to the “stunts” of the silent cheering section, leaving no time for the Notre Dame band to parade.
SOPHOMORE COTILLION ORCHESTRA SELECTED
Bill Donahue’s Band To Play Here November 14
James B. Clark, general chairman of the Sophomore Cotillion, announces the securing of one of the best campus orchestras in America, Bill Donahue and his Drake hotel orchestra. The efforts of the music committee, headed by Jack Duffy and John O’Shaugn-essey, are responsible for the completion of arrangements to bring him to the Palais Royale ballroom on Friday night, Nov. 14.
Bill Donahue has played for one summer at Deauville. He has commanded his orchestra in combat with the greatest names in youthful music: Ash, Lombardo, Chapman, Jones. Radio station WGN has carried his syncopation everywhere. Those who made the Campus Gardens of the Drake hotel their rendezvous last summer will say that here, truly, is one of the best campus orchestras in America (world-wise people). They played at the Northwestern military ball; now it is acclaimed every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday night at the University of Illinois.
An aggregation of young, spark-
MANY PROMINENT SPORTS FIGURES IN STADIUM
PRESS BOX
Many prominent sports writers, football coaches and scouts were present in the stadium press box at the football game last Saturday.
Among the prominent sports scribes present were: Jimmy Corcoran of the Chicago American; Warren Brown and Jack Elder of the Chicago Herald-Examiner; William Kirksey of the United Press; Paul Mickelson of the Associated Press; Paul Davis of the Pittsburgh Press; Irving Vaughan of the Chicago Tribune; W. F. Fox, Jr., of the Indianapolis News; Gerald Duffy of the New York World; Frank Wallace of the New York Daily News; and Gene Kessler of the Toledo Blade.
Other notables present were: Pat Flannagan of radio station WBBM; Donie Bush, manager of the Chicago White Sox; Freddie Lindstrom of the
ling talent welded together into an unusual unit which in its modernity stands out like a diamond in an ultracubist black and silver setting—that is Bill Donahue and his Drake hotel orchestra, youth’s sensational favorite —and that is the orchestra secured for the cotillion. Here is perfect and incomparable dance rhythm, youth, personality, appearance, everything you could ask of a musical organization. Here is melody—sweet, soothing, haunting, mixed with syncopation a-la-carte. Here is song as it should be sung.
Tickets for the cotillion continue to be on sale by the numerous members of the committee in the various halls under the chairmanship of Don Lu-sardi.
One more inducement: arrangements have been completed for the communion breakfast to be held on the Sunday morning of the cotillion week-end. For the first time students of St. Mary’s will be permitted to attend. This should contribute much to the pleasure of the sophomores and their guests.
New York Giants; Bob Kearn, all-American guard of 1925 from the University of Pittsburgh; Elmer- Layden, former Notre Dame fullback and member of the famous Notre Dame “four horsemen” of 1924; Eddie Luther, former Notre Dame cheerleader; Frank Coughlin, Notre Dame captain of 1920; Z. B. Clevinger, director of athletics at the University of Indiana; Peter Studebaker, captain of the 1900 Indiana university football team and former football referee; Bob Sprague of the Army; Waldo Fisher of Northwestern; and Otto Fifield, secretary of the state of Indiana.
NOTICE!
Notebooks for Marketing 12 and 18, second semester, will be given out Tuesday, October- 28, from 1:15 p. m. to 3:15 p. m., in Room 107, Science hall.
138
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Campus Opinions
SEVENTY-FIVE TO MAKE TRIP
TO PITTSBURGH FOR PANTHER GAME
“Campus Opinions” is a new column which will appear as a regular feature of the Scholastic, providing, of course, that the columnist receives the co-operation of the students, upon whom we depend for our material. We shall not attempt any sweeping reforms through this medium. Our sole purpose is to provide the students with a means of expressing their opinions on selected pertinent questions.
This week we confronted five Notre Dame men with the question, “What do you think of silent cheering at Notre Dame?" We were answered thusly:
Jack Dempsey, Sorin hall, senior, and editor of the Juggler—“Silent cheering at Notre Dame is both colorful and interesting, but only to those spectators on the east side of the stadium. I do believe, however, that the silent cheering should not be in action at the same time the guest band is manuevering. Last Saturday, while the Carnegie band was forming a huge shamrock in honor of the Fighting Irish, a regulated lowering and raising of blue and orange cards distracted attention from the band. This was a discourteous action, and very ill-advised, as there followed a lapse of eight or more minutes when there was no activity whatsoever, neither on the field nor in the stands. That was the time for silent cheering.”
Clarence Donovan, Walsh hall, freshman basketball coach—“Silent cheering at Notre Dame has been attempted several times, although somewhat unsuccessfully due to a lack of co-operation between the student body and the cheerleaders and organizers. But now I believe the idea is here to stay because of fine work by the cheerleaders, the Blue Circle, the S. A. C., and the student body. I believe silent cheering at Notre Dame marks the innovation of the stunt in the middle west.”
J. Edwabd Phelan, Corby hall, senior, and president of the Wranglers—“Personally I am not in favor of the silent cheering as it is too much like a movie college stunt. The cheering situation at Notre Dame is not such that we can divert it from its original purpose of urging our
Seventy-five students have purchased tickets on the special train charted by the Pittsburgh club of Notre Dame to accompany the team Saturday, October, 25, to witness their clash with the University of Pittsburgh.
This special train will leave the New York Central station at 7:30 p. m., Friday, and will arrive in Pittsburgh Saturday at 7:30 a. m.
Richard O’Donnell, of Sorin hall, president of the club, has charge of the arrangements. He is assisted by Jerry Wilson of Corby hall, and Charles Sheedy of Sophomore hall.
A special section in the Pitt stadium has been reserved for the alumni and students of Notre Dame attending the game. The stadium has been sold out for the second time since its erection, the only other sellout being for the Notre Dame-Car-
team to victory, to putting on a show for the spectators on the other side of the field. I feel that more attention should be given to the singing of the school songs, a feature that is neglected woefully as most of the students do not even know the words to the songs.”
Reverend Leo Heiser, C.S.C., rector of St. Edward’s hall—“Last Saturday I sat on the east side of the stadium and from this vantage point the silent cheering was fine. It was done beautifully. The blue and orange presented a wonderful sight against the white background. Silent cheering is more scientific and fixed than the vocal type. I believe more can be done with it. It gives encouragement to the supporters of the other team. The “Tech,” “CT”, and “ND” were really fine. I am strongly in favor of silent cheering.”
Jack Keefe, Sorin hall, senior—“I am very much in favor of the silent cheering section, although I have never viewed it from the other side of the field. I think, however, that it would be much better if the whole student body were in the section. I believe it is very colorful and wellmanaged. It has had great success here since its inception, and I believe it will have even more.” ,
negie game of last season.
Special attractions are being planned for those who are attending the contest. A dinner and dance sponsored by the Notre Dame alumni club of Pittsburgh, will be held in the Fort Pitt hotel on Friday night. Members of the team will attend the banquet. Elmer Layden of “Four Horsemen” fame, president of the alumni club of Pittsburgh, and Joe Bach, center on the great team of 1924, will have charge of the arrangements for the banquet and the dance.
There will be dances given by fraternities of Pittsburgh university both Friday and Saturday nights.
The special will leave Pittsburgh Sunday at 9:30 p. m. and will arrive in South Bend at 5:50 Monday morning. However, cars carrying students will be switched to a side track to allow passengers to sleep till class time.
“SCHOLASTIC” HAS TWO
NEW FEATURES IN THIS ISSUE
Two new features are announced this week by Emil L. Telfel, editorin-chief of the Scholastic, “Campus Opinion” and “Glances at the Magazines.”
“Campus Opinion” to be conducted by Myron E. Crawford, is a revival of the popular “Inquiring Reporter” of several years ago. It will consist of a question put by Crawford, and answered by five students selected at random about the campus.
“Glances at the Magazines” written by Edward R. Brennan, will comprise reviews of articles, stories and features appearing in current magazines.
TICKETS FOR PENN TILT ALL SOLD
J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics, reported this morning that the Notre Dame-Pennsylvania game to be played November 8th at Franklin field, which seats approximately 40,000, is a complete sell-out. Not a stray pasteboard is to be found for the tilt, Haley says, and requests are still piling in. Local interest, insofar as Captain Tom Conley is a Philadelphia man, has increased the demand.
Scholastic
The
BROTHER JOSEPH CALLED BY DEATH
Brother Mary Joseph, a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross for the past 37 years, was called by death Wednesday morning in the Community House. Funeral services were held Friday morning from Sacred Heart church with a requiem High Mass at 8:00 o’clock.
Brother Joseph was a faithful member of the Congregation and was formerly employed in the University print shop and had worked on the printing of the Scholastic. He was born at Cape Royal, Newfoundland, May 4, 1860, and was professed in the Brotherhood on August 15, 1893. He had been failing in health nine months prior to his death.
ITALIAN CLUB BOASTS
LARGE MEMBERSHIP
Fifty members were present at the Italian club meeting Monday night in Room 2 of Walsh hall. Many of the boys were making their initial appearances, and although the deadline for new members is not until next Monday, last year’s attendance record was broken.
Mr. • Pirchio, faculty adviser of the club, appointed Sal Bontempo chairman pro-tem. During the course of the meeting Mr. Bontempo appointed Leo Schiavone and Fred Eisenmann temporary secretary and vice-president, respectively.
Mr. Pirchio gave a short address in which he stressed the policy of the club as one fostering fraternal spirit and at the same time giving its members an appreciation of Italian art and literature. Talks were also given by members Bontempo, Puglese, and Morolla. The conversation was carried on entirely in Italian.
Prospective members are reminded that Monday, Oct. 27 will be their last opportunity for enrollment, at which time elections for permanent officers will be held.

FIRST INFORMAL DANCE
HELD AT ST. MARY’S
The first of a series of informal dances was held at St. Mary’s last Tuesday evening. The dances, sponsored by the student body of St. Mary’s, will continue for several Tuesday evenings. Notre Dame students are permitted to attend.
Notre Dame
INTER-HALL DEBATERS
HOLD FIRST MEETING IN LIBRARY
On last Monday night some 45 freshmen appeared in the library to answer the call for interhall debaters. The series of debates between the freshman halls is sponsored every year by the Wranglers club, and there is great interest shown by the yearling orators. The turnout, this year is the largest that has been recorded since the inauguration of inter-hall debating four years ago. The cup that is to go to the victorious hall has already been put on display by the Wranglers. In the last four seasons Brownson hall has won the cup twice, while Howard and Freshman have each had it for one year apiece. This present season the debates promise to be more intense and of higher quality than heretofore, as the Brownson debaters are just as anxious to win the cup for the third time, and have permanent possession, as the other contestants are to capture the trophy for their own halls.
The men were addressed at the meeting by the president of the Wranglers club, Edward Phelan, and Frank Noll, the Wrangler in charge of the interhall contests, and later in the evening, Neil C. Hurley, Jr., secretary of the club.
“The large turn-out is indicative of the rising interest in debating on the campus,” said Noll. Early developments of plans are coming along rapidly, and everything is pointing to the most successful of inter-hall debate seasons. The first practice for the individual hall team will be held next week, though as yet a date for the first debate has not been set.
DR. MOHLMANN GIVES
INTERESTING ADDRESS
Dr. F. W. Mohlmann, director of laboratories for the sanitary district of Chicago, spoke to the St. Joseph valley section of the American Chemical society at 7:30 o’clock last Wednesday evening in Chemistry hall.
Many members of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce attended the talk, in which Dr. Mohlmann discussed the sewage treatment works of the sanitary district in Chicago. He further explained the various processes together with some of the experimental work that has been done in sewage treatment and testing.
Officers and managers of the Indiana State Bar association were entertained by the faculty of the College of Law of Notre Dame at a banquet in the faculty dining hall last Friday evening, October 17. About 100 members of the Law club also attended the dinner.
Professor Clarence Manion of the University law faculty, acting as toastmaster, introduced the guests. Among the more prominent were James M. Ogden of Indianapolis, attorney-general of the state of Indiana, who represents the seventh congressional district on the board of managers of the Bar association. William W. Miller of Gary, president of the association, also attended the banquet. Professor - Harper of the Indiana University law school and editor of the Indiana Law Journal, was also present and made brief remarks.
Dean Konop of the University law faculty gave a brief history of the. Notre Dame law school. Mr. Eli F. Seebirt, prominent South Bend attorney representing this congressional district on the board, who together with Dean Konop was responsible for the meeting, concluded his talk by paying a very fine compliment to the law school of Notre Dame.
Other members of the board of managers present at the banquet were: Frank H. Hatfield of. Evansville, William H. Hill of Vincennes, Willmer T. Fox of Jeffersonville, Harry Meloy of Mount Vernon, John M. Fitzgerald of Terre Haute, Wil-, liam A. Yarling of Shelbyville, Alonzo L. Nichols of Winchester, W. H. Parr of Lebanon, Joseph Brown of Crown Point, Milo N. Feightner of Huntington, and W. P. Endicott of Auburn.
Judge M. M. Oshe of the Chicago Title and Trust Company will begin a series of lectures under the auspices of the Law club on October 29 at 7:00 p. m., in the new Law building.
Hundreds of persons visited the new Law building on Friday and Saturday of last week and nothing but compliments were expressed as to the architecture and utility of Notre Dame’s newest structure.
140
The Notre Dame Scholastic
« Music And Drama »
PEERLESS PRESS TO PRINT 1931 “DOME”
Photography to Begin Oct. 27
In a way, we are glad that Avery Hopwood did • not live to see one of his most charming heroines enacted by Clara Bow in “Her Wedding Night,” the box-office title of “Little Miss Bluebeard.” Clara’s picture was entertaining, but it had lost every scrap of romance and sentiment which Mr. Hopwood had put into his play. The original role required delicacy and restraint. This one fact alone makes Clara Bow ineligible for it. Between Norma, the French actress of “Little Miss Bluebeard,” and Norma, the American movie star of “Her Wedding Night,” there is a gulf which could never be crossed by one of the most notorious of the Hollywood atrocities noted for their lack of culture, refinement, and good taste.
ins
Did you ever want something very much and work for it and wait for it maybe even for years, and then just as you almost had it oi* actually did have it find out that it was not worth so much after all? If you have ever had this experience you will like “You and I,” by Philip Barry, which is soon to be produced by Warner Bros. After their success with “Holiday,” we may look forward to a fine production of “You and I.” Of course, there is more to the play than the theme we have mentioned above. The title is taken from the idea that before a man is married, it is always “I—I and my work,” but after he has given hostages to fortune it is “You and I, with the You coming first every time.” We hope that you don’t mind our talking so much about Phil Barry in this column. He is one of our favorites, and he ought to be better known among college people.
HU
“Body and Soul,” which we mentioned last week, will be out on Victor records at the end of the month. On one of them it will be sung by Helen
BOY-GUIDANCE NOTES
Doctor Ray O. Wyland, director of education of the Boy Scouts of America, addressed the students in the Boy-Guidance department last Thursday, Oct. 23, on the work of the department
Morgan . . . From “Just Imagine,” also mentioned before, you will soon be hearing “Never Swat a Fly,” “You Are the Melody,” and “An Old-Fashioned Girl.”
I Ilf
“A Farewell to Arms” has petered out on Broadway. Not so long ago Bertrand Russell shocked many women’s clubs and sewing circles by declaring that Hemingway’s talked of novel was really mid-Victorian. Crane Wilbur will probably go from this play to Edgar Wallace’s “On the Spot,” an Englishman’s idea of Chicago gangland. Regarding Mr. Wallace’s prolific output (the last time we heard, his novels and plays numbered over 150), there is this anecdote. A friend called the Wallace home one evening and was told by the butler that the master was busy on a new play. When questioned as to when he would be at leisure, the butler further answered that Mr. Wallace had just begun the third act. “Very well, I’ll hold the line,” replied the friend.
HU
Apparently the adaptors of Vina Delmar’s infamous Bad Girl never heard that “proper selection of details is necessary for art.” For in the stage version we see practically everything from the beginning to the end. The end, in this case, amounting to what Benchley in the Neiv Yorker calls a “practical course in midwifery.” This scene in the delivery room is done in shadow, but it appears to be none the less embarrassing for the audience. The scene is neither funny nor dirty, merely something which good taste, not shame, tells us to omit.
Ulf
Not that it is important, but did anyone think to count the number of cigarettes Rose Hobart smoked in “The Lady Surrenders”?
of education of the boy scouts. The doctor is well known on the campus not only because of his visits to the school but also because he directed the summer boy leadership course here in 1925 and 1926.
On October 20, last Monday, the contract for the printing of the 1931 Dome was signed by the Peerless Press of South Bend, which has handled the Dome for the past three years in an extremely satisfactory manner. The engraving work is being done under a contract signed last May by Jahn and Ollier, engravers, of Chicago. This concern took care of the engravings in the 1930 Dome. The signing of these contracts assures a careful and efficient handling of matter in the editing of this sizable volume.
Monday, October 27 marks the beginning of the photography for the new Dome. Mr. Otto May, of the White Studio, New York, will be in charge, and photos will be taken in the K. of C. room. Hall groups, campus clubs, and various societies will be photographed early in November, and the pictures of the freshman and sophomore classes will be taken at the same time. The art work to appear in the Dome is being appraised and selected now, and will be announced with the cover selection sometime in November.
SPECTATORS HOLD FIRST MEETING
The Spectator’s club opened its activities for the year with a meeting in the journalism room of the library last Thursday evening. Plans for the coming year were discussed and assignments for talks to be given at future meetings were made. All members were present, with president Alfred Stepan presiding and Timothy Benitz recording the minutes.
❖--------------------------
NOTICE!
Student distribution of tickets for the Indiana game will begin Monday, Nov. 1. The usual method of allotment will be followed; seniors will report at the stadium on Monday afternoon for their tickets; juniors on Tuesday; sophomores on Wednesday, and freshmen on Thursday.
«--------------------------
The Notre Dame Scholastic
141
4 A Man You Know £
For some reason or other New Jersey has supplied Notre Dame with more athletes and campus notables than we would expect to have from so small a state. Father Farley, the rector of Sorin hall, last haven of prospective graduates, hails from Paterson, New Jersey. He was born there in 1875. He attended St. John’s School, a grammar school and high school kept by the Christian Brothers
Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C.
in Paterson. After his graduation from this school he entered Notre Dame in 1897.
For the first two years of his college course he lived in Brownson. In 1899 he entered the seminary, although he still continued his athletic activities. After* three years in the seminary he entered the novitiate, and after a year there he went to the Catholic university, in Washington, D. C. On July 23, 1907, he was ordained a priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
Ever since his ordination he has served as a rector, either at Columbia university in Portland, Oregon, or at Notre Dame. From 1907 until 1913 he was the rector of Corby hall; from 1913 until 1920 he was rector of Walsh. In 1920 he went to Columbia university, serving as rector of Christie hall there. In 1926 he returned to Notre Dame and was prefect of off-campus students for two years. In 1928 he was again sent to Columbia university, and he remained there until this year. Now he is again at Notre Dame, being the rector of Sorin hall.
During his student days Father Farley made an enviable record as an athlete. From 1897 until 1901 he played football, baseball, and track, and made nine monograms in the three sports: four in football, four in baseball, and one in track. He played the position of end in football; in baseball he played as a fielder, right field being his favorite position; and in track he ran the 220 and the quarter-mile. As we might assume from his brilliant athletic career, his hobby is athletics, and he is a champion of interhall sports. While he was rector in Walsh and in Corby, those halls produced many championship teams. He has almost succeeded in arousing enthusiasm for interhall football in sedate Sorin, which is no mean feat.
Father Farley said that the Notre Dame of his time would seem very strange to students today. The favorite recreation of students then was walking, and they “hiked” all over the surrounding country. Students of that period did not go into town often, because there was no good reason to visit South Bend. There were no “movies”. Occasionally a good Shakespearean play would be presented at the Oliver theatre. Once an ambitious theatrical troupe produced Pagliacci, but South Bend received grand opera then as coldly as it does now. He also said that “the Scholastic of those days was not as lively as the present one, but it was far more literary. The present one is pretty good—pretty good—but then, a New Jersey boy is editor. Great state, New Jersey, great state. Lots of good men come from there.”
WRANGLERS ADDRESSED
BY PICK AND O’MEARA
John Pick and Tom O’Meara, both sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters, addressed the Wranglers club last Tuesday evening at their regular meeting in the journalism room of the library. Both men presented excellent talks, both as to form and to content. Roger Bierne is to speak at the next meeting.
Furthering the initiation proceedings, which have for a time remained dormant, James O’Shaughnessey, Ed Dailey, and Francis Cawley were sent through the preliminary stages.
EDUCATIONAL CONFRA-
TERNITY HOLDS MEETING
The Educational Confraternity held its first meeting of the present school year in the journalism room of the library last Monday evening. Joseph A. Wilks,, vice-president of the organizations’ presided at the meeting in the absence of Carroll B. Murphy, president. Professor Bernard Kohlbrenner of the school of education introduced several current educational ideas with which the confraternity will be vitally concerned during the scholastic year.
Vice-president Wilk, as chairman of the program committee, outlined briefly the work to be done during the present semester. Assignments in the field of education will be provided members at the next meeting of the organization which will be held Monday, November 3rd. Several new members were admitted to the confraternity at the last meeting, including a few graduate students. Students interested in education are invited to attend the next meeting.
ART DORWIN MARRIED IN LOG CABIN CHAPEL
Mr. Arthur Dorwin of Minocqua, Wisconsin, who graduated from Notre Dame last June, and Miss Kathryn Smith of Berwyn, Illinois, were married at 9:30 Saturday, October 18th, in the little log chapel on the Notre Dame campus. Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., performed the ceremony.
Miss Elizabeth Smith, sister of the bride, was the maid of honor, while Mr. Dorwin’s brother, Milan, acted as best man. Among the eight or nine guests present were the bride’s mother, Mrs. Smith, and Miss Helen Put-row, a lifelong friend of the Smith girls.
Mr. and Mrs. Dorwin left immediately after the Notre Dame-Carnegie Tech football game for The Dells, at Kilbourn, Wisconsin, where they will spend a few days. After the first of the year they plan to go to California for a more extensive honeymoon.
While a student at Notre Dame, Mr. Dorwin spent his four years off-campus. He was primarily a scholar, but the springtime always found him on the baseball diamond.
The couple will reside in Minoqua, where Mr. Dorwin is in business.
142
The Notre Dame Scholastic
<AMIIf CLUE/
During the past week the Reverend Raymond M. March, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, put the stamp of “Official” on thirty-five of the campus clubs. They are the SCRIBBLERS, the AKRON club, the BAND, the BUFFALO club, the CALIFORNIA club, the CALUMET club the CHEMIST’S club, the CHICAGO club, the CLEVELAND club, the COMMERCE FORUM, the DETROIT club, the EDUCATIONAL CONFRATERNITY, the ENGINEER’S club, the WRANGLERS club, the FRENCH club, the GLEE club, the GRAND RAPIDS club, the INDIANAPOLIS club, the LA RAZA club, the METROPOLITAN club, the MONOGRAM club, the NEW JERSEY club, the NORTHERN NEW YORK club, the PACIFIC NORTHWEST club, the PHILADELPHIA club, the PITTSBURGH club, the PRESS club, the ROCHESTER club, the SPECTATORS, the STUDENT’S ACTIVITIES COUNCIL, the TEXAS club, the UTICA club, the WABASH club, the WYOMING VALLEY club, and the YOUNGSTOWN club.
Many of the clubs have been omitted from this list for-not turning in a financial report.
President John Raleigh of the CLEVELAND club last evening announced the men on the various committees for the club’s Christmas dance. General chairman is Walter Ridley. Members of the committees are: music— Al Grisanti, chairman; Cleve Carey and John Scanlon; hall—Robert Tischler and D. Hogan, co-chairmen; John Matousek and John Leonard; Patrons—Joseph Gavin, chairman; William Koehl, James Uprichard and Robert Butler; programs—John Zaback, chairman; William Van Rooy and Howard Miller; favors—Lawrence Kral, chairman; John Schneller and Thomas Ryan; decorations— Cy Matthews and Phil Prendergast, co-chairmen; Arthur' Becvar, William Conaton, John Penote and Howard Hankle; tickets — Francis Gannon, chairman; Allison O’Brien and Edward Ryan; publicity — Frank Svoboda, chairman; Leslie Raddatz, John Kiener and Paul Hallinan; reception — George Vik, chairman; Richard Mahoney and Philip Geoghan; invitations — Frank Seward, chairman; Al Romanin, George Kozak and Edward Gough.
The LA RAZA club held a meeting last Tuesday evening. Professor Jose Martinez addressed the members on “Football in Spain.” He illustrated his talk by blackboard drawings.
Following the lecture correspondence with Spaniards was discussed, as well as the receiving of newspapers from twenty Spanish-speaking countries.
At its first regular meeting, the FRENCH club had nearly 45 members. Michael O’Hara, club vice-president, then gave the members an idea of how the Berlitz method of learning a foreign language is used. Following this William Dreux, president of- the club, read briefly from a French hook. Proceedings were carried on entirely in French.
At the last meeting of the AKRON club, President Richard Botzum appointed Lawrence Halter chairman of the Christmas dance. Under’ him will be John Doran, chairman of the music committee; Arthur Dutt, in charge of programs; Bernard Kraus, chairman of the invitations committee; Michael Staley, chairman of the publicity committee, and Willard Mallory, who will have charge of the decorations.
Plans were also made for a banquet to be held at Christmas time for the active and graduate members of the club.
The AKRON club held a banquet last evening at the Rose Marie tea room. The Reverend John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., spoke.
The PHARMACY club held its regular meeting last Tuesday. Norbert Schaller gave the first paper on “The Chemistry of the Formation of Poison in Plants.” He followed this with a humorous poem relative to chemistry. Joseph Harney then read a paper on "The Education of a Doctor.” It dealt with the hardships that a young doctor must undergo and the essential requirements of a good doctor.
Plans for a banquet in the near future were discussed.
On Wednesday the CHICAGO club held a meeting for the purpose of planning a dance to be held in Chicago during the week-end of the Army game. Whether the club will hold the dance independently or in conjunction with Chicago alumni has not as yet been decided.
Tomorrow the special train sponsored by the PITTSBURGH club will leave South Bend for the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game. Besides students living in western Pennsylvania, only juniors and seniors will be allowed to make the trip. '
For the eighth time the GRAND RAPIDS club has elected the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., its honorary president. Father O’Donnell is a native of Grand Rapids, and although no longer at the University, is still remembered by the Grand Rapids men here.
Organized during the week was the WYOMING VALLEY club, made up of students from Pennsylvania. Bulletins announced that all coal crackers, chute boys, car staggers, slope riggers, and vein robbers were welcome. The present name of the club is only temporary.
Elected at the first meeting were: Maurie Regan, president; Gilbert Perry, vice-president; Joseph Burke, secretary, and James Gallegher, treasurer. Forty men were present at the meeting.
The club invites all students living in Wilkes-Barre, Scranton, Shenandoah, Towanda, Sayre, Hazelton, Williamsport, Harrisburg, and Reading to join.	'
'	I
Notre Dame Scholastic
143
......TELLING THE WORLD
Sports Publicity Department Keeps Country Informed
In a corner of the Notre Dame athletic office is the desk of lanky Joe Petritz, genial director of sports publicity, the custodian of the press coop, who writes stories for five hundred newspapers a week, who listens to the weird tales of visiting newspapermen and loans them cigarettes, who supplies two hundred and fifty writers with working accommodations each week. These and a few other sundry details comprise the scope of the department of sports publicity, of which Mr. Petritz is not only the director, but likewise the entire department as well.
It might possibly appear to the uninformed that exploiting athletics at Notre Dame would be akin to the trite story dealing with the barber in Moscow, especially in matters where football are concerned. Yet the real significance of it can be grasped when it is realized that the University spends thousands of dollars annually to attach the proper shade of meaning to sports at Notre Dame.
“We keep in touch with the press of America by means of continual correspondence,” we were told in the earnest tones of the director himself. “Each day we receive numerous telegrams, requesting varied information, which we strive to give accurately. Our mail reaches about fifty letters a day.”
By NEIL C. HURLEY
Letters from fans, unknown admirers, and from football enthusiasts are all turned over to the publicity department. A feature writer in California will want to know the longest distance a drop-kick was ever booted on Cartier field, a columnist in New York would like information on the number of football uniforms distributed annually, the editor of a country newspaper would appreciate a list of all Pikeville county boys on the squad.
While Joe, who incidentally is a junior in the college of Arts and Letters, is resting from these tasks, he answers forty telephone calls a day, coming anywhere from Florida to New Mexico. The writer recalls a typical message that took place during the interview:
“No sir, I am very sorry but we cannot give the Wahooville Star-Democrat ten tickets in the press box for tomorrow’s game,” remarks the director of sports publicity with a pained expression upon his face—the expression so glibly described recently by Warren Brown. “Yes sir, I realize that through your publicity one-third of the town is to make the trip to our
game, but there are no more seats available. Your allotment of two will have to suffice.”
On days of football games, when the University plays host to 250 reporters in the best of the nation’s press boxes, Robert Gorman and Edward Reilly are usually on hand to .help direct the traffic in the hotel on the stadium’s roof. Frank McAdams, Edward Britz, and Rollin Baldwin shout the plays to the sport writers, or act as observers for Quin Ryan, Graham McNamee, Pat Flannigan, or other broadcasters who have covered Notre Dame’s games thus far. Two statisticians, as the writer will well vouch, perspire over averages, first downs, penalties, and sundry accounts. Walt Kennedy watches for substitutions.
By means of weekly news letters that are sent out from this department the press of the nation is kept informed of the activities of the University athletic teams. The department stands prepared to send immediately a biography of Harry Elmore, or a story of the prowess of Joe Brandy, or an account of how the gymnasium burned some few years back. In short, the sports publicity department will furnish literature by the yard or by the inch, written in a satirical, elevating, or cynical manner as the paper may demand.
Where Football News Originates
i i
144	The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE PALACE
At Nebraska members of a class in psychology were quite startled recently when a man came running into the room shouting “Man’s got my head!” Students in the class were asked next day to give all the details of the incident as a test for their memories. The “experiment” was genuine, and almost created an uproar by getting away. Reminds me of the time “Spike” McAdams shot Kegowicz.
“President Charles Russ Richards,” says the Brown and White of Lehigh, “will drive an 1899 Packard. The ceremony will start in front of Packard laboratory at 4:00. All students are invited to attend.” I hope the relic started. It was the first Packard automobile ever made, and after the exhibition will be kept in a glass and marble case.
At Haverford college, Pennsylvania, an indignant dean suggested that all student cars be thrown off the campus. Equally indignant students came right back at him with more suggestions. That of buying Austins and keeping them in student rooms was by far the most popular. Last Saturday, when he saw the way the poor little green one outside our window was mistreated, my roommate suggested that we throw a rope out the window and haul it in for safe-keeping.
Speaking of “Oppo”—at Nebraska coeds sell candy, apples, peanuts and other delicacies at all athletic contests. The girl selling the most candy is presented with a big box of the stuff. Too bad they cannot do that sort of thing around here—the boys would always be broke!
I must add to this page that the charming miss who wrote me such an indignant letter last week might be quite right in mentioning the fact that class officerships on the west coast are gained quite legitimately. But I cannot understand why she must add that I am a woman-hater. For her benefit I might add that I am not old, nor is my hair the least bit gray.
I do not hesitate to say again that the “Soph Hoodoo,” as it is called and as it was mentioned on this page on October 10, is quite in keeping with my own feelings, and gentlemen of that university have my sympathies.
At the City College of Detroit women have had fencing teams for several years. This year sees the start of a men’s fencing team. Another case of “first in war.”
“Knute Rockney,” says the Green and White of Ohio University, “famous coach, is partner in a brokerage firm.” Tsk . . . tsk . . . don’t they have spelling bees in Ohio any more? They have a compulsory spelling class at Southern California!
My attention has been called to the fact that “due to the physical impossibility of admitting the crowds to the stadium” the University of Washington has discontinued the practice of scrutinizing student signatures. So much for good ideas, gate-keepers at Notre Dame don’t “scrutinize” our A. A. book photos- either. (Just as if that would do any good!)
The “Funny Fellow” calls my attention to the fact that the Freshman number of the Phoenix of the University of Chicago printed a cover entitled, “The Way of All Fresh.” The same thing, with a better cover, by the way, appeared on the 1927 Freshman number of the-Juggler. What excellent memories these Chicago lads have.
I see in the Southern California Daily Trojan that Notre Dame, on October 11, defeated Army, 26-2.
At Stanford women must be in bed by 11:30 on week days, and 2:30 on week-ends. Before this ruling went into effect the rule stipulated 10:30 on week nights and 1:30 on week-ends. Authorities of the university felt that their delay in agreeing to the new ruling was a good education for the new students.
At the University of Texas last year, so many apple cores were thrown at games that apples will not be sold in the stadium this year. I wonder if this notice had anything to do with “Oppo’s” running out of fruit at the Navy game?
Believe it or not: Mudd hall at Southern California is one of the most beautiful buildings on the campus.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
145
Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta Director
Just before the start of the war, an extremely enterprising young man left Harvard to finish his education in the middle west, and stopped long enough at Notre Dame to register for a term. With him he brought ideas in music that were new to the east and as yet unknown in the more provincial west. It was through his energy and his faculty for organization, as well as his thorough knowledge of group music, that the first Notre Dame glee club was formed. He gathered a few interested students about him, taught them the intricacies of glee club work, and directed them in their then unusual numbers.
Since Ward Perrot pioneered at Notre Dame in the field of organized harmony, the first humble glee club has grown in number and increased in excellence until now it is recognized all over the country as a leader
The Story of Casdsanta’s Boys
James Carmody
in the choral field. Time was when the repertoire consisted of a few songs of the simplest harmonies; when the forte of the concerts was a quartet, and when an orchestra filled in the intermissions with the jazz of the hour. Men of other days still recall Hugh O’Donnell, now the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., and the Reverend Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., in their half of a very good quartet which dealt in such songs as are very virile. But now the orchestra and the quartet have gone, and ten times the number of prospective singers of ten years ago turn out in the fall for try-outs, and basses rumble in every type of song from the Italian to Mother Goose rhymes, with a nationally known excellence.
To Doctor J. Lewis Brown is due the credit for- the Notre Dame glee club in its present form. Dr. Brown, even before he came to Notre Dame, had made himself widely and favorably known in the musical world, both as a musician and as a director of group music. With his knowledge of
J. Edward Phelan Business Manager music and a genius for organization, he made of the glee club a fine con-concert body, and by securing engagements for it to sing in neighboring cities enabled it to gain the national reputation it now enjoys. When Dr. Brown left in 1926, Joseph Casasanta, who had been his very capable assistant during the three years, took over the direction and supervision of the club.
Mr. Casasanta has now directed the glee club for four years, and under his guidance it has known a fame that is nation-wide. He inaugurated the policy of more extensive trips, and in the last few years the organization has appeared in practically all the important cities east and west. Two years ago a Christmas tour carried the club to California and south to Texas. Last year an eastern trip featured a four-day engagement at the Auditorium theater in New York.
The Glee Club, 1929-1930
146
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WINE ♦
A VOUS
Close to my heart, deep in my arms, And only the evening shall know Of the whispered songs and the tender charms And the love that I cannot show.
It is good to live, it is right to love When living and loving means you, And the finest of songs and the loveliest thoughts Are the gifts that are ever your due.
JOURT, ’32.
QUICK WINKS
The Scholastic’s suddenly vigorous editorials . . . And the abnormally loud discussions they are arousing among the supposedly mute, inglorious silent cheerers . . . Somebody suggesting that the idle Walsh “rec” be converted into an immature golf course . . . There isn’t even a speech class in the basement this year to wake up the boys on the first floor . . . “Awake, sir King, and take a niblick on the long thirteenth.” . . . And if we must keep our playboys on campus why not put a roof garden on top of the candy store? ... Or start a dance marathon in the gym? . . . Stop us when we get silly on this sort of thing ... Ye Ed telling us (as one man tells another) of entering a store to buy a pair of suspenders ... Ye Ed coming out with one suit (two pairs of pants), one overcoat, one pair of shoes, one tie, two pairs of socks, and, yes, one pair of suspenders, moaning of “Bud” Nelson’s attack on his weak sales resistance . . . The same Ed telling us of his slow, dreamy tango-waltz-foxtrot with Kay at the Scotch “Soiree” . . . And the blissful, infatuated expression on the Ed’s usually worried pan as he told us.
We are certainly glad to hear that we are the nation’s hope. But it seems right now that we are merely the nation’s hope of getting seats between the goal-posts for the Army game, and all lines addressed to youth begin, “I was talking to your Dad yesterday, and he thought you would be only too glad to see Mr. Haley, etc., etc., etc.”
AFTERMATH
Why does my heart keep fretting Over the thought of you, When I should be forgetting To let other dreams come tme?
Why does my soul keep fanning The still ashes of your love, Instead of bravely planning A new and brighter sky above?
My mind is powerless to say Of poignant things gone past.
I can no lucid chart display— Well might I sooner ask,
Why does death stalk through the earth With gestures of unsacred grace, Instead of nursing its foul breath In some lone, secluded place?
Torn Heart Tom.
vl
LINES ADDRESSED TO YOUTH
We are the nation’s hope, the youth of the land, Drawn up upon the brink of life with eager eyes Scanning the dim horizon, and with outstretched hands Pleading so for guidance from beyond the skies.
We are the nation’s hope who pray with choking sound, Unmindful of the clod beneath the frozen mound.
We are the nation’s hope; our eyes are toward the east, Where life and zoarmth ascend amid the dawn’s dank gray, Nor love lies dormant like the satient beast Aware of naught but hunger and the lust to slay. We are the nation’s soul; in its its future rests, And naught will cries avail ivhen age protests.
We are the nation’s hope, let us the trust confide, And with beating hearts stride on to meet the task; Our minds observant, nor mean toil denied, Beshorn of trying folly and the hypocritic mask.
We are the nation’s hope, let purpose mark our way; Nor tarry how with dalliance and remote delay.
Attache.
The legend tells us that Tom had been riding down Main street on his red bicycle when without warning a cucumber, hurled by a passing section-hand, smote him a mighty blow amidships, and amid the screeching of sirens and the raucous blare of a fog horn, mingled with the screams of the wounded and dying, Tom sank into the turgid depths of the dank waters that moat the roundhouse.—“Ah, but the song is not done,” cried three Swiss sailors who stood indifferently smirking ontological smirks on the cross-beam of the mizzen-mast, for after the smoke and dust of battle had cleared away, there stood Tom surrounded by an admiring group, smiling a broad smile as he weepingly endorsed Lucky Strikes for the coming ' generation. The letter X marks the spot where the body was found—Tom’s last words were—“Why are the snows of yesteryear?”
The foregoing was still part of the contribution of Torn Heart Tom. Credit where credit is due, we say. And now we have not only received some hand-outs, but have even managed to lose one of the poems that did come to us. It’s a tough racket. We can’t win.
??.???

The Notre Dame Scholastic
147
EDITCK’X CAGE
4
THIS IS FOR YOU
The lecture course that Mr. Chesterton is giving in Washington hall is almost half over. So far there has been an average of 500 students at the lectures—on some days even less. Washington hall seats approximately 900. The inference to be drawn should be obvious, but when we remember the difficulty that the average student in the University has with logic we shall hammer the point home.
It is amazing and rather amusing to observe the warped sense of values that most college men seem to have. Notre Dame men are no exception. The entire campus is in a fever of interest over football, dances, silent cheering, and other distinctly secondary college activities. With the addition of Indiana weather, those three topics are as a rule the limit of conversational material. Very little thought is given to things intellectual or cultural—witness the apathetic attitude toward Mr. Chesterton’s lectures!
Mr. Chesterton is probably the greatest living Catholic author—certainly one of the greatest. He is a scholar of the first rank, and possesses a mind that thinks with crystal-like clearness and lucidity. To use a phrase of Mathew Arnold’s, “he sees life clearly and sees it whole.” He is a recognized authority in the field of Victorian literature and history. The University secured him for the express purpose of giving the students here an opportunity for intellectual stimulus through contact with a great mind. Are they taking advantage of the opportunity? Decidedly not! If they were, Washington hall would be filled every night.
The average Notre Dame man seems to have forgotten the main purpose of a university.. He seems totally unconscious of the finer points of a university education—things cultural and academic are scorned; it is more “virile” to attend “pep meetings” and go to town. Evidently literature—no, life, for literature is life—does not interest him. That one of the. world’s finest authors is giving pointed and scholarly views on one of the most interesting periods of English literature and history apparently means nothing to him. He is more concerned with the current picture at the Colfax.
It is barely possible that some day the stu
dents showing complete indifference to the Chesterton lectures will realize what they missed. But by that time there may not be another great mind to listen to.	E. L. T.
TWO SIDES TO IT
The Scholastic abstains in this issue from reference to the Knights of the Square Cardboards—the silent cheerers sailed their cards as merrily as ever during the half of the Tartan tilt last Saturday, despite the Scholastic’s protest of October 17. This week, however, we wish to speak of anothei- form of cheering: the vocal.
First, let us give credit where it is due. The “Drum Yell” is, perhaps, the finest, most unified and most stirring of all Notre Dame cheers. It expresses the rhythmic, primitive beat of war, of fight, of mighty hearts, and all that sort of thing. To head cheerleader Ed Massa and his two colleagues, we extend thanks for the introduction of that yell.
But on the other yells, the three leaders fail to catch the spirit of the crowd at the precise moment that would give the most volume and most significance to the cheer. Perhaps it is ignorance of “mob psychology.” Perhaps it is lack of proper training as to the “what, when and how” of a good roar.
Placed where they are, the students find it difficult to give the yell properly and watch the game at the same time. Concentrated in the 45-yard line sections, the boys could perhaps emit a series of cheers that could burst the ear-drums of a boiler-maker.
And, incidentally, how about a cheei’ for Captain Conley occasionally? One tires of shouting the same spectacular names, while the inspiring Irishman at right end goes unsung.
In fine, the Scholastic wishes that the cheerleaders would realize that cheer-leading is an art to be practiced, and that perfection is the goal. If we are to have organized cheering, it must be the best that lusty-lunged boys can send forth. If it is passive and weak, let’s do away with cheering completely.
And the echoes of the past will come limping emptily back from the corners of the new stadium!	P. J- H.
148
The Notre. Dame Scholastic
♦ SPORTS ♦
Panthers Growl as Jinx Confronts Notre Dame
Thirteenth Consecutive Win Is Aim at Pittsburgh Tomorrow
THIRTEEN may be the jinx number for a lot of folks but it better not be tomorrow for Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish. Our reason for saying that is that up to this time Notre Dame has been victorious in twelve straight games and eager to add the thirteenth to the long list tomorrow in Pittsburgh at the Pitt stadium.
With a sell-out virtually assured weeks ago, both teams go into a contest which has been long heralded. There was much controversy last season as to the relative merits of the two teams. Notre Dame’s hard season prevented a post-season game.
Two Great Teams
But the meeting comes this year. And it will be surrounded by all thi color and glamour that two great football teams, keen and jealous rivals, can produce.
The Panthers have pointed for this game, Coach Jock Sutherland spent this week polishing up the repertoire of plays which his team will use against the Fighting Irish. What
1 STATISTICS OF THE	!
1	GAME	I
i	First Downs:	e
|	Notre Dame, 16.	E
:	Carnegie Tech, 7.	E
f	Yds. Gained From Scrimmage:	b
=	Notre Dame, 261 yards.	j
|	Carnegie Tech, 180 yards.	=
i	Forward Passes:	i
z	Notre Dame, 4 completed of	9	E
= tried for 87 yards.	|
=	Carnegie Tech, 2 completed of	E
1	8 tried for 46 yards.	=
= Penalties:	I
E	Notre Dame, 15 yards.	=
E Carnegie Tech, 35 yards. |
Qai««<aaiiaiuaaa»aaaaam»<llliuil>aiainiiuillllim<iuaiuiilim
may be expected is a passing game, unique in Pittsburgh history, for in this class they have been woefully weak. Plays from double wing back formation will baffle the Rockmen plenty tomorrow.
It will be a clash of two typical Rockne and Sutherland elevens. Notre Dame’s forte is its brilliant set of backs. Notre Dame’s strength lies in its superb forward wall.
Tribe of Rush Artists
Sutherland is a master builder of lines. This season, as usual, he has a great tribe of rush artists. End to end, the line is heavy, fast, and smart. But there will not be the all-Americans of 1929, Joe Donchess, end, and Montgomery, guard, as well as Di-Meolo, also a guard.
At tackle Pitt has two great performers in Chuck Tully, a third-year regular, and Jess Quatse, who is playing his first year as a varsity man but is said to be one of the best tackle prospects Pitt has ever had.
Rip Collins, a junior weighing 185 pounds, will hold down an end position, with Dailey and Hirschberg a toss-up for the other side of the line.
Pitt’s guards are not likely to follow in the steps of Montgomery and DiMeolo of last year’s team, but they are good dependable men who satisfy their coach, and two guards who can please Sutherland are indeed of high rating, for the Scot runs his guards as interference and expects the same speed as he does from his backs.
Daugherty Rivals Peck
Bob Peck, Pitt’s center when Pop Warne'r had three undefeated teams in a row, has a rival for all-time honors in Ralph (Doc) Daugherty, who starred all of last season as a sophomore.
Captain Eddie Baker, who will match wits with the all-American Carideo tomorrow, has added to his value by developing into a star ball carrier, a new role for a Pitt quarterback.
Josh Williams, in his third year at halfback, has as much ability as the
famed Uansa, but has had repeated trouble staying in the game because of injuries.
Two Unusual Fullbacks
Pitt has two unusual fullbacks in Hood and Clark. The former weighs around 2C0 pounds, a fine plunger, fairly fast, and can throw a pass farther than any other of the Panthers. Clark is a little fellow with terrific speed and ability to strike through a small and quick opening. He is thi fastest man on the squad. Brown and Heller, sophomore halfbacks, and Walinchus, another veteran, are all good open field runners.
Last week Pitt took Syracuse, 14 to 0, taking advantage of a fumble for one score and a 26-yard pass, Reider to Baker, put them in position for the second on the one-foot line. Previously, Pittsburgh had defeated Waynesburg, 52 to 0; West Virginia, 16 to 0; and Western Reserve, 52 to 0. As yet they have not been scored upon.
=	PROBABLE LINEUP			
Z	TOMORROW			
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIHtlHIIIIIIIIII	Notre Dame Kosky Culver Kassis Yarr Metzger Kurth Conley (c) Carideo Schwartz Brill Savoldi	LE LT LG C RG RT RE QB LG RH FB	Pittsburgh Dailey Quatse Milligan Daugherty Lewis Tully Collins Baker (c) Heller Williams Hood	E
	Shock Troops: O’Brien, left end; Hoffman, left tackle; Ter-laak, right guard; Greene, left guard; Rogers, center; McMan-mon, right tackle; Mahoney, right end; Jaskwich, quarterback; Koken, left half; O’Connor, right half; Mullins or Howard, fullback.			
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
149
ROCKMEN PUT SKIDS
mean national championships, look to Notre Dame.
UNDER CARNEGIE SKIBOS
Pittsburgh “Scots” Go Down, 21-6, as “Four Horsemen” Re-appear
I
iHE Skibos report no injuries I and are confident that nothing but the best team in the world can stop them.” That’s what we read in last Saturday morning’s paper. That same afternoon we joined 35,000 others in the great, new Notre Dame stadium, and saw a team that looked very much like the best team in the world trample the greatest eleven Carnegie Tech has ever had, 21-6.
It was a battle between the two outstanding contenders for the national championship, and it was fought in championship style—clean, hard, decisive. The Pittsburgh Scots were good, but the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame were better, much better.
A Touchdown Machine
Notre Dame had three great ball carriers. Schwartz, Brill, and Sa-voldi, the program called them, but they were all alike—they were all good. They were cogs in a great machine, a touchdown machine. And then there was the master mind that called the plays, the all-American, Carideo, who called them as he never did before, and had the mighty Scots on the run all during the 59 minutes that he played.
Time and again the renowned “Bull” Karcis, who two years ago tore up Cartier sod and Notre Dame traditions with wild abandon, found his face pushed in the same sod far behind the line of scrimmage by the “three musketeers” of the line, Kassis, Yarr, and Metzger.
Going Too Tough
The speedy Eyth, outstanding ball carrier in the East, cut loose with a beautiful run of 70 yards in the third quarter for the Engineers’ only score, but outside of that, found the going too tough because of a pair of tackles, Kurth and Culver.
At the ends, Notre Dame had Captain Conley and Ed Kosky, and they played what is known as sweet football, great on defense, superb on offense^ Speeding down the frozen gridiron, they both pulled down those
long, straight passes from Marchy Schwartz, and both scored touchdowns.
Notre Dame started its first drive late in the first quarter and scored after three minutes of the second. It ' was a great drive, good for 84 yards. Carideo, mixing passes with plunges and running plays, had the Scots puzzled. Schwartz’s 19-yard pass to Carideo, Savoldi’s 28-yard run, and the scoring play, a 15-yard pass, Schwartz to Kosky, accounted for most of the ground gaining.
Kassis Recovers Fumble
The second touchdown came shortly afterwards. Notre Dame marched 70 yards to the Scots’ ten, but lost the ball on an intercepted pass. Armentrout of Carnegie fumbled on his own four, Kassis recovered for Notre Dame, and Schwartz plunged over on the first play. The Notre Dame shock troops finished the half.
On the sixth play of the second half, Eyth ran 70 yards for a touchdown for Carnegie. Notre Dame matched this score in short order, when Schwartz tossed a 33-yard pass to Captain Conley, who shook off three tacklers, and raced 25 yards to the goal line. Carideo kicked his third successive extra point.
March in Vain
In the fourth quarter Notre Dame marched 69 yards to the Carnegie four, only to lose the ball on a fumble. The game ended with the ball on the Easterners’ 40-yard line.
With this crushing defeat of Carnegie Tech, reputed to be the best team in the East, Notre Dame has started what looks to be another parade to a national championship. Last Saturday they showed that they possess all the stuff that championship teams are made of. Their green line outplayed the three-year veterans of Carnegie during every minute of the game. They have a set of fast, hard running backs that are surpassed by none in the country. They have a quarterback who is admitted to be head and shoulders above the rest of the pack. And when it comes to passes, although you may associate Southern Methodist, Stanford, and Army with the word, when passes
Notre Dame	Carnegie Tech
Host ................LE......... Rosenzweig
Culver ..............LT..........Highbarger
Kassis ..............LG............ Dreshar
Yarr .................C............ Ducanis
Kerjes ..............RG............. Sample
Kurth ...............RT........... Fletcher
Conley ..............RE........ L. Flanagan
Carideo .............QB............ McCurdy
Brill ...............LH............... Eyth
Schwartz ............RH.............. Kavel
Savoldi .............FB............. Karcis
Touchdowns—Kosky, Conley, Schwartz. Eyth. Points after touchdowns—Carideo (3), all from placement.
Substitutions—Notre Dame: Metzger for Kerjes ; Kosky for Host: Mahoney for Conley ; O’Conner for Brill: Howard for Savoldi; Rogers for Yarr; Koken for Schwartz; Hoffman for Culver: McManmon for Kurth : Pierce for Kassis; Culver for Hoffman : Terlaak for Metzger: J. O’Brien for Kosky: Vik for Mahoney : Howard for Savoldi: Jaskwich for Carideo.
Carnegie Tech: Schnupp for Highberger: T. Flanagan for Kavel; Armentrout for Eyth: Morbito for Karcis: Jones for Ducanis: Burzio for Sample: Kavel for T. Flanagan; Schnupp for Fletcher; Sample for Burzro.
Referee—Very (Penn State). Umpire— Hedges (Dartmouth). Field judge—McCarty (Lehigh). Head linesman—Lipp (Chicago).
FACULTY CONTROL BOARD APPROVES GOLF
At a meeting early this week the faculty board in control of athletics declared golf to be an officially recognized sport activity at Notre Dame. Minor monograms will be awarded members of the future varsity squads who by their work so merit them.
Larry Moller, captain of last year’s team, was awarded a minor monogram in recognition of his superb golfing last spring. Moller led his team to fourth position in its first national intercollegiate meet at Oakmont, Pennsylvania, and was himself a participant in the finals of the singles tourney.
Notre Dame’s squad, composed of Moller, Russ and Fran Beaupre, Bill Redmond and Frank O’Shea, copped the state meet which was held at Greencastle, Indiana. The University of Detroit was tripped up twice and Loyola of Chicago trounced in the William J. Burke golf course initiation matches.
Larry Moller went to the finals in the national intercollegiate tournament last spring, losing to George Dunlap, jr., of Princeton, 5 and 4, after copping medalist honors in the qualifying rounds. Last week he won the initial Notre Dame open tourney.
150
The Notre Dame Scholastic
What Does $25
Mean to You
While down town, don’t forget to drop in and try guessing the score of the next Notre Dame Football game —If you guess correctly — It means
$25.00
Merchandise Free
*—"—“—■—“—««—■—-—“—■— I g
g
I At Least Two
You’ll want to see Notre Dame in at least two out-of-town games this year . . . Northwestern at Evanston, November 22 . .. Army at Soldier Field, November 29. On these occasions, as on all trips to Chicago, you’ll want to ride America’s fastest electric railway.
Trains every hour on-the-hour to downtown Chicago
i
Make this your down-town headquarters — You’ll find your “chums” here
Home of Kuppenheimer good clothes —and styled for University men—
Livingston’s
ya, w । m—w—mi—■»—on—mi—w——an. --w-aji
| The South Bend Clearing { |	House Banks	j
]	Invite Your Patronage	j
I	INDIANA TRUST COMPANY	J
! ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS |
I	BANK	|
I	ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST	i
I	COMPANY	i
| UNION TRUST COMPANY	j
1	AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY	J
I	CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK	1
I	1
|	CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS	I
।	BANK	|
I FIRST NATIONAL BANK	I
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
151
NOTRE DAME "B" TEAM
DEFEATS DUQUESNE FROSH
4
Last Satui-day night 1,000 Pittsburgh football fans discovered that Notre Dame could play night football with the same skill and accuracy that her sons display on cold and bleak Saturday afternoons. For it •S was before the blinding floodlights of f	Forbes field that the Notre Dame “B”
team humbled the Duquesne university freshman, 13-7.
. Because the home team wore white jerseys, an ordinary brown pigskin, t	replaced the white oval generally used
in night games. This made it very difficult for the receiver of a punt to see the ball, as he was practically .	blinded by the glaring lights.
Both teams battled on even terms during the entire half, which was <*v>-	mainly a punting duel. In the third
quarter, however, Notre Dame received the ball on her own 49 yard line. By a series of ripping line plunges and off-tackle smashes, they succeeded in placing the oval on the Red and Blue’s 30 yard strip. On the •	next play Kramer, the visitor’s full-
back, darted through tackle and displayed some snappy side-stepping in eluding three tacklers. He then broke into the open field and raced the remaining distance to Duquesne’s goal line for the first score of the game. ®	Cronin, who replaced Foley at quar-
terback, placekicked the extra point.
HARRIERS LOSE TO BUTLER;
QUAD MEET BOOKED TOMORROW
Notre Dame’s cross-country team opened the 1930 season by suffering defeat at the hands of a veteran Butler university squad last Saturday morning at Indianapolis. The score was 25 to 31 and indicates fairly well the closeness of the two teams during the three and one-half mile jaunt.
Urbain, well known to Notre Dame distance men for the past two years, broke the tape first in 19 minutes and 12 seconds. He was closely followed by Boaz, a team-mate. Captain Gene Howery led the Blue and Gold thin-lies under the wire in the third place and another Butler star, Jones, placed between he and Joe Quigley. Bauers
A Notre Dame fumble in the third quarter led to the Duquesne score. The “B” team muffed the ball on their own 30 yard line, where Powell retrieved it for the opposition. DeCoster and Mussbaum shared honors in slicing off nice gains through Notre Dame’s line, until the ball finally rested on the victor’s 17 yard marker. Notre Dame was then penalized 15 yards because a substitute spoke before he had participated in one play. This brought the pigskin to the Irish 2 yard line. On the next formation, Zaninelli, husky white-jerseyed fullback, leaped over center for the touchdown. DeCoster then tied things up with a perfect placekick.
The outstanding performance of the evening was the beautiful kicking of Banas, who replaced LaBorne at left half, when the latter was forced to leave the game due to an injured shoulder.
Notre Dame “B”	Duquesne Frosh
Holman ............LE............ Powell
Bassett ...........LT............. Sinko
Wunsch ............LG........... Venneri
Zoss ...............C............ Cicone
Kreuz .............RG.......... Weinberg
Blind .............RT.......... Niccolai
Rollers ...........RE.......... Krankota
Foley ..............Q.......... DeCoster
LaBorne ...........LH............ DeLuca
Dilling ...........RH.......... Mussbaum
Meyer ..............F......... Zaninelli
Touchdowns: Kramer (substitute for Meyer). Dilling, Zaninelli. Point after touchdown: Kronin (substitute for Foley), DeCoster.
captured sixth place for Notre Dame, Butler took seventh, and Grimes, Ewing, and Rudd scored in that order in eighth, ninth, and tenth positions. The fifth Butler man to finish followed Rudd across the line.
Coach Nicholson, senior manager Tom Ashe, and a squad of nine men left today for Evanston, where a quadrangular meet between Northwestern, Illinois, Wisconsin, and Notre Dame will be run tomorrow. A similar meet was held last year* and Wisconsin was victorious by a comfortable margin, with Notre Dame second, and the Wildcats and Illini a rather poor third and fourth respectively.
Early season dope makes the Badgers top-heavy favorites to repeat again this year. The boys from Madison already have a victory over Pennsylvania, 1929 national champions, to their credit, and are said to have an exceptionally strong, evenly-balanced squad. Coach Nicholson, before his departure, was not at all optimistic over his team’s chances, believing that their inexperience will be too great a handicap for them to overcome so early in the year.
NOTRE DAME-
PITTSBURGH
The returns of the big struggle will be reported by loud speaker direct from the battleground at the
Florida Miniature Golf Course
Michigan at Monroe (2 blocks north of the N. Y. Central viaduct)
Play golf while listening to the report of the big game or take a seat near the loud speaker and enjoy some refreshments at the same time.
Florida has been pronounced by experts to be the finest indoor course in the Central West. Students of Notre Dame are especially invited to make our establishment their headquarters while in South Bend. Arrange to meet your friends at our refectory. Leave your parcels in our check-room without any fee.
FLORIDA MINIATURE GOLF COURSE
Michigan at Monroe .
152
The Notre Dame Scholastic

WHERE
NOTRE DAME
MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili
Hot Tomale
Ice Cream Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 N. Michigan St.
STUDENTS
PERSONAL
STATIONERY
Send today for samples—letterheads and envelopes—printed with name and address—also fraternity or sorority— highest quality ripple finish—boxed— choice of three colors. 200 envelopes, 200 letterheads, only §4.75. Money making agency open to live student in each college. Write for particulars. Address Dept. 033, Merchants Industries, Inc., Third and Wayne Avenues; Dayton, Ohio.
Splinters From the Press Box
RENEWING HOSTILITIES.
The game tomorrow between Notre Dame and Pittsburgh is a renewal of a three-game series played 21 years ago. And it looms as one of the greatest spectacles of the year.
Back in 1909, 1911 and 1912 these two teams met three times. Notre Dame won the first 6 to 0, played to a scoreless tie in the second, and copped the third, 3 to 0. Nine points in all in the three games was the margin of victory.
At that time neither Notre Dame nor Pitt were considered highly in football. They were gradually working their way up the football ladder when they crossed swords.
Presently the Fighting Irish and the Panthers began to be heard from in no uncertain manner. Notre Dame under Knute Rockne and Pitt under Glenn Warner and later Jock Sutherland, stepped boldly to the front and all at once commanded the attention of the nation. They have done so ever since.
It will be a clash not only between two great elevens but between two opposite systems. Notre Dame’s color lies in its superior backfield. Sutherland takes pride in his powerful forward wall.
Last year many argued as to which one of the two teams should be national champions. Tomorrow’s result will be a moral victory in that regard for the victors.
Although the contest is to be played away from home, the first of the season, Notre Dame should have comparative ease in erasing Pittsburgh’s bid for national honors this year.
GUESSING AGAIN.
Twenty-two winners, nine losses, and two ties are pencilled on the wall. Thirty more attempts at predicting are burdened upon you this week.
—------
| Dictionary cf Chemical Equations | | Contains twelve thousand completed and ■ I balanced chemical equations, classified and | I arranged for ready reference. It is no ■ | more difficult to find a desired equation in | ■ this book than it is to find a word in the ■ | Standard Dictionary.	I
I NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE J 4——————————
The Illinois-Michigan set-to looks pretty hot and we favor the Wolverines over the Illini, not without a long struggle, however.
Indiana is down at Dallas mingling with Southern Methodist and the latter gets the nod for their showing here. All the better for us if they swamp the Hoosiers.
Outside the Illinois-Michigan contest, the Big Ten is pretty quiet, except for Wisconsin topping Purdue. Watch for University of Detroit to take Iowa.
Army has another tough one in Yale but should come through again. N. Y. U. meets Fordham in a great intra-city battle with the former an easy winner before a full house at the Yankee stadium.
Drake and Missouri tackle in the Valley loop and the Bulldogs should growl out a clean victory.
Out on the coast Southern California and Stanford meet amidst a lot of rivalry and enthusiasm. For no reason whatsoever Southern Cal should come through, even though it defeated Oregon State by 14 points more than did Stanford. Washington and California blast away but we prefer the upper state.
v

□
l«lmiiiiiniiiiiiiuimiiiiiHiiimiiitiii»iitiiiittuiiti.imti
| PROBABLE SCORES
j TOMORROW
| Notre Dame 21, Pittsburgh 0.
z Northwestern 27, Centre 0.
: Wisconsin 14, Purdue 6.
: Michigan 13, Illinois 6.
z Chicago 7, University of Mississippi 0.
z University of Detroit 13, Iowa 6.
z Southern Methodist U. 6, Indiana 0.
z Carnegie Tech 50, Western Reserve 0.
z Colgate 14, Penn State 0.
z Columbia 7, Williams 6.
: Dartmouth 19, Harvard 6.
= Georgia Tech 13, Tulane 0.
: Princeton 19, Navy 13.
= Army 7, Yale 0.
z Pennsylvania 14, Lehigh 0.
z New York U. 20, Fordham 0.
z W. & J. 13, Lafayette 6.
z Alabama 26, Vanderbilt 0.
z Oklahoma 7, Kansas Aggies 0.
— Texas 14, Rice Institute 7.
: Drake 13, Missouri 0.
z Kansas Aggies 7, Oklahoma U. 0.
z Marquette 20, Ripon 6.
: Michigan State 39, Case 6.	-
z Montana State 14, Nebraska 7.
z Arizona 14. Occidental 6.
z Utah 21, Denver University 7.
= Southern California 7, Stanford 6.
= Washington 13, California 6.
z Oregon 21, Idaho 0.

The Notre Dame Scholastic	'	153
UNCERTAINTY ATTRACTIVE.
Uncertainty is one of football’s chief charms. As a matter of fact it is true of any sport.
The athletic contest that cannot permit the impossible to happen no longer attracts widespread attention. Years ago teams like Yale, Harvard, and Princeton were the gridiron lead-
ers. They practically wiped the smaller squads off the field in their crushing victories. There were other good clubs but they were met latei- in the season, and then reluctantly. The favorite usually came out on top.
Today, the worm has turned, and no wonder Rockne fears every game on this year’s ten-contest schedule. Today there is no more uncertain
pastime than football. The most insignificant opponent, from a standpoint of student enrollment and scholastic prestige, may come to the front with a gridiron outfit as good as any in the land.	.
Upsets and surprise victories mark every week-end schedule these days, and have added much to the hold football has taken on popular fancy.
BAL
The only and pencil
ANCE
Balance” penis Sheaffer’s.

No. K74TC $9.50
This whit
ONLY genuine
Lifetime” pen.
dot identifies
Sheaffer's,the
The College World has “gone Sheaffer’’'
No. HTSC, Marine Green, $4.00
SAFETY SKRIP, SUCCESSOR TO INK, SKRIP-FILLED, 50c to $10. Carry Safety Snip in your luggage and to classes. It’s leak-proof, practically unbreakable. Saves furniture, clothing, rufes, keeps the fluid fresh, makes all pens write better.
The plain fact is that amon^ the hundred leading American colleges, each having 1,700 or more students registered, more Sheaffer’s are bought than any other make. That’s understandable enough, once you’re acquainted with Sheaffer’s four advantages: (1) individualized pen points, (2) the Balance0 design that makes for easier, spee dier writing, (3) the modern beauty of the Balance0 contour, (4) the Lifetime0 guarantee of satisfactory service.
Since all that comes with Sheaffer’s Balance9 Lifetimes0, why be content with less?
*A recent survey made by a disinterested organization showed Sheaffer’s first in fountain pen sales among the 100 leading American colleges having registration of 1,700 or more students. Documents covering this survey are available to anyone.
AT BETTER STORES EVERYWHERE
The ONLY genuine Lifetime0 pen is Sheaffer’s; do not be deceived! All fountain pens are guaranteed against defects, but Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 is guaranteed unconditionally for your life, and other Sheaffer products are forever guaranteed against defect in materials and workmanship. Green or Black Lifetime0 pens, $8.75; Ladies’, $8.25. Black-and-Pearl DeLuxe and Marine Green Lifetime°pens, $10; Ladies', $9.50. Petite Lifetime0 pens, $7 up. Golf or Handbag Pencil, $3. Others lower.
SHEAFFER’S
PENS-PENCILS DESK SETS SKRIP X
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY, FORT MADISON,IOWA.U.S. A
oBe*. U. 3. Fat. OS.
©w. *. a. p. Co., un
154
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Inspiring Sights on a Cold October
Day!
Savoldi crashing through the line with the team hammering to victory . . . and ... a steaming cup of good coffee and a sandwich full of stuffing, coming across the counter at Walgreen’s. It’s a sight to inspire strong • men to poetry!
t-
A LACE
|lO •
STARTING SUNDAY
ONE WEEK STARTING SATURDAY
Out of the Heavens, onto the Screen
AMOL
Orthodontic Tooth Brush with the purchase of Pyrolace Tooth Paste Specially Priced ** / C
fl
ANDY
A RADIO . PICTURE
Their First Feature Motion Picture
WALGREEN CO.
Drugs with a Reputation
EXTRA EXCLUSIVE ATTRACTION!
Football With
KCCENE
Famous Grid Moments re-enacted by the Varsity Squad.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
155
< INTERHALL SPORTS b
1:30 Sunday for a group picture of the entire interhall organiaztion. A picture will also be taken of each of the representative squads from the various halls.
The cold snap sent interhall football stock down the incline Sunday when two games were forfeited because of the failure of the opposing-team to show up on the field of play at the proper time. St. Edward’s and Sophomore both won their games by this method. The Freshman-Off-Campus contest was originally a forfeit, but the off-campus players protested th’at they were not aware of a change in the time for the games. The first year boys then proceeded to tumble the old dope container over by abusing the lads from down the avenue by a score of 6-0 Tuesday afternoon.
Engaging in what was thought to be a playoff of the forfeited contest, Sophomore and Morrissey played themselves down to the nub in a scoreless game on the Minims field Tuesday afternoon, only to find that the original decision stood, the boys from the barracks retaining the forfeit. Both of these squads fought each other to the last whistle without
a let-up, furnishing one of the best games thus far this season—and then found that their labors were in vain. However, the contestants agreed that it was fun while it lasted; those that were reeling around the field after the contest were not so sure, and at press time were still a bit in doubt.
The number of scoreless ties continues to mount with the meeting of teams whose offenses seem to lack the scoring punch. Sophomore, sharing the lead of the first division with St. Edward’s and Corby, has not -won a game yet—two forfeits and a tie being credited to the red-sweatered lads. Corby has annexed one contest and has engaged in two games that have ended in ties.
An announcement has been made that all interhall players, coaches, managers, and officials will report at the north end of the new stadium at
Corby 0, Lyons 0
Another of the numerous scoreless deadlocks was the result of the Lyons-Corby contest' played on Cartier field Sunday, both teams displaying the lack of the old zip so necessary in putting the ball over- the last line.
In the first period Lyons threatened to spoil the contest from the Corby standpoint when the lads from the “gold coast” worked the ball to the Corby ten-yard line. The punch was lacking, however, and the ball was lost on downs. The Corby scoring gesture was made in the third period with a drive that also terminated on the ten-yard stripe.
Oelrich and Gosselin led the way for Lyons on the offense with Woods a strong defensive man. Honors for the day as far as Corby was concerned went to Gall and Rahaim, consistent ground gainers for the boys-from-by-the-lake.
Starts Saturday
fOLFAY
THEATRE>W
Thru Tuesday
A §6.60 Attraction
The laugh tornado that cost New Yorkers §6.60 a seat now- showing at
popular prices. America’s loveliest beauties; the most dazzling of spectacles and comedy’s peak funstei- in the merriest myth ever told. A wonder of wonders!
FLORENZ ZIEGFELD AND SAMUEL GOLDWYN
EDDIE CANTDD
IN THE UNITED ARTIST PRODUCTION
Founded upon the stage play by Owen Davis entitled ‘ The Nervous Wreck.” Based upon the story “The Wreck,” by E. J. Rath in collaboration with Robert H. Davis. Produced on the stage by Lewis & Gordon..
ADDED
Paramount
Sound News
ALL
TECHNICOLOR
A Publix Theatre
Vitaphone
Sound Vodvil
ADDED
156
The Notre Dame Scholastic
I	The Book Shop	|
1	119 N. Michigan Street	I
j	I
!	Headquarters Unexcelled	I
I	For	I
i Books, Periodicals and Class j i	Room Requisites	[
|	Pay Us a Visit	|
|	We have the Book you want.	j
|	THE BOOK SHOP	|
I	119 North Michigan Street	I
!	i
I	•	1
j*-a—w—u—a—<a—k—m—n*H—h—n—n—n—w—is—
THE most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining - rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krisp-ies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
There, after all, is the secret. It takes health to hold the pace. But one of the most insidious foes of health is constipation.
Here's the easy, effective answer —Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN. Guaranteed to bring prompt and permanent relief—even in recurring cases. Two tablespoonfuls a day will keep you regular. Delicious with milk or cream—fruits or honey added. Ask that it be served at your fraternity house or campus restaurant. -
Walsh 20, Carroll 0
The Carroll hall grid team found the fast stepping backs of Walsh hall too much for them last Sunday afternoon and dropped theii’ third straight game, 20-0.
Walsh hall scored early in the first quarter when Blommaert, scrappy center, picked up a blocked punt and raced 30 yards for a touchdown. Theii' second score came just before the half ended. Law, left half, cut through right tackle, reversed his field, and galloped 50 yards to the goal line. McCarthy went around end for the extra point.
Carroll held the upperclassmen during the third quarter, but couldn’t stop them in the fourth. After a 50-yard march down the field, Crawford went over from the three-yard line on a quarterback sneak. Law plunged for the extra point. Walsh had the ball on the Carroll goal line when the game ended.
Kenefick and Dorsey played well defensively for Carroll, but weak line play prevented them from even threatening to score.
Howard 6, Brownson 0
Brownson’s hopes of getting back into the winning column were again shattered last Sunday morning when the Howard hall aggregation defeated them by a score of 6 to 0.
Both teams battled on even terms throughout the entire game. It was not until the final quarter that the first break of the contest came. That break was in Howard’s favor. Robinson, flashy Howard center, broke through the Savoldimen’s forward wall and blocked a punt. Fagan, the right end of the Howardites, then fell on the ball which had rolled behind his opponents’ goal line. The placekick for the extra point was low.
As the game ended Brownson had the ball on Howard’s three yard line.
i Please Patronize Scholastic Advertisers j
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	157
60 REPORT TO KEOGAN
FOR CAGE PRACTICE
In response to the call for varsity basketball material, some 60 men appeared last Monday night at the fieldhouse for the first practice session of the year. Starting earlier than usual, Coach Keogan intends to give the squad the benefit of all the training possible before the opening game.
Like Gil Dobie, Mr. Keogan is anything but enthusiastic ovei- the prospects of the squad. No one, however, is taking this attitude too seriously as it is rathei’ a quaint habit of his to underestimate the team publicly before the season and then turn out a team that would bring cheer to many another coach’s heart.
Mr. Keogan particularly lamented ineligibility of several of his last year’s freshman aces. Besides that a number of good men failed to return to school this fall. The nucleus of last year’s five—Donovan, Smith, and McCarthy—graduated last June, and their absence was keenly noticed as the squad were making their initial capers, which consisted of working the ball up and down the floor and the shooting of long and short shots.
But there are some notables of last year’s quintet who have returned and who do not seem to have lost the polish and speed typical of theii- past performances.
Joe Gavin, varsity man for the past two years and one of the smallest and fastest men playing intercollegiate basketball, is back again, as are Bill Newbold and Norb Crowe, high-scoring forwards.
Things will brighten still more when Tom Conley is able to store away his headgear and assume his position at guard. Two of the sophomore prospects out for football are Jaskwich, second string quarterback, and Staab, reserve fullback. They will both undoubtedly make a strong bid for a place on the varsity squad.
The complete schedule of the team will appear shortly in the Scholastic. Games have been arranged with five Big Ten schools including Purdue, last year’s champions; Army, Pennsylvania, and the national championship squad of Syracuse. After a glance at just a portion of the schedule it is quite apparent why basketball practice is beginning so early.
Coach Keogan also dispelled all rumors about the possibility of elect
ing a captain before the season starts. A captain will be appointed before every game and an honorary leader will be elected at the end of the season.
FROSH CAGERS LOOM
STRONG IN PRACTICE
One of the best freshman basketball squads in the history of Notre Dame is expected this year. Coach Clarence Donovan reports that of the newcomers several show a great abundance of speed and skill which bids well for future varsity teams.
Three of the De LaSalle team, last year’s national Catholic champions, have enrolled at the University this year, and the entire all-tournament team of the Catholic tourney held a year ago at Chicago is represented.
Of the original squad of 138 men only 45 were kept by Donovan. Another cut, which will probably be the final one, will be made within the week.
The frosh are being drilled in the fundamentals to be learned, for the freshmen will be required to scrimmage the varsity during the regular season practices.
y
“KECC”
Sporting Goods
SWEATERS
SWEAT SHIRTS SWEAT COATS SWEAT SOX SUPPORTERS GYM SHOES
Leather Coats, Sheep Lined Coats, Gloves, etc.
Hirsch-Weis Stags Everything for the Athlete.
Recreation Equipment Co.
THE “RE CO” STORE
Leaders in Sporting Goods 113 N. Main Street
Baby Grand Portable Radio
Just the Radio you want for your room.
Complete $68.00
Philco Baby Grand Console Complete $88.00
Terms if desired.
I	MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
I	School Representative:	।
I JIM BAKER, 164 St. Edward’s Hall 1
i	I
•fr-a-a-a-a-a—- a—.a—a—a—a-a---a-a-a-
158
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ROCKMEN ARRIVE IN SMOKY CITY THIS MORNING
The squad of Fighting Irish which •will buck up against the Pitt Panthers arrived in Pittsburgh early this morning and went to the Pittsburgh Athletic club where they will reside during their brief stay in the • Smoky City.
The contingent, consisting of 37 players, Coach Knute Rockne, and his assistants, and the student managers left South Bend last evening at 7:10 p. m. They will return immediately following the game Saturday evening, arriving home early Sunday morning.
RESERVE TEAMS PLAY
TWO GAMES TOMORROW
Coach Rockne has lined up an extensive program for his reserve material tomorrow, with one squad going to Northwestern where it will meet the Wildcats in Dyche stadium, and the other team meeting the Wisconsin “B” team tomorrow at Camp Randall stadium.
With three full teams already gone to Pittsburgh, practically the entire varsity squad will see action in the
games to be played tomorrow.
Manny Vezie, coach, and Joseph McKeon, manager, go to Northwestern, and Coach Bill Jones, with Manager Charles Weiss, accompany the squad to Madison.
ADDITIONAL INTERHALL
FOOTBALL RESULTS
Morrissey 0, Sophomore 0
Morrissey and Sophomore hall teams battled nip-and-tuck Tuesday afternon with neithei' team able to score. Several times during the game fans from each hall were sure their team was going to push over a score but the fevered rush was stopped near the goal line.
Hoff played spectacular ball for the eastsiders and Good was in fine form for the Morrisseyites. Without any interference the latter uncorked several beautiful runs which brought his team into scoring position, only to lose the ball on downs.
STANDINGS
Group 1 Sophomore______ St. Edward’s___ Corby _________ Off-Campus “B”
w L T PCT.
_2 0 1 1.000
-2 0 1 1.000
_1 0 2 1.000
-110	.500
Lyons 			0	1	2	.000
Morrissey			0	3	0	.000
Group 2	W	L	T	PCT.
Walsh 			2	- 0	1	1.000
Howard			2	0	1	1.000
Off-Campus 			_2	1	0	.667
Freshman			2	1	0	.667
Brownson			0	3	0	.000
Carroll 			0	3	0	.000
Results Sunday
Walsh 20, Carroll 0.
Howard 6, Brownson 0.
Lyons 0, Corby 0.
Sophomore 1, Morrissey 0 (forfeit). St. Edward’s 1, Off-Campus “B” 0.
Results Tuesday
Freshman 6, Off-Campus 0.
Sunday’s Games
Brownson-Walsh, Cartier No. 1, 9:30.
Freshman-Carroll, Cartier- No. 2,9:30.
Sophomore-St. Ed’s, Brownson, 9:30.
Lyons-Morrissey, Minims’ field, 9:30.
Corby-Off-Campus “B”, Cartier field No. 2, 2:00.
Howard-Off-Campus, Cartier field No. 1, 2:00.
Freshman Hall 6, Off-Campus 0
The championship special of the Off-Campus football team suffered a sudden derailment last Tuesday when
sb——bo—dm—.n—no^—ns—bh—ra—bi—»■—«a——so—“O” ♦
i Pocket Tin of 50 Cigarettes
j I j	Old Golds, Camels,
|	Chesterfields and
J	Lucky Strikes
i 30c
Corner Michigan and Colfax
{	HELLO MEN!	!
| SMITH’S CAFETERIA |
j	111 East Jefferson Boulevard	I
E	— —	।
I	I
I WE DO OUR OWN BAKING f I i	------
E	I
I
I	The Home of Quality	1
I	|
! ------------------- ?
I The Favorite Eating Place of I
I	Notre Dame	t
I	5
i	*
i	I
i	।
I	।
+-—-------------------------———*
The Notre Dame Scholastic
159
a smooth working Freshman hall team handed them a neat 6 to 0 defeat.
With Gleason and Crosaro, a pair of hard-running hacks, leading the attack with consistant gains, Freshman threatened the Off-Campus goal as the first quarter ended. A determined stand by the champions warded off this attempt and Kozak punted out of danger. The winners came right back with a new offensive
and climaxed this drive with a 25-yard pass from Cresaro to Bartley for the only marker of the game.
The second half produced few thrills as Off-Campus could not muster an attack that would threaten, and Freshman seemed content to protect its lead. Late in the game a desperate attempt to score led Kozak, outstanding star for Off-Campus, to launch a passing attack but it failed to function.
YOUNG WINS MEET
The annual fall handicap crosscountry meet held last Tuesday afternoon was won by Young of Howard hall. Another freshman, Else of Brownson hall took second place. Cline, Lyons; Maher, Off-Campus; Lambert, Off-Campus; Von Pettin, Howard hall; Scanlon, Greiser, and Voschok placed in order named. Medals were awarded to the first six winners.
Put the "grin in Grind
with ■*
the PttUSQ
that refreshes
When much study is a weariness to the flesh. When you find yourself getting nowhere— fast. Pipe down! Don’t take any more punishment! Let go everything! Pause for a moment and refresh yourself.
That’s just the time and place when an ice-cold bottle or glass of Coca-Cola will do you the most good. A regular cheer-leader with its happy sparkle and delicious flavor, while its pure, wholesome refreshment packs a big rest into a little minute and gets you on to a fresh start.
-^-LISTEN i*-*-*-Grantland Rice	Famous
Sports Champions	Coca-Cola
Orchestra-*—Every Wednesday 10:30 to 11 p. m- E. S. T. Coast to Coast NBC Network
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
CW-7
9 MILLION A DAY—it had to be good to get where it is
160
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ON DOWN THE LINE
The better you feel, the more you can do for your-
self as well as everyone else. The “senior who has done most for his college” is the one who always has the energy and strength to put things over.
Shredded Wheat helps you to lead in campus activities. Two Shredded Wheat Biscuits swimming in whole
“Man Who Has Done the Most for
His College”
milk every morning will put you on your toes for the business and pleasure of the day. It gives, in readily digested form, all the food elements essential to a nourishing vitality-producing breakfast.
. . . Well here we are still chuckling over last Saturday’s game . . . the score predicted and the score realized . . . Speaking of enthusiasm TOM SHACKELFORD of Tennessee kicked a football so hard he had to go to a hospital with a sprained toe . . . A glass track will be installed in the Chicago stadium for use in the six day bicycle race, November 9 . . . the glass track should minimize accidents, with fallen riders sliding off the glass which will not splinter as wood does . . . This race is to be the 24th international six day bicycle race . . .
. . . Five former catchers have managed championship teams . • . CONNIE MACK, GABBY STREET, BILL CARRIGAN of the Red Sox, MORAN of the Reds and GEORGE STALLINGS of the Braves . . . HYMIE CAPLIN, 29-year-old manager of AL SINGER is the youngest manager of a fistic titleholder in the game today ... he broke into the business when he was 14 . . . During the past four years TOMMY ARMOUR has won five major events . . . the United States Open, Professional, Metropolitan Open, and Canadian Open twice ...
. . . The YANKEES . . . though finishing third . . . scored more runs than any other team has been able to do in the history of baseball . . . their record of 1050 during the 1930 season added 68 to the previous high mark . . . Chicago has not won a Western Conference Title since 1924 LOU LITTLE gives us quite a “blow” when he says Notre Dame is one of the few schools that has nerve enough to play teams only of its own class . . . LITTLE . . . formerly with Georgetown ... is now head coach at Columbia
. . . MORLEY DRURY . . . former All-American at Southern California . . . is reported to be well on the way to recovery from an attack of infantile paralysis ... It looks as though Southern Methodists’ trip to Notre Dame did damage to them . . . Baylor held them to a tie, 14 to 14, last Saturday . . . JESS WILLARD former heavyweight champ . . . owns the biggest food shop in Los Angeles ... It will have to be . . . we imagine . . . Pittsburgh has scored 134 points already this season ... in four games ... with the goal line still untrampled . . . Missouri hasn’t scored a single point in three games . . .