THE CAMPUS SHOP QUALITY SALE
Suits, Topcoats and Sport Coats
25% DISCOUNT
Save one-fourth now on our fine quality topcoats, winter and year around weight suits and sport coats during the Campus Shop semi-annual quality sale of men’s clothing. Shop now for best selection.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
PAY	PAY	PAY
1/3	1/3	1/3
IN JUNE	IN JULY IN AUGUST
No Carrying Charge
Take advantage of the savings during the Campus Shop Quality Sale and charge it the Campus Shop way . . . pay one-third in June . . . one-third in July . . . and one-third in August. There is never a carrying charge. So, shop soon while selections are good . . . save one-fourth now . . . pay next summer.
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS...
On the Campus—Notre Dame
3
On Campus W2huhan
[Author of “Rally Round The Flag, Boys”, “The Many Lores of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
RING IN THE NEW
Are you still writing “1961” on your papers and letters? I’ll bet you are, you scamps! But I am not one to be harsh with those who forget we are in a new year, for I myself have long been guilty of the same lapse. In fact, in my senior year at college, I wrote 1873 on my papers until nearly November of 1874! (It turned out, incidentally, not to be such a serious error because, as we all know, 1874 was later repealed by President Chester A. Arthur in a fit of pique over the Black Tom Explosion. And, as we all know, Mr. Arthur later came to regret his hasty action. Who does not recall that famous meeting between Mr. Arthur and Louis Napoleon when Mr. Arthur said, “Lou, I wish I hadn’t of repealed 1874.” Whereupon the French emperor made his immortal rejoinder, “Tipique nous et tyler tu.” Well sir, they had many a good laugh about that, as you can imagine.)
But I digress. How can we remember to write 1962 on our papers and letters? Well sir, the best way is to find something memorable about 1962, something unique to fix it firmly in your mind. Happily, this is very simple because, as we all know, 1962 is the first year in history that is divisible by 2, by 4, and by 7. Take a pencil and try it: 1962 divided by 2 is
981; 1962 divided by 4 is 490-1/2; 1962 divided by 7 is 280-2/7.This mathematical curiosity will not occur again until the year 2079, but we will all be so busy then celebrating the Chester A. Arthur bicentenary that we will scarcely have time to be writing papers and letters and like that.
Another clever little trick to fix the year 1962 in your mind is to remember that 1962 spelled backwards is 2691. “Year” spelled backwards is “raey.” “Marlboro” spelled backwards is “orob-Iram.” Marlboro smoked backwards is no fun at all. Kindly do not light the filter. What you do is put the filter end in your
In Missouri, or anywhere else, there is no compromise with quality in Marlboro or the new unfiltered king-size Philip Morris Commander. The Commander does something new in cigarette making—gently vacuum cleans the tobacco for flavor and mildness. Get aboardf You*it be welcome.
lips, then light the tobacco end, then draw, and then find out what pleasure, what joy, what rapture serene it is to smoke the filter cigarette with the unfiltered taste. In 1962, as in once and future years, you’ll get a lot to like in a Marlboro—available in soft pack and flip-top box in all 50 states and Duluth.
But I digress. We were speaking of the memorable aspects of 1962 and high among them, of course, is the fact that in 1962 the entire House of Representatives stands for election. There will, no doubt, be many lively and interesting contests, but none, I’ll wager, quite so lively and interesting as the one in my own district where the leading candidate is none other than Chester A. Arthur!
Mr. Arthur, incidentally, is not the
first ex-president to come out of retirement and run for the House of Representatives. John Quincy Adams was the first. Mr. Adams also holds another distinction: he was the first son of a president ever to serve as president. It is true that Martin Van Buren’s son, Walter “Blinky” Van Buren, was at one time offered the nomination for the presidency, but he, alas, had already accepted a bid to become Mad Ludwig of Bavaria. James K. Polk’s son, on the other hand, became Salmon P. Chase. Millard Fillmore’s son went into air-conditioning. This later was known as the Missouri Compromise.	® 1M2 Mai Shulman
GLANCES
“In Hoc Signo Static” is a gentle spoof of the local radio station, done by John Bellairs for the issue of December 12, 1958 . . . page 7.
Stories of the week, including the Players, Inc. performances, under “News and Notes” . . . page 9.
The opinions of a noted graduate business education professor on the worth of a business education ... page 10.
Read about the latest attempts to make registration simple and painless for all concerned, we hope ... page 11.
Plus a planned speed reading program, open to all, in the works for next semester . . . page 11.
Reporting campus political doings and tiie antics of everybody’s favorite Student Senate is Art Graham . . . page 12.
The integration issue at the local pubs has come up again; read about it on . . . page 14.
If you haven’t got much studying to do this week before exams, John McGuire tells you what’s “In Town and Around” . . . page 16.
Samples from the Art Gallery’s latest exhibition, of the “Chicago Collectors” . . . page 17.
Preview of the Irish basketball action for the coming weeks, see . . . page 21.
Then there’s a saga of the “Sweet Pea” Angelo Dabiero and his East-West honeymoon . . . page 22.
Sports editor John Bechtold takes a long, hard look at Notre Dame’s football plight and offers comments; Voice in the Crowd . . . page 23.
Occasioned by the recent publication of the report by the President's Commission on Civil Rights, senior political science major Kevin Born discusses a particular approach to the integration problem and finds it wanting . . . page 26.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered u »econd claM mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods,, the SCHOLASTIC, is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors,, Box 185,, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Vol. 103 No. 10
Jan. 12, 1962
	Vol. 103 No. 10 Jan. 12, 1962
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE,
Ken Arnold, Joe Caspar, Pete Clark, Jim Wyrsch.
newt staff—John Buckley, Vince De Coursey, Dick Maher, Ted Pinto, Steve Stapp, Steve Stuecheli, Don Whorton.
features editor
TOM HOOBLER
features staff—Carl Wiedemann, R. E.‘McGowan, Brion Barnes, Tom Cullen, John Pesta, Matt Cosgrove.
sports editor
JOHN BECHTOLD
Bob Chiappinelli, Terry Wolkerstorfer.
sports staff—J.C. Higgins, Frank Hinchey, Dave Fuys, Bob Scheffing, Tom Kistner, Joe Ryan.
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN, Patrick Saxe, Robert Sajnovsky. photography—Brian Beck, Wes Clark.
layout editor
STEVE PODLAS
business manager
JAY WARD,
Art Berry, Bob Buckley, Tom Datum.
ad salesmen—George McGuire, Rich Rogge-veen, Phil Tomber.
circulation manager
JAMES CREAGAN
faculty advisors
DONALD COSTELLO
JOSEPH HOFFMAN, C.S.C.
NEW BOTTLE, OLD WINE: Over the past few years, the process of registration has been made increasingly less arduous by the simplification of procedure and the use of more automated administrative processes. The march of the automated administrative system is probably inexorable, but perhaps it might be worthwhile to point out some of the more inhuman aspects of it all, in the manner of the old hand craftsman facing modem mass production methods. , No one, least of all the Office of Academic Affairs, pretends to know how the new registration system will work (see page 11), but in spite of the ex, perimental character of the new plan, some disturbing aspects of ’it are already apparent. In the first place, the student will apparently have less control over his own time schedule. If his initial requests for sections are not filled, : the “system” will prepare a schedule which will descend as though by decree of the Fates. This throws up another block between the students and faculty by making the faculty assignments a matter of IBM roulette as far as the student is concerned. To him it seems as though the end is to remove control over the process of scheduling as completely as possible from the student. And just in passing, whatever the dictates of the mechanics of the registration process, there doesn’t seem to be any possible justification for not giving the students copies of the course booklet for ready reference to courses and times available. In this context, we are reminded of an incident at last year’s spring semester registration, when most of the Junior Seminar instructors were rotated to different sections from those listed in the course book. While ; this move may have been dictated by last minute necessity, it is only too : characteristic that not the slightest attempt was made at registration time to inform the students of such changes. One gets the unmistakeable impression that officialdom wasn’t overly concerned that the students might be misled.
, Understandably, the bureaucracy is concerned about the fact that outwitting the registration apparatus has come to resemble a semiannual parlor game, and while we applaud the changes which have simplified the paper work, we nevertheless cannot but deplore the tendency to ignore the fact that the registration procedure should be conditioned first of all by the needs of the students rather than by the convenience of the administrators.
HOME THOUGHTS: With final examinations looming so vast and near, the return to the University after our Christmas respite seemed a dire prospect at best. Even in one’s most objective moods (and one is seldom objective in | this situation) one finds little to recommend Notre Dame, Indiana, over that j particular area of the world known as home. But, in one respect, the Catholic t student who takes Catholicism more or less seriously often finds at Notre Dame | a welcome relief from the sometimes attenuated religious life of his home j parish. For many students the experience of attending Mass in a church ! where the communion rail exists primarily as a barrier between the priest and the congregation — where each week brings them to another plateau in , the $64,000 contest for the new parish hall, classroom, rectory addition, etc. —
is distasteful, to say the least. And after the availability of the sacraments here, the niggardly rationing of them at many parishes comes as an unpleasant change. Perhaps this is part of a plan to increase the dignity of God by making Him inaccessible — or, at least, by giving Him office hours.
But it is with parochial life as it exists today that we are presently con-cemed; for, while we are at Notre Dame for only a relatively brief period after which we branch into the most diverse of fields, we all shall soon be members of some parish. Such a role may seem insignificant; and, considering the present position of the Catholic layman in most parishes, it is insignificant. But there is no need that it be so, for the layman has a right — indeed, a duty — to participate in his own salvation. He cannot delegate that right — that duty — to his pastor, nor can the pastor appropriate it; though such a state of affairs would greatly simplify the whole matter. But such simplification is ' incompatible with the way of Christ: a man is not to be spoon-fed into sanctity.
Faced with the American parochial problem, ones most obvious expedient is, of course, to ignore it — to enclose oneself in the insularity of so-called “personal religion.” But this is to ignore one of the primary aspects of Catholicism — the communion of saints, the Mystical Body. If parish life is insupportable as it is, then it is in the hands of those who see the problem to attempt some action. It is shameful that here at Notre Dame, where the conditions to , consider the problem are ideal (where intelligent laymen can meet with intelligent clergy), no real attempt has been made. This is a problem which can and must be met by the intellectual centers of Catholicism, specifically Notre Dame, for here can the barriers of suspicion and conservatism most readily be broken down. Let us hope for an early beginning, as the solution, we fear, will not be a simple one.
— W. d Z.
5
1
i
COVER — Steve Enright, a senior architecture student from Winchester, Mass., sets the mood for this week's cover. This scene will certainly be a familiar one to all of us in the coming exam week. — Pat Saxe
OPPORTUNITIES
FOR EE, ME, PHYSICS
AND MATH MAJORS
AS FIELD SERVICE ENGINEERS
IN THE MISSILE SYSTEMS FIELD
AC, the Electronics Division of General Motors, presently has positions available for Electrical Engineers, Mechanical Engineers, Physics and Math majors to work as Field Service Engineers on missile systems. You will work on AC's all-inertial guidance system utilizing digital computers for the TITAN II missile.
When you join us you will be given a three-month training course that includes these interesting subjects:
WEAPONS SYSTEMS • THEORY OF GYROS • THEORY OF OPERATION OF GYROS IN A STABILIZED PLATFORM • STABILIZATION AND MEASUREMENT LOOPS OF A PLATFORM • THEORY OF OPERATION OF ERECTION LOOPS • THEORY OF AIRBORNE DIGITAL COMPUTERS • OVERALL SYSTEM CONCEPTS
Following this training period you will be assigned to installation and check-out of the guidance system for the TITAN II. Assignments will include positions at military installations or in Milwaukee.
Contact your College Placement Office regarding a General Motors-AC campus interview or send the form below to Mr. G. F. Raasch, Director of Scientific and Professional Employment, Dept. 5753, 7929 South Howell, Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
AC SPARK PLUG
THE ELECTRONICS DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS MILWAUKEE • LOS ANGELES * BOSTON AChiever Inertial Guidance Systems for the TITAN II, THOR and MACE
missiles . • . Bombing Navigational Systems for the B-S2C&D and B-47 aircraft ... ACh?»v»rfone mobile radiotelephones
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------(
For more information regarding Field Service Engineering opportunities with AC, send this form to:
Mr. G. F. Raasch
Dept. 5753, AC Spark Plug Division
Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin
NAME_____________________________:________________________________
STREET_________________________________________PHONE_______________________ i
CITY AND STATE___________________________________________________ .	|
SCHOOI_____________________________________________________________________ I
DEGREE________________________AVAILABILITY DATE__________________ ..	!
I__________________________________________________________________________________1
REPERCUSSIONS
PERENNIAL PROBLEM Editor:
One of the most irritating accusations that you will have to endure as a graduate is that Notre Dame is a Catholic football factory. Notre Dame is, in fact, the leading Catholic university in the country. With this honor goes a commensurate responsi- j bility.
Your publication has the power to create a situation so repugnant that Mr. Kuharich will choose to go elsewhere regardless of how satisfied the administration is with his efforts. But what then? Do we import a Bear Bryant or a Woody Hayes, replete ' with all-American, national rankings and marginal students? Do we play a schedule composed exclusively of private universities with comparable entrance requirements? Either alternative would improve on a 5-5 record. It is difficult, however, to reconcile these courses of action with our “commitment to excellence.”
Before you act, evaluate your assets at Notre Dame. You have a fine university, a coach who has proven himself in competition far more arduous than the Saturday afternoon circuit, and an administration that is working constantly to improve standards. Yet, every time our students demonstrate, as bowl-mad Ohio State did recently, that football is a disproportionate part of the university, your diploma and mine become worth just a little less.
Thomas R. McCabe San Jose, California
EXEGESIS Editor:
(Re: The Scholastic, Dec. 15, 1961, p. 38: What Newman Forgot by Maurice Callahan.)
Dear Mr. Callahan:
I believe John 8, 32 reads “You shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free”; and not “You ' shall know the truth: so what?”
Jules A. St. Pierre, South Bend, Ind.
BE OUR GUEST!
Editor:
May I suggest that The Scholastic’s criticism of the University Theatre’s recent presentation of “The Cocktail Party” was more tiresome and boring than the longest cocktail hour?
Klaudia Kassidy
The Scholastic
6
in hoc
signo static
by JOHN BELLAIRS
As I went out one evening to take the pleasant air, it took me instead and wafted me in the direction of the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts (you may imagine a crash of cymbals now if you wish). Not being one to fight the Jet Stream, I went along, and once inside, began to make the ascent of Mount Parnassus, in order to visit the radio station. I fought my way past the janitor, who extinguished my cigar with his water pistol, and soon found myself before a great nail-studded door, over which were emblazoned the station’s call letters, done in Old English. I opened the door and found before me an imposing flight of stairs, at the top of which was a mural depicting the Spirit of Rock-and-Roll routing the classical composers. When I got to the top of the stairs, I found on a marble pedestal a bronze bust . of the Program Director, crowned with a wreath of bay leaves intertwined with enchiladas. His castanets were lying on a table nearby, so I deduced that he was in. Thus, with fear and trepidation, I began to inspect the outer office.
The first thing that caught my eye was a list of regulations in a gilt frame on the wall:
1.	The new six-hour Spanish music program, entitled “Fandango Fiesta” shall be announced by a serape-clad announcer, who shall take the name of Pouncin’ Pancho. This shall be considered a very good program.
2.	The announcer of the Rock-and-Roll program shall bounce up and down slightly in his seat as the program begins. Rapturous exclamations after each number shall be limited to “Golly Whiz” or “boy-o-boy," uttered in a tone of quiet awe.
3.	Someone has stolen the teletype-C sound record which the news program uses. Until it is found, the announcer
January 12, 1962
v
will make appropriate sounds by clacking a pencil across his teeth, and breathing heavily into the microphone.
4.	Those who have painted mustaches on the oil paintings of Elvis Presley and Pancho Villa will please have the decency to own up to it.
5.	A record of fist-fighting has just arrived, and will be played during lulls in the debates on Student Government.
When I had finished reading this, I cautiously opened the door of a broadcasting studio, and discovered that the five-minute Classical music program was already in progress. I caught four bars of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony between commercials for Botticelli’s Pizza Palace, and with that I shut the door quietly.
A few minutes later, I observed a number of young men and women filing into another studio, and decided to follow them. These people seated themselves around a large table, at one end of which was an announcer, who signaled for silence, then began to speak:
“Rooty-toot-toot and Vo-do-deo-do, This is the station you all love so! Be it quadrille, mazurka, or gavotte, We’ve got the program you’ll like a lot.
Rah-rah RADIO!! The medium of American culture!”
“This is your old announcer, Grovelling George Gobeaune, bringing you the fascinating panel show, ‘Why in the World . . . ?’ in which our brilliant panelists match wits with a mystery guest, and attempt to find his occupation and a place that he has been in the recent past. Here is our first guest.”
At this point an usher, with St. Elmo’s Fire playing about his epaulets, led into the studio a small, rather
timorous man. He was wearing a pair of smudged coveralls, and wearing a miner’s helmet with the lamp on. In his hand he carried a small metal pick. The announcer began to speak again:
“Now, panelists, from the garb of our guest, can you guess his major subject? Introduce yourself, mystery guest, and give the panel its first clue!”
“My name is Simeon Feldspar and I am a senior. My clue is: You might say that I have rocks in my head. Ah-ha-ha-ha. ...?” One pretty young woman began to jump up and down in her seat excitedly. She pressed a buzzer and exclaimed:
“I know! You are a Physical Education major. ‘Rock’ is a very clever reference to the gymnasium, is it not?”
“Nhhh. . . . no.”
“Are you a mountain climber?” “Nawwwww."
The guest began to gloat obviously, as it was clear that he had stumped the panel. The announcer broke in:
“Well, time’s up!! Mr. Feldspar is a lapidary and majors in rockhounding. Now you must guess where he has been lately.”
The questions began to fly, and it was variously guessed that he had been in King Solomon’s Mines, the steam tunnels, and the Ozymandias Brick Quarry in Elkhart. All these guesses were wrong, and the guest proudly announced his secret:
“I was over to the Huddle this mornin’ fer breakfast. I had a cup of black coffee, an’ three jelly bis-marcks an’ I read the paper an’ ...”
At this point I ducked out a side exit, with gay laughter ringing in my ears. On my way out I stopped to light a firecracker, and threw it hopefully into a wastebasket full of ticker tape.
7
_ .nd the realm of man’s present Somewhere out there, bejo A concept. A truth. . understanding, hes an •	concentration of
G«aw, -	—
may
Optical Gas	“hearty vast numb® ottelepa
controlled beam ot 1 g
cells, TV Show and da	bring esc,mg
Breakthroughs like h , tions service to you-ESs^SEssg , andoperationspereomcl*1'
the finest in the world.
telephone SYSTE

I
1
Ms gt
The Scholl
8
PLAYERS APPEAR HERE
Players, Inc., of Washington, D.C., will make their annual appearance at Notre Dame tonight and tomorrow night with Shakespeare productions in Washington Hall. Tonight they will present A Midsummer Night’s Dream, and tomorrow Richard III. The performances will be at 8:30 p.m. and tickets will be on sale at the Washington Hall box office from 4:00 to 9:00 p.m. both days.
The Players were founded in 1949 by Rev. Gilbert V. Hartke, O.P., head of the Speech and Drama Department of Catholic University of America. Since then, the 13 road tours of Players, Inc., have made them the longest running national classical repertory company in America in the 20th century. They have made an appearance at Notre Dame each season. In addition to their eight-month tour, they have been on eight U.S. State Department tours — to Germany, Japan, Korea, France, Italy, and Greenland.
Heading the cast in A Midsummer Night’s Dream is Carol Keefe, as Titania, with Jay Ehrlicher, a two-year veteran with the company, as her husband Oberon. The director is William H. Graham. Miss Keefe was very popular in her performances in The Merchant of Venice and The Oresteia here last year.
CAROL EMSHOFF AND JOHN STARRS
Mad Margaret and nephew from the Players Inc. production of Richard III.
James D. Waring will direct Richard III, with John Starrs, a graduate of Chicago’s Loyola University, in the title role.
GRAD DONATES $500,000
Mr. and Mrs. Carlos Tavares of La Jolla, Calif., have donated $500,000 to Notre Dame’s Challenge Program. Mr. Tavares is a Notre Dame civil engineering graduate of 1927 and a member of the University’s Advisory Council for Science and Engineering.
The Tavares’s gift is one of the largest received to date in Notre Dame’s $18,000,000 program. It will, according to Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., be used to help finance the Notre Dame Memorial Library which is now under construction.
Mr. and Mrs. Travares’s generosity will result in still another donation to the Challenge Program. The Ford Foundation is committed to match on a one-for-two basis every non-governmental contribution to the University for a period ending June 30, 1963. Thus, as a result of the Travares’ gift, the Foundation will donate an additional $250,000 to the University’s program.
DOME HONORED
Notre Dame’s 1961 yearbook, the Dome, won two first place awards
in the annual yearbook judging contest sponsored by the Indiana Collegiate Press Association. First place award was won for the best development of a theme, which was “A University Is Faces.” Judges said the “photographers have done a masterful job with interesting, expressive, representative faces.” First place award was also won for the best human interest picture which carried the title, “Philosopher King and His Disciples.”
Eleven yearbooks published by Indiana colleges have won awards in ten categories. “There were 24 yearbooks in this year’s contest,” said Dr. Louis Ingelhart, executive secretary of ICPA at Ball State Teachers College. ICPA will also conduct contests for college newspapers and magazines in the spring.
TBP INSTALLS MEMBERS
Twenty-five juniors and seniors were installed in the Tau Beta Pi National honorary Engineering Fraternity at their semi-annual banquet before the Christmas holidays.
The new members are seniors Rich Bajura, John Bruch, Richard Cramer, Vince Dmevich, Bob Hutchins, Mike Loparco, Pat McMahon, Paul Margo-sian, Henry Merry, Ron Micek, Henry Mittelhauser, Gerald Nichols, Bob Schlundt, Ed Schmidt, Ed Sporl, Dan Sullivan, Ernie Venerus, Paul Voros, and Steve Weiland. The three juniors are Ed Barton, Leonard Forys, and Denny McMahon.
Members are chosen on the basis of scholarship, integrity, and character. Each member must be in the top 20 per cent of his class and must submit a paper on American government or some phase of engineering. The graduating membership then determines the new members.
The purpose of the society is to further the liberal education of the members as well as to accord them honor in their own college. At periodic meetings Prof. Frank O’Malley and George Schuster, assistant to the President of the University, have spoken on the liberal aspects of college life.
Officers of the fraternity are Hal Schaefgen, president; John Donlon, vice-president; Fred Fath, treasurer; Doug Drane, corresponding secretary; and Tom Gross, cataloguer.
January 12, 1962
SENIOR WINS ROTARY GRANT
Harold Schaefgen, Jr., a senior from Memphis, Tenn., has been awarded a Rotary Foundation Fellowship for study abroad during the 1962-63 academic year. He plans to study mathematics and physics at the University of Erlangen, Germany.
Schaefgen, sponsored by the Rotary Club of Memphis, was chosen on the basis of scholastic standing, knowledge of the language of the country in which he wished to study, and an interview held at the University of Mississippi.
He was ranked first in the College of Engineering, was on the Dean’s List, and is president of Tau Beta Pi. He is a member of the Knights of Columbus, the Dixie Club, the Notre Dame Fencing Team, and the Joint Engineering Council.
Rotary International awarded 135 grants averaging $2,600 for study in 34 countries this year, which brings the Rotary award total to 1,589.
KENTUCKY RETREAT
A closed retreat will be held at the Abbey of Gethsemani during the semester break, Jan. 16 to 28. Reservations can be made in 330 Dillon or the Office of the VicePresident for Student Affairs.
STAY HALL PLAN PASSES
Stay Hall Residence, on which 54 per cent of the student body voted, passed with 53 per cent for and 47 per cent against in a campus-wide referendum on Dec. 14.
A committee of Fr. McCarragher, Fr. Hoffman, Emerit Moore, Simon St. Laurent, and two other students to be selected, will consider various plans for putting Stay Hall Residence into effect.
Recommendations of this committee will then be placed before the University Council for consideration and evaluation. A decision from the Council is expected within two weeks. If a suitable plan is approved, it will be implemented for the selection of rooms this spring.
CHANGE CHANCE SYSTEM
The lottery system for the sale of Mardi Gras Ball tickets has been revised to eliminate any inconvenient wait in lines. On-campus students received IBM name cards in their mail on Jan. 10. Off-campus students can pick up their IBM cards in the Mardi Gras office (room 1A & IB of the Student Center) on Jan. 15 from 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. To exercise your option for a Mardi Gras Ball ticket, (Continued on page 12)
Worth of a Business Education: NO ANSWER
Prof. W. Allen Wallis, holder of three professorships and Dean of the Graduate School of Business at the University of Chicago, appeared on campus Jan. 5 as a guest lecturer in conjunction with the student government’s Distinguished Lecture Series. In 1959 and 1960, Prof. Wallis served at the White House as a Special Assistant to President Eisenhower, working closely at the time with VicePresident Nixon.
In his lecture, entitled “The Role of Graduate Business Education,” Dean Wallis debunked the stereotyped businessmen of popular plays and novels as “lopsided caricatures.” Instead he stressed the large and varied nature of business, stating that there are over four million separate businesses in the U.S. today, ranging in size from the comer candy store to mammoth A.T.&T., and in complexity from the most elementary operations to the intricate problems of outer space. He also disparaged the businessman image of the so-called factual and intellectual books of The Hidden Persuaders and The Organization Man category, declaring that going into business and making money actually afford the businessman an excellent opportunity to do good. Prof. Wallis based this statement on the nature of the pluralistic society, declaring that the successful businessman must comply with popular standards to attain his success.
Citing the increasing need of postgraduate education in business, Prof. Wallis viewed the two years spent in gaining a Master of Business Administration degree as a profitable investment. He likened the added cost, plus what is not earned by being in school, to a business expense which will in time return handsome dividends. No one knows what the present generation will have to know thirty to thirty-five years from now to be top executives, but Dean Wallis described an MBA degree as furnishing excellent tools for the career-long education required in business. He warned against holding the mistaken notion that education ceases with schooling.
In a brief outline of the graduate curriculum, Prof. Wallis noted that the last course taken deals with actual problems from businesses. The students investigate these problems, making it necessary for them to possess wide knowledge in the fields of production, marketing, personnel, and
finance. Detailed preliminary courses in the ramifications of economics, accounting, statistics, law, and the human behavioral sciences provide the basis for the knowledge needed in this final course, Dean Wallis stated.
In the question period following his lecture, Prof. Wallis declined to name the five major graduate business schools, but .added that the only true graduate business schools, those ' whose professors devote their full , time to graduate teaching, are Harvard, Columbia, Carnegie Institute of Technology, MIT, Chicago, and Stanford. Prof. Wallis had no ready answer to the question of how graduate business education is regarded in business itself, but after some reflection decided that it is generally approved of, since many firms are now giving graduate schools free gifts with no strings attached. He also felt that the eagerness with which companies recruit from the placement offices of the grad schools indicated their support. At any rate, Prof. Wallis stated that he was sure business's regard was rising. To a question on admission requirements, Dean Wallis replied that generally the undergraduate record is the best criterion but even this is misleading. For instance, straight A’s at some small southern colleges are not necessarily what they seem to be, he stated. Other factors in-
(Continued on page 25)
PROF. W. ALLEN WALLIS
A lopsided caricature.
10
The Scholastic
untouched
by human hands
Experimentation with a new class registration procedure for the upcoming semester has begun this week with the installation of an additional IBM system.
In an attempt to simplify the usually hectic and lengthy registration day, the University is using machines to prepare individual student’s schedules. Not only does the new method enforce the long-standing policy requiring afternoon and Saturday classes, but it eliminates the use of class cards, waiting lines, and sometimes a choice of professors and class times.
The machine places students into the sections of their choice until filled. At that time it will defer the student’s class card to a “memory bank” reserved to catch the excess of filled classes. When this excess reaches a predetermined number, for example nine, a new class is formed to be taught at the same time. This is assuming facilities and teachers are available. If the excess does not reach nine, or as will most often be the case, facilities and professors are not available, the students will be shuttled into sections that are not filled, but which do not conflict with the student’s schedule. This will have the greatest effect on sophomores and students in the College of Commerce. These are the students who have a large number of courses with multiple sections.
The pre-registration will be the last action required for registration. If tuition has been paid, schedules will be picked up on Wednesday, Jan. 31. That day will be reserved for making schedule changes for those who have failed a course. Drops and adds for other classes will be processed the next two days in the lounge of O’Shaughnessy.
Leo M. Corbaci, Administrative Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs, stressed the experimental nature of the program. The reason that it was introduced in the middle of the school year is that if the system proves a failure, the administration is prepared to use the old plan. If it is successful, the September registration may be taken care of by mail. Corbaci gave three reasons
(Continued on page 25)
January 12, 1962
READING PROGRAM OFFERED: CHANCE TO BOOST SPEED
Next semester the University will open to all students the Developmental Reading Course. Registration for the course may be accomplished by including the course when registering with one’s Dean, or by reporting directly to the Reading Program Office, 240 Main Building, any time before the third day of classes in the new semester.
The incoming student to the Reading Program is tested to see what areas in his reading skill might benefit by special work. Then instruction proceeds along four basic lines.
First, the different kinds of reading are explained: reading for study, reading for information, and reading for recreation. Reading for study generally means the reading of some kind of text The student doing this kind of reading should follow three steps: outline, organize, and summarize.
Reading for information means reading something like the Atlantic Monthly, serious reading that generally is not concerned with extremely deep thought. The method employed here is to read the matter fast, with memory work the important action to be done. The student reading for recreation would probably read a novel. Again the method employed is to read quickly with the idea of following the main, rather than the particular, lines of the book.
The other three main lines of instruction in the Reading Program are supplementary to the learning of the kinds of reading and the methods employed in accomplishing those kinds of reading. Included are instruction in comprehension, in vocabulary, and in study technique. All of the instruction is -individualized so that those not needing anything but practice in reading quickly are given that precise kind of training.
Besides individual instruction, the Reading Program uses a book and a machine to accomplish its instruction. The machine, developed by Science Research Associates, hides the other page of the book which the student is not reading, thus making it impossible for the reader to return to what he has just read. A descending
shutter comes down the page at a rate set by the student. The book employed is that modem masterpiece on rhetoric, Mortimer Adler’s How to Read a Book.
Profs. Richard Willemin and Richard Stevens are the instructors for the course. Mr. Stevens was interviewed by the Scholastic last week and had this to say: “The basic problem for the slow reader stems from the fact that he speaks every word that he reads, which is to say that he forms each word in his mouth before going on to the next word. The good reader is one who has learned to see three or four words in a instant, and has forgotten to mouth each word that he reads. Thus most people read at a rate of 250 words per minute, since they speak at approximately that rate.
“In our course we hope to get the reader to improve his speed on material he reads for recreation to about double what it has been. On material he reads for information his speed should increase with normal progress to about 50 per cent more than what it has been. On material he reads for deep understanding we try to increase his understanding and comprehension by getting him to use a specific method when reading this difficult material.
“Many have asked about this new reading technique that probably began with the Reading Dynamics Institute in Washington, D.C. It is essentially a skimming method. Those who can use this method most effectively are those who have a general knowledge of the material they are studying, and merely wish to gain a few new facts. Comprehension is not too good. This method has had its greatest success among people who are already highly trained. We in Notre Dame’s Reading Development Program don’t feel that this method will accomplish on an untrained level what our method will accomplish. But this is not to say that you won’t become a fast reader with our method. We have had many students come out of the course with speeds of over a thousand words per minute over fairly easy material, and with fairly good comprehension to go with it.”
11
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. '	on the hour.
• _ ' Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
DOING IT THE HARD WAY by (GETTING RID OF DANDRUFF, THAT IS!)
easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as 1-2-3 with $ FITCH! In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one § rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair | tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand-
FITCH
LEADING MAN’S
CU	Keep y°ur hair and sca
OrlA4lwl ■	really clean, dandruff-free!
somer, healthier. Your scalp tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover SHAMPOO every week for J positive dandruff control. £
Chance System
(Continued from page 10)
simply mail the card and a five dollar check or money order to P.O. Box 396, Notre Dame, Ind. All cards and deposits must be mailed by Jan. 15.
The results of the lottery will be posted Jan. 17 in each hall, the Huddle, and the South Dining Hall. Tickets will be available immediately after semester break to the first 650 on the list who wanted tickets. As additional tickets become available, they will be sold to others in order of their lottery listing. Those not obtaining a ticket will have their deposit refunded.
PRESIDENT APPOINTS COUNCILOR
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., announced the appointment of Franklin D. Schurz, editor and publisher of the Soulh Bend Tribune, as a member of the Advisory Council for Liberal and Fine Arts at the University of Notre Dame. Mr. Schurz has been a member of the Notre Dame President’s Committee of South Bend for several years.
The Council’s chairman is Donald O’Toole, president of the Pullman Banking Group, Chicago.
Q'laltam
BIDS AND BOYCOTTS
Now discrimination may be taken in two ways says the Student Senate. There is discrimination of the tavern and discrimination of the Mardi Gras Ball bid. Discrimination of the tavern is to be discouraged; discrimination of the Mardi Gras bid encouraged, and so it was Monday night.
About the middle of May last year in a stormy session which lasted past midnight, John Keegan, former SBP, talked the Senate into a boycott of Thilman’s Tap. The boycott was less than effective . . . Thilman’s business increased 50%, and the discriminating policy toward Notre Dame Negro stu- , dents continued.
The Senate committee on civil liberties has again decided to act, although more judiciously this time. They will poll student opinion first.
Monday the Senate approved a referendum of five questions for Feb. 8. They were:
Are you aware of discrimination?
Do you favor continuation of the practice?
Do you favor a boycott?
Do you think a boycott would be effective?
Would you support a boycott?
It should be realized that the Senate is not fighting racial injustice. The objection is that some Notre Dame students are not being served, not that Negros are not being served. Many taverns serve Notre Dame Negro students and those which do not, apparently lack any legitimate reason for this policy. If the Notre Dame student feels any obligation to help and support his fellows he will approve and support a boycott.
Although the Senate advocates, and rightly so, equality for students in taverns, equality regarding Mardi Gras bids must have gone out with an undefeated football team. Last year 376 preferential bids were given out for the Mardi Gras Ball. This left 274 bids for approximately 5000 students. The abuse has been cut somewhat this year, but Monday the Senate voted to give the Hall President’s Council preferential bids jacking this year’s total over the 200 mark.
Preferential bids are given to the heads of the campus organizations not under the Senate, to members of the Mardi Gras committees, the Senate, the Hall Presidents Council, and a few others. It is hard to justify such wholesale charity. Those working directly with the Mardi Gras should be given preferential bids, everyone else eliminated.. /
12
The Scholastic
“GREEN DOOR” OPENS
The Social Commission series of campus-wide parties continues with the “opening” of The Green Door cabaret tomorrow night. The third floor of the Student Center will become a collegiate-type night club, with refreshments and continuous entertainment in the Fiesta lounge and a combo providing dance music in the ballroom. Atmosphere will be maintained with muted lights and decorative wine bottles on covered tables. "Cover charge” is $1.50 per couple, collected at the door.
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM SATURDAY, JANUARY 20, 1962 8:30 P.M.
ALEXANDER BRAILOWSKY "One of the World's Greatest Pianists"
PROGRAM
VIVALDI....................-.............Concerto in D Minor
SCARLATTI.................................Sonata in A Major
BEETHOVEN......................Sonata in E flat Major, Opus 110
CHOPIN.......................^...Ballade	in G Minor, Opus 23
.	Nocturne in F sharp Major, Opus 15
Valse in E flat Major, Opus 18 Scherzo in B flat Minor, Opus 31
INTERMISSION RACHMANINOFF.....................................Three Preludes
B Minor, Opus 32, No. 10
G sharp Minor, Opus 32, No. 12
A Minor, Opus 32, No. 8
RACHMANINOFF..............................Three	Etudes-Tableaux
C Minor, Opus 33, No. 2
E flat Minor, Opus 33, No. 6
E flat Major, Opus 33, No. 7
LISZT............................Valse Impromptu in A flat Major
Hungarian Rhapsody, No. 14
MR. BRAILOWSKTS APPEARANCE Sponsored by the JUNIOR CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF SOUTH BEND
• TICKETS ON SALE NOW
ORCH., MAIN FLOOR MEZZ........................$4.00
1st BAL, BOX SEATS...........................„$3.00
2nd BAL. .....................................$2.00
3rd BAL.......................................$1.50
'	;	Tickets on Sale at:
; Morris Civic Auditorium, Office Engineers, Judd's Drugs, Elkhart
Mail Orders: Fine Arts Festival, Box 2117, South Bend, Indiana
FATHER STEINER DIES
On Jan. 3, funeral services were held in Sacred Heart Church for the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., former provincial superior (1938-1950) of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in the United States. He died in St. Joseph Hospital on Jan. 1, at the age of 84.
Father Steiner was dean of the College of Engineering at the University of Notre Dame from 1928 to 1938. Since 1950, he has been advisor on construction to the President of Notre Dame.
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
NEW AMERICAN
Deliver Us From Evil
The Night They Burned the Mountain
The Edge of Tomorrow DR. TOM DOO1EY
The World of Rome GRANT
Roget’s Thesaurus ROGET
• .
AVON
John XXIII, Story of the Pope MURPHY
•
POPULAR LIBRARY
Berlin Diary SH/RER
Strategy for Peace JOHN F. KENNEDY e
UNIVERSAL LIBRARY
The Civil War Digest NEWMAN	t .
Frank Lloyd Wright on • Architecture
WRIGHT
Handbook of Chemistry & Physics
Special Price $7.50
Notre Dame Bookstore on - the - campus
January 12, 1962
13
... ^Ihe Q&U OU
1942
In the year 1942, the Second World War had affected Notre Dame students most drastically. The Armed Forces had taken away many of the regular students, but at the same time, the Navy was using Notre Dame as a training center for officer candidates. Morrissey, Lyons, Howard, and Badin were all being used for Navy barracks. Because the students wanted to complete as much of thir education as possible before being drafted, the University was holding full-time summer sessions. Students learned that the extremes of cold in South Bend during the winter are matched only by the extremes of heat in the summer. Students flocked to the lakes, and conditions there at times actually became too crowded for swimming. The Scholastic continued to publish during the summer, and parts of one of the more interesting articles from that summer edition are reprinted here:
Some of us here at Notre Dame have heard occasionally of the ghost of Washington Hall, but very few, we’ll wager, have ever heard this
(Continued on page 19)
ACTON
REFERENDUM
Moved that:
The senate conduct a referendum on February 8th among the student body including the following five questions:
1.	ARE YOU AWARE OF ANY LOCAL BUSINESSES WHICH DISCRIMINATE AGAINST NEGRO STUDENTS AT NOTRE DAME?
2.	IN CASE WHERE NEGRO STUDENTS ARE DISCRIMINATED AGAINST. ARE YOU IN FAVOR OF LETTING THESE ESTABLISHMENTS CONTINUE THIS PRACTICE?
3.	WOULD YOU BE IN FAVOR OF A NOTRE DAME STUDENT BODY BOYCOTT OF SUCH PLACES UNTIL THEIR POLICIES ARE DISCONTINUED?
4.	DO YOU THINK SUCH A BOYCOTT WOULD BE EFFECTIVE?
5.	WOULD YOU SUPPORT SUCH A BOYCOTT?
ON
i s c
I
I
A T I 0
by TOM O’BRIEN and AL KILLILEA
Silently, unknown to most Notre Dame students, there has been evolving over a period of years in South Bend an unhappy tradition of discrimination against members of our student body.
About six years ago, Aubrey Lewis, the first Negro football player in Notre Dame’s history, was refused service at one of the most popular restaurants downtown. At that time the reaction from the Notre Dame campus was immediate and decisive. An indignant student body quickly put
Students on Civil Liberties Com^1i,,®®• Pierre; Tom O’Brien, Cha-"’’0’1
14
The Scholastic
into effect a student senate sponsored boycott. It wasn’t long before the restaurant management realized that the Notre Dame student body would not tolerate discrimination, especially against one of its own. It agreed to serve all Notre Dame students, and it has been true to this policy ever since.
Unfortunately, the Aubrey Lewis case did not set a precedent; discrimination casually continued against members of the student body by several other taverns and restaurants, many of which relied heavily on the patronage of Notre Dame students and faculty.
At about this time last year, then Student Body President John Keegan established, under the auspices of the senate, the Committee on Civil Liberties to seek a solution to this unjust and hardly subtle discrimination against Notre Dame students. The efforts of the committee eventually resulted in the famous “Thilman’s Affair,” but the little-known background to this boycott makes for an interesting story of what can be done by even a few students responding to the ignoble affront that is racial discrimination. ■
In March of last year, there were four local taverns which as a matter of policy refused service to Negro students: Thilman’s, Kubiac’s, Otto’s, and Woodward’s. The Civil Liberties Committee asked the various manage-
I" to R.; Frank Courreges; Percy ' *om Bishop; Jack Tate.
ments to reconsider their inequitable policies and warned of a possible student boycott; all of the taverns seemed adamant. The proprietors argued that their businesses would be irreparably damaged by serving Negro students, even after the committee pointed to numerous other restaurants and taverns which accommodated such students seemingly at no economic disadvantage.
However, with the prodding of SBP Keegan, the owners of Otto’s, Kubiac’s, and Woodward’s agreed at least to meet and talk things over, and eventually, to the disparagement of emotional racist arguments, consented to serve all Notre Dame students, regardless of race.
Thilman’s alone remained unyielding in its segregationist policy. At the request of the committee and SBP Keegan, the senate passed a heavily debated resolution calling on the student body to withhold patronage from Thilman’s in the few weeks that remained in the semester. However, senate debate of the boycott was too divisive to ensure its success. The semester ended with Thilman’s ob
noxious policy remaining an open insult to the Notre Dame community.
The controversy over the Thilman vote has quieted by now, but the injustice to our fellow students continues. And so it is that this year’s committee on Civil Liberties appeals to the student body again to show its opposition to Thilman’s regrettable policy. Since the success of any boycott must have the personal support of each student, a referendum on the boycott issue (a copy of which appears on this page) will be taken among the entire body on February 8th in the residence and dining halls.
The committee is confident that. Notre Dame students are not content to remain as mere spectators while a part of the student body, be it ever so small a part, is doled out the worst kind of injustice: injustice that dubs a fellow student as somehow second-rate. The referendum to be taken next month may well bring an end to this gross inequality; it will, at any rate, be a reliable indication of just how strong is the bond of friendship and simple brotherhood at Notre-Dame.
January 12, 1962
'1942'
(Continued from page 14) famous legend in its entirety. It seems hard to believe as one walks past this historic old landmark that some 20 years ago an honest-to-good-ness ghost was prowling ’round its hallowed corridors, rattling papers, turning doorknobs, pattering across floors, and tooting trumpets. It really happened, however, so read on and learn about one of Notre Dame’s most baffling mysteries.
Washington Hall at the time of our story was used as a dormitory for the student professors. Their rooms were located in that part of the building which is now Music Hall. These student professors had many privileges which the undergraduate did not have, such as all-night lights, keys to the front door, and no prefects. It was in 1919 that Jim Minavi, one of the student professors, became very ill and died. Jim occupied the room that is at present, Professor Joseph Casasanta’s office. It seems that Jim was especially talented on the trumpet and was very popular with the boys because of his frequent renditions of the popular times of the day. As is the way of young men, however, Jim’s death was soon forgotten, at least for a little while.
About December 13, 1920, George Gipp, one of Notre Dame’s immortals, passed away. This was just a year after Jim Minavi’s death. It is one week after this that our story begins.	.
John Buckley, a philosophy major, was working on his epistemology thesis late one night when his attention was attracted to the door by a noise. Now this wasn’t the sort of noise that one would ordinarily expect to hear at 2:00 a.m. It sounded as if someone was rattling a paper underneath the door. John was a deeply religious boy and had his own ideas about strange noises late at night. He grabbed a rosary in one hand, a baseball bat in the other, and made a dash for the door. To open it? No sir, to lock it as tight as he could. When John told the boys his story the next day they all laughed loud and long not only because he had been so frightened, but because he didn’t try to see who was rattling the paper. It was passed off as a practical joke, however, and was soon forgotten.
There was one room in the basement of Science Hall (now the Student Center) which was occupied by a science student named Pio E. Mon-
(Continued on page 18)
Special Interest Tonight and tomorrow night Players Incorporated visit the campus on their annual swing through the Midwest. Their shows are . always very well done and invariably prove enjoyable. It’s a must . . . catch at least one of them. Tonight the company will do Midsummer Night’s Dream and tomorrow night (Saturday) they will put on Richard UI. Both are by Shakespeare (for any engineers in the crowd) and are fare to prove the Players’ worth. Tickets are $1.50. The shows are in Washington Hall and the curtain goes up at 8:30 PM.
The South Bend Art Center will screen Rather Panchali at the Schuyler Library. It is a Cannes award winner and deals with the tragic life of a family in a small village in India. .
Saint Mary’s offers a slew of cultural entertainment as the semester closes. Eddie Sears and four jazz groups from the Berklee School of Music in Boston will appear in O’Laughlin in a program entitled: Contrasts in Concepts. That will be on the night of January 20. On January 22 the Alumni Association will bring Phyllis Diller to the SMC campus at 8:15 p.m.! That might prove funny enough to be worthwhile. And, lastly, I Musici will be presented by the South Bend Music Association on January 30 at 8:15.
Alexander Brailowsky, the brilliant Polish pianist, will appear at the Morris Civic Auditorium on January 20 at 8:30. The Morris will then follow that celebrity with Jose Greco and his Spanish troupe on the 23rd. . . . The Miracle Worker sponsored by the Broadway Theater League on the evenings of the 26 and 27 . . . and, carrying over into the new semister, Genevieve exercises her Pidgin English on the nights of February 9 and 10 at 8:30.
The Avon. Two pretty miserable movies are currently on the Avon screen. Affairs of a Model and Question of Adultery are the names of the duo. Not even worth going to get out of the cold: they aren’t warm enough even for that. Sad. They might even be held over. If they are not they will be replaced by Magdalena which stars the "Sensual Sabina” (Sabina Sesselman) in an artless art flic about a sweet young innocent who degenerates under the influence of a playboy painter.
The Colfax. Mysterious Island, another of those Jules Verne spectaculars, will run for a week. It is meant, I take it, for the younger set. The freshman may be interested. It gives one pause: did Jules Verne actually have time to write all of this stuff that Hollywood has filmed? It would seem impossible. This rousing adventure tells of a group of castaways who are stranded on a most peculiar island (mysterious, even). I leave the rest of the plot to the imagination. . . . Michael Craig, Joan Greenwood, Gary Merrill, and Herbert Lom (as Captain Nemo, of course). Infant fare.
(Island — 1:15, 3:15, 5:15, 7:15, 9:15).
The Granada. Very few of Broadway’s treats adapt themselves readily to the screen. Hollywood has outdone itself with the translation of The Flower Drum Song. Broadway must be jealous. The lyrics and music are Rodgers and Hammerstein’s . . . and are harder in places than that pair is at their soft best. The movie makes the most of a good story — something like an oriental
(Continued on page 18)
16
The Scholastic
PEOPLE ON SIXTH AVENUE, by Abraham Rattner
Owner: Earle Ludgin
CHICAGO
COLLECTORS
The next exhibition at the University Art Gallery, to run from February 4 to March 4, will consist of selections from outstanding Chicago collections. Since the exhibit is the reflection of many different tastes, it will be quite varied. Periods represented range from French impressionist to ancient Oriental. Among the artists represented are Dufy, Matisse, Monet, the Mexican painter Gerzso, and Henry Moore.
Donator-collectors of the exhibition include: J.W. Alsdorf, Leigh Block, Avery Brundage, Nathan Cummings, Morris I. Kaplan, Earle Ludgin, Arnold Maremont, Robert B. Mayer, John A. Muldoon, Jr., John U. Nef, Joseph R. Shapiro, Samuel J. Schatz, and George Schatz.
January 12, 1962
17
'In Town'
(Continued from page 16) Amos’n’Andy situation comedy — and there are some startling special effects that make the whole thing delightful. Nancy Kwan’s legs don’t hurt audience appeal either. James Shigeta, Juanita Hall, and Miyoshi Umeki co-star. {Drum Song: 1:19, 3:45, 6:20, 8:50.)
River Park. The Mishawaka movie palace is still open only on weekends.
Next week the double feature will highlight The Conspiracy of Hearts, a story about a convent full of nuns during the Nazi tenure in Germany . .. and 101 Dalmatians, a story about a kennel full of dalmation pups — all animated by Walt Disney. The weekend following, The Comancheros with John Wayne will run roughshod across the silver screen (just in case you haven’t seen it).
The State. Babes in Toyland may be held over. Walt Disney again.
This time it is no cartoon — Ed Wynn and Annette Funicello are in the flesh — a skin flick, so to speak. Very well done, though. Leave it to Disney. If it is repaced Sail a Crowded Ship will do the trick. More about that in time. Meanwhile there’ll be plenty of work on campus to keep everyone, even this reviewer, busy.
John McGuire
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM South Bend
★ TWO PERFORMANCES ★
"A Fun-Filled Musical Treat”
THURSDAY—FEBRUARY 8 FRIDAY—FEBRUARY 9 8:30 P.M. • Presented by
FINE ARTS FESTIVAL ASSOCIATION • Tickets on Sale at: MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM OFFICE ENGINEERS Or Write: FINE ARTS FESTIVAL Box 2117, South Bend
TICKETS: $4.00, $3.00, $2.00, $1.50 •
FEBRUARY 8 PERFORMANCE Sponsored by SOUTH BEND
JUNIOR CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
'1942'
(Continued from page 16) tenegro. Pio considered himself pretty lucky to have his own private suite, but oh! what he wouldn’t have given for company one chilly December night. It was about a week ’ after John Buckley had had his frightening experience and the vivid description of John’s ghost was still in Pio’s mind. He was ready to retire for the evening but decided to get a drink before doing so. There were no drinking fountains in the Science building at that time and anyone wanting a drink had to use a hand pump just outside. As Pio approached the pump there suddenly came from the direction of the quadrangle the sound of a sharp breeze. As he turned to see what was causing the noise he saw it. There came out of the dark group of trees, a ghostly white form.
The figure headed directly for the steps of Washington Hall. Then Pio recognized the form. It was George Gipp astride a white horse. The figure rode right up the steps (steps in Washington Hall went directly to the second story in the front at that time) and vanished as quickly as it had appeared. Of course, the next day most of the boys laughed as loud and as long as before but some were starting to wonder.
Joe Casasanta was a music student at Notre Dame but had the rating of a student professor. He didn’t know it then but he was to become one of the most famous university band directors in the years to come right here at Notre Dame. Joe, at the time of all these mysterious episodes, was also living in Washington Hall. His room was located on the second floor, one of the present practice rooms for piano students. Joe had been asleep for about five hours when he was suddenly awakened by the toot of a trumpet. Who would be blowing a trumpet at 3 a.m.? Then there was the sound of pattering feet right next to Joe’s bed and that familiar feeling some people have when waking up late at night, that somebody is standing right next to
18
The Scholastic
them. He froze up like a man paralyzed and wasn’t able to move for half an hour. When he was finally able to relax, he turned and peered anxiously around the room. No one was there and the door was locked. From here on the action was wild and frequent.
Two nights later Jim Bell, who was rooming in a double, was awakened in the same manner as Joe had been. There was the lonely wail of a trumpet as if it was coming from the stage of Washington Hall. Then there came the pattering of feet directly opposite the bed. Jim was so frightened he was unable to summon his roomie who was asleep in the lower bunk. When he was finally able to look around, he could see nothing. A dim light was thrown over the transom from the night light in the corridor. Who or what was causing these noises? The doors of the room were always locked. None of the boys would give any sign that he was playing a joke. Besides, why was it always only one boy who heard the trumpet. If it was loud enough to wake up one, it certainly was lound enough to wake up all. What about the pattering feet?
The campus was soon in an uproar. Groups of boys were sent over to sleep on the stage of Washington Hall, trying to catch the ghost. Nothing happened during such excursions, however, and the students in Washington Hall were left to solve their own spirit problems. By this time the boys were a little jittery. When one went to the caf, they all went. No one would stay in the hall alone. Something had to happen, and it did soon.
Harry Stevenson was a normal hard working student. Although he had his doubts as to the authenticity of the other boys’ stories, he still wanted to take no chances of arousing the ghost’s wrath. Harry lived on the third floor of Washington Hall, and as was his custom he descended to the drinking fountain on the second floor every night for a short drink before retiring. This certain
TURBOW
\OPTOMBTIUST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL 207 W. Washington — Phon. CE 4-5777
night Harry had just returned from the fountain and had started toward the stairs when he heard a noise as of footsteps directly behind him. Then came the blast of a trumpet in his ear. Harry didn’t wait to see if it was Harry James practicing. He was up those stairs in just about nothing flat. Now the boys were really frightened. After all, you don’t ordinarily hear trumpets blowing in your ear late at night, especially if no one is behind you.
The last episode of our little tale took place about a week later. John Mangan, now official school chauffeur, was a studious lad, but even studious lads go out on occasional dates. Anyway, John had just returned from town and was undressing. The hall was especially quiet because all the boys had retired early. He was just removing his shirt when he heard it. There came from just outside his door the low toot of a trumpet. Then the doorknob began turning. John was too scared to call out, but he took a long chance. After all, it could be one of the boys trying to frighten him. He tip-toed over to the door, grasped the handle, and turned it around. When he heard the lock click he yanked open the door. No one was there. The hall was empty; and there wasn’t a sound.
This was the last of the mysterious episodes. There was no more turning doorknobs, rattling papers, pattering feet, or tooting trumpets. Now we ask you, what do you think? And, oh yes! When you come in from your next midnight, be sure to lock your
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES . . .
exist in France, Germany, Austria, Sweden, Norway, Netherlands, England, Scotland, Ireland, Denmark, Belgium, Spain, Mexico, South America and many other countries too numerous to mention. There is a demand for Teachers in Europe and the Far East. The governments of several countries are in need of teachers on the elementary and secondary levels. There is also great demand for Engineers of most fields, Secretaries, Personnel Supervisors, Trainees in all fields of business management. Salesmen and Saleswomen, Aviation Personnel, Draftsmen, Executives, Machine Operators of every description and many other skilled and semi-skilled personnel. In most cases these firms pay transportation. A few of the many advantages in working overseas are:
1.	25% to 40% higher wages
2.	Excellent working conditions
3.	Easily visit other countries
4.	Paid transportation to and from the U.S.
5.	Finding a rewarding career
There are over 3500 American firms in Europe at present. For further information write to:
AMERICAN OVERSEAS RESEARCH SERVICE
28 East Jackson Street — Suite 1212 Chicago 4, Illinois
door and shut the transom. If you’re from Cavanaugh and vicinity, keep a careful watch for The Gipper and say hello for me if you see him, will you?
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
ROCCO'S
537 ST. LOUIS AVE.
TUES. AND THURS. SPECIAL-$1.00
Try Our New Specialty ‘Po’ ‘Boy’ footlong Sandwich—$1.00
Cany Out — CE 3-0976 "Just a forward pass from Notre Dame"
IN THE SAME GREAT TRADITION
ROCCO'S Restaurant CARRY OUTS —OPEN SUNDAYS Private Dining Rooms for Clubs and Parties — For reservations call:
CE 4-7224
18142 SOUTH BEND AVE.
January 12, 1962
19
A WSZZA-A Z s VW AW, AS %	A< , ,	f ^ A SS V { V » -.X '•. ^ -	\ A
} Check your opinions against L‘M’s Campus Opinion Poll *16
$
?
OHow would you spend a $5000 inheritance?
□ sportscar
stocks
□ more education □ European tour
0 Should the faculty have the power to censor campus newspapers?
0 What’s your favorite | time for smoking?
□ Yes
□ No
during bull sessions
while studying during a date
anytime there’s stress & strain
□ □ □
j Expect more, get more, from tM
There’s actually more rich-flavor leaf in L&M than even in some unfiltered cigarettes. You get more body in the blend, more flavor in the smoke, more taste through the filter. So get Lots More from filter smoking with L&M... the cigarette that smokes heartier as it draws freely through the pure-white, modern filter.
HERE'S HOW 1029 STUDENTS AT 100 COLLEGES VOTED!
%g£-"uiejis $ ssajjs %0l...........aiep
%Z?-------- 2u|Xpn}sVr
%8Z....suoissas ||nq
%88............»N
%Zl...........
%6.......Joo sports .........sxao;s
%!£"" Jno; UBadojnj ” %9£" uoneonps ojoiu
IRISH HOPE TO RAISE MARK IN HOME TILTS
Cagers Face Detroit Saturday Afternoon
by BOB SCHEFFING
Notre Dame’s cage team, struggling through the early part of the season, will attempt to pull itself above the .500 mark with three home tilts these next three weeks. During this period the Irish travel away from the friendly confines of the fieldhouse only once, playing Illinois at Chicago on a neutral floor.
Tomorrow afternoon’s opponent, the University of Detroit, has another one of its fine teams anchored by AllAmerican forward Dave DeBusschere. Dave has averaged over twenty points a game while pulling in close to twenty rebounds a tilt. DeBusschere has had to go it pretty much solo since stars Charley North and John Morgan were removed from school for their participation in the latest basketball scandals. Frank Chickowski helps out at his guard spot along with a host of sophomores, the better ones being Al Cech, Ed Ferguson, and Dick Dzik.
Counting the Titans, Notre Dame schedules only four opponents of any national potency. One, New York University, was strategically scheduled during Christmas vacation. Another, St. John’s, was slated over the semester break. The Redmen provided last year’s team with their most exciting
JOHN MATTHEWS
January 12, 1962
EDDIE SCHNURR
game. In that memorable contest AllAmerican Tony Jackson was limited to eight points by Bill Crosby, two fights ignited on the court, and Notre Dame won in a hotly fought game. Gone is Tony Jackson, but the other four members of last year’s team return with revenge in their minds. Guards Ivan Kovan and Kevin Lough-ery guide the Redmen powered by their towering center Leroy Ellis and high-jumping forward Willie Hall.
DePaul is a top-flight team which will be played at home while the students are around, on Jan. 16. The Blue Demons sorely miss hotshot guard Howie Carl and his running mate Billy Haig. Returnees M.C. Thompson and Dick Cook at forwards along with center Bill Debes form a strong enough nucleus that has given DePaul a good start at rebuilding. Guards are first year men Emmette Bryant and Dave White.
Canisius and Illinois, while not exactly burning up the court this year, do have some fine players. Forwards Dave Downey of the Fighting mini and Bill O’Connor of Canisius provide plenty of scoring power. O’Connor, as a sophomore, set a new scoring mark at Canisius while Downey is being built up as an all-sectional choice for his fine all-around play. Canisius is scheduled for Feb. 6 and Illinois is scheduled for Jan. 27 at Chicago Stadium.
Over the holidays Notre Dame could only manage one win. Yet this one victory was a game long to be remembered, not just because it was at
the expense of Michigan State, but also because it was in the Northwestern game tradition. Trailing by one point with only one second to play, Notre Dame was faced with a jump ball situation in Michigan State’s forecourt. Armand Reo controlled the jump, tipping the ball towards the basket. It went off the backboard, where it was grabbed by John Dearie. Dearie laid it in as the buzzer sounded, providing Notre Dame’s Johnny Jordan with his only Christmas cheer.
During this supposed time of good will the Irish lost to New York University and St. Louis. The Notre Dame five was run off the court by Kentucky 100-53, Indiana 122-95, and North Carolina 99-80. The Indiana fiasco tied the record for total points scored by an Indiana team in spite of the fact that Indiana’s coach, McCracken, took out his regulars with more than eight minutes to play. The scores of the opponents were even more remarkable when one considers the fact that Notre Dame plays a slow-down style with a set offense controlling the ball for some time.
Coach Jordan’s men will have to display either more shooting ability, or much improved defensive play (preferably both) if they hope to make amends for their earlier play. As it now stands they are headed for their worst season since 1918. While not to be a pessimist, I might add that the rocky schedule ahead with away games against the University of Detroit, Bradley, Purdue, and DePaul lends itself easily to the shattering of the 1918 record.
JOHN DEARIE
21
Angie:
EAST-WEST HONEYMOON
by ANGELO DAB1ERO as told to TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
Although playing in the East-West Shrine Game was a big thrill for me, probably the highlight of my college career, it was something more: a honeymoon for my wife Pat and me, something we didn’t have time for last July.
Pat and I drove to Chicago Dec. 20, and after visiting some of the crippled children at the Shrine hospital, flew to San Francisco by United Jetliner. It was the first time I’d ever flown by jet and the first time Pat had ever flown at all, and we really enjoyed it. The East squad assembled that night at the Mark Hopkins Hotel, and after visiting the San Francisco Shrine hospital the next morning in a group, we left for our training camp at Santa Clara University near San Jose, down the Peninsula from San Francisco.
San Jose and the Santa Clara campus were very beautiful, but Pat and I were most impressed by the fact that the weather in Sunny Northern California wasn’t too warm — in the 50’s and 60’s.
The bachelor players lived in a campus dorm, but those of us who were married were more fortunate: we spent the entire nine days of practice
at the St. Francis Motel on the outskirts of town. Among our neighbors were Roman Gabriel and Gary Collins and their wives.
During practice, the players were pretty serious, and everybody hustled and worked real hard; as soon as practice ended, though, everybody concentrated just as hard on having a good time.
I was especially impressed by my backfieldmate, Ernie Davis. He is without any doubt the best runner I’ve seen in college, and probably the best back. What a great runner though; power, speed, moves, everything. And he sure doesn’t have a big head, either. He was friendly to everyone, and always had time to listen to what other people had to say.
And although Bob Ferguson didn’t look too impressive in the game because he didn’t get much blocking up front, he has terrific speed and drive.
And Roman Gabriel and Ron Miller can really throw that ball. Gabriel throws a hard, flat pass, but it’s as nice a pass as I’ve ever seen.
In the game itself, we came out on the short end, 21-8. But we could have won if Gary Collins hadn’t dropped that pass in the end zone, or if my fumble hadn’t set up a West touchdown. You couldn’t blame the loss on Coach Kuharich or on any single player; the biggest factor in the West’s win though, would have to be the superior play of their defensive line. I thought Nick and “Smash” Carollo both played very well for us.
Though we were all disappointed in the outcome of the game, the celebrations that night back at the Mark Hopkins kind of cheered us up, and the next day Pat and I said good-by to San Francisco and boarded another United jet for the flight back to Chicago, and then on to South Bend for New Year’s Eve.
My future? No, not pro football. I’ll probably work here this summer, and I’m hoping for a teaching-coaching job in a New Jersey high school, but I don’t know yet how that’s going to work out. But no matter where we are a year from now, or two, or ten, I know Pat and I will remember San Francisco and the East-West game.
INDOOR TRACK
When it embarks on a 17-meet schedule February 3, Notre Dame’s j track team, now in its second month	j
of training, will be out to recapture	]
some of the luster that has rubbed off j this school’s sports record in the past i semester.
With nine indoor and eight outdoor meets slated, the 1962 team, ' coached by Alex Wilson and captained by Mike Giacinto, will perform ' at home on just two occasions. The first is a dual meet in the fieldhouse with Pittsburgh on March 2, and the , second will be as host team in the Central Collegiate Conference championships, June 2.	/
The chances of this year’s squad : salvaging some lost glory appear ‘ fairly good. The small amount of material lost in graduation last June has ; more than been replaced by an im- ; posing array of sophomores. Topping i the list of second-year men are Jerry • O'Connor, sprinter and broad jumer; ; and Pete Whitehouse, high jumper. O’Connor has been consistently hitting about 23-5 in the broad jump and Whitehouse about 6-4 in the high jump.
Elsewhere, sophomores have been plugging gaps quite ably. A fine mile- ; relay team is in the making if a fourth man can be found to go along with Danny O’Brien, Bob Hoover, and senior Steve Schwartz. Two fine hurdlers return in John Mulrooney and Lou Lucas. Add to those two the names of Pete Kelly, Whitehouse and O’Connor, and a crack shuttle t relay team is possible.
The shot put is another event with able personnel. Giacinto, senior from Bayside, N.Y., and junior Carl Lu- ; decke are a close one-two, while Pete ; Kirk and sophomore gridder Tom Finneran fight it out for third place.
Material is thin in the distances, and this is where Wilson may be vulnerable in the big relay meets. Only Frank Carver (two-mile) and Tom Dempsey (mile) show any prom- , ise of holding their own in the big- ! time. Another difficulty is caused by i the fact that Junior Bill Yaley (two t mile) has been slow getting into ! shape after a serious knee injury.
Turning to the use of gimmicks, Wilson has put his pole vaulters on a diet of fiberglass. Leading the way in the vaulting with the new poles is Frank Froelke, up around 14 feet. Mike Terry and Jim Wruck round out the corps.
The outlook for this year may thus be considered fairly bright; the spikemen should do especially well in the small meets where depth will pull in . their favor. — J. C. Higgins
The Scholastic
22
Voice in the Crowd . .
SURRENDER to EXCELLENCE?
Apparently Joe Kuharich could have the US Army at his disposal and figure out a way to lose ... no East team ever carried more guns — but had less ammunition . . . the West out-coached, out-maneuvered and out-thought the stronger East personnel which was carrying an anchor with Kuharich . . . smart Notre Dame people say he had enough horses at Notre Dame to enter the thoroughbred biz . . if he stays on the Irish will have found the most subtle way to de-emphasize in grid history . . .
This appraisal of Notre Dame football coach Joe Kuharich appeared in the St. Paul Pioneer Press. While I feel it was irresponsibly written, it reflects a growing sentiment among the so-called “experts.” It is apparent that something is wrong with the football situation at Notre Dame; to ignore this is impossible.
The purpose of this editorial is to examine the present situation, probe its origins, and offer possible remedies. It is not meant as an indictment of Kuharich or the Administration, but is based on a desire to see Notre Dame return to its former position of football eminence — which I feel it should have reached by now.
Three years ago, Notre Dame fired Terry Brennan. There were many reasons for this, the main one being that, considering the quality of his players, his team’s performance left something to be desired. In other words, Notre Dame expected a coach in the Rockne-Leahy tradition (and built Brennan up as such) but received instead an inexperienced, fair-to-mediocre coach at a school that demands much more than this.
In an effort to prevent this from happening again, the Administration looked for a proven coach who, while not projecting a Rockne image, would nevertheless get the job done professionally. They found in Kuharich an experienced coach who was respected by most of the keen students of the game as one of football’s top tacticians.
Defending the ousting of Terry Brennan, Father Hesburgh stated in Sports Illustrated that the reason for the dismissal was a “surrender to excellence.”
I want to make it clear that my Position is not that of wishing for a retreat to the pre-“excellence” days. I believe, along with Father Hesburgh, that top-flight athletics and academics are compatible, and are not
mutually exclusive. Therefore, I assume that there has not been a deliberate attempt to de-emphasize and that, as long as they can be achieved within the framework handed down by the Administration, winning football teams are to be sought, not avoided. As Father Hesburgh has stated on numerous occasions, “As long as we, like most American universities, are engaged in intercollegiate athletics, we will strive for excellence of performance in this area too.”
Therefore, it is appropriate to ask, three years later, if Notre Dame has achieved this “excpllence” in athletics which the Administration sought in the removal of Brennan and the hiring of Kuharich. This “surrender to excellence” has not, in three years, matched the 6-4 record which caused the Administration to release Brennan.
However, the won-lost record admittedly is not the total picture. When asked, three years ago, by what criteria Kuharich would be judged, Hesburgh replied, “ ... he is not expected to be Rockne, but only Kuharich; he is not to be measured by any nostalgic calculus of wins, losses and national championships, but only by the excellence of his coaching and the spirit of his teams. This is quite different from a philosophy of ‘win or else.’ A team can perform miserably and win, and a team can look magnificent in defeat. The won-and-lost record is no ultimate criterion for a reasonable and thinking man.” The only problem here is that the image projected by Kuharich’s Irish varies only slightly from the Brennan teams. The name of Notre Dame, if anything, has diminished in the thoughts of many who annually select the nation’s top squads.
While, admittedly, the spirit of the team is better than it was under Brennan, I wonder if this is the result of anything Kuharich has done, or merely reflects the attitude of the individual players. An example of this is the determination that existed on this year’s squad through the Michigan State game. I believe the desire to become “number one” came more from a group of seniors who were determined to make amends for the past two seasons, than from anything that Kuharich did.
Also, the one thing that has been consistent about the Irish under Ku
harich is their inconsistency. On one Saturday the Irish have looked able to lick any team in the country, while the next they have played second-class football.
Kuharich was given a four-year contract, since extended through 1965, in which to rebuild the Notre Dame football machine. The two main assets that Kuharich brought with him were a keen knowledge of the professional game and long-established friendships with most of the top men in football. I feel that one of these was helpful while the other proved the biggest hindrance to the achievement of the goal set in 1959: the rebuilding of a championship-caliber team.
His friendships around the country provided him with the tools to establish a highly successful recruiting system. Notre Dame once again began to attract some of the nation’s top high school players. This has caused many rival coaches to marvel at the impressive Irish personnel. The most recent of these is Southern California Coach John McKay. McKay, interviewed at the Rose Bowl, doubted if Notre Dame will ever get stronger raw material than it showed him in ’61. He was especially impressed by the wealth of sophomore talent.
The second apparent asset, I feel, is the reason that Notre Dame has not returned to national prominence in three years. Kuharich is a pro coach who teaches pro football. Unfortunately, Notre Dame isn’t and never . hopes to be a pro team. Coaching a pro team and a college team are two different jobs. A man who may be the best nuclear physics teacher in the country should not be teaching a freshman math class; to have vast knowledge of the pro game does not insure success on the college gridiron. Until the type of football taught fits the given situation, all that can result is frustration.
Unfortunately, it does not appear,* having seen all thirty of the games of the Kuharich regime, that Kuharich plans to make an adjustment in his style of football to meet the existing situation. Until he makes this change, Kuharich’s teams will continue to be beaten by teams which do not have the manpower the Irish have, but who are playing college football.
— John Bechtold
23
January 12, 1962
COMPLETE LINE OF
•	SKI EQUIPMENT
•	ICE SKATES
•	HOCKEY STICKS
★
RECO SPORTING GOODS 113 N. Main St.
Next Io Oliver Hotel
FAMILY SKIING CENTER
HOLIDAY
SKI RESORT
Traverse City, Mich.
Ski night and day. 13 runs. T-bar lift, tows. Snow-maker, Sno-pack-er. Lodge, food. Excel-I e n t accommodations nearby. Special ski club md family rates.
Frt»	^4/ HOLIDAY—BOX 30(
Brochure Traverae City, Mich. WrlUi /J Windsor 6-5035 or 7-507S
INTERHALL
Basketball, biggest of the interhall sports programs, is now under way. Dominic Napolitano, director of interhall athletics, reports that there are over 900 players on 78 teams in 13 leagues. The season, which began on Jan. 4, will terminate Feb. 28. Each league will play a five-game roundrobin schedule to determine the league champion. These winners (of eight club leagues and five interhall leagues) will be placed in a straight elimination tournament to decide the campus champion.
The games will be played in the fieldhouse and the Rockne Memorial Gym — the clubs playing at the fieldhouse and the halls at the “Rock.” The games are scheduled to start in the evening, and will be played every 45 minutes until nine.
Ice hockey teams will not be formed on an official basis this year because of the uncertainty of the weather. The formation of an interhall league seems possible only if Notre Dame acquires an ice rink.
WINNERS IN BRAND ROUND-UP:
Tape Recorder neil McDonald
★ Clock Radio WILLIAM KOREM ★ Camera ROBERT HENNESSEY ★ Transistor Radio MICHAEL BRADLEY ★
1962 INDOOR TRACK SCHEDULE
February
3: Indiana and Purdue at Bloomington
10: Michigan State Relays
15: Michigan State and Central Michigan at East Lansing
24: Central Collegiate Conference Championships at Kalamazoo
March
2: Pittsburgh at NOTRE DAME
9:	Chicago Relays
10:	Milwaukee Relays
10:	IC4A Championships at New York
16: Cleveland Relays
SWIMMING
Notre Dame has one undefeated team. The swimming team, coached by Dennis Stark, swept both its preholiday meets in a style which, hopefully, is an indication of future greatness.
Tonight at 7:30, the swimmers face Ohio University at the Rock. Ohio is the first of several tough teams that Coach Stark’s crew will meet in the coming weeks. This meet may well decide how long Notre Dame remains unbeaten.
Against Western Ontario, in the first meet of twelve, the Notre Dame mermen, led by Bob Lieb and John Clark, swamped the Canadians 62-33. Lieb scored eleven points as he took first in both the 50-and 100-yard freestyle events and was a member of the victorious 400-yard freestyle relay team. Clark scored eight points with a first place finish in the 200-yard freestyle and a second in the 440-yard freestyle.
The meet, held in London, Ontario, was not much of a contest as Notre Dame took eight of the ten events. Jim Grever, Joe Bracco and Larry Temple were the others who took first, with Bill Vasu, Charles Blanchard, Randy Wise, John MacLeod, John McDermott and Chuck Blanchard taking second places. The 400-yard relay team, composed of Lieb, Switek, Vasu and MacLeod, also won.
In the second meet, held the next day in Detroit, Notre Dame whipped Wayne State 56-39. Bill Vasu again led the scorers, with Chuck Blanchard also starring.	.
Vasu swept the 50- and 100-yard freestyle, while Blanchard recorded a first in the 440-yard freestyle and a second in the 200-yard individual medley. The team broke three pool records and won handily despite the fact that the 400-yard freestyle relay team, though victorious, was disqualified.
The Scholastic
24
Business Education
(Continued from page 10) elude a special admissions test, letters of recommendation, and student replies on admissions questionnaires.
Prof. Wallis’ own education included undergraduate studies at the University of Minnesota and graduate work at Minnesota, Chicago, and Columbia Universities.
In addition to his present post and his White House work, Dean Wallis has served on the staffs of Yale, Stanford, Columbia, and the Ford Foundation. He is the co-author of several books and currently is Chairman of the Editorial Board of the New Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences to be published in 1964.
ALIENS
All foreign students must fill out on address report before Jan. 31 at the Immigration Service Office or the Post Office. Failure to do so could result in penalties and possible deportation.
Untouched by Human Hands
(Continued from page 11)
for the introduction of the new system: (1) Advisors and students can consult about courses without the present difficulty of being sidetracked by concern with specific sections. (2) Time needed for registration will be greatly reduced. (3) It will be easier to balance the number of students in each section.
THE LONG AND SHORT OF IT
Mark Robson's “Home of the Brave” and a short film, "Neighbors" by Norman McLaren, will comprise the second program of Cinema '62 this Sunday. The afternoon showing will take place at St. Mary's Little Theatre at 3:00 p.m. The evening showing and postfilm discussion will take place at Notre Dame's Engineering Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. Single admissions will be sold, as well as season tickets.
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
•
Reservations: CE 4-0136 • CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38 LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
ARTCARVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING RINGS . . . JEWELRY
J. Trethewey, Jeweler
★
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
★
104 N. Main St	J.M.S. Bldg.
SIC FLICS
iKING
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES! AGED MILD. BLENDED MILD-NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
s $
£


“Now, now Susan.. .everybody can’t be the Homecoming Queen
January 12, 1962
25
FORUM
RACIAL DISCRIMINATION ...
A QUESTION OF PERSPECTIVE
by KEVIN BORN
ATHER Hesburgh’s article in the December 15 issue of the Scholastic offers us some closely related observations of varying quality concerning the undeniably grave problem of racial discrimination. In the course of the article he gave vent to the altogether proper moral indignation which wells up in the soul of the compassionate man when faced with such glaringly evident disregard for the Christian strictures enjoining us to love our neighbor as ourselves. Hence, scattered throughout the article we find assertions and comments luminously vibrant with a sense of righteous anger — and justifiably so, for it is evident that the white community has, in many instances, directed its malevolent policies not just toward Negroes of questionable morality and limited intelligence, but toward the Negroes as a race in an attempt to freeze their economic and political development. Such reprehensible actions should indeed weigh heavily upon the consciences of American whites.
Obviously, then, no one who claims to be a Christian can seriously entertain thoughts of quarrelling with such sentiments as were so well-expressed in Fr. Hesburgh’s report. Surely, one can only look with approbation upon the attempt of the Civil Rights Commission to rescue American society from moral turpitude (as long as the proffered cures are not worse than the disease itself). But, at this point it becomes necessary to enter a mild caveat. When, during the course of our moral reflections, we take leave of exhortations to virtue and enter the realm of governmental policy, it soon becomes evident that the pre-eminently important virtue of prudence must perforce be permitted to exercise its moderating influence.
Most emphatically, we must not allow the well-intentioned emotional
26
ism springing from affronts to our moral sensibilities to prod us into making ill-considered, sweeping declarations concerning the effect of our imperfections on international relations. It would be consummate folly to assume, for instance, that the outcome of the present protracted conflict between the forces of world Communism and the communities nurtured in the Western tradition is somehow dependent upon our being able to “... demonstrate that we have something better to propose in its [Communism’s] stead, and that this something works better...”, or that if we do not “... make the promise of our Constitution (i.e., achieve more or less perfect racial justice) a reality for all the world to see . . . we do not deserve the leadership of the free world or God’s help in victory over Communism." (Italics mine.) This last assertion is tantamount to saying that if American citizens don’t miraculously transform themselves into impossible paragons of Pure Virtue we have no moral right to oppose Soviet world domination!
W™ regard to the problem of “demonstrating” our virtue, it suffices to say that such a task should not be overly difficult, given reasonable listeners. Agreed, American society is far from being unblemished. But if we are incapable of perceiving a qualitative difference between, say, ideologically-inspired class genocide in the Ukraine and American racial friction we have indeed, as responsible critics increasingly note, become obsessed with our shortcomings to the point where conscientious self-criticism turns into irresponsible self-flagellation. Such morbid fixations can only result in unnecessary breast-beatings and paralysis of the will to resist.
If a thing such as our relative
societal rectitude can be demonstrated to the peoples of countries which have recently become fascinated with newly acquired power and nationalistic aspirations (viz., Nehru and Sukhar-no), America should have no trouble demonstrating her comparative purity. But if, as is most likely, the politicians and other opinion formers of the emerging nations seem blind to the essential justice of the Western cause even in the fact of uninterrupted Soviet perfidy, we do ourselves irreparable harm in inwardly assenting to the substance of their castigations. When Nehru informs us that the burden of guilt must be shared equally by the contending powers, or, as is increasingly becoming the case, that the onus prohandi with regard to proving good intentions lies well-nigh exclusively upon Western shoulders, we shouldn’t hesitate to tell him that he is mouthing expedient nonsense.
The position that there-are-no-rights and-wrongs-only-muted-hues-of-grayis at present wholly untenable. If the uncommitted are unable to see that the Communist bloc is the main irritant of contemporary world disorders, then little will our plaintive avowals of good will change the picture. It is one thing to attempt to deal honorably with recently-spawned political entities euphemistically termed “nations”; it is altogether another to agree with them that we are lost to the Bolsheviks unless we can demonstrate with unchallengeable finality that American citizens are totally unsullied practitioners of perfect charity. The time is fast approaching when we must discard this masochistic obsession with being “liked” in favor of a more vigorous usage of our power as a weapon of foreign policy; for history teaches us that excessive concern with manners is the mark of the effete society.
The Scholastic
°a
oO
ooo
9
O<>o®
OOO
O"°.oO
9
o o“O
Q° .<0
MOTOR COMPANY The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAD • THE FARM • INDUSTRY* AND THE AGE OF SPACE
°!o
o
\O
& Oo.

Some say we go overboard, the lengths we go to in testing Ford-built cars at "Hurricane Road"—our wind-and-weather lab in Dearborn, Michigan. And for practical purposes—we do. You might call it "testing in depth." Ford scientists and engineers have' devised a gigantic test tunnel that creates monsoon rains and tornadic winds in a matter of minutes. Super sun lamps boost temperatures from 20 below to 160 above zero. Fog and drizzle, snow and sleet—all at the twist of dials. Huge cylinders beneath testcar wheels imitate every kind of road: from flat, smooth turnpike to rutted mountain trail.
Out of it all comes knowledge of how to build better cars—cars that are built to last longer, require less care, and retain their value better. This constant aiming for perfection is just one more way in which research and engineering are earning for Ford Motor Company its place of leadership.
o o o o o