The Notre Dame Scholastic
355
((HHIM
You’ve often met the statement, in wildly heroic novels, or equally melodramatic plays, “he stood with his back to the wall.” In other words the hero is “up against it” and one slip will, figureatively, be in the nature of a knockout blow.
Well: such things do happen in real life. (By the way, that’s a subject we’d like to say something about —sometime: the so-called “difference” between “real” life and life in books).
If we remember correctly (even our memory seems to be suffering from short, savage rights to the jaw!) we were talking about standing against a stone Avail. Of course there is one trouble: about the only time one can conveniently stand in front of such an obstruction is when one faces a firingsquad.
And even firing squads are going out of fashion. . . .
However: when we cut away everything that impedes clear view of a situation, we see that-- one is, occasionally, pitted against Life with nothing other than his own life as a weapon. One move on his part, right or left, down or up, and the flying daggers of Life will catch him. And then, the game is over.
But there is, really, a certain zest in knowing that one turn, one overlooked move, may ruin all. You become hyper-sensitive and something within you draws itself up, quivering but strong, seizes the five swords of the senses, plants its foot against the rock of the brain, and smiles—as the enemy advances from all quarters.
The fight is likely to be as short as it is brilliant—or ludicrous. Handling five swords, when, as a rule, you’ve been accustomed to handling only one or two, is rather a difficult job—and yet, sometimes, one becomes most marvellously skilled in something—when one has to.
Be that as it may: there is that something in each and every one of us, which, when it finds ourself in the path of destruction, hands’ us, very calmly and without any bravado, a few swords wherewith to defend ourself. Nine times out of ten, we are what might be termed “the underdog.” And yet—as we have remarked—there is that keen zest in knowing that one slip equals extinction—and we can always remember that the sun still burns the day, and the moon still freezes the night: whether or no we stand or fall!
Qi'iuiiiuiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiuiiuiiiinuiuiuniiiiuHiinnuuuiMnuuiuniiiuuuunnninninuuuuunuunnunuinuuuutiuuuuumuQ
No^ re Dame -Scholar ic
Disee- Quasi - Semper •Vic^UFus«V!ve~Quasi-Cpa.s-Moritum
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
... .Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire Emil L. Telfel...... Thomas A.. Cannon.. J. Archer Hurley.... Walter Langford..... Joel Egerer......... Ramon G. Smith...... Alfred E. Gall...... Paul J. Hallinan...
........Managing.Editor .Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor ........The	Week ........The College Parade ........Music and Drama ........Campus Clubs ........Script Editor
Features
Editor
James J. Kearney
James Collins Howard Webster Austin Boyle
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, News Editor Richard J. O’Donnell Neil Hurley Joseph Reedy Edward Brennan
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor Harry A. Sylvester, Jr.
George Allan-John Motz Leslie Raddatz Edward Connors
James Carmody
SPORTS STAFF
William J. Magarral, Henry B. Asman
Interhad Sports Editor James McFeeley
BUSINESS STAFF
Harrington J. Noon
Local Circulation Manager
Chester M. Ashman. .Foreign Circulation
Frederick N. Davis
James L. Rizer....
...Local Advertising Foreign Advertising
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer
Merle V. Baldwin
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
Manager Manager Manager
John Blanda
Andrew McGuan
Norman E. Duke
VOL. LXIII.
DECEMBER 6, 1929.
No. 12.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Frontispiece ---------------- Coming Events---------------- Scrip Makes Initial Bow—Emil L. Telfel_____ Gleanings ------------------- A Man About the Campus--------_____________ Music and Drama—Joel Efferer- Campus Clubs—Ramon Smith----- College Parade—Walter M. Langford__________ The Week—Archer Hurley------- Editor’s Page---------------- 1879—Yesterday—1929—Paul J. Hallinan_______ The Wink--------------------- National Champs Take Final Game—John E. Kiener. N. D. Trounces Kalamazoo----- Splinters, From the Press Box—H. A. S., Jr_ On Down the Line-------------
356 3-57 .359 360
361 361-
364
365
366
367
368
382
384
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special' rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 191S.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
356
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame S c h o I a
Coming Events
FRIDAY, December 6—SCHOLASTIC editorial staff meeting, Publications office, Main Building, 7:00 p. m.— Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m.—Rocky Mountain Club meeting, first floor Law Building, 7:45 p. m.
SATURDAY, December 7 — Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Albion College, University Gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
SUNDAY, December 8—Feast of the Immaculate Conception. — Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 a. m.; High Mass, 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, December 9 — Beginning Red Cross Week.—Junior, Senior and Activities Men’s Pictures, Carroll Hall Refectory, 9:00 a. m. to 5:00 p. m.—A. I. E. E. meeting, Engineer’s class room, Badin Hall, 8:00 p. m.—K. of C. meeting, Council Chambers, Walsh Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Wabash Valley Club meeting, Law Building, first floor, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, December 10—Dome pictures, Main Building Refectory, 9:00 a. m. to 5:00 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, 7:45 p. m.—Connecticut Valley Club meeting, Law Building, 7:45 p. m.—Finals, Breen Medal Contest, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, December 11—Red Cross Enrollment Day.—Dome pictures, 9:00 a. m. to 5:00 p. m., Carroll Hall Refectory.
THURSDAY, December 12 — Red Cross enrollment day.—Last day this year for having Dome pictures taken.—Spectators Club meeting, 7:45 p. m.
FRIDAY, December 13—Scholastic editorial staff meeting, Publications office, Main Building, 7:00 p. m.— First degree initiation, Knights of Columbus, council chambers, Walsh Hall.
“ALUMNUS” OUT SOON
The December number of the Notre Dame Alumnus will be released on next Thursday according to James Armstrong, alumni secretary and editor of the magazine. This will be the Christmas number.
FORMER STUDENT IN PALACE MOVIE
Students who go to the Palace, this week will see a funny fellow on the screen, who, a few years ago, sat just where they are, and hollered “Hello, Joe!” and “Hi, Ed,” at his campus pals coming down the aisle. Walter O’Keefe, a graduate of Notre Dame and former reporter' on one of the South Bend newspapers, is handing out laughs in the talking picture in the current bill.
O’Keefe is a natural comedian, but became a screen actor almost by accident. He has been well known in the last few years to Broadwayites, as a clever song writer and master of ceremonies. Pathe brought him to Hollywood to write incidental music and theme songs for the talkies. You all know his “Little by Little,” hit from “The Sophomore.” It was in this picture that O’Keefe volunteered to play the radio announcer in the football sequence. He made a great hit of this small part, and Iris comedy ability decided officials to cast him in his present role. The boy is really clever, and should become a genuine screen comedian.
ROCKNE HOST IN MEETING OF “ALL-AMERICAN”
BOARD
The home of Knute K. Rockne was the scene of a unique gathering last Sunday afternoon when the “AllAmerica Board of Football” convened to select a representative 1929 All-American team. Pop Warner, coach at Leland Stanford University, Tad Jones, former Yale mentor, and William A. Alexander, Georgia Tech coach, make up the board along with Rockne.
The selections of these men will not be released for publication until Sunday but it is rumored that several of the Notre Dame stars of this season, will be included on the roll. The most popular selections so far have been Frank Carideo and Jack Cannon, and these two may be chosen for the first team by the “All-American Board of Football.”
Inasmuch as all four sections of the country are covered, the representative group should be well selected. This is the first year that Alexander has been on the board, but the other three have been meeting for five seasons. Alexander gives the South its representation, Rockne the midwest, Jones the east, and Warner, the Pacific coast.
t i c	357
FINAL VICTORY DANCE GIVEN
More than two hundred couples attended the Army Victory Dance given under the auspices of the Student Activities Council, last Saturday evening, in the Knights of Columbus Ball Room. Myron Waltz’s orchestra, popular South Bend serenaders, furnished the music and entertained with a number of novelty acts. Robert Kuhn was chairman of the dance committee.
This dance was one of the outstanding social affairs of the fall season and culminated a series of victory . Hops which have been given by Student Activities - Council, and the Junior and Senior classes.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS TO HOLD INITIATION
The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, will hold its first degree initiation on Friday, Dec. 6, at 8:00 p. m., in the Council Chambers, Walsh Hall. The 2nd and 3rd degree initiation will take place on Sunday, Dec. 15th, at 1:00 p. m., in the South Bend' Chambers.
Martin J. Travers, Chairman of the banquet committee, has announced that the banquet in honor of the new members, will be held at the Oliver Hotel immediately following the initiation, according to present plans.
A meeting will be held Mon., Dec. 9th for the purpose of passing on those applications not yet accepted. Approximately fifty candidates have applied to date, and it is expected that this number will be substantially increased by next Monday night.
Nicholas Bohling and Frank McAdams are co-chairmen of the membership committee.
PHILOSOPHY GRADUATING REQUIREMENT CHANGED
The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., head of the philosophy department, makes the following announcement:
“Attention is hereby called to senior students maj’oring in philosophy, that this year, in lieu of the traditional graduating thesis, they will be called upon to pass a comprehensive examination in the field of philosophy. A syllabus of the questions to be covered will be put into theii* hands by the head of the department immediately after the Christmas recess. All students who expect to graduate in February, 1930, should see the Dean at once.”
358
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PROF. J. T. FREDERICK’S
LECTURE WELL RECEIVED
In one of the most spirited lectures ever delivered on the campus, Professor John T. Frederick, Editor of the Midland Magazine, spoke before an audience of considerable size, in Washington Hall. The subject of his lecture was “The Romance of the Great Valley,” and in the course of his talk he brought out forcibly his viewpoint concerning the much debated topic as to whether the United States, especially the Middle West, had any background, and traditions, upon which to base its literary endeavors.
Mr. Frederick was decidedly of the opinion that there is truly a fertile field for the writer who seeks after material for his writing. In proving his point, he pointed out several instances in the history of the Middle West wherein there was ample matter for literary development, such as the divers events in the lives of the early explorers, George Rogers Clark, LaSalle, and Father Marquette.
Professor Frederick spent both Tuesday and Wednesday of this week, at the University, and his time was taken up with talks before different sections in the English department on the finer points of writing. All of his talks had the air of striking informality, and even his more formal lecture in Washington Hall, on Tuesday evening, was made more interesting by this characteristic.
GRAND RAPIDS CLUB TO GIVE DANCE
The Grand Rapids Club held its most successful meeting of the year November 27, in the Law Building. All committee chairmen reported on their success in arranging details for the Christmas dance, which promises • to be one of the most successful ever held in Grand Rapids.
James MacDermott, general chairman of the dance, outlined to the club the program, and suggested his plans for the affair. George Jackaboice, chairman of publicity, reported unusual success in acquainting members and guests of the club with the attraction of the dance. Joseph Boyland, club treasurer, made known the financial status of the dance committees.
The dance is to be held in the Pantalind Hotel Ballroom, December 23. All those not yet having made their reservations should confer at once with one of the officers.
AKRON CLUB ENJOYS SMOKER
The Akron Club held a rollicking smoker in Brownson Hall Rec Room, Tuesday evening. Canton, Massillon, Barberton, and other neighboring cities were all represented by men eager to attend the Christmas dance and to participate in many other affairs which the club is planning. All of the students who live within twenty-five miles or so of Akron are invited to become members of the club.
N. D. Academy of Science Notes
________________________________i
At a meeting of the Academy of Science, held Monday evening, November 25, in Science Hall, papers were read by two graduate members of the society. Stephen Bocskei, B. S., presented a paper on Spallanzani, one of the foremost Catholic scientists. Mr. Bocskei. showed the enviable position occupied by this priest as a scientist, in the role of an opponent to the theory of spontaneous generation, and as the father of the Physiological Chemistry. In addition to this, the paper gave intimate glimpses of Spallanzani’s private life and showed the true character of the man. The presentation of the subject was original and not merely a biographical sketch.
Peter A. Burkhardt, B. S., read a paper on “The Hormones of the Pituitary Gland.” It embodied a discussion of the secretions of the pituitary body giving the physiological action of these secretions and their effect on the structure of animals. The subject matter of the paper was difficult because of its nature but it was well presented. -
At the next meeting of the Academy, papers will be read by Edward Yorke, president, and Mario Ramacciotti. Both men are Seniors in the College of Science.
UNIVERSITY HAS REPRESENTATIVE ON RADIO DIC-
TION COMMITTEE
The Reverend Patrick J. Haggerty, C.S.C., has been appointed the University representative on the Advisory Committee for Good Diction on the Radio. This committee consists of members of the National Institute of Arts and Letters, and also of selected professors from colleges throughout the United States. The purpose of the committee is the assisting of the
American Academy of Arts and Letters in the choosing of the radio announcer with the best diction. His merits are to be judged according to pronounciation, articulation, quality of tone, accent, and general cultural effect.
HISTORY DEAN ON STATE HISTORICAL COMMITTEE
The Reverend John M. Ryan, C. S. C., dean of the department of history, and rector of Lyons Hall, served as a member of the state of Indiana’s committee for the commemoration of the 250th anniversary of the landing of Rene Robert Chevalier dee LaSalle, which was celebrated throughout the state yesterday. A banquet held Thursday evening in South Bend marked the official celebration in this vicinity.
. The committee is composed of prominent historians throughout the state of Indiana, and it served, this year, to make the memory of LaSalle stand out more clearly in the minds of the people.
DOME CONTEST WINNER TO BE ANNOUNCED NEXT
WEEK
Due to a last minute confusion in the compilation of the subscriptions in the 1930 Dome contest, the various prize winners have not yet been determined. Those in charge of the contest are working hard to total the number of subscriptions contributed by each contestant, and the winners will be announced in next week’s issue of the Scholastic.
The number of subscriptions taken for the Dome this year, far outnumbers that of any previous year. This is due largely to the keen rivalry displayed by the contestants, and the fine spirit of co-operation given by the members of the student body.
NOTICE!
Students desiring to be considered for membership in the Wranglers Club, are requested to make a written application to either James Walsh, president, or Eddie Phelan, secretary. Conditions for membership specify a scholastic average of at least 85% and participation in some form of Notre Dame
The Notre Dame Schola
“SCRIP” MAKES INITIAL BOW
Notre Dame’s new literary quarterly, Scrip, made its debut last Wednesday. There is apparent in the choice of material, the fine severity of the format, and even in the unaffected appropriateness of the very title, a judgment and taste that would do credit to the best professional journalism. There is, also, throughout the pages of the magazine, that sense of soundness, of sureness, of maturity, that appreciation of the significance of things, which visitors have remarked of our campus literature here at Notre Dame.
In the excellent foreword the purposes of the new periodical are set forth:
“The primary intentions of the magazine are to assist in every way possible the creation of literature at Notre Dame, and at the same time to promote sound literary criticism'. . . Such a publication puts on record the best thought of the institution which it represents, whether that thought be wholly the product of the student body, or of, likewise, the instructors whose vocation is the training of youth and the discovery of talent.”
Dick Sullivan’s “Exile,” a curiously fascinating, but entirely felicitous handling of that style known as the “stream of consciousness,” has been honored with the first position in the magazine. It is done in Mr. Sullivan’s best manner.
Then too, there is a sketch entitled “Respect,” by Louis Brennan, a sophomore. In this there is demonstrated a splendid command of words and an equally commendable economy in their use. Mr. Brennan seems to possess an unusual ability of saying much in little. His character, White, “dirty, ole, black, Nigger White,” is powerfully drawn.
If anything in the richness of this magazine is to be spoken of with higher praise than the rest, it is probably the sheaf of twelve poems by various hands that fills some six pages in the middle of the book. Such names as that of the Very Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., Charles Phillips, Benjamin Musser, and the Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., are familiar to a wide circle of readers, while some of the poems by students have gained real attention from judges of literary material.
Especially ought mention to be
made of Father O’Donnell’s beautiful devotional sonnet, “Uncreated Beauty.” This is poetry of the sort that has placed Father O’Donnell among the very foremost of contemporary poets. It manifests not only a deep, searching mysticism, but also, perhaps, the vestiges of a reverential awe, that, we feel, ought to inform the best religious poetry. “Arbutus” by Professor Phillips has a deep and significant message to impart. The Celtic lyricism of “Heart Hermitage,” is present in Fathei’ Carroll’s “Winter Sunshine.” “Journey” is by Benjamin Musser, well-known editor of “Contemporary Verse.” Father Leo L. Ward’s “Sequence” has a touching and whimsical note of lyric pensiveness. .Murray Young, Jack Mullen, and Norb Engels, old students of wide repute here and abroad as undergraduate poets, are represented by three excellent pieces, and the contemporary campus poets included are Cyril Mullen ■with “Refuge,” and Abel Constance in “A Japanese Color Print.”
Ted Ryan’s “Prayer at Noontide” has a refreshing tone of whole-souled sincerity, expressed in rhythmical prose.
Louis Heitger’s fantasy, “Lonely” is as beautiful a play of the imaginative faculty as we have seen in a long while. Mr. Heitger, with his unusual command of stage possibilities, has produced a piece that makes excellent closet drama, and, obviously, might be acted to the best of advantage.
In every way, Scrip is well worth reading. The Scholastic congratulates Editors Heitger, Mullen, Nanovic, and Brennan, and wishes them continued success with future numbers of the magazine.
ARMY “POINTER” FEA-
TURES NOTRE DAME
The Pointer, organ of the United States Military Academy, features the University of Notre Dame in its current issue, the Thanksgiving number. The periodical,-in addition to its regular feature stories, news articles, and humor, features two articles on the University of Notre Dame written by John A. Kiener, sports editor of the Scholastic. One deals with a history of the University along educational lines, and the other treats of the 1929 edition of the Fighting Irish. '
tic	359
LAW CLUB IN BRILLIANT MEETING
On Tuesday evening, December 3, a meeting of the Law Club was held . in the Lay Faculty Dining Room. Students enrolled in Pre-Law work were guests.
Robert F. Eggeman, president of the Law Club presided, and in a brief welcoming address stressed the high standing of Notre Dame lawyers in all parts of the country, and the perpetuation of Notre Dame spirit by them in the profession in after life.
Dean Thomas F. Konop dwelt on the high calling of the legal profession, and complimented the men of the Law School on their past spirit of co-operation as evidenced this year. Professor “Pat” Manion particularly urged the Pre-Lawyers to become acquainted with the nomenclature of the Law by becoming readers of the “Notre Dame Lawyer,” the official publication of the Law School. Thomas V. Happer, L.L. B., ’28, related some incidents of the practise, which confront the attorney.
Robert E. Proctor, prominent alumnus and former State Senator, was the speaker of the evening. In one of the most interesting and stirring addresses ever presented at a Law Club meeting, Senator Proctor related the problems of a trial lawyer and his own experiences in meeting them; took up the facts of many important cases which he had defended in over twenty-five years active practice at the Bar; and illustrated his address by presenting photostatic exhibits to the men for their enlightenment.
Professors James Kirby and Homer Earl of the Law Faculty, and Vice-President James A. Allan of the Law Club, contributed brief remarks.
Music and refreshments rounded out the program, which was attended by 150 students.
ENGLISH MAJORS TO TAKE EXAM TOMORROW
All Juniors who intend majoring in English, and who were conditioned in. the first exam must take the initial part of their comprehensive examinations tomorrow afternoon in Room 222, Main Building, at 1:00 p. m. The second part of the examination will be given Sunday morning in the same room at 9:00 o’clock. Professor Paul Fenlon, chairman of the English major group, will conduct the examination.
360
The Notre Dame Scholastic
MORRISSEY HALL MAKES CLAIM FOR CAMPUS HONORS
Morrissey Hall, largest of the campus residence buildings, blossoms forth this week with a bid for campus honors. A short history of the Hall shows that it was named in honor of the Reverend Andrew Morrissey, C.S. C., who was president of the University until 1905, when he became Provincial of the Order. He held this latter position until the year 1918, when he became Co-Adjutor General with rights to succession.
Father Morrissey during his life became known as one of the greatest outdoor orators in the country, due to a deep, bass voice which could be heard, figuratively, for miles.
However, in our present day, the personnel of the Hall is well represented in campus organizations. The Wranglers, Scribblers, and Spectator Clubs have all elected Morrissey men to membership. The presidents of two classes, James Collins of the sophomores, and Vernon Knox of the juniors, reside within the portals. The Blue Circle and the S. A. C. find many of the men from Morrissey Hall on their letter-heads. Six members of the Notre Dame Scholastic write their copy for the week in their rooms in Morrissey. Jack Dempsey, Joe Lopker, and others are among the staff members of the Juggler. Others of the men are working on the Dome. Several of the fellows made the trip to New York with the Notre Dame Band, while a few others either blow or toot in the Juggler’s Orchestra. And then, too, Ed Madden is now a duly authorized cheer leader for the school, besides being one of the Blue Circle representatives.
■ Morrissey has ever been among the leaders in inter-hall sports, last year winning the championships in Basketball and Swimming. This year promises to be even more of a success along those lines than ever before.
Scholastically, the Hall is one of the first on the campus. The Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C., rector of the hall, has announced that only eighteen men are on the probation list, out of an enrollment of 249. “Morrissey Hall,” says Father Haggerty, “is indeed rightly nicknamed the ‘Student’s Hall’.”
One of the features of the building includes a beautiful chapel, designed by Ross and Company, of Boston, which is unique inasmuch as it is done entirely in oak, including the statues
and altar. This is the only chapel on the campus that is finished in this manner. Also a spacious lobby, complete with comfortable chairs, directly as a visitor enters the building serves as a “rec” room.
And, lastly, although by no means the least important, it has always been whole-heartedly behind any demonstration of “pep” for any of the teams, and is earnestly sincere in the ideals of Notre Dame.
COLRICK TO BE HONORED AT BANQUET
The New Jersey Club will honor John Colrick, of Passaic, a member of the club and foremost athlete, at a testimonial dinner, next Monday evening, at the College Inn of the Hotel LaSalle. Robert Massey, club prexy, is arranging the affair, and promises an array of popular speakers and musicians.
Big “John,” as Colrick is popularly known about the campus, has terminated one of the greatest athletic careers of any individual in the history of the University. He has won nine monograms and has been a cog in the football, basketball, and baseball teams for the past three years. He captained the baseball team last year. He will be graduated from the University at the end of this semester.
It is both fitting and commendable that the New Jersey Club honor a man of the calibre of John Colrick, at a dinner. Members can best show their appreciation by being present next Monday evening.
LARGE CROWD GREETS TEAM ON RETURN FROM
- ARMY
A mammoth crowd consisting of students, townspeople, and wellwishers of the Notre Dame football team, gathered in and around the New York Central Station, Monday afternoon in a final public testimonial tribute to the 1929 varsity squad, upon its arrival from the Army game.
The squad was greeted by a tremendous ovation, followed by a parade to the LaSalle Hotel, where a number of demonstrations were given, including speeches, and yells, and the singing of the Victory March. The Notre Dame National Champions were greeted by enthusiasm on all sides, even surpassing the welcome accorded the team in the season of 1926 which culminated in a decisive victory over the Army, after a strenuous schedule.
Gleanings
According to a rumor which blew in from Chicago along with the snow storm, Jack Mullen is about to have a book of poems published. He graduated in the class of ’28 and was editor of the Scholastic in his senior year. Jack is at present on the advertising staff of the Chicago Tribune.
Hugh O’Donnell, graduate of the class of ’94 and now assistant business manager of the New York Times, was toastmaster at the banquet given the football team after the Army game.
The Four Horsemen were all on hand to witness the vanquishing of the Cadets by the Fighting Irish. Harry Stuhldreher was unable to attend the alumni banquet at the McAlpin Hotel, but Don Miller, ’ Jimmy Crowley, and Elmer Layden were there and took part in the speech tmaking.
James Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Board and editor of the Alumnus, managed to get away from South Bend long enough to visit New York last week-end. The Yankee Stadium and the McAlpin Hotel were included in his itinerary.
Probably one of the greatest gatherings of Notre Dame alumni ever assembled took place over the weekend of the Army game in New York. Virtually all of the graduates of the University around New England were present for the festivities.
The New York alumni were highly , pleased with the showing made by the band at the game. The period between the halves would have been drab and colorless had not Joe Casa-santa and his boys been there to fill in with classy music and classier drills.
The president of the National Alumni Association, Mr. John W. Eggeman, of Fort Wayne, was present at the football banquet on, Wednesday night.
Franklyn E. Doan, director of public relations at Notre Dame last year, and a former editor of the Dome, is at present in New York City. Mr. Doan is the author of a weekly column in the South Bend News-Times, which is entitled “From South Bend to Broadway.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
361
A Man A bout the Campus
The thought came to us a few weeks ago that we were straying rather far afield in the search for a “Man About the Campus.’* Like the Biblical king who sent out his servants for wedding guests, so we searched the highways and byways
John E. Bergan for the elusive campus “big-shot.” And when we say “searching the highways and byways” our language is not entirely figurative. (Dick 'O’Donnell, who very ably pinch-hitted for us last week, is ready to testify emphatically as to that.)
Now, chasing aftei* busy S. A. C. and Blue Circle chairmen, literary society presidents and what else have you?—begins to pall on one after the first few weeks; so we decided that the next man chosen for honor in this column would be within easy interviewing distance. That was a good idea, except for the fact that John E. Bergan, chosen for his accessibility, was not as accessible as we thought he would be. Still, it was much nicer to get a neatly prepared dossier from him than to tramp wearily up and down the steps of Sorin, Lyons, or Walsh. In other words,, what we started out to say was that Johnny Bergan is this week’s “Man About the Campus.” However, our long-suffering readers must not forget that this column must contain at least five hundred words.
Johnny Bergan is the first Junior to be written up in the column since it was started this year. To those seniors who may belligerently want to
know, “How Come” we can only say, “Read On.”
In the first place, John is the News Editor of the Scholastic; and the Scholastic does not agree with the proverb that “ a prophet is without honor in his own country.” But the news editorship is only one of John’s many activities. Even as a freshman he was right in the middle of things. He was one of the freshmen football managers, and he played a slashing game at end for the off-campus grid team. Later he thought that discretion was the better part of valor, so he retired from active competition to take over the managership of the Day Dogs. He was also on the staffs of the Scholastic and the Dome, and he contributed frequently to the Jxiggler. It may seem surprising that a Freshman should make the staffs of two campus publications and contribute to a third. But John’s ability to write is the answer. That ability was further recognized when an essay by him received honorable mention in the Culver Literary Field Day of 1927.
In .his sophomore year John was promoted to the news editorship of the Scholastic, which position he still holds. His literary ability having been increased after a year in Composition and Rhetoric under Mr. Smithberger, his class mates made him chairman of the publicity committee for the Cotillion. He also served on the Blue Circle that year.
This year he edits the Santa Maria, the official organ of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus; he has a story in the Football Review; and he still contributes to the Juggler.
The Knights of Columbus, the Press Club, and the Villagers all number John among their members. He is a Junior in the College of Arts and Letters and lives in South Bend, so, enough said! *
GLENN CARBERRY. VISITS CAMPUS
Glenn “Judge” Carberry, captain of the Notre Dame football team in 1923, renewed old acquaintances on the campus Tuesday when he spent the day at Notre Dame. Carberry is now assisting Jimmy Crowley as coach of the Michigan State football team, and is practicing law at Lansing.
While on the campus he visited with his brother Jack, of Corby Hall.
Music and Drama
Last week-end was kind to us, for we -were not only able to see The Merchant of Venice but also Tristan and Isolde and La Traviata. We cannot say enough in praise of Fritz Leiber for his excellent rendition of Shylock, so let us simply call it superb.
Wagner’s opera was very well done but a three-act production lasting three and one-half hours does become rather tedious. The duets in the first and second acts were unusually fine and Isolde’s Liebestod was striking, to say the least. Only one incident marred the last named selection, that was that many people just couldn’t wait till the end of the opera. They insisted on “tramping out.”’ ,
La Traviata is lovely, but what made it even more so was Claudia Muzio. She was Violetta and ■ her liquid soprano was just gorgeous. And coupled with marvelous acting she is our idea of the perfect prima donna. Charles Hackett played an interesting, -but not any too definite Alberto. The ballet is also to be praised on its brilliant performance in the third act.
Next Monday evening, December 9, Paul Robeson, noted negro baritone, will sing at Orchestra Hall. Mr. Robeson has done remarkably well during Iris twenty-eight years. He was a Phi Beta Kappa, took graduate work at Oxford, made a wonderful success on the concert stage, and after completing his American tour will return to England to play the lead in Othello.
Albert Rappaport and Alexander Gretchaninoff are giving a concert at the Studebaker theater- Sunday afternoon. It is composed of Russian songs and folk-pieces.
Edwin Fitzpatrick and Peter Murphy are going to give a two-piano concert at Hull House Sunday evening. These two are especially noted for their transcriptions of old Gaelic tunes.
Also on Sunday afternoon comes Katherine Bacon, one of America’s foremost pianistes. She is playing at the Civic Theater.
362
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FOOTBALL BANQUET BIG SUCCESS
Exactly 1,338 customers pushed their way through the portals of the Notre Dame dining halls last Wednesday evening in a, fitting testimonial to the “Fighting Irish of 1929.”
It was a gala occasion, celebrating the victories of our great National Champs. Speeches were made by Pat Page, Bill Ingram, “Biff” Jones, Judge Walter Steffen, Harvey T. Woodruff, our own Jimmy Phelan, the Very Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C., Governor' Harry C. Leslie, of Indiana, Jack Chevigny, Paul Castner and Toastmaster Warren Brown.
Mr. Warren Brown, a gentleman addicted to influenza, and who among other things is Sports Editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, acted in the capacity of Toastmaster for the affair.
Perhaps the best liked and most applauded speech of the evening was that presented by Coach Jimmy Phelan, of the undefeated championship Purdue squad.
“We take our hats off to the greatest team in America,” shouted and growled Phelan, in the meantime doing everything but a handspring from the speaker’s table. “And we do not claim any more honors than the Big Ten championship.”
It was “Biff” Jones, oi’ sometimes called Captain Lawrence M. Jones, of the U. S. Military Academy, who touched off the sentiment of everyone present.
“The record of no team in the country can compare with Notre Dame,” said Jones, “in regard to teams de-
VILLAGERS TO HOLD
CHRISTMAS FORMAL
The Villager’s Club will hold -its annual Christmas dance on Thursday evening, December 26, at the Palais Royale Ballroom. The dance is to be a formal, and will be held between the hours of 9 and 1.
Doc. Davis and his band, from the Hotel Stevens, Chicago, have been engaged to play the program of dances. The orchestra composed of nine musicians who are popular radio entertainers, should prove itself to be of no mediocre quality. The members of the music committee considered numerous orchestras, to play for the dance, but decided on the aforementioned one, on account of its popu-
feated in different sections of the country. I, of the Army, salute you.”
“Navy Bill’ Ingram, of Annapolis, was decisive and sincere in his talk, mentioning, amid a great applause, that “We think more of our relationship with Notre Dame than possibly any other that we have.”
“Carnegie Tech,” said Head Coach Wally Steffen, so-called while sitting on the football bench, but His Honor Judge Walter P. Steffen, while sitting on another' bench in Chicago, “is proud of the fact that our scare was not worse than 7 to 0. Nowadays a coach can get more reputation by losing to Notre Dame than winning all their games.”
About this time in the proceedings, Jack Chevigny, in the absence of Tom Lieb, introduced all of the players to the assemblage. Following this procedure, Carideo, Moynihan, Colrick, Cannon, Elder, and Law were awarded a trophy presented by the-Indianapolis Star for making the mythical “All-Indiana team.” Another award was presented to Jack Elder in the form of a Hollywood autographed football.
Harvey T. Woodruff, introduced by Mr. Brown as-a member of another good newspaper, was next in line on the speakers’ table. Mr. Woodruff, self-styled a young reporter merely trying to get ahead, told the audience of some of his questions which were unanswerable. Help! Help!
Governor Leslie, a great follower of football, said in the course of his talk that Notre Dame was National Champion as far as Indiana was concerned !
larity and the good will which it has acquired.	'
Another attraction of the affair is the fact that arrangements are being made to have several numbers sung by Joe Morrison, a popular Broadway tenor, who will be in South Bend at that time.
The various committees are now at work, and an extensive advertising campaign is soon to be made in order to make this dance the most successful ever sponsored by the Villagers Club. •
Jack Shively is the general chairman of the arrangements, and he is being assisted by the following committee chairmen: tickets, Bob Holmes; music, Bill Konop; publicity, R. J. Poulin; decorations, Howard Webster; and invitations, Tom Brandon.
College of Commerce .Notes
The commerce students who are now on probation as a result of the first quarter examinations, will be interviewed by Dean James E. McCarthy, each afternoon, in his office at 125 -Sorin Hall.
Mr. John E. Dwyer, of the Pearsens Taft and Company, brokers of Chicago and New York, -will inaugurate the lecture series for the commerce students for the 1929-30 scholastic year. ’ The date of Mr. Dwyer’s lecture will be announced next week.
Membership was closed in the Commerce Forum, honorary organization of the Commerce men. • A general meting will be held next week.
DOME PHOTOGRAPHER
MAKES FINAL APPEAR-
ANCE
Russell’s Studio will have a photographer in the Main BuildingStudio, from December 5 to 12. This will be absolutely the last time for pictures to be taken for the Dome. Any Seniors, Juniors and Activities Men who have not yet been photographed, are requested to take advantage of this last opportunity for sittings. After December 12, the Senior and Junior sections will be sent to the printers to facilitate prompt delivery on scheduled time.
For those interested in business management of campus publications, Ray Manix, advertising manager announces several openings on the Advertising Staff of the Dome. Anyone interested may apply to Mr. Manix, 413 Lyons Hall. •
FIRES GUARD CONCRETE IN NEW STADIUM
Ten bonfires, built on the foundations of the new stadium, now under construction on Cartier Field, served to keep the newly poured concrete from freezing during the past week says John P. Malton, construction foreman.
Work on the stadium will be abandoned next week until March because of the continued snow and cold weather. The stadium, in all probability will be completed by August 1, 1930.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
363
r*]iiin tiiiimiiinttinmiiii»iiiniiiitntiiinminmiiiiHiinn»ir«] | KNIGHTS OF COLUM- 1 BUS NOTES I
E John Bergan, this year’s edi- e 1 tor of the Santa Maria, an- = E nounces that the publication E E will probably make its first E E appearance of the year in about E E two weeks. According to pres- E E ent plans it will contain ap- = E	proximately thirty-five	pager	e
E with many surprises in the way E 1	of contributions.	’	=
Z	*	*	#	z
E Very shortly all of the halls E E are to be canvassed for old e E	clothes. Frank	Gartland	has	e
E been appointed chairman of the e E committee to handle this cam- = E paign. It is an annual practice E E for Notre Dame Council to do E E this, and results in the past have = E been large, many needy fam- e E ilies in South Bend and else- E E where being helped in this man- E E ner. It is hoped that the re- E E sponse this year will be as gen- E E erous as it has been in the past, e E	* * *	E
E Plans are under way for an- e = other Mass and Communion to E E be attended by the Knights in a E E body. It will be remembered e E’ that the last was well attended, = E It is planned to make this E E a monthly occasion. “There E E is no better’ way of demonstrat- E E ing the aims and ideals of the e E Knights of Columbus than e E something of this order. Every E E Knight should attend,” is how E E John Chevigny, Grand Knight, E 1 expresses it.	E
x	*	*	*	=
E The initiation for the first e E degree has been postponed until E E December 13 to allow those who E E have not already done so, an E E opportunity of presenting their E E application. Nicholas Bohling e E and Frank McAdams, co-chair- = = men of the membership com- E E mittee, wish to remind the pres- E E ent applicants to report to Dr. E E Berteling’s office in South Bend E E sometime during the next few e E days for their physical exam- E E ination. If they wish to go e E down this coming Sunday, they E E may do so by making arrange- E E ments with either of the men E E mentioned above.	E
E	*	*	*	2
E Remember the meeting Mon- E E day, December 9!	E
FATHER WARD HONORED BY O’BRIEN
The Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., well-liked young English instructor, has been honored in his chosen literary field by Edward J. O’Brien, editor of “The Best Short Stories of 1929.” O’Brien has given three- stars to Father' Ward’s “Possession,” . which appeared in the Midland, and placed him on the roll of honor of the American short story.
O’Brien has been editing this yearbook for fifteen years. He says of the honor roll, “Finally, I have recorded the names of a small group of stories which possess, I believe, the even finer distinction of uniting genuine substance and artistic form in a closely woven pattern with such sincerity that these stories may fairly claim a position in American literature.”
Two other stories of Father Ward’s, “After Corn-Husking” and “BlackPurple in the Corn,” are given two and one stars, respectively. They also appeared in the Midland, edited by John T. Frederick, who visited the university this week. O’Brien rates the Midland among the first six - or seven American periodicals in literary quality. Father Ward is a staunch lover of the farm, and writes of midwestern farm life powerfully and sympathetically. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1920, after winning campus literary distinction, and a monogram in basketball. He was ordained in 1927.
“The Best Short Stories of 1929” has just been published by Small, Maynard & Co., Boston.
INTER-HALL DEBATING NOW IN PROGRESS
The first debate of the inter-hall season took place Thursday evening of this week when the teams representing Carroll and Howard met.in the Law Building-. The evening previous, Freshman forfeited the contest to Brownson.
The debating season for the Freshman Halls, which is ably sponsored by the Wranglers Club each year, is one of the high-lights for the first year men. So far Brownson is twice winner of the cup, and when they successfully hold it for one more season, it will automatically become their property. Each freshman team, both negative and affirmative, is out to settle the contest definitely by coming out in the lead this year.
The schedule arranged by Thomas Keegan, chairman of the Wranglers Inter-Hall committee, is so fixed that
the final debate will be held sometime before the Christmas holidays. A banquet for the participants will be given soon aftei- the recess.
Coaches James Walsh and Pat Ryan, of Carroll and Brownson, respectively, and Eddie Phelan, of Howard, all seem to have an equal opportunity of gaining the cup, but the forfeit of Freshman Hall, last Wednesday, will be a hard handicap to overcome.
Debates are scheduled for each Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday evening, in the Law Building. Judges will be selected from the faculty.
CAST FOR “TAMING OF THE SHREW” IS ANNOUNCED The cast was announced this week for “The Taming of the Shrew,” which the University Players are to present in Washington Hall, on December 16. The role of Katharine ■will be played by Mrs. Norbert Engels; of Petruchio, by Virgilius Phillip; of Baptista, by Harry Merd-zinski; of Biondello, by Arthur Dennehy; of the music-master, by Bill Sherman; of Grumio, by John Now-ery; of Curtis, by James Phelan; of Nathaniel, by Jerome Crowley; of Gabriel, by Frank Walker; of Gregory, by Victor- Martzel; of Hortensio, by Robert Haire; of a tailor, by Leon Zabriskie. The introduction to the play, which is not customarily included, will also be presented. Christopher Sly will be played by Jake Leisen; a lord, by Mike O’Hara; a page, by Joseph Beeman; and a huntsman, by Frank Mihan.
The production unit for this presentation includes John Manning, Lawrence Mullins, Frank McAdams, and Charles Wells.
K. OF C. SUPREME OFFICER INSPECTS LOCAL GROUP
D. E. Butler, a representative of the Supreme Council of the Knights of Columbus, is a guest this week of the local South Bend and Notre Dame Councils. The main purpose of his visit is to acquaint the members with the details of the new insurance laws of the order, recently adopted, and to point out the facts of the boys’ work program, a new feature which is considered one of the outstanding developments of the welfare activities of the Knights of Columbus.
While on the campus, Mr. Butler conferred with the local council officers, Grand Knight Chevigny, and. Vernon J. Knox, financial secretary.
364
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“LA RAZA” CLUB
The “La Raza” Club held its monthly meeting Friday night, Nov. 29, in the Law Building. Marcelino Garza, chairman of the Charter Committee, presented the Charter to the club, and after a short discussion it was adopted as the official charter of the club. The chairman of the Banquet committee, Ralph Garza, gave plans for the banquet which will be given in honor of the freshman members of the club, and it was decided that the banquet will be held at the Oliver Hotel the evening of December 14. Professor Don Pedro de Landero, head of the Spanish Department of the University, will be guest of honor at the banquet. The entertainment is being arranged by the committee. The president, Henry Rodriguez, introduced two visitors, Mr. Louis Rivera from Chile, and Mr. Gabriel Jimenez from Porto Rico, students at Northwestern University, each of whom gave a short talk.
.DETROIT CLUB
The date for the Christmas Formal to be given by the Detroit Club will be December 27. Edward Nebel, general chairman, has had several meetings with the chairmen of the different committees and is well pleased with the progress that has been made on the plans for the dance.
The ballroom of the Detroit-Leland Hotel has been reserved by the club and Walter DeBaene, chairman of the Music committee, reports that Jack Johnstone’s orchestra has been engaged for the affair. This orchestra is at present playing in the Arabian Room of the Hotel Tuller in Detroit and is recognized as one of the best bands in the Middle West.
YOUNGSTOWN CLUB •
At the regular Tuesday evening meeting of the Youngstown Club, Charles Cushwa was appointed chairman of the Christmas Dance, and the following committees were announced: Tickets—Joseph Wallace, chairman, Tom Enright, Michael Koken, and Tom Hughen. Invitations—Edward De Bartola, and Gilbert Tiberio. Decorations and Programs—Frank Savage, chairman, Charles Petretic, Gabe Moran, and William Fair. Music—Edward Madden, and James Biggins. In the suburban districts of Sharon, Hubbard, Girard, Niles, and Warren—James Boyle, Sid Jackson, Ted O’Neil, Joseph Conea, and Patrick Conway will have charge of arrangements.
William A. Dunlevy, president of the club, is planning some novel features for the members and their friends, and the greatest Christmas dance of all times is anticipated.
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB
The Connecticut Valley Club held an important meeting on the second floor of the Law building Nov. 26. The committee delegated to investigate the possibility of chartering a special Pullman on the Fifth Avenue Special at the beginning of the Christmas vacation was named by John C. Redgate. The club is to be canvassed by Tom Ferriter to determine whether or not a sufficient number are interested
in this proposition or not. Francis Farrell, the general chairman on the dance committee, reported on the progress of the various committees. Dick Newcomb’s orchestra, which has created much favorable comment in the East, will play. Newcomb provided the music and entertainment for the Yale-Array dinner-dance recently. Members are, urged to send in names of possible patrons. Dance invitations will be issued to all members as soon as they are engraved. Tom Ferriter reported on the progress made by the patrons committee.
The next meeting of the club will be held on Dec. 10, in the Law Building at 7:45 p. m.
VILLAGERS CLUB
The December- meeting of the Villagers Club was held last Monday evening, December 2, in the College Inn, Hotel LaSalle. Reverend Joseph A. Heiser, C.S.C., Off-Campus Director, and Dean Thomas F. Konop, of the Hoynes College of Law, spoke before the members. Father Heiser spoke on the duty of the Villagers toward doing their best in upholding the reputable name which the University has made for itself. Dean Konop’s talk was in the nature of a supplement to that of Father Heiser’s.
Following the talks a business meeting was held, and plans’were made for the annual Christmas Formal which is to be held on December 26.
’ THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN CLUB
first floor of the Law Building this evening, immediately after lunch, held a meeting to elect officers. A. president, a vice-president and a treasurer were elected, the secretary’s position to be filled at the next meeting to be held on the first floor of the Law Building this evening immediately after Benediction.
A meeting of the officers to determine their various duties was held since the last meeting, and a program of future events, including a dinner-dance and a smoker, both to be held in the near- future, was considered. Because there are so few members of this club going home this Christmas, the Club proposes to sponsor a dinner-dance soon after vacation begins.
The officers elected are: Ramon G. Smith, president; Russell Sabo, vice-president; and Bart O’Hara, treasurer. During the week Nick Kalmes is attending to the duties of the secretary. •	.
THE UTICA CLUB
Members of the Utica Club are once more warned that there will be a limited number of reservations for the Christmas Formal to be held at the Yahnundasir Golf Club. Those who have not as yet made their reservations are requested to consult E. J. Sweeney, 112 Corby Hall, immediately.	•
To all those Notre Dame men living in Rome, Auburn, Syracuse and the Mohawk Valley towns, the Utica Club extends invitations to attend this formal dance.
a
The Notre Dame Scholastic	365
At the University of Virginia they have a good old Southern custom of stamping their feet in the classroom whenever they feel the urge to express pleasure or amusement. The custom has really grown into a tradition, so much so that the older professors no longer question the propriety of the act but- accept it placidly as part of the day’s procedure. But recently the newer professors inaugurated a vigorous campaign to extirpate the practice. Possibly they suspect that the stamping isn’t always in-•	tended as an expression of pleasure or amusement. The
students, however, are utterly disregarding the effort to ‘' stamp out the stamping. And so it goes.
•	—o—
A certain senior down at Indiana has the right idea. When he returned in the wee hours of the morning and found that he was on the outside and his key on the inside, he nonchalantly called out the fire department. The fire, man placed a ladder for him and he casually walked up it ' and into his room. That idea ought to go over big around here.
—o—
The Texans are not ready to forsake cow-punching and cattle rustling for aviation, if we may judge from the enrollment in their class of aeronautics, which enrollment, after being carefully checked and re-checked, totalled pre-i	cisely zero. The aerial enthusiasm of the Kansans is some-
i	what higher, twenty students having signed up for the fly-
ing school at Lawrence.
—o—
At Kansas they have an instructor in the department of sociology who is called the “Scientific Hobo.” Recently -	' while gathering first-hand sociological information in Kan-
. sas City in the disguise of a hobo he was arrested as a ' questionable character. It required two hours of explaining for him to regain his freedom.
—o—
( When one of the Kappa Sigmas at Wisconsin contracted diphtheria the other 55 members of the fraternity were quarantined with him in the chapter house. The chief diversions during the enforced retirement were card '*	playing, telephoning, bull sessioning, and thumb twiddling.
Denver University co-eds are not only horseshoe throwers but are also archers. Some twenty or more of them are out daily for archery practice and some sort of competition is being planned to select the most adept pupil.
. ~°~
Almost two hundred freshmen of Penn State have organized a harmonica band which has become so well-known . as to be “shot” by Fox Movietone. We suggest that the freshmen hereabouts go into solemn conclave and vote to J	form the world’s first organized birdie band.
A Purdue student has certainly; established himself as worthy of receiving the hand-embroidered gaboon awarded
annually to the person who during the course of the year has seemingly performed the deed most beneficial to mankind. This gentleman from Purdue has developed the art of economizing on dates to an extent heretofore unapproached. Instead of spending from $3 to $5 or more on every date, he makes 25 cents cover the cost of his visits to the girl friend. He says that “cigarettes, two five-cent drinks, and then a sorority house porch” will do it every time. This is undoubtedly a splendid and unfailing plan, but what could we use for sorority porches around here ?
—o—
Syracuse Daily Orange: “Faculty Will Participate in Interfraternity Sports.” What an opportunity that presents to a lot of sorely mistreated undergraduates.
—o—
There are eighty-seven disadvantages in having an automobile at the University of California, and all eighty-seven are in the form of concrete steps which must be ascended from the place where the automobiles are parked. Any student sturdy enough to climb all those steps, perhaps several times daily for four years, should, by all that’s right and just, be awarded an honorary letter for track. A number of most incredible speed records have been hung up by students who seem to have urgent business somewhere. Maybe some of the records were made on the downgrade, in an unwilling and ungentlemanly manner.
—o—
The recent installment of new seismographs in the Ricard Memorial Observatory of the University of Santa Clara has brought the observatory to the position of being one of the best equipped in the United States, if not in the world. Notre Dame’s observatory (yes, Hugo, we have one; it’s that queer structure behind the postoffice) is certainly not one which would inspire us to challenge Santa Clara’s claim to supremacy. And incidentally, Clipper Smith, our former All-American, is faring rather well as coach of the Santa Clara football team. Pop Warner and the Stanford players ■will reluctantly testify to the truth of this statement.
—o—
Two Wisconsin football men were locked up after attempting to remove a pair of spats from a student. It was later brought out that the athletes must be far-sighted, for they handed the victim a thorough beating, but never were able to locate the spats, which came out of the fray intact and in place.
Spectators at a recent interclass battle of sophomores at the University of Nebraska were greatly moved by the unusual show of emotion, loyalty, and all that on the part of the combatants, who were all going about their little tasks with tears streaming copiously down their determined faces. But later it was disclosed that tear gas had been flung far and wide, thereby accounting for the generous lachrymal deluge. And then the college officials swung into action.
366	The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WEEK
RODIGAL sons no longer learn wisdom from chewing husks among the healthy swine. Swine have probably come to the conclusion that prodigals will be prodigals despite temperance lectures and the beneficent influence of porcine example. But although pigs seem to have ceded much of their historic power to some others, still we must grant that they have a place in the world. Just now some of the University’s pigs have found a place at the International Live Stock Exposition in Chicago. Literally, they are rooting for the old school. And should they come back decked with pink ribbons and brass earrings the Blue Circle should herd them from station to sty, followed by the band playing, “This Little Pig Went to Market,” while Barton leads in three “suis” for our Hampshire hogs.
^^NOW seems to be as well established as coffee, rolls, and bran; the Oratorical contests and the University Theater have come out of lethargy; there was skating on the lake last Sunday, and the night watchman of Sorin has succumbed to his annual cold. These are all very convincing proofs of winter. Indoor games, with modifications and improvements, are coming into their winter prominence. Jim Walsh has found a new game, which some call a philosophical reverie, but which I prefer to call the Hickory, Dickery, Dock Elimination Chant. It consists of trying to out-tick your watch.
UTBOARD motor racing as an intercollegiate sport has been sponsored by College Humor. Accordingly we may expect next spring to hear the sedate putt-putt-putt of one-lung engines echoing from the concrete-bottomed puddle in the front yard of the institution in oui- rear. National advertisers will soon be calling a convention, the outcome of which will be that the Saturday Evening Post will revive tiddley-winks as an accomplishment for college literary societies. Much less internal dissension in collegiate literary groups will result if the self-expression of members is confined to such restricted mediums. Should the popularity of the new aquatic College Humor result in a deflation of circulation for the Scholastic we can try being raised by our own bowstrings, and introduce intramural archery.
I HE Romance of the Great Valley was the difficult subject which Professor John Frederick assailed in Washington Hall Tuesday night. Difficult because many of us have an erroneous belief that romance died when Robin Hood’s last arrow whizzed from the hermit’s window into the depths of Sherwood Forest. Difficult, too, because the “Great Valley” in question includes Indiana, which students think as romantic as seven days of rain. However dull and dreary Indiana may be, we can find inspiration in Dante’s example—he found romance in the Inferno. Mr. Frederick politely implied that most of us wouldn’t recognize romance if it perched on our own noses, and that those who did recognize it thought that such a flighty bird could make her nest only on the far cliffs. To prove my faith in the editor of the Midland, and in his belief that romance perches as often in this valley of tears as on the cliffs of fantasy, I have resolved to forswear yeast cakes until I have finished the first three of my ten volume set of novels. The title of the first release is “Timothy O’Shaunessy,” or “Why the Townfolks Loved the Collegians.”
I O use the boiler-plate phrase of our composing room, a civic testimonial banquet was given the team Wednesday evening. Attending this banquet were many men representing as many callings; all gathered in our hall to show their appreciation for a good team that played an unusual schedule; and for having played it well. In New York, a similar banquet was held; and everywhere the team happens to travel it is given honors. Their efforts have received national attention. But the appreciation that means most to them is of a homelier and sturdier breed than that which is passed over the coffee and cigars. Cheering crowds of students at the station, the enthusiastic reception in the dining hall, and, even more, a few good words from the fellows with whom they mingle every day—these are the things that the football team will remember and smile over when, years . hence, they recall their successes.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	367
TWO EVENT/
In the course of the past seven .days, two events, of more than ordinary significance for anyone connected with the University of Notre Dame, have written themselves into the roster of current happenings.
' A magazine expressive of undergraduate creative writing and thinking has made its appearance on the campus; and the football team, upon the occasion of winning its final game, finds itself called by many, “National Champions.”
Both events are cumulative in the sense that they represent a totality of effort, a summing up of endeavour, on the part of those concerned.	’
But they are more than this; they are expressions of student life pitched to high points in two quite disparate fields of achievement. And in each field a high degree of success has been achieved.
When we say “success” we are not succumbing to a current craze for making the word a fetish; there are many failures that are far more glorious than any success; but we do wish to point out that the quality of endeavour* that hewed out Scrip and an aggregation of “National Champions” must be rather first rate.
Not that we have any illusions about this so-called “National Championship”; we well realize that football is, after all, only a game, and supremacy in it but a mark of especial aptitude in the playing of a game. But where so many are engaged in such a sport, it is a mark of very special aptitude to rise superior to a host of one’s competitors.
The magazine represents not only a new vehicle of expression but a contribution to tradition as well; and we must keep clearly in mind the fact that white flamed words will still light man on his way, long after amusements are lost coins in the byways of Life.
But, too, let us keep in mind that Notre Dame has kept the balance by attempting in both fields— has, in both fields, succeeded—and succeeded uniquely!	M. h. l.
I K IIIK I f IKUIS
a	The Chicago Heralcl-Examiner says that $2,000,000 was paid to see Notre Dame play football
this year. Other interesting figures included the following: $800,000 was the share paid to Notre Dame, the same amount being paid to opponents; $200,000 was allowed Notre Dame for expenses; and of the aforementioned $800,000, Mr. Rockne received as his share $40,000, which was five- percent dis! count on ticket sales on all Notre Dame football games. The team is said to have travelled 8,300 miles, | and played before 600,000 people.
'f1	Unfortunately these figures, while interesting, are not true. In the first place, the Athletic Asso-
ciation will not clear $800,000, much as they need that amount. Secondly, the expenses will run over ’	$200,000, since Notre Dame spends a small fortune on uniforms and equipage; always carries a large
line-up, and no discount on mileage is allowed by the government. . Thirdly, Mr. Rockne is the recipient of a straight salary and did not receive five percent of - the gate or even so little as one-half of / one percent. These figures, coming from a large metropolitan newspaper, will probably be copied by . other sports writers. Accordingly,' students are requested to file away this refutation for future reference. We simply cannot go on denying this thing forever.	T. v. M.
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 368
PATRICK SHICKEY Proprietor of the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s ’Bus Line For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I refer, by permission to the Superior of both institutions.	P. Shickey.
There, in a nutshell, was the transportation problem of 1879. Notre Dame did not need a car station, as there were no street-cars. The Dorr road wasn’t closed, because it wasn’t
paved, and it wasn’t paved because only a wagon or two a day
Main Bldg.
passed over it.
No rattling, jerking, swaying, bobbing street cars, nor cowed and defiant conductors. It was a simple matter of hailing the genial Patrick (if he was within hailing distance) and for a few cents you rode in the dignity of his omnibus to Notre Dame. Patrick could be depended upon for informality as well as his geniality: the new comer to Father Sorin’s university was well aware of the fact that the Minims were rather troublesome, but very loyal; that the Big Fire of April 23 had been very disastrous and that the Main Building had been rebuilt and glorified,—and he knew all this by the time that he reached the Porter’s Lodge at the entrance to the University.
This “Lodge” was a curious thing: it was something like the Off-Campus
observatory except that there was little “off-campus” to worry the disciplinary board—
“No one shall leave the grounds except with the permission of the president, the vice-president, or the prefect of discipline.”
-----this statute, fierce as it was, had a match in-----
“No private walks shall be taken except with the prefects.”
The Lodge, therefore, represented more than an out-post to disciplinary measures. As the passenger descended from Pat’s ’bus, the Lodge was his'first thought. From its steps he could see the dome of the Main Building, the statue; the Church and
a few other buildings.
The sight of the Main Building—up a double row of maples and oaks, must have awed the visitor a little. It had been burned to the ground, so that hardly “a stone was left upon a stone”—and here it was again. A new cornice here, a changed gable there, a resplendent dome, all of these stood out rather definitely for a Notre Dame tradition, which is best expressed in the words “Father Sorin.”
In fact, the Main Building in 1879 was the same essentially as it is now. It is as much a part of Notre Dame as St. Peter’s is of Rome, or the Loop is of Chicago. It was here in 1879, it is here in 1929 and it will probably be here in 1979, unless— Go ahead and make your own guesses, we’re busy.
[■jiiiMtiHHinttiiinttitiHmttniiiiitHiiiiiiiiititiiittiittiiitiniiiiiitutiiiimiiiitiiniiii.......	pl
=	CURRICULUM OF STUDIES IN 1879:	!
| In the commercial course, arithmetic, geography, E | grammar, letter-writing, United States history, read- E = ing, spelling, penmanship, bookkeeping and commercial : = law.	:
= Drawing, painting, music; anatomy, and materia : | medica; phonography and telegraphy; languages (Ger- = | man, French, Italian, and Spanish), and civil en- E | gineering.	|
We’re taking apart, brick by brick, Washington Hall. Down goes Sorin, Corby, Law, Badin, Chemistry, Morrissey, Lyons and Howard, the Gymnasium and the Library. Freshman and Sophomore can be conveniently swept up by a gust of energetic wind from St. Joe’s Lake. And that is a negative idea of what the campus looked like in 1879.
Very few of the priests remember a Notre Dame as desolate as that. It took the faithful Scholastic, which complained rather petulantly during the ’70s that it was, “after all, only a college paper, edited amid pressing duties”
to record history. Whatever you Dorr Roafl> without think of the Friday periodical, it
is undoubtedly capturing a record
of the times as truly as a phonograph disc. And from its ye lowed columns, this sketch of the University has been drawn.
Very Reverexd William Corby, C. S. C., President
the United States,
First of all, where were the boys from, that made up th; brave 400 who returned to Notre Dame the September afte the fire? Most of them were Hoosiers from Indiana home which glorified crayon portraits of Gram pop and Uncle Bill, who had run away ! ’58 and never returned. During the sun mer the boys rode the new-fangled bicycl another “crazy European fad.” They rea “Tom Sawyer” and “Huck Finn,” whi] their parents read lengthy articles i HarpePs and the Atlantic Monthly. Ever] one talked about the great Exposition'! Philadelphia which had given Easternei something to do and Middle-westernei something to read and to talk about. i Rutherford B. Hayes was president d but some of the stalwart Democrats sti
complained about the memorable election. Over the breakfa; tables, fathers talked about Free Coinage and Japan’s Awake! ing and the Capitalists Morgan and Vanderbilt.
Then they decided to send their boys to “this here Notre Dame school.”
The faculty roster of those days was impressive: it sounds today like a roll-call of the campus halls: Sorin, Lyons, Howard, Corby and others. Father Sorin, fifty years ago, was in Europe and “never did I take the sea with a heart so grateful to God and men.” Reverend William Corby was president; he had a notice placed in the first Scholastic of the year, that he would be glad to see all his boys
I
Backyard in 187
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 369
gant cards printed by us a few days ago.
Most of which is as closed to postei*ity and to prying reporters of 1929 as the hieroglyphics on an Icelandic tomb. The tendency towards unintelligible comment on campus happenings still persists in high school weeklies.
^ssey and Lyons
back again. Professor Lyons had presented the summer students with a barrel of melons. Father Zahm, the “incomparable Zahm” and Professor Howard, historian and lecturer, were here. So was Professor Edwards, hard-working librarian, art and curio collector.
No Carnegie Report bothered the athletes of those days: there was no Cartier Field and no gym, as Al Gall has written in his stories of both of these institutions. There was not even an elaborate system of interhall play; for the reason that there were only two halls. The boys played “two-old-cat” and football. “Jim” says the Scholastic, “is the boss football-kicker,” but his technique
robably differed from Carideo’s. “Joe Spalding is the latest Nov. 1, 1879) recruit from Kentucky,” one of Elder’s fore-
unners.
Sketch of the Church, ’79
Football was played by hours, it seems, rather than periods, n one sports story (in which the winners and the score are laively reserved for the last ijie) there is a delightful notice •>f “lunch and sweet cider” being ierved between what might be ‘ailed “fifths” of the game. Sere is the ultimate in physical gaining in those pre-volley-ball lays: “The professor* of Astron-)!»y performs regularly on the parallel bars after the boys fave gone to bed. His development of muscles is something not to be sneezed at.”
tAiservative, even when
'Minims’ Playground
Literature, particularly journalistic literature of 1879, was measured with the output of today. Campus authors expounded lengthy articles on “Shakespeai*e” and “Voltaire” and “The Age of Chivalry.” The “Campus Gossip” talked briefly and patronizingly of other colleges. ■The author of Local Items began his lines with such catch-words as “Pass the Napkin” and proceeded thus:
—Peter Parkley has arrived.
—Nutting is all the rage.
—“How about those stogies, old boy?”
—Have yoii said the Rosary for the Prefects?
—The bashful five had some ele-
The pen was mighty then. A certain wit must have cringed ’ when he read with his 400 fellow-students that “G. R. U. B. is very funny in his own estimation.” The boy who controlled the news column then was as persistently sought and as devoutly hated as the quadrangle politician is today.
“Evils” are a problem at any university. Here is how Notre Dame dealt with the “Cards and Tobacco” menace in the old
days:
“We learn from College Exchanges that card-playing and the use of tobacco are forbidden at Oberlin. Although not a sin in itself, card-playing has repulsive associations. Needless to say, it is under the ban at Notre Dame.. The gentlemen in the Senior department are permitted the use of tobacco, however, under certain conditions and we hope that one or two of them will not make such leatherheads out of themselves as to break down these restrictions and to deprive the whole department of the privilege.”
Toward the Old College
An interesting scene. Yet prob-
ably it is more pleasant to look at from a distance. And in fifty years students may laugh at our prohibitions and our magazine and our “self-satisfied progressiveness.”
[■jiiiHtiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiuntuiittitHiiiiitiniiiHttiiiittii..	Q
i	DISCIPLINARY RULES FOR 1879:	|
E	1.	Students are to carefully avoid every expression	E
E	in the least injurious to their Religion, their professors,	E
E to the prefects or to their fellow students.	=
=	2.	No one shall leave the grounds except with the	e
E	permission of the president, the vice-president,	or the	E
E	prefect of discipline.	E
E	3.	No books, periodicals or magazines shall be	E
E	brought to the College without the approval	of the	E
E	director of studies.	E
1	4.	Every month (at least) the student must write ’ =
E	to his parent or guardian. Letters may be	opened	E
E	by the president, vice-president or the prefect of	E
E	discipline.	E
E	5.	Silence shall be observed at all times and places,	a
E	except during recreation periods.	E
E	6.	Intoxicating liquors are strictly prohibited.	E
E	7.	The students shall carry no money except that	E
E	which is received weekly from the treasurer at 9	o’clock	=
E Wednesday morning.	■ E
E 8. The students shall behave like gentlemen at all 1 E times.	E
[SlltltlllllM'ItltMtt.......
370
The Notre Dame Scholastic
How do you do this lovely Friday afternoon? Well, even if you don’t think it’s lovely you might think so just to please me. You make me sick, that’s what. I know you have your Christmas shopping to think of and so have I. But I have to write this whether or no the day be sad and long so the least you can do is read it. Don’t be chicken; go ahead and read it.
—o—
Well, that gives us a start. We have some contributions to spring later on and they’ll keep us going for a while. Right now we’d like Captain Rose to grow a mustache and comb that last Notre Dame score out of it. Guess that’ll learn him not to pick on no more ladies, I guess, I guess.
—o—
COQUETTE
Is there no means
By which I can prevail against you?
Surely I am at my wit’s end, And I am left with nothing But these spells of loose thinking— Absurd and vagrant fantasies—	.
Noiv, what else would you call them?
Can you imagine	-
How annoyed a father is
When his daughter, suddenly
Becoming disinterested in her dolls,
Looks tcp and asks,
“Daddy, what is the fourth dimension?”
—o—
OH YEAH?
They call them passing fancies, Those things that come and go; And, dear, it toould be wiser That I always think you so.
—Don Lee.
—o—
Don must have got another letter from Pat. And he, with a college education behind him and all of life before him. T-s-k! T-s-k! Think of that! (My but it’s been some time since we used that expression. But we can’t fall down on our following from dear old table 83!)
—o—
May we suggest something for your Xmas list? Thank you. We knew you’d love it?
For Romayne: Viennese bookends from Bergdorf-Good-man at §120.
For Jeanne: Vanity case from Brand-Chatillon at $475.
For Helen: Faith, hope, and charity.
For Will Durant: “The Art of Thinking” from Simon-Schuster.	.	.
For Sylvia: The Juggler we forgot to mail.
For Al Capone: A few more cities like Philadelphia.
For The Wink: Contributions. (From all of you.)
And there’s an instructor in rational psychology who would like a gift of class discussion from his 10:00 o’clock M. W._ F. class.
WEEK-ENDS
Friday—I met her—she smiled and I loved her.
Saturday—I dreamt of her—we danced, and I stepped on her.
Monday—Was it Helen??????????	.
—Beau Boy.
—o—
Beau Boy has figured out why we insist on’ publishing such a column. In the first place, we don’t publish the column. We write it. In the second place, he fails to take into consideration people like himself. They make the column what it is today.
—o—
We don’t call them at Fort Huachuca. We just let them go along. Some day they’ll wake up and then we’ll have good reason to do plenty of calling.
—o—
OUR INQUIRING REPORTER
(Each day our inquiring reporter eats breakfast at nine o’clock. While walking up Fifth Avenue from the cafeteria he stops at Child’s 48th and 5th to see if there are any there. He catches one or two in front of Black, Starr and Frosts’s and sometimes asks a question oi' so. If he forgets to ask them a question he has no dates until after Christmas.)
The question: What do you think of Eva LaGallienne?
Where asked: 169 No. Franklin Street.
Time: 3 a. m.
Weather: Wet.
Joe Skinch: Eva LeGallienne? She ought to be sent up for life. Any woman who plays Peter Pan for fish ought to be. When I think’ of Maude Adams I could cry. In fact, every time I think, I cry.
Joe Leblang: She ought to be run out of town. Any woman who can sell tickets lower than I can at Gray’s has no right to stay in a good clean business like selling cutrate tickets.
And by the way, anyone from Baker, Oregon, oi- anyone goofy enough to be twins is now called a “goove.”
We’re plenty sorry we’re so goovey this week, but between week-ends hither and thither, and duties we forgot to do before the little holiday, we can’t even get out a good hodge-podge.
Wazmus would like a date. There is another rumor that there will be no Christmas Vacation, that Christmas vacation will be extended a week, and that there is no such thing as Christmas. Believe it or not. It doesn’t matter to us.
If you haven’t sent any contributions to The Wink this year you are quite de trop. Its a very exclusive crowd as makes my column, I’ll have, you know!
•	. ' T. Talbot Tabloid.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
371
j ^:'o:v!s j
' National Champs Annex Final Game, 7-0
h Elder Runs 97 Yards on Intercepted Pass to Beat Army
“All’s well that ends well!” Again . ' that old familiar adage is brought to mind when the writer turns to speak about the sensational Notre Dame victory over Army, 7 to 0. Sensational - <	in more than one respect for it meant
; the culmination of a very tough ■ schedule, and, mostly, the acquiring of the mythical national championship.
Those 82,500 fans who jammed Yankee Stadium last Saturday to see the Army “yellow peril” strive to stop ' the unbeaten Fighting Irish were treated to a spectacle which they had never before witnessed in the history of modern football.
Elder Rims 97 Yards
’ It was perhaps the fleet Jack Elder’s run of 97 yards which made the crowd so exultant and wild, but 1 most of all it was the crowning of the Notre Dame football team as the second national champs in the / short period of five years.
We are proud of our team, every single player on it having performed most wonderfully during the sdason. ’ • It is our regret that the Fighting Irish were forced to do their battling without the presence of their more ■ than great coach, Knute K. Rockne, f But here and now we want to pay our humble tribute to that most talked of man in present day football —Coach Tom Lieb. Faced with the difficult task of guiding Rockne’s boys the best he could, he carried on with t	the indomitable spirit which he had
’’	gained when he himself was a mem-
ber of the Fighting Irish, and one of the greatest linemen of all time.
Lieb Fills Job Capably
It is very difficult for one not accustomed to managing the entire team, ■ such a job as Lieb was confronted with, but he has shown by his su} preme efforts all through the season, that he is one man in a million. A man to look up to and worthy of
every bit of praise that can possibly be heaped upon him.
To get back to that final game, which was the most important of the entire nine because it meant so much after the gruelling season, we find very little excitement in it, except of course Elder’s outstanding run for
Coach Tom Lieb
the lone touchdown, and the dominant performance of Chris Cagle, the Army captain, playing the next to last game of his career.
Cagle Stars for Cadets
It was Cagle who ran, and threw passes, tore off tackle and went around end, ran back kicks, and crashed through the line. But the one break of the game in which the
(Continued on Page 373)
CAGERS WINOPENER, 40-16
Notre Dame Quintet Victor In Free And Easy
Game
A scrappy little Kalamazoo College quintet was unable to stop the fast Notre Dame forwards, and Coach Koegan’s Blue and' Gold outfit took their first game of the season in a free and easy contest, 40 to 16, last Monday evening on the home floor.
Within the first few minutes of play both teams began to run in field goals, but in this regard Notre Dame had the distinct advantage as the score of 26 to 8 at the end of the first half clearly indicates.
Koegan’s men used a fast and deceptive passing attack during the middle of the first period which had the opposing five completely baffled but more than often the winners were forced to relinquish the ball when the visitors forced the battle.
Bill Newbold, promising sophomore forward, opened the game by swish- ’ ing one through the net from left court on a pass from Donovan. Newbold then dribbled prettily under the basket for another, and M. Schau repeated the act for Kalamazoo.
After Smith sank a goal from outside the ring, M. Schau made good an attempt from the foul line. DeCook netted a foul shot, then Notre Dame and Kalamazoo began a fast passing attack with neither team attempting a shot. Ed. Smith finally broke loose with a long one from mid-floor which missed by inches.	.
Smith and DeCook made their field goal shots good and an entire new Kazoo five was then placed on the floor. Smith missed a free throw and New-
372
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Corner Michigan and Colfax
Royal
Portables
Y
Men’s Needs

SHAVING CREAMS RAZOR BLADES TOOTH PASTES HAIR TONICS TALCUMS and SOAPS
OUR
EVERYDAY
CUT PRICES
MAKE IT EASY FOR YOU TO BUY
AT A SAVING ANY TIME YOUR UP TOWN.
Are The Best
THE OFFICE ENGINEERS 126-128 S. Main St.
■S
►
SODAS
PAPERS
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
For the
BEST HAMBURGER SANDWICHES
AND
THE BEST HOME-MADE PIES
in South Bend or Mishawaka
STOP AT THE
—and—
Soda Grill
2x4
DAILY SPECIALS
LUNCH ROOMS
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
232 N. Main St.. South Bend
123 S. Main St. Mishawaka
WE GRIND OUR OWN MEAT DAILY?
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR TOASTED BUNS.
CIGARS
CIGARETTES
Open All Night
The Notre Dame Scholastic
373
bold immediately after put in a beautiful underhanded shot, making the score, 16 to 6.
With three minutes of the first half left to play, John McCarthy sank two
Captain “Coney” Donovan » '
free throws and after the tip off, passed across the floor to Newbold who made his shot g’ood.
Smith fouled Larsen who made his charity throw count, and a second - later Donovan sank a field goal from way out. Another personal foul was called on Smith and he left the game via the four-personals route. Burns “ replaced him.
With a minute of the half to play, McCarthy netted a shot from outside f the ring and after passing the ball around in the inner Notre Dame court, McCarthy pivoted under the basket for another goal as the half ended with Notre Dame in the lead, 26 to 8.
At the start of the second period both teams were missing long and short shots repeatedly and not until .	four minutes were up did either five
-	score. Becht placed one in from the
corner and McCarthy and Donovan , ; put two in from under the basket. W	Here Notre Dame went into a
■ passing game, holding the ball safely , in back court; meanwhile the Kala-■ mazoo players rested content in their own territory. DeCook, lanky center for the Fighting Irish, broke loose
and his long and high shot from the side swished through the net, making the score, 32 to 13.
After Donovan made good a throw from way out, Crowe placed the ball through the net from underneath the basket. The fourth foul was called on Donovan and he was forced to leave the game, being replaced by Johnson. At this juncture both teams began to make numerous substitutions and the ball rested in Notre Dame hands most of the remaining time.
Murdock, Kazoo captain, dribbled under the basket to score and made two foul shots good to complete their scoring. Heenan made one under the net and as the game ended Kizer missed a shot from quarter-out, Heenan taking the ball off the backboard and on a. fast pass Kizer made his second shot good from about six feet out, making the final score 40 to 16.
Notre Dame appeared to have a strong outfit but their passing at times was erratic and the percentage of field goals missed would undoubtedly be high. Newbold, Smith, Donovan, and McCarthy played a stellar game for Notre Dame. M. Schau, Burrows, and Murdock were the stars for Kalamazoo.
Notre Dame (40) FG	F	P
Newbold, rf______________3	2	3
Gavin, rf________________0	0	0
Host, rf_________________0	0	0
J. McCarthy, If__________4	2	2
Crowe, If 1	0	0
Heenan, If_______________1	0	0
De Cook, c_______________2	1	1
Busch, c_________________0	0	0
O’Connell, c_____________0	1 0	0
Donovan (c), rg__________3	0	4
Johnson, rg______________0	0	1
W. McCarthy, rg__________0	0	0
Smith, Ig----------------2	1	4
Burns, 1g________________0	0	1
Kizer, 1g________________1	0	0
Totals 17	6	16
Kalamazoo (16)	FG	F	P
Hackney, rf 0	0	1
Murdock, rf______________1	1	1
Breen, rf________________0	0	0
Becht, If________________1	0	1
Burrows (c), If__________0	2	0
Stroud, If---------------0	0	0
R. Shau, c_________1____0	1	1
Cooper, c________________0	1	1
Larsen, c________________0	1	0
M. Schau, rg_____________1	4	2
Knight, rg_______________0	0	2
Borland, 1g 0	0	0
Deehr, 1g 0	0	0
Totals 3	10	9
Score at end of first half—Notre Dame, 26; Kalamazoo, 8. Referee— N. E. Kearns (De Paul); Umpire— H. C. Warren (South Bend). Time of halves—20 minutes.
NATIONAL CHAMPS ANNEX FINAL GAME (Continued from Page 371) ’
phantom Kentuckian raced away for the goal, came as a result of one of Cagle’s passes. It was not all Cagle’s fault on this pass, for had the intended receiver been near the ball, it would have meant a sure touchdown for the Army and possible victory.
During the second period Army had carried the ball down to the Notre Dame 18-yard line on successive line plunges and off-tackle smashes by Cagle and Murrell, but at this point two incomplete passes gave Notre Dame the ball on downs. Marchy Schwartz dropped back to punt but Perry, the big Army tackle, broke through and blocked the kick. Carlmark, elusive end, dropped on the ball and it was Army’s on Notre Dame’s 14-yard line; It was fourth down anyway, and Notre Dame consequently lost the ball.
Two tries at the line with no gain and Cagle scooted off to the right, and sent a long spiral down to the corner of the field where one of his men should have been, but instead Jack Elder raced through, and nabbing the
Hn«niHi»miiiiiiiiiuiminntui»mmtiiniiiiiiiiniii>»iiiiiinii|^ 1	STATISTICS OF THE	j
I ARMY GAME	I
e	First Downs:	e
E	Notre Dame, 6.	E
E	Army, 5.	E
=	Yards from Scrimmage:	=
E	Notre Dame, 126 yards.	E
1	Army, 144 yards.	E
e	Passes Completed:	e
E	Notre Dame, none of four.	e
E	Army, none of seven (three	e
E intercepted by N. D.)	1
1	Average	Yardage of	Punts:	e
e	Notre Dame, 28 3-8 yards.	E
E	Army,	39 3-11 yards.	E
E	Penalties:	e
E	Notre	Dame, four	times	for	E
E 30 yards.	v E
E Army, three times for 15 E E yards.	E
(•Jtitttitittttttttttutittrtinittirttriitiiiittttttiititiiiiiiituttiiittlal
374
The Notre Dame Sc h o 1 a
s
i c
ball on his own 3-yard stripe, set off down the field, shifting and swerving all the way, and, finally eluding the last Army man on the 45-yard line, romped across the frozen turf to touch the ball down behind the Army goal line. Carideo placed his kick between the posts for the extra point. Had he wanted to do this after the final whistle had blown, he would have been unsuccessful, for at the finish of the game, the posts were uprooted and carried away on the shoulders of the Notre Dame rooters.
After this thrilling run by Elder, neither team was able to get within scoring distance. Perhaps it was because the Fighting Irish were content with playing a safe game and preserving their narrow seven-point margin.
Notre Dame’s victory over the Army is the eleventh in the series of sixteen games since 1913. Army has been able to win four games, and one in 1922 ended in a scoreless tie. The game marked the third defeat which Biff Jones, Army coach, has suffered in his four year term of coaching, which, incidentally, is terminated this year.
Cagle’s Performance Great
Again we remind you that the greatest individual performance of the game last Saturday afternoon was the work of Christian Keener Cagle, surely a halfback of All-American caliber, throughout the whole contest. Time and time again this man proved to be the main factor of the powerful Army offensive. His work was indeed outstanding, and one of
The line-up:
Army		Notre Dame.	i
Carlmark	LE	Colrick	
Price	LT	Twomey	
Humber	LG	Cannon	
Miller	C	Nash	
Hillsinger	RG	Law (c)	
Perry	RT	Leahy	
Messinger	RE	Conley	
Carver	QB	Gebert	
Hutchinson	RH	O’Connor	
Cagle (c)	LH	Schwartz	
Murrell	FB	Savoldi	
Score by periods:
Army_____________0
Notre Dame_______0
T ouchdown—Elder
0
7
0
0
0—0
0—7
(substitute for
Seven Vets Graduate
This game marked the passing of those brilliant stars, Captain Johnny Law, the two Jacks, Elder and Cannon, Big Tim Moynihan, who suffered a broken leg in the Northwestern game, Johnny Colrick, Joe Nash, the man who rose to great heights last Saturday when he replaced Moynihan at the pivot position, and Gus Bondi, an experienced guard.
the finest individual works season.
Both teams presented an nable passing defensive as squad was able to complete
of the
impreg-neither any of
their aerial heaves. Notre Dame did succeed in not only breaking up the Cadet’s aerial attack but converting it into victory for one of the several intercepted passes was the one which Elder grabbed out of the air for the winning touchdown.
---------------------------------------
O’Connor). Point after touchdown— Carideo (substitute for Gebert). Kick from placement.
'Substitutions: Army—none. Notre Dame—Carideo for Gebert, Elder for O’Connor, Brill for Schwartz, Mullins for Savoldi, R. Donoghue for Leahy, O’Brien for Colerick, Collins for O’Brien, Savoldi for Mullins, Colerick for Collins, Culver for Twomey, O’Connor for Brill.
Officials: Referee—E. Thorp (De La Salle Institute); Umpire — F. Schommer (Chicago); Linesman—N. Kearns (De Paul); Field Judge—A. Palmer (Colby).


Aw

U. S. Army Style DOUBLE- SOLED Field-Shoes Riveted Vamps $3.65
Sizes 6 to 11 Boys* Sizes
2 to 5
•M2.98
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
o
First National Bank

Corduroy trousers
$3.85
Sheepskin coats
$5.95 and up
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS
Galoshes, Ball Band
.$2.98
OF NOTRE DAME MEN
GILBRO’S
FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE 330 South Michigan Street
lummiHiiNMHmii
o-
204 NORTH MICHIGAN ST.
•r?i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
375
A Few Highlights of the Football Season
National Champions again, and •well does the Fighting Irish squad of 1929 deserve the name of champs! Its record and achievement in defeating nine of the best and strongest teams in the country is enough to substantiate the claim.
Notre Dame was announced as the winner of the Jack F. Rissman national Intercollegiate football trophy for 1929, making the second time that the Fighting Irish have received this award in the past five years. Notre Dame received a total of 25.00 points for its nine straight victories.
Purdue Rated Second
Purdue which received the Rissman trophy for winning the Big Ten crown was rated second with 23.60 points. This system of rating is based on strength of team and opponents rather than percentages and has become very popular in late years.
fB]inniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimimimmmtiimtrmnmiiiimmii»mRl i INDIVIDUAL POINT I
•	SCORING	=
z	TD Pt.	Total =
E Elder	7	0	42 1
E Savoldi	6	0	36 1
E Carideo	2	13	25 E
= Mullins	3	0	is i
E Schwartz	2	0	12 1
1 Conley	1	0	6 i
E Howard	1	0 22	• 13	6 i 145 1
QiiiiiiiiuiiiimiHnmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiQ
The summary of the nine games shows that Notre Dame .clearly outplayed her opponents in every branch of the game. On yardage gained from scrimmage alone, Notre Dame gained three times as much as the opposition. Only once did the opposing team gain more yardage and that was Army last Saturday.
On first downs Notre Dame counted twice as many as the opponents; In the matter of passes attempted and completed, the Fighting Irish also held the upper hand. Although they completed only 22% percent of the passes while the opponents were making good 26% percent of their tries, Notre Dame ran up a larger number of yards gained on these aerial heaves.
Elder’s Run is Longest
Elder’s run of 97 yards last Saturday was easily the longest of any of the teams this year in which Notre Dame played. Jack’s dash was just
|T|iimnnmmniiuin tiiiiiniiiiiitiiiiiiinttuiinitnnmiti>nr«l I NATIONAL CHAMPIONS!
E Notre Dame, 14—Indiana,	0 E
E Notre Dame, 14—Navy,	7 E
E Notre Dame, 19—Wisconsin,	0E
E Notre Dame, 7—Carnegie Tech, 0 E E Notre Dame, 26—Georgia Tech, 6 E E Notre Dame, 19—Drake,	7 =
H Notre Dame, 13—Southern Cal. 12 e E Notre Dame, 26—Northwestern, 6 E E Notre Dame, 7—Army,	0E
E Totals 145	38 =
1^1111 ii mu nHiiimii in miiiiiiit mmt mi iiiiiiiiiituiiuuiinjTI several yards longer than Russ Saunders’ 95-yard run in the Southern Cal. game.
Other runs made by the Fighting Irish include two less lengthy ones by Elder, one of 53 yards in the Georgia Tech game and one for 60 yards in the Indiana game. Frank Carideo has to his credit dashes of 85 yards and 73 yards. The former was made in the Northwestern contest and the latter against Georgia Tech, wherein he returned a punt.
The most remarkable play of the season was perhaps Elder’s long 53-yard pass to Tom Conley in the Southern California game. This pass is believed to be one of record length for this year and it was accomplished because of one of the most perfect blocking plays ever enacted on the gridiron.
A significant feature of the season was the dual defeat of Army and Navy, making the second time in the last two years that both schools have been beaten on the gridiron in the
same season. Elder Made Seven Touchdowns
Jack Elder holds the scoring honors, making seven touchdowns for a -Ja]iiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiimimiiimiiiiiiHiiiiimmiiimiiiiiiiiiii|7| 1 “SCHOLASTIC’S” ALL- i | OPPOSITION TEAM j E (Chosen from Notre Dame’s nine E =	opponents)	E
E LE—Tappaan (So. California)	E
E LT—Maree (Georgia Tech)	e
' i LG—Barrager (So. California)	E
| C—Erickson (Northwestern) E E RG—Dreshar (Carnegie Tech) E E RT—Perry (Army)	E
E RE—Messinger (Army)	e
E Q—Saunders (So. California) E E LH—Thomason (Georgia Tech) ! ERH—Cagle (Army)	E
E F—Bergherm (Northwestern) E B luiiiiiiiiniiiiiuiiiniliiiiiiiiiuiii'iimiiiiiiiiiiii'iuiiiilmQ
total of 42 points. Joe Savoldi, the pushover boy, is second with six markers. Tom Conley was the only lineman to succeed in scoring a touchdown and his was the result of the long pass from Elder. Carideo amassed a total of 13 points aftertouchdowns on 22 tries, but of the nine misses several were due to bad passes from center, and on a few occasions it was another who did the kicking.	■
Set New Attendance Records
Notre Dame set two new attendance records this year, crowding 122,500 fans into Soldiers Field for the Southern California game, and amassing a total attendance of approximately 582,000 people. This number would fill all the Big Ten stadiums were they opened at one time and there would still be enough fans to fill the new Notre Dame stadium.
f7}m mill iiimii mm is tin in it urn i min nm in tn iimiimmiffl
I STATISTICS OF THE 1
1	SEASON	i
E First Downs:	E
E	Notre Dame, 108.	E
E	Opponents, 59.	E
E Yards Gained from Scrimmage’: = E	Notre Dame, 2307 yards.	E
E	Opponents, 843 yards.	E
E Forward Passes Completed:	E
E	Notre Dame, 18 of 80 for 391 E
E	yards.	E
E	Opponents,	29 of 110 for 380	E
E	yards.	E
Qmmmmmimmiimimmiimmmmmmmimimmm El
All-American material has been plentiful and already the New York Sun has named Jack Cannon and Carideo as All-Americans. Cannon was selected as being the greatest lineman of the year.
Notre Dame was awarded seven places on the All-Indiana team selections made ’by the United Press. Collins, end; Cannon, guard; Moynihan, center; Law, guard; Twomey, tackle; Carideo, guarterback; Brill, halfback, all received mention on the first team. Elder won the halfback position on the second team, and Conley, Mullins, and Savoldi received honorable mention.
Another All-State team selected by W. Blaine Patton, sports editor of the Indianapolis Star included Colrick, Cannon, Law, Moynihan, Carideo, and Elder- on the first team. These men will receive trophies given by the Star.
376
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES
“INDOOR TRACK OUTLOOK
BRIGHT”—NICHOLSON
“Although it will not be a worldbeater, Notre Dame’s 1929-1930 track team will not lose a great number of meets.” This was the statement of Coach John P. Nicholson when asked about the prospects for the coming indoor season. He also mentioned that the call for candidates for varsity track would not likely be called until after the Christmas vacation.
1 ' ■ * Uharter House
•	Suits *40. *45. *50 Overcoats	1
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT OUR STORE IS THE	.
Charter House
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	:
:	The character of the suits and	:
•	overcoats tailored by Charter House	a
will earn your most sincere liking.	*
'	MAX ADLER	<
j-	Inc.	J
•	On the Corner Michigan and Washington «
Several good men were lost by graduation last June but the holdovers together with additions from * last year’s freshmen leave the squad j in anything but a weakened condition. ! The sprints and long distances suf- j fered most in the annual June toll a with Captain Jack Elder, John 1 Brown, Bill Brown, John Viachulis, ’ and Pete Morgan leaving. Johnny Nichols, sophomore sprinter of last	1
year, failed to return to school this	*
fall to further weaken this depart- ‘ ment, while Bob Walsh, “Nick’s” most dependable weight man, also is no | longer attending the University.	f
To replace these losses in the ? sprints, Coach Nicholson has two	£
veterans, Ken Boagni and Buss Red-	i
gate, and Bill McCormick and Mike | Crawford, of the ’28 Frosh squad. | Gene Howery, Jim Biggins, and Ray Connors will probably take care of | the distances, and Nordy Hoffman, | Dick Donoghue, and Norb Herwit will t be back for the shot-put. Tom Murphy, who can throw the 16-pound weight in the neighborhood of 45 feet, may try out for a place on the squad. { It is believed, however, that Bob Walsh may return to school at the ■ semester and will be eligible for track.
Phone 3-1254
I	Drs. Smgler & Probst
i	DENTISTS	.
|	261 Associates Bldg.
QtoiiioonimuoiiiiiittttiaitniiiiiiiitiinttmiiiiitimiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiioiiimitiitttiiiisiiiriiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiniiiiiitiiiiiii
In the high hurdles Nicholson will have Johnny O’Brien, Roy Bailie, and Acers, while Moon Mullins will probably join forces with these in the low jumps.
The pole vault will not be as strong as some of the other departments, but with all of the vaulters from last year’s squad returning, and each possessing a year more of experience, they should be able to hold their own.
John Abernathy, a transfer from St. Xavier College, Cincinnati, holds the Central Intercollegiate Conference record in the high jump and is the leading candidate in that event. Darling, a sophomore, is another outstanding man who promises to give a stiff fight to the varsity jumpers.
The middle distances are, perhaps, better fortified than at any time in the last five years. Led by Captain
The Notre Dame Scholastic
377
Joe Abbott, “Nick” has five men who can run the half-mile in less than two minutes. Besides Abbott, Joe Quigley, McConville, Alex Wilson, and Brant Little have been clocked in times ranging from 1:54 to 1:59. The absence of Tom Quigley will be felt in the quarter-mile, but Abbott, Wilson, and Little have proved themselves at this distance also.
Coach Nicholson believes that a two-mile relay team picked from the five half-milers mentioned above will be equal if not superior to anything in the country this winter, and the times recorded by these runners seem to bear out “Nick’s” contention.
Taking everything into consideration, Notre Dame should be represented this year by the strongest team that has worn the Blue and Gold in the last three or four years. The squad possesses ability and experience, both needed requisites for any good team.
The schedule will probably be announced next week. Tentative meets with Big Ten teams cannot be definitely arranged until after the annual Conference meeting this week.
INTERHALL TEAMS SPLIT
EVEN ON FOREIGN FIELDS
Reports from the interhall teams which traveled to different sections to play Thanksgiving Day, found that the group met with varied success. Of the six teams competing, three returned victorious, while the remaining three suffered defeat. Considering the class of opposition met, and the fact of it being the single game of the season on unfamiliar territory, the result was creditable and gratifying to the league heads.
Howard Hall piled up the highest score for the victorious trio and had little difficulty garnering 18 points while holding its opponents, at Peru, Indiana, scoreless.
The interception of two enemy’s passes by quarterbacks, Smurthwaite and Conti, made possible Sophomore’s victory, at Richmond, Indiana. Each scored after long runs and brought a 13 to 10 win.
At River Forest, Illinois, Freshman Hall met with stiff resistance, but pounded out a 7-0 triumph in a battle filled with action. Both teams played an exceptionally fine defensive game.
Brownson Hall fought a great uphill struggle to overcome defeat, but the Elwood, Indiana, representatives
fought back hard to retain its one ❖ touchdown margin and gain a 13 to 6 victory.
The 19 to 0 defeat suffered by Walsh Hall, at Kendallville, Indiana, is hardly indicative of the stubborn stand put up by the losers, who were at a great disadvantage in weight and experience.	’
For a brief period, Off-Campus, Interhall winners, displayed fine form at Kenosha, Wisconsin, but finally wilted under the attack of its heavier adversary, and succumbed to a 25-0 defeat.
Delightfully different. You’ll like the exclusive SUN-KIST flavor
Save the wrappers. See inside for tne list of premiums.
y t they shall not have our
VAL BLATZ BREWING COMPANY MUwauKee, Wis.
iDciit Experiment.
At the Best Mens’ Shops
Pipes!
PIPES and pants are masculine prerogatives that defend themselves and us. Where else could men find sanctuary?
Pipes, stout pipes, and packings of good old Edgeworth—what perfect expression of man’s inviolable right of refuge with other men behind barriers of redolent smoke!
Tobacco with the whiskers on, that’s what man wants—good old seasoned pipe-tobacco, the best of the leaf, all blended and flavored and mellowed . . . Edgeworth, in short.
You don’t know Edgeworth? Then no time must be lost. Buy Edgeworth or borrow it, or let us send you some. There belowis even a coupon, a free ticket for your first few pipefuls of the genuine.
Send us the coupon and we’ll send you the Edgeworth.
f r f
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and fia vor never change. Buy Edgeworth anywhere—“Ready Rubbed” and “Plug Slice”— 15e pocket package to pound humidor tin.
Edgeworth
SMOKING TOBACCO
l--------------------------------------
J LARUS 8s BRO. CO.
J 100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
• I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try
! it in a, good pipe.	•
1 Name-----------------------------
I Street.__________________________■
J Town and State.__________________ •	) Now let the Edgeworth come! V
378
The Notre Dame Scholastic
(gJmiiMiiiiiiiintitttiiiuiiiiiiiiiiimiinittiiiiiaiHHiiiiiiiiiiistmiHiiiiitiiiHtiiiiii'intiiiiitmiiuiiQ
QJiiiiiiiliiiiliiHiiiKiiiiiKiiiiiixiHiiiniiiKHiiiiiiiitiiHiiitiiiiKiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiioiiHiiiiiiKiKniiittHiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiniiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiinii ...........
PRIME
Sunday - Monday -- Tuesday
Intrigue, unrelenting vengeance, dark plots, devotion, disloyalty, these are the ingredients of as thrilling and appealing motion picture you’ve ever seen—
A screen story of exceptional dramatic force — a film production as gripping and appealing as ever mas shoivn on the silver sheet—You'll regret missing it.
THRILLING, COLORFUL, APPEALING, DRAMATIC STORY OF SOCIETY
With
ROBERT ARMSTRONG CAROL LOMBARD
ALSO A BIG BILL OF
VAUDEVILLE
YOU LIKE TO SEE
R. K. O.
THANKS YOU MEN For Your Liberal Patronage
LOVE
HIGH COURAGE
WILD ADVENTURE
I .... all the gallant daring I I of “Beau Geste” .... and the I I vital force of “Chang”	I
I	Paramount’s	I
“ “THE	~
FOUR FEATHERS” with -------\ Wm. I	 \ Powell, I WED. \ C11V® / Song \ Brook,	.
thru	\ t-< / Hits!
\ Fay FRI.	\ Wray / Football!
\	Fun!
HL. G. M.’s \
“SO V
THIS IS COLLEGE” with
ELLIOTT NUGENT UKELELE IKE and SALLY STARR fOLFAY
THEATRE VW
A Public Theatre
The Notre Dame Scholastic
379
CANNON AND TWOMEY INVITED TO PLAY IN
COAST TILT
Jack Cannon, guard, and Ted Twomey, tackle of this year’s varsity, have been invited to play on the AllEastern football team that will oppose an all-star team from the Pacific coast on January 1, in San Francisco. Dick Hanley of Northwestern and Andy Kerr of Colgate are coaching the team.
PLAYERS AWARDED HONORS
Seven members of the football team who were members of the AllState team selected by the Indianapolis Star, were awarded fountain pen desk sets at the football banquet held Wednesday evening. The recipients of the awards were: John .Colrick, Tim Moynihan, Frank Carideo, Jack Cannon, Captain John Law, and Jack Elder.
44 FRESHMEN TO RECEIVE FOOTBALL NUMERALS
Tommy Mills, head football coach, has- made the final selection of the men who are to be awarded freshmen numerals. In view of the fact that the turnout this year was one of the largest in the history of the school, the
task of choosing the outstanding players was a hard one.
Those who will receive the sweaters are: Abbotamarco, Agnew, Amyett, Banas, Bansbach, Barrello, Bassett, Beirne^ Bittner, Branscheau, Bransford, Bresson, Butler, Couseno, Davig-non, Dilling, Donnelly, Donoghue, Flanagan, Ford, Gellis, Goldstein, Gorman, Hafron, Hanley, Harris, Holman, Jackswhich, Kreuz, Kurth, La-Bourne, Larkin, Ledding, Lukats, Murphy, O’Neill, Pierce, Rich, Smithers, Staab, Terlaak, Tobin, Vejar, and Wunsch.
The exact date for the distribution of the numeral sweaters has not been announced, but it is certain that they will make an appearance on the cam-• pus before the Christmas holidays.
With the football season over, a large number of men have reported to Joe ‘Jachym, who is handling the freshman basketball squad this year. From all indications, the frosh net squad will be a good one.
HARK YE, KNIGHTS OF THE WOODEN SPHERE!
To those who bowl and to those who would like to, Walsh Hall announces the re-opening of its bowling alleys which have been temporarily out of use while undergoing
repairs. A particular invitation is extended to those freshmen possessed with that incurable habit of throwing things.
The alleys, the only ones on the campus, are open for use during recreation hours, and the high score to date is 179, made it is reported, by a junior disappointed in something.
CAGE TEAM MEETS LAKE FOREST TOMORROW NIGHT
Fresh from their auspicious debut with Kalamazoo last Monday night, the Notre Dame basketball team swings into action again tomorrow evening on the home floor, against a scrappy Lake Forest College quintet from Lake Forest, Ill.	,
Apparently there will be no material change in the starting lineup from that in the Kalamazoo game, and again Coach Koegan will attempt to use as many players as possible to enable him to select a smooth running, well-coordinated team.
TRACK MEDALS AWARDED
Gold’, silver, and bronze medals for first, second, and third places, respectively, were awarded yesterday to the winners of the annual fall handicap track meet which was held recently.
For Notre Dame—-
Let It Rain — Let It Snow — But Don’t ( Let Anything Stop You From Seeing ^S°eS“Marianne’’
HEAR HER SING
66Just You, Just Me” Hang on to Me Blondy” and “Sugar”
Believe It Or Not — She’s The Talk of The Talkies!!!
A GREAT STAR — To see her is to love her
IT STARTS SATURDAY
380
The Notre -Dame Scholastic
jg ii am 1111 ti minimum i1 iimimiiiniii t m t milium iii i iii tn 11 iiisi i ii i iimiiiiim i ii 11 nun s 11 ■ । imQ

Qiiimimmimmmmimmmmmmiiimmmmimmmimmmrimmmmmimmmmmmi
I	HELLO MEN!
| SMITH’S CAFETERIA
e	111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
for a man
from
man s store
PAJAMAS
HICKOK
SHIRTS
BELT SETS
NECKWEAR
HOSIERY
SUSPENDERS SETS
LOUNGING
ROBES
N. D. JEWELRY
KERCHIEFS
Make this your gift headquarters
I WE DO OUR OWN BAKING j
| SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP |
|	West Washington Ave.	1
IH1111II III H11111111 It 11II1111111111 Illi 1111111IIIIIH1H1111111111111HIHIH111111H1111 111 III H1111111111III tl|7J
^■JuttUlttllUUHtUltUttUltltttllUllUlUUHIItltHlUIlltttUUttllltllUllUltlUIlllUUliUlltttllUllUU;
|	For week-ends in Chicago	i
I	take the South Shore Line	|
I	Trains leave South Bend	|.
I	every hour on the hour	|
E See Charles Woods in the Bookstore or call E =	2-5764 for complete information.	e
a
I CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE
|	& SOUTH BEND
|	RAILROAD
RIi.mm................  i
The Notre Dame Scholastic	381
RESERVES LOSE GAME AT GARY, 20 TO 8
The Notre Danie reserves lost their Turkey day battle to the Gary Lo-X gridders, 20 to 8, in an extra scheduled game. The contest was played during zero weather, and the icy winds which blew across the open
field made it difficult for either team to hold the ball.
Passes constituted the main mode of attack with neither outfit attempting many plunges through the line, so slippery was the gridiron. The initial touchdown for the Lo-X team came as the result of a Notre Dame pass which was intercepted. Their
other two tallies were made on forward passes.
Notre Dame scored their lone touchdown on a pass, but failed on the attempt for the extra point. The remaining two points were the result of a blocked punt, a Notre Danie man blocking the kick which was recovered, however, by the Garyites.	’
Delicious and Refreshing
oVE*?
1 &
ka
^A^E AtW MIMAKI
IT’S REALL? A SHAME TO INTERRUPT THE PROFESSOR’S CHASE OF THE DIURNAL LEPIDOPTERA AND TURN THE BULL ON HIM BUT YOU HAVE TO BLAME THE ARTIST FOR THAT.
)
MILLION A DAY
B E
Obviously, few of us have the chance — or temerity — to make matadors out of ourselves. But even in the normal course of human events, there’s nothing so welcome as a refreshing pause. Happily there’s a soda fountain or refreshment stand—with plenty of ice-cold Coca-Cola ready — around the comer from anywhere. With its delicious taste and cool after-sense of refreshment, it makes a little minute long enough for a big rest.
The Coca-Cola Co., Atlanta, Ga. '
"5
E
W H E R
YOU CAN’T PAUSE THAT
B'EAT THE REFRESHES
CD-S
I S
382
The Notre Dame Scholastic
^3reakfast chockful off energy—Shredded Wheat. Every ffood element—in Nature’s own proportions. Contributes directly to health, vigor and well-being. Shredded Wheat, once a day or offtener, is an excellent habit.
Shredded Wheats All the bran you need
Nunri-Bush
(Jlnkle-FashionedOxfords
Patronize the SCHOLASTIC Advertisers
Splinters from the-Press Box
Now that Notre Dame has done what the sport writers called impos- . sible when the season started, these same men, or at least some of them, are trying to belittle the achievement of Notre Dame in going through * its man-killing schedule undefeated. They seem to think that because the teams Notre Dame played bad all been defeated by at least one other team, our achievement is nothing out of the ordinary. Nine major teams r'i were on our schedule, and only one was supposed to be weak when the season started, and that was Drake, who proved to be anything but supine.
Other writers said we were played to a standstill by Army; while others say that we played mediocre football in the Army game. Granting this to be true, we are reminded of the story that is told of Red Grange when he played on the Pacific Coast, after | entering professional football, at the | end of his collegiate career. A prom- ’ inent West Coast coach was asked what he thought of Grange, and his reply was to the effect that Grange was a very good half-back undoubtedly, but no better than four or five other backs that coach had seen during the season. Unwittingly, this U coach gave Grange possibly the highest praise that he could, for after Grange had played between twenty-five and thirty games, with trainrides in between, he still had enough stuff to have this coach grudgingly say that he was of the best backs of ■* the season. Similarly, when • self-styled experts say we played mediocre ball against Army, they, too, unwittingly—and perhaps unwillingly— praise us, for how many teams have gone through a schedule like Notre Dame’s and not cracked wide open at least once?
Now that one John Patrick Nicholson has gotten track under way, it is } even more evident that this year’s team should be one of the strongest that has ever represented the Irish.
❖ In the old days, the track team rated on a par with the football team, but
& it deteriorated in recent years, and
The Notre Dame Scholastic
383
has only started to come back under the skillful guidance of John Nicholson, another one of those coaches whose true value and ability is underestimated, save by the men whom he guides.
Whatever else Notre Dame may have this year, there is little doubt but that Coach Keogan has the finest pair of guards in the Middle West, if not in the entire country, in Ed Smith, All-Western selection for the last two years, and Captain Clarence “Coney” Donovan, sometime AllIndiana, and one of the best longshots playing the game.
Another thing that many of the “experts” overlooked in criticizing
What Will
1930
Mean For You?
If going into business, will it mean the beginning of a long apprenticeship period — the trial and error method—which possibly may never lead to success?
Or will it mean a year spent in preparation for business—followed by a steady rise to leadership?
If you desire the latter, Babson Institute can help you.
Train for Leadership
Tomeetthe demand for executive training as a foundation for a successful business career is the purpose of Babson Institute. Here you would be taught the fundamental laws of business and shown how to apply them effectively to actual business life.
Send for Booklet!
Every college man who is ambitious to succeed.in business should read our booklet, “Training for Business Leadership”. It explains in detail the subjects studied, the unique features of our work and how leadership is achieved. Take this home and discuss it with your parents during the Christmas holidays.
Mail this Coupon Now!
BABSON Institute
r ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
F301 Wellesley Av., Babson Park, Mass.
Send me, without obligation, “Training for Business Leadership” and complete particulars about Babson Institute.
g' Name J College
■ Address
I	.
I ■ ----------------------------------------
g Home
g Address
Notre Dame’s play of last Saturday, was the fact that once the Rockmen had obtained a lead, their attack was limited, especially under the weatherconditions prevailing. No team attempts any but the safest kind of a pass when it is ahead, and the Irish passing attack which worked so well against Southern California could not be used. Notre Dame attempted only one pass, having scored, and that one over Army’s goal-line, the safest kind of a pass.
. . . and here are just the skates to wear .... The perfect fit and correct balance make skating a pleasure. You’ll be proud of these fine tubular skates attached to shoes. Sizes for everyone, for every kind of skating.
Manufactured by
Alfred.lahnsan X/tate Rampants 2**6 k N°nh Av* rhicw u. s.a. fiat ranneeted With liestar lahnsan Ufa. Co.

kdn©
The Choice of ’ Champions
' A Quality Outfit for Beginners
Send for this Free cBook on Skating .
&or sale by Leading Sporting Goods, Hardware and Department Stores
Yale has issued a call for candidates for a Rugby team which is to play Harvard next Spring. There are fifteen Rhodes scholars at Yale, and they should be able to form the nucleus of a - capable team. But we do not notice Oxford or Cambridge starting a football team, American football will always remain just that; the only game of its kind;—in the words of Rockne—“the only team game in which there is intimate personal contact.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
384
.Gloves............*_	._
Daniel Hays Gloves

AROUND the turn . . . into the stretch . . . four men side by side. . . . One of them will pull ahead and flash through the tape — a
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining--rooms of American colleges, eating cluhs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee— the coffee that lets you sleep.
winner!
You can bet he’s fit! He looks
healthy, and he’s healthy inside too. No man can' have a system clogged with waste, and do his best-.
Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN, a pure, wholesome cereal, is guaranteed to prevent constipation. Two tablespoonfuls a day are enough. ALLBRAN is delicious with milk or cream, mixed with other cereals, or with fruit or honey added. Ask that it be served at your fraternity house or favorite campus restaurant.
| On Doivn the Line
i%A
. . . The Oregon Aggies who recently marred Detroit’s defeatless record boast of seven benedicts on the squad . . . Andy Callahan, lightweight, won his 39th consecutive ring victory the other night . . . Herbert Hoover, our President, was a student football manager while at Stanford . . . so buck up you hearties . . . your jobs may lead to . those heights also . . . The University of Idaho will travel to Honolulu during Christmas vacation . . . they will play the University of Hawaii . . .
OUR
. . . Florida’s “Old ’Gator Scrub” has been given a university letter 25 years after he graduated .. . He ended four years of gridiron toil without getting into a game ... Al Culver, Twomey’s rival this year, is the son of Bill Culver who played tackle for Northwestern in 1892-3-4 . . . He coached the Wildcats in ’05 and ’06 . . . Harry Kipke, Michigan’s young coach, was the recipient of nine letters from Michigan . . . three apiece in basketball, baseball, and football . . .
NATIONAL
. . . Kid Chocolate, the colorful boxer, returned to his native land, Cuba with a new wardrobe ... it included 25 new suits, 50 silk shirts, 200 neckties, and ten pairs of shoes . . . one, two, three . . . Iowa, Carnegie Tech, and Temple Univ, had twin brothers on the football squads this season . . . Ernie Nevers established an individual scoring record for one national pro league football game recently ... he scored all of Chicago Card’s points . . . six touchdowns and four extra points . . .
UlAHIf
... In the Turkey Day game at Battle Creek, Michigan, Ray Priest playing for one of the teams caught his own pass . . . His heave hit one of the defense and bounced back . . . Priest took it out of the air on the rebound and ran the ball through . . . Guy Axworthy holds first place among trotting sires . . . being the progenitor of five of the ten horses that have set recognized records of 2:00 or better . . . Dan Donahue, attorney of Lowell, Mass., has been playing golf for 35 years ... he made his first hole in one just the other day . . .
■I
386
The Notre Dame Scholastic
1
The Notre Dame Scholastic
387
Avoid shopping and have more time for celebrations during the vacation
I I 1 I •g
MERRY
CHRISTMAS
$5.00
Wide range of prices down to.
Tooled Leather Bags. Always in style. Distinctive and durable.
MERRY
CHRISTMAS
AND
more popular season. Many
§
•i? A f
I
f f f f
f I f
f I I I f
i
1
1
1
1
•1
f f
A marvelous value. Priced way below the market. A wonderful inducement to early shoppers. 10-piece Toilet Set that any woman will prize. Handles beautifully tinted-in irridescent color. All the most wanted toilet articles included. In fine gift box lined with lustrous satin. Price reduced to__________
Desk Sets are than ever this styles priced, upward from.......
$7.50
I
i i i I i i i 1 •i -S
1 1 1 i i i 1 1
f
HAVE

Novel vanity and compact. One of many attractive patterns in oui- com- * ZT/1 plete stock________.0 • .DU
GOOD
TIME
THE
VICTORY MARCH
Lift the cover and this dainty powder box plays a tinkling melody
South Bend Watch Company
Take North Side car	. * 7	to ^eave ^ie
at Jefferson Blvd.	0 f '1 / j \	car South
and Hill St.	b Lil b	C Bend Watch Co.
1720 MISHAWAKA AVENUE
1 i
1 1 1 I i i
I I
1 i i s
I
1
& &
388
The Notre Dame S ch o 1 a s t i c

t &
*
&
I
I
f f
Speaking of
Gift Suggestions-
%
w f f f
f
I
f
I
Here are a few from our varied stock of which any man will speak well. We’ve catered to men long enough to know the sort of Christmas gifts that stay given, and our store has never proved that better than now!
3?
‘is
HOSIERY
SWEATERS
HATS

NECKWEAR
H’DK’CHIEFS
OVERCOATS

SHIRT AND TIE SETS
SCARFS
GLOVES
N. D. JEWELRY
ROBES
RADIO JACKETS
RAIN COATS
TUXEDOS
SUSPENDER SETS
DRESS JEWELRY
* I-
*

May we zvish you a very Merry Christmas, an enjoyable vacation and a happy, prosperous New Year.
I f
1
1
i
f ’ i -1
1
I	E O R EVERY MAN	1
The Notre Dame Scholastic
389
|	' '... i
| |
I The Funny
I Fellow....	|
»	-	:S
I .	■ I
I	announces the	|
|	1
।	|
l	Christmas	I
&	.	4
I	Number	I
i
। More Humorous Than Ever	|
| More Drawings Than Ever I
I	I
I	Chuck Full O’ Xmas UXtl	|
I	I
I '	■ I
|	CAMPUS SALE	|
I
I	DECEMBER 16th	1
I	!