
[:~,~ 1r-H~.1 i1:~r:r 11Jn!. 11-! ·_ 1r~~1JiI~­
,___ . ~ ....·::. ' .. ····· .. , ..••··· ,.----..1 ..---..-. ·----­
. . . 
. ­

Do you want to know what's going on at .Notre Dame? 
Subscribe to 




AGAZINE 
You'll find: 

• 
the latest campus news and sports 

• 
national and campus entertainment ONLY$30 coverage 

• 
controversial campus issues AYEAR 

• 
what's happening on weekends 

• 
some off-the-wall college humor 



E Name: 

Address: ___________ I want a yearlong subscription to Scholastic Magazine. 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 



SCHOLASTIC 
·MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 137, NUMBER 5 FOUNDED 1867 SEPTEMBER 28, 1995 
COVER STORY, 

Caught Up in the Net 
As the World Wide Web increasingly permeates all aspects of the university environment, Notre Dame students and faculty learn to utilize th~ endless options offered by the Internet. 
.........~ .......................... page 8 

.Generation X 

As members of a genera­tion which is deemed lazy and apathetic, current Notre Dame students struggletobreak this mold. 

····························~·•·Page·4 
Marching Onward 

Responsible for more than _protecting the band, the Notre Dame Irish Guard .. works hard to carry. on an 
. .. Irish tradition extcinding · beyond football. 
·_ ...~---~·······~---···········page 14 
FEATURES 

Life in the Fast Lane................................................ 7 
by Jennifer Rubow 
http-://www.h~lpwanted.........................................11 
by Stephanie Doyle 
Pit Stops on the Information Superhighway......12 
by Aaron Nolan and.Andrew Weimer 
·Headed for Ohio......................................~ ..............18 · 
by Shannan Ball 
Top Notch..................~·•···········································20 
byT. Ryan Kennedy 
The Sex Sell..............................................................22 
by C. Myers, T. Mitros and.A. Nolan 
DEPARTMENTS 
From the Editor ........................................................... 2 1.etters ......................................................... ~ .....; .......... 3 Campus Watch ......................................................... 16 Splinters from the Press Box ................................... 17 Out of Bounds ..._...............................~···············........ 24 On Other Campuses ................................................. 25 Coming Distrac.tions..•............................................. 26 Week in Distortion ................................................... 27 FinalWord;:...............................................................28 
----~--............... -~--~ ~-•--~~----­
----------------~ ­

Netiquette 

I'llbethefirsttoadmitthatl'mnotthemostcomputer-literatepersonaround. Butlhave visited my share of Web sites, and I thought I had at least some idea of how to navigate the Internet At least, that's what I thought until last week, when I lostallofmyconfidence with one simple crow of the rooster. 
I was working on an article for another publication that required me to talk to students from universities and colleges all over the country. In an attempt to save time and money, I decided to post a message on the national newsgroups that had the word "college" in their names. I listed a couple of questions, and asked college students to send their answers to me at my e-mail address. Little did I know what I was getting into. 
Before even 24 hours had passed, I had more than 29 messages in my mailbox. After waiting almost 10 minutes for my humble laptop to download them, I began to peruse them. Here's a sample from one of them: 
"How to. put this politely? DO NOT POST IRRELEVANT :MESSAGES TO NEWSGROUPS YOU HAVE NO CLUE ABOUT. It is a SERIOUS breach of net etiquette to do what you did, and ifyou continue, I will send a complaint to your system adminis~tor asking that your internet access be revoked for abusing the privilege." 
This week's cover story by Abby May is about the Internet, the World Wide Web and the different ways that Notre Dame is· using these resources. As computers become increasingly integrated into our society, it will be more and more important for students to learn how to use them and, hopefully, how to use the proper Net etiquette. 
Welcome to Scholastic 

I'd like to welcome two new staff members to Scholastic. John Infranca will be this year's Departments Editor. You'11 find his work this year on the Week in Distortion, On Other Campuses and Coming Distraction pages.. Patrick Stonelake will be Scholastic's new advertising manager. 
Michelle L.Crouch 
Editor in Chief 

Cover Design by Patrick Skidmore and Mike Tecson. It is based on the Notre Dame Home Page, which was designed 

by Kevin Barry and Sean Donnelly. 
45 Years Ago... 
In September 1950, British author Evelyn Waugh visited ourcampus and said he was 
deeply impressedby studentpiety, the number ofstudents who visited the grotto and the 
daily communions. He was also struck by the fact that no wine or beer was served in the 
campus "tearoom." 

He felt wine or liquor should be found in the tankards at the ends ofthe caf eterialines. 
"You know one should consume great amounts of wine while eating," he stated. After 
learning of university alcohol regulations, he said, "I still think it is better than having 
them take swigs of gin in ther lodging, which they probably do, don't they?" 
Of course we don't, Mr. Waugh. Even today. 
--,-MLC 

S C H O LA S T IC M A G A Z I N E • S E P T E M. B ER 2 8 , 1 9 9 5 

1
.,,11111 11

11-----------------------­


Rising to Monk's Defense 
Dear Editor: 

I'm a readmitted student who has been away from the Dome for the past five years. Until now, I have restrained myself from writing on this topic, but Thomas O'Neil's attack on Father Malloy in the September 21 Scholastic was just too much. 
A lot of things have changed at Notre Dame in five years' time. GLND/SMC is free to post announcements wherever they desire. Guest speakers come to campus and speak openly about their homosexuality. On activities night, GLND/SMC had their own booth set up to recruit new members alongwitheveryoneelse. Inearlyfelldown on the floor in shock upon seeing this. 
I have no problem with these activities, andbelievethattheadministrationhasbeen more than generous. Individual members acknowledge that the administration will never grant this group status as an official club. Of course it won't-so why must FatherMalloy'sChristianitybequestioned? It's like reading about a group of students trying to get permission to set up a bar at Brigham Young University. It's not going to happen. Of course Father Malloy marches with Rome -this is a Roman Catholic 
University. Ifthe Administration is quiet, it has good 
•reason to be. The New Catechism of the Catholic Church and the Code of Canon Law can only be restated in so many ways. One should also note that the American Psychiatric Association does not speak for everydoctorand/orpsychiatristintheUnited States. Furthermore, I would suggest that both the Observer and the Scholastic show more judicious restraint over what they choose to publish and in what quantities. 

· The affront to Father Malloy is uncalled for. 
RichardE. Hunt 

"I SHOULD DEFINITELY GO TO GRADUATE SCHOOL MAYBE." 
Order the I 995 America's Best Graduate Schools guide from U.S. News and get the help you need to make the big decisions about grad school: 
• 
Should you go? 

• 
Where should you go? 

• 
Full or part time? 

• 
The latest on entrance tests. 

• 
How to pay for it. Expanded U.S. News rankings help you find the right schools. over 30 


disciplines_and nearly 1oo specialties are covered, inc\uding: 
• 
Business • Medicine and Dentistry 

• 
Law • Engineering • Education 

• 
Health, Nursing, Physical Therapy Plus, helpful News You can use® articles 


on applying to and selecting your school. For answers and confidence, choose America's Best Graduate Schools. 


Call Toll ·Free: 1-800-836-6391 Exl. 6440 
or send paym~mt of $8.95 to: u.s. News Specialty Marketing, Dept. 6400M, 
P.O. Box 2284, s. Burlington, VT 05407-2284.  
Sales tax: VT (5%), DC (5.75%). ALLOW 2 WEEKS FOR DELIVER'/  ---US.NEWS  
Spefi_al rush shipping available.  & WORLD REPORT  



SCHOL A ST lC , MAG AZ IN E ¦ SE-PT EM B ER 2 8, 1 9 9 5 

Dismiss the Gipper 
Dear Editor: 
The feature Cam.pus Watch in the Sep­
tember 7 issue, which deals with a faculty 
person arrested for trying to pick up a pros­
titute, crosses the bounds of acceptable 
journalistic morality. 
A brief search in the Schedule of Classes 
and the Telephone Directory for 1994 re­
veals that there is only one professor of 
anatomy at ND whose name is O'Malley, 
and one senior student who shared the same 
name and South Bend address. 
The Gipper' s inclusion of "who also had a son graduating from ND" was a purely . gratuitous defamation, a measure of the 
Gipper' s viciousness. 
Let's imagine that theprofessor' spresent 
students are unaware of the Gipper's dis­
closure, but he has learned of it somehow. 
Can you imagine his state of mind as he 
goes to each of his classes? 
Since there is likelihood of further public 
injustice, which is now a concern of mine, 
I suggest that you dismiss the Gipper. 
. Basil O'Leary 
Editor's Note: 
The storyofProfessorJohnF, O'Malley' s arrest waspublicknowledge and appeared -intheMay23,1995issueoftheSouthBend 
Tribune. 
Scholastic Magazine did not originally 
print the professor's name in the Campus 
Watch column in an attempt to be sensitive 

to the situation. . · 
economic forecast is an increasing I y daunt­-
ing task for young people about to enter the real world. A.recent segment of Today's 



Generation 
Life Choices, a series of television pro-· grams released by Golden Dome Produc­tions, reported that for the first time it is expected thatpeople entering the workforce will not exceed the financial status of their 
Do Notre Dame students typify the stereotype oftheir 
· generation? 

BY BRIDGET CASEYYou've seen Reality Bites and Singles, heard the term "grunge" and maybe have even been to Lollapalooza. Like itor not, people our age have come to be characterized as slacker, don't-care personalities by the greater en­tertainment industry and culture. The generation which officially encom­

passes people born between the years 1962 and 1978 continues to be defined by apathy, lack of motivation, even unemployment What has come to be called Generation X, originally coined in a book by Douglas Coupland, relegates young people today to a directionless life of wandering without" purpose or cause. 
Even for those who manage to break out of this depressing mold, facing a gloomy parents' generation. Faced with theincreas­ing national debt, the decreasing availabil­ity of Social Security funds and the diffi­culty of finding rewarding jobs, the pro­gram suggested that Generation Xers may have little to look forward to financially. 


Notre Dame students both fit and break the mold designed for Generation X. At­tending Notre Dame typically means being surroundedby peoplewho werehigh school over-achievers. Class presidents, valedic­torians, Habitat for Humanity coordinators and all-American athletes seem to reside within the confines of each section in every 
dorm. This impression is not unfounded, according to the Director of Undergraduate Admissions Kevin Rooney, who explains, "The admitted classes in the last few years were highly involved in extra-curricular activities during their high school careers." The numbers prove his point In recently admitted classes, 70 percent have been in­volved in varsity sports, 70 percentin com­munity service, 45 percent in the arts, 40 percent in student government and 30 per­cent in publications. 
Government ProfessorJames McAdams contends that this kind of involvement may excuse many Notre Dame students from being lumped into Generation X. "Notre Dame students are not plagued by broad aspects ofGeneration X because they have goals. They have enough. things in their lives thatsomequestions arejustnotraised," he says. 

Many people continue to be involved in a variety of activities, clubs and teams once they come to Notre Dame. But one element that proves· crucial in differentiating this generation from previous ones is its seem­ingly pervasive sense of political inaction. This generation that has inherited problems ranging from environmental destruction to random violence to AIDS, and with that comes a sometimes overwhelming f~ling g ofhelplessness and hopeiessness. Accord­m ing to Today's Life Choices, coming ofage 
~ 

., in the 1980s has led young people to mis­trust government institutions andprograms 
SCHO_LASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 28, 1995 
, ~ ' • ~ , ~ ,-,-I • l • j I ) ' -~ -,'. 
. . . . -; --. 
\ . . . 
. . 
and, as a result, has left many young people disillusioned with politics in general. 
Professor Joseph Buttigieg believes that there has been a decrease in political activ­ity on college campuses. "Ifyou compare the levelof political activity orcommitment of students today to that of 15 years ago, it is much less pronounced," he says. He points out, though, that "it is.not enough to say that students are simply apathetic. It is much more interesting to examine why." 
At Notre Dame, this attitude of apathy is evidenced by the fact that political issues seem to get thrown aside and people tend to turn their interests elsewhere. Mark Mitchell, student government chief of staff, says, .'This campus has never been focused onpolitics. People don'tcome herelooking for activism, but for tradition, stability and security. The university has never sup­ported or tolerated student activism." 
McAdams agrees that Notre Dame stu­dents cannot generally be characterized as activists. "Itis an issue of self selection,"he and will be published four times this year. Corporationin Washington;DC. His inter­says. 'The kind of students who come to "We 're hoping that this independent paper est in "politics and the way the private Notre ]?.ame are not the kind to raise ques­will help rectify the situation of political sector relates to public policy" led Klau to tions ofpolitical change. Students tend to inactivity by bringing some political debate the position. be more interested in positive social change to campus," she says. Senior government major Kate judging from theinterestlevelin the Center Junior Mike Gaglia, who is currently Mawdsley found her political position as for Social Concerns." reorganizing the College Democrats after a an intern with Congressmen Tim Roemer 
The paradox here is that the government three-year hiatus, explains that thispolitical in DC. Relating her experience to thepoliti­major in the College of Arts and Letters is inaction comes from a lack of awareness. cal cultureatNotreDame, Mawqsley com­the most popular COt¥"Se of studies at the "People don't know how much ofan effect ments, "So much happens in Congress that university. Students are pursuing politics they can really have," he says. people just don't know about" academically, but fail to pursue this interest Senior Chris Cooper, president of the Both Gaglia and Mawdsley mentioned practically. In senior government major College Republicans, says his group is also that cuts in student aid were passed by the SheilaMoloney'sexperience, "NotreDame working to raise awareness. "We want to Senate this summer, and while students on students go to class, engage in heated de­educate the student body about political other campuses were protesting, little has bates, and thenleave it allintheclassroom." issues," he says. One way in which he been mentioned about it at Notre Dame. It 
"Students' beliefs and behavior are re­hopes to accomplish this is to engage in was specifically for this reason that Gaglia flections of the greater culture, says political debates presenting the conserva­reorganized the College Democrats. "I Buttigieg. 'The country in general has tive and the liberal viewpoints in both pub­don't know about most students on this become more concerned with individual lic forums and in point/counterpoint col­campus, but I think the cuts in student aid success and has abandoned political activ­umns in The Observer. Cooperencourages would be a big problem, and people don't ism." He also suggests that in some impor­students toponderpertinentpolitical issues. even know that it is happening," he says. tant ways Notre Dame is different than "Many people here are conservative but In Gaglia's opinion, a small percentage many institutions. "Private universities are don't know why. We want people to really · of the student body has been ''alienated by somewhatremoved from the public sphere. think about things." the conservatism and Republicanism on By nature, Notre Dame is less connected to But even if students are not involved in campus" and have "turned their interest to · public issues." . politics at the campus level, many have activism through volunteer work" as a re­
Moloney is part of a group of students pursued these interests in different settings. sult. Indeed, therisinginterestin volunteer who hope to bring the political debate on Through internships, summerjobs and aca­work and social concerns by members of campus beyond the classroom and into the demic courses, many Notre Dame students Generation X proves that young people press. She is the publisher of a new, pri­have been involved in politics and have had will not succumb to the increasing prob­vately funded, conservative political news­·an effect on things. Senior Kevin Klau lems of society without a fight. Jay Kim, paper called Right Reason which will ap­pursued his interests with a summer posi­volunteer coordinator and Generation Xer pear on campus for thefirst time in October tion tracking legislation with the Siemens who appeared on Today's Life Choices, 
SCH O.L AST IC· MAG AZ IN E ¦ SEPTEMBER 2 8, 1 9 9.5 5 

L • •• • • • • • • ',. • •, • • • ,• I ' ," ' • ._, • • ' • • • •. • • • ' • ~
~ 

. ­
,;.J ' • 

anticipates that "as people are increasingly put off by big business, government and other institutions, individuals will serveoth­ers on a more personal level." 
Possibly themost impressive statistics on Notre Dame students that dispute the gen­eral description of the current generation as apathetic are those provided by the Center for Social Concerns. Notre Dame students continue to defy the trend by becoming involved in a wide range of volunteer pro­grams. According to Jim Palidino, associ­ate directorof the CSC, "75 to SO-percentof students become involved in programs at the center at sometime during their four years at Notre Dame." · 
But many students don't limit their in­volvementto theirfouryearsatNotreDame. Accor4ing to Palidino, 10-12percent of the student body participates in a service pro­gram after graduation, spending one to two years with organizations located through­out theUS and around theworld. In the area of social concerns then, Notre Dame stu­dents participate at a high level, defying the "don't care" attitude of most fellow Gen­eration Xers. 
The case of GeneratioriX at Notre Dame thus presents a viable debate. Do Notre Dame students fall under the category of slackers withouta political cause or do they defy the trend with their zealous participa­tion in social concerns? 

BIG TIME. Senior Kate Mawdsley interned with a congressman in Washington, DC . 

Perhaps time will tell. With an upcoming 
presidential election, many people are hop­
ing that Notre Dame will become a place of 
political debate and activity. Moloney pre­
dicts, "The election year may spark some 
political debate on campus which would 
help remedy thecurrentabsenceofpolitical 
activity." 

Student government, the administration and some interested alumni are working to make such debate happen. These con­cerned groups are excited about the pros­pect of reviving a Notre Dame tradition by bringing a mock political convention to ;Campus this spring. From 1950 to 1988, Notre Dame sponsored a mock convention before each presidential election for the party currently out of the White House. This tradition brought many major political 
figures ~d candidates to campus. 

According to Mitchell, ''The administra­
tion wouldlike to support studentinterestin 
and initiative to bring politicians to campus 
to speak about their concerns and interests 
during a week offorums focusing·on major 
political issues and culminating in a mock 
convention." . 


. Mother Jones' Top 10 · Activist Campuses 
1. 
SUNY / CUNY 

2. 
U. of Wisconsin 

3. 
UCLA 

4. 
Michigan State 

5. 
U. of Hawaii 

6. 
Cornell 

7. 
Rutgers 

8. 
Antioch 

9. 
U. of North Carolina 

10. 
U. of Colorado 



¦W!i5idl-411ii•-----------------------­
-•----------iiilllllll South Bend are familiar with Winters. ~own by many students Doug from Roseland Cab shows as "Dougie" or "Uncle Doug," Winters has been driving Notre Dame students to bars, airports and party houses for IO years. Hestudents how to live... is also willing to drive students to the more unusual destinations in 

,Life in the Fast Lane 
BY JENNIFER RUBOW 's midnight on a cold, dark Thursday. Fingers cramped from 
dialing, junior Kathleen Ridenour and her friends look at each 
ther in exasperation. Everyone else in their class is at Bridget McGuire's, but there are no cabs to take them there for at least another hour. 
Then Ridenour has a vision: a long, maroon station wagon with white script writing on the side and United States Marine Corps stickers in the rear window. Seven measly digits and five minutes later, Ridenour and . her friends climb into the back seat of a Roseland Cab. 
. "Higirls," the mustached man sitting in the front seatsays. "We going to Bridget's?" 
"Does it look good tonight?" they ask, sure that if anyone can predict the fun quotient of a South Bend bar or party better than a Magic Eight Ball it's Doug Winters. 
"I've brought lots of kids there. It looks crowded," he responds. "i've got some cookies up here -anyone want any?" 
Ridenour and her friends help themselves to a Chips Ahoy and wait. They know it will only be a matter of minutes before Uncle Doug delves into one of his infamous stories. Sure enough, he begins, "Did I ever tell you about the time the Heartbreakers rode in my cab;.." 
Many Notre Dame students who have used the taxi services of 
E
the greater Michiana region. "[Winters] has even taken me andmy friendstothedrive-throughlinesatBurgerKingandTacoBellafter a night out," says sophomore Noelle Philips. 
Each night, seven or eight different groups looking for rides to one of South Bend's social spots call Roseland Cab, specifically requesting Winters. More than just a reliable one-time cab driver, Winters provides constant anecdotes, humorous jokes and endless advice to confused and lovelorn students. 
Besides his average, party-going fare, Winters has picked up a fair share of celebrities as well. The band Grass Roots and Rudy Ruttiger have both spent time in Winter's cab. 
Winters says that the best part of his job is constantly meeting new people. He enjoys conversing with the students of Notre Dame, especially about the latest campus gossip. "Anything is an open topic," he says. As sophomore Brigid McShane claims, "There is riever a time when Doug is not talking." When pressed to name a single negative or difficult aspect of his job, Winters thinks for awhile, touches his mustache, and honestly replies that none come to mind. 
Winters feels the students of Notre Dame enjoy riding with him because he treats them with the respect that other cab drivers often lack. "I try to be fair, to treat [ the kids] like humans, like ladies and gentlemen," he says. He deals with the inebriated folks coming home at the bars' closings with patience and humor, unlike other drivers who are not always willing to chauffeur intoxicated Notre Dame students. "He has been known to cut me and my friends deals on cab fare and even provides us with M&M' s when we are attacked by a particularly viscious case of the munchies," says junior Kristin Brantrneier. 
Winters believes that his fares like him and ask for him by name because he is not afraid to joke. Brantrneier agrees that his popularity with Notre Dame students is mostly due to the fact he is "outgoing, definitely not shy and acts like he is everyone's best friend." 
The respect given to "Uncle Doug" by the students of Notre Dame is reciprocated. An enthusiastic Notre Dame fan, Winters enjoys being with the students. "They are a lot of fun," he says. He praises Notre Dame students, for being "wholesome and down to earth, fair and easy going." 
When not serving as friend and driver to the Notre Dame community, Winters is busy fulfilling his roles as husband, father of two and grandfather of three. Winters loves to talk about his family to his riders and says that he hopes his grandchildren will grow up to be like the students of.Notre Dame. . 
In fact, Winters claims that he would do anything for'aiiy of the students he has driven and offers them fatherly advice. "Doug warned us about apartments in the area we were in, telling us how trashy they were and how we should never live there," McShane recalls. 
Whether it's waiting outside a bar or party to make sure every­thing goes okay, hauling a group of students to five different places in one night orjust being his usualjovial self, for many Winters has become as much a part of the weekend ritual at Notre Dame as parietals and Papa John's pizza. O 
S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦ 5 E P .T E M B E R 2 8 , 1 9 9 5 
7 

. . . -. ~. .~. . . .. ' : " ~ ~ ·. ~ . . -~ . 
.,:, 
. . ­
---------------·-------------­

l•••r•1•'*1111illiilej------------_;_----------,------­
¦ 


Caught Up 
in the Web 
·As the World Wide Web expands, students and faculty · ·find new ways to incorporate it into their daily lives 


BY ABIGAIL MAY 
ot a cheerleader, not a manager, not a trumpet player, leprechaun or linebacker, Andrea· McMakin nonetheless spent much pf her free time this summer preparing for the Notre Dame ­Northwestern game. Hard atwork on a display of team spirit unlike any of those generally encoun° 
tered on a Saturday 
stroll across campus, the Notre Dame senior spent much of the pre­season in front of a computer screen. 
·Andrea was busy creating a home page on the World Wide Web. A click of the mouse pulls up a history of Irish­Wildcat matchups, a profile of each of the teams, action photos, coach bios and fight 
. songs. One m_ore click and you can sign up on Andrea's score­prediction bulletin board to see how your best guess compares with those of fans around the 


Professor Kern Trembath has all notes, coursework and visual aids on a Web page. All his students need to buy Is a Bible. 

Essentially, the World Wide Web amounts to a . 
. system of organizing information on the Internet. Individuals, companies, universities,governments and other institutions set up home pages which serve as entry-points, or directories, to any information located at that Web site. More or less 
· an electronic brochure, a Web site can be stocked with any text, visuals or sounds its creator wants to load into it. A user navigates the Web with a "browser," 
such as the Netscape program on the Notre Dame network, which facilitates movement within a given site and from one site to another. By clicking onto hypertext links (usually highlighted words or icons), a user jumps from one Web site to another _ from the Northwestern display on Andrea's home page, for example, to the Wildcat Marching Band Home Page for a rousing rendition of "Go, 
U. Northwestern." All at the touch of a button. This is just one of the approximately 500 home pages at the rapidly-expanding Notre Dame Web 
· site. People and organizations all over campus. are 
tapping into the Web's potential, and the signs of 
future changes are already becoming evident. 
Although the Notre Dame Home Page has 
existed in some form for almost two years, the 
"new and improved" version made its official 
debut on September 15. "Our home page com­
pares really well to those that other schools are . 
coming out with," says .seniorJulie Janowak, who 
works on the Internet as part of her job with an 
engineering professor. Notre Dame site-sutfers 
the world over are treated to a newly-spiffed home 
page with links to information on all aspects of life 
at Notre Dame -from student government 
activities to mass schedules to swim team statis­
tics. 

Every campus organization and academic 
department has a location, although many have yet 
to create their home pages. Any student or faculty 
member who chooses to create a personal home 
page can also do so. The Notre Dame Home Page 
even has a link to a step-by-step guide to home 
page creation.. Theoretically, it won't be long 
before anyone who has access to the Web will be 
able to look up virtually any piece of information 
that'the university makes public -including, 
perhaps, the syllabi and class notes for any course 
Notre Dame offers. 
"One hundred percent of the courseworkfor my Foundations of Theology class is on the Web now. 


All my students need to buy is a Bible," says Kem Trembath, assistant chair of the Theology Depart­ment. Trembath spent about three semesters constructing the Weh page that now contains all of the notes and exams for his class as well as the hundreds of visual guides he uses during lectures. Trembath says that his course page affords him "more flexibility in terms of how information goes from me to my students." It has won praise from his students and from administrators and faculty at universities across the nation. 
"It has become our habit," writes one admirer from a California university, "to go to Kem Trembath's and the other Notre Dame pages on the Web when faculty members or students ask for a demonstration of what changes in instructional modes may be intheir future." 
Tiffany Edwards, a freshman in Trembath's class, had never even used the Internet before this year. Already, though, she says she is hooked on the notion of school via Web. "It takes a lot of the pressure off to getall the notes scrawled down in class. You can follow along in the notes from the Web and listen more carefully to what's being 

FACELIFT. The new said. You never have to worry about.missing Notre Dame Home Page . anything -it's all right there." made its debut September 15. 
Janowak, a chemical engineering major, also appreciates the computer access. '.'A lot of the . science and engineering professors go so fast in class that you'd be lost if you didil'. t have access to the material on the Web." · 
9 





Although his work has been something of a standard-setter, Trembath is by no means unique in his use of the Web for instructional purposes. Many professors in the Colleges of Science and Engineering now rely heavily on the Web for their coursework, and more and more Arts and Letters instructors are heading in that direction every semester. 
Once realized, the university's current goal of wiring all dorm rooms to the network will advance this gradual Web-ward progression considerably and, many believe, open doors for an entirely new type of instruction. 
"Eventually," says Trembath," I would like to see even the lecture material being read from the Web in the students' own rooms." He hopes this will fr~ up class time to allow more in­class communication between students and professors. ''The 
student should be much more of a non-passive agent in the learning process." 
The $5.3 million dorm wiring projec_t, known as ResNet, began in May 1995 and should be completed by fall 1997, according to Kevin Barry, educational technology specialist for the Office of University Computing. ResNet will bring the Internet and courseware, and possibly even 
~ software applications available ~ in the clusters, into all dormI rooms. Barry believes that 
some of the files and informa­

POWERED UP. Daniel 
tion in the Hesburgh Library 

Eklund, who Is working on 
bringing the DART book to will also eventually be acces­
the Web, advises senior sible via ResNet 
Chris Mueller in the 
Another notable Web 

Nieuwland computer cluster. 
endeavor is senior Daniel Eklund's effort to bring the DART book to the Web. Eklund is working, with cooperation from the university, on a system whereby students can select courses by entering variables such as department, time and preferred instructor into a program on theWeb.. 
"It started out as a student government project in the middle of last year," says Eklund, "but I became sort of obsessed with getting it finished. It's pretty far along now, and I think I could have it up sometime this year." 
A course selection database such as the one Eklund has designed would put the university well ahead of schedule in terms of the goals that have been outlined for the future use of the World Wide Web. 
Other objectives for years to come, according to Barry, include a drastic reduction of the paperwork end of administra­tive interaction. Computer communications may bring the virtual elimination of all the multiple-copy forms that circulate the AdministrationBuilding every day. 
For now, the World Wide Web can provide Notre Dame students with entertainment, information and class·material. In the future, though, hooking up to the Web may be a part of every student's daily routine. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 28, 1995. 

• Searching for a job takes on new dimensions as Notre Dame students go on-line to contact employers 
~NET 


http://www.helpwanted 
BY STEPHANIE DoYLEBy now it is no secret that you can send letters to distant friends, access world and local news, re­view sports information and seek out vari­ous fonns of visual and musical entertain­ment over the Internet But now campus computer clusters have also become the hot spot for one-stop job shopping. Welcome to theeverexpandinginfonna­tionsuperhighwaywhich now includesWeb 
financial status and growth. It helps not so much in getting a job, but ingetting contacts and background infonnation." 
''That infonnation would have taken me weeks to find in a library," he adds. 
The Internet, unlike the local classified ad in the paper, is also global, giving its users access to employment opportunities around the world. According to Klau, a government major, "Every major TV sta­tion and newspaper has a Web page. Com-students at Notre Dame using theInternet to find jobs. Part ofthe decision to acquire the VIEWnet and InterVIEW system at Notre Dame was made because ofthe drop in job interviews held on campus each year. Al-· though on-line interviewing is not likely to diminish the need for a personal, face-to­face interview, it does make thejob hunting process more convenient Anemployercan have a conversation with an employee on­line and in some cases offer a job immedi­

dents and their prospective employers. 
The biggest advantage to searching for a job on the Internetis that it is quicker, easier and cheaper to access tips on interviewing and resume writing; to.set up interviews, to establish contacts ahd to research infonna­tion about specific companies. Michael Hoody, a senior computer science major, sent his resume over the Internet only two weeks ago. "Already I have had a couple of[companies] callme,"Hoody says. "[Us­ing the Internet] is·obviously easier. You don't have to go anywhere and it's fast" 
Senior Kevin Klau agrees. "[Most com­panies] have press clippings on themselves so you can read up on a company before an interview. In one case, I was able to print out a company's highlights fo:r 1994 on panies like Pepsi-Cola, Coca-Cola and al­cohol companies have them because they realize that they have a growing audience." 
But because of the international scope of the Internet, Director of Career and Place­ment Services Kitty Arnold strongly rec­ommends that students do not send out their resumes on-line "for personal security is­sues." Students who decide to publish a resume on-line should be aware that the contents of it are seen around the world, warns Arnold. In addition, much of the infonnation published on the Internet quickly becomes outdated as technology rapidly advances. "Because it has been an explosion, many ofthe lists are out of date because the expansion is so fast," she says. 
It is difficult to detennine the number of types of companies. The job offerings on­line are mainly in the technical and scien­tific fields, according to Hoody. Many large companies still lag behind colleges and universities in technological advances and have yet to use the computer to adver­tise jobs and seek employees. As word of these new Web sites grows, however, it is expected that many more companies will discover the benefits ofusing the Internet 
The changes that are occurring over the Internet in terms ofemploymentopportuni­ties are "enough to make your head spin," according to Arnold. Through the various programs offered on-line, Notre Dame students are given the opportunity to use the Information Superhighway as a means of securing their future. D 




Information Superhighway 
. 
Twelve intriging websites that are bound to keep the computer clusters crowded 
. 

BY AARON NOLAN &ANDREW WEIMERAdinit it You've been in this situation be fore: It's 3 a.m. atDeBartolo, yourpaperis due in a few hours, and you're frantically searching for the website your friend· told you about You know, the one with the pictures. Fear not, web-surfers. You are not alone in your late-night page searching. Hundreds of other stu-·. dents here at Notre Dame share in your guilty plea­sure of pulling up the Melrose Place Home Page. Given afew spare hours out of their day (and night), Scholastic's dutiful writers took to the clusters to · search for some interesting websites. Listed below are some of the printable finds: 
. MOVIES 

Anticipating this winter's Goldeneye? 007 fans can keep themselves busy with the unofficial 007 JamesBondWebsiteathttp://www.mcs.net/~klast/ www/bond.html. Hailed by EntertainmentWeekly as "worthy of the most discerning Bond fan," it includes profiles of all the Bonds (including Pierce Brosnan), charts of villiaris, photos and plenty of 007 nostalgia. It even links you to the CIA's website: Happy spy hunting. 
Another completely addictive website isThe God­fatherTrilogy HomePage(JJ.ttp://www.exit109.com/ 
~jgeoff/godfather.html). Remarkably comprehen­sive, it offers its visitors the option of examining each film one at a time, all three at once or the complete epic version (the latter is under construction and coming soon). The site is complete indeed, with audio/visual clips from the films, remarks from au­thor/screenwriter Mario Puzo and director Francis Ford_ Coppola, plot summaries, heirarchies of the Corleone Family and the Corleone "Family," cuts from the soundtrack; film stats, trivia,· quotes and scenes cut from the films. To put it in the Don's own words, "it's an offer you can't refuse." 
For those of you who haven't already been there, check out the Quentin Tarantino Page (JJ.ttp:// www.webcom.com/~kbilly/). Put together by an extremely dedicated fan, this page is the ultimate for Tarantino folLowers, complete with interviews,pho­tographs and the complete scripts from Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs. It's all there, so check it out daddy-o! 
. TELEVISION 

If you're not into the movie scene; the net has plenty of television sites for all you couch potatoes, including a couple of interesting Friends pages. Nominatedfor the"Outstanding Individual Achieve-. mentinMain TitleMusic"Emmy Award, the show's . pageathttp://www.sky.net/~hello/friends.html.lets youinonothertrivalinformation_whileallowingyou to check out tons of pictures, some favorite quotes and vote on the pressing issue of who is the best­looking female on the show. Meanwhile, at http:// www.umich.edu/~geena/drinking.html you can 
12 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 28, 1995 
check out the much fabled Friends drinking game. Remember, you take a sip if Chandler makes a smart aleckremark, butmustdrinkeverythingirisightifthe Ugly Naked Guy makes an appearance. Coffee, of course. 
Consider the following: another good site for all Nieuwland inhabitants is the Bill Nye the Science GuyHome Pageathttp://www.seanet.com/vendors/ billnye/nyelabs.htmL This page includes photos, 

soundbytes and MPEGs of the greatest science show host since Mr.,Wizard. It also includes Bill's own personal biography, information and experiments from previous shows as well as clips from upcoming episodes. Science rules! 
Finally, if you like The Simpsons (and who on this campus doesn't?), try The Simpsons Home Page (http//hubcap.clemson.edu/~trippm/simpsons.html). While this is only one of many Simpsons pages, it is clearly one of the most comprehensive, containing allofBart'schalkboardopeningsandevenaSimpsons newsgroup. Ifyoucan'tfindwhatyou'relookingfor here, it can also connect you to other Simpsons sites. 
. MUSIC 

As far as music home pages are concerned, the Unofficial Violent Femmes Homepage (http:// ds1.gl.umbc.edu/;,..mmerry2/femmes.html) offers more than most band pages combined. This page contains the most comprehensive information on the group. With everything from band pictures to de­tailed concert information, this page goes above and beyond the norm of simply listing tour dates and song 1yrics. An outstanding, must-see site for anyFemmes fanatic. 
While you can find just about every band's homepage using the Yahoo server files, some par­ticularly interesting sites include the 10,000 Mani­acs/Natalie Merchant site at http:// pages.prodigy.comN Nfessler/I0klinks.html. It of­fers a score of Maniacs sites to choose from, includ­ing the VH-1 Artist of the Month page which spot­lights Natalie Merchant, and includes clips from all the Maniacs' videos plus a clip from Merchant's new "Carnival." 
As a result of the tremendous response to Justin andJoe'sreviewofTakeThatlastweek,you'll want to check out the British band's very own home page at http://agora.leeds.ac.uk/ronnie/play/fakeThat/ main.html. Download pictures upon pictures of those too-cute UK hunks, listen to their soon-to-be­classic hits and just have a bloody good time. 

. MISCELLANEOUS 
If you've ever felt like putting off that next essay to surf the net (and who hasn't), the Center for the Easily Amused (http://www.islandnet.cam/ ~cwalker/homepage.html) is the place to be. This ·page has hundreds of links on widely varied topics such as the Peanuts archives, the Pez homepage and the Breakfast Cereal Hall of Fame. Although all of the links are entertaining, be sure to try out the Surrealist Compliment Generator-there's just no way to explain it! · 
Another truly novel site is the coffee page at http:/ /tecate.chem.yale.edu/~lapham/coffee.html. Every­thing you've ever wanted to know about thebenevo­lent bean is listed here, including a molecular dia­gram of caffeine and famous quotes about America's morning drink ("Ah, how sweet coffee is! Sweeter than a thousand kisses! I must have my coffee..." ­
J.S. Bach). Bound to keep you up later than Folgers . at midnight. 0 
The Center for the Easily Amused has links to the Pez home page, Peanuts Archives and the. Breakfast Cereal Hall of Fame 
'' 



Loyal Sons Go Marching 
In step with the Irish Guard 
BY KAIB BROUN 

They wake up at 6:00 every Satm_day morning. They spend two hours getting dressed. They wear some 30 pounds of wool valued at $2000. They go through a rigorous 
inspection process by captains and fonner guardsmen. And they march in exact precision, their faces immovaqly stem while the ''Notre Dame Victory March" swells behind them. 
Although the official purpose of the Irish Guard is to lead and protect the oldest marching band in the nation, senior guardsman Dan McCarthy says, ''Let's face it, the band doesn't need a lot of protection. We're there to pro­

demanding and competitive process which lasts a week and culmi­nates in an actual audition in front of judges. "We start by learning the routine five days before try-outs. We work on the hike step and amade-uproutinethat'skirtdofaminihalf-timeshow,"saysMetz. Simply memorizing a routine and being 6'2" tall is not enough to be accepted, however. "You have to display marching ability, but the moves ru;e designed to be flashy," McCarthy notes. "In the audition, that's what the judges are looking for-the show." 
The commitments of the Irish Guard include more than just the half-timeshow. Theyperfonnatspecialeventsandinthepasthave made_ appearances at the Rudy premiere, the dedication of the 
College Football Hall of Fame 

videashow." Seniorguardsman 
and Sophomore Sibs weekend. Tim Regan adds,· ''There's not Basically, says Regan, the com­much of a market for band assas­mitments of the Guard include sins. We're a precision march­whatever the university demands ing unit" of them. 
But life is not all work for the Practice consists of marching members of the Irish Guard. In with the band for an hour and a 
fact, they have been known to keep an annual date with the University of Southern California cheerleaders following thegame. Most first-year guardsmen have not yet heard about this tradition, but admit that they hope it's true. Regan hesitated at first to own_ up to this rumor but eventually conceded. "It's not a tradition or a prearranged event but the USC cheerleaders have asked to meet with us in an informal way in the past" But McCarthy is more willing to admit to this annual event ''Every year that they are here, they ask us on the field." 
The Irish Guard, established in 1949 as Notre Dame's precision marching unit, accompanies the band during every football game and provides the fans with a spirited perfonnance. According to senior captain Brad Metz, the Irish Guard was started by a student who wanted to fonn an auxiliary group to the band which would add color to and clear the way for the band. Still today, clad in elaborate regalia, they lead theband onto the field and represent the rich Irish tradition ofNotre Dame. 
The Irish Guard consists of 10 guardsmen. This year 20 men tried out for four available positions. Trying out for the guard is a half each day, Monday through Friday. "We work on marching the clog and the trot-out," says Metz. "Marching the clog is whafwe do at the end of the game ifwe win. The trot-out is coming out to the seven°yard line when the band comes out" Chris Salata, a first year guardsman says that a typical practice "mainly involves learning the turns but also how to have a showy marching style. The turns alone aren't enough." 
In addition to learning the routines, the members of the Irish Guard have to be in top physical condition. "Over the summer we run two miles a day to keep our leg muscles inshape for marching," says Metz. "Also, it's hot in the unifonns. Itwould be easy to pass outifwe weren't in shape." Regan adds, "We have to get in shape to look as good as possible for game day." 
Many people underestimate the difficulty involved in a game­day perfonnance. "For me the hardest part is getting up at 6:30 a.m. on a Saturday," McCarthy notes. "It's not as easy as it looks," Salata agrees. ''The march from the Dome to the stadium is pretty strenuous, especially when you're wearing 30 pounds of wool." 
The_trademark unifunns are 100 percent wool and the price of 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 28, 1995 
one kilt alone is about $700. "They're old and they're real, not replicas," notes Regan with pride. "We don't velcro anything. They're traditional Irish." 
Every game day, the guard members undergo arigorous inspec­tion. "Inspection is definitely one of thehardest parts," says Regan. After being ins~ted by the captain, the men are looked over by fonner guardsmen to make sure that they are up to Irish Guard standards. Above all, guardsmen must maintain their bearings. "They'lldoanythingtomakeuslaugh,"jokesRegan. "Theymake sure we're cleanly shaveri and ifwe aren't, well, they'd probably shave us." The inSJ)eCtion serves as a way for fonner guardsman to remain associated with the group. Ultimately, ''They just make sure we look as good as possible," says Regan. 
As much time as the guardsmen spend together, it's no surprise that they are a cohesive group. Often they eat dinner together after practice. "It's a good way for the younger guys to get to know the older guys,". says Regan. After a 1992 incident in which the administration dismissed halfofthe guardsmen from the group for acts which were deemed unacceptable according to the legislation 
HIGH STEPPING. The lrlsh Guard marches Into a pep rally weariing their trademark expressionless faces, but not their kilts. 
ofDu Lac, hazing and initiation rites no longer take place. How­ever, new members do undergo a welcoming ritual ofgroup head­shaving. "Itwasprettyembarrassingtowalkaroundfortwoweeks with my head shaved sophomore year," says McCarthy. 
Irish Guard members clearly value the experience. According to McCarthy, ''The best part of being a guardsman is the whole Saturday experience, before, during and after the game." Salata says, ''For me, it's the feeling I get when Icome through the tunnel. Also, beinglooked up to by the youngerkids at thegame makes you proud you're a part of such a unique group." 
"We miss out on the tailgating and the things that go on in the stands, but it's a gr'eat feeling to represent the school in the unique way that we do," Regan adds. Indeed, this uniqueness is a great source of pride for the guardsmen. ''There are a lot of groups at other universities that go by 'honor guards' or 'color guards,"' says Salata. ''They're somewhat similar, but they're not even close to being as unique as ours." 
Overall, the members of the Irish Guard wouldn't trade the experience of game day to be with their friends in the student section. McCarthy echoes the sentiments ofhis fellow guardsman when he notes, "Being in the tunnel is a completely amazing experience. Your blood gets pumping. It's such a rush. You just feel like you're an important part of the whole Notre Dame experience." · D 
SOMETHING TO FIT ANY SIZE APPETITE 
...AND BUDGET 

"·•_· .SUBWA~--­
..~ , The·PlaceWhere Fresh is thc'fastc. 
54533 Terrace Ln 277-7744 52577 US Rt.31 277-1024 

gipper.1@nd.edu 

Campus Watch 
BY THE GIPPER 
Attitude, Allegations and Innuendo 

"Extensive interviews show that not one alcoholic has ever actually seen a pink elephant." -Yale University, Center of Alcoholic Studies 
WHAT'S UP WITH THAT?
The Gipp has been getting rather an­noyed as oflate due to the over­crowded conditions at home foot­ball games. A few Notre Dame students witnessed an unusual occurrence this past Saturday revealing that corrupt·ushers niay be at ·the bottom of it all. Apparently, 10 Holy Cross track team members·sans tick­ets were appr9ached by !lnusher who of­fered them ent:r:ance to the gamefor the low, low price of 20 bucks a ~ead. After the money changed hands, each was handed a blank sheet of paper and led to one gate where, after a few winks and nods were exchanged, they were allowed into the sta­dium. Later, theGippandanumberofother students saw these same Holy Cross stu­dents sitting in the aisles of the student section. . TheGipp'sfirstemotion was oneofrage: -these same ushers can't find it in their cold_ hearts to let an 18-month-old child into the game? His second emotion was one of disbelief. Twenty bucks? That usher could have gotten at least 50 bucks a head. His ·final em~tion was oneof interest The Gipp ·could really use extra tickets to the Boston . College game. After all,ifyou can't beat 'em.join 'em. 
IS THAT WHAT THEY'RE . CALLED? 
Before the Texas game this past"week­end, the Gipp was browsing through the Texas football inediaguideand noticed one particularly "interesting"Texas student or­ganization -the Texas Angels. Com­prised of27 females, "their primary duty is to serve as hostesses for the football re-Brotheris definitely watching. Apparently cruits." Hostesses?!! Is that the iatest he isn't looking too hard, though, because euphemism going around these days? someone who watched the game on TV Sounds more like an offshoot of Heidi reported seeing a shot ofLou Holtz smok­Fleiss' "escort service." ing a pipe in the press box. Hey Bill, look 

After reading about these Texas "An-behindyou~that'sano-n~; gels," the Gipp couldn't help but reflect Sorry,Um; the Gipp doesn't mean to be upon the fact that Notre Dame had one of a ta,tdet,ale. He understands you've had a their best recruiting seasons ever this year. •rough couple of weeks. The Gipp's just Could there possibly be a Notre Dame jealous because everytime the Gipplights version of the Texas Angels? The Notre up, the ushers beat him to apulp. -­Dame Leprechaunettes? Well, notQffi-· · · · · cially, anyway, but it's definitely some-NEW MASCOT? thin'g to make you go, "Hmmmm." · .-Complaints_ have been •floating around 
ml,Uly of the·older dorms;·including Zahm · THAT'LL LEARN 'EM_ , -and Cavanaugh, concerning certain .unin:~ 
Did anyone read the warning concerning ' ' . vitedguests: cockroaches. Theestimatesof climbing upon the scaffolding around the the sizes of -these intruders haye raiiged ·Administration Building? It was handed.-_· froQJ. moderately big to too-large-to-be­out to you at registration, along with your :''st.epped~pn. Funny, ~e Gipp thoughtthat own private issue of:buLac. (Perhaps that cockroaches were genei;ally found in~ explains a lot) Well, apparently someone . -dirty environments, abounding iri the filth was caught attempting such a climb be-which they need to breed. __ Sol.ind~ _to_ the causerecentlybarbedwirewasaddedtothe. Gipp like people have been.neg~ecting a tops of most of the fences: That's Jjght few household duties, like throwing away Now the Administration Building looks tliree-week-oldPapaJohn'sboxesaridfour­more like a statepenitentiary and less·likea' . week-old beer c_ans. it's probably tinie to historical building~ Is this the Notre.Dame fire the maid. -, -. Administration Building or a scene'right . out ofbesieged Sarajevo? Of course, the ThetirilehascdmefortheGipptodeparL barbed wire is to prevent students ·from Perhaps,by-thetimemostofyoureadthis. actually hurting themselves· climbing on · the Gipp will be off and ori his way.to the the scaffolding. This way, they'll get hurt' BuckeyeStatetowatchNotreDamemarch before they even get there. The riextstep is · ·onward to victory (Please, God!). ··Th.e the installation of sniper towers up and ·Gipp hopes, howe:ver, that Notre Danie down God quad. . ' doesn't run up the score too high'. He 
· couldn'(possibly stomach watching ari-THERE ARE EXCEPTIONS TO -· other Iaciduster display of plisll:-ups 'per­EVERYRULE · formed by the Leprechaun. Was that teli­· Speaking of sniper towers (sort of), the · vised? Th~ Gipp thought the ability to do Gipp doesn't know if anyone realizes this, push-ups was right up there on the Lepre­but Bill Kirk sits in the press box at every chaun prerequisite list with the ability to football game monitoring the student sec­·walk, talk and grow a beard. Come on, tion, sometimes with binoculars. Big cheerleaders, givethemanahand! . 
SCHOLASTIC MAG,AZI-N_E_• SEPTEMBER-_28, l995 

SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup ofthe week in sports 
September 19 to September 26 
edited by Shannan Ball 
Volleyball Team Handed First Loss Women's Soccer Team Undefeated 
The Notre Danie volleyball team's 27-The Fighting Irish women's soccer team match home winning streak came to an end extended its shutout streak to eight con­Friday with a 3-1 loss to 17th ranked Texas. · secutive wins by defeating both Rutgers Despite the loss to the Longhorns, the Irish and Seton Hall last weekend. The Scarlet quicklyrebounded with two winsovernum­Knights fell 3-0 and the Pirates were de­ber 15Colorado. feated 5-0. Notre Dame boasts a 34-match 
This weekend the Irish will play . regular season winning streak, the longest Georgetown, who is second in the confer­in the nation. ence with a 13-5 record. Their Big East The team's four-game road trip contin­debut will be followed by a match against ues this weekend when the Irish travel to Villanova, another conference team. Ohio. They will face the University of 
Cincinnati Bearcats and then take on Ohio Irish Men Win National Catholic State. Title, Women Place Second 
The cross country teams posted strong Notre Dame Men's Soccer Drops Two showingsat theNationalCatholic Meetlast Despite three wins atthe beginning ofthe Friday. The 15th ranked men captured their season, the Irishhav.egone into a four game sixth title in eight years by placing four skid, losing to both' Indiana and Boston runners in the top five. Junior Matt Althoff College in overtime at home this weekend. was thefirst of the Irishcompetitors to cross Againstindiana the Irish jumped out to a2­the finish line, followed by Derek Seiling, 0 lead with goals by Konstantin Koloskov Joe Dunlop and Derek Martisus. and Ben Blockage but could not manage 
Senior co-captain Maureen Kelly led the another goal against the fifth ranked Hoo­Notre Dame women, finishing third over­siers, who went on to win 4-2. all. Amy Siegel was fifth and co-captain In a conference game against Boston Kristen Dudas was eighth. Despite these College, Notre Dame fell3-2. solid performances, Marquette won. the TheIrish willhostLoyolaMarymounton championship, placing all seven of their Thursday and then travel to Northwestern runners in the top 20. on Sunday. they will be without seniors 
Both teams are preparing for the Notre Josh Landman and Bill Lanza who are out Dame Invitational on October 6. due to injuries, but look mend their losing 
We Are ND: You think thefolks in Columbus are ready for this weekend? You bet your life. Seven different companies have been licensed to produce T-shirts about the game. 
Quote of the Week: ''The last time l was in the press box at Ohio Stadium was in 1968 when I was coaching the secondaryunder Woody Hayes at OhioState. We beat Michigan 50-14 in the last game of our regular season and after our last touchdown we scored on a two-point conversion. After the game they asked Coach Hayes why he went for two and he said, 'Because they wouldn'tJet me go for three.'" -Lou Holtz · 
Schaller's Schot: The Irish are fired up after their big win over Texas, and they come out fighting. With the score tied at 24 in the fourth quarter, however, the Buckeyes take over. Riding the tough running ofEddie George, the Buckeyes put 10 more points on the board and.shut the Irish out. An evenly matched game comes down to the hostile crowd in Columbus and an Buckeye team with something to prove. Ohio State 34 Notre Dame 21. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 2 8, 1995 




Headed 
tor 
"' 
! 

Ohio
i j 
Randy Kinder and the 15th-ranked Irish travel to Columbus to take on . the 7th-ranked Buckeyes 
. 


HERE I COME. Randy Kinder leads the Irish with 449 rushing yards, including three straig,ht 100-yard games. 

BY SHANNAN BALL

It was the "game of the century," mun 
ber one versus number· two. · Notre 
Dame against.Ohio State. This was the 
scenario in 1935, and Notre Dame was 
victorious by a score of7-2. Now. 60 years 
later, itis a rivalry renewed. On September 
30, the Fighting Irish will t.akeon the Buck­
eyes, in Ohio Stadium before an expected 
crowd of nearly 100,000. 

This will be only the third time Notre 
Dameand Ohio State have met. Theyfaced 
each other in 1935 and again in 193~, with 
the Irish claiming the victory both times. 
The series wasresurrected this year and will 
continue when theBuckeyes travel toSouth 
Bend next year. 

The fans in Columbus have been antici-:­pating this game for quite a while. The NotreDameAlumniAssociation of Central Ohio has been selling t-shirts for a year and will provide three large screen televisions in the stadium parking lot for those unable to get tickets. Scalpers have been hav.ing a field day, with prices climbing into the thousands. This is, without a doubt, the · hottest ticket inColumbus this season. It is also a valued commodity for the Irish fans. 
On campus, over 2,500 Notre Dame stu-· dents entered the ticket lottery for the_ 182 tickets available. · · _ 
The media, of course, has enlarged the. already enonnous hype, to the dismay of Ohio State Head Coach John Washington, who was ranked ninth at the time, by a score of 30-20. Last week they traveled to Pitt, where they racked up an­other confidence-inspiring victory with a score of 54-15. 
Cooper. Two weeks ago, tired of entertaining questions about Notre Dame while they still had yet to play Pitt, Cooper remarked, "It's like you guys don't want us to play the [Pitt] game this week." He then re­fused to comment until after the Pitt game. 
TheBuckeyesbegan the sea­son with a statement to the pollsters. Matched up with Boston College in the Kickoff Classic, fans expected a hard­fought game io start the year.. The Buckeyes had different ideas. Sparked by aShawn Springs kick-off return for a touchdown, OSU rolled to a 38-6 drubbing. 


In a confrontation of Irish· PRESSURE. Kinnon Tatum and the Irish defense opponents, Ohio State beat harrassed the.Texas offense into five 'turnovers.· 
18 

S C H O L A S T I .C M A G A Z I N E ¦ S E· P T E M B E R 2 8 , 1 9 9 5 
The seventh-ranked Buckeyes are strong on both sides of the ball. Tailback Eddie George has again been a standout for Ohio State this season, running for 219 yards against Washington and scoring four touch­downs. George rushed for 122 yards against Pittand is ranked seventh nationally in rush­ing with an average 144.3 yards pergame. In only his second year as astarter, he is 10thon their all-time rushing list The three year letter winner and Reisman Trophy candi­date goes strong both inside and outside and will be a chal­lengeforthelrishdefense. The Notre Dame linebackers will have to deliver stellar perfor­mances to stop him. 
BobbyHoyingisin his third yearas the Buckeyes' starting quarterback, and so far this season he has completed 50 passes in 76 attempts for 757 yards. Against Pitt he threw for five touchdowns and 296 yards. The 6'4", 223-pound senior combines his size with . both a strong arm and running ability. 
This year Hoying is without the services ofJoey Galloway, now teamed up with Rick MirerontheSeattleSeahawks. Trying to make up for Galloway'sbigplayabilityand 
4.19 40-yard dash speed are Terry Glenn and Buster Tullman. Alongwithtightend Ricky Dudley, the trio will put pressure on the Irish second­ary. Dudley's6'7", 240-poundframemakes him a big target for Hoying, especially on shorter routes. He became the Buckeyes' number one tight end due to the loss of returning starter DJ. Jones, who is out for open heart surgery. Glenn leads the country with 23.6 yards per catch and receiving yards per game at almost 150 yards. The Big Ten scoring leader has been turning heads in the past two games with 16 catches for 344 yards as well as becoming the conference's 

1 leader in punt returns. 
On defense, Ohio State is big, strong and quick. Nose guard Luke Pickell and defen­sive ends Mike Vrabel and Matt Finkes 

I have added both size and speed to the line andeachhashad20tacklesforaloss, which is a Buckeye record. Arguably, the Buck­
! eyes' weakest area on the field is the line-backers.TheyovercommittedagainstWash­ington, allowing the Huskie offense to bounce off-tackle and outside to gain con­siderable yardage. Junior linebackers Greg Bellisari and Ryan Miller, however, have made significant contributions and hope to rack up more tackles against the Irish. They willbeforced tohandleNotreDame's short throws to the tight ends and backs out of the backfield, as well as containing the explo­sive Randy Kinder and Marc Edwards. 

The Irish also fared well last weekend with a resounding 55-27 defeat of Texas, moving them up to 15th place in the polls. Ron Powlus received goodprotection from the offensive line, which allowed him to throw for 273 yards and two touchdowns. Derrick Mayes, despite dropping some · catchable balls, had six receptions for 146 yards and one touchdown. Edwards was also strong against the Longhorns, scoring three touchdowns in the fourth quarter. The Irish defense gave up 335 passing yards but forced five turnovers and had five sacks. They also scored nine points thanks to both an interception return for a touchdown andthe return of a blocked extra point attempt by Allen Rossum. EmmettMosley returned a punt 64 yards for a touchdown. Contributions also came from the under­classmen. Sophomore John McLaughlin had several key tackles and freshman Kory Minor continued to impress. 
Cooper, in his eighth year, has come under criticism for failing to win the big games. Because of these allegations, his future with the Buckeyes has been at times uncertain. The win against Michigan last year, however, solidified his position, and he recently signed a five year contract 
The game will be an emotional one for 

the Irish. It was rumored to mark the return ofHeadCoachLou Holtz, who has notbeen on the sidelines since the Purdue game. But for the second week in arow, therecovering coach will watch the game from the press box. "I went down on the field [during the Texas game] and! was very uneasy. Maybe a week can make a difference, but at the present time I plan on beingin thepressbox. It would be great to be on the sidelines at Ohio State, but I promised my doctors and Notre Dame I would not do anything fool­ish," he said. The game is a homecoming for Holtz, a native of Ohio. He was an assistant coach at Ohio State under Woody Hayes in 1968, when the Buckeyes won the national championship. 

op 

BY T. RYAN KENNEDY 
ball." ·. .
The fact that Ryan Both Topham's commitment Topham pounded 90-to the South Bend Silverhawks mphpiichingasafresh­and Mwphy's departure a year manin theNCAAregionals or earlier closed out the most suc­knocked in seven runs in one cessful era for NotreDamebase­gameasajuniordoesnotmake ball in many years. Topham is him special. Nor is he unique currently taking psychology because the Chicago White courses at Notre Dame and will Sox drafted him. When it . remain a full-time student until comes right down to it, January when he will graduate. Topham is a lot like the nicest But his Irish baseball days ended· guy on your floor; he is prob­lastspringwhenhesaidhewould ably themostsincere, and he is sign a professional contract and certainly theonewhobringsin forego his senior season. As a· his radio, sets it on the bench result,hewasdraftedbytheWhite and• listens to the Rolling Sox. It wasn't the first time he Stones while he showers. had been drafted either. TheLos ''When you see him, he's a Angeles Dodgers grabbed him great athlete," says former in the 34th round iri 1992; when Notre Dame baseball coach Topham was a senior in high and present Arizona State school. But Topham came to CoachPatMmphy. "Butwhen . ~ Notre Dame, and as a result, the you meet him and you know i Dodgers lost their rights to him. him, he's an unbelievableper­~ . "Ididn'twant~missoutonan son. When I was recruiting .,g education and the college life," him,Isawthatrightawayfrom a saysTopham. "Ihavenoregrets. the way he treated his family i0 .My baseball has improved a lot, and loved the game of base-g too.,.Topham's decision to take 

A down-to-earth guy with.a major league swing,former Irish star. Ryan Topham works· towards his degree during hisfirst off-season ·. · with the South Bend Silverhawks 
SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E • SEPT BM'B BR 2 8, 199 5 
the college path was probably a wise one in light of the fact that fewer than 10percent of those who play professionally make it to the major leagues. That number is even lower for those coming right out of high school. 
At Notre Dame, Topham contributed in­stantly under the tutelage of hitting coach Gary Tuck, now in the Cleveland Indians' system, and Murphy, the latter of whom recalled one of Topham' s finest moments: a home run against Mississippi State in the 1993 NCAA regionals. ''The kid he was facing was a first-round pick who threw in the mid-90s. And Topham just hit a bomb ...They had been ahead 1-0 and that broke open the game." The Irish eventually won 15-1 andadvancedtoplayperennial power­house Florida State. "I'd say that [Florida State] was one of my memorable experi­ences," says Topham. 
"It was the NCAA 
a lot of things right He regionals, it was real should move from level late at night, and we to level, but we're not go­beat them." ing to move him too fast 
Thoseweretheglory He's very mature and fo­days of Notre Dame cused. You can tell he's baseball, so to speak. had a solid background But last season, led by because of his work ethic. first-year coach Paul You can tell right away Mainieri and Topham, he's very sincereandvery Notre Dame still man­honest,"continues Haley. aged to win 41 games. Topham credits his par­Topham had caught b' ents with helping instill fire early on in the sea­g these qualities in him son, knocking in seven :i: through sacrifices they runs in a 15-4 throt­;;; 0 made, particularly his.fa­tling of Illinois, and ~ ther, who used to play throwing himself into ~ catch with him a lot in the the quarterfinals of the i early years. "We don't Smith Award "Player __, g look at it as a sacrifice," of the Year" race (one GOING AFTER IT. Topham became more aggressive last year after Coach Paul says his father, Tom. 
Mainieri told him to "be more aggressive and hack away." It worked, with "He's so much fun to be
ofonly 13 outfielders). 
Topham's home run and RBI production increasing. 
Notre Dame was on a hot streak of its own, having won 31 of its last42 games. And then the team stumbled. 
Contributing to their slump were the con­sequences of the eighth inning of·a May MCC Tournamentgame against Xavier. A pitch by Bobby Bevel smacked Topham's right wrist and broke it. The right fielder finished the season at .335 with 18 home runs and 79 RBIs, and among the national leaders in the latter two categories. The Irish season ended just as abruptly three days later when they were dumped 8-5 by Wright State. One can surmise rather con­fidently that Topham's exit speeded the team's sudden fall and its failure to earn a bid to the NCAA Tournament. 
But Topham had more than left his mark on a Irish team that had won 40 games for the seventh straight season and appeared in the NCAA regionals in three straight sea­sons, advancing to the championship round each time. Much ofTopham's success can be attributed to Coach Mainieri. "When I first saw him, I thought his swing was outstanding, as were his base-running and fielding" recalls Mainieri. "What I also noticed was that he walked some 63 times as a sophomore and he was really proud of his eye and the ability to take pitches. I told him that he wasn't going to walk to the majors. Be aggressive and hack away, and if you miss apitch you'll get it the next time.". Ultimately, Mainieri's advice paid off as Topham increased his home run and 
RBI production dramatically and found his stock rising fast in the June draft. 
Topham spent the weeks following his junior year pondering his draft status. "I was a little concerned, but as far as the injury itself, the X-rays were no big deal. I sent faxes to the clubs confirming that it wasn't serious. I figured people would understand," Topham says. The injury never took away from his anticipation of being drafted. "I was talking to a friend of mine [Luke Wilcox] who was playing for the Yankees and I told him I'd be picked by the Sox." 
Topham spent the weeks following the draftin negotiations with theWhiteSoxand in rehabilitation at Sarasota, Chicago's Rookie affiliate. It took him about a month to regain full strength and flexibility in the wrist before he joined the South Bend Silverhawks (Single A) in mid-August. "I didn't play at first because the team was in the middle of a pennant race," recalls Topham. "But the left fielder went down and so I started 12 or 15 games in left field. It wasn' tmuch different from the collegiate level in one way. But it was like facing a good college pitcher every night It also took a while getting used to the wood bat." 
In 14 games with the Silverhawks, Topham hit .250with three doubles andtwo RBIs. More importantly, however, are the accolades coming from his hitting coach, Mark Haley. ''I'.ll tell you what. He's got 
greataptitudeand he does 

with. He'salwaysbeena super-nice kid. None ofhis success has ever gotten to his head." 
Ryan Topham is not an athlete with an untamed ego. And that is what makes him unique. Yet, rightnow Tophamis living the normallifeofthecollegestudent. Hespends alotoftirnewithhis girlfriend, whom he has been dating for a couple of years, and he goes to the movies a lot. Corne mid-Febru­ary, though, Topham will have graduated . and be back playing the game he loves. He reports to spring training on February 18th. 
We will be watching. 


The Sex Sell 
Despite the hype, Paul Verhoeven's new film gets all undressed and goes nowhere 
BY CHrus MYERS
Bawdy,tawdryanddownrighttrashy -butinagoodway. Thatabout sums up Showgirls, a movie that does or does not live up to its hype, depend­ing on your expectations. Those expecting plot, drama and good acting can save their money. Wearing its NC-17 rating as a badge of honor, Showgirls proudly parades bare breasts,grindinggroinsandglamorousgams (among other body parts) with a smutty sense of master showmanship. The charac­ters are naked allright, but they can do some pretty good dancing too. Unfortunately, that's about all they can do. Following Nomi (Elizabeth Berkley) from her days as a lowly prostitute up through the ranks of Vegas ·showgirl, the film quickly introduces ahandful of minor characters that proceed to do absolutely 
cuses mainly on Nomi's trials and tribula­
tionsduringherquestforstrippingstardom, 
but the novelty of audition after audition 
quickly wears thin. Halfway through, it 
becomesA ChorusLine for perverts. After 
a while, though, everything else wears thin 
too. The novelty of Live Nude Girls can 
only be pushed so far. Two-hours-plus is 
too far. 
Berkley is pretty stoic as far as dialogue, 
timinganddeliverygo,butproducersprob­
ably weren't overly concernedwith those 
qualities. I'll admit the dance sequences 
were fast and flashy (no pun intended), but 
the meandering script would bore the pants 
off of Hugh Hefner. 
Thus, theNC-17. Proofthata bad script 
needs only a good body .. Or two -hun­
dred. 
· Showgirls is like a long, bad episode of 

Melrose Place. It's not meant to be high­· class drama, but despite a few smart one­liners, its sorely lacking quick dialogue and 

nothing for the next two hours. . Cliches . · wicked characterization. abound, including the bitchy diva (Gina · . Showgirls will do well, however. There . Gershon), backstage confidant (Gina are enough horny guys out there willing to Ravera), sleazy· producer (Alan Rachins) pay the $6.50 cover charge for this glorified and suave heartthrob (Kyle MacLachlan). porno. Too bad they'll be the ones getting 
JoeEszterhas' (Basic Instinct) scriptfo-screwed. Grade: C· 
I 
I 
! 

22 

SCHOLASTIC M A GA ZIN E ¦ SEPT EM B ER 2 8, 1 9 9.5 
-------·----------~---­
. . . ' ... 
He Said, SheS,aid 

BYTHERESEMITRos 
AND AARON J. NOLAN 
Two of Scholastic's critics screened Showgirls on its opening weekend. Here are excerpts from their battle of the sexes review. 
So, what's this Showgirls movie about? AN: Showgirlswasbasi­
cally a movie that dealt with the female and how she has to struggle in her chosen career to attain the top ech­elonof excellence. Themain character, Nomi, dreams of becoming a dancer, so she starts off at the lap-dancing level, the cruder level of the dancing field, and works her way up to the top as a casino revue dancer.· I guess it's a Flashdance of the 90s -a struggle to just be the best darn dancer she could be. Along the way she encoun­STRIP ters situations that make TEASER. 
Showgirls'

Showgirlsa very good issue 
revealing ad

movie, dealing with inter­
campaignracialrelationshipsandrape. (bottom left) 
TM: It really seemed brought moviegoers

like therewasn'tanyplotor 

to the

issues ,_ ~ey were just 

multiplexes.

thrown in to make it seem like a valid movie instead of your regular NC-17[ype movie, just to get it ~hown in more theaters. 
AN: I think that it was most certainly an issuemoviethatdealtwith topicsiinportant · in today's society.' It wasn 'tjustaskinflick. When you think about it, it wasn't just a movie wheremencouldgooutandhootand holler "Hey, naked girls! Alright!" When you get to the rape scene, it's actually something of an attack on how males per­ceive women as just objects. In fact, during the film, there were actually guys that got up and left during that scene, probably because it was disgusting. 
I think that the writer and director were tryingnotto see the woman as an object, but to show that these girls are actually working hard. While some people may see their situation as obscene ornot very respectable, when you come down to it these girls are working hard to put food on the table; The film does present men asjust pigs, so I guess itwouldbeawoman'smovie-'--almostlike 
Thelma and Louise. 
TM: (laughing) I'm going to have to disagree. There was an interracial relation­ship and a rape in the movie, but it didn't deal with thematall. Theblackguywasjust like any other guy, and I don't really think itwas a woman' smovieatall. For example, the entire movie had many blatant shots of naked women, but there was one scene 
where you could see a man's backside and the whole theater just groaned. AN: I was one of those people .. 
So it's a date movie? 

AN: Iwouldn'tgosofarastocallitadate movie. I'd say it was more of a movie for a bunch of guys who wantto get together and seeamoviethatisdeeplyphilosophicaland deals with issues very important in today's society. I think it's key. to point out again that this really isn't a skinflick movie ­you 're getting issues and conflicts that arise in real life.. These people are real, they aren't just made up characters 
TM: Definitly not! After the movie I asked a guy how .he would ask a girl to go seethismovie. Neitherofuscould answer. 
What about the acting? 

AN: I felt that Elizabeth Berkley did a decent job. She came out there and gave the people what they wanted. And I thought there were some other strong acting perfor­mances, like Crystal (Gina Gershon), the head revue dancer. Gershon did a good job ofplaying a power-hungry woman in con­trol. 
TM: I'd say that she was actually a fairly good actress, though her accent came and went Elizabeth Berkley was about as good as she was in Saved by the Bell. The dialogue was so slow and stupid that any­
one would be completely bored by it Some parts were · funny just because they were so dumb. 
Did you find it offensive? 
TM: I found it offensive that they are trying to pass it off as a real movie and not just a skinflick. 
AN: You can't see it as just a skinflick. I'll admit you see an awfullot ofEliza­beth [Berkley], but the fact that you see so much [nu­dity] in the film, by the end you're not slobbering very much. Youseesomuchthat it really decreases any mas­


Elizabeth 
culine macho thoughts of


Berkley 
"Hey, more naked girls!" ·It

(above), In a rather really made me look past the 
nudity to see the intellect 
Oh, so it's a morality film. 

TM: I'd have to say the morality was a bit lacking. AN: It exposes many issues of society that are extremely important 
· TM: Basicallyit'saskinflickandican't believe you're trying to pass this off as some moral movie. 
AN: It's a good movie for two reasons, First, it shows nudity as an art form, a beautiful thing. The nudity increased the aesthetic nature of the movie and I thought it showed the body not as something to be hidden, but to be viewed by the general public and accepted. Second, I think it was a cultural film that addressed certain issues that need to be dealt with. 0 
Showgirlsiscurrentlyplayingat the Town and Country Theaters. 
23 



5 CHOL A 5 TIC MA 0 AZ I N·B ¦ SB PT BM B B_R 2 8, .1.9 9 5 




Studies Show: 100% of people 
.· '
' 


who read this know 
BY JOHN INFRANCA 
. What _a long strange bill 
Students at the University of ~hu­setts at Amherst can now choose to have a portionof their tuition senttowards promot­ing the legalization of marijuana. Students voted to have a check-off box on their tuition bills allowing either them or their parents to donate $5 to a campus group called the Cannabis Refonn Coalition. 
Afthough the school's chancellor disap­proves ofthe _measure, believing this cause should not be high (rather ironic, isn't it?) on the school'sagenda, thereisnotmuchhe can do, since the option was approved through theproperprocedure. The group's leader, senior BrianJulin, says he hopes the money will create a drug-free education 

-which does not "exaggerate" the risks of ·marijuana.· Perhaps in thefuture, students willbe able to make contributions supporting alcohol in the dining halls and the replacement of . -hydrochloric acid in the.Chemistry lab by hallucinogenic· drugs. 
.Fratemwesactuallypromote drl:nking? . 
Researche~ ai Harvard have concluded that fraternity and sorority house residents are far more likely to engagein bingedrink­ingthantheirclassmates. Thesmdyshowed that86 percent of thoselivingin frat houses had binged in the two weeks prior to the survey. Seventy7two percent of non-resi­dent frat members had binged, while only 45 percent of nqn-members had. Sororities studied showed "similar statistics. 
According in Scholastic's inside source, the researchers also concluded that those students whostudydobetterthan those who don't, and those·who go to class are 100 percentmo~like!ytobemarked"present" 


what it says I 
.In light of these revealing discoveries, Harvard should consider renaming its re­search publication "Duh." 
. Safe Spenillng 
Clemson University, hoping to stem the spreadofconsumer-transmittedwealth.has ·begun passing outcredit-card "condoms." 
Thepieceofpaperfitsaroundthecardsand is meantto make students think twice about charging what they can•t afford. 
Rumor has it qne student fell so in love with·the produci that he bought 10,000 of 
· · them, charging the purchase. Localpolice, · seeing the idea, have begun distributing "Handgun Condoms" in hopes ofprevent­ing the use of firearms. Unfortunately, studies atHarvard have shown thatbullets, when fired from a gun, pass easily through paper•. 
. Coed-Naked.Accordion? 
·You may think that accordions, nudity and laundry don't go together well, but it was music to·the ears of five friends at a laundromat in Michigan's Upper Penin­sula. The five, believed to be students at Michigan, Technologi~al University in Houghton, were doing their laundry. to­gether at 3 a.m. on a Saturday morning. 
Upfortunately for at least two women who we~in the laundromat, the only laun­
· dry the five had to do was what they were wearing. One played the accordion while completely naked and the other four (two men and two women) danced in their un­derwear to the music. One.of the women who called the police offered graphic de­tails of the nude man's anatomy. 
According to Police Sgt. Randy Mayra, the woman wanted to draw what she saw. The accordion player, a graduate student from Brazil, said to police, "Ican'tplay the accordion unless I am completely nude." I'll have torememberthatexcusenext time I'm found practicing the piano naked. · 
Believe it or not this is all true (except the part about me and the piano). 
. No starving artist 
Accordingtoa 1994surveyoftheAmeri­can Association of University Professors, Long Island' sNassau Community College was revealed to have the high~t;teacher salaries ofany two-year college in the na­tion. In June of1995 the New York Times reported that one of the school's art profes­
. sors, who taught just two ceramics classes during·thespringsemester,eams$107,000 a year. 
In light of this revelation, theNew York State Lottery may be changing its. first place prize from $i0 million dollars to a teaching position at Nassau Community.. 


Coming


Distractions 
September28-October 5 
Field, Court & Alley 
Tennis 

• Notre Dame Invitational. Eck Tennis Pavilion. Friday.­Saturday and Sunday, 9 a.m. 
Men's Soccer 

• ND vs. Loyola. Alumni Field. Thursday, 7:30 p.m. 
Football 

• ND at Ohio State. Saturday, 3:30 p.m. 
I' 
I' 


I I Cultural Connection
'1 
'i Lectures, Tours, Openings and Seminars i •Hypnosis, "Take a Journey with Hypnosis ... "Tom Deluca. 101 De Bartolo. Thursday, 8 p.m. Admission. 
• 
Lecture, "Employees of Business Partners?" Martin Manley. Jordan Auditorium, College of Business Administration. Friday, 12:15 p.m. 

• 
Medjugorje Youth Retreat. St. Joseph Hall. Friday, 7 p.m. Saturday, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Sunday, 9 a.m. to 2 p:m. 

• 
Faculty Artist Series featuring Rev. Patrick Maloney, C.S.C. tenor, accompanied by Katherine Glaser pianist. Snite. Sunday, 2 p.m. 


Entertainment 

• 
Film, ""Boseman and Lena." Snite. Thursday, 7 p.m. Admission. 

• 
Film, "Muriel's Wedding." Snite. Friday and Saturday, 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. Admission. 

• 
Film, "First Knight." Cushing Auditorium. Friday and Satur­day, 8 and 10:30 p.m; Sunday, 2 p.m. Admission. 

• 
Film, "Dracula." Snite. Monday, 7 p.m. Admission. 

• 
Film, "Batman." Snite. Tuesday, 7 p.m. Admission. 

• 
Play, "The Imaginary Invalid." Washington Hall. Wednes­day, 8 p.m. Admission. 




On the Silver Screen 
Sept. 29 to Oct. 5 
University Park West: 277-7336. 
• "Too Wong Foo," PG-13, 2:15, 4:40, 7:15, 9:45. 
• "Usual Suspects," R, 2:00, 4:30, 6:50, 9:20 .. · • "The Prophecy," R, 2:30, 4:50, 7:00, 9:30. 
University Park East: 277-7336. • "Hackers,• PG-13, 2:00, 4:20, 7:00, 9:20. • "Clockers," R, 2:30, 5:30, 8:30. • "Desperado," R, 1:30,4:15, 7:15, 9:40. 
• 
"Apollo 13," PG, 1 :45, 4:45, 8:00. 

• 
"Steal Big, Steal Little," PG-13, 2:15, 5:00, 8:15. 

• 
"The Big Green," PG,.2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30. 


Movies 10 

• "Braveheart," R, 1 :15, 5:00, 9:00 
• 
"Lord of Illusions," R, ~:30. 

• 
"Babe," G, 1:05-, 3:10, 5:15, 7:20. • "Clueless," PG-13, 7:25, 9:35. 

• 
"The Babysitters Club," PG, 1 :30, 3:35, 5:25. 


• •iA Walk in the Clouds," PG-13, 1 :00, 3:20, 5:40, 7:55, 10:10. 
• 
"National Lampoon's Senior Trip," R, 12:55, 3:05, 5:1 0, 7:35, 9:45. 

• 
"Something to Talk About," R, 1 :20, 3:30, 5:45, 8:00, 


10:15. • ''The Postman," PG, 7:40, 1 0:00. 
• 
"Unstrung Heroes,• PG, 1:10, 3:25, 5:30, 7:45, 9:55. 

• 
"Halloween 6," R, 1:25, 3:15, 5:05, 7:10, 9:10. 

• 
"A Kid in King Arthur's Court," PG, 1 :20, 3:30, 5:35. 

• 
"Dangerous Minds,• R, 1 :00, 3:20, 5:50, 8:05, 10:20. 



. . . -. ... . ' 


l\lJ:4~>f•~••JS!lfl)ffl(•J~I•------------------------­
fact that this poor, misguided boy had once looked out his window only to find his lawn covered with camels relieving themselves 
m'.be (!Camel C!Cur~e 
·on his grass? Perhaps he hoped that the 
BY JoHN lNFRANcA
Like many Notre Dame freshman, I had dreamed of it for years -my first home football game. I knew the scenario by heart: It's the fourth quar­ter and the Irish are down by three. Seven seconds are left on the clock when Derrick Mayes suffers a debilitating injury. The team needs not only a touchdown, but also a new receiver. Lou looks up and down the bench, but unhappy with the selection, looks even further. Up into the student section he scans, past the seniors, the juniors and the sophomores and into the freshman section. There in the last row he spies me and yells to his assistant coach, "I need that boy." With bat-like ears I hear his call, and with cat-like reflexes I run towards the field. "Excuse me, sorry, get out of my way!" I yell. As I rush on the field the equipment manager offers me a uniform. ''No," I tell him, certain that "The Shirt" is padding enough to protect my imposing 6'2" 140 pound (with heavy winter clothing) body. In the huddle Ron tells us the play. Ea­gerly I stand waiting for the word "hike." When I hear it I run down the field, faking left, faking right, signing autographs as I pass, smiling to the cheerleaders. I turn suddenly at the five, catch a blistering pass and cross the goal line, sealing victory for God, Country and Notre Dame just as time runs.out. As the crowd yells in wild jubila­tion, my teammates carry me off the field and down the runway, where a Disneyland representative waits for me. In reality, my first football game at ND was quite different.. No, I didn't play, and no, we didn't win. I did, however, sit in the last row. When .I first got to my seat I instantly realized why it is that the student section stands during games. It's not, as many believe, a sign of school spirit, nor is it the deep sense ofunity which compels them. Ratheritis the simple lack of comfort that drives the student body to disregard the benches and rise to their feet. To call them benches is all too nice, for these thin pieces of wood look more like hitching posts. Standing on them without falling is an incredible achievement, espe­cially considering most of the student body is not exactly functioning properly during the games. Nonetheless, being able to stand on them for nearly four hours, while taking part in the wave and many other acts which require the utmost coordination, is one of the most important things students can learn during their time here. 
As the game progressed, my fellow fresh­men and I became quite disheartened. I heard many students yelling at the North­western team. Oneremark, however,caught 

me quite by surprise. Clearly and distinctly one student yelled out "May a thousand camels piss on your lawn." Instantly, or so it seemed, silence overtook the stadium, the band stopped playing, the cheerleaders stopped cheering and play was calledon the field. All eyes turned to this boy. Actually none of this happened, but the thing about the camel is true. We all seemed to be asking ourselves, whatin the world does that mean? Was it a Middle Eastern curse inspwed by the fact that camel urine, when stepped on, severely limits the playing abil­ity of football players? Or, was it due to the same paralyzing fear which overcame him when this occurred would now take control of the Northwestern team. Neither reason seeming likely, I attributed the remark to a bit too much tailgating and left it at that 
As the second halfstarted up the student section began some cheers. "Weare ...ND," we yelled. "Let's Go Irish." Soon I noticed that most of the freshmen, fearful of making mistakes, ended up a few seconds behind the upperclassman. Finally we started the "Lou" chant. As the chant wore on I began looking around. Listening closely I heard something odd being chanted. I then no­ticed that my fellow student's fingers were not in the shape of "Ls," but rather "Ys" Looking over my shoulder and outside the stadium I saw what could only be termed miraculous. Touchdown Jesus had come to life, His arms out-stretched and His hands in the fonn of a "Y." "Yo," I heard the students chant. What was this, was the Notre Dame student body obsessed with the Yo-Yo, the simple string and disc that could provide anyone with hours ofexcite­ment? No, I soon learned that they were chanting"Yo .... Cream," "Yo...Cream." It seemed that the student body had decided to bring its plea to the American public, using national television to call for an end to Eskimo Pie and the return of their beloved brand of frozen yogurt. 
As the game wound to an end, and the season started with a loss, the students prepared for the band's final performance. As we hummed the lines to the Alma Mater (which no one seems to really know) I realized that even though Notre Dame had not won its first game, my experience was one I'd never forget 
I learned much· about spirit and about football that day. More imporum.tly, I learned about how to· choose beverages intelligently and the value of protecting one's lawn from stray camels. As I left the stadium I peered up at Touchdown Jesus. There,inhishand,Isawacupofyogurt,and on it the words "Yo Cream." . 
This is a humor colwnn. The views ex­pressed in this colwnn are not necessarily the views ofthe editorial staffof Scholastic Magazine. 
SCH O LAST IC' M-A GA ZIN E ¦ SEPT EM B ER 2 8 , 1 9 9 5 . ­
--------~---­

I,
! ,: 



i 
'' 
' 
Eric Schultenover · is a senior history and government double major, with a concentration in the 
Hesburgh Program. 
He lives offcampus. 
by EricSchultenover

The 


xcis-cists 
Toprotectandserve. They'regreatwhenyou need them, but they always show up when you don't Freshmen take heed. After one year of sweatshop, Milwaukee's Waist-filled donil extravaganzas, you will be faced with what off­campus partiers confront every -beverage-filled ­evening: avisitbyrevenue-raisingexcisecopsknown in the greater Michiana region as SUDS -Stop Underage Drinking and Sales. How catchy. Excisepolicemakealiving byexcisingyourwallet -that is, the more underagers go down, the more greenbacks Jack takes back to Diane· and the more money fills StJoe County coffers. These scalawags who profiton the backs ofimbibing, smart-mouthed coeds serve no purpose other than to make happy times into crappy times while lining government pockets. . 

If the true mission of SUDS is. to stop underage.. said it pal, neither do we. Don't you have a ·c:rime drinking, why don't these excisers excise the St.Joe scene or two to check out? The only things being High School dance? Betteryet, why don'tthey go to murdered in my house are a few million brain cells, a junior high party and hit drinking where it actually and only the weak ones ac-that. Please get b~k in starts. Well~ unfortunatelyforMotherMary'ssilver-your wagon ofwoe arid go protect and serve~ Keep toungued children, money talks and out ofstate, rich the peace, don't cause pandemonium.._ college kids have more bank than the acnea; clad, Police do have a d.ifficuit, dangerous job. How-hometown underlings. · · ever, the threatposed by drinkingswdents as longas 
Doil'.tmisunderstandthis diatribe. LegitinJateboys . they don't drive appears minim.al. Instead of break­and girls in blue serve a vital role in every commu-inguppartiesandbustingbars, whynotputtheexcise nity, especially South Bend and othernearby rust belt · croniesonDUIpatrol. Thiswould seem tobea better meccas like Benton Harbor and Gary., As the es-appropria~on of manpower (gender".neutral, · of teemedPJ. O'Rourke writes, "As bad as our police course)and wouldprovideanecessary-servic~tothe· have sometimes been, giving a Glock and a warrant .community. · · · · toaMcDQnald'srent-a-copwouldbeworse." So true · After all, busting up aparty tends to send a large PJ;; however, the legit cops do tend to come across . . volume of people not fit to drive Of walk _onto the a bit harsh with Dom~rs. ·, · unsafe streets ofSouth Bend where something may 
Recently, aparty at my palatial off campus abode occurwhich acb.Ially warrants policepreserice. With received a visit from the SBPD blue. These guys_: the explosion of off-campus •crime occurring in re­cameinaQddispersedthelargecrowdofrevelers intc>: ·, cent years, the real target of police action ought to be typical mob style panic. The egos and attitude• those who perpetrate serious crimes'.such as assault, emanating from the badges did niore to knock me . rape, robbery and murder, notthose who contribute over than the brew in hand. One cop tastefully · fuiancially,intellecwallyandsociallytothecommu­lamented, "We've already had two murders tonight. · nity, eyen ifthose people do engage.in an occasional We don't have time for this (expletive)." Well, you set of12-ounce curls. ' -· · 0 


U1ihii•IIG!oi;n 
Open for carryout and delive.ry only 
from 4 -10 p.m. weekdays, 
. 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. **2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS 
FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** 
115 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 
273n3890 
PIZZA 
01111 

1ij 41 Bf.BinhiN 
Accepting reservations on weekends. Available for private parties and banquets. **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 261 O Prairie Ave. 

288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 


Work for the oldest collegiate publication in the country! 
If you're interested in writing, lay-out or · photography, pick up an application in 303 LaFortune TODAY. 
Or call 634-7569. 





RD 

Tommy Lee Jones 
Man, am I havine: a bad Nicole Kidman 
face day or what'? ·u:D1on't hate me because 
,-a makes me wanna . 
II SHOOP. II 

Jim Carrey

Coming to a CUSHING near 

Don't hate me
YOU!! 

because I'm 

October 6-7 8/l0p.m. 
BEAUTIFUL!!! 
October 8 2p.m. 


Admission: $2.00 
n it all Devon, I can't Ion K.I.T.T.'s blasted 

"<Jl«d'd, 4kjld ;U(,(!4·r,u;uu {J~ ~cd /Vobie :lJame ~ St. MCVUf'&­ca11, 1z.eCei,tJ.e, d i.n tkwi 
~/1,GO#U.llnd 
Mid«uJ...k ~II 
Coming Sunday October 1st: ll,MD@W)@D@@1'l@: an all day 
event featuring music, poetry readings, and art exhibits. 
Proceeds after cost will benefit the South Bend·Center 
for the Homeless. Noon-10PM. Admission $3 ~ Lula_'s Cate·. 
• • • ~ • • ~ ..,, • -• • , • .., # ' 
• • : • ~ I ', •
1 . 1 ' I . 
. --' . -. . ~ . . ' 
' '
. 










