A week of
Irish Events
March 14-19, 1993
Campus Ministry
Multicultural
Executive Council
Hesburgh Peace Institute
Center for Social Concerns
Sunday, March 14,7:15pm
Sunday Vespers, Sacred Heart
Lenten Sunday Vespers in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Basilica Sacred Music of the Notre Dame Folk Choir;
Fr. Willie Purcell, Kilkenny, Ireland, Presider
Monday, March 15,4:15pm
Lecture at the Peace Center
Hesburgh Center Auditorium
"Strategies for Peace: How the Irish Church
Deals With a Generation of Violence"
Fr. Willie Purcell, Priest of Kilkenny, Diocese of Ossiry
and former Associate Director of the Irish Catholic Youth Council
Irish Week activities sponsored by
Tuesday, March 16,12:15pm ftftAFireside Chai: Peace Songs ft ft of Ireland and America Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center Charlie King, Folk Singer, along with Willie Purcell Charlie King (whom Pete Seeger calls "one of the finest songwriters of the 80's) and Willie Purcell express in music some American and Irish hopes for peace and justice. Lunch is provided! Come, listen and enjoy.
Wednesday, March 17,5:00pm
Mass on the Feast of St. Patrick
Basilica of the Sacred Heart
All the music today is by Irish composers, performed by the Notre Dame Folk Choir. Fr. Willie Purcell, Presider
Thursday, March 18,12:15pm
Follow-up discussion
Room C103, Hesburgh Center Auditorium
A chance to engage in discussion about the issues of peace facing Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Moderated by Fr. Purcell. Bring a lunch!
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE

4 A Few Good Men and Women
6 And Their Leaders
8 Exploring the International Marketplace
10 Breaking Away
jggg
22
23
24
14 Constant Pressure
16 Tourney Time
Editor s Notes Campus Watch On Other Campuses Week in Distortion Final Word
18 Out of Bounds
19 Sub Pop Reviews
20 Listen Up!




Cover artwork by Jake Frost
marc—
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol. 134, No.18 March 4, 1993
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Patricia K. Doyle
MANAGING EDITOR
Margaret S. Kenny
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
David J. Holsinger
CAMPUS LIFE
Editor: Mollie Mudd
Assistant: Michelle Crouch
NEWS
Editor: Mark Mitchell IV
SPORTS
Editor: Jim Kuser
Assistant: Amanda Clinton
ENTERTAINMENT Editor: J. Bradley Keck Assistant: Peg Ward
DEPARTMENTS
Editor: Kate Wiltrout
PHOTOGRAPHY
Editor: Ken Osgood
COPY
Editor: Chris Blanford
GRAPHIC ARTS
Manager: Jake Frost
LAYOUT
Manager: Chin Wang
ADVERTISING Manager: Karen Riley
BUSINESS
Manager: Eileen Shelley
DISTRIBUTION
Manager: Mark Fitzgerald
In This Issue
Rock ‘n’ roll. Just two years after WVFI’s Jericho Sessions, the campus bands are making a new CD that is being sponsored by S.U.B. Entertainment writer Pete Dedman gives a preview of what we can expect from this original Notre Dame album.
In News, writer Thomas Mescall looks talks to this year’s R As and rectors about the process of choosing next year’s hall staffs. News editor Mark Mitchell reports on the feedback the rectors of dorms are getting about their performance from the residents of their dorms. Campus life editor Mollie Mudd shows us what the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development is doing to help students find internships and job opportunities abroad. With just two days left until spring break, Theresa Hennessey tells us some of the upcoming, and more unusual, plans of those who will be traveling this break.
It’s tournament time — at least that is what the men’s and women’s fencing teams are hoping. This weekend the fencing teams will attempt to qualify for the NCAA fencing tournament, according to writer Rich Christenson. Also in sports, Adam Ward shows us the tough season that is ahead for the Irish lacrosse team.
Besides finding the usual “Out of Bounds” column and the cover story in entertainment, executive editor Dave
Scholastic ispublished weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed of The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rale is $25.00/yeor and back issues are arxalable at $125 [copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsoliafied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1993 Scholastic Magazine. Al! rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Holsinger reviews three new Sub Pop albums by Sprinkler, Pond and Fastbacks.
Time to Say Goodbye...
One year ago, I assumed the position of editor in chief of Scholastic, and now it is time for me to turn this title over to someone else. After break, the 1993-’94 staff will take charge, with new ideas and thoughts about what to do with the magazine.
I have been working at Scholastic since my first semester freshman year. At that' time, I was just a freshman looking for something to do — “getting involved” like everyone tells you. I didn’treally think then that I would eventually become editor in. chief. Between freshman year and now, I have held many different positions on the staff and have had a great time with each one of them. Looking back, all the deadlines don’t seem quite so bad now and none of the problems seem quite so troublesome. /
I want to thank everyone on this year’s, staff for all the hard work and long hours they contributed. The success of this past year’s magazine can be attributed to a great editorial board. However, it is now time for us seniors to bid farewell to the magazine as we turn it over to Margaret Kenny and next year’s staff. I wish them all the best in the upcoming year and I look forward to seeing the next issue of the magazine on March 25.
Patricia K. Doyle
Editor in Chief
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Facultymembersshouldincludetheirdepartment. All Utters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves theright to reject Utters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copy fitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic styU. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all Utters received.
Address all correspondencedo:
The Editor
Scholastic	.?
. LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
Not far from the Notre Dame Campus	>4
Parisi's serves the best Italian food in the South Bend Area
offering pizza & carry out and other such dishes as Veal, Chicken
From $37.95!
■SUBWAY*
UND Parking Lawn
g^^TpirixFa I
Scampi, Carbonara, Eggplant Parmigiana, Italy’s
Favorite Pasta's, and other Seafood Entrees.
1412 South Bend Ave 232-4244
® SUBWAY Has A Sandwich
CLASSIC
For ANY Size Appetite 1 ! I
Light Appetites:
6 Inch Meatball Sub
v;1
Only $1.69!
Big Appetites:
6 Foot Party Sub
• SR 23 At Ironwood
US 31N (By North Village Mall)
■
by Thomas Mescall with Mark Mitchell
mation, a personal statement in the form of an essay, and three recommendations, two from university officials and one from any other party.
The applicants are then screened by the
•Icommbioera
111111111111®
and Women
Hall rectors and staffs labor over the difficult task of selecting just the right candidates for next year's RAs
A Few Good Men
For many freshmen, the first people they meet at college are their resident assistants. In addition to being one’s first friend, an RA is also someone who is there to teach the rules and regulations of the hall. Yet, RAs are more often friends and advisors than disciplinarians.
“I’m able to have a good relationship with everyone in my section, especially freshmen,” said Tom Looby, an RA from Morrissey Hall. “I can stop by and see everyone in the section and get to know them better. It’s something I love to do, and it just happens to be my job, so it works out really well,” he added.
This is why the selection of good and qualified RAs is important to the life of every hall on campus. “An RA runs a gambit of duties and responsibilities. They are responsible for the well-being of many people, so we try to select the best candidates on, the basis of motivation, maturity and spirituality .just to namea few,” said Brother Bonaventure Scully, C.F.X., rector of Keenan Hall.
The difficult task of RA selection has been occupying the time of all the hall rectors and staffs in these weeks. The end of winter marks the beginning of the RA selection season. The entire process involves those who have to do the selecting and hundreds

who wish to be one of the lucky few selected for the RA position.
The wholeprocess begins when interested juniors fill out applications for RA positions and submit them to the Office of Student Affairs. The application is almost as long as the one to get into Notre Dame, emphasizing the importance of finding the best candidates for the job. In addition to questions of academic status, the application seek infor-


Office of Student Affairs. “We don’t like to screen people out of the process, and we’re not trying to, but sometimes there are events on their disciplinary records which we simply cannot ignore. And we also try to give them some leeway in reference to grade point average, but we have found that 3.0 is really the best cut- off for grades,” said Mr. William Kirk, assistant vice-president for residence life.
RAs may not have any other outside employment which might interfere with their responsibilities to the hall. Such outside responsibilities include varsity athletics and student government offices. Some exceptions may be made to this rule by Kirk, but generally Student Affairs prefers that the RAs devote their full time and attention to their hall work and to their academics.
Once Student Affairs has screened the candidates, the revised lists are returned to the rectors of the halls. Each hall differs in its approach to the RA selection process. “We give each candidate three interviews. First they are interviewed by a peer group, then they are interviewed by a group of present RAs and then I and my assistant rectors interview each candidate. Together, the RAs, assistant rectors and I work out our final list for the candidates to be named RAs for the coming year,” said Brother Bonaventure.
“When we interview our candidates we look for common sense — you can’t beat it — approachability, honesty, that is, integ-





rity of character, and knowledge of the campus and the university and all that both have tooffer toeach student,” saidFather Thomas King, rector of Zahm Hall. “Youreally can’t isolate one characteristic as being the most important for an RA, but I think honesty is one of the very important ones because in this work if you compromise the truth, someone always gets hurt down the line. That may sound harsh, but that’s the way it happens; so personal integrity is a very important quality for an RA to have,” Father King continued.
“There isn’t one quality I look for in an RA, but I believe that a personal spirituality is an absolute necessity for the job. We are all trying to live together in acommunity and we are all trying to share belief and service, so it is important that the RA have a strong religious sense so that he can help those around him in the most complete ways,” said Brother Bonaventure.
"I suppose the main focus of our consideration is what the candidate's committment to the hall, hall life and activities has been over the years. Even if we have candidates from other halls, we look at their committment to the place where they lived for the previous years," said Ms. Judy Hutchinson, rector of Breen-Phillips. "The worst part of the entire selection process is having to sit for five or ten hours and act as judge over so many qualified candidates. It's hard to make the tough call about who is RA material and who may be very good, but not exactly what we need—we're never want to give the impression that the candidates are bad," Hutchinson continued.
“I know in Morrissey we may not end up picking the nine guys who have the highest scores in each area. All the guys are very good and qualified, so we’re trying to pick the nine who make the best mix, who form the best team and who can serve the hall best as a group working together. We need a lot of different talents,” Looby said.
“Having good RAs is important not just for the halls, but also for the Office of Student Affairs because the RAs are really the front line soldiers of Student Affairs. They share the life of the student and they concern themselves with the welfare of many of their peers. Rules and regulations are not their primary role — the RAs are leaders of the
spirit and life of the halls,” said Kirk.
Student Affairs provides each new RA with extensive training for the position. Once the halls have notified Student Affairs of the new RAs, Kirk and residence life prepare to prepare the new RAs for every possible situation they may encounter.
iriade a
im pa ct, I;^was • abIe -; Jl^peciai: here. ’	;
XJ^esiUeiite 'Life- XX
“Their training is very important because people turn to them in times of need, and they turn to them in order to learn how the university works,” Kirk said.
RAs attend workshops and information sessions in the spring after their selection. Both through Student Affairs and the counselling center, RAs learn how to meet and deal with a number of special situations. In August, before the return of all the students, the RAs go through more training programs within their halls and with residence life.
“Among other things, they meet with residence life to leam how to deal with violations of the rules and how to deal with such rules violations in an educational but non-confrontational manner,” said Kirk. “Notre Dame students really don’t cause that much trouble, so I really don’t see the RAs as police, but more as those responsible for bringing out the best in their fellow students,” continued Kirk.
”1 think that there is a marked difference
between the issues which a woman RA has to face as opposed to a man in the same position," said Hutchinson. "Women's issues are more emotional and there can be a more emotional edge to such matters as roomate problems and boyfriend conflicts. Whereas guys may tend to deal with these problems among themselves or discuss them with their friends, in a women's dorm the RA is more on the line to deal with these issues,” she added.
"Some of the most difficult issues for a woman to deal with as an RA are eating disorders and sometimes preganacy. These sorts of problems don’t come up in men's dorms where there is a different dynamic between an RA and the residents," said Hutchinson.
"Yes, they are responsible for insuring that the spirit of the rules is preserved, but the primary responsibility of an RA here is dealing with students who need any sort of help or assistance. In the beginning of the year they need to concern themselves with the freshmen and issues of homesickness, family problems or the first time they get a D or anF,” Father King said.
While the job of being an RA is enjoyed and much sought after, it does have its drawbacks. From locking the doors and turning off the lights at midnight to regular meetings with the other members of the hall staff, an RAhasmanytimedemands. “Thosesortsof things don’t so much bother me as it does when I’m thought as just part of a group and not as an individual,” Looby said. “A lot of times someone will say, ‘he’s an RA, he must be a jerk,’” Looby continued.
RA responsibilities vary from hall to hall. In Keenan, RAs rotate the responsibility of being RA of the week, noted Brother Bonaventure. Each week an RA has to run the staff meeting, he must provide some activity for the hall for the weekend like a movie and he is responsible for the week’s schedule, according to Brother Bonaventure. The most basic requirement for an RA from each hall is his presence in the hall at least four out of seven weeks.
“Sometimes the work of an RA can be difficult and challenging,” Kirk said, “but I think in the long run each RA can look back and realize, ‘I had a tremendous impact, I was able to do something special here.”’Q


lifllil
MM
And Their Leaders
Rector evaluations give students a chance to rate their land lords and gives rectors a chance to see what worked and what flopped
by Mark J. Mitchell IV
■WITT hile RAs are an integral part of any W hall’s life, themostimportantpartof a hall is its rector. The rector of a hall has responsibilities to select the RAs, to manage the operation of the hall and to look after the well-being of each student.
Amidst the whole process of the RA selection, the attention of the residence halls has also been turned to the matter of rector evaluation. A simple sheet made it to every student of a residence hall, and on it were 12 simple and straightforward questions which sought to gather a student’s perspective on his rector.
In addition to questions about the rector’s personal availability to his or her residents, the questionnaire also asked about the hall staffs management The questions did not simply ask for student’s criticisms, but also concerned the strengths of the rector and the hall staff.
“With the evaluations, we are trying to find the strengths and weaknesses of the rectors so that they mightknow how they are doing in their jobs and how they might improve. It is something which the rectors may use as a tool for personal and professional growth,” said Father Peter Rocca, assistant vice-president for student affairs.
According to Father Rocca, the evaluation forms were distributed to each rector with the request that the rector determine the best way to distribute them to his residents so that the greatest number might be re-
turned. Once the forms are returned to the many students as possible reply so we have
work for their students,
□
Officeof Student Affairs, they are sent to the social science training laboratory where the results are tabulated and scored. The information is then made available to the rectors during their review meetings with Professor Patricia O’Hara, vice-president for student affairs.
Father Rocca emphasized that, though rectors are informed of the results of the surveys, and though they have the option to read die written comments, the results are totally confidential. “All the information is available to the rectors, but students have total freedom to comment freely because we. preserve the confidentiality of the forms,” said Rocca.
Rocca noted that though the process of rector evaluation is several years old, the present form is only in its second year of use. “This form is even better than previous forms because it also includes evaluations of the hall staff. In this way we focus on the performance of the whole hall instead of just isolating the rector,” said Father Rocca. “In evaluating the hall staff as well, we can paint a more complete picture of the hall’s strengths and weaknesses for the entire year. We can tell the rector what worked with what he and the staff did, and we can say where he needs to improve for the next year,” Father Rocca continued.
One problem with the rector evaluation process is that a low number of returns tends to skew the results. Students with gripes tend to respond more readily than those who think everything is fine, according to Rocca. “This year we are really encouraging that as
a more balanced and complete look at each hall,” said Father Rocca.” It’s hard for a rector to read these because a lot of times there are some critical comments on these,” said Father Rocca, “but we concentrate on what is noted on the evaluations as being a strength of the rector. Those aremore important than the complaints.”
The Office of Student Affairs uses the evaluations strictly as a means to let the rector know how he or she is doing in his management of the hall. The evaluations are not used to determine the rectors’ salaries. “These have never been used to fire a rector; this is not something we hold over the rectors’ heads. It is strictly their growth and development,” Father Rocca said.
Father Rocca is also presently working on a subcommittee within the Office of Student Affairs which is in the initial phases of designing a visitation evaluation program. “What we are working on is some process in which an observer group of maybe a member of this office, a rector from another hall and a student from another hall go to view the operations of a rector and his staff and gather input from the students of that hall,” said Father Rocca.
Thus, while hall staffs proceed with selecting their successor RAs, students have the opportunity to evaluate the performance of the staff and the rector. “Since it’s the students who live in the halls, it’s important for us to see what they think is good about their hall and what needs improvement This way students who chose have input and rectors have the opportunity to improve their


Campus Wafc/v
1 BY THE GIPPER
INFORMATION, ATTITUDE AND INNUENDO
THIS WEEK: BYE BYE, GIPPER
Yes, folks, February is through and so is this year’s Gipper. I’m really looking forward to retirement it’s grueling here in the hot seat. The Gipp’s real name is at the end of this article. If you would be so kind, folks, send all hate mail to Scholastic’s office (303 LaFortune) and not to me, okay? It’s much appreciated.
STRANGE DINING HALL RULES
A reader e-mailed the Gipp to let him know that photography is strictly prohibited on the premises of North Dining Hall. That’s right, no one is allowed to take pictures. This reader tried to photograph her boyfriend and was forced outside. Why? Yourguessisasgoodasmine. TheGipphas two hypotheses: Either the Dining Hall staff may all be part of a cult which believes that photographs steal one’s soul, or they have the recipe for Noodle Kiigel stashed somewhere on the premises and are afraid that the Rebel Alliance may get their hands on it and turn it against us. In any case, don’t take your Nikon to dinner with you.
CHAIN LETTERS ARE BAD
Another concerned reader e-mailed the Gipp a few weeks ago about his pending doom for e-mail abuse. For those of you who don’t know, it is against regulations to send chain letters through e-mail. The powers that be reserve the right to do nasty things to you if they catch you sending them, so don’t do it.
Our reader found this out the hard way, after he was caught sending a letter to a friend at a college in Michigan. He got
reprimands from that school’s computer postmaster (more later) as well as from Notre Dame administrators. It sounds like he’s in deep dookie.
Now, far be it from the Gipp to ridicule anyone’s job, but what exactly does an e-mail “postmaster” do? This sounds like a pretty cushy job.- Does he/she have to go through all the mail and sort letters into little electronic boxes, and return them if they have insufficient e-postage? Our reader wondered if the fearless e-postmaster faced little e-pitbulls and had to deliver the e-mail even in the e-snow and e-rain.
The worst part of this whole situation is that this particular e-mail user was never informed that sending chain letters was a heinous, criminal act, punishable by denial of computer priveleges. Do you know why? Because they don’t tell us! No one is ever given a list of things which they can and can’t do on e-mail, something which common sense would dicatate that the people at IRC should do before letting anyone activate his/her account. Ignorance is no excuse, but there really isn’t a way for most of us to have known that chain letters are considered an abuse of e-mail accounts. A sensible solution might be to require students to sign a list of regulations before being given their password. At least users would be informed of possible transgressions.
REVELATION TIME
I guess it’s time to reveal myself. Honestly, I can’t claim complete credit for everything the Gipp has ever said, nor do I really want to. In fact, most of the Gipp’s
best material was suggested by friends or other staffers, especially the Bookstore* stuff. So first of all, I would like to thank the 1992-1993 staff for all of their help in providing ideas for the column. Thanks are also due to 1991-1992 Editor in Chief Ian Mitchell for coming up with this silly column to begin with: it was his idea, as was using the nickname “the Gipp” (with all due apologies to the real-life Gipper). A big round of applause is due for the guy at IRC who set up the e-mail forward for me: that has been an unbelievable help in keeping this column afloat. I also feel like I owe an apology to President Clinton for printing his e-mail address here at College Republican Headquarters. I hope Bubba didn’t get too many letters from Notre Dame students calling him a “mouthy, philosophical fetus murderer.”
How did I manage to keep this a secret all year? Well, I really didn’t do a very good job of it Anyone who really wanted to know could have gone over to IRC and asked them where the Gipper’s e-mail was being forwarded. I tried to dodge questions like, “Who is the Gipp?” and “Are you the Gipp?” usually with very little success. But I never came out and told anyone without being asked.
1992-1993’s Gipper was Executive Editor David J. Holsinger. I was the second one, preceded by Ian Mitchell (as I said earlier). The job is already filled for next year, so don’t bother applying. Good luck to next year’s Gipp, and keep those complaints and observations coming. The new Gipper will have e-mail soon, and readers can always send letters to Scholastic at 303 LaFortune.
Exploring the International
Marketplace
The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development places students into the international business world
___________by Mollie Mudd_________________
Creating contacts and fostering a developingbusiness community in the international sphere is the mission of the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development. President Joe Rogers, a junior economics and government major, said, “The purpose of the council is to further educate the Notre Dame student in the context of a more globally integrated, mutually interdependent world.”
The council’s fundamental goal is to spread the principles of peace through commerce, Rogers said. “In layman’s terms, that means to promote international ethical business.”
The council provides opportunities for all students; it is not specifically geared toward business majors, Rogers said. There are opportunities for everyone: engineers, linguistsand scientists. “In short, anyone with the interest and diligence to pursue our ideals is welcome in our organization,” he said.
“We’ve established ourselves through our reputation. Those who understand our committment to the principles of the university, to the community and to each other become active and stay active in the council.”
The council, which is comprised of more than 90 members, is divided into six divisions. These divisions are accounting, financial development, operations management, the Citizen Democracy Corps, business services and internships. “The council is not a student club, it is a corporation. We have weekly committee meetings as well as board meetings with the president, three
:<ypu'a feeling i ypirare
^>4- Kelly Cpilins,
vice-presidents and the six division heads,” said Rogers.
The divisions are not exclusive, so members may belong to several. However, each section is dedicated to a specific purpose and
responsibility. The accounting division deals with business and financial matters. The financial development division handles all of the fundraising opportunities. The operations management division takes care of the council’s marketing responsibilities, communication needs and public relations.
The Citizen Democracy Corps (CDC) is the practical service division. It sponsors English schools in Poland and Costa Rica; and a business school in Estonia. “The division helps people establish their own businesses and to learn to communicate with the international business world,” Rogers said. The division also works closely with Society Bank and tutors math and English at Jackson Middle School in South Bend.
“The CDC was founded to assist in the transition of the foundling democracies and free markets in the post-Cold War era,” Rogers said. This summer, the division will be sending 20 students for internships and programs in Russia, Estonia, Poland and Slovakia. They will be teaching businesses about the international market, writing and editing newspapers, and developing financial systems .with the government of Slovakia, the bank of Estonia, private businesses and the U.S. Embassy in Russia.
The business services division is a re-


search division. It works for the international private sector to help people in local and international communities to export
goods. ‘The division researches trade data and computes information to aid companies in expanding their international business space, like tariffs, demand, competition and expected growth in private economy demographics,” Rogers said. They analyze the micro/macro market.
The internship division maintains the council’s international contacts, works with alumni and organizes delegations. Rogers said, ‘They network the contacts through the Alumni Association, the phones, faxing and writing letters.” Kelly Collins, co-direc-tor of the internship division, said, “We maintain internships in over 40 countries. We send delegations of two to three students out to different corporations and countries, and they give presentations of what the council is about and how we can help them.”
The internship division had interviews for their summer internships last week. Applicants were interviewed by a board that “tried to decide where to place each student where they would fit best,” Collins said. “It is hard for students to know which internship they want because they really don’t know what the internships are about until they get there,” she added.
The internships include helping private, as well as government, operations to increase their international perspective and productivity. The jobs are usually volunteer. Out of the few that are paid positions,
the wages are minimal. Most students live with a host family and work individually with specific clients. Knowledgeofasecond language is always helpful, but it is not required. “English is pretty much the primary language. However, if you do know another language, your opportunities are endless,” Collins said.
The council is sendingRogers and another member to Santiago, Chile, to establish relations with American and Chilean businesses over spring break. They will network contacts, give presentations and encourage businesses to accept the council’s assistance with international concerns.
The council relies heavily on alumni contacts, so three members of the council and six Notre Dame alumni are working together to start a council for the Alumni Association. “It is set up for Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s alumni who are in government, education and business with an international perspective. It is also an association for council members to join and stay involved with after graduation,” Rogers said. He added that, the alumni council was founded because “graduates had a commitment to the organization and wanted to give something back to continue the mission.”
The council is also creating an International Alumni Directory that will be published this spring. It is a directory containing
more than 500 alumni active in international business. “It is actually a service for the alumni. Everyone listed has agreed to
provide a particular service to everyone else in the book. They are offering their services in the hope of gamering other services, ” Rogers said.
The council works with many different companies in the United States and around the world. Rogers said, “We not only concentrate on helping in the Notre Dame com
munity, we assist local businesses and government as well.” The council associates with clients such as: Leo Burnett, Mobil Oil, Price Waterhouse, the World Trade Center Association, the U.S. Foreign and Commerce Service and the National Banks of Poland and Estonia.
Members become very involved with the council and its mission to assist and benefit the international marketplace. Collins commented, ‘The council is like a full time job. It basically gives you a feeling that you are involved in something bigger than everyday classes. But, once you are involved and understand the, council, you just feel that you have to keep up with it” The council offers a wide variety of opportunities in its six divisions.
“I think it is one of the best things a student in any major could do. You get experience in the business world. It is the real world.1
Collins has a strong commitment to the council and is “over-whelmed” with the opportunities and the potential it offers.
Within the busy schedules and hard work, Rogers insists that, “The thing to remember is that the council is people-oriented, mission-focused and based on a firm set of ideals, ethics and values, all of which we will se-
cure here, at Notre Dame, and carry with us throughout life.”
In explanation of the council’s mission, Rogers said, “What we are doing is building bridges between ourselves, our countries and our communities to bring our disciplines, our families and our pursuits closer together.”	□
SI
Students anticipate their spring break adventures
by Theresa Hennessey
Squish, squish. The sound of your boots making contact with beautiful, week-“ old snow seems to echo across the quad as i you and hundreds of other lucky students trudge to your 8 a.m. classes in DeBartolo. ■	You ask yourself why, when hundreds of
other colleges were within your reach, you chose to spend four years in the city of South Bend. The only thing keeping you from leaping off the dome and ending things the
easy way is the thought of Saturday, March 6, a date that, for many, cannot come soon enough.
For spring break, hundreds of students plan to depart from South Bend and Nofre Dame’s eternal snowstorm for a week of fun and relaxation.
Monica McCarthy, Jeremy Holland, Jen Tilghman and more than 150 other Notre Dame students will be travelling to Cancun for a week of tropical sun and savage tanning. ManyfromNotre Dame will stay atthe
El Pueblito hotel, located in the well-known hotel zone. Organized through Anthony Travel, this reasonably priced getaway promises to be a bonding experience with the Mexican natives that few will ever forget, McCarthy predicted.
Pangbom roommates Meredith Lowe, Andrea Peschel and Kristin Polcari also plan to soak up the Mexican sun but in a more private location. The white sand and crystal water of Puerto Vallarta will serve as their "haven from reality," Lowe said. As the

It’s that, time ofyearagain—when resi-dents bf beach towns across the United
•States
hidd their valuables ahd bracethemselves
■for anonslaughtof iess-than-well-behaved college students:
. Chief Edward Sanders ofthe South Par the- Island (Texas)Police;Department laughedfertile asked what his offic^
agents and tourism departments saythe re-c^ibn 'hdsn’t^dimiriishedi tte size of the hordes that will descend "primarily Oh Florida, Mexico, and South Padre Island, off . the southern tip of Tdxas, this Mtich and early April. \ A, ■>	'
.‘Travelling .h^n’t been c
Stuart Himrnelfarb, vjce president of Ropeir .........................................Coilegb Track,which studiesthespending er? were pl^mjg kto do; dimrig; Spring Itebits of cpflege students;
Bread to controLunnily;:drunken-college ;? that 40 percent of all college students said
“^e’rezgoing; to C0nbun,..Mexico,” hey br^l90.1,and5Opercentsaidthcj'traveled
said^jfeCkpyf	to	AA/'AA a. a'a'A-aAA-
So are ..thousands • of others. /Travel A < ye seen a slight decline in air travel;
There’s a little less money to go around but ■ students.are just finding more inexpensive way? to travel ” Himrtelfarb said.
, “The recession hasn’t had a negativeim-pactpnus,” saidTeresaOgle, the marketing and sales coordinator for College Tours, which? arranges spring break packages to Mazatlan and’Cancuh, Mexico. ■: . Jk .>
Other travel agents agrpe and say that many students are opting for road trips ratlierthan packagesthat include.airfare. .
“We’re sold out qn a lot of stuff”, said Sharia Shipman.pf Sunchase Tours, whidh has heavily advertised its packages in col-lege newspapers across the country. “South Padre Island is still.the.most popular^ but Panama Beach (Fla.) is really gaining; in

■
■

WIM
ocean waves crash upon the shore and endless numbers of well-tanned, scantily clad men cross their paths, they will be sure to think of the dark, sweaty, and crowded dorm parties they long to return to, Lowe said.
Training and competing are not the only plans that Sarma Metz and close to 60 other fellow crew members have as they spend their time justsouth of Coco Beach, Florida. The varsity and novice men’s and women’s crew team will train by day and party by night as they prepare for their March 13 regatta in Tampa. Rowing across the warm waters of Florida isn’t exactly the worst way to spend one’s spring break, Metz admitted.
Kristen Petracek will venture to the Olympic Training Center in Colorado Springs to practice running target shooting. She is training in anticipation of a upcoming competition in Canada.
Knott freshman Jen Starmann will take in the breathtaking sights of London, Germany and Switzerland as she makes her first trip across the Atlantic with her father this break. She commented, “I just cannot wait to drive on the Autobong with my father in the passenger's seat." Starmann will attend the world renowned play, Miss Saigon, in London and will tour of the
House of Lords. She is also looking forward to exploring Munich, Geneva and Zermatt mountain, she said.
If your roommate is from a town more exciting than Hoopseton, Illinois or Backwater, Kentucky, a trip home with him or her for
Steph Goldman
The coastline of Cancun, Mexico lures many Notre Dame students with hopes of sunshine by day and parties by night.
springbreakwouldnotbeabadidea. Howard residents Amy Newman, Julie Hodapp and Shannon Forbes are lucky enough to have a friend who lives in the Hawaiian paradise, also known as Kailua. Kristi Broderick will be showing her friends around the area, and opening their eyes to the beauty of the state only a few of us are lucky enough to explore, she said.
Seniors Kevin Brophy, Jamison Landers
and Mike O’Rourke are bringing along their fish, Spud, as a good luck charm for the five days they will spend in the city that never shuts down — Las Vegas. These Notre Dame men will try their luck at the hands of dealers and machines. Landers optimistically said, "If we're lucky maybe we'll even win some spare change to pay off the educational debt we've accumulated.
Matt Ford and Mark McDonald of Dillon Hall will be attending a seminar in Washington, D.C. on the topic of “Democracy and Poverty.” They will meet with senators, congressmen and possibly the President on Capitol Hill for various lectures and discussions. They also plan to participate in an urban plunge at the end of the week.
Approximately 90 Notre Dame undergraduates will be travelling to seven sites in
Appalachia to help out area residents. At one site in Cranks Creek, Kentucky, junior Bill Driscoll and 17 other students will stay in a survival shelter along with 15 other students from Georgetown University as they help residents refurbish their homes.
Whether you will be crossing oceans or climbing mountains this spring break, it is sure to be a week that escapes the pressures of tests, papers and labs. □
popularity.” '	:•	>the spring-break crowd isFort Lauderdale,' drivers. CMpv; —p
$;0&er.p6puland^tmatipns:tiii^yearm“’ "where
Clude Hiltoh llead lsland/off	ing laws went into effect after wild befer riots common senseahd the “buddysystem” to:?
dSouthCarolinaMearnbbatSprings.Colo-andthedeathsofsomestudentsa^fe^ erado, fbr skiii^	ago.X j z \ :	T'js?;??;	;
the 1980s, increased repoits of wholesome college students who wan ?:?M	crime and deaths due to drinking and acci- have a good time,’’ Sanders. said. ,“Qdief
|ipi^t^Offbijsi^rigd)re^^
S??“Day tonayisdoing.verywell,” said i spotsto takespecialprecautions. XX??y ;:XX;tb£i&^f steal^^
?Raphaei h&cucdi, a "spokesman for ?& , Oh South Padre Island, the; ioc^ pohce ?z
Florida pepaitmehti of Tbiirism	departmentencouragesM^	up witha friend, someone you Can look out?
PanamaCity (in tlie Florida panhandle) ;.t and barsto;hire additional private securiiy. ?-for, someone who hasgone qutof ip waiyioa^	:;said ?UtaLthe Texas state alcohol - your belongings.’’ =
:Uie/water(intheGulfofMexico)isstiUtoagentstar^^ cold:tpjump!ri,butthat’snot what they’reunderagedrinkersandthestatehighy^
|k:refor;anj^y^	; ? X K^X/Xtrol officers concentrate theireffortsontheXofcontrol.’’t?..?ri
;f:the only pity: diSdOuragimg visits? fr6m?y^
Send information for your event to: Kate Wiltrout, Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569.
Thursday
Basketball: Notre Dame women vs.
Butler, JACC, 7:30 pjn.
Hockey: Notre Dame vs. Bowling Green, JACC, 7:00 pan.
Winter Concert: University of Notre Dame Orchestra, Washington Hall, 8:00 pun.
Friday
Spring Break: No events scheduled
Saturday
Basketball: Notre Dame women vs.
Evansville, JACC, 7:30 p.m.
Lacrosse: Notre Dame vs. Hofstra, Loftus, 2:00 p.m.

s
W c c c
L Ii \ 4
For More Information Call

LaFortune Information Desk:
631-8124i-<^
Senior Class: 631-5136
Student Unidn Board: 631-77^7
Junior Class: 631 -5117 ■	•
Snite Film Series Hot Line: c 631-7361 :	"
SophomoreClass: 631-5225
ND News Line: 631-5110
JACC Ticket Inf ormation:
■631-73&5W
Notre Dame MenuLine: 631-0111
Weekend Wheels Schedule: 631 FRED
&

Touch Four
: Dial 239-2500, then press: : x 6050 for news headlines ; x 6052 for world news :B j x 6121 for top pop albums j x 6571 for prime time TV ’ x 6129 for video releases
x 1031 for local weather
x 67 36 for national weather
x 6123 for movie reviews
x 9595 party.
x 6238 for TV sports events
x 6230 for national sports report
x 6263 for college basketball
Sunday
ipring Break: No Events Scheduled
Monday 15
'Um: "The Bandwagon," 7:00 p.m., Snite, 2.
Tuesday 16
Film: "A Raisin in the Sun," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "Mystery of Kaspar Houser" 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Fireside Chat: Peace Songs of Ireland and America, Notre Dame Room, LaFortune, 12:15 p.m.
Mass: Feast of Saint Patrick, Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 5:00 p.m.
TOUCH
FOUR
Wednesday 17
No events scheduled
'Ums: "A Movie," "Report," "Valse 'riste," "Take the 5:10 to Dreamland" and The Great Blondino," "Turn to Your iods, Dogs" 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2.
ioncert: Notre Dame Band Spring ioncert, JACC, 8:00 p.m.
ecture: "Strategies for Peace: How the ish Church Deals with a Generation of riolence," Hesburgh Center Auditorium, :15 p.m.
WBi^nuql|Fd6ultySli^
BRIRR
W |fsix£rdd^	B f IBB f WR f f B -Lf W
f;Bl® Snite Museunfof Aftflj:if'W-IBWWWSSR
Movie Theatres:
100 Center Cinema I&H: 259-0414
Scottsdale Theatre: 291-4583
Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090
University Park Cinema East 277-7336
University Park Cinema West: 277-0441
Forum I & II Cinema:
• W R 277-1522 I B: B
a
Constant P r e:;u re
This is what the Irish lacrosse team will face as they take on their toughest schedule ever
By Adam Ward
very Saturday in the fall, the Notre Dame football team straps on shoulder pads and a helmet in anticipation for a tough, physical game. It is not, however, the only team that goes through these pregame rituals. The Irish men’s lacrosse team prepares in very much the same way almost every weekend in the spring.	.
Hard-hitting and high-scoring will remain the way of the Notre Dame lacrosse team despite the graduation of Mike Sullivan, the all-time leading scorer in Irish history. In his career, Sullivan tallied 185 total points, 97 coming from goals and 88 from assists. Although his presence will be missed, it won’t be anything the Irish can’t handle.
“Mike was a really great player, but we have other people who have stepped up,” stated junior middfielder Billy Ahmuty.
In fact, Ahmuty is not the only one who believes that the Irish have recovered from the loss of S ullivan. Fifth year coach Kevin Corrigan is very optimistic about this year's squad.
“This is as talented a group as I’ve ever had,” said Corrigan. “We have experience returning at every position, and even though we lost some key players, we return more than we lost I’m really excited about this season.”
Coirigan has reason to be excited. He is returning six starters, as well as all three goalies from last year’s team which made its second NCAA appearance in three years. Along with this stronghold of veterans, Corrigan also managed to recruit one of the finest freshman classes in years.
“Several freshmen are playing quite a bit,” re
marked junior attackman Randy Colley. “They have a big role because they make up a sizable part of the team.”
Among those expected to make, an impact are midfielders Rob Tobin from Annapolis, Maryland, and Brian Erickson from Wilton, Connecticut, and attackman Kevin Mahoney from Morristown, New Jersey.
Senior trl-captaln Ed Lamb will run the show at midfield for
the Irish this season.
Mahoney will join juniors Colley and Robbie Snyder, who both started every game last season. Colley was last year’s offensive machine. He led the team in shots,-gods, assists and points. With these impressive numbers, he managed to set a single season record in total points with 71. Colley sat out his freshman year with a knee injury. Despite his sensational rookie season last spring, his coach
believes that he can do better.
“Randy is an excellent college player, and we’ve only seen the tip of the iceberg,” commented Corrigan. “He’s not even close to peaking yet. He’s a talented player who knows what it takes to get the job done, and he’s driven to succeed.”
Colley is confident about the ability of this year’s team. “We want to make the NCAA tournament again. We have the ability to win every game on our schedule,” he said. “It’s a tough schedule because we don’t have too many breaks. There is constant pressure.”
Snyder finished the 1992 season fourth on the team with 21 goals and 11 assists. In Sullivan’s absence, Snyder will have to be one of the players to step up in order to fill the gap. Among the others filling that same gap are juniors Steve Manley and Mark Hexamer and senior Bo Perriello.
Corrigan could not be more en-thusiasticabouthiskeyplayers. “I feel great about the kids who will fill roles for us. There isn’t any one person who has to fill Sullivan’s shoes. Butit’s going to be a team effort, and I know everyone will rise to the occasion.”
The midfield is Notre Dame’s
Junior midfielder Bill Ahmuty winds up to crank a shot on goal. “This Is the best team we have had,” he said.
Billy Gallagher and Chris Bury. Both Senger and Murphy played in 12 games last year, and both are expected to contribute again this season.
The long stick midfielders will be led by sophomores Todd Bialous and Pete Snyder. “Todd is a very intense kid and that’s what we need on this team,” Corrigan said. “He always seems to find a way to get the job done.”
The importance of a good goalie can never be taken for granted, and the Irish are fully aware of this.’ Leading the experienced trio of goalkeepers is senior Chris Parent who started all 15 games last season, posting 131 saves. Sophomore Ryan Jewell played in 14 of last year’s contests, usually relieving Parent in the second half. Senior Pat Finn will also see some time.
“I’ve never been in this position of returning all my goalies,” said Corrigan. “Thegreatthingis that they all have experience and, more importantly, they have the confidence of the team.” Joining this veteran crew will be freshman Brian Sullivan as a fourth goalie.
Confidence is what the Irish will need in order to win games this season which marks their
deepest position. It is led by senior Ed Lamb who tallied the most points from the midfield position with 13 goals and 11 assists last year.
Also in the midfield are juniors Willie Sutton and Billy Ahmuty. Sutton started all 15 games in 1992 where he was able to showcase his offensive abilities. He tallied nine goals and 14 assists.
Although Ahmuty didn ’ t start last year, he managed to post impressive numbers. While leading the team in ground balls, he also scored eight times and tallied five assists. Ahmuty, like Colley, feels good about this year’s squad.
“This is the best team we have had,” remarked Ahmuty. “There is better talent than past years, and more people want to work hard to play.”
midfielders contribute tremendously to the offense, it is the defense which remains an Irish trademark. “This position is full of athletic kids with great speed,*'he said. ’’Regardless of who scores for us, in the attack or from the midfield, we play excellent midfield defense.”
Corrigan will be the first to tell anyone that the 1993 defensive unit is the strongest on the team. The Irish are returning two 15-game starters in junior Garrett Reilly and sophomore Mike Iorio.
“Mike Iorio will prove himself to be one of the top defensemen in the country,” stated Corrigan. “He doesn’t rest on his size and physical aspect, but he is constantly trying to improve his game and become the complete defenseman.”
Joining Reilly and Iorio are seniors Peter
toughest schedule ever. “This is our toughest season ever, and we invite the challenge of playing top caliber teams game in and game out,” said Corrigan.
Notre Dame will face Duke, Maryland-Baltimore County and Georgetown, all of whom finished in the final USILA poll last year. The Irish will also clash with two top ten, division three schools: Hobart and Ohio Wesleyan.
Expectations are high on this year’s team. Everyone wants to do well, but the squad knows it will take a lot of hard work and dedication.
Ahmuty speaks for the team when he said, “We want to go to the NCAAs and go undefeated. It’ll be tough. We’ve got a lot of difficult games, but we are practicing really hard, and we're going to be
Corrigan believes that although the Senger and Kevin Murphy and sophomores competetive.”	□
by Rich Christenson
TOURNEY TIME
The Notre Dame fencing team looks ahead to the NCAA championships in search of a national crown
March Madness. So the Irish basketball team is not going to the NCAA Tournament. But does that mean there can be no March Madness at the campus of Notre Dame? No! We may not be going to the big dance in hightops with a basketball, but en garde Irish fans, the Notre Dame fencing team is on its way to the NCAA championships, and they could even win the thing.
Once again, the fencing team is poised and ready for the NCAA tournament This weekend is the regional qualifier at Cleveland State. The Irish hope to qualify all four teams: the men’s foil, sabre and epee, and the women’s team. The championships are on March 27-31.
Jeff Piper's thrust is misdirected by Chris Hajnik.
The women have finished the season, which began back in late October, with an impressive tally of 21 wins and only three losses. The men, too, have dominated throughout the season, compiling an impressive 23 wins with only a single loss.
This is better than even coach Mike DeCicco had expected for the Irish. “Talent-wise, this is a good team, not a great team. The results bordered on pretty dam good. We have never had so many athletes who are overachievers.”
Although the 1992-93 team may be filled with overachievers, the dominance of Notre Dame fencing is not out of the ordinary. Since 1983 the Irish men have finished fourth place or better in the NCAA Championships. This includes the fourth
place finish for the men’s team last year. The women have an equally impressive record. Although they finished seventh last year, the previous six years saw the Irish women finishing no lower than third in the nation.
The Notre Dame women’s fencing team is led by captain Dinamarie Garcia. She is a junior from Mohegan Lake, New York. Garcia was captain and most valuable player of her high school fencing team. Last year, in her first open tournament at the Penn State Open, Garcia placed thirty-third. At this tournament she displayed the hard work and leadership which has given this year’s women’s team a unique bond. “The success of this team will depend on the strength of this bond,” said Garcia. Gauging from die subsequent success of the team, a bond does exist.
Piper, the men’s foil captain, is a senior from Queensland, Australia. During his freshman and sophomore years, he compiled a record of 49 wins and 7 losses. As a sophomore he placed sixteenth in the NCAA Championships. Last year, Piper finished his junior campaign 22-5 and placed twenty-fifth at the NCAA Champion- i ships. This year Piper’s leadership is a key to the teams success.
“Jeff Piper is having a fantastic year. He is the number one foil fencer in the Midwest. He’s pulling the;?foil team with him,” commented Irish Coaich Mike DeCicco. f:
Although Piper- is
Madness!
□
O bit
f
surrounded by a younger squad, he remains extremely optimistic about the team’s future. “I’d like to think we’d make the top four, hopefully better. We’re not as talented this year as in previous years. But we have the best togetherness in my four years here and that counts for a lot.”
Wozniak, the epee captain, is a junior from Chicago, Illinois. He finished his freshman year 40-12 andplaced thirteenth in the NCAA Championships. As a sophomore he compiled a 23-12 record while finishing twenty-second in the NCAA Championships. This year Wozniak took over a strong epee squad in the absence of former star David Calderhead.
•; “The epee team is strong and has the most experience. They are good but the greatness Will- come only if the results hold up. I Wouldn’t have said that six months ago, but -thfey have done so well that I can,” remarked iDeCicco.
?' A large part of the epee team’s success can be attributed to Rian Girard. A junior from Vancouver, Washington, his first two years at Notre Dame complied a record of 39 wins and -11 losses. Last year Girard split time lid:	.
mo-:
£ MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
ad n ^5) fsi noiq isqrl -raw
srij -noil
01
fencing both in the epee and foil positions. This year he has focused his concentration on epee full time.
Taliaferro, sabre captain for the squad, is a senior from Montclair, New Jersey. He is a two-time All-American. As a freshman and sophomore Taliaferro compiled a record of 76 wins and 11 losses. Last year as a junior, Taliaferro compiled a 25-6 record placing fourth overall at the NCAA Championships. This year, Taliaferro picked up where he left off as a junior to lead an inexperienced sabre squad.
Both the sabre and women’s teams are questionable this year. “I hope to have a strong finish from the sabre and women’s foil teams,” stated DeCicco. “ I think we can qualify the foil and epee teams. But the sabre and women’s foil are on the bubble.”
An integral part of the foil team this past year has been Kathleen Vogt. Vogt, a senior from New Orleans, Louisiana, is the only returning starter from the 1992 women’s team. As a freshman she posted a 6-1 record. After taking her sophomore year off from fencing, she returned as a junior and finished the season 24-15. Al
though she qualified for the NCAA Championships, Vogt was unable to fence in the tournament.
Coach DeCicco also notes the outstanding fencers Corinne Dougherty and Kimberly Arndt Dougherty, a junior from Waukesha, Wisconsin, spent her freshman year at the University of Wisconsin where she went 2-0 against Notre Dame fencers. After transferring to Notre Dame for her sophomore year, Dougherty posted an 8-1 record for the Irish. Arndt finished her sophomore year with a record of 12 wins and three losses.
“I hope the Lady on the Dome is with us in the next few weeks when we try to qualify all four teams for the NCAAs,” said DeCicco.
Along with the Lady on the Dome, the Notre Dame fencing teams hope to have the support of the entire student body behind them. So get out that face paint that’s been sitting in the top desk drawer since football season and fill up the old station wagon for the roadtrip to Wayne State, the home of the 1993 NCAA fencing championships. And if anyone should look at you a bit strangely, justsay to them with a smile, “Hey, it’s March

Todd Herman: Herman, a junior from Linton, IN, led the Irish njgn’s track team in the Alex Wilson Invitational at Notre Dame last; Saturday with a spectacular performance in the high jump. Herman, co-captain of the team, reached the 7'3" mark ranking him sixth in the nation in that event
Karen Harris: Hams, a junior from Hillside, NJ, led the Notre Dame women’s track team with an impressive 48'1" throw in theshotputat the Alex Wilson Invitaiqnal in Loftus Center last weekend. “Overall I think we had a pretty good day. We had some really good individual performances,” said Harris.
by J. Bradley Keck
rishis is thelastO.O.B. under my czar-like JL rule and I hope you have all enjoyed the past year in entertainment The bad news is that I will be gone into utter obscurity. The good news is that plans are being drawn so that O.O.B. will live on. As a final column I thought it might be nice to focus on two commencement speakers at the university — one past and one future — who have been all over the news lately.
Journalistic Ethics
Poor NBC news. First they rig an explosion of a GM pickup and then they air a story about fish that have been dying in Idaho. Sounds like they could stay out of trouble with that one, right? Don’t kid yourself. The smooth opera
tors over at NBC, led by our next uncontroversial commencement speaker, Tom Brokaw, played misleading videos with the story about the fish. What they said was footage from a national park showing dead fish, was really footage from a different stream in which the fish were not dead but only stunned. Nightly News anchor Brokaw had to make NBC’s second on-air apology/ correction in the last month.
To top that off, Brokaw has been getting into some trouble on his own. In the most recentPatagonia sportswear catalogBrokaw can be seen “modeling” the company’s shelled Sychilla jacket. Brokaw has been getting a lot of heat for this appearance, especially from Newsday columnist Ben Kubasik who claimed that this action “would harm his and the network’s credibility.” Brokaw denies this, saying that in the photo he was barely visible. Yes, but what that doesn’t tell you is that in the photo he is
wearing an NBC cap, on the facing page he wrote an accompanying article and the picture was taken while Brokaw was vacationing in Russia with his friend Yvon Chouinard, the o wner of Patagonia.
As one NBC source told The Washington
Separated at Birth?
Fr. Hesburgh
Lorne Greene
Post, “It just makes it look more like everybody and anybody around here can do anything they want without regard to journalistic standards and behavior.”
It is with great pleasure I give to you our commencement speaker.
Another Great Guy
In 1990 he insulted a Notre Dame studentathlete at commencement In 1993 he is being even more overbearing. Bill Cosby has been receiving just about as much heat today as Tom Brokaw. All of you might remember Larry Villella, the gradeschooler who sent the White House $1,000 to reduce the debt a few weeks back. He received a call from the President thanking him for the contribution and when asked about his future plans responded that he wanted to go to college to become a cardi
ologist Cosby heard of these plans and two days later, with great pomp, he sent Villella $2,000 as a “thank you from the American people.” Wonderful Coz. Youareoneofthe richest men in the world and you send a kid $2,000bucks so that he can attend college as a gift from all of America. Wow, what a gesture. That money won’t even pay for the kid’s first three-credit class atour wonderful university or seven of your $300 sweaters, Bill. And hey, treat your guests on “You Bet Your Life” with a little dignity. Just because you’re giving them a couple bucks doesn’t mean that you can make asses out of them.
Up and Coming
Since you’re all going home, I won’t bore you with the other stuff but you might want to look at these albums due for release next week: Slaughter-
house 5 ... Camper Van Beetoven ... Butthole Surfers... Lenny Kravitz... Van Morrison... Ray Charles... Judy Bats... Hammerbox... Sting ... David Baerwald ... Buddy Guy ... Kronos Quartet ... Moody Blues ... This Mortal Coil ... Dwarves... Joe Cocker	$
/WVFITOPTENX.
L/Dinosaur JR — Where You B^n /2. Superchiink — OntheMoum\ ' 3. Slonen Knife— Let’s Knife \ 4. Belly — Star.
5. Poster Children—Clock Street 6. Zuzu’s Petals — When. Non One’s Looking
7. Bettie Serveert—Pabmine , \ 8. Pavement—Watery,Domestic-/ \ 9. Jesus Jones—Perverse / 10MKEHOSE—Mr. Machinery ^^^perator^^
18 .....
SCHOLASTIC
Sprinkler—Pond— Fastbacks
[NOTE: THIS ARTICLE PERTAINS TO NEW BANDS ON SUB POP RECORDS AND DOES NOT MAKE USE OF THE WORD “GRUNGE,” NOR REFERENCE TO THE"SEATTLESOUND" OR“SE-ATTLE SCENE.” BE HAPPY ABOUT THIS.]
That’s right, Sub Pop is branching out. Besides releasing singles and an upcoming album from the astounding D.C. popsters Velocity Girl (bound for our lovely campus at the end of March!), two new bands from Portland, Oregon, are starting to make a splash via Sub Pop as well. Diversity of sounds (maybe just more chords) and strong new releases from Sprinkler and Pond are putting Portland on the musical map. There are similarities between the two bands, although not enough for one to formulate a description of a “Portland sound” (thank God)!
While not exactly straight-ahead rock, Sprinkler are melodic and accessible. The band is a four-piece, with two guitars interlocking over a solid, sometimes chunky rhythm section. Many of the songs on their new release, More Boy, Less Friend, work from loping, melodic guitar lines to aggresr sive choruses. This effect usually works to their favor, creating interesting textures within songs as well as contrasts and tensions thatkeep the listener involved in places where a more straightforward songwriting approachs often fails. Good examples are “Doyle” and “Sandbox,” where pretty, sprawling lead guitar lines lead into choruses full of choppy, hard-edged guitar textures and rhythms. “Personality Doll” is a much more raw song, but its dissonant guitar sounds and relentless rhythms make it the most aggressive and effective song on the album.
Sprinkler’s lyrics and vocals may leave some listeners underwhelmed, but this deficiency isn ’ t enough to spoil the instrumental
side of the music. Their one-word song titles are cool enough to make one expect a little bit more lyrical content. The lyrics certainly aren’t enhanced any by singer Chris Slusarenko’s voice, which ranges from whiny and unmelodic to screechy without ever really managing to be as effective as any of the other instruments in conveying the otherwise intriguing musical tensions in their songs. All in all, though, this is a good album from a band which is certain to grow into the ideas which it has begun to develop. Oh yeah—their cover art is interesting, too, especially the phallic thingy on the disc itself.
Pond, another band with neato cover art, are working in a different idiom than Sprinkler. Their music is both dreamy and edgy it’s psychedelia with a very heavy, hard sound. Sprinkler does a better job with the quiet parts of their songs, Pond does better with the loud and nasty parts. In fact, Pond really doesn’t have many quiet parts, aside from a few interesting psychedelic production touches at the beginnings and ends of songs. Still, these two bands have some definite similarities: after listening to Sprinkler’s album, I put on Pond’s “Wheel” and wondered whether I had really changed the album or not
Most of the tracks on Pond’s self-titled latest release are rambunctious concoctions of punchy drumming, percolating bass lines and droning guitar (I used my thesaurus to get those adjectives), which wrap together into a total sound which one could either meditate or flail to, depending on mood.
Prime tracks from this album are the earlier single, “Young Splendor,” “Tree” and the powerful and hypnotic “Agatha.” One also can’t help but admire Pond’s chutzpah in naming the last track of its album, “Filler.” Lyrics seem to be some kind of
free-association game for Pond, but they work well with theband’sback-of-the-brain sound. The vocals are the typical strained groaning or mumbled pseudo-melodies that one would expect to go with driving psychedelia, but they work. At least they’re unpretentious.
Expect good things from Pond, and definitely check out their album. While WVFI still hasn’t received the album (a hint to anyone out there from Sub Pop), but you can call in and request the single of “Young Splendor,” which was quite a hit at the station earlier this year.
One more quick review before I go: Fastbacks, a band hailing from “that rainy and overhyped town in the Northwest,” don’t sound like they come from there. Their new release, Zucker, is right in the pop/punk vein and is sure to please. It’s a collection of sometimes angsty, mostly happy tunes from a quartet that has been around for ages. It’s no use to try to describe their sound or their songwriting. The term pop/punk was invented to describe Fastbacks more than any other band (forget theBuzzcocks!) Ifyou’re bored with typcial pop/punk lyrics, open up your copy of Zucker: you can try everything in German. (An aside: if anyone knows what “Zucker” is, aside from a misspelling of the word for “sugar,” please tell me. I’m a German major and converted Fastbacks fan, and it’s killing me.)
If you like songs like “Hung on A Bad Peg,” “When I’m Old” or “Under the Old Lightbulb,” check out their compilation of singles called The Question is No, also on Sub Pop. Honestly, if you can’t find something to like about Fastbacks, you’re not listening to them. This band has humor, existentialism, goofiness and depression all rolled into one. And they even doaBeeGees cover.	□.
by Pete Dedman
“Somebody said the music was not good enough to play”
—Green, Red, and Blue by Brian, Colin, and Vince
Well, apparently somebody was sorely mistaken. Not only is good, original music being produced here at Notre Dame, but the music scene has developed, especially over the last year, into a rich and diverse assortment of bands ranging from punk to folk to jazz. Two years after the WVFI Jericho Sessions were released, a new CD, sponsored by S.U.B., is in the works, documenting the present campus music scene through the work of 16 bands playing their own original material.
The bands are as diverse as they are talented and have all played a major role in creating a vibrant music scene at ND. The CD will feature popular and established groups such as Dissfunktion, Chisel, the Sister Chain, Brian, Colin and Vince, Palace Laundry and Victoria’s Real Secret, as well as younger bands fast on the rise, including Grope For Luna, Bother and Bovine Solution. Rounding out the playlist will be Mr. Head, 2-10, the Porkchoppers, Emily Lord, Access Denied, XYZ Affair and a jazz group, Thee Accent The CD, as of yet without a name (though an accompanying booklet has been designed by Peter J. Pultorak), is due out soon after spring break, according to co-producer Steve Sostak.
“There’ll be a final mixdown of all the songs on March 10. Then we’ll take the
masters down to the Sony plant in Terre Haute, and, if all goes as planned, we’ll have it out a couple of weeks after break,” Sostak said. Sostak, who is also the lead singer for Victoria’s Real Secret, has found the work as producer to be easier than expected. He added, “Most of the real work was already done by the end of last semester, thanks to [co-producer] Ryan Hallford,” who is on a leave of absence this semester.
Hallford was also instrumental in the success of Acoustic Cafe, which has been taking place regularly in the LaFortune basement each Thursday night for over a year. Acoustic Cafe features an open-mike setting, which allows for musicians to experiment and try out new songs before a live audience. “Especially with Acoustic Cafe, Ryan’s been very instrumental in trying to push brigina music,” h said.
Joe Cannon lead singer an guitarist for Mr. Head, credits the recent success of an original music scene on campus to certain artistic fountainheads. “A few very original, talented and active musicians have sparked a
large interest in creating original bands/mu-sic, especially among the younger students^ Cannon said.	‘uusH
Ted Koterwas, assistant producer for the CD, is more specific in giving credit it is due. “I think the success of Brian, Colin and Vince really opened up the way,,for original music being accepted jjnqrg readily.” Koterwas, who plays drum^foj Grope for Luna, added, “Joe Cannon'has been something of a powerful onginalmusi-, cal force as well.”
The rising acceptance of original bandsohj campus has also been spurred on B^tfie success of St Mary’s Dalloway’s Coffee;, house. Each Wednesday and Saturday, night, the Coffeehouse, charging little$£no
admission, had presented full-length sh^s, by acts featured on the CD such as, Brian, Colin (and i n
ead> yM
ister Chain, Gr°Pe?M Luna
Bother,as;
•5i well as liant l^rfoi^ mances by'
•K: other bands such; va§ Emily, .arjd most q!>-
Sevennse^f. As
posed to
Acoustic Cafe, Dalloway’s is a forum for bands who have already proven themselves to perform in a full show setting, when an Optimum number of people can be expected to come. On Saturday nights, while the rest qf.campus is partying themselves senseless, the.Cpffeehouse draws 100 people on average.ve been pleasantly surprised by its success,” remarked John Dugan, drummer for Chisel, whose performance at the Cof-fcehouse in January drew 175 people.
With such live successes, stated Dugan,
‘‘there’s obviously enough interest out there l for original music.” Dugan hopes that the ' success of the new CD will result in organi- i zations getting more cooperation from the l S tiident Activity Council, in terms of being able' to get smaller bands to play at Notre Dame, “so that our campus bands cangetachancetoplay withthem. pl This will give these bands more I f Exposure to playing live, as well as a’charice to get their name passed j
arpUnti the larger music circuit," I hb sai& Last fall Victoria’s Real f Secret opened for They Might Be j Giants and Chisel will open for j Velocity Girl on March 31 in the ' L'aFo'rtUne Ballroom.
For many, though, just the CD itself is a huge accomplishment. Everyone involved expects this cdhripiiation to enjoy more success tiian 1991’s Jericho Sessions. < AS Canribn described, “Yeah, this f should be better. The idea behind * this, is campus bands. As a result, almost all the bands are very well-, known. Jericho Sessions, on the other hand, was‘originally meant to be a sampler of acbtistic acts, and there ended up being more of a:hodge-podge of musicians just recording fpr the sake of contributing to the CD. At the same time, (former WVFI station manager) Kevin Flaherty’s work with the Jericho Sessions was indeed seminal.” " ‘“The Jericho Sessions certainly paved the way for. what’s going on with the current CD,” concurred John Dugan.
" Dugan, Cannon and other musicians who appeared on the Jericho Sessions, have agreed that the recording studios for this effort are far better facilities than those used
on the last sampler. Most of the bands have been recording over the past two months at Miami St. Studios in town. The recording process gave several of the musicians their first opportunity to put down their music in a studio environment Miami St engineer John Nuner was very helpful in making the process rewarding for the more experienced bands as well as the “rookies.”
“For the most part he [Nuner] took direction from the bands, and allowed them to come up with their own sound, the sound
they wanted on the CD,” said Cannon, who was quite pleased with Mr. Head’s record-
Weather,” fering to
ing of their of-
t h e Cannon uted the ease the fact that “an
C D . alsoattrib-of recording to " analog recording
was made first, instead of recording directly to digital, so it was a more natural recording process.” Mr. Head bassistDave Holsinger, for whom the recording process was a firsttime experience, found himself quite pleased with the outcome as well. “We heard some bands took 9 or 10 hours, so relatively, I found the whole process to be somewhat easier than I’d expected,” said
Holsinger.
As Bother bassist andDalloway’s Coffeehouse manager Kelly Daugerdas attested, “It was a lot more work than expected, at times even tiresome, but by the end, we really felt exhilarated.” The band is also elated at the success of their recording for the CD, “Kill the Popular Kids,” even before the CD has been released. Their explosive song has garnered enough airplay on WVFI to crack into the station’s weekly Top 20, and thereby warrant mention in the nation
ally distributed College Music Journal.
For other, older bands, the CD is a chance to document what may be swan songs, as members graduate or leave. For Brian, Colin, and Vince, whose co-founder, Brian Muller, transferred to Boston University at the end of last semester, the CD is just that. Featuring the a capella intro, “Yahtzee,” the band has recorded “Green, Red, and Blue” for the CD, with astonishing success. “The recording fortunately occurred at a peak for us as a band,” said guitarist Colin Clary. “‘Green, Red, and Blue’ is a bit more serious than our other songs ... but it’s really almost beautiful, and I don’t use that word a lot; well, I do, I guess, but it was really good,” he eloquently added. Later this spring, Clary says he will finish a CD of Brian, Colin and Vince’s last semester together. To be titled Bucket o' Fun n' Stuff n'
Yeah, the CD will feature at least 15 songs from the band.
Whether half the campus knows it or not, the music scene is alive and well at Notre Dame. A large amount of ignorance is due to the fact that many bands play at private parties rather than overcrowded bars, and some people just aren’t open-minded enough to pass up those bars for a show at the Coffeehouse on a Saturday evening. Nevertheless, the campus CD is for all to enjoy, so, as your spring break tans begin to fade, keep your eyes open for great original music that’s been under your noses all along. □
The musicians pictured in the article are members of Grope for Luna.
•.%% i
P>one calls from ths First
Latiy^ roommats suioitie anti hoalthy loving
News of the Bizarre from the nation's universities
Hillary on the Line
Karen A. Lewis, a senior education major at Virginia Wesleyan College, was sitting around watching TV a few weeks ago when she was interrupted by a phone call. This wasn’t an ordinary phone call, however — it was from the White House. Hillary Clinton called Lewis after the Prez received a letter she had written about the bleak fate of public schools. In The Chronicle of Higher Education, Lewis described how Clinton asked her about her desire to teach elementary school, and how Virginia Wesleyan had prepared her. They chatted for ten minutes or so, Hillary said goodbye, and that was that. Lewis said of Mrs. Clinton, “She was a warm and caring person. I felt good that someone was looking through the letters they get.”
It Just Ain’t So
Wish your roommate would drop off the face of the earth? Even for those of us who like the person we live with, it’s commonly assumed that if your roommate dies, you get a 4.0 GPA for the semester. Admit it, folks—during hellish finals week, when it looks like you’ll fail, who hasn’t, in the depths of their psyche, considered faking a roommate’s suicide just to get passing grades? Well, the Stanford Daily debunks the myth that a roomie’s death will get you a 4.0. S tanford’s registrar noted, “Professors care enough about the integrity of the grades that I can’t imagine a professor would say, ‘Oh, your romrhate killed themself? Here’s an A.’” The associate Director of Residential Education said “If you give an A if your roommate dies, what do you give a student if your roommate is very badly injured — a B?”
Blast from the Past
Officials at the University of Kansas in charge of the renovation ofthestudentunionunearthedatimecapsuledatingfrom 1926. The copper box, which has oxidized and corroded, contains a lot of items relative to World War I, such as the names of 129 KU alumni, students and faculty who were killed in the war, and newspapers
with stories of the declaration of war and the peace treaties. It also includes a photograph of the governor of Kansas, a picture of the Jayhawk (what exactly does a Jayhawk look like, anyway?) and three roses. The university is planning on reburying the old time capsule along with a new one in the cornerstones of the building, noted the University Daily Kansan. How about including a pair of ruby red heels?
Not a Laughing Matter
Officials at Western Maryland College are in a little trouble — with Ann Landers. The Chronicle of Higher Education reports that a mother in New Jersey was appalled when she read the school’s admission flier, which attempted to make a joke about financial aid. The flier suggested that parents “send a letter to 200 people promising them good luck if they return two bucks and send the letter to ten of their friends” to help pay for a college education. Ann Landers agreed that the suggestion was “not too cool.” (But since when has Ann Landers been the epitome of coolness?) The college officials say the flier’s “lighthearted marketing style” is appreciated by some parents. Others, however, are considering sending their children to Notre Dame, where nobody thinks financial aid is something to joke about.
Penn State Heathens
Aw shucks, folks, we missed it again! The second week in । February is designated “Healthy Loving Week” at Penn State, according to the Weekly Collegian. The special week before Valentine’s Day has become a tradition at Penn State, and it helps “students build and maintain healthy and loving relationships,” said the coordinator of the week. It also “provides a forum for people to speak openly about sexuality and prevention.” I don’t think Notre Dame students are that advanced yet. Maybe we could pick a week and designate it “Platonic Loving — Before 2 a.m.”
Edited by Kate Wiltrout
'WlgBslMlBhBFORTl—
Glory Days
A reflection on life as it used to be in Pangborn Hall
by Brian Posnanski
A few weeks ago I came out of South
Dining Hall, reading an Observer. Without thinking I walked to the left. In mid-stride I caught myself. I had done it yet again;IstartedwalkingtoPangbom. Thankful that no one had noticed my faux pas, I smiled and turned around. Back to St. Ed’s for me.
The events of December 1991 plunged me into a dangerous bitterness about the fate of my dorm. When the angeratmy subsequent homelessness subsided, one thing remained: memory.
Smell keys the memory. They even took that away from us. The aroma of the place has changed because of new carpet, some pinkish number. It isn’t the same carpet on which a Pangbomite conducted his skidding contests with his mountain bike.
He began at the double doors. Pedaling hard until about the middle of the hallway, he skidded before hitting the wall that separated Rector’s Row from Section 4. “Look out, boys,’’ Rob said. “That one wasn ’ t very good. I’m going again.”
I’ve never seen carpet hold up to that kind of friction. And then they took it out.
Carpet isn’t theonly fixture thatPangbom lost. It also lost Fr. Borden.
Borden was our rector. His Nova Scotia accent cut through those cold hallways. The man’s signature was his one custodial solution for all messes. “What, urn, you got a mess up there?” he would say. “Here, urn, take this.” Out came the industrial- sized vat of ammonia.
We lost Harv, too; he was our janitor. Y ou had to plan your showers very carefully. If you accidentally walked in while Harv was cleaning the showers, the vapor of the ammonia would make your nose bleed. More than once I fireman-carried my section mates out of there, their eyes watering and
their toiletries strewn about the floor.
Yes, we did nasty things. We took pride in those nasty things.
Never have I had more pride in my dorm than when I walked back from the library early last December to see the green flood lights of Fisher shining on a bare brick wall. The men of Pangborn notched one for good taste. The Fisher “F’ was gone.
“Where is it?” I asked.
My friend leaned against the wall casually. His eyes flashed like an elf s. “Oh, somewhere out on 31.”
Fisher provided us with endless entertainment On the way to dinner one night we stopped at the sight we saw in front in Fisher. It was enough to make the strongest social scientist cringe._________________
“„.my ;eyes litup at a piece defending the musical abilityof
Barty Manilo^ ; writers were from: \
Guys were playing Four Square. Four Square. They were in college and they were playing Four Square. At times like that I question sanity of some of the admissions officers here.
Reading The Observer’s editorial page one lunch, my eyes lit up at apiece defending the musical ability of Barry Manilow. The writers were from Fisher.
Of all the traditions that survived from year to year, Fisher yells ranked at the top. It could strike at any time. The study, lounge would be packed. Perfect quiet. Only the sound of textbook pages flipping. Then the cry of a new dawn.
“Hey, Fisher!”
The study lounge emptied in three seconds. As all lights went out in the courtyard in order to hide who was yelling, the taunts ranged from the obscene to the unmentionable.
“Get off your roommate!”
Sheep sounds.
“Nice boat race, you bastards!”
Some of the insults I couldn’t understand. One guy usually did his Fisher yells in Spanish. Something about their mothers and kitchen utensils.
But perhaps the late-night phone sessions with my neighbor were best He was one of those engineers who gets good grades and studies half as much as everyone else. In his spare time he gathered us in his room to prankcallpeople. Onenighthelookedaguy up by the name of McCracken.
“Hello, is this Todd McCracken?”
“Yeah.”
“Well, I’m your cousin Phil. Phil McCracken. That’s me. Phil. Phil McCracken.”
“What?”
“Do you want to eat lunch tomorrow? I’ll be the one in front of S outh Dining Hall with the sign: Phil McCracken.”
He hung up. I permanently damaged my rib cage from laughing.
If you thought that Pangborn was a zoo, you were right The second floor had a pet ferret kept communally among the guys. It scurried from room to room and out on the ledge, where it would fraternize with its squirrel cousins. I didn’t think anything stunk so bad until my roommates got a duck.
Gus was a lovable little toy of a duck. But he never shut up. And he couldn’t control his bodily functions. I ordered him killed. My roommates have never forgiven me. Now Gus lives in a pond in the back of someone’s house, raising a family of his own.
If you go into South Dining Hall and eat on the right side, you can still see us former Pangborn guys in the back tables, reliving our glory days. Nostalgia strikes us already — we haven’t even graduated yet But the past dies hard. The other night my roommate spilled his dip cup on the floor. He looked upset.
I waved my hand in the air. “Ah, just put some ammonia on it.”	□
Brian Posnanski dedicates this piece to all his oldPangborn buddies.
Arts and Letters Journal Humanitas, Reborn
by Stephen Murphy and Kelley Rienks

r I ’’he Notre Dame Marching Band tooted the Fight offersomeincentivetoourmorematerialisticcreative J. Song during the ticker-tape parade to celebrate minds. The top essay will receive $200. The next
Stephen Murphy and Kelley Rienks are two of the managing editors of Humanitas.
the resurrection of the scholarly journal of Arts and Letters. The whole campus erupted into a marathon fiesta for three days. Monk whooped it up by dancing a jig on the platform where this semester’s faithful editors were honored with silver chalices inscribed with their positions. Although we felt it a bit much, the performances by the cheerleaders added flair to the gala as they chanted H-U-M-A-N-I-T-A-S repeatedly, kicking into the air with gleeful abandon.
Well, maybe not. We humble editors mugged Dean Attridge for 800 greenbacks and went to the task of compiling a collection of the best essays produced in the College of Arts and Letters this semester, in other words, our own (just kidding). The journal, Humanitas, has been the centerpiece of the College of Arts and Letters since its origin several decades ago. It showcases the best essays written over the semester in the undergraduate college. Sadly, it went out of production for a semester, only to be revived by crackpot, award-winning essayist Chuck Young. The dedication of this visionary inspires us all. A Father Sorin look-alike, Young saw the chance to rebuild the journal. After meeting with Dean Attridge, he mustered a posse of skilled writers and got to work.
After making the initial grant to get Humanitas on its feet, Dean Attridge became a zealot for the cause the journal. He came up with creative tactics to raise additional funds. He tactfully looted the Freshman Year of Studies and the Core Program for thousands of dollars. Now a fugitive, Attridge lives in a cave on the third floor of O’Shaughnessy, from which he launches booty raids on passers-by. Our faculty advisor, Professor Fox, has joined Attridge in the cavedwelling community and has become even more extreme. We strongly encourage you to donate immediately or risk the wrath of these crazed crusaders.
Part of our coffer will go toward $350incash prizes. Although Chuck has tried to pilfer some of this money to purchase a new beard-grooming kit, this should
three best essayists will receive $50. The worst essayist will of course be subjected to public humiliation by featuring the work at the end of the journal with our relentless criticisms.
Of immeasurable help has been Donelle Ruwe, our graduate advisor. An experienced editor, Donelle has provided her expertise on the finer elements of journal publication while working on her masters in English. Chuck and Donelle have haggled over some of these details. In one instance, our fearless chief proposed the idea of producing a multilingual journal with an emphasis on Sanskrit. It took a while for Donelle’s experience to convince Chuck to stick to English.. Despite their occasional clashes, the different perspectives of these two have enhanced the journal.
Having already received this semester’s submissions, the staff now has to come up with a slick cover for the journal. Chuck has worked with the Medieval Institute to find an ancient hieroglyph to grace our issue. He has been disturbed to find that the Medieval Institute does not have access to hieroglyphs because they were used around 1000 B.C., long before the Middle Ages.
Overall, publications such as Humanitas serve to enhance the intellectual life of the undergraduates. Many complain that this campus does not foster enough mental curiosity. The greatest pomp often * seems reserved for athletic superiority, not cerebral prowess. The resurrection of Humanitas represents a step in the right direction by acknowledging the greatest feats of the mind at the school.
The journal should be available by mid-April. Copies will be distributed to all students in the Core and Freshman Writing Programs. We will also print several hundred copies for the semi-literate masses. Anyone interested in perusing the intellectual acrobatics of their Arts and Letters brethren should pick up a copy.	□
I Hoe.; 600 op	. L-oki , 6ov of Mischief.
Se/vesfo ( 6op /n Wis fAlNT>.
TALES F(?oM the top O? THE DO/v/£
MARK
qdd
<SPRMAM
••• AJU& THSXi^aMETo
THAT IIS MoTUKE THAt AT AH~ W,TH A£L-THE 'iXLfc A^'T ^uETURAC Olvei^SlTY LATEL't, x'M SPftP^l^ bloTRE HASmT STEPPED op A/°J> E»A)E MORE ABOoT TWIS ptoBL-EM-THE OTHE* &j5ss u>s f® HAWE •SoAAS. cot^v«Ac WveG^op csAWJS...
-t'Mct- dork
xSw w	'Ah^tA
wlv CoMixinS nW A&O m*i H« o a 3f envi ce.rt s ?
E.y£uWron’ sick cJe|x®/eH \
oti a an^ohs
572
Houj Vie/oic.' AntLilis^s g^TiOUS be^rttoQ-pto**) wk&nce, we Cfiumny k^/yozia Scares-fkis bcuK^fcmn^.'
-preS’.dt/rV j
E»<sWa ( ^‘S •£ -th^.
Crea&iPTi I
^Gu,pUlljrlcnA.'E>w^|. (KU^^Ci^.CA:
COMINS ATTRACTIONS IN OUR
MARCH 20: FUN RUN-5 mi. run
2 mi. jog
2 mi. walk starts 2:30pm Holy Cross Field $3 entry
MARCH 24: BETTY SHABAZZ
(Widow of Malcolm X)
Speaks at Stepan Center 7:30pm Tickets go on sale March 16 $3 students $5 public
APRIL 10=11: SHEER MADNESS-
CHICAGO WEEKEND
Stay at the Days Inn-Lake Shore Drive. Bus leaves 10am Saturday Tickets go on sale March 23 Only $45
MOVIES I March 18-Class Action
March 19/20-Honeymoon in Vegas
March 25-Die Hard 2
March 26/27-Under Siege
STUDENT UNION BOARD