r- •
TO ENGINEERING students:
Graduating Engineers are offered a great future,
in a great place to live
by Lockheed Aircraft Corporation
in Southern California
Your Lockheed Counsellors will be on the campus to talk with you on... Wednesday March 26
They wil! discuss:
Your salary at Lockheed.
Your field of engineering at Lockheed.
Your training opportunities at Lockheed-and at major universities in die Los Angeles area.
Your chance for quick advancement at Lockheed.
The better living conditions for you . in Southern California.	?
The vast range of recreational opportunities in Southern California.
J
■
today for an appointment with
Counsellors
Contact your Placement Officer yourLockheed
P. S. Be sure anti ask your Lockheed Counsellor how Lockheed can help you get an . advanced degree in engineering.
SORRY
IF WE MISSED YOU
BUT...
you’ll see more
it’s Van Heusen’s
Van Roll Oxford: the button-down collar spreads with a nice, casual roll
If you were unable to get together with our representatives, we'd like you to know about the excellent openings available to qualified engineers, mathematicians and physicists. Our brochure points out and pictures the history, development, progress, organization, expansion, facilities, programs, benefits, and opportunities open to you at Bell Aircraft, a leader in the Research and Development of Supersonic Aircraft, Rocket Power Plants, Guided Missiles, and Electronic and Servo-mechanisms equipment.
{Aeronautical Engineering Training NOT Required.)
MAY WE SEND YOU A COPY OF "ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES"
t WRITE
Mgr. Engineering Personnel
BUFFALO 5, N.Y.
P. O. Box 1
HEALTH SPOT
FOR MEN WOMEN ANO CHILDREN
209 W. COLFAX AVE. Paul Whalen, Mgr.
and
more and
In whites or colors. And of course you get a new Van Hensen free if yours ever shrinks out of size.
mo,e Van Hensen
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERTS
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
March 14, 1952
3
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St	J. M. S. Bld?.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
—ADVENTURE-x 35 Dagt-From 5300 Offered by America's largest organization for educational travel. Scholarships available.
See More—Spend Lets Tours to AAEXICO, The Scenic I West, Alaska, South America, Bermuda or The Orient.
Our 19th Year See your local representative or write to:
f B4F Mk	STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL
M	TRAVEL ASSOCIATION
----545 FIFTH AVE., HEW YORK 17 • MU 7-0264
Notre Dame STUDENTS
Welcome to
ATTENTION CLASS OF 32
WELL-PAID JOBS FOR ENGINEERS AT LINK AVIATION!
128 W. Washington St.
David Kempler
FAY’S
Quality jewelers
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and visit with us.
We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry — We maintain a complete Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
Ill South Michigan Street
If you’re an engineering major—preferably E.E.— there’s a truly fine career waiting for you at LINK AVIATION, after you graduate. LINK offers you excellent wages, liberal health and life insurance coverage, excellent bonus and vacation plans. On-the-job meals are moderately priced in the company cafeteria. You’ll also find attractive homes and new apartments within minutes of the LINK plant.
Manufacturers of LINK TRAINERS • FLIGHT SIMULATORS • GUNNERY AND NAVIGATIONAL TRAINERS • SERVO MECHANISMS • SERVO AMPLIFIERS ■ GRAPHIC RECORDERS - PRECISION GEAR BOXES • FRACTIONAL N. P. WIDE RANGE VARIABLE SPEED DRIVES • SPUR GEAR DIFFERENTIALS • FRICTION AND OVERDRIVE CLUTCHES • INDEX D*AIS and Special Electronic Device*
4
The Scholastic
Top of the Week
World Astrology magazine still a heavy favorite on the caf magazine rack ...	.
And in This Corner . . !
It’s been nothing but mayhem, murder and mauling—with a few delightful waltzes thrown in—over at the Fieldhouse this past Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. And although the fight crowd has made only a sparse _ showing for the preliminary nights, to" morrow night’s semi-finals should begin to lessen the gate troubles of the Knights of Columbus promoters, who have been a little bit concerned over the pall of interest in the openers.
But the semi-final and final nights have always been the big draw nights in the past and there is no reason in sight that says this year’s edition of the Bengal Battles will be much different.
Erin Go Bragh?
And especially with Monday eve being St. Patrick’s Day, what better way to celebrate the wearing of the shillelagh, ’er whatever, than to watch six or seven good brawls—albeit supervised —and then everyone down to Sweeney’s for clog dancing and furniture-breaking.
The Brockton Bust
Monday night will also see an overly-publicized young fellow, who travels professionally under the name of Pocky
Marciano, crawl through the Fieldhouse ropes to serve as honorary referee and to receive a trophy of some description from the Bengal committee.
Rocky, who wears the somewhat questionable title of leading heavyweight contender, performs murder, mayhem and waltzing for a living, and bides his extra-curricular time in appearing at similar smokers to guestreferee or to just stand up and flex for the crowd, for which he is remunerated accordingly. At this occasion, he will do both—and will pocket seven hundred clams for the privilege. Oh well, caveat emptor, as the fella says.
On With the Show
0 I suppose we should mention that there will be a student musical pre-
By Jack Hynes
sented on campus this semester. I don’t know why we should mention it other than the fact that we had a hand in writing it and we’re desperate for space-filling comments this week (we’re getting tired of needling St. Mary’s).
But there will be a musical and it will be played on the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth of May (pre-Broadway run). And in answer to many questions and inquiries on the matter (two) tryouts for parts will be held in Washington Hall March 18th and . 19th at seven-thirty (bring your own accompanist).
The title of the show is Stay Tuned For Addleman, which probably doesn’t mean a thing to those who aren’t familial- with the play, but that’s all right, we’ll get around to explaining that later. All we want to do right now is to exhort all you embryonic Ray Bolgers, and any Ethel Mermans that might be in the crowd, to try out for a part this coming Tuesday and Wednesday nights. No novelty juggling acts, please.
Pogo Next?
There have been a few disturbing occurrences on campus these past several weeks, and though we are at a loss to predict what they might portend, we thought we’d just better pass it along for your own personal judgment.
First of all, someone has been pass-
SUNNY ITALY
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
ing out comic books in the Commerce school—Mark Trail comic books at that! I don’t know what the significance of this might be, unless they’re offering a course in forestry over there.
The other thing that bothers me is the raise in price on boxes of matches in the caf. Time was when a pyromaniac could purchase a box of matches in there for a mere 14 cents —the new price is a ridiculous 4-5 cents. Why? I don’t know. Might be another example of oui- bourgeois decadency, or something, huh?
Bottom of the Week
. . . newspapers go up to six cents.
MICROTOMIC
—the Absolutely Uniform
DRAWING PENCIL
• Absolute uniformity means drawings without “weak spots”—clean, legible detail. Famous for smooth, long-wearing leads. Easily distinguished by bull’s-eye degree stamping on 3 sides of pencil. At your campus store! A
EBERHARD Z
FABER
TRAM MAAAS At«. U.S. SAT. OFK
"Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
March 14, 1952
Vol. 93 March 14, 1952 No. 20
MARCH 14
PALACE (to March 21)—Invitation (Legion of Decency Rating A-2) is a picture that is sure to go over with all the women and sentimental young men who catch it. Van Johnson has been palling around with Ruth Roman when he suddenly up and weds Dorothy McGuire, who, by the way, has been ticketed for departure from this planet. It seems that Miss McGuire’s pater has paid off Johnson to marry her in order that she may spend her last year happily. The year passes but she lives on, and of course Johnson comes to love her anyhow. Well acted, well directed. Co-feature is Shadow in the Sky (A-2) with James Whitmore and Nancy Davis.
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM—Second session of the Marriage Institute starts at 1:30. Prof. Sheehan will speak on “Economic Matters Before and After Marriage” and Father Nealy on “Marriage Legislation and the Ritual of the Church.”
MARCH 15
FIELDHOUSE—Bengal semi-finals starting at 8 a.m.
WASHINGTON HALL—Rhubarb, at 1:30, 3:45 and 7:30 p.m.
MARCH 16
STATE (to March 19)—Annie Get Your Gun and Texas City.
MARCH 17
FIELDHOUSE—Bengal finals starting at 8 a.m.
MARCH 18
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM—Third Session of the Marriage Institute. Prof. Kane will speak on “The Family as a Basis of Social Living” and Father Schlitzer on “Marriage as a Means of Strengthening and Increasing the Life of Grace.”
MARCH 19
AVON (indefinite run)—Belle of New York (A-l) has superlative dancing by Fred Astaire and Vera-Ellen and hardly anything else. The plot is non-existent and the humor doesn’t even match that displayed by the comics (?) that frequently infest Washington Hall.
MARCH 20
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM—Fourth session of the Marriage Institute. Dr. Herbert Ratner of Loyola Medical School will talk on “The Medical Aspects of Marriage.”
GRANADA (indefinite run)—Viva Zapata! (A-2) is a story of power taken from the tangled pages of modern Mexican history. Marlon Brando is leader of a group of peons who spend most of their time harassing whichever dictator happens to be in power. John Steinbeck wrote the story and Elia Kazan directed. Best picture in town this week. Co-feature, Clouded Yellow (A-2), is a long police chase after Jean Simmons, a suspected murderess. The plot stretches credibility at times and weakens the whole picture.
WASHINGTON HALL—Here Comes the Groom.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate_ of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO..........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY..........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
THOMAS FOOTE............Assistant Sports LEON GARDNER.............Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER.............Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN.............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Phil Bolin, Larry Brehl, Vai Chun, Pete Connolly, Mike Ducey, Fred Eckart, Cari Eiberger, Paul Fulmer, Bob Gorman, Jim Harrington. Ted Kintner, Joe Leaser, Matt Malison, Bill Moore, Gorman Redding, Bob Rust, Al Suwalsky. Mike Ward, Irv Carrig. Frank Donlon, Jerry Burns.
FEATURES: Sai _ Asselta, Jay Conlon, Charles Hands, Joe Imbriaco, Harry Siemonsma, John Slavick, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta. SPORTS: Mickey Carroll, Roger Fernandes, Bob Frolicher, Ray Humble, Tom Moore, Ken Murphy, Bill Noonan, Jack Sand.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART:. Dick Bennett, Bob Huddleston, Jack Quetsch, Jerry Sheehan, Bob Swanson.
ADVERTISING: Tom Murphy.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associate^ Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. Subscription $4.00 per year.
COVER: If you think that Chas. Schubert looks out of place in a Bengal Bouts corner, take a look at his disastrous ring career in the feature on page 10.
—Photo by Bob Huddleston
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 20
MARCH 14, 1952
BUDGET TROUBLES
Due to budget difficulties we are forced to print a shorter issue this week, and in order to allow as much space as possible for coverage of campus news the editorial column has been left out of this issue. The measure is only temporary and the magazine will soon be back to its regular 36-page length.
Room Registration To Start March 26
Pre-registration for room reservations for the fall semester, previously scheduled for last Wednesday, will be held instead from Wednesday, March 26, to Friday, April 4, at the Office of Students’ Accounts. Pre-registration for courses in the undergraduate colleges will be made with the deans from Friday, April 18, to Friday, April 25.
All students (campus and off-campus), except those who will be in the Graduate School, must pre-register at the above times if they wish to continue studies next fall. Notice of the date and time of his pre-registration will be sent to each eligible student.
A $50 pre-registration deposit must be paid at the time of pre-registration. Room reservations will be made at the time of pre-registration, also. Students will be called in the order of class rating and scholastic average (as of June or Summer Session 1951), and will select rooms in sequence.
Fisher Memorial Residence Hall is scheduled for completion on August 1 and will be open for reservations during this pre-registration. Its 140 single rooms have been reserved for seniors.
Because of the necessity of providing sufficient dormitory space for* a combined campus group of seniors and 9 juniors totalling 1,520, combined senior-junior residence halls for the 1952-
Music Department Features Violin-Piano Duo Tonight in First of 4-Concert Classical Series
Tonight at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall Notre Dame students will have an opportunity to hear the first of a four-concei-t series presented by the Notre Dame Department of Music.i
The Chamber Concert will feature
MICHUDA AND CASPER
First of a series
53 school year will be Dillon, Sorin, Alumni, Walsh, and Badin.
Accommodating a sophomore campus group of approximately 1,000, will be Lyons. Cavanaugh, Morrissey, and Howard Halls. The expected freshman enrollment of approximately 1,100, will be provided lodging in Breen-Phillips, Farley, St. Edward’s, and Zahm Halls.
In announcing the dates for preregistration, Rev. Philip Beichner C.S.C., assistant to the vice-president in-charge-of academic affairs, stated that the originally scheduled dates were set back in order* to give students the opportunity to discuss their academic programs with their parents during the Easter holidays.
Mid-semester reports-will also be out by that time.
Richard Casper, pianist, and Leo Mi-chuda, violinist. Casper will play Waltz in A Flat arid Scherzo in B Flat Minor, by Chopin, and The Hunting Song by Mendelssohn. Michuda will play Prelude in E Major, by Bach. The program will be highlighted by the two musicians teaming up to play Concerto in G Minor by Bruch, Nocturne by Boulanger, and Paganini’s La. Campanella.
Biondo Directs Second Concert
Casper is a piano student of Dr. Carl Mathes, *while Michuda is studying under Dr. Charles Biondo. Michuda is concert master of the orchestra and first violinist of the Notre Dame String Quartet.
The second concert will be held on April 3. This will feature the Notre Dame String Quartet with the addition -of the flute and horn. The concert will be under the direction of Dr. Biondo.
Those participating in the sextet will include: Leo Michuda, first violin; Everett O’Banncn, second violin; Dr. Charles Biondo, viola; Brother Jacob Eppley, C.S.C., cello; Paul Krenke, flute; and Charles Weaver, hprn.
Third Concert Scheduled for May
This group will present a flute quintet by Johann Christian Bach- to show the influence of this composer on the works of Wolfgang Mozart.
The Symphonette Orchestra under the direction of Dr. Biondo will stage the third concert on May 14.
The orchestra will perform as a feature work the “Mendelssohn Piano Concerto in G Minor,” with Richard Casper as soloist. The remainder of the program will be devoted to the works of Debussey, Gluck, and Cates.
The final concert will be on Friday evening during the Commencement weekend. The String Quartet will play a Morgan and Becth quartet.
AH of the Chamber Concerts will be held in Washington Hall.
March 14, 1952
7
Ireland Won't Have Atomic Worries Mar. 17, But She'll Still Be the Center of Attraction
By REV. EDMUND MURRAY, C.S.C.
Straight from Cork County, Ireland, comes this article by Father Ed Murray on hozc the Irish- celebrate St. Patrick's Day. Before he left for the National University in Dublin two years ago to study Irish history, Father Murray was assistant prefect of religion at Notre Dame. An army chaplain during World War II, Father Murray still holds a commission in the active reserve. In fact, he served a month’s duty in Germany last September and is now awaiting permanent orders. Meanwhile, he is continuing his studies at the Cork City division of the National University.
Gieetings to the Fighting Irish-—real and synthetic—for Monday. “La ’le Padraig i lai- en Earrneigh”—St. Patrick’s Day in the Spring. It could be that Indiana’s icy blasts are tantaliz-ingly challenging the old Irish legend that St. Patrick on this day changes the wind and puts the elements as well as all mankind in a kindlier sense of humor.
Here in Ireland, Spring is a month old on St. Patrick’s Day, and from then on the weather is supposed to get warmer and the days longer. So say I as I empty another gallon of kerosene into my heater!
The St. Patrick’s Day that will be celebrated on next Monday here in Ireland will see the rest of the world dragging along in its current bickering, war-jittery fashion as the people of Dublin and Cork and Killarney and elsewhere throughout this unashamed Catholic island go about their peaceful quiet, prayerful way.
Butter’s the Question
While the rest of the world is sweating out the luke-warm war, little old Ireland goes nonchalantly along—worrying not so much about atomic bombs, armaments and mutual aid pacts—the big problem over here (as Father O’Brien pointed out) is emigration and the rains and the questions as to whether or not they ought to import butter from New Zealand.
March 17th here is a holyday first and then a holiday, and on that day it will be just as difficult as on many a weekday to get a seat in any of the 56 Dublin Catholic churches.
' Elsewhere there will be Irishmen in America and Irishmen in England and Irishmen in Nigeria as well as in Poland and Italy and Yugoslavia and in every uttermost pai-t of the earth celebrating the feast of Erin’s patron.
This is the miracle of St. Patrick’s Day—a miracle not so much as of Irishism as of Catholicism. The worldwide remembrance, yes and even usurpation, of St. Patrick’s Day is a universal sign of the strong spiritual unity
of our Catholic Faith. No matter what be the national antecedents of March 17—Mother Machrees—Gaels, they all join the native Celt in honoring his patron saint on a religious rather than nationalist basis.
No More Irish Than the Irish
I believe it was G. K. Chesterton who first told the story, perhaps apocryphal, about the old bucko who was walking along the wild mountain-side in Donegal one rainy night when he encountered a beautiful peasant woman with a child in her arms. When she was asked who she was, she replied: “I am the Mother of God, and this is Himself, and He is the boy you will be wanting at the last.”
The men of Notre Dame as well as the men of Ireland are known throughout the universe for their unique and manly devotion to both Himself and Herself. That is why the traditions of Notre Dame, like those of Ireland, have always been Eucharistic and Marian.
That is why no one need fear lest Notre Dame on March 17 be more Irish than the Irish.
Canon Duggan to Be • I Irish Banquet Speaker
The Irish Club of Notre Dame and the Ancient Order of Hibernians will jointly sponsor an Honorary Banquet in recognition of the feast of St. Patrick, Sunday evening at 6:30 at the Oliver Hotel.
Campus co-chairmen and representatives of the Irish Club in the presentation of the $2.75 a plate event are ' Bay Wagner and Norb Reiner.	|
Guest speaker for the affair will be ! the Very Rev. T. F. Canon Duggan, A.M., S.T.L., M.C., O.B.E., and Ph.D., I President of St. Finbarr’s College, Farranferris, Cork City, Ireland.	।
Rev. Canon Duggan holds, at present, one of the most brilliant backlogs of military service in the history of f Ireland.
He was with the Irish Regiment in France from 1914 to 1918, later becoming Republican Army Chaplain from 1919 to 1921, and from there he gained the position of Secretary to the Archbishop’s Peace Committee Movement, in 1922-23, which ended the Civil War.
In World War II he was a Military ' Chaplain at Dunkirk where he was awarded the Military Cross for “cool- | ness, energy, courage, and outstanding example to the officers and men in the i crisis.” He was the first Chaplain to receive a field decoration in World 1 War II. He later became Command Chaplain of Northern Ireland from | 1941 until 1945.	%
The “Order of British Empire” award was his next decoration when । the demobilization process began at ‘ Christmas, 1945.	£ j
Present positions include: Canon, Ca- . thedral Chapter, Cork Diocese, Ireland; i President of the Cork Diocesan Col- > lege; Presiding Judge of the Cork Di- ‘ ocesan Court; and President of May-nooth Union.
HIBERNIANS REINER AND WAGNER
Sunday: Real Irishmen
Placement News
On Monday, Chas. Pfizer and Co. (manufacturers of antibiotics and chemicals) will interview B.S. and M.S. chemists and chemical engineers. Plants are located in Brooklyn; Groton, Conn.; Terre Haute, Ind.; and Maywood, N. J.
Also on Monday the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, (Laboratory) will interview B.S. and M.S. aeronautical, architectural, chem- — ical, civil, electrical, mechanical, and = metallurgical engineers.
The Scholastic
On this same day General Electric & Company will sponsor a group meeting and movie, at 4 p.m., in the Engineering Auditorium, which all interviewees and. interested juniors are urged to attend. Individual interviews of B.S. and M.S. physicists, and electrical, mechanical, and industrial engineers will be on Tuesday and Wednesday.
Representatives from three branches of the Curtiss-Wright Corp., Caldwell, N. J., will be here Tuesday. Propeller Division men will interview aeronautical. mechanical, and electrical engineers. Electronics Division personnel will interview electrical, aeronautical, and metallurgical engineers. The Wright Aeronautical Corp., Ridgewood, N. J., will interview mechanical, aeronautical, and metallurgical engineers.
$ Economics Majors
Two other Companies will be here Tuesday: The Caterpillar Tractor Co., Peoria, Ill., and Arthur Young and Co., Certified Public Accountants. The Caterpillar Tractor Co. will interview seniors in all fields of Engineering and Commerce, and Economics seniors interested in the heavy machinery business, for their year-long College Graduate Training Course. Arthur Young and. Company will interview accounting majors.
On Wednesday the General Tire and Rubber Company, Akron, Ohioj will interview mechanical, chemical, and in- • dustrial engineers for a Management Training Program.
There will be a group meeting and movie on Thursday at 3:30 p.m. in the Audio-Visual Center of the Main building, sponsored by the Consolidated | Vultee Aircraft Corp., San Diego, Calif., aeronautical, mechanical, and electrical engineers will be interviewed.
Heavy Thursday Session
On Thursday the Inland Steel Company, East Chicago, Ind., will interview accountants (B.S.), chemists (B.C.,	M.S.,	Ph.D.), metallurgists
(B.S., M.S., Ph.D.), civil, chemical, electrical and mechanical engineers.
Also on Thursday the Ethyl Corp., Detroit, Mich. (Research), and Baton Rouge, La. (Development), will interview chemists (Ph.D., M.S., B.S.), for research and development.
The Link Aviation, Inc., Binghamp-ton, N. Y., will be here Friday to interview electrical engineers for Manufacturing, Design Engineering, and Field Service. Field Service men are especially desired for company repre-| sentation in Air Force Bases and Naval Air Stations.
Professor Sheehan, Father Nealy Lecture At Second Marriage Institute Session Tonight
By AL SUWALSKY
Prof. John H. Sheehan and Rev. Francis D. Nealy, O.P., will speak tonight at the second session of the 1952 Marriage Institute. The discussions are held in the Engineering Auditorium at 7:30 p.m.
Professor Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics, will speak on “Economic Matters Before and After Marriage.” He obtained his A.B. degree here and his M.A. at the University of Wisconsin. Professor Sheehan is a contributor to America and The Review of Social Economy, and is national president of the Catholic Economic Association.
Father Nealy’s subject is “Marriage Legislation and the Ritual of the Church.” He is a native Canadian and a member of the Department of Religion here. Father Nealy received his bachelor’s degree at St. Mary’s Col-
. FATHER NEALY
Legislation and Ritual
lege, Halifax, Nova Scotia, and his M.A. and Ph.D. at Notre Dame. He joined the Dominicans in 193/2 and was ordained in 1939. Before coming to Notre Dame, Father taught at Providence College in Rhode Island and was a chaplain in the Infantry in World War II.
Third Session Tuesday .
Tuesday, March 18, the third session of the Institute will begin with Dr.
John J. Kane and Rev. Albert Schlitzer, C.S.C., as speakers. The topic is “The Family as the Basis of Social Living.”
Dr. Kane is a member of the Department of Sociology and teaches courses on the family. He received his Ph.D. in Sociology at the University of Pennsylvania. A contributor to several publications, he is at the present time vicepresident of the American Catholic Sociological Society.
Medical Aspects
Father Schlitzer is the author of the text on the Sacramental Life used by the junior* religion classes. He received his doctorate in theology from the Gregorian University in Rome. His thesis was on marriage. Father Schlitzer has been giving pre-Cana conferences in South Bend parishes.
Dr. Herbert Ratner will speak on “The Medical Aspects of Marriage” at the fourth session of the Marriage Institute, March 20. He is a professor at Loyola Medical School in Chicago and Health Commissioner at Oak Park, Ill. Dr. Ratner has been marriage counseling for several years. He was on the board of the Institute three years ago.
Limited Attendance
The talks are open to all seniors, married students, or students who plan * to marry before the next annual institute is held in 1953. The limitation is necessitated by the lack of seating facilities for the large group of underclassmen.
The speakers will sit on the stage with microphones in the manner of radio discussions and will answer questions from the director, Rev. Robert Lochner, C.S.C., and the audience. The sessions are stag affairs with the exception of the last, which is open to the wives or women friends of students attending.
The Marriage Institute was begun after it was. felt that the Marriage Course could reach only a limited number of students and after its teacher. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., became executive vice-president of the University.
The series will be held every Tuesday and Thursday evening until April 3. A ticket good for all eight sessions may be purchased at the door.
March 14, 1952
9
In the quiet and safety of his room, Chas. (Tiger) Schubert looks at a boxing magazine and dreams of glory that comes with championship. Next stop Bengals.
The Bengal Tiger'
Text by Bill Riley Photos by Bob Huddleston
Charles Schubert, a senior student in the College of Arts and Letters, is not, except for his complete lack of a profile view, much different from other men. Like thinkers from time immemorial, he has been excited by the heroic exploits of virile and muscular men of action. But, unlike most thinkers, the elfin Mr. Schubert decided that he too could be a killer in the ring. The following story is the sad account of what happens to thinkers, especially thin ones, who put on the gloves.
It all began when the gentle Chazz saw, in a sports magazine, a picture i of Rocky Marciano belting an opponent through the ropes. Schubert figured, and not unreasonably, it would seem, that if Marciano could do it, there was no apparent reason why he (Schu
bert) could not.
Bengal trainer and director Dominic Napolitano seems a little appalled at the size of Schubert’s mighty arm. We were a little appalled ourselves.
With this in mind he headed towards the boxing room of the fieldhouse to sign up with the Bengal Bouts im-pressario Dominic ‘‘Nappy” Napolitano. Somewhat dubious, Nappy nevertheless okayed him. He did this because either a) he believes that everybody should be given a chance to box, or b) he is a follower of Texas Guinan.
They laced the gloves on the splinter, and he entered the ring, courage in his heart, stark, naked fear in his eyes. Nappy was there to.advise him, but refused to accompany him into the ring.
Joseph Bush, a broth of a lad who plays a bit of tackle for Frank Leahy, * was Charles’ first opponent. If you will look closely at Bush’s countenance you will distinguish just the faintest traces of terror.
However, stage fright wears off and Bush advances towards the dauntless Mr. Schubert, little knowing that cocked and ready for action is the lethal right hand that has flattened countless small children on spring afternoons. Schubert stands ready!
Below right, Schubert leaves ring after mixing it with Bush. He insists, while telling this story to his friends, that it was merely a matter of the nearest and most convenient exit. Ring hangers-on say that there may have been other motives.
However, Schubert, a philosopher’ at heart, knows that the fame that the fighter finds is fleeting. He decides that his career lies outside the squared circle.	*
I
Schubert gets ready andI the thoughts of ring prowess are still with him. In his corner, though, he sees his opponent face to face and the first little doubt is felt. Nevertheless, into the ring ~
goes Chas, to meet his foe.
Undaunted by
Schubert s lethal right, his opponent comes in — Schubert goes out on his hands and knees. Maybe it was a lucky punch but Schubert’s dreams are shattered. Chin up, Lad, why don’t you try radio?
Cleveland to Be Site Of Student Trip
By BILL MOORE
The student trip next fall will be to Cleveland for the Navy game, the Student Council decided at its regular meeting this week. The Council’s decision has been submitted to Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., Vice President in Charge of Student Affairs, for official approval, which is expected to be routine.
Following this, sophomore president Bob Poden presented a petition to the Council from some 800 students of the sophomore class requesting a change in the proposed plan for giving seniors preference in selecting rooms in next year’s junior-senior halls.
The petition included a plan which would give preference according to scholastic average rather than class. Thus seniors with high scholastic averages would be given first preference, followed by juniors of similar standing. Seniors and juniors with lower scholastic averages would follow in that order. The petition will be presented to the administration shortly.
The Council also heard of a new program to be presented weekly over WND to publicize Council activities.
The series of programs, which will be broadcast Tuesday evenings at 7:30, was begun last Tuesday with a talk by President Garvin and Station Manager Bill Ryan of WND.
Future Med Students Asked lo Apply for Admission Test
All students seeking admission to medical colleges in the 1953-54 term should plan to take the Medical College Admission Test in May, 1952, advises Dean L. H. Baldinger of the College of Science.
The test will be administered by the Department of Guidance and Testing here on Saturday, May 10. Notre Dame is one of several hundred testing cen-
PRESS RELEASE
In the last two weeks two press releases on the part of students resulted in much embarrassment to both the student body and the university. The policy of the university on this matter is one that applies to both faculty and students, and requires that all news be cleared through the Department of Publicity.
ters at which the examination will be given that day.
Application blanks are available on the campus at the office of Dr. Baldinger, Room 202, Chemistry Hall. At the time the student calls to get the application blank, he is given a booklet of information about the test. In this booklet he will find sample questions and other pertinent information.
The application blanks, along with the $10 examination fee, must be sent by the applicant to the Educational Testing Service, P.O. Box 592, Princeton, New Jersey. The blanks must be received by that office on or before April 26. Late applications will not be accepted.
The Medical College Admission Test, which requires a morning and an afternoon session, consists of tests of general scholastic ability and of achievement tests in science and modern society. While no special preparation is recommended, the science section presupposes familiarity with beginning courses in biology, chemistry and physics.
MUSICAL TRYOUTS
Tryouts for roles in the student musical “Stay Tuned for Addleman” will be held next Tuesday and Wednesday evenings at 7:30 in Washington Hall. Anyone interested is invited to audition. Rehearsals will begin soon in preparation for a four-night run in early May.
"Take it easy, Claude, he’s only the referee”
'Choose Your Major' Program Continues
The “Choose Your Major” program conducted by the sophomore class resumes next Tuesday, and will continue to the following Monday. Many of the sessions, which are held in the Law Building, will be concerned with subjects of the Arts and Letters school and the Commerce School.
All of the speakers will be faculty members, including many who will be department heads.
In their talks, which will range from political science to philosophy, the speakers will outline the scope and subject material of the major sequence, appraise the subject for its practical value in getting a job, and will review the capacities and personality desired of .-.tudents in that particular field. *
The sessions will be an hour long —consisting of a half-hour talk, followed by a discussion period.
The schedule is as follows:
Tuesday, March 18—English, 8:15, 101 Law; Economics, 7:15, 103 Law.
Wednesday, March 19 — Political Science, 7:15, 103 Law; Education, 8:15, 101 Law.
Thursday, March 20—History, 7:15, 101 Law; Accounting, 8:15, 103 Law; Modern Languages and the Classics, 4:05, 103 Law.
Friday, March 21—Journalism, 4:05, 103 Law.
Monday, March 24 — Philosophy, 7:15, 103 Law.
12
The Scholastic
Fencers Down Titans
For Seventh Victory
Irish Cindermen Cop CCC Track Crown;
Newquist Paces Team With Hurdles Wins
The Irish fencing squad closed their home season in spectacular fashion by downing the Detroit Titans 19 to 8. In the annual clash with the Titans, the Irish hold the series seven to one. It brought Mr. Langford’s crew’s record to a creditable seven wins and two losses.
FENCING ACTION
In spectacular fashion
Leading the attack for the Irish was the epee. In their most impressive win of the season, the hard-luck swordsmen scored an overwhelming 8-1 triumph. Four of the Irish were dual winners. Jay Conlon and Dave McBride led the epee squad while Jim Walsh and John Mooney scored double victories in the foil division. In sabre the fencers took the Titans by a 6-3 margin. Coach Walter Langford used substitutes freely throughout the whole match.
Next Friday the Irish swordsmen travel to Louisville, Kentucky, to meet v the University of Louisville. Saturday they meet Cincinnati at Cincinnati.
By BILL NOONAN
Notre Dame’s well-balanced track squad outdistanced Drake and Marquette last Saturday to cop its first Central Collegiate Conference indoortrack crown since 1946. Harvey Newquist, crack hurdler, paced the home forces by winning both hurdle events.
Drake, the highest rated of the visitors taking part in the meet, showed individual brilliance but could not match the overall strength of Coach Alex Wilson’s host team which scored in every event except the broad jump. The Des Moines, Iowa outfit did, however, take record setting honors by chalking up marks in two events. All in all, eleven schools took part in this Silver Anniversary running of the meet. The finals were held at night, following the qualifying prelims in the afternoon.
Newquist Stars
Newquist was the star of the meet, his ten points going a long way to aid the Irish cause in the eight-point triumph. The slender sophomore first copped the 60-yard high hurdles, topping the more publicized Al Renick of Western Michigan and Jim Philbee of Bradley. Ed Powell of the Irish took fourth. In the 65-yard lows, Newquist edged Philbee for top honors. The Irish star’s time for the highs was :07.6 and :07.5 for the lows.
The Drake record events came in the one-mile run and the mile relay. In the latter, the Iowa school’s four-
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Mar. 14—FENCING—Louisville at Louisville
14—TRACK—K. of C. Relays at Cleveland
15—FENCING—Cincinnati at Cincinnati
15—BOXING—Bengal Bouts (semi-finals) Fieldhouse
17—BOXING—Bengal Bouts (finals) Fieldhouse
some of Ray Eiland, Dick Gearhart, Jim Ford and Jim Lavery broke a 17-year-old meet and gym record set by Pittsburgh, covering the distance in 3:20.6. This event, the finale of the
LAVERY AND WILCOX
Broke Pitt’s record
card, was divided into two sections. Notre Dame’s team, which led for awhile but lost valuable ground on the third lap, finished second. In the mile, Dewey Johnson successfully defended his title and at the same time tied Greg Rice’s time of 4:16.2 for the fieldhouse track. Jack Alexander of Notre Dame took second, 40 yards behind the winner.	•
Wayne Takes High Jump
The high j'ump saw" Wayne’s John. Kline take first place with a leap of 6 feet 5 inches. Tom Hassenger of Notre Dame grabbed fourth and Hughes Wilcox, taking part in one of his three activities, tied for fifth. In
March 14, 1952
13
this event and the shot put, in which Jack Cunningham took fourth behind Marquette’s Dean Mielken’s heave of 48 feet 1/4 inch, the Irish showed surprising strength.
Probably the most thrilling event was the 440. John Lavery of Drake, one of the nation’s top quarter milers, had to go all out in this one to nose out the onrushing Hughes Wilcox by a foot at the tape. Norm Feltes of ND picked up another point for the Irish by finishing fifth. Lavery was clocked at :49.8.
Marquette, the defending champion, •displayed unexpected power in winning three events. Their biggest point getter was the 60-yard dash in which Al Thomas and Al Prechett finished one-two. Captain Buck Ewing and Dave Foy of the Wilsonmen came in third and fifth respectively. The time was :06.3. The other Hilltopper winners were the aforementioned Mielken in the shot and Ted Baars who won the’ 880-yard run in 1:56.2. Notre Dame’s John Mohar was runnerup to Baars while Con Tetrault placed fifth.
ND’s Joe Springer, who has bettered 13 feet this year, only had to go 12’9” to win the pole vault for his team.
Loyola Wins Two-Mile
The two-mile was a cakewalk for Loyola’s Bob Kelly who led the whole ■way with the exception of the first few laps. He breezed the 16 laps in ■9:25.7. Notre Dame garnered the ■fourth and fifth slots in the persons of Harry Snyder and Benny Almaguer. In the only Irish shutout of the evening, Bradley’s Gordon Busse nailed -down the broad jump, leaping 22 feet, ■9/2 inches.
With three firsts and four seconds, ND piled up 45 7/10 points. Drake Tiad 37 and Marquette 34 7/10. Bradley, Michigan Normal, Western Michi-gan, Wayne, and Loyola trailed in that order.
TABLE TENNIS EXHIBITION
The Monogram Club is sponsoring a table tennis exhibition and clinic Saturday, March 22 at 8:00 p.m. in the fieldhouse. Sandor Glancz, American and world table tennis champion, will conduct the two-hour show, and .Miss Pauline Betz is expected to be on hand also as Glancz’s partner. Tickets for the event will be sold in the various hails by representatives of the Monogram Club. Admission will be 25c for students and 50c for the public.
Notre Dame’s interhall basketball champions—(first row, I. to r.) Larry Eaton, Jack Barry, Fred Fajardo, John Fish, Al Abiouness. (Second row, I. to r.) Harry Osterman, Ed Condon, Floyd Blair, Marty Wehner, Dave Flynn, Father Croce (coach).
Dillon Hall Five Wins Basketball Tourney
The Dillon Hall quintet annexed the campus basketball championship last Thursday night in the fieldhouse with a convincing 69-46 win over the West Virginia Club. Dillon held quarterly leads of 15-8, 33-20, and 49-31.
West Virginia threw up a zone in the first half but it was ineffective against the taller' Dillonites led by the rebounding and shooting of Ed Condon, Harry Osterman, and Floyd Blair. The West Virginians resorted to a pressing man to man defense in the last half but the smooth working Dillon squad had built up enough of a lead to coast home with the verdict.
Paul Stricker of the Mountaineers, although outmanned, put up a battle under the boards before fouling out in the last quarter. The floorwork of Larry Eaton of Dillon and Tom Gaeble of West Virginia was outstanding.
In the consolation game Badin Hall came from a 26-17 halftime deficit to upend Walsh Hall in an overtime game, 45-44. Mark Jennings pocketed a push shot for the deciding points in the last seconds to offset two previous overtime baskets by Dick Stubbing of Walsh.—Ken Murphy
Air Force ROTC Cagers
Retain Basketball Trophy
Last Sunday the Air Cadet Club of Notre Dame, sponsoring the third annual Indiana Air Force ROTC Basketball Tournament, won the championship by downing Ball State, DePauw and Purdue. Ball State beat Butler, 68-57, to earn their way to the finals against the Irish.
In their first game, a morning affair, the Irish were pitted against Purdue.

Notre Dame won this one easily enough, leading Purdue the entire game by at least ten points, 58 to 45.
In their second game, against DePauw, the Irish had little trouble “winning, 60 to 46. In this one, the Irish coach-, Major Joseph Weidner, brought his “three-platoon system” into play. Having once decided that the game was more or less under control he alternated three completely different fives, beginning in the second quarter, thus keeping his starting five fresh for the championship contest that evening.
In the final game, Notre Dame
against Ball State, the Irish really let loose with everything they had. In the first quarter, Jack Stephens and Dick
Rosenthal ^threw . in twenty points between them; and the Irish-, led, .25 to 15.;
Before thelflnal gun, Notre Dame had- 4 secured a 279-70 win and the cham-r^ -
pionship.
14
The Scholastic
• Detroit Maintains Top In Kampus Keglers
By JACK SAND
j	Rolling into first place as a result of
• the Irish Club’s three-point loss to New Jersey was the Kansas City Club, who managed to cop four important 1 points from the Architects in a clean sweep of three games. The Kansans, j paced by Phil Schoer’s 550 series and 219 high game, are now two points out ’ in front of the second place Irish, . who in turn are tied with Buffalo for the runner up spot.
Playing the role of the giant-killer । to perfection, the Jerseyites, led by J Bob Stefkovich’s 485 three-game set, f handed the Irishmen their first three-point loss in a number of weeks, much to the advantage of the Buffalo Club, who blasted New England in all three matches. Returning to form was Gerry Klee, whose 517 series was tops for the New Yorkers, followed closely by teammate Jim O’Brien with 512.
By Jack Varley
1	Pittsburgh Wins
Another important result in last Sunday’s Blue League competition was Pittsburgh’s, three-point victory over «	the Civil Engineers. By virtue of the
:	loss, the “Civies” are now six points
> behind the leaders and only one point ahead of fifth place Pitt. Chris Falk' enstein and Justine Perticone led the winners with 472 and 470 respectively.
. Over in the Gold loop it was Detroit maintaining its six-point spread over , their nearest rivals, the California ,	Club, as they whipped the lowly Com,	merce Forum in two matches, out of
three. Dick Ryal took the lead for the victors, with a 523 three-game string.
Keeping pace with the leaders was the second place California keglers, who applied the pressure to the Rochester Club in winning three points and increasing their season’s total to 37. This time it was Wally Clarke sparking the West Coast lads with a 488 set.	.
J	.
| Al Piasio Gains High Game
| Taking the spotlight away from all j	other keglers last Sunday was the
j	Italian Club’s Al Piasio, whose final
; game of 237 became the highest single game score of the season, erasing Ray • Bara’s previously high score of 236. Piasio had an overall series of 533, to pace the Italians to a four-point win I ^||over the Cleveland Club.
Remaining deadlocked in a third-
Golf Clinic Planned
If plans that are now in the tentative stage come off, there soon will be a whole new group of Notre Dame golf enthusiasts. Under a plan backed by Athletic Director Ed Krause, a golf clinic will be set up in which students can learn the fundamentals and courtesies of the game under guidance of golf coach Reverend George Holderith, basketball coach Johnny Jordan and Joe Maschella of the physical education department. For a nominal fee that will cover the cost of practice balls and instruction booklets, the student will be provided with a six-hour instruction course.
Should Create Student Interest
The course will begin about the second week in April and continue for two weeks with three one-hour-a-day sessions a week. If this comes off, and it seems very likely that it will, it will be a program well worth its while. The three men who will act as tutors are all very capable golfers and should, in the brief period, be able to create a definite interest in the sport from a participant standpoint. If this program is successful, there is a very good chance that it will be expanded in length. It’s a good idea and should receive quite a bit of student interest.
In last Saturday’s CCC Indoor Track championships, Notre Dame hurdler Harvey Newquist was outstanding as he won both the high and low hurdle events. Jim Philbee of Bradley who was right behind Newquist in the lows and third in the highs won both events last year. All of which goes to make Newquist’s feat just a little greater.
Interhall Action
The annual interhall handball tournament gets under way this week. Jim Shannon, Joe Durkin, Don Turk, and Tom Coughlin have been seeded. The tournament will continue through next week.
With a comparative lull in interhall
activities, Mr. Szekely announced he
was making plans- for the outdoor interhall sports, which will get underway in the latter part of April. They will include hardball and softball leagues and a volleyball tournament.
place tie with the Italians was the St. Louis Club and the AIEE, since each team took three out of four points. Leading the Saints in a three-point win over the Erie Club was Bob Hoy-enck, whose 527 series gained top honors, while Joe Scherer’s 511 series set the pace for the AIEE’s triumph over the Chicago Club.
Billiard Champion Will Visit Washington Hall March 20
Clarence E. Anderson, recently appointed by the Billiard Congress of America to take over the entertainment and instructional side of the National College program, will visit Notre Dame for a billiard demonstration.
Thirty years ago Anderson turned to pocket billiards as a diversion, but became so adept at the sport that he decided to make it his living. Today, at the age of 47 he has become an expert teacher of the game, and with this teaching came the acquisition of a series of trick and fancy shots used merely to break the monotony of continuous instruction. His repertoire includes more than 250 trick shots, and he is presently known from Coast to Coast as the World’s Champion trick shot pocket billiardist.
Mr. Anderson will attempt to demonstrate a variety of these shots when he makes his appearance at Washington Hall Recreation Room on Thursday, March 20, at 4 p.m.
March 14, 1952
15
Hearst Preliminaries Open Here March 24
Two nationally important speech contests are pending for the top orators at Notre Dame. The annual Indiana State Contest of the Intercollegiate Peace Speech Association will be held on campus March 21, while the Hearst Tournament of Oratory is scheduled for March 24 at 3:30 p.m.
Tryouts for those who are to represent Notre Dame in the extemporaneous and oratorical divisions of the Indiana State Contest were held Monday and Wednesday.
Prizes of §25, §15, and §10 will be awarded for the first three place winners in the contest.
The subject of the Hearst Tourney is Henry Clay, with a six-minute time limit on the speech. Defense Bonds ranging from §50 to §250 will be awarded in the elimination round, and the grand national prize is a §1,000 bond.
Prof. William J. Eisen, head of the Department of Speech at Notre Dame, is in charge of the Indiana State Con-tst of the Intercollegiate Peace Speech Association, and also is in a position to give further particulars on the Hearst Tourney.
Art Professor Sessier Wins $50 Minas Still Life Award
Prof. Stanley S. Sessier, head of the Department of Art at the University of Notre Dame, has been awarded the §50 E. C. Minas Co. prize for still-life painting in the current ninth annual exhibition of the Northern Indiana Art Salon, held in the Minas department store of Hammond, Ind.
The prize winning painting is his
Mass Schedule
Monday, March 17—Feast of St. Patrick
Tuesday, March 18—Feast of St. Cyril of Jerusalem
Wednesday, March 19—Feast of St. Joseph
Thursday, March 20—Thursday of the Third Week of Lent
Friday, March 21—Feast of St. Benedict
Saturday, March 22—Feast of St. Isidore ----------------------------o----
Mass of Sunday, March 16, will include an instruction on ‘‘The Collects." Speakers will be: at the 7 o’clock Mass, Father Lockary; at 8, Father Keller; at 9, Father Soleta; at 10, Father Garvin.
arrangement called Kitchen Chore which has been exhibited lately in the Hoosier Salon in Indianapolis, and the recent Catholic Art Association Conference Show in Seattle, Washington.
Two of Professor Sessler’s latest works, an oil landscape Prelude to Winter and Self Portrait, are being shown at present in the Third Annual Michiana Regional Exhibition of Paintings at the South Bend Art Association Galleries, South Bend.
Represented also is Mr. Robert R. Hewitt, who joined the Art Department staff this year. His landscape received the Dr. Herbert A. Schiller Award of §25 for water color paintings. Another entry by him, an oil painting called Annunciation, is also displayed.
Both exhibitions are open to the public until March 29.
Fink Heads Staff as Work Starts on NFCCS Yearbook
*
In conjunction with the NFCCS Congress to be held here in late summer, Notre Dame will publish the annual NFCCS Yearbook for 1952. Jack Fink, a junior, has been named managing editor of the enterprise.
The yearbook will serve as a directory for the NFCCS, and will contain all the previous year’s proceedings of the organization’s various commissions. It will also be used to acquire funds for the partial support of future activities.
Patrons and sponsors are currently being solicited on a nationwide scale to help pay the costs of publication.
The Advertising Club, under the direction of Bill Kerwin, has taken charge of advertising duties, and will distribute the yearbook to colleges and
libraries all over the country. Thus, it is hoped, many interested parties who have previously been unacquainted with the NFCCS and its functions will be contacted.
In addition to Fink and Kerwin, others working on the project are Bob Flynn, editor, and Frank Donovan, chairman of the Patrons and Sponsors Committee.
It is expected that the ’52 edition of the yearbook will exceed all others in size, profit, and editorial content.
Third of Aquinas Lectures Will Dramatize High Mass
A High Mass will be dramatized Sunday at 8:15 p.m. in the South Bend Progress Club, when the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Martin B. Hellriegel, of St. Louis, gives the third in the Aquinas Lenten Lecture series.
While a priest moves through the various parts of the ceremony at a temporary altar, Msgr. Hellriegel will explain the High Mass step by step.
Msgr. Hellriegel is founder of the Liturgical Movement in this country, and is now president of the Liturgical Conference of America. He has written pamphlets on the liturgy of the Catholic Church and is the author of two books, Vines and Branches and The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass.
Recordings of Msgr. Hellriegel’s liturgical boys’ choir will be played as part of the program.
On March 23, Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley will present the fourth lecture of the series.
March 23 Set as Last Date For Breen Oratory Entries
The preliminaries of the Breen Oratorical Conest will be held before the end of March. Therefore entrants must register with Prof. Len Sommei-at the Department of Speech, 328 Main Building, before March 23.
The oration should approximate 1,000 words, that is, 7 to 9 minutes speaking time. Subject is to be selected by the individual contestant.
The Breen medal for oratory was founded by the Hon. William P. Breen, ’77, and is awarded to any Notre Dame student who excels in oratory. No student may win the medal more than once. The award is based upon the collective opinion of the three judges to be selected by Mr. Sommer.
The final contest will be held soon after the Easter holidays in the audi-torium of the Law Building.
16
The Scholastic
t • Legal Service Bureau |	Has New Schedule
k The Legal Referral Service of Notre !	Dame’s College of Law has recently
U	announced a change in its consultation
h	hours. This service is now available
‘	in Room 2 Law Building between 12
.	and 1, and 3 to -5 p.m. Monday
through Friday.
This service was inaugurated last semester by the College of Law in cooperation with the St. Joseph County Bar Association. Its purpose is to t assist students, faculty, employes, and any others associated with the Univer' sity in -ascertaining if they have a legal problem that can be remedied and at a minimum cost to each.
An individual who is in doubt as to whether he has a legal problem will consult "with a student referral, who has been selected with special regard to the highest qualifications needed for consultation services. If a legal question is involved an appointment will be made with a member of a special panel of local attorneys prepared to receive these individuals.-
Referral Service Is Free
This appointment with the lawyer will consist of one-half hour of con' sultation at the fixed charge of $5. Any subsequent arrangements lie with the discretion of attorney and client. ■	The services of the student referral is
।	without charge and his time is un-
■	limited.
,	This organization is under the direc-
‘	tion of Jim Termondt, Law senior, and
I	Prof. Thomas Broden as faculty adI	visor. While there are many such re-
ferral services organized in local bar associations throughout the country, Notre Dame’s College of Law has the first such service arranged between a law school and a local bar association.
Sociologists Discuss Parish
Sociology of the Parish is the sub, ject for the next meeting of the Soci-\	ology Club to be held Wednesday in
J	Room 101 Law Building. The meeting
|	will consist of a panel discussion, plus
|	questions from the audience on the
subject. It will contain comment on < the present condition of the Church in I the United States.
' Panel members will include Rev.
Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., who pre, sided at the parish sociology meeting of the American Catholic Sociological [	Society last December; and Rev.	JOS'	seph Lennon, O.P., Arthur Lassuy,	and
I	John Angus, graduate students in	the
|j	Department of Sociology.
I	March 14, 1952
Discoverer of Streptomycin To Give Nieuwland Lecture
Dr. Selman A. Waksman, chairman of the Department of Microbiology at Rutgers University and the discoverer of Streptomycin and other antibiotics, will deliver the 1952 Julius A. Nieuwland memorial lectures in botany March 31, April 1 and 2 at Notre Dame.
Dr. Waksman has been a pioneer in the development of the field of soil microbiology. Some of his recent honors include the Albert and Mary Lasker Award, the Armory Award of the National Academy of Science in 1948, and the John Scott Award in 1949 for outstanding work. He has chosen “Actino-mycetes nad Their Antibiotics” as a general topic for his lectures here.
The Nieuwland memorial lectures, presented annually by prominent men in the fields of chemistry and botany, were established by the University to honor the memory of Father Nieuwland.
Father Nieuwland, who died in 1936, was not only an outstanding pioneer in chemical reactions leading to the development of synthetic rubber, but he was also well-known in the field of botany. He founded The American Midland Naturalist, internationally-known biological journal published at Notre Dame since 1909.
A 20% DISCOUNT ON AU CLEANING AND PRESSING FOR NOTRE DAME MEN.
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson	On the Bus Line
Travel and study ABROAD this summer
LOWEST FARES EVER make university-sponsored tours via TWA most attractive.
Fifth World Trade Meeting Returns to Campus May 15
Representatives from every phase of overseas marketing will participate in the fifth annual World Trade Conference May 15 in the Notre Dame College of Commerce.
Finance, traffic, advertising, and management problems will be stressed specifically in a series of talks during the morning session by experts in those fields. In the afternoon, a panel discussion will be held on the same topics.
Nationally-prominent authorities on international trade will speak at a luncheon meeting and at a dinner that evening. More than 100 businessmen are expected to attend the all-day session.
The primary aim of the conference, according to Professor Wesley C. Bender, head of the Department of Marketing at Notre Dame and chairman of the 1952 meeting, is to bring about an exchange of ideas among businessmen and educators while stimulating interest in world trade. The conference is open to all those who already are engaged in foreign trade or who are interested in the possibilities of new markets abroad.
Spend your summer profitably and enjoyably on one of 16 four- to ten-week study tours in Great Britain, Europe, Scandinavia, Asia or Africa. Earn full credit while you travel and study. Arranged by specialists in the educational-travel field, in cooperation with TWA. Tour price takes care of all necessary expenses, including TWA’s money-saving new tourist fares.*
For tour information, mention countries that interest you most when you write to: John Furbay, Ph.D., Director, TWA Air World Tours, 80 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.
★Effective May 1 subject to gov't approval
rwa jueum
PHOTOS COPIED
20 for $1.00
DeLuxe Wallet-size Prints Send any size photo or negative No Proofs . . . Original returned
IDEAL FOR COLLEGE, ROTC, OR JOB APPLICATIONS
Federal Wallet-Size Photo Co. P. O. Box 2448 Dept. Kansas City 6, Mo. (No C.OJO's Please)
17
All Services Establish Training Units at ND During Presidency of Father John Cavanaugh
Military preparedness at the University of Notre Dame has kept pace with the United States program of national defense during the six-year administration of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who will retire in June as President of Notre Dame.
The training of future military officers originally began at Notre Dame back in 1940, only one year before Pearl Harbor, Avhen the United States Navy established a Natral ROTC unit at the University. Father Cavanaugh Avas Vice-President of Notre Dame at the time the naval unit was inaugurated.
FolloAving the outbreak < of W orld War II, the Notre Dame naval training program Avas tremendously expanded. Notre Dame residence, classroom and dining facilities Avere placed almost completely at the disposal of the Navy.
More than 25,000 naval students were trained at Notre Dame during World War II in the Naval ROTC, the V-12 program and the Midshipmen’s School at the University. Nearly 12,000 Avere commissioned ensigns in the Naval Reserve—a number greater than the total
officer strength of at the time of the Pearl Harbor.
the Regular Navy Japanese attack on
Father Cavanaugh
One year after
assumed the presidency, Avith the passage of the National Defense Act of 1947, the United States Air Force embarked upon an ROTC program to train their future officers in the qualified colleges and universities throughout the nation. Notre Dame AA'as one of the first universities to be chosen for an Air Force ROTC unit, in Avhich
successful students second lieutenants upon graduation.
In this, Father
are commissioned in the Air Force
Cavanaugh’s final
. year in office, every branch of the armed forces is represented by military programs at Notre Dame. The latest ROTC unit to be activated at Notre Dame Avas an Army Engineers unit Avhich Avas established in 1951. Successful trainees in this program are commissioned second lieutenants in the U. S. Army upon receiving their Notre Dame degrees.
A new Marine Platoon Leaders Class, Avithin the Naval ROTC unit, also Avas inaugurated at Notre Dame during Father Cavanaugh’s administration.
The class, open to seniors at the University, leads to second lieutenant commissions in the Marine Corps.
As Father Cavanaugh’s administration draAvs to a close, therefore, Notre Dame stands as one of the feAv colleges and universities in the United States Avhich is training future officers for all branches of the armed forces— Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines.
Students in the various military units at Notre Dame consistently have won national honors in competition with units at other colleges and universities. A Notre Dame Naval ROTC student, for instance, has Avon the national individual championship in the William Randolph Hearst Naval ROTC Rifle Competition for the past four years. In the same competition for Air Force ROTC units, a Notre Dame student Avon the 1952 national title.
Students in the Notre Dame Navy unit consistently rank high in nation-Avide tests given by the Department of the Navy. A report announced in 1950 by the Navy revealed that freshmen students of the Notre Dame unit were the best in the nation, based on examinations of the collegiate trainees’ study of naval sciences. The sophomore class in the Notre Dame unit placed fifteenth among 51 units, Avhile the Notre Dame Naval ROTC junior class finished eighth among 50 units.
A Notre Dame freshman student last year finished first in the United States in a test among students from Naval ROTC units in colleges and universities throughout the nation to determine those who will receive appoint
RETAILING needs college-trained young people like YOU
as FUTURE EXECUTIVES
Retailing is a dynamic profession. It offers as many career possibilities as there are personal aptitudes: interesting positions in merchandising, advertising, fashion, management, personnel, or teaching. One-year graduate program leading to Master’s degree combines practical instruction, market contacts, and supervised work experience—with pay—in top New York stores. Program for Bachelor’s degree candidates and non-degree students also.
REQUEST BULLETIN C-52
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY School of Retailing
100 Washington Square
ments to rhe United States Naval Academy.
Results of another nationAvide test just announced by the Department of the Navy show that thirty-three students in the Notre Dame Naval ROTC unit ranked in the top tAventy-one percent among approximately 33,000 students throughout the United States who submitted to college aptitude tests preliminary to selection for regular status in the Naval ROTC program.
Father Cavanaugh’s administration at Notre Dame, faced with the critical problems of a postwar era, simultaneously has been concerned Avith the training of young men to face the serious international crisis Avhich currently looms on the horizon. During his administration Notre Dame and the armed forces have become even closer allies toward the end of training moral, responsible leaders to take their places, not only in Society, but if need be on the battlefield as Avell.
AQUINAS
and
Bookstore
Next to the

grace of God a taste
for good reading is one of the greatest gifts we can possess.
IIO EAST LaSALLE
0'
New York 3, N. Y.
a
18
The Scholastic
Me a wfe oF4iis_ YbuCan
STOP WORRYING
ABOUT aoABHmmnAnoii
spmiup MORRIS
^**Oa	X^^‘S.A
"*fiv


because, PHILIP MORRIS IS ENTIRELY FREE OF A SOURCE OF IRRITATION USED IN ALL OTHER LEADING CIGARETTES!


STo YOU-this means
7 MORE XMOKIMG PLEASURE*
VICE PRESIDENT, UNITED AIR UNES
Wherever you go-
TO CHESTERFIELD
SIS
‘Hor MILDNESS- plus
No Unpleasant After-taste*
‘FROM THE REPORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION
UNITED
AIR LINES

"CHESTERFIELDS ARE PROVIDED EXCLUSIVELY on all United’s Strato-
cruiser flights to Honolulu. We have found our passengers prefer Chesterfields.


... AND ONLY CHESTERFIELD HAS IT!
DALE ROBERTSON
gets his Chesterfields from Stewardess Audrey Jo'nes
See him starring ih^'^
LYDIA BAILEY-'
A 20th Century-Fox Production Color by Technicolor
LIGGETT A f*VEffS TOBACCO CO

Copyright 1952, Lggett & Myeu ToeaCG. .Co