UE IWE OTE
SCUOIASTIC
wmu (wus ncuus mo^zinc
TWO TONS OF POETRY IN MOTION Five of the "Absurdities"
IN THIS ISSUE ...
RAISE ABSURDITIES CURTAIN SELL BALL TICKETS MONDAY TWENTY-SIX IN BREEN TRIALS
MEMORIAL GAME SUNDAY Pin TAKES TRACK SATURDAY NET TEAM BREAKS EVEN
THE WEEK SPLINTERS INTRODUCING
APRIL 30. 1937
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
See
The Playboy
at
Livingston "s
South Bend's largest selection of Stetson Hats
Ready now the new Palm Beach Suits and
Slacks
Let us show them to you.
Honors for Style to STETSON’S "Playboy”
Only two ounces of felt in this Stetson . . . but what felt! Give it any shape that suits your fancy ... pork pie, Tyrolean, triangle crease. Stetson’s "Playboy” has a way of catching your mood and your individual style...........$5
Heavier Weight Stetsons, from $7-50
Stetson Hats
At Stores That Lead i;i Style
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter’ at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
April 30, 1937
No. 23
KNIGHTS TO CONFER MAJOR DEGREE ON SEVENTY-FIVE
FULL HOUSE WILL SEE FIRST PERFORMANCE OF 1937 "ABSURDITIES" TOMORROW NIGHT; PREDICT SHOW WILL BE "TOPS"
The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus will be host to State and District officers of the order on Sunday, May 16, when major degrees will be conferred on 75 candidates from the second Indiana District, most of whom will be from Notre Dame.
■ This will be the second exemplification of this year. Two first degrees have been conferred on 40 candidates from this council, and another first is scheduled for May 10. Following the conferring of the degrees, a banquet will be served in honor of the newly initiated members in the Columbia Athletic Club.
Timothy P. Galvin, Supreme Board of Director and past president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, will serve as toastmaster, and George F. O’Brien, Past State Deputy of Ohio, will deliver the principal address. Committees to handle the details will be announced by Grand Knight Drolla at the regular meeting of the council on Wednesday, May 5.
Robert Leonard has outlined all of the plans for the council’s golf tournament, and members who have registered may secure their information from him or from the K. of C. headquarters.
“Da Front Row Goils” Time Up
By Frank Reilly
The stage is set for the 1937 Monogram Absurdities! Tomorrow night a new record will be set for an all-time high of hilarity in Washington Hall.
Co-producers, Steve Miller and Larry Danbom, laughingly vouch for the excellence of such things as “Madame” Cavanaugh’s fashion parade, Ed Casey’s
Dr. Mortimer J. Adler to Make Final Remarks At Disputation
•
Under the careful guidance of Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., who is assisted by Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., the participants in the public disputation in philosophy are smoothing out the flaws and perfecting details in preparation for the event to be held Wednesday, May 12, in Washington hall between 10:00 and 12:00 a.m.
Concerning the disputation, Father Brennan said all students with classes in philosophy will be excused from their 10 and 11 o’clock classes in order to attend the disputation.
During the past week, George Lane was appointed to preside and to answer questions concerning the thesis during the public discussion, (Continued on Page 9)
masterful introductions of the favorite athletes, and funsters Hack, McNally, and Ducey stooge acts.
In vocals, they admit the octette singing “Little Old Lady,” “I’ve Got You Under My Skin” and “The Love Bug Will Bite You” are “tops.” Joe Zwers leading the swing band through a stompy arrangement of “Riflin’ at the Ritz” is bound to raise the talent-scouts’ eyebrows.
Oddities of the show will be produced by Johnny Moir singing lilting Scotch ballads while accompanying himself on the bag-pipes at the same time; Bob Wilke and Paul Nowak as Caesar and Cleopatra playing by the Nile; and Phoenixville Hill-Billv. “Pappy” Joe O’Neill.	*
The entire center section of Washington Hall for Sunday night has been sold out, and ticket sales for Saturday, and Monday night are expected to be nearly as high.
Saturday and Monday nights the show will begin at 8:15 pun., C.S.T., and on Sunday night, for the benefit of South Bend people, the show will begin at 7:15 p.m., C.S.T.
The entire lower floor of Washington Hall will be reserved at 35 cents for students and the general public, while balcony seats will sell at 25 cents. Balcony seats will be unreserved. Tickets will be on sale every day at noon in the lower lobby of the dining hall.
Tobin Heads Islanders
Leonard Tobin was elected this week to succeed John M. Sullivan as president of the Rhode Island club. Students from the “tiny state” chose another Sullivan, Joseph, as vicepresident. The remaining two offices went to Francis Carroll and John McIntyre. Carlton MacDougal was named chairman of the dances.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
SENIOR BALL TICKETS GO ON SALE MONDAY FORTY-SEVEN COMMITTEEMAN NAMED BY CHAIRMAN PAUL SHEEDY
VOTERS SWARM POLLS IN LARGE PRIMARY
TURN-OUT
By Robert McClain
Tickets for the Senior Ball, premier event of the University’s social calendar, will go on sale Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday afternoons, May 3, 4, and 5 in the lower lobby of the cafeteria from 12:30 to 5:30. No tickets will be sold after Wednesday. Bids for the Senior Ball and Tea Dance will be $8.50 a couple.
Will Osborne and his orchestra have been selected to play at the Palais Royale, Friday evening May 7. Osborne and his nationally famous orchestra who feature a distinctive style in dancipation with the “sliding trombones,” have played in many of the nation’s outstanding dancing rendezvous.
Dancing will begin at ten o’clock and continue until two o’clock. Stu-
Chairmen Quinn and Nienaber Keep eyes on Ball.
dents attending the Ball are to be in their place of residence at three o’clock.
The Tea Dance will be held at the Chain o’ Lakes Country Club from three until six p.m., on Saturday, May 8. Up to press time, Walter J. Nienaber, chairman of the Tea Dance had not announced the orchestra which will play for the Saturday afternoon dance. All times designated for both dances will be Central Standard Tune.
This year's Ball song, “Sweet Moments” was written by Peter _ P. Johnen, pianist and senior in the College of Commerce.	-
Forty-seven seniors were appointed by general chairman J. Paul Sheedy to committee positions for the affair. They are:
Tickets, Joseph P. Quinn, chairman, J. Gordon Murphy, Thomas E. Rooney, J. Charles Winegardner, Julius L. Nardone; Music, Daniel J. Sullivan, chairman, William F. Mul-renan, John E. Maloney, John T. Baker, Joseph V. Schilling; Publicity, Albert J. Schwartz, chairman, William R. Foley, Bernard M. Niezer, Paul E. Foley, John C. Metcalf.
Decorations, Arthur F. Hoffman, chairman, Richard E. Flood, George
Story of Gibault Home Highlights Final "Santa Maria"
•
Editor Bill Gomber announced this week that the recent issue of the Santa Maria, quarterly campus publication of the Knights of Columbus, is the last of the present schoolyear.
Of special interest in this last issue, which appeared yesterday, was the account of the annual Spring Formal. A complete description of the dance was given together with a list of the various committee chairmen and their guests.
A second article deals with the Gibault Home for delinquent boys. This home, which is sponsored by the Knights of Columbus and which is under the direction of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, provides a trade school education for delinquents. The article gives a complete account of the work which has been done and of the progress made. ■
Another highlight of this issue is the ever popular “Personal Column,” through which the alumni, as well as the students, keep in touch with their friends. This column, together with reports of the various athletic contests on the campus, completes the last publication.
N. Bates, Alex L. Sloan, Martin J. Husung; Programs, Jerome Claeys, chairman, Karl G. King, Harry E. Poulin, Melville B. Mix, Thomas J. Hughes; Patrons, Richard H. Delaney, chairman, Edward J. Flanagan, Matthew R. McInerney, Bernard F. Hartz, Joseph K. McIntosh.
Favors, Lawrence F. Burnett, chairman, James H. Foltz, Robert C. McClain, Robert L. Waldeck, Francis J. Gallagher; Arrangements, Thomas M. Pendergast, chairman, Roderick J. Gillis, Robert C. Weaver, Edmund P. Joyce, Charles F. Meyers; Tea Dance, Walter J. Nienaber, chairman, Enrique J. Brias, Edward J. Reardon, Thomas M. Doyle, Frederick E. Mott, Roberto M. Benavides, and Lloyd R. Stolich.
masse
Arthur Hoffman
The primaries are over! After long weeks of incitement by campus campaign masterminds, the members of the first three classes turned out en to run up one of the biggest polling scores in years. Until the polls closed at 5:30 p.m. local politicos invaded the residence halls seeking the votes of the “balance o f power.”
The lower lobby of the dining hall was profusely, if
not colorfully, wallpapered with campaign advertisements representing each of the 11 tickets. One of the most artistic contributions to the “gallery of office seekers” was that of Gregory Cushing (junior) party, a group of charcoal drawings of each candidate. The polls were active throughout the day, and at times the uproar resembled that of the Chicago wheat pit.
The two successful candidates for each office will fight it out in the finals on May 11, 12, and 13. Arthur Hoffman, of Fort Wayne, Ind., is the S.A.C. chairman of elections.
Paul Anderson Elected French Club Head
At Le Cercle de France elections last week, Paul Anderson, of Pittsburgh, Pa., was elected to guide the club next year. His assistant will be Jean LePage, of Southbridge, Mass. Leo Facteau was chosen as secretary, and James Murphy as treasurer.
At the last meeting of the year, on Wednesday, May 12, Le Cercle de France will meet jointly with four 'other language clubs: the Spanish, Italian, German, and Polish clubs. Each club is to present a 15 minute program. The Frenchmen will give a French play, and will sing the national anthem of France. The Law building auditorium is the tentative meeting place.
Here is Number One In A Long Line
Alvin J. Dreiling, of Victoria, Kansas, was elected new president of the Kansas-Oklahoma Club at the meeting on April 22. The office of vicepresident was won by Charles A. McNamara, of Tulsa, Oklahoma. Ted Jochems and James Graham were chosen secretary and treasurer, respectively.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
TWENTY-SIX COMPETE FOR BREEN MEDAL NEXT WEEK
•
Twenty-six Notre Dame orators will compete in the preliminaries of the annual Breen Medal contest for excellence in oratory on May 3 and 4 in the auditorium of the Law Building. Professor William J. Coyne, of the department of speech, will be in charge of the contest.
At 4:10 p.m., Monday, May 3, the following are to speak: Frederick Finucane, Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Francis J. McEniry, Matthew Merkle, Thomas Proctor, John Schemmer, Benjamin Ciacco, Harold Boisvert, Fructuoso Barreda. At 7:40 p.m., Richard Meier, Thomas Mulligan, James Nerney, George Neumann, Francis Parks, G. G. Hogan, Richard Kennedy, C.S.C., Frank Ciolino and Jerome O’Dowd.
At 4:10 p.m., Tuesday, May 4, Edward Boyle, Bernard Flynn, C.S.C., Harold Jablonka, Maurice Quinn, J. M. Ronan, Charles Osborn and B. G. Gillespie will deliver their orations.
Two speakers from each group will be selected to participate in the finals which will be held a few days later.
Preliminaries in the freshman, oratorical contest will be held in the basement of the Law Building on Tuesday and Wednesday, May 4 and 5.
Monday Entry Deadline For Met Golf Meet
Entries for the Metropolitan Club’s handicap golf tournament must be filed by Monday, May 3, Joseph Brien, club president has announced. John C. Marbach, senior from White Plains, New York, has been appointed tournament manager.
A fee of 25 cents will be charged for all entries which may be filed with either Marbach, 201 Alumni Hall, or Brien, 253 Alumni Hall.
Softball games with the Commerce, Forum, and Chicago clubs will be played in the near future. A golf match with the Chicago club is also scheduled.
Election of Metropolitan Club officers for 1937-38 will be held Monday, May 3, at 6:30 p.m., in the north basement of the Library.
Vincentians Name Four To Handle Storage
Louis McKean, Nelson Vogel, and Don Sconfetti will be in charge of the Notre Dame storage concession in June as a part of the work of the society of St. Vincent de Paul. This announcement was made Sunday by Robert Cronin, acting as chairman of the group in the absence of Joseph Drolla, president.
"MUSIC WEEK HAS PROVED ITS OWN VALUE" IS VERDICT AFTER FOUR PROGRAMS
DRAW CAPACITY AUDIENCES
By Eddie Huff
“Music appreciation on the campus was clearly stimulated by the observation of Notre Dame ‘Music Week,’ and it is definite that the celebration will be continued next year,” was the unqualified expression of both Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., supervisor of student entertainment; and Prof. Joseph J.
Hon. William P. Breen, ’77 Twenty-six try for his medal.
"Born Lucky" is Chosen Commencement Play For U. Theater
•
“Born Lucky,” a hilarious three-act comedy, by Samuel S. Bennett, has been selected by the University authorities as the Commencement Play for 1937. The play will be presented Friday night, June 4, in Washington Hall.
Copies of the play have been ordered, and as soon as they arrive tryouts for the nine parts in the production will begin. Bulletins will appear in the various halls announcing the exact time and place of the trial.
The plot is set in a college fraternity house, -with all the action of the nine characters centering about this point. The production is especially humorous with an entertaining twist ending.
Casasanta, head of the music department, after last evening’s concert by the University Concert Band in the Washington Hall theater.
Between the Glee club and Concert Band programs were a performance by the Amphion male chorus on Monday evening, a joint concert by two University students, Arthur Davidson, pianist, and David Garvin, violinist, on Tuesday evening, and a recital by Billy Scully, 14-year-old boy soprano from New Rochelle, N. Y., on Wednesday evening.
The Glee club, Prof. Casasanta conducting, presented its program in two parts, Mr. Davidson bridging the intermission with a piano solo of Liszt’s “Hungarian Rhapsody No. 12.” Prof. Casasanta delivered a discourse on the style of arrangements and the interpretation of musical terminology relating to the choral numbers.
The huge Sunday evening audience, numbering many week-end guests who remained over especially to witness the opening of “Music Week” heard four soloists perform. Bill O’Brien’s rendition of Friml’s “Gian-nina Mia” was particularly well-received. Bob Heywood, baritone; Joe Pawlowski, bass; and Jack Collins, tenor; drew solo assignments and shared the spotlight with O’Brien.
While making its annual tour, the Amphion male chorus of the Red River Valley of the North unfolded a three-part concert before another large audience on Monday evening.
Tuesday evening found two student musicians giving a joint-recital that was possessed of popular appeal. Arthur Davidson, pianist, and David Garvin, state medalist of scholastic violin competition in Colorado, holding the attention of the well-filled theatre.
The most unusual of the week’s efforts took place Wednesday evening when Billy Scully, the Iona prep school soprano, executed a series of four groups, each composing three numbers. Master Scully entertained the largest audience of the week with Franck’s “Panis Angelicus,” and di Capua’s “O Sole Mio,” among a repertoire of twelve selections. The New Rochelle chorister was accompanied by Arthur Davidson.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
Story of Steel Almost Baffles Reporter
But Palais Experience Saves the Day
Mr. Louis DaPra
News Editor
The Scholastic.
Dear Mr. DaPra:
I hope I didn’t show it, but I was pretty mad at you last Friday night when you told me to report on Dr. A. B. Kinzel’s address to the members of the American Society for Metals. I thought we had a tacit agreement to the effect that my beat for Saturday nights was the Palais Royale and Walgreen’s corner. I had already made some definite plans as to the best way to “cover” the Palais Royale and your abrupt shifting of assignments was inconvenient and embarrassing. However, I wasn’t going to mention that part of the affair—we reporters have to be stoical, I suppose, but one of the remarks you made while handing out the assignment, as I said before, made me feel pretty mad. Remember? You said, “The lecture is scheduled for the Engineering building at 8:30. There’ll be a banquet at 7:00 o’clock, but don’t you worry about the banquet— I’ll cover that.”
Well, I went to the lecture. I was there at 8:30, but the Society didn’t come in until five-after-nine. About six dozen cigars puffed in at the same time. I was surrounded by members of the Society. Two of them caught me in a billowing cross-eddy... Well, in about ten minutes, Dr. Kinzel stepped up onto the stage and began to talk. Dr. Kinzel is a dapper, affable man of forty-or-so. His subject was “Some Specific Effects of Deoxidizing and Alloying Additions to Steel.” He began his lecture by saying that his talk was so general in scope that he was “just going to daub in the forest and let each member of the audience sketch in his own trees.” Well, Mr. DaPra, I guess you sent the wrong reporter to the lecture, because I couldn’t even paint in a clump of weeds.
“I was lucky, though. When I was leaving the building I bumped into Walt Troy—he’s the secretary of the Metallurgist’s club on the campus and he knew just what Dr. Kinzel' was talking about.
“It was interesting the way Dr. Kinzel classified the various alloy elements added to steel according to ‘carbide formers’ and ‘graphiting elements,’ wasn’t it?” Walt observed.
“Very interesting.” I agreed.
“And, of course, the addition of small amounts of those alloy elements to steel has meant a lot to the manufacturer who has to produce his steel
on a mass-production basis. With the elements added, the carbon content of some of the high alloy steels can be maintained around .08%. Otherwise the carbon content would have to be reduced during production to .01% or .02%. And that would mean much greater manufacturing costs.”
“Yes, they do save a lot of money that way.”
“What did you think of the new hypothesis which Dr. Kinzel proposed?” asked Walt.
“Well, to tell you the truth,” I said, “there was quite a bit of coughing going on about me at that time, and I didn’t quite get the gist of it.”
“It was a nice flexible way of explaining some of the characteristics of steel which we can’t account for right now, though, wasn’t it?” Walt said, “and there’s no getting away from the fact that it did explain some of the brittleness phenomena steels.”
“No,” I agreed, “you can’t get away from that.” By this time we were tramping down the gravel path past Father Sorin’s statue, and Walt said good-night and cut across to Walsh Hall.
Well, Mr. DaPra, that’s all there was to the lecture. How about putting me back on my old Palais Royale beat next week end?
Sincerely,
Bill Fay.
Cub's Club Congregate To Discuss Press
Paul Foley, editor of the Scholastic, spoke on the collegiate press at the second meeting of the Cubs’ club in the Journalism room of the Li
brary last Tuesday. He mentioned
Frank Lesselyong
several of the problems which confront student staffs o f university papers.
Foley was introduced b y Frank Lesselyong, president of the Cubs, an organization of students interested in Journalism, especially those just beginning.
The club was organized for the first time this year and has been in active collaboration with the older press club.
CRITIC GENERALIZES TOO BROADLY SAYS PROF. HOLLIS
•
That the moral issue of the clergy and money expressed in a series of articles by Peter Whiffen which appeared in Forum magazine were’ greatly over-simplified, was the opinion advanced by Christopher Hollis, noted economist, speaking before the Chesterton Society last Sunday. Mr. Hollis, a member of the Notre Dame faculty this semester, in concluding his remarks at the close of the Chesterton meeting stated that the important fact of money in the possession of the clergy was not the amount but the use to which it is put.
Business ability on the part of the clergy, said Mr. Hollis, has played a large part in the phenomenal growth of the church in this country; it has been a great factor in support-ting the spread. In summarizing the discussion of whether or not Whiffen was justified in presenting his articles through a national non-Catholic publication, Mr. Hollis said it would have been well for him to have stuck to the old custom of confessing one’s own sins—not airing the guilt of others.
James K. Nemey, president of the Chestertonians, defended Whiffen, and August Sidler led the arguments of the negative in the group’s earlier debate on the subject. The clergy’s deference toward capitalism and the allying of capitalism in the fight upon Communism were the chief arguments set forth by Mr. Nerney. Sidler pointed out that the statements made by Whiffen were either gross exaggeration or broad generalizations.
Bookmen Lay Plans For Farewell Banquet
The La Salle hotel will be the scene of the final get-together of the Bookmen, campus literary society. Bob McGrath, president, announced this week that the gathering would be in the form of a banquet and would be held Wednesday, May 12.
Several faculty speakers are slated to appear, but definite selection has not as yet been made.
The final business meeting, will be held on Wednesday, May 5. Elections for the coming year will be held, and the new officers announced at the end of the meeting. Also the selection of books from the club library will be made; and those not present will lose the opportunity of the draw for the place in selection. Final details of the banquet plans will be announced, as will the names of the speakers.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
From Boiler Shop to Cobbler's Bench Is Odyssey of Campus Shoe Repairer
By Lloyd Stolich
INSPIRE CONFIDENCE PHYSICIAN TELLS PRE-MEDICS
Sometimes a man who has a truly fervent love for outdoor life is forced to spend the greater part of his life in a stuffy shop. Such an unfortunate is James McAllister, shoe rebuilder for all the students of Notre Dame. Jimmy does little complaining because he has found some solace in his work and in the coriipanionship of his patrons.
He was bom in Louisville, Ky., Nov. 17, 1880. Much of his worry can be traced to a siege of infantile paralysis. After the disease had left him, he had to regain the art of walking, but ever since then he has suffered from a foot failing. It has impeded him constantly in his ambitions. For example, in 1896, he had a chance to go to Alaska but his foot handicap made a trip impossible.
When he had finished the fifth grade he left school and educated himself from that year to now by rather extensive traveling. In his eighteenth year, Jimmy started to work in a boiler shop. Again his health interfered; his hearing became bad and he had to resign.
The next step in his employment was railroad work. Somehow he acquired a liking for shoe repairing; it was strictly an amateur vocation. If his friends had thin soles or rundown heels, Jimmy took their shoes home after work and repaired them for the cost of the material.
About the technical details of his job, Jimmy was accurate, if not clear. To the layman’s mind, the terms and processes seem dense. There has been a change in the bootmaker’s style of operation. In the old method there were such techniques as the edge shave, glass, sandpaper and ink edges. In all these old methods the worker had everything within easy reach; he could do all his work in a sitting position. Jimmy, with his foot trouble, found the old method more than suitable.
Under the present demands, Jimmy must walk about. He has to cut off the old sole, put on the new sole. He must scrub grit off the welts, then place on stitches, and sew them. The edges require trimming and inking, heating by friction. Jimmy tires often now.
. He remembers with pride his shoe -store, his-first place, in Mt. Carmel, Ill., established in 1911. Mishawaka welcomed him in 1920, when he came to work for Ball Band Shoe Factory, seven years later he first came to Notre Dame and has nursed a steady I
stream of shoes through his shop back of the telegraph office.
In August, his only month of recreation, he roars over the waves of Lake Charlevoix, Michigan, in an outboard motorboat. Behind the wheel of a car he also finds pleasure. Among his more sedentary pastimes is reading. His favorite magazines are Field and Stream, Popular Mechanics, and all sport magazines.
the committee i:
Bernard Niezer
All-Nations Program Is Set For May 12
A tentative date for the program of the all-Nation meeting has been set for either May 11 or 12. A program has already been submitted to charge for final approval.
In charge of the program is a committee composed of Stanley Partyka of the Cracow club; Joseph Man-gelli, president of the Italian club; Bernard N i e z er, president of the German club. According to the plans submitted to
the committee the program will consist of short papers in English to be read by members of the various participating clubs, and national music from each of the represented countries.
Taking part in the exercises are the French, Italian, Spanish, German and Cracow clubs.
Trace Development of Church Ceremonies
Tracing the history and origin of many of the ceremonies and vestments of the Catholic Church, Rev. Thomas Kelly, C.S.C., assistant professor of classics, spoke at the meeting of the Servers’ Club held in the sacristy of Sacred Heart Church, Monday. “The New Liturgical Movement” was the topic of his address.
He explained the development of various rites and ceremonies from the beginning of the Church to the present day, with special emphasis on contemporary changes.
Plans for a banquet to be held some time in May as well as election arrangements will be announced at the. next meeting, George Keenen, president, stated.
“Specialization is necessary now because of the great advancement in medicine,” Dr. Bickel remarked in his address Monday evening before the Notre Dame Academy of Science.
The student of medicine must not only be adept in learning that which is taught in medical school but must be physically and mentally inclined in pursuing the study of medicine. “Personality,” he said, “is‘ of greatest importance to the prospective doctor. The successful physician must not only be learned in his work but must inculcate a degree of confidence in his patients.”
The speaker surprised his audience by declaring that English, rather than a purely scientific subject, was one of the most important subjects for a doctor to know.
The American Medical association, founded in 1847 for the purpose of raising the then low standard of the profession, is ever vigilant to protect the public from quack healers. The laws of various states also aid in keeping the ethics of the profession at the high standard that they are today, he added.
In concluding, Dr. Bickel assured his listeners that before a doctor confines himself to a specialized field, a thorough knowledge of medicine is first required.
The annual Academy of Science banquet is tentatively set for May 3.
Cracow Club to Honor
Polish Consul
Plans are being made by the Charles Phillips Cracow Club for the reception of the Honorable Anthony Brzenk, Polish consul at Chicago, on May 6.
The proposed program will consist of short papers to be read, and speeches to be given by various members. After the formal meeting the election of officers for the coming year will be held.
The Cracow club, under Joseph Pawlowski, president, and the executive committee, is working on a series of radio programs to be broadcast from the campus radio studio sometime in the near future. The programs will consist of papers read in both English and Polish, and selections from the music and poetry of Poland.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
SIGNAL HONOR PAID PROFESSOR PAUL
R. MARTIN
•
An honor so rare that only three men in the history of the United States have received it, was solemnly conferred on Professor Paul R. Martin last Sunday at St. Peter’s Church, Chicago.
At the celebration, Mr. Martin received the Letter of Affiliation to the First Order of Saint Francis, given him by the Minister-General of the Franciscans at Rome. The Letter gives the recipient all the spiritual privileges of a professed friar, with a full share in all the good works done by the regular members of the Friars Minor.
The honor was bestowed upon Mr. Martin by the Very Rev. Opatus Loeffler, O.F.M., Minister-General of the Franciscan province of the Sacred Heart, acting for the Minister-General of the Order at Rome. The Rev. Maximus Poppy, national secretary of the Third Order of Saint Francis, delivered the sermon on the occasion.
The literary efforts of Mr. Martin on behalf of the Franciscan order in America won for him this recognition. His book, The Gospels in Action, forms the basis of the Tertiaries program of social reform through the Rule of Life as outlined by Saint Francis in the Thirteenth century. In general, the book is a sociological study of the moral conditions of the Thirteenth and the Twentieth centuries, and points out that the Rule of the Tertiaries corrected moral evil in the earlier time and suggests it as a remedy for the social evils of today.
In collaboration with Father Poppy, Mr. Martin has also published, A Survey of a Decade. He has written for many newspapers and magazines on the organization and purpose of the Third Order. In 1931 he was elected consulter of the national executive board of the Third Order, one of the most active posts in the organization, and has held it ever since.
Some practical results of Mr. Martin’s work can be seen in the local branch of the Tertiaries. There are approximately 80 members of the Notre Dame chapter enrolled as novices, and at the ceremony to be held late next month the first band to enroll will make their solemn profession. These first novices were received on the Vigil of Pentecost last year. The remainder were received on March 17 and April 23 of this year.
Few need introduction to this man about the campus. He’s been about the campus at least since 1930 (long-er than any other student), is known, and knows all about the campus. This midget in stature is a
I
mental giant. Holding forth in his little den in Walsh’s basement he has strings running to the extremes of the campus, which can easily be converted into reins by Little Caesar. This is Eli Myron Abraham.
Officially, financial secretary and district deputy of the Knights of Columbus; unofficially, minister of good will, alumni aide, chancellor of the exchequer, and high mogul of the K. of C.’s. He took six months to balance the books of that organization in 1931, and they’ve been balanced ever since. . . dreams of K. of C. union building on the campus and dreams and dreams. . . .
Illustration gives him credit for more weight and less hair than' he actually owns ... he used to worry about his naked pate, but now is resigned saying, “Many younger men than I have less hair.” Greatly envied because he owns a car which he replaces annually at little expense to himself through unusual bargaining powers, a hypnotic eye and secret wampum.
“Abe” lived in Niles,-Ohio, from .the. -time- of his entrance into this
PRACTICAL VALUE OF FRANCISCAN RULE
TOLD ORDER
•
Rev. Maximus Poppy, O.F.M., national secretary of the Third Ordei* of St. Francis, spoke to the campus tertiaries at a special meeting held recently in Dillon chapel.
Father Maximus spoke of the interpretation of the rule of the Order, and laid special emphasis on the explanation of the 14 points of the Tertiaries Rule of Life in their practical applications.
After the talk and the regular business meeting was concluded, Father Maximus conducted the reception of the novices into the Third Order. This is the second group to be taken into the campus organization. Next month a small group will be admitted as regular professed tertiaries. This is the ceremony of final reception into the Order, and is one of the most solemn and impressive ceremonials in the ritual of the Order.
California Contingent to Meet at Dinner
Sunshine, flowers, the beauty of the California country side and antiFlorida propaganda will be the chief topics of conversation Tuesday evening in the Rose Marie Tea Room, South Bend, as 30 members of the California club gather for their annual banquet.
Prof. Thomas Madden, of the department of English, will be the chief speaker of the evening. The club will also hear from John Gillespie, writer of “The not so sunny state
of New Jersey. Lloyd Stolich, president, will act as toastmaster.
New officers recently elected will be installed at the dinner.
Lloyd Stolich
Week” from the
country until he settled bag and baggage at a strategic point on North Francis Street in South Bend. He came here at the instigation of Cleveland’s ex-mayor, Ray Miller, and liked it so well he took it up as a vocation. Earned his LL.B, with honors in 1936. Every year he says is .his last; every year he turns up with unerring regularity.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
THE WEEK
Fun at Fardale
Not so long ago a man drove up to the campus bent on entering one of his children. He had heard that Notre Dame was a good school. Regardless of the accuracy of the rumor, he was speedily disappointed. His child was a girl. . .
A student, on his way down town with a friend, wanted to walk. His friend wanted to take the trolley. So the open-air man bet five cents that he could beat the car to the city. Off he dashed, whipping past comers with a deathless determination. The runner won his race, collected his nickel, and sat in a movie, sweating from every pore. Hollow victory. . .
* * *
Public Notice	'
Should these two columns of type become timorous and hesitant; should there be no personalities either named or hinted at; should these lines lack punch, blame it on the student insurrection of last Friday. While playing softball on the Walsh-Badin arena, we saw a file of jubilant men escorting to the lake a
Scholastic contributor, for the purpose of immersing said contributor in the deep. It seems that his remarks proved offensive to various members of the Law school and they, having suffered long and patiently, had finally exploded. We were asked about our reaction to the movement. Did we favor it? Here is our answer: we do not seek inter-columnar brickbats. Let him cast slings and suffer for a dubious cause. Let him carry on crusades and be thrown in the lake for his pains. We shall continue our policy of naming no names. We like everybody.
First it was an airline company. Then it was the Zephyr on the rails. Now the trolley line between Notre Dame and South Bend has installed —a hostess. Last Saturday night on the run out to the school we boarded the car, expecting the customary slow, uninteresting ride. What was this? On the motorman’s stool was a
By John A. Gillespie
young woman. While the utility employee manipulated the gadgets she smiled and told us to move to the back of the car. Stunned, we did so. All the way she kept up a steady stream of quips. The passengers reacted to her conviviality with a vim. We looked for dancing in the aisles. She wore no uniform but her services were none the less valuable. Is she a direct threat to the taxi companies?
* * *
From Abroad
You will remember Fred Snite, mentioned so often in the Religious Bulletin. Depending upon an iron lung for his life, he was cheered by the gift of a football, autographed by all the varsity men and coaches. In return as a Christmas gift, he sent each of the contributors a box of initialed handkerchiefs, made of the finest linen. Sent from China, import taxes on the presents came to §150.
❖
No Blindfold, Thanks
It is easy for non-combatants and neutrals to observe a war objectively and even indifferently; but to a man whose family is involved, however remotely, in the broil, war is real, war is earnest. Such a man is Sebastian Bonet, one of the Notre Darners. Should he visit Spain, his fatherland, he would be treated as a deserter. His family has taken refuge during the revolution and Sabby has been in seclusion here. Last September he barely missed the draft and in a letter dated April 17, from the Spanish Consul in Chicago, he was ordered to Spain to fight for the government forces. If he obeyed, he would have to pay his own way from Notre Dame to Spain which, by the way, is no short putt. Once in the fighting zones, his expenses from the frontier to his barracks would be assumed by the government. “Nice of them,” Sabby says of this arrangement. Because his time of enlistment is up, he is liable for the punishment inflicted on deserters. At the beginning of the conflict there were exemptions; now, all men, except the sons of poor widows, must shoulder guns. “But,” insists Sabby, “the funniest occurrence was the mailing of a pink slip to my parents in March. When it arrived in Barcelona, in the heart of the Communistic strength, you can imagine the excitement. There it was—a suspiciously pink slip with mysterious numbers on it.” If, some dark, rainy night, a blond youth knocks at your door and asks for shelter, ask no questions. Just take him in and know that you are saving an unfortunate from a firing squad.	-
CORRIDOR CROONERS SET TO GET GONG ON MONDAY
. •
Notre Dame’s clan of corridor crooners and all other entertainers of the fourteen halls on the campus will get the air next week. Final preparations for the radio amateur hour have been made. The scripts of the various halls have been completed; their music checked against the restricted list; and the scripts themselves reviewed by the radio committee.
The schedule for the broadcasts of the halls is as follows: Monday, May 3, Alumni and Brownson; Tuesday, St. Edwards and Morrissey; Wednesday, Badin and Off-Campus; Thursday, Freshman and Dillon; Friday, Lyons and Sorin; Monday, May 10, Carroll, and Cavanaugh; Tuesday, May 11, Howard and Walsh. The program 'will go on the air at 8:30 each night. On May 12, the four finalists selected will appear in a full hour program.	.
Spirited rivalry is already evident among the halls in their effort to obtain possession of the silver plaque which last year was awarded to St. Edwards. In the Senior group Alumni Hall with its star impersonator, Frank McHugh, seems to be leading the field. Competition from Sorin will evidently be the least of their worries, for. Sorin is as yet unreported in the contest. Dillon Hall promises the program of greatest variety. A 13-piece orchestra will be their chief attraction.
The programs of the Sophomore halls are still an unknown quantity. The greatest competition will be between the Freshman halls. St. Edwards is sponsoring the X program. Not to be out done, Freshman Hall has named its entry the Y program. The mystery will be exposed Tuesday and Thursday nights. Brownson is also in the front ranks by virtue of the violin of David Garvin. •
Philosophy Disputation
(Continued from Page 3) which will follow the formal arguments.
Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, of the University of Chicago, has consented to make a few remarks at the conclusion of the entire disputation.
The real purpose of a disputation is to fix in the intellects of the students the subject matter which has been presented by the professor. The form of the disputation then follows with a presentation of the difficulties by the “arguens” or the objector, and finally a response in syllogistic form by the defender to the difficulties of the objector.
10	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
CALENDAR
Friday, April 30
Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.; Tennis, Varsity vs. Indiana State Teachers’ College, here.
Saturday, May 1
Movies, Washington hall, “And Sudden Death,” 1:30 and 3:30 p.m.; Track, Varsity vs. Pittsburgh, Cartier Field, 2:00 p.m.; Baseball, Varsity vs. Michigan State, Lansing, Mich.; Golf, Varsity vs. Minnesota and Wisconsin at Minneapolis, Minn.; 1937 Monogram “Absurdities,” Washington hall, 8:15 p.m.
Sunday, May 2
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Meeting, Chesterton Society, Law building, 10:30 a.m.; Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Knights of Columbus Chambers, Walsh hall, 11:00 a.m.; Football, John O’Brien Memorial game, Stadium, 1:00 p.m.; 1937 Monogram “Absurdities,” Washington hall, 7:15 p.m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, May 3
Ticket sale for Senior Ball begins, lobby of dining hall; Meeting, S.A.C., University library, 6:30 p.m.; Preliminaries, Breen Medal contest, Law building, 4:10 and 7:40 p.m.; Elections, Villagers’ club, Columbia Athletic club, South Bend; 1937 Monogram “Absurdities,” Washington hall, 8:15 p.m.
Tuesday, May 4
Baseball, Varsity vs. Northwestern, Evanston, Hl.; Preliminaries, Breen Medal contest, Law building, 4:10 p.m.; Freshman Oratorical contest, Law building, 7:45 p.m.; Banquet, California club, Rose Marie Tea Room, South Bend.
Wednesday, May 5
Ticket sale for Senior Ball ends; Freshman Oratorical contest, Law building, 4:10 p.m.; Baseball, Varsity vs. Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.; Preliminaries, Breen Medal contest, Law building, 7:45 p.m.; Meeting, Bookmen, Hurley Hall of Commerce, 7:45 p.m.; Meeting, Knights of Columbus, Walsh hall, 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, May 6
Feast of the Ascension, no classes; Communion Breakfast, Iowa club, Lay Faculty dining hall; Tennis, Varsity vs. St. Louis, here; Golf, Varsity vs. Detroit, William J. Burke Memorial course; Reception, Cracow
•club, Law building, 8:00 p.m.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
A “Poor Man’s Fraternity”
Although it has already celebrated its first anniversary, Syracuse University’s Pi Alpha Chi fraternity has only within the past few weeks come into its own as the latest idea in college fraternity circles. Founded slightly over a year ago, its entrance into the collegiate world was more or less completely obscured by the ill-fated VFW movement. Lately, however, because of its progress and motivating purpose considerable attention has been focused upon it.
A group of juniors conceived the idea of starting a fraternity whose membership would be open to all those unable to pay for enrollment in the more publicized and better knowi? Greek letter societies. In addition to showing a marked increase in membership enrollment, Pi Alpha Chi has also secured its own-house and has made the highest fraternity scholarship record ever recorded on the Orange campus.
Dubbed “the poor man’s fraternity” because of its origin, this infant fraternity even as early as last year refused to affiliate itself with a nationally known society because its officers feared that such a union would mean increased dues and loss of independence. Its undisputed success thus far, however, has attracted such wide attention that already similar organizations have been formed at various other colleges and, like their youthful parent, are all reporting enthusiastic progress.
Just Being Catty
Recent investigations under the direction of Dr. B. R. Hempie and Dr. E. I. Gibbs of Harvard University’s medical school have resulted in the discovery that the brain waves of a cat correspond rather closely to those found in a woman. . . . Well, that ought to clear up a lot of things.
Where Tribute Is Due
Despite the seemingly insurmountable handicaps of blindness since early youth, T. J. Ashford has been for a number of years the director of Haverford College’s successful band.
Telling the World
Marquette University’s student paper, The Tribune, disdains all manner of editorial subterfuge and advertising build-up by bluntly printing its terse motto “Sold on Its Merits as a Newspaper” on the front page. ... In the same vein we have the Indiana Daily Student claiming to be “the only morning daily sold in Monroe County”. . . The Technique from Georgia Tech admits to being “the South’s liveliest college weekly.”
Barristers To Choose New Wheel-Horses Next Tuesday
■ •
With two seniors included among the retiring officers, the Notre Dame Law club will meet on Tuesday to elect a new staff, comprising five officers, that will carry on the work of the undergraduate barristers next fall. President Pat J. Fisher, Indianapolis; and Arthur J. Mulholland, of Kalamazoo, representative on the Student Activities’ Council, are the graduating members currently hold- ' ing office.
Caesar J. Kalman, vice-president, who makes Holland, Mich., his home; Stephen C. Miller, treasurer, .from Rock Island, Ill.; Louis W. Vettel, Ashtabula, Ohio, secretary of the club, are juniors in the Law school and will be eligible for re-election.
The election will mark the final stroke of business during a busy year for the lawyers. Monthly meetings, at each of which a visiting attorney addressed the lawyers, the Law Ball in mid-January, and the annual Law club testimonial to the late Col. William Hoynes, founder of the Law school, were the events to dot the calendar of the Law club during the year.
Bruccoli to Talk
On Monday evening the Patrician radio talk will be given by Matthew Bruccoli, who will discuss the “Aristotelian Phase of Greek Economics.”
The regular meeting will be held Tuesday evening in the Badin Hall meeting room. Officers for the ensuing schoolyear will be elected, an^, the date for the annual banquet will be determined.
Answering a Letter
/n reply to B. R. J.:
- Following are the names of the humor magazines of the different colleges you wrote and questioned us about: University of Pennsylvania, The Punch Bowl; U. S. Naval Academy, The Log (a combination of news and humor magazine); Alabama University, The Rammer-Jammer; and Temple University issues The Owl........While we have no official figures on the subject, it is our impression that Minnesota university has the world’s largest college paper from the standpoint of circulation. A few of the Coast schools, such as California university or Southern California, might dispute this.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937	11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE
Over 300 couples tramped the hardwood last Friday evening at the Knights of. Columbus Ball, to date the top notch social event of the cur- ( rent season. A hop, skip and jump ! affair of this sort, open practically to the whole school, is a distinctly pleasurable thing and lots of fun, especially when it can be had for the nominal sum of two plunks.
Editor's note: What happens when “Caf Smoke” gets in someone’s eyes.
JIMMY DUNN and ED FANNING (Lyons) are wearing long faces these sprightly spring days. They stumbled in on a dance at the Drake last week and both ended up with their own dates... JOE FOLEY (Sorin) always looks half asleep to me, how does he look to you? From good source we get it that he is still suffering from the encounter in which he, JOE, came out second best •with a burly doorman — ’Member, Joe? BURNY WASSELL (Alumni) had quite a scare thrown into him the other night when three Dillonites, dick McCutcheon, jim reilly and BOB DU BOIS connected a toy “mike” to his radio and proceeded to cut in with news flashes which were right down Burny’s alley. . . .
PAT GORMAN (Lyons) is trying to live down the sobriquet of Wal-green’s Butterfly... FRANK SMITH (Walsh) a modest sort, confides that his magic violin is not capable of all the tricks of which his publicity manager claims. . . TOM HOGAN (Morrissey) “How long do Sunday morning breakfasts last?”. . . TOM HIGGINS (Alumni) who disavows any relationship to Kansas City Kitty, is awaiting the chance to put his double-decker bass voice into action on the Interhall Amateur Hour. . . . BOB NAGEL who hangs his hat in the Morrissey sub, has imported a ringer
to think up his jokes for the same show. . . PETER JOHNEN (Walsh) author of the Senior Class song has done quite a capable job. The tune “Sweet Moments” is a honey, be sure to listen for it. WILL OSBORNE thinks enough of it to have a special orchestration made of it. . .
KARL HUNN (Cavanaugh) and his swell bunch of syncopators performed nobly last Monday night via the ether waves even though ROD TROUSDALE (Lyons) swallowed his gum just before his turn to manipulate on a trombone solo. . . . PETE NEMETH (Off-campus) almost put his neck into the noose by perpetrating a cute little post-card trick. He and a handful of stooges were scheduled to parade their wares over the radio—but didn’t. Everyone lived happily ever after when he caught the hundred complimentary post cards in time. . . .
An “ad” in a local newspaper “For sale: Bull dog. Eats everything. Very fond of children. . .”
One week from tomorrow all eyes will be turned toward the Kentucky Derby. This being the 62nd Derby we have inquired among the turf men on the campus as to who would win. For the benefit of those who know nothing of the race, it is run at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Ky.,
“Isn’t ‘Dolly’ Kopczak JUST Brilliant.”
it is open to three year olds and the race is one mile and a quarter long. Of the 200 that are eligible, only 18 will go to the post.
Their choices. . . .
FRAN DUNN (Off-campus)— Brooklyn or Billionaire.
WALLY NIENABER (Alumni)— Heelfly.
ED DILLON (Sorin)—Pompoon or Brooklyn.
BABE KELLY (Dillon) — Pompoon.
MIKE TACKLEY (Alumni)—Military.
TONY SCALLERO (Off-campus) —Maedic.
HARRY WEAKLEY (Walsh)— Sceneshifter.
FRANK BENNETT (Morrissey) —War Admiral.
FERRIS SAFFA (Cavanaugh)— Tedious.
PAT Q’HARA (St. Ed’s)—Melodist.
MIKE BRIAS (Walsh)—No Sir.
TOM WHITE (Walsh)—Case Ace.
ED HOYT (Walsh) — War Admiral.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.........Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY.......................Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER...................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors John A. Gillespie	 Anthony F. O'Boyle	 Joseph Rotondo	 Robert L. Grogan	 News Staff Louis DaPra			The IFee^ 	College Parade —fn The Juggler Fein “Scholastic of the Air" 		_ News Editor
Harold A. Williams	 Michael Mongoven	 Richard Riley	 George Haithcock_	—	.^Assistant News Editor 	Frank Reilly 	Robert McClain .Vincent de Coursey 	John Callaghan Tamfs Htjfnac.ft
Frederick Sisk	 Thomas Marker_	—	
Gregory Byrnes.		Graham Starr
Frank E. Larwood	 James Dempsey	 Vincent W. Hartnett/ Harold A. Williams (	Edward Huff		F. Barreda 	John Kohn 	Literary Editors
Sports Staff Eugene Vaslett__________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe________________________Assistant Sports Editor
Fohn Cackley Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby John Clifford
Charles Callahan-----------------------William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott_________________________-________James A. Waldron
Francis Kroeger Art Editor
George Elmore
William R. Dooley, '26_____________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 70
April 30, 1937
No. 23
LEGION OF HONOR. . .
EVERAL letters from student writers have taken up the cudgels in the discussion of a scholastic Honorary Society. Some of the correspondents are heartily in favor
of the project, while a few point out logical reasons against the move. Before writing any further on the subject it should be understood that The Scholastic did not originate the movement for an Honor Society. The Scholastic, however is thoroughly in favor of the plan and will continue to urge some soi*t of plan to go into effect next year.
This year’s original plan called for a three-fold criterion of selection: 1—superior academic average; 2— good cultural interests; 3—work in extra-curricular fields.
Whether this three-fold system is the best available is a debatable subject. No one can deny the difficulty in judging anything as ephemeral as “good cultural interests,” or even “qualities of leadership,” so often stressed. But difficult as the job is, it has been done, and is being done, very successfully. It is much this same norm on winch the famous Rhodes Scholars are selected.
An ideal honorary society should encompass those men who have distinguished themselves in academic work and who have manifested qualities of leadership—not merely drones. This standard of classification is almost universally used.
As a definite program: The S.A.C. should draw up new plans, designed to solve all objections previously encountered. Consultation with University officials before action is taken should help iron out wrinkles. If this year’s S.A.C. can perform this service it will leave a record of having bridged an old and bothersome gap.
▼
MUSICAL OMEN. . .
WHATEVER may be said elsewhere in this issue about Music Week we consider it only proper to make mention here of the recital given on Tuesday evening by Arthur Davidson and David Garvin.-
Much well deserved comment might be made on the pleasing balance of their program, the uniformly skillful interpretation, technique and phrasing. These would be matters for a music critic if The Scholastic had one. We are concerned more with the significance of the occasion. These two students, modest and confident, played before a sufficiently large and thoroughly appreciative student audience.
It was in all respects an evidence of the refinement and culture that one looks fox* as part of a university training. It was also its own sufficient answer to the moaning one hears about addle-brained youth.
▼
TUTORING WHIFFEN. . .
PROFESSOR CHRISTOPHER HOLLIS threw the cold water of sane, sensible reason onto the rather spectacular flames of Peter Whiffen’s recent Forum “muckraking.”
Whiffen, inspired by what seems a desire for the spotlight, railed Catholic clergy for their “capitalistic” attitude ; but he went even further and condemned the clergy for the possession of wealth. Here, of course, he took the usual nose-dive of the generalizing radical. From a rather sparse group of “particulars” he jumped lightly but firmly into very definite “generals.” He should have realized the fatality of this move.
Professor Hollis admitted the possibility of the misuse of wealth by clergy—just as the same wealth may be consistently misused by the laity. But Professor Hollis did not stop there; he pointed out the rather obvious fact that the spread of the Catholic Church, its continued influence is dependent upon the very “wealth” which Whiffen so bitterly condemns.
Whiffen has committed the age-old error of condemning a system for its abuse, or an institution for its administrators. Whiffen differs from the chronic “griper” only in the fact that Forum needs flamboyant interestgetters to sell regular copies, and furnishes him a large audience.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
13
God and Intelligence:
Matter and Form In Modern Catholic Poetry
The past 300 years have witnessed the fall in Western civilization of the two fundamental supports of a sane life, a sane society: the belief in the existence of a personal God, the belief in the intelligence of man. I am going to take Dr. Fulton Sheen’s thesis, and make it the starting-point and the reason of this paper.
It is conceivable that there are two things in the totality of beings that matter: God, and man. I am going to assume the existence of a personal God, likewise the intelligence of man. On these two concepts rests everything for us as men. With-a firm comprehension of these two concepts, we can give no adequate explanation of the world of physical and tangible objects (the stars, trees, birds, and so on), nor of the world of idea-objects (beauty, truth, goodness, and our aspirations and ideals), nor even of ourselves, men. Whence are we? What? And whither going? If we do not understand our human nature, and the divine nature that made us and loves us, how shall we answer? The largest part of the world today cannot answer.
If this paper were essentially philosophical, which it is not, it would be proper for me to discuss rather delicately and analytically the background of this flight from God and reason. I think it enough to give a few sentences on the history of the movement.
Until Descartes, the Aristotelian-Thomistic philosophy was generally accepted by both Catholic and Protestant, in the main. But Descartes laid the foundation, we think, for two heresies: idealism and materialism. Philosophers outside the sheepfold snatched eagerly at the chance to carve out for themselves new philosophies, perhaps quasi - intellectual justifications for some systems of dogma opposed to the old orthodoxy. The new philosophies were often militant, seeking to dynamite Scholasticism. Came Hume, Spinoza, Fichte and the other generals, and the attackers against the philosophia per-ennis were hoisted by their own petard: the powers, even the existence, of the intellect were denied. But, once the compass of intellectualism was thrown overboard, the ship drifted in every direction; direction became a nightmare.
Thus, today many errors follow. Either I have no intellect (I am a beast), or its powers are doubtful, or perhaps I myself am an illusion to ■ myself. Either there is no God, or God is something vague, far-off, or
By Vincent Hartnett
perhaps we are all God (modern evolutionary pantheism).
It must not be thought that this movement is something only academic. You see it in your newspapers, your books. You see it in its formlessness in your totalitarian state. It has given a specific form to modern poetry.
In the latter half of the past century, Matthew Arnold echoed the popular doubts about God and Intelligence. Clough echoed the popular denial. Today, poetry has ceased to be a golden wheel, linked by spokes of fire to the hub, Divinity. It is either materialistic, humanitarian or pseudo-mystical. When poetry lost the form, intelligence, it lost the hub, Divinity.
Someone may think that I desire all poetry to treat of God. Not at all. There is a place for nature poetry, for humanitarian poetry, for lyrical and love poetry; each may be treated in a trivial or in a more exalted manner. But I consider it rational that all poetry should imply the acceptance of the existence of God and of human reason, that the philosophy of poetry should be the philosophia perennis, that poetry at least should not be at variance with the true philosophy.
Someone else may think that the poetry I desire would not be poetry at all, since I speak so much of reason, and not at all of the emotions. I have no quarrel with the emotions; I feel certain that there is no poetry unless there be a degree of emotional stimulation. But at the same time, I feel that modem poetry very often has gone to the extremity of Romanticism, where freedom from restraint and the abandonment of reason are guiding principles. Emotionalism and meaningless are gods there.
I think that poetry, since it is one of man’s highest arts, should reflect the precise nature of man, and should appeal to the whole man. Hence, I desiderate sinewy intellectualism in poetry, in addition to emotionism. If man is distinguished from the beast, he is so distinguished by his rationality. Well, then, let his high art be rational. I can stimulate a man’s brain by the application of an electrical shock, and he will feel. But that is not treating him as man. Why should we be afraid of reason? Why should not poetry, and all the arts of man, be strong and true? Why not intellectualism in poetry?
Perhaps modern poets feel that intellectualism is a sterile method, when applied to art. But it isn’t,
properly used. The intellectual man should have the closest hold on reality. He should see most clearly all the innumerable relations between the things that are. For the Aristotelian, the whole of reality should be one .whole, vast, organized picture. His experiences and his dreams will be lucid, powerful, translatable. If he has the poetic faculties of unusually sensitive and penetrating emotion and imagination, the Scholastic will be a fine poet. He will not mouth trivialities, or exciting nothings, or gibberish. He will share his sane, strong vision.
For my intellectualist - poet, all things will be seen in relation to God. He knows that. God is the greatest good, the supreme attraction of the will, in which the will can find perfect satisfaction. He knows that God is likewise the highest truth, the pinnacle and the totality for which his intellect strives, in which totality his intellect will find satisfaction. My intellectualist-poet will be no pantheist, for he knows the truth about himself and God. He knows that he is infinitely below deity. He also knows that the Deity, has a personal interest in the world, and that the Deity (my poet would say, simply, God) loves him. Likewise, for my poet, all human affections and love would be felt in conjunction with his love of God. And so, to my intellectualist-poet, all sight and all feeling would take on a new form. For him, there would be new matter out of which to create poetry: the Trinity, and the universe seen and felt as related to the Trinity. The form of his poetry would be intellectualism.
We are interested in a Catholic Poetry. We have felt that a Catholic Poetry should be distinct from any other poetry. The problem was in what the distinction should consist. Aside from matters of technique, should we continue in a kind of yeasty mysticism, indeterminate and flabby? Should we go back to the sharp and keen poetry of Elizabethan Catholic poets? Or should we forge a new mould for Catholic poetry?
If need makes actuality, and if actuality makes modernity, the nature of a modem Catholic poetry is at least roughly evident. Men have cast away the belief in a. personal God, have denied or doubted their intellect. Without these pillars of sanity, chaos enfolds the world. No poetry can be worth its salt which fails to build with these pillars.
The Catholic is today almost the (Continued on Page 20)
14	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
ATHLETICS
OLD-TIMERS AND VARSITY TO CLASH SUNDAY IN O'BRIEN MEMORIAL; BRILL. CANNON.
METZGER. KASSIS. YARR TO APPEAR
KLINEMEN TO MEET MICHIGAN STATE TOMORROW
By Gene Vaslett
Johnny O’Brien will be remembered by some 20,000 odd football fans Sunday afternoon as they sit and watch his ex-teammates, members of the great teams of 1928, ’29, and ’30, play next year’s varsity in what is officially the closing game of the 1937 spring practice session but to all concerned a
memorial game for the popular end coach who recently met his death in an automobile accident.
Sunday’s game will bring memories of mid-November days at Notre Dame as spectators come from va-
Marty Brill Watch out Varsity!
rious points of the Mid-West to once more watch the Irish swing into action. Three special trains from Chicago are scheduled to arrive in South Bend Sunday morning bearing about 4,000 friends of the Irish to witness the game and many people have written in for tickets from Cleveland and points in Indiana.
The team that will face the squad of varsity men who will represent Notre Dame on the grid-irons of the nation next year is made up of members of the National Championship team of 1930. The entire starting line of that team will appear as a unit at the opening of the game and will show the new boys how they cleared the way for Brill, Carideo, Schwartz and Savoldi in 1930. Behind the line there will be Marty Brill, a member of the first string backfield of that team and Bernie Leahy a reserve back. The other starting backs for the old-timers have (Continued on Page 19)
NICKMEN MAKE POOR SHOWING AT DRAKE
By Charles Callahan
Individually, Coach Nicholson’s Notre Dame track team did quite well, last Saturday, at the Drake Relays. Three men were entered in single events, and two of the trio placed. One, Dan Gibbs, won the pole-vault, while the other, Bill Fay-monville, wound up fourth in the discus-throwing competition.
Gibbs, in winning the pole-vault, lifted his body 13 feet % inch toward the sky. The black-haired future pharmacist from Holyoke, Colorado, failed at 13 feet 6 inches. As a reward for going a little higher than the other vaulters, Dan received the token given to all first-place men: a handsome wrist-watch on which is engraved, “Drake Relays, 1937.” On account of the rain, the pole-vaulting was held indoors.
In the discus, Faymonville came through with a very good toss which measured 147 feet. However, since three others bettered this mark, Bill received the fourth-place medal. Sam Francis, Nebraska’s A11 - American fullback and Olympic shot-put man, won this event and also the shot-put.
Captain Charley “Buck” Jordan, Blue and Gold leader, did 23 feet 6 inches in the broad jump—the best leap he has ever made—yet it was not good enough to secure a medal. The team relay races found Nick’s boys faring not so well. Actually, they went unplaced. Were it not for a few misfortunes though, the N.D. trophy room might have been enlarged by two. In the two-mile relay, Johnny Francis, running the primary leg, was boxed on a corner. John Cavanagh, who ran a later leg in the same race, completed the two
(Continued on Page 23)
Mr. Kline’s baseball boys journey to Michigan State College tomorrow to partake in a few innings of the ancient national pastime.
Ancient is the word for it with the Spartans for their teams have been knocking the cowhide around for some 53 years now. It was a sunny June afternoon in 1884 that Michigan State first sent a team out on the field to find out what the game was all about. Since then baseball has been the favorite sport of the campus, and in this game the Spartans have produced some excellent teams.
Coach John H. Kobs began this season.with ten letter men available —a complete team with one to spare —plus 13 numeraled freshman. In this regard he had a decided advantage over Coach Kline who began the season with an almost entirely new lineup. Moreover, the Spartans have already played 12 games, having taken a training trip through the South for early season practice. This is advantage number two for Coach Kobs for the Irish season is still in the process of getting under way.
Coach Kobs has built his team around his co-captains, Steve Sebo -and Milton Lehnhardt. Sebo is a sparkplug of a player who handles the Spartan catching duties this season as he did last year. He is a powerful hitter and an excellent catcher. Lehnhardt has attracted the attention of the scouts of the Detroit Tigers with his playing. He is the. strongest all around player with the Spartans, being a slugger and cleanup hitter; a good thrower, and a dangerous man on the bases. He plays center field.
George Hill, with two years varsity experience, is one of the leading Spartan pitchers. He may take the mound against the Irish. Blaine Henkel is the only other pitcher who has won his letter. However, Coach Kobs started the season off with eight other promising candidates, and a number of them have won permanent berths on the squad.
Last year the Klinemen defeated Michigan State in two games, 12 to 3 and 6 to 4. _
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
15
TENNIS TEAM BREAKS EVEN ON FIRST TWO COURT MATCHES
TRACK TEAM HOST TO PITT SQUAD TOMORROW IN LOCAL OUTDOOR OPENER OF SEASON NICK AGAIN PESSIMISTIC
Notre Dame’s 1937 Varsity tennis team, last of the Irish spring athletic units to swing into action, opened its season last Saturday with a successful 5-4 invasion of the Indiana University courts in Bloomington. The season’s opener for the Blue and Gold netmen was every bit as close as the score indicates for the match extended over into Sunday with the final outcome resting upon extra games in the final third set.
Paced by Captain Bill Fallon’s 6-1, 6-4, victory over Tieman, Indiana’s No. 1 man, Notre Dame was the first, to go into the lead. Indiana, however, promptly evened the match score when McElvaine beat Gregory by the scores of 13-11, and 6-3. From that point on the lead changed hands constantly. The following matches found Arnold and Simon winning in singles for Notre Dame while Arnold teamed up with Kilrain to win one of the all important doubles assignments. Meanwhile Indiana had also taken two of the singles when Tuthil defeated Kilrain and Kingdon whipped Lewis. The Hoosiers scored in the doubles when Gregory and Fallon fell before Tuthil and McElviane. Darkness at this stage of the match made it necessary to postpone the deciding tandem contest between Reppenhagen and Wolf of Notre Dame, and Haynie and Davis of Indiana till the following day. Although it was their first intercollegiate tennis match Notre Dame’s young sophomores verified Coach de Landero’s confidence in them by gamely coming from behind to win on five different occasions.
The National Championship Team, seven members will appear Sunday.
“Looks kinda blue,” said Nick, as he talked over the Irish chances against Pitt next Saturday. But that was just a gesture. Ever since he’s been here, things have looked “blue” to Nick until his team had the meet safely tucked away. In point of fact, Cartier Field will see some very close races Saturday afternoon when the Panthers come west to open the outdoor season here.
Monday found Fallon and his crew hosts to the powerful Western State Teachers College team from Kalamazoo. The Teachers had as a nucleus for their team Carl Fischer and Mike Ruehl, runner-up in the National Park Clay Singles Tournament and National Park Doubles Champions. For the past three years Western State has been turning back Irish court teams with annoying regularity and by such one-sided scores as 9-0, 8-1, 9-0. This year’s young team showed its potential strength by holding the Kalamazoo squad to a 6-3 beating. A further scrutiny of the score indicates that the match depended on the sets. Captain Fallon lost to Fischer by the scores of 7-5, 6-2, and in losing to the National Parks Champion played some of the best tennis seen on local courts in the last few years.
In so doing both players became the first men to win their monograms in spring sports.
Notre Dame played Chicago this week, the strongest team it will meet this year, Chicago University’s championship outfit. The next home match will be on Monday when Purdue University with one of the best teams it has had in.years comes to town to avenge the setbacks it encountered from some of the Irish in the State Invitational Tournament last year.
True, Pitt has some outstanding performers, but the all around strength and balance of the Notre Dame team, mixed with a little of the Irish luck which evidently went astray last week in the Drake Relays, should give Nicholson’s men an even chance.
In the sprints, Jordan and Clifford will run against Arthur Mason, I.C.-4-A 100 and 200 meter champ. Olympic champion Woodruff will probably compete both in the quarter and half mile runs. And thereby will hang a tale which will probably be sad, although Parsons aud Sheehan should account for some points in the former, while Francis and Cavanaugh should provide some good, if not dangerous, competition in the two lap event.
In the mile, Notre Dame’s Greg Rice will have an edge on Harold Tost, whom he has already beaten once this year in the Central Inter-collegiates. Gott and McKenna will complete Notre Dame’s mile entries, while Zamborski appears to be Pitt’s No. 2 man. At two miles, Szuma-chowski and Gormley, of the Irish, will meet Tost and Cook, of Pitt.
Morgan and Kelley in both hurdle events will be assisted by Danny Gibbs in the lows. Andrew Lasky and Ken Ryden are the Panther’s best timber-toppers, the former specializing in the lows and the latter in the highs, although each runs both events.
Jordan is probably the best of the Irish broad jumpers, and he will get some assistance from Clifford and Gibbs. Routch looks good for the opponents in that event. • Towering above anything Notre Dame has to offer will be Pete Bennett, another I.C.4-A champ, in the high jump. He has done better than six-five, which should easily win from anything the Irish have to offer.
Gene Taano, Penn Relays javelin champion, throws well over 200 feet, so that is an event which will have to be conceded. Gibbs will compete against him for Notre Dame. Bill Faymonville looks exceptionally good in the shot and discus, as Taano and Radvansky are both comparatively weak in those events. Gibbs and Ger-rety will fight it out in the pole vault, both being capable of-13 feet.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
INTRODUCING By Gene Vaslett
We present to you this week, the football stars who will appear in Sunday’s O’Brien Memorial Game. They are all famous in the annals of Notre Dame football history, and on Sunday they will appear at the school that made them famous in behalf of a great member of their team who passed away recently, Johnny O’Brien.
Among these men are several All-American’s, several captains of Irish football-teams, and every one of them members of the greatest teams ever turned out by the immortal Knute Rockne in his last years at Notre Dame.
Marty Brill—All-American halfback in 1930. A member of the great National Championship team of that year. Considered one of the greatest blocking halfbacks Notre Dame has ever had. A member of the backfield of Carideo, Elder, Savoldi and Brill, “the second Four Horsemen of Notre Dame.”
Bert Metzger—All-American guard. A member of the 1930 National Championship team. Weighed but 153 pounds and was once dropped from the team because of his size. When he told Rock, “I may be small, but I can fight and I want at least a chance out there,” he was allowed to remain on the squad. The world knows the rest of the story. He played two years on the shock troops, and in 1930 he was advanced to regular.
His name goes down with the “Clipper” Smiths, the Cannons, and the Laws as perhaps the greatest product of the great school of “watch charm” guards.
Jack Cannon—All-American guard, 1929. Probably the greatest guard Notre Dame has ever had. Cleared the way for such backfield stars as Brill, Carideo, Mullins, Savoldi, Elder. Won fame as the guard who played without a helmet. Was unanimous choice for All-American honors.
Joe Kurth—All-American tackle. The only regular sophomore on the 1930 eleven. Two years, 1931 and ’32 he was awarded All-American honors. Played next to Johnny O’Brien.
Tom Yarr—All-American center and captain of 1931 team. Played first string center on the 1930 team. Had a great talent for intercepting passes. In his first game with the varsity he intercepted three passes, when a completed one would have meant a tie or a defeat.
Tom Kassis—guard 1930 team. Rockne said of him, “One of the smartest, fightingest, best all-around guards that ever dug his cleats into the sod of Cartier Field.” The usual thing for him was to be taken out of the game one week in intense pain, almost given up for lost, rested for a week, and sent back into the next game heavily taped but as effective as ever.
AI Culver—left tackle on the 1930 team. Considered the most dependable man on the team. Carried out his assignment perfectly every play. Was called the “big silent man” of the squad. Inconspicuous to the spectators in the stands but very much in the way to the opposing backs and linemen.
F. Leahy—Left tackle. The unluckiest man that ever put on a Notre Dame football uniform. Suffered a shoulder injury early in ’29 season. Recovered only to receive a sprained ankle in the first game he played in. An injured leg later in the season caused a recurrence of his ankle trouble, and he had to turn in his uniform before the ’29 season was over. - Considered a surefire All-American before injuries overtook him.
Paul Host—Captain of 1932 team. Played a stellar end for the Irish. Was proud of his literary achievements. Contributor to The Scholastic; Juggler; and Scrip. Will play the post Johnny O’Brien held on the 1930 team.
John Law—Captain and center of 1929 team. Mentioned for several AllAmericans. Coached Sing Sing’s football team after graduation, was also head coach of C.C.N.Y.
Ed Krause—Tackle—All-American football and basketball star in 1933 and ’34. One of the greatest basketball stars ever produced here. Considered the greatest tackle in the post-Rockne era. '	.
Tom Conley—All-American end and captain of the 1930 team. Well known around here as recently resigned end coach of the Irish teams. Now head coach at John Carroll.
Mike Koken—Left halfback—All Western in 1932. Spent two years on the shock troops as understudy to Marchy Schwartz. After Schwartz’ graduation Koken stepped into the breach and performed, some experts think, as well as Schwartz.
CHICAGO RETALIATES FOR EARLY LOSS;
■ • ■
Inclement weather, and six errors plus a keyed-up Chicago baseball nine combined to present Coach Jake Kline’s diamond squad their first loss in three starts, 9-2, last Thursday in the Windy City.
The score stood at 3 to 1 until the sixth inning, when Johnny Moir singled to drive in Andy Puplis from second base. The Maroons promptly came back with a six run spree, aided by errors on the part of Braddock, Brennan, and Doyle. Chuck Borowski had previously opened the scoring for the Irish, when he cracked a home run in the second inning.
Bob Reynolds, Chicago fast-ball artist, held Notre Dame to five hits, while the Maroons succeeded in solving the pitches of Goncher and Ar-boit for nine. Reynolds struck out four men, while Goncher and Arboit had a total of three.
The fast ball-handling of the two shortstops, Puplis and White was outstanding. Except for an error apiece, both first baseman, Joyce and Gillerlain, contributed effective work. A chilly wind made it difficult for the infielders to judge accurately the hard-hit balls on the rough terrain.
Coach Kline had a somewhat new lineup on the field, than the team that started the Illinois game. Braddock, Joyce, Doyle, and Waldron all worked well together, considering that it was their initial time on the first nine. Both teams were held scoreless during the last three innings. Bernard and Shipway, of the Maroons, and Moir of Notre Dame led the squads in batting.
FOOTBALLERS FINISH SPRING SESSIONS
•
In preparation for the Varsity-Old Timers game the several varsity and frosh elevens went through many hours of intensive drilling on Cartier Field this past week. Although harassed by injuries and inclement weather, the efforts of Coaches Layden, Biland, and Benda are slowly materializing into several strong outfits which will fight it out with the Old Guard on Sunday.
Scrimmages last Sunday and again on Wednesday afternoon provoked much speculation as to the starting line-up for the O’Brien game. Vicious line play has characterized all the scrimmages of the spring season. The first intersquad game of the year saw two varsity teams thrown against each other, and so intense was the heat of the battle that since then Coach Layden has been using the (Continued on Page 22)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
17
ON DOWN THE LINE IRISH BASEBALL TEAM WILL PLAY WILDCATS
FORREST (SPEC) TOWNS, who holds the world’s mark in the 1 IOmeter high hurdles at 14.1 seconds, often practices by lining up little rocks on the tops of hurdles and trying to brush them off. He takes great pride in his feat of never knocking down a hurdle in major competition.
Basketball will again be made a major sport at HARVARD in 193738. Increased attendance at this winter’s cage games caused the move.
JIM REYNOLDS, star weight man for Stanford, gave up track for a time in order to manage the school debating team on a three week’s tour of Central America, the Canal Zone and eastern United States.
Thirteen former Duke college players will be playing in organized baseball this summer. JOHN W. (JACK) 'COOMBS, former Philadelphia Athletic pitching great who coaches Duke, has three former players who are now playing for Connie Mack. They are BILL WERBER, CHUBBY DEAN, and CLARENCE PARKER.
Pittsbuhgh sport fans were surprised to learn that DETROIT UNIVERSITY will play DUQUESNE again in football next Thanksgiving Day. Fist fights marked the game last year so it was thought relations would be broken.
World’s track and field records have been broken over fifty times since 1930. Ten were broken by JESSE OWENS during his sensational career.
JIM BOWLUS, Ohio State reserve infielder, was listed among the school’s seniors elected to Beta Gamma, national scholastic fraternity.
LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY may have a football team in 1938.
The hygiene department at HARVARD reports that skiing is the most body bruising sport at the university. Football men had no serious injuries.
GENE MYERS, star Ohio State second baseman, is threatening to prevent TIPPY DYE from winning his ninth letter this spring.
Santa Clara University will begin spring basketball practice, May 3. COACH BARSI will practice his men for two weeks or more.
There was a MOON and a STARR on the University of Florida’s freshmen eleven last fall.
NEXT TUESDAY. BETWEEN TWO HARD GAMES. NORTHWESTERN TEAM POWERFUL
KLINEMEN ON ROAD FOR BADGER GAME WEDNESDAY
•
After meeting the Northwestern Wildcats at Evanston on Tuesday afternoon, the Notre Dame baseball team will journey to Madison to meet the Wisconsin Badgers on Wednesday afternoon in the finale of a two-day road trip.
Wisconsin has a reputation for putting out strong teams, and this year is no exception. The Badgers, with one of the best pitching staffs in years, are strong contenders for the Big Ten title. Coach Clarence “Jake” Kline and his men will face a Wisconsin nine that has experience and punch.
Last year Notre Dame and Wisconsin split their series of games. The Badgers'were one of the three teams to beat the Irish last year- and turned the trick by a 7-3 score. This season Wisconsin has won two and lost one. They beat Michigan State twice by a 5-3 score. Their only loss was at the hands of Western State.
Notre Dame’s chances for victory are considerably hampered by the loss of Jim Carson who had just about cinched the first base position. Carson suffered a dislocated shoulder and torn ligaments when he collided with another player in Sunday’s practice game. This type of injury is very slow healing and Carson will necessarily be lost for the season. In losing him Coach Kline loses a good fielding first baseman and a crack leadoff man.
Coach Kline is still juggling his lineup around in hopes of finding the right combination. The only certain starters are Borowski and Moir in the outfield, Puplis at short stop, and Kovzelove behind the bat. The permanency of their positions depend on whether they hit or not. O’Neill and Doyle are fighting it out for Carson’s post at first. Mohr, formerly a pitcher but not converted into a third baseman, is vieing with Wukovits for that position. Braddock and Brennan are battling for second base position. Either Captain Ennio Arboit, Gon-cher, or Rydell will be the starting pitcher.
After they have finished playing Michigan State tomorrow afternoon, the Irish baseball team will turn their attention to the next obstacle in their path—the game at Northwestern next Tuesday.
The Wildcats, like Notre Dame, have lost most of last year’s regulars, but even so they have the upper hand on the Irish in experience because they already played so many
John Moir
Can’t stop. him.
more games this season. Besides splitting even in a six-game southern trip against Louisiana State, Ala-, bama, and Mississippi, the boys from Evanston have played several of their Big Ten league games.
Coach Kline’s team, on the other hand, has taken part in only three games so far. Besides the thirteen-inning thriller in which they upset a favored Illinois nine, the Irish have had a home and home series in which they split even with Chicago. Although they were able to batter out sixteen runs in the game played on Cartier field, they could only score two on the unfamiliar Chicago diamond; the Maroons meanwhile were consistent in scoring nine runs for each game. The two contests that were to follow these—one of them was a home game with Northwestern—were each ruined by rain.
Joe O’Neill has been shifted to give Doyle some competition at the initial sack, and Bob Mohr has taken his place at third. Aside from this the line-up will remain relatively stationary.
Captain Ralph Mack, Coach Ing-werson’s star catcher and heaviest hitter, will lead the Wildcats against the Irish, while one of the veterans, Jack Kaufman and Herb Roth, or possibly Bill Syring, a sophomore, will get the pitching assignment.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
BY CY STROKER
Were you disappointed at not seeing this column last week? Hmmmmmm? Well, we had another struggle with the Big Corporations over the subject of Advertising and lost again. Some day we’ll be big and strong and then you’ll see! But let us not concern ourselves with such trifles when the Monogram Club is about to put on its big yearly show (without the patronage of Sweetbriar). The show, which -will raise its curtain on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday, will feature the antics of such striplings as Larry Danbom, Andy Puplis, and Eln^er Zenner. It deserves your attendance.
The O’Brien Memorial game of Sunday afternoon will prove to be the most interesting game ever played from the standpoint of Notre Dame enthusiasts. Besides the men who have made themselves famous during the last season, the game will present all those men whose names have added so sub-
Last Standers Wilke, Lautar, and Danbom
stantially to the fame and romance of Irish teams. A list of these men appears in the story on page 14. The game will also give you an opportunity to size up next year’s team so that you can go home and tell the folks that, “Well, we have a strong backfield, but we’re weak from tackle to tackle.” Or something.
We want you, gentle reader, to turn to page 20 of last week’s Scholastic and read the story on the adventurous Gentlemen of Walsh, how they played the Seminarians in hardball, how they were defeated, and how they returned to the more quiet game of softball. That story predicted that, if anything happened during the softball games, the boys would slink down to their recreation hall. Sure enough, that is where they are hiding this week. Reason: One of their favorites, Tom (Jafsie) Condon tried to climb a tree with his face and got hoited. Result: no more softball. So if you see the gay lights of Walsh Rec burning at night, and hear the jovial roars of the roistering inmates, and especially if you see a particularly handsome young man with his face all battered to a pulp, you’ll know the story and shed a sympathetic tear.
Our favorite team, the trackmen, went back on us a little last Saturday in the Drake Relays. We confidentially expected to see them return home with several trophies but no such luck. Cornering neighbor John Francis we asked him what’s the big idea, and what is this and all this and that. John explained in his own vitriolic style that it was the weather. During the qualifying heats on Friday the temperature hovered around eighty. During the finals on Saturday, the boys were mushing their way through a blinding snowstorm. The explanation satisfied us at the moment, and it was not until later that we remembered that all of the opponents must have been confronted by the same phenomena.	.
GOPHERS, BADGERS ENGAGE LINKSTERS IN TRI-MEET
•
As Lou Fehlig and his clubsters go gunning for victory in Gopher territory on May 1, they will meet the combined skill of the Minnesota and Wisconsin club-toters, in a triangular match to celebrate Minnesota’s Athletic Day. Our brassie-wielding foursome with the exception of Bud Don-avan, are unfamiliar with Minnesota’s inter-lachen course, which according to Father Holderith is one of the finest in the country.
The three-team set up is also new to Fehlig and his cohorts, but with the mixed competition this meet promises to be one of the best of the year. The single pairings will find four sets of three-man teams, one man from each school, battling for honors in his respective triangle. In the doubles the probable contests will find Minnesota’s number one and two men entered against Notre Dame’s number one and two parsters. The second bracket will have Badger numbers one and two men standing against our number three and four men, while the three and four boys of the Minnesota team tackle like numbers of the Wisconsin squad to complete the meet.
Although Lou Fehlig and company did not meet the Minnesota aggregation last year, “they are justified in expecting keen competition,” says Father Holderith. The Badger prowess they are familiar with however, having felt their power when they won a close match from them last year. This year’s Wisconsin club seeks to retaliate with an all-veteran team.
At present Father Holderith is undetermined as to his starters. Competition has been keen, and veterans Fehlig, Milboume, and Mailhes, as well as newcomers Sheehan and Donovan are among the eligible. The team has shown good form as the 1937 edition, and with distance-eating drives and clever approaching has tied Washington, beat Chicago, and lost to Purdue.
Other events planned for Minne-sotas Athletic Day include a Wisconsin-Minnesota baseball game and tennis matches to round out the day’s events. ------------------
Postpone Purdue Game . Last Tuesday’s scheduled baseball game between the Irish and Purdue at Lafayette was called off because of the persistently wet weather. This is the second postponement in a row for Nctre Dame, last Saturday’s sogginess having prevented the playing of a home game with Northwestern. The trip to Lafayette has been tentatively re-scheduled for Friday, May 21st.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
19
PURDUE GOLFERS WIN OVER IRISH; INITIAL LOSS OF SEASON
•
The Notre Dame golf team lost its first meet of the season to the links-men of Purdue University last Thursday at the West Lafayette Country Club by a score of 13-5. This defeat marked the fifth time that the Irish niblick swingers have been on the short end of the score in seven seasons of varsity dual meet competition. During these seven years Father Hol-derith’s boys have won 49 victories and only once have been held to a tie. The downstaters swept into an early lead in the morning doubles matches, and at lunch time were out in front 5% to %. In the afternoon singles play Tom Sheehan was the only member of the invading team who was able to win his match as the Boilermakers increased theii’ lead by piling up 7% points as compared to the 4% garnered by the Irish.
Bud Donovan and Al Mailhes, sophomores, started the morning doubles play by losing to Smith and Anderson of Purdue, 2%-%. David and Frees of the Boilermakers shut out Captain Lou Fehlig and Tom Sheehan 3-0 in the other morning match.
In the afternoon singles matches the proceedings were started by Captain Lou Fehlig and Smith who battled to a 1%-1% draw. David of Purdue defeated Bud Donovan, and Frees trimmed Al Mailhes of the Irish by scores of 2%-%. Tom Sheehan came through for Notre Dame in the closing match as he nosed out Anderson 2-1.
O'Brien Memorial
(Continued from Page Ik)
not been designated as yet. The starting line will have Tom Conley, captain of the 1930 team and Paul Host captain of the ’32 team at ends. Host will play the position that Johnny O’Brien left. At tackles Joe Kurth and Al Culver will face the varsity. The guards will be Bert Metzger and Tom Kassis and at center will be Tommy Yarr, captain of the ’31 team.
Replacements for these men will be such great stars of yesterday as Jack Cannon, All-American guard; John Law, captain of the ’28 team; Mike Koken, left half in 1932; Dan Hanley, right half of the 1930, ’33 and ’34 elevens; Norm Greeney, guard; Regis McNamara, tackle in 1930; Bob Terlaak, guard; Fred Miller, guard; Tom Gorman, center on the 1933 team; Fred Carideo, fullback in ’33 and ’34; -Ed “Moose” Krause, tackle in ’31, ’32, and ’33; and Chuck Hafron halfback.
INTERHALL BASEBALL PLAY STARTS WITH SMALL TURNOUT
•
Interhall baseball got off to a rather inauspicious start last Sunday when only the Badin-Old Infirmary game was played. Old Man Weather prevented several of the teams from playing by turning the diamonds available into veritable marshes.
The Badinites indulged in a slugfest as they hammered the Old Infirmary men to a 15-14 submission. Free hitting, walking, and stolen bases marked the first game of the schedule, though the outcome of the game was indeterminable until the final man fanned.
This year’s games will be played - on the Varsity diamond on Sundays, and on Brownson field during the rest of the week. The fields east of the Chemistry Building and south of the tennis courts may also be used. The time of each game to be played in the course of the schedule is to be named by the coaches of the opposing teams so that a suitable arrangement may be provided.
Games between Freshman and Off-Campus, Cavanaugh and Brownson, Carroll and St. Ed’s, all members of Group I, will be completed during the course of the week; and the Group II nines will probably start on their second round of games next week. Badin, Howard, and Walsh appear the strongest teams, though the two Dome teams, Carroll and Brownson, are always in the thick of the interhall battle irrespective of the sport.
“Say it with flowers” on
Mother’s Day, May 9th
Send her flowers by telegraph
SOUTH BEND FLORAL CO.
114 South Michigan Street
We mal^e corsages that will glorify any gown at the Senior Ball, May 7th
Irish Clubbers Take The Buckeyes Into Camp
•
Living up to pre-match predictions, Notre Dame’s current golf squad traveled to Columbus last Monday, April 26, to meet Ohio State’s links-men, and returned with a 14-7 victory over the Buckeyes.
GIFTJ
FOR THE Modern Mother on Mother’s Day
She’ll treasure one of our soft, rich leather handbags in the new spring colors— $1.95 to $30.00
Toilet Cases Manicure Sets Pullman Slippers Raincoats Umbrellas Hosiery Luggage
HANJ-RINTZrCn
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
God and Intelligence
(Continued from Page 13)
sole custodian of perrenial philosophy, of orthodoxy. For the Catholic intellectual, the universe presents a fairly comprehensible, a perfectly logical map; for him, God is real and knowable. What else could he ask, then, by way of matter? For my Catholic intellectualist-poet, the universe is teeming with subjects for his art. And when he feels the need for more than time and space, he can on the sinewy and strong wings of his intellect vault into the empyrean of eternity and infinity. Could a poet ask more than this?
My Catholic intellectualist-poet is sane; he knows that poetry of the highest order demands intuition of the highest order. My Catholic intellectualist-poet has a careful regard for the culture of the knees as well as the culture of the intellect.
So outfitted, my modern Catholic poet is ready to create the greatest poetry that God and man have ever created.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
GLASSES Properly FITTED
LIKE BEING
CLOTHED IN AIR
£ To the world you are an unusually well-dressed man. Your friends will speak of the smartness of your clothes, and you’ll absent-mindedly reply, “What clothes?” before you remember you’re wearing Palm Beach.
£ It's tailored as stylishly as suits costing many times as much. And its patented fabric resists wrinkles and repels dirt, so that your pressing and cleaning bills are surprisingly low.
0 Your favorite clothier is showing a stack of fresh weaves and patterns that will win scores of new Palm Beach fans. See the darker-tone mixtures which look like imported worsteds. Get yours now while selections are at their best.
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrist* and Mfg. Optician*
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind. -
GOODALL COMPANY ’ CINCINNATI
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
Spring Football
(Continued from Page 16)
freshmen as “cannon fodder” for the Varsity big guns.
In the line Ruetz and Race have been outstanding so far, the latter "kicking a 35 yard field goal last Sunday, while Denny Emanuel and Bein-or have seen much of the tackling duties. Kell, Tonelli, and Burnell have been excused from heavy work during the week favoring injuries. The Pony Express back-field is as yet a non-entity and has not been working as a unit during the spring practice session. Bunny McCormick and Chuck O’Reilly are rounding into shape fast, the cold weather keeping them from scrimmages.
Vincentians Sp/if Twin Bill With Squires
In the first of the year’s softball encounters with outside teams the St. Vincent De Paul society aggregation met with fair success against two teams representing the Columbia Squires of Elkhart, Indiana.
Two games were played; the first found Leo McFarlane being handicapped by poor support and losing, 17-13. In the second game, the Vincentians found the going a lot smoother and were able to down their out-of-town rivals in an extra inning affair, 7-6. Leo McFarlane also hurled this game.
•	■
■	■
:	Stop	with	:
: GEORGE	J. (Studie) LINS, '02 =
■	■
!	at the	!
a	■
a	■
Lins Golden Court
Motor Hotel
a	■
:	On U. S. 66	i
; Will Rogers Highway : !	Tucumcari, N. Mex.	•
a	■
a	•
■ Filling Station and Cafe : !	in connection.	•
LlTTEB
out” includes
If “sitting one your best girl and your best smoke . . . LITTLE FENDRICH
YEAH MAN..
IT’S A PLEASURE TO SIT ONE OUT!! 0
PANETELAS ... the cigar endorsed by thousands of young men the country over . . . that comes in one size and one flavor every time . . . always fresh . . . always a PLEASURE’.!
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
Dr. Landis H. Wirt
ORTHODONTIST
. 1002 Tower Building
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919	Indiana
FAVORITE SIZE FOR YOUNG MEN
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937

If Llothes Were Like automobiles...
ALSO Yello-Bole$l, Carburetor Yetto
CURED WITH HONEY
Pipe-smokers who chew their bits— who bite through ordinary pipe-stems —here’s the pipe that will save you money. Has a special new bit. You can’t bite it off. Bit has 3 smokechannels. Stembiter Yello-Bole also gives you the famous Honey Treated Bowl; smokes like a well-broken-in pipe.
-Bole $1.25. Imperial Yello-Bole $1.50
YOH URI CHEW OFF OUTHPIECE
STEMBITER YELLO-BOLE
If clothes were like automobiles and displayed the name of their maker where all the world could see it, you'd find Notre Dame full of suits with the Harf Schaffner & Marxlabel. And every year sees even more men and young men swinging over to America's favorite quality clothes. •
They like the dependable, thoroughbred quality that shows up in the innumerable details of tailoring . . . the feel of the husky, richly woven woolens ... the graceful, tasteful styling of Robert Surrey, ace style observer for this famous maker. Best of all, men know the Hart Schaffner & Marx label is an unconditional guarantee of satisfaction and top value.
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
Notre Dame, Indiana
STOP worrying about Chicago Traffic
Ride the SOUTH SHORE Line
Speeding is legal on the South Shore Line . . . there’s always a green light for the fast electric trains. Go the fast, safe way —via South Shore Line — and pocket the savings.
5Ouihnshore;
Name Foley to Hearst Reportoriai Post
Paul Foley, editor of The Scholastic and a senior in the school of Journalism, has been selected for a reportoriai position with a Hearst newspaper by Mr. Gene Robb, Hearst interviewer, who visited the campus March 22. Foley was chosen from a group of fifteen Notre Dame senior journalists.
Mr. Robb interviewed senior journalists of twenty-five universities and colleges of the Middlewest. Fifteen journalists were chosen from the schools. From this group, eight journalists were . assigned to reportoriai positions with Hearst newspapers. Foley will be assigned to a Hearst newspaper in the near future.
The Old Oil
Cocoanut oil instead of gasoline may some day drive the trucks and tractors of the world—if experiments being conducted by Antonio Buot, graduate mechanical engineering student at the University of Minnesota, prove successful.
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE
DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 30, 1937
Drake Relays
(Continued from Page 14)
laps for his half-mile in the most excellent time of 1:57.5.
Notre Dame’s four mile team, probably its strongest relay group, met with misery when the baton was knocked out of Steve Szumachow-ski’s hand. The rain, making the wood slippery, may have caused this mishap.
No records were tied or broken at the 1937 Relays, and this may be attributed directly to the inclement weather that prevailed. A drizzling Iowa rain fell throughout the entire program.
Carson Injured
Jim Carson, regular first baseman on the N. D. nine, is probably out for the season as a result of colliding with Joe O’Neil, and dislocating his shoulder. The accident occurred in practice last Sunday. It is a hard-luck blow for both Carson and the team.
The Indianapolis junior hit a bunt towards first base. O’Neil came in and fielded the ball, and then as both were going toward the bag the collision took place.
ARROW. . . selected by Men for Men
From Arrow shirts right down to ties, handkerchiefs and trunks . . . we're headquarters for Arrow merchandise.
MAX
ADLER
“The Big Store on the Corner'
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors. . .
Night life is nothing new to Arrow. For many years. Arrow dress shirts, collars and ties have been attending many gay parties. Today, Arrow still holds the fashion front. Whether you are wearing tails or tux, insist on Arrow—it’s authentic. This season we bring you UDO and kirk, two dress shirts of distinction §3 each. Arrow collars — 35c. Dress ties Si.
Mitoga—tailored to fit	Sanforized Shrunk
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
In the Big Town, you see lots of empty packages. That means that pack after pack of refreshingly mild, good tasting Chesterfields have sat-isfied hundreds... maybe thousands.
Way oat in Goose Creek Junction you meet up zuith men who tell you that Chesterfields are milder.. .you see ladies ivho tell you how good they taste and ivhat a pleasing aroma they have.
. . . Chesterfield satisfies ’em.
Copyright 1937. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
