The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailingT at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
March 1, 1934
No. 18
VARIED PROGRAMS ARE BROADCASTED ON WSBT
NOTRE DAME DEBATING SCHEDULE LISTS INTERSECTIONAL MEETS
Continuing its series of radio broadcasts from the studio in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, Station WSBT presented to its audience several outstanding programs during the past week.
“Is Philosophy practical?” was the topic for the dialogue broadcast by the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., and Dr. Daniel O’Grady, on Monday afternoon at 4:30 from the campus radio station in the Engineering building.
Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady
He took part in a dialogue.
“Philosophy is the most practical of all subjects because it solves the problems that come up in every day life and it teaches us how we should live,” stated the speakers. They continued in part:
“Everyone has a philosophy of life, but since he does not understand it, he fails to solve his problems well. If men do not really know with certainty what life is finally for, it is hard to see how they can convince themselves that one course of action is better than another.
“Pragmatism — whatever works is true — seems to be the dominant philosophy, but its main defect lies in its lack of confidence in man himself and in his ability to know reality as it is; therefore, it is partially skeptical. The pragmatist as a philosopher spends much of his time attempting to prove that it is impossible to philosophize. Pragmatism is contrasted with scholastic philosophy which is the optimistic philosophy.”
On Wednesday evening, Feb. 27, the half hour broadcast from 8:00 to (Continued on Page 13)
Search 1, 1935
Rev. E. P. Burke, C.S.C., Calls for Dramatic Skits To Be Used for Radio
A meeting of those interested in sci-ipt writing for the radio station was held last Monday night, February 25, at eight o’clock in the studio in the Engineering building.
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., in charge of the student radio productions, and Ned Reglien, WSBT announcer, presided at the meeting.
Father Burke urged those present to make an effort to write material, primarily dramatic skits, to be used in future broadcasts. He expressed himself as pleased with the representative group of freshmen who attended the meeting and hoped to see a better turnout of upperclassmen for the next meeting, which will take place this Monday night, at 8 o’clock on the third floor of the Engineering building.
All those who are interested in writing should attempt to contribute something of a dramatic nature to future programs. The success of the campus radio station depends almost entirely on the response of the student body.
All manuscripts should be handed in to Father Burke, either in his room at 244 Dillon or at one of the radio meetings which are held every Monday night.
Anyone with talent who desires to try his announcing abilities may do so by applying at the regular Monday evening meetings of the group at 8:00 o’clock in the Engineering building. Head of the group is James Boyle; technicians in charge of controls are two engineering students; available for trial announcing is a practicing microphone in the Engineering building. Much of the annoimc-iing to date has been done by Joe Mansfield and James Boyle.
TO ENTER TOURNAMENT
Following a successful launching, with a victory over Leland-Stanford and the highest percentage of wins in the North Manchester “B” tournament, the Notre Dame Varsity debate
Richard Meier He will make a trip.
season will continue on a busy schedule for the next month and a half.
The debate team this year has one of the most active programs since 1930. The following is the schedule for the coming weeks.
March 1 and 2—Delta Sigma Rho tournament at Iowa City.
March 5—Iowa State at Ames, la. (N.D. negative, no decision.) -
March 5—William and Mary, here (N.D. negative, no decision).
March 6—Michigan State at Lansing (N.D. negative).
March 8—Alabama, here (N.D. affirmative, no decision).
March 13 — Michigan State, here (N.D. affirmative).
March 28—New York University, here (N.D. negative).
April 11—W e s t e r n Reserve at Cleveland (side not determined).
April 12—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh (N.D. negative).	•
Debating on the affirmative for (Continued on Page 20)
One
Juniors and Guests Dance Tonight To Music of Bestor’s Orchestra
DEBATERS WIN EIGHT CONTESTS IN TOURNEY
MICKEY ISLEY TOMORROW
By Mitchell C. Tackley
All this week paths were made from the three junior halls to the dry cleaning department by students overladen with dress coats, scarfs, and white vests. The toppers were taken down from the high shelves for a brisk brushing, the studs were
Thom-as J. Murphy
He ivaltzes tonight.
shined up, and a last look was given to the two precious tickets tucked away in a drawer, all in readiness for the Junior Prom festivities which begin tonight at the Palais Royale. More than three hundred couples comprising members of the junior, senior, and law classes, will attend the affair.
Don Bestor and his orchestra will play tonight for the prom proper and Mickey Isley and his Gary orchestra will furnish music for the dinner dance tomorrow evening. Isley’s band has been a favorite on the campus since last year when it played for three of the dances. The dinner dance will begin at 7:30 tomorrow evening, and the affair will be formal.
Miss Phyllis Grant, of the University of Illinois, is Queen of the 1935 Prom. She is the guest of General Chairman Thomas M. Reardon. Miss Mary Ann Reardon, of St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods, Indiana, is the guest of honor of the prom and is the guest of junior class President Thomas J. Murphy.
One of the features of this year’s prom is the elaborate programs that will be distributed at the doors to-
T wo
“The Setonian” Praises Material and Make-up of THE SCHOLASTIC
The “exchange” column of the January, 1935 issue of The Setonian, official organ of Seton Hill College, Greensburg, Pennsylvania, contains the following comment on The Scholastic:
“The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC shows excellent make-up. The front page leads are interesting enough to make one pursue the article to its completion. The editorial upon club finances is peculiarly appropriate for the beginning of the second semester. The essay on the origin of “The Victory March”, “Hike, Hike”, and other famous Notre Dame songs, captivates and interests. It gives, unwittingly, a miniature epic of Notre Dame football. We would have enjoyed a resume of Will Rogers’ speech at the Aeronautics Conference better than the notice that he spoke. “The Week” written in mock-serious style is indisputably clever, and the gem about fatalism and semester examinations is choice; I quote: ‘As we approach the semiannual accounting of our stewardship, or something, — why worry? Laugh and be gay, and smile while you get your throat cut!’ ”
night. The program is a copy of the 1934 Commencement program. It has a cover of rich blue leather and is embossed with a golden dome and letters, Notre Dame, across the front. There are no favors for the prom and the program was selected to serve the dual purpose.
The junior prom and dinner dance marks the last dance until May and should be attended by the largest number of students of any dance of the' year. Students attending the dance have permission to use automobiles over the weekend and to remain out until 2:30 o’clock tonight and until midnight tomorrow. The hours of the prom are from 9:30 to 1:30, and the dinner dance from 7:30 to 10:30. The Gold, Florentine, and Rotary rooms on the Oliver Hotel mezzanine will be used for the dinner dance and more than two hundred couples are expected.
The Notre Dame debate squad received the highest percentage of wins in the “B” section of the Fifth Annual Invitational College Debate tournament at Manchester College on Feb. 22 and 23.
An affirmative and negative team with two alternate debaters from Notre Dame went to North Manchester, Indiana with Professors Coyne and Apodaca last week and returned with the laudable average of eight victories out of ten debates.
The affirmative team composed of John Weppner, Franklyn Hochreiter, George Krug and Richard Meier beat teams from Manchester, Wayne and Albion and lost to Toledo and Western State. The Notre Dame negative team of John Heywood, Thomas Proctor, James Burke and Eugene Malloy defeated Northwestern, Manchester, Western State, Quincy and Bowling Green.
In the tournament were entered 34 colleges and 96 teams. Two questions were debated: “Resolved, that all nations should agree to prevent the international shipment of arms and munitions,” and “Resolved, that all collective bargaining be negotiated by non - company unions.” The Notre Dame teams debated the former of the two questions.
Debating each question were two divisions, an “A” and a “B.” Only in the “A” group were definite places assigned in the tournament victories, hence recognition was given in the “B” section on percentage of wins and not on placing in the tournament.
Display Rack Presented To Chemical Department
A display rack showing a typical refining process for Pennsylvania grade crude oil was received recently by the Department of Chemical Engineering and will be used for instruction in Industrial Chemistry. The exhibit, which was furnished by the Pennsylvania Grade Crude Oil Association of Oil City, Pennsylvania, will become a permanent part of the department’s display depicting various industrial processes.
Included in the exhibit are small bottles containing samples of petroleum products from the raw crude to finished motor oil, gasoline, kerosene, and wax. A sketch of a typical refinery flow chart indicates the various points in the process at which the respective products are removed.
The Scholastic

FR. O’HARA TO STUDY EUROPEAN EDUCATION
Elmer Layden and Joe Boland To be Boxing Show Officials

&

Very Rev. Janies W. Donahue, C.S.C., superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, sailed on the S.S. Champlain, Feb. 23, for a six weeks’ European visit.
They were accompanied by the Rev. Casimir Sztuczko, C.S.C., former pastor of Holy Trinity parish in Chicago, who will initiate steps for establishing a house of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Poland.
While abroad, Father Donahue will visit the houses of the Congregation, and Father O’Hara will study trends in practical education and research being conducted in mediaeval philosophy at the principal universities on the Continent.
He plans to visit the major seats of learning in England, France, and Ireland, and to secure additional ancient documents for the Institute of Mediaeval Studies which was founded in 1933 at Notre Dame. A permanent endowment has been established at the University to finance intensive work on theological and literary manuscripts of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries.
Father O’Hara’s interest in present educational trends is aimed in particular at the preparation of undergraduates for work in business, industry, and governmental service.
Both Fathers Donahue and O’Hara plan to return to this country early in April.
Before leaving Father O’Hara in an interview with the New York American, warned against the drift in America to “the two extremes of Fascism and Communism.”
Sailing on the French liner Champlain to study the progress of medieval research at European universities, he said:
“I wish to get more knowledge of the 13th century philosophers, who have much to offer this age.
Depths Reached
“They were calm3 thinkers and cared little for material comforts. The 13th century reached the heights in pure thought. We have probably reached the depths.
“As our material comforts improved, we have sacrificed thought. Our materialistic civilization has created unique problems, which Congress is trying very hard to solve.
“We have gone to the two extremes of Fascism and Communism, when the real solution can always be found in a middle course.
Our System Ideal
“We have an ideal system of Government. But certain false theories
(Continued on Patre 7)
Sedalia To Send Rooters On Special Train To See
McGrath - Sheedy Fight
By William H. Tourney
Sedalia, Mo., Feb. 28—Local citizens today were arranging for a special train to bring the home town delegation that will come here to see Gunner McGrath begin his comeback trail against Talker Sheedy, an up and coming youngster, in the feature event of the Bengal Bouts on the night of March 22.
The Gunner was born far back in the Ozarks but moved to the wide open town of Sedalia at an early age. He soon became the target of the town kids and many a bloody gun fight ensued before he could join the local gang of desperados. Yet he slashed, shot, clawed and tore his way to leadership.
He was soon on his way to becoming the state public enemy number one when the federal government made him the county sheriff. Feared by thief and citizen alike, he personally put down a reign of terror that was fast gripping the southwest. At one stage of the fight the bloodthirsty leader of the bandits caught McGrath unarmed and demanded the sheriff’s surrender. But reaching in his pocket for a batch of nails he chewed in place of tobacco, the Gunner bit them to the sharpness of a razor blade, placed them between his teeth, aimed, and then let fly. He soon had the bad man running down the street piercing the air with crys for mercy.
“We are proud of the Gunner’s record as a killer,” said the mayor, when interviewed tonight. “If he stops Sheedy I am going to declare a legal holiday.”
But a different cry came from Sheedy’s supporters tonight. “Why it will be downright murder to put McGrath in the same ring with our boy. Mike loves his mother and even sends candy to his sisters, but he just runs amuck when he is fighting. Up in Chicago last week he was easily winning his fight, but when he opened a cut above the other boy’s eye the smell of blood drove him crazy. He went after him with both gloves pumping leather death. He knocked him down and then jumped on him. When the 30 cops subdued him, he had his teeth sunk in the other guy’s neck.
“Mike wouldn’t harm a kitten when he’s left alone, but when he sees blood he becomes a killer. It’s the primitive in him.”
Sheedy himself had plenty to say as usual. “There’s not room for both of us on the campus. One of us has to leave, and I’m staying.”
EARLY TICKET SALE GOOD
Tickets for the Bengal Boxing Show, which will be held in the University gymnasium on March 22, went on sale early this week. Early reports indicated an enthusiastic response. Tickets are priced at twenty-
Elmer F. Laydex
“I am definitely in favor. . ”
five cents, and may be purchased from canvassers in each of the halls, at the cafeteria newsstand, the campus candy store, the A.A. ticket office, and at the newspaper offices downtown.
Mr. Elmer F. Layden, Director of Athletics, yesterday accepted an in-vitation ■ to be honorary head judge of the show. In accepting the post Mr. Layden voiced enthusiastic approval of the show. “I am definitely . in favor of the Bengal Bouts,” he stated, “and expect to see a large crowd in attendance. Boxing is a fine sport and The Scholastic show is bound to furnish spectators with some great entertainment.”
Shortly after Mr. Layden had accepted the invitation to be honorary head judge, Joe Boland, assistant football coach, signified his willingness to announce the show. Mr. Boland is especially well fitted for this post since he was engaged in radio announcing work for a number of years. He also was loud in his praises of the show, and said that from what he had seen of the boxers working out in the gymnasium, an exciting evening was in store for the spectators.
The fighters are training daily in the gymnasium. A full report of their activity will be found on page 13.
March 1, 193 5
Three
SHANE LESLIE LECTURES ON JONATHAN SWIFT
WRANGLERS CHOOSE SIX TO FILL VACANCIES; TWENTY APPLY
VILLAGERS TO BANQUET BASKETBALL TEAM
Mr. Leslie’s Lectures
March 5—“Ghosts in Legend and Reality.”
March 12—“St. Patrick’s Purgatory.”
March 26—“The Man in the Iron Mask.”
The Wranglers, honorary forensic society of the University, last Tuesday evening accepted six new men into their ranks. They include: Clifford Brown, Edward Boyle, Richard
A man who is “one of the most vivid, terrifying, and terrible characters in English literature and, perhaps, Irish history” was presented to a large audience in Washington Hall in a lecture given by Shane Leslie last Tuesday night. Mr. Leslie, with all the sympathy for, and all the knowledge of, his subject that he could command, revealed a Jonathan Swift for his listeners “more interesting, more pleasing, and romantic” than the figure, who, his enemies would have us believe, “entered the nursery with the ferocity of an ogre.” The timelessness of Swift, his fearlessness, the mysteries of his life, and his ability as a man of literature were the pegs upon which the speaker hung the canvas of his lecture.
Mr. Leslie pointed out that Swift has never been out of his date. “His scourge falls appropriately on the follies of each century.” Even in his age he found cause to loose his wrath upon those who sought to bring about a depreciation of gold when the king of England granted a patent to substitute copper currency for gold in Ireland, by a measure which had received the approval of Parliament, the prime minister, and the Duchess of Kendall, mistress to the king. Neither the king nor the king’s lady were able to smother Swift’s acrid satire, nor were they capable of intimidating the indignant Dean of St. Patrick’s.
Another instance of the great satirist’s modernity was indicated in the case where Swift conceived, in his Academy of Laputa, a group of men, similar to our “Brain Trust.” This group, instead of paying the farmers of Laputa to plough under their surplus crops, “found it wise to spend time and money in breeding naked sheep” to decrease the amount of wool on the market.
Returning later to the subject of Swift’s courage, Leslie related the story of the bitter conflict between the Dean and Hugh Walpole, then prime minister of England. Walpole hated Swift, because he couldn’t bribe the Irishman, and the latter detested the prime ministed for trying to win him over by bribery. In a day when “it was dangerous to say everything,” and, when Walpole could have crushed him forever,
Four
John Heywood
He spoke for new speakers.
Meier, Charles Meyers, Robert Weaver and Pierre de la Vergne.
These men were selected from a group of twenty men, from the three lower classes, who had made application to the Committee on Membership. The Committee recommended twelve applicants to the society and it chose the above six.
Arthur Korzeneski, president of the Wranglers, appointed John Heywood as chairman of the formal dinner of induction for the new men. The banquet will be held on Tuesday evening, March 12, in South Bend, at the Rose Marie Tea Room.
With the filling of six chairs last week the Wranglers now has its quota nearly reached as there are eighteen active men and one honorary member. The society membership quota is twenty active members, and honorary members as deemed feasible by the President.
The new men will attend their first regular meeting on Tuesday, March 19th.
Arthur Sandusky, a junior in the College of Law, will deliver the speech of the evening next week.
Kurt Simon, commerce senior, was recently appointed general chairman of the annual testimonial banquet to be tendered the varsity basketball team by the Notre Dame Villagers’ Club on Tuesday evening, March 19, in the University dining halls.
The affair, which in the past several years has been sponsored by the •< St. Joe Valley Alumni club, was given over by the latter group to the Villagers to climax their successful activities of the current school year. The down towners will be assisted in an advisory capacity, however, by a committee of St. Joe Valley Club members including James Armstrong, Alumni secretary; William Sheehan, president of the St. Joe Valley Alumni association; Professor Louis F.
Buckley, and Herbert Jones.
Paralleling the annual football banquet, the dinner honoring Coach Keogan’s squad will have the usual array of prominent guests and brilliant speakers. Included on the program are Coaches Elmer Layden and George Keogan, various university officials, Ed Krause, Jack Elder, Noble Kizer of Purdue, and several other coaches of the Big Ten schools.
Tickets to the banquet are to go on sale next week and may be obtained from members of the Villagers’ club. Committees as selected by President Dan Youngerman for the banquet are as follows:
Swift mercilessly and devilishly rode the prime minister in satirical ballads. On the occasion when Swift was protesting against the use of copper to back the Irish dollar, the lord lieutenant of Ireland answered Walpole’s command to arrest the man, with: “There are not enough soldiers in Ireland to do so.” Many feared Swift, and he, himself, gave ground to no one.
That portion of the lecture which dealt with certain of the mysteries, concerning Swift’s life and his work, was the most interesting of all. First-Mr. Leslie took up the question of
Swift’s relations with Vanessa and Stella. The reasons why the great Irish author never married either •one of these beautiful and talented women, who most certainly loved him, have always intrigued and puzzled scholars. Mr. Leslie’s simple explanation is that Swift rejected matrimony because he was more devoted to his work, and, besides, had a most dreadful fear of falling into the state of poverty, suffered by most married clergy of the time.
The mysterious disappearance of Swift’s most important manuscript was another absorbing topic dealt with by the speaker. For centuries no trace of the valuable work could be found. It was for Mr. Leslie, by the use of a great piece of detective work and a fine imagination, to discover, after years of search, the dusty old volume among some rubbish in the housekeeper’s room of an ancient English mansion.
Because Swift never signed any of his poems — they were often libellous attacks on living individuals — there has always'been great difficulty in identifying those which are really his and those which are only attrib- 4 uted to his hand.
The Scholastic
TO USE VALUED FOLIOS IN LESLIE’S CLASSES
By Lindsay Phoebus
Last summer, while lecturing at Cardinal Mundelein’s seminary, St. Mary’s of the Lake, Mr. Shane Leslie, with the aid of Monsignor William Kiely, obtained permission from Cardinal Mundelein himself to borrow . the Cardinal’s Shakespeare folio fragments. It is Mr. Leslie’s intention to have these folios restored to neat appearance, before returning them to the seminary. These folios, on view under one of the glass covered exhibit cases in the library, are evidently very aged. Many of their pages have been severely affected by damp, particularly around the edges. The paper on which they were printed is of an unusually excellent grade. Evidence of this is apparent in the comparatively few marks of time to be found on the main area of the pages. The restoration of the folios will be the work of volunteers from Mr. Leslie’s “Hamlet” class.
They will also classify the folio fragments under the different dates of the appearance of the folios themselves: the First Folio appeared in 1623; the Second, in 1632; the Third, in 1664, and the Fourth, in 1685. The fragments of the First Folio are particularly interesting, since they belong to an unknown copy. Of the 180 known copies of Shakespeare’s Folios, over 100 are to be found in America.
The fragments of the First Folio apparently belonged to an old priest, who left them to the seminary at St. Mary’s of the Lake when he died. All history of the folio, further than this, is unrecorded. The Hamlet class hopes to reconstruct a complete folio from the fragments. These portions include the rare portrait of the Bard of Avon by Droesheut and a copy of Ben Johnson’s famous poem eulogizing the world’s greatest play write.
Dr. Bosenbach, a great collector of Shakespeare manuscripts, has sent facsimile copies of the First Folio and Second Quarto of Hamlet for the use of Mr. Leslie’s Hamlet class. Mr. Leslie, too, is a great searcher for Shakespeare’s material. He once discovered the complete First Folio. This one is called the “Percy Folio” because it belonged to Bishop Percy, English antiquary and poet of the eighteenth century. It was Bishop Percy who wrote the Reliques of English Poetry, one of the most famous works in English literature. This Folio is in the Folger Library in Washington. Dr. Leslie also found the thirteenth copy of Shakespeare’s sonnets, of which only twelve were previously known to the world.
Last year, in the Folger Library, Mr. Leslie roughly catalogued 70 (Continued on Page 17)
ST. VINCENT DE PAULIANS ASK FOR MORE STUDENT SURVEY VOLUNTEERS
For the second time in two weeks, the Notre Dame conference of St. Vincent de Paul Society had as guests at its meeting, members of the
Reverend John Kelley
Directs charitable ivork.
society from South Bend conferences. Representing St. Patrick’s and St. Joseph’s parish at the regular meeting of the society, Tuesday evening, Feb. 26, were Mr. William Donahue, Mr. Hiss, and Mr. Velker. The visiting gentlemen congratulated the Notre Dame conference on its “efficiency and man-power.”
Accounts of visits to families in South Bend, and an appeal from President Vince McAloon for more volunteers for work on the Federal Rehabilitation project occupied the remainder of the evening. President McAloon announced that the society has shifted the site of its office to Room 10, Lyons Hall.
Hochreiter Speaks
Franklyn C. Hochreiter, senior in the College of Arts and Letters and varsity debater, spoke to the debating society of Madison Junior High school in South Bend last Wednesday morning on the “Science of Debating.”
Hochreiter was sent to Madison school through the courtesy of Professor William Coyne, varsity debate coach, who had been requested by the school authorities to have a Notre Dame debater talk to the students.
In his talk Hochreiter outlined the method of debate and presented the fundamental theories. He also pointed out the need for instruction along forensic lines as a necessary requisite for public life today.
Two weeks ago, John Heywood, Thomas Proctor and Richard Meier, also varsity debate men, judged a debate between South Bend Central High school and Mishawaka High school.
N.Y. “TIMES” EDITORIAL LAUDS FR. NIEUWLAND
An editorial of the New York Times of February 24, 1935, dealing with synthetic rubber and the value for the United States of its discovery by the Reverend Julius Arthur Nieuwland, C.S.C., professor of organic chemistry at Notre Dame, points out that this country, the world’s largest consumer of rubber, was heretofore the victim of England and Holland, who, since they had a corner on the market, could demand any price they wanted for the product. Now America can use synthetic rubber as an instrument with which she can prevent other nations from taking advantage of her condition. “Hence,” the editorial goes on to say, “the satisfaction with which the American chemical industry greeted the award of the American Institute’s medal to Father Julius Arthur Nieuwland. Although synthetic rubber is the practical result of research conducted by a group of du Pont chemists under the direction of Dr. Wallace H. Carothers, it is to this self-effacing priest that we owe our freedom from domination by foreign planters.
“For seventy years chemists were hampered both by a wrong definition of rubber and by what is demanded of rubber. They had picked latex apart, chemically speaking, and decided that it was an intricate compound of hydrogen and carbon. Hence any substitute for rubber must be similarly composed, they reasoned, clinging tenaciously to this traditional conception, the Germans succeeded in producting rubber of a kind — rubber which enabled them to meet the exigencies of war for a time, but which was utterly unable to satisfy the industrial demands of peace. With the boldness that has always characterized exceptional innovators, Father Nieuwland abandoned precepts doomed to fail in practice. He asked himself questions. What is demanded of a rubber in daily life? If the definition is changed, may not something better than natural rubber result? The answers came in the form of a new basic material, chloroprene. As its name indicates, it consists of 40 per cent chlorine, not found in latex at all. Out of this compound, without a counterpart in nature, came something better than rubber, for the simple reason that it can resist kerosene, gasoline, oil, air, ozone, acids and alkalis. And the raw material? Nothing but coke and lime out of which calcium carbide is made, then acetylene and finally chloroprene. By throwing overboard a hampering definition, by demanding something better than nature’s rub-
(Continued on Pace S >
diarch 1, 1935
Five
PIONEER IN WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY RETIRES
.	By John J. Moran
“We older fellows must step out to make room for the youngsters. The colleges are turning them out by the thousands every year.” The speaker was Professor Jerome Joseph Green, the man credited with the first application of the wireless telegraph in this country. Mr. Green, professor of physics and electrical engineering at the University from 1895 to 1915, recently celebrated his 69th birthday in San Diego, California, where he is now living in semi-retirement.
When the University conferred the degree of doctor of laws on Guglielmo Marconi, last year, the Reverend John F. O’Hara, .C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, in his address of welcome cited the importance of Mr. Green’s work in this field.
“In March, 1889,” said Father O’Hara, “Senator Marconi gave an address on wireless telegraphy in London, and this was followed almost immediately by successful experiments with the transmission of wireless messages across the English channel. Professor Jerome Green, then in charge of the department of physics at Notre Dame, had been studying the same problem. He was impressed by the principles laid down by this Italian boy, for Marconi was only 22 years old at the time. Here in Science hall he constructed an apparatus by which he was able to send messages successfully.”
With the aid of students, Professor Green was able in May 1889 to send his first message on the crude instruments he had constructed here on the campus. At first the messages were sent from room to room and from one building to another on the campus. Later messages were flashed from the tower of the church to the tower of St. Hedwig’s. church in South Bend, a distance of some three miles.
The attention of the world of science was drawn to Professor Green’s experiments when the Chicago papers sent reporters to witness these “amazing” occurrences. Mr. Green was prevailed on to demonstrate his experiments before startled Chicago audiences. The pioneer apparatus used in these demonstrations was later destroyed in a fire at the University, and save for a coil, Professor Green has only photographs which depict the spark-coil transmitter, and the old coherer type that preceded even the crystal receivers to remind him of his early instruments.
Professor Green also was a pioneer in the field of radio and in experiments with the X-ray. He still
(Continued on Page 17)
Six -	.	’ . ;	~ '
Way up in Room 409 Walsh — affectionately and accurately called the fourth floor pantry — lives Charlie Schill, the engineer’s choice for almost everything, and the pride of Havana, Illinois.
To emulate Charlies’s record at Havana High School is still the goal of all good Havana freshmen. Schill was valedictorian of his class, editorin-chief of the school paper and class president for two successive years.
In his spare moments Charlie was en- . ergetic enough to win letters in foot- . ball, basketball, and track. Strange to say Charlie’s athletic prowess has been confined to bowling since coming to Notre Dame. His high bowling score, made only last week, is ninety-six.	.	-	.	-
Schill is. not a politician by desire but by choice of his friends. The esteem in which he is held by the engineers was evinced last spring when he was the unanimous choice for their S.A.C. representative. Since the time of his election, he has filled the position even to the satisfaction of the engineers."
Charlie’s gargantuan appetite was the main objection to his being chosen as a member of the Engineers’ Club refreshment committee, but again his practical political tactics won a chairmanship for him. He is telling the truth when he says that he has never missed a meal in the dining hall during his three and one-half years here. Charlie’s favorite fruit was strawberries up to the unusual episode of last spring. On the night of the Monogram Formal, after . eating many, many strawberries, he broke out with the well . .known “strawberry rash” and had to call the .
PHARMACY CLUB MEETS FOR ANNUAL BANQUET
Last night in the Lay Faculty Dining Room, the second annual Pharmacy Club banquet was given in conjunction with the South Bend Pharmacy Club. This affair was inaugurated last year to. promote closer cooperation between the pharmacists of South Bend and the local Pharmacy Department in matters of mutual interest.
After the banquet, the group went to the Chemistry Building where a series of contests had been arranged. These contests were of a pharmaceutical nature and a knowledge of the subject was necessary in order to win one of the many prizes contributed by pharmaceutical manufacturers. The evening’s entertainment was concluded with the presentation of a movie furnished by the Owens-Illinois Glass Co. This film was made in St. Louis during a survey of drug stores in that district.
Approximately 75 persons attended the banquet and program. Among others present were Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science; Dr. L. H. Bald-inger, Head of the Pharmacy Department; Mr. H. B. Froning, Head of the Chemistry Department; Mr. Dean Miller, President of the South Bend Pharmacy Club; Mr. 0. E. Russel, Secretary of the Indiana State Board of Pharmacy, and Mr. F. W. Meissner, former State Board member.
Economics
John Corrigan, president of the Economic Seminar, delivered a papei-defining and explaining the abrogation of the Gold Clause, recently declared constitutional by the Supreme Court except in cases of government and public bonds, before the regular meeting of the seminar held last Tuesday evening, February 26, in the Latin room of the Law building.
party off. Since that time, Charlie has stuck to yeast and his fair complexion comes, not from Lady Esther Cream, but from Fleischman’s.
Up to last year Charlie wore the usual corduroy pants and suede jacket which are the stigma of the engineer. The influence of Alumni, however, changed Charlie and now he is known as the best dressed man who beats the corridors of the Cushing Hall of Engineering.
Schill is a good student and a dili-ent worker. He will be graduated in June with a B.S. in Civil Engineering. His favorite subjects are Surveying and Highway Engineering for with these as a background, he hopes to become a member of the Illinois Highway Commission.
1./
The Scholastic
SCHOLZ, KUBIK SPEAK TO SCIENCE ACADEMY
College Parade With Vincent Gorman
CORRIGAN ADDRESSES
PATRICIANS MEETING
Papers on two widely separated theoretical subjects were presented at the Academy of Science meeting Monday night in Science Hall. Roy Scholz, a senior in Science, gave the first of these on the topic of “Evolution.” The second, “Probability of
Roy Scholz
Spoke on Evolution.
Life on Mars,” was read by Frank Kubik, a junior in Science.
Scholz not only discussed the various theories advanced in defense of evolution, but gave the arguments which have been propounded in contradiction to the hypothesis. The speaker outlined several of the classical experiments which have been carried on to support the theory. Scholz concluded his paper by presenting the attitude of the Catholic Church towards evolution.
In a paper which was illustrated with lantern slides, Kubik submitted the findings of astronomers which lead to the postulation that life might be present on Mars. Of all the heavenly bodies, Mars seems to be the only one exhibiting signs of life or properties sustaining existence. Peculiar lines resembling canals, change in color suggesting seasonal vegetation, temperature of about 48 degrees, and atmosphere are a few of the characteristics substantiating the proposition.
FR. O’HARA TRIP
(Continued from Page 3)
and practices led us into the depression.”
Father O’Hara said Notre Dame’s new four-year course in the science of government will endeavor to turn out statesmen “to keep in. the middle.”
As for Communism in American universities, he said:
“If it exists, it sho.uld be stamped out. Communism is destructive to society. I can say positively it does not exist in any Catholic colleges.”
PROM STORY II
Here’s the best illustration of that well-known feminine art that we’ve heard. It comes from Wisconsin Cardinal’s “Trouble-shooter.” One notorious coed had a date for the Junior Prom. But Dartmouth was holding its • annual winter carnival around the same time. She received an invitation to make it, broke the Prom date, and, to put the icing on the whole transaction, borrowed the poor fellow’s “W” sweater to flaunt before the boys from the White mountains.
ooooo
Not a bad idea this: Students at William and Mary who have an 85 average may cut as many classes as they wish.
BONERS
The Walrus from Boston U. gives us some more trick definitions with the historical note that they date from 1812 and are named after Napoleon Bonaparte.
ESOPHAGUS: a school of Greek philosophers believing: “Drink and eat today for tomorrow we die.”
FIBRILLATION: means lying because you are insincere in your heart.
CATEGORY: refers to cats used in the laboratory, which are cut up and hence gory.
' POCAHONTAS: queried the lad: “My brother and I were frightened by a poker as kids; will the Pocahontas?”
TERMINATE: the student asked: “Will you finish your terminate weeks?”
ooooo
They’re clucking tongues at the co-ed from U. of Louisiana who wanted to know what kind of powder was used in the Mayflower Compact.
GRATITUDE
After telling the girls at New Rochelle how much we liked their Armistice Day editorial they come back at us in their usual cynical way with a: "So what? Shall we take the honor or not? Has its mithenticity as true student opinion been established?”
All of which, plus the fact that in the annual poll of seniors there this year Fordham was picked as the favorite college, (whereas last year it was N.D.) makes us conclude that soniething sour has taken place. And so we spout: "So what too?”
Just in case anyone caught the discrepancies last week we offer these corrections: The U. of Santo Tomas was founded in 1611 rather* than 1761; and Harvard in 1636 instead of 1763. BEG YOUR PARDON.
At the weekly meeting of the Patricians, Wednesday night, Feb. 27, James Corrigan, senior Patrician, delivered to the members of the Club a paper reviewing the book I, Claudius by Robert Graves. His paper was the first given by a member of the club this semester.
The authority of Robert Graves to write a biography of the emperor Claudius, one of the famous Caesars, was justified by the speaker, for both were forced by circumstances to follow a career they heartily disliked. Graves served in the World War with the same distaste as Tiberius Claudius served as Emperor.
Briefly, the speaker sketched the background of Roman life at that time, showing how the great mass of detail collected by Graves corresponds accurately to the first four centuries after Christ as recorded by the great historians of that time. It was pointed out that Suetonius, the first of the Winchells, furnished Graves with many descriptions, customs and habits of early Roman life.
The life of Claudius, depicted with veracity by Graves, was interestingly reviewed. As a youth Claudius was a “battle-ground of diseases.” To further dishearten the youth, the Cumean Sibyl prophesied, “To a'fawning fellowship, he shall stammer, cluck and trip; cribbling always with his lip.”
Claudius acquired literary habits, made friends with contemporary scholars and writers, especially Livy and Pollio. Other than these men he had very few friends. Even his wife, Livia, would not be seen with him. He was not allowed to eat at the great banquets in the Palace because Livia became ill when she looked at him.
“The wealth of historical information included in the book forms a perfect supplement for the study of the Romans through their great literature. The work might be considered as a compilation of the incentives for much of it. It is definitely a book worth reading,” the speaker said in closing.	’
Father O’Hara at Purdue
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, addressed the monthly worship convocation at Purdue University on February 17. Before an audience of more than .2,000 Father O’Hara asserted that, in the complex life of the present, Americans had grossly neglected the simpler things.
starch 1, 1935
Seven
MET CLUB COMMITTEE PLANS TO SHIFT DEBT
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
MONOGRAM MEN START WORK ON ABSURDITIES
By Paul Foley
“The Scheme of the. Week,” a new game innovated by the Metropolitan Club in its somewhat rheumatic effort to clear up its financial standing, is fast approaching the popularity of ping-pong, and may even rival the long-gone craze for Mah-Johng; in any event it seems quite certain that it will accomplish just about as much as the latter did.
After two or three unsuccessful attempts had been made to put the situation squarely before the demurring members, a committee of six was appointed by the S.A.C. to tackle the snarled skeins and attempt to weave some plan for liquidation.
This week’s move, after a meeting had to be . postponed last Sunday, calls for the submission of the $400 deficit to the New York alumni group. The committee fondly hopes that the graduates will accept the debt, pay it off, and wait expectantly for their money to return home in the form of proceeds from the next two dances given by the club.
In addition to their efforts toward alumni assistance the committee has ■written to each of the Met. Club’s creditors, in what appears to be an effort at finding their attitude toward the accounts. To date they have received one reply, a cryptic statement from a South Bend concern reading roughly: “The Metropolitan Club owes us a bill and we expect payment!”
The committee has thus far made no actual report of its findings to either the club or its officers. Members ■who showed up promptly at 10:30 last Sunday for the scheduled meeting found the North Room of the Library filled with a drab emptiness and, patting bill-folds hopefully, decided to wait for the committee to count its mail from the creditors.
While the becalmed committee attempts to palm off a sugar-coated pill on the New York alumni a new angle copies to light ■with the report that the Lido Country Club, on Long Island, scene of the Met. Club’s last summer dance, has issued a definite threat to start legal action for its share in the deficit.
With the grim specter of a general assessment hovering gloomily in the immediate background the committee is walking its tight wire slowly— “The mills of the Committee grind slow but exceedingly fine.”	.
Eight	■	.
Academic—
Out of Washington Hall poured the begowned seniors, haughtily conscious of their newly acquired aloofness, and a bit awed at the thought of approaching commencement. Nervously they twitched caps back into place and with dainty maneuvers sidestepped imaginary dust hazards swirling about the hems of rented gowns.
Through the impressive ceremony they darted furtive glances across the aisle to see how the guy down the hall would look in a black hat. Tassel colors were compared and quips secretly exchanged by engineers and commerce men. And all waited for the informality of a bull session while academically bedizened.	.
Now it was over and they were lingering in the snipping ■wind in front of Washington Hall, unconsciously fingering unfamiliar raiment, all feeling that something unusual should happen before the gowns were returned to the basement of Walsh, not to be seen again until Commencement week.	;
Superficial banter died out and the approaching letdown seemed inevitable. Already stray groups became segregated and started across the campus. Soon all would follow. The' short-lived feeling of seniority was about over. And that indefinable something was left undone.
Then a gowned figure in the- back shouted loudly: “Let’s go to town!”
It was taken up all along the line and repeated till the incongruous quality of its humor had worn thin. But it was the touche appropriate. It had evoked pent up laughter; buoyed up fading emotions. The class wit of ’35 had risen to, the occasion. The traditional ceremony had been justified.
Hobby—	_	.	.
Over on the third floor of Walsh Freddy Brookmeyer continued serenely content in the pursuit of his hobbies, individually immune to the progressive spurt toward graduation of his fellow seniors.
In September he couldn’t sleep on the university’s mattresses, so he went down town and bought one for himself. When the glamour of the football season faded, he and his neighbor, T. Jefferson Foley, instituted a Shirley Temple club^ bought up all available pictures of the preadolescent movie idol, and even obtained a local corner on those cut-out doll dresses of the young lady. Then they amused themselves with streamlined trains and toy fire engines
Mike Layden, chairman of the forthcoming Monogram Absurdities, has announced that several men, with valuable experience in amateur theatricals, have been secured to assist in the production of the show.
The committee has prevailed upon Mr. James E. McCarthy, Dean of the College of Commerce, to contribute a few of his very popular skits. The Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., has promised to write a couple of songs; the Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C., will contribute several parodies on campus life. Bill Tourney, campus wit, has submitted several valuable ideas to what promises to surpass former Monogram productions.
Professor Vincent F. Fagan, who has long been associated with University activities, has also promised his assistance.
While the show is progressing rapidly Mike Layden very emphatically announced that contributions from students are welcomed and encouraged. These contributions, Layden explained, may be of any type: skits, songs, parodies, sketches, playlets. Suggestions of any sort will be appreciated and should be submitted to Mike Layden, 232 Badin Hall.
Jim Sheils, Wayne Miller, Jack Edwards are members of the committee in charge of the show.
t
“TIMES” EDITORIAL
(Continued from Page 5)
ber, a priest with imagination saves us $375,000,000 a year and liberates us from foreign domination. More than that, he opens up vistas of new insulators, tires, overshoes, fabrics, floor coverings, and even noiseless streets paved with some chloroprene derivatives. One almost longs for a rise in the price of natural rubber. It might mean the creation of new industries — more work for the unemployed.”
which they shot across the carpets of the cheerleader’s double on the third floor.
Now these two furnish a nightly concert of the latest Ray Noble and Guy Lombardo recordings via Foley’s disconnected radio from a program originating in Brookmeyer’s phono-graphically equipped next door studio.
The next item in this vicious circle will be the developing of Freddy’s home-made mdving pictures, with some of Walsh’s most prominent juveniles in the lead.	;
The Scholastic
Calendar


Friday, March 1
Scholastic staff meeting, editorial 6:30 p.m.; general staff, 7:00 pan., Editorial Offices,. Junior Prom, Palais Royale 9:30 to 1:30 p.m. Symphony orchestra practice, Washington Hall 6:30 p.m.
Saturday, March 2
Dinner Dance, Oliver Hotel, 7:30 to 10:30 p.m. Movie, Washington Hall, Ronald Colman in “Bulldog Drummond Strikes Back,” 6:45 and 8:15 p.m.
Sunday, March 3
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m. Interhall basketball, gymnasium 9:00 a.m. Benediction, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m. in the Church.
Monday, March 4
Basketball, Notre Dame varsity vs. Minnesota, gymnasium 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, March 5
St. Vincent de Paul meeting, K. of C. rooms, Walsh Hall 6:45 p.m. Lecture by Shane Leslie’ “Ghosts” in Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m. Symphony Orchestra practice 6:30 p.m. Wranglers Club meeting, 6:30 p.m., Law building.
Wednesday, March 6
Ash Wednesday. Adoration, Sacred Heart Church. Servers Club meeting, 6:30 p.m. in the Church.
Thursday, March 7
Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 5:15 p.m.
i
Irish Club
“Auld Lang Syne” was an appropriate theme song for the Irish Club of Notre Dame when its members assembled for their regular meeting on February 20. The occasion for this sentiment was furnished by the announcement that the organization had lost its three native Irishmen, Mr. Dick, Jeff Garry, and John Gallagher, all of whom left the University at the completion of the first semester.
Robert Cronin, sophomore in Arts and Letters, discussed in entertaining fashion the leading events of the past two centuries in Irish history. His talk embraced such interesting phases as the Penal Laws, Daniel O’Connell and the Emancipation Bill, the Fenian movement, the Manchester murders, and the Land League.
Frank Shay and Tom Flynn were appointed by President James McDevitt as co-chairmen for the annual Irish Club smoker which will be held on the evening of March 15.
Search 1 , 1935
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Birthday
The flag presentation exercises on Washington’s birthday leaves us with many questions on our mind. Certainly it would be idle to speculate about the commemoration of the day of his birth, but there is little doubt that he would have preferred a morning at Valley Forge or- another trip across the Delaware to walking about in zero weather, attired only in flowing black muslin with sleeves that caught each vagrant wisp of cold air and sent it gaily up each arm.
And those speeches! What would he have thought about those speeches? No matter, indeed. They were finely delivered. Precise, sure, unfaltering. But there is just one thing more.
Must all such speeches be alike? Must they all say the same things, year after year, in the same way? Is there any room at all for originality? Isn’t it just possible that a new note might be struck some day, by someone, somewhere? Or is there a law that governs such matters? We don’t know—we’re asking. As far as we can see, there is no real, final excuse for rubber stamp speech - making, except, of course, the attitude of “What’s the difference what we say, so long as we say something" And for that there is no excuse.
We think, that if a person approaches these affairs in the right frame of mind, he can derive a great deal of enjoyment from what ordinarily would be obnoxious to him. For instance, did you who were present last week try counting the stock phrases that you have had shouted at you a thousand times before? We did, and as a result it was with an almost irrational happiness that we pounced upon such a phrase as “the dawning of a brighter day.” And when we were told that “Washington piloted the wavering bark of state through troublesome water s,” we were nearly overwhelmed. That good old ship of state, back again after all these months! It forbodes the coming of another political convention.
Promenade
Tonight we go social again. Welcome to the guests, and especially to those who have undergone the rigors of travel to be present when Don Bestor gives the signal to commence whirling. But it isn’t just the idea of another dance, is it? It’s more the dance as a means to something else
—memories, and conversations, and opportunities for- moments, and things like that.
•
For a while those Juniors weren’t any too sure of having a place to put Bestor once he arrived. But it’s all cleared up now, we understand, and the chances are that you’ll be expected and welcome at the Palaise Royale tonight. That is, of course, if you’re a junior or a senior, not too deficient in your studies, and paid up on the ticket.
Music
The Prom song, written this year by Tom Bott and George Miller, is called “Hours of Happiness.” According to the composers, it is an attempt to get away from the “Girl of the Junior Prom of 1935, I Love You” idea of theme song. “The Hours of Happiness,” we understand, are listed as 9:30 to 1:30, and should be kept within those limits. Any deviations will result in repercussions.
Also Music
Somewhat over a year ago—perhaps it was more—the university orchestra came out with the announce- ’ ment that they were going to rechristen themselves. They were going to drop the name Jugglers, and while waiting for a better name, they would be the Collegians. The other name never arrived, and they are still Collegians. Why, is not known. There are a hundred orchestras playing under that name—most of them in prep schools, and using the title “Collegians” to sound grown - uppish. There are not many “Jugglers” floating about the land. It was a distinguishing title. Is there any excuse for that other cognomen? We’ll tell you. There isn’t.
•
Top of the Week
Vince Murphy, who jumped eighty inches upward to come within an inch of a world’s indoor record for that event.
Gunner McGrath, who claims someone moved the target and made him miss that last shot. He hit 499 out of 500 to take a medal somewhere.
The debators, Class B, won 8 out of 10 for first place.
Vic Arcadi, Dome photographer, got a beautiful shot of a dead horse.
^inc
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
JOHN D. CARBINE.........................Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING...............Managing-Editor
Associate Editors
JOSEPH A. BUCCI________________________Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN__________________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY O. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY The Week WILLIAM H. TOUMEY.__________________________-Dome Dust
VINCENT A. GORMAN, Jr---------------------College Parade
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY____________________Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN_______________________________News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN__________________—Assistant Notes Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL.------------------Assistant N^ws Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN_____________________JOSEPH RATIGAN
PAUL FOLEY---------------------------IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI-------------------.....FREDERICK SHANLEY
PHILIP F. WELSH.___________________JOHN A. GILLESPIE
ANTHONY F. O’BOYLE.__________________________FRANKLYN	HOCHREITER
BERTRAM SMITH._________________________LOUIS DA PRA
LINDSAY PHOEBUS---------------------HARRY A. BALDWIN
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST.____________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER-------------------Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER________.'.________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN L FLANAGAN--------------------JAMES A. WALDRON
EUGENE VASLETT_________________________JOHN CACKLEY
james McMullen
Business Management JOHN F. STOECIvLEY._____Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated ^bUesiate $res$ ~ 1	BUBUSHER* or	r
-sI934	digest I935&-
HADISOW	Wisconsin
March 1, 1935
A PROMINENT ACTIVITY
The Notre Danie debating squad returned Sunday from North Manchester with a record of eight victories in ten contests. This excellent record becomes even more striking when one considers the fact that Coach William Coyne left his number one combination of John Locher and Joseph Becek on campus to prepare for the tournament which opens today at Iowa City.
Debating has, for decades, been a prominent extra curriculum activity at Notre Dame. The calibre of the teams has been invariably high and thsir records consistently carried a majority of victories. This year’s team compares very favorably with last year’s squad which won the intercollegiate tournament at Iowa City. The Notre Dame debaters are one of the few forensic squads to score a victory over the strong Leland-Stanford team which is touring the country. They compiled a record of eight victories in ten contests at North Man
T tn
Chester and have an excellent chance of being the second Notre Dame team to win the Iowa City Tournament.
Such a team as this is certainly deserving of student support. Washington Hall should be jammed on the night of every home debate. Two years ago when a Notre Dame team, which lost most of its contests to vastly superior teams, was debating an abtruse tax question, there was some excuse for a student to hibernate in his room on nights for which debates were scheduled. No such excuse exists now. The intercollegiate debating question, “Resolved that the nations should agree to prevent the international shipment of arms and munitions,” is an important and interesting one. Coach William Coyne has built up a team which is able to hold its own with any in the country. Such a successful venture deserves support. Don’t run away the next time someone says “debate.” Drop the Saturday Evening Post and walk over to Washington Hall. You’ll find it a most interesting and enlightening evening.
TWO FINE EXAMPLES
Two fine examples of what prolonged and consistent student activity can do came to light this week; the fencing team concluded its successful season and Captain Jolin McGrath of the rifle team won honors in a national intercollegiate meet. Four years ago there was neither a fencing team nor a rifle team on the campus. Today both stand recognized as established branches of campus athletic activity with laudable records.
The rifle team really came into existence last year. Under the leadership of a group of enthused students, the southern room of the old boat house on St. Joseph’s Lake was cleared up and equipped as an indoor range. A membership in the National Rifle Association was arranged and telegraph competition started with other universities. The first actual meets were with the rifle clubs of South Bend and the surrounding towns. Then came trips to nearby schools. Now as a fitting climax comes McGrath’s victory in a national intercollegiate contest.
The germ of the fencing team sprung from a group of students living in Lyons Hall during the fall of 1932. Practice space was secured in the gymnasium and Professor A. de Landero soon became interested in the venture. To Mr. de Landero must go much of the credit for the present status of fencing and the splendid record of this year’s team.
The first step toward Notre Dame participation in intercollegiate fencing came in the form of joint practice sessions with the University of Illinois. A public exhibition in Washington Hall was next, and then came actual meets with such schools as Chicago, Ohio State, Michigan State, and Washington University. The team was not a consistent winner during its first year, but, in view of the inexperience of the men its performance was most striking. This year the fencing team, after having met the leading squads of the Midwest, is still undefeated.
The fencing and rifle teams are excellent illustrations of what concentrated and consistent student effort can do. There are similar examples — the soccer team for instance. The men who started and carried on these activities went out and did something rather than sat in their rooms bemoaning the fact that there was nothing to do. The Scholastic congratulates these men and hopes for the continued success of their particular ventures.
The Scholastic
4
♦ SPCKTS ♦
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
COACH NICHOLSON’S TRACKMEN
AFTER FOURTH WIN AT URBANA
PROFESSOR AND COACH
EDWARDS SEEKS WIN
FENCING
Without cross examination we’ll admit that'we don’t know the difference between a saber and a foil, but we can distinguish between victory and defeat. It is the very evident presence of these victories that makes Notre Dame’s fencing team the subject of comment here. It’s not that victories in athletic contests are rare, but the fact that this group of sword wielders has piled up so many in only two years of play.
Prior to last year there was no such thing as a Notre Dame fencing team. Professor Pedro de Landero conceived the idea in the fall of 1933 and formed a squad. The team’s accomplishments for the year were noteworthy. Improvement was steady this year and barring an accident in the Purdue match last night, de Landero’s team has compiled a record of seven wins and no defeats for the season.
Too much credit cannot be given either Coach de Landero or his fencing squad. In two seasons they have climbed from scratch to success without the usual incentive. No, there are no monograms awaiting these athletes. Their only reward is the publicity which they receive and that, in view of their accomplishments, cannot be showered too generously upon them.
©
FADEOUT
Monday night Notre Dame fans will see their basketball team in its final home appearance of the 1934-’35 campaign. The Minnesota Gophers, possessors of a victory at the expense of the Irish earlier in the sea-' son at Minneapolis, will provide the opposition at this time. Needless to say, Notre Dame will be striving to even matters with the Gophers, but more than that. This fray will mark the final home appearance of two of George Keogan’s regulars.
Captain Johnny Jordan and Joe O’Kane will do their last bit of bas-(Continued on Page 15)
Coacch Pedro de Landero From scratch to success.
BATTERY CANDIDATES AT WORK DAILY IN THE GYMNASIUM
Taking- a few minutes off from watching several battery candidates loosen their arms up as they worked out in the gymnasium this week, “Jake” Kline, coach of baseball, ventured the prediction that “a pretty fail- ball club, but no pitchers” would take the field this year to represent Notre Dame on the diamond.
Coach Kline went on to say that this scarcity of effective pitchers, a serious drawback to any baseball team, may be remedied if Joe Beach, letterman and outfielder of last year’s team, can be converted to the mound position. Together with Themes, the only dependable pitcher on the team, Beach may aid the team greatly. Van Wagner, a sophomore, is expected to provide more than a few’ victories for the Irish. Van is the only member of last year’s freshman squad that is
(Continued on Page 15)
By James McMullen
Coach John Nicholson and his Irish trackmen left for Champaign yesterday, to meet their most consistent jinx, the Illini, there tonight. Only twice during the “Reign of Nick” has Notre Dame been able to down this hoodoo, and they have yet to defeat Illinois on their home grounds. The squad has had a welcome two weeks rest following the campaign that led to three consecutive victories.
Illinois lacks their usual strength. Injuries have crippled some of their leading lights, including the famous Ray Seeley, pole vaulter extraordinary. The other veterans by their performances in recent competition, seem to have left their peak behind them. Notre Dame offsets this natural advantage with the illness of Jim Shiels, and the Marquette appearance of Don Elser in basketball togs. Ducassa will step in as the Irish hopeful in the afflicted star’s event.
Grieves Is A Threat
Perhaps the strongest individual performer of the Illini is Wheling, broadjumper who covered 24 feet five inches against the Crimson of Indiana. Bob Grieves, a sensation in high school circles, but who is meeting serious opposition from Ekert, a teammate, will compete in the dashes. Ekert is also a stellar competitor in the quarter mile grind. Dufresne in the distance races, and Baughman in the 880, are other barriers to an initial Blue and Gold victory.
Coach Nicholson is frankly pessimistic. Several times he has traveled to Champaign with a clear cut superiority. Each time he has been defeated, though the margin of victory has sometimes been only one or two points. Nick faces the same conditions tonight and predicts a hair line decision in what is to him and his charges the most important dual meet of the waning indoor season.
starch 1, 1935
Elev en
Notre Dame Defeats Butler For Second Time This Season
ST. EDS AND BROWNSON HOLD LEADING BERTHS
FORD LEADS THE SCORING
By Joe Prendergast
Notre Dame overcame the second threat of the tenacious Butler Bulldog last Saturday evening in the roomy Butler fieldhouse at Indianapolis before 10,000 frenzied spectators. Four points spelled the victory mar-
Don Elser
He replaced his roommate.
gin last Saturday, 27 to 23. On their previous struggle at Notre Dame the Irish were on top by a narrow 30 to 29 win.
Don Elser, giant center for Keog-an’s five, was the hero of the engagement. He replaced his teammate as well as his roommate, Marty Peters, late in the first half with the Irish trailing 13 to 9 and immediately started the Bulldog toward its ultimate end. Three mighty important field goals in the final half of ‘the fray were Elser’s contribution to George Keogan’s cause.
Notre Dame knotted the score at 16-alI with approximately one quarterleft to play. Johnny Hopkins, replacement for Ford, tallied a field goal to be closely followed by one by O’Kane and another by Ireland. Cosgrove and Armstrong sank doubledeckers to decrease the Irish lead to two points. Frank Wade then left the game through the four foul route and his replacement, John Jordan, came through with a swishing bucket shortly afterwards to keep his quintet safely ahead. Elser counted again and George Ireland added a foul just as the game ended. The Butlerites managed to chalk up two field goals while this Irish onslaught was in progress but they were still four points in arrears, at the termination of play.
The contest was unusually rough with the more rabid on-lookers taking part in the throwing of megaphones en one occasion which necessitated time being called to clear the floor. John Ford, former Cathedral High of Indianapolis satellite, performed in grand style before his home towners to lead the Irish in scoring with eight points. Armstrong with ten points to
Golf Course Subject To Many Improvements
During Past Months
The William J. Burke Memorial golf course has been subjected to an extensive amount of repairing, during the past winter months. Last fall a group of seniors, headed by Jerome J. Cushing, made a complete survey of it, and obtained the correct yardage between each tee and green. They succeeded in producing a blue contour map, and their efforts were enhanced considerably by the rewards of a new score card.
Number 7 green underwent a remarkable change in its entirety, being rebuilt with a length of 105 feet and prolonged to 90 feet in width. By closing off the fairways, the 15th green is now reconstructed to twice its former dimensions. Making an extremely dangerous hazard is the result of trapping Number 11 green, • which the 'future Sarazens’ will find to be vastly superior in conquering. By the placing of ten additional traps besides remodeling six others, the Notre Dame links promise to offer, the very latest in a 'golfer’s nightmare.’
Exhibiting quite a noticeable effect -is the landscaping which is a feature improvement in itself. An unusually large assortment of trees was planted. There are 125 in all — averaging from three to six inches in trunk — besides a collection of 250 various shaped shrubs, which make a decided step toward symmetric scenery. Two graceful pergolas were redanted — one being erected over the pump, with the other residing at the drinking fountain — and approximately ten concrete seats are situated around the many trees covering the landscape.
In addition to the specialized work on the course, itself, the laborers have devoted part of their time to overhauling the equipment; painting such things as the flag poles and tree markers, and restoring the shed, that recently caught fire. Although as yet a definite date is undecided upon, with the weather permitting the golf course will be ready for use some time in the first week of April..
his credit lead the Butler aggregation.
Notre Dame (27) G F P
Ford, f ________3	2	1
O’Kane, f ______2	0	1
Peters, c ...:__0	1	1
Jordan, g ___...1	1	0
Ireland, g______1	1	2
Hopkins, f _____1	0	0
Elser, c _______3	0	0
Wade, g ________0	0	4
Totals ________11	5	9
Butler (23) G F P Armstrong. 15 0 1 Cosgrove, f ....2 1 4 Demmary, ____2	1	4
Jones, g_____0- 3 1 Bradford, g__0 0 1 G’kensmyer.g 0 0 1
Totals ______9	5	12
With but one week remaining in the interhall basketball race the favorites are still leading the pack. Brownson and St. Edward’s are the heavyweight leaders, and Carroll and Badin pace the lightweights.
Brownson ran roughshod over Walsh, 31-14, with Phil Heinle and O’Reilly starring. St. Ed’s registered a double victory nosing out Badin, 21-20, and trouncing Dillon, 25-17. The Badin game was a thriller and nearly went to the juniors, but a late rally led by Vic Wojcihovski fell short by one point.
Phil Arnheiter amassed fourteen points and led Corby to a 37-27 victory over- Dillon, the freshmen’s second defeat of the week. Johnny Novak played a sterling game for Corby.
Alumni retained her hold on second place by defeating Freshman, 19-9. Bill Dillon scored eight points for Alumni. The big five from Carroll rallied to sink Off-Campus further- into the cellar by the count of 28-21. Stillwagon and McGrath totaled 20 points. The Lyon’s sharpshooters knocked off Sorin, 24-10. Sorin wilted before the fierce Gold Coaster’s attack.
In the lightweight division Carroll cinched first place in Group II by a 14-7 win over Off-Campus. Badin also remained undefeated by smothering St. Ed’s, 25-12, and winning on a forfeit from Corby.
Lyons paced by Frank Fox, one of the most accurate shots in interhall circles, tamed the Sorin Tigers, 31-16, and stayed in the running for lightweight honors. Dillon bagged two victories over Corby and St. Ed’s respectively. Alumni also snared a double win, beating Off-Campus and Freshman. Brownson went on a scoring rampage and overwhelmed Walsh 48-10.
Billiard Artist To Give Exhibition on March 12
Charles C. Peterson, internationally known billiard artist, will give an exhibition in both the Brownson and Walsh recreation rooms on the afternoon of Tuesday, March 12. The American Billiard Association is sending Mr. Peterson on a tour of the various American universities to promote interest in the game of billiards. Mr. Peterson will demonstrate the various shots of the game as well as give an exhibition of trick shots. The exact time of the exhibition has not been determined, but will be announced in these columns.
T n’ eIt e
The Scholastic
CAPACITY CROWD TO VIEW JESUIT CLASH
Whitman And Marcy to Again Seek Honors in Boxing Show
Tomorrow evening the Notre Dame basketball team renews its rivalry with Marquette University at Milwaukee. Though neither team has been very successful the game promises to draw one of the largest crowds in the history of their relationships. This may be because of the fact that the Irish defeated the Jesuits 23-20 in the Notre Dame fieldhouse earlier in the year. The game was nip and tuck throughout and it was not until Peters sank a field goal in the final minute of play that the issue was settled.
Several veterans compose the lineup of the Marquette quintet, the best known perhaps being Pay Morstadt, who was the high scorer in the former contest with eight points. Other members of the team that have faced the Irish before are Rasmussen and Rubado.
All of the former contests with the Jesuits have been decided by close margins. Last year the Irish won by one point on their home floor, and lost a one point decision on the visitor’s floor in the return engagement.
RADIO BROADCASTS
(Continued from Page 1)
8:30 p.m., the Symphony orchestra, under the baton of Professor Richard Seidel, rendered the stirring March from the opera Carmen. With Jim Boyle acting as announcer, the program opened with the playing of the Notre Dame Victory March, arranged specially for the Symphony orchestra by Professor Joe Casasanta.
This was followed by the familiar overture, “Light Cavalry,” and by selections from Bach. The latte? consisted in a suite of six numbers, included in which was a piece from St. Matthew’s Passion Music. The suite from Bach was rendered by the orchestra as a special tribute to the composer, the anniversary of whose birth is being commemorated throughout the world this year.
Professor Seidel concluded the all too short program with a spirited rendition of the March from Carmen.
Tennis Candidates
All candidates who have signed for the tennis team should report to Coach de Landero, on Monday, March 4, at 12:30 p.m., in Room 1 of Science Hall. Arrangements will be made for conditioning and practice sessions.
March 1, 1935
Vince Murphy Jumps 6 Feet, 8 Inches In
Frosh-Varsity Meet
Vince Murphy, captain of the Irish track forces, came through with the greatest jump of his career in the fieldhouse last Saturday afternoon in the intersquad track meet. Murphy successfully manipulated over the crossbar at the height of 6 feet 8 inches on his first attempt. The bar was then raised to 6 feet 9 inches but Murphy failed in his three trys at this remarkable height.
Jordan, sophomore sprinter, nosed out Moore and Boyle in the finals of the 70 yard dash in 7.4 seconds. George Meagher won the high hurdles with Link pressing him all the way. Parsons, another sophomore runner of Nick’s, bested his teammates, McGrath and Frawley, in the 440 yard run.
Gott had little trouble -winning the two mile run as likewise did Levicki in capturing the shotput. In the low hurdle event a mild upset was created when Bill Mahoney, a freshman, edged out the varsity men to take the race.
The summaries:
330-YARD DASH (Freshman—Won by Mulligan ; Dean, second; Kafka, third. Time, :34.2 70-YARD DASH (first heat Varsity)—Won by Moore, Jordan, second; Frawley, third. Time, :7.4.
70-YARD DASH (2nd heat)—Won by Jordan ; Moore, second; Boyle, third. Time, :7.4.
880-YARD RUN (Varsity)—Won by Du-cassa; Bernard, second ; McKenna, third. Time, 2:00.9.
BROAD JUMP (Freshmen)—Won by McCormick (12 inch handicap) ; Gibbs, second; Johnson, third. Distance 21 feet 6^ inches.
HIGH HURDLES (1st heat) — Won by Link; Mahoney, second. Time, :8.1.
HIGH HURDLES (2nd Heat) — Won by Meagher; Johnson, second. Time. :8.1.
HIGH HURDLES (Final)—Won by Meagher ; Link, second; Mahoney, third; Johnson, fourth. Time, :8.00.
440-YARD RUN (Varsity)—Won by Parsons ; McGrath, second; Frawley, third. Time, 51.7.
SHOT PUT (Varsity)—Won by Levicki; Michuta, second; Ballatin, third. Distance 42 feet, 11 inches.
MILE RUN (Freshman) —Won by Mann; Clifford, second; Berry, third. Time, 5:14.
HIGH JUMP (Freshman)—Won by Langton ; Johnson, second; Gibbs, third. Height, 5 feet, 6 inches..
TWO MILE RUN (Varsity)—Won by Gott; Kenyon, second; Karl, third. Time, 10:09.
600-YARD RUN (Freshman) — Won by Deane; Holman, second; McGinley, third. Time, 1:14.
LOW HURDLES (1st heat)—Won by Meagher ; Link, second. Time, :7.5.
LOW HURDLES (2nd heat)—Won by Mahoney; Johnson, second; Flynn, third. Time. :7.6.	.
ENTRIES ARE INCREASING
By James A. Waldron
As the entries steadily increase, plans for that sensational show, the Bengal Bouts, to be staged on March 22nd, have been completed. Sixteen of the University’s best fighters will seek the eight coveted championships. Between these exciting contests, the
Harry Marr He’ll mar someone.
tension will be relieved by two exhibition bouts, one of a pugilistic nature, and the other devoted to the art of wrestling.
Somewhere in the rambling hall of Sorin, a fighting Irishman, Morgan M. Sheedy, “The Human Fort,” is rallying his Hunt Club to battle Gunner McGrath, “The Human Arsenal,” and his Tea Club boys of Walsh, the senior gold coast. Whether “Eadie was a lady” may not be settled, neverthless both men promise sensational innovations in their offensive and defensive tactics. Besides this thrilling contest, a first class wrestling match will be put on by Cy Connor and Nick Tancredi.
From way down south in Dixie comes Bill Whitman, Notre Dame’s welterweight champion. He is another “Memphis Bill,” for it was in that Tennessee town that he was educated, but unlike his namesake he sought athletic honor in the boxing field. Going out for boxing in his senior year at high school, Bill went to the finals of the welterweight championship of the school. Last year as a freshman, he won the welterweight crown of Notre Dame by
(Continued on Page'15)
‘Thirteen
IRISH TO CLOSE HOME SEASON MONDAY AGAINST MINNESOTA
JOHN G. N’GRATH WINS BOONVILLE RIFLE MEET
By John Cackiey
On Monday, March 4, Notre Danie will play its final home game of the current basketball season, with Minnesota furnishing the opposition. The Gophers, although rating but sixth place on the Big Ten ladder, boast an aggressive and smooth-working organization. During the early part of the campaign, McMillan’s ‘five,’ in a last half rally, managed to eke out a 30-28 decision over the Irish. Kup-perburg and Roscoe, the latter a trick-shot artist, are the mainstays in Minnesota’s scoring combination, with Svendsen, Stelzer, and Norman taking care of the remaining positions.
Beginning in 1924, Notre Dame has enjoyed an intense rivalry, in cage circles, with ‘Twin City’ quintets. Keogan’s men hold the spotlight in the win and lose column, having., captured eight of the thirteen contests enacted, while three of those that were lost have been decided by less than three point margins.
Having evened the series, in the
HIS LAST HOME GAME
opening year Notre Dame copped the initial fracas and lost the second, 2122 — hostilities continued until the conclusion of the 1928 schedule. Relations were resumed in ’33, and today Minnesota occupies a prominent place on the Irish floor card.
Previously outdistancing their opponents 43-34, the Gold and Blue suffered a stunning two-point setback 43-41, last March in the season’s finale for both aggregations. With Ed “Moose” Krause racking up 22 markers, establishing a new Notre Dame scoring record, the Irish won an exciting fray.
The game will mark the last appearance of Captain Jordan and Joe O’Kane performing before the local fans, in the fieldhouse. Even though Keogan’s all-time percentage of .765 is in for a slight decrease, the Gopher’s themselves have had nothing more than a mediocre amount of success —- dropping seven issues and annexing four, in their conference race.
John “Gunner” McGrath of Sedalia, Missouri, and right now of Bengal Bouts fame, returned to the campus the past week with another title attached to his name, that of Indoor
And they call him “Gunner.”
Champion of the Invitational Camp Perry Rifle Meet.
The “Gunner,” Captain of Notre Dame’s rifle team, was the sole Irish representative in this meet held at Boonville, Missouri, on February 13 and 14. Four hundred and fifteen riflemen from all parts of the country were competing against Walsh Hall’s pridling. McGrath had a score of 499 out of a possible 500 when the activities ceased.
The results were sent to the National Rifle Board in Washington, D. C., where official sanction was given. McGrath received his medal yesterday morning after a protest from Sam Montague of Missouri University was thrown out by the National Rifle Board.
McGrath during the time he has been a member of the Notre Dame rifle team has yet to taste defeat. The team itself has only been defeated once in the past two years and most of the credit for this great success is the result of the Captain’s unfailing accuracy.
Entries for Bouts -
Entries for the Bengal Boxing Show will close on Wednesday, March 6. These should be turned in to either Jim Waldron in Lyons Hall, or Jim Byrne in Sorin Hall. Those desiring to enter the bouts who have not filed their entries should do so immediately, for after the closing date the men will be divided into their various classes and the first elimination bouts posted.
The Scholastic
Fourteen
s	BASEBALL
I	(Continued from Page 11)
expected to be of any help to the team. Others may develop but at this early stage it is difficult to tell who it will be.
The regular infield, with the exception of Paul Kane star of last year’s team, will return for another season of diamond warfare. Captain Dunn at first, Reagan at second base, Wentworth at short, and Fromhart at third base, will probably comprise । the starting infield against Ohio State here in the first game of the campaign. Pilney, Cunha, and Mettler in the outfield and Themes and Gaul as the battery will complete the lineup. Other letter men returning are Joe Beach and Underkofler. Coach Kline expects a few men who have won letters in other years to return for another season and bolster the team up immeasurably.
No definite date as yet has been set for the start of outdoor practice, but as soon as weather permits Cartier B Field will once more find the diamond artists settling down to the serious business of training that the strenuous schedule requires. At present the battery candidates are working out daily in the gymnasium under the observant eye of “Jake” Kline.
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 13)
winning a close decision over Mark Kerin. Both boys are back in school and hope to fight their way back to a second meeting — go to it, Dixie!
Several years ago at the Diablo A.C. in Chicago, a fast shifty young boxer knocked out a colored fighter in one of the feature bouts of the boxing show. Such was the introduction of Anthony “Bud” Marcy, Notre Dame’s featherweight champion, to the boxing game for he had never entered a ring before that night. After 30 fights, of which he won 28, Bud entered the C.Y.O. tournament becoming featherweight champion. In 1932, he was a member of the Chicago Golden Gloves team. That same year as captain of the Loyola University boxing team, Bud won the featherweight crown in the American Legion’s Intercollegiate championships. Being selected again as a member of the Chicago Golden Gloves squad last year, he traveled to New York for an inter-city match. Last year Bud entered Notre Dame and defeater Tex Durkin in the Bengal Boxing bouts for the featherweight title. This year extra poundage has forced him to seek new laurels in a heavier division. When he graduates from Notre Dame, Bud has an ambition to follow in the footsteps of his namesake, Senator Marcy of New York, who served in Congress half a century ago. — Senator “Bud” Marcy, lightweight champion?
March 1, 1935
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 11)
keteering for the home crowd. With the passing of Jordan, Notre Dame will lose one of the outstanding floor men of its recent history. Johnny, by trade a forward, was forced to play the guard position this year when it became evident that Don Allen would be lost to the squad. The shift to guard effected Jordan’s shooting eye measurably but so improved his defensive play that he has become a mainstay in the guarding department that has halted some of the country’s outstanding scorers. Joe O’Kane, serving his first year as a regular, has given a demonstration of speed and scoring power seldom seen on the hardwood. His improvement this year was so noticeable that Keo-gan gave little thought to replacing him unless absolutely necessary. .
•
A GUNNING GUNNER
Despite a basketball victory-over Butler, sports of minor consequence took the cookies last week-end. Not the least of the feats in the minor sport realm was that turned in by the Tea Club’s own, Gunner McGrath. The Gunner rifled his way to a championship Thursday in Missouri in the prone division of a national meet. The Gunner is prone to admit it, but hitting 499 out of 500 something or other IS something or other.
McGrath is captain of the Notre Dame rifle team. His has been the duty to inform others of the accomplishments of his team. The Gunner, in true sportsmanlike manner, never had a word of praise for himself, but always complimented his mates highly. As a result Gunner’s feats have been kept in the dark. But now Mac, like the ground hog, has come out of his hole and is standing in the light of his recent success, which can’t be taken lightly.
•
O’KANE GAINS
Last week we gave you Marty Peters as the leading scorer of George Keogan’s quintet. Since that time the Irish have played only one game and that lead still stands. The margin separating Marty and his closest rival, Joe O’Kane, was somewhat lessened after the Butler scrap. The seven leaders follow:
	B	F	P	Pts.
Peters 			 46	24	26	116
O’Kane 			 43	21	18	107
Ford 			 30	20	26	80
Ireland			 23	17	34	73
Jordan 			 15	12	- 14	42
Hopkins ...		 18	3	12	39
Elser 			 9	6	7	24
IRISH LOSSES HAVE BEEN TO GOOD TEAMS
The record for the 1934-35 basketball team now stands at 11 wins and seven losses. There are four more tilts remaining on the schedule, the Marquette games this evening at Mil-wauakee, the Minnesota engagement here on Monday evening and two road games with Temple and St. Xavier.
Of the seven losses occurred at this writing four have been to some of the strongest teams in the country and three to teams that have been “off and on” throughout the current campaign with the accent mostly on the “on” when Notre Dame met them. Northwestern’s defeat of Notre Dame early in the season is a fine example of this. The Wildcats started the year off with a bang. Victories were scored over Bradley, Pittsburgh and Notre Dame. They have slumped badly since then and Notre Dame playing its same steady brand of ball that they played against the Wildcats in their first meeting found little trouble with them in their second clash.
New York University’s tripping up of the Irish cohorts in New York City before one of the largest crowds of all times to witness a basketball game was not an upset. N. Y. U has lost one game this season to Yale University, otherwise they have taken them all in stride, including among their victims, Kentucky, C. C. N. Y., Manhattan and other equally strong quintets. Minnesota has set down Notre Dame at Minneapolis by a narrow one point margin of victory. Notre Dame will meet this Gopher band of ball tossers on the local court Monday evening and the reason for that early defeat shall be discovered.
The two losses to Pittsburgh’s mighty Panthers were somewhat in question. Pitt is acknowledged as having a vastly superior team from that which started off the season in such disastrous style. Since their early scheduled set-backs at the hands of Northwestern, Butler and the like, they have been on the road of steady improvement until at this writing they look about the class of the Eastern sector of the country. The Irish’s first loss to Pittsburgh at Pitt cannot be alibied. But the second loss here in that now historic stop-watch battle was somewhat of a disappointment.
The other two defeats occasioned by George Keogan’s five have come from “Big Ten” schools. Ohio State and Illinois, both now tied for runner-up berth in the “Big Ten” standing with an excellent chance to cop the title. Ohio State with its recent knocking off of Purdue University created one of the startling upsets of the year, but in so doing made it possible for them to win the title.
. Fifteen
RELIGIOUS DRAMA TO BE STAGED IN SOUTH BEND
On Down The Line
NOTRE DANE HOST AT C.I.C. MEET NEXT WEEK
The 1935 production of “The Light,” the religious drama to be presented March 6 to 12 in the Scottish Rite Cathedral, will again find Helen DeVries playing the part of Mary the Mother, in which she scored such a success last year. Clarence H. Snoke will carry the difficult role of Jesus, and Lois Vurpillat takes that of Mary Magdalene.
Other principals in the cast and the roles they will enact are: Mrs. Harry E. Bolt, Mary Mark; Horace P. Wells, Isaih; James T. Cover, Zacharius; Claude Smith, Simeon; Mrs. John L. Taylor, Angel and Oriental Singer; Ludwig Blake, Jr., Gabriel; Ruth Richmire, Avida; Cecil Tomber, Gosper; Wade Hardy, Prophet; Joseph D. Wolman, Joseph; LeRoy M. Richey, Melchior; Carl Wlicox, Balthazar; A. H. Tyler, Amerius; Arthur L. May, Nicodemus; R. Suabedissen, Simon; John L. Warrick, Judas; Lewis Glass, John Mark; Glenn 0. Logan and C. A. Nelson, scribes; Conrad R. Adams and L. D. Waid, two rich men; George Nelson, Alfred J. Klingel, T. J. Jena and Harry C. Dreher, disciples; Mrs. Paul J. Wuthrich, widow; and Mrs. L. L. Frank, woman forgiven.
John Lynch, Alfred Frepan, John Chaplin and Robert Noland will play Roman Soldiers. Penn Skilleran will enact the part of Cross Bearer. Charles Ching and Chester Minnes will be executionersand Robert O’. Hearn, Jr., George Droste, Jr., How-are Droste and Herbert Olston, Jr., will be acolytes.
There are more than 50 in the cast taking non-speaking and singing parts as Magi, shepherds, camel drivers, worshipers, priests, money changers, merchants, ancient rulers, attendants, apostles, martyrs, monks, crusaders, and rabble.
Nearly 500 costumes, conforming in every respect to the period of the production and representing an investment of thousands of dollars by South Bend Scottish Rite bodies, have been assembled for the cast.
Lighting and scenic effects play an exceptionally large part in the success of The Light. A staff of ten electricians directed by “Billy” Richardson of the Palace Theatre, is required to handle the lighting. Among the outstanding scenery is a gigantic cyclorama and the mountain setting on which 55 separate scenes, none of which last longer than five seconds, take place.
Reports from Elbel Bros. Music Store, where seats are now on sale for all eight performances of “The Light” indicate that nearly half of the available seats have already been disposed, of, many of them by mail to distant points.
5 ixteen
By Jim McMullen
EMMETT O’NEAL is a Kentucky congressman . . . Not many years ago he was the captain of Centre College’s baseball, football, and basketball teams . . . DUTCH CLARK, the famous pro footballer, lugs the pigskin so successfully with the aid of only one eye . . . MICKEY COCHRANE has promised to buy the baseball shoes for his Detroit Tigers next season . . . Baltimore, in the quiet old state of Maryland, seems to be a cradle for leather throwing champions . . . VINCE and JOE DUNDEE, KID WILLIAMS, and JOE GANS all hailed from those parts. . . . Nearly 70 players have seen action with Hookey’s New York Rangers since 1926 . . . but the first line is still intact—BILL and BUN COOK, and FRANK BOUCHER . . . BOB KESSLER, of the Purdue Boilermakers, is a very polite basketeer. . . . He’s had only six personals called on him this season . . . JIMMY FIGG was Britain’s first boxing champion. . . . the old bareknuckler reigned from 1719 to 1730, and then retired undefeated . . . The football eleven of Trinity College last season contained seven legitimate scholarship students . . . The St. Louis Cardinals come up with their baseball statistics. . . . 1,734 were fouled into the stands, while 94 disappeared as circuit clouts. . . .
Have you baseball bugs ever heard of one armed LYMAN, of Hamlin College, Minnesota? . . . He used to catch the ball with his gloved hand, toss both the glove and the ball in the air, snatch the ball, and peg to the infield . . . and he was a fair hitter. . . . TILDEN & CO. have now played in 72 cities . . . that required 24,780 miles of travel . . . Amateur hockey contests have been very popular in Madison Square Garden this year. . . . The Garden expects a new sea* sonal attendance record of 250,000. . . . But then — wasn’t it announced that 10,000 people would witness the finals of the world tennis tournament in London . . . Prices for the big affair* ranged from 50 cents to $2.50. . . . BILL TERRY, the Man who forgot Brooklyn, was out to show his nerve recently . . . He let a mustache
Radio Broadcast
The basketball game between the University of Notre Dame-and Marquette University to be played this evening at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, will be broadcast over Station WTMJ, from Milwaukee, at 8:30 P.M.
Notre Dame will enjoy its usual position of host to the trackmen of the Central Intercollegiate Conference, March 8 and 9. The meet to be held in the local fieldhouse this year will be bolstered by the addition of several new entries, and an outlook for the most open competition the annual get-together has even seen.
Marquette, Michigan State, Pittsburgh, and Michigan Normal are among those squads expected to make a serious bid for team honors. Normal is particularly threatening with its victorious pah' of Rosencrantz, and Kohler. These two boys have been raising havoc in their appearances against smaller school opposition, and are all set to display their wares to the conference.
Washington, of St. Louis, and North Central College, of Naperville, Illinois, are the strange faces in the familiar gathering. Neither school is expected to make a team threat, but individual performers from their ranks will undoubtedly take precious points from the larger entries.
A week before the big meet, the Irish rule as a doubtful favorite, because of their overwhelming of Marquette’s Hilltoppers. Pittsburgh was good enough to defeat Notre Dame in a dual encounter last year, and suffered little from intervening graduation. The outcome should depend mostly on the individual strengths of the host of smaller schools entered, and upon which contenders this strength will hamper. The meet is to begin Friday night as usual and continue through the afternoon and evening of Saturday, March 9.
grow, while working down in Tennessee, but shaved it off before making an appearance in the metropolis. . . . Yale pole vaulters are famous. . . . that fact is recognized, and attributed to the secret formula devised by A. C. GILBERT ... Eli athletes guard the inside ~ dope jealously . . . 7,000 bowlers are expected to take part in the American Bowling Congress tournament this year at Syracuse . . . JOE THUM, now 77, operated one of America’s first bowling alleys . . . He still finds time to bowl daily. ...	_
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
TYPING—Why risk poor grades when you can have your Thesis arid Term Papers neatly, effieienty, and expertly typed at low cost— Phone Miss Ann Cain at 3-1942 during husi- __ ness hours (Residence phone, 4-8482). Reason- A able rates. ‘	'	It	"
The Scholastic
PROF. GREEN
(Continued from Page 6)
has some of the- early radio sets constructed by himself and his students.
Since the termination of his teaching duties at Notre Dame, the pioneer of the wireless telegraph has been connected, in a technical capacity, with the U. S. War Department, the San Diego High school, the University of Southern California, and the Knight of Columbus welfare department. Today he is living in semiretirement in San Diego, watching the progress of wireless telegraphy, radio, and other scientific fields with which he was identified in other days.
Transmission of power without use of wires, practically, and in large quantity, will be the next great development in the electrical world, Professor Green believes. “Telsa says he has it now,” he said, “It is not for me to deny that he has.”
SHAKESPEARE FOLIOS
(Continued from Page 5)
copies of the First Folio, during a brief visit. The collection to be found in the library is the greatest one in the world. In one of the discovered Folios were found the following lines of epitaph to the great Barrd:
“Here Shakespeare lies whom none but Death could shake,
And here shall lie till Judgment all awake. When the last trumpet doth unclose his eyes The wittiest poet in the world shall rise.”
The price of the First Folio has been the most rapid and the highest rising of any books ever offered for sale. By the end of the eighteenth century, the price had risen to 35 pounds. In 1812 it was priced at 100 pounds. By the middle of the century, a price of 160 pounds was asked for the Folio. From 1884 until the present day, it has reached 4000 pounds, and for an absolutely perfect copy, 13,000 pounds.
REVOLUTIONIZES PIPE SMOKING
tobacco.
PATENTED —NOS.
1,919,959 ■ 1,967,585
LATEST
SHAPES
FINEST BRIAR MONEY CAN BUY
only M
This simpte appearing yet amazing absorbent filter invention with Cellophane exterior andcoolingmesh screen interior keeps juices and flakes in Filter and out of mouth.
Preventstonguebite, rawmouth, wet heel, bad odor, frequent
X expectoration. No breaking in. Improves taste and
Architectural School
The Beaux Arts Institute of Design, in New York City, recently awarded to Harold L. Kohlman, of the Architecture school, a mention for his sketch in the third EsquisseEsquisse Class “B” contest of the year sponsored by that institution.
Two other Notre Dame students were also honored when the sketches of Charles R. Campbell and Norman D. Shambleau were given half mentions. The three sketches were entered in the same contest, the subject of which was “An Alumnae Building.”
bfarch 6 to 12 ▼ ANNUAL PRODUCTION "THE LIGHT" SCOTTISH RITE CATHEDRAL South Bend
A vivid, soul stirring religious drama and spectacle with music.
▼ A CAST OF 150 A CHORUS OF 80 MARVELOUS COSTUMES Thousands of dollars worth of scenery.
▼
Seats now on sale at Elbel Brothers’ Music Store Prices-. $1.00; 75c and 50c, plus Federal ticket tax.
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
I
March 1, 1935
Seventeen
ITALIAN CLUB HOLDS BANQUET DOWNTOWN
□re
cco
wonder why I appeal others. Listen. Do you t^e top leaves of a to-are unripe and biting?
0 yow that the bottom leaves
lilir
ground, are grimy and
arse lOw all that and for that asorn made from the fra-ant. isive center leaves... the
aves
give you the mildest,
-st-tr smoke. Therefore, sigrdf “Your best friend.”
YC
HE MILDEST SMOKE
A most interesting and amusing talk by Professor Frank Flynn, of the Department of Sociology, climaxed the gay merriment and cheerful epicureanism last night of the most successful dinner ever given by the Italian club in the traditional and hallowed halls of the Sunny Italy cafe in downtown South Bend.
Mr. Flynn’s talk capped an evening enlivened by many speeches which followed upon the partaking in sufficient quantities of the national dish of Italy. Chairman Pat Disenzo presented Professors Madden and Staunton, of the Department of English, who entertained the club members and their guests most amusingly. The Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., chaplain of the club, supervised the procedure of the evening.
The dinner was marked by other talks by Signor Francesco Tamagna, exchange student at the University from the University of Pavia, and Professor Pasquale Pirchio, of the Department of Engineering and faculty adviser of the Italian club. The great surprise of the evening was the prize awarded to club members and their guests for the best impromptu speech. The contestants were Charles “Slats” Solari, Rocco “Rocky” Schir-alli, Tony Mazziotti, August Church, Fred Carideo, August Petrillo, Anthony Camperlengo, Samuel Borzer-lerri, Joe Cordaro, Sam Mangelli, and many others.
Anthony “Bubbles” Camperlengo, the club’s speech major, was awarded first prize for the best impromptu speech — a big, red, juicy onion by the Board of Awards, composed of Amerigo W. Di Brienza, Julius Rocca, Anthony Serge, and Julius Nardone. Camperlengo graciously accepted the award with all the gravity and dignity of a speech student.
President John Busichio expressed the club’s gratitude to the members of the faculty, and to the guests of the club for making the dinner such a success. President Busichio also made special announcements of interest to the club members relative to the huge annual banquet planned for this coming May.
Pat Disenzo read a paper on “Armaments” and August Petrillo on “The Present Ethiopian Situation” in Italian before the Italian club meeting of Tuesday evening, February 26, in Walsh hall basement. The long pending ratification of the constitution was finally consummated by unanimous vote.
Mr. Petrillo’s paper compactly delineated the development of present international complications in Abyssinia from the middle of the 19th century. He traced the difficulty to commercial motives.
logg’s Rice Krispies. A grand breakfast dish. Extra delicious when you add a bit of fruit.

Rice Krispies crackle cheerfully in milk or cream — a sound that appetites can’t resist.
They’re a satisfying be-tween-meal snack. And just the thing before bedtime. They aid restful sleep because they are nourishing and easy to digest.
At grocers, hotels and restaurants, in the red-and-green package, ready to eat. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. Quality guaranteed.
Listen!— get hungry
Nineteen
DEBATE
(Continued from Page 1)
VITALITY VII a course in making good
THIS business of keeping fit is a required course in every college. Your enthusiasm and your energy in daily campus life are influenced by your physical condition. Vitality has a lot to do with your college career.
It is important that you avoid constipation due to insufficient “bulk” in meals. This condition frequently causes headaches, loss of appetite and energy. It keeps you from being at your best.
Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN, a natural laxative cereal, provides gentle “bulk” to promote proper elimination. It also furnishes vitamin B and iron.
Two tablespoonfuls daily, served with milk or cream, are usually sufficient. Chronic cases, with each meal. Ask that ALL-BRAN be served at your fraternity house, eating-club or campus restaurant.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating-clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, PEP, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumhles, and Kellogg’s whole wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — real coffee — 97% caffeine free.
Tw enty
Notre Dame at the Delta Sigma Rho tournament will be Robert Schmelzle and Richard Meier; while John Locher and Joseph Becek will handle the negative case. At Iowa City the armament question will be debated.
Schmelzle will join John Heywood at Aimes, Iowa, to debate the proposition, “Resolved, that the practice of medicine be socialized.” Notre Dame will uphold the negative brief on this question.	<
Two senior law students will compose the team from Alabama; one of them a former student at Notre Dame, William M. Maloney, now a Phi Beta Kappa and student manager of the Forensic Council of Alabama; the other, Walter P. Gewin of the Theta Chi fraternity.
Kansas-Oklahoma Club
The formation of a Kansas-Oklahoma Club was announced early this 1 week when the organization held its first election of officers in Brownson Rec Room, electing *the following men: President, Carl J. Sanger; VicePresident, Charles Maher; Secretary, Robert Siegfried; Treasurer, Richard Kane. Its petitions to the S.A.C. for acceptance have been received, and all but the final and formal stages of formation have been gone through. Members plan to have an active organization both on the campus and at home.
K. of C. News
The Knights of Columbus will hold their regular meeting next Wednesday, March 6, their usual meeting night, Monday, being the occasion of 4 the basketball game. This meeting will be important because it marks the actual beginning of the membership drive, obert Grogan, chairman of the membership drive, and his staff of co-workers have been hard at cooperating with the International mobilization committee of Catholic Action in getting out publicity.
The following excerpt is taken from a letter to 0. D. Dorsey, District Deputy, from Bishop Noll, of the Fort Wayne diocese, showing the ( attitude of the hierarchy concerning the Knights of Columbus movement: “Of course we should like to work together admirably. The bishops are in full sympathy with the Knights of Columbus and recognize the good which they have accomplished in the nation, but it is still an organization within the Church, while our organization is the Catholic Church in the United States. I am quite confident taht your work should be coordinated with that of the Catholic hierarchy for greater effectiveness and for greater unanimity of action.”
The Scholartic