
to lA/UvAtm!
•i

tastes good—like a cigarette should!
REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON.SA
f™ER
sr .

Filters so effectively...^ doesn't flatten the flavor!
■ New, king-size Winston is the filter cigarette real smokers will enjoy! Winston’s got real flavor — full, rich, tobacco flavor. Along with finer flavor, Winston also brings you a finer filter. The Winston filter is unique, it’s different, it works .so effectively — yet doesn’t flatten the flavor. Winstons are king-size for extra filtering action . . . easy-drawing for extra good taste. Try a pack of Winstons!
FINER
FLAVOR
WINSTON tU Qa^-d^Jw^	ciwette.!
NOTRE DAME’S SPLIT-T WAITS FOR THE CALL
THE SEASON IN REVIEW—TEN BIG GAMES
'Green shit is Rope the Longhorns, 21-0
By ERWIN ALFONSUS
Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 25—Notre Dame successfully opened its 1954 season under their new head coach Terry Brennan by gaining a 21-0 victory over the stubborn Texas Longhorns. Some $57,594 Notre Dame Stadium fans looked on as the Irish handed the Texans their first shutout since 1946.
Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi scored two touchdowns and passed for a third, and also made three fancy pass interceptions. Fumbles hurt the game Longhorns considerably, as they twice fumbled the ball away inside the Notie Dame ten when they were still in contention.
$ The Longhorns threatened early when they moved the opening kickoff to the Irish seven in four plays. Delano Womack scampered 35 yards around right end to the ND 33, and Charley Brewer’s pass to Howaid Moon was ruled complete on the Irish seven through pass interference by Guglielmi. However, on the next play Brewer fumbled, and Frank Varrichione recovered the ball for Notre Dame on their own eleven.
After three futile thrusts at the Texas "line, halfback Jim Morse punted out of bounds for Notre Dame on the Irish 37. the ball traveling only 18 yards. The Longhorn offense bogged down, however, as Womack and Bill Long failed to gain through the line, and a Brewer to Billy Quinn pass gained only three yards.
If Was a Big Premiere
Long punted out of bounds on the Notre Dame 17.
Texas was knocking at the Irish door again late in the first period, but Guglielmi snatched a Brewer to Moon aerial on the Notre Dame 21 to halt the threat. Then early in the second period ‘‘Gug” intercepted a Dick Miller toss on his own 19, and scampered 42 yards down the sidelines to Texas’ 39. Don Schaefer blasted through the Longhorn line for 16 yards, and three plays later
Guglielmi tossed one to Dan Shannon, who raced into the end zone unmolested on a 19-yard scoring play. Schaefer added the first of his three extra points.
The Irish made it 14-0 in the third period with a 79-yard march in ten plays. Buck Lansford of Texas kicked off to Mors°, who returned from the two to the Iiish 21. Gug-lielmi passed to Morse f >r a first down on the 40. Morse and Schaefer carried for four, and "Gug” passed to Joe Heap on the Longhorn 40, and he carried to the 18. After Morse, Guglielmi, and Heap had moved the ball to the one, ‘‘Gug” went off tackle for the score.
Texas threatened again in the third period after Hornung punted to Chet Simcik on the ND 39. Miller picked up four yards and Don Maroney nine for a first down cn the 26. Miller ami Maroney combined again for five yards, and Simcik picked up a first down on the eight. Then Maroney slashed to the five, only to fumble and have Ray Lemek recover for the Irish on the six.
In the final period Schaefer punted to Maroney, who signaled for a fair catch, but fumbled, and Varrichione recovered for ND on the Irish 48. Guglielmi passed to Morse, who carried to a first down on the Texas 26. Schaefer ran off tackle for 23 yards to the Texas three, and Guglielmi ran around left end for the TD. Schaefer converted, and the Irish led, 21-0.
Shannon Moves Out To Easily Snare A Guglielmi Pass And Hs First 1954 Touchdown
Purdue in Upset Victory, 27-14®
By DAVE DAVIN
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 2—An upset-minded group of Purdue Boilermakers cut short a Notre Dame winning streak this afternoon at 13 games, 27-14.
Len Dawson, six feet of sophomore quarterback, passed and kicked the Irish right out of their own stadium before some 58,000 open-mouthed spectators. Purdue couldn’t seem to make many costly mistakes this afternoon and as a result, young Irish mentor Terry Brennan, suffered his first collegiate defeat.
Irish Rally in Third Quarter
The Fighting Irish battled right up to the final gun, but a stubborn Purdue line filled most of the holes of the Irish T attack with more defenders than the backs could cope with. Notre Dame came back strongly in the third quarter to tie the score at 14-14. But it was Dawson again who found his receivers dashing through the Irish secondary ready and willing for anything he could toss. Perhaps the heart-breaker came when big Lamar Lundy, a 6' 7" sophomore end, hauled in a Dawson pass and out-ran two ND defenders for 73 yards and the third Purdue touchdown.
Notre Dame received the opening kickoff on their own 34 yard stripe. On the first play a fumble gave the visitors from East Lafayette the ball. Junior Boilermaker fullback Bill Murakowski drove for eight yards to the Irish 26. Dawson’s first pass was good for 20 yards and Purdue had a first down on the six yard line. Again Dawson threw and end John Kerr took it in the end
zone for the first tally. Dawson kicked the first point and Purdue had a 7-0 lead with only 3:08 gone.
Notre Dame’s ground attack was stifled for three plays at their own 20. Don Schaefer punted to the 41. Then, another Dawson aerial, this time to halfback Rex Brock made the score Purdue 13; Notre Dame 0. Dawson’s kick was good.
Purdue couldn’t score in the second period, but Notre Dame did twice. A Guglielmi pass was intercepted by Dawson on his own 49. He directed the Boilermakers attack to the Notre Dame five, but Jackie Lee stopped the show by recovering Murakowski’s fumble on the Irish one. Two Purdue fumbles put the Irish on the Purdue 19 yard line. Again the visiting defense stiffened and Purdue took over on the 19. Phil Ehrman, who replaced Murakowski, gained eleven yards in two carries and quarterback Froncie Gutman passed to Brock for five more. Notre Dame held and Brock kicked to the Purdue 49. A running play and two incomplete passes forced the Irish to kick to the Boilermaker 16.	■
Boilermakers Hit for Safety
The Purdue running attack sputtered and stalled at their own 34 yard line. Brock dropped back to kick hut center Don Fife passed the ball over Brock’s head into the Purdue end zone. Sam Palumbo and Ray Lemek nailed Brock trying to scurry out of the end zone for a safety. But Purdue still led, 14-2.
On the kick-off, sophomore quarterback Paul Hornung ran the ball 59 yards to the Purdue one. Nick Raich punched through for the first Irish touchdown. Hornung missed the point and the score at half time was Purdue 14; Notre Dame 8.
The first series of plays in the second half resulted in another Irish TD. Notre Dame began to play real Notre Dame football, grinding out small, valuable chunks of yardage. Senior Irish quarterback Ralph Guglielmi directed the running attack and passed his team to the Purdue 43. He then flipped a long one to Co-capt. Dan Shannon who was dragged down a scant two yards _ from pay dirt. Don Schaefer exploded “ across for the six-pointer but missed the conversion. The game took on a new light with the score knotted at 14—all.
Lundy Breaks Game Wide Open
On the first play after the kick-off, ; Dawson hit Lundy with a ten yard pass	,
on the Purdue 37 and he went the rest	!
of the way. Again Dawson’s toe was true and Purdue had jumped into the^ lead, 21-14, never to go behind again.
Purdue used six running plays and a ten-yard pass to put the ball on the Notre Dame 38-yard line. With Dawson at the reins, he threw a five yard screen pass to Murakowski on the 33 and he : scampered the remaining distance to	I
score. Dawson missed the point for the	.
first time, but Purdue didn’t really need it. Final score: Purdue, 27; Notre Dame, 14.	A
Guglielmi Moves Wide Behind Blocking	Schaefer Cracks Into Stone Wall
I
Witucki Barrels Up The Middle In Fourth Quarter
Irish Shutout Pitt9 33-0
By BOB RUHL
Pittsburgh, Pa., Oct. 9—Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish drove over the ground £and through the airways this afternoon to batter the hapless Pitt Panthers, 33-0. It was the second victory in three starts for the Irish this season.
The game, played before a capacity 62,000 fans, got off to a slow start in the first quarter. Notre Dame’s Don Schaefer kicked off and Pitt’s Henry Ford returned the ball to the Pitt 26. A stonewall Irish defense held the Panthers, and Schmitt punted to Notre A Dame’s Joe Heap who brought the pigskin to the Irish 43.
Notre Dame’s heavy-duty backs began to move. Reynolds and Heap dented the Pitt forward wall for a first down on the Panther 47. Schaefer and quarterback Guglielmi sliced for six yards. Heap passed to Reynolds who fought his way down to the 28. But the offense stalled. Three ground thrusts were stopped just short of a first down. Guglielmi’s pass failed and Pitt took over.
One ND Drive Fails
After Pitt failed to gain, Paul Reynolds took the resulting punt and ran it back to the Notre Dame 48. Again Notre Dame began to chop away at the Pitt line. Heap smashed to the Pitt 38 in two running plays. Sophomore Dean Studer and Heap combined for another first down on the Panther 25.
0 December 10, 1954
But the Pitt line stiffened, and the Irish couldn’t move on three plays. Guglielmi’s pass once more failed.
Tom Carey took over the quarterback reins from Guglielmi and engineered the first Irish score. Carey’s pitch-out to soph halfback Sherrill Sipes misfired and Sipes lost ground to the 24. Carey’s pass to Heap was no good. On fourth down Carey lofted a long aerial to Sipes who caught it in the end zone for the TD. Hornung’s kick was wide. ND, 6; Pitt, 0.
Palumbo Recovers Fumble
Pitt’s offense, completely stifled up to this point, made its bid for a touchdown. After an incompleted pass and a penalty stopped a bid for- a first down, Salvaterra faked a pass and swung wide to his left, getting a first down on the Irish 29. Salvaterra pitched to Ford in the end zone, but a penalty nullified the touchdown. The Irish held on three plays and took possession on the 28.
Notre Dame was on its way to another touchdown when Sam Palumbo recovered a fumble. Guglielmi threw to Heap who fell to the Panther 24. Schaefer pushed to the 20. Guglielmi kept the ball on the option play and raced to the 4. Studer rammed straight ahead to the 1. Guglielmi sneaked over for the touchdown. Schaefer’s kick was good. ND, 13; Pitt, 0.
Third-quartei- action saw the Irish
capitalize on another Pitt fumble to score. Receiving the kick off, the Irish had their sights set on another land score. Studer brought the ball to the Irish 20 on the kick off: Guglielmi got a first down on the 23. Heap skirted end for another first down on the 44. Studer, Schaefer and Heap brought the ball to the Pitt 41. Salvaterra broke up the bid with an interception, but fumbled the ball back to the Irish.
The Irish battering rams couldn’t be stopped this time. Studer carried to the twelve, but the Irish were pushed back to the 17 for off-sides. Heap and Schaefer got a first down on the five. Studer took Guglielmi’s hand off and skirted Pitt’s right end for the touchdown. Schaefer made the PAT. Score: ND, 20; Pitt, 0.
Hornung Drives Over
The fourth period saw the Irish score twice. Midway in the period, Nick Raich recovered a Pitt fumble on the Panther 16. Notre Dame was off and running. Heap and Morse drove to the 10. Hornung shot over the goal line on a keep-it play. Hornung’s kick was no good. Score: ND, 26; Pitt, 0.
Pittsburgh failed to gain in three plays and punted to Irish halfback Jim Morse, who fumbled and Pitt recovered on the Notre Dame 29. Two running plays were stopped cold by an alert Irish defense. Salvaterra tried the airways, but Hornung intercepted the pass in the end zone and brought it back to the 22.
The Irish took over on downs on their own 26. Witucki got a first down on the Irish 41. Morse skirted his own right end to the Pitt 23. Carey passed to Scannell for a first down on the 10. On the last play of the game Carey shot a quick pass to end Jim Munro in the end zone for a touchdown. Morse kicked the extra point. Final Score: ND, 33; Pitt, 0.
Heap Bags Another
15
Irish Squirm Through On Dramatic Kick
Irish Trip	20-10
By PAUL FULLMER
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 16—The Fighting Irish fell short in their comeback attempt against Purdue two weeks ago on this same turf, but today they had the goods to storm from behind and nip a determined Michigan State eleven on a rain-soaked field, 20-19. The win was a much-needed tonic for the 57,000 homecoming fans.
A dramatic extra point attempt by Michigan State, with only a minute remaining, slipped wide of the mark, giving the Irish this long-sought victory. Six Irish regulars slogged their way through the entire 60 minutes.
The Irish fell behind 13-0 in the first quarter and had to bang their way back into the game in the next two periods. Halfback Joe Heap sparked Notre
“Gug” Clutches Muddy Ball
Dame’s offense with his best running day of the year, 110 yards in 22 carries and a five-yard average.
The Irish avenged the three straight losses that the Spartans had inflicted on Frank Leahy’s boys during his tenure and gave Coach Terry Brennan his first “big” win against an old Notre Dame foe.
Spartans Score First
Notre Dame elected to kickoff to the visitors and State moved the ball relentlessly down the field. It took the Spartans only 13 plays and five minutes before Clarence Peaks tore around his left end for the score. Fullback Jerry Planutis converted and MSC led 7-0.
Ralph Guglielmi fumbled the ball right back to Michigan State on the ND 35. Again State did not waste any time. This time the airways figured in the scoring. Earl Morrall hurled a strike to John Lewis who easily beat Heap and Dean Studer into the end zone to put the underdogs ahead 13-0.
The aroused Irish partisans roused the Brennan-men into action and ND drove to the State six before Jack Wi-tucki: fumbled.
A penalty set the Spartans back to their goal and a punt gave the Irish another chance. Heap and Schaefer moved the ball down to the ten. Heap cracked off-tackle to the one and after two unsuccessful sneaks by Guglielmi, Heap dived in for his first TD. Schaefer-
added the placement and the Irish trailed 13-7 as the half ended.
Heap stifled another Spartan rally in the third canto when he fell on John Matsock’s fumble on the ND eleven. Center Dick Szymanski put the damper-on another Stater thrust when he intercepted a pass on the Michigan State 46.
Twelve Plays To Score
It took Guglielmi twelve plays to register the second Irish tally. The -Notre Dame backs slid, skated, and® rolled through the ever-deepening mud as they neared the goal. “Gug” pitched out to Heap, who circled right end to score from the 16 behind a nifty block by Schaefer. Schaefer got up and put the Irish ahead, 14-13, with his second conversion.
Guglielmi faced a fourth down situation and one yard to go at midfield in the early minutes of the fourth quarter. He sent Paul Reynolds knifing behind® Frank Varrichione and the Irish had their first and ten.
Schaefer then wiggled behind Sam Palumbo and Dan Shannon for 30 yards and the day’s longest gain. Heap gained three yards to the eight before Guglielmi called the option and Reynolds ended up on the scoring end of the lateral. Schaefer’s kick this time squirted wide and the Irish led 20-13 with 2:30 remaining.
A long desperation pass from Morrall £ to Lewis put the ball on the ND 14 and gave the Spartans a chance to tie things up. Bert Zagers needled his way through the over-anxious Irish on the next play to make the score 20-19.
Jerry Planutis measured the distance for the kick and the Irish line dug into the slippery muck. The lines tensed, Planutis crouched, the ball was snapped, Pat Bisceglia sneaked through a hole, hurled himself horizontally at the ball, £ and the ball sailed high—and wide of the mark.
The full house went wild as the tired Irish trudged off the field with their third victory—and a sweet one it was.
Heap Slides Through Tackle
16

1954 Football Record
Won 9, Lost 1
Notre Dame 21	Texas ............  0
Notre Dame 14	Purdue ___________ 27
Notre Dame 33	Pittsburgh .......  0
Notre Dame 20	Michigan State	....19	_
Notre Dame 6	Navy ..............  0	S’
Notre Dame 42	Pennsylvania ...... 7
Notre Dame 42	North Carolina	....13
Notre Dame 34	Iowa ______________18
Notre Dame 23	So. California ....17
Notre Dame 26	So. Methodist _____14
Drawings by^
Steve Rebora
19
Sink Middies9 Hopes, G-0
By DAVE KILKEARY
Baltimore, Md., Oct. 31—Notre Dame racked up their fourth victory of the year before 60,000 people here today by out-lasting- the Navy 6-0 on the rainsaturated turf of Municipal Stadium.
Irish Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi, flashing All-American form, threw a touchdown pass and recovered a Navy fumble in his own end zone to personally thwart the Middie’s hope for their first victory over a Notre Dame squad in ten years.
Guglielmi Passes For Score
Guglielmi rifled a 46-yard pass to sophomore halfback Jim Morse for the only score of the afternoon. The play came with striking suddenness in the second quarter. Morse gathered in the ball on the dead run at the Middie 19, rocketed between Navy’s Bob Craig and Dick Guest, and rambled untouched into the end zone with only five minutes left of the second quarter. Fullback Don Schaefer's try for the point was wide.
The 60,000 fans who braved this murky day saw the Notre Dames allow the Middies only six offensive plays in the first quarter and superbly dominate the entire first half of the contest. At halftime the Irish had nine first downs to the Midshipmen’s one. They had 114 yards rushing .to 14 and 72 yards passing to only six for the Easterners.
Notre Dame allowed many choice scoring- opportunities to slip by in the first half. Failure to pick up a few yards in critical spots hurt the Irish.
The Navy took to the air from the outset of the second half. The Sailors appeared to be a different ball club from the one that couldn’t get started in the first two periods. Similarly the Irish looked like they suffered a change too. The constant battering of the Irish at the Navy defenses lost its dynamite. Gradually it was seen that the Irish, who had been bothered all day by offside penalties, might be scored upon by Navy’s aerial bombardment.
Middie quarterback George Welsh started to hit end Ron Beagle with alarming regularity. Beagle bird-dogged-ly penetrated the Notre Dame secondary and hauled in pass after pass from the “hot” Welsh. At the same time the Notre Dame pass defense showed acute signs of sagging.
Navy Fumbles Chance Away
Aided by the beautiful pass catching of Beagle, Navy marched the second half kickoff to the Notre Dame twelve. It was the Middies first excursion into Notre Dame territory. However a Navy offside nullified a Welsh flip to John Weaver on the one and the Irish gained possession of the ball. This penalty was
Morse Eyes Goalline and Victory
6)
the only one of the day for the Navy.
Midway in the third period, Leonard Benzi recovered a Schaefer fumble on the Notre Dame 15. Welsh fired to Beagle and got the ball to the six. Immediately Navy pounded out a first down on the Irish one. Quarterback Welsh was stopped cold on two attempted sneaks and then Sam Palumbo belted the ball from Craig’s hands, as he hammered into the end zone. Guglielmi was the Man on the spot for the^ Irish; he fell on the ball for a touch-back. This was the play of the day as far as the Irish were concerned. Had Craig not fumbled, it could very well have meant the second Notre Dame loss of the campaign.
Schaefer Bulls For Short Yardage Near Goal
Stop Two Late Drives
The Middies threatened two times in the final quarter but interceptions by f Paul Hornung and Guglielmi kept the lock off the door for the Irish. In this stanza Notre Dame made their only long march of the half when Guglielmi hit Heap for 39 yards and Shannon grabbed another good for 16. The drive was halted, however, at the Navy 17 and the Midshipmen threw the Irish all the way back to the 33 before taking the ball on downs.
Navy went to mid-field the last time they had the ball. They lost it with only 56 seconds to play as Welsh’s pass went out of the hands of Beagle. Beagle played one of his best games of the year, and was a thorn in the side of the Irish all afternoon.
The victory was Notre Dame’s ninth in a row over the Navy. The Midshipmen’s last win being here in 1944 by a 32-13 score. It was the Irish’s fourth win of the campaign as against one loss.
20
STUDENT TRIP INVADES EASTERN SEABOARD
• - .
Terry’s Boys Bomb Penn, 42-7 *
By JOE MADIGAN	*
Philadelphia, Pa., Nov. 6—The Fighting Irish fashioned their biggest offensive display of the season today as they routed the Pennsylvania Quakers 42-7 before 61,188 fans in Franklin Feld.
Quaker supporters watched Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi enjoy one of his finest days as he passed for two touchdowns and scored one himself. Besides this, Guglielmi anchored the Irish secondary that restricted Penn to 27 yards through the air.
It was the seventh straight loss for Coach .Steve Sebo’s hapless charges, but they succeeded in giving the Irish line its toughest workout of the campaign. Penn backs amassed 224 yards rushing, most of them accumulated in the first half.
The Quakers started fast and appeared to be in command of the situation at the outset. They took Don Schaefer’s opening kickoff, and with halfback Walt Hynoski leading the way, marched 68 yards in twelve plays to the Notre Dame twelve. At this point, Guglielmi intercepted quarterback Jim Manley’s pass in the end zone to bail the Irish out of trouble temporarily.
Quakers Threaten Again
Shortly afterwards, the Quakers were knocking on the door again. From their own 47, they marched to the Irish three yard line in six plays. But Hynoski and Manley both missed passes in the end zone. Schaefer batted down the fourth down pass and the Irish took over on their own three.
After Guglielmi failed to connect with Jim Morse, Schaefer found a hole in the Penn left side and scampered 70 yards to the Penn 26-yard line as the first quarter ended. A few plays later, Guglielmi sneaked over from four yards out for the game’s first score. Schaefer booted the first of three conversions and .the Irish led 7-0.
Ray Lemek’s timely pass interception set up the second Irish score on the Penn 37. ' Guglielmi hit Joe Heap with a long one on the Penn seven. A fifteen yard penalty moved the ball back to the 22, but Guglielmi pitched to Dan Shannon for the score. Schaefer again converted to give the Irish a 14-0 halftime lead.
Notre Dame took the second half kickoff and churned up 95 yards in seven plays. Guglielmi capped the scoring thrust by firing an 18-yard aerial to Shannon. Schaefer again kicked the point after touchdown, and with the third period barely past the six minute mark, Notre Dame led 21-0.
Penn broke into the scoring column on the strength of Stan Chaplin’s 45-yard gallop to the Notre Dame 17. Hynoski sped over from the eleven and Manley converted to make the count 21-7.
The Irish bounced right back, this time for 75 yards. Guglielmi’s 40-yard pass to Morse sparked an off tackle slant from the seven. Paul Hornung split the uprights to run the score to 28-7.
Heap’s interception set up the fifth Irish tally, running the ball back 22
yards to the Quaker 22. With the reserves assuming the reins, Tom Carey pitched out to Dean Studer who rambled the remaining 20 yards to paydirt. Hornung again converted to stretch the Irish lead to 35-7 with the fourth quarter barely underway.
Hornung Notches Final TD
Later on, Hynoski, a brilliant performer all day, in a losing cause, fumbled on his own 21, and the ever alert Carey recovered. Sherill Sipes got five and Carey kept for 13. Hornung then bucked over for the final score, and added the point. The final score, Notre Dame 42, Penn 7.	_
Individually, the Irish showed to great advantage. Guglielmi connected on 13 of 19 tosses for 260 yards. The Irish star completed his last eight in succession, enabling him to come within one pass of tying a twelve year Notre Dame record of nine in a row set by Angelo Bertelli back in 1942.
Schaefer also enjoyed his finest of the year. The Irish fullback gained 135 yards in 12 carries, the majority of the yardage coming on his 70-yard first quarter jaunt that set up the game’s • first score.
Nevertheless, the victory was a costly one for the Irish. Center Dick Szymanski was rushed to University Hospital in Philadelphia for an emergency operation later in the evening. Szymanski’s injury was diagnosed as a ruptured spleen, and the star" senior was declared out for the year.
a
Morse Begins Long 77-Yard Kickoff Hike
ND Tops Tar Heels, 42-13
By PAUL
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 13—The decision was nevei- in doubt today, from £ the moment that Jimmy Morse flashed a scintillating 77-yard opening kickoff return, as the Fighting Irish salted away the sixth in an all-winning series with the North Carolina Tar Heels, 42-13.
Perhaps it was their determination to present convalescing Dick Szymanski with a sincere get-well gift that prompted the squad to take all the wraps off _ a potent offense under a friendly No- vember sun. At any rate, a hefty 213 yards gained via the air complemented by a 185 total on the turf coasted ND to victory over the distraught Tar Heels.
Ralph Guglielmi sat out the second half after he had unerringly piloted his mates to a comfy four-touchdown margin at the intermission with a combination of uncanny play-calling and seven successes out of twelve tries with his pitching arm.
* Equal Guglielmi’s Output
Tom Carey and Paul Hornung, Guglielmi’s understudies, then took over where Ralph left off and together they equalled the 21 points registered under the All-American quarterback’s command.
Morse’s initial spurt carried him down to the Tar Heel 22-yard marker where he was overtaken by speedy Don Klo-chak. From there it took a pair of line
LaFRENIERE
smashes, a delayed buck, a pass, a sneak, and a final short crack through tackle by Joe Heap until the Irish made a showing on the scoreboard.
The rest of the first period was played in Carolina territory, but not until the first minute of the following quarter did the Irish reach pay-dirt again. Heap did the honors for the second time to wind up his day’s scoring, after ND had used nine plays in a 50-yard thrust.
Guglielmi keynoted an 82-yard drive
Schaefer Slashes Off-Tackle in Tar Heel Victory
the next time he got his hands on the ball, tossing 42 yards to Heap and another time to Co-Captain Paul Matz who did a juggling act before grabbing the leather for keeps. In twelve scrimmages, Terry’s Terrors had another score, Morse neatly snagging “Gug’s” bullet pass in TD territory. Fullback Don Schaefer, besides doing some fine charging into the North Carolina secondary during these sustained attacks, toed the three extra boots after the six-pointers.
Carey Engineers Touchdown
Then it was Tommy Carey’s turn to display his wares as the first-stringers departed. Carey engineered a 75-yard maneuver which featured his pitch to Dean Studer for 47 yards. The pay-off was another Carey pass, this time to Jim Munro. Hornung kicked the PAT, 40 seconds before the half ended.
Hornung generated the Irish for the next quarter and a half and his passing, running, and defensive work set up the
final two ND tallies. Frank Pinn and Jack Witucki broke into the scoring column for the first time in their collegiate careers to round out an enjoyable afternoon for Irish partisans. Hornung split the goal posts for the added point on each occasion.
With less than half a quarter to go, the Tar Heels took some consolation by garnering two TD’s, the first on a pass from Al Long to Larry Parker, the other on a Doug Farmer-Larry McMullen airway combination.
In their successful preliminary to the Iowa game, the Irish put on a gridiron exhibition a la 1954 for 55,410 customers and members of Knute Rockne’s National Championship undefeated and untied teams of 1929-30, who were introduced during halftime ceremonies.
| December 10, 1954	23
ND Clobbers Iowa, 34-18
By FRED ECKART
Iowa City, la., Nov. 20—Tumid clouds lifted long enough this bleak Saturday afternoon for the sun to smile down on an inspired Notre Dame football team that revealed to a stadium-stacked crowd of 52,756 a gridiron juggernaut that could do no wrong as it ran and passed to a decisive 34-18 victory over a stunned Iowa eleven.
Burned in effigy only the night before by eager Iowa students at the pre-game pep rally, the Irish machine, led by AllAmerican quarterback Ralph Guglielmi, fullback Don Schaefer, and halfback Joe Heap, amassed a wide statistical advantage.
Guglielmi himself completed nine of 14 passes for 165 yards. Carey and Reynolds added 68 on 3 out of 5, bringing total passings to 233 yards. Heap averaged 7.2 yards per carry, garnering 72 from scrimmage in 10 tries. Schaefer gained 96 in 18 tries for a 5.3 average.
It wasn’t until the last quarter surge that brought the two final Hawkeye scores that the lowans could close the statistical gap which saw the Irish far ahead in every department except punting.	’
The deception and deadly accurate passing of Guglielmi, the lightningquick thrusts of Schaefer, the breakaway running of Heap all were major factors in accounting for a total of 493 yards rushing and passing that made a jubilant delegation of 179 Senior Trippers and some 3,000 Irish TV-viewers back at Notre Dame forget the sorrows of last year’s stunning 14-14 tie.
Unable to generate their accustomed
Irish Crisscross Pattern—Heap Receives and Morse Watches
momentum in the face of the rugged Irish forwards, the Hawks had the ball for only seven offensive plays in the first quarter, netting only eight yards.
After the Irish threatened in the first quarter, going to the Iowa 19 before losing the ball on downs, Heap set up the initial Notre Dame score, scooting 43 yards to the Iowa’s six. Morse, Schaefer, and Guglielmi moved the ball to the one-foot line from where Morse cracked over for the score. Schaefer converted and the Irish led 7 to 0.
After an exchange of punts, Iowa marched to the Irish 39, losing the ball on downs as Reichow’s passes went astray. A Guglielmi to Matz aerial brought the Irish back and after a holding penalty delay, Shannon brought down another “Gug” toss for 20 yards. From the Irish 49 Guglielmi and Schaefer alternated to bring the pigskin to the Iowa 38. Guglielmi threw to Reynolds for 19 yards. Schaefer moved the ball to the five and Heap scored in two plays. Schaefer again converted, putting Notre Dame in front 14-0.
Before the fans had hardly seated themselves Iowa effectively struck back with Broeder going 17 yards from the Iowa 40. The next play, Reichow found End Frank Gilliam behind the Irish secondary on the 20, hit him with a pass on the run and he scored untouched. Right end Jim Freeman’s try for point was wide. The score, Notre Dame 14 Iowa 6.
The second half got underway with Schaefei’ kicking off to Sternes who returned to the Iowa 32. On the first play Broeder banged through the Irish
Kapish Pulls Down TD Pass
forwards for 18 yards only to fumble on the 50 where the Irish began their third touchdown drive.
In six plays the Irish scored with a 23-yard aerial from Guglielmi to Morse. However a clipping penalty nullified the score leaving the ball on the 28. Another pass to Shannon for 17 placed the ball on the seven. Three plays put the ball on the three yard line from where Schaefer knifed through right tackle for the score. Schaefer’s kick was good again and the score was 21-6.
Iowa failed to gain after the kickoff and punted to the Irish 43. After being set back to the 37 on 2 plays and holding penalty, Guglielmi found Matz for 34 through the air and Reynolds for an additional ten. Reynolds and Schaefer alternated to the nine yard line from where Guglielmi passed to Matz who carried two Iowa defenders into the end zone. Schaefer split the uprights for the fourth straight time and the scoreboard read: Notre Dame 28, Iowa 6.
Four minutes into the fourth stanza Notre Dame replacements led by rugged little Tom Carey drove from the Irish O 19 to the Iowa 38 on runs by Reynolds, Hornung and Fitzgerald. On fourth down Carey faded behind excellent protection and pitched a 38-yard pass into the waiting arms of Gene Kapish who waltzed into the end zone untouched. Hornung’s kick for the point was blocked. Notre Dame 34, Iowa 6.
In two plays the Hawks had another scoi'e on a 76-yard TD toss from Quarterback Dobrino to Earl Smith who took it on his 40 and raced the remaining 60 to paydirt. The try for point failed again and the Irish led 34-12.
Iowa’s last score came after a Carey i fumble on the Notre Dame 43. Stearnes ran 20 yards and Dobrino passed 14 to Matheson. Sternes cracked across from the nine yard stripe with 4:23 left in the game. The try for point failed and the Irish ran out the game, holding Iowa on the 5. The final score: Notre Dame, 34, Iowa 18.
The Scholastic
24
Irish Tacklers Trip Trojan Runner in Mud
Rally to Beat USC9 23-17
By JOHN GUEGUEN
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 27.—Notre £ Dame’s Fighting Irish had not one but two battles to fight in the Stadium today when the University of Southern California Trojans renewed one of the longest intersectional football rivalries in the nation.
Besides a fired-up Rose Bowl squad determined to increase its prestige before squaring off with Ohio State in the New Year’s Day classic, the Irish also had to overcome their own miscues to pound out a 23-17 verdict.
Fumbles, intercepted passes, penalties, passing inaccuracy, and unimpressive kicking plagued the Notre Dame squad during most of the game, and the alert Trojans were quick to take advantage of many of them.
The Irish bobbled the ball nine times, losing it on four occasions. Two intercepted passes and eight penalties helped to stall the Irish attack, and Brennan’s charges managed to complete only two of nine attempted passes.
The fifth home sell-out of the season, 56,438, watched the final game of the season in Notre Dame Stadium on a damp, chilly day that saw the sun break through heavy clouds in the second half.
A slippery ball and a soggy field softened by several days of wet weather hampered the afternoon’s activity.
Notre Dame’s Jim Morse earned the game’s top individual honors. Besides a dazzling 72-yard run that brought the
) December 10, 1954
Irish from behind for the third and last time near the end of the game, the sophomore left half gained 179 yards in 19 carries.
The Irish rushed for 373 yards in winning their eighth contest in nine starts this season. Coach Jess Hill’s Trojans suffered their third loss in eleven games.
On the first Notre Dame play from scrimmage, Don Schaefer fumbled on the ND 14 to set up the first Trojan score. It took four’ plays to shove the Irish back to the one-foot line, and Quarterback Jim Contratto did the honors on the next play. Sam Tsagal-akis’ boot gave Southern Cal an early 7-0 lead.
After a penalty-stalled Irish drive, the teams exchanged punts and Notre Dame launched an attack that carried to the SC 28. But Guglielmi’s passing failed to click, and the Trojans took over.
After two more exchanges and another* Notre Dame fumble, Southern Cal pushed to the Irish 17 where Tsagalakis missed a field goal attempt. On this play, Ray Lemek, first string left guard for Notre Dame was carried from the field with a fracture and torn ligaments in the left knee, an injury that ended his 1954 season.
A Notre Dame scoring drive quickly got into gear. Heap sparked the drive with a 40-yard off-tackle sprint. With
Tom Carey in charge, it took the Irish only five more plays to strike.
Heap took a pitchout from Carey on the twelve and launched an aerial on the run to Morse, who crossed the goal. Schaefer converted to tie the score.
Aramis Dandoy, USC’s speedy halfback, led a Trojan drive at the beginning of the second half that pushed the Irish back to their 13-yard line. Here the drive stalled, but Tsagalakis sent the Californians ahead 10-7 with a field goal.
A 106-yard ground offensive, starting on their own 14, sparked the Irish third quarter play. This time penalties failed to halt the hard-charging Greenshirts, who ground out 20 successive plays in one of the longest sustained drives on record.
Morse, Guglielmi, Heap, and Schaefer alternated in the see-saw downfield progress. Schaefer plunged off-tackle from the two and kicked the extra point to put Notre Dame in front for the first time, 14-10, early in the final quarter.
But the Trojans countered with a quick 62-yard drive . featuring Contralto’s passing accuracy. The final aerial was good to End Chuck Griffith for 21 yards and the TD. Ed Fouch converted, and the visitors took a late 17-14 lead.
Following the kickoff, Heap fumbled to the Trojans, but SC could not keep the ball. The Irish took over on their own 21 with a little over seven minutes remaining.
After two short gains, Morse, with key blocks by Guglielmi and Schaefer, unleashed his 72-yard TD run along the West sideline, the longest run of the season for Notre Dame. Schaefer booted the extra point to make it 21-17.
The Irish got two more points on a safety when Southern Cal took over, and three plays later the final whistle sounded with the Irish on top, 23-17.
Heap Throws The Hip
25
i I
Terry Finishes
First Season on Top


Irish Trounce SMU, 26-14
£
By JOE
£
Si
&
Dallas, Texas, Dec. 4—Millions via nationwide TV were impressed and 75,540 at the Cotton Bowl were amazed as Notre Dame finished the 1954 football season with a decisive 26-14 win over SMU.
But the score is a liar; it might easily have been 62-14, so soundly did the Irish shellack the Mustangs statistically. Terry Brennan’s offense rolled to 23 first downs to the opponent’s seven; his defense yielded an incredible - 34 yards on the ground until the fourth quarter. The Irish would have amassed over 700 yards had not penalties interfered, as it was they totaled 477 yards. Notre Dame was a selfish guest too, they ran twice as many plays and had possession of the ball most of the time. The real story is therefore, in the statistics.
SMU lost the opening flip of the coin and everything else. Notre Dame opened with a 60-yard touchdown drive sparked by Guglielmi’s passing and climaxed by a four-yard Heap bolt, but for the first time in 13 consecutive attempts, Schaefer failed to convert. The junior dynamo atoned for this by exploding for 129 yards for the rest of the game. After this 6-0 score, SMU then replied with their only identifiable effort—a 53-yard move that saw Roach crawl over from ten yards out. The Mustangs notched the point to lead 7-6 at the end of the first quarter.
Moments later the Ramblers retaliated with a relentless return to paydirt, 62 yards in eleven line crashes and one pass. The scoring play saw Ralph “the difference” Guglielmi fool the American Public with a weak-side skirt of three yards. The Irish went out front 13-7 when Schaefer converted.
DALEY
This fellow Roach, a tall Texan if ever, kept ND pinioned for quite a while with his helium-hoofed punts. Finally, the Irish reserves found a defense for SMU’s punt attack. With 1:12 left in the first half, Bob Scannell’s block, tackle, and touchdown run of a Mustang punt gave ND a 19-7 intermission lead.
Joe Heap highlighted second half action with a touchdown gallop of 89 yards. Taking a handoff from Guglielmi, Heap paused long enough to notice blocks by Schaefer and Reynolds, then continued down the sidelines, evad
ing many it 26-7.
Save for
Mustangs. Schaefer made
deceptive 76-yard scoring
a
Guglielmi Picks Up His Lost ND Touchdown
run by John Marshall, SMU was never heard from. Paul Reynolds, after chasing Marshall most of the way, returned the following kickoff 62 yards, but here the Irish surrendered the ball on penalties.
They kept following that procedure for the rest of the game. It got so bad at one point, that an ND drive started on the Irish 43 consumed 15 plays and four first downs, but ended on the SMU 42 thanks to three penalties. In all the officials awarded Notre Dame 175 yards in reverse.
The story the statistics told was a fitting close to young Terry Brennan’s first season; he had coached a team, which had lost six All-Americans, to a 9 and 1 record. It was fitting too, because twelve seniors shook down the thunder for the last time and their valedictories were typical of great Notre Dame teams. There was Ralph Guglielmi, “the difference,” wearing out acres of Texas soil as he directed the charge. There was Joe Heap, faster than ever' as he scored twice and doubled SMU’s yardage. There was Sam Palumbo chasing his last quarterback, Paul Matz spoiling another option, Frank Varrichione opening his last mammoth hole, Jack Lee leading his last defensive charge, and there was Shannon coming for the last time, and Tom Carey bursting out of his last impossible predicament. This was the last of the old gang of four year men, but they’ll be talked about for a long, long time. Bob Ready, Tony Pasquesi, Dick Frasor, Jim Bigelow, and Ed Cook left memories too. Dick Szymanski must have helped, he always did.
Even the penalties didn’t really matter because the Irish had finished a great season with a decisive 26-14 over a powerful SMU team.
%
FAMOUS
^GILBERT'S brand
THE advantages are obvious, of buying 1 items identified by the maker with his name or brand, and on which he stakes his reputation. You find more "names you know" at Gilbert's than in most other men's stores, because through the years we have constantly stressed famous labels in men's clothing. We have specialized in bringing them to South Bend, selecting them carefully by performance and reputation. These Brand Names represent firms that stand solidly behind their products—your guarantee of satisfaction. We can list only a few, there are many more.
NAMES
—trademarks of QUALITY
809-817 S. Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
December 10, 1954
An Ideal Place to Stay When Visiting at Notre Dame
Indiana’s Newest and Finest
Open to the Public
All Outside Rooms
92 BATHS
92 ROOMS
•	TERRACE DINING ROOM — Air Conditioned
•	PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS — Air Conditioned
•	BEAUTIFUL PATIO
RADIO IN EVERY ROOM
•	GOLF PRIVILEGES
•	CIRCULATING ICE WATER
LARGE PARKING AREA
DELICIOUS FOOD
DELIGHTFUL DRINKS
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions
PROMPT ATTENTION WILL BE GIVEN YOUR RESERVATION REQUEST


OWNED AND OPERATED BY UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
ARMAND E. LYSAK Manager
The Scholastic

^-^EASY
New "Silvered-Tip" writes the way you do . . . fine, medium or broad... without changing points. Re- i fills available in blue, red. j green or blade ink. Get a	1
Paper-Mate Pen todayl M
• Hl COft SM* WfMMftt
• Can’t Mi
Silvtred’Tip ntiUs...49t
#69
Traded
at the
Notre Dame Bookstore
Baseaieat
Badia Ball
m December 10, 1954
FIRST PAGE IN A NEW ERA AT NOTRE DAME c>
...	I
^Scholastic
I Vol. 96 DECEMBER 10, 1954 No. 9
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101. October 3. 1917. .Authorized June 23. 1918.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
JOHN ADAMS   ________________ News
ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE  _________ Copy
Charles McKendrick________________
.........	   Assistant	Copy DAVE COHEN .......    Features
KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager JIM GALLAGHER __________ Circulation
PETER STURTEVANT _____ Photo Editor
PAUL FITZGERALD ..................
___________ Photography Coordinator JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Pre*s Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advettising by National Advertising Serxice. Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue. New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC Is published ueeklv during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor. Box 185. Notre Dame. Indiana.
Special Football Review Staff
EDITOR: Paul Fullmer.
GAMES: Erwin Alphonsus. Dave Davin. Bob Ruhl. Paul Fullmer. Dave Kilkeary. Joe Madigan. Paul LaFrenierc. Ft cd Eckart, Jack Gueguen. and Jack Mullin.
FEATURES: Dick Connelly. John Adams. Gary Gates. Jim Goethals. Joe Bride. Dave Davin.
BIOGRAPHIES: Paul Fullmer. Dave Davin. Bob McDonald.
PHOTOGRAPHY: AI Balmer. "Dutch’* Hennings. Gerry TraHicanda. John O’Brien. Jim Guide. Mike Thompson. Armin Gummerman. Hy Peskin. Bob Mackey.
ART: Steve Rebora and Al Balmer.
ADVERTISING: Ken Woodward. Harry Conlon. Loran Sheffer.
Our Cover: The Irish carved the first page in a new Notre Dame era this year —the Terry Brennan era. The Fighting Irish romped through their tough schedule with the poise of a champion. “Dutch” Hennings of the South Bend Tribune, Al Balmer of Indiana Engraving, and Gerry Trafficanda pooled their talent to produce the cover—the irish ON THE MOVE.
December 10, 1954
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
OUR SPECIALTY
Golden Brown Fried Potatoes
Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
SUH
JOE WCHTs
Restaurant
“Chicken in the Rough” 213 N. Main Open Sunday
TONE-ARM TEDDY WAS A
fieedle noodpifc
*// you can*t remote needle send entire assembly.
TRANSCRIBER COMPANY
Diamond Stylus Manufacturers
70 Pine Street — Dept. \'[) i Attleboro, Moss. *
He had a 50 watt amplifier . . . two speakers in every room . . . but still his sound wasn’t up to snuff. Why?? He was using a hi-fi turntable with a no-fi needle. But Teddy learned at last. He sent his old needle to Transcriber and had us custom re-tip if with genuine diamond.
If you are using anything but a diamond — or a diamond more than 12 months old — why not do the same. Remove your needle from its cartridge”, scotch-tape it to a piece of cardboard and mail to Transcriber. Our experts will straighten and strengthen the shank . . . re-tip it with a new guaranteed. diamond. A real bargain at only §10.50 complete. 48 hour service.

For All-Weather Wear!
This dark cordo blucher oxford is made with the “all-weather welt” for added • protection in any kind of weather. Leather sole and rubber heel. Ideal for year around wear.
THE HANOVER SHOE
102 N. Michigan St., South Bend. Ind.
The Huddle
Congratulates the 1954 Notre Dame football squad
■ ■ ■ STOP at the HUDDLE ■ ■ ■ for that little snack between classes
Congratulations to the
1954 Fighting Irish
from the
NATIONAL MILK COMPANY
SOUTH BEND., IND. Phone 7-1563 MISHAWAKA, IND.
ELKHART, IND.
MICHIGAN CITY, IND. Phone 6-6277 NORTH LIBERTY, IND.
LAPORTE, IND.
The Scholastic
Notre Dame
Publications
Diplomacy in a Whirlpool: Hungary Between Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia, by Stephen Kertesz.
The story of the totalitarian conquest of Hungary by the Nazi and Red regimes is graphically told by the man who served in the Hungarian Foreign Ministry
Notre Dame, 100 Years, by Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.
A complete and popularly written history of Notre Dame, filled with anecdotes and interesting stories. A
perfect gift for that friend back home.
$4.00
during the war and postwar years.
$4.75
Soviet Imperialism: Its Origins and Tactics, edited by Waldemar Gurian.
This basic text deals with the central question of the Cold War: Is the enemy “Eternal Russia” or Communist aggression?	$3.75
The Review of Politics
A quarterly that provides in every issue a full range of articles which consider the problems of contemporary life within the historical and philosophical focus of the Christian world-view. Walter Lippman says, “I regard the Review of Politics as having very few equals and no superiors in the English-speaking world in the serious discussion of international politics.” $4.00 a year
Pan-Slavism: Its History and Ideology, by Hans Kohn.
The first attempt in English at a comprehensive survey and analysis of Slav Nationalism, from its begin-
ning after
after the Napoleonic Wars to its climax in and
World War II.
$6.25
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. I.
Edited by Alfred L. Scanlan.	$2.00
The Natural Law Philosophy of the Founding Fathers, by Clarence E. Manion.
The Natural Law and Pragmatism, by Ben W. Palmer.
The Doctrine of Natural Law Philosophy, by Mortimer Adler.
Natural Law and Positive Law, by Harold R. McKinnon.
The Eternal Law Background of Natural Law, by William J.
Doheny, C.S.C.
I
The
Foreign Policy of the British Labour Govem-
ment 1945-1951, by M. A. Fitzsimons.
A lighting up of the maj'or lines and development of the British foreign policy while the Labour Government held office.	$3.25
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. II.
Edited by Alfred L. Scanlan.	$2.00
Natural Law in the Greek Period, by Maurice LeBel.
Natural Law in the Roman Period, by Ernest Levy.
Medieval Conceptions of Natural Law, by Gordon Hall Gerould.
The Natural Law in the Renaissance Period, by Heinrich A. Rommen.
Status of Natural Law in American Jurisprudence, by Robert N. Wilkin.
Bolshevism: An Introduction to Soviet Communism, by Waldemar Gurian.
A clear and cogent treatment that reveals the basic features of Bolshevism as a social and political re-
ligion.
$3.25
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. III.
Edited by Edward F. Barrett.	$2.00
The Natural Law and Common Law, by Richard O’Sullivan. The Natural Law and Constitutional Law, by Edward S. Corwin. The Natural Law and Canon Law, by Stephan Kuttner.
The Natural Law and International Law, by Carlos P. Romulo.
Christian Democracy in Italy and France, by
Mario Einaudi and Francois Goguel.
A study of the Christian Democratic Party in Italy and the MRP, the party of the Fourth French Republic.	$4.00
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. IV.
Edited by Edward
The Source of Human
F. Barrett.
$2.00.
The Natural Law J. Brogan.
The Natural Law C. Hutcheson, The Natural Law
and
and Jr.
and
Rights, by George E. Sokolsky. the Right to Liberty, by Hon. Thomas
the Right to Property, by Hon. Joseph
the Right of Self-Expression, by Felix
Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy, by Ferdinand A. Hermens.
An important volume on the effects of Proportional
Morley.	_	.
The Natural Law and the Right to Pursue Happiness, by John C. Ford, S.J.
Representation between 1918 and 1950.
$4.00
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. V.
Edited by Edward F. Barrett.	$2.00.
Peter E. Dietz, Labor Priest, by Mary Harrita Fox.
This is a biography of America’s first labor priest. As a pioneer champion of labor, Father Dietz worked alongside such men as Samuel Gompers, Matthew Woll, Daniel Tobin, and Phillip Murray in his attempts to find a desirable solution to industrial strife. $4.75
The Natural Law Freehof.
The; Natural Law Sundaram.
The Natural Law
in in in
the Jewish Tradition, by Rabbi Solomon the Hindu Tradition, by Professor M. S. the Confucian Tradition, by Dr. Hu Shih.
The Natural Law in the Moslem Tradition, by Dr. Khalifa Abdul Hakim.	_	_ _	_	'
The Natural Law in the Buddhist Tradition, by Daisetz T. Suzuki.
On Sale At The Bookstore
University of Notre Dame Press, Notre Dame, Indiana
December 10, 1954
Notre Dame Victory March Musical Powder Boxes
□ Small size $6.75 plus postage and insurance.................................$7.25
□ Medium size $7.50 plus postage and insurance................................ 8.00
□ Large size $8.50 plus postage and insurance........................._....... 9.00
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana
Name....................................................................
Address.................................................................
City and State.........................................................
□ Remittance Enclosed □ Send C.O.D.
Crystal Clear Glasses to Toast Notre Dame

At party time, reunion time, and many other occasions, your entertaining will be tops in graciousness; thanks to these superb Notre Dame glasses. The seal is permanent and they are made up in traditional colors.
SEND
□	6 oz. No. 1 Stem Champagne — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance ....$10.25
O 10 oz. No. 2 Pilsners — $7.50 Doz. plus postage and insurance............... 8.75
□	9 oz. No. 3 Stem Goblet — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance —........ 10.25
□	3^4 oz. No. 4 Stem Cocktail — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance------ 10.25 □ 3 oz. No. 5 Stem Wine — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance---------------------------- 10.25 □ 14 oz. No. 6 Hi-Ball or Mint Julep $4.95 Doz. plus postage and insurance 6.20 □ 7/2oz. No. 7 Old Fashion — $4.75 Doz. plus postage and insurance........... 6.00 □ 10 oz. No. 8 Hi-Ball or Coke — $4.75 Doz. plus postage and insurance....... 6.00
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana
Name......................................-....-................
Address........................................................................
City and State..........................
□ Remittance Enclosed
□ Send C.O.D.
Notre Dame Football Trophy Stein
Here is a complete three piece set. The mug contains a large blue, ND, gold trimmed monogram with a football player handle. The miniature stein can be used as a cigarette container or as a novelty along with the “Letter Man.”
Large Stein ..................  $4.25	□
Miniature Stein ..............   1.50	□
Letter Man ..................... 1.50	□
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana

Name
Address............................................................................
City and State...................................................................
□ Remittance Enclosed □ Send C.O.D.
10
The Scholastic
1 1954 NOTRE DAME VARSITY ROSTER								
No. NAME		POS.	AGE	HT.	WT.	HOME TOWN	HIGH SCHOOL	CLASS
2	***Carey, Thomas 		QB	21	5-10	180	Chicago, Ill. 			Mt. Carmel 			Sr.
3	***Guglielmi, Ralph 		QB	20	6-0	185	Columbus, Ohio			Grandview 			Sr.
4	Bucci, Donald 		QB	21	6-0	180	Youngstown, Ohio 			 _ _ East	. ..		-	Sir.
5	Hornung, Paul 			QB	18	6-2	190	Louisville, Ky. 			Flaget			So.
	Cooke, Larry 			QB	18	6-0	185	Ennis, Texas			Ennis 			So.
8 9	Bigelow, James 	 QB *Schaefer, Donald 	 FB-HB		2b 20	5-11 ' 5-11	170 185	Glenshaw, Pa.	 Pittsburgh, Pa. 			Shaler 	 	Central Catholic			Sr. 	Jr.
11	McDonnell, John 		HB	19	5-11	175	Sterling, HI.			Newman Catholic 			So.
12	Sipes, Sherrill 		HB	19	6-0	185	Louisville, Ky.			Flaget 			So.
15	Callaghan, Leo 		HB	21	6-1	185	Passaic, N. J. 			Pope Pius XII 			Sr.
16	Rigali, William				HB	19	5-10	175	Chicago, Ill. 				So.
								
17	Morse, James 			 -	..	HB	19	5-11	180	Muskegon, Mich.			St. Mary’s 		So.
18								
	**Reynolds, Paul 				FB	21	6-0	180	Springfield, Ill. .	Cathedral	.. .—...		Jr.
19 20	Milota, James 	 Witucki, Jack 			HB HB	19 19	5-11 6-1	170 185	Park Ridge, Ill. 	 Tulsa, Okla. 	~			Fenwick 	 	Cascia Hall 			So. 	So.
21	Gerami, Gerald 		HB	19	5-9	178	Lafayette, La.			Cathedral 			So.
22	Studer, Dean 		HB	18	5-11	180	Billings, Mont. 			Central 			So.
30	Ward, Robert 			HB	19	5-8	160	Van Dyke, Mich.			German Twp.	So.
32	*Fitzgerald, Richard 		FB	21	5-11	190	Chicago, Ill.			St. George 			Jr.
33	***Shannon, Dan (Co-Capt.) 		E	20	6-0	190	Chicago, Ill. 			Mt. Carmel 			Sr.
34	Gaffney, John 		FB	20	6-1	190	Chicago, Ill. 			St. Ignatius 			Jr.
37	Raich, Nicholas 			FB	20	5-10	185	Milwaukee, Wis.	Marquette	'		Jr.
								
38	Wilson, George 		FB	20	5-11	185	Polo, Ill.			Community 			Jr.
40	*Keller, Richard 	.		HB	19	6-0	175	Toledo, Ohio		....	Central Catholic 			Jr.
41	Pinn, Frank 		FB	19	5-10	190	Chicago, Ill. -—	-		Mt. Carmel			So.
42	***Heap, Joseph 		HB	22	5-11	180	Abita Springs, La.			Holy Cross			Sr.
43	Markowski, Joseph 		FB	20	6-0	185	Hamilton, Ontario 			Cathedral 			Jr.
45	Kaiser, David 		FB	19	6-2	195	Alpena, Mich. 			Alpena 			So.
47 48	Davin, David 	 Bosse, Joseph 		E T	19 19	6-4 6-2	203 205	Chicago, Ill.	 Lawrence, Mass. 			St. Ignatius 	 		Central Catholic ..				So. 	So.
49	Hendricks, Richard 		HB	20	6-1	180	Danville, UI.			Schlarman 					Jr.
50	Noznesky, Pete 		E	19	6-0	180	Lansdowne, Pa. „—		LaSalle Military Acad. Oakdale, L. I., N. Y. —		So.
51	Mense, James 		C	19	5-11	205	Hamilton, Ohio			Hamilton Catholic			Jr.
52	***Szymanski, Richard 		G	21	6-2	215	Toledo, Ohio			Libbety			Sr.
53	Carrabine, Luke 		G	19	6-1	205	Gary, Indiana 			Gary Emerson			So.
56	Cook, Edward 	—		C	21	6-1	210	Philadelphia, Pa.			S.E. Catholic 			Sr.
58	King, Jack 		G	18	5-10	200	Weirton, W. Va.			So.
								
59	Regan, Michael 		E	19	6-2	200	Buffalo, N. Y.			Canisius 			Jr.
60	***Varrichione, Frank ...		T	21	6-0	. 210	Natick, Mass. 			Natick			Sr.
61	McMullan, John ....				G	20	5-10	200	Hoboken, N. J. 			Demerest 			Jr.
62	*BiscegIia, Pat 	:		G	23	1-10	190	Worcester, Mass. 			Commerce			Jr.
63	Frasor, Richard 		C	21	5-11	190	Chicago, Ill.			Mt. Carmel			Sr.
64	McCabe, Pete 		G	18	6-2	205	Wilmette, Ill.			New Trier			So.
65 66	***Lee, Jack 		G G	21 19	5-11 6-1	190 205	Medford, Mass. 		—	- Malden Catholic 		......		Sr. So.
67	***Palumbo, Samuel 		T	21	6-1	208	Cleveland, Ohio			Collinwood 			Sr.
68	Nakfoor, Patrick 		E	20	6-4	205	Lansing, Mich. 			St. Mary’s 			Jr.
69	Stanitzek, Francis 				G	19	5-10	200 .	Grand Rapids, Mich. __		Grand Rapids 			So.
70	Martell, Eugene 			T	19	6-3	212	Midland, Pa.			Lincoln 			Jr.
71	Beams, Byron 				T	19	6-4	217	Ada, Okla.			Ada			So.
72	*Lemek, Raymond 		G	19	6-1	205	Sioux City, la.			Heelan 	'			Jr.
73	Mondron, Robert 				T	19	6-3	210	Charleston, W. Va. 			Charleston Catholic 			So.
74	**Ready, Robert 		T	21	6-3	212	Lowell, Mass.			Lowell			Sr.
75	Pasquesi, Anthony 		T	20	6-4	215	Chicago, Ill.			St. Phillip 			Sr.
76	Groble, George 				T	18	6-2	212	Chicago, III.			St. Ignatius 			So.
77	Nicula, George 		T	19	6-2	205	Warren, Ohio			Harding 			Jr.
78	Kegaly, John 		T	20	6-3	207	Chicago, III. 			St. Ignatius 				Jr.
79	Bihn, Joseph 		T	19	6-2	208	San Jose, Calif. 			Bellarmine Prep 		So
80	Munro, James 		E	18	6-0	195	Chicago, Ill.			St. George 			So.
81	*George, Donald 		E	20	6-4	205	Dunbar, Pa.			Dunbar 			Jr.
82 83	*Edmonds, Wayne 	 Scannell, Robert 		G E	20 19	6-0 6-0	205 190	Canonsburg, Pa. 	 South Bend, Ind. 			Canonsburg 	 	Central 			Jr. 	So. '
84	Zajeski, Benedict 		G	20	6-3	205	Chicago, Ill.			Mt. Carmel 			Jr.
85	Loncaric, Louis 	 .	E	18	6-3	190	Battle Creek, Mich. 			St. Philip			So.
86	Schramm, Paul 		T	18	6-2	212	Cincinnati, O. 			Sn
								
87	Dumas, Jack 		E	19	6-3	190	Grand Rapids, Mich. 			Catholic Central 			Jr.
88	**Cabral, Walter 		E	21	6-3	205	Honolulu, Hawaii 			St. Louis			Sr.
89	Kapish, Eugene 		E	19	6-1	190	Barberton, Ohio			Barberton 			Jr.
90	**Matz, Paul (Co-Capt.)		E	20	6-1	190	Chicago, Ill.			Mt. Carmel 			Sr.
91	Latch, Robert 		T	19	6-3	212	Clairton, Pa.			Clairton 	I			Jr.
	* Denotes monograms won in previous	years			•			


) December 10, 1954
43
Plan Your 1955 10-DAY ALL-EXPENSE Football Tour NOW!
N. D. vs. U. of Miami
Miami, Florida
Leave: Sunday, Oct. 2,1955
Return: Tues., Oct. 11,1955
6 Days at MIAMI BEACH!
Swimming, Golf, Fishing, Boating
(N.B. This tour will be limited to one train)
N. D. vs. Southern California
Los Angeles, Calif.
Leave: Sunday, Nov. 20,1955 Return: Tues., Nov. 29, 1955
For further details write:
EARL J. (Pete) REDDEN 1671 Lincoln Way East South Bend, Indiana
Five Irish Foes End With Winning Seasons; ,. Navy and USC to Play in New Year's Bowls
Half of the 1954 Irish opponents finished their grid seasons with better than .500 averages. But one team, Pennsylvania, failed to win a single game.
Purdue, Navy, Iowa, Southern California, and Southern Methodist had winning seasons, statistics-wise.
The Boilermakers beat Notre Dame 27-14, but lost to Wisconsin, Michigan State, Iowa and Ohio State, the number one team in the country. They had a season total of five wins, four losses and one tie, that with Duke.
Sugar Bowl-bound Navy lost only to the Irish and Pittsburgh. But the Middies were able to trip-up their traditional rival, Army 27-20. This victory alone usually makes Navy’s season a success.
Iowa was able to win one more game than it lost. They managed to beat powerful Wisconsin, 13-7, and Purdue, 25-14. But perhaps their biggest game, with the Irish, was almost a rout. ND won, 34-18.
Out West, Southern California’s Trojans, the Western Conference representative to the Eose Bowl, won eight and lost three. They were beaten by Texas Christian, UCLA, second rated team in the land, and the Irish. The Trojans defeated California by two points, upstate rival Stanford, 21-7.
After nine games, Southern Methodist has a tidy record of six victories, two losses and a tie. They have clipped Southwestern Conference champs, Arkansas 21-14, Eice 20-6, and Texas Christian 21-6. The Arkansas Eazorbacks will be in the Cotton Bowl on New Year’s. Georgia Tech and Baylor are the only ones who have marred the Mustangs’ schedule.
The other five teams were not so fortunate. Texas lost to Southwest Conference champ Arkansas, 20-7, and the Eice Owls, 13-7. They also had a 13-13 tie with Southern Methodist.
Pittsburgh started the season with three defeats. The “Cats” rallied to beat Navy by three points following the Irish tilt, Northwestern, 14-7, and then strong West Virginia two weeks later, 13-10. Captain Tom Hamilton took over the Panther coaching reins from ailing Lowell “Eed” Dawson, who resigned midway through the season. Even this was not enough and Pitt only won four while losing five.
Michigan State’s second year in the Big Ten was just the opposite of 1953, when they were conference champions and went on to win the Eose Bowl game. The Spartans, with new coach Hugh Daugherty, lost six contests. Included
in these were losses to Notre Dame, Iowa, and Purdue.
Pennsylvania could not manage to win one. Under new head coach Steve Sebo, the Quakers lost to Notre Dame, Duke, William and Mary, Princeton, George Washington, Navy, Penn State, Army, and Cornell.	/-
Down North Carolina way, the Tarheels won four, lost five and tied one. They beat North Carolina State, Wake Forest, arch-rival South Carolina, and Virginia. Besides losing to Notre Dame, Georgia, Maryland, Tennessee, and Duke, the Tar Heels tied Tulane 7-7.
The records:
W L T
Texas .................   4	5	1 ,	f
Purdue ................   5	3	1
Pittsburgh .............  4	5	0
Michigan State .......... 3	6	0
Navy ..................   7	2	0
Pennsylvania ...........  0	9	0
N. Carolina ............. 4	5	1
Iowa ..................   5	4	0
So. California .......... 8	3	0
So. Methodist (9 games).... 6	2	1
Totals: 10 teams ........46	44	4	'
Announce 1955 Card; * Indiana, Miami Listed
Notre Dame will play four home games next season. The ten game schedule includes Indiana and the University of Miami, Fla. Indiana, the traditional downstate rival, replaces Texas and Miami takes the place of Pittsburgh.
The Hoosiers, coached by ex-Notre J Darner Bernie Crimmins, return to the Irish card after an absence of four l
years.
Miami, ranked throughout this year in the top ten, will meet the Irish in a night game in Miami. Not since 1951, when Notre Dame met Detroit, have the Irish played under the lights.
The 1955 schedule has no open Saturdays and the home games end on Nov. 19 with Iowa.
The rest of the schedule ■will be the same this season.
The Schedule:
Sept. 24—S.M.U. at Notre Dame
Oct. 1—Indiana at Notre Dame
Oct. 7—Miami at Miami, Florida
Oct. 15—Michigan State at E. Lansing
Oct. 22—Purdue at Lafayette
Oct. 29—Navy at Notre Dame
Nov. 5—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia Nov. 12—North Carolina at Chapel Hill Nov. 19—Iowa at Notre Dame Nov. 26—So. California at Los Angeles
The Scholastic
They Make the Old ND Spirit
By DICK CONNELLY
The tramp of marching feet on the paved road outside the stadium heralds the Notre Dame Marching Band each Saturday afternoon of home football games. Down the concrete runway, through the goal posts at the northern end of the field, and out onto the green gridiron parade 90 marchers.
With their familiar “hike” step, the band puts on an exciting pre-game display as thousands rise in tribute to the spine-tingling Victory March, played only as a Notre Dame Band can play it—on a sunny Saturday afternoon in the Notre Dame football Stadium.
Two kettle drums, two glockenspiels, seven tubas, trumpets, trombones, flutes . . . all these instruments plus seven red kilted “Irish Pipers” add color as well as music to the thronged stadium.
Half-time ceremonies are built around
a certain theme. A “This Is Your Life” theme, dedicated to Terry Brennan as he made his debut in collegiate coaching circles, delighted fans at the season’s opener . . . and complying, the Irish trounced Texas.
Travel To Navy Game
When the Spartans from Michigan State came down from the north, the Band went south with a little dixieland: Muskrat Ramble, When The Saints Go Marching In, even the Bunny Hop. East to Baltimore and the Navy game, the Band parlayed a repeat performance of their jazz numbers for Navy fans.
The Tar Heels from North Carolina were entertained with Brigadoon selec
December 10, 1954
tions: Heather on the Hill, and It’s Almost Like Being In Love. In a big finale, the Notre Dame Marching Band portrayed the “Spirit of Notre Dame” in an impressive half-time for Southern California rooters by playing the Victory March, The Lamp of Learning, and Bach-Gounod’s Ave Maria.
At the end of each game, as people swarm out of the Stadium, the Band assembles on the paper-strewn field.
The Cheerleaders of the Gold and Blue
More than often, they play the visiting team’s alma matei- and leap into a rollicking Victory March.
The Band’s “man behind the scenes” is Director H. Lee Hope. Jerry Gatto does the high-stepping as the drum major. Other Band officers: Tom May, president; and Don Bels, vice-president.
Along with the music, there’s noise. Making most of it are six leather-lunged (Continued on page 48)
45
under the
The Most Popular 2-Way Cigarette
fo?' every smoke?' on your list!
“HOME FOR CHRISTMAS”—Gift package of the season — colorful — attractive — designed by the famous artist, Stevan Dohanos. Remember all your smoking friends with the gift that really satisfies—Chesterfields. Best to give—best to smoke.