; ' 
. ,!, 
' 
' 
f
Li . . . 
. 

i·
r-----i---, I 1--.-... ·,I :_J I
-1 
j
I 
SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 
...-.'· •'." 
,;tJ;tdarn '
us 
;/N{ ":•·•·••·· 

.._••--__--·.-. -•-ep/Sil:lcover 
sues 
-_-_ •·•-. >> . .· -_· ·. i:;_~'.___;<__ -.•. -----~-.. 
. reviews.of cava,nment 
tJmor 
2001 & 2002 Indiana Collegiate Press SCHOLaSTIC 
Association News Magazine of the Year 

Published since 1867. www.nd.edu/~scholast 
~1c.· 0![~
l~ ISSUES i.2.X.~ DOLLARS 

I-----------------------------'· ---.,,... ........ , ___ _ 
. I PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR @Jff~1]J);>!11®;!J LIST. SEND THIS FORM AND 
-I ­
.· $35.00 PAYMENT TO: · 
I NAME: ---------------SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE . . I 
-I 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER . · 1 1 · ADDRESS: ----,-----------NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 ' ' I 
I -. ·­
cl I I 
COVER ILLUSTRATION TABLE OF CONTENTS PHOTO PAGE ERIC DOVERSBERGER MIKE MCNARY Alumni Hall's traditional "Bun Run" during exam week keeps 
1 8 

students from falling asleep while studying at Hesburgh Library. V 
SUM 2 2 · . 
.

The Big Scoops .
TABLE OF CONTENTS . 

by Chris.top.her Kelly, & Annie Rob·.inson__ 
Get up-to-date on campus happenings 
I
» Faces to Remember by Mike Borgia & Annie Robinson 08 

with a review of the top news stories of the 2001_ -2002 school year. · 
» Meet the Pres by Mike Borgia 14 

» Pack It Up, Move It Out by Carolyn LaFave 16 Honie Sweet Home · . . 
18 

·. by Sean Dudley & Carolyn LaFave · · » Perfect Strangers by Allison Fashek 27 An overview of your future home-the
I 
» Long Live Sport by Gerard Meskill 28 » Is There Anything to do Around Here? by Kara Zuaro 34 
From the Editor  2  Week in Distortion  39  
ND Notebook  4  Final Word  40  
Campus Watch  37  

' ~ • < ,·. • 
. . ,~ . . . 

residence h_alls q.nd their traditions. __ 

_CluQbing at Notre Dame 
22 

compiled by Sean Dudley & Jacklyn Kiefer . A sampling of the opportunities -from serviqe to athleti_cs -available to help you do more than just homework. 
Vol. 144, No. 01 • SUMMER 2002 


SCHOLaSTIC 
·;'  ·.  . -­ :  '  .  
·  ·  .  ·  :.  
RESPOND TO:  SCHILDRE@ND.EDU  



Editor in Chief Sarah Childress 
Managing Editor 
Jessica L. Daues 
Executive Editor 
' Cristin E. Fenzel 
News 
Mike Borgia Christopher Kelly Annie Robinson 
Campus Life 
Sean Dudley, editor Carolyn G. LaFave, assistant 
; Sports 
· Gerard J. Meskill, editor Jimmy Atkinson, assistant David Murray, assistant 
Entertainment 
Carrie E. Sweeney, editor Tracy Evans, assistant Matt Killen, assistant 
Departments 
Jennifer Osterhage, editor Meghan Gowan, assistant 
Design 
Eric Doversberger, editor Ryan Greenberg, assistant 
Photography 
Mike McNary, editor Liesl Marx, assistant Kate Foster Michael Griffin Nicole Kenney 
Graphic Arts 
Maryn Necel, editor 
Copy 
Cecilia Hadley, chief Jeffrey Drocco 
Distribution 
Mike McNary, manager 
Business 
Jessica B. Polish, manager 
Online 
Jamie L. Moran, manager 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus 
I Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame 
,  and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN,  
;  46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is  
'  Copyright© 2002. All rights reserved. No contents of  
this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be  
reproduced in any manner without written consent of  
the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume  
liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All  
correspondence should be sent to Scholastic  
magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN  
46556. Let the brainwashing begin. To be published in  
the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m.  
Monday before the issue. All letters must include the  
writer's name, address and phone number. All letters  
must be signed. Who am I? I'm Spider-Man. Names  
will be withheld upon request in certain instances.  
Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space.  
Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after  
publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate  
i  is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per  
'  copy; please specify volume and number, or date.  
Copies of the annual football review are available at $5  
per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The  
opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not  
necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or  
the student body.  


f 
look for 
ISSUE 02 
i 
on 
i 

SEP 05 
t
I 
1; 
• ·•--'-··-~~~~------~•-· ··-· ·-·~-·~·=•·........ -··~-----·-. ----~~ 

Welcome Home 
The last thing I wanted to do the first night I arrived on campus was to 
pick out some guy's tie from a heap and try to find its owner. 
We were going to have so much fun, our Freshman Orientation leaders told us. But the infamous "Tie Exchange," one ofthe many mixed-gender activi­ties planned for our Freshman Orientation, didn't seem so fun to me. I was tired, nervous and already starting to feel the pangs of homesickness. 
But there I was, sorting through the colorful strips on the grass with the other freshmen from my dorm. I picked out a tacky blue one decorated with baseballs and wandered through the crowd, searching for "my guy." 
I found him, all right. We eyed each other warily, and I handed him the tie. He made a couple of weak jokes, and then we had our requisite moment of awkward conversation: We stated our names, home states and intended ma­jors, and then stared at each other blankly, fresh out of conversation topics. After a polite minute, I relieved the tension by mumbling an excuse and slipping back into the crowd. 
For some, the tie exchanges and other mixers are a chance to meet lifelong friends and future spouses. Those people are lucky, but they're also few and far between. For many ofus, it takes a lot lo.nger to establish those bonds. I found a match for the tie that day, but I didn't find one for myself until I wandered into the Scholastic office in early September of that year. Others found theirs on the stage or the playing field, or over a cup of coffee or late­night pizza at Reckers. 
It's up to you where you find yours. 
Chances are, though, it won't be while you're nose-deep in books on the 10th floor of the library, or hidden away in a dark corner of the Lafortune computer cluster, feverishly typing a paper. Academics are certainly impor­tant, but they likely won't define your experience here. People will. Despite the campus' seeming homogeneity, this place is full of individuals. So join them. Find your niche, and you'll realize that's what Notre Dame is all about: the people with whom you will live and love for four years -your family. 

And Now, a Word from Our Sponsor 
Scholastic is a bimonthly magazine produced entirely by students. Now in its 135th year, it is one of the nation's longest-running collegiate publica­tions. We're always looking for students to help continue the tradition ­writers, designers, photographers and those interested in advertising, mar­keting and Web design. If you're interested, drop us an e-mail at scholast@nd.edu, come by our office in the basement of South Dining Hall, or check out our booth at Activities Night on September 3. We're fun, we promise. 

Sarah Childress, Editor 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
ADVERTISEMENT 

Announcing 

--------------7 
rLast First Initial ] 
iSocial Security Number/ID Number 
I 
I Local Address 
iPermanentAddress 
[ Local Phone Number 
iHome Phone Number 
Enclosed is the following amount to open a Domer Dollar Account $___ (minimum $50) 
Deposit is by: _Cash _Check 
IStudent Signature ·.··Date-· 
Please mail to: University of Notre Dame Card Services Office P.O. Box 1043 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7814 Domer Dollars are convenient "electronic funds" that allow you campus-wide purchasing power. You can buy just about anything without having to carry cash. Just use your University ID card to make purchases at these locations: 

The Hammes Bookstore The Copy Shop Notre Dame Print Services The Morris Inn The OIT Solution Center 

Notre Dame Food Services locations: 
Huddle Mart Burger King Reckers Cafe De Grasta Greenfield International Cafe Cafe Poche Common Stock Sandwich Co. Irish Cafe Waddick's 


Vending and Laundry in these halls: 
Alumni Cavanaugh Keenan Keough Knott Lewis McGlinn O'Neill Pangborn Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla West Siegfried Sorin Stanford St. Edward's Welsh Family 
I Zahm I 





ILearn Your Irish Vocabulary A lexicon of key words you'll want to know when arriving on campus 
CHRISTOPHERKELLY 

Bengal Bouts: Annual student-run box­freshman tradition. (See also: Morning-After hind South Dining Hall. ing tournament to benefit charity. Awkward Dining Hall Sighting, The). ResLife: Office of Residence Life; The 
Bookstore Basketball: The largest 5-on-5 Huddle, The: A convenience store in most despised compound word on campus, outdoor basketball tournament in the world, Lafortune Student Center. it's where you go ifyou break parietals -or held every spring on courts around campus. IrishLink: Online system for accessing anything else. 
CoMo: The Coleman-Morse center, which academic information, such as semester Rock, The: Knute Rockne Memorial; an offers study rooms and free soft drinks. grades and available courses. exercise facility on South Quad. 
D6, D2/D2000: Student parking lots located JACC ("Jack"): Joyce Athletic and Con­Rolfs: Modem exercise facility on the east near South Quad and North Quad, respec­vocation Center; home of basketball and side ofcampus. tively. hockey games as well as other campus events. SMC ("smick") chicks: The ladies of St. 
DART: The system by which students reg­LaFun: LaFortune Student Center; con­Mary's College. ister for classes. Now on the Internet, it gained tains many useful services for students, such Stepan (Center): A hideous dome-shaped the nickname from the days oftelephone reg­as a laundromat, computer cluster and barber­building on the north end of campus (not to istration. shop, as well as Burger King and Starbucks. be confused with Stepan Chemistry Hall). 
DeBart: Debartolo Hall. Located next to Main Building: Home of the Golden Stonehenge: War memorial fountain at the the stadium, it is the most frequently used Dome. Located on God Quad, it's the south end ofNorth Quad; a popular location classroom building on campus. university's administrative headquarters. for many unofficial freshmen orientation ac-
Dogbook: The photo directory of Notre O'Shag: 0'Shaughnessy Hall; central tivities. · · Dame and St. Mary's freshmen; a traditional building for the Arts and Letters program. SYR: Officially called a ''theme dance," aid for finding blind dates to dances. Quarter Dogs: Hot dogs that sell for one "Screw Your Roommate" got its name from 
Grab 'n' Go: Take-out dining-hall meals quarter after midnight in the Huddle. the legendary ritual ofsetting up one's room­in a paper sack. Just don't take more than five Parietals: Dorm visiting hours that permit . mate with a date from the Dogbook; in dan­items. members ofthe opposite sex to be present only ger ofextinction due to new policy. 
Hook-up: Random physical encounter with during certain times ofthe day. Touchdown Jesus: Famous mosaic on the a member ofthe opposite sex; a Notre Dame Reckers: A 24-hour restaurant located be-south wall ofthe Hesburgh Library. 0 
Having the chance to learn at a top school like My goal wastoexperienceeverythingND had Ten Questions Notre Dame may seem more daunting than to offer. with Smarty Pants ... exciting-especially when you throw in the 
challenge ofgraduating atthe top oftheclass. Historically, there haven't been many Not for this humble guy from Carroll Hall. business majorsasvaledictorian. How
TIM 


TimDolezal,financemajorandclassof2002 's do you feel about your selection? DOLEZAL valedictorian, accomplished just that with a Whatever major you choose is challenging, 
3.97 GPA. When Scholastic caught up with every class is challenging.... I don't think ·· 
He's in the 

this senior weeks before graduation, he anyone who has their feet on the ground can 
business of 

reflected on the secret to his success. look in the mirror and feel gifted. It's a very 
succeeding ... 

humbling and special way for me to represent Howdid you feel when you began your Notre Dame for the rest ofmy life. time here at ND? 
Wow. I remember sitting in the JACC, Doyou haveanystudy routines to help listening to Father Malloy and thinking that I you get all your work done? was definitely going to struggle to be even an I wake up and make a schedule ofhow I'm average student. I knew there was some going to spend the day. I definitely have the incredible talent here. But I was so thankful. philosophy that sleep is optional. 
I 

Classes can be a drag, but some professors lighten things up. Here are a few choice comments pro­fessors made throughout the year. 
•"Class?.Sprew class." 
:·.•><-: 
-psychology profess'or . •. 
> 
"That's politically incorrect to say anyone is 'stupid,' right? .Well, I'm sayin~ ft!" · • -'political science professor 
: "Good afternoon, my inferiors." 
-anthropology professor 
> .·_:·-·:'· 
> 
"Perhaps Mario,and Luigi had a past troubled with drug addiction." · -film professor, on the abundance of mushrooms in the 

· Super Mario Bros. game 
> 
"Why are we doing this? To be candid, I don't really know." -lab professor, regarding ~ four-hour lab 
How do you procrastinate? C'mon ... I What activities were you involved in know we all do it! outside of class? 
I just like to sit around the dorm and hang out I've played Bookstore Basketball all four with my pals. At one point I was addicted to years. We were voted the second-best team AOL Instant Messenger, but sophomore year· name: 'Just like Reckers, we get busy after I quit cold turkey. parietals.' We got beat in the first round; I 
blame it all on my friends. What is your favorite "brain food" to snack on when you're studying? Do you have a theme song, ora mantra 
Twinkies, Twizzlers Pull 'n' Peels and blue·. thathelpsyougetpsychedtosucceed? Powerade. No reason. · -I have two ... onereallytypifiesNotreDame 
-''WeAreCalle4."Itrepresentsserviceand What's one of your best class exper­the responsibility we have with all ofour gifts iences during .your four years here? to make a difference in the worlc:I. My other 
.Ireally loved all of my philosophy and song would be "Livin' On a Prayer'' just theology classes because they were a nice because it's my favorite song to dance to at the change ofpace from the finance curriculum. Linebacker [Lounge]. 



63Years Ago 
Surviving Boredom 
If you find yourselfunable to nap in chem~ istry or philosophy and don't know how to spend class time, the October 20, 1939 edition of Scholastic offers this advice, originally printed in the Ohio State Lantern: 
For those classes in which the prof talks too loudfor comfortable sleeping, the So­cial Problems Institute offers these sugges­tions: I. Doodling-with a knife or other sharp instrument. 
2. 
Thumb-twiddling-try a change ofpace . 

3. 
Social Gatherings -refined conversa­tion, black-jack, or bridge in large classes only. 

4. 
Intellectual Method -debate with speaker on a minor point, but beware of overdoing it. 

5. 
Last Resort -Take a deep breath and hold it until you collapse. Yow-friends will carry you out, revive you, and send you on your way. 


Take the doodling advice with a grain of salt; playing with knives in class could get you in serious trouble. Seriously. · 
-Sean Dudley 
What will you do now that you are 
entering the real world? 
I am going to stay here and work in the investment office and work on Notre Dame's endowment. That's probably a two or three­year commitment. Business school is on the horizon, but my dream is to come back and manage the endowment someday. 
Any advice for the class of 2006? 
-Just go to the Grotto and thank God for everything He's given you, especially these four years under the Golden Dome .... I hope 
-you use these four years to try to become the personyouwanttobe.Don'tletyoureducation get in the way ofyour learning. -Tracy Evans 
SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5 


NOTEBOOK 


:1 
IJudgment Calls Opinions and observations 
++ FROSH 0 
If you get tired of constantly repeating your name, dorm and hometown, try making up a new alias each time. 
" 
NEW ALCOHOL POLICY 
The new hard-alcohol ban forbids even 21-year-olds to indulge. Those of you who dreamed of acquiring expansive liquor cabinets in your room now that you've left the nest must go elsewhere. 
i 
HIGH-SCHOOL 
VALEDICTORIANS 
You're a dime a dozen here. 
NEW ROOMMATES 
++ Sometimes they turn out to be your best friend, other times, your worst enemy. Either way, play nice: They'll be taking your phone messages. 
MEIJER
t From CDs to paper towels, extension cords to throw rugs, this place sells everything you've ever wanted -and more. 
PARIETALS 
Sure, they make gender relations awkward. But you won't have to worry about finding excuses to leave a party early, and your roommate can't sexile you from your room for too long. Well, legally at least. 
IDomelights COMPILED BY JENNIFER OSTERHAGE 
CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME! 

r•··••.Fighf:S_e>,r:ig~alld.. ~:i~..l_ma_;·Mate.r; :o.:·;:-.\>.l 
· The ~ongs you'll ·need to kn°ow for the · 
JJ 
first home football game. .
I 
Many imcoming freshmen have the luxury of already having the Fight Song and Alma Mater ingrained in their minds since birth. Perhaps your mother was an alumna and sung you to sleep with the Fight Song. Or perhaps you grew up in the South Bend area and have attended numerous Masses at the Basilica or the Grotto. But for most freshmen, the first time they hear such songs will be when their first pep rally or class Mass. Here, Scholastic gives you an advance warning oflyrics that, by the time you graduate in 2006, you'll .know as well as your own name. 
The Fight Song 

Honored by college football as "the greatest of all college fight songs," the "Notre Dame Victory March" was written by two Notre Dame graduates -brothers Michael Shea, a priest, and John Shea, a . ip.onogram winner in baseball-in 1908. It was first performed on campus in the Main Building rotunda on Easter Sunday in 1909. Memorize the song now and· you'll save yourself some flack from upperclassmen come the first home football game. (Hint: You really only need to know the chorus.) 
Rally sons ofNotre Dame: 
Sing her glory and sound her fame, Raise. her Gold and Blue And cheer with voices true: 
Rah, rah, for Notre Dame 
We will fight in ev 'ry game, 
Strong ofheart and true to her name 

Source: Bob Mundy, director of admissions operations 
Compiled b Jessica Daue 

We will ne'er forget her 
And will cheer her ever 
Loyal to Notre Dame. 
Chorus: 
Cheer, cheer for Old Notre Dame, 
Wake up the echoes cheering her name, 
Send a volley cheer on high, 
Shake down the thunder from the sky. 
What though the odds be great or small 
Old Notre Dame will win over all, 
While her loyal sons go marching 
Onward to victory. 
Notre Dame, Our .Mother· (The Alma Mater) 
The Notre Dame Alma Mater is performed at the end of every football game at Notre Dame Stadium, win or lose. It was written in 1930 by Joseph J. Casasimta, a 1923 Notre Dame graduate, in honor of the dedication of Notre Dame Stadium -the House that Knute Built. The song also is sung at the end of every Mass at the Basilica, proving that, at the university that is home to Touchdown Jesus and First-down Moses, it is virtually impossible to s~parate religion and football. 
Notre Dame, .our Mother, .Tender, strong 
and true, 
Proudly in the heavens, Gleams thy Gold 
and Blue. 
Glory's mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy Jame, 
And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre 
Dame; And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre 
Dame! . 


ADVERTISEMENT 


Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
Congressional Medal of Honor Medal of Freedom President, Notre Dame for 35 years Chair, U.S. Civil Rights Commision 
PRIEST 

Fr. Victor Crasta, C.S.C. 

Gunned down by assassins in 2000. His dying words were "Father, forgive them for they know not what they are doing." 

Fr. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C. 
Author of books on The Our Father, Hail Mary and Creed 
Dan Parrish, C.S.C. and Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. 
_Moreau Seminarians 


Discover your vocation °at Notre Dame www.nd.edu/,..,,.vocation 
Theodore Hesburgh: The Rev. Theodore M. Hes burgh served as Notre Dame's 15th president from 1952 to 1987, the longest tenure of any active American university president. As
FACES 
president emeritus to the university (the position 
-.--c:> Fl E= IVI E= IVI E3. E= Fl 
MIKEBORGIR 
ANN IEROB INSON > 
Monk Malloy: The Rev. Edward A. "Monk" Malloy currently is serving his third five-year term as president of Notre Dame. He is the university's 16th · president, a position that he has held since 1986. He also has served as a full 
professor in the Department ofTheology since 1974. Malloy is remarkably accessible for a university president, as he conducts a freshman seminar each semester, resides in Sorin College (an undergraduate residence hall), and even plays an occasional game ofbasket­ball with students. He received undergraduate and graduate degrees in English from Notre Dame, a second Master's in theology while studying for the priesthood, and a doctorate in Christian ethics from Vanderbilt University. He also has received countless awards, including 12 honorary degrees. 
Malloy also has gained national recognition for his service to higher education, chair­ing such organizations as Campus Compact and the Points ofLight Foundation and serv­ing as a member of the National Advisory Council on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. Malloy currently is co-chair of the subcommittee on college drinking of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, (a component of the National Institutes of Health), and chair of the National Commission on Substance Abuse and Sports for the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse. 
(,;') 
MALLOY HE B R H
t­
z 
L.I.J Q
-
(,;') 

1
L.I.J 
'fl1~
cc 
c.. 
L.I.J 
::c 
t-
Kevin White: Now entering his third year as the university's athletic director, White and his department received national attention this year for the now-infamous football-coach debacle, which included the firing ofBob Davie (the first head coach to be fired in Irish football history), the hiring and resignation of George O'Leary and the hiring of Tyrone Willingham. 
Before arriving in South Bend, White served a four-year tenure as athletic direc­tor at Arizona State University, where he made significant changes to the program, including the hiring of five head coaches and the organization of the athletic bud­get. White also served on the executive committee of the Division I-A Athletic Directors' Association and chaired the Pacific-IO Conference's television and bowl committees. 
White received a Bachelor's degree from Saint Joseph's College, a Master's from Central Michigan University, and a doctorate at Southern Illinois University. 
that he currently holds), Hesburgh played a 
pivotal role in developing several of Notre 
Dame's academic institutes, including the Kroc 
Institute for International Peace Studies and the 
Kellogg Institute for International Studies. He 
also is involved in the university's Center for 
Civil and Human Rights, its Environmental 
Research Center near Land O'Lakes, Wis., and 
its Ecumenical Institute in Jerusalem. 
Perhaps Hesburgh's most distinguished contri­
butions are those he has made to national and in­ternational public service. He has held 15 presi­dential appointments involving him in many of the major social issues including civil rights, peaceful uses of atomic energy, campus unrest, treatment of Vietnam offenders, Third World development and immigration reform. Among the recognition that he has received for his pub­lic service are the Congressional Gold Medal and the Medal of Freedom, two of the highest honors awarded to civilians by the U.S. gov­ernment. Hes burgh also has been committed to · higher education, as he chaired the International Federation of Catholic Universities from 1963­1970 among countless other endeavors. His commitment to education is reflected in his 148 lfofiOrarydegrees -the most ever awarded to a 
single person. 
Despite his many commitments, "Father Ted" 
still finds time to connect with students, often 
guest-lecturing in the classroom· and presiding 
over Mass in residence halls. His presence on 
campus is difficult to miss even when he's trav­
eling across the globe _: the library, center for 
international studies and the public service pro­
gram all bear his name. 
Mike Brey: Now preparing for his third season as Notre Dame's head men's basketball coach, Brey has been instrumental in bringing.the Irish to national prominence. Brey came to Notre Dame from a head coach's position at the University of Delaware in July of2000 and has since led the team to two consecutive 20-win seasons, a Big East Conference West Division championship, two Big East Tournament births, and two second-round appearances in the NCAA tournament. This year, the team lost a hard­fought game in the second round to heavily favored Duke University this year. Despite losing seniors Ryan Humphrey, David Graves and Harold Swanagan to graduation; the future of the team looks bright with Chris Thomas, a rising sophomore who was named "Freshman of the Year" by Basketball Times. 
8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 


Mark Poorman: The Rev. Mark Poorman now is beginning his fourth year as vice-president ofstudent affairs, a position in which he oversees several programs including Campus Ministry, Student Activities, multicultural and international student affairs, Notre Dame Security/Police and the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ResLife ). When he accepted the position in April of 1999, he said that his new responsibilities gave him a chance to "serve [the] students," a task which he admits is "at once daunting and exciting." Controversy swirled around the Student Affairs vice president this year when he abruptly announced changes to the alcohol policy, banning in-hall dances and consumption of hard alcohol on campus. 
Prior to serving as vice-president, Poorman was an associate director of Campus Ministry, rector of Dillon Hall and a priest-in-residence in Grace Hall before that building was converted into offices. Poorman received his bachelor's degree from the University ofIllinois and a Masters of Divinity from Notre Dame. He later earned a doctorate in Christian Ethics from the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, Cal. 
Tyrone Willingham: Perhaps no one has stirred up as much hype on campus this year than the new head football coach, Tyrone Willingham. A veteran of25 seasons of coaching experience at the professional and collegiate levels, he arrived at Notre Dame this winter.· following a seven-year tenure as head coach at Stanford University. Although his .549 win-percentage at Stanford is no better than that of former coach Bob Davie's at Notre Dame, many Irish faithful, believe that Willingham's coaching ability combined with Notre Dame football's recruiting power -a luxury that Willingham did not enjoy at Stanford~ could make for a national championship team. His tenure at Stanford included remarkable improvements for the progr~rn including a 199~ Pacific-IO championship and the school's first Rose Bowl appearance in 28 years. "Ty," as many students call him, was also named the Pac-10 coach of the year in 1995 and 1999. Many Irish football fans also look forward to Willingham's use of a "West-Coast" offense -an offensive scheme that relies on a successful passing game -a vastly different style from Davie's emphasis on rushing. 

Chandra Johnson: Hired in 1998, Johnson is the first African-American woman to serve as an administrator in the Office of the President. She currently holds the titles of assistant to the president and assistant director of Cross-Cultural Ministry. 
Johnson began her tenure at the university as an undergraduate -when she was 38. After nearly 20 years of working in Los Angeles as a youth ministry teacher, Johnson still felt her life was missing something. So in 1992, Johnson enrolled as a freshman at Notre Dame. Four years later, she graduated with honors with a BA in theology and winner ofthe Gertrude Austin Marti Award in Theology. During her time as an undergraduate, she also served as a student recruitment coordinator for the admissions department, and studied in Jerusalem and New Orleans. In recent years, she has added writer, retreat and workshop leader to her list of accomplishments. 
Since her arrival on campus, Johnson has worked to advance the cause of minorities at the university. She often· serves as a mentor for students of color, helping them to feel comfortable in an environment with which she says some are unfamiliar. The support she offers the students often takes a spiritual angle, due in part to her work with Campus Ministry in organizing retreats for incoming minority students. Johnson also initiated the Sailkofa Scholars program, which recognizes students ofAfrican descent who earn a G.P.A. of3. l or higher with an awards ceremony each semester. 
Her reach does not extend only to minority students, however. You're likely to see Johnson in many places on campus, speaking to Life Uncom­mon -a support group for students struggling with eating disorders -or leading talks on spiri~ality and gender issues in residence halls. . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 


THE BIG SCOOPS 
national tragedy mourned new alcohol policy rape allegations controversial play protested u2 concert 

Campus Reacts to September 11 
by Christopher Kelly 
As the tragic news ofterrorist attacks spread quickly through the Notre Dame campus on September 11, 
students struggled to cope with the unbe­lievable event. Reactions differed from person to person, as emotions ranged from confusion and anger to depression and sorrow. 
Many students huddled together around televisions in their dorms, staring in dis­beliefat the video that the stations played again and again. Others were busily mak­

1 ing phone calls, asking about relatives and 
l 
I 
i 
i!
!I 
ll
,1
,, 



friends who worked or lived near the crash sites. Some rushed to the Grotto -an out­door shrine modeled after the original Grotto at Lourdes, France, dedicated to the Virgin Mary -in an attempt to find strength during such a melancholic time. 
Around 10:00 a.m., the university an­nounced that all classes would be cancelled and that a school-wide prayer service would be held on the campus' South Quad. 
That afternoon, the student body gath­ered together in prayer. The Rev. ·Edward Malloy, C.S.C., presided over the Mass. The congregation covered a little more than half of South Quad, and delivered a hom­ily that encouraged students to trust in God during difficult times. 
The large Mass allowed students to ex­press their emotions in a supportive atmo­sphere, and tears and worries were treated with hugs and words of encouragement from students, administration and residence hall staff. 
However, as the afternoon progressed, the mood became only more solemn. All too many students heard stories of tragic deaths, either involving one of their loved ones or the relatives ofa fellow student. 
The following week only saw more sad faces, more confusion, and more prayer. To mourn the loss, the game against Purdue that was scheduled to be played that Saturday was postponed until early December. Cam­pus flags were flown at half-mast for three weeks following the attack, and students decorated halls and rooms with flags and signs. Teachers attempted to return to busi­ness as usual, but the gloom still pervaded campus life. 
Inspired by their common struggle, the Notre Dame community came together, demonstrating their unity in a nationally broadcast ceremony before the first home football game. The entire football stadium held up miniature American flag posters as the Michigan State and Notre Dame march­ing bands together performed a patriotic pro­gram. Unforgettable moments such as this one eased the pain for many, but every stu­dent who experienced this tragedy will for­ever be left to ask that simple question: "Why?" 

no Hdministration Cracks Down on Hard liquor 
by Annie Robinson
Alcohol has long been a part of campus culture. So, in late spring semester, when 
the Rev. Mark Poorman suddenly announced changes to campus alcohol policy, 
many students were shocked and indignant. 
Students received the e-mail from the vice president for the Office ofStudent Affairs on March 18 outlining the policy changes. Announced formally to the Campus Life Council on March 25, Poorman's new policy contains three tenants. Effective August 2002, the university will ban consumption and possession ofhard liquor in residences halls. In-hall dances, a long-standing tradition of Notre Dame student life, will be banned as well. Also included in the policy change is a revision of the controversial tailgating policy. This year, administrators cracked down on alcohol consumption at tailgating parties before and after home football games. While underage drinkers were cited, police also slapped a 30-year-old graduate student with a violation, spurring a reevaluation ofthe evolving regulations. The new policy permits students oflegal age to host tailgates in designated areas before home football games. 
Many 21-year-old students were outraged that they will be included in the alcohol ban; and many students of all ages were upset about losing the tradition of in-hall dances, which often are a residence hall's primary spirit-building event. Student government distributed posters reading "Save the SYR" and "We Need a Voice," and started a petition drive to recall the policy. About 50 students protested in a late-night demonstration in front ofthe Main Building. A few in the crowd threw bottles ofliquor at the steps of the building, but scattered when campus security arrived. 
Poorman explained the university's decision to adopt the new policy with what he called substantial evidence ofabusive drinking on campus from various alcohol abuse studies and focus-group surveys. 

\ ··:.:. 
\. ;-~, ~<~ 
,, ~ ;..' .. 'c"j ' . " 
,.,.:/?{;),;,:_~., '··;_ 
THE TAP RUNS DRY Kegs were banned from campus over a decade back, and recent policy changes by the administration also has outlawed hard alcohol. Some students fear the university is moving toward the eventual establishment of a dry campus. 
Students Hccused of 
Sexual 
misconduct 
by Annie Robinson
Allegations of rape and sexual as­sault marked the beginning and end of the past school year. An alleged sexual assault was reported in Keough Hall in early September, and the situation continued to attract further at­tention afterward. Rumors swirled that a date rape drug was used. The story was complicated further when the room num­bers ofthose implicated in the crime were released in an article in The Observer, the campus student newspaper. Results ofthe investigation, however, are unknown. In an unrelated incident, a Notre Dame junior was suspended for two years after being accused of what the university deemed "sexual misconduct." The inci­dent, which also happened in September, involved the male junior and a female stu­dent and also was hotly debated, as both related different versions of the night's events. The former junior can reapply to Notre Dame after his two-year suspen­sion. The end of the year brought yet another scandal: Four Irish football players were ac­cused of gang-raping a 20-year-old female Notre Dame student on March 28. When Scholastic went to press, the St. Joseph County Sheriff's department had not de­cided whether sufficient evidence existed to file criminal charges. The three under­graduates and one fifth-year student were expelled in early May, however, for violat­ing the university's "sexual misconduct" code. As of mid­
May, the players were all consider­ing appealing their expulsions, and some were re­ported to be con­templating law­suits against the 

university. 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 '}') 

Debates, Protests Surround Performance of Controuersial Play 
by Annie Robinson 


opinion on the issue. The STAGING CONTROVERSY The Vagina Monologues drew large crowds despite subject matter was not 
play centers around blunt  vehement protests of the production.  only  immoral  and  
discussion of sexual or- unfitting for a Catholic  
gans, as various female actors deliver so­ Students epgaged in heated debates over  university, but also demeaning to women.  
liloquies based on the writer Eve Ensler's  whether the show should be presented. Some  In hopes ofcalming widespread fears and  
work. The individual performances range  defended the show, which was held to  anxieties over the play, V-Day director and  
from jokes about women's sexual experi­ celebrate Notre Dame's own version ofV­ Notre Dame senior Kerry Walsh held a  
ences to shocking tales of rape and abuse.  day, a national moment held on Valentine's  discussion panel open to all who wished to  
Brought to campus by the Gender Studies  day to call for an end to violence against  · voice their thoughts on the performance.  
and  Film,  Television  and  Theatre  women. All proceeds from the ticket sales  Despite  the  clamor,  The  Vagina  
departments, both Notre Dame and St.  were donated to three women's aid funds.  Monologues was presented in Washington  
Mary's students participated in the play.  Other  students  further  supported  Hall in late February.  

U2 Kicks Off Third leg of Eleuation Tour at notre Dame 
by Christopher Kelly 

The rumors started at the desperately hoping to get a ticket for what them world-renowned rock stars. Most beginning of the school year. was arguably the biggest concert ever to bands use concerts as a method to promote Could one of the world's biggest take place in South Bend. Demand was their new material, but on that October bands really make a stop in South Bend? especially high because a special student night, Notre Dame students were given Some were hopeful, many were skeptical. price of45 dollars was offered for certain memorable performances ofrock classics On September 11, the news became seats in the arena. such as "With or Without You," "One" official.' The legendary lri,_sh band would The concert was opened by Garbage,. an··.,;,, and "Where the -.Streets Have No Name,''. . coine to Notre Dame oh October 10 to alternativci/punk,bandfronted by Shirley ·'·\ U2 added a special touch to the end of kick off the third leg of their latest tour. Manson, which warmed up the crowd for the concert to pay tribute to the heroes of But one ofthe more newsworthy aspects the headliner. Sept. 11. Firefighters from New York of the concert had nothing to do with the The JACC exploded when Bono, U2's City were brought on the stage to jog music or the bands. A disorganized ticket lead singer, walked onto the heart-shaped around the gigantic heart and sing along distribution system led to widespread stage singing "Beautiful Day," the winner with Bono. The crowd erupted in cheers, confusion and extremely long waiting ofthe 2001 Grammy Award for "Song of and this emotional moment was followed lines. The elaborate process forced many the Year." by an extended applause for the students to camp out in front ofthe JACC, U2 played many of the hits that made firefighters. . 
12 SCHOLASTICNEWS 


ADVERTISEMENT 


FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE STUDENT ACTIVITES OFFICE AND OTHER EVENTS ON CAMPUS, PLEASE VISIT WWW.ND.EDU/~SAO OR CONTACT US AT(574) 631-7308. 

Meet the Pres 

Newly elected administration seeks to make a difference in student life 
MIKEBORGIA
'' 
More student, less government" ­that's the slogan that Libby 
Bishop and Trip Foley hope will characterize their tenure as student-body president and vice-president. During the 
upcoming year, the two hope to bridge the gap that they see between the students and their government by developing new chan­nels of communication. 
"We want to be an accurate voice of the students and communicate with them, both as officers and as fellow students," Bishop says. Butwith thousands ofundergradsto rep­resent and growing student unrest resulting from the controversial changes made to the school's alcohol policy this year, the two lrigh­est-ranking officers in student government are sure to have their work cut out for them. 
Bishop is a rising senior from Welsh Fam­ily Hall who originally hails from Ithaca, 
N.Y. She is a psychology and economics double major and is the university's second female student body president. She is no stranger to student government, as she has served as the Junior Class Social Commit­tee co-chair, the sophomore class vice-presi­dent, the Sophomore "JuniorParents'Week­end" Committee co-chair, and the Freshman Class Fundraising Committee chair. 
Foley is a rising senior from Sorin Col­lege who comes to Notre Dame from At­lanta, Ga. He studies economics and Span­ish and has served as the student body sec­retary, the Sorin College dance commis­sioner and the freshman class treasurer. 
With the announcement ofthe university's new alcohol policy, Bishop and Foley's ad­ministration had a rocky start, but vowed to act as "a voice for the students" from the beginning. In response to the announcement, Bishop and Foley started a petition drive in the residence halls to protest the university's ban of in-hall dances, asking the adminis­tration to address alcohol abuse among stu­dents through education instead of restric­tions, as well as a guarantee that student in­put would be used to direct future campus life policies. The pair collected nearly 4,000 student signatures, but their efforts did not effect a change in policy. 
Looking ahead to the new school year, Bishop and Foley promise to work closely with the administration in examining the university's enforcement ofthe tailgate policy implemented last year, which forbid students from tailgating in certain lots and prevented underage tailgaters from drinking. 
In order to improve communications be­tween the students and student government, Bishop and Foley plan to develop a new stu­dent government Web site, complete with polls and a field through which students can submit suggestions. The two also plan to visit dorm Masses to take students' suggestions and to publish a weekly adver­tisement in the school's daily newspaper to make students aware of student government programs that already exist. Their admin­istration also will look to incorporate student input on decisions made regard­ing food services in the Lafortune Student Center. 
Bishop and Foley also plan to concentrate on the issues ofgender and diver­sity on campus. In honor ofthe 30th anniversary of coeducation at Notre Dame this fall, they plan to coordinate a week-long celebration, which would include inviting prominent female alumni to speak on campus and a possible reenactment of some ofthe events that happened in 1972. The two also plan to create a "Celebrating Diversity Lecture Series" which would feature promi­nent minority alumni and administrators such as Condoleeza Rice,Alan Page and Dean Woo ofthe College ofBusiness. Bishop and Foley also plan to address the sensitive issues ofrape and sexual assault on campus by demanding that the administration clarify their policy re­garding sexual conduct. 
The two also hope to improve campus life by creating an endowed "Distinguished Lec­ture Series." "We want to bring in speakers of different areas ofthought to the univer­sity," Foley says. "These areas of thought would include the arts, humanities, social sciences, business and pop culture." In ac­cordance with their goal to give students more power in the student administration, they hope to putthe speakers' selection com­mittee in student hands. 
Other proposed changes include the im­provement of pep rallies by bringing in prominent speakers and finding a new em­cee, establishing an efficient ticket distribu­tion system for campus-wide events such as the U2 concert last fall, the expansion ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's shuttle route to include popular destinations around South Bend, and the creation of additional meal plans to give students increased flexibility. 


The two also have some pearls ofwisdom to share with incoming freshman. 
"Get involved, find something you love," Bishop says. "There are so many things the campus .offers, so pursue any passion you have." 
Foley agrees. "What's so special about Notre Dame is the friends you make and the experiences you have," he adds. "Activities are important, but make sure that you estab­lish solid friendships, because the time you spend with your close friends is priceless." 
Both are enthusiastic about working with a brand-new class. "We're really excited to meet the incoming freshmen class and we look forward to working with them," says Bishop. "Please feel free to stop in and see us anytime-203 Lafortune. Our doors are always open." · . 
14 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

! . . . ' '. _.-' -. . . ·,_ ' . ' 

ADVERTISEMENTS 
Be a part of't:li.~·}.: sea 0£green! 
. _::-\:.---i-\t) 
Purchase your shirt for $15\,clt1rjn'girf Freshman Orientation from 8-5 o~fric:i~f;() August 23rd or 12-8 Saturday_: ~ri:C{i/f Sunday, August 24th and 25th).cibtbit8f LaFortune Info Desk. · ; ;c;.?f;: 

Half of the proceeds from llrh~}§hiffi;c~ assist students faced with_, fih~6c:Ja,L'}f setbacks associated with accidehf~"}o;r}(. tragedies. The other half · helps :Juci,q)\: student groups and clubs thr·ou,gfi\tog)i
Student Activities office. ·· ·· · ,,.,.,... , 
_:_: :: '.-:··_:::\\{;~Jt~{\~~i;tr?{l If you ordered a Freshman Regis_t!3/(cl9-1J/f,J\ forget to pick it up at the Info PElsk.wheHY/i
,,.,·_.. -..,., __ ,_-..,.', ­

you buy your shirt! 

j • ,. • ~~--,...,-• ..::.........._ ---~-~~-----~-~--­
-------------------~ 

All right, ladies and gentlemen, it's time to start packing. Whether you have spent your whole summer making lists ofhow to fill your suitcases, or ifyou plan to shove all your stuff into trash bags two hours before leaving the house, here is your complete guide to what to bring to campus come August. 
Spice Up Your Space 
Dorm ro_oms tend to be pretty plain when you first arrive. Posters and pictures will add color to the bare, white walls. Dry-erase boards also are great to hang up outside your room so your new friends can leave messages when 
it oul 

Suitcases can only fit so much. We'll tell you whats worth the space. 

you're not around. 

Although dorms are usually equipped with florescent lights, both for the sink and the main light, a floor lamp, particularly one with a couple ofadjustable lights on it, will add softer lighting. Christmas lights add a festive touch, though candles aren't allowed. You may also want a desk lamp, and perhaps one to clip onto 
· your bed for any late-night reading. For sleeping, the beds do riot. come with· 
linens of any sort. You should pickout some sheets, blankets and a bedspread, as well as a pillow. After a good night's sleep in your nice warm bed, though, your feet will not appreciate the cold, hard floors, so bring carpet or rugs of 
some sort. Some residence halls mail packets detailing the dimensions of your room. Ifyours does not, you might want to wait to purchase carpets or rugs until you get here. 
Many dorms have modular furniture, which allow you to bunk your bed on top of your desk and wardrobe. If your hall doesn't have this setup, 
but you still want to loft your bed, you can 
pick up a loft kit at Lowes' hardware store. 
For an extra fee, store employees will set it up 
for you. You might also want to check out a 
couch or futon, but beanbag chairs are a cheap 
alternative ifyou don't have the money or the 
space in your room for a couch. 
And though the dining halls initially can be 
appealing, it is inevitable that you will get tired 
ofthe food they offer. Bring some plates, cups 
and silverware to eat witkHotpots are also a 
good idea for making coffee or hot chocolate 
on cold days -and real chefs can cook up 
Ramennoodles ormac 'n' cheese. 
Laundry Supplies 
There are a couple of laundry options on campus. One is to do your own -many dorms have coin-operated washers and dryers in their basements. But some dorms, such as Sorin College and Dillon Hall, do not. In this case, or ifyou are too lazy to do your own laundry, you might want to take advantage of St. Michael's Laundry Service. The on-campus · company will pick up your dirty clothes at your dorm, wash them and drop them off-for a 
fee, ofcourse. 
Ifyou choose to do your own, it's a good 
idea to get some $10 quarter rolls at the bank 
before you come. You will probably also want 
to bring a laundry basket or bag to more easily 

JUST LIKE HOME Even if your room looks bare at first, don't worry-a nice carpet, posters and extra lights can make even the starkest dorm room look cozy, including this room in Farley Hall. 

I 
i 
I 

l 
1
11==============================================================================================------:
· 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 



NICOLE KENNEY 
transport your clothes to the laundry room, and a drying rack for those clothes you'd rather not shrink. 
Electronics 
Likely the most important decision you'll make about bringing electronics is whether to bring a computer, and if so, what kind. There are several computer clusters around 
. .• campus. Some are open 24-hours, but some students find it more convenient to type papers and e-mails from the comfort oftheir own room. Ifthis sounds lik<': you, you might want to bring a computer. Laptops are smallter and easily transportable, but if you don't mind the loss of deskspace, desktop computers work just as well. Clusters also have printers available for student use, but beware -there is a limited balance placed on your printing account each semester, which most students use up before finals arrive. You can always add more money, but having a printer of your own also can help out. . A miniature refrigerator is a nice addition to your room, but, like the other electrical appliances, you should coordinate with your roommates on the purchase. For entertainment purposes, having a television in your room is nice -most students like to have one to take a break from work every once in awhile. Depending on how serious you and your roommate are about movies, you might want to bring a VCR and/or DVD player. For those hot, humid nights, you might want to bring a fan or two. Though some students live in air-conditioned dorms (in the newer dorms on Mod Quad and West Quad), most do not. Lastly, while each room has a phone equipped with three-way calling, call waiting and voice-mail, you also might want to bring a portable phone for late-night conversations when your roommate is trying to get some sleep. You can plug it right into the data port on the standard phone. 


Easily Forgotten Clothing 
Ifyour mom doesn't remind you, Scholas­tic will: Don't forget a raincoat,.umbrella or poncho -you'll need one for rainy days and stormy football Saturdays -or a swimsuit­the swim test you'll have to take when you get here will be rather awkward ifyou have to take it in your birthday suit. 
Each dorm will also have a couple of dances, both formal and semiformal, so you might want to pack a furi dress or two -it doesn't have to be fancy-or a jacket and tie or suit for such occasions. 
Any Room Left for Extras? 
If your suitcases are stuffed, you can always stop by Meijer and Wal-Mart to pick up household supplies, such as disinfectant, paper towels and aspirin. However, if you 
Shower shoes Shower caddy A loud alarm clock Camera 
have a special brand of shampoo or lots of room in your car, it might be easier to buy them at home and avoid crowded stores. 
So there you have it: your personal packing list. The important thing is to remember that there is limited space in each dorm room, not to mention that you must share that space with at least one other person. So, if you do end up wishing you had packed that 1970s spook suit or your PEZ collection, your parents are only a phone call and a care package away. Plus, though South Bend is not exactly an urban metropolis, you will have access to a local Meijer, Wal-Mart and department stores in case you forgot a crucial item. And, if worse comes to worse, you can usually borrow that tennis racket or hammer and nails you need from somebody down the hall. 0 

Leave at home 
Answering machine 
Microwave 
Toasters 
Vacuum Pets and carnivorous fish · Wastebasket 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 

I • ~ • • ~ ----~----~-~--~~---~-~---~ 
) --~ --~-----~-­

Everyone knows Notre Dame has a long history of tradition, but few besides alumni and students are familiar with the traditions of 
its residence halls. 
Read on for a brief 
introduction to some 
of the these time­
honored events ­from the charitable to the bizarre. 

A THREE-HOUR TOUR Girls from Pangborn Hall disembark from their boat at Fisher Hall's annual Regatta, a race in which groups from dorms build boats to race across St. Mary's Lake. 

Around the same time, the Whirl­
. winds also host a Dance-a-Thon to raise money for diabetes patients. Keough Hall:The Kangaroos put on the annual Keough Chariot Race, for which each dorm builds its own chariot to win fame, Ben Hur-style. For their White Wedding Dance ­
with themes such as "Pirates" and "Mafia" -the men of Keough nominate one 'Roo from each section to compete for the title of Captain Keough. McGlinn Hall: With a mascot close to the Leprechaun's heart, the Shamrocks of McGlinn are best known for their Casino Night. The women's dorm is transformed by 

-
-
. 
Welsh Family Hall: Welsh Fam is home to the Whirlwinds and the women's interhall sports champs last year, dominating in la­crosse, soccer and football, to name a few. The dorm organizes one ofthe more unique events on campus: The Welsh Family Feud, a game-show style competition that pits dorms against each other, takes place each spring. 
.----' 
.. 

s are air-conditioned and close to the Hammes bookstor~. 
its residents into a multi-floor casino, with gambling and games in each section. Each Shamrock invites up to five dates, who ·can buy raffle tickets and place bets with fake money. All proceeds from the even~ (real money, this time) benefit the Catholic Work­ers House. O'Neill Hall: O'Neill is home to the Angry Mob. Don't ask why-they'll get angry. Each year, the men ofO'Neill invite multiple dates to Mardi Gras, their biggest event. In the fall, they plan to put on a "Tradition Breakfast" with free food before the home football game against Boston College, at which they plan to shows old sports footage, evoking fond memories from the alums. 
. 
. 



Basilica and LaFortune this 
Hall Fall Frolic, a dance for which the Wild Women dress up as Britney-esque Catholic schoolgirls. Later in the year, Walsh Wild Week involves a series ofcompetitive and not-so 
competitive events, culminating in a Mr. ND Pageant and formal dance. Decades ago, Walsh had a bowling alley in the basement Lewis Hall: Lewis Hall is the largest women's dorm on campus, and its resi­dents, the Chicks, participate in the 5K Chicken Run to kick off their spirit week, Camp Lewis. Each resident anonymously invites a date to the Chicks' signature dance, the Lewis Crush, which polishes offthe week ofdorm activities. The lucky gentlemen have their names published in the campus newspaper and show up at the dance hoping to be claimed by a hot Chick. 
Sorin College: University President Monk Malloy lives in this men's dorm, the oldest residence hall on campus. It became a "college" in the 1960s, when the Otters seceded from the university to protest Notre Dame's stance on the Viet­nam War. Sorin hosts an off-color talent show on one of the first home football weekends each year. Walsh Hall: Not to be confused with Welsh Fam, Walsh Hall was named for Notre Dame's sixth president, who is credited as the instigator of the university's first intercollegiate football team. The Wild Women host the Walsh 
Cavanaugh: The women of Cavanaugh have an annual Father-Daughter Weekend in the spring, during which dads become dates for a dance at the College Football Hall ofFame. Co-hosts ofthe Winter Car­nival, the "Chaos" work with Zahm to bring a petting zoo and other kid stuff to campus. Each.winter, they also put on a spirit week leading up to their Snow Ball, an annual formal dance held in Lafor­tune. Zahm: Possibly the most infamous dorm on campus, Zahm transforms incoming freshmen into loyal, mischievous Zahmbies. Before the first pep rally each year, the men of Zahm perform the Torquemada (a ceremony mysteriously kept under wraps). Their De­cade Dance each February is al­ways good for a laugh, as Zahmbies and their dates dress up in throwback outfits. Zahm also is home to the weekly Spanish Mass for students of Latin American heritage. 
Keenan: Sharing a building with the men ofStanford Hall, the Keenan Knights dis­tinguish themselves with their signature event, the wildly successful Keenan Re­vue. A sellou~ crowd attends this collec­tion of original student comedy every February. The Knights also have estab­lished themselves as an interhall football powerhouse, having won the champion­ship three out of the last five years. Stanford: The 2001-2002 men's inter­hall sports champions, the men of Stanford live directly across the quad from North Dining Hall. The Griffins were once known as the Studs, but changed their mascot in tribute to former rector Rev. Robert Griffin. Every spring Knott: Known for their perhaps too-en­thusiastic support of the ND women's volleyball team, the Juggernauts easily are spotted in their orange and black at­tire. Masters of the lacrosse field, they took both the indoor and outdoor inter­hall titles last year. Each spring, they hold "Knott on the Knoll," an afternoon offree food and entertainment from campus 
uad has some of ND's oldest dorms.  r  
St. Edward's Hall: St. Ed's is the old­ f;  
est building now used as a dorm, although  
it didn't become a residence hall until  
1929. The "Steds" hold an annual event  
called Founders Day, which last year in­ 
cluded a 5K run that raised money for  
New York firefighters and their families.  
The dorm also is home to the St. Ed's  
Players, who put on a play each year at  
Washington Hall.  
Carroll Hall: Overlooking St. Mary's  
Lake from the west edge of campus,  
Carroll Hall sports quite possibly the best  
view of all the residence halls. Located  
far from the rest of campus; the Vermin  
enjoy a close-knit environment, as Carroll  
has the fewest residents of any dorm. "A  
Carroll Christmas," featuring a tree-light­ 
ing ceremony and performances by uni­ 
versity choirs, is the hall's signature  
event. The Vermin also have won the  
Fisher Regatta three years running.  
they host the Benefit Bash, a late-night  
event including concerts and food, with  
proceeds supporting an orphanage in  
Chile.  
Farley: A women's dorm since ND went  
coed in 1972, Farley plans to celebrate 30  
years of women at Notre Dame with a  
Girls' Night Out on the Quad in the fall.  
Pop Farley Week, which culminates with  
a dance, is perhaps the best-known event  
ofthe Finest, who decorate their hallways  
to correspond with the dorm theme. Farley  
has a secondary mascot, the dorm dog,  
Farley, a cute little Pekinese who barks  
at boys after parietals.  
Breen-Phillips: The Babes of BP raise  
money each year for diabetes patients  
with their Meal Auction. Students or fac­ 
ulty rriembers bid (real money) to eat with  
campus celebrities who have volunteered  
for the event. In the winter, Breen-Phillips  
provides relief from the cold with their .  
Beach Week, which the Babes hope to  
cosponsor this year with the Hawaii Club,  
Na Pua Kai Ewalu.  





Alumni: Conveniently located at the in­tersection of God and South quads, and known to its residents as "The Center of the Universe," Alumni Hallis home to the Dawgs. Each spring, they host the Wake, a crazy event for which they run around in ties and boxers, carrying their rector in a coffin. Alumni also is planning a Double Dawg Dare competition for the fall, which will be a cross between two ofMark Sum­mers' big hits, "Double Dare" and "What 
Would You Do?" Dillon: The largest dorm on campus, Dillon is famous for its annual pep rally before the first home football game. The rally this fall will feature ND cheerleaders, coaches, a Braveheart theme, an hour-and-a-half of skits and, again, cheerleaders. The Big Red, last year's men's interhall football champs, have a history of domination in the sport and have not lost a regular season game in the last four years. Fisher: Notorious for its big, green "F" bands. · Siegfried: The Ramblers of Siegfried Hall compete annu­ally against Knott ·in the Flanner Cup, a week's worth of events including tug-o-war matches, arm wrestling and re­lay races. The week culminates 

with a dance co-sponsored by the two men's dorms. Also in the works for the upcoming year are an OJ.ctoberfest and the Rambler Scrambler, a putt-putt tourna­ment on the quad. Pasquerilla West: PW, a women's dorm and home of the Purple Weasels, offers an excellent opportunity for freshmen residents to make a name for themselves 
illuminated by giant floodlights 
on the front of the building, 
Fisher Hall is located next to 
South Dining Hall. The premiere · 
event for t4e Green Wave is the 
Fisher Regatta, an annual boat 
race 01;1 St. Mary's Lake. Anyone . 
can make and enter a boat in the competition, but only Fisher men and their dates participate in the spirited Fred & Sally Week, named for Fisher's benefactors, prior to the event. . Pangborn: A women's dorm, Pangborn is undergoing significant renovations this summer to present a new, fresh face for the class of2006. The interior ofthe dorm will be refurbished and re-painted, and modular furniture will be installed in the rooms. The Phoxes participate in an animal dl,\nce with Fisher Hall, the Spring Fling, held in the ·.. courtyard between these two dorms.. Lyons: Easily recognized by its famous arch overlooking St. Mary's Lake, this women's dorm sponsors the Mara Fox Fun Run every fall. Mara was a freshman resi­dent ofLyons when she was killed by a drunk driver in a hit-and-run accident in 1993. Money raised from the event goes to a student scholarship fund. On a lighternote, the Lions ofLyons host a beachtheme dance each fall, and bathing suits and Hawaiian 
during Queen Week._ Each section selects a freshman to vie.for the crown· in con­tests of various.· sorts, which last year in­cluded Mark Summers' hit, Super Sloppy Double Dare. The week also includes skits, talent shows and a parade ofqueens. Pasquerilla East: PE is the home ofthe Pyros and the Pasquerilla East Musical Company, which stages a complete mu­sical every February. The troupe's four­year history includes productions of Godspell, Grease, Guys and Dolls and Damn Yankees. This year's play will be Into the Woods. The women of PE also participate in the Pyro Olympics, an an­. nual intra-dorm contest to foster dorm 
unity. 
shirts are recommended attire. Morrissey: Last year, Morrissey began a new tradition known as Manor Unplugged, which showcases the musical talents ofits residents. The Manor hopes to move the event onto the quad, expanding it to:include a campus-wide golf tournament. Sand­wiched between Howard and Pangborn, two women's dorms, the men of Morrissey also plan to show off their brute strength in tra­ditional Gaelic contests this fall. Howard: The ladies of Howard put on a marshmallow roast to celebrate the first snowfall of the school year (arguably the only time that the arrival of snow is wel­corned). Room decorations are a big deal for the Ducks, as they compete againsteach other in an annual Parade ofRooms. Every fall they host the Howard Ho-down, a semi­formal dance to kick off the school year. Badin: The home of the Bullfrogs is the second oldest dorm at Notre Dame. In the spring, the women ofBadin host a campus­wide karaoke and dance competition, the Badin Spring Breakdown. Contestants are judged by appointed student judges on accuracy, style and performance. Their scores from the first round qualify them for a chance_ to spin the karaoke "Wheel of Death" to compete for gift certificates at local restaurants. D 



ADVERTISEMENTS 

YOU'RE INVITED! 
WHO: Gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning first-year students at Notre Dame 
t 
WHAT: Drop-in Reception 

I 
WHEN: Monday, August 2011, 1:30-3 :30 p.m. 

Coleman-Morse Building (3rd Floor Lounge) 

WHY: Come meet both student and faculty members ofthe Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs and find out more about resources available to gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning students on the Notre Dame campus. 
For more information, please visit our web site: 
http ://www.nd.edu/~scglsn/ 
Check under "Current Events." 

{ 
l 


· -~ .. · .·_ ~ .: NOTRE D".t:\lvfE . · -· 
: : · . "FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE . · · . 
·· : · · _· · ;isit our web page ~t http://~.nd.edu/~ftt ·: · ·. · 
WASHINGTON HALL--Mark Pilkinton, Acting Chair of Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre (FTT), has announced that the annual reception for students inter­ested in film, television, or theatre will be held Wednes­day, August 28, at 6:00 P.M. in Washington Hall. Students interested in any aspect of theatre or film production--acting, directing, scenery, costuming, lighting, management--are encouraged to attend. 
Notre Dame student films are showcased each year at the extremely popular annual film festival. Many FTT student films have won awards at national film festivals, and a collection of the best Notre Dame films is avail­able in national distribution. 
FTT has a terrific relationship with area television stations, and many students have earned internships in a variety of production areas. WNDU, the local NBC affiliate, is owned by Notre Dame and provides television professionals who teach some Notre Dame classes. 
Theatre at Notre Dame is open to all students--majors and non-majors--who wish to participate. A wide variety of activitiesis available including: acting, scenic design and construction, costume design and construction, lighting design and execution, marketing, directing and stage management. There are theatre opportunities to fit every schedule and level of talent. 

This season, FTT will present a mainstage season consisting of five plays and many other acting and direct­ing projects. Mainstage productions will be: 
Much Ado About Nothing, The Mandrake, How I 
Learned to Drive, The Tempest, and Twelfth Night 
Much Ado About Nothing and The Tempest will be performed by ACTORS FROM THE LONDON STAGE who will conduct residencies sponsored by the Henkels Visiting Lecture Series. All FTT projects will need student involve­ment. There are positions for all who wish to participate. 
Auditions for the first two plays will be held Wednes­day, August 28, and Thursday, August 29, at 7 :00 PM. 
FTT activities are an excellent way to meet new people, make new friends, and have a great time while involving yourself in the creation of something special on campus. 
Ifyou cannot attend the reception but wish to be involved or have questi()ns about film, please contact Jill Godmilow at Godmilow. l@nd.edu or Ted Mandell at Mandell.l@nd.edu. Ifyou are interested in theatre please contact Tom Barkes at tbarkes@imap-t.nd.edu. 


YOUR GUIDE TO CLUBBING 

)> 
C) 
Ol
AT NOTRE 
Q. 
CD 
ffDAME 3 COMPILED BY SEAN DUDLEY & JACKLYN KIEFER 
Afraid you'll be bored in college? Never fear: ND has something for everyone! In high school you were captain of the basketball team, presi­dent of studenfcouncil, a member of the Spanish Club, a volunteer at the local hospital and a lifeguard at the pool. Well, maybe you didn't do alt those things, but now you're here, and you begin to wonder what you are going to do with your time besides study. Scholastic enlisted the help of the Club Coordination Council to get a sampling of clubs on campus. ·Here's a look at the results. 




A T_H_L _E T LCJ 1 Notre Dame offers a wide variety of athletic opportu­nities even if you aren't a varsity athlete. Playing interhall sports can be an exciting way to compete for your dorm, or you can join a club team and travel around the country. Students addicted to speed can join the Cycling Club", which does mountain bike racing in the fall and road racing in the spring, or the Ski Club, which competes in both giant slalom and slalom events in Michigan, Wisconsin and Canada. Ifyou get your kicks from heights rather than speed, check out the Climbing Club. It sponsors rock-climbing trips to places like the Red River Gorge in Kentucky, and it provides all the necessary gear and training for participants of all-levels of experi­ence. The field hockey team was started two years ago. It offers both men and women of all skill levels a chance to participate. The team practices four days a week in the spring and fall and competes against other club teams in the area. Ifyou are a horse-
lover, Notre Dame has several equestrian clubs. The equestrian team takes weekly lessons at stables located about 15 minutes from campus. Riders of all levels are welcome to join, and do not need to own a horse. The team participates in competitions sponsored by the Intercollegiate Horse Show Association throughout the year. 
Ifsteer-wrestling, goat­tying and bull-riding are more your style, then you might want to check out the Rodeo Club. Stu­dents formed the club to educate others about rodeo, giving them the opportunity to work toward competing in a particular event. 
For those who would rather play in water than on dry land, Notre Dame has a few excellent aquarian "clubbing" opportunities. The Notre Dame Sailing Club, 
which practices on St. Joe Lake on campus and at a nearby lake in Michigan, races throughout the Midwest and the nation. The men's water polo team is consistently one of the top performers in the Midwest. Its official season is in the fall. Team members travel to places such as Florida for their more relaxed spring season. 
The women's water polo team, drawing. women from both Notre Dame and St. Mary's, has won the Regional Mid­west Championship three of the last four years, and placed fifth at Club Nationals in 2000. 
Frozen water is good, too. The Figure Skating Club started up in 1999 and was recognized as the athletic club of the year for 2001-2002. The team skates against varsity and club teams, and they have competed at two national championships, achieving eighth place in 2000 and seventh in 2002. The 



women's club hockey team will play around 30 games this year, their first year in existence. 
The 73-year-old Bengal Bouts boxing tournament offer an opportunity for men with varying levels of experi­ence to compete to raise money for Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. Ifyou are into boxing and happen to be female, check out the Women's Boxing Club, a recently formed group. 
The Women's Run­ning ·club was named the 2000-2001 athletic club of the year. They compete in road races in the area, roughly 10 per year, and sponsor two big events: the Aloha Run and the Relay for Life, on-campus races that raise money for charity. 
Ifyou like running around in bare feet and leaping through the air, the Ultimate Frisbee Club could be for you. The team competes at tournaments nationwide. 
Or you might want to try the Gymnastics Club, which welcomes athletes of many experience levels. In the spring semester, the team travels competes against other gymnastic clubs through­out the country. 
On a more local scale, the Notre Dame Porn Squad is a group of 14 women from Notre Dame and St. Mary's, dedicated to enhancing the spirit of Notre Dame through the performance of dance routines. The Porn Squad performs at pep rallies, basketball halftimes and campus-wide and dorm functions such as the Notre Dame Activities Night and the Dillon Hall Pep Rally. 
IA.~C_A_D_E_M~LCJAcademic clubs 
offer a wide range 
of activities in fields ranging from anthropology to engineer­ing. 
The Marketing Club provides the opportunity for marketing majors to interact with each other and professors through social, spiritual, educa­tional and service-oriented events, including guest speakers, career days, educational trips and barbecues. 
The Entrepreneur Club is an active group of individuals who plan to start or have already started their own busi­nesses. Throughout the year, the "E-Club" travels to national conferences, sponsors campus speak­ers, guarantees intern­ships and job opportuni­ties for club members, and prepares members to write business plans and compete in competitions. 
One of the largest student organizations at Notre Dame, the Student International Business Council (SIBC) is the only one of its kind in the nation. Open to all majors, the SIBC is dedicated to providing students with real-world professional experience and international <level­opment. Every summer, the SIBC sends dozens of students around the world on international summer internships and teaching positions. 
The pre-vet club of Notre Dame offers an opportunity for any student to learn about and interact with animals. It also provides a fun and supportive forum and source of information for students interested in attending veteranary school. 
Ifworking with humans is more your style, the Pre-Dental Club at ND is a pre-med style club designed to give those students considering dentistry a more in-depth view into the profession. They bring guest lectur­ers to campus, including local dental professionals and admissions represen­tatives from a number of different dental schools. Club members are also provided with the oppor­tunity to shadow local dentists in the South Bend area. 
Like the Pre-Dental Club, the Pre-Physical Therapy Club is an academic club that seeks to give support and guidance to students who want to attend a graduate school physical therapy program. 
The Society of Women Engineers works to foster a sense of commu­nity among women in engineering through social activities, career aid, service and academic support. 
The Computer Appli­cations Honor Society 
serves as the honor society for Arts and Letters students who have Computer Applications (CAPPtas a second major. 
Many majors also have their own clubs. The Anthropology Club, for example, aims to estab­lish connections between 









! ~::.?~i·· 
;ff_:;,/,,,·. 
The groµp performs onvalues of various Asian together for a couple of rank ofblack belt in both campus and travels cultures. They hope 

hours every few weeks to 

arts by the end oftheir extensively in the US and through their efforts to juggle. Nuff said. 
junior year. 
abroad.
positively reflect the In September, the 

ND's World Tae Kwon 
The Chess Club meetsessence of being Asian Swing Club will start a Do Club is a recreational biweekly to increase American. 

series of "East Coast" club that provides the student interest in chess ..

Na Pua Kai Ewalu, also swing dancing lessons. 

opportunity for anyone to while providing challeng­known as the Hawaii The club currently has learn an ancient Korean ing games for players ofClub, works to share the about 50 to 75 members martial art that teaches all strengths. They also culture of Hawaii through 
who come weekly for two 

power, strength, :(lexibil­teach chess to youngervarious social and hours of lessons and ity, and athieticism. 
children in the South 
educational activities, 
dance time. The class is Taught by seventh-degree Bend community and '·

including a luau each 
geared toward beginning 

black belt Master Soon 
form a four-member team 
spring. Open to all 
dancers, but they do have 

Pil Hong, a veteran coach to travel to competitions.
students, the club also student instructors who ofnumerous Olympic 

·(')'
. 
acts as a support system work privately to chal-· athletes, the students of 

~ 
. CD. 
for students from Hawaii, 
lenge and teach interme-

Tae Kwon Do learn
3'.; 

especially for incoming 
diate and advanced sparring techniques and

.er.· 
freshmen, who are 5,000 
dancers. 

self-defense tactics such 
miles away from home. 
The Dome Yearbook is 

as joint locks and the 
There are a variety of always looking for manipulation ofpressure 

other ethnic / language 
writers and photographers 
points. 
clubs, including the 
to help with spreads. The 

The university bands 
=---., 
Russian, Italian and 
time commitment is very 

include the marching 
German clubs. The flexible and although band, several concert 

Russian Club sponsors 
experience helps, it is not 

bands, jazz b~nds, and 
museum trips, ethnic necessary. 

brass and percussion 
m .. 
..+;,..
'·::J".,·, 
dinners, movies and other Those interested in ensembles. Tryouts for 

:::,:·'.',
c=r . 
events. The Italian Club's public service should the bands are open to all 

activities include regular look into the College students, undergraduate 

opportunities to eat and 
Democrats and College 

and graduat~, who are 
practice speaking Italian, Republicans, who hope enrolled at the University 

cooking classes, monthly to raise political aware-

ofNotre Dame, St. Students looking to 
movie nights, trips to ness and participation Mary's College and Holy volunteer in the 

-,:_c., Chicago's Italian neigh-among university stu-Cross College. South Bend 

:Il 
borhood and two sports dents. This fall the 
CD 

If you've been bitt~n community have many 
cg\ 
tournaments each year. 
College Democrats will by the performing bug options.

.. o-:· 
Next year, they have been be working on a cam'.'" 

but don't play an instru-Members of Circle K 
::_; 
specially invited to four paign for the U.S. 

ment, there are a number completed more than 
en 
evenings atthe Lyric 
Congress and organizing 

of acting and singing 7,000 hours of commu­
'"'C
CD . 
'(')er 
Opera.in Chicago. The 
a voter registration drive. 

groups on campus. The nity service in the Greater 
German Club's two 
Notre Dame has a few 

Farley Players, the St. South Bend area this
:5",'
...... 
yearly highlights are
CD _ 
martial arts clubs. The 

Ed's Hall Players, and year. The club offers 
ca 
Ok"domer" fest and a trip 
Aikido Club practices 

the Pasquerilla East around 20 projects 
. ·~-: !e. 
to Chicago's famed Aikikai-style Aikido, a Musical Company covering a wide range of 

Christkindlmarkt. 
vigorous, noncompetitive 

(PEMCo) are a few of the interests, from playing 
··--...,. 
Perhaps the most. 
martial art suitable for groups that put on student with animals at the 

interesting ethnic club is people of all ages and productions-each year. Humane Society to 

en 
0. 
the Texas Club, which 
ideal for those interested 
,9. 

Harmonia is a newly working at the Juvenile 
e?.:· 
boasts 500 Texan stu­in self-defense and established female a Justice Center. This is the 

6' 
dents. The club organizes conflict resolution. The 
ct.­

cappella group with kind of club to join if you
0
::, 
dances, rides to and from 
Notre Dame Martial 

about 15 members from can't decide what kind of 
:!20 
the Lone Star State and 
Arts Institute (NDMAI) 

the ND community, service you want to do. 
en 
CD 
an alumni network. 
teaches the unique which hopes to record a The nationally re­

,·· 
'(') s. 
techniques and applica-CD in the spring. Notre nowned South Bend 

CD 
tions ofVee Jitsu Ryu Dame's all-male choir, Center for the Homeless 

l_~N~T~E:_~-~-~-~ 
Jujitsu and Chung Do the Glee Club has a always welcomes student 

Kwan Tae Kwon Do. 

strong fraternal atmo-assistants, and Foodshare
Th•JoggHng Club 
is a group of Students who begin as sphere ·and focuses on is a Notre Dame service 

! students who get freshmen can reach the vocal technique and style. club that delivers leftover 

i 

k--~-,....... -----; 24 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

dining-hall food to the center and other homeless shelters in South Bend. 
SuperSibs matches ND students who have disabled siblings with children from the South Bend area who also have a disabled brother or sister. Club members provide friendship and support for the children based on their own experiences. 
A campus chapter of the international Best Buddies organization · pairs Notre Dame students with a develop­mentally disabled adult from the South Bend community to establish a one-on-one friendship. 
Students involved in the Logan Recreation Club have the opportu­nity to form friendships with individuals who have developmental disabilities by sponsoring and participating in weekly activities like bowling, Saturday recreation and dancing. 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program provides volunteer tutors to local schools and community centers with children in need of academic assistance. Campus Girl Scouts' goal is to bridge the gap between participating as a girl scout and volunteer­ing_as a troop leader. They host activities for local troops as well as perform their own service activities. 
On campus, C.A.R.E. (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination) is a student-awareness group aimed to prevent rnpe and help those affected by rape and sexual assault to deal with the overwhelm­ing consequences.]hey sponsor a Sexual Assault Awareness Week in the fall and host speakers and other events during Sexual Assault Awareness Month, in April. 
The ND/SMC Peace Coalition is sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and was started by a group of students critical of the War on Terrorism. The World Hunger Coalition is dedicated to raising awareness of hunger issues and raising money to support hunger relief efforts worldwide. The WHC annually raises about $20,000 for donations. to h1,10ger ·qrganizations throughout the world with the Lunch Fast, in which students sign up to give up one meal a week from their meal plans. 
A health-related organi­zation is the First Aid Services Team. The team serves as the first level of the emergency medical system for events and athletics on campus. Team members hold Red Cross certifications in standard first aid and CPR for the professional rescuer. 
The Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics works with local community centers and offers a number of opportunities for students to serve as translators and English-language instruc­tors to the Hispanic community. 
IH.£_LJ__.Gj__o_u_sJ
Thegroup Iron 
Sharpens Iron is 
an interdenomina­tional, student-led Bible study that seeks to foster solid Christian relation­ships and to challenge and encourage students to grow in their faith through fellowship, 
praise and worship, 
Biblical teaching and 
prayer. 
Campus Fellowship 
of the Holy Spirit is an ecumenical Christian group similarly dedicated to building up faith and friendship through weekly meetings, small groups and parties. The Knights of Columbus is a Catholic men's organi­zation focused on service to the community and loyalty to the Church. At Notre Dame, they are dedicated to the prin­ciples of the nationwide Order through many activities, the most notable being their Steak Sales, which raise $40,000 annually for charity. 
The Baptist Collegiate Ministry (BCM) is an organization open to all Christian traditions that focuses on fellowship, faith-sharing and Chris­tian living. They hold weekly Bible study meetings, church visits, retreats, shared meals and other activities. 
For Muslim students seeking fellowship, support and prayer opportunities, the Notre Dame United Muslim Association (NDUMA) helps them to continue on their faith journey. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart also has a number of ministries _open to new members. Their choirs include the Folk Choir, the Liturgi~ cal Choir and the 
Women's Liturgical Choir. If you would like to be in a choir but sing like Scuttle from The Little Mermaid, you can join the Handbell Choir. Also, the Basilica is always looking for new readers, Eucharistic 
ministers, and acolytes 
(altar servers), so if you 
are interested, keep an 
eye open for announce­
ments about training. 
-~-~~-~,::i~,:~ 
Addicted to student government? You can continue to get your fix in college. 
Notre Dame's Student Union consists of several groups. The Office of the President is a group that represents the student body to the university administration, and also provides direct services to students. 
The Student Senate, consisting of one senator from each dorm, also serves as a voice for students. The Judicial Council provides peer advocates to students facing disciplinary 
hearings. 
The Student Union Board (SUB) plans campus-wide events, including movies and concerts. Each class has a council that also plans events. Freshmen can get involved in student government by running for their class council in the fall, joining the staffs ofthe Office ofthe President, SUB or one of the Senate's policy committees. 
FlipSide is a student-run group whose purpose is to program weekly events on Fridays and Saturdays that do not involve alcohol, such as 
_dances, bowling, ice-
skating, mini-golf and 
trips to Chicago. The 
events are open to all 
students and hope to 
provide alternatives to 
drinking on campus. 
. 
--il 
.. I 
!I 
I. 
.) \ i 
:1 
-i: 
I 
: 
i 
]1 
. I 
' J 
u 
I 
1 
ii 
t 
! 
I 
I Ii 
ii 
j, 
I H 
r,
!i 
ii 
I
i; I 
!I 
r 
-F 
i 
·11 
'i 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 25 


This annual Notre Dame event will provide you the first opportunity to meet with representatives from ... 
* 
200+ Student Clubs/Organizations * Academic Clubs 

* 
25+ Local Service Agencies * Club Sports Teams 

* 
RecSports * Cultural Clubs 

* 
Center for Social Concerns * Service/SociaJ Action Clubs 

* 
Student Union Board * Special Interest Clubs 

* 
Student Government 



Over 3,000 students attended last year! Don't-be left out! 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CHECK OUT ACTIVITIES NIGHT ON-LINE AT: 
w w w. n d .-e du/ -s a o /an/ 

I 
) 

Perfect Strangers 
Getting along with an assigned roommate is a unique aspect ofthe .freshman experience 
ALLISONFASHEK 
Never before has a computer held so much control over your life. The computer that randomly assigns roommates for Notre Dame freshmen may provide you a year ofhappiness or disap­pointment. There will be few times in your life when you will be forced to live with a total stranger. This· is one of them. But it's not as scary as it.sounds. There are typically three categories un­der which roommate relationships tend to fall, ranging from "we're inseparable" to "computer malfunction." You should view getting to know your roommate as an opportunity to share your everyday ex­periences with someone -an import~nt part ofthe college adventure. Whichever situation you find yourself in, remem­ber that it's up to you to make the best of it, 
You Complete Me 
This category is for those students who find a long-lost brother or sister in their roommate. Upon meeting, the two find they have everything in common, includ­ing a love for country music and racquet­ball. While unpacking, they discover they own matching lava lamps..Even their bedsdpreads coordinate. They will go to every meal and party together, walking around as ifthey were attached at the hip, laughing at the sam~ stupid jokes. They will rarely fight, even during the weeks of midterms, finals and room picks, and they will probably become godparents for each others' children. If you find your­self in this category, you are somewhat rare, but also extremely lucky. But if it doesn't happen this way for you, don't fret. Undoubtedly, you will still find this type of friendship with someone on cam­pus -just not with your roomie. 
I'm OK, You're OK 
This is probably the most common cat­egory for roommate situations. So you 're not best friends with your roommate ­no one said you had to be. You still get along. You hang out on the weekends sometimes and you have fun spending time with each other. But you have more fun hanging out down the hall or downstairs with another group of people. 
Having a best friend who lives down the hall -or even in another dorm -can be a major asset. Sometimes it's impor­tant to get out of the room for a little while, whether for a change of scenery or even for a temporary refuge. As you start class and become involved in other ac­tivities, you will find people on your own with whom you will enjoy spending time. At the same time, you will have a good friend in your roommate, and have the op­portunity to get to know his or her friends as well. This is a great way to meet a di­verse group of people. 
It Wasn't Meant To Be 
Some people just weren't meant to live together. This is another rare situation, but it does happen. Certain roommates do not get along. This is no reason to panic or call home in tears. You can have a great freshman year no matter with whom you live. A roommate is someone to share liv­ing arrangements with -anything more or less is up to you. Also, this situation should encourage you to be more outgoing and to meet more people in your dorm, your classes and your extracurricular activities. 
Whether you are best friends or just 
acquaintances with your roommate, the 
keys to the survival ofthe relationship lie 
in communication, compromise and re­
spect. It's always better to try to talk to 
your roommate about a problem before it 
grows out of proportion. He or she may 
have no idea that the problem even ex­
ists. 

The bottom line is that roommate as­signments are totally random :_ just the luck ofthe draw. Worrying about your fu­ture roommate is about as futile as wor­rying about the weather. When you walk into your room for the very first time and ·set eyes on your new roommate, keep in mind that he or she has the same worry 
about getting along with you. 
What happens next is up to you. D 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 27 


~ ~ 
too1-200~ 


This year wasn't your usual 5-6 Notre Dame football season. Before the Bob Davie era, there was no such thing as a usual 5-6 Notre Dame football season, which is the primary reason ath­letic director Kevin White made the ultimate decision to fire the embattled coach. 
After a week of nonstop interviews, White returned to South Bend with George O'Leary, whom he had plucked from Georgia Tech to lead the Fighting Irish back to prosperity. In addi­tion to his success with the Yellow Jackets, O'Leary earned monograms for football at New Hampshire and a master's degree from New York University -or so he said. 
When a New Hampshire publication looked into O'Leary's playing days, it discovered that O'Leary had never earned a monogram from any university. The discrepancy in the · t• report made its way back to Notre Dame, and when a member of the Irish athletic depart-/; ment inquired into the rest ofhis background, O'Leary admitted that he had not earned a degree from NYU, either. He resigned the next morning, just five days after succeeding Davie. 
White once again hit the road looking for a football coach, knowing he would be unable to produce one as quickly as the first time. It took until New Year's Day for him to hire Tyrone Willingham, the former Stanford head coach, whose resume in­cluded a rare Cardinal trip to the Rose Bowl. His timely arrival saved the 2002 recruiting class from being a bust for Notre Dame, and has restored the student body's enthusiasm in its football program. 
28 SCHOLASTJCSPORTS 



f2 IIrish Duke it Out 
Not much was expected of the men's bas­ketball program after All-American Troy Murphy left Notre Dame for the NBA draft the previous season. ESPN labeled 2001-02 a rebuilding year for the Fighting Irish, but head coach Mike Brey had something differ­ent in mind. 
After a slow start, Notre Dame won a sea­son-turning four-overtime contest at Georgetown. The Irish rolled down the stretch, earning the eighth seed in the Midwest bracket of the NCAA tournament. The Irish easily defeated Charlotte in the opening round, 82­
63. However, by a cruel twist offate, the Irish drew defending national champion Duke in the second round. 


The Irish hung tough against the Blue Dev­ils in the first half, going into the locker room trailing the champions 45-39. 
In the next 14 minutes, the Irish got even tougher, pulling ahead 71-64 with six min­utes to play. The luck ofthe Irish ran out early though, as the Blue Devils scored 20 of the last 26 points to end Notre Dame's dream. 
Notre Dame owes its surprise season to clutch leadership by its seniors and inspired play by freshman Chris Thomas, whose per­formance earned him Freshman of the Year honors from Basketball News. 

IBanner Year for Kerry Walton 
Throughout the years, many athletes have come to ND to win a national title. Sopho­more fencer Kerry Walton won two this year, while narrowly missing a world title. 
Walton finished 18-5 in the NCAA epee round robin, earning the third seed going into the semifinals. She proceeded to win both the semifinal and final 15-12, earning her the NCAA women's epee national title. 
Just a week after winning on the collegiate level, Walton traveled to Antalya, Turkey for the Junior World Championships. On April 4, Walton took third in women's epee, becom­ing just the second woman in American his­tory to medal in the event. 
Less than a month later, Walton was back to her winning ways, as she won the Division I national epee competition, which is open to American fencers ofall ages. 
into the CCHA playoffs as the eighth seed. They faced fifth-seeded Nebraska-Omaha in the first round best-of-three series. Notre Dame dropped the opening game 3-2 in double overtime before winning games 2 and 3 to upset the Mavericks. 
With the win, the Irish advanced to the CCHA Super Six. However, third-seeded Northern Michigan proved too much for Notre Dame, ending its season with a 3-1 victory. 
f6 IA Bad Day on the 
Field 
All streaks eventually come to an end. For the women's soccer program, there were a few that couldn't have picked a worse time. After a first-round victory in the NCAA tournament, 
STEPPING UP Hailed as Indiana's "Mr. Basketball" as a senior in high school, point guard Chris Thomas played a key role in the lrish's success this season. 

IFledgling No More 
Since becoming a varsity sport in 1997, 
women's lacrosse has seen some hard times. 
In2000 the program suffered through its worst 
season, a 5-10 finish. Undaunted, the Irish an­
swered with a 10-5 season in 2001, setting 
the stage for 2002. 
This year, ND finished the regular season 
12-4, qualifying for the NCAA tournament 
for the first time in school history. In the first 
round, the Irish defeated 12th-ranked Ohio 
State, 11-7. The victory pitted Notre Dame 
against top-ranked Princeton. The Tigers 
ended Notre Dame's season, I 1-5. Neverthe­
less, the Irish's efforts proved that the program 
is now one ofnational prominence. 
I 5 IBreakaway 
After opening the season 9-15-5, few fans held out hope for the Irish hockeyteam as it closed· out· its season. The team had been on a four-game losing streak, and had lost seven ofthe past eight games. Notre Dame was not ready to throw in the towel, though, defeat­ing conference-leading Michigan State the next night. 
The win sparked the beginning of a five­
game winning streak, which moved the Irish the seventh-ranked Irish were riding high, holding home-field advantage against Cincin­nati in the second round. Everything seemed to be in Notre Dame's favor, as the Irish were unbeaten in their last 39 games at home. Against unranked opponents, the Irish were unbeaten in 85 straight, dating back to 1990. Cincinnati was not impressed, scoring the game's first two goals en route to a 3-2 upset ofthe Irish. The loss marked the first time in three years that the Irish did not advance to the NCAA tournament semifinals. 
. .--.~:.--..---" [:'. -·_·_(Zy·>_•'" 

_ 
(,,._ SPORTS INfOR",1ATJpr,_U 
POSTSEASON SURGE Evan Nielson, captain 
of the men's hockey squad, led the team to an 
unexpected appearance in the CCHA Super Six. 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 29 

. ' 



17 IReturn to 
Prominence 
While the women's soccer team la­
mented its second-round loss in the 
NCAA tournament, the men's soccer pro­
gram hailed its first-round defeat as the 
end to a highly successful campaign. 
The recent downturn in the Notre Dame 
soccer program was caused largely by an 
upheaval in the coaching position. Irish 
head coach Mike Berticelli died suddenly 
in January 2001, forcing the program to 
name assistant coach Chris Apple as his 
interim successor. The Irish struggled 
under Apple, and he was replaced at the 
end of the season by Stanford coach 
Bobby Clark. 
Under Clark, Notre Dame returned to 
the NCAA tournament for the first time 
since 1996. The Irish lost their opening­
ro~nd matchup to University ofMaryland 
on a late goal. Nevertheless, Notre Dame 
was just happy to be back and look to build upon this season's success next sea­son. 
I 8 I The Champs Fall 

After a thrilling run through the NCAA tournament saw ND capture its first NCAA women's basketball title, there wasn't any­where to go but down this season. Losing virtually all of their key seniors, the Irish knew that a title defense would require a minor miracle, since the nation's other pow­erhouses were still stacked with talent. 
The inevitable occurred in the second 
round of the NCAA tournament, as Notre 
Dame faced second-seeded Tennessee. The 
Irish never appeared to have a chance 
against the Lady Vols, as they fell behind 
early en route to a season-ending 89-50 de­
feat. 
I9 IBlackjack 

After opening the 2002 season 8-12, the women's softball team seemed to lack con­fidence. The Irish went on to win 21 oftheir next 23 games, gaining back whatever con­fidence they may have lost in the opening 20 games of the season as they glided into 
the Big East tournament. Notre Dame lost its first tournament game in the double-· rest ofthe tournament, culminated by a two­elimination bracket to Virginia Tech. The game sweep of Virginia Tech to clinch the Irish then proceeded to sweep through the title. -· 
Luck of the Irish? 
If there were an award for the unluckiest team in the history of sports, the 2002 men's lacrosse team would be one ofthe finalists. After a spirited 2001 campaign that saw the Irish advance to the NCAA tournament semifinal, expectations were high for Notre Dame in 2002. The Irish finished an abysmal 5-8. However, five of those losses came by one goal, and three came in overtime. Perhaps this is why the Irish were still ranked in the top 25 after five games, even though they were 1-4. The only bright spots for Notre Dame its that most of its young team is returning, and some standout re­cruits have signed letters ofintent to play for the Irish. 
. A BAD BOUNCE Senior attack Owen Asplundh has seen the team through _ 1Jhe good and the bad this season -although more often it was the bad. :, ·, ;:i ·Despite the poor performance this year, the team's future looks ~right, a~ _-_-.,-.,,' young key players gained needed experience and talented recruits pour 1n. 
FRESHMAN PHENOM Righthanded pitcher 
Carrie Wisen led the softball team to a Big East 
Tournament victory.
L-----------------1 
30 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 



ADVERTISEMENT 
,. ··-.-···-·:.•""'" J 

STUDENT l l GOVERNMENT 


Student Body President Libby Bishop and Vice President Trip Foley welcome you to Notre Dame 
Become involved in Student 
1, Government and run for freshmen representative for your dorm 
Upcoming Events from Office of the President Monthly Blood Drives School Wide Mass 30 Year Celebration of Women Coach Willingham Tour Multi-Cultural Fair Meeting your President and Vice President at your Dorm Mass 
www. nd. edu / studegov 


University Resources •• 
•
• 
• 
for Gay, Lesbian, & •• •
• •• Bisexual Students • • 
• 
: ,._TH....£ --="sT......A-'-N0 ...... 1N_.G 
• 
COMMITTEE ON 

• 
GAY AND LESBIAN 

• 
STUDENT NEEDS 


•
•
•
• The ~tanding Committee on Gay and
•
• •• Lesbian Student Needs 
• (Confidential information, education, and resources) 
•
• Co11tact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student 
• 
members (see web site for student contact info.) 
..• 
Office of Campus Ministry 

·., •••. ( GLB Together --confidential group meetings which • include prayer and discussion ofspiritual issues; annual • 
..• 
retreat; library with relevant reading materials) 
•
• C011tact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, atSteele.3l@nd.edu, or
•
• Tami Schmitz at Schmitz.8@nd.edu
• 
University Counseling Center 
•
• 
(Individual counseling or a confidential support group) 
• 
• •• Co11tact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz.l@nd.edu, or Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@ii.d.edu
•
•
• 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/
•
•
•
....•••....••••...••••...••••.....••.....••..... 


Welcome to the Center for Social Concerns (CSC)!Through community service, hands-on learning, and real-life action for social change, Notre Dame's CSC encourages the entire campus  
community to think about and act upon the issues of peace and justice.  
C E N T E R  F  O  R  Manyeducational opportunities are available through the CSC which offers:  
SOCIAL  Abundant service opportunities Interaction with local community organizations  
CON·CERNS  One-credit social concerns seminars (nationally and internationally) Three-credit courses (nationally and internationally)  
Peace and justice programming  

There are many ways for you to become involved in service, service-learning and justice opportunities your first year at Notre Dame! (In a bold font, possibly the same size font as the phrase which begins ''Through community service ... ") 
Enroll in a First Year Composition course with a Community-Based Learning component! Apply to participate in a Fall, Winter or Spring Break Social Concerns Seminar! Volunteer through one of the 40 South Bend community agencies! Become a member of one of the over 30 CSC-related student groups. Talk with your dorm's Social Concerns Commissioners for more ideas and information! 
For more information: http://centerforsocialc_oncerns.nd.edu/ and Stop by the CSC tables at Activities Night, September 3rd! 
We look forward to seeing you tn August! 

" ... Calling us all to action for a more 
just and humane world." 

~from the CSC's Mission Statement 



KARAZUARO
Nobody ever said it was going to be easy, moving to the drowsy town of South Bend from the city that never 
sleeps. But once I came to appreciate the stars inplace ofskyscrapers and nights that inevi­tably end around 2 a.m., I realized that this place has some potential. Quality entertain­ment on campus can be tricky to pinpoint, 
·. but this clip 'n' save guide should make your journey toward fun safe and easy. 
34 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 


SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 35 




Welcome, freshmen. This is the 
Gipper writing to you, the Class 
. of 2006, asking for a little bit of help from each ofyou. You see, the Gipper's column, Campus Watch, runs in every issue ofScholastic. That gives him just two weeks to whip together a compilation ofthe campus's juiciest tidbits. There is enough bizarre be­havior on this campus to fill the entire maga­zine, but the Gipp needs you to tell him about it. So read on and learn how you can help. 
To begin with, the Gipp does not write an advice column. Ifyou have problems with your roommate, your expanding waistline or your shifty Purdue boyfriend, ask Ann Land~rs. Second, the Gipp is not well­versed in etiquette. He can't tell you whether to hang your toilet paper inside or outside on the spindle, and he doesn't know a summer dress from a funeral shroud. The Gipper doesn't like to answer questions. 
But the Gipper loves to hear stories. Not just any stories, mind you, but stories that reveal something that, perhaps, wasn't meant to be revealed. Or,. something that desperately needs to be revealed. Nothing is too wild or too strange: You see, dear freshmen, you are the eyes and ears ofthe Gipp. While the Gipp does his best to have a finger in everybody's pie, it's kind ofdif­ficult on a campus of 10,000 students ­particularly when there are 2,000 brand new ones whom he hasn't even met. He can't attend every party where someone lights himself onfire, and he can't be riding shotgun every time someone overturns a stolen golfcart on 1-80. Andhe wouldn't even wantto be around for some ofthe dirtier tips he gets. But, ifyou do have the good fortune to witness an act ofunbridled hilarity, fire off an e-mail to gipper.l@nd.edu, or give the Gipp a call at 1-7569. Of course, you won't speak to the Gipp personally -he has his identity to protect. But you will speak to a member ofScholastic's friendly staff, who will deliver the tip for you. 
And, while we're speaking about protect­ing identities, allow the Gipp to offer you a couple of guarantees. First: Your anonymity will be preserved whenever you tip the Gipp. 
No matter how outrageous it is or how much scandal it causes, only the Gipper will know who you are. And, since nobody knows who 
, the Gipp is, your secret is safe with him. Second, the Gipper does not print trash. He carefully verifies the accuracy of each tip he receives. So, please be sure that what you re­port actually happened, and try to give the Gipp a suggestion on how to verify the tip. Now that we've gotten all the unpleasantries out ofthe way, let's get to the things the Gipper wondered about when he 

was about to enter his freshman year. 
First: Can I drink? 
Yes, you can. Assuming that you aren't re­ferring to the nail-flavored tap water (the Gipper recommends bringing a purifier), the university does permit you to drink alcohol in your dorm room -provided it is not clas­sified as "hard liquor," and it doesn't leave the room, and it doesn't result in "intoxica­tion." In otl1er words, you can get grunk off ofbeer and Boone's Fann, but don't bring it . into the hallways, and don't let your rector catch you puking it back up 20 minutes later. 
The bad news is, our fair campus is slowly going dry. Some sources say that, by the time you all graduate, alcohol will be banned in the residence halls. (But they didn't say anything about the classrooms ... ) 
Second: What are my prospects for conju­gal relations? 
Of course, the Gipper isn't saying that all he thought about was sex. No, he was a some­what well-rounded high-schooler, with a va­riety of interests. Now all he thinks about is sex, but that is the product of three years of carefully crafted Notre Dame residence life. 
While all ofyour friends at other colleges will tell you horror stories about members ofthe complimentary gender living down the hall and, occasionally, visiting after midnight on weekdays, you will be kept safe from such trauma. The agent of such protection? Parietals. 
Parietals is -or are, no one is sure ­that little quirk of Notre Dame life by which, ifyou are caught with someone of the opposite sex -evena parent-in your room aftera certain hour ofthe night, you'll find yourself in a lot of hot water. The premise: Premarital sex is a sin, and it only happens after midnight during the week, or 2 a.m. on the weekends. So by forcibly separating the two sexes, the university can prevent the soiling of its moral character. As a result, most male undergraduates end up soiling their sheets instead. The admin­istration has some lofty explanation for pa­rietals involving the, "fostering of social skills," but that makes about as much sense as encouraging intellectual growth by burn­
ing down the chemistry labs. This rule is taken very seriously, so the Gipper doesn't recom­mend breaking it until you've bought your RA a case ofbeer or two. 
Don't fret, though, Gipplings. The re­markable thing about the ND community is not the rules, but the people. You'll meet some amazing folks during your years here, and you'll probably end up procreating sooner or later anyway, although not neces­sarily with them. So welcome to our fam­ily, little brothers and sisters. Make your­selves at home, and don't forget to tip your Uncle Gipp. 

SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 37 . . . . . ----------------"---­
-----~-­

'' 
; 

ADVERTISEMENTS 
Join the Superhero Station! 
Classical by day. Jammin' by night. 
WSND-FM 
88.9 
Announcers Needed 
Email walsh.97@nd.edu or visit us at Activities Night 
Notre Dame 

iAYUDA! 

Share your talents and learn about life! 
C.A.S.H. 

Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics 
Visit www.nd.edu/~cashformore info... 


C.A.S.H. is a service organization that connects Notre Dame students to the Hispanic communityofthe South Bend/Mishawaka area. Become involved in one a ofunique varietyofvolunteeropportunities where you can cultivate your Spanish language skills, learn about the Hispanic culture and contribute to organizations serving people in need. CASH member.. tutor Hispanic children, teach Spanish to preschooler.., serve in food pantries, help v.>ith translations in medical 
got club? 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will hold auditions for new members immediately following Freshman Orientation weekend, in Crowley Hall of Music. 
We DO: 

• 
Tour throughout the US twice a year, and internationally every two years 

• 
Accept guys who have never sung outside the shower. 

• 
Need new members for every voice part. 


· • Have an 87-year tradition as one of the nation's finest collegiate male a cappella choruses. 
• 
Sing music ranging from spirituals to 15th century polyphony, from barbershop to traditional Notre Dame tunes in four major concerts and numerous "miniconcerts" each year. 

• 
Fire up crowds of thousands with concerts before each home football game. 

• 
Enjoy great times together as brothers in song 


We DON'T: 

• 
Let girls sing with us (they look funny in tuxes -but we love to see them at our concerts) 

• 
Run the option (well) 


• 
Care whether you want to be a music major or an aerospace engineer (we have both) 


For more information visit our Web site, contact President Jacob Rodenbiker Urodenbi@nd.edu) or e-mail the club directly at gleeclub@nd.edu. 

Standing on the Edge of Tomorrow 
Don't expect to live the life of Zack and Slater when you move in 
KARAZUARO 
t still shocks me that Saved By the Bell: 
The College Years only lasted one sea­
son on prime time. The theme song was catchy, the characters were refreshingly one-dimensional, and the studio audience generated the most enthusiastic hoots and hollers that I've ever heard. After a year at Notre Dame, I realize how well that show prepared me for my college experience. Sure, there were a few slightly unrealistic aspects of Zack and Kelly's California U, but on the whole, it was a lot more realistic than you might think. 
First of all, the Saved by the Bell (SBTB) gang is kind oflike a family. Out here, folks take the family idea pretty se­riously. Contrary to what some of you skeptfos are thinking, the Notre Dame family is not just some advertising ploy. It does exist, and like any other family, it's a little bit dysfunctional. Sure, you've . got some positive points: the grandma­like lunch ladies in the dining hall who remember your name (or at least read it off your ID card before they swipe it). And you've got arector. or rectress in each dorm to serve as a parental author­ity figure. The problems set in when you get into the Big Brother and. Sister as­signments. At some point you will be assigned a Big Sibling from your brother or sister dorm. These Big Siblings do not want to counsel you. They want to see if you're cute enough to take to their next dance. Do you want to know how many · giggly girls I've heard declare, "I'm going to a dance with my Big Brother this week­end"? I didn't think so. 
On SBTB, the gang is disappointed when they find out that there's no drinking al­lowed in their.dorm. Here, a lot ofkids are disappointed when they find out about our alcohol restrictions. l don't know what the deal with that is because I've only got a couple of girls in my section who are over 21, but every Saturday and Sunday morn­ing, there is this mysterious mountain of empty Budweiser and Rolling Rock cases sitting atop our section recycling bin. Of course, I know now that these empty boxes are just the special gifts we get from the Beer Fairy for being so good all week. Sometimes the Beer Fairy sends other bless­ings, too, such as bestowing my roommate with the power ofsong. On some weekends, she stumbles into the room in the wee hours ofthe morning and starts rapping the Fresh Prince of Bel Air theme song. Of course, like all fairies, the Beer Fairy has a mis­chievous side. Sometimes she makes people 

sprawl across the floors of strange rooms with their heads in puke-filled wastepaper baskets. It's a good thing you 're reading this because they never really warn you about the Beer Fairy on SBTB. 
Now, there are a few aspects oflife under the Dome that don't fit in with the SBTB life-style. For one thing, at California U, nobody's parents ever come to visit. Here, somebody's parents are always snooping around. Keep in mind that your parents might not come back, or worse yet, cut your cash supply, if you scare them by letting them in on your deviant college ways: Just the other day I was walking to class behind a pair of parents who were apparently a little shaken up. 
"Well," said the dad, with a touch of worry in his voice, "Brian seems very com­fortable after his first year here." 
"He was always such a good boy," added the apprehensive mom. 
"Seems well adjusted," declared Dad. "Got some friends. Comfortable with his surroundings. Grades are good." 
"But honey," said mom in a hushed voice, 
stopping short and turning to face her hus­band, "When did he start collecting shot glasses?" 
Silly parents. I took it upon myself to inform them that not everyone who col­lects shot glasses uses them for drinking. Besides, Natty Light is much cheaper than hard liquor, and it comes in cans. 
Kids might develop a few bad habits that range from spending too much time building beer-can pyramids to spending too much time at the library. But other than that, most kids don't change too much. Again, just like SBTB: Zack is al­ways the fun guy, Slater is always the womanizing jock, Kelly is always the bimbo-next-door, and Screech is always the geek. College doesn't change them. Of course, you. may find yourself ex­panding your horizons a bit once you get settled in here. Most ofthis has to do with dating. Say you like the Beastie Boys but there's a cutie in your philosophy class who's way into country. Before you 
know it, you'll find yourselfat a Brooks and Dunn concert. Or perhaps you're strictly into action movies, but if that dreamboat from the dining hall asks you to see When Harry Met Sally, you'll manage to sit through it, I'm sure. 
Whatever the case, you've just got to re­member to hang in there, develop a safe and healthy relationship with the Beer Fairy, and when the going gets tough, just hum along to the lyrics of my all-time favorite TV theme song: "I'm standin' at the edge of tomorrow, today." · . 


Submit an 800-word essay for Week in Distortion. E-mail us a.t scholast@nd.edu. SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 39 
by Father Jim Lewis, O.Carm. 
A Part of "This Place'' 

;; 
l I 

Father Jim Lewis, O.Carm., served as the rector ofNotre Dames London Program for two years before becoming rector ofCarroll Hall. He is originally J,-om Chicago. 
Privileged to serve as rector in the Undergradu­ate London Program from 1999-2001, I walked along roads that once served as path­
ways for the Romans. I viewed the palaces and the­aters of the city from inside and out. I stood at the resting place of St. Thomas More in the Tower of London; at that oflsaac Newton in Westminster Ab­bey and strolled through the mass of history that is Parliament. I loved it all! 
Yet no vision in that dazzling city lightened my heart and raised my spirits as when I lifted my eyes to view the ( often) rain-soaked, wind-tattered ban­ner rising over that glorious Victorian edifice across from Trafalgar Square. The Marian Kennedy Fischer Hall serves as the Notre Dame Centre in the very heart ofLondon. Over it, one can find those familiar interlocking letters encompassed in the blue and gold. That sight reminded me of why I was in the United Kingdom, of where I hoped to be someday. 
We all have our Notre Dame stories, don't we? For some, it is a tale oflegacies; for others, ofweek­end visits when I just knew that this was the place; ofa football Saturday that made the decision; ofdorm 
visits so special; and even ofjourneys that began over an ocean away. 
Now, honored to be rector of Carroll Hall, I am one among many who proudly and sincerely welcome you, the women and men of the Class of2006, to the commu­nity of Notre Dame. Con­gratulations on becoming a student at the university that 
preachers ofhomilies and speakers ofnote will often, affectionately, refer to as "this place." At Notre Dame, you'll be identified more readily by the hall in which you live than by the course ofstudies you take. Such is the vibrancy ofthis community, and the energy ofour commitments to residentiality. 
Your discoveries during the first year at ND will be singular, yours alone. Yet the likelihood exists that you '11 share threads ofcommon experience with roommates, older students in your section and dorm, even your RAs. There may be a moment when you wonder ifyou made the right decision to come here, ifyou're cut out for the rigors ofexpectations placed upon you. 
Such an occasion during my first year on campus -last year! -remains etched in my psyche. After nearly a week of "new rector orientation," and fol-· lowing a week of hall-staff training, I attended a seemingly harmless "working lunch" with my col-· leagues. At that session, the proverbial dump truck of obligations ("Fill these out," "Tum these in yes­terday," "Refer to the booklet that you don't yet have") came forth. In truth, the presentation by some of our administrators was so matter of fact that I was certain that it was I who was over­whelmed and under-prepared. This was one day before the freshmen arrived. 

Fortunately, Siegfried Hall Rector Rev. John Conley, C.S.C., noticing that my eyes were spin­ning around in my head, literally grabbed me by the arm as we were leaving the meeting, and told me "Don't worry! I couldn't believe my ears when I was new, either." At that point, he outlined a means by which to prioritize duties, and how to do other tasks. It made sense. The personal interac­tion allowed me to breathe again, and reestablish confidence in my capabilities. 
But he was one among many who reached oufto me in support, encouragement, affirmation, wel­coming, reassurance. And I remembered, that was the character ofFather Mark Poorman, C.S.C., the vice president ofStudent Affairs, on an idyllic May afternoon when he invited me to accept this won­derful ministry. His enthusiasm for the people and the work of Notre Dame was -and remains ­inspiring. Trust me, there are countless others who convey that devotion and affirmation at "this place." Such an approach seems to rest on the con­viction that God's work is our work. 
There will always be someone here to encour­age you in your endeavors. And, that same indi­vidual, those same people, will be ones who will push you to do better, work harder, be more curi­ous, look deeper. Notre Dame is 1,1ot just a place that will challenge you, but it will support you· within that challenge. 
The Rev. Theodore Hesburgh has said that Notre Dame is at its finest when we come together to pray. I have experienced that truth in quiet late-nights at the Grotto, in beautiful Basilica Eucharists and ves­pers, in sorrow and shock on South Quad on Septem­ber 11th, in the utter joy of celebrating at Carroll as 80-100 average voices are raised up to make a beau­tiful noise in praise of God, on retreat with people previously unknown who are now friends, spiritual companions, fellow seekers ofwisdom. . 
At Notre Dame, people hear the Word of God and respond with their very beings. Yes, we are at our best when we pray together! 
"There will always be some­one here to encourage you ... those same people will be ones who will push you to do better, work harder, be more curious, look deeper." 
40 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 



We welcome all types of musical accessories at WVFI. 
Be a DJ at Notre Dame's only student-run radio station! 

PRESORTED STANDARD 
U.S. Postage PAID 
Notre Dame, IN Permit No. 2 






