0
C~o 
THE NOTRE DAME COUNCIL ON INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT 

The Second Annual Student Forum on Globalization 
"Europe in the 1990's: Its Role in the Global Business Sector" 
April 10, 1990 
7:30 PM Center for Continuing Education 
Open Reception immediately following the Forum 
Come see the recent events in Central and Eastern Europe through the eyes of the Japanese, · the Europeans, and the Americans. 
HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE!!! 


SCHOLASTIC 
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE APRILS. 1990 
COVER 
10 
Hogs End Hundred-Year Long Tradition 
Holy Cross plans end of year activities as "The Building 
Across the Lake" closes its doors Kristine DeGange 
NEWS 
8 
More Than Making the Cut 
Residents Assistants prepare for their year of work 
Derik Weldon 
SPORTS 
14 "One More Step" Pat Murphy is both watchful and poised to begin Notre Dame baseball season Jonpaul Potts 

17 Delivering a Winner 
· Notre Dame making great strides in sophomore softball stanza Jim Kuser 

INCLUDE THIS AD AND CIRCLE STYLE AND SIZE (S, M, L, XL) 
SEND TO: LIFE IN HELL, DEPT. D-3 2219 MAIN ST., #E, SANTA MONICA, CA 90405 Allow J.,i weeks. delivery. Free cclolog with order. 
SCHOLASTIC 
ON OTHER CAMPUSES 

Hoops A ' La Mode 
Plus the new anal-retentive study method_ 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 
Let them eat cake" is what the University of California­Berkeley mascot, Oski the Bear, might have said after being suspended from basketball games for two weeks in mid­
March. According to a brief in theNational On-Campus Report, the reason cited was that during one January halftime show, the playful Oski threw a two-layer cake into the crowd, splattering visiting fans from Oregon State U. As for the true identity of the dessert-slinging mascot, tradition requires that it remain a secret known only to members of UC's Oski Committee. 
·Geo9r-ophy 101 
MWF 10:00-11:00 

Purdue's 'Nude Olympics' are now under wraps, due to a university ban on the traditional event. However, students at the University of Pennsylvania are trying to establish an annual streak through the Philadelpia campus's Quadrangle. A story from the College Press Service reports that about twenty males wearing nothing but socks and tennis shoes shouted "get naked" as they ran through U. Penn's campus in February. "This was just a spontaneous thing done by a group of students," said one spokesman arguing that the event was neither premeditated nor organized in advance. 
The latest educational renaissance may be occurring not in campus classrooms, but in collegiate bathrooms. A news item from the Shelby (N.C.) Star reports: "DAVIDSON-The struggle to promote geographical literacy among college students has entered a novel arena at Davidson College. A student committee of the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies has taped world maps to the sides of campus bathroom stalls. 'It's a place where people have time on their hands,' said senior Mary Snyder, who is spearheading the effort. 'We're hoping this will help [students] use [their time] construc­tively."' 
University of South Carolina football fans looking for the ultimate tailgating experience may find it in the purchase ofa custom-designed garnet and .black railroad caboose, all for a mere $45,000. A brief from The Chronicle ofHigher Education described the venture oftwo local businessmen who bought twenty-two cabooses and a piece of rail spur near the university's stadium. The 'Cockaboose Railroad' is expected to accommodate up to seventy people in time for next season's Gamecock home football games. . 

MUSIC/DAVE HOLSING· ER 


Everything Under the Sun 
St. Paul and the Martyrs puts on two fantastic performances ofPink Floyd's Dark Side ofthe Moon 
T his was one of those crazy ideas that actually happened," said St. Paul and the Martyrs' bassist Jeremy Manier about the band's latest undertaking, a presentation of Pink Floyd's The Dark Side of the Moon in Washington Hall on March 22nd and 23rd. The idea for this ambitious project was born in the minds of guitarist/ vocalist Kevin McCormick and the show's co-producer, Brad Young, after listening to the disc of Dark Side ... several months ago. The two thought that since the band already knew four of the songs from the album that it would be a really interesting idea to perform the entire album, complete with afilm,and in a real venue. Besides, what better crazy idea could you have than to play an album about the causes of insanity? So who are these guys and what made them think that they could pull this off? St. Paul and the Martyrs have, for the most part, been playing together since high school. Their name comes from the fact that drummer Paul Loughridge is, as described by the rest of the band, 'a complete martyr.' "Let me give you an example," says Viktor. "Ifyou go to a Cubs game and you have five tickets but only four of them are together, Paul will be the one to go, 'Oh, okay. I'll sit by myself."' The band also says that they got martyred on numerous gigs last year. Their regular lineup consists of Kevin McCormick on guitar and vocals, Viktor Berberi on lead guitar, Jeremy Manier on bass, Paul Lough­ridge on drums, and Brian Meenaghan on saxophone. Vik, Jeremy, and Paul are all South Bend natives who have played to­gether since high school. Kevin and Vik met in Rome; the rest follows from there. 
The project was conceived of in Novem­ber, and after that it sat in the back of most of the band members' minds until, as lead gui­tarist Viktor Berberi related, "We were leav­ing the Navy ROTC ball at the Century Center and Kevin said, 'Well, I reserved a couple of dates for us at Washington Hall,' and the rest of us were all like, 'Why?"' 
Then reality began to set in. The production of the show re­quired a lot more than just an ambitious dream. For the con­cert, the regular band had to take on five new members: back­ground singers Lois Conrad, Michelle Cage, and Regina Steele and percussionist Ken Ceonzo were an absolute neces­sity in order to achieve the full, layered sound of the album for the live show. Keyboardist , Harrison Keller was perhaps the most significant addition for the project because of the vast amounts of synthesized effects which are integral to the album. 
The film produced especially for this show also required a tre­mendous amount of time and effort to come off right. Shot on 16mm film in both color and black and white, it accompanied several of the songs, notably 
"Money," "Time," and "On the Lead vocalist/guitarist Kevin McCormick help.ed Run." The movie was produced mastermind the Pink Floyd venture. 
by Viktor and assisted by Kevin Patrick, who also acted in the film. All of the hints at insanity and isolation implied in the album were well reflected by this nicely produced concept piece, which at times was reminis­cent of both the style and message of Pink Floyd's movie for The Wall. The individual segments of the film were each inspired by a particular track on the album. The clip for "Time," for example, was an impression of 
the daily drudgery which the song criticizes. 
The film added an entirely new and chal­lenging dimension to the live show of a band which is normally accustomed to playing in bars. It also capitalized on the ethereal, psychedelic feel of the prolonged instrumen­tal sections and gave the audience something other than them usic tp focus on. In addition to the film, lighting director Mick Slattery used the new electronic light board at Wash­ington Hall to create some unusual effects, especially effective during "On the Run." 
It is as well important to note that this project was undertaken to aid two worthy causes: the St. Hedwig's Outreach Center, always a popular charity with campus or­ganizations, and also the YWCA Women's shelter. 
"We decided on these charities as part of the YearofthcFamily,"Kevinremarks. "We also decided to do something for the women's shelter bcca use it seems I ike every­one is always trying to do something for the kids, and a friend ofours suggested that there were a lot of other worthy charities that we could help out in addition to just the St. Hedwig's program." 
So why are St. Paul and the Martyrs so special that they get to do something like this? They say that they're not. 
"We just had an idea that we wanted to try, and we got the people to help us out with advertising and reserving the building and getting the people to help out," agreed the group's members. "Erin Lavelle and SUB were a big help to us in all of that," Kevin replies. 
"We want the other bands on campus to know that we're going to encourage ideas like this," said Lavelle, SUB 's newly-elected board commissioner. "If someone has an idea that they want to try, that's what we're here for, and we're hoping that now more bands will approach us wanting to do things like this." 
To recognize the other bands that _might have been a bit slighted by all of the hype about theDark Side ... show, announcements were made both nights before the show about where and when other bands would be play­ing within the next few weeks. The band noted that the other campus bands which they had spoken to were very excited about the Dark Side.-.. show, instead of feeling as if attention had been taken from them. 

So what about the music? 
Unbelievable. St. Paul and the Martyrs are an exceptionally talented group. The live show flowed together with a precision and energy that is rarely seen in a non-commer­cial band. 
Singer Kevin McCormick explains, "We're usually not perfectionists, but with this show we had to be. Screwing up just wasn't allowed." 
"If you're playing in a bar and you screw up, you can just look down at your instrument kind of like a tennis player does when he misses a shot, like it's the instrument's fault and not yours," Viktor adds. "You can't do that in a situation like this." 
The band is definitely talented enough not to have to worry about major problems, and there certainly didn't seem to be any of the major or the minor variety during the shows. Their layered, thick sound and their musi­cianship gave a fluid quality to the perform­ance that was as good as any professional production. Both performances came off exceptionally clean, from the opening of "Wish You Were Here" to the last strains of "Eclipse." Highljghts included the pro­longed instrumental jams such as "Any Colour You Like," "Great ·Gig in the Sky," and "Time." "On the Run" was also intrigu­ing for its special effects; Harrison Keller did an exceptional job with the sampling and sequencing of this particular song. · 
The show also featured several of the 
M US IC 
band's original songs, written in Italy when 
Kevin and Viktor met and began playing pubs together. 
"We could have used a little bit of help on our background vocals then!" Viktor re­iparked. 
Nevertheless, these aquatic-themed songs, "Blue World," "The Sea," and "In Mantis Flight" left most of the crowd with mouths agape. The first, "Blue World," is a some­what melancholy piece with only piano and voice parts. The other two arc reminiscent of some of the more atmospheric British bands such as Echo and the Bunnymen and That Petrol Emotion, but really didn't lend them­selves to easy classification. These two up­tempo songs were both very well written and· arranged, and they bespoke the tremendous talent of the entire band. 
The group would like to think of the Dark Side of the Moon shows as the climax to a year ofplaying together. This was indeed the swan song of a band which has worked hard not only for this production, but also to achieve their overall high performance level. As for their future plans, it's back to the bars for the Martyrs for the remainder ofthe year. They'll hang around South Bend into the summer, until it comes time to say, "I'll see you on the Dark Side of the Moon." . 
Dave Holsinger would like to thank the band for allowing themselves to be Inter­viewed after a long night of rehearsitlg. 
WEEK IN DISTORTION/ROGER HIPP 
How to Get the Credit· 
You Deserve 
U sually financial news is so boring that it never gets past The Wall Street Journal, which is easily the dullest publication in the world. The Journal doesn't have a sports section, let alone a comicpage. That'swhyCEO's,MBA's,and other abbreviation-related professionals earn the big bucks: these people actually have to read The Wall Street Journal in its entirety every day. Recently, though, our financial system experienced a crisis so grave that even ordi­nary, comic-reading people like you and me have found out about it. The government did a little checking around lately and found out that most of the nation's savings and loan institutions had poured all of their assets into some questionable investments, like Cleve­land Indians baseball cards and Star Trek Commemorative Plates™ issued by the Franklin Mint. The embarrassed S&L indus­try collapsed, breaking several thousand ceramic portraits of Mr. Sulu in the process. But not to worry; the government has created a new bureaucracy to straighten things out, give or take a few billion dollars. With so many S&L's being bailed out by the government, we Americans will need to depend more heavily on our banks. Here I should point out the highly technical differ­ence bet ween S &L's and a banks: most of the nation's banks are still in business. That's the good news. However, it is these same banks that are going under next. That's the bad news. And college students are partly to blame. Obviously the banks must be in big trouble, or else they wouldn't be absolutely begging impoverished college students like myself to take theircreditcards. It seems to me that I'm a pretty poor credit risk, since I have no income and my checking account balance usually hovers around $3.53. Ifl were to go toa bank for a loan, I'd be lucky to get enough money to cover a pack of used chewing gum. But that doesn't keep me from getting dozens of letters like the following every week: 
Dear Mr. Hipp: 
As a college student, you know the importance of establishing and main­taining a good credit rating. Well, you 're in luck, because we'd like to help you to do just that. You see, we're not just a really big bank. We're also a bunch of really nice guys. So we're giving you the chance to establish your own line of credit, as a convenience to you. Just send proof that you're cur­rently enrolled in college (a photocopy of a valid student identification card, an official transcript, or a sweatshirt), and we'll send you a Megacard™ right away. Bingo, instant credit. Sound too good to be true? It isn't. Remember, we're really nice guys. Send us your pre­approved application today. 
Sincerely, The Nice Guys at Megacorp™ 
P.S. There's a teensy-weensy interest charge on unpaid balances, but we'll tell you more about that later. 
P.P.S. Register now and receive a 5% discount when you use your Meg­acard™ at selected car rental agencies in Mozambique! (Some restrictions may apply.) 
At first I was pretty suspicious of these offers, especially since the banks never mention anything about a profit motive. Apparently banks are non-profit operations these days. That explains why South Bend's own St. Joseph's Bank and Trust changed their name to "Trustcorp" and then to "Soci­ety Bank" in a three-year span. They just want to convey their altruistic intentions. Next year, they'll probably change to "Charity Bank." 
Eventually, I decided I was not such a bad credit risk after all. I have an excellent financial history compared to some other credit recipients, like South America. The nice guys at Megacorp™ probably don't have to worry about me defaulting on my account to the tune of $109 billion. So I decided to take them upon their offer, mostly so that I could play with the nifty little holo­gram on the credit card. 
I was pleased to find my Megacard™ quite useful in getting me through the times when I'm a little short on cash, especially the brief interval between the months of September andthe following June. I've also learned that the nice guys at Megacorp™ expect me to pay interest on my balance, which strikes me as pretty amusing. I mean, if I couldn't afford to pay for my purchases in the first place, how can I possibly afford to pay interest on them? 
Fortunately, my credit line should extend just far enough to buy me a one-way ticket to someplace where the formerly nice guys at Megacorp™ can't getto me. So here's my fail-safe financial advice: 1) apply for as many credit cards as you can, and 2) never, ever, buy stock in Mcgacorp™: See you in South America. 
Live the Tradition Together 



Subscribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name ----------------------­
Address ______________________ 
City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic l\·1agazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $25.oox __ years=$ 
NEWS 





MORE THAN M 
ING THE CUT 
The long application process finally over, new Residence Assistants prepare 
A 
BY DERIK WELDON 
s the current school year draws to 
a close, most students do not 

realize that the very fabric of stu­dent life for the up-coming 1990-91 aca­demic year at Notre Dame is already estab­lished. New resident assistants in each dorm have been screened by the Office of Student Affairs, interviewed in their respective dorms of application, and finally chosen by the head staff of these dorms to function as the intermediaries between students and the Student Affairs/Residence Life staff. 
The path for these new RA' s has not been easy. In order to be qualified candidates in the first place, individuals needed to be in­volved in dorm life since they were fresh­men, gaining a name for themselves as aca­demic, social and spiritual leaders among their peers. 
Being both a student and an employee of the Office of Student Affairs is a job that those in administration do not take lightly. These students/employees are, according to the Resident Assistant general description, expected to help students live productively in the residence halls, to be present most eve­ning hours during the week and when other­wise on duty, to enforce university policies, and to show leadership by the example they set in their daily lives. 
The first step in the application process 
for their year ofwork 
for next years RA's began with an applica­
tion and three recommendations that were 
due at the Office of Student Affairs on J anu­
ary 26. Sister Josef Riordan, rector of Walsh 
Hall, said, "Student Affairs does the first 
screening. Those with low GPA's are out 
because grades need to be kept up, and this 
shows a talent for planning time use well." 
The general description for Residence 
Assistants, a product ofStudent Affairs, says, 
"In order to fulfill these responsibilities and 
not jeopardize his or her own academic re­
sponsibilities, it is necessary that the Resi­
dent Assistant have at least a 3.0 cumulative 
average. What sounds like a strict policy in 
Student Affairs is actually quite adaptable. If 
a rector feels that an RA candidate is excep­
tionally qualified for the position yet does not 
maintain close to a 3.0 average, the rector 
may appeal the student's case in Student 
Affairs to pull the applicant through. 

That students with GP A's lower than 3.0 make it through Student Affairs with some help is a subjective part of the application process, but it is not a weakness. Rectors have contact with prospective candidates for nearly 2 1/2 years before they apply for RA and they know the applicant's leadership capabilities better than someone who simply knows a name and an impersonal GPA fig­. ure. A critic of the system could claim that this step allows the rector to play favorites in getting only those he or she likes through 
Student Affairs, but a proponent of the sys­tem would see the rector's good word in Student Affairs as simply the best way to ensure the most qualified applicant pool. 
The second step of the application proc­ess involves a series ofinterviews conducted in the dorm for which the candidate is apply­ing. Unlike the initial step, where nearly everyone's application got an equal and impartial look in Student Affairs, the inter-

NEWS 

view process varies considerably dorm-to­dorm. 
Variability in the process is the direct result of the number of applicants per dorm. For instance, at Zahm Hall 26 students ap­plied for 7 openings. To take care of such an insurmountable applicant pool, the head staff of Zahm, made up"of the 7 old RA's, 2 assistant rectors, and the rector, divided itself 
, up for preliminary interviews intended to cut the applicant pool down to IO individuals. A second interview with all IO members of the head staff finalized the process and the 7 RA's were chosen based on those two meet­ings. Jim Fitzgerald, one ofthe 7 chosen for RA at Zahm, said, "I think it's really tough be­cause you've got the 7 RA's who are in there [in the interview] and if you've been in­volved in the dorm and it happens to be that you are friends with the current RA's, I would say that it is a definite advantage, be it fair or unfair." 

Sister Jo Riordan, rector of Walsh 
Hall, looks for RA applicants who 
understand the team concept and have a good image of themselves. 
Lewis Hall fell victim to the same num­bers game-26 applicants f9r 7 spots. Yet, unlike Zahm where the first round of inter­views were completed by a split head staff, Lewis Hall had its entire head staff sit in on interviews for every candidate, an astound­ing 13 hours ofinterviews all told. After this, the old RA's were encouraged to read over applications again in preparation for 2 final meetings of the head staff which decided the final 7 accepted candidates. 
Steffanie Keller, a current Lewis Hall RA who was present at all the interviews, said, "I think the interview process is very difficult. I would like to see more objective criteria for RA applications campus-wide." Included among Keller's suggestions is making a stan­dard acceptance date for all dorms. At the present time, dorms can come out with their decisions independent ofeach other, making it difficult for denied students to complete alternative living arrangements, like moving off-campus. 
Keller provided another interesting in­sight into the application process. She said, "I think that in many cases the applicants chosen reflect the personality of the rector." This is not difficult to imagine. Personal differences, preferences, and tolerances among the rectors may make an individual an RA in one dorm, but a candidate denied in the first round in another dorm. 
A good RA is a composite of a number of positive attributes. Riordan said, "We're not just looking for wonderful people but also for a team component. They must work well together and have a good image of them­selves. It's a hard thing, butthese interviews are a very inspiring time. We're looking more for personality than specific or special personal experiences. We like balanced, mature people who have it all together." Riordan went on to add thatthe financial need of the applicant is not an issue one way or another. 
RA applicants lucky enough to be se­lected are fairly soft-spoken both about their reasons for applying and their expectations for the job. Steve Holthaus, a new Pangborn RA, said, "I thought it would be a good experience, a good chance to get involved in the dorm. Talking to other people who had done it in the past, they said it was a good experience and something they would do again if given the chance. They encouraged me to apply. In terms of the job, I'm looking forward to it. At times it will be hard work and inconvenient, but I'm hoping the benefits of it will compensate for those times." 
Current RA's, about to tum over their responsibilities to the new crowd, are mixed in their reviews of the RA experience. Me­leah Polter, a current Walsh Hall RA, said, "People tend to forget it is still a job. It takes a lot of time-I can't stress this enough. You are always an RA, when you're studying for a test, when you 're out, when you're tired. When I got the job I was very happy, but now I know I was somewhat unrealistic." 

Yet, most RA's are positive about the experience they have had during the past year, but none of the individuals interviewed mentioned money as a motivating factor in the job. While these hard-working student/ employees al ways know that they are receiv­ing compensation for their efforts, they ap­proach others with genuine caring, not with apathy like a 9-to-5 worker on a time clock. 
At Notre Dame, one need look no further to see if the RA system is working than toward this school's excellent retention rec­ord. That well over 90% of freshmen return for their sophomore year is evidence that an overall feeling of well-being is generated year-to-year in the dorms, and ultimately the individual responsible for noticing problems and promoting good will is the RA. Theirs is often a thankless task, but residence life at Notre Dame would be nothing without their commitment. D 
9



Hogs End· Hundred-
Holy Cross Hall plans end ofyear activities as "the building 
i=--~·=·········=··········=·········-===--~============--~==···=···············'"'"'· ~~ 

. l . . . ­
I ' • • 
.·, -.
,,t;·-. i"' ;--·· 
FEATURES 

Year Long Tradition 
across the lake" closes its doors after JOO years 
T 
BY KRISTINE DeGANGE 
he history and tradition of Holy 
Cross Hall date back to 1852, Fa­

ther Sorin's time. Originally named St. Aloysius Scholasticate, the origi­nal part of the building was finished in 1885. It was not until 1889 that the "building across the lake" came to be known as Holy Cross. 
Holy Cross was built as a seminary (a high school of ecclesiastical studies) under the direction ofFather Sorin. In 1967, Father James T. Burtchaell, then the Provost recom­mended that the University lease the building and create new campus housing. The Uni­versity heeded B urtchaell' s advice, and Hal y Cross has been a men's dorm ever since. 
"In 1967, the community decided to dis­continue the seminary program," Father Burtchaell said. "After this, Notre Dame decided to use the rooms as dorms. We tried to make it a halfway house (a kind ofmeeting place between St. Mary's and ND) and it was very popular, but it only lasted for one year. The university tried to gouge the people who were working at the restaurant by not paying them enough. Then, we tried to fix up the basement for a coffee house but the Univer­sity underpaid the people hired to organize it because they were afraid of drugs. To my knowledge, there were neverany drugs there, but that didn't work either." 
Holy Cross began its history as a men's dormitory with a liberal set of inhabitants. "The new students that moved into Holy Cross in 1967 were very free-thinking. They were into protesting the Vietman War and into the peace movement, so they liked the setting and the fact that they had their own en­vironment," said Pete LaFleur, president of Holy Cross . 
.;\,ti...~ Since its leftist beginnings, the dorm has 

11

APRIL 5, 1990 


sought-after room in Holy Cross. 
carried on slightly apart from the rest of the  where if you forget a book or your  
university. Because of its location away  ID card, you can just run back and  
from the main action, some of the students  get it," LaFleur said. '"The Walk'  
feel as though they miss out on some tradi­ really forces you to get organized or  
tions that make Notre Dame so special, like  to sink. On the other hand," he  
snowball fights, late night trips to LaFortune  added, "our location makes us very  
and socializing with other dorms. However,  involved with our dorm."  
thisdoesnotcauseaproblem: theHogshave  Jason Baca, a sophomore, said,  
their own good time.  "It (the Walk) doesn't bother me in  
"It takes a special kind of attitude to live  the Spring, but in the winter it's  
out here," saidLaFleur. "Our location forces  rough."  
us to be a closer dorm. When I was a  "You get used to it," Narvaez  
sophomore,Ikneweveryguyinthedormand  said. "It's a problem in the winter  
there are over 200 guys. We do things like  when you want to cut class, but its  
reserve a section (the "Hog section") in the  justlikelivingoffcampus;ifyou've  
dining hall. If someone is coming from the  got to go, you've got to go. Any­ 
ACC or from class, he knows he'll have  way, its a reason to exercise."  
someone to eat with. He'll always know  "We'rekindofthemisfitsofsci­ 
someone. These are the things that just  ence out here," LaFleur joked. "We  
naturally instill closeness."  tend to get a lot ofthe guys who have  
"This year, we've really come together.  gotten kicked out of other dorms or  
We're more of a family," Richard Narvaez, a  who are transfer students. We also  
junior, a resident of Holy Cross said. "At our  have thelowestG.P.A. on campus,"  
dorm events, there has been a really high  he added. LaFleur attributed this to  
attendance. I think everyone is thinking,  the fact that itis very easy to sleep in  
'Hey, this is our lastSYR, we've got to go!'"  when class is so far away.  
Even though living separated from the  Although not the smartest on  
main campus foster Holy Cross spirit, there  campus, the Holy Cross Hogs (a  
are logistical problems that come with the  nick name that regained lost popu­ 
distance from campus.  larity in 1984 after a spirit parade for  
"Living out here really teaches you to be  which the dorm constructed a hog as  
responsible. It's not like Dillon or Alumni  its entry) have many other things of  
12  

which they are proud. Due to their location, the Hogs past and present share an unrivaled camaraderie. 
The decision to close the build­ing came in 1985. Andaccordingto Bill Kirk, the rector of Holy Cross, the facilities were becoming run down, the maintenance costs were rising, and many of the rooms were in poor condition. In 1986, the stu­dents living in Holy Cross received notices that the hall would be clos­ing in May of 1988. Unexpectedly, Notre Dame was faced with hous­ingproblems; freshmen were sleep­ing and living in the study lounges of Grace and Flanner and student residenc;es was forced to keep the old seminary open. 

"There have been rumors flying around for several years about the closing of Holy Cross," LaF!eur said. "I 
think everything would have been on time if there hadn't been some unexpected prob-



newcomers. "Most of the guys sympathize with their position," Tombar said. "Almost everyone is wel­coming them. Many of the guys have friends in Holy Cross." 
The May 1988 date was postponed for two years, placing the date of close in May 1990. And this May, after many years of serv­ice, the 100 year-old dorm will close its doors to the students of Notre Dame, and responsibility for its operation and maintenance will bereturned to the Holy Cross order. 
"Last year, I just de­cided to go for it and have all the activities that we deserved," LaFleur said. "At the end of this year, I didn't want to say, 'Wow, we could have done so much more.' This whole 
Marl Okuda event made me realize how 

The "Long Walk" greets Holy Cross residents 
every morning. 

lems." 
"It's a shame that we 're all going separate places," Narvaez said. "It really hasn't hit anyone that we're closing yet This time it's for real." 
"We didn't assign freshmen to Holy Cross this year so that they wouldn't have to move twice," Evelyn Reinbold, director of student residences said. "In addition, we only gave one-year contracts to transfer stu­dents. Had we given them full contracts, the residents that have to move from Holy Cross would have been out of luck with housing." 
Reinbold went on to add that juniors and seniors (of next year) were given a choice of any dorm on campus and they will be thrown into the lottery like the other residences ofthe dorm. 
"Grace extended an invitation to the people who were being displaced," Fred Tombar, president of Grace said. "We are leaving two sections of our dorm open for Holy Cross. We are also allowing them to apply for R.A. positions." 
According to Tombar, there have been no problems within the dorm in accepting the 
fortunate I am. This isn't a sad event, we are going to make the very best of it. Negative energy is wasted energy." 
"Even though the dorm is closing, the spirit is still around," Narvaez said. "We're 
FEATURES 

all agreeing to meet on and off campus next tear and you '11 probably still hear about Holy Cross SYR' s. I really think everyone became better friends this year, there was a real unity among people and I think we're really going to come together at the end." 
"We've got a lot of activities planned for the rest of the year for our closing ceremo­nies," Kirk said. "We are having hall masses with a lot ofold priests from the seminary and our biggest event will be a thing called Hog Week. At the end of Hog Week we 're doing a take-off on Woodstock called Hogstock." 
Hogstock will take place after the Fisher Regatta on April 21 from 2:30 p.m. to 8:30 
p.m. It will feature music reminiscent of the 60's like Joan Baez, Jimi Hendrix and The Who. 
"During the day, we're going to try to have live pigs and hopefully, we can get the cafeteria to stay out after the regatta and help us with a barbeque," LaFleur said. 
Those who have been a part ofthe spirit of Holy Cross will surely be saddened by the decision to discontinue the dorm. Although the doors will no longer admit nervous fresh­men moving away from home for the first time or echo with elated cries as the Fighting Irish score the winning touchdown, the memories of"the best four years of your life" will be carried on forever by those who have experienced the tradition and camaraderie of Holy Cross Hall. 0 



SPORTS 



''One 

r 



Step'' 
After two successful seasons under coach Pat Murphy's watchful eye, Notre Dame baseball is poised to attain national prominence 
1 
·, 
i BY JONPAULPOTTS 
ith the arrival of national 
sports cable network ESPN 
at Coveleski Stadium Sat­urday night, the Notre Dame men of the diamond knew that they had hit the big time in college baseball. 
Unfortunately, their Saturday night game against 14th ranked Illinios was rained out after two innings. The Irish were ahead 2-0 when it was called. 
"I don't know that I can call it a vic­tory," said Irish coach Pat Murphy. "But I hope that what was on television showed 
W 
Joe 

Murphy guided last year's squad to its first NCAA 
bid since 1970. 
that baseball in the Midwest is very strong and we can play with anybody." 
Earlier in the day, the Irish had blanked the Billikens of St. Louis University 5-0 behind the strong right arm offreshman Pat Leahy. Leahy tossed a three-hitter and struck out six in pitching the Irish to their thirteenth victory on the young season. Offensively, the Irish picked up three runs on the longball. Senior Ed Lund started the Irish off in the second inning with a solo home run, while junior Frank Jacobs banged a two-run tater in the sixth. Mike Coss and Eric Danapilis each chipped in with three hits apiece. 

While the game with Illinois was rained out, it did nothing to dampen the Irish spirit. In only his third year, coach Pat Murphy has resurrected a dormant Irish baseball pro­gram to the point that ESPN called Notre Dame asking them t9 make a television appearance. 
"The fact that ESPN wants to put us on national TV says that we are a great pro­gram," says Murphy. ''We will be a great team year in and year outin years to come. Our motto this year is 'One More Step.' That next step is to establish and solidify ourselves as a great program nationally." 
Last season was a tremendous success 
SCHOLASTIC 

1 • 
.1 

SPORTS 

with the Irish receiving their first NCAA tournament bid since 1970. But the Irish graduated their top three hitters, the top three hitters in Notre Dame history, in fact, including consensus All-American and Texas Ranger prospect Dan Peltier. Murphy had to find some players to pick up the slack offensively. 
Junior Frank Jacobs, who moonlights as a tight end on the Irish football team, will look to supply some power in the lineup which Peltier supplied a year ago. Last season, Jacobs banged six home runs and is expected to come up big this year. Against the Billikens Satur­day, Jacobs did just that with a two-run blast. 
In an odd twist, helping out Jacobs at designated hit­ter will be freshman Irv Smith who also plays tight end for the Irish football team. At 6-5 and 235 pounds, Smith is a big, strong hitter who will sup­ply power to the lineup. Being a freshman and hav­ing to participate in spring football drills has limited Smith's at bats, but Murphy will expect big things once he gets consistent plate ap­pearances. 
The infield is young, with three sophomores, but it has been set from Day One, with sophomore Craig Counsell at third, junior Mike Coss at short, sopho­more Corey Mee at second and sophomore Joe Bink­iewicz holding down first. Counsell hit .289 a year ago and chipped in 32 RBI's. Corey Mee is a pesky hitter who will get on base while coach Murphy considers Mike Coss "one of the best shortstops around." First baseman Bink­iewicz is a big run producer who knocked in 44 runs· and hit .327 as a freshman. He · also chalked up a 3-1 record as a pitcher while compiling an impressive 1.78 ERA. 

The outfield is also young with sopho­mores Dan Bautch and Mike Miadich and freshman Eric Danapilis chasing down 
Joe Vttacco 
Freshman pitcher Pat Leahy shut out St. Louis last Saturday. 
fly balls. Danapilis bats leadoff and is hav­ing a great season, leading the Irish in hit­ting. 
"Danapilis, the freshman, is probably a candidate for Freshman of the Year honors 
in the NCAA," says Murphy. "He's our 
leadoff man. Right now, he is our leading 
hitter and we bat him at the top of the 
lineup to get the team going." The pitching staff has been a big plus so far this season. Murphy has developed a good staff, which is top heavy with freshman. Right now, the team ERA is at its lowest point since Murphy's arrival -a spar­kling 2.74 team mark. Seven of the eleven pitch­ers boast ERA's under 3.00. Leading the way is sen­ior Brian Piotrowicz, who holds many Irish pitching records, including most career wins at 20 and counting. A year ago, Piotrowicz compiled an impressive 11-4 record with a team high 72 strike­outs and a 2.24 ERA. Right now, he is 3-2 and he held a 2-0 lead against the Illini Saturday until the heavens opened and the rain came pouring down. "I am disappointed with my first few starts," says Piotrowicz. "But as the team has improved, I've improved. Coach Murphy has looked to Mike Coffey and myself to provide leadership and help the younger pitchers to grasp the concept and develop the work ethic necessary to pitch on this level." Mike Coffey is a senior who enjoyed success last year as a reliever. He compiled a 7-2 record 
with a team high ten saves and a respectable 3.91 ERA. Sophomore Brian Conway is a 
starter who posted a 5-4 record and will be expected to provide solid starting per­formances. The pitching staff is young, however, 


SPORTS 
and includes five freshmen. Pat Leahy was voted preseason MCC Freshman of the Year and was drafted by the Toronto Blue Jays of major league baseball. At 6-7, Leahy is an intimidating figure on the mound who brings a 91 mph fastball. Alan Walania is a righthander who Murphy lik­ens to Los Angeles Dodger Orel Hershiser and was drafted by the Houston Astros. David Sinnes was voted as one of the best prospects in baseball-rich Florida. He has a lot of potential and should make a major impact on the squad. 
Sinnes speaks for the younger pitchers when he describes the transition from high school ball when these freshman phenoms blewpeopleaway. "Rightnow, we're in a learning stage," says Sinnes. "Brian (Piotrowicz) and Mike (Coffey) have helped us make the adjustment to college ball. The biggest part is the mental aspect and Coach Murphy has helped us adjust. We've all learned from each other." 

Handling this young staff will be senior . catcher and team captain Ed Lund. Lund 
Irish can make some noise come tourna­ment time. 
"I feel we'll do well in the tournament because of the ability and depth of our pitching," says Lund. "In those short tour­naments, the teams with good pitching usually do well. So, wecoulddowellin the regionals." 
Murphy feels the Irish have every chance to elevate the baseball program up to the status of the football and basketball programs. In fact; Murphy feels that they are already there. 
"People don't realize what we accom­plished last year," says Murphy. "We only had two scholarships on the field last year. We're competing against teams with thir­teen. We went out and beat Miami(Fla.) three times and Texas -both Top Twenty teams. We competed with everyone." 
Because baseball has such a long season, Murphy prefers to judge his squad by per­formance and not record. With good per­formances, the wins tend to take care of themselves. 

performance and win. On any given day, the result is not indicative of the way you feel about your team. It's not a game like football where you can go 13-0 and blow people away." 
Murphy forsees a bright futurefor Notre Dame baseball involving strong tourna­ment showings, great recruiting with more scholarships, and, uh, baseball tailgaters?! 
"We owe it to the students to build a nice facility on campus for them to come and see one ofthe best baseball programs in the country," says Murphy. "These are your future pro ballplayers right here on our campus ... I can envision the day when we have a nice stadium and baseball tailgaters here on campus and the students are there three or 4000 strong to see us play Michi­gan. It would be lots of fun!" 
With a full three-quarters ofthe season to go, their is stiUa lot ofroom for improve­ment. In just two seasons, Murphy has brought this program a long way, but it still has a long way to go. The Irish should make the tournament and look for them to 

Joe Vltacco
he feels the 

Senior catcher Ed Lund, shown here against St. Louis, will be instrumental In the development of the young pitching staff. 
SPORTS 


Notre Dame's softball team is making great strides in just its second campaign at the varsity level 
S 
BY,JIM KUSER 
uccess in college athletics gener­
ally comes from experience. The 

Notre Dame· softball team, how­ever, defies this generality. In only its second season of varsity status, the team roster in­cludes no seniors, three juniors, four sopho­mores, and eleven freshman. Although the Irish lack experience, they have an abun­dance of talent and a burning desire to win. 
This season, the team has won four games that were determined by a single run, thereby proving that talent, combined with desire, can compensate for inexperience. Coach Brian Boulac said of his young squad, "These players have the will to win, and where there is a will there is a way." Having played consistently throughout the begin­ning of this season, the Notre Dame softball team has certainly found the way, and it certainly has the will. 
Coach Boulac believes that this year's squad is better than last year's 31-23 squad. "Last year our goals were to be competetive and to finish at the .500 level," he said. "We exceeded those expectations. As a result, we upgraded this year's schedule. Because of this, we might not finsh with as good of an overall record as last year, but we will be a better team than last year. 
"We have good pitching and good de­fense," he added. "Most importantly, we have a good attitude. The chemistry is there. We believe in ourselves. When the going gets tough, we get going. We are eager to win. We are eager to improve. We are eager to cement the foundation for the softball program at Notre Dame. We are tough, but we are young and prone to errors. We just cannot beat ourselves. We have to make other teams beat us because they are 


SPORTS 

better on a given day. We do not want to hand games away." 
Juniors Rachel Crossen and Megan Fay join co-captains Ruth Kmak and Kathy Vernetti as the leaders of the Irish. These 


four players assume the responsibilities of encouraging, instructing, and motivating the younger players. Sophomores Amy Folsom, Melissa Linn, and Laurie Sommerlad round out the starting line-up. All ofthe upperclass­men start in an attempt to exploit the limited experience that the Irish have. 
As one of the upperclassmen, Kathy Vernetti is very plesed with the performance and progress of the team. "We have great ability and intensity," she said. "We never give up. At the beginning of the season, we had to beat ourselves because we were hesi­tant and intimidated. Over spring break, we went 4-5 on our Texas road trip. The road 
~p was a moral vic­tory for us because we played well against good teams and earned respect for it. Now that we have beaten our nervous­ness, we have gained our confidence. We play with enthusiasm and poise, with indi­vidual players filling individual roles. We must play like a team with no one trying to do it all herself." 
Vernetti is opti­mistic that the team will continue to im­prove. "We have come a long way, but we can go further," she said. "We are going to be tough to beat down the stretch. Having played well in texas, we will soon be able to play with the great teams from Cali­fornia and Florida, the. nation's softball hot­beds." 
The Irish opened the season with an eleven game road swing that featured nationally ranked op­ponents Indiana, Sam Houston State and Temple, going 4-7. While critics may have · looked desparagingly at the sub-.500 rec­ord, Notre Dame was the underdog in almost every game but still won four games and threatened to win all eleven. No one has decidedly beaten the Irish this season. The trip also served to prepare the Irish for the start ofMidwestern Collegiate Con­ference play. In the home opener, Notre Dame twice blanked the lady Titans ofDe­

troit, the favorite to win the MCC for the fourth consecutive year. Notre Dame beat the Titans by identical 1-0 scores. Detroit had entered the games with an impressive 13­2 record, but sophomore pitcher Melissa Linn held the Lady Titans to five hits in the first game, anq freshman pitcher Staci Alford held the Lady Titans to four hits in the second game. Notre Dame received offensive fire power from the bat of freshman Debbie Boulac and the base stealing ability ofsopho­more Amy Folsom. 
After beating Detroit twice, Boulac said, "We have beaten some very good teams, and we have proven that we are very good. If we can eliminate the errors that tend to trouble inexperienced teams, we will be super. We are now focusing on winning the MCC, the meat of our schedule. We have a tough road ahead ofus, but I am pleased with the way we are coming along, and we are only going to get better. Reaching deep down inside, play­ing with a lot ofguts, and coming up with two close wins over Detroit is big for our team andforourprogram. Weknowjusthowgood we can beifwe are consistent and ifwe swing our bats a little bit better." 
Perhaps the ability to swing the bat is the one Irish weakness. Vernetti is not worried, though. "Defense makes offense, and our defense is good," she said. "We just have to be patient and survive the slump by playing like a team. We must coninue to have pride in ourselves if we expect other teams to have respect for us. We want to be a class act, and we want to make a statement like we did in Texas. Hopefully, our bats will soon be doing the talking for us. " 
Freshman Ronny Alvarez voiced the feel­ings of her classmates when she commented on what it's like to be at Notre Dame. "It is hard to be a new athletic team at Notre Dame because the athletic tradition is so good," she said. "People assume the best from Notre Dame teams, and they are gunning for Notre Dame teams. It is great to be part of the tradition and to be part of the development of a new athletic team. We want to give Notre Dame the best we can offer. At first, the pressure ofcollege athletics was nerve-rack­ing. Now we have settled down. The upper­classmen were very helpful and supportive. We hope to live up to the prestige,reputation, and tradition of Notre Dame." D 



SPORTS 

COMPILED BY RAZOR RUDDOCK
sport week 

The softball (9-8) team won its first three games last week before the Bradley Braves de­feated the Irish 5-4 in the second game of a double header. In the first game, Notre Dame won 1-0 in eight innings behind the pitching of MISSY LINN. Earlier in the week, the team took both games of a double header at Val­paraiso. Both yictories were in nine innings by 4-3 scores. STACI ALFORD pitched 14 of the 18 innings played, recording the wins in both 
games. 
Up next, the Irish play a double header every day from April 3-7 before traveling to Joliet, IL, for the five-team St. Francis Invitational on April 8-9. 
Notre Dame's lacrosse (5-3) team won the San Diego Tournament last weekend. In the first round, the squad defeated Air Force 12-11 after trailing 6-0 in the first quarter. Senior BRIAN MCHUGH and sophomore MIKE SULLIVAN led the comeback with four and five points, respectively. Notre Dame easily won Saturday's championship, pummelling host San Diego State 18-10. 
This week, the team will head to Kenyon on Wednesday before returning home for a two game homestand versus Denison on Saturday, April 7 and Lake Forest on Tuesday April 10. 
Last week the golf team was in Lexington, KY, for the Johnny Owens Kentucky Invita­tional (March 29-31). The team finished 21st in the 24 team field. 
Last weekend the track team finished sec­ond behind Rice in a four team field at a meet in Houston, TX. MIKE ROGAN established a meet record while qualifying for the IC4As with a 3:45.22 time in the 1500. TOM O'ROURKEalso qualified for theIC4As in the steeplechase with a first place finish in 9:14.30. The squad has this week off. 
Foul weather forced the cancellation of three of Notre Dame's five scheduled games. On Wednesday, the team lost at Purdue 10-8. On Saturday, PAT LEAHY earned his first col­legiate shutout and complete game as Notre Dame defeated St. Louis 5-0. FRANK JACOBS and ED LUND hit homers in the victory. 
This week, the Irish (13-5) open a seven­game homestand. On Saturday (12p.m.) and Sunday (lp.m.), Dayton will be in town for doub!headers at Jake Kline Field. On Wednes­day, April 11, the team meets Nebraska at5 p.m. at Coveleski for a doubleheader. On Thursday, April 12, Notre Dame will meet Purdue at 7 p.m., also at Covcleski. 
The men's tennis team split two matches last weekend, defeating Miami (OH) 5-1 before dropping a close one to Wisconsin, 5-4. Notre Dame (19-4) has the next 13 days off. 
The women's team extended its winning streak to three with 8-1 victories over Michigan State and Eastern Michigan last week. 
The squad (12-6) will meet Ball State on Sat­urday, April 7 in Muncie, IN. The next day the Irish will be at Ohio State for a meet with the Buckeyes. 

19

***************************************************.
* 
~ 

* 
~

* 
~ 

* 
~ 

* 
~ 

* 
~ 

* 
~ 

* 
~ 

* 
~ 

* 
~ 


* * 
i FORUM ON: "ELIMINATING i i ETHNOCENTRISM" E
* ~ 
: PANEL MEMBERS : : ~ 
* *
* ~ 

: JIM BELLIS, PROFESSOR OF : : ANTHROPOLOGY E : PAUL GRIFFITHS, PROFESSOR OF £ : THEOLOGY !
* . ~ ! TERESA PHELPS, PROFESSOR OF LAW:
* . . ~ 

: ROLAND SMITH, EXECUTIVE : : ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT : : DIANA MATTHIAS, CURRICULUM : ! STRUCTURAL TOUR COORDINATOR, t : SNITE MUSEUM t 
* 
~

* 
~ 



: WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11 : : * 7:30 PM : ~ : NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL : 
* ~ . ! SPON-SORED BY: ! ! THE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL :
* 
,JC

* 
,JC


*************************************************** 
COMING DISTRACTIONS 
"Classicism in Twentieth Century Italy." Dennis Doordam. Rm. 207 Architecture Building. 4:00 p.m. 
SPECIAL 

Ice Capades. JACCArena. 7:30 p.m. 
Dance'90. Tickets required. O'Laughlin Auditorium. St. Mary's College. 8:10pm. Senior Formal. Chicago. 

FILMS 

"Batman." Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. & 9:45 p.m. RV SuperShow.JACC.10:00a.m-9:00p.m. 


LECTURES 

Brown Bag. "The Presidential Inaugura­tion ofPatricio Ayawin: A VideoPresen­taiton." Rm. 131 Decio. 12:00 p.m. 
"Comparing Rival Theories of Risk Per­ception." Aaron Wildavsky, Geor­getown University Law Center and the University of California. Rm. 101 Law School. 12:00 p.m. 
"The Social Self and the Partiality Debates." Marilyn Friedman. Stapleton Lounge, St. Mary's College. 4:15 pm. 
"The Deficit as a Political Problem." Aaron Wildavsky. CSC. 8:00 p.m. 

SPECIAL 

Ice Capades. JACC. 7:30 p.m. 

FILMS 

"The Moon Spinners." Annenberg Audi­tioium. 2:00 p.m. 

SPECIAL 

Ice Capades.JACC Arena. 1:00&5:00p.m. 
Dance'90. Tickets required. O'Laughlin Auditorium. St. Mary's College. 3: 10pm. RV Super Show. 12:00 p.m. -6:00 p.m. 

FILMS 

"Rome, Open City." Annenberg Audito­rium. 7:00 p.m. 
"They Don't Wear Black Tie." Annenberg Auditorium. 9:00 p.m. 

SPECIAL 

Professional Modern Dance Company. Washington Hall. 8:00 p.m. 
Eucharistic Hour of Adoration. Alumni Hall 

LECTURES 

Chapel.. 9:00 a.m. 
RV SuperShow.JACC.10:00a.m-9:00p.m.
"Sovereign States in a Single Market 
Integration, Intergovernmentalism, and 
Ice Capades. JACC. 11:30 a.m, 3:30 p.m, 
theEntanglementofForeign and Domes­& 7:30pm . 
. tic Policy in the European Community." David Cameron, Yale University. Rm. 

FILMS

Dance'90. Tickets required. O'Laughlin
110 Law School. 12:00 p.m. 
Auditorium. St. Mary's College. 8:10pm. 
"Last Chants for a Slow Dance." Annen­ences." Fabio Daslive. Rm. 131 Decio. 
"Deconstruction andn the Human Sci­berg Auditorium. 7:00 p.m. 

FILMS

12:00 pm. 
"Fellini's Casanova" Annenberg Audito­Friday Forum. "Racism and Sexism in 
rium. 9:00 p.m. the Classroom." Erskine Peters. Brown 
"Batman." Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. & 9:45 p.m. 
bag or soup and bread, $1. Rm. 124 CS C. 
12:15 p.m. 
EDITORIAL 


Signs of Spring 
A h, spring. Really, it is; don't let the slightly sub-sub-tropical temperatures fool you. Once again we can begin to bask in the sunshine and have all kinds of wacky collegiate fun and mali­cious monkeyshines. After all, it's almost time for Notre Dame's great springtime festival: An Tosta!. What? You say you're not going out of your mind with anticipation? Neither are we. In fact, it looks like it's about time for a road trip. Ever notice how many universities have nationally-known spring bashes while about now many Notre Dame freshmen start asking, "What's this An Tosta! thing anyway?" Most upperclassmen will answer in less than enthusiastic terms. Some may be just as clueless as the freshmen. An Tosta! is a big Druid holiday that you won't want to miss.(?) Certainly not for a trip to Indiana University (Bloomington) to see and experience Little 500, a nationally-known bicycle race and week-long party. Or for Spring Fling at Ohio State. Or for Greek Fest at Virginia Beach. Or for Grand Prix at Purdue University. Why would you want to take offfor these places when you could, ta-da! stay here with ringside seats at the Jell-o pits. Maybe you think you'll have more fun at these other festivals. How wrong you are, you cretinous beer-sponge! Why, right here we have Ultimate Frisbee, Chariot Races, and the Egg Toss. We at the Scholastic realize that most hip church socials have such energetic tomfoolery during the summer, but you do not need to travel off-campus for ours. Aw heck, it's not all that bad. There are always the Bookstore Basketball finals. At other schools you'd just be going to party after party after party and missing out on all kinds of crazy activities. Maybe the students themselves just need to show more interest in An Tosta! events." Maybe it's true that at Notre Dame you have to make your own fun. Maybe we 'II just have to face the facts: at good old ND, spring means Easter break and finals, not parties. 
-Scholastic 

FINAL WORD 

The Late, Great Me 
BY CHRIS FILLIO 

haps it is a morbidly tainted philosophical whether by lectures or classroom studies.
f Now I lay me down to sleep, 
Pray the Lord my soul to keep. IfI should die before I wake, Pray the Lord my soul to take." 
Because we attend a Catholic university, it is not at all surprising that we are repeat­edly inn undated with the same philosophi-. cal questions._ Perhaps you've heard this one a few times: "If you knew that you were to die tomorrow, what would you do today?" Though this may be asked many, many times, more often than not the re­sponse floats through our minds for only a few fleeting seconds at best. 
How about this one then: "If you knew that you were to die tomrn;row, what would you have to say today ...in a speech ... before all your friends ... and the entire campus ...?" 
This is undoubtedly not an enviable situ­ation to be placed into, whether your fear is one of impending death or even one of speaking before large crowds. 
Well, fear not, for such is probably not your fate. However, for three of Notre Dame's distinguished faculty members, such is exactly the case. The upcoining "Last Lecture Series" will provide the op­portunity for three different speakers to give their theoretical final earthly iecture before a campus audience. 
The weekly series is c.o-sponsored by the Social Concerns Commission of Student Government and Notre Dame's Alumni Continuing Education department. Per-topic for discussion, but nevertheless is one hich should serve to foster an abundance of interesting thoughts and comments. 
The lecturers-Professor Thomas Morris ofthe philosophy department, Reverend Mi­chael Himes ofthe theology department, and Professor Daniel Lapsley of the psychology 

department-are all noted and respected for both their insights and ability to enlighten audiences. They were selected because the sponsors felt that they could adequately con­vey to the listening·audience the impetus and concept behind the lecture series. 
With a college curriculum that has an obvi­ous emphasis on philosophy and theology (six credits in each), it is interesting to note that questions such as the aforementioned have not-been brought to public attention,· One hope of the "Last Lecture Series" is that this lack ofattention will be alleviated in the future. 
Kathleen Sullivan, Director of Alumni Continuing Education, has been especially enthusiastic and supportive of the venture. She believes that the lectures will give stu­dents and alumni alike a great chance to hear some educated responses to a worthy topic which has not been duly investigated in the past. To this end, she has helped to arrange for videotaping of the lectures so that they might be available to an even greater spec­trum of viewers. 
The first lecture will take place on Tues­day, April 10. at Theodore's. The folllowing Tuesday's lecture (April 17) will take place in the Library Auditorium, and the final presentation of the series will return to Theodore's on April 24. Each lecture will begin at 8:00 p.m., with the designated lec­turers to be advertised in upcoming adver­tisements across campus. 
For those who have already heard plans for the "Last Lecture Series" and have asked on occasion what so-and-so's lecture will be about, they must only answer their own question. All the lectures are completely open-ended, with discussion being left to the discretion of the lecturer. The intent is to produce a personalized account, but as well one which will hopefully initiate some self­evaluation among members of the Notre Dame community. '. 


L--------.1..1----1 &..--.1.--.i.---,_;a.._---__, 
______...,....__,_ __,.._ -------------.-. -----------,i 


non-profit organization US POSTAGE 
PA ID 
Notre Dame. Indiana Perm,t No. 10 









