Disce quasi semper victurus ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY* i9, 1884.	' No. i9.
The January Thaw.
I’ve seen thousands and thousands of Januaries, and I never saw one without a thaw vet.—Lady of Very Uncertain Age.
‘ RECITATIVO.
Let others sing the joys of Spring, Or Autumn’s glories feebly bring Before our satiated gaze, Familiar with their works and ways, Such worn-out themes suit poets raw: I sing the January thaw.
ARIA.
The cold snap is o’er and the breezes From southerly regions blow;
No longer the wayfarer freezes
Though the earth be still covered with snow. For soon shall the snow-drift be melted
Its texture enables the boys To mould that soft missile, which pelted, The pompous too often annoys.
The snow with its ice-fetters busted* Descends from the roof with a rush. The boys from the lake come disgusted Unable to skate in the slush.
In vour cutter with somebody’s daughter You are p’rhaps just about to propose. When a mixture of mud and snow-water
Splashes up and alights on your nose.
When Numa Pompilius invented This month as the gate of the j ear, Egeria kindly consented
To make it a month of good cheer: “ Though Boreas reigns at that season,
Some days we will snatch from his law;” And the zephyr she breathes is the reason
Assigned for the regular thaw.
Then here’s to old Numa Pompilius, And here’s to Egeria, too;
With courtesy ever punctilious
We give them the praise that is due:
For though we love sleighing and skating
Yet still ’tis a comfort to draw A breath of that rigor-abating
Sweet breeze that occasions the thaw.
Justin Thyme.
* The r in this word adds nothing to its force, but rather detracts from it; so that energetic persons usually omitrit, and the poet has judiciously followed their example.
The French Revolution.
T. E. STEELE, ’84.
III.
i The Uprising of the People. . •
; But to make a constitution, many things are rei quired. It is a building up by the people, through ; many patient years, of a general scheme for Nai tional Government; It is the expression of heart-i deep tradition, custom, faith. But iyS9 was not ! the time for building up in France. Intrepid representatives might declare that the old order had
I passed away; the people knew it had not. To deprive the king of a veto, sounded all well enough; but would it ever affect the price of black bread? The ticrs-etat might, indeed, be called the Consti-| tuent Assembly ; but its mission—if mission it had— : was to aid in the great tearing dozen. It is, there-i fore, of little interest to the real student of history ! to trace the interminable hair-splittings in that i great assembly, over the making of a paper consti-{ tution for revolutionary France; unless it be to notice the division into parties—prescient of the National Assembly.
For the present, let us leave the crowded, noisy hall, and find ourselves in the streets of Paris. It was now the early summer, 1789. Everywhere was there to be noticed a tendency of men to gather in groups, and often, for the better obtaining of political information, to loiter in and about Versailles. The gardens of the Palais Royal were a favorite rendezvous for the vicious and desperate of all descriptions. These gardens, as ithappened, adjoined the palace of the Duke of Orleans; and his disfavor at court, his supposed ambition, and his enormous wealth led many to believe that he -was instrumental in collecting and inflaming large mobs of vicious persons, hoping to bring on a general anarchy, and obtain for himself the quasi dicta worship of France. It is simply ridiculous to notice how at everv turn in affairs poor Orleans was held to blame. - It is pitiful to think that anyone could gravely believe that an unpopular prince, by the aid of a few million francs, could incite twenty-five million people to a blood-thirsty revolution. Be that as it may, the crowds who gathered daily at the Palais Royal and adjoining coffee-houses were, above all others, the men who hurried France to revolution.
290
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
On the 30th of June, some soldiers of the Royal Guards infected by the political excitement of Paris, were imprisoned, for insubordination, in the l'Abbe prison. -At once the excited multitude—some four thousand strong—marched from the Palais Royal to the prison, liberating the soldiers in triumph. True, there were subsequently some formalities between the king and the assembly to indicate martial discipline: but far more clearly was revealed the power of the people; the power of the mob. The sudden accession of great authority will sober a man’ it will intoxicate a people.
■ Accordingly, a week or so later, we come upon the “Days of July.” On the 1 ith, Ncckcr, the Genevese Controller of Finances, received his dismissal from the king: the patriotic ministry were succeeded by enemies of the people—De Bretieul, De Broglie, and Foulon, who said the people “could live on grass.” At the same time, troops were arriving from the provinces to Paris, and rapidly concentrated in the Champ de Mars and the Place Louis Quinze. The wildest excitement at once prevailed; despotism, thought the Parisians, is once more to triumph! At the Palais Royal. when the news arrived of Neckcr’s dismissal and the succession of bitter aristocrats to the council board of the king, Camille Desmoulin, a young orator of the dav, harangued the excited people. Plucking a leaf to wear as a cockade, and shouting “To arms!” he led the wav from the gardens to Paris. At once trees were torn down to furnish cockades—emblematic of nature as triumphing over the artificiality of ages; emblematic, too, of hope.
And now that vast, angry crowd began it< journey: who then knew whither? From some depository of busts they found the images of Ncckcr and the Duke of Orleans, which, draped in mourning, they carried in the front of the procession. Meanwhile, hardly knowing why thev were marching, they spread over the many streets of Pans; crossing the Rue St. Honore thev met a detachment of the German Guards—over-hateful to the people. And then began a scene of confusion and blundering seldom equalled. The guards fired into the people, killing, among others, a soldier of the French Guards; this, in turn, precipitated an exchange of shots hi-tween the two regiments, both of whom had been relied on to act together in quieting the people. And then the German commander, with scarce believable imbecility, led a terrific charge on-the people assembled in the gardens of the Tuileries. For victims, one poor, old school-master was beaten down by the sword; while the people, driven before foreign bayonets, were rushing like mad-men over Pahis, clamoring for arms. To-the Hotel De Ville, where the Parisian electors were deliberating: hence to every armourer’s shop they rush demanding arms. Meanwhile, the municipality-of Paris, with some semblance of people-given authority, was formed, and a sort of National Guard provided for.’ At the same time, the Provost Flesselles promised, on the following day, large quantities of arms to- the people. Calmed by this promise, they awaited the morrow’ (the 13th).	.
And lo! good Flesselles had fulfilled his promise: here were many boxes marked “ArtillericP Alas! once opened, the boxes contain merely rags!
What are the people Lo do? Seemingly betrayed on every hand, shall the}7 live or die? Whitened with the fear of terrible vengeance, knowing no power, save their own, which had not betrayed them, the mob roam wildly over the city: to convents where there is plenty of grain, but destitution of muskets; to the Parisian arsenal, where nothing is found but a few helmets and spears (a relic of feudal days), and a cannon, presented long ago bv the King of Siam to the Grand Monarque. Let patriotism—irreverently called sansculottism—in nowise be frightened. In the great city of Paris there must be many arms, if they can only be found. Meanwhile, the smiths are working night and day—all other work in Paris suspended. Streets were torn up, trenches opened, and preparations made to resist a siege. Distrust and terror ruled supreme.
Then dav and night succeeded each the other, and there dawned the 14th of July. Already fifty thousand pikes had been provided; and now from old M. de Sombreuil was obtained some thirty thousand muskets. Patriotism was armed; was ready for the conflict. But where was the foe to be conquered? Aimlessly7 enough they wandered about the city, till there arose the cry of “ A la Bastille! Yes, to the Bastille, frowning with its many guns over the citv—the stronghold of tyranny, the fortress of despotism! Let us, rushing hither, search its arsenal, mount at its port-holes friends of the people, and begin in deadly7 earnest the work of revolution ! ”
Accordingly, the great multitude rushed hither, filled at once with terrible dread and the sense of irresponsible power. Who can ever hope to describe that famous scene, the storming of the Bastille? Imagine the great city, nervous with the fear, wrath and excitement of three days and nights; everywhere all work suspended; men and women flying madly through the streets—and all of them towards the Bastille. There the great frowning fortress, with its nine draw-bridges, secure from the mob: around about it 100,000 men, armed with pikes and muskets, among them the silver cannon already mentioned (a gift from the King of Sian). But what avail arms against walls inaccessible? So parleying began, but came to nothing. The messenger found the place practically ungarrisoned, but brave De Launay the commander would never surrender; would rather blow up the fortress with his own hand. Reinforcements from the king arrived, but gladly surrendered their arms to the besiegers, now grown wild with wrath and impatience. For five long hours the great sea of people surged before the prison: now and then lashed into greater fu’rv by7 the belching cannons above them. Meanwhile, De Launay sat by the magazine, loving honor far better than life, ready to blow the building into a million atoms.
But when five-hours had passed away, both general and garrison were willing to yield; Stipulating for their own safety, they lowered the bridges;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
291
and the great multitude rushed into the prison, ■sullying their triumph by the foul and dishonorable slaughter of the chivalrous De Launy and his Swiss guards. So the people triumphed, and from that day till Napoleon’s “whiff of grapeshot” on the “ Day of Section ” they ruled supreme.
That night, the Duke of ----------------, taking
advantage of his office at the court, made his way to the king’s bedside, and narrated to him the tragic history of the day. “ Why 1 ” exclaimed the phlegmatic Louis with a start, “this is a revolt!”
“Sire,” answered the Duke, “it is revolution!” Yes, here is where the real revolution began— *	__ o .
and all France was quick to leafn it. Foulon gave out that he was dead; many of the noblesse began to emigrate; the people were supreme. Meanwhile, Bailly, as Mayor of Paris, and Lafayette, as General of the National Guard, began the difficult task of restraining and guiding the power of the people; began, too, the even more difficult task of feeding Paris. Much, indeed, they accomplished, of which we shall speak hereafter; much, too, they failed to accomplish.
On the 27th of July, Foulon was discovered alive, was seized by the people, grass thrust into his mouth, and brought for judgment to Paris. Through the influence of Lafayette, he was brought for regular trial to the Hotel De Ville, and •a respite, hut for the old man’s imprudence in applauding, obtained. As it was, he was seized, hurried to the lantcrne and hung. Meanwhile, his sonin-law, brought a prisoner to Paris, was shown the head of his father-in-law, interrupted in his very reasonable defense (he had been a’tax-collector, and claimed always to have acted under authority), and hurried like Fonlon to a violent death. From this time forth, the lanternc always figures in the scenes of the ‘Revolution. The lantcrne and the guillotine! both terrible remedies—yet the disease of France was loathsome and deep-seated; and the remedy, if severe, if administered with nervous ' haste, was sadly needed. The physicians were not kid-gloved Professors of Moral Philosophy; they were poor, degraded wretches; some of whom, while yet in the provinces, had been living on “meat-husks and boiled grass;”—a not altogether • desirable diet, and yet sometimes more effective than raw meat, to provoke Revolution.
But once in awhile there was a scene of passing interest in the Constituent Assembly. On the 4th of August the whole assembly was seized with the . popular fervor, and adopted at one sitting the most sweeping resolutions—a bill of rights unparalleled in the history of Europe. Clergy and noblesse. . one by one, renounced their feudal rights and pos-. sessions; and amid the greatest enthusiasm was their magnanimity acknowledged, and the next day a TeDeum sung to honor the glorious time. The unfortunate king, however, hesitated about accepting the “Bill of Rights,” thereby not only adding to the popular feeling against the court, but (still more unfortunately for him) causing the assembly to state plainly what else had been only a matter of tacit agreement. Listen how the all-gifted Mirabeau thunders at him from the tribune:
“ We have not examined the superiority of the foveer constituent over the power executive: we have, in some measure, thrown a veil over the question; but if our constituent power is withstood, we shall be obliged to declare it. . . . We should repeat frankly to the king what the fool of Phillip II said to that despotic prince: ‘What would you do, Phillip, if all the world say ves. when you sav no?’”	' ’	'	"
A few days later, Necker called for a large loan, reporting France on the verge of bankruptcy. The large number of noble emigrants had taken j great amount of coin from out the country; what ’ remained was eagerly hoarded, and a general panic forthwith prevailed. For three days and nights an interminable debate ensued:—distrust and irresolution prevailing. As usual, Mirabeau came to the rescue; ascending the tribune, he depicted the terrors of bankruptcy, which only the ■ plan of the Minister could avert, and by a sudden burst of eloquence so moved the assembly that the plan was immediately adopted. Meanwhile (October 1789), distrust and dim-shaped terror prevailed among the people. Many of the nobility had fled to the country and were rapidly congregating at Metz, whither it was well known they desired to bring the king. The Parisians, on the > other hand, demanded that he should come to ! Paris. At the same time, the French guards who . had once been in attendance on the king demanded ‘ to be reinstated; and, but for the influence of Lafayette, would have marched against Versailles. ; This fact coming to the knowledge of D’Estiang ; the commander of the life-guards at Versailles, ; was by him communicated to the authorities of the ■ town. They, in terror of renewed danger, sent at ; once for the Flander’s Regiment, whose loyalty was ; unquestioned. Patriotism forthwith raised hue and : cry-against their coming; but they were, of course, ■ warmly welcomed by the court.
I Accordingly, on the second night of October, an > entertainment was given by the officers of the life.	o
guards to their newly-arrived comrades at Versailles. In the theatre let us imagine a scene of revelry now ever-historic. Gaily-uniformed officersand bediamonded beauties of the court, whirling together in the maddening dance; beside wine freely flowing, and tongues, once loosened, uttering heart-deep loyaltytothe king, inborn contempt for the people. Toasts were proposed and gaily drank to the king and queen, but the “Nation ” despised or forgotten. And then, while the. excitement was at its height (with some prudence, however, yet remaining), entered Louis and Marie Antoinette. The latter gray and care-worn, but the
I more saddened by the traces of her once marvellous • beauty: the king sad and troubled, humiliated by the very populace in his own capital—following slowly after. Was it a wonder that all the chivalry of that gay assembly was awakened, needing ' but a trifle more to nerve it into action? Nor was that trifle wanting;, for, as the royal pair walked sadly round, the band struck up “O Richard! O my king, the world has all forsaken thee!” O mad musician! driving far better men mad! In a moment, the tricolor is trampled under foot, and fair hands have pinned’ upon a hundred uni-
292
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

forms, the loyal white. .Oaths are sworn—loyalty to the king and death to the people! Those in the theatre see the walls scaled and themselves rudely hustled. Despotism think they, with-reason, is arrogant again. The next dav a conflict took place between soldiers and people—the tricolor once more insulted: and then followed a general bitterness where before had been only distrust, between the court and the people.
Two days later we come upon the “ Insurrection of the Women.” We have already mentioned the great difficulty of provisioning Paris. The peasants, suddenly finding all taxes and feudal services abolished, became excessively careless as to the reaping and threshing of the harvest. Even those who had not neglected their labors, infected by the general distrust, endeavored to hide and hoard the grain. And even at Paris, everyone, fearfid of starvation, bought and hoarded all the provisions possible.* Both Mayor Bailly and General Lafayette worked at this truly Herculanean task-of feeding Paris: but too often the greatest scarcity of bread prevailed. Unfortunately, it was in the early days of October, when there existed the greatest political terror and distrust, that a general destitution of food prevailed. On the 6th of October, all the baker shops were closed, and there was no bread for Paris. “What is to be done?” was the question Parisians were asking. “ What is to be done, ve wives and mothers? Shall we sit quietly at home, discussing propriety, ourselves meanwhile starving ? Shall we see our wan children, pinched with lifehunger. fall famished at our feet? Or shall we demand and wrest from despotism power and food ? ” Questions too naturally asked; questions too wildly answered! for, in a few moments, an excited mob of women are demanding bread from the Parisian Commune sitting at the Hotel De Ville. And, lo! followed by a few brigands, they have entered the building, terrorized the electors, and begun tolling the great bell to gather the mob around them.
Maillard it was who, in a lucky moment, offered to lead them to the king at Versailles. Gaining time by every excuse—not knowing the soldiers had flatly refused to disturb them—he found himself by four o’clock at the palace gates. Here, after a long delay, twelve women as representatives sought out the king. Louis received them so kindly as to completely win their hearts, and sent ' them back to the people. Meanwhile ensued a scene of horror and confusion. The life-guards and brigands began to struggle, and a hue and cry •was raised against the queen. a Luckily, the arri-*val of Lafayette dispersed the brigands, and reconciled the people in a truly French manner to the king and queen. -	t
.	t (to be continued.)
* The Government desired to buy food in the Provinces and sell it at loss to the people of Paris.. Once found and bought there was still the greatest difficulty in the way of safe transportation.	.	.	..
All other knowledge is hurtful to him who has not honesty and good nature.—Montaigne.	.
Winter Moonlight. . .
An argent round, in opal skies, ' White as the silver spire, The winter’s moon on hills of ice Pours down her frosty fire. '
With all romance it rose for me
In other, warmer ways, • We rode along, by brook and tree.
Beyond the commonplace.
A ring of steel our horses’ feet Struck from the rocky road, And, answering that even beat.
The herds at distance lowed.
I touched with pride my leathern belt. The loaded weight it bore, .
And like a whisper swift I felt,
“ So thou shalt ride once more!”
Friend of the past, when we two ride
Beside the mountain wall,
The clouds shall break, the soul be tried.
And sudden terrors fall:
But the moon goes on forever.
Shadows that pass are we.
And I wonder when, if ever. . ’Twill rise in peace on me!	.
Marion Muir, in Denver Transcript.
Notes on the Hebrew Language and Literature
BY A. M. KIRSCH. .	_
V.
Hebrew Grammar—(Concluded).
By far the most difficult part of Hebrew Grammar is the verb. It is always a “ bugbear ” to beginners, and not without reason. I must admit that the Hebrew verb is about as difficult to master as any part of speech in any other language. We find seven conjugations for each verb: these are called, respectively, 1, kal; 2, niphal; 3, piel; 4, pitalp hiphil; 6, hophalp p hithpacl. Kal has the primitive signification of the verb; as, for example, the Hebrew word katal^ he killed, in Latin necavit. Niphal is the passive form of kal, and its Hebrew form is niklal, he is. killed, in Latin—necatus est. •Piel expresses an.intensity or a repeated action, as, for example, kitel “he murdered”; in Latin, tru-cidavit^ has the meaning of cruelty attached, as in a carnage; pual is the passive of piel^ and means in Latin irncidavi.' Hiphil is the causative form, as, “to cause death” or “to condemn to death;” • in Hebrew hiktil means necem provocavit. Hop-hal is the passive form.of hiphil and means “Ad necem provocavi ; ” in Hebrew, hoktal. Hithpacl is the reflexive form, and hithkatcl means se ip'sum necare^ to kill oneself. .....	.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
i	At first sight all this would seem to present diffi-
I	culties that would require more than common per-
j	severance to overcome; but, after all, the difficul-
(	ties are not so great as one would imagine. This
l	will .become evident when we consider that the
Hebrew verb has only two tenses—the past and •'	future—or, more correctly, the perfect and imper-
.	feet; besides one form for the infinitive and par-
ticiple, and four forms for the imperative. But a ; difficulty is again presented in having different •	forms to express several persons of the verb: thus
;	the third person and the second singular and the
'	' second person plural have a masculine and femin-
•;	ine form, for the perfect; and the third person
‘	plural also for the future, or imperfect.
|	The fact, however, that all the seven conjuga-
i	tions have the same terminations for the corres-
;	ponding tenses and persons renders the study of
the verb comparatively easy. The terminations of the perfect are: simple form of verb for 3d j person singular, masculine; ah, 3d person singular, feminine; ta, 2d person singular, masculine; te, 2d person singular, feminine; ti, 1st person singular, masculine and feminine; u, 3d person plural masculine and feminine; tem, 2d person plural, masculine; ten, 2d person plural, feminine; nu, 1st . person plural, masculine and feminine.
For the future, both prefixes and affixes are employed in the conjugation of the verb, which it is not necessary to give as these particulars may be 9 learned from any elementary Hebrew Grammar. However, it might be of interest to know the He-. ,	. brew verb begins its conjugation by the 3d person
singular of the perfect tense; and that,^consequently, this is the simplest form of the verb, consisting ’ always of only three consonants, the first of which has as vowel point k'amez, and the second pathach if a transitive verb, and zere, rarely cholem when an intransitive verb.
•Verbs are divided into regular and irregular. The irregular are sub-divided into guttural and weak verbs. There are three kinds of guttural verbs: (1) when the first letter is a guttural, as in amad, to stand; (2) when the second is a guttural as barak, to kneel; (3) when the last or third letter is a guttural, as shalach, to send.
Weak verbs are called pe-aleph, lamed-aleph, pe-nun, pe-yod, ajin-ajin, ajin-vav, ajin-yod, and lamed-hc. With regard to the declensions, I will ' simply state that there are. nine declensions .for masculine nouns, and four for feminine; and be. sides there are about seventeen irregular nouns. There are also numerals, adverbs, prepositions, conjunctions, and • interjections. Every numeral has-two genders and two forms—the absolute-and the- constructed.	’	-
. The cardinal numbers from 2 to 10 are nouns, but aeh'ad, one, is an adjective. From 3 to 10, 1	. those having a.masculine termination are feminine,
I and those with a feminine termination are masculine; for which anomaly no reason can be given.
To,the adverbs belong, for example, the word aein,not; as, for example, aeinenni, I am not; iesh, . there is (praesto), en- and hinneh, here, properly . behold; in Latin, ecce; ai, where; ain, where is, etc.
The prepositions are really nouns and, consequently, are capable of being construed like nouns; for example, tachat, in Latin,szib, loco,pro, and thus, with the suffix tachti, pro me, for me; aeth, apud, cum, ait hi apud zwe,-with me.
The most common conjunction is, undoubtedly, and—in English—for which the Hebrew use what is called vav copnlativum. The interjections are ach, ahahh hoi, besides those used to denote animated speech such as, hin and hinch, behold—in Latin, ecce', haku age,va Latin. With this I may conclude my notes on Hebrew Grammar. The subject of syntax cannot well be treated without the proper type; therefore the reader will have to excuse me for not speaking on this subject, which in itself the most important, would be probably also the most interesting. At the request of some friends, I had agreed to treat of the relation existing between the Semitic languages and the Indo-European, with a special application to Greek and Latin; the subject is too extensive to be introduced here; moreover, I did not intend to write a treatise, but merely to givezsome*notes that I had collected during my two years’ study of Hebrew under the able Professor, Mgr. Lamy, of the University of Louvain. At some future date I may return to this subject, when more complete study of the subject shall have fitted me to do it full justice. Meanwhile, I refer the reader to the lectures of Cardinal Wiseman on “ Science and Revealed Religion ” in which will be found a complete exposition of this subject.
In my next paper I will begin to treat first of the Hebrew prose writers of the Bible, and then of the many poetic passages among the sacred writings, and the books that are professedly poetic.
(to be continued.)
Reading-.
• “ Dreams, books, are each a world; and books, we know; Are a substantial world, both pure and good;	. .
Round these, with tendrils strong as flesh and blood, Our pastime and our happiness will grow.”
— H'brdszi'ort/i.
The American people devote no small time to reading. The large amount of information which they obtain, as a consequence, on almost every subject is incalculable. ’ As students in college we read constantly with a view to storing our minds with practical knowledge which will be useful to us in our future career. The benefits which may be derived from a proper course of good reading are so numerous that our limited space will permit us to mention but few of them.	*
There is an almost infinite number of subjects^ which may present themselves to us for discussion or consideration, in none of which we can become thoroughly versed without study,-for which reading . is a necessity. Of course, some may, and do learn by mingling and conversing with well-educated, people; yet when we consider that this opportunity . is afforded only to a few, we readily perceive that ‘
294
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
this method of acquiring knowledge is comparatively of but little avail. True, association with people of mental culture and refinement cannot but be productive of intellectual improvement, or, i at least, a desire for it; but when compared to the ! benefits derived from the perusal of a few good I books on good subjects, such results dwindle into insignificance.
By passing several hours in conversation with one well versed in the sciences, for instance, we may, perhaps, obtain but one little ray of that brilliancy which would shine upon us in all its fulness had we but read the works containing not only this single rav, but the whole light of science. Such an individual’s vast scientific resources, cannot but excite our admiration—our envy, too, perhaps; hut both of these will give way to emulative sentiments when we realize that this knowledge was acquired by the individual’s studious application to the reading of scientific works.
Take our every-day intercourse with our fellowstudents. Do we, as a rule, talk of matters calculated to improve us intellectually? Out of the daily routine of the class-room,do we generally open conversation with-our teachers pertinent to a like object? A negative response must be given to both these questions. If we ask ourselves whether attendance at a course of lectures on any particular subject will make us thoroughly acquainted with that subject, a similar answer must be given. If we listen to a lecture on “ Natural Philosophy,” for example, can we conclude that we are masters of that science? We may have treasured up many facts pertaining to the science which have been laid before us by the lecturer; but to think that we have become philosophers by listening to a few words on the subject no matter how weighty and worthy of consideration, they might have been, would be idiocy. Shakespeare’s immortal works, and the no less lasting works of Milton, might be spoken of repeatedly in our presence; but how little would the few paltry ideas obtained in conversation on their works amount to when compared with those consequent upon their careful perusal!
By carefully reading philosophical treatises we become imbued with philosophical principles; by carefully reading books on scientific subjects we become familiar with science; by readings and by it alone, we can become acquainted with the beauties of poetry; and so for every other branch of knowledge,—we learn as we read.
Having tried to show the necessity and a few of the advantages of good reading, let us say a word as to how we should read. There is ho benefit derived from .reading a work unless we understand it. In prder to thoroughlv understand what we are reading, our undivided attention to the subject is necessary. Do not skim through a book for the sole purpose of experiencing the satisfaction of having read it, but read slowly, digesting every sentence, and not allowing one to pass without knowing its exact signification, for it is in this way only that we can fully appreciate and comprehend the meaning which the author wishes to convey. There is an old English proverb: “Beware of
the man of one book;” which means that the man who knows one book thoroughly is better than he who has skimmed over a whole library.
The memory must also be trained to do its part. We should try to recollect everything we read —that is worthy of being remembered. Useless, indeed, would be the time spent in reading up a subject, no matter how important, did our memory fail to retain the substance of what we have read. Novels should not be indulged in to excess, as they are apt to create a distaste for solid works. However, if we read novels, we should secure the best, and be sure to understand all allusions, reading carefully the descriptions. The most profitable course of reading is a mixture of the best novels and solid works. A prominent English writer has said that “ A taste for good reading is worth .£5,000 a year.” Now, many of us, perhaps, may never sec $25,000 a year, but we can, all of us, cultivate a taste for good reading. • It will afford us an unlimited amount of pleasure and, perhaps, have an influence upon our conduct in life. Lord Bacon says: “Read not.to contradict and confute, nor to believe and take for granted, nor to find talk and discourse, but to weigh and consider. Some books are to be tasted, others swallowed; and some few to be chewed and digested—that is, some books are to be read only in parts; others to be read, but not curiously; and some few to be read wholly, with dilligeuce and attention...... Reading maketh a full man.”
Let each one resolve, then, to adopt a regular course of reading, for in it is to be found the only sure road to the acquisition of a sound and thorough education.
Charles F. Porter, ’85.
Art, Music, and. Literature.
—A new violinist from Prague, named Ondrizck, is creating a sensation in Vienna. He is said to approach Paganini nearer than any other violinist that has appeared.
—The late Father ^Egidius Hennemann, O. S. B., of whose death a notice appeared in last week’s Ave Maria, was one of the most learned priests in the United States. He was a master of all the modern European languages, and a distinguished Oriental scholar.. Rarely has greater erudition been united with more genuine modesty.	•
—The Borgia Museum, at the Propaganda, Rome, founded by Cardinal Borgia at the commencement of this century, and including very rich numismatical, geographical, ethnographical, and palaeographical collections, has been recently much enlarged by the addition of several spacious halls on the second story of the Propaganda. The museum is continually enriched by the contributions of missionaries from all parts of the world. .
—The one hundredth anniversary of the Paris Conservatory of Music will be celebrated in April, and preparations for the event are in progress. • This conservatory was founded by Louis XVI for
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^95
the purpose of educating operatic singers and actors. It has gradually been developed until it now stands at the head of schools for general and operatic music. In 1666 the first academy of music was established in Paris, and was confined almost entirely to the encouragement and development of sacred music.
—Some of the recent art discoveries in Rome, made under the direction of Signor Lanciani, are very interesting. Tn a trench twenty feet long and ten feet wide, in the Via di S. Ignazio, has been found, among other objects, a column of gray granite, richly sculptured in bass reliefs representing Isiac ceremonies. There are several figures of priests, standing on square stools and holding in their hands lotos flowers, canopi, branches of palm trees, situlaj of water, etc. A crocodile was found, one and a half metres long, cut in red granite. Also what seems to be an altar, or the pedestal of a candelabrum, of white Carrara marble.
—An interesting discovery has been made at Nimes, in southern France, so rich in Roman remains. It consists of a block of mosaic masonry twelve metres in extent, representing a Roman emperor enthroned, with a female at his side. He is surrounded by a group consisting of a warrior with a helmet and a number of slaves. Before him are two figures of men leading along a lion and a wild boar. The tesselated pavement is in perfect preservation, and has escaped any injury from the workman’s pick; the designs are good, and the colors as fresh as if they had been applied yesterday. Competent authorities who have inspected the mosaic declare that no museum contains its equal. If a price could be set upon it $200,000 would not be too high.
College Gossip.
—Thirty-seven university students at Moscow have been arrested by the government authorities for supposed participation in nihilistic plots.
—The oldest university student in Berlin, and probably in the world, is sixty-nine years of age. The oldest student at Notre Dame University is fifty-five.
—We learn from the University Press that the suit mentioned by us some time ago as brought against Bates College bv the heirs of the late B. E. Bates for the recovery of $100,000 conditionally granted the college, has been decided against it.
o	O’	O
—Six nuns from the Ursuline College of the Sacred Heart, Toledo, Ohio, started last week for Dakota to establish schools among the Indians. Mother Amadeus, sister of -Judge E. F. Dunne, LL. D., Commencement Orator at Notre Dame, ’80, directs the expedition.
—It is reported that three members of the last year’s class at Harvard agreed upon graduationday to exchange telegrams at midnight—Cambridge time—Christmas Eve; as one is in Europe, one in New York, and one in Japan, the result was rather unique.—Herald- Crimson.
—The “Adelphi” of Terence—given at the University of Michigan two years ago—is to be produced in Latin at Princeton College next spring bv the students, under the supervision of the Professor of Latin. The Princeton Professor has been asking information of Prof. Gavley, of Mich-igan University, with a view to profiting by the latter's experience. So savs the Argonaut.
—A number of students attending a medical college in Lisbon are about to publish a paper—a unique affair, illustrated with designs from the most talented artists in Portugal—for the purpose of aiding a female student of the college who has become financially embarrassed. The literary articles of the new journal are to be in keeping with the splendid illustrations, of which there will be fifty, printed in colors, on Japanese paper.
—According to the report of the treasurer of Yale College, the aggregate of the invested funds in all the departments is one million nine hundred" and twenty-four thousand three hundred and twenty-eight dollars. The expenses of the various departments for the year ending July, 18S3, were three hundred and thirty-two thousand eight hun-dred and twenty-seven dollars. The funds are incommensurate with the growing needs of the university, and rigid economy will be necessary.
—President Gates, of Rutgers, asserts that larger institutions of learning do not furnish as good advantages to the student as do smaller ones.— University Press.
We wonder if President Bates reallv holds the opinion that the generality of small colleges can afford as good an equipment in professors, appara-atus, etc., that the larger colleges can? Such an opinion would hardly be creditable to his judgment.
—Wonderful accounts are given of the linguistic aptitude and achievements of the Crown Prince of Portugal, who is only a few weeks over twenty years of age. He has already acquired a private library of some forty thousand volumes, containing many rare and precious editions of the leading authors of the world. But he promises, in addition, to develop into the Mezzofanti of his age; for he not only speaks English with competent facility after no more than two years’ study, but converses in no fewer than fourteen languages, so that he is the master approximately of all the languages of Europe.—Home Journal.
—At an entertainment given by the pupils of the Propaganda College, Rome, in honor of the American prelates, “The Glories of Catholicism in North America” were celebrated in Hebrew, Chaldean, Syriac, Armenian, Arabic, Turkish, Chinese, Gregorian, Cingalese, Greek, Latin, French, Celtic, German, Dutch, Danish, English, Ancient Slavonic, Illyrian, Albanian, Russian, Bohemian, and Italian,—a true feast of languages. The entertainment was given in the little chapel of the college, which was festooned with flowers. Cardinals Simeoni, Harroun, Jacobini, Sparretti, and almost all the great prelates of Rome were present.	. -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, January 19, 1884.
■ The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate lor the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.	•
THE NOTRE DANIE SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.jo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
T. Ewing Steele, ’84. W. H. Bailey, ’84.
Jno. A. McIntyre, ’84. Elmer A. Otis, ’84.
James . A. Solon, ’84. C. A. Tinley, ’84.
•	C. F. Porter, ’85.
—In a recent circular from the Very Rev. Superior General in regard to the late sad calamity -in the destruction by fire of the convent and school at Belleville, Illinois, while expressing his sympathy with the sufferers and their friends, he shows the confidence that all can have in the security of Notre- Dame and the safety of its inmates, as far as human means can avail. But more than that, they have the assurance of the protection of
- Heaven. As the Very Rev. Father says:
“We may mention that, from the foundation of our Congregation, not a single life has been lost in any conflagration in Europe or in the New World. The reason is, no doubt, in the continual prayer of all its members against fire, and especially' in the fact that all our Houses have acted alike in entrusting to St. Joseph the care of their most important interests: Posucrunt me custodem. We have lost by fire heavily' and often, but no lives have ever been sacrificed by' our accidents.” .	.
—Not those who know most about the Christian religion are the ones who observe its precepts most faithfully.. Many seem to have the idea, that in order to be a practical Catholic, it is necessary' to be something of a theologian, philosopher, scientist, and what not. It is certainly' very desirable that all should be as well informed, as it .is possible for them about the religion they profess, so as to be able at all times to give a reason for the faith that is in them, and be prepared to repulse the
attacks of unbelievers; but this knowledge is by no means a necessity. The little catechism contains all that need be known of the doctrines of of Christianity' (provided it be known thoroughly'), and much more. The trouble is, it is not studied with sufficient attention. There would be less infidelity in the world if those who glory' in the Christian name were to live up to what they profess, instead of trying to master all the objections that are raised to it; in fact, many' who undertake the defence of the teachings of Christianity had better be employed at something else. Any' fool can readily make objections that very' few wise men can promptly' refute. The best and most convincing proof that can be given of the divinity' of the Church is the virtue of its members. Men are more easily' influenced by' what they' see.than by' what they' hear. Nearly' every' reader has admired Napoleon’s testimony' to the divinity' of Christ, but its influence on their minds is very' much strengthened by' the fact, that the great Emperor, when the shades-of death were stealing over him, turned for comfort to the religion to which for many years he had been unfaithful.
For most persons it would be to attempt the impossible to endeavor to become skilled in philosophy, theology, history, archaeology, and all the other branches of knowledge in which the. defenders of the faith find their weapons; but it is in every one’s power to lead a pure life, which is the best apology for Christianity' in this world, and the only' testimony that will avail in the world to come.
The Orpheonics and. the-Euglossians.
Oirlast Saturday evening, the Orpheonics gave a musical entertainment in .the Rotunda of the University. The programme as printed in our last issue was carried out, with some few exceptions. The opening chorus, “ Gloria in excelsis Deo!” by the Minims, was well rendered; the solo was taken by' Master W. Devine, and creditably given; In the song which followed, Master Frank Garrity showed himself the possessor of a pleasing voice. With a little more practice he will make a good soloist. Master George Schaefer sang the song “ My Heart’s O’er the Deep Blue Sea,” with great taste and accuracy' of expression. In this and another more difficult solo, “ Dcr Wanderer? which he gave later in the evening, it was seen that, without doubt, he is one of the best singers in the Vocal Department. Master T. Cleary also appeared in two solos: “ All’s Well that Ends Well,” a pleasing song, by Ciro Pinsuti, and the famous Aria by .Rossini, “Una Voce Poco Fa!” This latter was justly' called the ’■piece de resistance of the evening. In it Master T. Cleary displayed all the resources of his rich and beautiful voice; revealing a remarkable compass of more than two octaves from low G to high Bi2. The song is a difficult one, at least for amateurs; but the difficulties were mastered, and the piece sung with great accuracy' and expression. Master Henry Foote sang “ The Bend of the River,” a tenor solo, in which he siis-
THE' NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

tained his reputation as -a good singer, though he was somewhat lacking in expression. “ Why are Roses Red ? ” inquired, in musical accents, a Minim, W. P. Devine. It was a difficult number for one of his years, but it was given with great skill and preciseness. He was warmly applauded, especially for his imitation of the nightingale. “ Lardy dah,” by Ryan Devereux, was well received, though the piece is of an inferior order of music; Master Devereux appeared in another solo, which was creditably given. “ Conquer or Die!”—a martial song—was given in real military style by Mr. J. Guthrie. The Choruses were given as indicated in the programme of last week, and were very well sung. The whole reflected great credit, not only on the singers, but also on then' worthy director, Bro. Anselm, C. S. C.
# ■ • ■■
On Wednesday evening, the Euglossians appeared in another of their “ winter series ” of exercises. The programme presented an the occasion will be found in our local columns. The entertainment was opened by the College Orchestra with the overture, “ Enchantment,” which was executed in a manner to sustain the well-known reputation of the Orchestra and redeem any past defects. Mr. Joseph Farrell addressed the audience on the subject of “Law.” The production itself reflected great credit upon the writer, but its delivery was somewhat tame. Mr. J. J. Conway’s declamation, “Erin’s Flag,” was given with great spirit, and in a manner to show that the speaker was heart and sou) in the lines which he expressed. We think, however, that it was a fault that he spoke from the side’of the Rotunda. In our opinion, whenever one appears in a simple address, speech or declamation, he should occupy the centre, as nearly as possible, of the stage or platform: Mr. J. Solon’s selection’, entitled “Forensic Eloquence,” was given with all the elocutionary power for which he is so well known. It elicited an encore, which was gracefully acknowledged. Mr. J. Ruppc read an essay., “ Our'Republic in which he described the happiness and prosperity of our.country, the cause of which was the free and beneficent Government under which we live. The paper was well written, and read with earnestness. Mr. Otis Spencer spoke on “ Protective Tariff.” The programme said • it was “ very serious,” but the audience seemed to think otherwise. It was well delivered, and’ contained many local “hits” which “brought down the house.” Mr. W. Ramsay appeared in costume, and presented scenes, from the .trial of “Bardell vs. Pickwick.” They were given with that command of voice and power of action and facial expression that indicate great elocutionary talent: Mr. D. C. Saviers took as his selection “ A Scene from Jrilius Caesar,” in which Cassius is urging Brutus to join in the conspiracy against Cajsar. Mr. Saviers spoke at times with great fire and energy, though, as a whole, his Rendition was somewhat-monotonous—-a defect which- was, no doubt, occasioned by the lack of some one to personate the character of Brutus. '	■
The musical portion of the exercises was given as marked on the programme, with the exception of the last three numbers, which were omitted on account of the lateness of the hour. The pieces ’ sung and pla'yed were creditable to the performers.
'	T.
Exchanges.	-■
—“Among our Exchanges” in the Pennsylvania University Magazine is quite an interesting department, gi ving as it does the cream of the college -news-from the Magazine1 s exchanges, but it hardly takes the place of an Exchange department proper. “Literary Post-Mortems” is the best article that has appeared in the University Magazine this year. “A University Club” is good.
—A new exchange, but not a new paper—we see it has reached its third volume—comes to us from Ypsilanti, Mich. The Normal News- has two or three good articles.. The first of these— “ Shall the Average Woman Read the Average Novel ? ” by Ermine Howe, gives some sensible advice to the fair sex in regard to the “ yellow-covered literature but we fear the average woman— and the average man, too—will continue his “passtime, or rather kill-time,” as Coleridge puts it, of novel-reading. While on ‘ the subject of novelreading, it mav not be amiss to call attention to the fact that while Mrs. Southworth, Miss Braddon, . and a host of writers much inferior to these, are read and talked about so much, the two best American lady novel-writers of our day, Miss Alice Thicker and. Christian Reid—the latter the nom de -plume of a sprightly and talented.young Southern lady—are seldom heard of except in the more refined, circles; One of Miss Tincker’s stories— “Sig. Monaldi’s-Niece’’—which, like many others •from.her pen, was published anonymously—created quite a stir at-the. time, and many surmises were made as to who. the author might be.	• -
• -—The Exchange Editor of the Alabama. University Monthly tries very haid to give us a piece of ' serious advice in a light and jocular manner, but it is evident that the effort doesn’t suit him. Had he, ‘ before writing, read Pope’s couplet, -
..	“ All fools have still an itching to deride, _
And fain would be upon the laughing side,” the Exchange editor of the Monthly would probably have written in a different manner. We do not wish to place, or seem to place, the Monthly's editor among fools—he is far too serious and writes too well for that, but his recent effort at criticising the Scholastic shows that with all his good sense he is liable to grave blunders occasionally. Take the following as an example:	.
“Oh, Notre Dame! wilt not thou bestow something upon us that does not come from the cloister, and is hot as old and as solemn as4ye everlasting hills!’ We adore your martyrs, we give all praise to your saints, but doft your sack-cloth and let us have something that pertains, at least, to the eighteenth century. Discuss living questions, and leave to fanatics on, the subject of oddities those themes of * the metaphysical .and spiritual world.”	■ -	’
The Exchange editor of the Monthly is en
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tirely too generous—gives us credit for too much. If he “ adores ” our martyrs he does more than we do. We honor the martyrs and saints and the Blessed Virgin, but we neither “ adore ” them nor make a fetich of them. Catholics are not, and never were, guilty of idolatry or superstition of that kind.	-
—Apropos to the cutting remarks of the Springfield Republican upon the JBozvdoin Orient. the Haverfordian says very justly that “ no one can deny that a paper is of much benefit to an educational institution”: further, that a little encouragement often does much good, and in no place is it more needed than among the conductors of the college paper.” . This is all very true. What with plenty of work, without the additional burden of editorial labor, essay-writing, gathering and ar-• ranging of news, etc., the task of a college editor is an onerous one; and when in addition to all this the “ cutting ” remarks of exchange editors are applied to his work his lot becomes hard indeed. It is true that youngsters should not be allowed to play too freely with edged tools, but it is also true that unless they become early accustomed to their use they can hardly be expected to excel with them afterwards. We fully concur in The Haverfor-diaRs condemnation of the action of the party press of the country in “ again resorting to the old cry of ‘The Solid South’ in order to influence the minds of Northern voters and acquire party capital bv arraying one section against the other.” The time for that has passed; the South has accepted her situation, and is no doubt trying to make the best of it and in the best way she can under adverse circumstances. With a colored population far outnumbering the whites—many of whom will not work and still persist in living, or rathter eking out a subsistence in questionable ways, the lot of the Southern white population is often a hard and exasperating one. If local disturbances arise, each State is expected to regulate its own affairs, but popular opinion in the other States will no doubt have a weighty influence upon local issues if it is not presented in a way more likely to exasperate than do any good. It would hardly, be. rash to prophesy that those who dig up the hatchet buried eighteen years ago shall perish by the hatchet.
—The Earlhamite is a neat little Magazine in appearance, and the contents bear similar marks of painstaking care, both as regards matter and writing. The “Literary Notes” are a model of their kind, and even the Locals are written with a commendable precision that is rarely seen in the majority of college publications. With such care we can scarcely account for the fact that The Earlhamite shows the most bitter feeling-for everything -• Catholic. In Europe, and even in America, some of the most eminent members of the Society of Friends, or Quakers, as they are commonly called (we use the term because it is common; if we thought it obnoxious to those to whom it is applied we would never write it or give it countenance), have been on the most intimate’terms of friendship with equally eminent Catholics, like Father
Mathew, the Bishop of Cork, and Frederick Lucas, M. P., but for some unaccountable reason Catholics, Catholic customs, or the Church, are never mentioned in The Earlhamite except in terms of reproach. Surely Catholics and the Catholic Church in America give no cause for such prejudice. Even in the present number the Hermits of Thcbaid are stigmatized as Christian fanatics who were both stupidly indolent and dirty— who “ ignored cold water and wore their clothing till it actually fell from their body, rotten.” We dare assert that the hermits of Thebaid were neither stupidly ignorant nor dirty—they spent their days in labor and their nights in prayer. In the list of hundreds or thousands of canonized saints there can be found two or three exceptions to the rule that godliness and cleanliness go together, and it is an axiom that exceptions prove or confirm.the rule. In this connection is the rather singular fact that in Catholic Maryland only, outside of Pennsylvania, could the early members of the Society of Friends find a home undisturbed by persecuting laws, and fanatical dignitaries. We would commend to the attention of the bitter and misguided writers in The Earlhamite an apposite sentence in that paper’s Exchange notes: “Anyone can find in the best of writings some expression which, taken out of its proper connection, will be pure foolishness; he may ridicule this, and imagine he is doing a smart thing, but to analyze and point out the merits and demerits of an article is quite a different thing, requiring brains and culture on the part of the critic.” The application is obvious. To criticize justly Catholics, Catholic customs and the Catholic Church it is necessary to know exactly what these are, and not what thejr are represented to be by our enemies. One thing is evident, that a single rotten sheep from the Catholic fold draws more attention than a thousand worthy and irreproachable members within the Church.
Semi-Annual Examination, Commencing Friday, January 25th.
( Under the general supervision of the Rev. Director of Studies.)
Committees of Examination.
Classical Board—Rev. N. J. Stoffel, presid- • ing; Rev. S. Fitte, Rev.J. O’Brien; Prof. Lyons; Prof. Unsworth, Secretary; Prof. Edwards, Prof. Hovne.
Scientific Board—Rev. A. M. Kirsch, presiding; Prof. Stace; Prof. Devoto, Secretary; ME A. F. Zahm. ~
Commercial Board—Rev. J. M. Toohey, presiding; Bro. Marcellinus, Secretary; Bro. Philip Neri, Bro. Ephrem; Prof. Lyons, Prof. Edwards, Prof. McCormack.	‘
Senior Preparatory—Rev. J. O’Hanlon, presiding; Bro. Emmanuel; Bro. Remigius, Secretary; Bro. .Luke, Bro. Tustin ; Mr. W. J. O’Con.-nor.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
299
Junior Preparatory—Rev. J. A. O’Connell, presiding; Mr. M. Regan, Secretary; Mr. J. Coleman, Mr. Thilman, Mr. W. J. Kelly; Bro. Leander, Bro. Julian, Bro. Alexander.
'Board of Modern Languages, Fine Arts, and Special Branches—Rev. S. Fitte, presiding; Mr. Thilman, Mr. Van Geloben; Bro. Albert, Bro. Philip Neri; Bro. Basil, Secretary; Bro. Leopold, Bro. Anselm; Prof. Paul, Prof. Gregori.
'	Personal.
■ —Moses L. Foote (Prep), ’83, is prospering in business at Kewanee, Ill.
—Edward Gall, Jr., ’83, is engaged in business with his father at Indianapolis.	*
—Hugh O’Donnell (Com’l), ’So, is prospering as book-keeper for Carson, Pierie & Co., Chicago!
—Will. Smith (Com’l), of ’82, is clerk in his father’s hotel, the American House, Watertown, Wis.	.
—F. T. Dever (Com’l) ’82, holds the position of assistant book-keeper for Carson, Pierie & Co., Chicago.
—H. M. Hess (Com’l), ’83, is chief book-keepei in his father’s large establishment in Wheeling, W. Va.	•
—Geo. C. Foster (Prep.), ’80, has been so successful in mercantile pursuits that he now owns a one-half interest in one of the largest dry goods stores at Yankton, Dakota. .
—Signor Pio P. Gregori, son of our distinguished artist, took his departure last Wednesday night for Italy, to resume his duties as one of the Professors of the University of Bologna.
—We are glad to learn that Bro. Alexander, C. S. C., whose health had become greatly impaired by years of close attention to teaching in the University, is now rapidly regaining strength and vigor. • —M. J. Carroll (Com’l), of ’82, is a partner with Stanley Clark in a book store, at Watertown, Wis. Mike was in business for a year in Grand Forks, Dakota, was burnt out, and now starts in his native place, thinking “ There’s no place like home!”
—We learn from the St. Paul Pioneer-Press that W. Ad. Hardenbergh, of ’79, “ is receiving the congratulations of his friends on his admission to the firm of P. R. L. Hardenbergh & Co.” His many friends here also extend their congratulations and best wishes.
—C. Zeigler (Com’l), of ’83, is in business with his father and brothers in Milwaukee. Charley recently piloted two of his college friends through the largest candy establishment in -the State, and presented them with as° much choice candy as they could conveniently carry away.
—Among the welcome visitors during the past week was John L. Indcrrieden (Prep.), of ’79, who came to entei- his two young brothers in the Minim Dep’t. John is now chief clerk in his father’s wholesale house in Chicago. His many friends here were glad to see him.	■
—Our esteemed former President, Very Rev. W. Corby, is building a new presbytery at Watertown, Wis. He reports the jjarish and college there in. a flourishing condition. In his new home he will have two or three good rooms reserved for his old pupils and confreres of Notre Dame who will find time to visit him.
Local Items.
—Louis XI.
---Blue glass!
—Examinations!	’
—Our punster has returned.
—Dudeism diminisheth daily. «s
—Those are the “boss” specs!
—“Ma,I havn’t any Scholastic!”
—Skating still continues to be good.
—The Spring-Dude has returned at last. -
—“Who said I have red hair?—It’s blonde!"
—Twenty-four new students arrived within the last week.
—Volumes arc being constantly added to the Law Library.
-
—The Junior Crescent Club will have a reception this evening.	.
—The fine skating has been greatly enjoyed during the past week.
—There are five regular classes in penmanship, with a large attendance. •
—The Astronomy Class were out gazing upon the comet the other night.
—That fiddler had better bring another “ G string ” with him next time.
—There are a number of expert Indian clubswingers among the Juniois.	-
—It is rumored that Louis XI will be produced by the Thespians on the 22d.
—The usual recreations will be a half hour longer during examination week.
—There are seven classes in German taught here, with an aggregate of nearly one.hundred students.
—The members of the Juniors’ reception-rooms are under obligations to Master W. Barschulze for favors received.
—Master H. Foote showed himself quite a proficient violinist in the duo with Prof. Paul, on Wednesday evening.	.
- -—We were pleased to see the genial B. Lawrence, who has been laid up with a severe cold, on duty again as Prefect.
—The examinations will begin bn the 25th and end on the 30th. Everything for the new session will be in working order on Feb. 1st.
—To-morrow will be the Feast of the Most Holy Name. The festival to which the month is consecrated will be solemnly celebrated.	•
.—The Minims are right into business preparing for the Semi-annual Examination. Father Gen
300
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
eral, they think, will have some knotty problems in Arithmetic on hand.
—The Curator of the Museum acknowledges the receipt, from Mastet Curtis, of a black flint arrowhead from the Yellow Stone Park; and from C. Barrows, trophies of a hunt in Kansas. ■ '
—Our astrologer’s predictions thus far have been • verified. The sharpest weather came “ about the 7th.” The thaw began on the 13th, and, with an intermission of a few days, continues more or less.
—The Theology Classes are in a flourishing condition. The lectures on Moral are delivered by Rev. J. O’Hanlon, at St. Joseph’s Novitiate, and those on .Dogma by Rev. Father O’Brien, at the University.
—The publications of Prof. Lyons are receiving very favorable notices from the press. He is constantly in receipt of demands for copies of the “ Annual,” the “ Malediction ” and the “ Life, of Joseph Haydn.”
—Manager Booth, of the South Bend Telephone Exchange, was at the College last Tuesday mornins: to make arrangements for the establishment of private telephone lines between the various buildings of the University.
—Through the kindness of the College Librarian, the Seniors have some of the best magazines placed in their reading-room. After a certain length of time the magazines must be returned to the Library or no more will be lent.
—Our friend John says the Semi-annual Examination has a bad effect upon the sanitary condition of the environments (1) of Notre Dame. ■We think John belongs to the “misty past”— though we may say transeat to his observation.
—The Crescent Club is in a flourishing condition this season. A public reception will be given soon by the Directors and members of the Club to all those students who have distinguished themselves in their classes during the present session.
—Rev. President Walsh has presented to the reading-rooms a beautiful sketch in water-colors representing a collection of bric-a-brac and curios. The picture is the work of Signor Pio P. Gregori, and was presented to Father Walsh by the mother of the young artist.	."
. —Bro. Sebastian has a veritable art gallery in the steam-room at Mount St. Vincent’s. There may be found pictures of ecclesiastical dignitaries, celebrated generals, distinguished statesmen, representatives of famous battle scenes, great events in the world’s history, etc., etc.	.
—The regular meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held Sunday evening, Jan. 13th, Rev. President Walsh presiding. A very interesting religious address was given by Rev. Father Fitte. J. A. Solon read a well-written paper on “Canonization.” The papers for the: next meeting are to be read by T. Fenlon and Smith. ■ —Editors have theY troubles everywhere. One of tbem-in Australia thus reminds-delinquent subscribers that it is time to pay up:
- “ Some of our subscribers must be fast asleep and snoring.- If they could-manage to wake up to.a sense, of their
indebtedness to us we should be glad. Unless they pay promptly, we will ask the Salvation Army to pray for an earthquake!”
—Very Rev. Father General paid the Princes quite a long visit on Wednesday, and noted with marked satisfaction that they all looked healthy and bright. He added to their happiness by telling them that he would, at his .next visit, bring oranges for. the best boys, and that the. largest would be for A. Grimes, who arrived" here last xyeek from Denver, Col.	'	•
—We think that our musical department was never on a better footing. We are glad of it. There is nothing that imparts life to an entertainment so much as vocal and instrumental music when judiciously interspersed among the numbers. While speaking of this subject we would ask if some means cannot be devised to accelerate the “tuning up” process of our Orchestra?
—At the 13th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association compositions were read by Masters W. Welch, V. Rebori, J. M. Studebaker, W. McPhee, F. Coad, E. Thomas, L. Scherrer, and C. Spencer. The following members delivered declamations: W. Devine, F. Nester, and B. Lindsey. The meeting closed with a speech from the President, who expressed his satisfaction at the talent the Sorins are developing for composition.
—The Scholastic Annual for the year 1884 is a pamphlet of about eighty pages, .issued by J. A. Lyons, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind. The publication, is now in its ninth year. It contains—besides the usual Catholic calendar, and a . variety of miscellaneous matter, religious and otherwise—astrological predictions for the current year, not only covering the weather during the several months, but also giving a minute personal description of the individual who will be elected President of the Unites States on the4th of November next.— Chicago Tribune.	’
—The first regular meeting of the Notre Dame T. A. U. was held Thursday, Jan. 17th. Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.,-opened the evening’s exercises with a very interesting ten-minutes’ address. After this followed music and dancing. Mr. Me-. Kinnery next read an able oration, which was followed by a recitation from Mr. Ramsay, which was well received. Mr. Solon closed the evening with a well gotten-up speech, and all seemed to have spent a very enjoyable time. Messrs. Rud-ger, Farrell, 2\.ncheta and J. T. Carroll were appointed to address the Society at its next meeting.. The members offer a vote of thanks to the Crescent Club Orchestra for their excellent music.
—The Star is indebted to-Professor Joseph A. Lyons, of the ’University of Notre Dame, Indiana; for a copy of the Scholastic Annual for the year 1884. Besides the matter usually'found in almanacs, ’ it contains a large number of articles ip prose and poetry on interesting, and. instructive subjects; among these are the following: a short sketch of Father Tom Burke, O. P.; “ The Law, its general application and salutary influence”; A chapter from tlie life of Haydn;. “ To Ireland -.(.Poetry),” etc.
THE NOTRE DAMESCHOLASTIC.	301
This is the ninth year of this excellent Annual and the.present number is one of the best yet issued. The price of the Annual is 25 cts., postage free. Address J. A. Lyons, Publisher, Notre Dame, Ind. —N. O. Morning Star.	•
—We are glad to sec that our remark in last week’s issue anent the sending of “Personals” has been kindly profited by. Let it be understood that all are invited to contribute to our “ Local ” and “Personal ” columns. As remarked once before, ye local Ed. is not ubiquitous, and cannot be expected to know everything that is going on. Many events of interest occur each week which we should be glad to record^for the entertainment of our readers; but we are oftentimes left in the dark concerning them, until, perhaps, a month or two after the occurrence, when a little “hint” is given us. We know that some of our friends have felt them-, selves slighted; we think they will find in what we have said a satisfactory explanation. If all in whose interest the Scholastic is published were to manifest their appreciation bv contributions, what a lively paper it would be!
' —The Inter-Ocean, of Chicago, says of the “ Life of Joseph Haydn,” by Franz von Seeburg, translated by Rev. Vice-President Toohey, and published by Prof. J. A. Lyons:	’
“ It is one of the most charmingly interesting biographies that has at any time come to our table. The little incidents of the every-day life of the great musician, while they are concisely and simply told, have, by the magic of the biographer, been woven into a history as charming as the most choice novel. ‘Upton’s Life of Haydn ’ is simply a prosy biography, given up to dates and history, told in an uninteresting method. One reading the two books would scarcely recognize them as reciting the life of the same man. Haydn was an earnest Catholic, and his devotion to his Church is dwelt upon and brought well to front in the volume. So, to the Catholics especially will the book be acceptable. To the deep and earnest devotional feeling undoubtedly many of his finest productions were due, as the history shows. ”	.
—The exercises of the Euglossian Society (4th winter series), assisted by the Orpheonic Society and the University Orchestra, were given on Wednesday evening, Jan. 16th. The following is the
" ‘ PROGRAMME:	•
Music—“ Overture Enchantment”................Herman
N. D. U. Orchestra.
Song—“I am Happy, Mother Darling!”.. ..G. IV. Persley .	F. Garritv.
Address—“ Law ”.......................  Joseph	Farrell
Flute Solo—“Le Streghe"....................Paginini
F. Fishel. “ Erin’s Flag ”................................Father Ryan
‘	J- J- Conway.
Song—“ How so Fair! ”.................Martha	diFlotozo
AV. P. Devine.	- ;
“Forensic Eloquence”........................J.	Solon
Essay—“ Our Republic ” .....................J. Rudge
“St. Joseph’s Lake” (Duo Chorus)..............B. A.
Geo. Schaefer, Tho. J. Cleary, J. Devine, Jos. Chaves, '	J. Kelly, J. Schmauss.
Duet. Violins: Duo Concertanti...-..........T.	Magaz
Prof. Paul and Henry Foote.
Personation from Shakespeare................D.	Taylor
Protective Tariff (very serious)........Otis	Spencer
Flute Solo—“ Prosenduft,”......................H. Steckmest •	A. Adler...
Scenes from Pickwick......................W.	Ramsay
Chorus—“Dreaming the Happy Hours Away!”_____Foster J. Courtney, J. Devine, W. P. Devine, Geo. Schaefer,
T. Cleary, Leon Gibert, Henry Foote. J. Guthrie, Prof. Devoto. ..	. ,
Scene from Julius Ctesar..................D.	C. Saviers
Cornet Solo—“Elegy of Tears” —	_____—Schubert
’	.	C. Aguilera.	"
I' The Captive, “ Highly Dramatic_________AC. A-Tinley Piano.......................................W. Schott, G. Schaefer
. Roll of Honor. .
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	"
Messrs. Anchondo, /Ancheta, Aguilera, Baca, Banigan, Bowers, Brosseau, Barron, Buchanan, Becerra,' Bailey, Browne, Croxton, Combe, Carbajal, Cass, Jos. Cusack, Jno. Cusack, Crawford, Celia, Connell. Dunn, Delgado, De Groot, De Wolf. Dolan, A. Dennis, Feltz, Farrell, Fitzgerald, Gooley, Gonser. Gibert, Goulding, Gonzalez.* Geiser, J. Gallagher, Howard, Hellebush, Hausberg, Hetz, Johnston, Kelly,* Kavanaugh, Kleiber, McGinn, Morass, McErlaine, Mahon, McKinnery, Marquez, S. Murdock. Mittendorf, McIntyre, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, Jno. McCabe, McLaughlin, Newman. Nadeau, G. O’Brien, E. O’Brien, Ott, O’Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Pour, Quinlan. Rudge. Ryan. Rogers. Reach, Ramsay, Steis. Shea, Slattery. Scholfield, Spencer, Steele, Saviers, Solon, Snoke, Tinley, Teasdale. F.' Uranga, J. Uranga, Warner, Wagoner, Waggoner, Zahnle, Hofstetter.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	’	.
Masters Arnold, Anchondo, Borgschulze. Berthelet, Barela, Baur, Barclay, Breen. A. Chirhart, Courtney, Coleman, Cleary, Clarke. Costigan, Dorenberg, Dexter, C-. Dennis, Finckh, Fitzgerald, Fehr, Fendrich, H. Foote, Gerlach, Gimbel, Grothaus, Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth, E. A.Howard, E. J. Howard, B. Henry, Hilliard, Houlihan. Halligan, A. Howard, Holbrook, Houck, J. Hetz, Holman, Jensch, P. Johnson, J. Kelly, M. Kelly, R. Lewis, Loescher. Lake, Mulkern, Mullane, Miller, Menig, Mahon, J. MeGordon. McDonnell, C. Metz. Murphy, Mug. Muhler. McCabe. O’Brien, Plischke. C. Porter, Perley, Pohl, Regan, Rothschild, Reynolds, Rogers. Stubbs, Sedberry, L. Scheuerman, Schott, Schaefer, Saunders. D. Taylor, Terrazas, Tarrant, Trepanier, Uranga,"Wright AVabraushek, Waixel, Williamson. H. Cohen, Wilkes, McCullough, Legnard, Major. Thurston, D. Cartier, Fierro.
'	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Amoretti, J. Addington, H. Addington, Ackerman, Adams Bunker, Bailey, Benner. Butterfield, Boos, Cummings, Cole, F. Coad, M. Coad, Crotty, E. Costigan, Comings. Devereux, Devine, Dirksmeyer, Dungan, Ewing, Ernest, Fulwiler, Fitzgerald, Garrity, Grunsfeld, Grimes, Henry, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, Johns, J. Kelly, E. Kelly, Kraus, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, La Tourette, Loya, Landenwich. Lowenstein, Meehan, F. Mullen,-A. Mullen, McVeigh, McPhee, Morgan, J. McGrath. E. McGrath, Murphy, McGill, W. McGuire, F. McGuire, Manzanares, Nathan, Noonan, Nusbaum. F. Nester. Otis, O’Connor, B. O’Kane, Paden, R. Papin. V. Papin, D. Prindiville, Quill, Studebaker, Stange, Spencer, Schmitz, Sokup, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Steele, Smith, AV". Tomlinson, C. Tomlinson, Thomas, Uranga, Welch, West, AVrighq Weston, L. Young, Lewis.
* Omitted by mistake last week.
Class Honors.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.
Masters Welch, Stange, Morrison, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, W- Prindiville, Spencer, Rebori, West, Studebaker, M. O’Kane, Otis, F. Nester. Ewing, Thomas, E. Kelly, Grunsfeld, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, AV. Tomlinson, Noonan, Fitzgerald, J. Addington,- E. Costigan, B. O’Kane, C. Tomlinson. Bunker,"-Dirksmeyer, Bailey, Henry, McPhee, AV. McGuire, Fulwiler, J. Lewis. .Moye. Loya, D. Prindiville, La Tourette, McAreigh, J. Kelly, Sok tsp. Cole, Quill, Johns, Quiggle, E. Scherrer, A. Mullen, Adams, M; Coad, McGill. ,	"
3°2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JFlary’s Academy.
One Mile. IVest of ffofre Dame University.
—Much pleasure is expected from the soiree, on the 31st.
—Oral examinations will be held on the 26th, 28th, and 29th.
—The written examinations in the Academic Course will begin on the 22d.	’
—The examination in Christian Doctrine will take place on Sunday, the 20th inst. -
—The singing of the Nolit e on Sunday at High Mass was particularly beautiful and impressive.
—The music examinations will begin on the 17th, and will continue every evening until all the pupils have been examined.
—In the notice of the beautiful Christmas tree which bloomed so luxuriantly in the Minims’ room, the names of the young ladies who generously contributed to its grace and beauty were, strange to say, left out. To make the amende honorable^ we acknowledge that Santa Claus was largely indebted to the Misses Rosing and Cortright, of Class ’80, the Misses Ashton, Tynan, A. Murphy, B. Johnson, Bruhn, Williams, and Hetz.
—Visitors during the past week were: Mr. T. Matthews, L. Matthews, Peoria, Ill.: Mrs. C. Voland, Columbus, Ohio; Mrs. Geo. Elliot, Portland, Maine; Mrs. Wm. Friel, Boston, Mass.; Mrs. A. N. Hart, Lansing, Mich.; Mr. F. W. Chamberlain, Burlington, Iowa; Mrs. R. R. Reid, Palatka, Florida; Mrs. Ducey, Muskegon, Mich.; Mr. E. W. Darling, M. F. T. O’Connor, Miss M. King, Mrs. McEwen. Chicago, Ill.: Miss Bertha Leg-nard, Waukegan, Ill.; Mrs. Wm. McIntyre, St. Louis, Mo.; Mrs. J. Green, Toledo, Ohio; Mrs. Geo. Farrell, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mrs. M. J. Byrne, Newark, N. J.; Mrs. J. Butler, Mrs. Sheekey, Mrs. H. T. Montgomery, South Bend.
—Mrs. McEwen, of Chicago, was a guest of the house on Saturday. Her accounts of the arrival of her son, after an absence of eight years in Munich, were of absorbing interest, especialty to the artists of the Academy. America may cherish an honest pride in the distinction achieved by Mr. McEwen in his European studies. In a school of five hundred, where but five medals were given, it was his good fortune to merit one. He was also accorded another marked honor, being appointed as one of the judges of American Art. Mr. McEwen is but twenty-four years of age, all the other judges being over forty-five years old. An exhibition of his works will be given in Chicago on their arrival, and we hope they will meet with a favorable reception and the kindly criticism which a young American artist should receive at the hands of his countrymen.
—The return from the Christmas visit home and the preparation for the coming examination are the occasions to test the mind and character of a pupil. If she be an earnest student, she will cooperate with the intention of her parents, and not
permit her late recreation to turn her mind from the lofty object for which she has come hither. Now she will apply herself more assiduously than ever. Examination days are the harvest of the year. -The fruit of five months’ study is to be gathered and garnered; now she will make the best of her time. The world is full of people who regret the want of a good education; of those who admit that guardians were too easily persuaded. Studyr was irksome, and they were permitted to drop it, and enter upon life with but a smattering of knowledge. Now they’ are left to deplore the loss. Study! Application, earnest effort is now the order at St. Mary’s.
Every Cross is a Blessing in Disguise.
The means by which Providence chooses to execute His designs are to our finite faculty of judgment quite incomprehensible. He employs an infinite method of procedure in the execution of His holy’ will, whereas our created natures view His adorable projects, His means of conferring rewards, and of inflicting punishments, in an entirely’ different light from that reflected upon them by His unerring justice.
Picture to yourself a channel, as it were, through which blessing’s are conveved from Heaven to earth. On leaving the Hand of the Almighty and beneficent Donor, the blessing is in a most perfect state, but gradually, in its descent, its apparent form changes, and it partakes of the dark hues of earth as it approaches its destination. Little by’ little, the celestial radiance vanishes, and, to our careless, mundane sense of vision, it wears but a commonplace aspect- The original beauty is quite obscured to some; there is nothing acceptable in the gift; while to others the mystic covering is easily’ penetrated, and they’ behold the treasure which it contains. The former are skeptics, the latter are believers. Which is the happier of -the two? Experience decides always in favor of those who own their weakness, and who trust the wisdom of the All-wise. To the cynical skeptic, poverty is a curse; he will not view it in any other light. Sickness is an unendurable misfortune; age and its decrepitude arouse all the bitterness of his rebellious nature, and he complains of
.	“ Dragging the crosses
Too heavy’ for mortals to bear.”
How different are the vicissitudes of life to one possessed of strong and lively’ faith! “Blessed be God!”' he cries, iri:;every misfortune. Crosses gather’’around • him, but they’ all are radiant with the light of a cheerful acceptance. Angels, pure and loving spirits, are drawn by the sweet atmosphere of submission, and they’ lift the heavy’ burdens, and the king on his throne bears not a greater power than has fallen to his lot. He has found the true Philosopher’s stone which turns all grosser substances to gold—the fine gold of broad, ge-• nial, cordial Christian charitv. Silently’ he may walk in his path of light;.the sunshine of God’s, smile may rest warmly upon him, and yet he may
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3°3
be so obscure that his reputation does not go beyond the portal of his homestead. Yet the proudest of earth might well envy his happiness.
The Infinite Cross-Bearer, in His last momentous passage from the council hall of Pilate to the mount of Calvary, has shown us the only safe way through this earthly life. Had the path strewn with flowers been equally meritorious, no doubt He would have chosen it, that we might follow where He led.
But in that Via Cruds the lesson of His Incarnation was made complete. Salvation to a fallen race was the ineffable blessing disguised in the Holy Cross, and at the feet of Him who died thereon the human heart can find the solution of the mystery of sorrow—yes, there, and noxuhere else! Here, and here only, each cross, each calamity, each affliction will be transformed, and will reveal itself as a blessing in disguise.	.
The ignorant man, were he to behold the rough, dark stone which conceals the diamond, would spurn it and cast it from him. Not so with the skilful lapidary. He knows the concealed gem, even from the very roughness of its exterior. He preserves it, and treasures it as a precious thing; but to the untrained, diamonds are never known till they are polished.
So it is with the impatient and irreverent. They walk in the dark maze of earth’s sorrows, and, spurning the guidance of Heaven, are led by their own narrow human prudence, and their end is disaster. The good there is in life is soured to them, because it is not better. The misfortunes met at every turn wear a darker gloom, because of the pride that chafes, since they are obliged to bear them.	.
Even in school duties we can mark the advantage of the principle in question. Has the persevering, diligent student no cross to bear? Does she labor under no disadvantage? Far from it! She must apply herself constantly, and, “ By the sweat of her brow,” secure the treasures of science which she came hither to garner. Crosses come every day, and in a thousand forms. The only difference between her and the wavering, indolent scholar, is that she lifts her daily cross and bears it bravelv.'
Could we but read the interior history of many of those with whom we daily come in contact, we might find many a heroine under the guise of a simple, studious school-girl. It is not the magnitude or the acknowledged success of our good actions which constitute their merit. It is rather the generosity and whole-heartedness with which ( we perform them. The.young lady ata boardingschool, who denies herself in order to maintain respect for the rules of the house, or to encourage others in the pursuit of. learning, or to do what is even more praiseworthy sometimes—that is, to study, or accomplish some difficult duty when not in the mood for it—performs no slight act of courage, and by her example leads others to do likewise.
She is, to say the least, preparing herself for the future, which may demand of her all the self-de
nial and strength of character* she can possibly acquire in her school-days. She does not reject an opportunity of doing good because obstacles present themselves. She goes bravely forward in the course of good works, irrespective of the reward ' promised, or the dangers to be encountered. She looks not to appearances, knowing that many a ruinous path is covered with bright blossoms, and that many- a seemingly dark road ends in a bright view at last, she trusts in God, and does her best, sure that however crosses may accumulate, that, “Sometime, when all life’s lessons have been learned,
"And sun and stars, forevermore have set,
The things which our weak judgments here have spurned— The things oe’r which we grieved with lashes wet— Will flash before us out of life’s dark night As stars shine most in deeper tints of blue, And we shall see how all God’s plans were right * And how what seemed reproof, was love most true.
But not to-day: then be content, poor heart; " God’s plans like lilies, pure and white unfold— We must not tear the. close shut leaves apart:	’
Time will reveal their chalices of gold,	•
© •
And if through patient toil we reach the land Where tired feet with sandals loose, may rest; When we shall hnozu, and better understand, I think that we shall sav, God knew the best.”
*	S. P.
' Class Honors.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED
(for the month of December?)
Advanced Course—Miss Laura Fendrich.
1ST Class—Misses Beal, Reilly.
2D Division—Miss M. Cummings.	.
2D Class—Misses A. Allen, Gove, Hunt, Neu.
2D Div.—Misses Bruhn, Keenan, Shephard.
3d Class—Misses Ginz, Tynan.
2D Div.—Misses M. Adderly, Carney, Dillon, Sheekey, Scully, Todd.
4TH Class—Misses C. Campbell, L- English, K. Fehr, Horn. H. Jackson, Ramsey, Van Horn.
2D Div—Misses A. Babcock, A. Gavan, Morrison, A. Murphy, Snowhook. •
5TH Class—Misses Call, Castenado. Duffield, K. Ducey, Fitzpatrick. Holt, Lucas, Munger, Moshier. Malbceuf.
2n Div.—Misses Chaves, Dunn, Danforth, Fisk. Hart, Quill, L. St. Clair, Sheridan, Williams, Wilson, Wolven.
6th Class—Misses Barry, B. English. Fogerty, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon. Hack, Hetz, Haney, E. Jackson, Kearney, Legnard. Lintner, M. Murphy, Otis, M. Priestman. Platte, L. Priestman, Regan, Roddin. Richmond, S- St. Clair, Schmidt, M. Steele.
2D Div.—Misses C. Babcock, Billings, Bailey, Brown, Cummings, Agnes English. Kearsey, Kearns. McCarthy, Mooney. O’Connell, Reynolds, Sheekey.
7th Class—Misses I. Allen, Best, J. English, Helpling. S- Jackson, King. Leahigh, Ryan, Spotwood.
Sth Class—Misses L. Johns, McEwen.
9TH Class—Misses M. Ducey, Metz, Schmauss, Steele. ioth Class—Misses Chapin; Lindsey. Papin. Murray. Harp. 4TH Class—Miss Dillon; 2D Div.—Miss Neu. 7th ClaSs—Misses D. Fitzpatrick, L. Priestman. , Guitar. Misses Beal, A. English.
Violin. Miss E. Carney.	*
Organ. Nliss C. Sheridan.	,
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class.—Miss J. Reilly.
2D Class—Miss M. Bruhn,	.
3d Class—Misses Neu. B. English. Ginz. C. Babcock, Tvnan, Ramsey:
4TH Class—Misses M. andC. Ducey, Beal, A. English, H. Jackson, St. Clair, Castenado, L. Sheekey, A. Allen.
3°4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BUCKEIWORF,
FLORIST,
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
ALITA 1'S ON HAND.
ALSO,
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING,-and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON ST.
SOUTH SEND. IND.
EUGENE F. ARNOLD (ClaSS of ’78).
V,-. JI. LANDVOIG1 .
ARNO LD & LANDVOIGT,
Attorneys and Counsellors at Law.
470 Louisiana Avenue. N. W., WASHINGTON. D. C. ■
L 8. & M. S. Railwav.
On and after Sunday. Nov. iS, 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.04 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, Over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.22 a.m.; Cleveland, 1.57 p.m.; Buffalo, 7.36 p.m.
10 54 a.m.. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.07 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.44 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
S.41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.17 a.m.; Cleveland, 6.37 a.m.; Buffalo, 12.46 p.m.
11.53 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.12 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.^2 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
5-54 P-m,, Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, io.co p.m.; Cleveland, i-07a.nl.; Buffalo, 6.41 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.04 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a.m., Chicago, 5.41 a.m.
4.28 a.m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 a.m. Chicago, 7.51 a.m.
7.11 a.m, Limited Express. Arrives at.Laporte, 7.52 a.m. Chicago, 10.11 a.m.
.1.02 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.: Chicago, 4.31 p.m. *
4.07 p.m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.54 p.m.; Chicago, 7.31 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt, South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l. Ticket Agt.. Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland. • JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M'ger, Cleveland.
iAMAH
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED with the GEOGRAPHY Oc THIS COUN
TRY WILL SEE BY EX AMINING 1 HIS M Ap TH AT THE
CHICAGO,ROCK ISLMD&PACIFICR'Y Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches. Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE."
A New and Direct Line, via Serieea and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, Newport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, Nashville, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati. Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
CREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE.
At your nearest Ticket Office, or address
R. R. CABLE, . E. ST. JOHN, Vice-Pres, i Genl JUg'r,	Genl Tkt. & Pass. Agt.
CHICAGO.
Crowned With Stars,
Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queer, of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
Publisi ed id Aid in Placing on the Dome of the New University of Notre Duma, Indian:!, a Colossal Statue «>f the Blessed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars.
- Price.
gilt. §1.25; plain, §1.00
Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE, Notre Dame, Indiana.