~^Che^
Dotre Dame Scholastic
niSC^-pVASI-SemPGR- V1CTVRVS- Vive -QUASI- CRAS-MORITVR\/S;
Vol. XLIX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 3. 1916.	No. 35. '
UNIVERSITY INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATES, 1916.
Resolved: That the federal government should give financial aid for the upbuilding of an American merchant marine.
- . First Affirmative.
BY FRANK
J. HURLEY.
^W^HE great war raging upon the battle’ll fields of Europe has brought America face to face with a situation that has no
• parallel in all her eventful history. It is a situation of such concern to the welfare of the American people that statesmen have declared “America’s crisis is at hand and never before have her hours of destiny been so heavily freighted with responsibility.” This situation has resulted from our deplorable lack of a merchant marine. Our country’s need—the world’s need to-day—is ships.
Every port and harbor on our seacoast is glutted with commerce. Every wharf and every dock is crowded with boxes and barrels. Every warehouse and empty building is packed with goods waiting for ships to carry them away. There are one hundred thousand cars standing - on the tracks between Chicago and New York loaded with freight which ought to have been across the ocean three months ago. Goods which left Chicago last .December are still three hundred miles from the Atlantic coast. Only when one is told that there are five cargoes to every ship that is leaving New York harbor; that there is not an idle ton of deep sea shipping in the world; that men are making millions over night because they have a vessel carrying ocean freight, , can one duly appreciate the fact i that our most urgent .need, is am American
- merchant marine.	''
This condition which reveals so clearly our need of a merchant marine has resulted from the fact that in the past we have depended
on the ships of foreign nations .to carry our freight. When war was declared, nearly everyone of these ships was drafted into service as naval transports and they are now. being used to assist their own countries in carrying--on the war. This situation is abnormal, of course, but it has been our situation in every war of the past and will continue to be with every war of the future unless we secure a marine now adequate to any-emergency that may arise.	.
However, it is not only in times of war. that we need a merchant marine. We have needed it every hour that this- nation has existed and we shall continue to need it'as long as America . herself continues to exist. We need a merchant marine all the time to carry our mail and passengers to all parts of the world. The desirability of good postal communications cannot be overestimated. 'A necessary- condition of any successful export business is easy communications with the rest of the world. Business opportunities' in foreign countries, are , constantly arising which must be- developed through correspondence. : This mere desire for good mail service has led European nations to give millions . of dollars to establish their marines.-
Not very different from the need mentioned above is the need of an American marine to -build up our. foreign trade and expand pur commerce. If . we depend on English or German ships to... carry pur. goods, they will naturally favor the merchants of their own country. . ; But if .we have ..American ships, their first . :
558	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	A
interest will be to build up American business, -just as English ships have built up English business and German ships' have built up German business. After the war, competition among the commercial nations will be more fierce than it has ever been before. We must have every advantage that foreign countries enjoy, and we shall be at a hopeless disadvantage if we do not have our own ships,—merchant ships of American registry.	.
Let me illustrate. Suppose a merchant in Janeiro wants to place a large order for woollen goods or machinery. He gets bids from England, Germany and America. The English manufacturer has an English steamer to carry his goods, the German manufacturer has a German ship to carry his goods, but the American manufacturer has only a British or German ship to carry his goods. Doesn’t it seem almost certain that the British ship dr the German ship is going to give the cheapest .rates and best service to the manufacturers of its own country? The first interest of any ship is to build up the trade of its mother country, and if the American manufacturer has an American ship to give him competitive rates and service he may get the business. Let me bring the point nearer ■ home. Suppose two men of South Bend are •running competitive grocery stores; that one of them has a fast automobile delivery service for his goods, and that the other grocer has to use the delivery service of his competitor. How much business will the grocer do who has no delivery service of his own? His competitor will soon drive him cut of business.
Now Honorable Judges in addition to the reasons ahead)' given to show the imperative need of a merchant marine there is still’a better and a stronger onethat is our need of a merchant marine for naval auxiliaries in time of war. We have a large fleet of battleships now, and it is the avowed intention of Congress to build more extensively in the future. Secretary McAdoo norv calls attention to the pertinent fact that our big fleet of war ships without the naval transports in the form of a merchant marine is just as useless and ineffective as .a fine gun with no bullets, as an automobile with no gasoline, or a grindstone with no crank. He declares, “A merchant marine naval auxiliary is just as essential to the effectiveness of our navy as the guns, upon the decks of our battleships and the seamen upon whose skill and valor the .effectiveness of those guns depend.”
To prove my point let me cite one concrete example which will conclusively prove that a navy without a merchant marine to coal it “ and supply it is in fact no navy at all. In 1907, when our navy made its drip around the 1 world, our merchant marine could not provide a sufficient consort to coal it. Fifty-two foreign merchant ships had to be chartered to serve that fleet. As a chain is no stronger than " its weakest link, so those sixteen battleships were no stronger than the support which that r fleet of transports could give if war had been declared. If at any time during that world cruise Avar had been declared on the United States those alien transports would have become ? automatically, under international laAv, either belligerent or neutral. In either case the services * of those transports Avould have been instantly Avithdrawn from our naxw, and that fleet Avould have been stranded in some foreign port at the mercy of any hostile fleet.	'	'
Honorable Judges, Avhat Avould be our condition to-day if Ave Avere to become suddenly involved in the European struggle? Our merchant marine > Avould be insignificant as a naval auxiliary and our na\-y, which is our first line of defense, cur chief Aveapon Avith Avhich to Avard off a foreign enemy, would be practically useless. Is it, ( then, at all strange that American statesmen should be so.persistent in their, demands for a .merchant marine, an American merchant marine, Avhich can satisfy this naval need by providing merchant ships of American registry available for our government in time of Avar? Are they not correct in belieAung that the biggest price will be a small price .to pay for preparedness and national safety?
Noaa’ the encouraging fact is that our necessity of a merchant marine is equalled by the Avonder- I ful opportunity Avhich America noAAr has to develop a marine! Since the outbreak of the r war Ave have again become a ship-building > nation. The shipping industry is uoaa7 getting ] a start and is doing Avhat it can to solve our I shipping problem. Still the Avork Avhich is H being done hoav is only a start; it is by no ,4 means adequate to the need. Our shipping is in the infant stage, and .consequently needs II protection and encouragement to insure. its 1 growth.	8
At the close of the Avar of 1812 our shipping < industries were in a similar condition. They Avere doing all they could to grow strong and I independent and meet the needs of the country, |
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
but our government saw that, unaided, they could not succeed. Consequently the shipping industries were given financial aid. Under the paternal care of the government and with the financial aid given by our national treasury our merchant marine then attained supremacy on the seas and was without an equal in the maritime history of the world. '
Honorable Judges: Is it not best that we should profit by the example of our forefathers and imitate their policy which was so effective in securing us a merchant marine in the past? Or, as Secretary McAdoo asks, “Shall we sleep while the opportunity to be the dominant financial power of the world is trying to force itself into our indifferent grasp; or shall we with the courage, decision, enterprise and vision of our ancestors, seize this marvelous opportunity, grant financial aid to upbuild our marine, and make America a permanent, vital and irresistible force for the welfare of humanity and the progress of civilization?
Second Affirmative.
by o. j. DORWIN.
For the past fifty years our federal government has done practically nothing to aid the upbuilding of the merchant marine which my colleague has shown to be so necessary. And for the' past fifty years our foreign merchant marine has decreased in tonnage until at the opening of the present war we had only 2,066,288 tons of shipping in our registry with which , to carry on our foreign trade. Private capital has found it impossible to enter the shipping business to carry our foreign commerce because of the disadvantages of competing with foreign ships. These disadvantages can all be assigned to one cause—the higher cost of operation. That the higher cost of operation is the reason for our inability to compete with foreign ■ vessels is proved and emphasized by the fact that great American corporations, such as the United States Steel Corporation, the Standard J Oil. Company, the American Tobacco Company, ।	the American Molasses Company and the United
I Fruit Company operated all, ‘ or nearly all, ; of their ships under the flags of foreign nations. ( That their reason for operating under foreign j] registry was not because of our navigation laws, '! is shown by the fact that the Free Ship Act :	of 1912 and the Act of 1914 did not of themselves
559
bring ships into*our registry as was intended. The Free Ship Act of 1912 gave foreign ships the right to enter our registry and engage, in our foreign trade if they were not more than five years old The Act of 1914 gave them the unconditional right to enter our registry for the purpose of engaging in our foreign trade, and also gave the President power to suspend the navigation laws relating to inspection and measurement. The President suspended these laws, but not a single foreign ship entered our registry until entirely new conditions had been created by the war.
The factors contributing to the higher cost of operation under the American flag are— the American standard of living, the minimum of equipment, and the higher cost of labor on board American ships. Of these three factors the higher cost of labor is the most important. The scale of wages cannot be lowered, because at present it is not more than commensurate with the scale of wages in land industries. A comparison of the wages on board foreign and American ships proves beyond doubt that the higher cost of labor is an obstacle which is insuperable for American ship-owners because of the greater cost of operation it involves. A comparison of representative 12,000-ton ships in English and American registry, each carrying 427 men, shows that the American vessel pays 831,200 more per year for w'ages than does the British ship. A similar comparison of representative German and American'12,000-ton ships, each carrying 427 men, shows that the American ship pays 868,400 more per year for wages than does the German vessel. A comparison of representative 6,ooo-ton ships in Japanese and American registries shows that the American ship pays 848,372 more annually for wages than does the Japanese ship, although our vessel carries twenty-three fewer men. It is obvious from these comparisons that ships in the American registry must pay wages enormously higher than do our chief maritime competitors. • The difference is more than enough to prevent us from, operating our ships in competition with them. Add to this the increased cost of operation resulting from the higher standard of living and the minimum of equipment, and there is a barrier which American capital' has found itself utterly unable to overcome . without aid.
It may be the contention of the negative that the barrier to our entrance into the foreign ,
TSE NOTRE- DAME SCHOLASTIC
560
trade is our navigation laws. They may say, as others have said, that if our navigation laws were revised so that they would not augment the cost of operation, the whole problem would be solved, because our ships could then operate profitably in the foreign trade. Even though a revision of our navigation laws would do this, we could not repeal them, for every one of these laws relates to the. insurance of safety at sea and to the standards of living and equipment which everyone wishes to maintain. Furthermore, suppose we could repeal these laws, what good would it do? It would avail us nothing. It would not affect the most important obstacle to our maritime competition— the higher cost of labor. Revise our navigation laws to the entire satisfaction of the most radical revisionist, but you will still have that insurmountable barrier baffling you at every turn. That difficulty cannot be removed or surmounted. It can only be neutralized, and the neutralization can be effected onlv by governmental financial aid.
The present boom in the ship-building industry is the result of abnormal industrial conditions created by the war. The total tonnage of the vessels owned by the nations at war amounts to over 32,000,000 tons or 71 per cent of the shipping of the world. These nations have withdrawn most of their ships from the foreign trade, for they had to have them for naval auxiliaries and to transport food and ammunition. Thus our ships are almost alone on the seas and can operate temporarily without fear of competition. In fact the supply of ships is so short that the shippers are competing with .each other to obtain the services of the ships. As a result, freight rates have increased tremendously, and in some cases as much as 1000 or 1200 per cent. This makes it highly profitable to operate ships under the American flag, notwithstanding the higher cost of operation, and accounts for the increased demand for new ships. •
But bear in mind that the present boom is only a temporary one, caused by transitory and abnormal industrial conditions. Immediately after the war, conditions will tend to become normal. Freight charges will decrease until they reach the point at which they were before the war. The competition for the foreign trade will be just as keen and strong as it was before the war,, and from all indications it will be very , much fiercer. The "nations now at war
will turn back naturally to the foreign trade they had in the past. The competition will be made much stronger by the efforts of each nation to recover from its war losses. Germany and England are already preparing for strenuous commercial campaigns to begin immediately at the close of the war.
In the fierce competition after the war we shall not be able to succeed in the foreign trade without financial aid. After conditions have readjusted themselves and trade has resumed its normal condition, we shall possess only a weak, infant industry, which cannot possibly succeed without this protection. Our ships will seek the advantages of foreign registry just as they did before the war, and there is nothing to prevent them from leaving our registry. Ships in the foreign trade do not have to remain in our registry a day longer than , they wish, and I ask the gentlemen of the	'
Negative to give us some adequate reasons why	i
ships should remain in our registry after the war if we do not grant financial aid. Our ships will have to compete on substantially'the same basis that they did before, and there will be the same reasons for their leaving our registry after the war that impelled them to leave before the war. Wages, we are assured by the £ noted- economist and shipping expert, Emory R. Johnson, will not rise in the warring nations, J and so there will be no refief from this most serious obstacle to the upbuilding of our merchant marine. On this basis of competition we have been unable to keep our own ships	j
under our registry and to build up a merchant	’
marine in the past, and shall be quite as unable	!
to do so after the war unless our government	I
grants .financial aid.	'
I have shown you that private capital has failed to enter our foreign shipping business in the past because of barriers too great to ’ be overcome by our ship-owners; that after ) the' war these same irremovable barriers will still prevent our entrance into the foreign trade; and that the basis of competition, being the' same as before the war, we must fail. Now,, since my colleague has shown that a *p merchant marine is absolutely necessary to our ’ industrial, welfare and to the independence and security of the United States, and since the causes of the unprofitableness of the enterprise < cannot be eliminated or overcome in any other ! way, we must, therefore, neutralize these causes ' by- granting .financial aid. . Private capital will
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
continue to fail as long as we refuse to grant it assistance to offset the disadvantage in the cost of operation. We cannot expect the owner of a i2,ooo-ton ship to operate his vessel under the American flag, when he can operate it at least $31,000 cheaper under the British flag. We cannot expect private capital to build ships to engage in our foreign trade in the face of such greater cost of operation. We cannot, in short, expect to build up a merchant marine without financial aid from the government.
Third Affirmative.
BY TIMOTHY P. GALVIN.
My first colleague has proved that America needs a merchant marine. My second colleague has proved that this needed marine cannot be secured without financial aid from our federal government. It remains for me to show that this marine can be secured with such financial aid. My proof of this argument shall be based upon the strongest of all arguments,—the argument from experience. '
The idea of granting financial aid to upbuild a merchant marine is by no means new. That this plan has been tried generally and with wonderful success is shown by the fact that there is not a single merchant marine of any importance upon the seas to-day that is not now receiving or has not at some time received financial aidz from the government whose flag it flies. That statement is not oratorical exaggeration; it is plain, undeniable fact?
How was the English merchant marine, the greatest on the seas, built up? Both its origin and its development must be attributed to a great extent to the financial aid of the English Government. The present British merchant marine had its beginning ’between 1830 and 1840, when a number of experimental steam lines were established. The English historian, Grantham, says, “Every one of these early steam lines was a state-aided enterprise. Not one of them would have come into being without the fostering care of the royal government.” By means of numerous large subsidies granted to various steamship lines England secured regular steamship service to all parts of the world. The fastest and best ships were brought under the British flag. - The English marine has constantly expanded and England has continued to foster it- even down to the
561
present time. Just a few years ago the royal government lent the Cunard Line the money with which the Mauretania and the Lusitania were built; then the government granted the Cunard Line a subsidy sufficient to enable the company to pay back the. government’s loan. Hence the English government practically made the Cunard Line a present of two great ocean liners. Is it any wonder that with such liberal governmental support the British merchant marine has continued to grow until its tonnage now exceeds 21,000,000, almost-half of the total tonnage of the world? Is it any wonder that England has been called “The Mistress of the Seas”?	■
The German marine presents a similar case, for it owes its initial stimulus and subsequent growth largely to government aid. To trace the recent notable development of the German marine it is necessary to go back to 1885 when a new steamship service from Germany to China, Japan, and Australia was established. Senator Gallinger, Chairman of otir American Merchant Marine Commission, in speaking of this new German steamship service of 1S85, says, “Without government aid the new steamship service never could have been started, or, if started, it could not have lived a year.” The new service was directly attributable to an annual subsidy of more than a million dollars. Germany has steadfastly continued this policy of financial aid begun thirty years ago, and, as a result the German marine in the over-seas trade was, at the outbreak of the present war, second only to that of Great Britain.
We might go on to cite one foreign merchant marine after another that has been built up by financial aid, but it is not necessary to go to any foreign country to find evidence that a merchant marine can be built up with government aid, for excellent proof of this fact is found in the history of our own country. In the early years of our republic such far-sighted men as Washington, Jefferson, and Hamilton saw the value of a merchant marine, and, as a result, the second act passed by the first American Congress was an act granting to American ship-owners financial aid in the form of discriminatory duties. Under this system of govem-_mental aid the American merchant marine soon became the greatest on the seas. Our marine supremacy continued until the time when the transition from wooden sailing vessels to steam-propelled steel ships caused a crisis in inter
562	TSE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
national competition in the shipping business. In that crisis governmental aid was withdrawn from our shipping industry and the subsidized British ships drove our ships from the seas.
The obvious conclusion to be drawn from the world’s experiences is this,—that a government can build up a merchant marine by granting financial aid for that purpose. Other countries have done this; our own country has done it in the past; surely, we can do it again. In fact' it has long been recognized that we can build up our merchant marine by granting it financial aid. For many years every platform of both of our great political parties has declared that our merchant marine should be aided. The Republican party has long advocated ship subsidies; a Democratic administration is to-da)r urging the investment of government funds in the shipping industry. The American Merchant Marine Commission of 1905, composed of five Senators and five Representatives, appointed, by the authority of Congress, conducted the most authoritative, the most extensive, and the most thorough investigation into the ocean shipping business that has ever been attempted in this country, and after that investigation the commission strongly advised that our government grant subsidies to the shipping industry.
History argues that financial aid will succeed ; experts have given it their stamp of approval; public opinion is already formed in its favor. Surely, then, our government should grant financial aid to upbuild our much-needed merchant marine.
Differences of opinion as to the way in which this aid should be granted do not directly concern us in this debate. Aid might be given by means of direct subsidies; it might.be given by an extension and development of the mail subventions, which this country has been granting since 1891. The shippers might be aided by a government loan without interest. The government might join with private capital in the formation of a giant shipping corporation for which the government would furnish one-half of the capital and private capitalists the other half, with the agreement that the private capitalists were to receive a fair return on their investment—probably six per cent—before the government received any return whatever. Any one of these methods would grant financial aid to bur merchant marine; any one of them would be far better. Than- the “do-nothing”
policy of our opponents. Some of them would probably be better than others; which particular one should be adopted might in itself be a question for debate. But the question which we are debating is not which particular method should be adopted, but whether or not any form of financial aid should be granted.
We of the affirmative have shown that we need a merchant marine, that we need it now, and that we need it badly. Because the standard of living that is and ought to be maintained on American ships is higher than the standard maintained on foreign ships, and especially because the wages demanded on American vessels are higher than those paid on foreign vessels, American capitalists cannot operate ships under the American flag. The only means by which we can secure a merchant marine is the granting of financial aid that will overcome the competitive disadvantage that now handicaps the American shipper. Since no country that possesses a merchant marine to-day secured that marine without financial aid, and since this method of building up a merchant marine has been notably successful in this country and in other countries in the past, we, of the affirmative, demand that financial aid be granted to the shipping industry, to the end that there may be built up the institution upon which depends the commercial prosperity and the national safety of this' republic—an American merchant marine.
First Negative.
BY BERNARD J. VOEL
' We admit with the first speaker of the affirmative that a merchant marine is necessary to the welfare of the American people.- Hence the issue of this debate resolves itself into a question of the necessity of paying public money to j private ship-owners in order to hasten the upbuilding of a merchant fleet. All admit that it would be unwise and a misuse of public money to pay to wealthy and powerful private interests funds raised by the taxation of American citi- j 1 zens, unless such aid is imperatively needed. , Therefore .all' , discussions of discriminating duties, , of ship , subsidies, of governmental ownership of. merchant vessels or any other l1 means whereby public money is to be paid to i private industries is irrelevant until it shall have ! been" conclusively, shown that private capital,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
aided by mere protective legislation, cannot within a reasonable length of time build up a f merchant marine adequate to the needs of
American commerce in times of peace and of American defense in time of war.
Now we do not oppose the giving of financial aid to the upbuilding of quasi-public industries on any broad general principle. It was probably > wise for the cities and states and federal government to grant such', aid in order that private ‘ capital might be induced to venture upon the building of our transcontinental railroads, because such aid seemed to be a necessary condition. It would have been highly imprudent for the English people to have subsidized the ■ railroads connecting their prosperous industrial cities, because such aid was plainly not needed. ,	Hence we oppose the giving of public money
'	for the upbuilding of an American merchant
, marine, because we believe and shall endeavor "	. to prove that such aid. is unnecessary. '	-
A brief history of the rise and decline and of the present revival of the American merchant marine, reveals a fact of first importance in our / discussion. That marine grew and flourished, I	from 1789 until i860, chiefly because economic
J	conditions then favored us, and only second-
4, arily because of the indirect financial aid given by the government during parts of this period. The states along the Atlantic Coast were j admirably adapted to the ship-building industry. There was an abundance of material in the vast and apparently inexhaustible forests of hard and soft wood, and it was this, more than any other single factor, that made the Unites States the leading maritime nation of the world. Even to the end of this period, ships were constructed entirety of wood. On that account the English had at one time the advantage; but long ago their forests ceased to yield an appreciable amount of timber, and they were consequently forced to purchase either lumber or ships from America. The result was that .their shipbuilding industry declined rapidly until it was '	soon but a mere fraction	of what it had been.
.	This decline of so important an industry
’	necessarily entailed the	loss of their power
(	upon the sea, and this	loss was a gain for
, America.	■
• ' As we had the advantage of having the U,	materials, we soon had the greatest artisans
j	in the world. As the national life expanded,
1 practice in building produced skilled designers and skilled wrights who placed upon the- sea,
563
faster and better ships than those of any other nation. By 1810 we were carrying ninety per cent of our foreign commerce, and in 1856 the American flag had no peer on the ocean. Thus with economic conditions favoring it, the United States had, from an insignificant commercial nation in 1789, developed by i860 into the leading maritime country of the world.
When these economic conditions became unfavorable our merchant marine speedily declined, in spite of the fact that the government granted subsidies to maintain it. The tardy development of our iron and steel industry in comparison-with the development of the same industry in Great Britain was the fundamental economic cause of the decline of our merchant marine and of the development of the English. It was a cause which no governmental policy could resist. There was at this point a substitution of steam for sail and of iron for wood in the construction of ships. This change was fatal to our interests on the sea because the American ship-builder could not adapt himself e	1	f
to it. As our capital had been engaged in commercial enterprises, our iron and steel industries had been neglected. Even the ships, which heretofore had been the pride of the nation, were bolted, together with British iron. Under such conditions, “Ship-owners and shipbuilders in the United’ States were unable to compete successfully with the British in the construction and operation of iron steamships.
Despite indefatigable efforts, Americans soon found that economic conditions which formerly-favored them, now aided the English.” Professor Emory Johnson, in his “ History of Domestic and Foreign Trade,” says, “The opening of American ports to foreign vessels on a basis of equality did not undermine the merchant marine; nor did any other governmental policy^. The decline began only when economic advantages in ship-building were acquired by Great. Britain, due to the change in materials-employed in construction. A more favorable British policy appeared to give English shipping interests a large part of the carrying trade formerly enjoyed by Americans. But no governmental policy could have stayed the forces which, were at work to bring about the downfall of American shipping.” The industrial revolution had acquainted the English people with.the use of steam, and at that time they possessed an
564	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
abundance of'coal and iron. These conditions enabled them to take advantage of the change in the construction of vessels as no other nation could, and were the principal causes of Great Britain’s later supremacy on the seas.
Another country in which conditions were favorable to the upbuilding of a merchant marine was Japan, but despite this, a law was enacted in 1S96 granting subsidies to the ship-building and shipping industries, concerning which, Dr. Royal Meeker says, “Shipping grew as rapidly before the law of 1896 as after, in spite of the monopolistic power of one company. Since 1868 Japan has experienced an economic revolution even more astounding than its political revolution.. . ....shipping would have developed anyhow, in fact was developing with great rapidity. The government merely gave form -to the maritime undertakings of the capitalists. It will always be a question if the government gave the best direction—whether the development would not have been sounder, though less rapid, had the capitalists been left to decide for themselves what lines to establish.” Plainly, Honorable Judges, here is a country in which financial aid was given to the upbuilding of a merchant marine when it was unnecessary.
Recently economic conditions have turned in our favor, with results so startling that their significance is scarcety appreciated. Our steel industry has developed until we have the cheapest steel in the world. This has equalized the difference in the cost of ship-building materials which formerly existed between the United States and other nations. The building and opening of-the Panama Canal, has given a great impetus to our coastwise trade.' It has brought about a rearrangement of the old trade routes and has established new ones; it has facilitated the interchange of commodities and lessened - their cost of transportation. The demands of our rapidly expanding foreign trade are becoming more insistent each day. Our exporters and importers have created the need of a merchant marine, and to-day they are clamoring- to have that need supplied.- finally, the war has given us untold opportunities and advantages. It has notably increased our foreign trade; it has caused millions of tons of German and Austrian shipping, to be withdrawn from the seas; it lias caused millions of tons of shipping to be requisitioned for /military purposes, and it has sent these millions to the bottom of
the ocean. All of these effects have helped to create an unparalleled demand for an American merchant marine.
This demand has met with a response from private capital in the expansion of the American shipping and ship-building industry which has raised it out of the infant industry class in need of governmental aid, and made it able to compete with the shipping of any nation. On June 30, 1915, tonnage registered under the American flag- was more than eight million gross, valued at six hundred millions of dollars. The increase during the year has been seven hundred and ninety-five thousand, three hundred and ninety-one gross tons—an increase never equalled in a single year of our history. In tonnage and value the shipping to-day under the American flag is surpassed only by that under the British flag, and in tonnage alone it equals that under any two foreign flags, except Great Britain’s. The United States is to-day witnessing the greatest ship-building boom in its history, which plainly indicates that private capital is not inactive and will without doubt build up our merchant marine.
Briefly, then, because of favorable economic conditions the American people wefe able to build up a merchant marine during the first half.of the last century which became supreme upon the seas. But when these conditions became adverse, owing to a lack of development in the iron industry, this marine declined, and it declined despite the financial aid given it by the government. Now, economic conditions are again strongly in our favor as evidenced by the marvelous development of the steel industries; our rapidly expanding foreign trade, the opening of the Panama Canal, and the activities in our ship-building industry. These facts are significant, Honorable Judges, and there are still others. Financial aid from the government is not needed to build up a merchant marine because there is no demand for it. The very men who would receive such aid are not asking for it; but they are asking that certain unwise navigation laws shall be repealed, and that they be given a fair opportunity to engage in the carrying trade with their foreign, competitors. The fact that we are building more ships now than ever before and the fact that the . men who would-receive financial aid are not seeking it, certainly creates a strong presumption that such aid is altogether unnecessary. -	. .	, .	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
1
Second Negative.
x	BY JOHN A. LEMMER.
k
■ t
i My colleague has shown you that the American merchant marine first developed because economic conditions were favorable; that after half a century of success it declined because t economic conditions were against it; and further, that to-day these conditions have been advan-. tageously reversed and our merchant marine is upbuilding. It is my purpose to explain the economic conditions which have enabled the American ship-builder to compete again with every other ship-builder in the world; to deal with the causes which have brought about the ■ “greatest revival of shipping, ever known to history”; and finally to show how ship-building j ■ and ocean-transportation are inseparable.
If America desires a greater merchant marine, p a prosperous ship-building industry is a necessary condition. No nation has ever had a great merchant marine unless it had a great shipbuilding industry; no nation has ever had a 1 great ship building industry without having a j' great merchant marine. The two upbuild and ] Sustain each other.
From the early eighties, when America experienced her first impetus in shipping after the Civil War, our shipyards have designed and constructed vessels with such nice accuracy and with such consideration for particulars that “ship for ship the American-built boat is always better equipped than any other.” Our naval architects, engineers, and skilled workmen, experienced in the building of American battleships, have applied their skill to the building of merchantmen. In doing so they have set the highest standard of ship construction, with the consequence that American superiority is generally recognized. Argentina recently expressed her conviction of this fact by ordering two ten-million dollar battleships of American make. Twenty-seven vessels are building here to-day for Norwegian interests, and twenty-eight for Italian. Never since the I clipper boom of 1854 has a shipyard of this country constructed a vessel ordered by a I foreign nation, because American superiority j alone was not sufficient to overcome the higher cost of construction, and American yards have ' remained idle.
■ To-day, our vessels' still excel, and, what is more, the higher cost of building ho longer
obtains. Three factors stand out prominently in bringing about lower construction costs. The first of these is cheaper steel. In September of 1904, according to the market price of the Carnegie Steel Company at Pittsburg, steel ship-plates in the United States cost $32.48 per ton. During the same month in the Middlesborough market of Great Britain one ton was quoted at $26.75. Higher prices prevailed in America until August of 1910, four years before the present war, when steel ship-plates sold, here at $31.36, while in Great Britain the cost was $31.63. And during every succeeding month • the prices have been lower in the United States than in any part of the United Kingdom. The latest figures available, those for July of 1915, show the market price for steel to be S28.67 here, and $47.45 abroad. Now, the cost of steel is a fundamental item in the cost of a steel ship, since from one-third to one-half, of the entire cost of the vessel lies in the cost of the steel. You will readily appreciate what an immense advantage this is' for the American ship-builder and the American ship-owner.
The second important factor in bringing about cheaper construction is the Act of 1914 which gave free ship-building materials to our ship-wrights. Up to that time the various adjuncts needed for vessels had been made more cheaply in Great Britain. The United States until the Act of 1914 imposed upon these accessories a heavy duty; consequently, the American builder could not buy them without restriction. Nqw that this restriction is removed, and all. ship-building material is admitted free, the American constructor enjoys the same advantages in this respect as his British and German rivals. -
The American ship-building industry, thus favored by cheap steel and free materials, lacked only one condition to secure the lowest priced vessels,—large-scale production- with all its advantages of specialization and standardization of processes. Large-scale production is the third great factor in reducing construction costs to their lowest. The American shipbuilding industry needed orders, and with the European war the orders came, giving us construction upon a large and systematic basis, very different from the haphazard methods of a few years ago, the impracticability of which is evidenced by the testimony of Mr. Lewis Nixon. “In one of the largest shipyards of the country, there *are five ships, each capable
5^6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of holding a Campania, and recently on one was a tug, on • another a battleship, on another a ferryboat, on another a yacht, and on the fifth a revenue cutter. It is absolutely impossible to practice economics under such circumstances.”
In 1914, before the war, not a dozen ships were building in American yards. To-day, all our shipyards are increasing their capacities. They are choked with orders which it will take six years to fill. During the first weeks of March, two hundred and fifty-two vessels averaging five thousand tons were under construction. That means an addition of one million, two hundred and sixty thousand tons. It may be true that only twenty per cent of this tonnage is for the foreign trade, but many of the ships now intended for coastwise traffic replace old vessels drafted into the over-sea commerce, while most c-f the others are constructed in a manner to enable them to cross the ocean if there be need.
Nor is there any reason to believe this boom is but temporary. Mr. Charles M. Schwab, the financier, the biggest individual shipbuilder, has purchased the Dore River, the Wilmington, the Sparrows Point ship - building plants on the Atlantic coast and another plant on the Pacific. During one month twenty different American organizations took our charters for ship companies and a dozen for ship-building plants. Consider the significance of these enormous investments. Do you think that these millions of dollars are being put into the ship-building industry by men who contemplate sudden withdrawal of their investments? In view of their present eagerness to invest, is it likely that private capitalists if they had been given a chance during the last fifty years would have failed to build up our merchant marine? One of the principal reasons that induced American ship-owners to seek foreign registry, the reason why during fifty years private enterprise neglected our merchant marine was that American registry laws demanded ships . of American construction. And American built vessels at that time cost from twenty-five to thirty-three per cent more than vessels of foreign build. This meant that an American .made ship of 5000 tons cost about $200,000 more than an English-made ship of the same. size.' The American ship-owner naturally sought the cheapest market .for construction, and then American laws forced foreign registry upon him.* Previous to the
present war no foreign-built vessel was permitted 'to fly the Stars and Stripes, with the result that.
two million tons of American-owned shipping sailed under the flags of other nations.
Honorable Judges, an American merchant marine means more than a fleet of ships. ‘‘It means a ship-building industry behind the fleet, capable of maintaining it, repairing it, increasing it when necessary.” America has a great and ever-expanding foreign trade, a foreign trade that amounted to five and one-third billions of dollars in 1915. To provide for it American ship-builders are giving us merchantmen as fast as human labor and human ingenuity can construct them. ' America to-day has a great ship-building industry. Since there never was a nation with a great ship-building industry without a great merchant marine, since there never was a nation with a great merchant marine without a great ship-building industry, since the ablest financiers of the country are investing millions of dollars in ocean-transportation and ship-building industries without anticipating financial aid, .since the American ship, builder and the American ship-owner do not ask for and do not need financial aid, we of the negative maintain that Government financial aid is unnecessary.	.	'
Third Negative.
BY M. A. MULCAIR.
My colleagues have shown you that government financial aid in any form is not needed to stimulate further the tremendous natural growth which we are experiencing^ to-day in American ship-building. It is my purpose to show you that we can operate our ships without such aid because the difficulties which are believed to exist as a hindrance to operation are merely artificial, and that being artificial, they may be easily removed.
All students of this question trace the disadvantages of operating under the American flag to two causes. The first and most important is our unsatisfactory navigation laws; the second is the higher cost' of American labor.
‘ The affirmative have ignored the disadvantage resulting from our navigation laws, which disadvantage is so great that it cannot be ignored, and they are basing their whole argument on the supposition that the wages paid by American ship-owners are so insuperable that the result"
>	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	567
and disadvantage cannot bq overcome without government aid.
; Now if American ship-owners suffer any 1 disadvantage from operating under the Ameri-$ can flag, it is of the utmost importance to know what those men consider to be the disadvantages under which the}' have to labor. We insist that this point is more <than a mere matter of > interest, it is conclusive when the largest shippers in our country, notably Robert Dollar and •- Schwerin, tell us that they experience no disadvantage as a result of paying higher wages. Robert Dollar a few years ago published an itemized list of the additional expenses of operating under the American flag. Those additional expenses amounted to $17,236 ' annually. Yet not a single dollar of that sum does he assign to higher wages. On the contrary, I he savs that every cent of that $17,236 is due to unsatisfactory navigation laws. Yet the, J affirmative in the face of such testimony, propose ' to give financial aid to shippers in order to offset a disadvantage which these ship-owners ; have never experienced.
* Now it is important to keep clearly in mind [ the position of the affirmative in this debate. ] They propose to give government financial , , aid to ship-owners to enable them to operate under the American flag. They propose to give this aid to men who do not ask for it, and to men who tell us specifically they do not need it. Now this is a remarkable position,’ a position unparalleled in the history of subsidy or tariff legislation. We have Dollar and Schwerin, the two largest ’ shippers on the Pacific, telling us plainly that they do not need financial aid. We have t'he largest shipper on the Atlantic declaring “Firms' like mine need no subsidy.” We have a report submitted by the National Foreign Trade Council three months ago, a report compiled by shippers and shipping experts after the most recent and thorough investigation of the shipping problem that has ever been made; and in the four distinct recommendations which are contained in that report for the upbuilding of an American ■ merchant marine, we find no mention, not even , a suggestion, that any form of financial aid is necessary. We have Frank Vanderlip telling us that there are hundreds of millions of. dollars at the command of shippers as soon as there is any reasonable assurance that they will not be ” harrassed by discriminatory navigation laws.
Frank Vanderlip is the president of the New
York City National Bank, the largest bank in this country and one of the largest in the world. As such, he is the custodian of millions of dollars of private capital. And when he says that there are hundreds of millions of dollars at the command of shippers, we must admit that he is in a position to know the minds of his investors. He is, moreover, one of the directors of the American International Corporation, a corporation backed with fifty millions of dollars; and existing solely to extend our foreign trade and to build up our merchant marine. .
Now remember that Frank Vanderlip and the shippers themselves do not ask for financial aid, but they do ask for something very specifically,—a repeal or revision of some of our navigation laws. When they tell us that they do not need financial aid, but that they do need a revision of our navigation laws, then it is only reasonable for us to suppose that those men know what they need.
The affirmative have been deluded by figures in comparing the American scale • of wages with the wages of other countries,- and they have concluded that because American wages are higher than the wages of other countries the shipper who employs American labor is operating at a disadvantage. They overlook the allimportant economic principle that wages are relatively the same the world over. They overlook the fact that American wages were relatively as high sixty years ago as they are to-day. Yet sixty-years ago the American merchant marine was the greatest in the world. They overlook the fact that not a single student of this question has ever attributed the decline of the American merchant marine to the high price of American labor. •
This argument concerning wages, if carried to its logical conclusion, will disprove itself. It must be admitted that every shipper is in the business because he wishes to realize profits. So we must conclude that if the wages paid in any country place the shipper at any disadvantage, he will seek registry under a flag where wages are the lowest. Is this the condition which we find? We know that Americans own two million tons of shipping under the British flag, and that they own scarcely any tonnage under the German or French flags. Yet the wages paid to the German and French seamen are notably lower than the English wages. We know that Japanese wages are from 50 to 200 per cent lower than the wages
568	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
in either America or Europe. Yet there is not a single ship, owned by an American or a European, under the Japanese flag to-day. Now according to the argument of the affirmative, we should expect that the English, German and French marines would be driven from the sea since they are all operating at a disadvantage, because wages in Japan are from 50 to 200 per cent lower than the wages in those countries. But we know that while the English shipper pays higher wages than any other ship-owner, except the American, yet the English merchant marine is the greatest in the world to-day.
It must be clear that the disadvantages resulting from high-priced labor are more imaginary than real. Where, then, does the trouble lie? You have but to ask any ship-owner. He will tell you that our vicious, antiquated navigation laws have been the real obstacle to an American merchant marine. It would be impossible for me to enumerate the various laws which ship-owners consider unjust and discriminatory. Robert Dollar has estimated that the annual disadvantage resulting from the wages of nine extra seamen which the American shipper is bound by law to employ on each ship, amounts to $8,736. This extra cost, together with that resulting from our unsatisfactor}' measurement and inspection laws, amounts to $17,236 every year.	‘
Some of the most objectionable of those laws, notably the measurement law, have been revised since the opening of the European war. Congress is realizing at last that our navigation laws have been the real obstacle to an American merchant marine. Since Congress is removing the most odious of those laws we maintain that the two prerequisites for the establishment of an American merchant marine, namely our ability to build and to operate ships, are fulfilled to-day.
If you, Honorable Judges, were the legislators who should vote upon this bill, and on investigation you discovered that the inevitable consequences of the great shipping boom which we are experiencing to-day, point to one conclusion,—that America has entered upon a new shipping era, would you not conclude with us that it is unnecessary to tax the American farmer and the American laborer to pay millionaire corporations to operate under the American flag?. If on further investigation you should find that the very men to whom you proposed to give this aid not only do not need
it but do not ask for it, would you still insist on forcing it upon them? And if you should learn that the National Foreign Trade Council, 1 which is composed of shippers, shipping experts, and others interested in the extension of our ( foreign trade, had, at their last regular meeting |j in New Orleans just three months ago, made four I distinct recommendations for the upbuilding | of our merchant marine and that among those recommendations there is. not mention or B suggestion of any form of government financial aid, would you .disregard the advice of those experts and legislate financial aid? The affirmative, with conditions as stated, would have you act at once. They would have you disregard sound judgment and solid facts and pass a law (j which no one needs and which no one wants.
They would have you plunge headlong into an J important and expensive innovation which ■ experience does not justify and which present conditions do not demand. We of the negative ’ would have you consider conditions as they are '' to-day. '	:
Since there never was a nation with a great ship-building industry and a great and ever-expanding foreign trade without a merchant	•
marine; and since the greatest financiers of the country are to - day investing millions , of dollars in our shipping without even anticipating financial aid; and finally since shippers 1 themselves do not ask for and do not need	|
financial aid, we of the negative maintain that	I
government financial aid is unnecessary and ' should not be given to upbuild our merchant marine.	|
The Bertrand Brook.
BY T. J. TIERNEY.
Down by the bridge the loit’ring stream, Murmurs forever its sweet dream.
The sod and fern and ev’ry flower, Have laughed beneath the fresh’ning shower.
On bank and fallow flowers lay, And on the fields, now white with May.
The brook is golden as it flows -Against the sunset’s frosty rose.
The parted trees are cloudy all, And backward stretch in a long wall. -The scarlet shafts of sunset gleam, Tike'golden satin shines the stream.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC ‘	'	569
The 1916 Debating Season.
The fourth annual debate between St. Viator College and Notre Dame University was held Tuesday night, April 25. As Detroit, University withdrew from the triangle this year a series of dual debates was scheduled with St. Viator College, resulting in a double victor}* for Notre Dame, our negative team winning unanimously at Kankakee, and our affirmative team receiving a two to one decision at home.
The members of the Notre Dame team in the local debate were Francis Hurley, G. DeWald McDonald, and Timothy Galvin; F. Sheen. C. Hart, and C. Donanville speaking for St. Viator College on the negative side of the case.
The real battle of the debate came in the rebuttal speeches, and it was here that the Notre Dame speakers proved their unquestionable superiority over their opponents. With great tenacity they defended their case, emphasizing especially our need of a merchant marine as a naval auxiliary in time of war. It was the insistence upon this point, which the negative was unable to answer, that probably more than any other thing, .caused the tide of victory to favor Notre Dame.
The judges who rendered the decision were Judge John M. O’Connor of the Appellate Court of Illinois, Judge John A. Mahoney of the Municipal Court of Cook County, and Attorney Quin O’Brien of Chicago, Illinois. Hon. Arthur D. Hubbard of South Bend was the presiding officer.
After the debate, a pleasant party composed of Father J. Bergen of St. Viator College, Father P. J. Foik and Professor E. G. Lenihan of Notre Dame, and the debaters from both schools went to the Oliver Hotel where the annual debating banquet was held.
In the meantime the Notre Dame negative team was winning an even more brilliant victory at St. Viator College. The men representing St. Viator in'this debate w’ere Timothy D. Sullivan, Thomas E. Shea, and Robert J-. Hilliard; The Notre Dame negative team was composed of Bernard Voll, John Lemmer, and Michael Mulcaire. .The Judges of the debate were Hon. John. P. McGoorty,-Judge-of the Appellate Court, Chicago, Mr. Albion W. Small,1 Ph. D., Professor of Sociology, Chicago University, and Mr. Hugo Sonnenschein, Attorney-at-Law, Chicago.	,
With the ease of finished speakers the Notre Dame team swept the arguments of their opponents before them. The men representing St. Viator were able speakers, their failure being due to the fact that they did not have their case nearly so well in hand as did the visiting team; this was shown by the systematic manner in which the latter proceeded to pick the arguments of their opponents to pieces. The rebuttal as handled by the Notre Dame team was an especially' brilliant piece of work. The showing of our men was all the more remarkable when the fact that all of them, were appearing in an intercollegiate debate for the first time is considered.
On the day following the debate all the members of the debating teams representing both St. Viator and Notre Dame assembled at the LaSalle Hotel in Chicago where they were the guests of St. Viator College at a splendid one o’clock luncheon. The debates were rediscussed, and the friendly relations begun several years ago were more firmly established by this happy occasion.
On April 27th Notre Dame met Drake University in debating for the first time. The' question was the same as in the St. Viator debate: Resolved, “That the Federal Government should give financial aid to the upbuilding of the American Merchant Marine.” It was to be a dual debate, both schools having an affirmative and a negative team on the question. Through a misunderstanding, however, it happened that Drake sent the wrong team to Notre Dame. Instead of sending its affirmative speakers, Drake sent its negative team, with the result that on the evening of April 27 there were two affirmative teams in Des Moines and two' negative teams at Notre Dame. As the' best solution of the difficulty it was decided to have affirmative speak against affirmative and negative against negative, giving just the main speeches without any rebuttal, the decision to be based upon both thought and delivery and awarded to the team putting up the best case.	•	'\
The Drake men representing the affirmative at Des Moines were Mr. J: B. Davis, Mr. Lloyd Ellis,' and Mr. William; Hauser, speaking, in the order named. The -Notre Dame speakers /were Mr. Francis Flurley~ME~Oscar Dorwin, and Mr. Timothy R. Galvin.. .The: Drake men spoke well and put up a strong; case, their last speaker Davis being especially’ good. The Notre Dame
570	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Affirmative Team.
F. Hurley	T. Galvin G. McDonald	0. Dorwin
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
speakers, however, did even better, Tim Galvin in particular giving a speech that was far r« ► ahead of anything on the other side, and the :	decision was unanimous for Notre Dame. The
'i judges of the debate were the Hon. Milton
Remley of Iowa City, and Prof. C. W. Wassam of Iowa City.
While it was unfortunate that the contest Iwas more oratory than debating, yet it was an excellent opportunity to observe the comparative strength of the two teams, and the comparison greatly favored Notre Dame. After the debate an informal reception was tendered the debating teams in the big Drake reception hall, where music and refreshments were enjoyed | by a large crowd.
;; A similar contest was held at Notre Dame. Messrs. Sherlock, Schultz, and Padghan were the men who represented Drake in this contest while Voll, Lemmer, and Mulcaire again defended the Notre Dame standard. The I
Drake men showed considerable ability both in argument and in deliver}'- and the contest was by no means one-sided. The judges, Professor Oliphant of Chicago University, Judge f Baldwin of Chicago, and Professor Bunker of ■ the University of Michigan, rendered a decision , in favor of Notre Dame by a vote of two to one.
The season just closed must be considered one of the most successful in Notre Dame debating history. The number of victories is the largest ever won by the school in a single year and the teams came through the season without a defeat. The showing is indeed a credit both to those who directed the teams and to the men who took part in the debates. I Of the seven men who represented Notre Dame in this.year’s debates but one had taken part in an intercollegiate debate before this year. This of course portends greater things for the future. Five of these seven men will be eligible for the teams next year, and of these five two have two more years in which to compete. When the excellent ability displayed by some, of the men who failed to make the teams this year is considered, the prospect for success in ' coming years is indeed bright. There are, of course, places that will be hard to fill. McDonald I who did his share of the work in the local debate with St. Viator graduates in Law this year. He was a leading contender for the teams in his freshman year, but took no further part in debating until this year when he again entered the lists and made good. Galvin who has
571
succeeded in winning first place in the debating final for three successive years will also graduate this year. He was an alternate in his freshman year and since then has taken part in five intercollegiate .debates. In all of these contests he was the last speaker, and in all except the first the Notre Dame team was victorious.
The Notre Dame record in debate is now 28 victories out of 31 debates. The credit for upholding this splendid reeord during recent years is due to Father Bolger, whose able coaching has been evident in the work of our men in every debate. Most of the recent victories have been due to the excellent briefs of the Notre Dame teams, and although these briefs are always prepared by the debaters themselves they are criticised by Father Bolger, and it is to his excellent criticism that the strength of argument is due. This year Father Bolger was assisted by Professor Lenihan, himself a noted debater of recent years. Mr. Lenihan gave special attention to the delivery of the men and secured splendid results that were highly evident in the Drake debates. With such men in charge we can expect Notre Dame’s debating record to be one of continued success.
Obituary.
Mr. Patrick Larkin.
Patrick Larkin (student ’yS-’yp) passed away at his home in Indianapolis a few days ago at the age of 56. Until three years ago the deceased was a senior member of the firm of Larkin Brothers at Logootee, and was notably successful. He enjoyed in very large measure the esteem and confidence of the community.
Personals.
—The Very Rev. Dennis A. Clarke, Rector of Holy Family Church, Columbus, Ohio, writes that he expects to be present at Commencement this year “and celebrate the Golden Jubilee of my entering Notre Dame, and I hope to meet some of the old boys then.” Father Clarke was one of the most prominent men of his time and his visit to the University will be an.added glory of Commencement.
—Jose F. Bracho . (C. E., ’15), who has for the last six months been engaged by the Sante Fe railroad in Cushing, Oklahoma, was called to Mexico City recently on account of the death
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of his brother. Jose will remain in Mexico City, where he may be addressed Napoles, 63, Mexico City, Mexico.
—Michael J. McGuinness (student ’oq-’o/) is now a lawyer in Santee Fe, New Mexico, and has been admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of the United States, having been sent to Washington to try a case before that court for the State of New Mexico. Mr. McGuinness has served three years as Assistant District Attorney at Abuquerque, N. M., and has just resigned the position of Assistant to the Attorney General of the State. He is married and has two children.
—The following is an extract from a letter recently received at the University:
"There was published recently in Engineering News and in Engineering-Contracting a very interesting report accompanied by drawings of a large drainage project in northern Minnesota involving an expenditure of about half a million dollars, and notices asking for bids for the execution of the work were published in the same journals. It was further stated that on the completion of this drainage system a large area of country now of little value would be reclaimed for agricultural purposes which would add immensely to the wealth of the state. The engineering problems involved in a project of this nature demanded judgment of the highest order on the part of the engineer, and a painstaking investigation of everv detail in order to secure the highest possible efficiency for the money expended. What lends a special interest to this engineering project at this time is the fact that ithe engineer to whom was assigned the work of preparing plans, maps, specifications, and estimates, is our own John C. Burke of the class of 1914. Immediately after graduation, Mr. Burke engaged in engineering work in the northern district of Minnesota and was later elected drainage engineer of his county. His work from the first attracted the attention of the State officials, and when looking for an engineer to prepare plans and to supervise the work of this larger drainage district, Mr. Burke was chosen over-many older and experienced engineers. We are informed that he received special commendation for the report submitted to the officials of .the district who observed that it embodied many-new and notable features‘ -that would be of special interest to every 'taxpayer in the drainage area. -It may
be stated in this connection that Jose Bracho of last year’s class assisted in preparing the plans and drawings for this work.” (
We congratulate Mr. Burke on this notable success,—a success that conies from industry, perseverance and a strict attention to every duty without which qualities nothing worth while can be achieved. Mr. Burke himself modestly assigns all the credit to Prof. Martin McCue, who is probably unsurpassed in America as a teacher of Engineering.


n-
4
University Glee Club.

After hearing the Glee Club Concert of Satur- : day night, May 27, we understand why that organization has found such immediate favor in the cities it has visited. Since its first concert : here the Notre Dame vocal fraternity has accom- • plished an almost unlimited improvement. Not only is the chorus work of a high order, but the specialty performers are good enough, every one, to be mistaken for professionals.
The Glee Club as a whole repeated a number of songs that have found favor here before such as Hadyn’s “Serenade” and “On the Road to Mandalay, by Oley Speaks, as well as a number of new selections. The Mandolin Club was very popular, and the audience demanded more instrumental music than it was willing to give. But the real feature of the evening was what might be termed, the olio. It is unnecessary to go into details in describing this part of the musical diversion. All the numbers were well liked and are well remembered: Sr. Jose Corona’s Amato-like rendition of the “Toreador Song”; J. Lienenkugle’s excellent reading; the singing of the Popular Quartette, the members of which conducted themselves with all the sangfroid of - the experienced Chatan qua harmonizers; < the two songs by Director Ward Perrott, vocalist ■ supreme; the wonders of Dixie, as extolled in an , inimitable manner. by Messrs. Harry Scott j and “Memphis” McCauley; the charming I music produced by Mr. Frank Welch from a 1 guitar, by an arrangement of fingers and strings ] which ■ we frankly confess we couldn’t under- J stand. All these were enjoyable and amusing. 5 For the concerted selections Mr. Howard Parkers proved himself an accompanist par excellence.®
Our Glee Club is an organization of which we | may well be proud: a source of .unequalled I entertainment to the cities which it favors with 1 engagements and a credit to the University. ]






*

5
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
573
	©lb ^>tv^tnts’ Subscriptions to June 3 1916		Rev. John M. Byrne, ’00 J. H. Gormley, ’03 Thomas O’Neill, ’13	■ 100.00 x 100.00 100.00	
f	The following subscriptions	for Old	Robert E- Proctor, ’04 John F. O’Connell, ’13	100.00 100.00	
i d	Students Hall were received by Warren A. Carrier, Ludington, Michigan, treasurer of the building committee: Rev. I. E. McNamee, ’09	'	S500.00 Eugene A. Delaney, ’qq	2 so.00		Frank C. Walker, ’09 Rev. Gilbert Jennings, ’08 George O’Brien, ’90 Vitus Jones, ’02 W. A Duffy, ’08	100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00	
•	William Haynes, ’77 Dr. Frank J. Powers, ’94	200.00 IOO.OC	Rev. John H. Guendling, ’14 Fred C. McQueen, ’00	100.00 100.00	
	Rev. John Talbot Smith, ’07 Rev. T. 0. Maguire, ’09 Bernard Durch, ’13 Harry Kirk, ’13 Louis Chute, ’92 The amounts which follow were an earlier issue of the Scholastic : Samuel T. Murdock, ’86	100.00 25-0° 15.00 1 0.00 10.00 published in $2000.00	Charles J. Stubbs, ’88 Rupert Donavan, ’08 Rev. Francis H. Gavisk, ’14 Rt. Rev. Frank O’Brien, ’95 Frank L. McOsker, ’72 Charles E. Ruffing, ’85 James F. Foley, ’13 Rt. Rev. Thomas C. O’Reilly, ’09 Thomas J. Welch, ’05	100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00* 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00	
	P. T. O’Sullivan, ’68	1000.00	William E. Cotter, ’13	100.00	
	Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, ’75 M. F. Healy, ’89 John C. Shea, ’98	1000.00 1000.00 1000.00	John Tully, ’n John F. O’Connor, ’72 T. P. O’Sullivan, ’02	100.00 100.00 100.00	
	Clement C. Mitchell, ’02 Byron V. Kanaley, 04	1000.00 1000.00	G. M. Kerndt, ’82 A. J. Major, ’86	100.00 50.00	
	Daniel P. Murphy, ’95	1000.00	Charles Vaughan, ’14	50.00	
	John P. Lauth, ’68	1000.00	Stephen H. Herr, To	50.00	
*	Rev. John Dinnen, ’65	500.00	J. N. Antoine, ’70	50.00	
	Warren A. Cartier, ’87	500.00	Rev. Thomas Cleary, ’09	50.00	
	Stephen B. Fleming, ’90 Thomas Hoban, ’99	500.00 500.00	Fred'Stewart, ’12 Jay Lee, ’12	50.00' .	50.00	
	Angus D. McDonald, ’00 William A. Mclnerny, ’01	500.00 500.00	Walter Duncan, ’12 Albert F. Gushurst, ’09	50.00 .	50.00	
	Joseph M. Byrne, ’14 Cassius McDonald, ’04 William P. Breen, ’77	500.00 500.00 500.00	Edward P. Cleary, ’09 Rev. John J. Burke, ’S3 Rev. M. L. Moriarty, To	50.00 50.00 50.00	
I	Student from Far West Robert Sweeney, ’03 John H. Fendrich, ’84 John Eggeman.’oo A. A. McDonell, ’00 James F. Kennedy, ’94	- Louis C. M. Reed, ’98 Francis O’Shaughnessy, ’00 Joseph J. Sullivan, ’02 G. A. Farabaugh, ’04	500.00 250.00 250.00 250.00 . 250.00 200.00 200.00 200.00 200.00 200.00	Rev. J. E. Scullin, ’09 Rev. John P. Quinn, ’S3 Simon E. Twining, ’13 J. V. Birder, ’13 Cecil E. Birder? ’14 Rev. A. A. Lambing, ’S3	' James M. Riddle, ’13 Henry Hess, ’82 Dr. E- M. McKee, ’06 Robert B. Gottfredson, ’13	50.00 50.00 50.00 50.00 50.00 25.00 25.00 25.00 25.00 25.00	
-	Robert Anderson, ’83 Joseph Lantry, ’07	200.00 200.00	Rev. John H. Mullin, ’n I. N. Mitchell, Sr., ’92	'	25.00 25.00	
•1	Rev. Francis J. Van Antwerp. 14 John-Dowd, ’99	200.00 200.00	Frederick Williams, ’13 Rev. Joseph Toth, T i	25.00 25.00	
	Rt. Rev. Thomas F. Hickey, ’03 Christopher C. Fitzgerald, ’94 F. A. Kaul, ’97	200.00 .	200.00 200.00	Joseph M. Walsh, ’14 Max Adler, ’89 John G. Mott, ’95	25.00 25.00 25.00	
	Maximilian St. George, '08 Mark M. Foote, ’73	120.00 100.00	Gabriel Davezac, ’94 James R. Devitt, ’13	20.00 20.00	
	Patrick J. Houlihan, ’92 E. J. Maurus, 93	‘	. Thomas J. Swantz, ’04	100.00 100.00 100.00	Arthur Pino, ’06 Alfred Vignos, ’95 Andrew L. Shimp, ’91	20.00 10.00 10.00 •.	
	H. G. Hogan, ’04	100.00	Frank Niedecken, ’09	10.00	
	Harold P. Fisher, ’06	100.00	Robert D. Murphy, ’01	5-oo	
V	John B. Kanaley, ’09 James F. Hines, ’09	100.00 100.00	Mark Duncan, ’15	. Hiram Halliday, ’06	5-oo • 5-oo	
	John B. McMahon, ’09	100.00	Claude S. Moss, ’95	5.00	
574
THE NOTRE DA ME -SCHOLASTIC
S' w e-
■4;
The Old Days.
Local News.

3;
From the Scholastic of February 26th, 1S76: “Militarv exercises were in the olden time greatly encouraged at Notre Dame. A company named ‘‘The Continental Cadets” was formed among the students in 1859 and lasted until the breaking out of the war. The uniform worn was the venerable and picturesque buff and blue uniform which Washington and the heroes of the Revolution have hallowed. Of the members of the company, at least two-thirds entered the army during the war. Generals Lynch and Healy, Captains Lonergan, Cottin, Healy, and others, received commissions from the GoX’ernment.”
January 8th. ’76:—“The ninth regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held on December 18th. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. Logan “On the Shores of Tennessee,” Murphy “The Veteran,” McNulty “The Dying Chief.”
There Were Hayes’s in Those Days.
- February, ’S3:—“Muldoon said:1 The callidity of the atmosphere is becoming unpleasantly oppressive.’ ”
March 10th, 83: Work has begun on laying ^ie c]ass of 1916, gave Lincoln’s Gettysburg gas-pipes to the Academy of Music, and placing
ras fixtures within the Hall. This is a move in the right direction, at least our stage managers will, think so as it will obviate the necessity of an individual (although he has always been greeted with applause), appearing before the curtain to turn down the lamps to produce dark effects.”
March 24th, ’83:—“The unprecedented success of the 'Oedipus Tyrannus’ at the Commencement exercises last year has encouraged the Greek classes to bring out another play at the Commencement exercises this June. The ‘Antigone’ of Sophocles has been chosen.” .	’
April 28th,	’83:—‘‘Professor Gregori • is
busily engaged upon his new painting, ‘The Planting of the Cross by Columbus.” He has also completed sketches for a new painting, the subject. of which will be ‘The Discover}'' of Land.’ Both pictures will, be finished by
Commencement. ’
. May 8th,_’80:—-“The best view of the new Judges of the contest were: Rev. William A. College-buildings can be - obtained; from the Bolger, Rev. Michael Quinlan, and Prof, southwestern corner of the graveyard.”	Grasso. - A S 7	.
:	—The Brownson Hall baseball, team played
. two games at Elkhart during the past week.
■	—The architectural department has a very
. fine exhibit on display in the corridors of the I Main Building.
■	—Colonel William Hoynes gave a most
interesting and instructive talk to the law
; classes last week. .	.	.
—The third round of the tennis tournament has been played and all but eight men have been eliminated.
.	—Father Eugene Burke will take a mission
trip to Austin, Texas and New Orleans, Louisiana soon after the close of school.	'
—Arthur Joseph Sharpe, member of the Senior Class, was married in the University ’ Church at 4:00 A. M. on Monday morning to Miss Eunice Codd.
—Swimming in the lakes is forbidden except during the hours from three to < five-thirty in the afternoon. This regulation was promulgated by the faculty in order to safeguard against danger of drowning.
—Timothy Patrick Galvin, valedictorian of

J 5a 0

F-
Address in the public Memorial Day services at South Bend. Members of the Notre Dame battalion marched in the military parade.
—Accompanied by Captain . Stogsdall, Rev. Joseph Burke and Rev. James Quinlan, and the captains of all the companies in the battalion, the Notre Dame“ Possums” last Wednesday morning went into camp for a week at Lawton,
—The Carroll Hall band was tendered a banquet at the Oliver Hotel on Monday evening. . Members of the band together with the directors, John Minavio and Frank Carey, gave their first concert to the minims in St. Edward’s recreation hall on Sunday evening.
. —-The .debating team of the Freshmen philosophers defeated unanimously the debaters of the Freshmen law class on Friday afternoon May 26th. -The members of the law team-were Messrs^ F. McGraine, A. O’Sullivan and F. ; King. The philosophers were represented by1 |
J
s*1
Messrs. E. Hunter,\F. Butler and G., Palmer.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Indiana State Meet. ______________	(f/
Notre Dame	43 1-2
Purdue	. 4°
De Pauw	20 1-2
Wabash	20
Indiana	• 14
Franklin	5
Until John Miller and “Dutch” Freund leaped into first and second places respectively - in the broad jump, the final event of the annual Indiana Intercollegiate Track and Field Meet at Purdue, last Saturday, Notre Dame seemed about to relinquish all-state honors in track. After this event Notre Dame was a scant three
and one-half points ahead of Purdue. Aside from the closeness of the score, the shattering of several state marks, and the high calibre of the contestants in general, the outstanding feature of the meet was the even balance of the Notre Dame team. Coach Rockne had a point winner in every event, and this appears all the more remarkable when it is considered
that they secured only two first places-Mhe discus and broad jump. Five second places, six third places, and seven fourth places turned the tide .of victory toward Notie Dame. Purdue’s strength in the distance runs made them very formidable. First .place in the quarter, first and second places in the two-mile, and second and-third places in both the half and mile represented twenty-three of their forty points. '
New state marks were hung up in five events. Myers of DePauw travelled'the mile in 4:23 4-5 .and the half in 1157 2-5 which is faster than any other Indiana athlete ever ran these two ■distances. Van Aken of Purdue set a new mark in the quarter of 51 4-5. His teammate Large broke the record in the two-mile in 10:00 4-5. Bachman broke the discus record with a heave •of 136 feet. He made 134 feet 3 inches in competition and improved the mark in trying for a record.
The two dashes brought out a double winner in Sweet of Wabash. He stepped the hundred
in ten flat and the 220.in :22 3-5. Notre .DameX qualified four men in the hundred—Hardy, Bergman, King, and Fritch. In the finals Hardy was a close second to Sweet, and King tied with Nicholson, another Wabash man, for third. In the 220 yard finals King took third, and Hardy fourth. Kirkland and Starrett performed consistently in the hurdles, the former
taking secpnd and the latter fourth in each event. Fritch was unfortunate in falling at' the last hurdle while in the lead in his trial heat of the 220 yard hurdles. John Miller was . the only Notre Dame athlete to place in the., quarter. Efe finished third, not two steps behind Van Aken of Purdue the winner. The large number of entrants hindered the men and prevented faster time. The mile was a pretty dual between Myers the DePauw sensation and F. F. Campbell of Purdue. A terrific sprint in the last quarter won the race for Myers. ’ Atkins of Purdue was third, and Call of Notre Dame finished fourth. The half mile race was composed of a classy field. Myers duplicated his performance of the mile and won in the record breaking time of 1:57 2-5. McDonough, though he finished fourth, ran a . remarkably strong race, and was in the lead over three-quarters of the way. “Johnnie” Reynolds ran a plucky race in the two mile, and forced the two Purdue runners'who finished ahead of him to set a new State record.
Hargrave of Indiana took the pole vault. Our aerial trio—Edgren, Yeager, and McKenna —tied for the other three places. A soggy take-off prevented any spectacular high jumping. McGuire and Voelkers tied with • four ‘ other men for third places which netted us a valuable point. Bachman won the discus handily. He was not so successful in the shot and fell back into third place.. Our captain was a victim of an unusual arrangement of the weight events. Ordinarily the shot precedes the discus, because the latter is mti^h more wearing on the arm. As has been mentioned ' Miller and Freund sewed up the meet ;when they took first and second places in the broad • jump. '	'
Frank M. Cayou,- a familiar face to Notre; : Dame track men, acted as referee and starter of the meet. Cool, deliberate, .impartial, Cayou is one of the best handlers of track meets in the West. .	.	'
Mile run—1 Myers, DePauw; . 2 F. F. Campbell,
Purdue;
Time—j
3 Atkins', Purdue; .. 4 Call. Notre Dame.
2 3 4'5-	.. ’
X 440-yard dash—1 Van Aken, Purdue; 2 Hays, Indiana; 3 Miller, Notre Dame; 4 Adams, DePauw....
Time—51 4-5.^	.	.	‘	•
100-yard dash—1 Sweet, Wabash; 2 Hardy, Notre . Dame; 3 King, Notre Dame, and Nicholson, Wabash, . tied. Time—:io.	.
120 yard hurdles— 1 Schienberg, Purdue; 2 Kirkland, Notre Dame; - 3 Pope, Indiana; 4 Starrett, Notre Dame. Time —r6.	.. .
576
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—Half Mile—j Myers, DeFauw; 2 V. H. Campbell, Purdue and Van Aken, Purdue, tied; 4 McDonough, Notre Dame. Time—1:57 2-5.
220-yard dash—1 Sweet, Wabash; 2 Nicholson, Wabash; 3 King, Notre Dame; 4 Hardy, Notre Dame. Time—:22 3-5.	.
Two mile—1 Large, Purdue; 2 Atkins, Purdue; 3 Reynolds, N. D.; 4 Ikens, I ndiana. Time, 10.00 4-5.
220-yard hurdles—1 Jones, DePauw; 2 Kirkland, Notre Dame;, 3 Schienberg, Purdue; 4 Starrett, Notre Dame. Time—25.	-
Pole vault—1 Hargrave, Indiana; 2 Yeager. Edgren, McKenna, all Notre Dame, tied. Height 11 ft, 3 in.
Discus—1 Bachman, Notre Dame; 2 Caldwell, Wabash; 3 Tavenor, Indiana; 4 Bowen, Franklin. Distance 134 ft, 3 in.
Shot put—1 Crowe, Purdue; 2 Prins, Purdue; 3 Bachman. Notre Dame; 4 Jordan, Purdue. Distance —42 ft, 5 in. .
High jump—1 Bailey, Franklin, and Delap, Depauw, tied for first; Lavering and Hampton, Indiana; Kline, DePauw; Cobern, Wabash; and Voelkers and McGuire, Notre Dame, tied for third. Height— 5 feet 5 inches.
Broad jump—1 Miller, Notre Dame; 2 Freund, Notre Dame; 3 Caldwell, Wabash; 4 Schumaker, Purdue. Distance 21 feet 7 inches.
Safety Valve.
The Second Day Home.
Time: 6:30 A. M. Place: -the family dining-room.
Mr. X is eating his breakfast and glancing over morning paper. Mrs. X is pouring the coffee for husband.	.
Enter Young X just home from college.
the her
Mrs. X—Why what in the world are you doing up at this hour.of the morning? Why don’t you take a good sleep now that you are home ard have the opportunity. You ought to build yourself up for next year so that you’ll be able to stand the strain of college life.
Young X—No, I’ve had quite enough sleep. I’ve decided-to go to work. I’m going to look for-a . job .
to-day.
Mr. X—I bought a little roadster last week that you can use during your- vacation. It’s over in the garage and George, the man, will take care of it and keep it supplied with gasoline and do all the repairing. Here is a little money that you can spend while you're
home (takes out check-book and writes check for
S500.00).	~	:	..
' Young X—I’m very sorry father I can’t use the
roadster,, and I thank you a thousand times for. the. ^roa^s check, but l wont need that either.- I’m going to work and I Hope to earn'some money. {Mother and father
look at, each other in amazement, not kncuing what Jo.. make of it.) .j	..	.
MrsIX—Helen Paton is giving a little party to-night
and she. was . here a few days ago to invite you to .be ........
present: - You were the. first. one she invited arid she . 1 st.Student:—“What the dickens is a Baccalau-says it 'can’t£-Jje'-a'-’isuccess, without you. .Helen is a. feate Sermon?” •	- .	.	'
Beautiful girl/she could'npt be prettier. .	_ 2nd> Student:-Y“Why .youjpoor simp, didn’t you
Young X—Yes/Helen isa beauty bud must decline . ever hear of a.poet-laureate, and can’t you put two and • her kind offer as much as I' wouldliketo be with her.; two'togetherahd„draw a conclusion.” .
The fact is I’m going to work and workingmen can’t be out late at night and expect to succeed.
(A look of horror creeps into the faces of Mr. and Mrs. X)
Mrs. X {Aside to her husband)—You better take-him down to a specialist and have him examined.
Mr. X—’Twont do any good. He was examined four times at cbllege, at the regular quarterlies, and they never found anything. .
Mrs. X-t—Didn’t they?
Mr. X—No. Look at his report card.
Mrs. X—It isn’t good for you to start work, at once. You better spend a month or so in Florida during which time you can decide what .work would suit you best. The Wheeler boys and their sisters are-going. You were just crazy about Margaret Wheeler last Summer.
Young X—No.. I don’t want to go to Florida. Fm going to work 'here in town and I’m going to start to-day: It may be a humble position. If I have to start by scrubbing floors I’ll do the scrubbing well, and I’ll work up and I’ll make my own living.
Mrs. X {shaking Mr. X violently)—Wake up, George,, it’s time for your work. What’s all this talk about me and our boy.
Mr. X—{rubbing his eyes). Has Clarence gone to work yet?	•
Mrs. X—Don’t be foolish. Clarence just went to
bed. He was at a party all night. When you get up ' don’t put on your shoes for fear of disturbing Clarence. Carry you shoes downstairs and put them on.
Mr. X—Horrors! but those dreams are deceptive.
I still must spend the summer walking around the house in my stocking feet and the carpet full of pins.
***
An Appreciation.
1st Student:—“I think I would rather love Miss H. than any girl in South. Bend,”
2nd Student: “Why? Is she such a-beauty as all that?”
‘ 1st Student.—“Her beauty is beyond description. She has d;ep blue eyes and a big seven-passenger Packard. . ■ ■ .	.
, ***
Freshman:—“What on earth are you looking for
in that dictionary? I never saw you open it before.” . Senior—“I was just told I’d have to write a thesis for graduation dnd I’m trying to find out what it means.” .	. . :	,
_ . . • *** ,
The Carroll Band is improving. It goes fine and makes real music until the-instruments get filled with saliva, then it sounds like twenty men gargling their
&
. *** .
Sanity Test.

Have you been over to-day to see the progress made in the building of .the new library?
Answer, yes or no,on this space . -
- Y. .	■ 7 ■ ' *** ' '	•

I