THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 72, No. 15
February 10, 1939
“WE BRING THE OCEAN TO YOUR TABLE EVERY DAY”
OLIVER HOTEL'S FAMOUS
FRESH SHORE DINNERS
COOKED TO ORDER
Choice of
Shrimp Cocktail Fruit Supreme Tomato Juice Clam Chowder Soup du Jour Clam Broth
Broiled Live Lobster—Half, $1.10; Whole, $1.85
Fresh Crystal Springs Rainbow Trout, Saute Meuniere, $1.10
Planked Lake Ontario Trout, .90 Planked Lake Superior Whitefish, Doria, $1.00 Broiled King Salmon Steak, .90 Fresh Red Snapper Fried in Butter, .85 Florida Pompano, Saute Meuniere, $1.10 Swordfish Steak Grilled, Lemon Butter, .90 Fried Soft Shell Crabs, Tartar Sauce, .90 Frog Legs, Fried or Saute, $1.00 Broiled Shad Roe on Toast with Bacon, $1.00
Peas in Butter or String Beans French Fried Potatoes or Parsley Potatoes Salad du Jour Choice of Dessert	Coffee or Tea
HOTEL OLIVER
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188___________________________________________________________________
Vol. 72	February 10, 1939
No. 15
FETE ACKERMANN AT FACULTY BANQUET
1887—a young man comes to Notre Dame from Purdue University to teach freehand drawing . . . 1904—he receives his M.S, degree and becomes Head of the Department of Mechanical Drawing . . . the years pass quietly .. . shaded walks . . . books . . . deep friendships ... a room high up in the Main Building beneath the
Prof. Francis X. Ackermann Fifty years of service.
Dome . . . and then retirement—after fifty years.
No one has lived closer to Notre Dame than Professor Francis X. Ackermann. Thursday evening, Feb. 16, at 7 o’clock, the Lay Faculty will hold a banquet in his honor in the Faculty Dining Hall.
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, is expected to return from his South American visit in time to participate in the golden jubilee celebration.
Members of the faculty may bring guests to the dinner. Tickets are on sale at the cigar stand in the Cafeteria, or can be obtained from Dean Shilts, Mr. Bocskey, Mr. Riordan, Mr. Byrne, officers of the Club — Messrs. Cooney, Eells, and Pence—Mr. Fron-ing, and from Mr. Scannell.
They ask that faculty members cooperate by making reservations early. Already, many of the tickets have been sold—and the capacity of the Faculty Dining hall is limited.
Lyon's "Continentals" N.B.C. Concert Stars Sing Here Today
Miss Ruby Spencer Lyon’s “Continentals”— former stars of N.B.C.’s “House by the Side of the Road” program — sing twice in Washington Hall today, at 4:15 this afternoon, and again at 8 o’clock.
Previously, this ensemble was selected by Maestro Joseph Pasternak in open competition to accompany Nelson Eddy on the Vick’s “Open House” Program and was acclaimed by Eddy’s manager’ as one of the best to ever support the famous singer.
Miss Lyon selected her group from the ranks of opera, musical comedy, and light opera performers. She herself sang in Shubert’s “My Maryland.” Every one of the eight members of the Continental Singers is a highly trained musician selected for purity of voice and personality.
Their entertaining repertoire includes arias from opera as well as popular melodies. The program is well balanced between the modern and the classical. The “Indian Love Call” from Rose Marie, “Sweethearts” from Maytime, and selection from Friml’s “Vagabond King” will be presented. Their appearance here last summer drew this comment:
"Veterans of the concert stage and radio, this versatile group of musicians sang a variety program that pleased everyone. Practically every member of this excellent musical organization contributed a solo to the program.”	News-Times
Library's Oncidium BeBexum in Danger!
Attention: Librarian Paul R. Byrne!
Lock up your Oncidium. reflexum in the widest vault along with your prized “first editions”—those majestic orchids gracing the first table beyond the Librarian’s desk tempt Law Ballers.
Orchids—ladies’ delight—are, grown here at Notre Dame. And the average student thinks orchids rank number one among expensive corsages.
Landscape Artist Mike Mosher and the Rev. Peter F. Hebert, C.S.C., col-
FRYAR PLAYS ANNUAL LAW BALL TONIGHT
From nine to twelve at the Palais Royale tonight Bill Fryar and his orchestra will play three, hours of modern dance tempo for guests at the Annual Law Ball. Theodore Preko-witz, dance chairman, declared that Fryar—one of the midwest’s ranking bands—comes here direct from a successful Chicago engagement.
Carl Doozan
Will distribute programs.
Patrons for the Ball are the Hon. John P. and Mrs. McGoorty; Dean and Mrs. Konop; Mr. John Whitman; Mr. and Mrs. Homer Q. Earl; Mr. and Mrs. Elton Richter; Mr. and Mrs. James J. Kearney; and Mr. and Mrs. Clarence E. Manion.
Committee chairman selected by Stewart Roche, club president, are: Samuel Borzilleri, tickets; John A. Cain, patrons; Harvey G. Foster, publicity; Carl W. Doozan, program; Sandford S. Friedman, decorations; David A. Gelber, music, and John R. Vicars, reception committee.
laborated to provide Indiana with an unusual species of tropical plant undaunted by South Bend’s worst blizzard in 26 years.
“The striking unusuality of the plant is that it was in full bloom in the middle of the coldest part of the year,” Father Hebert, the head of the Department of Classics, who dabbles with botanical items as a hobby, commented. “Its habitat is Southern Florida, the Bahama Islands, Cuba, and Central America.”
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OSBORNE HAS PATENT ON 'SLIDE MUSIC
THE WEEK	By Bill Donnelly
Next Friday evening Will Osborne brings his unusual “Slide Music”— fully protected by United States Patent No. 2,059,898—to entertain Junior Promenaders at the Palais Royale.
“Slide Music” as popularized by Osborne, features a background of smooth trombone rhythms rather than the usual brass section. His style was
Will Osborne Il’zVZ entertain Prom-goers.
originated in 1924 and the soft flowing rhythm has remained popular ever since.
A modest, good-looking, soft-spoken, young man with a soothing voice, Osborne has brought his band from a small organization of six to 14 individual artists.
In 1933 Will Osborne,. known best as the creator of Slide Music, established an all-time record by broadcasting 14 engagements a week on five major stations. He has studied music abroad and is thoroughly versed on modern musical classics.
Osborne, although he has never taken a vocal lesson, is the featured vocalist in his band; he also supervises the program and makes some of his own arrangements. He comes to Notre Dame after a long series of engagements at the leading theatres and clubs of the country.
Band Concert
The Notre Dame Band opens its 1939 concert season next Wednesday night, Feb. 15, in South Bend. The program includes selections from Tannhauser, Victor Herbert medodies, and several marches. The South Bend engagement marks the first time this band has given a formal concert away from the campus.
Top of the Week
“A little early to be getting back from a week-end, isn’t it?”
Tiny Team
According to the- track schedule released for general publication the Notre Dame track team competed in the Millrose games last Saturday night. If so, the Notre Dame track team won every event in which it competed. But some of the fellows who had previously regarded themselves as part of the team were a bit perplexed by the sudden compressing of the entire outfit into one mighty five foot four atom. So when Greg Rice left for New York last Friday he wore the hat of one fellow, the tie of another, the shirt of a third, and the valise of a fourth. Now when there is a lull in the conversation next summer and John Thinlie’s girl friend makes talk by saying “I hear you went to the Millrose Games last winter.” John can say “I didn’t but my shirt did; it won the two mile!”
After Greg left, the boys who had gone with him by proxy suddenly remembered how nervous and fidgety Greg gets before a meet. “He might forget my hat completely,” one of them said. “He’ll tear my tie to ribbons,” groaned another. So they sent him a telegram which read: “Nuts with the meet! Don’t forget shirt, tie, hat, valise!” However Greg not only came back Monday with all the articles intact, but he hadn’t even received the telegram.
Romance, Fostered and Frustrated
There is another story about track and the Michigan State team whose coach wrote down that he would be grateful if tomorrow’s meet were begun as early as possible “because some of the boys want to get back in time for the social events Saturday night.” At Notre Dame the schedule is so arranged that for the two biggest dances of the year, the Junior Prom and the Senior Ball, the team is neatly and safely tucked away at Champaign, Illinois and Columbus, Ohio respectively. There seems to be a slight difference in policy.
Will-power
A friend of ours (Hint: initials, A. W.) has decided it’s time to reform and consequently he made his Lenten Resolutions three weeks in advance to give himself time to prepare his mind for the radical changes. Besides the usual positive things such as mass, communion, grotto, rosary,
night prayer, all every day, he has prepared the following list:
No smoking.
No Rosie’s.
No beer.
Read one book a week.
Breakfast in dining hall (at least three times' a week).
No movies (except on dates and at Notre Dame).
Don’t see Jean more than twice a week (if possible).
Exercise three times a week (not too violently).
You can see from these resolutions what a wicked fellow he has been to start with. We wish him luck, but we have our fingers crossed—especially about that one “if possible” job.
•
■College Life
We hear of a girl at St. Mary’s who is taking the following very heavy program this semester: Sacred Doctrine, Fine Arts, Textiles, Advanced Clothing, and Archery and Tap. The girl said she was dropping Foods this semester in order to lighten her schedule. She also said that when she got into her Tap class every one but she voted to take Natural Dancing instead. She alone remained firm; she had signed up for Tap and that’s what she wanted. “But just think,” the teacher said, “if we study Natural Dancing, when spring comes we can take off our shoes and stockings and go outside and dance.” We haven’t heard whether she was appeased by this inducement or not.
•
Odds and Ends
A professor, who is notorious for his felicitous knack of phrasing, had the following notice posted on the door of his room. There will be neither grades nor intimations of grades until the feast day of St. Romuald... A friend of ours sent an old shirt to the laundry the other day and when he received his laundry back, he discovered at the bottom of the itemized list of his articles, the words: “Three rags.” In the bundle itself, however, he found neither the shirt nor the three rags they had made of it.... Bob Lawrence, the hurdler, was firing the gun to start the sprinters in a practice session the other day. Or rather he was trying to fire it because the darn thing wouldn’t go off for him. After three false starts because of the faulty gun, Nick yelled up from the finish line where he was standing, “Let some one else start them. Bob only knows how to shoot a bow and arrow!”
FEBRUARY 10, 1939
FR. O'HARA HONORED BY N. Y. ALUMNI
SHADOW OF ?— NEW BENGAL CONTENDER— THREATENS "KILLER" KELL'S CROWN
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, was honored Tuesday evening at a dinner given by the board of governors of the Centre Association for Catholics in conjunction with the Notre Dame Alumni Club of New York City.
The dinner was held at the Centre Club in New York to welcome Father O’Hara back from his round-the-
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
Back from Lima
continent tour of various South American countries which he made following the conclusion of the Eighth International Conference of American States held last December in Lima, Peru. Father O’Hara was a delegate to the Conference from the United States.
One of the prime purposes of Father O’Hara’s tour was to stimulate an exchange of students between the universities and colleges of South America and those of the United States.
Members of the Catholic hierarchy were the Most Rev. Bishop Stephen J. Donohue, Administrator of the Archdiocese of New York, and the Rt. Rev. Mgr. Francis A. McIntyre, chancellor of the Archdiocese.
H. Jerome Parker of the Centre Association was chairman for the dinner and Daniel J. O’Neil, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of New York City aided in the arrangements.
Father O’Hara is expected to return to the campus this week-end.
It is expected that Father O’Hara’s work in the Latin countries will bring about a vast improvement in student exchange methods between the United States and South America.
To silence the cries of “in the tank” and “el waltzo” that followed last year’s championship bout in which Killer Kell “won” from One-Horse-Race, the News Staff will this year enter its own candidate to challenge the Sport Staff’s Mr. Kell... introducing... at 150 lbs... Mr. William C. McGowan_____ who will introduce our challenger.___ ?..... take it,
McGowan.
“When I first met The ? he was squeezing the sleep out of his eyes with knuckles that looked like those huge salamies so popular in butcherfiction, if there is such a thing. I’d travelled all the way across the campus from the dining hall to call on
Index Sees Saw; Saw Sees Index; Saw Saws Index
Professor Engels waved a bandaged index finger at his Shakespeare class Wednesday morning; then quoted sadly from King Lear:
“But where the greater malady is fix’d,
The lesser is scarce felt.”
Behind the quote and within the bandage lay a mangled finger and a story. Professor Engels is a carpenter by hobby, and scarcely of journeyman status, because he frequently hits the nail on the fingertip instead of the head.
Invariably a quick dip into warm epsom salt solution restores the finger to flexibility. Tuesday afternoon Professor Engels was swinging with greater force and less accuracy than usual. Within fifteen minutes he had made an impression on his middle finger just between the joints.
Spartan-like he stayed at his work, refusing bandages, mercurochrome, splints—even the reliable epsom salts. There was a fine piece of white pine to be planed and cut. The saw-wheel whirred; the finger throbbed; the sawdust flew; the job was almost done; the visions of comforting epsom salt solutions danced in Professor Engels’ head.
Perhaps it was overconfidence, possibly it was overeagerness — but his index finger followed the pine board through the sawwheel. . . .
The throb in the middle finger was forgotten when the doctor stitched and bandaged the tip-less index.
It was “The most unkindest cut of all.”—W. C. F.
? in his room, the only one ? fits into.
You can find it only by special pass, because it’s deep under the stadium and ordinarily houses the fleet of trucks used in building the Rockne Memorial. I asked ? how he managed to get the space, since the trucks must . occupy it at night and leave him homeless.
“Everybody I meet asks me the same thing,” said ?. “But I fooled them easy: I sleep during the daytime and workout at night, and it’s okay too ’cause I get more sleep that way and things is purtier outside at night—the way I look at it.” ? looked sadly at his bunk and sighed: “Only 12 hours today; I must not have been fatigued.”
We all went out then to watch ? go to work on the punching bag and run on the road, but we hadn’t gone five miles when ? stopped short and crooned like a bull-moose:
“Hey, you guys, you didn’t remember for me to comb my hair or wash or nothin’; howdya except me to present a groomed appearance. Suppose we meet somebody!”
• -
“The managers immediately began to discuss among themselves whose fault it was, and before long three of them were swinging fists instead of adjectives. The ? moaned and looked at me as if to deplore this use of brute force, and then with sudden but effective diplomacy ? stepped in and picked up one scuffling manager by the ankles, then swung him against the others, knocking both down and the third out. I was aghast at this wonderful strength and told ? so, but ? belittled his power on the grounds that the managers were only juniors.
“But?,” I said, “ you realize you’re fighting only one man in those Bengal Bouts. It’s Paul Kell, and I’m sure he isn’t much above six feet two, and he only weighs a couple of stone over 200.” Immediately I wished I hadn’t said that because ? grabbed me by the scruff of my overcoat and lifted me up level with his eyes:
“Honest injun, pal? Only one guy? Why I been training proper for this. They told me I was taking the first two teams, one team at a time on account of there wouldn’t be enough room for all of us in the ring at once .... Gee! Maybe I should of stood in bed!”
(Continued Next Week)
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OUR DAILY BREAD
Liturgy
Pius XI is the Pope of Catholic Action. He repeatedly insists that the only true basis of Catholic Action is the Liturgy. An effetcive laity must needs be an informed laity. The Catholic college man has a very special duty in this regard. The training of his intellect puts a check on his emotions. The practice of his religion in the various relations of life involves the instruction of others as well as example. This is the essence of the Apostolate of the laity. To limit oneself to the bare requirements is to make of oneself “just another Catholic” not an apostle. It is the Gospel story over again of hiding a light under a bushel. The Lenten season prompts to renewed effort. To combine knowing with doing these books will be helpful: The Liturgy of the Church — Michel; Catholic Liturgies—Stapper-Baier; Living with the Church—Haering; The Year of Our Lord—Loehr; Liturgy, the Life of the Church—Beauduin; The Spirit of the Liturgy—Caronti; Christian Life and Worship—Ellard; Catholic Liturgy— Lefebvre.
Mass Calendar: February 12 to 18
Sunday 12 — Sexagesima. Semidouble. 2d Prayer Seven Holy Founders. 3d The Pope. 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday 13—Ferial Simple. Mass: Preceding Sunday. 2d Prayer The Saints (A Cunctis). 3d Faithful Departed. 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. V.R.
Tuesday H—St. Valentine. Priest. Martyr. Simple. Mass: In virtute (Common). Prayer proper. 2d The Saints (A Cunctis). 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Tract. V.R.
Wednesday 15—Sts. Faustinus and Jovita. Maryrs. Simple. Mass: Solus (Common). Prayer proper. 2d The Saints (A Cunctis). 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Tract. V.R.
Thursday 16—Ferial Simple. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d Prayer The Saints (A Cunctis). 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Tract. V.R.
Friday 17—Ferial. Simple. Everything as of yesterday.
Saturday 18 — Blessed Virgin on Saturday. Mass: Salve (After Purification). 2d Prayer St. Simon. 3d Holy Ghost. 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Tract.
Mr. Lovelly Cracks Whip; and Dirty Dishes— 30.000 of Them — Get a Dining Hall Facial
By Frank Aubrey
Three meals a day; 2500 men at the tables, and 30,000 dishes to be washed and dried in the total elapsed time of less than four hours. That is the situation in the University dining hall. On the average each student sullies four separate hunks of porcelain ware per meal, totalling twelve per day or eight on Fridays. Twelve dishes multiplied by 2500 daubers equals 30,000 daubed dishes, and that’s where the K.P. come in.
Soul Stirring Achievement
Less than an hour after dinner is over, every plate, saucer, and cup, and every piece of silverware is back in the dining halls set for supper. Truly a soul - stirring achievement. Evidently, Houdini, Blackstone, and a few of their more apt pupils must be pulling strings behind the scenes. In this dramatic and 11th hour racket the leading role of Houdini is played to perfection by our Mr. Lovelly. He is understudied by a hard-hearted Blackstone played by the hand-that-holds-the-whip, Ziggy. The actual juggling and sleight-of-hand is done by a staff of over 75 students and 20 towners. Stage properties are by the courtesy of the Notre Dame Dining Halls, Incorporated.
The play opens with a fanfare of rattling dishes and banging platters as long lines of white-coated waiters pour into the kitchen with early returns from the scene of carnage. Arranged around a double- set of electric washers and wide monel tables are forty-odd seconds, arrayed in T-shirts and aprons. The majority
Snooping in the Kitchen • In the foreground, gentlemen, rabbit food.
are freshmen footballers turned dishwallopers. Glowering in the background is Ziggy, both ears attuned to single out from the general din the death agony of a falling piece of crockery. Ziggy plays his part with the artistry of a master—pacing back and forth, on the watch, ready to pounce on the luckless soul who comes in late for his cue or fumbles a handful of dishes. It is a shame to cast Ziggy without a whip.
As the first dishes arrive, well-lathered with the entrails of Armour’S porkers, drooly gravy, and spattered with mashed potatoes, four hands slither them off the trays, sort them, and stack them according to rank, i.e., dainty soup bowls before the more masculine plates. After a few minor parries with a flying brush, the whole assortment is slid down to the students playing the role of rackers.
Saucer-shufflers
A racker is the trade name for the man who seizes fistfuls of saucers and shuffles them like playing cards into wooden racks which carry the D.D.’s through the electric washer. Rackers are skilled workers as K.P. jobs go, for it takes a month of daily practice to get a rookie trained down to a point where he can handle up to 2500 dishes in 40 minutes.
Rackers are only the second link in the unbroken chain bringing your morning cup and saucer back to par. Once the wooden rack is filled, it is skidded down the table to the pusher. A pusher does not do anything tech-
( Continued on Page 22)
FEBRUARY 10. 1939
7
EASTER OPENING FOR MEMORIAL. MAYBE
. •
Fathei- John J. Reddington, C.S.C., superintendent of maintenance and overseer in the construction of the Rockne Memorial, was watching the assembly of some of the 3,500 lockers when your reporter entered one of the main locker rooms in the Memorial Building.
There wasn’t much chance to ask questions at first. Father Reddington anticipated the first few queries. “By Easter, at the earliest,” he snapped.
However, parts of the Memorial will be ready for use‘before Easter. All locker and shower rooms are in the “finishing touch” stage. Hardware and electrical fixtures have not yet been installed but the main floor has been painted.
Father Reddington estimates it will be three weeks before the swimming pool is finished. The bottom of the pool is being tiled but no work has been done yet on the floor surrund-ing the pool. Most of the 12 handball courts are completed except for polishing the hardwood floors. The courts will be ready for use in about two weeks.
The locker rooms are being equipped with 2220 lockers, 12 inches wide and 15 inches deep. These lockers will be used by students for permanent storage; in addition there are 300 full length dress lockers. The faculty locker rooms will be equipped with 125 lockers of the full length type. The Physical Education rooms will have 300 similar lockers.
The flooring in the gymnasium has not been started, so readers who were looking forward to a Junior Prom in the Memorial Building will have to resign themselves to dancing at the Palais Royale!
New Psychology Text
A new text, The Elements of Abnormal Psychology, by Professor Leo F. Kuntz, head of the Department of Education, has just been published by Edwards Brothers, Ann Arbor, Mich. Professor Kuntz has presented a new treatment of the subject with particular emphasis on scholastic interpretation, especially in dealing with the phenomena of functional psychoses. Other aspects include a minimum of technical terms, in order to simplify the presentation of the subject to students unfamiliar with the usual complex terminology. The work is further enhanced by the background of the author’s twelve years of teaching experience in the field.
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
By Graham Starr
The campus personage who gets around in the true sense of the word is none other than Joseph Robinson “Pat” Gorman, senior manager of track. This aspiring politician contends that he has travelled more with the track and football teams in the past two years than has any other manager—even Luke Lacroix.
When he is in, Pat can always be found in Bill McVay’s room in Walsh. Uses his own room for sleeping purposes only. Bill is seriously thinking about charging Pat room rent.
The first year law student, and incidentally, the vice-president of the S.A.C., is as firm a supporter of the
institution as any Notre Dame man. He even thinks the morning buns, and Friday meals are swell as long as they are served on the campus.
As for gab sessions: one wouldn’t be complete without this lad from Alliance, Ohio. Gifted with speech, this lawyer-to-be pounds his opponents into submission. It’s good advice to side with him on campus, national, and international issues.
Our campus socialite was in charge of all the 1938 football pep meetings, and at present runs the new electric clock in the gymnasium during basketball games.
The summer before he came to Notre Dame he practiced faithfully day after day at cheerleading. But it seems that he has become a “rabble rouser” of a different sort.
He is honorary member of the Jersey club, belongs to the Youngstown club, and likes people — crowds of them. And crowds rush him, too.
LADNER LECTURES ON MEDIAEVAL STUDIES
On next Tuesday and Wednesday evenings, Feb. 14 and 15, at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall Doctor Gerhart Ladner will lecture on “Portraits of the Mediaeval Popes” (Tuesday) and on “Iconoclasm in the Eighth and Ninth Centuries.” (Wednesday) These lectures will be illustrated with slides.
Doctor Ladner is presently a member of the faculty of the Institute of Mediaeval Studies at Toronto. Before coming to America he received his university education in his native Vienna, and traveled extensively throughout Europe. He carried on extensive research study in Berlin and in Rome. As collaborator with Professor Paul F. Kehr he contributed to the Monumenta Germaniae Historica, an imposing collection of source materials on the history of Germany which is beyond doubt the finest scholarly work of its kind in any country.
Doctor Ladner’s interest and research have extended to several fields of mediaeval learning, but he is particularly expert in the history of art. His lectures at Notre Dame are in this chosen field of art, and should be of great interest to Catholic college men.
On Wednesday afternoon at 4:15 o’clock in the auditorium of the Law Building Doctor Ladner will deliver an illustrated lecture on “Church History and Church Building in the Earlier Middle Ages.” All who ire interested are cordially invited to attend this lecture.
Bookmen Meet
The Bookmen met Wednesday evening in the Law Building. At this first meeting in the second semester, a schedule was arranged, a selection of books was decided upon, plans were made for the admission of new members. Traditionally, the Bookmen appoint in the Spring a group of new men to fill existing vacancies. It was announced that any student who wished to join the group should present himself to the president, John Walsh, 101 Sorin Hall, early in the next week. On the evening of February 15 the Bookmen will convene to interview and consider those who have applied. Because of a large graduating membership, the Bookmen are especially interested in Freshmen and Sophomores.
A recent poll among the nation’s football experts noted the Stadium press-box, both in equipment and management, the best in the country.
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
RADIO
By Bernard Feeney
C. I. O. DEFENDED BY 'RADICAL* PARKS
VINCENTIANS
By Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
Tonight’s broadcast by the Academy of Politics deals with American territorial possessions. Their status, government, and other political features will be aired. In view of the present controversy over expenditures by the United States on the island of Guam, it can be expected that no small amount of discussion will center on this. Joe Nigro, Ed Sandstrum, and Redman Duggan, graduate students, will carry the brunt of the talking.
With Other Schools
At the University of Vermont, The Cynic, student newspaper, sponsors a weekly program called, “Vermont Cynic Radio League.” On the first program following mid-year examinations a quiz was held, and this gave the students an opportunity to get back at the professors as they fired the questions which the faculty was expected to answer! The high point of last semester’s programs was a symposium of alumni, faculty members and students discussing the question: “Is education eating up life?” The topic was suggested by the writings of Stephan Leacock.
By The Way
Dr. Eduard Benes, former president of Czechoslovakia, will be heard tomorrow evening at 10. At that time he addresses the University of Chicago Alumni Club at the Hotel Delmonico, New York. The topic is, “Democracy and Education.”
Opening the San Francisco’s World’s Fair, President Roosevelt in an address from the White House, will be heard throughout the world on the afternoon of Feb. 18. The major networks, comprising several hundred transmitters and their shortwave affiliates will be linked to the microphone.
- Paderewski opens his Ameircan concert tour with a Magic Key broadcast concert on Feb. 26.
“One Man’s Family” now has one of the most unusual contracts in radio, according to N.B.C. The pact is said to be for seven years and the . original cast of seven Barbours is included in the agreement. This program has been on the air since 1932.
The Log
Mon. 7:45—Faculty Talk, WFAM Tue. 7:00 — Men of Yesterday,
WFAM .
Wed. 9:15—Periscope' of the News, WSBT
Thur. 9:30 — Music Appreciation, WSBT
Fri. .7:30 — Academy of Politics, WFAM
Frank Parks, secretary and selfappointed radical of the Wranglers, ably took over the task of finding an excuse for the much-maligned C.I.O. at the regular meeting last Monday night. Mr. Park’s speech found much opposition, most of which he was able to either reason out or shout down.
Said Parks among other things:
“The mere mention of “CIO” brings a response from every American; and
Frank Parks
He and C.I.O. licked Big Steel.
regardless of one’s attitude, to all it means the story of the phenomenal career of John L. Lewis. He has risen from the ranks of a coal miner to the leadership of the greatest labor union the world has ever known—a union which in less than two years amassed more members than the A. F. of L. had in its 54 year history.
First Victory
“The great drive for the betterment of CIO members began in June of 1936. The first great victory was the defeat of the U. S. Steel Corporation in March of the next year. That same summer the fall of numerous other steel companies was followed by written agreements from General Motors and Chrysler. The CIO was an accomplished coup. Last November the temporary Committee for Industrial Organization became the permanent Congress of Industrial Organizations.
“The CIO has been accused of being Communistic, revolutionary, destructive, and completely unscrupulous. Indeed, like every young union, it was a bit too reactionary—just as the A. F. of L. had been in its first drives. Truly the CIO has given the subjected workers of the mass production industries the necessary force and power to defeat its exploiters, and that is why the capitalists hate it.”
“Hey, Eddie!”
“I’ll be right out.” Eddie had heard the freights roll in that morning. He was up and ready for his chums because freights in the yard meant a day of fun watching them be unloaded, running through them and talking to the men, all of whom knew him. That is one of Eddie’s fortes, his really likeable personality.
Down in the yards, things were pretty quiet; unloading would begin in an hour. Eddie looked arund for something to do. Chum Billy, forever on edge to be into mischief, dared him to see how long he could keep his foot on the track. Eddie was the leader of this gang — supremacy must be shown. Down went the foot.
“Get it close to the wheel.”
“There it is. And — oh, Mr. Johnson, you can judge this contest.”
The foreman of the yards approached with “What are you doing, Eddie? Hey, watch it . . . that car’s moving!”
Won — and Lost
It’s been over a year now that Eddie has been in St. Joseph’s Hospital. He won that contest — there were no challengers for his title ■— -and lost his toes and for that matter, too, the care of a widowed father who seldom visits. Two of Eddie’s brothers are in an orphanage — Eddie’s future home if his foot heals. With this background and his own personality, the six-year-old youngster has been given special attention. He’s one of the bright spots in the visits of N.D. Conference members to the Children’s Ward at the hospital. . . . “How’s the big fellow?”
“I’m swell and have I got news! You know that lanky interne . . . well, he’s gonna marry the nurse who’s upstairs in the old crank’s room!”
Knows Hospital
Eddie knows the hospital, schedule, patients, doctors, Sisters and lay nurses, kitchen and operating room. He knows three N.D. Vincentians very well, and they say that he knows his school work. One might think that Eddie'was a very “knowsey” person, but he has only one vice, and that is a love for gangster stories and their gun play.
Eddie was shy when the two St. Mary’s girls, who supplement the work of the N.D. Vincentians with lessons in spelling, reading, arithmetic, and art - cut-outs, first visited him. But they’ve won him, too, with their voluntary attention in this vital Catholic charity work.
FEBRUARY 10, 1939
AUDIENCE PLEASED BY COLLINS "FEST"
By Robert B. Heywood
Many were wondering just what a musical “fest” was, and Jack Collins gave us at least a working definition with his presentation at the Progress Club Monday night. The program presented by three vocalists and two pianists was well performed but, we fear, rather poorly chosen.
Mr. Anthony Donadio’s naturally beautiful tenor was good in “Vesti la Giubba” and “Come Back to Surren-
Tenor Collins
Impresario
to” — slightly objectionable was his tendency toward a sobbing interpretation. The feminine contingent in the audience simply gasped when Mr. Donadio announced that he would encore with the “Serenade” from the “Student Prince.” This he performed with less confidence and noticeably bad phrasing.
Mr. Mooney managed Chopin’s “Berceuse” with restraint and simplicity; but sometimes his performance lacked the smoothness that Chopin requires. One was reminded of Eliot’s—“So intimate, this Chopin.” In the Debussy and Liszt selections Mr. Mooney demonstrated his technical facility. But as long as pianists insist uphon inflicting us with the acrobatic Liszt, there will always be some of us who will prefer to listen to our scales and exercises in a less fluorescent form. The weaker and fairer part of the audience fluttered and sighed when Mr. Mooney announced “Clair de Lune for his encore. He seems to feel more at ease in the Debussy style; still Debussy did write a few other things beside “Clair de Lune” and “Reflections dans 1’eau.”
As usual, Mr. Donald Tiedemann showed himself to be an excellently trained vocalist; Verdi’s “Eri Tu” was soundly—but perhaps too enthusiastically — interpreted. Sometimes Mr. Tiedemann has a tendency to scream, and at moments his. vibrato is so powerful that there is a change in pitch. His second number, “I Love Life,” has long since out-lived its usefulness; but Mr. Tiedemann does well with something robust. There was again an ensemble of “Ah’s” when (Continued on Page 23)
COLLEGE PARADE
By Fred E. Sisk
On Books
In commemoration of February as Catholic Press Month the Loyola Maroon of Loyola University in New Orleans leads off with an editorial suggesting significant Catholic books for the book-worm this month. Some of the titles they suggest include a collection of essays entitled, Eight Decades, by Agnes Repplier, Scoop by Evelyn Waugh, Catherine of Sienna by Joseph Jorgenson, Recollections of Seventy Years by William Cardinal O’Connell, Three Rousing Cheers by Elizabeth Jordan, and other works by such notables as G. K. Chesterton, Hilaire Belloc, Jacques Maritain, Sigrid Undset, and Father Ronald Knox.
Taking “Fortune’s” Toll
Out on the Pacific Coast at Gonzaga University, the Gonzaga Bulletin makes fun of dollar-a-copy-by-subscription-only Fortune’s recent poll concerning college and high school graduates chances of making a living. The “buck” magazine showed in its results from business executives who answered the poll that the high school student stands the best chance ■with a vote of 41.6 as compared with the 28.6 per cent vote in favor of the rah-rah” graduate. In its editorial the Bulletin observes, first, that the “dollar story-book” made no distinction between the small executives and those of the large industries. This is important, because the high school graduate is the choice of the small firm executive, while the larger ones favor the college graduate with the education which will serve as a basis of responsibility and promotion in the organization. Secondly, the greater number of small business executives bolsters the mark in favor of the high school graduate, and, thirdly, the Bulletin asks if the college man is not better equipped to better himself socially and economically.
P. S. Joe College, if you believe in polls, you had better retract.
—o—
Freshman’s True Confession
A tisket—a tasket
I hardly think I passed it, And if my mommy ever asks me I think that I shall lie.
—Niagara Index.
College Cut-Outs
If you see the Marquette basketeers rubbing the head of their coach’s son when the Hilltoppers play the Irish here, they’re following a custom in use for the past two years at Marquette. ... The gesture is their good luck omen.Since 1933 President Roosevelt has garnered 16 honorary college diplomas for his trophy room .... Two universities conferred honors on the President in 1935.... The
- 9
MARQUETTE U. FIRST DEBATE OPPONENT
•
Veterans Frank Fitch and Al Funk will open the 1939 varsity debating schedule when they meet the Marquette University debaters in Washington Hall next Wednesday at 4:00 p.m. The question, “Resolved: That
Debater Fitch
“.... An enviable record______.”
the United States should cease spending public funds for the purpose of stimulating business,” will be attacked by the Notre Dame team from the negative viewpoint, while Marquette will defend the affirmative.
Fitch and Funk represented Notre Dame last year, and established an enviable record. In the Manchester tournament they won five matches and lost one. At Iowa they won three and lost two. They were victorious four times as against one loss in the Wisconsin meet.
The remainder of the Notre Dame squad is composed of Frank Parks and Milton Williams, “A” team, affirmative; Thomas Grady and William Meier, “B” team, negative; John Win-termeyer and Gerald Flynn, “B” team affirmative.
The schedule:
Feb. 15—Marquette University, here, Washington Hall, 4:00 PJtf.
Feb. 24-25—Manchester Tournament, Manchester, Indiana.
Feb. 26—St. Ambrose College, here.
March 2-4—University of Iowa Tournament, Iowa City.
March 9—William and Mary College, here.
March 20—University of Florida, here.
March 24-25—University of Wisconsin Tournament, Madison, Wisconsin.
April 20—Dartmouth College, here.
Two tentative debates with Michigan State, dates undecided.
All debates at Notre Dame are to be held in the auditorium of the Law Building unless otherwise specified.
first was Notre Dame and the U. of Southern California.... Here’s the case of a lucky black cat.... He’s on the regular payroll at the U. of Vermont at $16 per year for nailing mice in the greenhouse.... A columnist in the Minnesota Daily complains that his kid brother has such a square jaw that when he blows a smoke ring, it comes- out a parallelogram.
10
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CALENDAR
Friday, February 10
Law Ball; Concert—Ruby Spencer Lyons, Continental Ensemble.
Saturday, February 11
Track — Michigan State at Notre Dame 8:00; Movie, Washington Hall, 1:00, 3:00.
Sunday, February 12
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6, 7, 8:30, 10. Benediction 7, 7:30 p.m.
Tuesday, February H
Lecture — Dr. Gerhard Ladner, “Portraits of Medieval Popes.”
Wednesday, February 15
Debate—Marquett at Notre Dame; Lecture— Dr. Ladner “Some Aspects . of Medieval History and Art History.” Meeting, Scholastic, editorial staff 6:30 p.m.; general staff 7:00 p.m.
Three Clubs Breakfast
The first Communion breakfast of the new semester will be held Sunday under the joint sponsorship of Tom Reardon’s Kansas City club, Frank Kelly’s Florida club, and Marty McGinnis’s Memphis boys.
Following the mass in Dillon chapel, to be said by Rev. James A. Fogarty, C.S.C., the breakfast will be held in the lay faculty dining hall. All those who plan attendance and who have not yet contacted the above men are urged to do so immediately.
At 1500 on the Dial
Lee Douglas should sue. He’s got imitators. Imitator number one, better known as Lee Douglas, Jr., is Tom Moran who calls his program, “The Afternoon Trumpet.” Tom’s station can be heard to the distance of 500 feet. He has the Douglas nonsense without the weather reports and advertising.
But the imitator has imitators. Bill O’Brien in Dillon, and a couple of guys in Alumni broadcast some pretty hot recordings. We’re laying our dough on Tom to conquer his rivals because he has a microphone and the famed Ella Fitzgerald recording of Old Man Mose Ain’t Dead.” Tune in any afternoon at 1500 and see what you get.
Notre Dame’s newly-surfaced track was used for the first time against Indiana. Greg Rice must have taken a liking to it, judging from the manner in which the little Missoula speedster finished the two-mile.
DUGGAN AIRS RADIO POLITICAL SERIES
•
The Academy of Politics, through Chancellor Fred Sisk, announced Tuesday evening that the new series of radio broadcasts to be heard from the campus studio will begin tonight at 7:30 o’clock and will be directed by William Redman Duggan, graduate student, who has replaced Joseph
Radioman Duggan Politics rampant.
Messick, who completed his undergraduate studies at the mid-year.
John Christy Flanagan spoke of “Slums and their Elimination,” at the Academy’s weekly meeting, Tuesday evening. He favored a federal plan wherein tenements would be confiscated for a fair monetary adjustment under the “police power” clause in the Constitution.
Tracing the initial attempts at slum clearance Flanagan pointed out that the Dutch in New Amsterdam passed legislation in 1641 to forbid chimney fires. In 1900 the Tenement House ordinance in New York City set up specifications for the erection of new tenements.
Under the Multiple Housing Authority, 1933, the Federal Government supplied three billion dollars for slum clearance. This act was unsuccessfully challenged in the Circuit Court under the “general welfare” clause. Mr. Flanagan believes that correction of the slum evils will be best accomplished as a government project.
He concluded: “Slum conditions are a proper subject of regulation under a state police power and the exercise of that authority properly includes the taking of one citizen’s property and paying him a just compensation for the use of the general public.
“However, if a state can undertake condemnation proceedings, so, too, can the Federal Government undertake the condemnation proceedings. If the State Act is justified, so, too, is the Federal Government Act.”
ST. VALENTINE'S DAY LOSES OLD CHARM
By Edmund Butler
Sentimentalists have persistently accused tradesmen of commercializing Mother’s Day. If these defenders of sentiment would amble by the card counters of America’s department stores next week and then dig into a little historical origin they would be antagonized all over again—because Valentine’s Day has also been cruelly smattered by business interests.
Most authorities agree that this festival had its origin during the reign of Emperor Claudius. As'the story goes: The war monger, Claudius, feared marriage was a hindrance to the army because his espoused doughboys were taking too many “leaves.” To put an end to this he made a decree in Rome forbidding marriage.
Frowns on Order
A good priest, Valentine, frowned at such orders and secretly married many young lovers. Hearing of this, the emperor had the priest dragged to prison where he languished and died a martyr of the church on February 14th.
It is no wonder then that Roman youths and maidens set aside that day to do honor to him. St. Valentine’s Day soon came to be known as “the day for all true lovers.”
Because of a quaint old tradition that birds choose their mates on St. Valentine’s Day it became customary during the Middle Ages for young people to gather on Valentine’s eve and draw a name or a “valentine” from a deep earthen bowl. The person whose name appeared on the slip became the holder’s sweetheart for the year.
Gradually the approach of Valentine’s Day was heralded by the exchange of sweet sentiments of love. A few generations ago blushing young ladies received their “bits of scented parchment” with trembling hands for the sendei' was not inanely blathering but was making a sincere declaration of love.
Verses Original
The verses were original and written by hand and were decorated with multiple hearts, arrows and flowers, and were intricately hand-woven with lace. They were sacred to both the sender and the recipient.
Today the manufactured valentine has thrown individual sentiment into oblivion. The modem youth can be bothered with very little and so he buys a printed “gush of mush” that (Continued on Page 19)
FEBRUARY 10, 1939
II
MUSIC NOTES
By William Mooney
“The Barber of Seville” By
Gioacchino Rossini
Rosina -----------------------Lily Pons
Count Almaviva-------------.Nino Martini
Bartolo   ---------------Virgilio Lazzari
Basilio-----------------------Ezio Pinza
Figaro __________________ Richard Bonelli
The Maid______________________Irra Petina
An Official.......... Giordano	Paltrinieri
Saturday’s matinee from the Metropolitan Opera House will be “The Barber of Seville,” most popular of all comic operas.
This opera experienced an utter reverse at its first presentation. The comedy had originally been set to music by Paisiello, and Rossini’s resetting was considered an impertinence by many; others were outraged by his revolutionary musical innovations, — the first performance was a failure. But the next night the audience gave the opera a fair hearing and, at the third performance, its success was assured.
The opera is in two acts. Count Almaviva is enamored of Rosina, the ward of Doctor Bartolo. She is jealously guarded by the old man, who wishes to make her his own wife.
Count Serenades
In vain the Count serenades her; she does not appear, and he must invent some other means to see her. He meets the lighthearted barber Figaro, who advises him to enter Bartolo’s house disguised as soldier possessing a billet of quartering for his lodgings. Rosina herself has heard the sweet love-songs of the Count, known to her only under the simple name of Lindoro. With southern passion, and the lightheartedness which characterizes all the persons who figure in this opera, — not to be mistaken for frivolity, — Rosina loves Lindoro. Figaro has told her of Almaviva’s love and in return she gives him a note for Almaviva.
When the Count appears as a half-drunken dragoon the Doctor sends Rosina away, and tries to put the soldier out of the house, pretending to have a license against all billets. The Count resists, and, while Bartolo seeks for his license, makes love to Rosina; but after the Doctor’s return such an uproar arises that all the neighbors and finally the guards appear, who counsel the Count to retire for a time.
In the second act the Count gains entrance to Bartolo’s house as a singing master to replace the fever-stricken Basilio. Of course the music lesson is turned into a love lesson.
When all seems to be going well the real Maestro, Basilio, enters and all but frustrates their plans. With gold and promise Figaro bribes him to retreat, and the lovers agree to flee on the coming night. Almost at
the last moment the cunning of Bartolo hinders elopement. He shows a letter which Rosina has written, and makes Rosina believe that her lover, whom she only knows as Lindoro, in concert with Figaro, is betraying hei’ to the Count. Great is her joy when she finds that Lindoro and Count Almaviva are one and the same person, and that he loves her as truly as ever.
Bribe Old Notary
They bribe the old notary who has been sent for by Bartolo to arrange his (Bartolo’s) wedding with Rosina. Bartolo -signs the contract. of marriage, with Figaro as witness, and detects too late that he has been duped, and that he has united the lovers. At last he submits with fair grace to the inevitable, and contents himself with Rosina’s dowry, which the Count generously transfers to him.
ART
By Dick Metzger
A visit to the Department of Fine Arts will provide real cultural training. The collections in the field of sculpture and of paintings include many studies in still life. Recent purchases have augmented the value of these collections. Work of the students in the department gives an added note of interest.
One can roam through the corridors and rooms of the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery and become acquainted with the work of the old masters. Among these is found Van Dyck’s “Crucifixion” which is apt to give the false impression that despite all that is said of that particular master, he may not have been so great after all.. Another religious painting is Guido Reni’s “Magdalen.”
The huge landscape by Constable appears to be unfinished. There is also a pastel drawing of a primitive man hoeing the earth which attracts special attention.
Rockwell Exhibition
At present the Art Department is making arrangements for an exhibition of the work of Norman Rockwell. Mr. Rockwell is the ever-popular New Rochelle illustrator whose work appears frequently on the covers of the Saturday Evening Post. Recently this artist made a series of illustrations for a new edition of “The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.” He also made a portrait of Raymond Massey posing as Abraham Lincoln for the program cover of the New York play, “Abe Lincoln in Illinois.”
Members of the Art Department will go to Chicago next Thursday to visit the Art Institute. The Elks Memorial Building with its mural collections will undoubtedly prove an added attraction.
THEATRE
By R. J. Sadlier
New York’s Group Theatre has well proven that a come-back can be made in the Stem. The death of “Johnny Johnson” found the Group trekking westward to the mecca of celluloid and kleig lights. Backstage on Broadway, though, they refer to such as Hollywood mourning. It seems that those who go there never come back.
But out on the coast, the Group accumulated sufficient financial backing to warrant another shot at the Great White Fathers. In their new start they abandoned all their old formulae and launched into commercial production. Their first effort, “Golden Boy,” placed them on a definitely paying basis. Its run on Broadway, in London, and on its first road tour here garnered them not only the plaudits of the critics but also that lovable, favorable bank balance—all important, of course, when one is thinking in terms of production.
Annual Salaries
So confident is the Group of continued success that thirteen of its members have been placed on an an-ual salary. This, in itself, is a startling innovation in legitimate theatre circles. Usually an actor’s salary lasts no longer than the run of his show —which may be anywhere from one night to several seasons. About as much stability to that as there was to the Stock Market in ’29!
So, if present tendencies are indicative of a general future policy, theatrical hostels will find very few “white elephants” on their hands. At the present time the Group has two plays running concurrently: “Rocket to the Moon,” by Clifford Odets, is experiencing satisfactory results at the Windsor, and the new Irwin Shaw play, “The Gentle People,” starring Franchot Tone, has possibilities of becoming one of the outstanding hits of the season.
For the past week, people have been converging upon Washington Hall in the prime hours of night. Well-founded rumors have it that “The Queen’s Husband,” by Robert Sherwood, is almost completely cast. This is one of Sherwood’s earlier plays and falls into the comedy classification. However, unlike “Room Service” which satiated the campus appetite for raw, broad comedy, we are given to understand that Sherwood leans toward the realm of satire and sophistication in this current embryo-production of the University Theatre.
Vern Witkowski won new honors for himself last Friday and Saturday (Continued on Page 19)
12
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Hie Notre Dome Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Mask J. Mitchell_____________________Editor-in-Chief
Vincent DeCoursey.................. Managing	Editor
William P. Mahoney..................Literary	Editor
William C. Fay..........................News	Editor
Donald Foskett........................Sports	Editor
Tom Powers...............................Art	Editor
Rev. L. V. Broughal, C.S.C..........Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, Post Office Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Wednesday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Vol. 72	February 10, 1939	No. 15
"For Fifty Years..
FIFTY YEARS in the same place, doing the same thing! We who chafe under the restraints of college life from holiday to holiday, and who count the semesters until we can escape those restraints forever, have difficulty imagining such a situation. But it is imaginable; moreover it is a fact. In this instance the place is Notre Dame, the thing teaching.
Professor Francis Ackermann retired this year after fifty years of service to the University. For twenty of those years he has lived in the one room on the third floor of the Administration Building. The rest of the time he lived on the top floor, where he had his first classroom. When his classes outgrew this, he took up temporary quarters in what is now the Department of Fine Arts. There, for thirty-five years, he patiently laid the foundations for future engineers until he moved to the modern classrooms in Cushing Hall.
If you are so minded, you may count the steps one must mount to reach the top floor of the Administration Building. You can multiply this by the number of times a day they were traversed. The result will undoubtedly • be surprising. For ourselves, we prefer to admire the stately figure of Professor Ackermann as he still goes up and down and around. We like his genial, serene outlook on life, the sturdy, friendly character which reflects his association with the days of the founders and their suc-
• cessors, the men who built into Notre Dame the enduring qualities that somehow we are supposed to imbibe.
The Ackermann tradition goes back to 1856. In that year the professor’s uncle came to Notre Dame at the invitation of Father Sorin to teach art and drawing. It was he who decorated the first church built on the site of the present one. He also decorated the second college building, the one which burned in 1871, with a special scheme for each classroom to coincide with the subject
taught there. When the present Administration Building was finished, he did the murals in what were then the Brownson and Carroll refectories. In succeeding years he kept them in repair.
For more than forty years Professor Ackermann’s one great work of love was the inscription of the names of graduates upon their degrees. In thousands of homes the world over they still bear silent witness to this Christian gentleman’s devotion to the noblest causes—to the precision of the engineer upon whose calculations so many lives depend — to the graceful lines that make life pleasant.
The Lay Faculty plays host to him at an anniversary banquet next week. Few of the old timers remain—none so much an old timer as the professor himself. The tribute is a gracious one, and we of the generation to whom he is little more than a name are happy to pause in due reverence before a life so well-rounded.
—Donald MacMaster.
Those Clubs Again
IN A COUPLE of weeks the Dome photographers will have completed their work on the 1939 book. The club pictures will be finished, and the subjects of these can retire to their respective places of hibernation until it is time for another picture, or perhaps possibly a Christmas dance.
The inactivity of campus clubs, specifically the city and state variety, has for years been a favorite target for repeated lampooning by the Scholastic. It would seem, from the present state of things that the numerous critticisms and citations have been almost without result —but certainly they were not without reason.
After all, what possible excuse can a club have for existing on the campus, if it does not function on the campus. There are indubitably innumerable kinds of clubs which would attain a functional status long, before they are reduced to setting up the distinctly arbitrary raison d’etre of residence of the group in a particular locality. Since, however, this type of club is the order of things, it would do well to try to justify its existence on the campus by a certain amount of pertinent activity on the campus.
In some instances, clubs falling under this stigma have in recent years made honest efforts towards improvement. They cannot deny that they have had the fullest possible cooperation from every person or organization which could in any way help them. The Scholastic opens its columns to club news, when such news is made available in reasonably good time. We have even gone out of our way to note particular events sponsored by clubs as evidences of good will towards the policy. We will continue to do so, as long as we are met with any kind of cooperation.—Mark J. Mitchell.
FEBRUARY 10, 1939
13
Democracy and the Absolute
(A Review)
By ROBERT WILKIN BLAKE
The Coming Victory of Democracy is a far cry from being an unconditional act of faith in government of the people. Times are not ripe for that. In these days when England, and France, and Czechoslovakia have suffered so many humiliations at the hands of the dictators, it is somewhat embarrassing to even speak of democracy, and seemingly the mark of a fool to talk of its coming victory. It has been beaten and bullied and out-manuevered on every tack. The totalitarian states seem to hold the supreme advantage in world affairs. And yet Thomas Mann writes of democracy’s ultimate triumph.
To understand his paradoxical position, it is first necessary to understand in what sense he uses the term democracy. Not in the strict political sense, he says, not literally as government by the people, not inadequately as the democratic ideal of peace, but rather he defines democracy as “that form of government and of society which is inspired above every other with the feeling and consciousness of the dignity of man.”
At first it seems rhetorical to mention the dignity of man in the light of all his conceit and depravity, but we must not forget that he is more than the animal matter which is the source of his impei*fections: he is also a spiritual form indowed with a passion for all truth, all beauty, all justice—a passion for the absolute. It is upon this passion that Thomas Mann founds his confidence in the coming victory of democracy. Since by his definition, democracy is that form of government which is most conscious of the dignity of man, it is also that form of government which permits the greatest opportunities to man for the realization of that dignity, for the working out of man’s destiny and perfection. Democracy is thus identified with the absolute.
The dictator’s philosophy of force is opposed to the absolute. It does not “respect human nature’s participation in the ideal.” Where might is right, justice is in banishment, truth is fled, and freedom is outlawed. Justice, truth, and freedom are only different names for the ideal, for the absolute. It is because man was made to the image of perfection, that he is
dominated by the idea, that he hungers deeper than he knows for justice and for all goodness.
Force, though it has long roots in human nature, is only physical and habitual. Metaphysically, it is contrary to justice and higher reason. Force, however, is the first principle and ultimate goal of Fascism. It is a great club that cudgels all to submission. It brow-beats and intimides until the body falls in line. And once the body of man is won, his mind must follow, because he cannot long continue to live a double life.
Sooner or later he must adapt his inner thoughts to the life that force has imposed upon him. There is almost nothing that force cannot accomplish, no fact that sheer superior strength cannot create. “Daily we see justice grow pale before it and perish, because force is oppressive materialism and in the field of experience is usually the victor, whereas justice is only an idea.” But the idea of justice is absolute; it partakes in the very nature and reality of man. When it is absent, man is unhappy; he is restless and dangerous, and eager for new things.
It is characteristic of humanity that it is always eager for new things. In no circumstances and under no conditions is man ever thoroughly satisfied, no life is sufficiently happy to him. He is always striving for variety, for change, for the new, “because it promises him an amelioration and an alleviation of his eternally semi-painful condition.” This is the heritage of man’s primeval fall from grace. “What Christianity calls ‘original sin’ is more than priestly trickery designed to suppress and control humanity—it is the deep feeling of man as a spiritual being for his natural infirmities and limitations.”
In this fundamental restlessness of man lies at the same time both the present advantage of Fascism as well as the ultimate hope of democracy. Fascism is popular now because it has the fascination of novelty. It is charmingly revolutionary, seemingly youthful, boldly opportune. It appeals with its color and parade to the dramatic sense in man. Youth is at
tracted by the prospect of romance and excitement: old age by the hope of rejuvenation. But the claims of Fascism are false. Its color is thin, and its youth only an ephemeral illusion. “Fascism is a child of the times —a very offensive child—and draws whatever youth it possesses out of the times. But democracy is timelessly human, and timeliness always implies a certain amount of potential youthfulness, which need only be realized in thought and feeling in order to excel, by far, all merely transitory youthfulness in charms of every sort, in the charm of life and in the charm of beauty.”
Here lies the hope of democracy; neither is it decrepit, decayed, out-ofdate, nor hopelessly boring as the shrill propaganda of Fascism represents it. To defeat these accusations, democracy must rediscover itself, give up taking for granted, renew itself with the Fascism’s same charm of novelty. For this rebirth it need only tap into its own eternal resources of vitality and youthfulness which democracy’s humanism and relation to the absolute opens unto it.
To accomplish this rejuvenation Mann says, “A reform of freedom is necessary which will make of it something very different from the' freedom that existed and could exist in the times of our fathers and grandfathers, the epoch of bourgeois liberalism.” Laissez-faire is no longer adequate. Freedom has displaced liberalism. Social reform is imperative. A new morality must govern economics. Liberal democracy must give way to social democracy, the. only new thing in the world, and it must out-charm Fascism with its freedom and justice, youth and novelty. And the new democracy must put away its patience and its pacifism and walk boldly in armor that it might not seem pathetic and contemptible in the face of the power-concept. Peace must be well armed, and manly, ever ready to fight until the dictatorial barbarians have been deposed.
Only with such a social renewal can the victory of democracy be guaranteed. In America, according to Mann, President Roosevelt has won the name of a great democrat by the social bent he gives to democracy. Hitler spends
14
billions of marks building the so-called “Temple-city,” the “Reich Sports-field,” a special giant structure for “Kultur meetings,” Zeppelin Field (large enough to hold the annual war games with heavy artillery), and the most gigantic of all, March Field, which will hold a million people. He builds stadiums insteads of homes, and gives the populace bread and circuses to keep them from thinking of their new insignificance. Naziism tries to dazzle and intoxicate the Germans with a sense of their own splendor. Its extemalization is in florid buildings and a bristling, well polished war-machine. The actions of Roosevelt have some of the same magnificence but definitely better taste when he approaches Congress with a plan to build three or four million new homes.
Democracy implies education and aristocracy in the spiritual sense, which means rule by the best people and an opportunity for the lower classes to accept the leadership and the culture of the better element. But in the scheme of Fascism, the dictator. is the .paragon of all things, and
when he is degenerate the culture of the nation becomes degenerate. The “Kultur” orations of Hitler are perfect examples of this debasement.
Assuming the role of art-critic, Hitled pilloried world renown German artists and exposed their works at an exhibition of “degenerate art.” His obscene tyranny is compressing all the Teutonic civilization to one vulgar level. What “the whip of lies called propaganda” cannot' accomplish, terror does. Violence stupefies and stultifies the masses, and sunders man from his spiritual person, intent upon turning the nation into an unthinking, unsinning, state-worshipping warmachine.
The party calls itself National-Socialist. It is a lie and deception. The terms are opposite. Nationalism is an aggressive impulse, and socialism is a moral one. They are at odd ends with each other. True socialism would not permit the destruction of the German labor unions and the annihilation of all socialistic organizations. Nor would it stand for the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
horrendous indignity of contempt’for humanity that is being worked upon it by the most contemptible of creatures, the lofty fuehrer. Germany is his private war-machine, to be used for his personal glorification. Individuals means nothing: they simply must conform as a standard increment of power, or be sacrificed.
“Democracy, whatever may be its conception of humanity, has only the best intention toward it. Democracy wishes to elevate mankind, to teach it to think, to set it free. It seeks to remove from culture the stamp of privilege and disseminate it among the people—in a word, it aims at education.” Democracy is characterized by friendliness to intellectual life, to the arts, to humanity, to the individual, to peace, to domestic development. Being by the people, it is a tendency toward the best interests of the people, a tendency beyond all other forms of government toward justice, toward a realization of the dignity of human nature. That is why, Mann says, he places his ultimate political faith in the coming victory of democracy.
Tramp ... Tramp .. Tramp...
By JAMES GRAHAM
“We won’t go to war. We won’t be fooled like the last generation. No sir! We won’t fall for that old propaganda bunk. We’re too smart!”
It doesn’t matter when or where this scene is placed. It is already centuries old and will probably live forever. It exists today. It has existed ever since the close of the last war. It exists between all wars. Why?
Individuals seem intelligent and stable. But the masses formed by these individuals are weak. Individuals, and even some small groups, make bold statements against war. They disclaim any part in all future wars. Rot! They’ll all be there, with
you and me. When the bands swing out and the soldiers swing into line we’ll all be there—men in uniforms and women in tears.
We’ll have the same excuse: “This war is different. It is essential to our country and to mankind.” Today we say no war is essential, but then —well, things will look different to us. We’ll be glad we aren’t slackers. Our wives, mothers, and children will be proud of us.
We’ll look grand in our new uniforms— when they’re on parade for the first time. But we’ll forget how they’ll look the first time they’re cov
ered with dirt and blood from the trenches. We’ll forget how they’ll look full of bullet holes. Why?
We say we won’t fall for the newspaper propaganda. We won’t help other Hearsts build up circulation. We won’t listen to government propaganda. We won’t help a weak political party stay in office for greater spoils. We won’t rush out to save the sugar monopoly or the Wall Street financiers. But we will! Yes, we’ll be there with them all. We’ll be among the first to mount the platform to kiss the pretty girl as our premium for enlisting early. Why?
Man is man.
FEBRUARY 10, 1939
15
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
FIRST BENGAL DRILL DRAWS SEVERAL
IRISH WINNING STREAK THREATENED BY N. Y. U. TACKLE STRONG SYRACUSE FIVE MONDAY
The Bengal Caravan moves again. Last Monday an impressive squad of fighting aspirants, all sizes, all classes, reported to Instructor “Nappy” Napolitano, thus inaugurating the six weeks’ conditioning grind, which will culminate in the crowning of eight champions on the night of March 24.
The Bengal Bouts, sponsored annually by The Scholastic, and under the promotorship of Mr. Louis Da Pra, seems likely this year to exceed, both in number and in performance, those of past years. Promoter Da Pra stated Tuesday that the number of candidates is certain to equal that of last year. A squad of 85 men participated in last year’s tournament, and indications today were that the number will approach this mark.
Included in this squad of potential title-holders are men of every size and weight. And all will be out for better or for worse from now until the start of the eliminations for which tentative dates are March 15th, 16th, 20th, and 21st.
Eight Divisions
There will be eight weight divisions, the same as intercollegiate division, from which candidates may choose, namely: 115 lbs., 125 lbs., 135 lbs., 145 lbs., 155 lbs., 165 lbs., 175 lbs., and the heavyweights.
The lone entry qualification is that all candidates must undergo a physical examination at the Infirmary from Dr. James McMeel. Following this, locker facilities will be furnished by Mr. McAllister at the gymnasium.
The present group of hopefuls will again be instructed by Mr. Dominic Napolitano, of the Department of Physical Education, and his corps of able assistants. There will be daily training sessions in the apparatus room at the gym frm 3 to 6 o’clock, for all entries and all are urged to attend these classes.
As training starts for the six weeks of intensive drills, etc., all men who are interested in the bouts should sign up at their earliest possible convenience. A special class for novices . and freshmen will be held on Tuesday and Thursday evenings from 8 to 10 o’clock. This year, as in other years, it is expected that many freshmen will take part in the bouts.
By Pete Sheehan
An eight-game winning streak will be in serious danger tomorrow night when the Irish eagers meet the rapidly improving New York University five in Madison Square Garden—the same garden in which many a championship boxer
has risked his coveted crown. Monday
iHiuiiiMemiiiiiaiamiaaMimamtimmitiiiHiaiiMiiimiiiiiitmaB
Bill Mahoney
Watches Interhallers.
iiiiiitiiaiaiiaaiaiiiiiiaaiaiaaaaaaiiaiiiaaiaiiaiaaaiaiaaaiaaaaaiiiiiiiaiiaaai
Interhall Tracksters Compete Next Week
•
Interhall sports again take their share of interest next week as the annual Interhall Track Meet is run off in the field house. Instituted primarily to increase Interhallers’ interest in competitive track and field events, the meet has revealed in past years many an undiscovered trackman who later made the grade on the varsity. The keen eyes of Coach John Nicholson and Assistant Coach Bill Mahoney will be peeled as usual for newcomers of promise.
On Tuesday evening at 7:30 trials will be held for teams from Alumni, Sorin, Walsh, Dillon, Howard, St. Edward’s, and Carroll. Tuesday evening will see the trial heats completed as Badin, Lyons, Morrissey, Brownson, Cavanaugh, Freshman, Zahm, and Old Infirmary go through their paces. The finals will be held at 7:30 on Thursday evening.
The following events will be open to entrants; 60 yard dash; 60 yard high . hurdles; 60 yard low hurdles; 440 yard dash; half mile; mile; broad jump; high jump; pole vault.
night a tougher foe will be encountered when the Gold- and Blue stop off at Syracuse to meet the Syracuse quintet which has not tasted defeat since last December.
The Garden contest, which is expected to attract a full house, will mark the fifth meeting between the Irish and the Violets. Although the Gotham team copped the initial contest they were unable to trim the Nowak - Moir - Wukovits combination during their three-year reogn. Paul Nowak was considered the outstanding performer in all of these games and the New York fans, as well as Coach Keogan, will miss his colorful play this year.
Coach Howard Cann, like Keogan, was forced to open the season with many inexperienced men but they developed rapidly and gave Minnesota a very stiff battle last month, losing by six points. During the past week they upset the hightly-touted St. John’s team, 40 to 32, after taking an early lead of 21 to 12 at half time.
Robert Lewis and Auerbach will start at forwards with Irving Dubinsky and Ed Stevens alternating at the center post. Arthur Schilling and Dan Dowd will be called on to keep Ed Riska and Ed Sadowski from scoring too many points during the evening.
Lewis P. Andreas, Syracuse tutor, has had about the same kind of success that Coach Keogan has enjoyed this year. In December his squad lost twice but since then has taken everything in sight. Such teams as Georgetown, Manhattan, and Fordham were met and defeated by lopsided scores. Offensively they have averaged 41.5 points a game and have held their opponents to an average of 25 points per contest.
Captain Bob Stewart and Wilmeth Sidat-Singh will be .at the forward posts. The latter attained stardom on the gridiron this year where his accurate passing was responsible for many Syracuse victories.
16
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NICHOLSON FEELS IRISH TRACKMEN MAY BEAT SPARTANS HERE TOMORROW AFTERNOON
GYMNASTS PERFORM IN MICHIGAN TODAY
By John Quinn
Tomorrow afternoon the track team will meet Michigan State in the second meet of the year. Although the Irish suffered a two-point loss in their first meet with Indiana, Nick believes the squad will be in better condition, and with one meet behind them, will be stronger than when they engaged with the Hoosiers.
The last indoor meeting of the two schools was in 1920 when the Blue and Gold took the Spartans into camp. The bettering of all meet records seems inevitable in view of the improvement in all events during the past twenty years. The teams have met in the C.I.C. meets, and last year it was the Michigan State squad that gave N.D. its best competition. ■ However, their great star hurdler, Woodstra was lost by graduation while ineligibility and injuries give the State coach his worries.
Balance Keynotes Spartans
Michigan State brings a well-balanced team, headed by Wilbur Greer, down from the north. Greer ranks among the top sprinters here in the mid-west. The other boys whom the Irish thinlies will be out to beat are: Dick Frey and Bill Mansfield in the distance runs; Roy Fehr, Bob Hills and Edmond Laitenschlager in the half; John Cassavola and “Ruddy” Yovonovitz running the 440. John Scales and Gayle Robinson will handle the hurdles for Michigan State. An interesting sidelight is the fact that this John Scales is the son of John Scales, ’07, ’08, who also starred in the “highs and lows” here at Notre Dame. The shot will be handled by Ernest Bremer, and the pole vault and high jump will be in capable hands of sophs, Starr Keesler. and Walter Arrington.
Nick isn’t saying, but his prepractice talks seem to hint that he thinks his boys can take this one. With the Illinois relays next on the program he wants to have the team running in high about the time they reach Champaign, but he realizes the job at hand and has worked the team with that in mind. His worries are now caused by the dashes; he is well pleased with the work of the distance men and those in the field events.
Spring Grid Practice
“The opening of spring football practice depends entirely upon the weather,” Athletic Director and Head Football Coach Elmer Layden announced this week. “We are ready to go now but the weather is holding us back,” he commented. “We usually are able to begin drills around the first of March.”
Track Coach Nicholson ‘ Pins hopes on sprinters.
iiiiiimititdiiiifiuiiiiiatiititmiititttiiiiiiiitttiiiiiMttiiiiuiiiiiti
Handballers at Chicago Tomorrow Evening
•
The Notre Dame handball team travels to Chicago tomorrow to open their official 1939 season against the University of Chicago.
“The team on the whole is expected to be better than that of last year,” their coach, the Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., said in reviewing the squad’s prospects. “However, the Chicago team they are meeting Saturday night is mighty good.” •
Three men, Bill Metrailler, Sol Trentacoste, and Tim Bradley, .are back from the 1938 team. About 20 are out for the team at present. An elimination tournament is being conducted by Father Brennan to select the team of ten players. Even after the team is selected, any one still has the right to challenge any of the first four or five for a position on the team, Father Brennan said.
A week from tomorrow, Saturday, Feb. 18, the Chicago team will pay a return visit. The game here is expected to be played in the afternoon.
Besides the activity of the University team, there is also to be held the annual winter handball tournaments in both singles and doubles. Lucien J. La Croix is to be director of this event.
Notre Dame exponents of the pyramid and the parallel bars have taken to the road again. It didn’t take Mr. John Scannell, head of the Department of Physical Education and coach of the Univesity’s Gymnastic Demonstration Team, long to get his boys on the road following the recent semester exams. For on last Thursday, Feb. 2, the Irish gymnasts gave their first show of the 1939 season at the Harrison School in South Bend. Thus was opened an extensive schedule of 12 demonstrations.
This week Director Scannell takes his boys on a much longer trip, for they will point east to Coldwater, Michigan, to appear as one of the main attractions at a high school athletic circus. The gymnasts will be at Coldwater for a two-day demonstration today and tomorrow.
Next week the Scannell proteges will return to their home state and will make their appearance at the municipal auditorium in Michigan City; this demonstration is to be held under the auspices of St. Mary’s High School of Michigan City. Among the other nine shows planned will be performances at Valparaiso, Ind.; Detroit, Mich.; and Culver Military Academy. Another show is set for Hammond, Ind. Plans for the team’s exhibition before the Notre Dame student body in Washington Hall were not available as The Scholastic went to press.
The Notre Dame team has presented these demonstrations for several years now and the annual road trip of the team has availed an opportunity for people throughout the midwest to see what excellent work the Department of Physical Education is doing in training these men. Each program given by the team consists of work done in the classes every day here at Notre Dame. Thus the programs demonstrate the work that the department does aside from game work, such as football, basketball, track, etc.
Among the veterans back from last year’s fine team are: Eddie Broscoe, Dick Ames, Hugh Burns, Mike Corgan, Lou Zontini, Bud Kerr, and Joe McKeon.
Bill Faymonville, husky shot and discus star, had spectators and managers gaping the other afternoon when he heaved the shot up onto a steel beam in the fieldhouse. Then the juggler in Faymonville came to the fore as he retrieved the ball by means of a pole.
FEBRUARY 10, 1939
17.
FENCERS LACK SPARK IN DETROIT WIN
INTRODUCING
By Eddie Huff
WALSH INTERHALLERS WIN TWO GAMES
As it returned from the recent invasion of Detroit, the Notre Dame varsity fencing team was the center of what seemed to be an almost incredible situation. On Saturday, Feb. 4th, the Irish defeated the University of Detroit fencers by the score of 16-1. This was certainly one of the most lopsided victories ever scored by a Notre Dame fencing team, and yet, as if to prove the old adage, “you can nevei’ tell what’s cornin’ next,” word has reached us that Coach Pedro de Landero is very much disappointed in the showing given as his fencers bowled over the opposition from the Auto City.
In his quarters at 124 Howard Hall, the genial professor answered questions concerning his team. Yes, he was glad that his boys had won. He had enjoyed the trip very much. Was he satisfied with the showing put forth by his team? The answer to that last question was quite evidently “a horse of a different color.” Definitely, he is not satisfied with the showing in the Detroit matches. Furthermore, he stated that the Irish had looked far better in losing to the formidable University of Chicago team (January 28) than they had against Detroit. As proof of his attitude, he has kept-“all” members of his squad busy at reviewing fundamentals for the past few days. Finally, Coach de Landero’s plans include the staging of tournaments in the use of each type of weapon. These tournaments, staged on February 9th, 10th, and 11th, will determine the men to be taken to Ohio State and Cincinnati on February 17th and 18th, respectively. No one is assured of making the trip unless he can show that he knows his fundamentals and knows how to fence “as Coach de Landero wants him to.”
In the Detroit match, McEnearney and Colgan of Notre Dame won the first two foil contests by the identical score of 5-0. Leising (N.D.) then defeated Detroit’s Swain and Captain Roney, but was humbled by W. Roney. The latter match was the only Detroit win of the afternoon. Sophomores O’Donnell and Schlafley, making their first appearance for Notre Dame, captured two bouts apiece to raise the score to 8-1.
A new Blue and Gold record was set in the epee as the Irish swept the event and increased their lead to 12-1. It remained only for Gavan and Donovan (the latter substituting for Captain Scarlata) to win the last four matches (sabre), to sweep that event, and to bring a welcome end to a very dull afternoon.
Bill Donnelly, senior English major, miler, and monogram winner, became a runner because he lived in Queens Village (Long Island, New York, just inside the city limits) and went to Richmond Hill High school. For the high school was some five miles from Queens Village, and classes started at 8:00 a.m. That meant quite a dash every morning from house to bus, from bus to “el,” from “el” to school.
He broke in on the newly-organized high school track team as a halfmiler, but switched to the mile in his
senior year and was undefeated in dual competition. He set a Queens-borough Novice Mile record of 4:48 in 1935, which stood for three years. He first attracted Coach Nicholson’s attention as an Interhall medalist in his freshman year, winning both the mile and two mile runs for Brownson, a feat as yet unduplicated. He ran on
the “unrecognized” cross - country teams of '36, ’37, and '38, but was lost to the track team in his sophomore year because of a trick arch, picked up on the hard indoor track.
Bill—it’s “Bill” to the world at large, but “Willie” (or “Blinker”) to those who know him best—in his own person exemplifies the well balanced man — the man of action and of contemplation. Besides his athletic awards, he was won all sorts of prizes for scholastic and literary ability. He ranked third in his high school grau-ating class of 600, was president of the class, and declined a New York State scholarship to come to Notre Dame. Here he is maintaining a magna cum laude average, is poetry editor of Scrip, shared the university prize for poetry in 1937, is the official Class Poet for the present seniors,
Four games featured a very lean week-end in the Interhall Basketball League. The entire fourth round in the Group One division was postponed, because of the initiation of the new Monogram Club members. These contests will be played sometime this week. Of the six games scheduled for the second group, two, between Morrissey-Lyons, and Badin-Howard, were decided in favor of Morrissey and Badin by virtue of forfeits.
The scores, however, were hardly as small as the total games, 171 points being accumulated by the heavies of Walsh, Sorin, Dillon, Howard, and Badin, and the lightweights from Morrissey and Lyons. Walsh was all too pleased with the unusual vacancy on the courts, and took a double win in conquering Sorin’s quintet, 27-19, and the Dillon delegation, 28-12. Howard eased a last-minute free throw through the strings to set back the Badinites, 16-15. Lyons forfeited to Morrissey.
Among the lightweights undefeated Morrissey went a long way to keep their slate clean in defeating Lyons, 28-26. Badin maintained its unmarred record by taking a forfeit when Howard’s Hallers forgot to appear.
Now that the Monogram Club has completed its initiation ceremonies, the regular Interhall schedule will be resumed. Scheduled to line up against each other on Sunday morning in Group One are: Freshman vs. St. Edward’s (9:99); Off-Campus vs. Carroll (9:15); Brownson vs. Zahm (10:00); Cavanaugh vs. Old Infirmary (10:15). The afternoon play ■ will see Group Two take the floor in the following contests: Sorin vs. Lyons (1:30); Alumni vs. Morrissey (1:45); Dillon vs. Howard (2:30); Walsh vs. Badin (2:45).
contributes regularly to Scrip, and of course writes the most widely-read section of our own Scholastic, “The Week.”
Bill sometimes wishes he had waited a year or so before coming to college, so that he might have developed further as a runner. He will not be 21 till next November, and might have had several more years of gradual training and competition before he reached, his peak. He doesn’t think he will compete after June—though he has an offer from the Grand Street Boys’ Club—but at any rate he will keep in trim on his daily mile-and-a-half jaunt from one side of Queens Village to the other, to see a certain very attractive Marion.
18
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By Andy Wilson
IRISH ROLL OVER ILLINI. 38-24
It is very annoying that any accidental occurrence such as Don Lash’s last-lap collision with Gilbert Dodds should have come up to spoil the decisiveness of Greg Rice’s excellent victory over the Indiana state policeman at the Millrose Games last weekend. Our little Greg won the two-mile run in 9:07.6, slightly over Lash’s meet-record time of 9:06, set last year. According to various newspaper reports, Lash was anywhere from three to ten yards behind Greg at the finish. And most authorities indicated their doubts as to whether Lash would have lost had he not been forced to push Dodds, Ashland College runner, out of his way on the back stretch of the final lap.
There are no precise facts available on this incident. Greg himself, being out in front, naturally saw nothing and even heard nothing till the Sunday papers appeared. Only the newspaper-writers seem to have been following anyone but the leader in the final drive for the tape, and their opinions as to the exact moment and place of Lash’s mishap all vary. Here is the situation, as far as we could figure it out:
At the gun-lap, Greg Rice, who has been closely dogged by Schwartzkopf of Michigan and Lash, bursts out into the lead. Dodds, on the verge of being lapped, moves over to let Gregg and the Michigan runner by, then on unsteady legs, starts to edge back to the rail. Lash has to elbow vigorously to push him over and get by, then digs out, passes Schwartzkopf, but fails to catch Greg.
The whole track was 180 yards around, with less than 60 yards in each straightaway. The finish was squarely in the middle of the second stretch. Greg seems to remember passing Dodds on the backstretch; Lash, the second man behind Greg at the time, must have been only about 40 or 50 yards from the finish when he came up to pass Dodds. He must have been at least ten yards behind Greg, for Schwartzkopf was between them and fading under Greg’s sprint. In order to catch Greg, then, Lash would have had to run about twice as fast as Greg. Knowing the power in Greg’s finishing “kick,” we are inclined to doubt even Don Lash’s ability to do that.
Doubtless Lash might have been closer to Greg than he was, had he not hit Dodds. But we feel sure, and Coach Nicholson feels sure, that Greg can follow any pace in the distanceruns, and beat “any” American runner, without any “breaks” to help
him along. And we do not think that Lash—or anyone—could have caught Greg last Saturday, under any cir-stances. It seems that the New York sports writer would be naturally inclined to overestimate Lash’s sprinting ability, having seen him finish before only against men like Deckard and McCluskey. Both these runners are fine striders, but they have no “kick” at all themselves, and would of course make Indiana Don’s look more impressive by comparison.
Little Greg, in winning at the. Millrose Games, just continuing an 18-year-old Notre Dame tradition. In 1921, Johnny Murphy became the first of the Fighting Irish to enter the Games. He won the high jump, and repeated the next year, setting a new world’s record of 6 feet 4% inches, in New York’s old Madison Square Garden. Throughout the meet, we were told, rain came dripping down through the roof onto the high-jump runway, making Murphy’s leap all the more extraordinary. Since his time, no one wearing the Blue and Gold has ever been defeated in Millrose competition, Paul Harrington winning the pole-vault at the new Garden in 1927, at a new world’s record height of 13 feet % inches, and Alex Wilson (no relation) taking the Millrose “600” in 1931 and ’32.
*	* #
Greg feels sure that the improvement in times, at least in the longer races, is due much more to mechanical improvements, such as track-designing and surfacing, than to physical improvement on the part of the individual runners. In 1914, at the first Millrose Games held at Madison Square Garden, for instance, one W. J. Kramer did 9:16.8 on a flat, hard track. In 1939, at the 25th anniversary of the games in the Garden, Greg himself ran in 9:07.6 on a springy, scientifically - banked board track — only the fourth time in 25 years that anyone had run under 9:10, and one of the few times that were faster than Kramer’s. For most of that period, until the new track* were developed, the average two-mile winner’s time was anywhere between 9:16 and 9:18.
*	* *
We are rather inclined to choose Indiana as the next basketball champin of the Big Ten. Their most significant accomplishments to date have been a 29-28 victory over Illinois, at the Ulini court, and a 46-34 rampage over Ohio State at home, avenging their only defeat to date.
Illinois showed at the Notre Dame fieldhouse for the fifth time last Friday, and for the fifth time they were “showed up.” A second - straight packed house watched the Irish roll over the Ulini 38 to 24 for their eighth win in a row. Coach Keogan’s men were held below 55 points for the first time in five games by a tight Illinois zone defense which forced the Irish to cash in on opportune shots and baskets from outside the defense. Both teams were off in their shooting and Pick Dehner’s one-hander from the foul circle was the only basket the visitors managed to get during the first half.
At the opening whistle Illinois jumped into a 3-2 lead on Dehner’s bucket, but Notre Dame started to rush the Ulini off their feet at this point and quickly jumped the count to 13-3. Captain Tom Nisbet was absent from the game and no doubt the Ulini were weakened, but even with Nisbet, the visitors would have been outspeeded by the driving, aggressive game the Irish played. The Irish defense was swarming all over the Orange and Blue, harrying the man with the ball so effectively that passes were just far enough off to permit numerous interceptions and to force Dehner, in the bucket position, to get rid of the ball without taking a shot.
Mark Ertel played a fine game— handling the ball adeptly, receiving rebounds, and holding the dangerous Dehner to one bucket in the first half. With DuCharme, Riska, Ertel, Brown, and Sadowski all sharing in the scoring Notre Dame finished the half with a safe lead of 19 to 8. Coming back after the band concert, Illinois rapidly cut into the Irish lead. Ertel went out on personals at the seven minute marker, and Dehner had a time for himself—racking up three baskets and four fouls within a few minutes. With a quarter to go the score was 25-21 Notre Dame, but that was as close as Illinois came for, Rex Ellis, replacing Ertel, promptly grabbed five points to ease the tension.
Mr. Dehner received quite a kidding from the crowd as to his “prima donna’’ rating, but he demonstrated his ability by hooping 14 points, high total for both teams.
Already the stadium has undergone necessary repairs in anticipation of the opener with the Purdue Boilermakers next fall. Among other things new sod has been set in the area between the end zone and the 30 yard line at each end of the field.
FEBRUARY 10, 1939
THEATRE
(Continued from Page 11) evenings in the Turner Little Theatre production of “Night Must Fall.” Playing the role of “Danny,” the murderer, he turned in a veteran performance. In the past two years he certainly has run the gamut of roles; Moonshiner, English colonel, Frenchman, Russian waiter, and now “Danny,” the pathological role which brought the Academy award for acting to Robert Montgomery last year.
Unfortunately we don’t have academy awards here at N.D., but, if we
did, Witkowski certainly would be the only possible recipient. Anyway, we extend the Theatre palm-of-the-week to V. G. Witkowski — if that means anything. Ahora te pongo en libertad. Adios.
ST. VALENTINE’S DAY (Continued from Page 10) means nothing to him and much less to the receiver.
Pranksters, with calloused senses of humor, can soon be found snickering at the card counter of some local
“dime” store searching for a malicious comic valentine so that they may openly insult somebody for a penny.
Only little children retain the true meaning of St. Valentine’s Day. Their home-made sentiments are sent sincerely, and perhaps if some little “Johnny”'blushes under the happiness of reading his “girl’s” scribbling words: “Be My Valentine” the day has served its purpose.
"Do you mean it?"
Your Lovely Lady will know you aren’t fooling when you send her a
FLORAL VALENTINE
WILLIAMS ... The Florist
Oliver Hotel Building
Norv Hunthausen	John Henebery	Fred Weber
Howard	Howard	Morrissey
It’s Safer
to Ride the
AT YOUR SERVICE/ AT YOUR PRICE/
OHLY 10c TO TOWH
FOR 4 OR 5 STUDENTS
Hourly Rate, $1.50
Stay snug, warm and safe when you travel by South Shore Line. No wintry winds to buck ... or snow or ice or rain. It’s actually cheaper than driving./
S. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent 301 N. Michigan Phone 3-3111

INDIANA YELLOW SOUTH BEND CAB	CAB	CAB
CO.	CO.	CO.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE and SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
:5OUThnsehoRE
20
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
N.D. Freshman is Southern Junior Singles Champ;
Canale Hunts Partridge and Duck in Off Season
By Robert B. Voelker
“Yeah. I guess there were plenty of ’em,” grinned Daniel (Ace) Canale when asked about his thrilling
and hectic experiences on the tennis courts. Now a freshman at Notre Dame, Dan has run the baselines for ten years, or better han half his life. He hold the Southern Junior Championship in the doubles and the Memphis City Championship in the singles. Finishing a close second in several bigger tournaments last summer, Dan already ranks with the big guns of the courts.
Following the bouncing ball during the summer months, the dark-haired “Ace” from Memphis, Tennessee, averages ten sets a week during four months of the year. If our mathematics is correct, this would mean he has played over 2,000 sets of tennis, more than the average player will do in a lifetime. We might even say Dan is definitely a tennis bug, for he slyly confesses that last week he and Whit Gregory, the Kentucky - bred Notre Dame Varsity star, played a freeze-out game in the cinder courts behind the fieldhouse, ’mid snow and ice—and with an imaginary net.
Sprawled on his bed, his chin propped on the steel bar at one end, Dan said that the most tensely excit
ing moment he ever spent in the courts was during the semi-finals of the Southern Tournament last sum
mer. He was playing Bill Gillespie of Duke University, who, with seven match points, hit two let balls in succession; they both hit the net, wavered, and dropped on Dan’s side. Dan’s final comment on the let-down was simply “Gee!”
“Most fold-ups in tournament play are caused by tension and strain, called ‘choking’ in tennis. When you start thinking about that little white ball and what you’re going to do to it, you might just as well quit. Play must be habitual or instinctive to relieve the player from choking.
Contrary to the unusual lean and lanky Bill Tilden physique, “Ace” towers loftily at about five feet seven inches, looks fast and shifty.
Dan claims that the most difficult trick to learn in tennis is footwork. “If you can’t get your feet in the right position, your drives will be ineffective and you will lose control. A certain amount of footwork can be learned, but most of it comes naturally with extensive practice,” Dan believes.
“Tennis, like hockey, is becoming more and more popular among young Americans, principally because of the extensive publicity given the sport by
newspapers and the news reels. People see men like Budge, Henkle, and Von Cramm and other notables in action, then decide they’d like to try a hand at the game themselves. If men are not physically equipped to play the game themselves, they are at least interested enough to follow
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND ----- ------------
LEARN TO FLY with ITOCKERT FLYING SERVICE, Inc.
Bendix Field
STUDENT COURSE, £45.00 Trial Lesson FREE!
Charter trips to anywhere in the United States in Stinson.
See campus representative CHAS. CARROLL 114 Dillon Hall "Our business is in the air”
GLASSES PROPERLY FIRED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
THE HUDDLE . . .
Campus Smoke Shop and Candy Store

"If it’s Musical—We have IF* MACK'S MUSIC BOX 228 North Michigan South Bend, Ind.
POPULAR STAND. SHEET MUSIC Records, Orchestrations, Band and Strinr Inrtramente, Drams, and Accessories.
FEBRUARY 10. 1939
21
the sport closely, because each year the audiences are growing bigger at the tournaments.
As in golf, keeping one’s eye on the ball is the fundamental rule of tennis. “The average young man can play good tennis after two summers’ experience,” Dan said, “then it’s just practice, practice, practice that builds experts.
And Dan has his favorites, too. Budge is the best tennis player today, according to “Ace.” He thinks Budge’s terrific backhand and overhead drives are his finest points. “Budge can bounce his overhead to the back end of the court every time,” he added hero-worshipingly.
Like all tennis players, Bill Tilden II is Dan’s idol. The reader will recall that Tilden won the National Championship indoors in the doubles in 1919 and 1920, and the National Championship on the turf from 1920 to 1925 in both singles and doubles. “Tilden,” Dan thinks, “could take Budge today.” But he added doubtfully, “Of course, with the changing mechanics of the game, and the dif-
Rise to the Occasion!
She will be glad you thought to make it a bit special by selecting the
Bavarian Room
LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS
HOTEL La SALLE
Corner Michigan and LaSalle
ferent style of play, it’s hard to say who would be supreme.”
While his principal interest is sports right now, Dan says he will not enter the professional tennis ranks, but plans to study law—maybe
Your Valentine Gift — A BOOK . . .
COME AND SEE THE SELECTION WE OFFER!
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan Street	South Bend,- Indiana
I Love You Truly...
a valentine tells her so.
at Harvard—and practice in Memphis. He follows a long line of Canales at Notre Dame, so long, in fact, that he has lost count. Dan insists that tennis is just a hobby with him.
Specialising in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Sweet or spicy perfumes_____________________1.00	to
Gay handkerchiefs___________________________25c	to
Glamorous jewelry .....................    1.00	to
Exquisite handbags _______________________ 2.00	to
Distinctive gloves_____________________pr. 1.00 to
Raftering hosiery _____________________pr. 79c to
27.50
1.00
5.00
7.50
5.00 *
1.15
. . . . give her an Ellsworth gift and she'll love you forever! Come in to-day. Valentine Cards, sentimental or humorous, as you like, 5c to 25c.
[ILW5
ill-117 N. Michigan Street
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
22	•
DIRTY DISHES
(Continued from Page 6) nical, merely starts the racks through the red-hot streams of water playing on the dishes in the washer. As the rack emerges, another T-shirt bends forward, and together with two coworkers, tears the dishes from the rack. When all goes well, the operation of removing 18 dinner plates from their carriage takes this trio about one and a half seconds. This point is the climax of the play, for here breakage is liable to be high if the boys get careless.
“Blackie” Lectures
Sometimes a “pull-out” man may go three days without cracking a single dish, but on an off-day he may kill five to ten. After a particularly crude execution, however, he is sure to find peering over his shoulder the unsmiling countenance of Blackstone himself. “Blackie” reads the riot act from his script—mentioning, in passing, the cost and selling price of various utensils, the length of time in service, and the personal regard he has for each and every plate.
But after Blackie does a fade-out, the dish world rattles on again. The smoking-hot plates, stacked in endless lines, are shoved down the table to the driers. The driers are the feminine roles in the drama and are
played by characters who are well versed in their art. Three of them have been known to dry 1200 dinner plates in 15 minutes flat. Their work must be done expertly, for Houdini himself casts a critical eye on some of their finished products.
Ladies Accommodate
On a home football game Saturday these ladies usually accommodate the T-shirt gang by finishing off their jobs in record time, enabling the K.P.’s to don their civvies and participate in the pre-game promenades. As fast as each dish is dried, it is stacked on a caisson to be wheeled back into the main arenas. The total operation is completed as the caisson carries the last load of plates out of the kitchen.
But that is not all. There follows the anti-climax, the part which is so distasteful for the finished thespians to play. At the moment the whole cast has finished its collective job and the stage is being cleared for the next day, in comes another load of exceptionally soiled dishes. The waiters have just dined. There may be only fifty to. a hundred dishes in the lot, but inasmuch as the K.P. works on an assembly line, at least eight men must remain to put the finishing touches to the job.
The stark tragedy of the whole thing is the utter lack of appreciation
shown this accomplished group. Visitors coming to the campus for a football game may enter the kitchen and give the entire cast a chance for a few curtain calls, but otherwise the audience consists of fewer than a hundred dull-eyed “hashers” who have seen the show too often.

DENTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
No+re Dame BOOK STORE
BADIN HALL
INK
PENS NOTEBOOKS
Plain Stationery 100 Sheet, 75 Envelopes Special 59c
A Complete New Line of Pennants!
VALENTINES
LARGEST SELECTION IN SOUTH BEND!
Office Supply and Equipment Company
130 North Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana (Entrance thru The Book Shop)
SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY
THE UNIVERSITY OF BUFFALO
A FOUR-YEAR CURRICULUM COMPLETED IN THREE CALENDAR YEARS, BY* MEANS OF THE QUARTER PLAN. (Four quarters of
-	eleven weeks each, to the school year.)
The dental and medical schools are closely affiliated, instruction in the basic medical sciences being under the supervision of the medical faculty. Clinical practice of dentistry, in all its varied aspects is supervised by the dental division and there is an intimate association with the clinics of several hospitals. Periods of internship in two general and one children’s hospital during the senior year, offering unusual experience in clinical observation, diagnosis and treatment of dental conditions.
Next regular session will start the first week in July, 1939.	-
For further information address:	-
SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY
25 Goodrich Street	Buffalo, New York .
-------------:________________£______________________l
FEBRUARY 10, 1939
23
COLLINS’ FEST (Continued from Page 9) the encore, “Without a Song,” was announced.
One noticed here especially Mr. Tiedemann’s habit of glissandoing into the propert pitch. Definitely, he should stick to the more serious music and forget about such sings as “Without a Song” and “I Love Life.”
The Verdi-Collins-Tiedemann combination was wavering and halting. The evening was generally over-Ver-died anyway.
The three numbers by Mr. Pedtke were accomplished with grace and ease. Paderewski’s “Cracovienne Fan-tastique” was excellently done, and the last two numbers showed a delicacy of touch and a sensibility of interpretation. One would like to hear Mr. Pedtke play Bach.
Mr. Collins is still not an operatic tenor. And though he revealed that he was to perform “Celeste Aida” as “a love song,” he tended to be over-mushy about it. To Del Riego’s “Homing” he gave a contrast of interpretation that he does not always achieve. “Thank God for a Garden” was executed with the usual hushed sentimentality. Sometimes Mr. Collins’s high notes run toward the nasal and
MM -  —-	-MW
Flowers for Madam!
THE VALENTINE EXQUISITE ▼
See
JOE SULLIVAN
So. Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan St.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
♦
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
Optometrists and Opticians Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
the falsetto. The two encore numbers, “The Little Irish Girl” and “Macush-la” were unreservedly good; they convinced one that the Irish song is definitely Mr. Collins’s forte.
Visit Our Hew Complete Record Dept. VICTOR. Latest releases:	BLUEBIRD
Artie Shaw, “Jungle Drums”; Larry Clinton, “Deep Purple” Play them on Electric Machines in private booths.
RODIN, Inc.
132 North Michigan Street	South Bend, Indiana
There’s nothing like an Arrow for breaking hearts
Arrow white shirts, as sure-fire as Cupid’s dart, will do more to step up your good looks than any other article of clothing. White is always right, and goes well with all your suits and ties.
DART—Arrow’s new white shirt with the Aroweave long wearing non-wilt—collar that keeps you handsome all day. $2.25.
TRUMP—The world-famous Arrow shirt whose soft
collar holds all endurance records. $2.
GORDON—Arrow’s double-duty oxford ... a fine
comfortable shirt for year-round wear. $2.
All Arrows have the Mitoga fit and are Sanforized-shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than i%).
ARROW SHIRTS
The performers all showed themselves capable of good things, and we venture that a few similar musicals might surely be welcomed in Washington Hall.
Right Combination
is Chesterfield
w/ien i/oure luMintf /or Afore Smokinq Pleasure
...the blend that cant be copied
...the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos
hesterfield
ding and skillful play of the
hands that takes the tricks’*.
By combining (blending together) the right kinds of mild, ripe American and aromatic Turkish tobaccos, Chesterfield brings out all their fine smoking qualities and gives you a cigarette that’s outstanding for mildness . . . for aroma . . . for taste.
When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure . . . why THEY SATISFY
IL co/orfu/P. HAL SIMS,
master bridge authority and
player says, “It’s, the right
combination of keen bid-

Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.