
I M • : all the dopep,'11need for a Euq,e trip. 

·· The Paulists are helping to build the earth. 
downtown on the campus in the parish in the office 
building bridges working with the young and old spreading the Christian spirit, 
praying 
celebrating 
counseling 
American priests on the move throughout 
North America. 
For more infmmation write: Father Donald C. Campbell, · Room 101. 
Pa11listFathers. 
415 West 59th Street New York. N:Y. 10019 

MARCH 2, 1973 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

scholastic 

4 
5 6 
8 

• 9 • 14 
• 18 
23 
26 28 29 3 I 33 34 letters 
MONTAGE 
hoop crowd play on worlds 

ANALYSES 
canine vee are you? 
television beyond consort concert·, structuralist technique: . 
the algebras of literature 

PERSPECTIVES 
peace, productivity, and posterity 


KULCHUR 

manassas looking back rothenberg's ladder to the poor places sister in mecca crooked rook coming distractions last word 
tom gora joe runde & nan smith 
mark wenig. 
neil rosini · tom gora 


cordelia candelaria 
mike melody 
john hurley & kevin dockrell 
, 
christopher costello john murphy paul bolduc jack wenke greg stidham 
VOLUME 114, NO. 11 

The opinions e.xprcssed in the SCHOLASTIC arc those of the authors and editors of the . SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. 
Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational 
. Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New Yo1k, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers arc 
· available from the ScHOLASTIC. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame; Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the ScHOLASTIC. 
editor: greg stidham / art director: michael lonier / managing editor: jim munsch / assistant editors: jim fanto, jim gres?er, pat mccracken, dan o'donnell, jim pauer, terri phillips, joe runde, jack wenke / business manager: joe meyer / circulation: roger burrell / faculty advisor: frank o'malley I staff: pat ahasic, paul bolduc, kevin dockrell, t. j. clintori, paul cogan, greg conti, buz craven, bil cumbelich, jim delong, al depman, betsy · dwger, tom enpico, chris fahey, tom gora, don jasper, pat keefe, kathy kelly. 
· .· bob kincaid, mike king, tim kochems, juan manigualt, mike melody, kerry mcnamara: leo j.. mulcahey, mark nishan, peggy· perkinson, casey pocius, bob quakenbush, john ring, pat roach, neil rosini, mary siegel, tim standring, ~ally stanton, theresa stewart, katy sullivan, bubby vespole, mark wenig / business: -gus brown;· jim hoban· / art & photography: earl· hawkey, terri lustic,· don .nollet, nan smith. 
. . 

illustrations: cover photograph, photographs on pages 14, 15, _16, 17, 18, 
20, 21-· by michael lonier / drawing on· page 5 by nan· smith / drawing 
· on page 6 frOm _wsnd /"graphic on page 8 fr61T1 k9vru / _drawing on page 9 by neil rosini / .photographs on pages I I, 13 from wndu / photograph on page 28 from jerome rothenberg ~ photograph on page 29 from contemporary furum. · 
copyright@ 1973 scholastic/ all rights reserved /. norie of the ~ontenh may be.reproduced witho~t permission 
they are here as our guests. As guests, they can be asked to leave

letters 
if they. cannot fall in with the de­
. cencies of the place· during the time 
' ~ -' --' 
of ·their stay. 
This_ seems to me a fairly simple and obvious point. The misunder­standings,. and, worse,· the· injustices 

.that have·-· arisen concerning it are .the faul( I .believ~, of those who have failed in their duty to ·make. such matters clear. n··is time, and -more thari time, for our resident 
· clergy to proclaim unequivocally. the Church's _teaching on sex, and for the university · administration · to (whatever ~t is) toward those who are unwilling to abide by that teach­ing while they are here. 
Sincerely, · Robert E. Rodes, Jr. Professor of Law 

EDITORIAL. APOLOGETICS 
· Editor: 
I am somewhat shocked .and dis­appointed· by your apologetic stance in "The Last Word" (Feb. 16, 1973). However, I presume· that you will react with less confusion to my dis­APPLAUSE. EDITORIAL HYPOCRISY appointment than you already have . to the disappointment of a certain
Editor: Editor: · administrator. At this point I haveYour recent issue's -focus on Chi­It appears that the accusation of -· ceased wondering from where the 
cago is excellent. hypocrisy is· almost as easy to earn · fuel had come to first feed the flames
Sincerely, these days as it is to advance. -The f . d. t · d. · I ed · 
. · -. • · .·. . -o · m1sun ers an mg mvo v 1n
J. Peter Stonitsch editors of the Schol,a,stic seem to me· F th B t h · ll' · ti 
. . : · a er ur c ae s preoccupa on 
to have earned 1t with their• recent · ·th-h. · t 1 t t h.
w1 1s paren a rus ees Ip.

COMMUNES. COOPERATE treatment of_ campus sex, .interlacing ­
There· was no reason to apologizeEditor: . with scriptural epigraphs on.' behalf' .for having ·pointed your criticism 
I am asking your cooperation. in of the repentant sinner their argti~ · (js.stie on Feb. 2, 1973) so bluntly at 
__ments about behavior they seem to . .
publishing this letter so that I may th. k . . t . ful t Wh . h one _man. He has assumed, and m­
-m ·1s no sm a a11: at t e · -· 
reach the ge_neral student p6pula--. • . , · . · -. . deed appears to flaunt, the .respon­
·on. . . . . prodigal son s_ father was celebratmg -· .b.lit •"" th ·L· -. t
tl . . . . . _· . SI I y ior e ew1s Ha11 ou rage . 
. • . . -. .. .·, m .the epigraphs was not a new-, -· · -. . " ,, -Id t
I· am attempting to -accumulate . f d_t.. . -: f t.h · . . ·.. t. d'. (to call 1t a case wou conno e 
. . · -. . . . . . . _·· oun o1erance or e emanc1pa e · .· . • ·· · . · · 
some meaningful data for a serious .1-.f · t. 1--b· t. th f · t ·th· t h.. -· · some non-existent legal process). 
. . . · · · . . _· -1 es y e u e ac a 1s son . --. · · . . · .
study on American · communes.: · To -· h -d . · t' d -· -·II · If this admm1strator had somehow 
. . · . . . . . . · a re urne -mora11y as .we . as · • . .
that end, I -wish to reach_ as many . · h ·. an· -t hi. h · · _ . · lost touch with the reality of events 
. ..-p ys1c y o s ome. -d h. · h. h f · · th
communes as possible by mail· _and · · ·. ·. ·aroun 1m, w 1c o course 1~ e in some cases for ··personal inJer-:· tendency in any organization due to views, if agreeable. · · Notre Dame is a Roman Catholic_· the less tha.n efficient process· of up-
I will be grateful if students, grad-institution. The Roman Catholic--ward .filtration, then an error in uate and undergraduate, who are liv.; Church has always taught, and con-judgement would have been under­ing in communal situations, ·will tinues to· teach, that sexual inter-s1andable. It is a far more terrible write me indicating willingness to course outside of marriage is ser-tendency·for a man, a tendency for receive a questionnaire. Size of com:. · · iously offensive to God. I .insist, which he and not the structure mune is unimportant; 3 or 4 people,. therefore, that no one for whom· around him is responsible, to have up· to any number. ''premarital sex is an open question" .the facts; the poll of student opinion, 
·_ Sincerely, , _can have here a home in the _sense and the intellectual understanding of · Mae T. Sperber. , -.. envisaged by the epigraphs. If such. those around him distort after they 26 West 9th ·street; 9E·. ·_.-_.-·. ::._. ·a·person is here, or if a-multitude of. have entered his mind. ·-.·New York, New Yo~k :10011.: o~such persons are here, he, -she;·or Warren Thom Knudson '73 

Thirty-five seconds to go and we're 

down by seven. The ball comes un­
der the boards to Shumate, who ex­
plodes to the rim, dropping in the 
bucket and drawing a foul. He con­
verts the three point play; but with 
32 seconds left, trailing by four 
points, it doesn't look good for the 
Irish who have had to play catch-up 
ball all afternoon. The momentum, 
though, is with Notre Dame, and at 
the twenty second mark, Shue scores 
on a jumper to bring us within two. 
On the · inbounds pass, our titan of · 
defense Pete Crotty ties up Pitt's 
Eulkowski, then controls the tip-off. 
Shue grabs the ball and whips it to 
Clay, who. streaks downcourt to the 
baseline, 25 feet out, where he 
swishes the tying points, with four 
seconds left. We have the tie and an­
other chance. 
Someone recently told me that 

25% of the class of '74 earned a high· school varsity letter in football. Though I don't know how true the figure is, · I would be inclined to be­lieve it; at Notre Dame,· football reigns supreme. A prof once told me that we pay $3500 for season foot-. · ball tickets; the University boots a · 
free education into the deal just for · at least ·15 other guys with the same 
· the record. Yet amidst this pigskin-. idea., ''You· can't be a jock around impregnated atmosphere, some still here anymore," says Pat. "'Cause thrive on the low-cut gym shoe and everyone wants to play ball on Sat­polished hardwood-floor. We have to urday mornings." I can remember a pay "extra" for basketball tickets -time when we had the whole court to fifteen bucks by August 1 -and . ourselves for at least an hour before -still some wise guy in the ticket of-anyone else tripped around. Now we flee probably thought it amusing to wait in the cold with a dozen other give me a seat right. behind the guys until Fat Eddy opens the door. backboard, high enough up so that I I shudder. 

MARCH 2, 1973 


montage 

Hoop Crowd 
have to look through plexiglass to follow the action · on the other side of the court. 
Pitt. scores first from the top of the key in the overtime, and a home crowd that has been loud and en­thusiastic gets louder and _more en­thusiastic. Catch-up ball once more; down we come,· to Brokaw, to G].ay, to· Novak, to Clay. Then, on a bril­liant fake, Brokaw drives and scores. Tied once again, except this time the roar of the crowd is enough to scare the ball out of Pitt's hands. A turnover gives-the ball to Notre Dame, and in an attempt to get the ball back, Pitt fouls Clay, who pumps in the single shot to give us our first lead of the afternoon. Ecstacy, jubi­lation. Pitt fails to retaliate, leaving the Irish a chance to add two big in­surance points. With about a minute left, big John Shumate shoots and is _fouled. The crowd, already on its feet, seems .to rise another two inches; the noise is deafening. Shue to the line to shoot two. 
Saturday mornings are rather se­date ·at Notre Dame,· especially at 
8:30.. Yet, as Pat·and I walk to the Rock; gym sho_es. in hand, we spot· 
The Pitt game draws only a small dedicated crowd. Many seats are va­cant, even in the usually crowded student sections. This is a basketball crowd. Dedicated. Addicted. The UCLA game will bring them all out, even the football crowd, who bring bad morale, garbage throwing, and loud disinterest, just like at the football games. 
The crowd roars its approval as Shue steps to the line. The ref walks to the right of the key, holding the ball, waiting for the crowd to settle down. The game is ours, though, and we're going to make up for all the time we were behind. Clay, Brokaw, Crotty, Novak and Shue break the huddle at the · line, but the crowd won't let ·the game continue. Shue, grinning broadly, raises his hands clenched in the victory sign to the ecstatic student section. Pandemon­ium. 
We know how he feels, the pain, the stress, the pressure, but also the incredible· rush that comes with a hard-fought victory, whether it's pickup games for winner's rights in the Rock, or serious ball, for a tour­nament berth and national ranking in the ACC, the ball feels the.same, and swishes just as cleanly. And right now it feels great. We might not win the next game, or get the tournament bid, but we'll never ad­mit it; no one can berate Notre Dame-basketball for not giving 100%. 
Shue. steps to the line, does his little jig, and drops it in. 
-tom gora 



Play on Worlds 
December, 1972 
"Can I put up ·a sign on the bulle­

tin board?" .. "Sure. What's it for?" "Just this: 
FOR INSPIRATION: WSND-FM 11 A.M. SUNDAYS 

Is it okay?.,' . ''Yeah, but. sign it." "Why?" 
"So people will know who· to blame." 
"Did you listen to the show?" _"No, I forgot all aboutit.'' . "Be sure to listen Sunday." 

"Why?".. . . «This_ show .will be extra inspira­tional.". "Okay, I'll write myself .a note. Let's see . . ·. . W ·. . . S ·. ·: ~ N:.. . · _.D ... 11 A: M. Sunday.· . AM or: FM?" . "FM." -"Okay, F ... M." "Now you be sure .to listen/' 

. . _.•
0.:,-. ·... ·__:·_,. 

•• -· :· 0• • .-->_.:_:· · · ,. ·_ ·. "Oh well, sounds: jnteresting. · I'Irr~?f\,::; ::-i,::>·:. -~sten,_ I guess." . . 
LJ·:~';·=~ ~:~:~:·;,· >" ~-\·_..,: . ; *. * * 
,~~~'> >; -~·!,:;-! ;:.~~­

______,. .>.-:, ··-::,r ·· _...-.__ :,·· .NAN: · LOOK! 
-"Why_?" "For the inspiration." -: · "Thanks. .About now I need it. But, ·just·what•s· the show aoout?" (giggle) ."I can't tell you." (gig­.•· gle) ·. "I won't listen." . · '-'Oh, you'll find out soon enough." "What's it about?" -~(giggle) . _ . _ "Oh; come on now!" 
_,: <'Well .. ~ it's a children's show, · but I'm afraid that the only children who ·listen to it are Notre Dame stu­. dents. -You . see, ev~ry-Sunday morn-. ing seven or eight really insane peo­ple crawl out of their beds at a.ii ungodly.hour and stumble up to the studio in O'Shaughnessy tower. 
Sometimes  we  have  a  script  and  
sometimes we don't."  
."Probably  better  without  .. the  
script."  

"Nooooo, .Joe! You should have heard the show a few weeks ago when the plot outline gave out 

. ·twenty minutes into the show. With over a half an hour left Ben Frank­lin had to quote some of his famous sayings, only he couldn't think of any!" 
"Well, you know, Ben's pushing two hundred and fifty ... he's prob­ably a little senile by now." 
"Tom Enrico wouldn't thank you for that remark." "Who's he?"·"He was Ben Franklin." 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

PAUL: A machine has come right SHAUNA: I'll help you, Margie. I through our roof! think there are some.brownies in the ~upboard:· MARGIE: A flying saucer! 
·BEDON: .I'm not -hungry. I'm BRAINS: No, silly. There's no such.· doomed. thing. There is a logical explanation for this. 
-TOM H:. Now,· now, Bedon. Life is ·brighter than you·think. And_ Brains . ALL: gasp is brighter than we like to think. He'll find you your Brogobbaloosh inBILL C: · A-er-person is coming 
-a -jiffy: · 
out of the machine! 
MARGIE:· Who are you-uh-sir?. · BED9N: grunts. 
MAR~IE: Here are some brownies : · MOON MAN (thoroughly embru_-­arid some juice. I'll set them, on therassed) : My name is Bedonnakerob­table here· and you . can all comebacle Thobbacussocum and I've been around and take what you want.
travelling a -long .way -but, · er, I didn't mean to land in your house. I'm sorry. SHAUNA: Would. you like _some 
_grapefruit· juice, Bedon? BILL L: Where have you· come from, Mister B ... uh . . . . ? BED.ON (sourly):· Not much 
(sniffs it) BROGOBBALOOSH! ! BEDON: Bedonnakerobbacle Thob­bacussocum. I'm from the moon. ALL: What? What's he -yelling 
about? _ALL: gasps and squeals· 
BEDON (excitedly): It's Brogobba­BEDON: My spaceship ran out of loosh ! This is moon fuel! I can go
Brogobbaloosh-that's ~e fuel for 
home! I've found fuel for my space­
my machine-so_I had to land_very 
ship!
suddenly. · TOM H: Grapefruit-juice? ? ? ? ?
BILL C: Don't worry, Mister uh ... we'll find you fuel and have you on your way in no time.. 
Three rings. 
BEDON: No. No ..-:you do not have "Hello?" 
moon fuel on earth!-_ I am doomed! 
"Is this Nana-pana-pumpkin-gom­per?"
BRAINS: Leave it to me: I will "Oh NO! .... ·You listened! How -take a sam_ple of the residue in your·
-did -you like it?" 
fuel tank and analyze it. "I liked it." 
"Really?"

BEDON: You will analyze and "Yeah, Nanawhatever."
-analyze, but you can't find inoon fuel ''Nanapanapumphengompher."
on earth. OOOOOOOH ! I can never '.'That's a wierd name ..." _go home! (moans· and groans) 
''It's just the simple version of my name in Moon Language."
TOM H: Let's ·sirig an e~rth song·to ·.
"Whatever-I liked the show any­

clieer. hirri up! ­
way. It isn't every club that goes to -the moon." . --ALL: sing silly song. 
"True ..-.." 

-MARGIE:-Let's have refreshments·! * · * * ··. · · I'll go out to the kitchen and fix something for us to eat. January, ·1973, 
PAUL: Good idea-I'm starved. . One ·ring~ "Hello?" ANDY: Me too! "Joe?" 
. MARCH 2, 1973 
"Oh, hi, how are you? How was 

break?" 
"Fine. You said you wanted.to be 

in the radio show, didn't you?" 
"Yes. I guess so." · 
"Well, do you still want to?" 
"Sure." 
"Okay, can you come to our next 

meeting?" 
"When?" 
"Right now-in Tom Harris' room 

in Flanner. He's the producer of the 
show." 
"Be right over." 
* * * 

Knoc7c. 
"Come in!" 
"Hi pepple! How's it going?" 
"Hi Nan. Is this Joe?" 
"Yeah, that's one thing he's called 

. . . Joe, this is To~ Harris ... Tom 
Enrico .... Paul Bolduc-he's our 
Evil Character ...." 
"Oh, I know Paul. You're right­

he is evil." 
"Thanks, Runde." 
". . . This is Margie Fuchs and 

this is Shauna Dunn ... and that's 
Andy Schilling in the corner.?' 
"Glad to have you in the Neigh­

borhood Club, Joe." 
"Tom-he wants to play the club 

Dumb Kid.. You'd be surprised how 
,veil-" 
"That's enough, Nan!" 

"Well, let's get down.to business . . We're goipg to rehearse a King Ar­
thur script for next week-March 
4th-and Father Griffin has agreed 
to play the part of Merlin. If every­
one's here now-yeafr, I think this is 
all· of us-let's go over to Keenan so 
we_ can run over the script with 
Griff." 
"Tom, who's doing the next script?" 
"Margie and I are getting together­

on a script-last semester she came 
up with an idea for an International 
Show. Oh, by the way, Nan, are you 
going to have another script for us 
soon?" 
"Yes-I've got a couple of ideas. 

One is about a picnic in the woods 
where we all turn into animals. In 
the other one I thought we·might 
get carried away by a kite up· to a 
cloud land where--'' 
"You always were a little up in 

the clouds." 
"Anyway, let's get going." 
-joe runde and nan smith 

analyses 

Mention amateur radio when you are in a group and the chances are aJl you will get are complaints about television and stereo interference, or how aesthetically unpleasing the an­tennas are for the neighborhood. This, unfortunately, is the limit of knowledge most people have about "ham" radio. They do not under­stand actually what the hobby en­tails, or · even begin to know the extent of the services it is able to provide. 
Here at Notre Dame, an amateur radio club was organized in 1926. It has moved from building to building many times since and currently finds itself in the small building behind Holy Cross Hall. From that location, student "hams" have been spreading "Notre Dame good-will" to stations in every corner of the United States, and most areas of the world as well. Some 286,000 people in the U.S. hold valid licenses from the FCC, and an­other 130,000 in foreign lands hold government licenses. This makes almost every area of the world accessible to voice and code commu­nication and has begun many inter­national friendships which might well last for a lifetime. Fortunately, the people operating the equipment are not the only ones who can benefit from amateur radio, for the student body, being national in nature here at Notre Dame, certainly stands to gain. 
Through a process called "phone patching," hams can use the tele­phone to hook up two parties in dif­ferent places, all for the cost of a local telephone call. This service can be used for any state in the United States and most Latin Ameri­can countries. Europe and most of the Eastern Hemisphere can not en­gage in direct phone contact by order of their governments, although mes­sages can be run to these places, as they can be all over· the world. 
People might very well wonder what strangers talk about while on the air. It should be kept in mind that the people amateurs speak to are not total strangers: the ham operators form almost a type of world community. The range of topics is quite broad, varying be­tween the local weather and time, to matters of a more personal nature such as jobs, school, etc. Politics is often shied away from when talking with foreign stations, out of mutual respect. 
Once contact with a station is made, a "schedule" can be arranged for a certain time and a certain fre­quency on the band for future com­munications. Schedules may also be arranged by mail or by prior per­sonal agreement. However they are set up, depending upon conditions, 
they are usually very fruitful. After a conversation is completed, cards 
are mailed to confirm that two way 
communication was indeed held. The 
American Radio Relay League (ARRL), an association of hams, gives awards for the number of for­eign countries contacted, proven through the receipt of foreign cards. The Notre Dame club station, with call sign K9VRU, has received cards from over 180 countries. In addition, it has sent out many hundreds of cards, which at this moment are displaying a picture of Sacred Heart Church on station walls all over the globe. 
Notre Dame students who come from California, Oregon, Washing­ton, Florida, and other populous, dis­tant states, are urged to come to the clubs "radio shack" between 4 and 6 PM on Sunday afternoons if they wish to sign up for phone patches. The club has had little difficulty con­tacting California. Yet, ironically, the club has received almost no res­ponse . from coast dwellers here applying for the service, which, by law, is a free service. In addition, it is interesting to note that since re­turning from winter vacation in January, communication has been achieved with two Alaskan stations and two Hawaiian stations. 
The Notre Dame Amateur Radio Club is not content with simply meeting people in other countries and in the U.S. The members are equally interested in providing a unique and valuable service to the rest of the students here. 
-mark wenig 

THE SCHOLASTIC 








television beyond 

-"... the most consistently funny TV program 
I've ever seen. . ." 
-"... some of the best writing on television . .." 
-"... a stunning displ,ay of satire at its best . .." 
-" . . . very_ funny. ,, 

THE blurbs are naturally-my own, but they're sin­cere. Like most of us, I don't spend too much time in front of the tube, but when an outstanding program comes along once in a great -while, we all like to make a special effort to catch it. I've been catching one in particular for four seasons now, and just thought I'd ­bring it_ to the attention -of all you who don't know what I'm watching. _ _ 
It's called-(as_you may have guessed) "Beyond Our Control," it airs ,most springtime Saturdays at 6 PM on Channel 16, it stars local talent, and most remark­ably, it's produced by high school students in a Junior Achievement Company. Promotional materials refer to it as a "weekly satirical revue" on TV about TV and 


that's -a pretty g~od description: the program is a series-of sophisticated adult satires, no subjects barred, and full of enough pyrotechnic displays of wit to make a Lampoon writer gasp. Of course, every bit on every shoyv can't be the quintessence of comic-creativity, and I don't pretend they all are, _but the frequency with which these producers hit the mark is amazing. 
Take last week's installment for instance. It was an average program of sorts, including-a parody of a famous local auto-parts ad entitled "Elkhart Hubcap;" a "Happy, Smiley News Report" which reminded one of local Eyewitnesses; a movirg-musical extravaganza in the Italian operatic traditio~ entitled "TI Spumoni Del Parmesano"; and a. pseudo-advertisement for "Mutual of Tijuana" in which a roving insurance agent bursts into a peaceful domestic di~ner scene, the surprised head of the house accidentally thrusts his carving knife across the table, and while the agent composedly des­cribes the benefits of a Tijuana medical plan, the family frantically tries to revive mother. (It was much fun­nier to watch than to read, so I recommend that you watch.) 
Earlier this season (tomorrow night's show is the fifth of thirteen in their January to April series) viewers thrilled to the incredible soap-opera tale of a one-in-a-million tonsillectomy which replaced a pa­tient's comely features with the head of a cabbage (the grief-crazed mother of the monster later reacted vio­lently when an asylum nurse mistakenly offered a "deli­cious tossed salad" for lunch); then there was the gripping saga of Mohab-bearded baby and super-hero saved from the pharaoh's murderous goons by a coura­geous mother and the Nile River; the first program ~ea­tured a spoof on panel discussions entitled "Reappor­
tionment: Threat or Menace?" Here's a definition of the topic volunteered by one of the learned panelists: 
Well, Township Re-Apportionment is a-concept of geographical-population distribution, based upon a theoretical progression involving certainly -tacitly understood suppositions which-while highly _conjectural-involve what I would call hypothetical postulates of th·e township and-as 



a tonsilletcomy gave one patient a "head" of cabbage 
organizing the program is a closed 

undertaking 
a corollary-a theorem-call it what you will­reapportionment of that township. Vague-but nonetheless, elusive. 
The sets .and costuming for these skits of course add immeasurably to _the. humor, and though the acting and camera work sometimes.fail to fulfill sophisticated expectations, they too contribute a certain quality that most television programs wouldn't .dare approach. 
Actually, the program is the 1:11osf complex ever produced in_ the South Ben_d area-_ever. News pro­grams are usually the only locally-originated fare, and they are relatively simple productions with two easily focused, video cameras :a single fixed set, and sundry film clips. "Beyond Our Control" productions go a long way beyond these sumptuous conditions. Some of the 
·shooting is on-location all over Michiana, and even the in-studio production (which is done on Saturday morn­ings in t.lie WNDU building right on campus) is an awesomely · complex affair. I_ attended one_ of these sessions two weeks ago to watch them pre-record seg­ments of tomorrow evening's show. 
It was an amazing scene: about thirty high school types were scurrying all over the place, lifting sets here, arranging .cameras there, throwing pillows (props), and playing cards between "takes." Dave Bashover, the high school senior-in_ charge of managing produc­ton, was hurling orders like a pro, and efficiency pre­vailed. The JA company's advisors (who happen to be WNDU employees)-Dave Williams and Joe Dundon­were always on hand, but offered only occasional ad­vice. The· operation was clearly in the hands of students, except for the hired director, Mark Heller, who also occupies the status of a WNDU adult. 

. At the time, they were working on a parody entitled "The Generous Electric Knowledge Bowl" pitting.the dignified, eyeglassed "Silverfish" champion geniuses of MITT against the kazoo-blowing, banaua-throwing hair-greased varsity scholars of Indiana Diesel Tech­. nical College And Grill. I won't ruin the humor by letting you know.what happens, but watch for the half­. time filmed tour of the challengers' beloved Alma Mater, 
indeed a highlight. 


IT was clear to me that the program's success was far from being beyond control. Hard-working writers meet every Saturday and Sunday afternoons, and then three weeknights; Thursdays feature a compulsory meeting for the entire company where scripts are dis­tributed and parts assigned. Organizing the program is a colossal undertaking in itself; seventeen-year-old Bashover estimates that he puts in about 35 hours per week. What lies behind this Herculean effort? Why is there a "Beyond Our Control?" 
"That's a problem just like every other show's," opines Properties Manager Julie Ratkiewicz, "except we're not making as much money and not as many soap operas." Bashover (whose name implies nothing of the subtlety ·in his sense of humor) sees the show as 11a creative outlet for all those against the standards of moral society, and football and basketball in particular." (That is, what did y(Y/1, do in high school?) Only two 
o.f nine applying for membership to the company-those seen as "spontaneously funny"-are admitted, so there seems to be a need out there for such creative expres­sion. 
Also, in the Junior Achievement tradition, ,the operation does make some money. They have sponsors and salaries and expenses. But as the entire company seems to agree, "the quality comes first and the expenses second"-easier said than done. But, that's the way it is despite the program's minim-budget. 
MARCH 2, 1973 
And I'm not the only one who likes this show. The fan mail pours in at an average rate of one piece per day. Even national attention has been focused upon the project after features appeared in Parade Magazine, Educational Television, T.V.-Radio Mirror and, any week now-you'll see one in TV Guide. And though the 7-year-old WNDU production was the first of its kind, a few tawdry imitations (the highest form of compliment) have been spotted in Virginia and Georgia. 
It is a very funny program-at least-and a stomach cramp at its best. I heartily encourage you to watch. That's tomorrow night-and my missing it, for one, would be an event beyond anyone's control. 




Consort 
THE Paul Winter Consort came back to Notre Dame last weekend, but it was a New Consort with a new style, doing new songs in a new situation. They played by themselves, neither following nor preceding any other acts whose influence they would then have to cope with. They played new music, products of each member's search to find music that will fit the Consort perfectly as a group, and still express their feelings as individuals. They played in a new style because they are new. Three of the Consort's five have been with Winter for only nine months; Dave Darling (cello) and Paul Winter (alto saxaphone) are the only remaining members of the Consort that visited Notre Dame in '71 and '72. Yet, they continued to please the ND audience, who, that evening, had come expressly to hear the Paul \Vinter Consort. 
As they took the stage after a brief introduction, it was immediately apparent that someone was missing; there were only five musicians on stage, and the familiar guitars and double bass were replaced with a harp and bass marimba. But not only were the instruments dif­
. ferent; the Consort had also changed. In reality, the Winter Consort has been changing ever since it was first co:i;iceived. While Winter was an undergraduate at ~orthwestern University, he organized the first of his many jazz groups. The Consort that came to Notre Dame in 1971 was formed late in 1968, and in Paul's words, "We went as far as we thought we could to­gether; we really split into two groups. Four of the other original players formed another group, and David Darling and I emerged to this group, replacing the guitar with harp, eliminating the bass, and adding two percussions instead of one." 

Concert 

There soon seemed to be no difference, though, as the Consort began to spin their delicate musical stories. The sax, harp and cello took turns coloring the melodic panoply, often playing together, sometimes solo­ing or emphasizing the theme. Some of the old favor­ites were there, slightly rearranged to make use of the new instrumentation. The new compositions reflected the Consort's broadening interests and skills. I asked Paul if he would concentrate on rearranging the works he had done the year before. "The important thing is to keep going, and along with that is the challenge of writing new music. The Consort is not an entertain-. ment band that will play hits, but a growth band and that is the significant thing that I think the people should focus on.. I mean, to see the Consort over a period of years, to see how it grows, and not say, 'Oh, gee, isn't it a shame you're not playing "Both Sides Now" or something you did on your earlier albums.' " 
w·E 
knew and appreciated Winter's beautifully 

crafted melodies as well as Darling's exacting expressive · cello, but the new Consort still came as quite a surprise. At first, a harp seemed like a rather unlikely instrument together with·a cello and sax, but I soon had the im-
pression that more than ever, it belonged. Paul later explained, "I had been fascinated with the harp for a long time, and it seemed like the time was right. I had heard of Joel Andrews in San Francisco three years ago, and last February, very close to the time that the previous Consort had ended, I was in Boston, and heard one of Joel's records, a Bach Partita, at a friend's house. Glorious. I was just overwhelmed, and I thought now is the time to try harp." 
But why harp? Why not another guitarist? "The guitarist who was with us previously, Ralph Towner, is, for my money, the greatest guitar player anywhere. To follow him with anybody would have meant a really difficult search. And sometimes you don't want to; sometimes you've used an instrument in the most de­finitive way, and when that person leaves you, you can't replace him with anybody else. That happened with my first sextet, after my trumpet player left; then we added flute. So we've been through a lot of instruments. 
"Likewise with the oboist, Paul McCandless; there is nobody in the world that can do an oboe like he can. It's senseless to try to find just an oboe player to fill in. The Consort can be any combination of instru­ments." 
Though I considered the harp only adequate in some of the compositions that the Consort had performed before, Joel Andrews played beautifully in the new work, laying down a myriad pattern of chords from which Paul and Dave worked their magic, or perform­ing alone, as he did so brilliantly with the Bach prelude. 
Percussion is important in the new Consort -not only in establishing a rhythm, but also in creating a melody, and effect, and an interchange with other in­struments-thus the incredible assortment of percussion instruments. Paul explained, "Percussion is limitless; once you get into the realm of percussion, the worl.d is open to you. You'll find that every culture has amazing percussion traditions. Drums in all sorts of shapes go back as far as man." 
Russ Hartenburger and Bob Becker, who are both candidates at the same Eastern seaboard university and who have been playing together for years, performed on dozens of instruments, completing the ensemble and playing together and/or separately as the situation de­manded. Their composition for percussion encom­passed a wall of African instruments, beginning with chime-like gongs and cymbals, ending with a Ugandan amadinda, a three-man xylophone. They played in simple and compound rhythms (sometimes in no appar­ent rhythm at all), exhibiting an incredible amount of agility and coordination in tempo and phrasing. Ket­tledrums, trap sets, tablas, congas, and a collection of drums that reminded me of hanging garbage cans filled the stage completely so that the musicians had difficulty in moving about. 
UNDER Winter's direction, all these seemingly di­verse instruments came together into one harmonious whole. Their compositions were rather free and open to personal expression and embellishment, not only be-
MARCH 2, 1973 
cause they are just begining to learn the nuances of playing with each other, but also because this form leaves room for· continual expansion and change. I asked Paul whether -qie music was constructed loosely ~o shift with the musicians' mood and emphasis. "It changes from concert to concert; last night we had the freedom to do that because when the audience is so with you, you can carry them with you. You can carry them further, than, say, two nights ago, when we played in Buffalo, the State University there, in the gym. A rock concert with the Mary Almond Band; where the kids really just rocked. We couldn't stretch out as long, we were only playing for an hour, so we condensed it." 
Saturday night, they played just for the Notre Dame audience, a crowd that had come to hear the Paul Win­ter Consort. The warm.welcome established an under­standing, a rapport that the Consort expanded and tempered with thir creations. They enjoyed playing at Notre Dazne, and were quick to express their feel­ings: "Notre Dame? It is always a pleasure. It's to be among friends. They•r~ a really warm, open audience." 
But the real relationship didn't start until the workshop Sunday afternoon. Since the formation of the new group, the Consort has been doing workshops at 
the universities after performances. When Dave Dar­
ling mentioned that they had done a workshop at 
Eastman, I raised my eyebrows in mock disbelief, but 
he assured me that the type of awareness they try to 
propagate through their music relegated everyone to 
the same category, no matter how proficient the 
musician. 
Paul began the workshop with an explanation of 
improvisation, some hints and some ideas on how to 
create individual music to fit into an ensemble. He chose 
a small group of students to play with Joel and Dave, 
and let them improvise. The result served as a base for 
the next four hours. The ability to improvise, Paul 
explained, lies in everyone, "because it is a certain 
chemistry that no matter how well you play, establishes 
itself within you. You play until you create a tapestry, 
a certain richness~ until you feel yourself part of a 
texture." Of course, at first one feels restrained; these 
are the compensations that have to be taken into con­
sideration. "We had a classical guitar for a long time. 
He was always getting wiped out by somebody." 
THE fact that good improvisation is so hard to realize points to the reason for Winter Consort; "We are the· reaction to the fact that there are so many diffi­culties in getting a group together. Egos get in the way of a group of good musicians. That's why there are so many good single musicians around and so few groups. Our musical academic system allows for no groups tradition. There are some small ensembles in the European tradition, but they are of one family of instruments, there are no combinations." Like Win­ter Consort. 
Joel spoke about the relation of music and life, 
reflecting mariy Eastern ideas and practices which he 
believes bring man to a better understanding of his 
dynamic responsibilities.' He. explained that if one of 
two identically tuned strings were plucked, the second 
string would also vibrate. and sound. We all have the 
capacity to be that "second string," and our sensory 
perception is "tuned" to accept and vibrate with all 
that we hear around us. We began chanting in the 
dark, om-ma-ne-pad-ma-hum. "Everything is vibration; 
if we can come together with the vibrations of each 
other, we can tune ourselves to each other." Breathing, 
chanting, vibration, perception, awareness. When one 
begins to feel the vibrating harp string evoking a re­
sponse in the body, he is sympathetically resonating in 
union with the sound, and he becomes the sound. "We 
do that all the time to each other with words and ideas. 
Thus, we.have to be responsible for those vibrations· we
' 

have to know what we're doing. Every cell in our body responds to the vibrations around us. Unlike touch or · smell, we can't escape sound, because our whole body 
responds to it." 
Dave complemented Joel's remarks: "If we think of ourselves first as musicians, then as particular persons, we'll be more open to receive and give in return when we play. It gets down to listening to each other. The music we want to create is like some kind of organic life, and there is an infi~ity of possibilities as to the form it can take." 
Everyone got an opportunity to play, if only to say that they jammed the Winter Consort, but hopefully to "lose themselves .to come to their senses," as Paul terms it. Music is not simply earning a living for the 
Consort, but a philosophy, a means of expressing their 
being and direction. Thus, when Paul said, "We'd like 
to reach as many people as we can," I understood not a 
desire for commercial success, 1:mt a kind of musical 
proselytism. "You must lose yourself to come to your 
senses." 
"I don't think that any of the ideas that we talked 
about in the workshop are that original, nor are any 
of the elements in the Consort's music or instrumenta­
tion. We're pulling together things that maybe haven't 
been combined before, but that have existed for cen­
turies. It's very difficult to do that in an arena full of 
people who are there for a much more surface kind of 
experience, entertainment. This was a much more inti­
mate kind of setting, with people sitting on the :floor, 
and the lights out. Here you begin to touch the reaches 
of peoples' beings. 
"It's very simple to do; it's just new in our culture. 
In India, people do it all the time. It's just that the 
inner life in the West is a very undeveloped image. 
There is definitely a spiritual renaissance going on now. 
There are all sorts of different paths, but they all lead 
to the same thing which is God. It's a very exciting 
time, especially to be making music. People are be­
ginning to realize that music can be used towards that 
aspiration." 
I asked Paul if there was anything he would like to add or underline in the interview. He replied, "I think you should say it; the music is what we say. I think your reactions are more important ·than IJlY philosophizing.· We come to play and not really to preach, so you should say what you think in your review, not as a critic, but as a person, a subjective force." 
But what can I say? I can say that Winter Con­

sort is one of the finest musical groups I have ever _heard, but in the light of this article, that means nothing. I can say that as musicians, they play very well, but how do I define well? I can say that they exhibited a superb control of their music and an ex­
cellent ability to work together, but that's evident. 
I can say they've got it. Yes, that's right. You 
know, they've really got it. 

the music 
. 

is what we say 



MARCH 2, 1973 


Structuralist Technique: The Algebras of Literature 
Part One 
A Taped Conversation with Professors John Mc­Donald (Jack) and James Walton (Jay), N.D. Dept. of English. Interviewer: Cordelia Candelaria, Gradu­ate Student and Instructor of English 

On a clear, cold, pleasant January morning, I met with Professors McDonald and Walton for a taped dis­cussion originally meant to focus on mythic approaches to literature and criticism. The openness of our dia­logue, however, allowed for a stimulating, free associa­tion of ideas which, you will note, ranged mostly in the field of myth criticism. Our morning's discussion yielded som~ 50 pages of entertaining, profound, and always fascinating observations on literature, science, philoso­phy, education, etc. Nevertheless, being finite -as the implications of our discussion are not! -the SCHOLAS­TIC is able to present only excerpts (in two parts) from the taped interview. The second part will appear next issue. 
In what follows, Professor McDonald focuses on structuralist critical theories, while Professor Walton concentrates on thematic evolution of the pleasure prin­ciple in literature. Currently quite topical, structuralist approaches in literary criticism attempt to fin~, accord­ing to Donald C. Freeman, "the relation between the organization of the human esthetic and the features of literary structure and language." In doing_· this, critics no longer limit themselves to the tools and methods of their discipline; rather they cross disciplines peripathetically, seeking the aid of the latest discover­ies in other fields. Professor McDonald discusses this modern tendency, and he also comments on the literary critic's problem of analyzing literature in the language of literature, instead of in a, perhaps, preferred sym­bolic language. 

In this first part, Professor Walton parries many of Professor McDonald's remarks with what might seem reflexive rumblings from the old guard. We will dis­cover next issue, however, that Professor Walton moves originally and complexly avant-garde in his archetypal interpretations of literature, particularly romance. In addition, his. discussion of the pleasure principle in literature compels one's interest because of its aura of inevitable "rightness." 
Because the participants made many allusions to authors and works perhaps not readily familiar to our readers, brief identification in parentheses follows the the more obscure allusions. 
Candelaria: We are each at different levels of teach­ing and study in literature. Perhaps as preliminary we could discuss the relationship of literary criticism to literature. 
McDonald: Good place to begin. The relationship has much of-the flavor of a dilemma about it. An ideal critical theory, it seems to me, would describe a set of general structures which could generate any particular, existent literary work. But we can't talk definitively about literature in a purely analytical language, be­cause what'simportant about literature is the distance that's between it and the structures. One of the things 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

we have to do is to measure that distance. I think about James' talk about the novel as a "balloon" of the imagination "moored" to the earth by a rope; the more or less "commodious car of the imagination," he says. But it is moored, and we can measure the distance of the rope. Criticism, then, should describe the rope. 
Candelaria: Is language itself an obstacle to the critical analysis of literature? Is that why you so often make references to other kinds of symbolic language? 
McDonald: Yes. For example, if we go to the lan­guage of Boolean algebra, we'd be talking about some­thing which has applications not simply to literature but to other subjects. Ultimately, I think the perfect critic would be the man who understood not just Boolean algebra, but all kinds of algebra and calculi. Then, after being able to understand the principles be­hind these algebraic structures to be able to talk not on the algebras themselves but on the distance, the rope, that moors those conceptions of structure to literature. I guess what I'm really talking about is the way in which the Bourbaki school [pseudonym for group of mathematicians with highly sophisticated point of view] characterizes algebraic structures. 
Candelaria: Professor Walton, in the past you've ex­pressed an aversion to such combinations of science and literature. Is your aversion idiosyncratic or broadly philosophic? 
Walton: It's incomprehension! [general laughter] The ultimate implications of the practical criticism that I perform, I do not understand. Jack wants to because he's younger and more vigorous than I am and is prob­ably capable of doing it. A way of registering incom­prehension would" be this way: I've suddenly converted to positivism and .... 
Candelaria: You mean right here? 
lValton: Yes, right now. I have become a positivist 
in order to say that what Jack wants to do is irrelevant 
because I don't understand it. This positivist that I'm 
becoming has definite Marxist leanings, and, he says to 
Jack: What you want is a criticism that is not bound 
by culture, as the works you criticize are; a criticism 
that is meta-literary and free of all of the assumptions, 
idiosyncratic questions, and idiosyncratic answers that 
a given culture is likely to come up with. This demand 
itself, the Marxist would say, is culture-bound and 
symptomatic C?f a decadent bourgeoisie. The Marxist 
also goes on to ask a different set of questions about 
the exact circumstances under which a certain kind of 
literature is produced. He, or any other positivist, will 
talk about the printing press as a condition under 
which Don Quixote or Dickens' novels acquired their 
characteristics. He doesn't believe in a reality beyond 
the coarsely material circumstances. 
But it is dishonest of me to bring all this up. It's 
really a means of backing away from the implications 
of my own kind of thinking as opposed to the posi­
tivist's way of thinking. 
Candelaria: Would you care to respond to our Marx­ist persona's arguments? 
McDonald: Well, I think the Marxist himself uses a mythology that is a fairly simple-minded concept of structure. The dialectic is a pattern of opposition which is a subset of the relationships which, incidentally, Boolean algebra studies. In answer to a position like that, I guess I would have to expand on the comment I !flade earlier: there's really no sense in pursuing di­rectly the kind of critical program that I'm suggesting is ultimately possible because one must be impure to be real. If we simply talk about algebraic structures we're not going to be able to measure the distance between those structures and the reality that we have to deal with. So as a practical program, the only program con­sonant with sanity, I would do-and do in fact do-the kinds of things you do, Jay, and start from a more empirical stance. "Empirical" not in the scientific sense of dealing with "real" phenomena, but empirical in the sense of a more comparativist approach. But it would be useful to know as much as possible about the structures. Such knowledge ought to suggest solutions to some of the things that are inexplicable from an empirical approach. 
lValton: It's a logical conclusion from what you've said that_many of us in trying to speak conscientiously about literature want to abandon the literary language which we use to comment on literature. I draw circles on tlie board, and the only difference between my circles and a consistent system of symbols is that they aren't consistent or systematic. Most of the teachers I know feel at times that they must liberate their critical ideas from their own oratory-which, then, merely makes literature out of literature. They go to the board and put the design in the most abstract form they can by drawing geometrical figures. 
Candelaria: Do you think teachers of literature are the only ones experiencing the dilemma of being some­how bound by their language and particular discipline? I wonder if perhaps it might not be a general profes­sional difficulty? 
McDonald: Absolutely. Ever since Heisenberg [the­oretical physicist known for "the uncertainty princi­ple"] pretty much convinced the scientific world that there is no measuring of phenomena without distorting the phenomena, I think all workers in basic science have realized that there is a huge distance between their imaginative structures and what actually goes on in the world. So they search out new languages to fit the phenomena, looking ultimately to find a language which is abstract enough to cover a wide range of cases, but a language which somehow recognizes its own lack of particularity. Their search is ours, too. 

there is no measuring 

of phenon1ena without distorting the phenomena 

Walton: Judging from what Jack says about lit­erary criticism, its next problem will be to distinguish between thinking mathematically about literature, and. merely drawing analogies between the way mathe­matics works and between the way literature works. If I ever learn more mathematics, I will simply use mathe­matical ideas to clarify my ideas about literary struc­ture. I'll still be using another kind of figurative lan­guage. "This is like the square root of minus one," I'll say. I won't be doing anything like what Jack recom­mends for literary criticism. I don't have the mind for that-which makes me a representative of multitudes in our profession. If it is imposed upon us that we must understand pure mathematics .... 
Candelaria: What an alarming conclusion! You're not suggesting that_ only one critical method, that de­rived from pure mathematics, will be somehow officially mandatory and .... 
Walton: No. I mean it might be imposed by the na­ture of tlie discipline. Yet I'll never be able to dis­tinguish between the use of mathematics as a literary analogy and the use of it as a mode of reasoning. 
McDonald: That's an interesting problem right there. Ultimately, I think there should be a mathemat­ics of analogy too, so that we can reason by analogy with more confidence. I think Whitehead and Russell started to investigate these kinds of problem, but there's a long way to go. And the longest first step is trying to figure out.what in the hell Whitehead said. 
Walton: In this context, characterize for me this kind of thinking: Lewis Carroll in Alice in Wonderland is very aware that the imaginative activity he is repre­senting in his work is an effort to create the illusion of origins and ends when there is really no origin or end. You realize he is writing a finite literary work that's made up of so many words with a beginning and end-
THE SCHOLASTIC 

ing, an inside that he is creating a model of endlessness. The figure for the process which Alice is undergoing is the infinite divisibility of integers. Here's the "one," the finite thing, and within it I'm creating a model of the inexhaustableness of existence in time and space. 
McDonald: Zeno's paradox. 

Walton: So it is. It's like Achilles and the tortoi~e, but, instead, Carroll uses an analogy from number theory. He gets Alice confused by the duodecimal sys­tem instead. "I'll never get to 26 this way," she says. That's a figure, then, for the infinite presented within the fin_ite work. Now he has provided me with that image, but I wonder if he was really doing mathemati­cal thinking. Isn't he simply .drawing an analogy be­tween psychological and mathematical processes? 
McDonald: Yes. But the real interest in mathe­matics is not here, though it's an interesting precursor of what's going to happen. The real interest is in why we can draw these analogies. What is the principle of structure common to mathematics and Carroll's percep­tion of psychology? 
Candelaria: The current interest in structuralism is providing some answers. Yet, even structuralist ap­proaches can't be expected to unfathom those mysteries that draw us, perhaps, to literature in the first place. 
Walton: Literature has certainly always depended on our inability to know the "thing in itself." That de­pendence supplies the continuity between ancient and modern literature. Life is a providentially ordered uni­verse--temporal life--is a dream; and life in the uni­verse about which we can affirm nothing is also a dream. So the same metaphors that link time and eternity in Christian literature--say, medieval--can be used in modern literature. Literature in an age of faith speaks precisely to our own metaphysical apprehen­sions. 
Candelaria: Your view of reality as unreal, as dreamlike, disturbs me. Something in me argues for a quintessential, irreducible reality that exists literally but yet isn't static. I would call that core reality cyclic repetition -the continual re-enactment of the. same things in 1972 as, say, 5,000 years ago. The cast is changed, the surfaces are updated in conformity to all the external technological "advances," but the "reality'' exists, quite literally, within the repeated sameness of life. Mythic literature attests to that, it seems. If we compare origin stories like the Eden myth with, for example, the story of Prometheus and Epimetheus, the similarities are remarkable. At any rate, re-appearance of the same basic imaginative substructures impresses me with the literal reality of that persistent repetition. 
Walton: There are other ways of characterizing that reality that don't even sound like yours, Cordelia. One of my Greatest Passages in Western Literature speaks to this point. Though it is a different culture, it need not be transposed or translated in order to speak to our common experience. Dante, in De Vulgare E"loquentia, has been writing desultorily about the vernacular, and now (that is, in the passage I'm quoting) he want to become systematic. In a conceit that expresses intellec­tual passion better than any I've ever seen, he alludes to a panther who, according to medieval bestiaries is a figure of Christ and has sweet breath-doubtless, no one ever got close enough to find out differently. 
Having scoured the heights and pastures of Italy without finding that panther we pursue, in order that we may discover her, let us now track her down in a more rational manner, so that, with cun­ning shifts, we may catch fast -in our snares her whose fragrance is everywhere but who is nowhere to be seen.-Dante 
Literature is always catching the emanations from, and affirming the existence of the unapproachable thing, the object of the heart's desire. · 
McDonald: What Frye [critic; author of The Anat­omy of Criticism] then attmepts is to do the systematic kind of analysis of which Dante spoke-the analysis of 

n1odern liturature is preoccupied with the unhappy fate of the pleasure principle itself 
the fragrance and not of the essence. What disturbs me, and I think it might also be what disturbs you, Cordelia, is that I read Borges and I get upset because the Ding an sich has disappeared-all is fiction. There seem·s to be no conception of a reality behind the meta­fiction, a reality identical in kind with the object studied by the "hard" sciences. The whole thing is an airy castle. 
\Valton: Borges is so wry about the problem. It's a mask, of course. Anybody _who is as completely pre­occupied with the problem as·he is has to protect him­self with a mask of wryness which, I imagine, gets boring or irritating after awhile if you stay with him. I think, though; that to affirm the existence of things and their essentially mysterious nature is one of the most affirmative and beautiful things we can do. Of course, this is not a part of what an old teacher of mine once called the "boorish 'longing for eternal verities" because it isn't ultimate truths we're talking about. It is things, objects of everyday experience, that are to be characterized as mysterious -and rich-and complicated. 
It seems to me that ·that is a function of literature which has otherwiseJost its contact with the "pleasure principle" to the most remarkable degree. The pleasure in perception itself is. a pleasure that literature con­tinues to sustain, while modern literature is really more about the decline of all other modes of pleasure than it is perhaps about anything else. That's a wild general­ization, of course. But it does seem to me that one of the problems of modern criti~ism is that it's dealing with an activi.ty whose primary function has always been .to give pleasure, and modern literature happens to be preoccupied with the unhappy fate of the pleasure principle. itself. That makes modern literature para­doxical.. To stay within my own precinct for a moment, my course is necessarily modern because it's a course in the novel..It ·could be given any number of thematic titles, and one of them would be the "fate of pleasure." 
Candelaria: I'm not sure r see how past literature was . "pleasing" or "pleasure giving" in a way that's qualitati~ely· qifferent from modern literature: Am I missing your point?. Aren't pleasure and instruction, truth and beauty, ChaucE:?r's "sentence and solas"­aren't they finally inextrical>le? I{so, then any illumina­tion which literature gives will, h~ve a comparably "pleasing" side, regardless of its effect: whether tragic, painful, .frustrating, complex, whatever. 
Walton:. Perhaps, but I do think that in my novel course you can take three books that are in themselves preoccupied.with the problematical nature of the plea­sure. principle: Oliver Twist, Madame Bovary, and Death in Venice. The laureate of pleasure in the 19th century.was Dickens; yet the young Dickens wrote a . novel in which all modes of gratification are made dis­gusting. This-from Dickens! Not Balzac, no dyspeptic and rancid realist. This is the entertainer for whom Scrooge, with his wealth and power, was a life-denying figure, and Cratchit, with his family of misfits was a life-affirming figure-all because of their attitude to­ward pleasure: Yet; in O~iver Twist, all the people who 
are enjoying themselves repel us. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


perspectives 









Peace, Productivity, and Prosperity 
Peace, at long last, peace; Ares' chaotic, rampaging dominion has finally been broken. All that remains is to repatriate the prisoners and to suitably mark the graves of the dead. Perhaps some future poet will even sing of the flowers that will grow over these graves. All of us can now turn to our own business, unhindered by the chauvinistic rnachfamo of Messrs. Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon. 
In a perverse way many of us will probably find a vacuum in our lives now that the war is ended. It was sort of nice to have such a large-scale abomina­tion around so that one could revel in the most preten­tious of self-righteous stances (anti-war chic). Every other encounter with the beast of untrammeled desire shrinks in the peculiar stench of burning flesh, the death chant of denuded forests and the obscenity of My Lai. One could almost live with one's own secret abominations knowing that there was the war. Confes­sion became much easier; for what were one's sins compared to the war. The horror, sadly enough, has become familiar. At times, the war seemed to ac_quire the status of the natural. One grew up with the war just as one grows up with one's friends. The war was even on television every night. Like '.'My Three Sons," the war became part of the American ethos. In the public consciousness, the war seemed to' be accorded 
·the status of "television land"; it shared the same · "level of being" as Monty Hall and Bob Barker. Otherwise, for many, it was all too easy to ignore. 
··Yet, the war, in the cruelest and most mocking of ironies, was also associate with many of the finer, more manly moments of one's life, There were the men who personally discovered the reality of Aristotlfs distinction between the good man and the good citizen. 
· Many of these men fled to other lands or risked resistance. There were those who discovered in the public destruction of their draft cards a new, non-· 
· relative sense of virtue -manliness. These men came · to know the dread melancholy of the unpopular deci­sions; the free decision which involves publicly accepted risk. Such men are truly free, but in a sense that has long evaded the greedy grasp of bourgeois man. In regard to the battlefield, ·there are also many examples 
MARCH 2, 1973 
Mike Melody 

of manliness understood in terms of the warrior's skills, such as strength, cunning and endurance. Some of these men have been singled out for decoration, and thus are now l)Ublic examples of this understanding of virtue. There are also many examples of compassion such as Chief Warrant Officer Thompson's actions in trying to stop the barbarous carnage at My Lai. Yet, on the whole, the only word that seems appropri­ate for this war is stench; a smell comparable to the nauseating, infested air that surrounded the Nazi death camps. Given all of this, the passing of the war is quite naturally not an occasion for celebration. In the end, one feels a subdued joy, but also a lack, a gap -an abyss whose precise nature is difficult to define. Perhaps some future poet will adequately name this feeling. 
WORDS, always delicate and fragile, are more 
difficult than usual in this matter. As several men of letters have noted, the war was associated with a subtle debasement of the language. Washington seems to have been prevaded by a most convenient philosophical nominalism. Our lexicon must now include transposi­tions such as to waste meaning to kill. What does it say about a man when he refers to the killing of another man as wasting him? What kind of statement about the "human condition'' does this phrase reveal? There is also search and destroy. This means to denude and depopulate. Free-fire zone simply means indiscriminate slaughter. The American Indians had an ample taste of this, but we had other words for it then. Such transpositions are more and more common in this techrietronic society. We have other curious words such as mega-death and assured destruction capabil­ity (ADC). The phrase 20 mega-deaths sounds so bland, almost as if one were talking to a butcher about meat. It literally means 20,000,000 dead human beings. Given this, words seem to fail in description and pre­sent difficulties for reflection. Yet, how are we to characterize this war? Perhaps the image of My Lai is most fitting. As Lt. Calley proceeded from the first horror-filled ditch to the other one, he came upon a 
we _commonly· speak of _"winning the 
soldier forcing a young Vietnamese woman to fellate him. He stopped the soldier though he did not later . press charges upon return to base camp. ·In the midst of this obscene carnage, we also have the compassionate action of Thompson, the helicopter pilot, who, at no small risk to his own life, landed and tried to stop the massacre perpetrated by the blood-drunk lieutenant. Is the understanding that led to the barbarous slaughter at each ditch radically different from that of the soldier who forced the Vietnamese woman to her knees? Compassion, obscene lust in the midst of blood, and a slaughter worthy of Attila the_Hun._ How should one react to the "honorable" end of such a war? Perhaps we could actually celebrate if the peace was founded upon justice -fairness, equity or even­handedness -as opposed to honor. 
. . 
Yet, the real world will, as it always seems to do, carry Ol"J.. Men,:though-bored and perhaps having a . sense of their own futility, will·:r_eport to their life­sucking jobs every morning as their fathers did before them. One must get ahead; and life goes on. But the university, the unreal_world by implicit comparison, should carefully reflect on the experience of this war. The war, like the actions and words of any people, reveals our collective character, our ethos. 
PEACE. Such a fine word. But what. do w/~ean.by: . it? The word in one sense refers to:·rest; a.quiet; a cessation of movement and desire. Iri this~sense; the­word is frequently used in the context.of heavenly peace.· Yet, we certainly do not mean peace in this most Christian of senses~ Peace can also_be defined by reference to its contrary, war. In this case, peace seems to refer specificallyto the quiet of arms-the lack of armed contention between men. In this medieval sense, peace is regarded as the normal rela-. 
· tionship between men, while war, an aberration that is sometimes necessary, must be both formally declared and ended. To disturb the public peace, one must have · defensible, plausible reasons. In this understanding, a justwar theory makes obvious good sense. This, at first glance, appears to be the core meaning behind our use of the word _peace. But if we reflect on this, our ,_ . 

usage of the word appears to be deceptive .. We also commonly speak of "winning.the peace." In fact, 
· we also refer to the period from the end of World War II till the present detente as the cold war. We speak of peace iri. terms of "sublimated" war. What does all 
_this mean? Peace is such a fine word; ·In terms of our discourse it appears to be recognized as such. But is this really 
.the case?. It seems that the closest approximation we have, as a people, t.o a shared understanding of. the common good, the res publica !.s GNP (the common pleasure.or plunder): This ap_stract measure· is treated with.the same reverential awe as that of tI?-e early poets describing the paths of the wanderers -planets ----within the div'ine cosmos. Risirig°·GNP {s good·; falling:or static GNP i~ bad. Growth: is the value~ Yet, GNP solely measures quantity; it· does not directly refer' to quality. Conceivably, a nation could so organize itself as· to be,the:world's most efficient producer of p~rriography, and 'henc~ have a rising GNP. Vye would.have to concludeJhat such apeople would be prosperous -granting that a large, hungry market exist~ -and hence happy. ·In another sense, GNP is the measure·of the public.agltation. It refers to .the flow of demand and supply in-terms.of.goods arid 
· serivces. Movement and agitation are· valued; not rest peace. Demand iri this context.i~ the crucial word.­.Our use of the resources of :h~tu:re is a function ~f. de~and ~ desire. Yet,.the term 'demand is relative.·. . -If there-is a··suffic;ient demand for a.particular good-or 
· service, satisfaction,-though. it mig~t be expensive at first,:will'come. Some of this can be seen in the fact that prqstitution -is now being discussed as a business.­Nature arid even .other men (services) are treated. strictly\is fiin~tfon~ :of desi~e. · Since ·the resources of 
:n~fure-~reJiinited,~ we must-co~pete for the. obj_~ts· .. which satisfy our desires. Hence, though we are united · by the phinder:_of nature, ,-yve are also competitively_ · · divided by the distribution of·the spoils. In this regard, every man represents a threat to all other men: The_ . W?rld,.given all ofthis, truly belongs to the industrious and wise; the captains of industry, the producers. How can such people cherish peace; for to_ be at rest ~s to be non-productive, non-desi:rous, a bum. Uri-_ ,· 
. productive rest is a _waste of time. .Ultimately, to be ·_at rest i_~ to be dead. . . ' . . . 
-:~;,~ ::,.-:..:~ ,_-~' ~ ..-,-~, 
.-~-: _l : 
II 

peace 
THE contrary term, war, is used quite frequently in our public discourse. In fact, at first glance, the word seems to be used in peculiar contexts. In terms of our public discourse, we have declared war on: poverty, VD, juvenile delinqqency, cancer, rats, drug abuse, inflation and ignorance .. War seems to be a favorite word of our leaders and the frequency of its use is revealing. As the term is used, it seems to refer to an overwhelming marshalling of resources for a concerted and hopefully crushing attack on some societal prob­lem. By means of such an effort, any problem can be surmounted. The word seems to be particularly reserved for problems that frustrate us, such as cancer. Our war on cancer and other diseases reveals our tremendous cultural avoidance of even the recognition of death as a natural event.. Other-aspects of this can be seen in the fact that several Southern cities are · becoming necropolises, with the institution of "death therapy" (masking the passing of the doomed by drugs such as LSD and heroin) as an experimental program in several hospitals and the freezing of bodies until cures are found. Cancer is threatening to us, and hence it must be obliterated. Interestingly enough, Lt. Calley in his speech.to the military jury justified his actions on the grounds that the ·woman; children and old men that-he butchered somehow, however vaguely, 
-represented a threat to his mert. Our other threatening 
· enemy, cancer; frustrates our desire to live longer. ·In fact, we seem to equate ·the good life with the long active-life.. :Death is not to be accepted as perhaps a· 
· fitting rest-after a long, fulfiiled life, and hence the agent -of d~atll; cancer, must be defeated, destroyed,-obliter-· 
.ated. War·is ·declared. But isn't this the same understand-­ing involved in many of our actions in Vietnam?--This ­seems.to have been what prompted a New York Times 
_columnist to term the·B-52 bombing·of North Viet-' . 
-nam ,·,diplomacy by tantrum." Isn't_part of the-frus­tration of the war precisely the fact that irregardless ofthe amount of pain and suffering that \Ve heavy-:­handedly inflicted on the North Vietnamese, ·they obstinately refused to do our will? Our understanding ­otherwise seems to be _that problems come_ down to · · the application of the proper technique in conjunction with enough resources. ·Ends seem to be relative to . our desires or will. Knowledge is reduced to the aspect -· of how: engineering. All tormenting problems can be solved in this manner! If not now, then later. ·The god Techne will save us. The natural -death -can be defeated. Arrogant, Promethian rebellion is the human stance. In terms of the example of cancer, the issue appears to be whether The Cross or Science (Techne) is the appropriate, human way to win through death? Does one wrestle, Augustine-like, with one's pride-full will lusting for the so_othing touch of grace, or attempt to batter down the gate of eternity? 
G!VEN this, the peace in Vietnam is certainly a 
truce. It simply means that this nation is no longer 
trying to impose its will upon the Vietnamese, and 
they will no longer have to resist such a willful ­
tyrannical -encroachments. We will, of course, con­-tinue our other wars such as the one on cancer. Perhaps, 
and this seems to be the faint hope, we can even 
defeat death. There is a distinct difference between 
soothing the harsh-aspects of the "human condition" . and the hubris-like futility of combatting the giyen 
limitations of human nature. Someday, we might 
again war on another people if they have the temerity 
to thwart our will. Our Good Neighbors in Latin 
America seem to be very aware of this. (From the · opposed position, one could fruitfully inquire into the 
word "liberation.") 
The tyrant country stands vigilant, ready to spring 
out like a wild beast when its will is thwarted; its 
willful men, standing as tyrants, vis-a-vis each other, 
and as accomplices in the conquest of nature. 
Mike Melod'lf is a graduate student in government and teaches _in the Collegiate Seminar Program. Mike has -cils9 ·served as a resident assistant in Farley Hall for 
four -years. 
: -·MARCH 2, '.1973 = 
-:: '~ ' . 

kulchur 
Manassas Looking ·sack 

Dear Kevin, same time is some kind of musical 
That was not just another concert. experience. They work at it, they Transported as I was from my give you two or three hours of it, strange surroundings in Washington and you go home with a badge of 
1.o familiar but also different sur--identification (the bumper sticker), roundings at ND (we have all been -and a few tunes to hum to yourself, here before, Crosby sneaking around· and maybe even something to think the attics of people's minds, looking about. for old treasures), and then to be . The answer is clear to the people made aware once more of the hard who put Stills down as an egotistical edges and clean corners of Manassas. superstar who loves to indulge him­I kept my head. self in · self-conscious meanderings 
I think it had to be made clear to and hypocritical harangues at soc­the audience who sat on their hands · iety (the old saw is that he's up for part of the concert, as well-as to there with $20,000 worth of equip­the so-called fans who make it a _rrient, making fifteen grarid a show, weekly practice to show their fake telling .the people how rotten they enthusiasm (probably exhibitionism) are because others are· starving). by storming the stage, that this hand Stills·. always did realize the odd is one of the very few true working. situation it put him in, but there is a 
. bands in the country. The Dead is limit that _you can reach in singing one, Chicago for sure, Eagles could about ·the moon-spoon-June-Baby­be, but the all-time· best working. love kind of stuff, and he does see band I ever saw was B.J. Thomas an opportunity and an obligation to and the Raiders (that•·s right, old put his advantages to ·work to get "Raindrops" himself, when he :was a a message across. The cynics scoffed, greaser). They·were, and Manassas but . he -rode that flak out, mainly is, a group of well coordi_nated, com-because the message is contained in­petent· professional musicians who side some good, unfrilled, mature 
. don't really need to be called. stars to. rock· music. ·He does have · a .fair­get a kick out of playing; who don't ··sized ego (but what rocker doesn't) need• the peripheral borders or_ i!J-and the mystique he's built around sinuations of latent or blatant sex.: · .himself now (the football freak, who uality, _ homosexuality, · transvesti-just happens to play in a band...) tism, voodoo or any of_ the· other · is nicely understated. 
· headline-grabbing gimmicks that are Chris Hillman is the perfec::t com-in· vog~e .today (gay people take _ plement. He is a kind of Stills with­not~David Bowie is making fun of o~t all the pop paraphernalia, and . you).· It is a show, a show that is is somewhat of a minor. cult saint directed, first of all, at the music and with old Byrd fans, and he forces · an involvement in it, and secondly Stephen to play better than his best. : at· an·involvement with ~e audience He has a nice dry voice, too, and 
on some kind of personal level of he's cool. · communication, not alienation (re-Paul Harris has been Mr. Key-. ·gards again to Alice Cooper, snake boards for God knows how long, and. 
and dog). Furthermore, it achieves this is another in a long line of jobs, a balance of musical complexity and but he still loves it, and gets off on philosophical message that makes the fact that a few people in every you believe that they· mean what cr_o_wd always listen harder for his 
_. they say ("Word Game") and at the .. licks. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

Fuzzy Samuels, Dallas Taylor, Joe Lala, and Al Perkins all fit-they do the job well, create the basics, add 
their favorite licks, and have a fairly good time if the people like them. That's all they signed up for, and that's what they do. 
I was really. impressed by the quality of the music. ·Like I said before, it has distinct melodic lines, hard, clean and defined breaks, and a sense of shape and moving toward goals that Is good on the ear. A lot of it is due to Stills' way of playing and writing, which has developed into a very professional style with this band. Notice his guitar playing on · that monster first side, which they unfortunatefy rushed through at the concert-it's full of surprises, but none of them are rudely ad­dressed-they lift you up, carry on, and skip over to the next, just when you've got the first . riff pegged. That's how the whole band carries the music-easily, cooking when it's appropriate, moving on at the right time. 
It's • good, also, to see that Stills is really playing: again. The life-. blood of most of his previous work had been his playing, but on the second solo, Stephen Stil"ls 2, almost all of it was missing ( consequently, 
· it was a. pretty bad album, with a few good moments). He doesn't in­spire the awe that a Clapton or Duane Allman evokes, but for the life of me I don't know why.' His· music, at. least now, just doesn't need flashy, overtly, personal solos­what he gives the solo spot is tightly controlled, a lot of playing in a little space, and it's what he does with that space that is the essence of the art. Clapton, on the other hand, got about 2/3 of the piece for a solo when he was with Cream, and al­though it was fairly taxing physi­-cally, it never challenged him to 



MARCH 2, 1973 
force all of that energy into very de­finite bounds. Stills, however, creates those bounds for himself, artificial as they are, and brings home very fine stuff within them. A good ex­ample of this is "The Treasure," where the repetition of the verses creates the boundaries for the guitar work. 
A final thought-the proof of all this rhetoric (a sort of rock-and-roll 
. Monday morning quarterbacking) is placed very neatly at the end of that first sequence of songs on side one of Manassas, and it silences the critics and baffles the unbelievers, that this is what he .does to make his life mean something. If he has failed before, succeeded at times, he will always be on his way: 
"I'm gonna try again no matter if I win or lose . Gonna try again anyway, Yes I will, gonna try anyway." Yes, he will. 
take care, John 
* * * 
John: 

It's true that Manassas is as good a rock band as there is. But is it possible that Stills has retreated into this band? I mean, he still steps out front. and turns up the volume, but the flash is gone, or at least it seems to be. While Manassas is a very strong and very satisfying album, it just doesn't have all the surface excitement of "Rock and Roll Wo­man" or, especially, "Bluebird." I don't mean that it isn't good (it's probably better, everything consid­ered), but there's something about that acoustic chop is "Bluebird" that still amazed me five years later. Maybe he's surrounded himself with these very able musicians to protect himself from the bad vibes he got after Stephen Stil"ls 2, which must have affected him somehow. At any 
rate, he seems to be very comfort­able with Manassas, and it shows. I wonder what that new album will sound like. 
Stills seems to be lucky in a sense. He has survived the bad numbers people have been doing on him (re­member John Mendelsohn's review of the secon(l solo?), especially some of the bad press he's received since the demise of CSNY_ As you said, the second solo album was pretty bad, but it did have at least two real gems-"Fishes and Scorpions" and "Singin' Call." It seems that as soon as somebody makes it, everybody says that since he's a star, he's an ass. As soon as you make it, you're back at the bottom. The surprising thing is that Stills has survived all of it, attested by the fact that he's been at the "top of the pops" longer than just about anybody. Everybody kept yelling at him to play rock-and-roll and keep the side trips down to a minimum. So he did play rock-and­roll-two . album sides worth of superb rock-and then he indulged himself in some fine C&W and a set of lovely acoustic tunes. Nobody 
· liked "Ecology" with the screaming Memphis Horns, but •almost every­one likes "Move Around," complete with expanded Series ill Moog Syn­thesizer. Hmmm. 
What all of this combined specu­lation may mean is unclear, but one . thing certainly hasn't changed since Stills early days with Springfield, buzzing around LA in that madcap, dizzy year of 1967. Stephen Stills can sure as hell play guitar, and when he's hot, nobody can touch him-he's that good. 
"Sing your rock and roll, sing your blues. . . ." carry on, Kevin 
-.john hurley & kevin dockrell 

Rothenberg's Ladder to the Poor Places 

Jerome Rothenberg is a poet. And it is as a poet, one who as Diane \Vakoski said "represents a culture and tries to present, through a pre­scribed set of imagery and a stylized vocabulary, a whole mode of per­ception," that Rothenburg approches the translation of "primitive" poetry. As editor and one of the many con­tributing poet-translators of two large volumes of "primitive" poetry, 
Technicians of the Sacred: A Range of Poetries from Africa., America, Asia, and Oceana, and Shaking tlze Pumpkin: Traditional Poetry of the Indian North Americas (both an­thologies publis~ed by Doubleday, approximately 500 pages, and priced at $3.95), Rothenberg offers us through translation the opportunity to experience "primitive'' poetry. But this experience isn't easily arrived at. Rothenberg points out that "primi­tive" poetry is not "simple or naive." The primitive poem is usually a mul­ti-media affair in which words or vocables are not "differentiated, as such, but are part of a larger total 'work.'" Rothenberg says, "What we would separate as music and dance and myth and painting is also part of that work, and the need for separation is a question of 'our' in­terest & perceptions, not of 'theirs.' " Because "primitive" poetry is for­eign and its complexity elusive, the great difficulty which faces the translator is that "translation can, in general, only present as a single work, a part of what is actually there.'' 
In translation a poem may show only the "meaningful" words. Thus we have: Yend cowcrew's way-out. In actuality this one line poem may be repeated many times. It's inflec­tion may change, the words may change, and new syllables or vo­cables might be added. -All of this creating a poem substantially dif­ferent from the original one line. How then can one isolate the words of a "'primitive" poem from their broad context, and still retain some sense of its real meaning? Rothen­berg says: 

Like any collector, my approach to delimiting and recogmzmg what's a poem had been by anal­ogy: in this case (beyond the ob­vious definition of poems as words-of-songs) to the work of modern poets. Since much of this work has been revolutionary and limit-smashing, the analogy in turn expands the range of what "we" can see as primitive poetry. It also shows some of the ways in which primitive poetry and thought ate close to an impulse toward unity in our time, of which the poets are forerunners. 
All languages, primitive or other­wise, have the ability to communi­cate through poetry through non­logical, or non-causal means. Roth­enberg's acknowledgement of this fact is nothing special. What is spec­ial is his belief in the unity and ties between all mankind. 
No people today is newly born. No people has sat in sloth for the thousands of years of its history. Measure everything by the Titan rocket & the transistor radio & the world is full of primitive peoples. But once change the unit of value to the poem or the dance­event or the dream (all clearly artifactual situations) and it be­comes apparent what all those people have been doing all those years with all that time on their hands. 
Through his translations of "prim­itive poetry Rothenberg has changed the unit value which he mentions to the poem. Within this common unit of value Rothenberg as editor is able to frequently point out what seems to be the primitive ethes, that is, the sonsanguinity of all living things. In the preface to Shaking the Pumvkin, Rothenberg explains some of the reasons why he compiled a book of North American Indian po­etry. He explains: 
Now, put all of that together 
& you have the makings of a 
high poetry & art, which only a 
colonialist ideology could have 
blinded us into labeling "primi­
tive" or "savage." You have also 
the great hidden accomplishment 
of our older brothers in America, 
made clear in the poetry & yet of 
concern not only to poets but to 
all (red, wliite & black) who want 
to carry the possibilities of reality 
& personhood into any new. worlds 
to come. The yearning to redis­
cover the Red Man is part of this. 
It acknowledges not only the cru­
elty of what's happened in this 
place (a negative matter of geno­
cide & guilt) but leads as well to 
the realization that "we" in a 
larger sense will never be whole 
without a recovery of the "red 
power" that's been here from the 
beginning. The true integration 
must begin & end with a·recogni-
Gwendolyn Brooks and Jerome Rothenberg will both be guests at Notre Dame during the Sopho­more Literary Festival. The Fes­tival begins April 1 and 1·uns through April 6. 

tion of all such powers. That means a process of translation & mutual completion. Not a broth­erhood of lies this time but an affiliation based on what the older had known from the start: that we're doomed without his tribal & matrilocal wisdom, which can be shared only among equals who have recognized a common lineage from the Earth. 
In this time of the rapid and con­tinuing dissolution of the values of our culture and society, Rothen­berg's anthologies of "primitive" po­etries are an attempt to strengthen cur weakening spirit. In Shaking the Pumpkin Rothenberg tries to bring us closer to our own Red Brothers, the "real people." The ma­terials which Rothenberg uses are comprehensive, involving v1s10n, song, spell, myth, dream, animal tale, etc.. The scope of Technicians of the Sacred is even broader than that of Shaking the Pumpkin. Rothenberg uses an equally comprehensive range 
of materials but draws them from many divergent cultures such as Kate Indian, Australian Aranda, Gaben Pygmy, Hebrew, Tibet, Eski­mo, Aztec, African Bushman the list goes on and on. In the excellent com­mentaries at the end of both books, Rothenberg tries to not only place the poetry in its cultural context, but also to place it in a contemporary context by expressing his own and other poet's reactions to the "primi­tive" works. In Technicians of the Sacred he also presents a large var­iety of contemporary writing by such people as Creely, Breten, Neruda, Kaprew, Lorca, Kakeski, Gary Sni­der, Ginsberg, Patchen, Stevens, and Appollinaire, among others. Rothen­berg sometimes talks a!Jout the anal­ogy between these contemporary works and their primitive counter­parts, other times he just lets the works speak for themselves. 
Rothenberg's commentaries, com­bined with the apparently high qual­ity of the translation work together to make Rothenberg, as Wakeski described him, one who represents a whole mode of perception. Rothen­berg's perception is that "we" are "they." A study of the great variety of cultures and types of poetries with which Rothenberg deals can help us understand that truely self-transcen­dent fact. 
Come, ascend the ladder: all come in: all sit down. We were poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, When we came to this world through the poor place, ·where the body of water drier for 
our passing. Banked up clouds cover the earth. All come four times with your 
showers: Descend to the base of the ladder 
& stand still: Bring your showers & great rains. All, all come, all ascent, all come 
in, all sit do,v-n. · (Zuni Indian) 
-cristapher costello 


"There is indeed a new black to­day. He is different from any the world his known." These words of Gwendolyn Brooks which describe the Afro-American of 1973 also des­cribe the Pulitzer-prize winning poetess herself. The Gwendolyn Brooks of today, the uncompromis-
MARcH 2, 1973 
ing and energetic spokeswoman of life and blackness is a quiet yet dy­namic incisive force in American letters. The poet and woman has, especially since 1967, come to grips with and realized her role as poet and blacK. 
The poetry of Gwendolyn Brooks before 1967 might be seen as a de­velopmental search in which she at-
Sister in 




Mecca 
tempted to find the meaning of "poet" and of 'black woman." To es­tablish the relationship between the two was her next task. The poetry of these earlier years was, in a sense, a panoramic view of society, an at­tempt to reflect the times and its people. Her early view of the world was the result of judgments, evalua­tions, and definitions inherited from 
others and adapted by her. Her po­etry was rooted in the American tra­dition, sparked by individuality. Her intimacy with the black experience . became inextricably linked with her poetic vision. 
The survival and growth of the poet through the trying times of the thirties and forties is due in part to the encouragement of a close family and watchful mother. The poetic enigma of Gwendolyn Brooks owes something of a debt to the influence of a potpourri of people and cir­cumstances. Among these might be listed the works of Langston Hughes and Richard Wright, Chicago's South Side, Inez Cunningham Stark, and 

the Community Art Center. During the years of 1943-1945, she won four. poetry prizes at Northwestern Uni­versity's Midwestern Writers' Con­ference. Her poetry appeared in the Chicago Defender and Poetry maga­zine, while Madenwiselle named her one of the "Ten Women of the Year" in 1945. Grants from the American Academy of Arts and Letters and the Guggenheim Fellowship marked, along with other laurels, a surro­gate recognition as an "artist" -a poet who happened to be black. She accepted these titles with mixed feeling, but with gratitude that was shared by a husband and a small son -the new family that lived her 
poetry. 
Annie Allen won for the poetess the Pulitzer Prize in 1950. She was the first black person to receive the award, which might have seemed an attempt to make her blackness sec­ondary to her achievement as a poet. The prize did mark her, however, as the best poet of the time and ac­quired for her an international read­ing audience, and most of all, a fol­lowing from ·her own people. Econ­omic opportunities continued to be­come available to her, and continued to spark both her creativity and pro­ductivity. 
The poet continued to grapple with her bla.ckness and her poetry. She 

An important announcement to every student in the health professions: 
NEW SCHOLARSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY. 
THEY COVER TUITION AND RELATED COSTS AND PROVIDE AN ANNUAL INCOME OF $5,300 AS WELL. 
If a steady salary of $400 a month and paid-up tuition will help you continue your professional ti·aining, the scholarships just made pos­sible by the Uniformed Services Health Professions Revitalization Act of 1972 deserve your close attention. Because if you are now in a medical, osteopathic, dental, veterinary, podiatry, or op­tometry school, or are work-, ing toward a PhD in Clinical Psychology, you may qualify. 
.We 'make it easy for you to cornplete yom· studies.You're 
commissioned as an officer as soon as you enter the pro­·gram, but remain in student status until graduation. And, during each year you will be 

on active duty (with extra· · hard, expensive training. 
pay) for 45 days. Naturally, . if your academic schedule·.· 1·equires that you remain on_ ~­campus, you stay on campus_ -and still receive your active duty pay. 
Active duty requirernents are fair. Basically, you serve one year as a commissioned officer for each year you've
. . d. h
participate mt e program, with a two year minimum. You may apply for a scholar­ship with either the Army, N avy or Air Force, and know that upon entering active duty you'll have rank and . duties in keeping with your 
f . . l . . 
prO ess10na training. . 
· 

l•f , k , h . . ., .. Date.of birth · · · · ·
The 1 e swor you vec 0-,, I'. "·,· · ·,(l\lonth) (Day) _.(Ye:ir) sen for yourself requires long, .. '. L•Podiatry n.ut ~vaHabl;i~Ai: Fo~ceP~ogram. ­
Now we·are in 3; position to give you some help. Mail in the· coupon at your earliest converiienceformoredefailed 
· information. r-. ------. ------7
~i:t Forces Scholarships~CN-3'3 Universal City, Texas 78148 I desire information for the followin1t 
11r0Kram: 
~Army . Navy OAirFo,ce 
~~~~r~~to";i~i;t~•Dental Other (Please specify). ____ 
Nam.~--:-::---,----­
( !>lease print) Soc. Sec.·------,--=----­
Addre.•-,--------­
citY:----,----...;__--
Jstat, . : i.,,____ 
I Enrolled a~ .-·::. ,;. ~ -· ' 
I •. ·. •:" :.(Schoo!) .. I To 1traduate '''--::::---,-:-...,--:,:-:'--c::--­
I ', ' 11\tonth)_ <.Year) (Degree) 

searched for a context in which to define herself. Annie Allen for her was both a success and a failure, for she used the conventional European­American rules and language with success while failing to communicate with the black community. 
The ·work of Gwendolyn Brooks in the fifties and early sixties received an even wider and more varied audi­ence. ·Writers such as Lori Jones, James Baldwin, Ralph Ellison di­rected their words towards the American conscience and moral ob­ligation: and people listened. Brooks' 1960 work, Bean Eaters, is both a black female's poetic credo and an assertion of the Negro's position as equal in society. "Mrs. Small," "Jes­sie Mitchell's Mother," and "We Real Coal" are three strong examples from this volume. 
A clear and uncompromising black identity consciousness came with the publication of In the Mecca, a vol­ume of poetry which brought its author closer to "a surprised queen­hood in the new black sun." At this point the poetry reflected the tem­perament of the time. Blacks were beginning to fashion for a new world of art from a fresh and totally new perspective. They sensed that "to create is to destroy" -that a new house could not stand . on an old framework. Gwendolyn Brooks saw her responsibility as first and fore­most to her people and to her cul­ture. She participated in cultural ac­tivities and became active in political and social problems important to the black community. This work and 
ethers after 1967 are examples of a succinct and pragmatic vision. Her poetry has become precise and more 
powerful, and the poet has become more comfortable and sure both of her craft and herself. 
Gwendolyn Brooks, it would seem, has reached "beyond anger." She has defined herself first of all from what might be called cultural and histori­cal perspectives. She recognizes her role and feels intimately involved with her people and her contempor­ary world. More important, however, she brings this recognition and sensi­tivity to her art. In her own words, "My newish voice will not be an imi­tation of the contemporary young black voice, which I so admire, but an extending adaptation of today's Gwendolyn Brooks' voice." 
-john murphy 


MARCH 2, 1973 
the crooked rook 
American Chess Bulletin September-October, 1958 
White mates in three moves 

SOLUTION IN NEXT ISSUE 
SOLUTION TO LAST PROBLEl\I 
1. Q-KBI B-NF 2. Q-QNI (threat) 3. QXP mate " P-N3 3. QXB mate
" 

B-B6 (or Q5) 2. Q-Q3 etc. B-K4 (or B4) 2. Q-B5 " P-R3 2. Q-QNI " P-B6 2. NXPch PXN 3. Q-R3 mate 
Faye Serio 
Michael Lanier 




PHOTOGRAPHS 
ISIS Gallery/ Old Fieldhouse 
. University of Notre Dame March 2-21 1-4pm 
Opening Saturday March 3 7-10 
"They do not love that do not show their love." 
\Villiam Shakespeare 
Choose Keepsake with complete confidence, because the famous Keepsake Guarantee assures a perfect engagement diamond of precise cut and superb color. There is no finer diamond ring. 

Rings from SIOO-SI0.000 T-M Reg. A.H. Pond Co. 

,· .· . .:'-· 
:.·· .. 
v • . ·-·:'::. 
...,..:-x--:-. --~_.:.·. 
.•.,._ 
r "' 

,l;.;. __ .. . __...;. '--------------7 
HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING I
I 

I Send new 20 pg. booklet, "Planning Your Engagement and Wedding" plus I I full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25¢. S-73 I 
I 
Name______________________ 

I
I 

I
«Please Pnnn
I 

I
I Address 

I
I 'I
Cify-----------Co,__________

I I f State-----------------LiP-----f 
. . . • Il_~~~~~~~_~~s.:..~~ 90:,_5~<::7~:.._N~.I:.;:2_?! _ J 
R. K. MUELLER, INC. Downtown 233-4200 218 S. Michigan St.  
PARTY STORE Liquor Beer & Wine Champagne Gourmet Foods if we don't have it-we'll get it U.S. 31 South, Niles Mich. 1 Block No. of Ind. Line 683-9875  
YEAGER MOTOR Ca.J Inc. BUICK--OPEL--VOLVO • SALES . • SERVICE • PARTS • ACCESSORIES "Wtiere customers send their friends" 215-225 South Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 288-2531  



32. THE SCHOLASTIC 
LECTURES 


coming distractions 
Tuesday, March 6, U.S. senator from Indiana Birch Bayh will speak in the Library Auditorium at 8 :00 pm. 
Wednesday, March 7, at 7 :30 pm., 
CONCERTS FILMS
Celia Marriot from the Art Institute 
of Chicago will speak on "Women in 
Art During the Nineteenth and 
Twentieth Centuries" in the Old 
Fieldhouse in conjunction with the 
current exhibit of photographs at 
the ISIS Gallery. 
Thursday, March 8·, Black Studies 
will present a lecture by Dr. Robert 
Martin of Howard University in the 
Library Auditorium at 8 :00 pm. 
On Thursday, March 29, Dr. James 
Billington will speak as part of the 
SMC Humanistic Studies lecture se­
ries on "The Strange Death of Lib­
eral Education" at 8 :00 pm. in the 
Little Theater. 
The SMC Dept. of Education will present a lecture by Dr. Urban Legge on "The Montessori and the Pheno­menological Concept of Personality Development," on Wednesday, March 21, and on Wednesday, March 28, a lecture by Evan Bengwell on "The Unreality of Teacher Education." 
Both lectures will be held in Carroll 
Hall at 7 :30 pm. 
Thursday, March 29, there will be a Jazz at Nine lecture/discussion on "The Art of John Coltrane," in La­Fortune at 9 :00 pm. 
On Monday, March 19, the Mexi­can-American Lecture Series will present a lecture in conjunction with the Notre Dame Sociology Depart­ment by Dr. Trejo of the University of Arizona in the Lib. Aud. at 7 :30. 
Tuesday, March 27, the Notre Dame Law School will sponsor a lec­ture by Mayor Joseph Alioto of San Francisco in the Library Auditorium at 3:30 pm. 
The Arts and Letters Student Ad­visory Council will present six no­credit mini-courses on The Funda­mentals of Insurance, with Charles Reddy, University of Notre Dame insurance officer. Everyone welcome. An invaluable supplement to a lib­eral education. All sessions are from 
6:00 to 8:30 pm. March 1-212 Computing Center­Fire, Home and Auto Insurance. March 22-265 Nieuwland Science­Life Insurance. March 29-212 Computing Center­Medical and Health Insurance. 
MARCH 2, 1973 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will perform Monday, March 5, at 8 :15 in Washington Hall. 
March 6 will be highlighted by a piano recital given by Ronald More­bella of St. Mary's faculty at 8:00 in the Little Theater at SMC. 
The Little Theater is the site of a second piano recital, this one a dual effort by Annette Conklin and David Sharp, March 22 at 8:00. 
On Wednesday, March 7, classical guitarist Gregory Bonentrager will give a concert at 8 :15 in the Library Auditorium. 
The Elizabethan Consort of Viols will bring authentic Elizabethan mu­sic direct from London to the Li­brary Auditorium at 8 :15 on March 28. 
On March 8, Jazz at Nine will pre­sent Rock Cantata Night. This is a multi-media production and will be presented in LaFortune at 9 :00. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band Combo will give concerts on March 22 and 29 at 9:00 p.m. in LaFortune. No admission charge. 
The Michigan State University Mixed Chorus will be on hand Mon­day, March 19, in Washington Hall. Admission will be $1.00 at the door. The music begins at 8 :15. 
The Notre Dame Concert Band will give a free concert on March 23 in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8 :15. 
Saturday, March 3, The Senior Class of SMC will present The French Connection in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 7 :30 and 10 :00 pm. $1.00. 
Saturday and Sunday, March 3 and 4, Cinema '73 will present Ride the High Country in the Engineering Aud. at 8:00 and 10 :00 pm., $1.00. 
Saturday and Sunday, March 24 and 25, Singing in the Rain will be offered in the Engineering Aud., 8:00 and 10 :00 pm. $1.00. 
DRAMA 
IUSB will present CindereUa on March 2 at 7:30 pm. and March 3, 4, 10 and 11 at 2 :00 and 4 :00 pm. in Northside Hall. 
EXHIBITIONS 
Faye Serio and Michael Lonier will open an exhibition of their re­cent photographs, Saturday, March 3, from 7 :00 to 10 :00 pm. in the ISIS gallery in the Northwest corner of the old Fieldhouse. It runs to the 21st of March. · 
SMC faculty and students show their work March 2 through 4 at the Moreau-Hammes galleries. The Art­ist Photographer in Indiana runs March 4 through 26 also at the Moreau-Hammes galleries. 
-jack wenke 


the last word 
It is Sunday morning already; today is the deadline for SCHOLASTIC Vol. 114, n~ber 11. And now, after much procrastination, I approach the typewriter with a mind as blank as the white paper that returns my stare. This will be the second-last "Last Word" that I shall write, and I had hoped that it would be a good one -that I would have something worth saying and would be able to say it well. 
What a pretentious notion! 
* * * 
The other day Danny asked me how it felt to have only two more issues to go. I found that it was a ques­tion not so easy to answer. At first I thought only of the many nights without sleep, of the books I have had to read hurriedly and without reflection, of the teachers who must have been offended to see my head droop during a lecture, of the class notes whose script tapers off into minute illegibility. And my evasive and weary res_ponse to Danny was simply, "I don't know." 
* * * 
A ques!ion that has been put to me many times this year (by myself as often as by anyone else) is "How many people do you think read the SCHOLASTIC?" And again the answer is, "I don't know." That question, and probably also the answer, have been lingering in the air ever since Rich Moran, who was editor my freshman year. I know that it would have been impossible, though, to put out a magazine if we had not been convinced that what we were writing about was important enough to read. 
* * * 
But the year has been good. And I think of Pat and Danny and the two Jim's. And of Michael and Terri. Danny, with the clear and lucid mind, precise; and his poetry. And Pat -always asking how I was feeling while she herself was suffering from the grip of flu. Then there was Jim, with his wit and his determination -always there when I was lacking in either. And the other Jim, just returned from a summer in a monastery, always questioning what was right and what was wrong, always trying to do a little good for somebody else. 

* * * 

And what of the magazine itself? Has it been more than the vain indulgence of seeing our words in print? What of those things we thought important enough to write about and be read? We talked about the diffi­culties the women at Notre Dame told us they were having in making the adjustment to an all-male Uni­versity; we talked about mental health at Notre Dame and the emotional effects of academia; we talked about the election and the war; we talked about the arts and about the "Christian community" at Notre Dame. Were these things important enough to talk about in print? Certainly, we thought so. But were we able to convey our own sense of their importance in a valuable way? 
Again, the answer is, "I don't know." 
* * * 

Mr. Krier is especially fond of The Ternpest; he often refers to Prospero as the artist. And now I think of Prospero's weary last words in the play as he leaves his island: 
As you from crimes would pardon'd be, Let your indulgence set me free. 
-greg stidham 

··, . 
-' 


· Applications are · now being accepted for:-· 

EDITOR· ·ART DIRECTOR CIRCULATION MANAGER 

·If interested· or if . applying, please contact Greg Stidham at 6539 or 7569 · · : . _-. ·_' · All applications must be _·· .. ·in_ by 5:00 p.m. on Friday, March 9. 



A sleek graceful sailing vessel glides across the sometimes green, sometimes blue Caribbean. The cargo: you. And an intimate group 
of lively, fun-loving shipmates. 
. Uniform of the day: Shorts and tee shirts. Or your bikini if you want. And bare feet. 
..Mission: A leisurely cruise to remote islands with names like Martinique, Grenada, Antigua-those are the ones you've heard of. Before the cruise ends, you'll 
Jr 
know the names of many more. You'll know intimitely the enchanting different mood of each:~.and its ·. own beauty and charm. 
Life aboard your big sailing yacht is informal Relaxed. Romantic. 
There's good food. · And 'grog: And a few pleasant comforts ... but any resemblance to a plush pretentious resort hotel is accidental. 
Spend 10 days 
exploring paradise. 

Spend ten nights watching the moon rise and getting to know interesting people. It could be the most meaningful experience of your life 
...and it's easily the best vacation you've had. 
A cruise is forming now. Your share from 
$245. Write Cap'n Mike for your free adventure booklet in full color. 
Come on and live. 

Name--------,-,-------,-­
Address _____--'--~.=~T·-.-..-_-,-.-.-._--,__ .. _ · _..._ ~ ---­-'" ·-"_-, ; c,;;' ' : ,-~ ,: ---~ -21P: ~~-.-:. -_ ' ;­
State ,---_, 
,... . .. -------_-,-.-_-.--..·--.:. 
-•• !'.'_ ' _-_ -: 
>, -,.. 

. . . . . . Phone_.---:-----,------,-------,--,-----·-·. . . '. . . .. 
: . . '.. ::P.O.B~x120,Dept.. _.:Mia~l_Be~~h,Florid~-33139': .. _:: ·_ :... ':­--'. ~ --._ ,---. ----. -. -. 






