CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
NO
CARRYING CHARGE
USE your convenient Campus Charge Account to purchase your own dinner jacket, tropical weight formal trousers . . . cool casual clothes, sport shirts . . . whatever you need . . . when you need it. Pay one-third in June, one-third in July, and one-third in August. Of course, there is never a carrying nor a service charge. Come in soon and stock up on vacation clothes.
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS
^GILBERT'S ®ampus^hop
.AaIIIUUU'Wi^^.
Assignment: build a sports car to rank with the world's best!

Result: The experimental Ford Mustang, lively 2-seater loaded with significant engineering features
Just under 13 feet long—weight, 1544 pounds, 400 to 700 pounds less than comparable models of popular imported sports jobs— the Mustang is representative of the interesting design challenges at Ford Motor Company. Unique ways of reducing weight without sacrificing strength, to improve performance and economy, may stem from its design.
For example, seats are an integral part of the Mustang's body, adding structural rigidity. Brake, clutch and accelerator are mounted on a movable cluster which can be adjusted fore and aft (as can the steering wheel) to suit varying sizes of drivers. Other important features: low-drag, aerodynamic shape proven in the wind tunnel; independent front and rear suspension; disc front brakes; roll bar built as an integral part of the body/frame structure; hot V-4 engine mounted forward of the rear axle in unit with a 4-speed manual transmission.
The Mustang is another example of how challenging assignments met by our engineers and stylists help Ford Motor Company maintain engineering leadership and provide new ideas for the American Road.
MOTOR COMPANY
The American Road. Dearborn. Michigan WHERE ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP BRINGS VOU BETTER-BUILT CARS
The Scholastic
Does a man really take unfair advantage of women when he uses Mennen Skin Bracer?
All depends on why he uses it.
Most men simply think Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer is the best after-shave lotion around. Because it cools rather than burns. Because it helps heal shaving nicks and scrapes. Because it helps prevent blemishes.
So who can blame them if Bracer’s crisp, long-lasting aroma just happens to affect women so remarkably?
Of course, some men may use Mennen Skin Bracer because of this effect.	..m.
How intelligent!	[Mj

PATRONIZE SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISERS
WARNER'S RENT-A-TRAILER
Rent A One-Way Trailer
TO TAKE YOUR THINGS HOME
PICK UP TRAILER IN SOUTH BEND —LEAVE IT AT HOME
901 WESTERN	AT 7-9494
«
Expedition to COLOMBIA & PANAMA
SHARE ADVENTURE. EXPENSE; FREE LITERATURE
Airmail: Yacht Fairwinds, Box 1288AA St. Thomas, Virgin Islands
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23. 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17. N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
May 17, 1963
5
Qntaqns Mk Shulman
{Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis’’, etc.)
The SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 104 May 17, 1963 No. 21
Founded 1867
HOW TO SEE EUROPE FOR ONLY $300 A DAY: NO. 3
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
When all of you go to Europe during your summer vacation, you will certainly want to visit Spain, where the tall corn grows.
The first thing you will notice upon entering Spain is the absence of sibilants. In Spain “s” is pronounced “th” and thereby hangs a tale. Until the reign of Philip IV—or Guy Fawkes, as he was sometimes called—Spaniards said “s” just like everybody else. Philip IV, however, lisped, and Spaniards, having an ingrained sense of propriety and not wishing to embarrass their monarch, decided that everybody should lisp. This did indeed put Philip IV very much at his ease, but in the end it turned out to be a very bad thing for Spain. It wrecked the sassafras industry—Spain’s principal source of revenue—and reduced the nation to a second-class power.
As a result, Spaniards were all forced to turn to bull fighting in order to keep body and soul together. Today, wherever you go in Spain—in Madrid, in Barcelona, in Toledo, in Cleveland —you will see bulls being fought. For many years the bulls have sought to arbitrate this long-standing dispute, but the Spaniards, a proud people who use nothing but Castile soap, have rejected all overtures.
It is therefore necessary for me to explain bull fighting to anyone who is going to Spain. It is also necessary for me to say a few words about Marlboro Cigarettes because they pay me for ■writing this column, and they are inclined to pout if I ignore their product. In truth, it is no chore for me to sing the praises of Marlboro Cigarettes, for I am one who fairly swoons with delight when I come upon a cigarette which gives you the full, rich taste of good tobaccos plus the pure white Selectrate filter, and Marlboro is the only smoke I have found that fulfills both requirements. Oh, what a piece of work is Marlboro 1 The flavor reaches you
Let us not, however, take our leave of smoking pleasure. Let us keep enjoying those fine Marlboro Cigarettes—rich, golden tobacco—pure white Selectrate filter—soft pack or Flip-Top box—available in all fifty States of the Union.
without stint or diminution. You, even as I, will find these statements to be happily true when once you light a Marlboro. Marlboros come to you in soft pack or Flip-Top box, and are made only by the makers of Marlboro.
But I digress. Let us return to bull fighting. Bulls are by nature bellicose creatures who will keep fighting till the cows come home. Then they like to put on pipe and slippers and listen to the “Farm and Home Hour.” However, the Spaniards will not allow the bulls any surcease. They keep attacking the bull and making veronicas—a corn meal pancake filled with ground meat. Bulls, being vegetarians, reject the veronicas and then, believe you me, the fur starts to fly!
To be perfectly honest, many Spaniards
have grown weary of this incessant struggle and have left their homeland. Columbus, for example, took off in three little ships—the Patti, the Maxene, and the Laverne—and discovered Ohio. Magellan later discovered Columbus. Balboa also sailed to the New World, but he was silent on a peak in Darien, so it is difficult to know what he discovered.
Well sir, I guess that’s all you need to know about Spain. So now, as the setting sun casts its rosy fingers over El Greco, let us take our reluctant leave of Spain— or Perfidious Albion, as it is jocularly called. Aloha, Spain or Perfidious Albion, aloha!	© 19G3 Aiax Shulman
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF:
Tom Hoobler
MANAGING EDITOR:
Dick Stranger
BUSINESS MANAGER:
Brian Barnes
NEWS EDITOR:
Mel Noel
FEATURES EDITOR:
Jim Devlin
SPORTS EDITOR:
Terry Wolkerstorfer
ART EDITOR:
Larry Sicking
ADVERTISING MANAGER:
John O’Harilon
CIRCULATION MANAGER:
Tom Keane
PHOTOGRAPHY:
Brian Beck
CONTRIBUTORS:
Carl Wiedemann, John Anton, Frank Obert, John Pope, Dick Gibbs, Karl King, Brian Jorgensen, David Barrett, Tom Woods, Jeff Blackwell, Joe Wilson, John Buckley, Jim Callero
STAFF: ,
Gary Sabatte, Rex Lardner, Al Dudash, Frank Smith, Tom Bettag, Bruce Palka, Ray Burke, Rick Weirich, Bill O’Grady, John Frey, Mike Hoyt, Jack Quine, John Twohey, Pat Ford, John Gorman, Jack Rowe
FACULTY ADVISOR:
Fr. Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C.
EDITORIAL BOARD:
Dick Stranger, Chairman; Pete Clark, Matt Cosgrove, Mike McClintock, John McGrath, Bill Smith, Tom Stdhlschmidt, Tom Vitullo
6
The Scholastic
Discipline and Honor
Jt was recently lamented by Father Hesburgh that student leaders had not taken the initiative in developing an honor system, and in establishing a code for student conduct. These two areas of major administration concern are not divergent concepts at all, but most certainly are unmistakably united. A code of honor conduct is much concerned with all facets of student life, not merely the academic. Many proponents of the system feel that attention should be devoted entirely to the academic aspects of allowing other applications to come at a later date.
We are in favor of establishing an honor code to deal with dishonesty in general and cheating in particular, but feel that his program cannot be separated from a code of student conduct. Both must be established at the same time, and under the same format.
Principles of student responsibility and conduct cannot be imposed; they must be developed from within. They cannot be developed by a committee of priests, faculty, or students. Any formulation of this sort would not be development, but mere abstract listing of idealism which would appeal to administrators across the country as another example of enlightened rule. It is doubtful that it would have much appeal for the students in that it would not be theirs, nor would it have its roots in the earth of practicality and practicability.
Responsibility must be developed by the students within their own realm. The first question, then, is: what is that realm within which a student has a. right to be concerned? The conditions under which he must live are a prominent example of an area of valid concern and of the problem of an imposed standard of conduct. The living conditions at Notre Dame are unique in several senses. Notre Dame is one of the few universities in the nation which levies curfew regulations on men. It is one of the few which employs watchmen to see that these hours regulations are observed.
In general, Notre Dame is an institution where student responsibility has come to mean nothing more than obedience — obedience to rules which they have had no part in formulating. It would seem a greater test of responsibility on the part of students and student leaders to allow a policy to develop from the level of the students and not to be handed down by the administration.
Despite the efforts of Father Hesburgh and priest counselors to justify their imposed system of regulations — an easily justifiable system in many respects — nevertheless, there is the difficulty of con
trary human nature. It is all too well known to educators that ideas somehow come from within; repetitious instruction serves only as a stimulus and guide. The same applies all the more to those ideas by which men govern their lives. Given the opportunity to elucidate those principles they choose to live by, students will very likely pleasantly surprise their pessimistic superiors. This action would show whether or not student responsibility can expand to encompass their domain or whether it is to be one of obedience. On the one hand, the student body can grow into an effective, concerned, and responsible community; on the other, student responsibility will become no more than it is — concerned only with rote obedience.
The advantages of a program of this sort can readily be seen. It makes the students much more responsible for their actions. The very system that they develop, the reaction to it, and the enforcement of it will be spotlighted. The success or failure of their program will be evidence in itself of the degree of responsibility of the student and will show that not only does the student have a voice in the affairs of the University, but also that his voice is a responsible one — one deserving of expression and consideration.
New student government officials have been elected; it is up to them to see that this is done. The way to test the extent and range of responsibility is to give the students jurisdiction of their own affairs with the understanding that this to demonstrate their responsibility or irresponsibility, whichever may be the case.
If Dave Ellis and his administration will work toward the establishment of something of the nature of the above plan, something of real merit for the student and for the University as a whole will have been accomplished. If he will not, or if no serious consideration of this plan is granted, the range and extent of student concern and responsibility will have been set and no flowery verbiage nor nostalgic traditionalisms will change it.
P. C. & D. 8.
May 17, 1963
7
jtjsnjotps 3HJL
8
See the professor. The professor is happy. He is happy because of the close comfortable shave his Remington® 25 is giving him. Close because the Remington 25 shaver has more whisker-cutting power than any other shaver. Comfortable because Remington roller combs protect his skin. Maybe that’s why professors don’t wear beards any more.
"Xduoui jnoA Sui}sbm uoi|e|suej} aqi joj UMop apisdn aged siq; ujnj oj aAeq noA j| jjc
•jqaiu ajjsg auia>j uajossaj -OJd aip uaSaAxsap uaqeq jqaia||ai/\ -uazjnqas tnsn aip uojSuituag miaq ubz|ea\ -uayig aip |ibaa ujqauaSuy qejEddejatsey aJapus japaf S|B teq uaSouuaAniuqas sajassojg NOiDNiway uias |iaA\ 'nn|S o$ ’uusq uajaiSEJ uiqauaSuE pun qE|S os st NO1DNIW3H tuauias jilu qais ja [ibax 'qDi[>pn|S jsi J3 qai|>pn|3 isi jossajouj jbq -jossajojj jap jsi joih
•seqjEq uoa sajosajojd seui uaA as ou bX osa jod zba jbj_ ’pid uaSajotd a[ uo;2uiura^ ap auiad-soytpoi soj anbjod aAeng uEjrajE ap BumbEui ej;o EunSutu anb JEjnsBT BJBd ajuajod seui sa St NOiDNiwa'a E[ anbiod set jb BpBqajy -gj noidniwhh B[ uoo anSisuoa anb baeos ub; A sej je BpEjrajE B[ uoa oiuajuoj jBlsa ojuaiuoa anQ! ’josajojd p ubjij^
jaq.n:q tq sn[d ^uajjod an sjnassajoud saj tonbjnod uaiq axja-^nad -nnad us ^uaSajoud uo}Suuuaj[ spoddns-xnuainou xnatuuj sa[ anbsmd ‘apidiu p xnop ‘atqvaaaduu aSusujj -^au sadnoa 4110s spnoa qa sSuo[ s[iod sa[ f sa.id ap aasu.i as ap uyua puuad uq mb Ct N0X9KIK3JJ nos U BOtuS ‘jus uatq ‘auuoj ug ; auuoj ua .irej b pJib 03 jjo.id a[ auop apuuSau ‘suaij;
letters ;
Dear Editor:
I must take time to congratulate Fr. Hesburgh and the Notre Dame faculty for reprimanding the recent editors of the Scholastic. I read the Scholastic every week and I especially take frequent notice of “Campus at a Glance.” The flippancy and uncouth representations of the clergy and other personal criticisms are very evident. I am very pleased to see these students reprimanded and I hope you as the new editor carry on the noble tradition of Notre Dame.
Yours truly, Paul Brown Woburn, Massachusetts
Mr. Editor:
A few moments ago someone passed a two-page message under my door and, since it was folded over for the sake of great secrecy, I ran over and opened it. After all, who can ignore a folded piece of paper? After reading the first paragraph I was tempted to run out into the hall and see who was passing the rubbish under the door. But, I reconsidered and came to the conclusion that if everyone else on campus can sit down and write childish, ill-constructed fragments of opinion, I should be able to do so if the inclination strikes me.
It would appear from the reprint of the Loyola News editorial that the local faction of pseudointellectuals has found a sympathetic ear among other young pseudointellectuals. This new-found support seems to give them a second wind and they are going to continue down the path of martyr
Storage for Winter Garments only $2.95
PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
“IT ISN’T” necessary to ship your winter garments home and then back to school again in the fall. You can store them at RUBIN CLEANERS in their SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don’t pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional amount.
CALL CE 4-3188
OR STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON	CORNER LINCOLN WAY EAST
1 st corner across the river on the Bus Line
dom. Since they seem dead serious about this movement, I have a few suggestions that may help them:
1)	since the University of Loyola appeared willing to allow their students to print everything their little hearts desire, I am sure they would welcome a band of fanatical transfer students who find fault with everything
2)	however; the University of Loyola has priests, so maybe these 20th century Patrick Henrys would prefer the secular confines of the University of Seattle for their future reform movements
3)	and, as a last alternative, may I suggest they climb the new library and jump off, for if they are as mighty as they think they are, a band of angels will save them lest they dash their feet upon the stone.
The situation at Notre Dame is not the best it could be and perhaps we cculd use a little more freedom but displays such as are being used cannot help but make this, or any other, administration wonder if maybe the students need more control. Why not begin acting as mature young men? Maybe the privileges of mature young men will follow naturally?
Sincerely yours, James H. Plonka 129 Farley
Unfortunately, the University of Seattle, like Loyola, is a Jesuit-controlled university, so Patrick Henry et al., will have to look elsewhere for a secular confine.—ED.
Editor:
I have never read a more disgusting letter than the one from Mr. Marks in last week’s Scholastic. The criticism of Mr. Morsch (Class of 1953) and his previous letter to the Scholastic was entirely out of hand (Continued on page 34)
Pooped... but must cany on? snap right back and keep goinglTake Ven^ continuous action alertness capsules. Effective, safe, not habit-forming.
CANOE TRIPS
LOW COST ADVENTURE in the
Quetico-Superior wilderness •
Write:
Bill Rom CANOE OUTFITTERS Ely 5, Minnesota
Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry
★
J. Trethewey, Jeweler
For: Hamilton — Elgin Bulova—Longines and Wittnauer Watches
104 N. Main St. * CE 2-1756
D»kWTURB0W
\OPTOMITRIST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVES HOTEL
207 W. Washington —Phone CE 4-5777
May 17, 1963
9
1. According to the Department of Labor, you’re worth over $350,000 as soon as you get your sheepskin. That’s theoretical, of course.
2. The way they figure it, that $350,000 is how much the average college graduate will earn by the time he retires.
I didn’t even know the Department was thinking about me.
3. As an Eco major, I feel obliged to tell you what would happen to that bundle. First, Uncle Sam would help himself to about 290 Gs. With the going rate for penthouses, your life’s earnings would disappear in one year.
You’ve ruined my day.
5. Fortunately, there’s a way out for you.
Tell me—tell me.
Well, you won’t be getting all that money in one year. You’ll be getting some of it each year, at a much lower tax rate. What you should do is put aside a certain amount of it
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States ©1963 Home Office: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York 19, New York For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable in your community. For information about career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or write William E. Blevins, Employment Manager.
I’ll take it right now in a lump sum. Would I live! Penthouse. Yacht. Homburg. The works.
4. Since you’d be only 22, you couldn’t qualify for Social Security. You’d have to go back to your dad for an allowance.
I never could handle money.
6. Put some money into cash-value insurance, the kind they call Living Insurance at Equitable. It gives your wife and kids solid protection and it saves for you automatically—builds a cash fund you can use for retirement or any other purpose.
You Eco guys have all the answers.
"SHE WAS ONLY THE DEAN OF MEN’S
DAUGHTER”
(But oh what a record she made)
The only trouble is, it’s been banned. From the radio at least. In fact, the whole darn Capitol album, “Campus Confidential” by the Four Preps, has been banned. “She Was Only the Dean of Men’s Daughter” and the other numbers, like “Princess Poo-poo-ly Has Plenty Papaya’’ are just a little too... well, colorfid for air play.
This album was recorded during a Four Preps Concert at UCLA. Their performance was wildly appreciated by the students, and we strongly suspect it will be wildly appreciated by everyone who hears it on this new Capitol release. (With the sole exception of radio station owners who want to keep their stations on the air.)
So slip into your nearest record store for “Campus Confidential” on Capitol. (In plain brown wrapper, of course.)
(R S. Look for the Four Preps in concert on your campus.)

C CAPITOL RECORDS. INC.
3
campus at |
Tonight marks the start of one of the biggest week ends of the year, that of the Senior Ball. Once again the Stepan Center has undergone a miraculous transformation, this time to four thousand dollars’ worth of Southern plantation to fit the theme, Tara, from Gone With the Wind. The couples will enter through a mansion facade and cross a bridge over a low pool. The walls are done in red and
white stripes with a border of trees. There is a pool and fountain in front of the bandstand. A false ceiling of pink angel hair hides the geodesic vastness of the dome. Reigning over all this magnificence will be queen Marilou Pierson, a Chicago girl and a student at Loretto Heights College in Denver. Music will be provided by Glenn Miller’s band under the direction of Ray McKnight.
There are no official activities planned for Saturday, but three o’clock permissions have been given for both Friday and Saturday nights. On Sunday morning there will be a Mass at ten o’clock with a sermon by Father Hesburgh. It will be followed by an administration brunch in the South Dining Hall concluding the week end.
Those responsible for the ball include: Dan Baldino, general chairman ; Bill Sparks, executive chairman; and John Madden, decorations chairman.
The Laetare Medal was presented to Admiral George W. Anderson last Sunday at the annual President’s Review of the Notre Dame ROTC Units. The presentation of the medal, whose recipient was named on Laetare Sunday last March, was made by Father Hesburgh.
The Laetare Medal is an award given each year by the University of Notre Dame to an outstanding American Catholic layman. In selecting the recipient of the award, the University strives to pick “men and women whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church, and enriched the heritage of humanity.” The idea of a Laetare Medal was conceived in 1883 by Pro-
Pictures: from top, girl smashes second Studebaker; Marilou Pierson, Senior Ball Queen; Msgr. George Higgins; Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem.
May 17, 1963
11
fessor James Edwards. The proposal was immediately approved by Father Thomas Walsh, then the president of Notre Dame. Since that time 81 men and women representing all walks of life have received this award which is generally considered the most significant annual honor conferred upon Catholic laymen. Recent recipients of the award include President Kennedy, George Shuster, George Meany, I. A. O’Shaughnessy, Robert Murphy and Clare Boothe Luce. Admiral Anderson was the sixth military leader to receive the award.
Presenting the medal to Admiral Anderson, Father Hesburgh recalled with reverence the memory of Notre Dame students who have made the supreme sacrifice for their country and whose names are now inscribed on the Memorial Door at the east transept of Sacred Heart Church. After reviewing his illustrious career, Father Hesburgh praised Anderson as possessing the virtues which every Notre Dame man has wanted to exemplify. He mentioned in particular “the intelligence shown in his planning and organizing, the courage and steadfastness of his decisions, the modesty and piety of his Catholic family life and his swift tact and brilliance.”
Anderson, standing rigidly at the rostrum facing the ROTC cadets, began his acceptance speech with a message from the Joint Chiefs of Staff thanking the University for producing so many courageous and intelligent military leaders. Calling this one of the great moments of his life, Anderson confided that he was deeply proud to be added to the list of recipients of the Laetare Medal, “a company of men and women whose contributions to humanity and to the building of an ever finer America were so far-reaching.” Anderson said that in looking over the list of former recipients, he found one characteristic which they and he had in common, that of having as the cornerstone of life the dedication to the service of God and country. Pointing out that this dedication is very difficult in our modern complex world where good appears mixed in with evil, the Admiral stressed the fact that we must strive so much the harder to avoid mediocrity and self-interest. In condemning these ideas of self-interest, expediency and mediocrity, Anderson pointed out the similarity in the principles of the Church and our country so that in serving God we also serve that country. Anderson professed his belief that everyone, regardless of his vocation, should seek to perfect himself so that he can meet the demands of his God and thus at the same time,
those of his country. “A nursing Sister, a prison chaplain, a conscientious mother, an aviator flying a lonely patrol that we may sleep secure, a deck officer or a sentry standing the midnight watch, a student here, I — you — whoever we are, whatever we do, we are doing it to the glory of God if we ask ourselves always what He wants of us, how we can serve Him.” Anderson concluded by saying that he accepted the medal not as an achievement but as a reminder. “That is what you thought of me; this I will try to be.”
Fr. Hesburgh has announced eight more individuals who will receive honorary degrees at the University’s 118th annual commencement on June 9.
He said honorary doctorates will be conferred on the Most Rev. Mark McGrath, C.S.C., Auxiliary Bishop of Panama (who was a principal speaker at the Latin America Conference here at Notre Dame); William K. Wim-satt, Jr., author and professor of English at Yale; Ralph McGill, publisher of the Atlanta Constitution; John C. Sheehan, professor of chemistry at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; George D. Woods, president of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Washington, D.C.; Judge Harold A. Stevens, of the New York Supreme Court Appellate Division; Don McNeill, the radio and television entertainer, famous for his Breakfast Club; and Alfred C. Stepan, Jr., president of the Stepan Chemical Co., Northfield, Hl. Mr. Stepan is a member of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees, and was responsible for the appearance on campus of Mrs. Indira Gandhi.
With one major exception the Spring Open House showed that it has the potential to become one of the best college week ends in the country. Mike Sennott and the Social Commission are to be heartily congratulated for their efforts to provide a spring week end for the enjoyment of the entire campus. Had more girls been present, there is no doubt that their efforts would have been entirely successful.
The theme of informal entertainment was the key to success of the entire week end. There was a crowd in front of Sorin Hall whenever anyone would perform. The Four Winds were enjoyable as usual, and the Nightliters were the best combo heard around here in a long time. The box suppers proved popular, and the lakeside entertainment provided by WSND
at dinnertime made the time pass quickly.
The crowd at lakeside showed that the Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem were expected to put on a good show. No one was disappointed. Had the performers responded to enthusiastic calls for encores, they might have played until midnight. Their completely relaxed attitude placed the crowd at ease and made it receptive to choruses of “Finnegan’s Wake,” “The Gypsy Rover,” and “The Tinker’s Song.”
Just what the car-smashing event proved is not clear. One might conclude that either the Studebaker Corporation produces durable automobiles, or the destructive energy of N.D. is low. We might suggest a piano for next year, which can be set out minutes before the smashing. This may protect the victim from impetuous arson.
But a moment’s reflection on the one problem plaguing this and other week ends at Notre Dame; why didn’t
■12
The Scholastic
the girls come? Eighteen watermel-lons left at Zahm Hall and a surplus of food at many other halls bore witness to the fact that the day’s main attractions didn’t make the scene in the expected droves. Certainly, enough invitations were sent out. But from what we could see, the girls were expected to provide their individual transportation to the campus. Perhaps if the Socis’ Commission offered to sponsor bus trips from the girls’ schools involved, more would be willing to make the day’s journey.
Staff appointments for the 196364 school year have been announced by two campus publications. Named editor of next year’s Dome was Dennis O’Brien, to be assisted by Associate Editors Dave Larsen and Pete Clark, and Business Manager Mike McCarthy. O’Brien, Sports Editor of the 1963 Dome., plans to reduce the size of the annual, with less space reserved for posed photographs. This reduction will make possible increased use of color and special effects. The more efficient organization of the staff, using two associate editors for the first time, is expected to further enhance the quality of the yearbook. In addition, O’Brien hopes to institute in the coming year a policy designed to keep the student body informed throughout the year of the progress being made on the publication.
Pictures: left top. New Editors: Dennis O'Brien and Steve South; left bottom, Laetare Medal; above, Phantom burns first Studebaker.
The Technical Review has named Steve South as the new editor, assisted by Associate Editors Mike Ci-letti and Mike McCusker. Bob Jochum and Ed Vytlacil will serve as Business Manager and Editorial Assistant, respectively. The Review, written, edited and financed by engineering undergraduates, will continue to serve as both a vehicle of expression for those interested in technical writing and a meeting ground of common interests for all students of the College of Engineering.
“Pope John XX1H and Industrial Relations” was the title of a talk given by the Rt. Rev. Msgr. George Higgins on Tuesday night, May 7, in the Engineering Auditorium. Msgr. Higgins is founder of the National Catholic Welfare Council, and is currently serving as director of the Social Action department of the Council. Having sat in on the Second Vatican Council, Msgr. Higgins also is writer of “The Yardstick,” a column appearing in several Catholic newspapers.
Msgr. Higgins’ lecture concerned Pope John’s outlook on modern industry as stated in his two encyclicals, Mater et Magistra and Pacem in Terris. The Holy Father’s views towards industry can be summarized in seven basic considerations:
1)	Pope John’s attitude towards the problems posed by modern society is positive and quietly optimistic. At no point does the Holy Father turn his back on the complex society’s problems.
2)	The Holy Father accepts trade unions as desirable features of modern life, provided the unions take into account the principle of freedom of conscience in fulfilling their goals of bringing the individual into closer contact with industry.
3)	Pope John gives his sanction to socialization and his blessing to both voluntary and government programs in promoting social welfare, provided socialization remains within the limits of moral order.
4)	Pope John sees an increasing duty of government to protect the rights of the individual and of the family. Pope John is not frightened by this trend, so long as government does not override the individual’s ability to do the job on his own.
5)	Social peace depends upon equity of income distribution. Yet, says the Holy Father, payment for labor cannot be arbitrarily fixed. From labor’s point of view, a wage to live a decent human life must be paid. From the point of view of
management, a consideration, must be given to the nature of particular economic enterprise and to the repercussions to the labor force of the entire country.
6)	Pope John XX1H is perhaps less interested than was Pius XI in the Industrial Council Plan. However, in its basic principles of social reconstruction, the Pope is in agreement. Moreover, John opens the door to any kind of industry plan which takes into account the national and international good.
7)	While American clergy have been active — perhaps too much so — in establishing doctrines of social order, the American layman is not meeting his task of practicing these doctrines.
Courses in “religious thought’-’ are soon to be opened at Purdue. Students will receive credit from Notre Dame while studying at Lafayette and will be able to use the credits toward their Purdue diplomas. An Indiana state law permitting “visiting professors” from “religious institutions” to give courses in religion at secular schools, along with ND-Purdue cooperation, has made this program possible.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Purdue administration is responsible for hiring teachers for the courses who satisfy Notre Dame standards. The Rev. William P. Haas, O.P., a specialist in the history of philosophy, has been chosen for the assignment and given the rank of assistant professor of philosophy at Notre Dame.
In spite of stiff competition at the box lunch contest last week end, Gary (Garbola) Fishbum recently set the current speed record for dinner consumption, with a sub-four-minute meal. Freshman Gary had done a previous meal in 4:15, and was urged by manager Tom O’Connor and trainer Pat Tedford to try for the four-minute mark. Large signs were posted heralding the event, and at 6:00, when Garbola came through, the dining hall was packed to "capacity by cheering spectators. The line had been cleared in advance, and the total elapsed time recorded by timer Lee McCarthy was 3:20.2, from the time Gary left his room on the third floor of Keenan till he returned. The actual eating, using Garbola’s “no utensils” technique, required a scant 39 sec.; this was for: Fried Perch, Potatoes, Jell-o, Milk, and Chocolate Ice Cream, After his meal, Gary went out and played ball, apparently in perfect health. His only comment on the meal was: “What was it?”
13
May 17, 1963
DAVE ELLIS on
Student Government
Jn writing on student government one has the tendency to be cynical, especially of the past, and idealistic concerning the future. A realistic approach would be a synthesis of the two positions, producing an approach to the situation from a practical point of view.
I hope to present to you now a general definition of student government
and its aims for next year. Student government is the student organization to represent you.
Student government has two general areas of work. One is the area of activities in the students’ own realm. Such activities are evident to all of us and the responsibility for these activities has been delegated to students and to student government as the representative student organization.
Yet student government has another role — an advisory role. This has been the subject of much controversy this past year.
Student government has the duty to represent student feeling in areas outside the actual control of student government. We should not expect that all our recommendations in this area be accepted. But student government as your representative does have the right to expect that its recommendations and expressions of your feelings be considered and respected. Through responsible actions and cooperation with the administration, I feel that our opinions (well-considered ones) will be respected and shall contribute much to the total progress of student life and the entire University.
This may seem too idealistic. Of course, the problem is more complex than this. The line I have drawn between the areas of student control and administration dictates, cannot be exactly defined in all cases. We can only ask that students act responsibly and present well-thought-out recommendations to the administration, not in a spirit of pressure or antagonism, but in a spirit of cooperation. We can only expect that the administration, recognizing that we are trying to be responsible in a constructive manner
for the benefit of the University, will respect our opinions and give them serious consideration.
Student government has been through much criticism this past year, and rightly so. Student government has not met a great many of the needs of the students. The demands for improvements in student life have surpassed the ability of the existing structure of student government to provide the solutions and progress necessary.
During the past two years there has been much talk about reforms or changes within student government to meet the present challenges. There has been too much talk about what is wrong with student government and not enough work to actually right the wrongs.
The criticism student government has received has served to focus attention on a number of areas to be cured. Such areas are progress toward a more representative senate, removal of trivia from senate meetings, change of election dates, more effective hall governments, and true student opinion for positive and constructive changes in over-all student life.
But these areas are only the symptoms of a bigger problem — the need for a complete reorganization of student government and student organizations. Each year I have seen student leaders undertake to solve this problem by attacking one of the symptoms and hoping for over-all improvement. This is not the way.
. The time has come for someone to look at student government from top to bottom and to make all the neces
sary changes. These changes may be small individually, but they must be consistent. I am not speaking of reforms only on senate level, but also on hall and class levels.
I feel that now is the time for a reorganization of all these branches of student government. To assure continuity of action and purpose I will not allow each of these branches to effect by itself its own reforms. I will call all these units of student government under the student body president (as your elected representative over all areas) and analysis and reform shall be undertaken. In the past this has not been the case. Each part of student government was allowed to continue on its own until it came into conflict with the senate. Then the senate intervened to stop the conflict (whether it be for better or worse). Most cases saw a too hastily prepared action taken which later led to greater complications. This will not be the case this year. An effective hierarchy of control will be established to bring about unity of action and purpose. Before anything else, a new student government constitution is a must.
We have operated under a constitution amended piecemeal since 1952. This monstrosity of constitutional confusion has hindered any significant progress. From the confusion and failures of past years, we now see the need for a complete reviewing and realigning of student government. A new constitution will be presented to you next year for your approval. This constitution will not by any means be a panacea for all our (Continued on page 28)
14
The Scholastic
another i f campuses '
The staid atmospheres of Princeton, Brown, Yale and Brandeis have been disturbed lately by riots which have resulted in the arrest of thirty-nine students.
Swarming students at Brandeis were broken up by the arrival of police squad cars, but rioters at the other three universities were more persistent. At Princeton, two thousand students were responsible for $1500 damage to the town and campus. Students at Yale were driven back into their rooms after an incident in which a student was injured and a policeman hit by a beer bottle. Police dogs, the Great Equalizers, were used to stop better than 1,000 “raiders” at Brown — one of the two policemen injured in this incident was bitten by a police dog.
Mass student withdrawals at the all-Negro Savannah State College have followed the failure of the college administration to renew the contract of Professor Christophe, head of the school’s department of economics. The college reported that 340 students have already withdrawn, and 500 more have withdrawal applications pending. According to a college spokesman, Christophe’s contract was not renewed because, “He was not
able to prove himself during his probationary period.” Students claimed, however, that Christophe, who holds four degrees in economics, was one of the most able members of the faculty. According to the students, Christophe was fired for attempting to integrate the college.
The professorial chairman of the Committee on College Environment at Emory University has suggested that “social intercourse for better studentfaculty relationships can often be achieved by drinking together.” Also from Emory, a letter to the student publication there comments: “I have recently hoboed my way to Panama, Tahiti, Australia, Indonesia, Malaya, Europe and back. ... I drank fruit juice and flies . . . ate steerage class meals . . . fried squid patties ... all this time I had no digestive troubles . . . but the food here turns my stomach.”
A group of six undergraduates at the University of Pittsburgh protested the university’s conferring of an honorary degree on Dr. Edward Teller of the University of California, “Father of the H-bomb.” The students distributed leaflets severely criticizing Teller for allegedly supporting the “witch hunting endeavors of the House Committee on un-American Activities” and attempting to “slander the characters of Linus Pauling and Robert Oppenheimer.” They argued that Teller, devoting his scientific ef
forts to “destruction,” was unworthy of such an honor. Commenting on the protestations, a searing editorial in the Pitt News labeled the dissent as evidence of “political immaturity” and declared the leaflet a “near-libelous declaration which is unfair, one-sided and exhibits little of the academic qualities about which its authors appear to be so concerned.”
Six University of Michigan sororities are engaged in a battle with the student government council over alleged discrimination. The council claims authority to regulate the admission requirements of the sororities. The sororities, however, have other ideas. Although they claim that they do not practice discrimination, they insist that the university should have no control over whether they do. They object “as a matter of principle,” citing the 14th Amendment clause which insures private individuals the right to choose their own associates. However James Lewis, vice president of student affairs, rebuts, “It had been generally held that any student organization which receives services of any kind from a public university is, in fact, a public institution and must abide by laws that govern them.”
“Old-timers” loyal enough to return to Northwestern University for an annual old-timers’ contest were so scarce this year, that Coach Ara Par-seghian was forced to cancel the game. Spring practice will therefore close with an intrasquad contest.
hJHAW &
A , PART OF WF [FARM & LOV£.
iJF MUST f/lOALW COUSO^-
its too
AU EWW
To use
OH W FROJP5.
May 17, 1963
15

RICHARD
KAVANAUGH
by Carl Wiedemann
J_he Notre Dame THEATER-going community had its first long look at a young man named Richard John Kavanaugh when he appeared as Iago in Othello. The name “Kavanaugh” appeared fairly ordinary printed on the theater program. The only thing that really distinguished it was the use of “K” instead of the more conventional “C.” The unassuming name has come to be a campus counterword for consummate theatrical skills and the unassuming person behind the name has come to be recognized as a truly fine actor, perhaps the finest ever to attend Notre Dame.
It was impossible for anyone who saw the technical masterpiece that was Richard Kavanaugh’s Iago not to realize that his stage presence was nearly overwhelming. It was difficult for him not to be the cynosure whenever he was on stage. Disappointment was almost the reaction of an audience used to watching college actors and alert for their lapses of inadvertencies when Richard Kavanaugh was discovered to have none. But disappointment over the lack of opportunity to fault-find reversed immediately to full admiration and pleasure, the pleasure of watching an artist. Audiences realized that Richard Kavanaugh’s performances were ostensibly flawless.
Since the fall season of 1960, when Richard Kavanaugh became Notre
16
The Scholastic
Dame’s version of “box office,” his career has been close to an archetypal success story. Indeed, any failure on his part to succeed pre-eminently as an actor both on campus and off would have been exceedingly strange since he has more talent and works harder than anyone else. After his portrayal of Iago, Richard Kavanaugh involved himself in a game with his audiences called “Can He Top This?” which he has played with remarkable success.
His version of Iago was subtle and inventive. Instead of showing Iago as a perverse personality who makes a metaphysical choice of evil as a mode of existence, Kavanaugh structured the character as a thorough-going psychopath, a person who feels no remorse or guilt for actions that destroy other persons in satisfying his own whims. This interpretation, while almost a variation on Shakespeare’s themes, was much more satisfying to a contemporary audience and was truly creative. A creative portrayal by a college actor came as a surprise in a Shakespearean play, where a standard but adequate performance is usually the best that can be hoped for.
Elizabethan, including Shakespearean, drama can be considered generally as religious drama. Contemporary religious drama may often seem a bit antiquarian and present a prob
lem as to just what should be done with it. The Cocktail Party by T. S. Eliot is a piece of contemporary religious drama that seems anomalous and somewhat obscure, but in the role of Sir Henry Harcourt-Reilly, Dick Kavanaugh demonstrated that Eliot’s drama cannot be consigned to the closet. Kavanaugh made the mysterious psychiatrist pure fascination to watch, an absorbing piece of theater. In this role, the full resonating power of his voice timbre became obvious and unmistakable.
After these two large parts, which are in many ways similar in delivery though not in design, many theatergoers thought Dick Kavanaugh had already become typecast as a “heavy,” the serious or malevolent character. For this reason his appearance as Major Petkoff in Arms and the Man may be the most amazing performance of all. In this part he was uniformly hilarious down to the slightest gesture. He effectively but intentionally stole the show from the major characters. The change from his former roles was unbelievable, unless someone had noticed his appearance as Edward Seton in Holiday, or as the leading dancer in Most Happy Fella. Kavanaugh completed the season by turning up, of all places, in the chorus of South Pacific.
No one needed to be told that the role of Hamlet would be given to
Richard Kavanaugh. There was no one else. From his previous work in serious drama, Kavanaugh seemed perfectly suited for the part or vice versa, and so playing the part of Hamlet, at once an actor’s dream and nightmare, was Kavanaugh’s greatest challenge mainly because he was expected to be superb as a matter of course. Aside from a few early moments when he seemed to be playing “Hamlet as adolescent,” Kavanaugh’s performance surpassed even the highest expectations and hopes for his success. As Hamlet, he first put modulations into a voice rich but occasionally (Continued on page 30J
May 17, 1963
17
The Memorial
Library
various floors be
the
ip
and for
second floors, as undergraduates,
Top left: At the bottom, on first floor; Middle left: All the way to the top by way of the scaffolding; Bottom left: At the top, on the ‘‘tower floor.”
facilities.
Q: How will used?
A: The first mentioned, are
he topic of the new Memorial Library is a frequent one in student conversations, and rumors, often bordering on the fantastic, are abundant concerning it. To give students a clearer idea of what the library will have to offer, the Scholastic interviewed the Vice-President for Business Affairs, Fr. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., for information:
Q: Father, will the building be completed in September so that parents coming up with their sons might be able to tour it?
A: This is our goal. Until recently it was almost certain to be completed on schedule. At this point, however, it depends upon how soon the present carpenters’ strike allows us to get back to full speed.
Q: How many floors will be open to underclassmen?
A: The first and second floors will be entirely available to underclassmen. The stacks on the upper floor will be open, since all books are avail

able on a self-service basis, but facilities such as tables and chairs are planned for upper-class and graduate use. This does not mean definitely that underclassmen may not use them; we are on a trial basis until we know how many students will actually use the library at a given time. Unless upperclassmen fill the present capacity, there is no reason to deny underclassmen use of the upper floor
and will contain tables and chairs, private reading booths, typing rooms, and some book stacks. The upper floors will have private rooms for graduate students working on papers. The volumes are to be arranged by floors, i.e., one floor will contain books in the humanities, another, social and business studies, and so forth. Presently the fifth, eighth, and eleventh floors are not assigned, to allow for expansion from above and below. Furthermore, various floors will have sections reserved for such facilities as the Maritain Center, the University Archives, the Mediaeval Institute, audio-visual facilities, the Notre Dame collection, a Treasure Room for rare books, etc. Besides various offices in the basement we will have a rather complete assortment of vending machines. Another feature will be a 300-capacity theater on the first floor.
Q. In regard to student employment, will the larger building employ more students, and, if so, how many?
A: This is difficult to say. Since it is self-service, the new library will employ fewer students for the stacks, but since it is much larger, there will be an expansion of other student jobs. How this will balance out is difficult to predict. Again we are on a trial basis and will have to hire help as it is needed.
Q: Will there be any significant changes made in the customary procedures, the time books will be allowed out, the putting of books on
A Preview
“reserve,” or in how late the library will be open in the evenings?
A: It is quite likely that the new building will remain open later, although this must come from Fr. Hes-burgh. Most likely, there will not be any major changes in procedures, although we do plan to have larger numbers of those books that are most often put in “reserve,”
Q: Regarding the so-called “penthouse” on the top floor, what will be there? Will it open to the outside? Is the rumored cafeteria more than a rumor?
A: The main room in the penthouse will be reserved for the use of the president of the University; most likely such functions as meetings of the trustees will take place there. There will be a door to the outside leading to a walkway around the entire penthouse and visitors will be permitted there; there are large windows, also, so that one may see the view without going outside. There will be no food facilities.
Q: It is understood that a large number of books have already been purchased in Chicago and will be sent here during the summer. What is being done in the way of purchasing books?
A: Besides books presently on hand, the library will contain books purchased in the customary manner, although the annual budget for this purpose has been increased. Gifts from private donors may also be for this purpose. Furthermore, members of the Notre Dame family have been contacted about opportunities for aiding the library as members of the
Notre Dame Library Association; many of the funds collected in this fashion will go toward the purchase of books.
Q: You have mentioned reading and typing booths. It is also understood that a section of the library will be reserved for recorded music. What facilities are planned in this area?
A: Fr. Hager of the Music Department has arranged for this. The music room will be located on the second floor and will be open to all students.
Top right: Stepan Center in the background and Chicago, "just off" to the left; Center right: The Penthouse "tower"; Bottom right: Back down on second floor.
The setup is rather elaborate, having at. least 76 earphone listening stations open to thirteen different channels.
Q: Who is in charge of constructing the mural, and when is it to be completed?
A: The artist is Millard Sheets. It will be of granite — 120 different colors — set in concrete, and is being designed and assembled into jigsaw puzzle sections in California for shipment here. According to the present schedule, we will not be ready to begin assembly here before next September, but it is hoped that the job will be completed before the snow begins to fly. It was considered originally in the total cost of the construction, but recently Mr. Howard Phalin of Field Enterprises, Inc., of Chicago donated the funds to cover the entire cost of the mural. The mural will depict Christ the Teacher with the apostles below Him and then, at the bottom, various saints connected with learning.	—John Pope
Problems and Potential
by Terry TKolkerstorfei
Although they displayed a number of apparent strengths — and weaknesses — in the Old-Timers’ game, far and away the most impressive characteristic of the 1963 Irish was their size, especially in the back-field.
Even for a team which traditionally boasts big lines, the 220-pound-average starting seven is bigger than usual.
But in the backfield, where Notre Dame fans have grown accustomed to such pintsized heroes as Angelo Dabiero, George Sef-cik, and Frank Minik. next fall's team will be immense.
The first-string threesome of running backs Pete Duranko (see cut at left) and Joe Farrell and flanker-wingback Jack Snow averages an awesome 210 pounds; they are backed up by second and third stringers who average a phenomenal 200: Joe Kantor (190), Bill Wolski (205), Bill Pfeiffer (195), Larry Mauch (200), Jim Rakers (200), and Jack Simon (210).
Duranko was without doubt the most impressive individual in the spring game. He gained nearly one hundred yards on 13 carries; he picked up the longest rushing gain of the game, a 27-yard blast off right tackle on the first play from scrimmage; and he slashed for two touchdowns, from eight and six yards out.
Though he lacks exceptional moves, his size, speed, and tremendous leg drive make him an outstanding straight-ahead runner, and potentially one of Notre Dame’s best fullbacks.
Farrell, who proved himself last season when he finished second in rushing, averaged over four yards per carry on eight tries in the Old-Timers’ game; along with Duranko, he gives the Irish a Packer-type Big Back backfield which should be devastating inside the 20.
Two problems were apparent in the back-field, however: lack of a seasoned quarterback, and lack of a break-away running threat.
John Huarte, admittedly, showed great potential as a passer: he hit on seven of ten attempts for 138 yards and one touchdown, and never threw a really bad pass; in fact, he had one dropped and another caught just out of bounds.
Sandy Bonvechio showed poise, Denny
Szot handled the team well, and Bill Zloch proved to be an excellent runner.
But none of the four showed all the assets of a good quarterback: good arm. ability to fake and handle the ball well, reasonable running ability, poise, confidence, and leadership.
Painfully obvious, too, was the lack of a real break-away running threat, a halfback who could go all the way from any field position; a spectacular runner who has exceptional speed and/or moves, who is gone any time he turns the corner or breaks into the secondary.
In the line, most positions are well manned. At end. there is quality and quantity. Jim Kelly, if he demonstrates the form he showed last fall, will be one of the nation’s top pass catchers: Tom Goberville’s blocking has improved tremendously, and he remains an excellent defender; and Dave Pivec is developing into an exceptional receiver — his catch of a 12-yard pass from Huarte turned into a 37-yard touchdown play.
At guard, Captain Bob Lehmann is a bona fide All-American candidate, and his defensive play is superb. Converted tackle George Bednar is coming along well, and Wayne Allen. Ken Maglicic. and Mike DiCarlo are more than adequate.
Centers Jim Carroll. Norm Nicola, and Tom Kostelnik should be a match for almost anyone.
At tackle, however, there might be a problem: there are several good tackles — Nick Etten, Dave Humenik. Gene Penman. Alike Webster. Dick Arrington — but none of them has yet developed into a topflight college starter.
More broadly, although the Irish blocked and tackled crisply, they were playing the Old-Timers, and their line charge, especially on defense, left something to be desired.
The quarterback problem, however, could be solved either by Frank Budka’s return next fall or by the continued development of Huarte, Szot, Bonvechio, or Zloch: the hoped-for comeback of Don Hogan or that of Ron Bliey should give the Irish some outside running; and the minor crisis at tackle could work itself out during preseason practice.
All things considered. Notre Dame has the potential for a winning team in 1963.
21
anti
Carl Ludecke: Feet and Inches
Carl Ludecke lives in the stark world of feet and inches: his personal and competitive life is one continual struggle to best an impartial judge — the tape measure. Against the tape measure and against mere human competition, Ludecke has done well indeed. Well enough, in fact, to become the greatest shot putter in Notre Dame’s track and field history.
A senior from Manhasset, New York, Ludecke has broken his own
records repeatedly, and currently holds the Notre Dame indoor and outdoor records in the shot put with throws of 55-11% and 56-%, respectively.
What’s more, in head-to-head competition, he has out-hurled George Woods of Southern Illinois and Jim Lancaster of Baylor — both nationally ranked college shotputters. This, in itself, indicates his emergence as one of the Midwest’s top track stars.
Although the shot put is his specialty, Ludecke has thrown the discus 153 feet in competition. But, he says, “I feel like a duck out of water with the discus. The shot has always been my favorite event.”
Though he has done well, Ludecke’s potential in the discus, and to a lesser extent in the shot put, has been severely hampered by a physical disability. “I’ve had hip trouble the past few years,” he says, “and the X-rays don’t show what’s wrong. In my freshman year, it was so bad that sometimes I could hardly stand up after getting out of bed.
“Right now, though, I’m taking some pills which help. Still, I think this trouble has bothered me particularly in the discus, where I have to make that spin. . . . I’m very lucky it hasn’t had too much effect on my shotputting.”
Ludecke attributes much of his success to a vigorous physical-conditioning program, which emphasizes weight training. In the off-season, he is a daily visitor to Father Lang’s gym where, currently, he holds the all-time bench press record with a lift of 340 pounds; during the track season he cuts down on the number of workouts per week.
An ardent advocate of weight training and its value to the shotputter, he believes that “Shotputting requires sheer physical power, and the best way to get that power is by lifting.
“The only reason I cut down the number of my workouts during the season was that I just started wearing myself out. You can’t take too many heavy workouts on top of track practice.”
Ludecke’s appearance suggests, however, that nothing could tire him; his naturally powerful physique he undoubtedly owes to his late father, who was once the light-heawyweight wrestling champion of the world.
Though Carl is hardly considering wrestling as a profession, he would like to further develop his shotputting. And he will have the chance, first as a member of the New York Athletic Club team this summer, and then during his stint as a Marine Corps officer.
Meanwhile, Coach Alex Wilson is concerned about finding a replacement for Ludecke as captain and shot-. putter. Best bet to follow Ludecke ’ as weightman: Pete Duranko, Notre Dame’s block-busting fullback.
— Gary Sabatte
The Scholastic
scoreboard
Baseball: Michigan broke Notre Dame’s winning streak at 12, but the Irish came back to take two from Lewis College. Rich Gonski went five for six and Ed Lupton pitched a five-hitter in Saturday’s win.
Track: Jerry O’Connor and Carl Ludecke set meet records in the hop-step-and-jump and shot put as Notre Dame ran away with the Indiana State Meet, scoring 115 points to second-place Purdue’s 59. Senior Bill Benson won the high jump.
Michigan State edged the Irish 7265 in a dual meet at East Lansing, despite a mile record by Bill Clark and another shot put record by Ludecke. Sherman Lewis led the Spartans, scoring points in the broad jump, hop-step-and-jump, 100-yard dash, and mile relay.
Tennis: Notre Dame lost to Indiana in quadrangular competition, but came back to shut out Marquette in a dual match.
Golf: Mike O’Connell shot 33-33— 66 to pace the Irish in wins over Aquinas, Southern Illinois, and Western Michigan. Mike Voss, Jim Hiniker, and Terry Kitch all shot par rounds.
Notre Dame finishes the season with a 13-7 record in match play, a 10-2 record in medal play (including the Big State Championship), and a very good 23-9 total.
SCORES
BASEBALL
Notre Dame 1, Michigan 5
Notre Dame 3, Lewis College 1
Notre Dame 13,. Lewis College 2
Notre Dame 3, Northwestern 7
TRACK
Notre Dame 65, Michigan State 72
TENNIS
Notre Dame 7, Iowa 2
Notre Dame 8, Western Michigan 1
Notre Dame 2, Indiana 7
Notre Dame 9, Marquette 0
GOLF
Notre Dame 14%!, Iowa 21%
Notre Dame 14, Western Illinois 22
Notre Dame 17, Northern Illinois 19
Notre Dame 27%, Aquinas College 8%
Notre Dame 32, Southern Illinois 10
Notre Dame 17, Western Michigan 4
SCHEDULE
BASEBALL
May 14, Valparaiso at Notre Dame
May 16, Michigan at Notre Dame
May 21, Valparaiso at Valparaiso, Ind.
May 24, Western Michigan at Notre Dame
TRACK
May 18, Southern Illinois at Carbondale
Irish Ruggers Face Bombers
Blitzkrieg scoring highlighted Notre Dame’s merciless blasting of Palmer College as the Irish ruggers rolled to their sixth victory of the season. In the 42-0 rout, Pat Kealy, Harry Steele, and John Murphy led in scoring with two tries apiece. Pat O’Malley, Ken Stinson, Len Frankie, and Mike McManus each contributed a try; these ten tries, along with Tom Gerlacher’s two field goals and three conversions, gave the Irish the highest single-game point total in the rugby club’s brief history.
Whether Notre Dame can duplicate this feat tomorrow against the never-beaten St. Louis Bombers is highly doubtful. The Bombers, a semi-pro team, average 230 pounds per man in the scrum and play a power game — rugby at its bloody best.
The Bombers also have talent to
Sailors Win Midwest Title
Perennially successful, the Notre Dame sailing team last week end won its second straight Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association championship, and thus qualified for the North American Championship regatta to be held in June.
In the Midwest regatta, held at Purdue, the Irish racing team of Bob Singewald, Tom Fox, Art Lange, and Skip Kaiser won easily, scoring a total of 132 points in the 18 races; Wisconsin was runner-up with 122, points in the 18 races; Wisconsin was runner-up with 122, followed by Michigan, Indiana, Ohio State, Michigan State, Wayne State, Marquette, and Ohio Wesleyan.
(In sailing, a team gets one point for
match their size: Frank Hauff, captain of the 1953 Navy football team; Mark White, a Small College AllAmerican halfback at Colorado State; Tom Jones, a onetime Green Bay Packer; and 6-6, 270-pound giant Al VonderHaar.
Obviously — and maybe hopelessly — lighter than the Bombers, the Irish intend to offset St. Louis’s brute strength with “a lot of running and kicking.” Says Captain Bob Mier: “What we lack in size, we’ll make up in finesse.”
Last year’s 3-0 loss to the Bombers indicates that, with a little luck, Notre Dame could pull one of the rugby upsets of the year; it is far from impossible. If the Irish win tomorrow, Notre Dame will have established itself as the foremost rugby power in the Midwest.
starting a race, one point for finishing, and one point for each boat it beats to the finish line.)
Notre Dame had previously competed in spring regattas at Tulane, Marquette, Annapolis, Wisconsin, and the Detroit Yacht Club (hosted by Wayne State).
Currently ranked number seven — in a top ten which includes the Coast Guard Academy, Princeton, Harvard, the Merchant Marine Academy, and Michigan — of all collegiate sailing teams on the North American continent, Notre Dame will get a chance to improve its rating in this year’s North American championships, to be held in Boston and hosted by Harvard, June 19-21.
May 17, 1963
23
David and
Lisa
ANY PEOPLE ARE AFRAID Of contact with other souls because contact with other souls brings with it responsibility. One can be hurt. David is like these people in that he too is afraid; but he is more than afraid, he is uncontrollably terrified, and therefore he is insane. As the picture opens his mother is arriving with him at a home for disturbed adolescents, and during the next two minutes we are plunged by every decent trick in the movie maker’s book into the agonized and magnificently sensitive world of the mentally ill. To begin, David’s silence is a little too brooding, his eyes a little too hollow. The camera pans a longs dark hallway full of doors and funny lights, then switches to a brilliant close-up of the head of a girl hiding behind the nearby bannister. Her hair is disshevelled, her eyes are both vacant and wondering at the same time. She looks for all the world as though she had just slapped into silence some beast inside her that had wanted to howl out or to cry. Down the stairway comes instant contrast in the form of a young boy who comes bouncing airily down, greeting David, and announcing that they are to be neighbors. He touches David’s hand while taking his
suitcase, and David, who up to now has not made an abnormal motion, begins screaming hysterically. He does not want to be touched, he will die if he is touched. Contrast continues unfolding as the mother comes to quiet David. She is not sympathetic, only embarrassed at his impropriety. She whispers at him trying to wheedle and browbeat him into silence, and in ten virtuoso seconds succeeds in connoting the entire American bourgeois woman’s syndrome. The scene ends when the secretary comes out of the office, ignoring this wild outburst of David’s, and politely and calmly invites mother and son into a waiting room.
Here is cinematic talent at a very high peak. The techniques of this opening scene are used throughout the entire story. The close-up on the face is used constantly, during which close-ups both actors and make-up lay subtle emphasis on the eyes. Also constant is the contrast, which serves brilliantly not only to illustrate the imbalance of the souls, but also as an incessant reminder of the world through which the film travels. There is symbolism, but no profound symbolism. The long hallway mentioned serves as a good example. Considering the mythic qualities of people with classic insanities, any really serious long-range attempt at using symbols apart from the two minds being considered would have added unnecessarily to the complexity of the picture. However, all the twisted symbolism of the unconscious is used in a brilliant way, both for expository and artistic purposes. That is to say, it not only illustrates as clearly as possible the inner workings of the personalities simply as personalities, but also elucidates the role of the personalities as characters in the drama. For example, David in his
fear and insecurity attempts to build his own world within himself. This is partly revealed by the fact that he excels at math and geometry, and is also seen a number of times in the movie at his favorite pastime which is constructing with a compass a design for the perfect clock, an intricate and delicate complex of circles within a larger circle, with no straight lines protruding. During the story Lisa comes to like David. She has seen him making these circles and attempts to imitate him. Leaning her pad against the wall she makes a sloppy mess of crayonned circles and then proceeds with complete indifference to extend the circles onto the wall. The circles illustrate the bond between the two characters in the drama; but the different use each mind makes of the circles serves also to clarify the inner workings of the mind.
Lisa and Muriel are the two halves of the schizophrenic personality that is Lisa. Muriel cannot speak, she can only write on a large pad. Lisa can speak, but only in simple babbling rhymes, with a world of meaning literally all their own. She, that is, Muriel comes up to David one day very childlike and shows him that she has written on her pad a message for him which says PLAY WIT ME. He is somehow touched through his passion for the precise and in a kindly way corrects her spelling to WITH. This “with” is the story of the film. These two suffering children sense through their common bond of pain that they have somehow the ability to help each other, and a kind of odd love is born between them. Odd not in the sense of unreal, but only in the sense of different from the ordinary. Strangely enough, despite its environment, this relation between David and Lisa fulfills all the criteria for Christian friendship, i.e., a willingness to give to the other, which willingness will cause no detriment and which is founded on the desire to do the other good. David must learn to take the chance of being hurt by life, Lisa must learn to unite the two separated halves of her soul. What neither one can accomplish alone is somehow accomplished through their feelings for each other, which are guided by the desire of their souls to be and to make themselves whole and integral. Each one has characteristics the other needs, and indeed a united Lisa does learn to speak in prose, returning to reality from her grotesquely poetical world, and David does learn to reach out of the circle he has drawn around himself and touch—another human hand.
— Bill Smith

24
The Scholastic
‘toMM new personality ’
AMANDA AMBROSE. Her piano bubbles an intro. Her voice begins to belt a few bars. And before you know it, POW! You’re captivated. Everything sounds new. Fresh. Exciting. First, she seasons with a gospel flavor. Then the groove changes to jazz. Now it’s pop with a different tasty touch. You’re overwhelmed. You’ve never heard the likes of “Too-ra-loo-ra-loo-ra,” “A Foggy Day,” and‘‘Lavender Blue.”
AMANDA AMBROSE
RECORDED LIVE!
“An explosive song stylist... plays a wow piano!” -	ijw,
•J 3rocuct on r srtist $ 'ecording :enter. nc.
AVAILABLE IN LIVING STEREO ANO MONAURAL HI-FI.
RCAVICTORA
®g®The most trusted name in sound
ATTENTION!!
If you are having trouble reviewing for your final exams, why not use Monarch Review Books. These review books are specially keyed to the textbooks that you are using. Stop wasting your time reviewing from other sources, and use these reviews which have the most important materia! outlined perfectly.
They are available in the following subjects at the Book Shop downtown: World History, American History, Economics, Political Science, Biology, Chemistry, Psychology and Sociology.
BOOK SHOP, 130 North Michigan
May 17, 1963
25
Frank talk about your hair: Vitalis with V-7 keeps your hair neat all day without grease. Naturally.VJisthe greaseless grooming discovery.Vitalis® with V-7® fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, keeps your hair neat all day without grease. Try it!
senate
The Notre Dame Student Senate held its first meeting under the Ellis Administration Monday, May 6, in the Student Center Amphitheatre. At that time Kevin Hart officially turned over the leadership of the Senate to Dave Ellis. Student Commissioner appointments were announced, and elections were also held for Senate offices. Tom O’Brien is the new Vice-president, and Paul Meagher and Larry Beshel hold the offices of Secretary and Treasurer, respectively.
Following that first meeting, a short one involving only the elections and minor appropriations, SBP Ellis’ statement was: “Only in the Senate meetings can the students find out what is happening at Notre Dame.”
The second meeting this past Monday, May 13, bore that out, in two respects. There was an intense exposition of the internal workings of campus activities and issues, and of the parliamentary tangles in which the Senate sometimes engages itself.
The reports were interesting, for the most part. Senators were told to expect Campus-Pacs back next year, and were given the reasons for the lack of girls at recent social events (samples: there’s a conflict with proms, and ND has no reputation for big week ends).
The existence of a committee of Blue Circle and Student Government members for establishing a pilot honor system in September of 1964 was also revealed. This is purportedly an “autonomous” group, working outside official Blue Circle and Senate control, which has been taking the first steps toward the formation of an academic honor system. The important aspect of these reports and subsequent discussion was their illumination of the many details of activities which the student cannot find outside the Senate.
Following the reports, a policy statement by Dave Ellis expressed his stand on issues of current concern. He favored Senate action to foster a better student attitude toward relations with St. Mary’s, as per dunk-ings, sojourns across the road, etc. However, concrete action in this area is evidently reserved for future meetings.
The Senators were also told that Student Government would “roll out the red carpet to the Administration
26
The Scholastic
Building,” in an attempt to effect better student-administration relations. Mr. Ellis expects to be proposing only “intelligent points,” and he anticipates a conflict only if the Administration “closes the door to student proposals.” Establishment of the fact that approval of Senate resolutions depends ultimately on Father McCarragher was accepted quite well by the Senators, with the clarification that only rarely has any Senate action been blocked. In fact, it was learned that the much-maligned Declaration of Student Rights and Responsibilities will be reconsidered next year by a student-faculty-administration committee, to determine the validity and proper degree of its suggestions.
In the considerations of specific measures, it appeared that the technique of persuasive discussion was lost to most Senators. In general, it was rather the use of parliamentary maneuvers that effected the enactment or defeat of the measures. After much of this maneuvering and amending, however, the Senate House Rules for next year were approved.
A motion to accept responsibility for the $1700 incurred by the Johnny Mathis Concert was also considered. The Mathis contract was apparently signed without formal Senate approval, and while the bill was finally passed, an amendment was added, expressing disapproval of the way in which the affair was handled. A lastgasp attempt to eliminate the Card Stunt section at football games was defeated, and finally approval of the Charity Chest appropriation was granted with little dispute.
The Senate proceedings were at times efficient, but obviously could survive the elimination of much of the wrangling. Perhaps the proposed study of parliamentary procedure by Senators will help the situation, combined with the regular meetings and premimeographed reports that have been established as standard practice.
In any event, the new Senate policy appears to be one of openness, as indicated by the “open-to-students” status of the meetings and SBP Ellis’ invitation of student criticism. Undoubtedly, much remains to be considered and criticized. However, Mr. Ellis has proposed a number of interesting future courses of action for the Senate. Contrary to rumor, there are things to learn at Senate meetings, and it seems that ND students at last will have the opportunity to learn about them. Future meetings, this year and next, will be required to adequately judge the efficacy of the Senate’s “new approach.”
—Al Dudash
Authorized Triumph Dealer New and Used Sports Cars Sales and Service
it SEE THE NEW TRIUMPH SPITFIRE
BROOK MOTORS
916 E. McKinley Mishawaka, Indiana
SUMMER WORK
•
Students living in Michigan, Indiana or Kentucky can earn $600-$915 part time or $1,300-$!,700 full time in home-town area.
•
Apply office number 5 123 Vi Lincolnway West
Mishawaka on Saturday at 3 P.M.
SUMMER JOBS for MALE STUDENTS
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR SUMMER JOBS WITH MAJOR NATIONAL CORPORATIONS
YOUNG MEN 18 YEARS AND OVER WANTED TO WORK IN MARKET SALES PROMOTION AND BRAND IDENTIFICATION POSITIONS DURING SUMMER. WILL WORK WITH HIGH LEVEL EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT.
SCHOLARSHIPS: 16 $1,000 scholarships
SALARY: Can earn in excess of $150 a week
SEE: Spain—earn an all expense paid holiday in Spain for entire week
Those students who qualify may continue their association on a part-time basis next semester.
For interview call College Director:
Detroit WO 5-0561; Grand Rapids GL 9-6533; Lansing IV 2-4372; South Bend CE 4-0906.
MAKIELSKI ART SHOP
SINCE 1911
PICTURE FRAMING
• ART SUPPLIES COMPLETE SELECTION OF ART SUPPLIES FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL AND FINE ART STUDENTS
•
117 NORTH MAIN ST. South Bend, Indiana
CEntral 3-2409
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
212 S. Michigan
CE 4-4874
May 17, 1963
27
Student Government
(Continued from page Ik)
troubles and growing pains. It should be the initial remedy implementing continual progress in all areas. It should clear up much of the confusion, and define our own position.
One important aspect which I will work to achieve is increased student awareness. The most important im
a
from our University Shop COOL, COLORFUL SPORTWEAR exclusively styled in sizes 35 to 42
(shown) Odd. Jacket of Dacron® -polyester and cotton in muted plaids, $35
Odd Jackets in Dacron® and flax, $37.50; in oxford weave Amel® triacetate and cotton, $30; in striped cotton seersucker, $25; in lightweight Dacrot^ and worsted, $50; in hand-woven cotton India Madras plaids, $37.50 Odd Trousers in Dacron® and worsted tropical, $20; in Dacron® and cotton poplin, $12.50; in khaki or white chino, $ 10
Bermuda Length Shorts in cotton India Madras plaids, $12.50; in Dacror^ and cotton poplin, $11.50
ESTABLISHED 1818
Speirs furnishings,
74 E. MADISON ST-, NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • PITTSBURGH • SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANGELES
*
petus for any valuable action will come only when students are informed and become actively interested. Yet even this will not be enough. Student government officials themselves must be aware of student opinion. In other words, a communication must exist between student government and the students.
Student senators and all elected officials must feel the brunt of your
power. You elect these men. In you resides the power to encourage and elect competent men to work. Next year will see an increased campaign on my part to encourage candidates in all halls.
“Meet your candidate” programs will be held in each hall. I will give talks in the halls outlining the duties of the officers to be elected. All elected officials will know what is expected of them once elected. Then they must perform. If not, I will take any action necessary to relieve the dead weight from an already overdead-weighted student government.
For student government to be effective, the fall elections must come earlier than November. Plans are being made now to have an early election in the halls next fall. This will follow an intensive program on the parts of present student government officials to conduct a student government information campaign at the very beginning of the year.
A change in the hall government system is being worked out now. And I plan to have it presented to the senate in the next several meetings. By presenting these items now, I hope to avoid confusion at the start of next semester. Student government must be prepared to start work immediately and preparation now should begin things on the right foot.
Student government will be effective when men who are interested and desire to work are elected. When these people have the opportunity to function efficiently, then progress will be made. With a student government information program and early elections, we hope to get the best men and get them working immediately.
Much work remains to be done between now and June. To a large extent the outcome of next year depends upon the foundations and work done now. As soon as possible a comprehensive program will be presented.
I hope I am not being too optimistic. Most certainly I will aim high. Student government will be pragmatic but it shall always keep an ideal before itself. Whatever is accomplished will be done through the combined efforts of all. This I cannot stress too much.
With these ideals in mind and plenty of work, student government can make valuable and worthwhile contributions to student life and to our total educational development.
The challenge is before us now. It must be met. On your behalf and the behalf of your student government I accept this challenge. With your support I am confident that student government shall make significant strides next year.
28
The Scholastic
PLAYS LIVELIER! STAYS LIVELIER! LOWER IN COST!
STRING
ashaway VANTAGE
For Tournament Play Approx. Stringing Cost Tennis..............$9
ashaway PRO-FECTED
For Club Play
Approx. Stringing Cost Tennis..............$7
Badminton..........$6
ASHAWAY MULTI PLY
For Regular Play Approx. Stringing Cost
Tennis...........$5
Badminton........$4
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN
BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
•
Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38
LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
ashaway purs a ss/rs# gmy yyy roux ww
Everything Is V-8
(except the price)
Rambler’s new Classic V-8 lets you go in style and save like sixty. Under the hood, the added zest of 198 horses—smooth and responsive. And the cost? From $76 to $195* less than the Sixes offered by the other two best-selling low-priced cars.
Add the low-cost Twin-Stick Floor Shift to this V-8 and drivingfun really
begins. Stick-shift command performance and lightning fast kickdown from overdrive to passing gears.
Check out the sleek lines, rich interiors, and ample room for six 6-foot-ers. Get the scoop on how Rambler will cost you less to own and run. At your Rambler dealer.
*Based on manufacturers’ suggested retail prices.
RAMBLER 6-V8
Winner of Motor Trend Magazine Award:
"CAR OF THE YEAR"
Can’t swing a new car? See our fine Select Used Cars
May 17, 1963
29
‘Kavanaugh5
(Continued from page 11) a monotone. He was able to give a sense of novelty and dynamism to
even the household passages from Hamlet. It is almost necessary to have seen Hamlet done inadequately to appreciate the total achievement of Richard Kavanaugh’s creation. It was
Here’s deodorant protection
YOU CAN TRUST
Old Spice Stick Deodorant.,.fastest, neatest way to allday, every day protection! It’s the man’s deodorant preferred by men...absolutely dependable. Glides on smoothly, speedily... dries in record time. Old Spice Stick Deodorant — most convenient, most economical deodorant
money can buy. 1.00 plus tax.
(SfdSpice;
SHU
STICK
DEODORANT
a true adventure of the spirit.
After Hamlet, Richard Kavanaugh could have retired for the year, his reputation undisputed. Instead, he followed immediately with an outstanding performance as Captain Vere in Billy Budd, a double accomplishment since he was working in what may be simply a bad play. He then very professionally kept himself out of the spotlight as Edmund in Long Day’s Journey Into Night when he could have easily been forgiven a bit of upstaging. As though to confound his audiences completely with his array of talents, he has what amounts to the lead in the unusual musical The Fantasticks, which he also choreographed. This semester’s theatrical work he has done while completing his senior essay, on drama of course, in the General Program.
Richard Kavanaugh has appeared in nine other roles here and at St. Mary’s. During four summer seasons with the Provincetown Playhouse Reportory Company from 1959 to 1962, he appeared in twenty-three different parts; before coming to college he had appeared in seven roles with the Priory Players of Washington, D.C., his home. This tremendous versatility and seeming multifaceted personality could cause audiences to ask if the real Richard Kavanaugh will please stand up, or at least cause them to wonder whether there is any part he could not do splendidly. The answer is that there probably is not.
The secret of Kavanaugh’s ability is probably obvious to any discerning theater patron: complete control of bodily movement. It is hard to say whether this is the cause or the result of his eight years of training in ballet (he received a scholarship from the American Ballet Theatre) and modern dance. It is certainly reflected in the fact that he competed in the 1959 United States Figure Skating Championships, and took second place in the Eastern Figure Skating Championships, and was a silver medalist in seniors pairs skating in that same year. His anatomical control extends to the minutest gestures and intonations. No piece of action is inadvertent or undeliberate, but every nuance of motion is fashioned by an imaginative conception of the character being portrayed. Yet all this yoga-like bodily coordination is so practiced and at the same time so natural that it gives the appearance of complete spontaneity. Richard Kavanaugh would be worth coming to watch even if a person were totally deaf. His remarkable control enables him to represent severe changes of mood and emotion with nearly imperceptible changes of facial expression or posture, which is
30
The Scholastic
a very difficult technique even in a film close-up, let alone on the stage.
In the delivery of lines, Mr. Kavanaugh follows no particular theory or school; rather, he is that very ideal he has set for himself, the happy blend of intelligence and intuition.
At Notre Dame, Mr. Kavanaugh received tangible recognition of his gifts in being made president of the Notre Dame Dramatic Society in 1961-62 and president of the Notre Dame Lambda Chapter of the National Catholic Theater Fraternity in 196263. Recognition in a larger frame of reference came when he received a United States government grant from the State Department under the Fulbright-Hayes Act. He will use this Fulbright grant to study at least one year at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art. The Fulbright award is more open and therefore more competitive than other awards; he had to go through three reviewing boards submitting recordings, reports, taking interviews. A better way to conclude one acting career and begin another would be hard to envision.
Dick Kavanaugh will begin next fall the truly professional period of his training, a period that he seemed ready for many seasons ago. His commitment to his chosen profession is a moral one, a factor that may have influenced his receiving the Fulbright award. A moral commitment to acting seems strange in an age of art for its own sake, but it does not seem strange that Dick Kavanaugh’s relation to acting should be one of responsibility. His work has a sense of religious dedication, perhaps explaining his success in religious drama. Combined with this moral dedication is a childlike intoxication with the experience of casting away one’s identity, an ever-new thrill of being someone else wholly, of abandon. This experience of at once being deadly serious and playful about what one is doing, Mr. Kavanaugh communicates forcibly.
Communication is what strikes Dick Kavanaugh most about the theater, the power latent in play and the responsibility of those doing plays. After he finishes with the Army, Dick Kavanaugh will pursue a career in acting and directing under the burdens of power and moral responsibility which he has put on himself, plus a powerful consciousness of the demands of professional competence and integrity. As he has said, “You never know what you do to people.” But an intelligent guess would be that Richard John Kavanaugh will always do something wonderful and magic to his audiences through his incomparable ability to communicate.
To pin down the fleeting beauty, follow the rules, but cool. Stay in the shade of an h.i.s Suit that feels like buttoning on a breeze. Flash a well-cut profile that starts at natural shoulders and narrows down to lean, lithe Post-Grad slacks. Keen-eyed buck-watchers can spot these flapped pocket, muted authentics at hip shops... $19.95 to $39.95 bird-and-babe-watchers wear hnlaS suits
KEEP ALERT!
SAFE^^^^
NoDoz
THE SAFE WAYto stay alert without harmful stimulants
NoDoz keeps you mentally alert with the same safe refresher found in coffee and tea. Yet NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable. Absolutely not habit-forming.
Next time monotony makes you feel drowsy while driving, working or studying, do as millions do ... perk up with safe, effective NoDoz tablets.
Another fine product of Grove Laboratories.
May 17, 1963
31
4QIIV1N LIBRARY and BBOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 138 N. MICHIGAN • SO. BEND A Non-Profit Organization
Stay bright. Fight drowsiness and be at your brilliant best with Verv* continuous action alertness capsules. Effective, safe, not habit-forming.
Hey! FRESHMEN and SOPHS
The Leprechaun needs You!
Become a leader on campus and all that jazz. See what it's like to wonder if you will graduate. Join our staff. Positions now open for copy editor and staff, circulation manager and staff, advertising salesmen, and anyone else who wants to join — even Bob Urso. Watch next week's Scholastic for time and place of organizational meeting.
P.S. Contrary to popular opinion we do pay our ad salesmen large quantities of cash.
Quality RECORDS at Discount Prices
A complete selection of instruments and record accessories are also available.
•	G.E. Portable Phonographs
•	Domino & Harmony Guitars
*	Bongo Drums
•	T.V. & Phonograph Stands
•	Record Racks
Everything for your listening enjoyment is available at:
Our entire stock is always sold at special dis counts to college students.
List Price 5.98 4.98 3.98
•	Columbia Records
•	Capitol Records
•	A4.G.A4. Records
•	Mercury Records
•	Kapp Records
•	Verve Records
•	Comedy Records
Our Price
4.88
3.88
2.88
•	London Records
•	R.C.A. Records
•	Dot Records
*	A.B.C. Records
•	Kiddie Records
•	Sound Track Albums
WHIRLING DISC RECORD SHOP
CE 3-4585
214 S. MICHIGAN ST.
Weekday Store Hours: Mon.. Thurs., Fri. 9:30 to 8:30 Tues.. Wed., Sat. 9:30 to 5:30
32
The Scholastic
time out
First, we must apologize for misleading y’all by saying that we were going to change the name of this journalistic jewel every week. It seems that the editorial staff didn’t share our enchantment with the plan; and they decreed that we would just have to settle for letting the content of the column generate its own excitement. This turns out to be rather unfortunate not only because of the obvious loss of suspenseful thrills, but also because this week, for example, the line-up of cinema goodies in South Bend generates about the same level of enthusiasm as one of Ziggy’s weekly menus.
Even if the movies weren’t as poor as they are this week, our best recommendation would be to take advantage of the opportunity to see The Fantasticks at Washington Hall. Starring Dick Kavanaugh, Marilyn Petroff, and a number of other very good performers, it is a most worthwhile show. Performances will be at 8:30 both tonight and Saturday, and tickets may be purchased for $1.50 after 4 p.m. at the box office.
Avon: A fine cast including Jason Robards, Katherine Hepburn, and Dean Stockwell, star in Eugene O’Neill’s Long Day’s Journey into Night. The story is a screen translation of O’Neill’s play which depicts a twenty-four hour slice of the life which O’Neill himself led with his ruined father, dope addict mother, drunken older brother. In a tension packed three hours, the movie shows how problems of the family culminate and show themselves to be tragically unresolvable. A bit of local interest lies in the fact that O’Neill’s mother went to SMC and his older brother was dismissed from Notre Dame because his personal ideals apparently did not compare favorably with those of the University. Long Day’s Journey is not only a welcome oasis in the movie wasteland this week, but also would be an easy winner among most assortments.
(Long: Friday and Saturday: 7:00, 9:20. Sunday: 4:15, 6:30, 8:45)
Colfax: From a prismatic point of view, we can at least give the Colfax credit for adding a bit of color to the movie spectrum this week with The Yellow Canary, starring Pat Boone and a cast of thousands. The story is a mystery in many senses, the foremost of which involves Boone staring at his white bucks and won
dering where the yellow canary went.
(Yellow: 1:00, 3:00, 5:05, 7:10, 9:10)
Granada: Critic’s Choice will be around for another week for no apparent reason. Bob Hope and Lucille Ball wade their way through ninety minutes of what was meant to be a comedy with a moral but turns out to be a rather pathetic attempt at both. Hope plays a powerful theater critic whose reviews have caused many a Broadway show to fold. His wife is Lucille Ball, an active woman who starts many projects but never seems to finish them. She decides, in spite of her husband’s objections, to write a play. It begins as sort of a harmless hobby but the more her husband teases her about it, the more obsessed she becomes with finishing it and having it produced. Sound dull? It is. Lucy finally finishes the play and when it gets on stage a conflict arises as to whether Hope should review it or not. Hope, who is always objective in his criticism, thinks the play is lousy and intends to say so purely out of self-respect. Lucy naturally doesn’t want him to review her work-of-art. After all, it’s the first thing she’s ever accomplished in life; and besides, she’s kind of fallen for the director. In fact, she threatens to run off with him if hubby says one bad word. Hope solves his problem, at least partially, by getting drunk, totally. And then there’s the ending — too melodramatic for words. The movie has sort of a Charlie Brown personality. Not good, not bad, just blah.
(Choice: 1:25, 3:25, 5:25, 7:25, 9:25)
State: The State has outdone itself this week by bringing to town Samar and Hercules and the Captive Women. George Montgomery stars in Samar, a movie about some war on some Polynesian island and the efforts of a witch-doctor to lead his followers through the valley of death and to safety. Lots and lots of adventure!! Hercules and the Captive Women (or: N.D. Stud and the Saint Mary’s Girls) stars a brand new Hercules — Reg Parks. Apparenty Steve Reeves got tired of pushing mountains around and ripping wild animals apart with his bare hands and decided to pass the hobby down to young Reg. The title is self-explanatory and probably has more of a plot than the movie. Unlike Samar, this one not only offers lots of adventure, but also lots and lots of captive women.
(Samar: 1:15, 4:25, 7:50. Women: 2:45, 6:00, 9:25)
— Dick Gibbs and Karl King
Now that the good weather is here to stay — ask Mike Sennott about making plans contingent on South Bend weather — we have decided to periodically avail ourseves of the facilities to the west. Possibly you have missed the “organized” spring pilgrimages and are waiting for another to develop.
For those planning to embark on their own, we have some free advice to offer. If you are a man of means and wish to remain that way, walk. If you are the type that has trouble holding on to money, the cab fare runs from $1.00 to $1.15 depending on the driver’s employer and honesty. The Indiana rate is a flat $1.00 but you may be charged the meter rate ($1.15) if you look wealthy and/or gullible.
Upon arriving, you will immediately notice the effects of our scientific culture. Our universe is expanding so quickly that Einstein’s red shift can only be considered a first approximation. Over here, improbability and confusion run so rampant that SMC announces the appearance of yellow, polka-dot, and even madras shifts.
Also, you will quickly become aware of the great variety of growing things that is the soul of a beautiful campus. The Rock Garden is presently a riot of color. “Riot” is suitable in this context because the unorganized force of evil has been adequately represented by a mostly rotten, but still yellow, banana peel subtly draped over, of all things, a rock.
The Social Center is social and central so you’ll probably end up there. It is modern, well-ventilated, but mainly just well lit. Until the girls get the sun area they have been begging for, the Social Center will have to suffice.
I’ve been directed by my bosses to offer apologies to the Crux editor, staff, advisor, readers, and collectors for the inadvertant mistake in announcing that the latest Crux would also be the last. They would certainly hate to erect a “tombstone” over an issue that, despite its implications that it is the “last word” in journalistic polish, falls somewhat short of the mark Crux’s discerning and demanding readers have come to expect as a matter of course.
— Tinky
May 17, 1963
33
Letters
LETTERS
The SCHOLASTIC’S policy on letters is to print, as far as space permits, all signed letters that it receives. If the volume of letters is too great to print in any one issue, letters representative of all the views expressed will be selected for publication. Letters should be addressed to Editor, The Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana, and must be received by the Monday before the issue intended for.
COVER
Art editor Larry Sicking presents his unusual impressions of the theme of tonight’s Senior Ball—Tara, Scarlett O’Hara’s plantation in “Gone With the Wind.”
(Continued from page 9) and in bad taste.
It appears to me that Mr. Marks’ opinion concerning the Administration here at the University and the “unintelligent” alumni is quite distorted. I do not consider Father Hes-burgh’s letter “sneaky,” but rather well-timed; it seems an excellent answer to the many inquiries concerning the University and its recent internal discord. It is unfortunate that the internal trouble which occurred here at Notre Dame has achieved such nation-wide publicity. It can certainly do the University nothing but harm.
Personally, I think we need more of the Thomas H. Morsch type of student on this campus, and less of the self-esteemed kind that appears to be dominating the scene.
Sincerely, Thomas Garvey 327 Zahm Hall
tlielast
Someone told us that the ideal situation, from the students’ viewpoint, would be a girl in a car in every room.
This somehow reminds us of the subject of impromptu student assemblages, two of which we personally witnessed during the last week. One involved a book-burning, and we sympathize with the students (who originally intended only to protest a biology exam), for we ourselves have in the past had to suffer through departmental exams where the class instructors were misinformed (and consequently misinformed their students) as to the matter the test would cover.
The other assemblage that we saw was a car-burning (burning was very big last week; the caf had a run on ND matchbooks). The car was scheduled for destruction anyway, so not a great deal of harm was done. It did give us an idea: perhaps the administration could buy up a few old cars to be burnt or destroyed whenever the students felt discontented enough to try. The cars could be placed just to the east of the New Library Quad, and by the time the students worked their anger out
34
on the cars, they would be too tired to walk all that way to the Dixie.
We were encouraged to see in last Sunday’s South Bend Tribune an article by Tribune Staff Writer John J. Colwell that began: “In case anybody thought the University of Notre Dame student magazine Scholastic was dead, the latest issue gives evidence that those reports of its demise were grossly exaggerated or at least premature.” This would seem to be the definitive word on the subject, since it was Colwell’s previous story, before Easter, that gave people the idea that the Scholastic was “dead” in the first place.
Unpublicized before now, but certainly worthy of mention, is the dialogue Mass program every Sunday in Keenan-Stanford chapel. We talked to Father David Sherrer, C.S.C., this past week, and he informed us of the. program, which has been going on since the beginning of the year, at first organized by Fr. William McAuliffe, and now under the direction of Fr. Sherrer.
The purpose of the program, according to Fr. Sherrer, is to “orient the participants to a more intelligible and intelligent participation in the Mass.” The liturgy follows the usual one for a dialogue Mass, with the addition of four hymns during the Mass, a procession at the Offertory at which unconsecrated Hosts and the water and wine are brought to the priest by those attending the Mass,
and the use of a commentator through the ceremony.
Habitual complainers at the 12:15 at Sacred Heart might be interested to hear that the sermons at the Keenan-Stanford Masses are intended to be “conformable with the liturgical idea of the Mass,” and the topics center around the scriptural texts in the Mass being said.
The dialogue Masses are said at 8:30, 9:45, 11:00, and 12:15, and while attendance, according to Fr. Sherrer, has not been “terribly good,” plans are to continue the program next year.
We received an invitation to the annual University Pubheations Banquet last week. We also found out that although this year’s chairman, John O’Hala of the Dome, invited the staffs of his own publication, the Juggler, the Tech Review, the St. Mary’s Crux, and other guests, he did not see fit to send invitations to the staff members who have been on the Scholastic after the May 3 (the first under our editorship) issue. Out of simple loyalty to our own staff, therefore, we turned down the invitation.
Something new observed last week were the park benches placed on the Old Dome Quad. Whoever thought of this innovation deserves a compliment on his good sense. Now all we have to do is find a way to get to the benches without being stopped by the Campus Police for walking on the grass.	—TH
WHAT'S HAPPENED 10 FALCON
EVERYTHING!
AND YET
Early this year we put a 164-hp V-8 in a new kind of Falcon called the Sprint, and entered the stiffest winter road test we could
find . . . the 2,500-mile Monte Carlo Rallye. We didn’t know what would happen ... but happen it did.
First, no one dreamed all the Rallye cars would have to experience the worst winter in decades. Snow, below zero temperatures, and the most demanding terrain in
Europe took their toll. Two thirds of the 296 cars that started, failed to reach Monaco.
A lot of experts told us that the Falcon V-8’s, untried as they were, could not hope to finish the Rallye with the best of weather. But not only did two Falcon Sprints finish, they placed first and second in their class. But there were more surprises (for
AMERICA’S LIVELIEST, MOST CARE-FREE CARS FORD FALCON . FAIRLANE • FORD • THUNDERBIRD
FOR 60 YEARS THE SYMBOL
MOTOR COMPANY
everyone) in store. Against all competition, regardless of class, the lead Sprint went on to take first in the final six performance legs.
We honestly didn't know the Falcon Sprint would do this well. But it showed us a Falcon with our new 164-hp V-8 is a car that can perform with the best of them. So a lot has happened to Falcon, and yet. . .
A six-cylinder Falcon has just finished the Mobil Economy Run and finished first in its class. It had to take a lot of punishment, too .. . 2,500 miles from Los Angeles to Detroit over mountains, deserts, and long stretches of superhighways. But the nickel-nursing ways of the all-time Economy Champ took all comers in its class.
So you see something has happened to the Falcon. It can be what you want it to be ... a V-8 that travels in the same circle as Europe's performance kings ... or a Six that can travel cross-country on a budget. There's something to put into your compact.
p
FARGEN, JOHN J EDUCATION DEPT. NOTRE DAKE, IND.
(dm ™ie m^ninr irmciK
Thinking of switching your brand of cigarette? Think of this:
Only Winston has both a pure white, modern filter and Filter-Blend up front. No wonder more people smoke Winston than any other filter cigarette!
PURE WHITE,
MODERN FILTER :	_____________
pZu?i FILTER - BLEND UP FRONT
1
Wmstoim tastes g®otd. Hike a ©figaurette stouMS
©19G3 R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.