Vol. XXIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 14, 1890.
No. 40.
Love Fulfils the Law.
BY ELEANOR C. DONNELLY.
The Genoese Saint Catharine Once pleaded with Our Lord: “ How can I love my neighbor, O blest Incarnate Word!—
How can I love my neighbor,. 4, How make.his needs mine own, When love, and life, and labor Are all for Thee alone?”
, But sweet a Voice made answer: “God’s love, beloved one,.
Embraceth every creature, Above, beneath the sun;
God’s love is Love’s perfection, For God is Charity,—
And he who loves Me, Catharine, Loves all things loved by Me!”
The Lemonnier Library of the University of Notre Dame.
No one ever conies to Notre Dame and goes away disappointed. Indeed, more often than not the visitor is interested far beyond his expectations; and whatever be his creed or calling, he generally finds in the University and its environs something that especially interests and attracts him.
For him who delights in the bald certitude of science, there.is Science Hall, with its splendid complement of scientific apparati; and anyone with an artistic bent rejoices in an exhaustless store of art treasures in the beautiful Church of the Sacred Heart, as well as in the halls of the University.
The commodious law lecture room, with its well selected libraries, never fa ils to interest those
of legal mind; while, we may add, the devotee of athletics is at once charmed with the complete equipment of the gymnasium, to say nothing of the indispensable base-ball diamonds and Rugby fields without which, of course, no university could hope to endure.
But, after all, when the visitor has gone the rounds, and has inspected these and other features of Notre Dame, he usually adds his voice to the verdict of the student in declaring that among them all he has found nothing that interests him more than the great Library; for the love of books is innate and almost universal.
It is an axiom that the library of a college,; above all other things, is most truly indicative of its vitality and worth; and Notre Dame has no reason to shrink from such a criterion. Tt is doubtful if there is any college west of the Alleghanies with a library more extensive than that of Notre Dame; and, certainly, few colleges have a more complete or better selected assortment of books of reference.
This is particularly noteworthy when one considers that the present library has been collected almost wholly within the past ten years, and that only recently has the librarian had any means of procuring books other than through donation.
Until 1873 there was no general library at the University for the use of the students, although the various societies had more or less extensive collections of books, and each of the different departments a number of technical works. In that year, however, Father Lemonnier, the fourth President of the University, and nephew of Very Rev. Father General Sorin, who was ever alive to the best interests of the institution, and who contributed so materially to its advancement, conceived the plan of uniting all of the smaller libraries into one that would be more generally
630
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
and easily accessible. This was the beginning of the present great Library. '
In 1874, at the urgent solicitation of President Lemonnier, Prof. J. F. Edwards took charge of the Library, and he has ever since been its zealous and efficient director. It was at first called the Circulating Library; but afterwards, at the request of the students, its name was changed to the Lemonnier Library, in honor of its revered founder. In its earlier days a specialty was made of the English classics, and before the fire an unusually complete collection of them had been made.
By 1879, the Library numbered 10,000 volumes; but in that year it was almost entirely destroyed by the great fire, in which nearly all the Universitybuildings were consumed. At the same time about 20,000 volumes belonging to the library of the Faculty were burned. In some respects,
dius; John Gilmary Shea. Also Messrs. E. and W. Arnold, of Washington, D. C., and Rev. Arthur Haviland, of Philadelphia.
In 1882 all the books in the Faculty library that had been saved from the fire were incorporated in the Lemonnier Library; and a few years later, through the efforts of Rev. President Walsh, who has been a constant and zealous promoter of the Library’s interests,‘a permanent annuity was secured from the council and placed at the disposal of the librarian for the purchase of books. With the impetus thus given it, the Library has developed with gratifying rapidity. So much for the historial part of this sketch.
The Library at present occupies the whole of the third floor of the front projection of the main building. The room is a magnificent Gothic apartment, 130x50 feet, and exceedingly well lighted. The arrangement of the shelving o	o	o
South Section of. Library.
the loss was irreparable; for, besides many rare books, a number of autograph letters and ancient manuscripts were lost in that terrible holocaust. But with the same energy and zeal that made possible the erection of the new Notre’Dame over the ashes of the old within three months, Prof. Edwards, aided by the Faculty and friends o.f the University, at once set about repairing the loss; and the Lemonnier Library of to-day stands a splendid evidence of their success. As has been said, until recently, the only means at the Librarian’s disposal for getting books were the donations made from time to time’ by friends of the institution.
. Prominent among those who have enriched the Library.by bequests of books, money and manuscripts,.are Father Sorin; Cardinal Bar-nabd; Napoleon III; Cardinal Newman; Jas. A. McMaster, late editor of the New York Freemans Journal; Prof. J. A. Lyons; Rev. J. A. O’Connell; Rev. D. E. Hudson; Hon. W. J. Onahan, LL. D.; Col. Elmer Otis; Gen: Rosecrans; Mrs. M. Rho-
is such that every book is within reach of the visitor without the use of a ladder. The cases are built against the wall, and the upper tiers are made accessible by a gallery around the entire Library hall. At each end of the room is an alcove, one containing the private library and working desk of the lamented Prof. J. A. Lyons, and called in his honor the Lyons’ Alcove, while the other is called the McMaster Corner, in memory of the late distinguished editor of the Freeman!s Journal, and contains about 1500 volumes that were formerly in the library of the deceased journalist. All the interiorwoodwork of the library hall is of polished, hard wood, beautifully trimmed with dark oaken moulding, and the whole presents an appearance that reflects great credit upon Brother Libori-ous, who constructed it under the direction of the librarian.
The hall is also the temporary repository for some of the splendid historical collections, to the gathering of which Professor Edwards has
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
devoted his life; and besides the library there are many curios of various kind, rare manuscripts, books of vellum, illuminated by the patient monks centuries before the invention of printing, as well as an interesting numismatic •collection. At present the Library contains snearly 40,000 volumes.
Lyons’ Alcove.
As you enter the door and turn to the right, you come first upon the Latin classics of which there are 600 or more; next to this is the department of Philosophy, containing the complete works of St. Thomas Aquinas and many of the writings of the Fathers of the Church in the original Latin; in this department there are about 5000 volumes. Next in order is the department of biography with 600 volumes; English and American Poetry, 700 volumes; Essays and Treatises, including the complete works of St. Augustine, 500 volumes.
But it is on her historical library that Notre Dame particularly prides herself. This department has received the especial care of the librarian, who is also the Professor of History, and now contains between 3000 and 4000 volumes, embracing all the standard histories and also a number of supplemental works on historical subjects.
The library also contains 3000 bound magazines, and 1000 volumes of bound newspapers; about 1000 volumes on general and American literature; 2000 books of a religious character, and about 500 scientific works. There is a fine collection of English classics, numbering about
300 volumes besides an assortment of 600 selected modern novels. All the standard encyclopedias and reference books may be found here, and these amount in all to about 2500 volumes. There are also about 10,000 volumes in the French language, 300 in the German and 200 each in Spanish and Italian. All the before mentioned departments do not include the thousands of unbound pamphlets and magazines that have not yet been assorted and arranged.
Among the curiosities, in the way of old books, is one particularly interesting from several points of view—a translation of the Latin Bible into the German language, one of 20 editions, and printed seven months before the birth of Martin Luther. The hall is graced with a number of fine pictures, prominent among which is a fulllength portrait of St. Thomas Aquinas, presented by Professor Gregori. During his recent ■ European tour, Prof. Edwards secured several complete sets of rare armor, between three and four centuries old, as well as many ancient weapons, and these, finely mounted, add much to the decorations of the hall.
At present the Library is open six hours daily; but we are assured that arrangements are perfecting by which it will next year be open ten hours each day. The immediate .conduct of the library is in the hands of three assistant librarians, each of whom is an accomplished bibliographer.
Aquinas’ Alcove.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The University authorities appreciate the fact that in the class-room only a suggestion can be given as to the scope of a science or the range of a literature, and with this in view, the lectures and recitations are so arranged that the instruction thus received is supplemented by the use of the Library in the investigation and development of special lines of study.
The hall is so elaborately fitted up that one is surprised to learn that the present location of the Library is but temporary. Yet such is the
Corner.
McMaster

fact. The plans have already been drawn for the “Brute Memorial Hall”; and when completed this structure will be one of the most convenient and imposing of its kind. The design is unique, the plans being a modification of those that were used in the construction of a famous building in Munich. But space forbids a more detailed, account, and the accumulating pile of m anuscript admonishes me to close. Such, imperfect as it is, is a brief description of a great and growing factor in the wondrous development of the University of Notre Dame. To-day the Library stands a magnificent realization of what once seemed the impossible dream of the director, and a splendid monument to the saintly priest whose name it bears.
But, short as this sketch must needs be, no^ mention of the Lemonnier Library would be complete without an acknowledgment of the invaluable services of Professor Edwards in making it what it is. He has been in charge of
it almost since its inception, and to him, above all, the credit is due for the splendid collection of books of which Notre Dame is now so justly proud. Professor Edwards’ enthusiasm in his Library work amounts almost to a passion. He spent a number of months in Europe last year, and during his tour succeeded in making many additions to the Library and to Memorial Hall.
The director is, as a librarian should be, a perfect encyclopedia of book lore, and it is a common remark that if one wishes to know
anything concerning a book — what it is about, who wrote it, and when—one needs only to have an interview with Prof: Ed-wards to obtain the desired information. Certain it is that while felicitating the University upon her great Library, which may justly be styled her pride and her glory, one must also congratulate her upon the fact that its direction has been entrusted to one possessing in an eminent degree the qualities and acquirements that constitute an efficient, zealous librarian. H. P. B.
The Applications of Electricity.
BY C. A. PAQUETTE, ’90.
Probably no subject has so engrossed the attention of the present scientific age as that of electricity. This mysterious force of nature is by no means a recent discovery; on the contrary, it dates back to the time of the ancient Greeks, who perceived that when amber was rubbed briskly it had the property of attracting small, light bodies. They supposed that amber was the only substance possessing this peculiar property, and thus the name “Electricity” was derived from the Greek word electron, meaning amber. Among the Romans, the elder Pliny speaks of the torpedo fish which had the power of giving an electric shock, and he comments on the value of the shock as a curative agent -in certain diseases. But beyond these facts, the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	633
,	ancients seem to have had no conception what-
•	ever concerning the electric fluid. Very little
i	advance was made in the study of electricity until
' within the last century, when Benjamin Franklin announced the result of his experiments.
:	As a natural scientist, Franklin certainly was
never surpassed, when we take into consideration the fact that he had to begin by forming the very alphabet of the new science. The Leyden jar had been invented but a few years before the study of electricity attracted his attention. He experimented with one, and by careful study made the discovery of the identification of electricity with lightning. To this discovery are we indebted for a means whereby property may be protected from damage by lightning; and, though this discovery brought into existence a new being, the lightning-rod agent, yet the benefit derived more than offsets this incubus of
1 rural life. Franklin’s plan, by which he invented the lightning-rod, is familiar to every schoolboy, and it would be out of place to describe it here. Aside from this nothing of real, practical value was discovered in electrical science. The next important advance was the invention of the telegraph. From that time until within twenty years ago, the study of electricity attracted but little attention; occasionally inventions of less great importance were brought before the public, but they attracted little attention.
The last twenty years might truly be called the golden age of electricity. Never before was there so rapid an advance in the study of any particular science as at this time. Hitherto, electricity had been confined, for the most part, to the physical laboratory, and consisted mainly of Leyden jars, a Morse telegraph circuit, a few cell batteries, an electrical machine, electrical toys, that was all. To-day electricity is not confined to the laboratory. We are too eminently practical; we use it for illuminating purposes; we send a message to the Old World •	literally “ as quick as lightning ”; we hold a con-
|	versation with an acquaintance with miles of
} distance intervening; our city railways use it ; as a motive power; in short, electricity has be; come essential to civilization. A few words de>	voted to some of the principal electrical instru-
| ments now in use would scarcely be out of place •	here.
i	Not the least important of the modern appli-
cations of electricity is the electric light. Humphrey observed that when a substance offering higher resistance than the rest of the circuit was attached to a battery it became heated, and if of a very high resistance, the substance became
fused. He performed the experiment with two pieces of carbon connected with the opposite poles of a powerful battery. To heighten the resistance, he separated the points slightly, with the result that the carbon points became heated to incandescence, and the electricity leaped the interval, describing an arc from which the light is called the arc light. The current consumes the carbon points rapidly; and as soon as they have a certain space intervening, the current can no longer pass from one point to the other, and the circuit is broken. To obviate this difficulty, mechanical and electrical contrivances were made to allow the pieces of carbon to move regularly, and thus always remain at the same distance apart.
Another more modern form of electric light is the incandescent light. This consists essentially of a film of carbon enclosed in a glass globe from which all the air has been exhausted. The ends of the carbon film are connected with the outside by platinum wires. Edison was the first to successfully perform the experiment, though the idea was suggested by Starr’s experiments in 1845. There are a number of incandescent lights now in use, essentially the same, and differing from one another mostly in the method of preparing the carbon film. In the Edison lamp the film is made of strips of bamboo cut to the proper size and carbonized; in the Swan lamp they are threads immersed in a chemical solution and carbonized,- and in the Maxim lamp the substance used is simply a piece of carbonized cardboard, cut by a die to the proper shape. The other incandescent lamps are practically the same as these. In certain respects, the incandescent lamp is greatly superior to the arc light. As I write there is one just at my desk. A steady, mellow light it is the very acme of perfection. On the other hand, the arc light is unsteady and too intensely brilliant for household purposes. Its only application is in outdoor lighting and for illuminating large public halls.
Another even more important invention than the electric light, though much older, is the electric telegraph. In its essentials the modern telegraphic system is the same as that of Morse, though important modifications have been made. The principal advance in this line is the duplex or multiplex telegraphy: that is, the possibility of sending two or more messages in different directions over the same wire simultaneously.
Allied to the telegraph is the telephone. This instrument is a good example of the transformation of energy. When one speaks in the telephone a part of the energy expended is
i,
t-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
634
made to vibrate the thin disk of the transmitting instrument. These vibrations induce currents of electricity which pass through the wire, and as they come to the receiver at the other . end, the energy is again transformed into sound, and the message is exactly reproduced. The actual vibration of the metal disk has been estimated to be less than the fifty thousandth part of an inch. The present telephone is the invention of Bell who, it appears, has a monopoly of the instrument. Edison has devised a new telephone, the characteristics of which are the absence of both helix and magnet. However, legal difficulties have thus far prevented its introduction.
Of late years electricity as a motive power has attracted considerable attention. Every city of any size has one or more of these electric railways, and they give general satisfaction. The current is usually conducted through wires hanging directly over the track, and connection is made with the motor in the car by means of wires attached to the overhea d wires, and moving along on rollers. In other systems a storage battery is placed in the car itself, and then there is no necessity for any wires whatever. A regulator inside governs the speed of the car: from six to thirty miles an hour have been attained in the ordinary passenger car, while the great speed of one hundred and twenty miles per hour was attained in a car adapted for traffic. The sole objection to electricity as a motive .power is the expense. If some one would devise a means by which a very powerful current could be produced without engine and dynamo, or a great number of cells, the problem would be solved. As matters now stand, the income fails to cover the expense. But there is no doubt that fifty years hence, nay, in twenty-five years, electricity will be the motor used.
One of the queerest steps in electricity—and it seems to me to be a retrogression in civilization—is the use of the electric current as the agent in capital punishment. Happily, no one has yet been so executed. Science, hitherto studied to make life happier by adding comforts and conveniences, now comes in the role of— death-dealer. What a blot on the fair fame of our age should this method of execution ever come in vogue! We can picture to ourselves, offices on the principal streets of our cities with placards in the windows reading: “We make a speciality of killing by electricity. All business done at a moment’s notice, and with unexcelled neatness and dispatch.” Let us at least hope that justice will reconsider the matter.
I might go on speaking of electrical apparatus, of less great importance, would space permit.. I might speak of the wondrous progress made-in this branch of science: from attracting bits-of paper with a piece of amber that has beeni rubbed to speaking to another person a hundred', miles distant, from observing the phenomena, of the torpedo fish to the riding in a car drawn by the giant hidden in the wires; this, indeed, is: progress. I might dipinto the future, and venture to predict what may happen, what Utopian fields await our successors; but I cannot with any degree of certainty say what shall not happen. While we might anticipate great work in the near future in this field of study, we cannot expect greater work than that which has immortalized the names of Galvani, Volta, Ampere and Faraday.
A Traveller’s Musings.
VII.
Why a man should move to Dakota, Minnesota, Manitoba or the North Pole, to freeze and remain idle- half the year, and spend his best working days in procuring clothing, fuel and fodder for the winter, is something difficult to comprehend, when in this glorious climate he can have cheap land, work outdoors all the year round, require very little clothing and fuel for himself and family, or fodder for his stock. There is a great drawback to immigration, no doubt, in the fact that white men settling much beyond the suburbs of a town would find themselves isolated from their kind, and forced to see their chicken-roosts depleted, their Christmas-table devoid of the gabbling gobbler, their juvenile porkers annexed and assimilated physiologically by neighbors who don’t stand on trifles or ceremonies of that sort. But this obstacle could be surmounted, were the immigrants to come in small colonies, buy large tracts of land adjoining a railway, get a station, start a central village with a blacksmith’s shop and general store, or other residences according to the means of the colonists, so that they could enjoy the benefits of civilization and mutual help together with the advantages of a salubrious climate and productive soil. Several small colonies of Germans and Scandinavians have settled in the neighborhood of Austin, and are beginning to grow very prosperous from the fact that their women and children economize the cost of hired help.
The cotton crop, if not marred by drouth, pays very well. An acre will in good seasons average 500 pounds of clean cotton, which sells from 8% to 11 cents a pound. If a man has to pay for its culture his profits will be very materially lessened. .The land is first plowed, the seed sown, the plants chopped or hoed, the trenches plowed
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
several times and the bolts, picked. Negroes average 300 pounds a day picking, charging 75 cents to Si a day per hundred pounds. The cost of raising a bale will run from $25 to S30. A short crop cuts off the profits of the planter, or even entails pecuniary loss. The crops of the last two years have been excellent; but those of the two years preceding were a failure, owing to prolonged drouths. The soil is well adapted to a rotation of vegetable crops, especially when there are facilities for irrigation. Three such crops can be raised in one year. There would be a fortune in raising garden vegetables and shipping them to the large centres of population were it not that the charges of the railway octopuses would absorb all the profits.' At present gardening and fruit-growing amply repay the husbandman’s toil only in the immediate vicinity of the larger towns. The staple products of Texas are cotton, corn, wheat, oats, hay, potatoes and tobacco. Although rice and sugarcane grow well in many localities, not much attention as yet has been paid to their cultivation.
Texas is by far the largest State in the Union. It would in itself form a magnificent empire or republic were its population any way proportionate to its vast extent. Its area of 274,356 square miles—about 175,000,000 acres—is equal to that of the New England States, together with New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Ohio and Illinois. It would easily hold all the inhabitants of the United States, and give room for ten million base-ball players in addition, and yet be no more thickly populated than Massachusetts. Had it as many souls to the square mile as Belgium, it would sustain nearly 200,000,000 of a population. That portion of the State called Western Texas, with an area f of 113,000 square miles, is almost equal in extent to France or Germany, and is twice larger than 1	England that has a population of over24,000,000.
’	‘ It has 20 counties,. 16 of which are larger than
the State of Massachusetts. So that political i economists, with their “dismal science,” their geometrical progression of population against the arithmetical progression of the land’s produce, need not be afraid we shall starve in “the land of the free and the home of the brave” for some generations to come. By many per-\	sons the northwestern portion of the State is
j	believed to be a desert; but like the Great
|	American Desert, this barren tract of land will
| ■	soon disappear in great part before the inroads
I	of the hardy pioneer, and blossom as the rose.
[	The rain belt is steadily moving westward, and
f	much of the arid soil has been already made
|	fruitful by irrigation. No unprejudiced person,
1	considering the vast public domain which is
]	still our inheritance and the boundless resources
of our country, will ask for a Chinese wall of exclusion to keep out the respectable and industrious subjects of the “effete European monarchies,” who seek a home and freedom beneath the ample folds of our glorious “Stars and Stripes.”
VIII.
The star of Texas is in the ascendant. A few years ago this vast territory was almost unknown to the outside world; to-day it is drawing within its ample borders large numbers of the most energetic Northern men, with millions of Northern capital. The tide of emigration which for many years has tended steadily to the Northwest, will, no doubt, soon seek another channel to the fertile regions of the Southwest. Within a decade of years a large number of the towns and cities of Texas have doubled or trebled their population, and quintupled, nay, in many instances, decupled their industries, manufactures and volume of business. The following cities, namely, Austin, San Antonio, Galveston, Dennison, Dallas, which, according to the cen-sus of 1880, numbered, respectively, about 10,-000, 20,000, 22,000, 3000,10,000 inhabitants, now reckon their populations at 40,000, 47,000, 46,-000,15,000 and 63,000. The coming census will test the veracity or modesty of the municipally patriotic citizens of those places.
Brazos County, lying in the fork of the Brazos and Navasota rivers, is said to possess the most productive soil in the State. The state geologist reports unlimited deposits of coal and minerals throughout the State, which only await capital for their exploitation. Lampasas County, has an ore equal to the best Swedish or Spanish product of the mine. It yields 50 to 75 per cent, to the ton. The commissioner of agriculture states that Texas will not only produce all the vegetation of temperate and tropical climes, but that it is, moreover, especially adapted to the cultivation of the vine. Wild vines grow most luxuriantly in the forests, as I have seen myself. He says the quality of wine and brandy made from Texan grapes will equal the best European articles of the kind. I am of opinion, however, that King Gambrinus will make Bacchus take a back seat. In all the larger centres of population there are one or more breweries doing a flourishing business. The Austinites claim that their brown beverage excels that of the Cream City. San Antonio has three or four breweries, and a prominent German told me that the article brewed from hops, and barley there was as good as the celebrated Hoffbrau of Munich in Bavaria. With its fine climate, rich soil, fertile valleys, inexhaustible ’ bottom lands, productive or wood-crowned hills, immense plains carpeted with nutritious herbage, its valuable forests and rich mineral resources, Texas is destined to be, within another generation, one of the wealthiest and most important states of the Union.
Its estimated population to-day’is two and a half millions: state debt $4,*237,730, held by special fund, except Si,220,630 in the hands of individuals. Total taxes last year were $3,765,-580.82. Taxable property last year $681,084,903, a gain of $31,000,000 over the preceding year.
{Continued on page 637^
636	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MWE SCHOim
13u6Its5rti tbtrj Saturhaj Suring Eton Same at N. 13. Snifacrsitn.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Notre Dame, June 14, 1890.
Terms, $igo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff.
J. W. Cavanaugh, ’go,	H. P. Brelsford, ’gi,
J. B. Sullivan, ’gi,
J. E. H. Paradis, ’go,	C. T. Cavanagh, ’gi,
F. C. Long, ’go,
Joseph E. Berry, ’gi,	W. Morrison, ’go,
—Indications point to the presence of an unusually large number of old students at the Commencement exercises.
—We are requested to state that tickets for the Notre Dame Excursion, to take place on the 23d, can be procured at the Briggs House . and at the Cavaroc Wine Co., 202 Dearborn St., Chicago, at S2.55 for the round trip.
—A post-graduate course in law is to be established. Those who pursue this course will devote their time mainly to the study of law in its historical relations and the preparation and trial of cases in accordance with the practice of common law, equity, admiralty and appellate courts.	■
—Among the non-resident lecturers in the Law Department next year will be the Hon. Lucius Hubbard, of South Bend, and the Hon. John Gibbons, Luther Laflin Mills and Dr. Harold N. Moyer, of Chicago. Dr. Moyer is one of the ablest physicians in that city. He is connected with Rush Medical College. The other gentlemen named are prominent in the profession, and known to the bar of the whole country. -----------------------------------
—Some time ago, Col. Hoynes delivered a very interesting and instructive lecture on the “Science of War” before the members of the military companies. In response to the expression of a general desire to hear additional lectures upon the subject, he promised to treat the matter more fully at a later time. Illness and
pressure of work prevented him from doing so during the winter and spring, but he intends fully to redeem his promise next fall. Moreover, he may find time to give a series of lectures descriptive of the chief battles of the war.
—Two special vestibule Pullman cars have been chartered for the Colorado delegation for their homeward trip. Arrangements have also been perfected with the commissary departments of the companies that will take charge of the party for giving them a grand picnic from South Bend to Denver. The best that the market can afford has been ordered, and this means, among other things, an abundant supply of spring chicken, ice-cream and strawberries, not to speak of other delicacies that can now be procured. The party will leave here the evening of the 25th inst., and are due in Denver the second morning following at seven o’clock. Father Zahm, who will have charge of the delegation, declares that this trip shall beat the record for fast time, and that it shall be in every way the most enjoyable one to the Rockies ever made by any party. Those from Iowa, Nebraska and other states en route who wish to join the excursionists should make arrangements with Father Zahm at once. The party will go via the Northwestern RR. to Omaha, and thence to Denver via the Union Pacific. We wish them all a jolly time!
—The passage of the International CopyRight Bill brought before the attention of Congress was eagerly hoped for.. The adoption of the Bill by Congress would create a new life in American literature. The latent genius of young American authors, which has been kept down by English competition for years, would be given an opportunity to assert itself. American authors whose pens are forced from their hand on account of the small remuneration received would be placed on an equal footing with foreign competitors. Mass meetings of prominent authors were held throughout the country and the adoption of the Bill strongly urged. The following letter from Cardinal Gibbons to the Secretary of the International Copyright Law, in response to an inquiry of his views on the question, shows the Cardinal heartily favors its adoption. He writes:
“Robert U. Johnson,
“Sec. American Copyright League,
“My Dear Sir:—I desire to say that I am in entire sympathy with those distinguished authors in the earnest
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
637
efforts they are making to secure from Congress an international copyright law. Intellectual labor is the highest and noblest occupation of man, and there is no work to the fruit of which man has a higher claim than to the fruit of mental labor. Many authors have reason to complain in almost the words of the Gospel: ‘We have labored and others have entered into our labors.’ It seems to me eminently just that adequate protection should be afforded to authors, so as to secure them what is conceived to be a manifest violation of their rights.
“ I am, my dear sir, yours faithfully,
“ James Cardinal Gibbons.”
True.
That which demonstrates in the strongest possible manner the weakness of all denominations opposed to the Church built upon the rock of Peter is the fact that for the education of their children they are forced to rely on the assistance of the State.
For the education of their children, Catholics * demand no aid from the State; they simply ask that they be relieved from the weary burden, unjustly imposed on them, of assisting, by their taxes, in the support of schools to which they cannot in conscience send their children. When, however, they make this just and reasonable demand they are met with an outcry from all outside the pale of the Church that their desire is to keep their children in ignorance. Even many honest men not in communion with the Church, whose native honesty would induce them to do justice to Catholics, are prevented from so doing by the conviction they have that the various non-Catholic denominations, and the portion of population who outwardly profess to believe in no religion whatsoever, could not, or at least would not, support separate schools for the education of their children. Now, Catholics in this country, though in the minority, though not blessed with a large portion of this world’s goods, though hampered in their endeavors by the unjust tax imposed upon them to support an expensive system of education from which they can in conscience derive no advantage, have supported their own schools, so that there is scarcely a Catholic church throughout the length and breadth of the land that does not stand near by a Catholic schoolhouse.
Take away this tax; let each religious denomination, and those who profess no religion, depend upon their own efforts for the education of their children, and what^would be the result? Non-Catholics and infidels, alike, admit that the result would be that they could not keep up
their schools. On the other hand; Catholics who even now support their own schools, would be enabled to give still greater and more ample educational advantages to their children.
That Catholics, while giving their proportion- . ate share towards the support of the public schools, maintain their own in a flourishing condition demonstrates that in our own day, as in all ages, the Catholic Church is earnest in fulfilling her duty of educating her children. That Catholics are able to maintain their schools without State support, and that non-Catholics confess their own inability to do so, shows that the Catholic Church is the only organization in our civilized society that can educate its children without demanding outside aid. When we consider attentively these two undeniable facts, is it not time that the honest portion of our non-Catholic brethren should open their eyes to the real state of the case, and cease uttering the oft-repeated charge, that the Catholic Church tries to keep her children in ignorance—a charge that the whole history of Christendom, as well as her position at the present time, refutes in a manner that cannot be gainsaid.
A Traveller’s Musings.
[Continuedfrontpage 635}
This year the taxable values will reach $730,000,000, a gain of $50,000,000. The State tax is 20 cents on the $100. School tax for the State is 12% cents on the $100 valuation. The school fund is estimated at about $100,000,000 with an investment of $650,000 in interest bearing bonds and $12,000,000 in land notes bearing from 5 to 10 per cent, interest, and 30,000,000 acres of land which is selling at $2 an acre for dry land and $3 for watered sections. Five millions of this is covered with long-leaf yellow pine worth $5 per acre.
The approximate estimate of unappropriated public domain lying west of the 100th meridian and north of the southern boundary line of the Texas and Pacific eighty mile reserve, being land subject to entry under the homestead laws of Texas, is footing up the land free to settlers in the various counties, 61 in all, about 4,724711 acres. Here is a pretty large farm for Uncle Sam to own in one state alone, a piece of real estate which is larger than the principality of Wales in Great Britain. And what is better, the kind-hearted old gentleman is willing to divide with every hardy emigrant who casts his lot with the Lone Star State—a pretty good uncle to live with, whatever may be his little faults or foibles.
On reaching the depot at Austin we found quite a crowd of people assembled to do us
638	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
honor or gratify their own curiosity. The irrepressible small boy was very prominent by his numbers and yelling enthusiasm. My Very Rev. companion was subjected to a presidential-inauguration- course- of - pump - handle- shaking which banished the rheumatics forever from his right arm. O’Neill, of Monte Christo, and his troupe had just been billed for a few nights. One of the train hands thinking that he recognized the great actor in my clean shaven and respected friend, telegraphed in advance that this great creation of Dumas’ brilliant imagination was coming on our train. Mutual explanations and apologies followed until the amiable and astonished gentleman was finally assured of his proper identity. Clean-shaves are taken for clergymen, professors of the histrionic art, minors or Indians, if their cuticle be tawny. Imagine St. Paul as beardless as a boy before the Areopagus upon the hill of Mars’. How great is the tyranny of fashion formulated by kings or their courtiers over this mundane sphere!
IX.	.
Austin is becoming somewhat of a winter resort. I met several ladies and gentlemen from the Queen City of the Lakes, who had fled from the rigors of a Northern winter. As sanitari-urns, however, Galveston, Rockport and Corpus Christi seem to me to be more eligible by reason of the ozone of the sea air, the salt water baths and the grand view of the boundless ocean expanse. These sea-side watering places, though not as fashionable as the Eastern'resorts, such as Saratoga, Long Branch, Newport, or • Rockaway, are superior to the latter inasmuch as they afford the finest salt water bathing in the world. The Gulf water is warm and agreeable, unlike that of the Atlantic seaside. It is said to be a specific for rheumatism. Galveston has twenty or thirty miles of level beach, the finest in the world. For rheumatism and pulmonary ailments inland towns like Austin, or San Antonio, on the high table-lands, or in the hilly country, may be more beneficial because of the great purity and dryness of the atmosphere.
Austin is nearly in the same latitude as Fernan-dino, Florida. It is about 700 feet above the sea level. It is principally remarkable for the state capitol which is the largest public building in the Union, except the capitol at Washington. This building is far ahead of that at Albany, N. Y., in beauty of design and solidity of structure—although the latter edifice has cost more than double that of the former. The capitol of the Empire State has already cost $17,000,000, and will require a few millions more for repairs, restoration and completion; moreover, the Solons of the Empire State are liable to have then' unconscious cerebration disturbed by falling ceilings with tons of stone heavy enough to crush the cerebella even of New York legislators.
That of Texas was built by hohest and enterprising Chicago men, the Hon. Chas. B. Farwell,
now State Senator from Illinois, and the Hon. Abner Taylor, Congressman from the First Congressional District of the same State. It cost but 3,000,000 acres of uncultivated Texan lands worth from $2 to $3 an acre. These gentlemen did an honest job. According to the public press, they sold their little bit of real estate to an English syndicate for $10,000,000, so that all parties were satisfied. The great inland Sanitarium of the Western Hemisphere may well feel proud that she furnished the brains which engineered and brought to a successful termination the construction of this noble monument of American architectural art and enterprise.
In form, the building resembles a Greek cross with projecting centre and wings. It has a magnificent rotunda and dome at the intersection of the main corridors. The style is classic. Its length, inclusive of porticos, is 566 ft., 6 inches; its greatest width, 288 feet, 10 inches, and its height, from grade line to top of the statue of Liberty on the dome, 311 feet. It is built of gray granite stone brought over a narrow guage road from quarries about 60 miles distant from the city. The rooms of the Senate and House. of Representatives are far ahead of the British Parliament chambers in roominess and comfort. Several interesting paintings of local, historical or • personal interest adorn the chambers of Representatives. The view from the top of the dome is panoramic—a magnificent amphitheatre, 50 or 60 miles in diameter, rising and falling like the billowy ocean, dotted with beautiful buildings of white limestone in the immediate vicinity, and bounded by a purple blue horizon of wavy hills or mountains, as they are here called, in the misty distance. -
While visiting the capitol, I made the acquaintance of Lawrence Sullivan Ross, the Governor of the State; of J. M. Moore, Secretary; of Major H. M. Holmes, Private Secretary, and of General W. P. Hardeman, superintendent of public buildings and grounds. These gentlemen extend a hearty welcome to all Northern men, and declare it their highest ambition to bring Northern brains, energy and capital into the Lone Star State. They were types of the warm-hearted, chivalrous and hospitable Southern gentleman. Gen. Hardeman is a first cousin of the able and learned ex-Governor Burnett, of California, a most refined gentleman whose acquaintance I made a couple of years ago. The General is still hale and well preserved, though one of the early pioneers of the Wild West. While fighting the Indians, he marched over the site of Austin long before a white man had settled in the locality. I wanted him to write up his memoirs—the reminiscences of early. Texan frontier life, as such memoranda would be most interesting, and furnish valuable material for our American history; but the brave and genial son of Mars is too modest to see his own valorous deeds put into print.
There are 50 or 60 families of Mexicans or “Greasers,” as they are here called, in Austin.
MjMKM
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	‘ $39
Some of pure Aztec blood, some of the Aztec and Spaniard, some of the Aztec and negro, some of the Aztec and Indian, and others of all four races in various combinations. Here a skilled ethnologist might distinguish mulattos, quadroons, quinteroons, chinos, cholies, chino-cholos, chimo-oscuros, sambos, sambo-chinos nd sambo-claros. Rev. Father Zahm—the Marco Polo of the nineteenth century—could.no doubt,' discover several other crosses or classifications, according to the arithmetical law of combinations, particularly if he throw in a strain of the Caucasian fluid. I met but a few individuals with the proud Castilian purple flowing in their veins.
For a living, most of the “Greasers” peddle “tomales,” a preparation of chopped meat, red pepper and corn-meal, boiled together and wrapped up in corn shucks or husks; or a still stronger compound made like a sausage of fat and lean meat finely chopped or pulverized, and seasoned with an unlimited quantity of red pepper. Should any of the post-graduates contemplate a trip to the theatre of Cortez’ conquests, I would advise these laurel-crowned young gentlemen to practise swallowing glowing coals or chewing red-hot pokers before indulgingin those Mexican dainties. It will save them a temptation to some mild profanity. The “Greasers,” however, sell a delicious'candy cake called pecan (pronounced pikawn) candy. It would melt in the mouth of Iago, and make Cerberus quit his barking at shivering ghosts. Devine or Gunther would realize a fortune by learning the secret of its preparation. A supply of it would prove a treasure-trove for henpecked Benedicts, philogynous derelicts, anatif-erous astronomers, phytolithical philosophers, palindromical poets and nubiferous noets. At the capitol I made the acquaintance of an educated colored gentleman, who spoke the classic language of Goethe with all the purity and vigor of the man of “blood and iron,” the great Bismarck himself. The Aztecs addressyou: “No habla v. Castellano?" And if you play the Egyptian Sphinx, they will ask if you “no speak-a Engelisha.”
The distance to San Antonio by the International and Great Northern railway is 81 miles. This city is built in a valley at the head of the river of the same name. The place was settled by the French and Spanish in the latter part of the seventeenth century. It is quite a resort for invalids, especially for those afflicted with pulmonary disarrangements. Its summers, though hot like those of Austin, are’tempered by the Texan trade-winds from the Gulf of Mexico. Its growth of late has been phenomenal. It has several manufacturing establishments, and handles large quantities of wool, cotton, cotton-seed, cotton-seed oil-cake, corn and live stock. There are many objects of interest to the ordinary traveller and especially to the archaeologist in the city and vicinity.
San Antonio has been the theatre of many
bloody encounters between hostile forces, having yielded allegiance to no less than seven different flags. Most of the buildings erected here along the beautiful San Antonio River by the Franciscan monks, for religious and educational purposes, as well as for defense against the savage Indians, 164 years ago, are yet to be seen, some comparatively well preserved and others in a state of dilapidation. The rich lands of the missions were watered by irrigating ditches or aqueducts. The famous Alamo mission building was erected in 1718. In 1836 it was used as a fort by the Americans under Travis,' Bowie and Crockett during the struggle with Mexico for independence. Santa Anna, with a large force, took- it by storm after a siege of nearly two weeks. He massacred the surviving defenders, had their bodies covered with brush and burned according to the practice of the old pagans and the theory of the nineteenth century religious or irreligious gasteropods or plesio-saurians. The old ruin has been rebuilt and belongs to the State. It is U2x 172 feet. The walls are 4 feet thick and 22 feet and 6 inches high. There are five other missions within a radius of a few miles, which are well worth visiting, and which, notwithstanding the ravages of modern Vandals, still display some fine carving in solid live-oak and much architectural beauty and solidity. The aqueduct built in 1725 is yet in a good state of preservation. The long rows of the umbrella tree along the walks of the United States barracks are a unique feature of the locality.
The exhilarating, but not intoxicating (according to the interested opinion of Seipp, Keeley, Lille, Divesey and other defunct Chicago brewers), Teutonic beverage is prepared here in' large quantities. Four breweries are studying Adam Smith’s political economy, and trying to make the supply correspond with the demand— to give a sop to Cerberus; a May-shower to Maelstrom; a canteen to Charybdis; a hummingbird to the Lernean hydra! It seems that since the Noachic deluge the human race has a natural' or acquired antipathy against a certain compound consisting of two volumes of hydrogen gas to one of oxygen. Unfortunately, too many of our fellow-beings, like Charles Lamb, find the taste of the sinners destroyed by the flood in our poetic aqua pura, that glitters in the rainbow and shimmers in the morning, not the mountain dew! But our pragmatic prohibitionists, by their paternal preventatives, will soon beard the lion in his den—the Stygian worm of the still—the curse of the race, that has brought disgrace, on the crown of the prince, without words to mince, on the judges’ ermine, the sword of chieftain, the canker of youth, the destroyer of truth, of virtue the wreck, of happiness the check! Mais nous verrons. Would that their zeal in so good a cause were guided by common sense, their efforts for the betterment of their fellowmen governed by ordinary prudence!
s.
640	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Personal.
—W. D. Munhall, Esq., a member of the Chicago bar, visited friends and relatives at Notre Dame last week.
—Hon. John Gibbons, ’6g, of Chicago, one of the ablest and best-known lawyers in the Northwest, visited Notre Dame Sunday last.
—Mr. and Mrs. Martin Cummings and Miss May MacDonald of Chicago, and Mrs. Frank Duffy, Grand Forks, Dakota; were welcome visitors to Notre Dame during the week.
—Janies J. Conway (Scientific and Law), ’86, made a brief visit to Notre Dame last Monday. He is engaged in the practice of law at Ottawa, Ill. He has secured a large practice, and taken rank as one of the most successful attorneys in the place.
—P. E. Burke (Law), ’89, writes Professor Hoynes that he has just passed “a most satisfactory examination for admission to the Minnesota bar.” It lasted four hours, and during that time from three to eight lawyers did the “quizzing.” Mr. Burke was the only applicant, and consequently the test to which he was subjected was particularly severe. There is no such word as “fail” in the lexicon that Mr. Burke uses. He is certain to achieve success in the profession.
—From the Journal of Commerce, Galveston, Texas, we take the following interesting notice of Prof. William Hoynes, the genial director of the Law department of the University:
“The Sunday Plain Dealer of La Porte, Ind., gives a brief sketch of the life and character of Col. William Hoynes, of the Faculty of Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Indiana, his early life as a printer and soldier boy, how he won distinction on the battlefield, his career as journalist and lawyer. It is very complimentary, but none too miich so. It is in no particular over-drawn. Much more could be said. We were personally acquainted with him in the earlier years of his life and an observer of his struggles and successes. We bear in mind that everyone who knew him was an admirer of the brave, kind, energetic and pure-minded boy, and we rejoice in his success and well-earned advancement.”
—Mr. John W. Guthrie, ’85, and Miss Flora C. Sullivan were married in St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, on Wednesday the nth inst. The ceremony was performed by the pastor, Rev. D. J. Hagerty, C. S. C., who was also the celebrant of the nuptial Mass, assisted by the Rev. T. E. Walsh as deacon, and Rev. J. Bleckman, of Michigan City, as subdeacon. The beautiful church, richly decorated for the occasion, was filled with the numerous friends of the happy couple. The bride was for a number of years a pupil of St. Mary’s Academy, and is one of the most accomplished young ladies of our neighboring city. The groom was one of the leading students of the University, pursuing with pronounced success his full collegiate course of six years, and graduating with high honors in the Class of ’85. To him and to his amiable bride we unite with hosts of friends in extending con
gratulations and best wishes for many years of unalloyed happiness in the life upon which they have so auspiciously entered.
Local Items.
—Pretty close!
—Now we’re off!
—Co. “C” fires by fours.
—Examinations this week.
—’Twill be Harvard’s gain.
—Commencement styles are ripe.
—“That’s the beauty of Algebra!”
—There will be a class poem this year.
—The St. Cecilians’ Banquet next Thursday.
—Charlie’s catching was “way out of sight.”
—Don’tforget the games on the 24th and 25th.
—The office accounts close to-day. Verbum sap.
—Co. “B” will not compete for the pennant this time. Why?
—“Otty” has left, and his many friends regret his departure.
—The St. Cecilians have ordered handsome badges for Commencement, o
—The “ Meridens ” were the champions of last year’s Chicago “Commercial League.”
—The “Triples” are over, and the hearts of many have stopped their excited beatings.
- —The Junior Archconfraternity will go on their annual trip to St. Joe Farm to-morrow.
—Mr. F. Chute has been chosen Valedictorian for the Class of ’90. The choice is an excellent one.
—The St. Cecilians held their farewell meeting this week. Parting tears of eloquence were shed.
—It’s always hot in summer, remember, ye thoughtful ones, who daily remind us that “its quite warm!”
—The base-ball meeting Tuesday night was exceedingly quiet. More life should be put into the meetings.
o
—The Band is practising Commencement tunes, including which is a revised edition of “Home, Sweet Home!”
—The contest for the Ellsworth C. Hughes’ Medal in the Senior Scientific promises to be very close and exciting.
—Science Hall will soon be graced with some beautiful stone steps. The work will be completed ere Commencement.
—“Freddie’s” glowing countenance cast its lustre upon many of his old friends this week, who were exceedingly glad to see him again.
—The crews are doing hard work, and a hot race is expected. The Hall has a fraction of a chance for the four-oared, but the Campus will win the six-oared race.
—The “bell-ringers” have disciples in the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	641
Juniors. The concert last Friday afternoon was a grand exhibition; an appreciative audience witnessed the performance.
—Co. “C,” H. L. G., picnicked on the banks of the St. Joe last Sunday. A splendid time was had, thanks to the kindness of Rev. Father Regan and Bros. Marcellinus and Hugh.
—We take great pleasure in correcting a mistake which appeared two numbers back. Mr. Jewett jumped 46 feet 8 inches hop-step-and-jump at Ann Arbor, this being the American record at present. Mr. Jewett will beat this, and perhaps the world’s record, in a short time.
—W. Morrison, ’90, has just completed a magnificent map of the solar spectrum, which will adorn the physical lecture room in Science Hall. It is on canvas, three by nine feet in dimensions, and painted in oil. In addition to giving the solar spectrum with the principal Fraunhofer lines, it shows the spectra of sodium and hydrogen drawn to the same scale. It also exhibits very strikingly the curves of the thermic, luminous and actinic rays. Mr. Morrison has incorporated in this map the results of the latest investigations by the distinguished spectro-scopists, Cornu, Mascart, Augstrom and Becquerel. His work is something he can be proud of, and we congratulate him on its successful termination.
—A steam dish-washing machine has been placed in the kitchen of the University. This machine washes, rinses and dries the dishes without the necessity of the operator touching the water. Four persons now do the work which formerly required twelve. The dishes come from the machine clean and clear. There is no breaking or cracking of dishes while being washed. This machine is manufactured and sold by F. B. Tait & Co., Decatur, Ill. It is now washing dishes for 800 persons after each meal, and giving entire satisfaction. It is certainly a labor-saving device, and we predict its sale wherever large numbers of dishes are to be washed.
—The contest between the Junior and Minim Arithmetic classes took place as announced on the 6th inst. At 8 a. m. sharp, a strong force of Juniors, accompanied by their teacher, made their appearance at St. Edward’s Hall, the scene of the great battle. The Minims occupied one side of the study hall, the Juniors the other. The examination was written. The teacher of the first Arithmetic class in the Junior department made out a list of problems which were written on the blackboards. At 9.30 the papers were collected and placed in the hands of competent judges who after a close examination of them announced that of the five first four were Minims and-one a Junior. The contest in Grammar came off the same day, giving the Juniors as a general average 81 and the Minims 80.
—The procession of the Blessed Sacrament, always a prominent and beautiful feature of the celebration of Corpus Christi at Notre Dame,
was this year even more solemn and impressive than ever before. After Solemn High Mass on Sunday morning the celebrant, Very Rev. Father Provincial Corby, carried the Blessed Sacrament, escorted by a long procession of students and members of the Community. The grand cortege wended its way from the church around the shores of the beautiful St. Joseph’s Lake, stopping at the three repositories on the way where Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament was given. The military companies presented a fine appearance and added to the solemnity by the salutes fired with precision as the Sacred Host was raised in Benediction. The music by the Band was very effective. A beautiful scene was presented on the lake which was dotted with boats gaily decorated with flags and festoons of flowers. It was indeed a memorable event and one calculated to impress the beholder with a lively sense of the deep faith and piety animating and sustaining the Christian soul.
—Base-Ball.—Notre Dame vs. Meridens of Chicago.—One of the most interesting games of the present season was played here last Wednesday afternoon between the ’Varsity nine and the Meriden Britannia Co’s team, champions of the Chicago Commercial League. While the game was by no means one of the " gilt-edged ” sort, it was a contest that was made interesting from the word “ go ” by the hits made and the sharp fielding on both sides. Long was in good form, and although the visitors made eleven hits, he kept them well scattered and struck out seventeen men—which was not bad for the little fellow. McGinnis was very effective after the second inning, Kelly’s double being the only hit made after that time.
The game was a most pleasing one. The visitors were gentlemen at all times, and there was the best of good feeling throughout the contest, Our boys played a good game, but proved that they were sadly in need of systematic team work. At'least four of the visitors’ hits were caused, by misplays that should be guarded against in -the future. Long, as we have said before, did nobly, and was well supported. Russer had the batting record of the day; but Kelly was at the bat a couple of times himself. Hayes put up a good game, as did the rest of the infield; but, with the exception of Fitzgibbon and Combe, the outfield work was decidedly poor. The following is the score:
Notre Dame.
Kelly, 2d b....................
Hayes, s. s....................
Fitzgibbon, c. f...............
Bronson, istb..................
Campbell, r. f.................
Mackey, 3d b...................
Combe, 1. f....................
Long, p........................
Flynn, c.......................
A.B. R. I.B. P.O. A. E1
4	2	2	3 1 0
4	I	I	12 0
4	I	I	000
300 400 400	o	00
300	I	10
2	f . I	O	00
3	II	o	iS o
3	1 o	18	3 o
Total...........................
Meridens.
McGrath, s. s. ••••...........
Steins, c. f....................
Nicholson, 2d b.................
Santer, Ed, 1st b...............
Kuhn, 1. f.b....................
Russer, 3db.....................
Santer, f. c.................
Thomas, r. f....................
McGinnis, p.....................
	1	6	27	25	0
A.B.	R.	I.B.	P.O.	A.	E,
4	I	I-	I	3	• 2
4	I	2	O	0	O
4	0	2	5	2	O
4	I	I	8	0	O
4	0	I	1	0	I
4	2	2	0	2	O
3	0	I	9	□	I
4	O	I	0	0	O
4	O	O	0	10	O
Total.................. 5 11
Score by Innings:—1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Notre Dame:—3 400000
Meridens:—o 01 1001
24 20 +
8 9 o 0=7
1 i=5
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Earned runs: -Meridens, 3; Notre Dame, 2. Two base hits: Kelly (2); Long, Russer. Three base hits: Russer. Stolen bases: Notre Dame, 4; Meridens, 3. Bases on balls: F. Santer, Mackey, Combe, Bronson. Struck out: by Long, 17; by McGinnis, 7. Wild pitches: Long, 2; McGinnis, 2. Passed ball: Flynn. Time of game, 1.40. Attendance, 800. Umpire: A. E. Leonard.
Board of Examiners.
{Under the General Supervision a/Rev. T. E. Walsh.)
Classical Board.—Rev. N. J. Stoffel, presiding; Rev. D. J. Spillard, Rev. S. Fitte, Rev. P. Mohun; Prof. John Ewing, Secretary; • Prof. Maurice Francis Egan, Prof. I. Clarke Brogan.
Scientific Board.—Rev. J. A. Zahm, presiding; Rev. A. M. Kirsch, Rev. J. Kirsch; Prof. McCue, Secretary; Prof. A. J. Stace, Prof. Gallagher, o
Commercial Board.—Rev. A. Morrissey, presiding; Mr. J. Cavanaugh; Bro. Marcellinus, Bro. Theogene; Prof. M. O’Dea, Prof. Flood.
Senior Preparatory Board.—Rev. J. French, presiding; Mr. E. De Groot; Bro. Linus, Bro. Emmanuel; Prof. Ackermann.
Junior Preparatory Board.—Rev. M. J. Regan, presiding; Mr. E. Murphy, Secretary; Bro. Alexander, Bro. Leander, Bro. Paul of the Cross, Bro. Hugh, Bro. Albius.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Adelsperger, Ahlrichs, Allen, Blackman, Bov-ett, Brookfield, Burns H. Brannick, Barrett, Burger, Benz, Combe, Cassin, Carroll, Cassidy, Campbell, C. Cavanagh, L. Chute, F. Chute, T. Coady, P. Coady, Delany, Davis, Dennis, ■ Dyer, Jas. Dougherty, F. Flynn, P. Fleming, Ford, Fehr, A. Flynn, Garfias, Gough, Grothaus, Houlihan, Hayes, Hackett, Hughes, Herman, Hoover, Hummer, Huber, J. A. Johnson, Karasynski, Kearns, J. King, ‘ Krembs, F. Kelly, J. Kelly, Keyes, Langan, Lancaster, W. Larkin, A. Larkin, Lane, Lahey, F. Long, L. Long, Leonard, Latson, Moncado, Mulroney, McKee, McDonnell, McPhee, Mithen, McConlogue, Mackey, Morrison, Meagher, Metzger, Murphy, Mandrue, H. O’Neill, O’Shea, Parker, Powers, Phillips, Paradis, Pyplacz, Portilia, F. Prichard, Paquette, Prudhomme, Pans, Rebillot, Rose, Reynolds, Rothert, Roberts, N. Sinnott, Steiger, Schaack, J. B. Sullivan, Satter, J. D. Sullivan, Seymour, Sinclair, Standard, Sanchez, O. Sullivan, Stanton, Talbot, F. Vur-pillat, Wade, Wright. Youngermann, Zinn, Zimmermann.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adler, Aarons, E. Bates, B. Bates, J. Brady, T. M. Brady, T. T. Brady, W. Brady, Bruel, Blumenthal, Bradley, Burke, Burns, Coilman, *E. DuBrul, Dempsey, Delany, Dorsey,. Drumm, DeLormier, Elder, J. Fitzgerald, C. Fitzgerald, A. M. Funke, A. W. Funke, Garrison, Gross, Galen, Grund, Howard, Hambaugh, Hesse, Hahn, R. Healy, Heller, Hoerr, Jacobs, Keough, V. Kehoe, 'A. Leonard, J. Leonard, Lenard, Lamberton, Murphy, Mau-rus, Maher, D. Monarch,- L. Monarch, Mitchell, Mier, McCartney, Jas. McPhillips, Jos. McPhillips, F. McKee, McIvers, McCormack, F. Neef, A. Neef, O’Brien, Otis, O’Rourke, Putnam, Prichard, Quinlan, Quill, Rowsey, Roper, C. Schillo, Scott, Seerey, Sokup, Sutter, Spalding, .Stapleton, Treff, Weitzel, Ward, Wolff, Wertheimer, White, Zinn.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adler, Ayres, Ball, O. Brown, F. Brown, Blake, Burns, Barbour, Bixby, Cornell, Crandall, C. Connor, W. Connor, Covert, W. Crawford, Crane, Croke, Coon, Durand, Drant, Elkin, Ezekiel, T. Finnerty, W. Finnerty, Fischer, Frankel, Fuller, E. Furthmann, W. Furthmann, C. Furthmann, Funke, Flynn, Girardin, Greene, Gilbert, D. Gilkison, A. Gilkison, Grant, C. Griggs, J. Griggs, C. Girsch, Hill, Henneberry, Hoffman, Hamilton, Hendry, Holbrook, Jonquet, Krollman, Keeler, King, Kuehl, Kern, Klaner, Lonergan, Londoner, Lonnsberry, C. Lamberton, H. Lamberton, Levi, Loonie, Loomis, Montague, Marr, Maternes, H. Mestling, E. Mestling, Myers, McPhee, McPhillips, Marre, Mosier, W. Nichols, C. Nichols, O’Neill, Oatman, Priestly, C. Paul, C. Packard, J. Packard, Roberts, Ronning, Ryan, Stone, G. Scherrer, W. Scherrer, Stephens, Swan, Thornton, Trujillo, Vorhang, Van-dercook, Washburne, Wilcox, Weber, Wilson, Wolf, G. Zoehrlaut, C. Zoehrlaut, Zeigler.
The Catholic Knights of America at St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas.
The Catholic Knights of America held their Convention this year at Austin during the third week of May. On the day following the close of their deliberations they were entertained by the citizens of Austin and by the Faculty and students of St. Edward’s College, on their beautiful grounds which cover an area of six hundred acres. Lieut. Gov. Wheeler, Mayor McDonald, Rev. P. J. Hurth, President of the College, Major Holmes, N. B. Wortham, and others, addressed the assembled Knights who responded through their representatives, Capt. Sneed, of Austin, and Hon. Wm. Campbell, of San Antonio. After partaking of a bounteous repast, the students gave a grand concert in honor of the visiting Knights who appeared more than delighted with the culture and training evinced by the young performers. The following young gentlemen deserve special mention: John Ott, E. Tips, G. Signaigo, W. Goggin, J. Graney, J. Shelly, H. Kraus, J. Orfilg,. G. Fernandez, B. Nagle, J. Spellman, D. Kivlan,. J. Fitzpatrick, A. Cuneo, A. Raggio and Wm.. Connor. The Faculty and students then conducted their visitors through the different departments of this young and flourishing institution, which has all the modern improvements-conducive to the comfort and advancement of the students. The Knights departed, filled with, admiration, and promising their best efforts to> augment the ranks of those with whom they were so well pleased.
But it was during the rendition of the beautiful Drama “The Recognition” in Millet’s Opera House that the students impressed upon the minds of the audience the talents, ability and training displayed in their various parts of this difficult play. It would be invidious to bestow special praise, as all acted their parts so well; and when the curtain fell the general verdict was that they had covered themselves with glory, reflecting great credit upon their Alma Mater and their State.

I	■
J	-
;	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	643
SU. Mapfs Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
:	—The examination in instrumental music is
i now in progress, and the marked improvement - since the February report, to be noticed in each pupil, is most gratifying.
;	—Oh Thursday, June 5, Prof. J. C. Brogan,
?	of, Notre Dame University, delivered a lecture
[	on “Ireland.” The sorrows of Erin have ever
i	awakened the sincere sympathy of all true
j	lovers of justice in every clime; but Americans,
[	having suffered at England’s hand, and having
I ■ tasted the bitterness of subjection to a tyrant, seem to be bound to Ireland by closer ties than those existing between themselves and the ini habitants of other countries. However, this fact alone would not have awakened the enthusiastic appreciation accorded Mr. Brogan’s lecture, had it not been the able and masterly effort i that it was. The relations between the “Emer-aid Isle” and our great Republic, the struggles of the Irish, the heroism of the undaunted O’Connell, the question of Home Rule and the great-hearted Parnell, were the subjects which held the closest attention of the audience to the end, when the unanimous verdict was: “St. Mary’s has enjoyed a rare historical as well as oratorical treat.”	'
—No more beautiful day could be imagined than that which lent its charm to St. Mary’s on Sunday, June 8, the day on which was solemnized the Feast of Corpus Christi. At 8 a. m., Mass was celebrated by Rev. Father Zahm, and at 4 p. m., all assembled in the chapel where Rev. Father French delivered an impressive sermon on “The Blessed Sacrament.” The procession then formed in the following order: Crossbearer and acolytes; the pupils, all in black uniform and white tulle veils; the members of the Holy Angels’ and Children of Mary’s Sodalities, each society headed by its silken banner; then a band of white-robed little girls who strewed the way with flowers; next in the procession were the acolytes, subdeacon, deacon and officiating priest—Very Rev. Father Corby bearing the Sacred Host, followed by Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Fathers Fitte, Walsh, Regan, Zahm, Scherer, French and Evers, and the members of the Community. To describe the scene would be impossible—the clear, blue sky, the waving trees, the flowers and perfume, the caroling of birds, the clouds of incense, the rich vestments shimmering in the sunlight, the impressive chant, to do honor to the Blessed Sacrament, beneath a canopy of silk and gold, —all formed a picture, that can never be forgotten; and awakened emotions too sacred for aught but tears and prayers.
■ The procession, under the guidance of Rev. Father Spillard, Master of Ceremonies, moved from the chapel, along the cement walk to Mt. Carmel, where the Novices had arranged a beau
tiful shrine, and where Benediction was given. Along the river bank, and around the “Rosary Circle,” under richly ornamented arches, past statues and banners, the long lines marched, every heart singing with nature in praise of the God of the Eucharist. The steps of the new. portion of the convent, and the entrances to the Academy were converted into bowers of beauty and devotion; while the main convent altar, a marvel of white and gold, was exquisite in its artistic arrangement. From this altar Benediction again fell over the hushed and kneeling multitude; then, the groves ringing with the inspiring strains of the grand old hymn of-praise, the Te Deum, the procession re-entered the chapel, where Benediction for the third time was given. Beautifully does Father Faber speak of such a scene, when, describing a Corpus Christi celebration, he says:	■	.
“ The Pope on his throne, and the school-girl in her village; cloistered nuns and sequestered hermits; bishops and dignitaries and preachers; emperors and kings and princes—all are engrossed to-day with the Blessed Sacrament. ... The whole Church Militant is thrilling with glad emotion, like the tremulous rocking of the mighty sea. Sin seems forgotten; tears even are of rapture rather than of penance. It is like the’soul’s first day in heaven; or, as if earth itself were passing into heaven, as it well might do, for sheer joy of the Blessed Sacrament. Dear Church 1 to-day is her great day, the Feast of Holy Faith! ”
A Block of Marble.
O marble block, so pure, so dazzling white, Within thy shaft, unshapen though it be, Thou holdst, though veiled, the form that we shall see,—
Some fair design, some image of delight;
And as the sculptor by his magic might,
Carves through thy marble fetters, setting free
The angel prisoner that is held by thee,
Behold the plumed wings, half furled for flight.
Sculptor of souls, to Thee our prayers arise;
Oh, spare the chisel not! The links that chain Our spirits to this earth, though dear the ties,
Must, ere our freedom’s won, be rent in twain;
O joy! if, when the last bond severed lies, Our ransomed souls may join the heavenly train-
Gertrude Clarke {Second Senior Class}.
Industry.
We speak of the present as the enlightened nineteenth century, and the numerous scientific discoveries, the many improvements invented to lighten the burden of mankind, the existence of a great number of-educational institutions, together with many, other important advances on the road of progress, render it fully deserving of this title. But what has led to all these advancements of which we so proudly boast? What has made the United States a rich and powerful nation? Certainly, to a great extent, it was,, and is, due to industry. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Industry is a requisite in every walk of life and in every undertaking. Equipped with this power, though many attempts prove unsuccessful, the industrious man in the end is sure to win. What, though one be blessed with the great gift of genius, if it go not hand in hand with industry, his efforts will fall short of success. Biographical literature furnishes many examples of individuals gifted with rare endowments who, through lack of this quality, have signally failed in the race of life.
Industrious habits are necessary both for the perfection of the moral character and the good of the community at large. “Idleness is emptiness,” says Southey; and there can be little doubt that could the majority of the fashionable loungers of the day be induced to give an honest opinion on the subject, they would support the assertion of the poet. To industry, in a great measure, does the self-made man owe his success. Many of our most noted statesmen were in their youth hard-laboring lads, having only ' poor educational advantages within their reach; but these, combined with diligence, have won for them a name not soon to be forgotten. .
i	All nature teaches us a lesson of tireless ini	dustry. Since the time when it came from the
|	hand of God, the whole universe is ever in mp-
।	tion, obedient to the divine mandate, by which
i	it sprang into existence. So, too, the inherent
|	forces, of nature are continually at work calling
s	forth new forms of existence from primitive
?	matter, thus acting as an incentive to man in
!	carrying out the decree promulgated against
i	our fallen nature in the garden of Eden.
The early alchemists spent much time in the laboratory vainly seeking the. philosopher’s stone which was to convert the baser metals
I	into the more precious ones; more successful
i	than they, the modern world has found the true
l	philosopher’s stone—industry—by the applica-
|	tion of which the labor of man is transmuted
!	into pure gold.. We have often observed that
it is the man who attends strictly to business that is the successful one, not he who leaves his affairs to the management of others, making his appearance at his place of business only when the day is far spent. The same holds true i	of the diligent student: the discouragements
।	with which he may meet and the numerous
i	obstacles that may beset the path of knowledge
:	will, if he persevere in industry, be only the
more conducive to the attainment of his object j	of which no speculation, no bank failure or no
■	imprudent investment can deprive him.
!	Although the effects of our industry may not
»	be such as to identify our name with great dis-
coveries either in science or in art; yet it undoubtedly will produce worthy results, for it is an indispensable necessity in the achievement of all great enterprises, and hence deserving our most careful cultivation.
Carrie Hurley {First Senior Class').
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adelsperger, Ahlrichs, Bates, Bogner, Byrnes, Butler, Clarke, Currier, Crilly, Churchill, Cochrane, M. Davis, C. Dempsey, Dennison, S. Dempsey, D. Davis, C. Dorsey, De Montcourt, Donahue,‘Dolan, Ernest, English, Flannery, Fitzpatrick, Fosdick, Green, Gordon, A. Hammond, Healey, Horner, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hurff, H. Hanson, Harmes, Hellmann, Hale, Hull, Hutchinson, Hamilton, Haight, Hepburn, Kimmell, Kelso, Koopmann, Lynch, G. Lauth, Lloyd, Loemmacker, McFarland, F. Moore, K. Morse, Maher, McCarthy, McHugh, Murison, McCune, Mullaney, Marley, Nickel, Norris, Nester, Otis, O’Brien, Piper, Patier, Pitcher, K. Ryan, Roberts, Regan, Rinn, Rentfrow, Stapleton, Spurgeon, Studebaker, Schiltz, Schaefer, M. Schermerhorn, R. Van Mourick, Violette, Wolff.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Burdick, E. Burns, Black, Clifford, M. Davis, Dreyer, B. Davis, Ernest, Evoy, Girsch, Hickey, Holmes, C. Kasper, Mabbs, Meskill, O’Brien, O’Mara, Patrick, E. Philion, Quealy, E. Regan, Ruger, Robbins, Shirey, M. Scherrer, M. Smyth, Soper, Sweeney, Tormey, E. Wagner, Waldron, M. Wagner, Wood, N. Wurzburg, Young.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	,
Misses Adelsperger, Coady, Crandall, A. E. Dennison, Eldred, M. Egan, N. Finnerty, Girsch, K. Hamilton, M. Hamilton, McCarthy, L. McHugh, M. McHugh, Porteous, S. Smyth, N. Smyth.
SCHOOL OF ART AND DESIGN.
Graduating Class—Miss M. Schiltz.
ELEMENTARY PERSPECTIVE.
2D Class—Misses N. Davis, S. Crane, A. Hammond, S. Dempsey, M. Fitzpatrick.
3D Class—Misses T. Kimmell, M. Shaefer, S. Hamilton, M. Violette, K. Ryan, M. Clifford, Penburthy, M. Otis, E. Dennison, K. McCarthy, A. Hanson, C. Ruger, C. Dorsey, A. Girsch, L. Kasper, A. Mullaney, I. De Montcourt, M. Bums.
PAINTING IN WATER COLORS.
Misses L. Curtis, _M. Piper, N. Morse, M. Hurff, H. Studebaker.	.
OIL PAINTING.
Misses J. Holt, B. Hellmann.
CHINA PAINTING.
Miss A. Regan.
WORKING IN CRAYON.
Misses I. Horner, I. Stapleton, K. Hurley, M. Hull, A. Wurzburg, L. Ernest.
General Drawing.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses S. Dempsey, H. Hanson, M. lungblut, M. Otis, E. Dennison, A. Thirds, G. Lauth, E. Churchill, F. Murison, A. Alhrichs, M. Fosdick, C. Haight, A. Koopmann, M. Patier, M. Rinn, M Schermerhorn, M. Kelso, N. Hale, H. Nacey, E. Adelsperger, L. Bernhart, A. Hanson, L. Bovett, M. Rose, B. Hepburn, N. Schermerhorn, K. McCarthy, R. Bero, H. Pugsley, R. Butler. L. Crilly.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Clifford, E. Evoy, E. Wagner, E. Philion, E, F. Palmer, Regan, F. Soper, B. Davis, I. Cooke, C. Ruger, C. Daly, B. Wright, S. Meskill, M. Davis, L. Black, N. McGuire, I. Mabbs, J.-Patrick, K. Sweeney, M. Wagner, . L. Young, E. Quealy, G. Shirey, A. Tormey, A. Girsch, '•A. O’Mara, C. Kasper, L. Mestling,:M. Culp.