He Held On All Night
Out of the spring night, the Red banzai attack hit like a thunderstorm. The darkness exploded into a nightmare of flaming confusion. But Sergeant Wilson went into action at once, rallying his hard-pressed men.
Bullets wounded his head and leg; disabled both arms. Refusing aid, he crawled, bleeding, from man to man, supplying ammunition, directing fire, helping the wounded.
As the attack grew fiercer, a mortar shell blew him off his feet. Still, dazed
Peace is for the strong! For peace and prosperity save with U.S. Defense Bonds!
The U. S. Government does not pay for this advertisement. Il is donated by 'this publication in cooperation with the Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America-
and weakened, he held on, leading the fight all night till the last Red assault was beaten off. At dawn, by sheer courage, the Sergeant had saved not only his position, but the precious lives of his men.
“In Korea,” says Sergeant Wilson, I
“I didn’t think about where our weapons came from—I just thanked God they were there.
“Now, back home, I realize what’s behind those arms. The united strength of millions of thrifty, hard-working
folks like you—who are making America safer by investing in U. S. Defense Bonds. Maybe you’ve thought you were just saving money. Believe me, you’re saving men’s lives, too!”
★ * *
Now E Bonds pay 3 %! Now, Series E Bonds start paying interest after 6 months. And average 3% interest, compounded semiannually when held to maturity!
During April, women volunteers all over America will be calling on business and professional people to enroll them in the Bond-A-Month Plan.If you are self-employed, enroll in the plan—a sure, safe savings system designed especially for you!
Collegians Un fazed By Heat;
Keep Cool in Arrow Lightweights
A Cbol and comfortable summer is predicted for students who cool off in Arrow lightweight shirts and sports shirts. These hot-weather favorites are “air-conditioned” by thousands of open windows in the fabric. Long and short sleeve styles . . . white and pastel colors. Available at Arrow dealers.
ARROW SHIRTS
— SHIRTS ’ TIES * UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS —
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
May 8, 1953
Microtomic
A fndsiu mslnanuf hr prtkssiMtl famfc
Microtomic—the finest example of research in drawing pencils. Designed to stand the most rigid drafting roans comparisons. Test them today!
Only Mier atomic offers you—
HI-MNSITY LEADS
Lines are absolutely opaque to actinic rays.
ABSOLUTELY UNIFORM
Every Microtomic of the same degree marking is identical.
NSW DUSK GRAY
Professional men acclaim it the best color for a drawing pencil.
BULL'S FYI DEGREE MARKING Easier to read — easier to find — positive identification.
ALSO Choice of holders and Microtomic leads.
EBERHARD^
FABER !i'",e l8d ;
TRADE MARKS REG. U.S. PAT.OFF.
£
for the mother who gets her
MOTHER’S DAY MESSAGES
t,TELEGRAM!
mother that
“top of the world” feding just call WESTERS UMIOM
105 N. Main St.
Telephone	3-6101
WHY LUG THAT TYPEWRITER HOME . . .
When you can store it FREE OF CHARGE at the OFFICE ENGINEERS? Your typewriter is covered by insurance while in storage.
We can put your typewriter in top condition during the slack summer season at the special student repair rates. These special storage and repair rates are offered to the students at Notre Dame.
-----------------OFFICE ENGINEERS-------------------
116 South Michigan Street	Phone 3-3118
SPEEDf CONTROL!
LONG UFE!
Set after set, on any playing surface, these Twins of Championship Tennis deliver "new ball” performance...maintain their precision-built accuracy of flight and bounce!
In every National Championship, U. S. Davis Cup and Wightman Cup match ... in major tournaments everywhere . . . Spalding-made tennis balls are the Official choice. Try a Spalding or Wright & Ditson and you’ll know why.
Reader Wishes Blood Drive Success
Editor:
In the Notre Dame Scholastic issue of April 17, I read with interest your stirring editorial on blood donors at Notre Dame and I hope your efforts will be rewarded with success. It was ironic to read an announcement in the New York Times the same day that CCNY, a college with a registration in excess of 36,000 including day and night classes, produced 1,248 pints in three days.
Congratulations on the “All American honors for Scholastic . .
- With kindest regards and best wishes for further success to the Scholastic.
Cordially,
Charles J. O’Brien
■
In Error on Movies
Editor:
Readers of the story “Department of English Stops Movies Following Eliot Film” in last week’s issue will have been badly misinformed unless corrections are made forthwith.
The Department has not cancelled the movie series it has been sponsoring. We had hoped to have eithei- Hamlet or Henry V during May, but bookings of these films are not available at this time. We expect to continue our series of literary classics next year.
We quite agree with the Scholastic reporter that the conduct in Washington Hall of a few students grievously tries the patience and charity of the great majority who are civilized. But we continue to hope that even they will be affected, even if very slowly, by their environment and by the education they should be receiving.
Yours,
Rufus William Rauch, Professor of English
BOTH NICE!
Chrysler and Plymouth at
MOULDER MOTOR CO.
215 S. La Fayette
A Suggestion — Why not drive a new car home for the folks. The purchase price in South Bend is probably much less than at home. See . . .
Jack Moulder, Class of ’38
The Scholastic
Capsule Corner
Press Honors Bishop Noll
Bishop John F. Noll of Fort Wayne, founder and editor of Our Sunday Visitor, is one of two veteran American Catholic journalists receiving honors from the Catholic Press Association of the United States at its 43rd annual convention being held in Atlantic City Wednesday through today.
Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., U. S. Ambassador to the United Nations, was the principal speaker at the convention banquet.
Representatives of Catholic newspapers, magazines, and other publications took part in the proceedings.
Music Recitals Scheduled
Mr. Carl Mathes of the Music Department will return to the campus next Monday after concluding a ten-day Spring concert tour through the West. Mr. Mathes played six concerts, two of them before enthusiastic audiences at St. Mary’s Auditorium in Sidney, Neb.
Composition students of Mr. Mathes will present a recital of original compositions in Washington Hall on Monday, May 18, at 8:15 p.m.
Richard Casper, a graduating senior and a student of Mathes, will present a piano recital on the evening of May 25 at 8:15.
Cadets Inspect Engineering Projects
Wednesday, 23 engineering students in the Army ROTC journeyed to Chicago to visit some of the civil works projects of the Corps of Engineers. The Chicago Engineer District sponsored the field trip.
Accompanied by Capt. William W. Bohn, the group spent two days inspecting the facilities of Calumet Harbor, the locks and dams of Joliet, and the Snow, Ice, and Permafrost Research Institute at Wilmette.
Postal Regulations for Shipping
The Post Office advises students who plan to mail personal belongings home that parcels may not exceed 40 pounds when addressed to the first and second zones, while 20 pounds is the limit for other zones. This weight restriction does not apply to textbooks, which have rates of eight cents for the first pound and four cents for each succeeding pound.
Radios should be packed in a strong corrugated box with four to five inches of cushioning material, such as soft
paper or excelsior. Radios not properly packed, or packed with other articles, will not be insured.
The postcard form found in recent periodicals, for the purpose of notifying the publishers of change of address for the Summer, should be given prompt attention.
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti	Ravioli
Chicken.	Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
Attorney Heads O’Hara Lecture
John F. Brosnan, New York attorney and a member of the University of the State of New York, spoke this afternoon in the Law Auditorium on “A Lawyer Briefs the Young Businessman” in the seventh in the current series of Archbishop O’Hara Seminar Lectures.
He was introduced by Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce.
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
CANOE TRIPS
into Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only $4.85 to $5.40 per person per day. For free information write,
CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, BILL ROM, Box C, Ely, Minnesota
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildrool Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
SHEEDY shed crocodile tears till he had alligator bags under his eyes, because he got the gator from his girl. "I’m going to hide from you and your horrible hair,” she said "until you go gator bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil, America’s
favorite hair tonic. It’s non-alcoholic. Contains soothing Lanolin. Keeps hair well-groomed from morning ’till night. Relieves annoying dryness. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test.” Paul slithered down to a nearby toilet goods counter for Wildroot Cream-Oil. Now he’s swamped with purse-lipped females who want him to crocodile their telephone numbers. So water you waiting for? Buy a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil, or ask for it on your hair at any barber shop. Then your social life will stop dragon, and you’ll scale the heights.
■umsunm num
*o/131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville,N.Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N.Y.
May 8, 1953
5
MAY 8
DRILL HALL (10 till 2)—Some 640 couples bound for the Senior Ball will be whisked away from the worrisome west to a wondrous world without care, where one who wishes for fun and freedom from futility finds the happiness he hopes for—Shangri-la (just east of the Fieldhouse). We hear the punch they’re serving at the Ball was made according to the Marquis of Queensberry rules—no kick.
AVON (indefinite run)—We’ve been told that Hans Christian Andersen (A-l) ivasn’t intended as a biography. It is, though, a fascinating fantasy with some mighty catchy tunes, even if you don’t think Copenhagen is wonderful.
COLFAX (two more days)—Call Me Madam (A-l) didn’t quite live up to our expectations, but if you’re a Republican or a Democrat with a sense of humor, you’ll enjoy it. In some respects it resembles an uncut version of a student musical.
GRANADA (a week)—Here’s one you Longfellow addicts and Boy Scouts are sure to enjoy: Hiawatha (A-l). For good measure, there’s also Fort Vengeance (A-l). Both are in color.
PALACE (a week)—In spite of a not-too-believable plot, Never Let Me Go is supposed to be very good. Its theme is “love conquers all,” including Clark Gable and Gene Tierney. Code Two (A-l) glamorizes the motorcycle cops.
RIVER PARK (three days)—The neighborhood bandbox ought to pack ’em in with April in Paris (B), the Ray Bolger-Doris Day musical, and the Martin & Lewis comedy Jumping Jacks.
MAY 9
SENIOR COMMERCE AND ENGINEERING CLASSES may not be very informative today but they’re bound to be interesting. Weekend guests of the opposite s— (pardon) gender will be on hand to laugh as their senior beaux try to show off their learning. (Down, boy, it’s only for the day.)
CARTIER FIELD (1:30)—The Irish face Pittsburgh in the season’s first home outdoor track and field meet.
WASHINGTON HALL (1:30, 3:30, 6:40, 8:40)—Touching title, considering the weekend: Everything I Have Is Yours, with the talented twosome of Marge and Gower Champion.
DRILL HALL (8:30-11:30)—The seniors will turn over Shangri-la to the plebeians for the Student Senate dance. Paradise or not, it costs a buck to get in.	•
MAY 10
SACRED HEART CHURCH (9 a.m.)—High Mass for the ball-goers, with the Moreau Choir.
SORIN REVIEWING STAND (about 9:45 a.m.)—Seats are at a premium.
MORRIS INN (10:15 a.m.)—Father Hesburgh will speak to a hundred couples at the Senior Ball Communion Breakfast.
COLFAX (four days)—The movie insists that The President’s Lady (B) is more to be pitied than censured. We’re not so sure.
MAY 11
WASHINGTON HALL (6:30, 8:40)—The Foreign Film finale will be Monsieur Vincent, the excellent French story of the life of St. Vincent DePaul. Well worth a quarter. Same deal the next night, too.
MAY 14
COLFAX (a week)—Trouble Along the Way would have been an apt title for this calendar, but then it’s been fun. See you in the balcony.
SHRIMP IN THE BASKET $1 with all the trimmings
B-M HAMBURGERS 25£ with or without
Complete Home-cooked Meals at all times
BOWL-MOR GRILL Across from South Shore
Need Money For Next Fall?
Summer Jobs
For Male Undergraduates at GARY SHEET & TIN MILL United States Steel Corp. Starting rate, $1,435 per hr. Many opportunities to earn $2 an hour. Time and One-half for overtime. Excellent working conditions. Placement on jobs related to your studies—where possible.
For Further Information: contact your College Placement Office or write:
E. C. CLYMER GARY SHEET & TIN MILL North Buchanan St. Gary, Ind.
DR RW TURBOW \OPTOMETRIST
---OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Pieces’3
---EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel	4-5777
Aquinas
Library and Book Shop HAS Nether’s Day Caris BOOKS FOR MARY’S MONTH ■
110 E. LASALLE ST.
6
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 May 8, 1953 No. 24
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO .................News
FRED C. ECKART .......Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE ........._Features JOHN F. SAND ..........___Sports WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ........Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ....... Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: John Adams. Bill Burnett. Jerry Campbell, Dick Connelly, Pete Connolly. Carroll Dowden. Ellis Joseph. Gavin King. Fred Krack-lauer. Paul LaFreniere, John Manion. Jim Mason. Bill Moore. Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O'Bryan, Pete Sturtevant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Tom Caplet, John Cywinski, Bob Ettle-brick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Tom Welly.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, Bob Swanson, Dana Weithers.
PHOTOGRAPHY COORDINATOR: Dick Hairsine.
FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Malison, John Slavick.
ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier.
CIRCULATION: Don Doland.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame, Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Shown are a few of the essential ingredients for the Senior Ball: the girl, the flower, the' invitation, and, we hope, a starry sky. Special features for seniors will be found from page nine to 19. Cover design and photo are by Dana Weithers. The orchid was used through the courtesy of the Wygant Floral Co. of South Bend.
The Seniors, the Future, and Notre Dame .
In keeping with the dedication of this issue to the Senior Class, this editorial is pointed mainly toward the seniors, and their future relations with the University.
We have always been amazed at how proficient university students can be in many varieties of undertakings. In organizing and running dances, blood drives, Mardi Gras carnivals, radio stations, and the like, they have excelled to a high degree. In producing talent shows, musical comedies, and dramatic productions they have shown talent comparable to many professional performances.
But university students have caused another kind of amazement. This category includes the behavior on late Saturday night buses which sometimes seem to be full of characters out of a Don Passos or a James T. Farrell novel. It also includes the Kids’ Klub atmosphere at Washington Hall movies, and sometimes at pep rallies, and other similar actions.
The reason for this seeming paradox is really very simple: the men who cause the first type of amazement are not those who cause the second. Although it is often attempted, “class” just cannot be used as a collective noun in the sense of “herd,” “bunch,” or “pack.” A class is made up of individuals, who often have only one thing in common: they entered Notre Dame at the same time and will leave at the same time. Beyond this one similarity we find some have been active here, some have not; some have shown talent, others have not; some have gotten good grades, others have not. It is impossible to say that all do not study; it is just as impossible to say that all are Jack Armstrong-altar boy combinations.
So is it also impossible to say that the Class of 1953 has any one attitude about Notre Dame, or about their future relations with Notre Dame. But the many opinions seem to be reducible to four basic attitudes, if we recognize that there are many shadings of each.
The first belongs to the FEW who believe that "Notre Dame is the worst possible.” At the other extreme are those who feel that “Notre Dame is the greatest.” There is not much to be said about either of these—neither will be of much constructive use to the University. The first group will have little or no interest, and, on the other hand, no one who is completely satisfied will work for any improvement or change. The latter might contribute financially but thev will be too complacent to contribute interest, effort, or ideas.
Between these extremes are two general attitudes which can benefit the Uni-, versity, and anyone who holds the following beliefs should help Notre Dame in any way he can after graduation.
The first of these middle-of-the-roaders are those who are in basic disagreement with fundamental policies of the University, such as discipline, but who believe that Notre Dame is, in the public eye, an outstanding exponent of Catholicism, and should be kept that way. The final category, the one which would seem most desirable from Notre Dame’s point of view, are those who hold that, “Although it isn’t now, Notre Dame could be the greatest University going.”
What any graduating senior thinks about Notre Dame is not our axe to grind. Every individual has his own opinion, and is entitled to it. There is no use urging the extremists to do anything. But all who hold the middle views should not just sit on them. They should maintain contact with the University, and should become active members of the Alumni Association. They should help favorably publicize Notre Dame, and should be careful to avoid any dubious action in which their name can be connected with the University. They should offer constructive criticism and constructive effort, always being careful to do so at the right time and in the right place.
In short, anyone who believes Notre Dame is, and should be, here to stay, should follow up that belief with action. If you are one of these, don’t let your connection with the University end 30 days from today.
May 8, 1953
7
All the roads
lead to Kankakee
LflO Bell Telephone System


Mfr

Some routes, naturally, are longer than others. But if there is less traffic on them, they might get you to Kankakee faster.
The same holds true of your Long Distance calls. When circuits are temporarily busy on the most direct route for your call, a new electronic brain in the telephone office automatically selects alternate routes. They may be hundreds of miles longer, but the detour saves you time.
And the entire operation of selection and rerouting is done in a split second!
The Bell System people who perfected, maintain and operate this electronic switching system have one goal: to make the best telephone service in the world even better. Would you like to join this competent, aggressive team?
There are many opportunities in the Bell System—in engineering, business administration, accounting, and other fields. Your Placement Officer can give you the details.
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 94, NUMBER 24
MAY 8, 1953
Seniors Set Out for Shangri-la Tonight
Class of '53 Climaxes Notre Dame Social Life With Evening of Dancing in Oriental Paradise
The austere serenity of Shangri-La. Its forsaken courts and pale pavilions shimmered in repose from which all the fret of existence had ebbed away, leaving a hush as if moments hardly dared to pass. —From James Hilton’s Lost Horizon.
Tonight at 10 the portals of Shangri-la will swing open upon the 1953 Notre Dame Senior Ball for some 640 couples, launching a busy weekend and climaxing the campus social life of the Class of ’53. Checking reality at the Drill Hall entrance, the seniors and their dates will dance through an oriental-style Evening in Paradise to the music of Ray Anthony and his orchestra.
Favors and programs will be distributed at the dance. Just what this year’s favors are must remain a secret until they are given out, late in the evening. The1 programs, however, will be handed out immediately—one to each person (while the supply of 1,200 lasts), rather than one per couple as in past years.
Special entertainment will be provided during the intermission, while Anthony’s music-makers and vocalists Jo Ann Greer, Tommy Mercer, and the Skyliners take a breather. Allan “Buddy” Powers and Ciretta Ann Buczkowski, dancing duo from the 1951 student musical, will display their fancy footwork singly and together. A song-and-dance number from this year’s musical and a Glee Club octet will also be included on the evening’s program.
Seniors will remember Buddy and Ciretta for their performance in Mr. and
A SALUTE TO THE SENIORS
Pages 9-19 of this issue constitute a special senior section which is our present to Ballgoers and their dates this weekend. May we wish all of you a wonderful, and sunny, weekend.
—Editor
Mrs. Broadivay on the Washington Hall stage two years ago. Buddy, who produced, directed, and did the choreography for that musical, is an experienced showman. He is now a member of the public relations staff of the Notre Dame Foundation. At home in either ballet or ballroom dancing, Ciretta also teaches the art of dancing. Both studied under Marie Buczkowski of South Bend.	•
During the dance, Chinese-costumed waiters will serve an “ice-cream punch.”
The oriental theme is carried through in the decorations for the ball, which completely transforms the Drill Hall. To reach the Shangri-la ballroom, the couples must pass through a pagoda on a solidly-constructed bridge over a pond.
The Navy’s heavy artillery on either side of the entrance has been pacified for the night behind cardboard panels simulating garden walls of stone'. The rifle racks and other features along the walls are hidden by a new “wall” of blue cloth several feet high. Joined to this and tapering upward toward the center is a false ceiling of blue crepe-paper strips, through which the overhead lights will shine. Japanese lanterns dot the walls.
Along the north side of the hall, is a six-foot-high step-like wall topped by a three-foot incense pot. A similar base behind the bandstand supports a bronze-tinted, oversize statue'.	,
Part of the area between the hall and Cartier Field will be used as a patio to accommodate extra tables for the' overflow crowd.	•
Shangri-la, being an unusual land, will be ruled over by a quadrumvirate, one shy of a full house. The pair of “kings” will be Ball Co-Chairmen George Higgins and Jim Pfohl, with Betty Ann
May 8, 1953
9
Sullivan and Lois Herting as their respective queens.
Both Higgins, a Commerce student, and Miss Sullivan hail from Kansas City, Mo. Betty Ann is a home economics senior at St. Teresa’s College there and plans to teach grade school after graduation.
Commerceman Pfohl’s date, Miss Herting, is a student nurse at Mercy Hospital in Davenport, Iowa. Pfohl is from Forest Hills, N. Y.
Serving as court for the above-mentioned royalty will be the various committee chairmen and their dates. Chief decorators Ralph Argen, Ed Graham, and Bob Schaefer will escort respectively, Misses Nancy Lee Murray, Connie Montroy, and Sue Quinn. Dick Harvey and his wife, Cynthia, along with Walt Stuhldreher and Alice Ann Dixon, will represent the entertainment committee. Others in the court are Publicity-Program Chairman Don Carbone and Mary Jo Doody, Tom (Tickets) Hamilton and Janice Blondin, Business Manager Jee
BUDDY AND CIRETTA
Intermission’s Dance Duo
Costanzo and Marilyn Joughin, Ed (Refreshments) Condon and Merry Kay Johnson, and Clair (Hotels) Trinkley and Zoe von Hazmburg.
Guests at the Ball include the University president and vice-president, the deans of the colleges, University Librarian Victor Schaefer and his wife, and several faculty members.
The paradisal evening will fade into memory at 2 a. m., leaving the seniors
GEORGE HIGGINS
Lead the Trip . . .
an hour- to return to their halls. But the weekend will be far from over.
Tomorrow morning only, the University will become coed. The Colleges of Commerce and Engineering have invited all those weekend guests who are able and willing to get up so early to attend classes along with their beaux.
Ostensibly the idea is to enable the girls to see what classes at Notre Dame are like, but it is expected that no “coed” class will be conducted in a normal manner tomorrow. The young ladies will at least be able to determine whether their senior friends are' actually as intelligent as they claim to be.
One committeeman remarked that the coed-for-a-day plan fitted in perfectly with the utopian, never-never land theme of the Senior Ball weekend.
Should the Northern Indiana climate
JIM PFOHL
. . . For an Evening . . .
BETTY ANN SULLIVAN ... To Shangri-ia . . .
choose to smile for a change, many of the seniors and their dates will set off on the traditional afternoon of picnicking at the Dunes on the shores of Lake Michigan.
In a second and less formal journey to Shangri-la tomorrow evening, the seniors will share their oriental paradise with the underclassmen for the Student Senate-sponsored informal dance from 8:30 till 11:30. Admission will be' the usual one dollar with a Student Activities Card. Don Gels and his campus musicians will set the pace.
Then on Sunday morning a section of Sacred Heart Church will be set aside for the ball-goers at the 9 o’clock High Mass. The Moreau Choir will sing the Missa Cantata.
After the Mass a hundred couples will (Continued on Page 31)
10
Maestro of Sbangri-la
Amid the oriental atmosphere of exotic Shangri-la, when the lush and perfumed hour of ten arrives, greying old seniors and their pretty, young dates will swirl about the floor dancing to the music of the catch of the prom season, Mr. Ray Anthony and his band.
For the past few years the Anthony organization has been called the best dance band in the country. Tonight, couples at Shangri-la will hear the reason for that rating; they will hear a band—unusual in this day of variation, improvisation and sliding beats—that sticks close to the melody line and utilizes a strong regular rhythm.
Even Anthony’s vocal numbers, which are among his top-selling records, are highly danceable. The distinction in his music lies in ultra-smooth arrangements and Anthony’s own trumpet, which weaves in and out of most every tune, providing variation without destroying the strong melody.
Few couples will sit out dances tonight, for while Anthony usually provides a balanced program, he leans toward the slow stuff, which seems to be what dancers want, especially around Notre Dame.
In addition to the songs which he made famous and recent recordings, Anthony and his band will play popular favorites such as Stardust, As Time Goes By, and I’ll See You in My Dreams. Also certain to be on the
“THE NATION’S BEST DANCE BAND” For Shangri-la, No Bounce or Be-Bop
program are every trumpet man’s favorite, Tenderly, and Harlem Nocturne, a song heard around these parts almost as much as Notre Dame’s Victory March.
Anyone meeting Ray Anthony might at first think that they are being introduced to Cary Grant, so strong is the resemblance. The fact is, though, that they are meeting a guy with a great triumph who has a burning desire to play fine dance music. He’s no amateur, either, even though he may look young. Ray began his musical career back before the war, and learned the best elements of dance music while playing for a gentleman who has become almost a legend among American dance bands, Glen Miller.
Glen’s training stuck with “Mr. Anthony” during four years of Naval service when he followed the Miller tradition of playing music “to dance to.”
It was in the Navy that Ray’s real popularity began. He headed a service band which entertained men in the Pacific area, and his organization was ultimately chosen as the “Top Service Band” in the Pacific.
With this background in handling an orchestra, Ray returned to civilian life to begin a phenomenal rise to his present position as the best bandleader in the country.
Ray’s outstanding trumpet playing paces the eight-man brass section which gives his organization its distinctive
RAY ANTHONY
Strictly Music ‘To Dance To’
touch. Furthermore, he insists on sticking to basically instrumental arrangements instead of merely providing background for some featured vocalist. Consequently, his most successful records have been highly danceable instrumentals.
This has made him a popular favorite on the college prom circuit, which is perhaps the most discriminating in its demands for fine dance music. And it all fits in with his plans of bringing the smooth and versatile dance band back into renown.
Of course, those known as “be-bop-pers” have as little time for Anthony as he has for them. Ray feels that “hoppers” have been instrumental in turning public interest and appreciation away from the good dance band and worthwhile dance music. As far as he is concerned “hoppers” are merely intent on making horrible sounds with their instruments.
For those who are interested in knowing just what constitutes a top rate band, bop-less Anthony and his 17-man crew are divided as follows: five trumpets including Mr. Anthony, four trombones, five sax-clarinetists, a piano, a bass, and a drummer man.
Also with the band are an extremely pretty singer named Jo Ann Greer (whose voice we haven’t heard as yet), a capable male vocalist, Tommy Mercer, a vocal quintet called the “Skyliners,” and the “Anthony Choir,” which is really the band standing up and singing. Sitting down they are a band, and standing up, they’re a choir, but sitting or standing, they’re great.
Jack Dilenschneider Gerry Voit Walt Werner
May 8, 1953
H
This
Is Bat
Seniors
Think
The poll of the Senior Class included queries about campus life . .

A total of 192 men of the Class of 1953 answered the following questions, which were designed to cover campus life, the University, world events, and the future plans of this year’s seniors. Opinions given, of course, are not necessarily thbse of the Scholastic.
companionship and social life claimed 17. The “apparent lack of administration interest in student concerns” was named by 14.
Of those with a social

aspect,
picked a future event, graduation,
as
4. Do you think the importance of football is over-emphasized here?
1. Why did you choose Notre Dame?
The outstanding Catholic education offered was the predominant factor in the choice of 47 of the Class of 1953. Twenty-four came here because relatives or friends preceded them, and scholastic standing drew 19. “I didn’t, my parents did,” was the answer of 19 also, and the same number simply said “reputation.”
Fifteen “wanted to come here since boyhood,” and a large number of other
Negative answers were returned by 147, with varying degrees of emphasis, while 45 said “yes.” Two students qualified their “no’s” with “not by the administration,” and “as consistent with tradition,” while one answered, “No, but I think that it is too artificial here, in that the student usually knows nothing about team progress.”
their most memorable. Regarding events already experienced, the 1952 Oklahoma football game and weekend was the choice of 15, while the first arrival as a freshman and the 1951 Junior Prom weekend were named by 11 and nine, respectively. Seven voted for the reception of the national football champions after the 1949 SMU game, and five picked the Tulane game of the same year.
r i-
s. r
f
s
answers included, “One of the schools that accepted me.”
few
2. What have you liked best about
Notre Dame?
They expressed it ways, but 66 seniors as friendships made
in many different answered this one among “an espec-
ially fine group of students.” Thirty liked the i-eligious training and atmosphere best, and 25 named school spirit with its facets of friendliness and fight. The high standard of education was the choice of 14, and no other factor received more than four votes.
3. What have you liked least about Notre Dame?
This question, too, received a variety of answers, as expected, more bitter than others. The most
great some popu-
lar answer was the disciplinary atmosphere. This was named by 49.
“The aloofness of priests from students” got 24 votes, and lack of female
5. Have you definitely decided the type of work to which you would like to devote your life?.
The great majority have decided, apparently, as 127 answered in the affirmative. However, negative replies were received from 65.
8. Which has been the most difficult year study-wise ?
It’s freshman, two-to-one, as the first year polled 90 votes. Sophomore year was the choice of 49, 32 named junior year, and only 19 named the senior year.
t
I
r
6. Have you changed your mind your future profession since been here?
“Yes,” said 55, while 132 said
about
you’ve
“No
and the other few didn’t care to answer. In fact, a few of the minority faction stated they had changed their minds more than once.
7. What is the most memorable event of your years here?
Most weren’t sure, but they were positive of one thing—this was the toughest question to answer. Each person could evidently have a different answer to this one. Many memorable events were purely personal in nature, and ranged from “getting suspended” 1o “the night she said ‘yes’.”
9. What is the best book you have read in the last four years?
The seniors clearly showed the difference of opinion which makes the world go ’round, and also makes so many books a financial success, in naming a total of 69 books in answer to this one. However, The Caine Mutiny by Herman Wouk finished far in the lead with 35 votes. Dostoevsky’s Crime and Punish. ment was the' closest competitor with 13, while Robinson’s The Cardinal polled seven and Merton’s Seven Storey Mountain got five.
No other book got more than three votes, and the scattered choices ranged
from Darkness at Noon and War Peace to The Naked and the Dead I the Jury.
10. What is the best movie you have in the last four years? .
and and
seen
Again the vast difference of opinion, as 58 different films were named, but choices were more concentrated than in
The Scholastic
J2
the previous question. Detective Story took first place with 26, and Quo Vadis followed with 22. The Quiet Man was named by 13, High Noon by 12, Cyrano de Bergerac by nine, and .4 Place in the Sun by eight. Streetcar Named Desire with six votes was the only other movie named by more than five people.
11.	What is the best football game you have seen in the last four years?
This one was almost unanimous, with last Fall’s 27-21 victory over Oklahoma the choice of 122. The 1950 Michigan State game, which ND lost 36-33, got 19 votes and the 1949 46-7 victory over Tulane received 16. One senior answered, “Name any of the 1949 season and that’s it.”
12.	Are you engaged or definitely “engaged to be engaged”?
Only 43 answered “yes,” while 149 are still foot-loose and fancy-free. One lad at least seems to be foot-loose by choice, for he answered, “No, a thousand times, no.”
13.	When you entered Notre Danie, did you expect the U.S. to be at war with Russia before you graduated?
This question found only 19 pessimists and 173 optimists. The optimists, of course, proved to be correct.
14.	When you entered, did you expect U. S. troops to be fighting anywhere before you graduated?
The majority was wrong on this one, as 156 said “no” and 36 said “yes.”
15.	Do you think a war with Russia is inevitable?
This was the most hotly contested question of the poll, but the “ayes” finally won, 97-95. It could be mere coincidence, but there were few negative . answers until those polled after the post-
. . . And personal problems, such as the senior's standing with the Armed Forces.
Stalin peace offensive began were counted.
16.	Do you favor Universal Military Training?
Another close one, with 90 in favor and 102 against. There were many qualifications placed on both affirmative and negative answers, but it all reduced to the above figures.
17.	Has the work of the United Nations justified its existence?
It has, said 102, while 84 believe it has not, and the others weren’t sure. One explained his “yes” by saying “Anything is better than nothing at all,” and another said, “No, but it is not to be discarded yet, either.”
18.	How many years do you expect to have to spend in service?
The answers ranged from 17 who said “none” to one who said “a lifetime,” but the average of all figures given was 2.6 years. Three years was the most popular single figure.
19.	If you have to enter the Armed Forces, which service would you prefer?
The Navy polled almost three times the votes of its nearest competitor, being the choice of 101 of those questioned. The Air Force was named by 38, 21 chose the Army, 17 picked the Marine Corps, and seven had no preference.
20.	Do you consider yourself a Republican, Democrat, or Independent?
It was a close race between Republicans and Independents, but the latter finally won with 77. The GOP claimed 71, while only 44 Democrats were in evidence. '
. . . And world problems, looking toward the world capital, St. Peter’s in Rome . . .
21.	Do you intend to take an active part in politics?
Seventy do, 116 do not, and the others are undecided. Interestingly enough, most of those who claimed to be Democrats plan to be active in politics, while very few Republicans so indicated.
22.	Do you intend io take an active interest in the Alumni Association?
Sixty said “no,” 112 said “yes,” and the others wouldn’t commit themselves. More seniors refused to answer this one than any other question, except for the memorable event and the best book questions.
Question nine, concerning the best book, received the fewest answers, with only 144 who would name a choice.
13



The Dance With a Varied Past
Pink lemonade, ten-cent cigars, sixty capped-and-gowned Seniors and their “best ladies” gliding across the floor of the Old Gymnasium to the syncopated melodies of Professor Petersen’s orchestra—this was the Senior Ball, 1904 version.
That first Senior Ball at Notre Dame was the proto-scene in a long, glamorous history of social extravaganzas which has continued over four decades of war and peace; from the time of flapper girls to torchy blues singers.
The Scholastic was already celebrating its 38th birthday when the first Senior dance was held after the Senior Class play on Easter Monday. It was publicized later as the “spontaneous brainchild” of a group of fourth-year men who hadn’t had the privilege of participating in the day’s activities.
During the first six years of the series, the Seniors had to bank on the underclassmen to help them fill the house; and only the first dance of the evening was reserved exclusively for Seniors.
When, however, enrollment figures began to soar—and Notre Dame had swollen from 150 students in 1904 to 350 in 1910—the short-lived tradition of the “exclusive first dance” died a premature death, and the edict followed that only Seniors would be permitted to attend.
Gradually, the increasing number of “non-thespians” on campus, combined with the influence of the hair-raising galaxies in the gay ’20’s, proved to be
too much for the few remaining play lovers, and the Ball began to steal top notch place on the Senior Day agenda.
Finally, after 17 successive Senior dances, one staid, conservative Scholastic editor went out on a limb and made a painful concession: “When we take into consideration the conditions peculiar to the student, his age . . . and certain natural yearnings for companionship, we must say that the social function is the proper sort of recreation for the student.”
The Senior Ball had won its first big battle; and it was here to stay.
The post-war I period at Notre Dame blossomed out into an era of fantastic social whirls which may have been—.in succeeding years — equalled, but never outdone.
In 1923, the campus was bubbling over with 1480 students. The dance weekend was changed to early Spring. The Scholastic had been completely converted to the fad for bigger and more elaborate “social functions.” In fact, the editor was becoming traditional escort to “queen of the Ball.”
The weekend itself was a gala and lengthy affair. There was a “warmup” dance in the Chippendale Room of the Oliver Hotel on Wednesday night, followed on Thursday night by the Ball at the Palais Royale. Isham Jones’ orchestra, which had just finished a stand at the famous Kit-Kat Club in London, provided the melodies until the wee sma’ hour of 3 a.m. Intermission entertainment featured entertainers
from Chicago’s prominent Marigold Gardens. The 115 Seniors, who had paid $25 each for twin ducats, were satisfied with the evening’s entertainment.
The Glee Club presented a concert— and a dance—at the Olivei* Hotel on Friday night . . . Saturday, a track meet was scheduled . . . and “there were rumors of another dance, as well as the marriage of Cyril W. Neff, of the Class of ’23, at Sacred Heart Church. Most of the Ball-goers were present.”
“Professor and Mrs. Knute K. Rockne” were the names which most frequently adorned the chaperones’ column in the late ’20’s.
The class of 1931 set a “stay-out-late” record with 4 a.m. residence permissions.
Fischer’s World Fair orchestra, the Benson Dance Orchestra — which was sweeping the nation in a storm of popularity in the early ’30’s — and Freddy Martin were among the many prominent musical outfits that graced the bandstands of South Bend’s Palais, Indiana Club and Place Hall.
Notre Dame, like everyone else, went to war in 1941; and the popularity of the Senior Ball dwindled. In 1943, there were rumors of Glen Miller; but he went to war too. Sorely hit for attendance, the upperclassmen settled for Ted Fio Rito at the Palais and the unprecedented Junior-Senior Prom.
Once again, however, the Senior Ball is on the upgrade to social prominence. Tonight, when Ray Anthony and his high-powered contingent replace Professor Petersen’s hand-picked group of music students on the bandstand, another link in the chain of fabulous weekends at Notre Dame will be molded into place.—Pat Carrico
14
The Scholastic


‘The Week’ Looks at the Ball
THE WEEK—May 12, 1950.
By Jack McGoldrick
As we go to press, the magnolia trees .in front of the Dome are in full bloom, and most of the seniors are hoping they (the magnolias, that is) will stay that way through the weekend. But magnolias or not, the long-awaited Senioi- Ball is finally at hand. With the promised cooperation of the weather man, the 500 couples who will attend have a full and varied 48 hours of entertainment ahead of them. In anticipation of the influx of a bevy of young ladies from north, south, east, west, and St. Mary’s; who will arrive by train, plane, bus, car, and railway express, the WEEK’S research staff has been busy tabulating a survey on the attendance. Incomplete results are as follows:
Why Gals Refused to Attend Ball Been to one before—12
On picket line for telephone strike—24 Going to high school prom instead—17 Can’t dance—144
It’s a boys’ school—1
Why Gals Accepted Invitation
Have an aunt living in Mishawaka—6 Curiosity—18
Don’t want to miss hearing Charlie Ventura—0
Payment of an election bet—7
On spring circuit—71
It’s a boys’ school—398
Others will have reasons, pro and con, later.
NOTES TO BALL GUESTS
As a friendly word of warning to those who will be visiting the University for the first time this weekend,
the WEEK’S public service department offers the following advice:
1.	As you enter the Drill Hall, don’t say “Ooh, a barn dance.”
2.	If you receive a dandelion corsage, take your date’s word that orchids are not available in Indiana at this time of year.
3.	Don’t remind your date that you saw Charlie Ventura’s band at a taxi dance in Peoria last week.
4.	On Saturday, you will probably have breakfast, lunch and dinner in the caf—at the same time. Try to re-membei- that one meal a day on dance weekends is a tradition at Notre Dame, as well as an economy measure.
5.	If you’re lucky enough to eat in a real restaurant downtown, don’t be embarrassed when your date tucks his napkin under his collar. A subtle way to correct this is to ask him if he wants a hamburger or a haircut.
THE WeeK—May 11, 1951
By Jack Janowski
Johnny Long and Ork will provide the music for tonight’s gavotte and we wonder how many times Blue Skies and Shanty Toivn will be played between 10 and 2. Mastro Long plays a very beautiful fiddle according to press releases and since this is National Music Week we’ll be expecting a couple of choruses of The Flight of the Bumblebee along with current favorites I Apologize and On Top of Old Smoky. This is where students of Arthur Murray and George Davis make other dancers look like freshman tackles in Swan Lake.
Incidentally, the favors for tonight’s Ball are still being kept secret. This is a traditional custom around ND and so are the favors themselves, for that matter. As far back as we can find out, Notre Dame jewelry boxes have been the treasured mementos given to the dance dates of seniors at this traditional affair. It looks like Jewelboxes 4 to 1, slightly lower if the track is muddy.
THE WEEK—May 9, 1952
By Jack Hynes
The Seniors, easily recognized by the bags undei- their eyes and the golf clubs under their arms, are no little concerned over this weather business. Tonight is the Senior Ball and in later years it has almost become another tradition that it rains on the night of the Senioi- Ball. As a matter of fact, we’ll give 8-5 odds that as this issue is being delivered it will be pouring generous poi-tions of that old South Bend dew. It never fails.
The Senior Ball tonight, by the way, will be held over in the Navy Drill Hall, a large, Quonset-shaped affair over at the East end of the campus which is something like a Robert Hall clothing outlet.
But tonight you won’t recognize it (well, I should hope not!). The Ball committee acting under instructions from Frank Lloyd Wright has been as busy as ants at a picnic in shaping up the place for some 800 potential alumni and Ray Anthony. You will note there, I trust, the fine distinction —Ray Anthony is not a potential alumnus—but he doesn’t feel too badly about it at all since he does hold the distinction of having one of the three top dance bands in the country (the other two being Les Brown and Frankie Yankovic).
THE WEEK—May 16, 1952
By Jack Hynes
The last social event of the season ended last weekend when some 500 seniors packed up their respective dates,.sent them home, and then paused to count the loose change in their pockets. Most of them found they didn’t have enough for a matinee at the Oliver; but with exams coming up, who needs money?
“No, I don’t want to go downtown, and pass me the No-Doze and black coffee” . . .
The weather shaped up just as history predicted it would with rain bogging things down all day Friday. Rain isn’t predicted for graduation day but I’m having my poncho died black just in case.
May 8, 1953
15
Senior Names That Made News
Like its predecessors, the 1953 Senior Class has many outstanding men in each field of extracurricular endeavor. So ' many in fact, that the following represents only a condensed account of all the senior names that have made news here on campus during the past four years.
Back in September 1949 some 1,400 bewildered freshmen arrived on campus and after spending the first few months in traditional awe and wonder, began to work earnestly to make names for themselves. In its first plebiscite the Freshman class of that year elected Tom Reedy president, Jim Gibbons vice-president, Al DeCrane secretary, and Bill Gaudreau treasurer.
Bob Niquette was the first freshman to distinguish himself for individual ability by winning the freshman speech contest the following spring.
On May 5, 1950, the class officially began moving in ND social circles as ‘•Some Enchanted Evening” provided the theme for the Freshman Prom under the chairmanship of Brian Kelly.
As sophomores, the class of ’53 elected John O’Connell president, Tom Reedy vice-president, Dan Collins secretary, and Gerry Marshall treasurer.
“An Evening in Paris” was the
SENIORS POSE ON WASHINGTON DAY
In 30 Days It Will Be ‘For Real’
theme of the Sophomore Cotillion staged by the men of ’53 on November 10, 1950, with Mike McNulty and Jerry Kelley as the co-chairmen of the event.
The sophomore class of that year was also honored when Hugh Braun was named president of the YCS while Tom Field was elected secretary and Jerry Kelly vice-president of that organization.
Don Carbone was named secretarytreasurer of the NFCCS and John O’Connell junior delegate. At an NFCCS conference later that spring O’Connell was elected regional president.
The Junior class cabinet of the Class of ’53 consisted of Floyd Blair, president; Jim Hutchinson, vice-president; Mike Dolan, secretary; and Bob Rust, treasurer.
Al DeCrane was named captain of the debate team in his Junior year and distinguished himself by winning the National Collegiate Debate championship that Spring. DeCrane also won the Breen Medal for oratory awarded each year by the University.
John Houck became president of the YCS at this time while Ed Manier served as vice-president and Jack Fink as secretary of that organization.
Joe Conwell was named president of
the Speakers’ Bureau and distinguished himself by winning both the Indiana and the National Intercollegiate Peace Speech contest for oratory and placing second in the Indiana Inter-State oratorical contest.
On the Scholastic staff as juniors were Bob Finney, managing editor; Don Carbone, news editor, and Bill Londo, assistant sports editor the first semester. Tom Foote succeeded Londo in the second semester when the latter was named assistant to Charlie Callahan in the sports publicity department.
Key men on the Dome last year were Ernie Buckley, index editor and Lou Bourjaily, halls editor.
Walter Swift attained campus prominence by playing the lead in the student musicale, “Stay Tuned for Addle-man” which hit Washington Hall for a five-night stand in the first week of May, 1952.
Two of the biggest activities of the Spring of 1952 were led primarily by members of the Junior class—the blood drive and the mock political convention. The blood drive, through the efforts of certain anonymous juniors, broke all pre-existing national collegiate records. (This year’s blood drive was also led by the same group of anonymous students.) At the mock political convention the Eisenhower forces were led to eventual victory by campaign manager Brian Kelly with Don Ross heading the MacArthur bandwagon and John Houck and Walt Werner spurring the nomination of darkhorse Wayne Morse.
“Sophistication” provided the theme for the Junior Prom on April 25, 1952 with Floyd Blair and Jim Hutchinson acting as co-chairmen for the affair.
Tom Reedy served as secretary of the student council last year and played an important part in formulating the reorganized Student Senate as it exists this year. Floyd Blair, Jim Hutchinson, Paul Zalecki, and Al DeCrane were also prominent council members as juniors.
Two juniors, Bill Santoro, and Fred lonata served as co-chairmen for the Science Ball held that February.
Paul Zalecki succeeded Al DeCrane as NFCCS senior delegate while Don Carbone stayed on as secretary of that organization.
After a highly spirited campaign last spring, Kerwin Fulton was elected senior class president, Bill Gaudreau vice-presi-(Continued on Page 30)

16
The Scholastic
Thia isn’t the usual place for it, but below is this issue’s Week column. Columnist Mort Luby, who doubles as an artist, decided to express his Senior Ball sentiments in cartoons. As it fits right in with our Salute to the Seniors, ice made it an integral part of the senior section. Look for Fogo and his lady at the Ball tonight.—Editor
By Mort Luby
May 8, 1953
17
IVhat Seniors Saw: A Four Year Review
1949-1950
1,406 freshmen new to the campus were introduced to Notre Dame through Knut-e Rockne, All-American, the welcoming at the fieldhouse, and meeting the administration at Washington Hall. . . . Then classes.
Sitko, Martin, Hart, Williams, et al, looked like national champions in beating Indiana 49-6, and Washington and Purdue followed in the Hoosier’s footsteps. . . . Life was here, and so was everybody else, to see Tulane break the string of 32 games without defeat, but the Green Wave went home on the short end of a 46-7 score.
The University Theatre opened its season with a thriller, Whistling in the Dark, and neither Michigan State, North Carolina, nor Iowa could stop the Irish. . . . USC came to town, the Four Horsemen rode again, and the Irish came out on top. . . . What with hall decorations and all, especially Dillon’s “Leahy’s School of Hard Blocks,” it was a big weekend. . . . Southern Methodist scared us for awhile, but finally went down, 27-20, and the Irish had the national Championship.
Christmas came and went, as did finals, and Mrs. Sally Fisher donated 81,000,000 to Notre Dame. . . . $250,000 was for a student loan fund, and $750,-
A quick glimpse at old Scholastics— brought memories—Walgreen crowd.
000 for a new dormitory, to be called Fishei’ Hall. . . . Ann Blyth set Irish hearts on fire when she appeared as the guest of honor at the Mardi Gras carnival in the Drill Hall.
Kevin O’Shea led the basketball team through a season of being giant killer. . . . They downed the nation’s powerhouses in Kentucky and St. Louis . . . and then fell into the pits of mediocrity at the hands of weak Butler and much defeated NYU.
The University Theatre put on an excellent production of a bad play, The Gentleman from Athens . . . Bill Carey won the U. S. individual debate championship and lead the debate team to their most successful season.
Tragedy hit the campus with the death of Jack Donohue, the fourth student to die during the year. . . . Others had been John Bellis, Ray Espenan, and Pat Thomas.
On “Some Enchanted Evening,” the freshmen went to their first college dance. . . . Chuck Gallagher and his orchestra played; nobody knew who he was. . . . The Old Timers shocked the Varsity 27-7 . . . and the seniors went “Dancing in the Dark” to close out another year with the Senior Ball.
1950-1951
There was a difference this year. . . . The Korean War had everybody looking over their shoulder for their draft board. . . . The biggest freshman class in history was on hand, and the new General Program enrolled 50 of them.
The Irish sneaked past North Carolina, and then it happened . . . Purdue was supposed to be just another team, but at the game’s end they held a 28-14 victory, and a 39-game string without defeat was broken. . . . Everyone was momentarily stunned, but came out of it standing in front of the dressing room in the rain, cheering and singing. . . . Every member of the team was carried back to campus on the shoulders of students.
The team was up-and-down for the rest of the season, finishing with a 4-4-1 record, which included victories over North Carolina, Tulane, Navy, and Pittsburgh; losses to Purdue, Indiana, Michigan State, and U'SC; and a tie with Iowa. . . . The MSC game, although a 36-33 loss, was the high point.

Notre Dime -
Scholastic
October 21. M40
LIFE came to ND to cover the big one —a 46-7 rout—Tulane’s Green Wave.
. . . The school was really up. . . . There was a torchlight parade, and the troops “shook down the thunder” at the bonfire rally. . . . Everyone agreed it was the greatest.
The Man Who Came to Dinner stayed over for four nights at Washington Hall. . . . Thanksgiving and Christmas passed, and the draft scare reached its peak. . . . Many enlisted at Christmas time, more- after finals, and it seemed as though only the seniors would hang on to finish the year.
Those who didn’t enlist came back after semester vacation and saw one of the great games in Notre Dame basketball history. ... St. Louis came here with one of the top rankings in the country and an 18-4 record. . . . But Dan Bagley’s 31 points, and splendid team play on the part of the whole Irish team, upset their plans.
Nobody could see him, but Harvey set up residence in Washington Hall.... The University Theatre pulled the rabbit of success right out of the hat on this one. . . . Johnny Jordan, former Notre Dame basketball great, was to return to his Alma Mater as coach, replacing “Moose” Krause. . . . The Army ROTC also was coming next year. . . . Deferment seekers breathed a sigh of relief.
Mr. and Mrs. Broadway came to Washington hall for a few days. . . . They hardly stayed long enough. . . . The Powers, Carey, Marshall musical, the first in three years, was a tremendous success.
The Juniors had their big night of the year, as they took time out to say “I -Remember April” on one of the early days in May. . . . Harry James provided the music for the Prom. . . . And Russ Carlyle was the Freshman’s choice
The Scholastic
18

to play at the “Starlight Terrace.”
There was just time left in the year to hear Chazz and Jack in “Out of the Sack” . . . early morning venture that was bound to fail because of the usual love of sack time.	'
1951-1952
Two holes in the ground changed the campus scene as construction was started on Fisher Hall and the O’Shaughnessy Building . . . and the Science Building was shaping up.
The Irish looked as though they would come back, but ran afoul of Southern Methodist and its aerial circus, and were wrecked at East Lansing by Michigan State. . . . The old jinx caused a tie with the Hawkeyes, and the Irish had to settle for an 7-2-1 record. . . . The previous year’s losses to Purdue and Indiana were revenged with a flourish, with scores of 48-6 and 30-9. . . . Revenge was sweetest when Southern Cal was toppled 19-12, and another name in Irish quarterbacking hit national prominence—Ralph Guglielmi.
Irish Bagpipers were a new twist for the football season. . . . And Jack Lambert’s letter to the Scholastic set off a running fight with St. Mary’s. . . . The University Theatre hit the boards twice before Christmas, with Faust and Old Heidelberg, and the Glee Club got into the act in the latter.
After Christmas, debate over the honor system waxed hot and heavy, with more against than for. . . . Another- debate began over the question of revising the Student Council. . . . WNDU got its own revision when new wires sent the Student Voice across the highway, and the station got its first feminine disc jockey in return. . . . The “biggest ever” Mardi Gras brought in the Lenten sea-
Senior pessimism grew—Korean “Police Action” aged and draft doubled.
son. . . . Ralph Marterie provided the music for the Ball and some black-faced minstrels turned Washington Hall into an uproarious Showboat; .	-
Johnny Jordan was hampered by in-eligibilites and injuries, but still his eagers turned out a 16-10 record for the season. . . . Leroy Leslie rewrote the scoring record book for the Irish.
Rocky Marciano, the honorary referee, called the Bengal Bouts “impressive.” . . . And Arch Ward called Marciano “Graziano.” ... In the Spring the young man’s fancy was captured by eightounce milk glasses, and they ended up in little bits strewn all over the floor. . . . The Student Council was changed by a campus-wide vote, and became the Stu-
Indiana weather was an old gripe— Spring when here: can be beautiful.
dent Senate, so everyone would be represented.
Politics swept ovei- the campus as Paul Harvey’s “atom bomb” speech keynoted the mock Republican convention. . . . Taft, Eisenhower, Morse, and Warren went down to the wire. . . . Screaming delegates finally predicted the actual Chicago outcome by nominating Ike.
A couple of anonymous men sponsored a blood drive. . . . The Red Cross tapped enough Notre Dame men to break four records. . . . The Morris Inn, a “castle by comparison,” was opened, and most of us couldn’t believe it, even when we saw it. . . . The student musical Stay Tuned for Addleman got encore after encore. . . . Consensus: top tunes, good humor, good acting—Broadway material.
Class elections were more confusing than ever. . . . The new college senators increased the flood of campaign literature, and a record number ran for President of the Senior Class. . . . But the most important year-end question was not about campaign promises. ... It was
Taft, Eisenhower, Morse and Warren: went to the wire—but Ike won it all.
“How do you stand with your draft, board?”
1952-T953
Students were greeted by a new University President, and the future President of the U. S. was on hand to make a campaign speech. . . . Later Adlai Stevenson showed us how to pronounce “encyclical,” but he still lost out in the mock election among students, professors to the contrary.
The Irish footballers started slowly-in tying Penn, but when the “upset”’ season was over, they again had a 7-2-1 record. . . . ND had defeated or tied five-conference champions, but were upset themselves by Pittsburgh, to everybody’s, surprise, including Pitt’s. . . . Michigan State still had our number, but the Oklahoma game is the one everyone will remember. . . . The Irish were never-greater, and the crash of Dan Shannon’s tackle can still be heard. . . . Final score-vras 27-21, and, as the stands emptied onto the field, all were saying, “The best game I ever saw!”
The University Theatre reached new-heights with the first amateur- performance of The Cocktail Party, and later-were to add another first—the completely original production of Vile Bodies.. . . . Father Hesburgh held a general, meeting and gave us two presents: an. extra day at Christmas and an Activities Center. . . . And the Monogram. Club topped off the pre-Christmas season with its novel initiation.
After Christmas, the Administration: began receiving cards and letters from, one Father Sorin, C.S.C., who, it seems,, was having a fine time watching the inauguration in Washington. .. . Attempts-, to persuade him to come back were fu—
(Continued on Page 31)
May 8, 1953
19>
Fr. Moore Outlines Graduation Exercises
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of academic affairs, has announced that Commencement exercises for the June Class of 1953 will be held June 6 and 7.
In accordance with a Notre Dame tradition, all members of the graduating class will attend the last visit to the Church, Senior Class Day exercises in the Drill Hall on Saturday morning, and the Baccalaureate Mass and Commencement exercises on Sunday. Authorization to be absent from any of these exercises must be requested in writing from the Office of Academic Affairs.
Members of the graduating class who are presently absent from the University and are returning for Commencement exercises should report on arrival to the Rector of Zahm Hall for assignment of rooms on the campus.
For both these affairs each graduate will be entitled to 10 tickets which will admit the holders to reserved seats in the Stadium.
In the event of inclement weather, the Mass and Commencement exercises will be held in the Drill Hall where only parents or immediate family of the graduate 'will be admitted.
Other ticket holders may be accommodated in the Gymnasium where they may listen to the ceremonies over the public address system. If the Baccalaureate Mass should be in the Drill Hall, a low Mass will be celebrated in the Gym, with additional Masses in Sacred Heart Church.
Under the circumstances it will not be possible to distribute Holy Communion at the Baccalaureate Mass, whether in the Stadium or Drill Hall, nor at the Mass in the Gym. Holy Communion may be received from 7-8 Sunday morning in Dillon Hall chapel or at other times and places indicated by the Prefect of Religion.
20
Guilfoile Captures Senior Class Presidency; Juniors, Sophomores Select Sherer, McNeill
William Guilfoile and Carl Eck, candidates of the All-Independent party’s slate, swept to clean-cut victories for Senioi' class president and vice-president, respectively, in the annual Spring elections held last Tuesday.
Guilfoile, hailing from Fond du Lac, Wis., tallied 218 votes to earn the nod over second place Ray Moran, who picked up 166 votes.
James Sherer captured the presidency of the Junior class with a hard-fought decision over Clem Devine.
Tom McNeill, elected Sophomore class president, piled up the largest majority of the day as he registered 374 ballots to opponent Edward Spengman’s 174 votes.
Fran Meaney copped the tightest race of the day when he eked out an eleven-vote margin over William Moore in the campaign for AB senator. Moore’s 130 votes fell short of Meaney’s 141 in the only recount in the 1953-54 election contests.
Joseph Giovanini chalked up a close victory margin over Roy Belknap in the Commerce senator’s race. Giovan-ini’s 250 markers topped the loser’s 205 in a hotly-contested battle.
William Carson downed Leon Blank and Jerome Brainerd in a complacent election for Engineering senator. He totaled 201 votes to Blank’s 127.
In the race for Science senator, Joe Daley breezed to an easy 179 to 51 win over’ his only opponent, Carl Gunderson.
In the calmest race of the year, “Duke” Rank coasted home with a grand total of eight votes and a chair in the Student Senate by virtue of his uncontested victory in the Off-Campus vote.
The three class presidents and five senators will automatically assume places on next year’s Student Senate. They will meet with the five StaySenators from the 1952-53 Senate and choose their president and officers in the near future. All class officers will be members of the Executive Cabinet of the Senate.
Vetville and Law Senators will be announced in the near future, since these two groups hold separate elections.
Rounding out the Senior Class offices are Dan Noonan and Pat O’Malley as secretary and treasurer, respectively. These -winners were members of the Shamrock party.
John Reidy, John Sullivan, Fred
Paxton, and Henry Clancy trailed Guilfoile and Moran in the Senior election.
Eck left Otto Hilbert, Richard Braun, Ray Tierney, Jack Rosshirt, and Don McLaughlin far behind in the vice-presidential race.
Pat O’Malley handled the determined bids of Paul Kraus, Bill Cavanaugh, Louis Tabit, and Bob Wallace as he earned the treasurer’s spot.
Clem Devine, an independent candidate, gave Sherer a stiff run before the last block of ballots installed a 228 to 193 count in the winner’s favor.
Rick Hicks and Bill Byrne followed Devine in that order. Neither offered a serious challenge to the two frontrunners.
BILL GUILFOILE
Policymaker for Class of ’54
Frank Conklin bested Jim Barry, Jim O’Shea, and Paul Fullmer in the run for Junior class veep. Jim Ehret was elected over George Carhart and Dick Capka in the race for secretary. Jerry Hughes won a second term as treasurer by defeating Anthony Vallace by over 100 votes.
The Toppers Party lived up to their advanced billing as they swept all four of their men into Sophomore class posts. Dick Lewis triumphed over Don Schaefer for secretary in the only close contest by some 30 votes.
Vice-President went to Dan Devine as he topped both Tom Crehan and Jim Price. Tom Caplet rounded out the winning quartet by rolling to an easy win over Bill Weldon in the treasurer’s race.
The Scholastic
EMERGENCY LOAN DEADLINE
All graduating seniors who obtained student emergency loans are required to settle their accounts before graduation, it was announced by Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., who is in charge of the fund.
New Medieval Institute Gifts Include Renowned Paintings
Mr. Paul Byrne, curator of the Medieval Institute, announced last week that 14 paintings and two wood carvings have been donated to the museum.
Latest donations include masterpieces of world-famous artists, including Dietz, Rachel, and di Giovanni.
“Les Bateaux Nouches” by Dietz, “A Lady Playing a Spinet” by Pietro Longhi, and Gaspard de Craeyer’s “Head of a Saint” are now on display on the fifth floor of the library.
The Roman School contributed the “Portrait of Pope Innocent III” and “Portrait of a Bishop” by the Venetian School is also included in the exhibit.
Copies of Rachel’s “Madonna of the Goldfinch” and Del Sarto’s “Madonna of the Harpies” are also being featured.
Abraham Bloemaert’s “Three Ages of Man” and Jan Wynant’s “Dutch Landscapes,” along with “Madonna and Child” by Carlo Doici and “Madonna and Child with Saints" are coupled to form a separate unit.
The most recent donations are Giovanni Mainari’s “Christ Carrying His Cross” and Bernadino de Conte’s “Madonna and Child.”
Campus Blood Drive Collects Almost 600 Pints Daily in Attempt to Surpass Harvard Record
Blood was being given at the recordbreaking rate of about 600 pints daily from Monday through today as the Notre Dame Blood Drive attempted to surpass Harvard University’s mark. This totals 3,405 pints collected in two drives at the Ivy League school.
Last year the Irish contributed 1900 pints in a single collection, but the present drive is striving for 3,000 pints, which the leaders of the project think will be reached. If attained, this year’s total, added to last year’s, will set a new collegiate record.
Many donors expressed their approval of this year’s operation at the Northern Indiana Children’s Hospital. Tom Armstrong said, “It was easier this year because the needle was smaller and the blood drained slower.” The most frequent comment heard between mouthfuls of food at the hospital’s free lunch counter was, “It sure is being run a lot smoother than last year.”
Accommodating students offered advice like, “It won’t hurt a bit” or “Would you like a ride back?” while donors were being processed through the blood deduction line.
A few of the prospective donors were turned down amid comments of: “But I don’t have low blood pressure,” and “even if I have a cold, there is enough alcohol in my blood to make great anti-freeze.”
The blood drive was well supplied with nurses. In addition to the ones at
tached to the Red Cross units, there were about 90 volunteers who helped out each day. These included nurses from St. Joseph, Memorial, and Children’s hospitals; trained blood technicians from the South Bend Medical Laboratory; and local Red Cross workers.
Three hundred student volunteers comprised the Notre Dame Blood Program committee which handled the or-' ganization of the drive on campus. These volunteers worked tirelessly to make this campaign the most successful ever conducted by the Red Cross.
The efficient organization of this year’s drive eliminated the waiting around which characterized the one last year. This organization will serve as a blueprint for future large scale operations, drive leaders said.
Mr. Blair Bronstad, executive director of the local Red Cross, headed the drive. He was assisted by Mr. Abe Zoss, chairman of the blood program for St. Joseph county Red Cross, and Mr. Edward Butler, the assistant director of the Fort Wayne regional blood center. Dr. Don Hillstrup, the medical director of the Indianapolis Blood Center, was in charge of the blood taking operation.
Mr. Alvan A. Sauer, superintendent of the Northern Indiana Children’s Hospital where the operation took place, aided the drive greatly by his complete cooperation with the directors of the operation.
IRISH STRIVE FOR NATIONAL BLOOD RECORD
(L.) WNDU’S Bill Santoro, Bill Ryan, and Leo Zatta Filibuster for Blood; (R.) Nurse Watches Another Pint Fill Up.
May 8, 1953
21
University Marks Milestone as Two Years Of Work End in O'Shaughnessy Dedication
BY JIM MASON
Both beautiful and useful adequately describes the new $2,300,000 O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building which will be officially dedicated next Friday and Saturday. Begun in June of 1951, the structure will be completed this June.
Among the visiting dignitaries who will participate in the two-day celebration are: Samuel Cardinal Stiitch, archbishop of Chicago, and Mr. I. A. O’Shaughnessy for whom the building is named.
The Great Hall, from which all wings branch, has been highly decorated with art glass windows and oak wainscoting. The walls have been plastered with an acoustic material and the floor with Roman travertine. The ceiling beams are painted with ornate designs.
Classrooms are located on the first two floors of the north wing. The professors’ offices are on the third floor of this wing with the faculty lounge on the fourth floor.
The east wing is devoted to the Fine Arts Department. Located on the first floor are the art and sculpture classrooms with the studios located on the north side in keeping with the recommended practice of having indirect north light. A wooden block floor has been laid in the sculpture room.
The second floor is to be used by the Music Department. It contains classrooms and 16 private practice cubicles. All of the doors in this section are made of a special soundproof construction with the plaster also being soundproof.
Galleries in South Wing
The art galleries, which are to have specially controlled humidity and temperature conditions, are located in the south wing of the building. They are being finished in soft greys to make the displayed works stand out. Incandescent lighting has been combined with fluorescent lighting so that the paintings can be viewed under the best confessors’ offices are on the third floor tures have been employed to create desirable effects.
Under this wing is a partial basement which will contain a snack bar, a ceramic casting room, mechanical equipment, three rooms with special racks, controlled humidity and temperature for the storage of paintings, and
a room for the renovation and repair of paintings.
WNDU will move its studios from the cramped Fieldhouse quarters to the fifth and sixth floors of the tower where ample room will be provided.
Efficient fluorescent lighting is used in both the classrooms and the hallways. Although-the building is not air-conditioned, the heating units are de-
/f
MR. I. A. O'SHAUGHNESSY
The Building for the Future
signed to mix fresh air in with the heated air. Soft pastel colors have been used to reduce eyestrain, and nearly all the rooms have two color combinations. Twenty-eight different colors have been used in decorating the interior of the building.
The building is fireproof throughout; the only wood used is in the doors, with wainscoting in the Great Hall, and the dean’s office.
The walls of the corridors are of glazed tile; this material was also used as wainscoting in the classrooms. Acoustic tile ceilings have been used throughout. Floors in the corridors and stairwells are tarrazo; in the classrooms, asphalt tile, and in the galleries, cork.
Aluminum window frames and exterior doors have also been used. The building is to be entirely outfitted with new furniture.
Ellerbe and Company of St. Paul, Minn., are the architects. McGough
Brothers, also of St. Paul, were the general contractors; Hosier and Pearson of Fort Wayne were the mechanical contractors; and J. W. Lower Company did the decorating.
The various departments of the College of Arts and Letters will move into the new building during the summer. The Medieval Institute will remain in the library and will use the space now being used by the art galleries to establish a micro-film library.
A system of concrete walks has recently been laid, and landscaping has been started.
Presidential Review Salutes Fr. Hesburgh
More than 1,700 members of the three military units at Notre Dame saluted Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., last Saturday in the annual President’s Review.
In the official reviewing party with Father Hesburgh were Rear Adm. Francis P. Old, commandant, Ninth Naval District, Chicago; Mayor John A Scott of South Bend; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president of the University; Maj. Gen. Walter L. Weible, deputy commanding general, Fifth Army headquarters, Chicago; Col. Roy N. Hillyar, Jr., USAF Headquarters; and the commanding officers of the three Notre Dame units.
Father Hesburgh presented inscribed wristwatches to the senior student of each unit cited “for the highest combined merit of scholarship, leadership, and military attainment.” Recipients of these awards, members of the student regimental staff, were Midshipman Roger O. Zoellner, Air Force Cadet Col. William N. Jackomis, and Army Cadet Lt. Col. William M. Amundson.
Midshipman Diaz commanded the student regiment during the review.
Before the cadets and midshipmen passed in review, 33 other outstanding military students were honored by officers and local celebrities with awards and decorations.
Following the presentation of awards the joint student regiment paraded in review to the music of the 28-piece Army ROTC band conducted by Cadet Lt. John T. Giambruno.
Company F of the Army unit was awarded first place in ratings by various military officers and received a plaque in recognition of the feat. Cadet Captain David C. Bickel led the winning company.
Headquarters Company of the Air Force and Company E of the Army tied for second in the rating contest.

22
The Scholastic
Sons of Notre Dame Pay May Day Homage
On the eve of May Day, more than 3500 Notre Dame men turned out in a drizzling rain to pay homage to their spiritual Mother at the Grotto.
With candles and rosaries, the men filed out of their respective halls and formed a continuous stream of flickering lights ending at the Grotto which is the traditional site of the May Day ceremonies.
At the Grotto, the student body joined with Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., in reciting the rosary as their massed candles illuminated the entire area.
Following the recitation of the Rosary, Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., addressed the assembled students.
The subject of Father Brennan’s talk was “Mary As the Seat of Wisdom.” He pointed out that men in a Catholic university should have a special devotion to Mary as the Seat of Wisdom that she might guide them in their chosen field. He emphasized further that there is an unlimited need for men of wisdom in every walk of life— men that will spread the truth.
Father Brennan concluded his discourse by saying, “If each one of us keeps doing our little bit to make every day a Notre Dame May Day, one of these days every day will be Mary’s day everywhere and the Mystical Rose in which the Word Divine was made Incarnate will bloom forever in the minds of men.”
The ceremonies concluded with Benediction, renewal of baptismal vows, and an Act of Consecration.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., gave the Benediction and extended his congratulations to the entire student body for their cooperation.
Library Card Exhibit Shows Historical Books, Documents
Historically important letters, documents, and books have been incorporated into a colorful display in the card catalogue room of the Library by the staff with the cooperation of several departments of the University. Two large show cases have been utilized to provide the maximum of ease of viewing for students and visitors.
Mother Seton’s copy of the “Imitation of Christ,” a gift from Archbishop Seton, is a featured display. The
Laundry Nun Recalls Days of Flannels, Stiff Shirt Fronts in Observing Golden Anniversary
Last Friday Sister Elfreda, C.S.C., who arrived on the Notre Dame campus on May 1, 1903, and who has since devoted 50 years of her life to the washing and ironing of countless shirts, socks, and pajamas of generations of Notre Dame men observed her golden anniversary as a member of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
“When I first came here,” the jovial
SISTER ELFREDA “Fifty Years of Devotion”
“Grim Literature of Human Skin” by Pico della Mirandola, is bound in human skin and is believed to have been used by Christopher Columbus.
There are letters signed by renowned politicians, writers and ecclesiastical dignitaries. Such people as Friar Junipero Serra, one of the earliest missionaries in the Spanish Southwest, who founded over 21 missions in what is now the state of California; James A. Farley; Daniel Webster; Cardinal Pacelli, whom we now know as Pope Pius XII; Cardinal Newman; and Charles Carroll, the only Catholic among the signers of the Declaration of Independence, are included in the new exhibition.
Other items are the certificate from Andrew Jackson granting an amount of land to Father Badin, the first edition of the famous novel Two Years Before the Mast, the first edition of Dickens’ famous Christmas Carol, and the first issue of the Gutenberg Bible printed on moveable type.
nun recalls, “Notre Dame-had only 500 students and the student body was a closely-knit family. In those days we did all the laundry by hand and it included a lot of red flannels and starched-front shirts that we don’t see any more,” she said.
Sister Elfreda wistfully remembers the old days when she knew all the students by name. Many alumni of years gone by seek her out when they visit the campus. But she usually associates their faces, not with their names, but with their old laundry numbers.
Now, in a completely modern laundry with 80 employees, Sister Elfreda finds her work much easier than in former years. But she still puts in a full day, giv ing special attention to the laundry of the priests and seminarians.
A special Mass marked the golden jubilee of the 70 year old nun, now bent a bit with arthritis, who joined the Sisters of Holy Cross at Notre Dame with a group of 14 postulants from her native Germany. Except for a year in the novitiate at nearby St. Mary’s College, Sister Elfreda has spent all her life in religion here.
With animation and enthusiasm, the nun reminisces about the half-century of Notre Dame history which she and her community helped to make. Three events are most vivid in her memory. “First was the day I saw Knute Rockne received into the Church,” Sister Elfreda said. “Then there was the day Cardinal Pacelli, now Pope Pius XII, visited Notre Dame.” She also recalls clearly the day in 1906 when Rev. John Zahm, C.S.C., then provincial of the community, escorted the Sisters to Sacred Heart Church on the campus to see electric lights for the first time.
Although Sister Elfreda has known Rockne’, George Gipp, and many of Notre Dame’s famed athletes through the years, she has never seen a football game. But she is an intense football fan and roots for the team while listening to the games on the radio. A special anniversary treat was the movie highlights of the 1952 season of the “Fighting Irish.”
“I’ve never had an unhappy day at Notre Dame,” Sister Elfreda says, “but I do miss the boys who have come and gone.” She hastens to add, however, that the present day Notre Dame students are “very, very good boys” and confided that “this year’s freshmen are the finest group of gentlemen we’ve ever had."
May 8, 1953
23
Love, Lyrics, Laughter Highlight 'Brute Farce': Scintillating Musical Wins Deserved Plaudits
BY GAVIN KING
Washington Hall housed some lively entertainment the first five days of May. It was Brute Farce, and it was lots of fun. It had the characteristics of a good musical: it had good music; it had vigor and life; it had good talent—it just had it.
The story consists of the trials and tribulations of Peabody U.’s football team, its kidnappers, and several love affairs. Four tough, song-singing gangsters, surnamed Bundy, set about on the enterprise of capturing Peabody’s football team. Reason: the syndicate headed by the pistol packin’ mama of the four kidnappers must make it impossible for Peabody to win Saturday’s big game. If P. U. loses, the syndicate wins.
So the four hoodlums and their outspoken parent, Tillie, grab a player here and a player there. This causes chaos in the love life of Peabody’s captain: he can’t see much of his sweetheart, Alice. This she doesn’t like. But Tom and Alice are not the only ones who are having troubles. Misogynist Homer is constantly battling off Dionella, an ardent—and I do mean ardent—admirer.
This sort of thing goes on and on
‘BRUTE FARCE’ GOES TO PEABODY U.
They Have to Line Up for Registration, Too.
with well-sprinkled, interruptions for song-and-dance acts, even in “The One and Only Old Howard” burlecue establishment. Finally, everything resolves itself into a happy ending by a kind act of Fate. Tillie Bundy recognizes P. U.’s prexy, Mrs. Rollingstone, as an old chorus girl colleague. Tillie, for auld lang syne’s sake, calls a halt to her kidnapping venture and makes restitution by returning the players. Lovers unite, and everybody is happy.
The audiences were happy, too. The catchy songs, clever lines, Notre Dame allusions—“bona fide phy. ed. excuses” and “a—lay—loo—ya,” the four Bundy brothers, plus the bouncy Dionella and Homer were enough to make anyone happy.
The songs, which were quite lively, may never make the Hit Parade, .but most of them were hits with ND students. Why not, with such ditties as When You Wake Up in the Morning, Laissez Faire, Give It All Ya Got, and Face to Face with Love? Some of these could be called mediocre, but by and large they were mighty good.
Speaking of “mighty good” immediately brings Jerry Godwin to mind. This gentleman is responsible for an
amazingly forceful presentation of an intellectual Homer and a funny Homer. Godwin had good gags, good expression, and a good partner, Denni Egri. And what .is better than these, he has rare vocal and facial talent. However, at times he abused this talent: often he made rather obvious—and effective —efforts to steal a scene or two or three. But even though he may have stolen, at least his guilt may be lessened by the consideration that he was a good thief.
Jerry Godwin was not the only spectacular- personage in the show. The Brennan brothers, Joe Sassano, and Fred lonata, alias the Bundy boys, performed laudably. So did Denni Egri, a very peppy person.
Another very attractive performance was given by another pert St. Mary’s gal, Gayle Baumer. She wasn’t .in the limelight—she had a small part, but she did complete justice to it with a talented voice and talented dancing feet. Her partner, Jim Kinnane, is blessed ■with applaudable talent, too.
Then there’s Hildegarde Vargyas. As usual, she did well. Incidentally this time she showed by her singing that she has the makings of another Sophie Tucker. Bill Bleakley, or Percy Lippen-cott, Mary Jane Paden and Joan Crawford, the two “Old Howard” girls, and “Silver Star Detective” George Boehm registered fine performances.
As for Miss Wilma Burke: she has a pretty voice and a very pretty face.
All this talent sang, danced, and acted in front of quite adequate sets designed by Dave Hayes, and to Pat Tobin’s musical arrangements which occasionally faltered in being satisfactory. Most noticeable of this faulty arrangement was the overture which, though a pleasant work, stumbled here and there because of a slightly amateurish arrangement.
Nor was this the only fault of Brute Farce. Every now and then the show dragged a bit with the result that the audience could easily forget just where it should be in following the turn of events. Anothei- more obvious fault was the' scene between Peabody’s president and vice-president. It seemed to “fall flat on its face.” The two acted well enough, but the scene lacked something. It was quite dead.
The better qualities of the show far outweighed the poorer ones so that the result was two and a half hours of pleasant, enjoyable entertainment. If you didn’t see it, you missed out. Walter Swift and his colleagues Geary Becker and Bob Rossiter did a good job. Brute Farce was a good show.
24
The Scholastic
FRESHMEN CAVORT IN MARINE SETTING
(L.) Couples Dance Around Davey Jones' Treasure Chest; (R.) President Mike Van Huffel, Chairman Nick Mavigliano, and Dates Sit One Out.
Decorations and Kirk Theme Frosh Success
Old Davey Jones got quite a treat as some 400 freshmen and their dates descended into his watery kingdom for the 1953 Freshman Frolic last Friday night.
Incoming couples got a hint of what was to be inside as they came up the walk to the Rock. Silhouetted in the huge window over the entrance was one of the scaly inhabitants of the deep, bubbling a hello to the romantic duos from behind a mass of seaweed.
In the blue ballroom at the bottom of the sea a chest of sunken treasure spilled out coin of the realm onto the starfish and anchor chain surrounding it, while briny denizens of the depths peeked out warily from behind stumps and wreckage.
Bob Kirk and his band took up quarters at the far end of the balloon-filled room inside a huge' oyster which even had a pearl ready for the plucking lying in its interior.
Bob Kirk set the mood for “Serenade in the Sea” by playing his arrangement of Somewhere Beyond the Sea at various intervals during the evening.
For dancers who wanted to take a break in some secluded rendezvous, the committee provided Ye Oide Anchor Inn.
When the clouds parted enough to let the moon and a few stars out, the prom-goers took advantage of the terrace for a look at South Bend’s lighted sky-line and even engaged in a little group-singing during the intermissions.
The queen of this year’s Frolic, Miss Peggy Tyne of Oak Park, Ill., said she
was “very, very happy and thrilled, but also a little scared.” She was crowned by her date, Chairman Nick Mavigliano shortly after the grand march led by Mike VanHuffel, president of the class, and his date Miss Delores Kramer of Fort Wayne.
Chaperones for the affair were: Lt. Col. Milton R. Weaver, USAF; Major Walter C. Lowry, USA; Major A. M. Zimmer, USMC; and Capt. F. Luongo, Jr., USN.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, dropped in to meet some of the dates of the freshmen, as did Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., and Rev. Laurence Broestl, C.S.C.
Paul Kearney and his date, Dorothy Uttich of Villa Park, Ill., summed up “Serenade in the Sea” and Bob Kirk with, “Ummm.”
Application Deadline Monday For Draft Deferment Test
The Selective Service College Qualification Test will again be administered here on Thursday, May 21, from 8:30 a. m., until 12:30 p. m.
All eligible students who have not yet taken the test, are urged to do so on May 21, since the test will not be administered again until late Fall.
The latest date for registration with the Selective Service Division of the Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, N. J., is Monday, May 11.
Registration forms are available from the Office of Military Information, Main Building.
Fisher Loans Expire; Scholarships Available
Official announcement concerning the Fisher Loan Fund and student scholarships was made recently by Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C.
Those who still owe on their loans from the Fisher Education Fund must make provisions to repay the loans within the next two weeks or they will not receive their diplomas at this June’s Commencement. They are asked to contact Father Mendez at his office in 217 in the Main Building as soon as possible.
Apply Before May 30
Underclassmen interested in obtaining scholarship grants for the ’-53-’-54 school year have been urged to submit their written applications to Father Mendez before this coming May 30.
New applicants may obtain scholarship blanks at 217 Main Building, while those who already hold grants may send in a letter stating that they would like to retain their- scholarship in the coming school year.
Freshmen interested in obtaining scholarships are reminded that there are only a limited number of yearly S500 (§250 per semester) grants available. Father Mendez’s Scholarship Of-, fice, at 217 Main Building, announced that the grants will be awarded on a “first come, first served basis” to deserving freshmen. Applicants are urged to get in their requests before the end of the semester or by the July 15 closing date.
May 8, 1953
25
Great Lakes, Airmen Host Irish Nine
Irish Sailors Hold First Invitational Regatta Against Midwest's Finest on Diamond Lake
BY TOM WELLY
Notre Dame’s first annual Invitational Regatta will get underway tomorrow at the Diamond Lake Yacht Club triangular course at Diamond Lake, Michigan. The two-day meet is sponsored by the Irish Sailing team, in cooperation with the Athletic Department and the Office of Student Affairs.
Joining the host school will be several of the midwest’s finest sailing ag-• gregations. Michigan State, Toledo and Marquette are regarded as the principal outside threats to the Irish yachtsmen, while Fenn, Beloit and the University of Chicago have also entered teams in the Invitational. The University of Michigan is expected to complete the eight-team field.
The Diamond Lake Yacht Club is providing all the facilities including the Snipes which will be the official class boat for the race. Individual members of the Yacht Club are making the Snipes available for this year’s Regatta. The “Dink,” which is the usual boat used for intercollegiate racing, has been replaced by the 16/?-foot speedster to further competition and provide a better test for the ability of the skippers.
Paul Miller of New York City, Don Matthews, Center Island, N. Y., and Bob Fisher of Larchmont, New York are listed as the probable starting skippers for Notre Dame. Bill Bonde, Bob Streeter, Bob Sargent and Bob Miller will also see action as the Irish will attempt to capture the regatta. A rotation of the entered boats will provide all the competing schools with an equal opportunity of winning the Notre Dame meet.
Tomorrow’s regatta closes the season for the Notre Dame Sailing Club. Commodore Ed Rodgers, of the newly organized sailing unit, reports that the Invitational Regatta is to be a yearly event and that future plans are al
ready being prepared for further expansion. New boats and a shift to a larger lake are among the improvements planned for the 1954 Notre Dame Invitational Regatta.
IRISH “DINK” SETS SAIL
Diamond Lake Next Stop For Sailors
The Irish skippers lost their chance last week to be one of the two top midwest teams to go to the Nationals at Columbus May 15, 16 when they finished third in the Michigan Regional Eliminations at East Lansing.
Notre Dame, skippered by Ed Rodgers, Bob Fisher and Don Matthews, compiled 53 points to nose out fourth place Toledo by one, while winner Purdue amassed 69 points followed by second-place Michigan with 63.
Michigan State with 47 and Detroit with 40 rounded out the list of competing schools.
ND Opposes Big Ten Foes on Home Field
The Notre Dame baseball team meets the Great Lakes Training Center tomorrow and the Naval Air Station Sunday before returning to Cartier field for a two-day stay, facing Northwestern May 13 and Michigan May 14.
The Great Lakes Bluejackets, coached by Tom McCann, have only two members of last year’s nine that won 39 of its 51 games, still stationed at Great Lakes. Shortstop Jimmy Jones of Galveston, Tex., the ace of the two returnees, hit a blistering .347 last summer. Bob Rayunas of Waukegan, Ill., the other returnee, hit .273 as a utility player for two seasons.
Barry Siegal is one of McCann’s top outfielders. Siegal played for Oklahoma’s national collegiate champs in 1949. Most of the pitching chores fall on McCann’s righthanded duo and a classy southpaw. Bob Jones, Springfield, Mo., and Joe Cantanzarito, from Mishawaka, Ind., are both righthanders, while George Scolack is the classy lefthander from St. Louis. All three have played some professional ball.
First Irish home opponent will be Northwestern whom they defeated 6-4 April 29 at Evanston. Three basketball stars, Larry Dellefield, Don Blaha, and Larry Kurka, give the Wildcats added strength both in the field and at the plate.
Notre Dame will close their present home stand the next day in a single game with Michigan, co-champs of the Big Ten last year along with Illinois.
The Wolverines are strong in every department, but particularly in the infield. Their crack infield, which won the 1952 fielding title, is led by Captain Bill Mogk at first base. Gil Sabuco at second, Bruce Haynam at shortstop, and Don Eaddy at the hot corner round out the infield.
Frankie Howell, Big Ten home run leader, is the number one outfielder, (Continued on Page 29)
26
The Scholastic
Netmen Lose First; ND Varsity Eleven Scores Early and Often Play MSC, Michigan To Smother Old-Timers, 34-7, Before 11,000
Iowa handed Notre Dame’s tennis • team its first defeat of the season last Saturday, nipping- the Irish, 5-4 at Iowa City. The Hawkeyes won two of three doubles matches and split even with the Irish in the singles.
One consolation for the Langfordmen was co-captain Ray Smith’s victory over Roger Kroth of Iowa. It was the first loss of the season for Kroth. Ken An-gyal, the other Irish co-captain dropped a tough match to Howie Hill of the Hawks.
In the’ other singles matches, Wally Clarke, ND’s No. 1 man lost to Norm Barnes, 6-2, 6-2; Don Olmstead (I) defeated Matt Tuite (ND), 6-0, 8-6; Maurice Reidy (ND) defeated Dave Van Ginkle, (I), 6-2, 6-4; Dick Crowley (ND) defeated Bob Fletcher (I), 4-6, 6-3, 6-4.
In the doubles, Barnes and Kroth (I) defeated Clarke and Reidy (ND), 6-2, 4-6, 7-5; Angyal and Smith (ND) defeated Hill and Olmstead (I), 6-3, 6-2; Van Ginkel and Johnson (I) defeated Tuite and Crowley (ND), 6-3, 4-6, 6-1.
Last Friday, rain halted ND’s match with Northwestern at Evanston with the score tied, 3-3. A play-off of the remainder of the match will take place later in the season.
This weekend the Irish netmen will invade Michigan, engaging Michigan State at East Lansing this afternoon and the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor tomorrow. Both teams are top contenders for Big Ten tennis honors. Last year, State walloped the Irish, 7-1, while the Irish in turn walloped the Wolverines, 7-2.
BY WARREN ASHBAUGH
Capitalizing five times in the first half on long range scoring opportunities the ND Varsity walked away with last Saturday’s Old Timers game, 34-7 before some 11,000 fans.
The Varsity scored twice in the first period on long runs by a pair of fleet freshman halfbacks. Dick Keller scored first when he dashed 45 yards with an intercepted pass thrown by Johhny Lu-jack. Dick Fitzgerald, another frosh halfback, scored the second TD on a 91-yard punt return after taking a handoff from Joe Heap. It was the longest run of the day.
Worden Tallies Third TD
The Varsity kept their scoring machine in high gear- in the second period with three more tallies. Neil Worden, veteran regular fullback, plunged over from the two shortly after setting up the touchdown with a 26-yard end run.
Another freshman, Dick Hendricks, figured heavily in the fourth Varsity score. Joe Heap skirted end foi- 13 yards and the score, one play aftei-Hendricks had returned a punt to the Old Timers’ 13.
The Varsity’s final score came late in the first half. Reserve fullback Tom McHugh intercepted one of quarterback Bob Williams’ passes and dashed 20 yards to the 12 where he lateraled to Tom Carey, who scored untouched.
The Old Timers scored the only touchdown of a somewhat slow second
half. In the final period Bob Williams tossed a long pass to Coy McGee, a fleet seatback from the 1946-47 squads, who scampered about 50 yards for the score. John Gaffney, frosh fullback, converted.
Smooth Sailing Hits Snag
The Varsity, playing under wraps, had rough going in the second half, though they did threaten inside the 20 three times. Each time, their own mistake prevented a score. The first time it was a fumble; then an intercepted pass, and finally a costly penalty.
Coach Frank Leahy opened with seven freshmen in his line-up. This included all four backfield men, quarterback Don Schaefer, halfbacks Keller and Fitzgerald, and fullback John Gaffney. Leahy later substituted his regular unit, with frosh halfback Dick Washington taking the place of the injured Lattner. After the regulars were put into the line-up Leahy sent most of the freshmen and reserves over to the Old Timers. Besides seniors from last year’s squad, several famous stars of the post-war years were on hand. Lu jack and Williams, of course, directed much of the game at quarterback, while Coy McGee, Larry Coutre, and Jim Mello saw considerable action. Mello, who played in 1942 before going into the service and again after the war in 1946, was the oldest Old Timer from the National Championship teams from a point of service present.
RIVAL FULLBACKS SPARK PLAY IN OLD TIMERS’ FRAY
Neil Worden (48) Jim Mello (15) Break Through Opposing Linemen
May 8, 1953
Six Teams Unbeaten In Interhall Softball
Six undefeated teams are the standouts of the Interhall softball league thus far as the season heads into its home stretch. With half the schedule completed, Badin leads the Gold League; Alumni the Blue; the Irish the Club League, while Detroit and Chicago are tied for first in the City League.
Badin’s league leaders have won all of their three contests, beating Alumni Gold, 23-4; Howard, 17-9 and Off-Campus, 6-4. Dillon Gold is right behind Badin with a 2-0 record and from their performance so far, the Dillonites are capable of offering serious challenge to Badin. The two Dillon wins have come over Alumni, 11-3 and Lyons, 7-2. Following the two leaders in order are Howard and Lyons (2-1), Zahm (0-1), Off-Campus (0-2) and Alumni (0-4).
Alumni Blues Favored
Reversing the record of their Gold League brothers, Alumni Blue is way out in front in the Blue League with a 4-0 record. Alumni has whipped Dillon Blue, 15-12; Farley, 14-4; Law Blue, 27-7 and St. Ed’s, 7-0. Trailing the front-runners are Sorin and Dillon (2-1), Law and St. Ed’s (1-2), and Zahm and Farley (0-2).
With three wins in as many starts, Detroit and Chicago share the number one spot in the City League. Detroit has registered victories over Buffalo, 18-8; Kansas City, 7-0 (forfeit) and Pittsburgh, 18-2. The Chicagoans have swept through Indianapolis, 13-0; Milwaukee, 12-3 and Rochester 13-3. Pittsburgh, with 2-1, is in the runner-up spot followed by Buffalo, Rochester, Indianapolis, Milwaukee and Kansas City in that order.
Forfeits have caused a revision in the set-up of the Club League. Several of the teams have been dropped and only five remain to battle it out for the title. The classy Irish Club with a 3-0 record rate as favorites to win the new one round double-elimination tournament, set up by Mr. Maxwell, head of the league, just for this division. Other teams in the Club League are Law Gold, Aesculapians, K of C, and the Syrian-Lebonese.
Baseball Playoffs Underway
In Mr. Szekely’s baseball loop, the teams have already moved into the championship playoffs. The top two teams from each of the three divisions
qualified. In games played this past week, the Air cadets met Cavanaugh in the A bracket while Dillon (Moore) met Dillon (Corrao) in the B bracket. Lyons and Morrissey clashed in a C bracket playoff. The winner of the A bracket game went on to play the B winner. The C winner was to take on the winner of the A-B contest. There is also a consolation round set up for the losers, run along the same lines. —Bill Noonan	'
Pin TRACK MEET
The Varsity track team and the University of Pittsburgh will engage in a dual meet on Cartier Field May 9th. Field events begin at 1:30 P.M., track events at 2:00 P.M.
Students will be admitted upon presentation of student identification cards.
ND Dominates Field Events, Downs Missouri Cindermen
Notre Dame’s track squad scored an impressive win over Missouri, 72-59 last Saturday in a dual meet held at Columbia, Mo. It was the first outside meet in which all of Wilson’s squad participated.
Wilson’s ace vaulters, Joe Springer and Jim Harrington failed for the second time in the outdoor season in their attempt to better the 14-foot mark, but both cleared the bar at 13 fee 8 inches to break the former meet mark set by another Notre Dame man, Jack Wietoff, in 1942.
The best race of the day came in the mile run with Jack Alexander’s extrastrong finish providing the margin of victory over Missouri’s Bert McVay after both ran side by side over most of the final lap. Alexander was clocked at 4:24. In the discus Jack Shay’s toss of 140 feet 9 inches took first place, while Jack Soranno’s throw of 139 feet 1% inch was good enough for third.
Tom Hassenger and Al Kohanowich, both of Notre Dame, tied for first place in the high jump at 6 feet. Tony Genovese’s jump of 21 feet 7 inches took first in the broad jump, while Kohanowich followed close behind at 21 feet 1% inches.
Led by their reliable hurdlers, Harvey Newquist and Capt. Ed‘ Powell, Notre Dame finished one-two in the high hurdles. Newquist’s time was :15.0.
Other firsts for the Irish came in the 880-yard run and the mile relay.
Golfers Top Braves; Drop First to State
Tomorrow the 1953 edition of the Notre Dame golf team journeys to Bloomington, Ind., to face the Hoosiers of Indiana in a dual meet. The Irish linksmen possess a 4-1-1 record for the season, while the Hoosiers hold a 2-1 mark.
In the meet with Bradley at Peoria, Ill., the Irish braved a 45-degree temperature and strong winds to come from behind to gain the margin of victory, 16)4-13%. Bradley took a commanding lead in the doubles and early singles events, but the Irish depth gave them the necessary edge in the final singles events. Bradley captured the doubles events, 6-3, but the Irish rallied to sweep the singles events, 13%-7/2-Don Guariglia of Bradley was medalist in the meet with a 71, while Captain Tom Matey of the Irish was next with a 74. This meet marked only the second year of golf competition between these two schools. Notre Dame now holds a 2-0 lead in the series by virtue of their recent victory, and last year’s 16)4-10% defeat of Bradley. The summary:
DOUBLES: Don Guariglia and Ron Guariglia (B) tied Joe McInerney and Tom Matey, 1)4-1%; Walt Durdle and Marv Whitefield (B) tied Jack Powers and Joe Moresco, 1)4-1%; Tom Oppel and Bob Carney (B) defeated Paul Minnich and Jim Terry, 3-0.
SINGLES: Don Guariglia (B), 71, defeated Tom Matey, 74, 2-1; Joe Moresco (ND), 75, defeated Walt Durdle, 75, 2)4-%; Jack Powers (ND), 77, defeated Tom Oppel, 79, 2)4-%; Paul Minnich (ND), 78, defeated Ron Guariglia, 83, 3-0; Joe McInerney (ND), 77, defeated Tom Helleweg, 88, 3-0; Marv Whitefield (B), 76, defeated Jim Terry, 78, 2/2-%.
In the meet against Michigan State here on the Burke Memorial course last Monday, the Irish suffered their- first setback of the season by a narrow 14-13 margin. Father George L. Hol-derith, golf coach, inaugurated a new system of play in this meet. In place of the usual doubles event they played best ball twosomes according to match play, and the singles were played according to a match and medal play combination.
Father Holderith attempted this system against the University of Wisconsin last year and has now decided to make it common practice in future meets. Also all events from now on will be played ovex’ 36 holes rather than the previous 18. Michigan State
28
The Scholastic
won the best ball twosomes by a 6-3 margin, while Notre Dame took the match and medal plays event, 10-8. Jim Terry of Notre Dame was medalist with a two over par 73.
The summary:
(Best Ball): Art Hill and Dave Man-cour (MS) defeated Mike Doyle and Tom Matey, 2%> to %. Paul Minnich and Joe Moresco (ND) defeated Carl Mosack and Harold Ware, 2% to Bill Albright and Don Stephens (MS) defeated Jim O’Connor and Jim Terry, 3-0.
Singles (match and medal) : Art Hill (MS) 75, defeated Tom Matey 75, 2-1. Joe Moresco (ND) 78, defeated Carl Mosack, 79, 2% to Jim Terry (ND) 73, defeated Bill Albright, 76, 2V2 to /a. Dave Mancour (MS), 78, defeated Jack Powers, 79, 2-1. Harold Ware (MS), 75, defeated Paul Minnich, 81, 3-0. Mike Doyle (ND), 77, defeated Don Stephens, 82, 3-0.
Under this new method of play employed in the use of match and medal, a total of three points is possible. The person who wins the most holes on the front nine is awarded one point and the winner- of the most holes on the back nine is given one point. The third point is awarded to the one who shoots the low medal score for the round.—Al Alfmsns
By Jack Sand
Baseball
(Continued from Page 26) while Paul Lepley and Gerry Harrington are other veterans.
Coach Fisher’s pitching corps is capably handled by Jack Corbett, Dick Yirkoski, and Marv Wisniewski. Corbett was Michigan’s Big Ten star with four wins and one defeat last yearwhile the other two had 2-1 records.
The Irish racked up their tenth victory of the season last Wednesday downing Northwestern 6-4 at Evanston. Kline’s ace hurler, Stan Konopka, chalked up his fifth straight win of the season, allowing the Wildcats only seven hits.
Notre Dame started off fast, scoring once in the first inning on a single by Dave Costigan, a stolen base, and a single by Roger- Braun. After Northwestern tied it up, the Irish pulled ahead again, adding another run in the fourth, combining a walk, an error and Dick Colloton’s double for two runs in the fifth. Two walks, a sacrifice and an error accounted for another score in the sixth.
First-baseman Dick Rosenthal led the Klinemen’s attack with two singles in four appearances at the plate, while also tallying two of the Irish runs.
FRANK LEAHY Who’s Pessimistic?
Just the Beginning
What the visiting sportswriters witnessed down on the stadium turf last Saturday was Notre Dame’s version of the one platoon system—one platoon for each quarter. The vast majority of the writers who saw the Irish switch platoons had a hard time figuring out which one was the first team, until Neil Worden smacked over for the third varsity touchdown. Previously, a pair of frosh backs, Dick Keller and Dick Fitzgerald, had dynamically dented the Old Timers’ defense for the first two varsity scores. Fitzgerald, oddly enough, ran from the halfback position, when he was listed on the official spring practice roster as a fullback. A narrow-minded sports reporter might have thought that the Irish were short-handed at halfback, but instead the direct opposite is true. Notre Dame has an abundant surplus of halfbacks, and just as many fullbacks. Thus the. reason for the switch was evident. Fitzgerald moved to halfback in order that another fullback, freshman John Gaffney, could move in. Besides Worden, the regular fullback, and the two mentioned above the Irish can substitute at least three other good fullbacks: junior Tom McHugh, sophomore Dan. Shannon, and freshman Nick Raich.
The situation at. fullback is exact
ly the same in almost every othei- position. According to one sportswriter the Irish are just knee-deep in material, a statement that is pretty hard to deny. Without being the least bit optimistic, it’s safe to say that the Irish possess nine good ends, 11 good tackles, seven respectable guards, and three crack centers. If this isn’t enough there’s always the backfield with its three solid quarterbacks, six fullbacks, and a number of versatile halfbacks. (In round numbers the halfback total amounts to at least nine).
Famous Last Words
What with all this talk about depth, the Irish camp still remains one of pessimism and conjecture. After all, this year’s schedule is just as rough as last season’s! These famous last words were echoed a number* of times last weekend, but.fell far short of their* intended targets. One inquiring sportswriter caught a glimpse of Charlie Callahan’s recent sports release which stated that Coach Frank Leahy needed just two more victories to hit the century mark. “Getting pretty optimisic aren’t you Charlie?” said the sportswriter, implying that Charlie thinks the Irish will win at least two games this coming Fall.
It’s rough climbing out on a limb, when it comes to football around Notre Dame. If you say it’s going to be a hard season they won’t believe you (they referring to the press), or if you break precedent and say it’s going to be a great season they won’t believe you either. So it’s best to keep your mouth shut and let the sportswriters see for themselves . . . that the Irish are loaded this year.
May 8, 1953
Senior Names . . .
(Continued from Page 17) dent, Dave Fox treasurer, and Dave Mc-Elvain secretary.
Tom Reedy was named president of the newly organized Student Senate and Floyd Blair, vice-president. Pat 'Mulrooney succeeded Blair at that post when the latter graduated last January. Seniors also came out on top in all the elections for college senators. Tom Field, Ernie Bartell, Al Marks, Joe Baran, and Joe O’Neill were elected as AB, Commerce, Science, Engineering, and Off-Campus senators respectively. Representing their residence halls on the Senate the past year were Pat Mulrooney of Walsh who incidentally was named “Senator of the year” for his work, Walt Werner of Sorin, Jose Na-var of Fisher, and Pat Montroy of Dillon.
Ernie Buckley served as president of the Blue Circle the past year and Art Lewis as secretary-treasurer.
Bob Finney was named editor of the Scholastic and Don Carbone and Tom Foote, associate editors. Other senior staff members the past year were Bob Haine, features, Tom Murphy, advertising, and Bill Kerwin, circulation. John Elson was named editor of the Juggler and Leo Cahalan, business manager. Ken Stead took over the reins of the Technical Revieiv.
The Speakers’ Bureau was headed by Bill Riley with Larry Tapey serving as vice-president, Jim Gibbons secretary, Bob Kosydar treasurer, and Joe Conwell adviser.
Al DeCrane acted as manager of the debate team the past year and served as chairman for the first annual University of Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament held here March 20-21.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRAD/T/ON
Paul Rupp was elected grand knight of the local chapter of the Knights of Columbus for the past year.
One of the most outstanding seniors in any one activity is Bill Ryan who served as station manager of WNDU for three years and who succeeded in bringing the station from its days of relative infancy to complete maturity in his tenure. Jim Gannon will also be remembered as one of WNDU’s top sports announcers. Other program directors whose names will be missing from the WNDU airways next Fall are Al DeCrane, Al Wood, John Cox, Bill Santoro, Dave Fox, and Bill Beauchamp. Bryan Coughlin, public relations director, had the task of spreading WNDU fame. '
Notre Dame social life got into high gear last Fall with the Commerce Ball under the chairmanship of Norb Kraft. Bob Wagner and Jerry Candela had charge of the Engineers’ Ball a few weeks later while Charlie Wolf and Phil Hurd were co-chairmen for the Science Ball last winter. The Winter social season closed with the Mardi Gras weekend of festivities under the general chairmanship of Brian Kelly.
And of course, the epitome of social affairs for the Men of ’53 will be reached with tonight’s SENIOR BALL, headed by co-chairmen George Higgins and Jim Pfohl.
At the Washington Day class exercises Al DeCrane gave the principal address while class president Kerwin Fulton presented the flag to the University and class valedictorian, Ernie Bartell, acted as chairman of the ceremonies.
Recipients of the Dome awards to the outstanding men of the year were Tom Reedy, Al DeCrane, Ernie Buckley, and Bob Finney.
"Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the * Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
Twenty-eight of the 31 students elected to TP/io’s Who in American Colleges and Universities were seniors. They were: Jack Alessandrini, Ernie Bartell, Floyd Blair, Hugh Braun, Leo Cahalan, Joe Conwell, Al DeCrane, John Elson, Tom Field, Bob Finney, Dave Fox, Kerwin Fulton, Bill Gaudreau, Francis Hennigan, John Houck, Jim Hutchinson, Bill Kilminster, Norb Kraft, Art Lewis, Jim Noonan, James Poat, Tom Reedy, Paul Rupp, Bill Ryan, and Ken Stead.
Members of the Class of ’53 distinguished themselves in dramatics as well. Charles Doherty will long be remembered for his performance as the psychiatrist in The Cocktail Party. Walter Swift was the author-director of the student musicale ‘Brute Farce’ which just completed its five-day run last Tuesday. Geary Becker composed the music and Bob Rossiter wrote the lyrics for the 16 songs while Jerry Boehling played the lead.
Gene Fanning served as president of the Glee Club, Neil Vasconcellos as head cheerleader, and Dick Six as drum major last Fall.
Paul Rupp acted as Bengal Bouts promoter in 1952 and George McCourt had the same job last Spring. Members of the Class of ’53 who won Bengal cham-pinoships in the past four years were Geary Becker (2 yrs.), Lee Getshaw, Ted Garland, and Pat Drew.
Finally, the class of ’53 provided a plentiful supply of athletic talent. Football lettermen were Jack Alessandrini, Tom Murphy, Tom Seaman, Virgil Bardash, Bob O’Neil, Jim Weithman, Dave Flood, Al Kohanowich, Ed Buczkiewicz, and Jack Whelan. Basketball monograms were awarded to Captain Norb Lewinski, Jim Gibbons, and Jerry McCloskey. John Castellani served as assistant basketball coach.
Senior co-captains Ken Angyal and Ray Smith head the tennis team while Captain Tom Matey, Joe Moresco, Larry Eaton, and Jack Powers are the bulwarks of the golf team. Track stars include Captain Ed Powell, Harry Snyder, Norm Feltes, Tom Hassenger, Jack Shay and Al Kohanowich, while Captain John Mooney, Dave McBride, Pat Mulrooney, and Jim Hurley represent the Senior class on the fencing team. Senior baseball stars include Captain Joe Ridge, Roger Braun, Stan Konopka, Dave Costigan, Len LeRose, and Jim Gibbons.
These and many others are among the Senior names that have become familiar on campus the past four years. When they leave the Stadium on June 7, sheepskin in hand, and head for the world beyond, they will have left their works behind for future generations of ND . students to remember them by.
The Scholastic
■ 1
30
Review
(Continued from Page 19) tile, and it was feared that he was gone for good. . . . Before Lent closed in, the campus was treated to Tommy Dorsey and the Mardi Gras Ball, a full-fledged jam session that had all the cats shouting “Go! Go!” and a carnival which had the usual result; nobody won except the charities.
The basketball team finished one of the best seasons in Notre Dame history. . . . Indiana, Holy Cross, Louisville, DePaul were all measured up for losses. . . . Then the first invitation to the NCAA Tournament in ND history. . . . Eastern Kentucky at Fort Wayne, and Penn at Chicago, advanced the team to the regional finals and the game with the national champions . . . but this time Indiana did the measuring.
Chuck Davey got the “Boxer of the Year” award . . . And the “grumblers” and the “eaters” started throwing verbal plates at each other in the chow hall.
Spring activity began with the Junior Prom. . . . Then came the Freshman Frolic. . . . Once again the drums began beating for all Notre Dame men to donate blood to the Red Cross. . . . The student musical Brute Farce had a successful five-day stay at Washington Hall. . . . The Varsity gave the Old Timers a 34-7 lesson before 11,000 in the Stadium. . . . And seniors cast longing looks at the Indiana sky. . . . Rain was predicted for the Senior Ball. . . .
—Bob Haine and John Slavick
Shangri-la Tonight
(Continued from Page 10)
attend a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn, likely to begin about 10:15. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president will speak, while the student affairs vice-president, Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., will also be present.
Sometime during the weekend, the seniors and their belles will sandwich in the customary stroll around the campus. By Sunday evening the seniors will all have returned to earth and the grim reality of another four weeks before graduation.
The Senior Ball committee claims a host of records, firsts, and novelties for the masterpiece. The spacious-looking Drill Hall will be jammed by the 640 couples, a record attendance for a Notre Dame class formal. This year the souvenir programs are novel in size', content, and distribution. The favors, too, are something new. They are large, attractive, practical, original, and certain to be the subject of much conversation.—Don Carbone
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, and an excellent starting salary await you at Fairchild, if you are one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right now for qualified engineers and designers in all phases of aircraft engineering; we need top-notch men to help us in our long-range military program: turning out the famous C-119 Flying Boxcars and other projects for the U. S. Air Force.
Fairchild provides paid vacations and liberal health and life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week as a base. Premium is paid when longer work week is scheduled.
p ENGINE ND UNTUNE COIPOMTION lAIRCHILD
HAGERSTOWN, MARYLAND
Out-of-Season Clothes
No need to ship or carry your heavy winter and out-ofseason clothes home for the summer. Leave them in our safe-insured STORAGE VAULT.
Your clothes will be protected from moths, fire and theft and the nominal charge doesn’t have to be paid until you pick them up next fall.
Notre Dame men in the years pasi have found this storage idea to be a good bet. You can also take advantage of it.
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. Jefferson	First Corner across the River
Safe Storage JfVl qMA
On the Bus Line
May 8, 1953
31
Marine Base to Get 41 ND Summer Trainees
Approximately 41 Notre Dame men will begin the first leg of their Marine training this summer at the Quantico, Va., Training Base. According to Major Andrew M. Zimmer, USMC, the quota of 30 platoon leader class members has been filled. They will join eleven graduating seniors at the Quantico base for 6 to 8 weeks of rigid training.
The seniors convene for a ten-week period beginning July 9 in their Officer Candidate course. Upon successful completion of this session, members of this group will be commissioned Second Lieutenants in the Marine Corps Reserve. While there they will receive the $85.80 monthly pay of a corporal, plus allowances for any dependents.
The 30 men going to the two 6-week platoon leaders course sessions, June 15-July 25 and July 27-Sept. 5, will only complete one-half of the training necessary for their commissions upon col-
Farley's $72 Donation Swells Student Center Building Fund
Another financial impetus has been added to the Student Center fund this week as Farley Hall President Tom McNeill announced that the men of his hall voted to donate their entire treasury surplus of $72 to the drive.
A census taken in the hall to determine the way to utilize the money, found the majority voting for the shift of funds to the renovation of the Old Science Building.
Garnered from the allotment of the Student Senate and the first place award won during Homecoming for its “Sooner Burger” display, Farley’s $72 represents the first substantial hall contribution.
Rev. Daniel J. Curtin, Rector of Farley, feels that the gift will “sustain interest in the monetary drive and set a precedent for others to follow.”
Wisconsin Prof Nafziger Will Head 75-Day European Tour
Prof. Ralph 0. Nafziger, director of the School of Journalism at the University of Wisconsin, will conduct “Foreign Assignment,” a 75-day tour of seven countries in Western Europe and Scandinavia this Summer.
Studies will be made of current political, economic, and social problems in Western Europe. Journalism, radio, and television will receive special emphasis.
The members of the tour will have direct contact with writers, editors, government leaders, and figures in manage-
lege graduation. Although most of the group will be juniors, underclassmen are also eligible.
Two such 6-week summer periods are required before the candidates are commissioned Second Lieutenants. They may enter the five-month basic training school on the same standing as the OCS candidates. Upon completion of the basic training, the officers will be given an opportunity to apply for the numerous fields of specialized training.
At the present time, all newly commissioned officers are required to serve two years active duty, including the five-month basic training.
The PLC and OCS Summer sessions consist of thorough training in weapon construction, range firing, physical conditioning, technical instruction, and general military subjects.
All traveling expenses to and from the camp are paid by the Government.
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, May 11—R o g a t i o n Day.
Tuesday, May 12—R o g a t i o n Day; Feast of Sts. Nereus, Achilles, Domitilla, and Pan-cratius, Martyrs.
Wednesday, May 13,—Rogation Day; Feast of St. Robert Bellarmine, Confessor, Bishop, Doctor of the Church; Vigil of the Ascension.
Thursday, May 14—Ascension of Our Lord Jesus Christ.
Friday, May 15—Feast of St. John Baptist de la Salle, Confessor.
Saturday, May 16—Feast of St. Ubaldus, Confessor, Bishop.
ment and labor. Many of these contacts will be made at such places as the International Court of Justice at The Hague, United Headquarters in Geneva, and other such places.
Outstanding theater, music, opera, ballet performances and festivals of folk dancing and singing will be attended.
The tour is being sponsored by Travel and Study, Inc., which is also organizing an art and architecture tour at the University of Rome; trips to Western Europe and the Near East for archaeologists and religious philosophers; a music festival tour; a fashion tour; and an industrial trip to nine countries.
Detailed information may be obtained by writing to Travel and Study, Inc., 110 East 57th Street, New York 22, N. Y.
Modern Languages Plan Final Film Next Week
Monsieur Vincent, the final presentation in the Modern Language Department’s foreign film series, will be shown in Washington Hall Monday and Tuesday at 6:30 and 8:40 p.m.
The film has a French sound track with English subtitles. The admission charge is 25 cents.
Monsieur Vincent, the story of the life of St. Vincent de Paul, stars one of France’s greatest actors, Pierre Fresnay, in the title role. Fresnay’s portrayal of the sacristan-turned-priest in God Needs Man highlighted the fall foreign film series.
Prof. Walter Langford, head of the Modern Language Department, recommends the movie to the whole student body, saying, “In view of the message embodied in Monsieur Vincent, along with its all-star cast, (especially the incomparable performance of Pierre Fresnay as St. Vincent de Paul), and the compelling dramatic portrayal of the story, this picture deserves to rate as one of the 10 or 12 finest films produced anywhere in the past few years.”
The picture was made in France by some of France’s finest actors, many of whom, realizing the great artistic potentialities of the film, worked for a nominal salary.
Because of Monsieur Vincent’s appeal to both language and non-language students, the picture will be shown in Washington Hall instead of the Engineering Auditorium.
Bayless Gains Second Round In Bid for Warren Fellowship
Notre Dame architecture student, Raymond Bayless, recently gained second round competition for the Lloyd Warren Fellowship—the 40th Paris Prize in Architecture before being eliminated in his second bid for the coveted Fellowship.
Students entered in the competition are given a set of rigid requirements together with a plot plan. They are required to complete their designs within 24 to 48 hours, depending on the difficulty of the problem.
The second exercise consisted of a design for an exhibition building with 24 hours being allowed for the problem.
Competitors for this prize consist of architecture students from all over the country. A fifth-year student from Oak Park, Ill., Bayless was competing with 61 men from twelve schools.
The Fellowship carries with it a $5,000 prize for architectural study in Europe and the United States for a period of 18 months.
32
The Scholastic

SCHOLARSHIPS AND LOANS
Students holding scholarships and who wish to renew them for the Fall semester should appiy immediately to Rev. Alfred Mendez in Room 217 Main Building.
Underclassmen who wish to apply for scholarship aid for the coming year should also contact Father Mendez.
Students who are interested in obtaining Fisher Loans for the Sept. 1953 semester must have their applications in to Father Mendez before May 20.
Met Clubbers Vote Monday; Hold Dinner on Wednesday
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will be the guest speaker at the Met Club chicken dinner next Wednesday at the South Bend Shrine Club. The dinner, which begins at 6:30 p.m., will be free to all paid club members who have secured tickets from their hall representatives.
Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C., will also be a club guest at the dinner, at which the hall representatives will receive awards.
The club officer elections will be conducted in the basement of the Dining Hall next Monday from 5 to 7 p.m. Announcement of the results will be given at the dinner.
The last Metropolitan organization meeting to be conducted by this year’s officers will be held next Tuesday in the Engineering Auditorium. The movie Down to the Sea in Ships will be shown.
Hanink to Address Metals Chapter at Wednesday Meet
Next Wednesday, Mr. Herman H. Hanink will address the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals at their May meeting at 8:15 p. m. in Room 5 of the Engineering Building.
Mr. Hanink is manager of the Metallurgical Engineering Division of the Curtiss-Wright Corp., Wright Aeronautical Division, "Woodridge, N. J. Topic of his address will be “Aircraft Gas Turbine Metallurgy as Related to Engine Design.”
Preceding the evening session, there will be a dinner starting at 6:30 p. m. at the Nabicht Brothers restaurant in South Bend. Dinner reservations must be made before noon, Tuesday.
Armed Forces Parade Includes ROTC Units
Tomorrow afternoon some 1700 students from Notre Dame will help South Bend celebrate Armed Forces Day. The ND units will be among 60 patriotic groups marching in the parade.
The parade will be divided into six divisions. In the first division will be the Notre Dame Band, the Army ROTC Band, and the Army and Navy ROTC units. The Air Force Dram and Bugle Corps and ROTC will lead the second division.
The schedule calls for the parade to leave Michigan and South Streets at 2 p.m. From there it will proceed up Michigan to Colfax, west on Colfax to Lafayette, south on Lafayette to Washington, east on Washington to Main and down Main to the courthouse. WSBT-TV will televise the parade along the route.
At the courthouse the National Anthem will be played by the Notre Dame Band directed by Mr. Robert O’Brien. Following this, the special guests, including Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University, and the
GIVE YOIRSELF THIS
PONlABiTY TKT
Do you look forward to going to a dance? Yes_________________ No------
Do partners enjoy dancing with you?
Yes____ No-------
Would you rather dance than watch others?
Yes____ No-------
If you answered “yes” to all of the above questions you must be the most popular person in town. But, if you had to say “no” a couple of times here’s how to change those “no’s” into “yes’s.”
Come in today to Arthur Murray’s. Just put yourself in the hands of one of his talented experts and before you know it, you’re dancing with confidence and grace.
Then watch those invitations come your way, for good dancers are always in demand. So don’t wait, don’t miss out on good times you deserve to have. Come in now and be all set for your next dancing party.
ARTHUR MURRAY 120 E. WAYNE	CALL 2-3339
commanders of the ND ROTC’s: CoL Melie J. Coutlee, Air Force; Capt. Frank P. Luongo, Navy; and Lt. CoL George M. Cookson, Army, will be introduced.
Gue.st of honor, Brig. Gen. V. J. McCaul, director of public infoi-mation for the Marine Corps, will deliver the main address. Taps and a gun salute will close the ceremony.
Vetville Plans Mayoralty Election, Pot-Supper Sunday
Vetville will elect a new mayor and council for the fall semester Sunday. Results will be announced at a potluck supper in the Vet Rec Hall that evening.
Of the ten residents nominated for mayor, four have accepted. They are Bill Hawley, Roger Lawrence, Joe DeLisi and Dick DeSantis.
Councilmen will also be elected to represent the six Vetville wards. To encourage a large vote, the present councilmen will canvass the community so the ballots may be cast at home.
Stephen J. Hauser, an instructor’ in the General Program, has been mayor since January.
May 8, 1953
33
L
its own way fills out the picture of the last four years at Notre Dame, the years which this senior class will remember.
Test, Teachers, Problems
By Paul Zalecki
Today the Notre Dame senior is a lucky individual. The odds are 3 to 4 that he has completely forgotten about school work this Friday afternoon and that he will escort some young lady to the Ball this evening. The odds are much greater that in a month his name will pass from the Student Directory to the Alumni mailing list as he departs from the campus with his diploma in hand.
This year is supposed to be something special for the senior, and today above all others is his day. On this memorable weekend the Scholastic has attempted something new by preparing an issue dedicated to the Notre Dame senior.
Notre Dame Senior
What kind of man is the Notre Dame senior? It is not easy to say. The survey of the senior class printed in this issue reveals many things about him. One thing it shows is that there is no such thing as the typical senior.
Those at Notre Dame have come here from all parts of the country for various reasons. Some came because it was a family tradition; some, because the school was close to home; others, because it was far away from home. Some came because of the fame of Notre Dame, and a good number came because their parents wanted them to.
The diversity of the Notre Dame senior can be seen from other things. The list of most memorable events in the survey included such dissimilar remembrances as springtime on campus, getting suspended, a candlelight procession on May Day, and the club car of the Texas Chief.
they share together. They have their common likes and dislikes, and these form part of the over-all picture of an ND senior. Generally what he likes best at Notre Dame is the friends that he has made here. Also he acknowledges the religious advantages of the school.
If he is Like most, he does not especially care for the discipline or for the enforcement of rules. Basically he does not care for the many things which run counter to what he feels that Notre Dame should be.
In such respects this year’s senior is not too different from those of old or of the future. He differs in the experiences which he has had here in the last four years.
One of his more unpleasant memories came during the 1949-50 school year—the Korean action. The government’s draft policy towards college students was not yet known, and students were debating whether to quit school at the semester or wait until summer and be drafted. The cloud of uncertainty was so oppressive that the President felt it necessary to call a general convocation of the student body.
The Korean war obviously changed many plans for this year’s seniors. When they came here in 1949 only a few expected that American troops would be fighting anywhere before they graduated. Today the vast majority expect to spend an average of 2.6 years in service.
The list of such events could be expanded almost indefinitely. No mention has been made of the mock convention or the student trips. Each of them in
Still such a list would not tell the whole story of what Notre Dame has meant to the present senior. It says nothing about the tests for which he’s studied, the teachers he’s had, the problems he’s faced. It says nothing about each senior’s individual experiences which he shares with no one else, but which probably make up the biggest part of his view of Notre Dame.
Perhaps that is the reason it is difficult to say anything definite about the Notre Dame senior, except that he is nearing the end of the road of his undergrad days. His main concerns at present are not especially about the 30 days left in this school year, but rather about the future. Most are planning on going into service; a few, on entering graduate school; some, on starting work; and some, on getting married.
Undoubtedly he will miss a lot of things about ND. Still it is easy to see that the senior is looking forward to graduation. Four years of college are about enough for most. The time comes when one has to think of other things. For the senior that time has just about ' come.
HEALTH
For Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
His list of best books read and movies seen in the last four years shows an even greater variety. The books range from War and Peace to Knute Rockne, All American; from The Diary of a Country Priest to I, The Jury; from Three to Get Married to Peace of Soul. His choice of movies .includes Hamlet, Tom and Jerry, A Place in the Sun, Red Shoes, and On Moonlight Bay.
likes and Dislikes
From Carton To Icebox -To Hospitality
iom» UNMB authority or yni coca*coia company by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
Though there may not be a typical senior, there are many things which
34
The. Scholastic
T
Students...
TRAVEL and STUDY in
EUROPE Economically
The Institute of European Studies makes it possible for you to study at the University of Vienna and travel through nine different countries: Spain, France, Portugal, Italv, England, Holland, Belgium. North Africa and Aus-tria.
A variety of courses is offered in English with special advantages for learning languages, art and music.
Three programs:
1.	One semester program, 5‘2 months, Sept, to Feb. $985
2.	Two semester program, 10 months, Sept, to July. $1100
3.	Spring semester program, 5% months, Feb. to July. $985
Price includes complete room and board while in Europe. All travel expenses through nine countries and round trip ocean transportation on a tourist class boat. Also all tuition and registration expenses at the University of Vienna and at the Institute.
If you really want to see what makes Europe tick: compare the cultures, social and political trends, art and other aspects, then we invite you to join our community of students in Vienna.
For application and further information, please write to:
Clarence E. Giese, Director
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES
7325 South Maryland Ave.
Chicago 19. Illinois o
How to make points with
good looks
Burt—regjlar “soft roll" buttondown collar.
Range— widespread soft collar with stays.
Looking smart is no problem. You start with ail/anhattan label ... you wind up in Style. And in the host of Manhattan collar styles you’re sure to find more than one collar that makes style points for you. You’ll like the extra comfort and long wear in every Manhattan shirt, too! Stop in at your nearest Manhattan men’s shop today—see many more most - for - your - money values in distinctive Manhattan
menswear.
LIGGETT L MVEPS TOBACCO CO
LIGGETT t MTERS TOBACCO CO
First cigarette to offer
PREMIUM QUALITY in both regular and king-size
'KING-SIZE
GARETTE*
a Bsitfat
YOU!
WHEN you are asked to try a cigarette you want to know, and you ought to know, what that cigarette has meant to people who smoke it all the time.
For a full yearnow, a medical specialist has given a group of Chesterfield smokers thorough examinations every two months. He reports:
no adverse effects to their nose, throat or sinuses from smoking Chesterfields.
More and more men and women all over the country are finding out every day that Chesterfield is best for them.
CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
Try Much Milder Chesterfield with its extraordinarily good taste.
Copyright 1953, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.