-Cbc-
Dotrc Dame Scholastic
DlSCe-QVASI-SGmPGI?- VICTVRVS- ViVG^VASl- CRASMORITVR\/5-
Vol. XL.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October 6, 1906.	No. 4.
i
Not Length, But Depth.
IN LOVING MEMORY OF FATHER JAMES J. TRAHEY, C. S. C.
■ The understanding of a man is grey hairs, and a spotless life is old age.—Wisdom. iv, a. t;.
Not length, but depth is life’s dimension true— The life that counts for aught in God’s clear sight;
One year lived all for Him outmeasures quite
A decade fretted with the world’s ado.
The soul in love divine steeped through and through
Will swift attain its fair predestined height
And perfect growth, in lagging Time’s despire,— Such graces rich from ardent zeal accrue.
No “death untimely” came to’ him we mourn, Albeit brief had been his manhood’s reign;
No tardy blade was he, too soon uptorn—
Full ripened for the sickle was the grain.
Made perfect in short space, to Heaven’s ken
His years outnumbered e’en three score and ten. ‘
Arthur Barry O’Neill, C. S. C.
DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Father Trahey.
MEMORIAL SERVICES AT NOTRE DAME.
N Thursday last, Solemn High Mass was sung for the repose of the soul of Dr. James Trahey, who’ died recently at Austin,-Texas. The report of his death was a severe shock to Father
Trahey’s many friends, and all Notre'Dame sympathizes deeply with the sorrow-stricken relatives.	-
The Reverend President celebrated the Mass, assisted by Fathers Schumacher and Nieuwland as deacon and subdeacon. The relatives present were: Mr. D. V. Trahey, Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Spaeth, and Mrs. J. H. Kleese. The eulogy which follows was given by Father Schumacher.
A month ago this day Father Trahey was called to rest after a short but fruitful service of his AI aster. The King and Lord of the universe bid His ambassador and representative come home and live from thence on in the heavenly court. His passing was quiet and sudden as his life was brief and brilliant. He held the promise of useful days, but his
winter soon set in. Notre Dame was:his home was no more.
and his mother. Here he learned the way of knowledge/ and here the higher and the spiritual life was deeply seated in his soul. From this University he went to that of Washington where he continued his faithfill work receiving the coveted, honor of a Doctor’s degree for real merit. The great desire of his life was accomplished when, on December 19, 1903, Cardinal Gibbons placed his hands upon him and sent him forth a priest of God. He returned to Notre Dame ready, no, not ready, but eager to work.
The absolute devotion of his short career
as a priest and instructor is known, to is . of real concern to no one but ourselves, many of the students here present, and Things have gone on before we were created, known only to be gratefully remembered, and they will continue to go on after we He moved about among us a silent revela- cease to be. No matter how glorious a tion of God, lighting the way of Christian * man’s' past, no matter how dazzling his living by an ideal life—the outgrowth of a present, no matter what unlimited beauty noble and loving heart. He spoke with and power the future may seem to possess an earnestness in the pulpit that was born for him, he passes away and the world • of a deeply convinced spirit; courage and goes on.
hopefulness lived in his words as peace and consolation followed his ministrations in the tribunal of penance. In the class-room a kindliness of disposition won respect and love while he conveved solid information.
He worked hard and well. He saw that much was to be done, and he felt impelled by a limitless zeal to attempt more than the frail instrument that encompasses a willing mind can bear. No enterprise for good, no deed that would advance the cause of his Community, whose welfare represented God’s will in his sight, appealed to him in vain,: and he stretched forth his hand to grasp more than it could contain. Not content with faithful work during the school year, he held to close labor during the summer months in writing a book. He wrote the book, but he tore its contents from his very soul, and it stands the last sad memorial of his generous, sacrificing spirit. Though weak he plodded on, till he was forced' to leave Notre Dame, and seek health in the South. There he dwelt on hopeful, till a month ago this day, when, at midnight, a silent figure stole along the corridor of the college building, rapped gently at the door of a fellow-priest who answered the'call with the last rites of-the Church, and in a few minutes Father Trahey
He is gone, but he speaks weighty words to us on the meaning and value of life. It is perhaps a matter of surprise to us that one so gifted should pass away so young, He answers: We are here to do what little we can in the time given us. We know not how much we will be able to do and we know not how much time will be allowed us. Let-us not misconceive our place or worth. The world is large, and God’s plans are much vaster than we can conceive, and are carried out by means that at times are hidden from us. We are on earth, w’e work and hope and strive, yet our passing
NOiRU DAME scholastic.
The great question for the individual, then, is to know his work and do it, ever remembering his end. The closer we are to God, the more firmly we grasp the idea that God is all, the more we shall be able to accomplish in a short time. “All men are seeking after God,” says St. Paul, “if haply they may find Him.” This has been the quest of all peoples at all times, and each soul, knowingly or unknowingly, is groping after that one Being who alone can satisfy it. And when the weary’ spirit of man stands face to face with a clear view of its God who is above us all, in us all, and through us all, a view born of Christian teaching and a reflecting soul, it is hard to moderate the service it renders Him. Then are loud in its ears the divine words: “Thou shalt love the Lord thv God with thv whole mind, with thy whole heart, and with all thy strength, and thy neighbor as thyself.” Then also is heard the declaration: “He that loseth his life for Me shall find it.” Blind to difficulty and forgetful of the weakness of the human body, the soul rushes on, until finally it lays a wreck on the altar of sacrifice.
The departed one heard the call of the Master; and with so absolute a self-surrender did he follow the voice that nature gave way under the strain and he awoke in the morn of God’s eternal sunshine.
This is the true standard of life—to judge ■ all things as they are in His sight from whom they come and to whom they must return. The one we mourn to-day is another witness added to that long line of souls who prove the practical nature of this principle, and I trust this will be a comforting legacy to those that grieve for him as one they have lost for a short time only. As a fellow- student with Father Trahey within these very walls and as a fellow-priest, I ask that those among the students who knew him and profited by his influence, and all others here present, keep him in prayerful thought this day and succeeding days that the City of God, about which he spoke so often in life, may soon be for him an unending reality.
“That learning is best which best helps us to learn more and higher things.”
The Thief.-
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’08.
“Duda,”—Mrs. Jerome had heard the children in the street call her that. ' .
“ Yes’m.”	;.
“Duda, did you steal that money?” And Mrs. Jerome caught the little bedraggled girl by the arm, and again asked:
“Did you steal that money?”
“Yes’m.”	•
“What did you do with it?”
“Bought ice-cream and combs.”
“Aren’t you sorry; don’t you know that it is wrong to steal, and that the policeman will put you in jail if you don’t stop stealing?”
“ Yes’m—I don’t know.” As to being sorry she did not look it.
“Well, don’t you care? You wouldn’t like to be put in jail, would you?”
“I wouldn’t care.”
“You wouldn’t care,” repeated Mrs. Jerome, for she could not believe she had heard aright, and looking at the child in astonishment, she asked: “Duda, what would your mother say if I told her what vou had done?”
“She wouldn’t say anything. She’d lick me and put me to bed.”. .
“Have you had your supper?” asked the woman.	.	„
“No.”
“ Come in here,” and she led the little child into the house. Her hair was disheveled and her face dirty. Her little gingham dress was torn and spotted and her legs and feet were bare and dirty. She was noticeable too, but not like other little girls whose beauty and innocence demanded attention everywhere. Yet, as she looked at one out of the corners of her piercing blue eyes, there was something in them that appeared out of keeping with the rest of her makeup. There was something kind and almost lovable. Mrs. Jerome led the child to the table and gave her something to eat, and while she ate her supper, the woman asked her about her family.
- “Where is your father?” asked Mrs. Jerome.
“I don’t know—away.”	x
52	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“Doesn’t he ever write to you, or come home?”
“No. I guess not. I don’t know.”
Prompted by an impulse Mrs. Jerome said :
“Duda come here and let me kiss you.”
“I won’t.”	'
“Why?”
“Nobody ever kisses me.”
“Doesn’t your mother?”
“No.”	*
“Never?”
“No. ’
. “Nor your father? ”
“No.”	.
“Let me, won’t you?”
“No. I don’t want to be kissed.”
“Duda, don’t you love anybody?” asked the woman.
“What’s that?” .
“Don’t vou know what I mean?” Mrs. Jerome stared at the child unable to understand that anyone could live without love.
“No.”	/
“Don’t you like anyone awfully well, so well that you like them better than anyone else?”	.
“No.”	-
“Why, Duda, you surely like your mother better than you do anyone else?”	-
“I don't.”	.	’
“Nor your father?” asked the woman.
“I don’t like nobody.”
“Duda, you mustn’t talk like that. Doesn’t anyone love you ? thinking to draw her out some way.
“What?
“Doesn’t anyone love you? That is, isn’t there anyone who says nice things to you, and loves you?” Mie could not help using the word, and again added; “anyone that—loves you?”
“Jim. Joiner gave me Jiis bat—that was nice,” the child added
“Is he the only one that is nice to you ?” asked the woman.
“Yes.” '	■
“Duda, don’t you know any nice little girls?”	.	'
“No.” '	•	•	.	. ■	-
“Well, why don’t you get acquainted with some and go and play with them?” For. Mrs. Jerome thought that perhaps the child spent her time with boys instead of the children of her own sex.
“I did once. I went over to play with Mary Joiner, and her mother sent me home. She said I was a thief, and was tough, and nobodv liked me, and mv father was tough and got drunk, and -my mother was	’
too, and she took in washin’, and she didn’t want me around any more, and if I didn’t go she’d tell her boy—that’s Jim—and he’d hurt me if I didn’t go. Out by the barn , I I met Jim, and I told him—that’s when	i
he gave me the bat.”
“Do you like Jim?”
“Yes, kinda—Jim never hits me.”
“Do the other little boys hit you?”
“Sometimes, when I want to play ball
with them. But,”—as an afterthought she	I
added—“Jim don’t.”
As they sat there talking a woman passed the house with a large basket on her arm. Her clothes were old and tom and her face had long ago lost all traces of womanhood,- only cruel hard lines remained and eyes that looked but	never	J
saw.	!
“There—she goes,” said the child.	!
“There-who goes,” asked Mrs. Jerome.
“Her.”
“Who is Her,’’ and then it occurred to the woman that it was the child’s mother . that had passed, and she said:	.
“Is that your mother”?
“Yes’m.”	•
“Where is she coming from now?”
“Washin’, some place, I guess.”
As the woman watched the child seated on a little stool at her feet, she was reminded of a young tiger; the fierce little eyes rolled and twitched and her hands were never still.
“I’m goin’,” and the child arose from her seat.
“Where are you going? Can’t you stay until Mr.—”
“No,” interrupted the girl, “I'm goin’ home. Her and me goes down the track and gets coal every night now.”
“Down the track,” said the woman; “where do you get coal down the tracks”?
“Find it or steal it off the cars.”
“Steal it,” repeated Mrs. Jerome, “Duda, don’t you remember what I said about stealing ? Don’t you know that it is wrong	1
and wicked and—”
“ Who said ’twas?”	:
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
“Why, I did.”
“How’d you know. Nobody else ever said so,” and she was gone.
It was a week before she came again and when she appeared at Kirs. Jerome’s house she had a large -cut over her right eye and it -was terribly swollen -and blue. But as she came into the house, in reply to Mrs. Jerome’s “come in,” she did not appear to be aware of her disfigurement, but was the same cool, collected, shrewd little creature as before.
“Why, Duda, what is the matter with your eye?” asked the woman as she looked at the badly cut forehead.
“It’s hurt.”
. “How did you hurt it?”
“Got hit.”	'
“Who hit you? Tell me about it.”
“A boy; ’cause I was stealing coal off his father’s car. And he said Iwas a thief;
. and then his father came, and—” she stopped and looked at Mrs. Jerome.
“And then,” the woman said, for she-saw at once that something strange had happened to the child.
“And then,” the child repeated, and again stopped.	,
“And then, what?” softly inquired the woman.
“And then,” she hesitated, “and then he said he was—sorry for me, and it was too bad, and he—kissed me.” She hung her little head ashamed that some one had been good to her, and that some one had kissed her.
Mrs. Jerome drew the child up in.the big, chair beside her and held her in her arms.
. She talked to her about love and good people, about God and many other things, all new and strange to the child “whose father was tough and got drunk, and whose mother took in washin’.” The woman, finally asked:	.	,
“How is Jim?”
“Jim—I love ’im. He’s good to me. He never hits me. But Jim’s mad at me now.’”
“What is Jim mad at you for?”
“ ’Cause I killed his sister’s cat.. Mean 'thing, it scratched me, and I killed it, and ' Jim said I was mean and he hated me.”
“You poor child,” and the tears started from Mrs. Jerome’s eyes. “What did you say to Jim,” she asked.
“I said I didn’t care if he did hate me, I loved him anyway. And I do, better than anybody else.” The child arose and added: “I got to go now. She told me to hurry back, ’cause I got to take Mrs. Perkin’s washin’ home to her, and if I ain’t there on time-she’d lick-me.”
“You’ll come again, won’t you?” and the woman walked out on the lawn with the child getting her promise to return soon.
When a week had passed and no Duda, Mrs. Jerome grew uneasy about the child, but on Tuesday of the second week Duda made her appearance, informing Mrs. Jerome in reply to her question as to where she had been, that, “She’d been workin’.”
“What have you been doing?”
“Been pickin’ berries out in the country. I made sixty-nine cents, and I’m goin’ to buy some ribbons like Maim Schultz’s got in her hair. I’ve got the money right here,” and she thrust her little brown hand deep into the folds of her dress and proudly drew forth the sixty-nine cents.
“Here it is,” and she held it toward the woman.	.	.
“I don’t want. it. You keep it, but be careful you do not lose it.”
“That’s .what I told Her; I’d lost it, ’cause she wanted it, and I said ’twas lost. You keep it for me, so I can get the ribbons,” and then almost in the same breath, she added:	.
“I saw Jim, and he ain’t mad no more. He said he was sorry too, but he didn’t say I. was a thief, or it was too bad; he just said he didn’t mean it, and he was sorry. Jim didn’t kiss me, and I wish he would.” And she looked up into Mrs. Jerome’s face* with her little tiger eyes softened into a tenderness new to them.	.
Almost fiercely, the woman caught the child in her arms and kissed her times without number, holding her close to her breast, the tears falling down her face.	,
“Duda.”
' “Yes’m.”	,
“Would you like to come and live with me all the time?”
“Yes’m.”	< -
Mrs. Jerome put the child down, and said :
“All right, my dear; you go home now and to-night I will come and see your mother and make arrangements for you to
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
. come and work for me,” and Mrs. Jerome pictured in her mind how she would get the little girl into her home, by inducing, the child’s mother to allow the girl to come and work for her.
While Duda waited on the back porch of her mother’s old tumble-down shanty, she wondered how it would be to live over in “that house where they had white things on the table and flowers and things,” and long after her mother had gone to sleep, the child waited for the woman who was going to take her over there, for, she reasoned, “she" said she’d come.” As Mrs. Jerome did not come that night Duda hurried over the next morning early to “that house,” and when she drew near, the place looked dark and lonely and was more quiet than usual. As she came up the long walk, she saw a big important-looking man with a little satchel in his hand talking to a white-faced woman, and she heard him say:
“It looks bad, but she may pull through all right. I’ll be back in an hour.”
Duda walked around the large lawn until she came to the flower-bed where the night before she and Mrs. Jerome had picked the beautiful white flowers. After carefully selecting a large bouquet she went timidly up to the big door.
“Please may I give these to Mrs.Jerome?” she said to the questioning look of the white-faced woman, who had answered her knock.
The woman held out her hand to take the flowers, but the child drew back and put the flowers behind her, and the woman understanding said: “Mrs. Jerome is very ill and I will give her the flowers for you. To-morrow you come again and maybe you can see her.”	-
When darkness came that night something new and strange worked on the child; she could not sleep, and the morning light found her huddled into one comer of the room wherein she slept, still dressed in her street clothes, and her little face gave signs of having spent a troubled and sleepless night. The minute she could get away from Her she hurried across the city to Airs. Jerome’s. In the yard she stopped and gathered another bunch of flowers and hastened to the door. The same white-faced woman ; answered herj and it appeared to the child
that the woman had been weeping, for her eyes were red and swollen. In reply to her question, “How’s she?” the woman said sadly:
“She is dead!”
The little girl hastened away from the house, carrying the flowers tightly grasped in her hand. Now and then she would look back over her shoulder, as though she feared something. On the corner she met Jim going for his father’s paper.
“Jim,” she said, “ Mrs. Jerome’s dead.” “ Who’s Mrs. Jerome?” asked the boy.
“She loved me—she said she did. And she’s dead, lim, do you love me?”
“Sure.”
“Why don’t you ever kiss me, then? • She did; so did the man. Why don’t you?”
“I don’t know. I don’t kiss girls. But I love you all right.”
“Jim?”
“What.’’
“Won’t Mrs. Jerome come back any more when she’s dead?”
“No. They’ll take her away in a big black box and dig a terrible big hole in the ground and put her in it,—like they did to Uncle Ned—and cover her up with dirt, and then if she’s good, she’ll go to heaven.”
“She’ll go there all right; she’s good. She kissed me, and she’s good.”	t
■ When the last carriage was leaving the. graveyard the occupants saw a little barefoot girl emerge from behind a tombstone across the driveway from the place where Mrs. Jerome had been laid to rest. She came to the grave and looked hard at the newly piled dirt, and then lying down on the ground the child, for the first time in her life, cried as though her little heart would break, and for reasons other than a ‘/lickin’.”
That night they found her walking around the large lawn behind the Jerome home, in her hand was tightly clasped a large bunch of flowers, which, the man who found her, said that she had stolen from Mrs. Jerome’s flower garden. Her offences were numerous, and the next day they took -her away to a reform school — “the thief whom no one loved, whom no one ever kissed, whose father'was tough and got drunk, and whose mother took in washin’.”
SCHOLASTIC.
Othello.
1\OTRE DAME । •
,	Varsity Verse.
THE MODERN BROOK.
I come from haunts of dukes and kings I make a sudden rally, And lo 1 behold my boom floats down The Mississippi Valley.
Through thirty states I hurry on, f	I tear down well - built fences;
:	I’ve won near all the delegates	-
!	Ere half the field commences,
i	• V
;	At last by Alton’s grave I flow,
•	Close bv the Hudson River,-
i	’	.	7
■	For he has run and he is done,
i	But I shall run forever.	.	-
;	I chatter ’bout the tariff laws
'	In bitter sharps and trebles:
:	' At Teddy’s regulation bill
r.	Hurl dembctatic pebbles.
>	With many a speech the trusts I fret,
?	The railroads, shake and tremble,
'	While William Randolph tries in vain
His envy to dissemble.
I chatter, chatter, as I go 7	7	0
I’ve lost the silver fever, For issues come and issues go But I shall run—forever!	W. J. D.
'	OUR ALLO.
Oh, our Allo’s gone awav, Left us just a week to-day, And we’ll never see our darling any more; ’Twas at eve she flew her kite, Jumped the fence and ducked from sight, She never had the nerve to die before.
Oh, we got some creosote And we stuffed it down her throat, And we put tobacco clippings in her ears; And we rubbed some iodine , With molasses on her spine, And fed her cones and hectagons and spheres.
She drank H-SO4 And we rolled her on the floor. But all we got from her was bitter sighs;
In her nose we put morphine, Washed her teeth with Paris green, And from her tears we brushed away her eyes.
We poured coal oil through her hat, Tried to chase away her rat, And make her pompadour come oft' the perch; But our kindness was no iise, For without the least excuse, ’ She cut away, and left us in the lurch. '
And I often wonder whyr That child had the face to die, With a bill of fifty dollars to be paid; '	..
But she knew she had us bushed,	.
’ She’d get well if she was pushed,	.
And we all forgot to push the little maid.
.	.	T. E. B
CORNELIUS P. HAGERTY, A. B.

So much has been, written about all the plays of Shakespeare by men of genius and high talent who have devoted years to the study of the great poet “that it seems almost presumptuous on the part of a college student to attempt to elucidate any point in Shakespeare. Still it must be gratifying to educators, and in particular to admirers of this poet, to know that the young men read Shakespeare1 with interest, sympathy, - and love, that they feel that to become acquainted with his plays, to appreciate the lofty, moral and intellectual characters; to learn the lesson everywhere taught, that “the wages of sin is death*” is one of the greatest educational forces that can be brought to bear upon the mind and character of any man.
Of all the plays there is none, perhaps, that is so passionately interesting as Othello. In no other are the emotions stirred so deeply: pity and:love for Desdemona, hate for Iago, and a blending of sympathy and anger for Othello.. The first time the play is read the narrative is pursued with breathless interest as the noble love of Desdemona and Othello appears; the heroism of Desdemona in marrying Othello in spite of circumstances that would terrify an ordinary woman—the brave, silent admiration and love of Othello; the love of both coming to a climax at their first meeting in Cyprus. Then comes the poison of j'ealousy so gradualfy and artfully instilled by the human counterpart of the keenest devil in helh As Othello becomes more and more entangled in the meshes of Iago’s plot, we wonder if something must not happen to make known the truth; but nothing happens. The plot of. Iago works out with preternatural cruelty, and Desdemona is killed bv her husband.
After the deed is done, one can not but ask: is this a correct Anew of life? If there is sin on the part of Othello and Desdemona, is not the punishment too severe? is not the evil power in the world represented by Iago given too much power, over virtue? Does man, according to Shakespeare, receive
56	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
sufficient grace to triumph over his spiritual enemies? These questions crowd into the mind, and whatever answer we make to them, this much seems true, that when Shakespeare grew older and had passed through the stormy, passionate stage of life he took a serener and more merciful view. If he had written Othello ten years later he would have found a way of making known to the Moor the fidelity of Desdemona and the superhuman treachery of Iago. The play seems almost fatalistic. Othello feels it when he says: “Who can control his fate?” Yet, because of the deep emotions it awakens, the beauty of character it brings forth, we would hesitate to have it end otherwise. Still, if there were a wise, kind providence looking after Othello and Desdemona, would not mercy have been shown them for the great love they bore each other?
My object in this essay is to prove that neither Othello, Desdemona, nor Cassio was guilty of a sin grave enough to deserve the terrible calamity with which the play -ends, and, consequently, that, from a Christian standpoint, the sins which Othello finally commits in slaying his wife and himself are the outcome of his being tried beyond his strength. To do this, we must first examine the character of Iago, for it would be impossible to understand the other characters of the play without first understanding this all-pervading spirit of wickedness.
Iago is the devil incarnate. In all literature, a more subtle, cunning, intellectual villain can not be found. A representative of the basest and most unscrupulous of the Italian race—a race noted for its shrewd villains as well as for its great saints— Iago has a wonderful mind, surpassing the minds of all the other characters in its keenness, far-sightedness and activity. His mind has been poisoned, and, like the mind of the devil, delights only in wickedness and in the destruction of others. It does not plot so much because it hopes to profit thereby as to satisfy its own morbid craving to make others miserable and unhappy like itself. His is a great mind perverted by an evil, unscrupulous life. He seems almost to have been born with a genius for villainy; he is not contented -except when engaged, in ruining somebody that is
happier and better than himself. As the play advances and his malicious, passionless, intellectual hypocrisy gains more and more control over Othello, we feel that nowhere on earth could be found a more clearly drawn picture of the arch-devil of hell than Iago. When Othello and Desdemona meet after the storm at sea and greet each other with so much love, Iago stands behind and savs:
.	0 you are well tuned now 1
But I’ll set down the page that make this music, As honest as I am.
The most distressing fact is that Iago is so cunning that Othello and Desdemona trust, him absolutely, call him “honest” and Iago is able therefore	*
.To make the Moor thank me, love me and reward me For making him egregiously an ass, And practising upon his peace and quiet, Even to madness.	'
Finally, Iago, like the devil, is a scoffer at virtue. He has no respect for women. He is not passionate, but cold, intellectual and foul. Iago has no motive for his base plot ; he says to Roderigo that Othello refused to give him the lieutenancy, even when besought by three noble Venetians; but this, judging from Othello’s treatment of Iago, is a barefaced lie. When alone the only motive he can give is:
It is thought abroad that in my home He’s done me wrong: I know not ift be true, But I for mere suspicion in that kind,
Will do as if for surety.
It is his own discontent at seeing others happy that prompts him to it all. Poor Roderigo, whom Iago deceives and robs, all the while holding out. vain hopes to him, pronounces his most appropriate title when; in the very act of serving Iago, he is slain by him: “ 0 damned Iago! 0 inhuman dog.”
Desdemona is one of the most heroic as well as one of the most perfect of all of Shakespeare’s characters. The quality that reveals most of her soul’s beauty is her love for Othello. He was a Moor, dark of complexion and such a one as would be repulsive to the generality of women; but Desdemona saw “Othello’s visage in his mind,” she recognized the beauty of his brave, manly soul, and, in spite of the opposition of her father, married him. She is always so affectionate, so generous toward
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
him, so unwilling to. suspect him even , when he accuses her, strikes her and kills her that our admiration is aroused to the highest pitch, and our love and sympathy deepen as each succeeding line reveals how ' whole-souled her love is and how freelv she has cast off all other hopes in the world-except the hope of living happily with one she esteems so much. Her purity is absolute; she seems to be unaware of the existence of anything contrary to it; her innocence, too, of the wickedness of men .makes her unable .	X
to suspect Iago and to’ defend herself properly to Othello.
Why, then, since Desdemona is so innocent and good should she be killed ? Shakespeare in all his plays seems to believe that vice is punished and virtue rewarded. All that can be said against her is that she seems to have been a little ungentle toward her father in leaving him without his knowledge; but her character proves that she was the image of gentleness, and that such conduct would have been inconsistent with her character. Therefore, she must have known well her father’s attitude .toward her marriage and believed that to have made it known to him would have been fatal. Also, she tells what at first seem to be two little lies; once when Othello asks for the handkerchief which she has lost, and she sa} s that it is not lost; but she is not certain she has lost it and, perhaps, intends later to make a thorough search for it. Again, when she awakens just before her death and Emilia asks: “0 who hath done this deed?” she answers: “Nobody; I myself.” This might be looked on in a metaphorical sense; but even if it were not, it can be nothing more than an imperfection prompted by her love for Othello and her pity for him when he finds his mistake and faces the sarcasm of the Venetians who opposed their marriage.
Therefore, Desdemona can not be guilty of the sin that brings destruction. If Shakes-pearc follows his usual - custom, either Cassio or Othello must be guilty. The only thing, however, that could be urged against Cassio is the lack of will-power he showed in accepting Iago’s invitation to drink, since he knew the effect wine had upon him. But he refused steadily until Iago insinuated cuttingly ' that if he did . not
drink he would seem to bear little love -toward Othello. This stung Cassio because he loved Othello dearly, and he drank with disastrous results. But this sin could not be sufficient to merit the wholesale destine- . tion that followed. It was only, as Desdemona says, “Not almost a fault to incur a private check.”	......	-
If there is sin, then, Othello must be guilty, else too much power is given to the evil one, whom Iago represents, and Shakespeare’s moral code is false as far as this play is concerned. What are Othello’s faults and what his virtues?-He is brave, honest magnanimous; even Iago must admit he “is of a constant, loving, noble nature;” Cassio says, after his death, “he was great of heart;” but his greatest virtue, like that of Desdemona, was his love. He says of himself:
But that I love the gentle Desdemona, I would not my unhoused free condition Put into circumspection and confine . For the sea’s worth.	'
He is ravished with love at their meetin sr in Cyprus after the voyage; it is his love that makes him the -prey of Iago. It is only a soul that loves passionately that could be stirred to such depths by what he believed to be the defection of his beloved. The thought that Desdemona is false makes him, strong soldier that he is, fall into a swoon. Just before he kills himself he tells the two Venetians that in their report they “must speak of one who loved not wisely but too well.” .
But his faults? Was he guilty of thew charge made against him by Iago? Iago ' can only say.it is a rumor, a suspicion; and who would sooner believe it a certainty than Iago? Emilia seems to exonerate him entirely when she. says to Iago after her animated attack on slanderers: *
0 fie upon them! some such squire he was That turned your'wit the seamy side without, And made you to suspect me'with the Moor. ■
But aside from this, Othello is so selfcontrolled and honorable that it is almost contradictory to imagine him guilty of such a crime. If Shakespeare wished him to be thought guilty he should have modified his character or made the accusation and ■ proof, plain.
'	‘ {Continued on page 60.)	" '	'
58	NOTRn DAME
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, October 6,1906.
—It is time to get busy thinking about the first bi-monthly examination. In school, as in most every other race in life, a great deal depends on the start. To get off fast is to half win the race. A little consistent work after that is sure to bring a first. This breezy weather that makes your curtains blow just a little and fills your room with an exhilarating air isjust the thing to make study enjoyable. The sideliner watching the Varsitjr coach handle his men, can find more than one instance where “Dig in” isjust the word. There’s a push, a vim, a determination to it. So dig in.
—With the opening numbers of the Scholastic the question comes up: What are we going to do about a staff? We have lived too long at Notre Dame not to know the sentiment concerning our college paper; we have seen too manv Varsities and other organizations sweat and work and in the end receive nothing but derogatory , remarks from the side-line critic; we have become too used to giving the best that was in us and to have won nothing but the drone’s criticism to presume that this year we can work a complete revolution. AVe are aware of what is ahead of us and that there is going to be a certain amount of comment in any event. So long as part of the student body takes it upon itself to stand and watch others work without giving anything but its “knocks;” so long as part of it will talk of the college paper as something apart from itself; so long as it speaks of the Scholastic as “the Scholastic,” instead of “ our Scholastic ; ” so long as it remains idly by and refrains;.
SCHOLASTIC.	.
from giving its liberal and hearty support, we can not hope to achieve great results. We mean to be plain and fair. AVe want you on our staff. AAre need your work and your good will. If you have neither, try to cultivate some. Submit your work and help us make our college paper a success.
—Bryan’s government ownership policy, like all his theories, has called forth a great deal of editorial criticism throughout the country. Ever since his Madison Square Garden Speech, Republican newspapers have daily devoted columns, of their editorial sheet to what, in most instances, appears to us to be a rabid personal arraignment of the Democratic leader and his ideas.
It is amazing, to say the least, to find the vast majority of these editorials on government ownerships to be absolutely nothing but a host of broad and general statements, spiced with a bit of clever sarcasm and unsupported by a single basic argument. For instance, we find Mr. Bryan’s plan of railroad ownership scoffed at as impossible, as dangerously socialistic, as another Bryan “heresy,” and as calculated to plunge the nation into serious financial difficulties.
Now these statements involve capital charges. If the centralization of our railway system in the government will mean any or all of these evils its adoption or advocacy would be suicidal; but on the other hand, what we, as voters, would like to know, and what every man who is capable of intelligently using that franchise wants to be certain of is, how will government ownership work against the interest of the nation, and why will it not remedy those abuses so universally acknowledged as among us ? If Bryan’s plan is impossible, we would like to know why; if it borders on socialism, we would like to know just what are its socialistic tendencies. If it is a political “Heresy,” we want to know in just what way it violates the settled precedents of sound economics.
One need not be in sympathy with Bry-anistic ideas on government ownership to become a little wearied of this continual tirade of unsupported criticism on this his new policy. Mr. Bryan has-clearly stated
NOTRE DAME
the working principles as well as the theoretical side of his new doctrine. He has outlined his plan fully and in detail. And in all his utterances on the subject, we believe there is a fairly reasonable line of argument. It is sufficient at least to demand some consideration, and surety can not be met with or overcome by a mere array of statements and personal criticism. Argument, should, we believe, be met with argument. Hostile, empty assertions detract nothing from the soundness of the government ownership idea, but only increase its chances of becoming generally accepted as sound economic doctrine. The vast majority of those editorials are calculated not to lessen Mr. Bryan’s popularity as an economist but rather to incite a respect for him, not only as a man of principle but as a statesman of ability.
Mr. Bryan’s sincerity is unassailable. His policies must remain so too, until his political enemies drop their personal arraignment of him and their derisive criticism of his politics and tell us why government ownership of railroads is a poor thing, why it is a political heresy, and how it is going to run us into difficulties that are ruinous. If it will do all this we want to know the how ? and the why ?	'	.
—From a logical and ethical standpoint the women of the United States have exactly the same right to vote that men have. This is the burden of an interesting article in the current North American Review. Had some courageous maiden in a more primitive age said: “From a logical and ethical standpoint the women of our tribe have exactly the same right to fight that men have,” it would have been difficult to disprove her assertion. Suppose further that a- lineal descendant of that same courageous maiden should say to. us: “From a logical and ethical standpoint women have exactly the same right to join the armv or' naw of the United States that men have,” we would.be inclined to remind her' gentlv that there are other considerations entering into this question besides those of abstract right. ,
The important phase of this question is the practical one. Little is to be gained’ in
SCHOLASTIC.	59
this matter by talking about abstract right. The analogy drawn between the attitude of the rebellious colonists toward England and woman’s attitude toward men in this country, is ingenious, curious and not a little humorous, but it hardly squares with the facts. Taxed without being represented unquestionably the colonists were; but the vast majority of American women believe that they are adequately represented in the governing of the country by their fathers, their brothers and their husbands. The colonists persistently demanded a direct voice in the determining of their taxes; nothing like a majority of our most representative women have made such a demand. The demands of the colonists were scouted with obstinacy. But should the writer in the North American consult her educated friends of the male sex about this suffrage question, they would be likely to reply something like this: “That is a matter about which men need hot grew feverish, it'is purely a woman’s question, and any time the women of this country make up their mind that they realty want the -ballot, the -men will give it to them.”
Athletic - Notes.
Coach Barry and Captain Bracken are bringing the men around, and the teams that are practising on Cartier Field these days do not look much like the men who were running signals a week ago. The plays are. running smoothly and everything is developing rapidly—speed, endurance and head work.
* ’ * *
Manager Draper has been unable to secure pads for all the jerseys, and the first scrimmage, which was to have been held Thursday, was rather a tame affair. . Coach Barry instructed the men to go into the scrimmage easy, as part of the men were without any kind of pads whatever, and although the plays were executed slowly the Varsity offense shows development. Dwan ran the team at quarter and generaled the Varsitv in grand stvle. Besides using good head-work, he made several long
O O	7	„	o
runs around end. Captain Bracken circled end for a couple of thirty-yard dashes,
6o
NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC.
and Callicrate did likewise on the other side. Miller displayed the first genuine resemblance to the renowned Salmon as a line-bucker and came up to expectations.
For the second team O’Flynn, Hutzel and Keeffe gained considerable ground and showed that thej' will be valuable men to replace the regulars.
-X* *
Ex-Captain Beacom and Sam Dolan appear to have the tackle positions cinched. Mr. Clarence Sheehan of Grand Ridge, Illinois, will be the man' in the middle.
* *
For the guard positions there are several good men—Eggeman, Doyle, Donovan, Henning and Mertes, are all doing well, and the men who get the positions can be counted on for stonewalls.
■Sr
Bervy, Munson, Burdick and Keach are playing ends. Bervy and Munson appear to have it on the other pair a trifle, and will very likely be given the first chance • Saturday.
Harry Hague put up a good game at tackle against ex-Capt. Beacom Thursday.
"S’ *
The regular backfield looks like : Dwan, quarter-back; Captain Bracken, left-half; Calicrate, right half, and Miller, full-back. ' But it is easy enough to dope out the positions on paper. The first game will give a better line on the men, and then the dopesters will have something to work on.
The men who will likely get in Saturday’s game against Franklin College are as follows:
Left-end—Ben^, Burdick.
Left-tackle, Beacom, Hague.
Left-guard, Doyle or Donovan.	_
Centre, Sheehan, Mertes.
Right-guard, Eggeman, Henning.
Right-tackle, Dolan.
Right-end, Munson, Keach.	.
Quarter-back, Dwan, Binz.
Left half-back, Bracken (Capt.), Keeffe.
‘ Right half-back, Callicrate, Hutzel.
Full-back, Miller, O’Flynn. A. O’C.
. (Continued from page 60.)
Othello became jealous. Yes, but would not any other man similarly circumstanced have become jealous too ? He was naturally free from jealousy and slow in allowing it to enter his mind, but under the circumstances he could not have done otherwise. He was a man of action; his resolution had not, like Hamlet’s, been “sicklied o’er with the pale cast of thought.” He was not cunning enough to outwit Iago, whose intellect was, perhaps, the keenest of any character in Shakespeare. He thought Iago was honest, and who that reads the play can blame him, knowing that Othello did not, possess that insight and penetration into human nature which comes only from a life of observation and thought, but was “of a free and open nature, that thinks men honest that but seem to be so?”
If we can excuse this want of insight we must excuse everything else, because Iago played on him with such skill that Othello was no longer master of himself. Iago’s reasoning was invincible, and Iago was “honest.” All that was left for Othello was to act as he did: to avenge his outraged love. Still there is a little comparison which might be made here if one dared—perhaps, the nobility of the characters will justify it. If Othello were as perfect a Christian as he should have been he might have followed the example of St. Joseph, who, when he found Alary with child, “was minded to put her away privately.” Othello did have this course in view - when he said:
If I do prove her haggard .
I’d whistle her off and let her down the wind, To prey at fortune.
. But Iago’s medicine worked too well; the barbaric nature which long intercourse with Christendom and rigorous self-discipline had almost obliterated, appeared as a result of the terrible strain to which he was subjected and compelled him to the course he took. Therefore, if Othello is guilty of jealousy, his sin is not of the deliberate kind, such as Macbeth’s; if he does wrong he does so unconsciously and with the best intention. Does such a sin deserve so terrible a punishment? Is Othello guilty of serious sin at all ? Note his remorse, when conscious of his deed:
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Now, how dost thou look now ? 0 ill-starred wench 1 Pale as thy smock! AVhcn we shall meet at compt, This look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven, And fiends will snatch at it. Cold, cold, my girl! Even like thy chastity.
0 cursed, cursed slave! whip me, ye devils, From the possession of this heavenly sight! Blow me about in winds! roast me in sulphur! Wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire!
0 Desdemon! dead, Desdemon! dead! 0! 0!
Sorrow of his kind could spring only from the deepest love, and shall not Othello be formven because “he has loved much?” o
His anger on finding out his deed does not break loose on Iago, as we would at first think natural; when.he attacks Iago “every puny whipster gets his sword,” but his anger breaks loose on himself, “Like the base .Indian,” he says he “threw a pearl away richer than all his tribe,” and when he attacks himself, no one gets his sword, he makes close-joiner, work of it, and with one blow! If “love is the fulfilling of the law,” then Othello is not guilty. ’
If Shakespeare wishes to teach his accustomed lesson in this play that the “wages of sin is death,” he appears to me to be too severe; the punishment is out of proportion to the sin. A feeling of depression and discouragement comes over the reader as, step by step, the power for evil gains control over the noble characters of the play, and instead of Providence guiding the fortunes of the characters, O	O	7
merciless fate seems to be in control.
Considering the circumstances in which Othello was placed, considering the preternatural cunning of Iago, considering the kind of man Othello was of necessity as a result of temperament, education and profession, who could expect him to penetrate so subtle a scheme as Iago’s ? He does not appear to have received sufficient grace to triumph over the temptation to which he was subjected, and we can not blame him for the course he took. If this is so it is difficult, in strict justice, to see on what grounds Shakespeare had a right to bring about the destruction of Othello and Desdemona.
The play works out with invulnerable logic and admirable precision. Everything follows as a natural consequence, but I can not help feeling that “there is something rotten in Denmark.” The author- of the
61
play seems to have been at enmity with the world, to have doubted the ability of man to cope with the spiritual powers that seek his soul’s destruction, and that gentle mercy which Christians expect and which the poet exhibits so beautifully in his later plays, is not to be found here. We believe that “love is the fulfilling of the law,” that “Charitv covereth a multitude of sins,” that “many sins shall be forgiven if we love much,” that our Lord’s command is that “we love one another as He has loved us;” the fate of Othello and Desdemona seems to indicate that the poet did not realize all this fully. The tragedy leaves behind it a depressing effect.
But it is possible that Shakespeare meant to teach .us by this play that “we have not here a lasting city, but hope for one above.” The beauty of the union between the souls of Othello and Desdemona may have been too pure and holy for this earth, and could expect consummation only in Heaven. Perhaps, but Othello kills Desde- -mona and himself; he had no right to commit either of these acts; thev are not Christian, and if not, we must believe that the poet did not wish the reader to turn his thoughts toward Heaven to see Desdemona and Othello reunited there. There is some. thing disproportionate about it all; Othello seems to have been tried bevond his strength. The whole blame must be laid on Iago, but, according to the Christian mind, the devil has no power to try a soul too much; he is limited in his power. Othello’s apparent weakness in not killing Iago is really a sign of strength; he knows that the loss suffered is irreparable; that though Iago could be tortured for eternity he could not make amends for the wrong done, and how like mockery it seems when Ludovico says:
For tltis slave,
If there be any cunning crudty
That can torment him much and hold him long, It shall be his.
We look forward, indeed, to the meeting “at compt,” when Desdemona shall know why Othello killed her and be consoled by his subsequent repentance; but we are not so sure that Othello will go to Heaven. He is a murderer and a suicide. Is there not something wrong? Would not, in real life, his great love cry out to God for mercy,
'62	NOTRE DAME
and would not God have stayed the power of Iago and have at least let Othello know the enormity of his sin in killing Desdemona? Would not some terrible judgment have fallen upon Iago when he so worked on his victim as to make him fall in a swoon, and would not lightning from heaven have struck him when he knelt in hypocrisy beside Othello and solemnly swore to avenge “the wronged Othello?'” If Othello’s conscience had once reproached him, or if he had been brought face to face with his deed before he committed it, as Macbeth was, if he had mentioned once, before the deed, Iago’s name to Emilia, he would have been unpardonable. If he had fainted in Desdemona’s presence instead of in Iago’s she might have suspected what was the matter, but nothing of this kind happened. The characters are caught in the merciless wheel of fate and are destroyed apparently in spite of themselves.
It may be objected, though, that Shakespeare shows life as it is; that it is not his business to tell why the good suffer, but only to say that they do suffer. I answer that it is his custom to teach that “the wages of sin is death,” but the reward of virtue, life and happiness. It must, then— if my point is conceded—be admitted that Shakespeare departs from his usual custom in~ this play. Moreover, Christians believe that God does not try any man beyond his strength, that if in real life men seem to suffer misfortune, it is so either Ijecause they have sinned or because the misfortune is a blessing in disguise. This is not so in Othello. The characters who suffer most are, humanly speaking, innocent and perfect. Their death is not a blessing in disguise, because Othello sins in killing Desdomona and himself. Of course, we ma\- say that the murder of Othello should be attributed to an over-wrought mind and a disordered nervous system; also, that he can not be blamed, but must be admired for his suicide, because his feelings ran so high after the discovery of Desdemona’s innocence that any other course, would have been a moral impossibility.
But no matter whether. the fate of Desdemona and Othello can be justified or not, I suppose we must pardon Othello; it is an easy thing to do, for,, as Coleridge, remarks: “Othello.had no life but in Des
SCMOLAST/L.
demona. The belief that she, his angel, had fallen from the heaven of her native innocence, wrought a civil war in his heart. She is his counterpart; and, like him, is almost sanctified in oui* eyes by her absolute unsuspiciousness, and her holy entireness of love. As the curtain drops, which do we pity most? Certainly to imagine heaven peopled by such characters as Othello and Desdemona will help us to gain an idea of what heaven truly is.
LAW DEPARTMENT.
The following is the statement of facts in o
the case of Timberman vs. Carpenter now pending trial in the Moot Court.
Statement of Facts.
Thomas Timberman ’ and Clarence Carpenter reside in South Bend, St. Joseph County, Indiana. The former is engaged in the lumber business, while the latter is a contractor and builder. Earlv in October of last vear, Timberman received from Chicago some 30 carloads of lumber. It was piled according to direction in his yard. On the 23d of that month, Carpenter communicated with him by telephone, inquiring how much would be the cost of a carload of Georgia pine, such as builders commonly use for flooring. “It will be about $950” was the answer. “Come over and see what I have. You will find here the greatest assortment of lumber in South Bend, and can undoubtedly suit yourself,” added the speaker, Mr. Timberman, himself. Soon afterward Carpenter appeared at the yard, was cordially welcomed, told to look around at his leisure and- given the freedom of the yard in searching for what he. wanted. Finally he returned to the business office of the yard and. informed Mr. Timberman that he had found just the kind of flooring he needed on a car standing on an old side-track at the southeast corner of the yard. Timberman could not call it distinctly to mind, and so stated to Carpenter. The latter rejoined: “Well, if you will come with me we can now go there together , and look at it.” “Very well,” said Timberman, “let us go.” On arriving at the car Carpenter said: “Mr. Timberman,’! like your lumber and
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	63
your way of doing business, but you are surely asking too much for this car-load. It seems to me that it does not contain over 17,000 or 18,000 feet, and I think $800 would amply pay you. ” In answer Timberman said: “Well, it’s yours at that price.” Carpenter paused for a moment, and then answered briefly, saying: “You would better get the inspector’s bill and call on my brother Richard. He will represent me in the affair and make payment.” This was done precisely as directed by Mr. Timberman, but Richard refused to pay for the lumber or even to receive it. Timberman then tendered the lumber to Carpenter personally, who likewise refused to pay for or take it away, and hence this suit.
•Jr , * *
SCHWAB AND O’NEILL.
It always gives us pleasure to note the successes achieved by graduates. So it is we are glad to have the opportunity to announce the formation of a co-partnership between Mr.. Edward H. Schwab and Mr. William O’Neill. The new law firm has established itself in Mishawaka, and occupies handsome offices in Mishawaka Trust and Savings Co. building. Both young men are graduates of the Law department. Mr. Schwab received his Master’s Degree in ’06. For the past year he has been lecturing in the Law department, and his students have found in him a clever and thorough instructor. It is the hope of all Law students that Mr. Schwab will continue his lectures.
Mr. William P. O’Neill is another member of the ’06 class and was recentiv elected city attorney of Mishawaka. It is indeed gratifying to see two classmates enter into a partnership and establish themselves so near the University. With this combination we are sure the new firm will be a crowning success .and shed further glory on Alma Mater, and the Scholastic desires to be among the very first of the firm’s many . well-wishers.
John B. Shea (Ph. B. ’06) has entered Harvard Law department, as also has T. A. Lalley (Ph. B. ’06). Both men will swell the Notre Dame contingent at the big Eastern School, and their friends at home expect them to keep up the record.
Personals.
—The many friends at the University of Albert Kotte (C. E. ’06) will be glad to hear of his success since leaving school. He is with the Queen Crescent Route at Oakdale, Tenn., and making rapid strides to the front. Another engineer of ’06 of whom we are hearing complimentary reports, is Harry Roberts who is also in the engineering department of the Crescent line. Harry was one of the best men -in his class and the winner of the Ellsworth C. Hughes medal. He has a host of friends at Notre Dame who wish him their best.
Local Items.
—Root.	.
—Some Indian summer.
—The twenty-six are still out. .
—If you have lungs prepare to use them now.
—Have you subscribed for the Scholastic ? Your politics should make no difference, as we belong to no party or machine.
—It is none too early for the editors of “The Dome” to begin to get busy. The ’07 edition must not fall below the standard set.
—Lost.—A small pearl-set crescent scarf pin. Finder, please return same to V. A. Hundley, Brownson Hall, and receive reward.
—Students should take the St. Mary’s car to town these days; the Hill Street line is being repaired and so cars run only to South Bend Avenue.
—The Post Office department wishes that every one would have his mail sent to his respective hall. Much inconvenience and bother to student and postman are incident to failure in this matter.
—Sorin. is to have a piano. Gallart’s appearance made the fact come home strong, while the stealing of Scales from the Corbyites neared things to a climax, all of which caused the Sorinites to mass Wednesday evening and settle the matter.
—On Wednesday evening Mr. Farabaugh visited the Corbyites and gave them a spirited talk on debating and debating teams. It was good sense that was given the men, and we hope to see proportionate results. Corby should be as prominent in debate as she is in athletics.
—Eighty of last year’s Browsonites have -returned again to the University, which number is almost 58 per cent of the entire number that were present the last term.
4	HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Everyone of the senior halls has a representation of former Brownsonites, who, no doubt, will prove prominent in every field of endeavor. At least this is the hope of the Brownson Hall faculty.
—Last Saturday evening the Ohio Club reorganized and the following officers were elected: R. E. Anderson, President; F. Zink, Vice-President; F. X. Cull, Financial Sec-retarv; W. Carroll, Recording Secretary; R. F. Ohmer, Treasurer; H. A. Burdick, Sergeant-at-Arms; Professor J. F. Edwards, Hon. President; Rev. Father Cavanaugh,, and Director; Reverend Father 'Crumley, Spiritual Adviser.' From the present outlook the success of the club seems more than assured.	_____
— Students would do well to note the 'hours assigned their respective halls, and arrange to procure stationery, etc., at the proper times. ' '
For Brownson, Sorin, Corbjq St. Joseph and Holy Cross Halls: •	-	-
9:30 to 10:00 a.-m., Thursdays, excepted 9:00 to 9:30 a. in., Thursdays only 3:00 to 3:30 p. m., Monday, Tues., Sat.
- ’	For-Carroll Hall:	-
4:00 to 4:30 p. m., Monday, Tues., Sat.
. S:30 to 9:30 a. m., Thursdays.
• —Hereafter only preparatory students and freshmen will be eligible to enter the inter7 hall debating contests. As these students are well represented xin-xSt. Joseph’s, Holy Cross, Corby and Brownson-Halls, it is to be' expected that these halls will -eac-h have a team. Each hall. will, debate the other three, -thus making nine debates in all. The hall that wins three debates will be entitled to the inter-hall championship banner. When this series - of debates is ended; the twelve debaters who composed the different hall teams will contest for places on the freshman team, which will debate a similar team of some other college. Kir. Farabaugh will have the general supervision of inter-hall debating,’ and -his generous co-operation may be counted on by all the participants. ' r .	.	.
—Athletics in Brownson Hall have an exceptionally bright outlook for the season 1906-’7. Although no athletic manager has as yet been appointed, Geary, Bonnan O’Leary and Eggeman were nominated at a mass meeting in the Brownson gym by the students, and their names sent to the Athlethic Board. In football, Brownson shows up exceedingly well, about twenty-five men have reported to Capt. Burdick, among whom are some old and experienced men. Brownson will fight hard to retain the. championship she won in football and baseball last year.. Two games have already
been scheduled, one for Sunday, Oct. 7, with the Mclnemy team of South Bend, and one for the following Sunday with St. Patrick’s Club, also of South Bend. Both promise to be hard-fought games.
—On Thursday evening’ the Brownson Literary and Debating Society reorganized for the coming year. Before the members met in the Columbian Room, Professor Farabaugh made a short address in the study-hall explaining the .benefits of debating and also the necessary steps required to -gain admission into the societv. The following officers were elected for four months: President, F. W. Eggeman; Vice-President, D. McDonald; Secretary, J. J. Condon; Treasurer, J. O’Leary; Reporter, C. Rowlands; Chaplain, F. Madden; and Sergeant-at-Arms, H. A. Burdick. Owing to the fact ■ that a number of the old members have entered Sorin and Corby Halls, there were only seventeen members present. However, from all appearances, there is good material among the new students in Brownson Hall, and it is hoped that the society will uphold the reputation made last year, and that the handsome new banner which adorns Brownson study-hall will hang in the same place next year.
—At that time he came down from his brethren to a place which men were wont to call Sorin. And he saw there the big chief from the Dacotahs, and all his men who had worried long but now rejoiced. For he had come a long way even from that country which in those days was called Europe. And now that he was returned to them thev were glad; for he had much to ;say unto his children. And so they squatted down on the grass near Sorin and listened with many an ear to the great things he had to sav. And looking at each other with open eyes they wondered much. For he had said there was a London, and a Paris, and a Latin Quarter (but being a proper man he refrained from going near). And he told them all this and more, that .they might hear and know. For they had never seen these things except in pictures. And they were much amazed.
But when they asked him if it were true that one other, a Sorinite, had braved the perils and hardships of a summer tour, he whom they called Conan the Adventurer opened his mouth and spake unto them thusly:
“Believe me, my children, that which I say unto you is truth. That I have travelled afar through all that country and not a sight did 1 see of the Fox. And if any man tell you that others have gone too let him be another.” So spake the wisest of Seniors, and rising they all went into prayer for . they were pious men and feared the de-merit..