Screen star Van Heflin surf-casting at Malibu Beach, Calif.
HENTIFIC TESTS PROVE
I1KKY STRIKE MILDER
THAN ANY OTHER
PRINCIPAL BRAND!
Confirming these scientific tests, an independent consulting laboratory with more than 15 years’ experience in cigarette research reports: ‘lucky Strike mildest of 6 major brands tested."
Yes, Luckies are milder.. .proven milder! And here’s one good reason why:
Lucky Strike means fine tobacco—fine, light, naturally mild tobacco that gives you real deep-down smoking enjoyment—yes, the smooth, rich taste of fine tobacco. Prove to yourself what science has proved. Get a carton of Luckies today!
war
VAN HEFLIN says: "Wherever Igo, whatever I do—I smoke those mild, smooth Luckies !99


T £ s
LET YOUR OWN TASTE
AND THROAT BE THE JUDGE! FOR THE RICH TASTE OF FINE TOBACCO...FOR SMOOTHNESS AND MILDNESS...
There’s never a rough puff in a Lucky
COPR., THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY
Strike Means fata Todacco
So round, so firm, so fully packed — so free and easy on the draw
*THE WEEK
by $ack McGoldrick, m
Top of the Week
Frosh dance theme for Friday night: ‘■'Some Enchanted Evening.”
Freshman Frolic
Tonight is the night the men of '53 have been waiting for. From Farley, Breen-Phillips and Zahm, hundreds of first year men will invade the Palais Royale. All dressed up in their Sunday suits, they’ll dance to the rhythms of Chicago’s Chuck Granger. What with car permissions and staying out till 2 a.m., the frosh are really living. Some of the old, old-timers have been heard to say “it wasn’t like that when WE were freshmen”; but no one has denied that it isn’t a step in the right direction to give the plebes one big night a year. As Ken Thoren would say in ROUGHLY SPEAKING, “a job well done.”
a class in history that has gone through Europe this semester faster than Hitler ever dreamed possible. . . . May 1 may be Red Day in Europe and New York, but around here it’s the opening of the Straw Hat season . . . several members of the faculty annually don their white headgear at this time ... in one of the halls there was
WRONG PRESS
The SCHOLASTIC acknowledges a mistake on page 12 of last week’s issue where it was announced that “The Aeronautical Papers of Albert F. Zahm” was printed by the Ave Maria Press. Dr. Zahm’s book was actually published by the University of Notre Dame Press. There is no connection between the two presses.
a pool among the students to see who could guess the exact time the rector would appear in the doorway complete with straw topper . . . under an FCC ruling, WND may have to add a fourth symbol to call letters next year . . . suggestions have been WNDU, WRND, WVND . . . WN-DT’s and WSQEAK have been rejected as possibilities . . . the Vetville entry in the Softball league features three All-Americans . . . Emil Sitko pitches, George Strohmeyer is behind the plate, and Kevin O’Shea shortstops . . . the Sorin Hall Date Derby has attracted campus-wide attention . . . bookie Gene Dean puts out a daily form sheet on the hall residents’ chances of getting a date for the Senior Ball . . . Best bet this week was Steve Oracko at 412 to 1 ... Ed Gray is the long-shot at 100 to 1, but inside dope has it that this may be a fixed race . . - several entries have been scratched, and each rejection of an invitation boosts the odds . . . the long-distance phone strike may interfere with some last-minute bids by desperate seniors.
Bottom of the Week
Frosh memories on Monday morning: “Some Expensive Evening.”
Charlie My Boy
And right on the heels of the freshman dance comes the social event of the year — the Senior Ball, which will be held in the Drill Hall on May 12. For this affair, Charlie Ventura will bring his seventeen-piece band down from Chicago’s Club Silhouette, where he has been breaking attendance records.
There seems to be some misunder-A standing about Ventura’s orchestra. Some think he directs a jazz combo; others say he is Verne Kelley’s cousin (this has been denied.)’ Actually, Charlie was recently voted “America’s Number One Saxophonist,” and his newer Victor recordings are well on their way to the top. Some of his slower stuff resembles Duke Ellington's work; other times it sounds like Ralph Flanagan’s. Throw in a little Dizzy Gillespie-type music (very Ititle) and you’ve got a band that should please everybody ... an impossible feat, but that’s what the committee, had in mind when they signed him. For his first Notre Dame appearance, Ventura has promised a special arrangement of “Dancing in the Dark,” which is the theme of the Ball.
Dissa and Data
The day of the blitzkreig as a military maneuver may be over, but there’s
IT’S NOT TOO LATE!
You Can Still Make That Summer Trip to Europe With International Youth PARIS by AIR $360 Round Trip
Flights to LONDON and ROME
Write or Phone INTERNATIONAL YOUTH, Inc.
150 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
COrtland 7-0362	To assure passage write immediately
£ May 5, 1950
5
J t
Entertainment
MAY 5
PALAIS ROYALE—The Frosh take their first plunge tonight into the ND social pool with their dance, Some Enchanted Evening. Some of the first year men will have to shave — approximately ten — whereas the entire class will have to wear their best suits. Chuck Granger and his orchestra will supply the music for the men of ’53 from 9 until 1 a.m. Freshmen have until 2 to hit the sacks.
COLFAX (through May 10)—Riding High (Legion of Decency Rating B) is one of the most entertaining films to hit South Bend in months. Bing Crosby is in top form. The picture has everything you could ask for — comedy, good songs, a grade-A plot, and outstanding supporting performances.
AVON (through May 12)—Evelyn Keyes and Dick Powell play the leading roles in Mrs. Mike (A-2), a faithful picturization of the best seller.
PALACE (through May 11)—Barricade (B) is a so-so technicolored melodrama laid in the West with Dane Clark, Ruth Roman and Raymond Massey heading the cast. Cry Murder (A-2) is the co-feature.
MAY 6
CARTIER FIELD—Freshmen and their dates will be permitted to watch the Saturday scrimmage starting at 2 o’clock.
WASHINGTON HALL—Loosen up those belts —that howl-getter W. C. Fields is back again, in Never Give a Sucker an Even Break.
PALAIS ROYALE—The Sophomore Class — who are doing a fine job of proving themselves the most active class — will hold a Barn Dance from 8 to 11. Tickets are 81.50 per couple.
MAY 8
WASHINGTON HALL—The Austrian Goodwill Tour to North America will play a three-night engagement (Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday nights), promising the student body one of the entertainment highlights of the year. The group, made up of young Austrian men and women, will present a program of dances and folksongs. Let’s get out and give them a real welcome.
MAY 11
WASHINGTON HALL—ND String Quartet Concert at 8 p.m.
COLFAX (through May 17)—Francis (A-l) is the sleeper comedy hit of the year. It’s about a talking mule, a Pacific soldier and the adventures they get into. Donald O’Connor is the soldier, Patricia Medina is a spy and Ray Collins is a frustrated gold-brassed officer. Chill Wills supplies the voice for the mule.
Umi/Mp 4 s Smile J
Round you go with Beech-Nut Gum!
Watch her smile then you’ll want some! One taste of that tingling, timeless treat, And you’ll smile, too... round’s complete!
MAY 12
DRILL HALL—The social year hits its zenith with the Senior Ball. The theme is Dancing in the Dark (wanna bet? Charlie Ventura will be the man on the stand. East side freshmen can look in the windows without charge to see what it will be like in three years.
MAY 13
STADIUM—The annual Old-Timers game starts at 2.
DRILL HALL—The final dance of the year, opened to all classes, will be sponsored by the Monogram Club from 9 until 12 with 1 o’clock permissions granted. $1.50 is the tariff. Gene Hull’s orchestra will play.
The quickest way to unwrap a smile! Open a package of Beech-Nut Gum. Swing to Beech-Nut Gum!
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91 May 5, 1940 No. 24
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN WALTON R. COLLINS
JOHN H. JANOWSKI_________________News
JOHN J. POWERS__________Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE _________ Features
JOHN F. MEANEY ________________ Sports
JACK R. VARLEY_________Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN_________Photography
LEON GARDNER_________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER____________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY Circulation
ROBERT WILDEMAN  Circulation DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Rod Belcher. Frank Blanch, Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan, Bob Butler, Don Carbone, Jim Carrig, Jim Clark, Joe Conerty, Jay Conlon, John Corrigan, Frank Cotter. Bryan Coughlin, Dave Driscoll, Charley Dullea, Carl Eiberger, Bob Finney, Tom Foote, Bill Gorman, David Hayes, Jerry Howell, Tom Kelley, John Kelly, Rik Klein, Joe Lang, Lou Meece, Don Mulvihill, Jim Murphy, R. O. Murphy. Tom Murphy, Jim O’Brien, John Quetsch, Tom Reedy, Neal Scarlett, George Schwartz, Roger Vorce.
SPORTS: Jim Brislin, Joe Deiss, Bill Delaney, Ray Dittrich. Jack Economou, Jack Keane, Joe Moresco, Ted Prahinski, Bill Reidy. Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rubery, Joe Straub, Rudy Unger.
FEATURES: Jim Carroll, Jim Kingsley, Larry McDermott, Robert Romaker, Jack Ward, Bill Weir.
Member of the Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. Printed at Ave Maria Press.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the. University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Bordered by the blooming tulip trees, Our Lady stands as a reminder of the plea She made at Fatima — pray for the conversion of Russia. At these times prayer seems more important than ever to lead our world to peace. May is Oui- Mother’s month — the month during which everyone at Notre Dame is trying extra hard to comply with its Patron’s request.
—Photo by Jim McLaughlin
May 5, 1950
From the Editor’s Desk..
Vote and Vote Intelligently
Student Council and class elections are scheduled to be held next Tuesday, May 9. The elections are not the more-or-less unimportant things they were a few years ago. Under the Student Council Constitution that went into effect this year, the president and vice-president of each year’s class automatically become members of the Student Council.
That means that these top class officers should not be elected on popularity alone. They have far more important things to do than just running the class dance and, perhaps, a picnic and smoker. Besides being leaders of their class, thev are now leaders of the entire student bodv.
Be sure that the man you vote for has most of these qualities: executive ability, logical mind, perseverance, ability of expression and the best interests of the student body at heart. These qualities are necessary’ to carry out the many and various jobs that Student Councilmen have assigned to them during the year. And besides just doing casual jobs, they must look forward to discover new ways of helping the student. Needless to sav, those students who are running for Council offices only must have the same qualifications.
Look behind the names of the candidates to discover what thev have J
done. A good activity record usually means the man is interested and capable, although the voter should beware of those with over-burdened schedules. A student who hasn’t done much may be just as good, but his qualifications will need more investigation.
This past year the Student Council has been -the most effective Council that we have seen at Notre Dame. Still, however, there is room for improvement. Go out and vote Tuesday, and assure yourself of that improvement.
Saturday at the Palais
Tomorrow night, the Student Council wall hold another of its successful Spring dances. Modeled more-or-less on the Victory Dance idea, they feature a local band and take place at the Palais Royale. Because of previously-scheduled social events, only two of them have been held so far, and tomorrow’s is the last of the schoolyear.
The success of the ones held this year, however, should insure their continuance next Fall during football season and throughout the vear. Everyone sems to be convinced by now that the Victory Dances are good affairs, and those couples who have taken in this semester’s Council Dances are just as well-satisfied. Held under the direction of Council Social Chairman Verne Kelley, the past couple of dances have been good places for student couples to go on Saturday nights. They have heard good music, have had plenty of room to dance and have received a good evening’s entertainment for the reasonable price of $1.50. The dances haven’t made a great deal of money, but their low price is one of their strongest points.	’
South Bend, though an average town, has little to offer Saturday-night ND daters besides a meal and a movie. The Council Dances give them an attractive evening at an attractive price. We think their creation is one of the best things to come out of this vear’s Student Council
O	J
meetings. ■
7

>wmre
THEM AU!
Philip Morris n
leadin9 br“d
In Just ONE MINUTE...you can prove to yourself PHILIP MORRIS is definitely less irritating—therefore MORE ENJOYABLE — than the brand you’re now smoking*
r.
■ . . . light up a PHILIP MORRIS. THEN, just take a puff—DON'T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn't it?
And NOW . ..
&

IC.
jfA'
• • * light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON'T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
MAKE NO MISTAKE . . . Only ONE cigarette is recognized by eminent medical authorities as definitely less irritating. That cigarette is PHILIP MORRIS!


N2jSSVETrE
HANGOVER J
>> fap-


7
"WPMOBWS
America!
8
The Scholastic
(F
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 24
MAY 5, 1950
Campus Polls Open Tuesday Morning
Freshmen Go Native Beneath Palais Palms;
Semi-Formal Dance Begins at Nine Tonight
Hawaiian backdrops, palm trees, and leis have converted the Palais Royale into a tropical paradise for over 300 couples who will attend tonight’s semi-formal Freshman dance, “Some Enchanted Evening.”
Queen for the evening will be a Denison University Freshman, Miss Nancy Friel of Pleasant Ridge, Mich. She is the date of Dance Chairman Brian Kei-
Miss Nancy Friel
V ly of Farley Hall and Lansing, Mich.
Chuck Granger and his orchestra, with vocalist Peggy Cummins, will provide the evening’s music. Some of the hit tunes from South Pacific will be sung by Roy O’Neill of the Notre Dame Glee Club.
Tomorrow will also be a busy day for the Frosh and their dates. At 2 o’clock in the afternoon they may watch a scrimmage by Coach Leahy’s gridders; in the evening the Student Council will
May 5, 1950
sponsor an informal dance at the Palais. A special section will be reserved for them at the 9 o’clock Mass Sunday morning.
This evening’s dance will begin at 9 o’clock. The tropics will become northern Indiana again at 1 a. m., with the Freshmen due back in their halls by 2 o’clock.
Strictly a Freshman affair, tonight’s festivities will exclude corsages, “intoxicants,” and upperclassmen.
Glee Club to Give Concerts At St. Hedwige's and SMC
The Notre Dame glee club will give a formal concert Sunday evening in St. Hedwidge’s Auditorium in South Bend. The 40 voice chorus of the University under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke will sing a varied program and feature tenor- soloist Robert Reutz from South Bend.
On Monday night the glee club will be on the stage of St. Angela’s Hall on the St. Mary’s College campus for a joint concert with the glee club of St. Mary’s. Mrs. Lawrence Pate will direct the combined chorus in a presentation of Tchaikovsky’s Nutcracker Suite and Mr. Bedtke will direct Bach’s Der Geist Hilft Unsrer Schivachheit Auf. Each club will also present their own program of songs.
The joint glee clubs will sing in Washington Hall on May 15 at 8 p.m.
CONCERT MASS
The first performance of the concert Mass in G Minor for solo quartet, mixed chorus, and organ by Carl Mathes of the Department of Music will be given at 4 p.m. on Ascension Thursday, May 18, in Sacred Heart Church.
Record Number Seek Next Year's Offices
Unlimited midnights! No morning checks! All night lights! A bar in every hall! Yes, it’s class election time, “that’s fer dang sure!” A record number of 51 candidates are currently canvassing the campus, resorting to every and all methods to win votes • for their respective parties. Between today and the election on Tuesday, students will be barraged with loudspeakers, politicians waving huge cigars, and the usual massive array of campaign posters.
Polls will open Tuesday morning in the basement lobby of the Dining Hall and will remain open from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Students may cast their votes upon presentation of their ID cards.
Although the majority of the candidates are running in parties, voters may split the ticket by voting for candidates affiliated with different parties.
To help the voter battle his way-through the maze of candidates and their promises, this issue of the Scholastic presents a complete roster of the candidates and the party platforms.
Seniors can choose to cast their votes between two parties, Foresight and Highlife. Running on the Fare-sight ticket are: Prexy, Jim Hennessey; Veep, Ray Miller; Secretary, Don Son-dag: Treasurer, John Worthington. Briefly, the Foresighters promise more student government, a Fall informal which won’t clash with the Sophomore Cotillion, and a “gala” graduation week.
Opposing the Foresighters is the Highlife party. Leading this ticket for Prexy is Bill Whiteside. Whiteside is backed by Hank Madden for Veep; Bob Klingenberger for Secretary and Randy McNally for Treasurer. Seniors will spend a day next fall at a class picnic “at a place removed from
(Continued on Page 32)
9
Seniors received this wire from Charlie Ventura, who will play at Ball on May 12
Final Plans Complete For 1950 Senior Ball
One week from tonight the Navy Drill Hall will be decorated enough to lead any senior- there (also eligible: August and January graduates, Law and graduate students) into thinking he is dancing in the Starlight Roof of the Waldorf Astoria or the Empire Room of the Palmer- House.
Decorations chairmen John Ferry and Bob Rohling have plans to enclose the dance floor with special boarding and to create a hanging paper roof in order to give seniors and their Balldates an excellent atmosphere for their final outing.
Tables will line the sides of th? dance floor and jacketed waiters will serve Cokes to the Ball-goers. When the couple arrives at the dance, the girl will receive a jewel box with the Notre Dame emblem on top, a popular-carry-over from last year’s Senior-affair.
Three photographers will establish headquarters in one corner of the Hall, snapping pictures of seniors and their guests for scrapbook purposes. The Ball will begin at 10 p.m., last until 2 a.m. and residence will be at 3 a.m. Car permissions have been granted from Friday to Sunday.
Music will be handled by Charlie Ventura and his 17-piece dance orchestra. The Senior Ball committee assures every bid-buyer that Ventura will provide danceable music to every
body’s satisfaction. Ventura’s dance crew, which lines up with four trumpets, three trombones, five saxes, and three rhythm, has the vocals of Lucille Reed on many of the slow numbers. Much of the spotlight, however, contains the velvet tones of America’s Number One Saxophonist (Ventura— according to Down Beat and Metronome magazines) on such tunes as Sophisticated Lady, Solitude, Stardust, Body and Soul, and Dancing in the Dark (the Ball’s theme).
A recent writeup in the music craft’s Down Beat said in part: “. . . The band continues to do well here (Chicago), as it has on its ballroom dates in the East. Don Palmer, band manager . . . says that, ‘It’s one of the greatest dance bands to come along in years, and the best I’ve ever handled in 13 years of band managing.
“ ‘We’ve had some trouble with ballroom ops who think it’s a bop band, due to the ‘Bop for the People’ tag Charlie’s combo used, but it isn’t. It’s geared strictly for dancing, and we’ve proved that in places we’ve already played, like the Arcadia in Providence, and the Savoy, Pittsburgh.’ ”
Ventura, 30 years old and a native of Philadelphia, began his name career with the Gene Krupa orchestra in 1942. In 1947 he organized a large dance orchestra but the field was overcrowded, so he soon switched to a small combo and won Down Beat’s award for “Best Small Band of the Year” (1948). Charlie organized his present 17-piece orchestra early this year and has been
playing college proms the past few T; months, plus a few ballrooms. This weekend he is playing for Ohio State’s $ Interfraternity Dance.	“
■?
Bids for the Ball went on sale early J this week in the Caf, at a price of §10. ? Saturday, after the Old Timers game, there will be an informal buffet-dance, and Prefect of Religion Father Grimm f; has reserved a section at the 9 o’clock Mass for Seniors and their dates.
Co-chairmen Jack Thornton and Verne Kelley announced the dance’s budget this weekend in order to show the class where their money is going. The budget follows:
FRIDAY Band .........................§1,000.00	■'
Decorations ................    700.00
Arrangements ..............     160.00
Refreshments .................. 150.00
Bids ........................    133.00	f
Invitations .................... 27.00
Publicity ....................   25.00
Tickets ...................      10.00
§3,205.00
SATURDAY
Food .......................§	400.00
Band  ...................... 50.00
Rent  ....................... 50.00
§ 500.00
Commencement Missal .........§	100.00
Initial contribution to the
University by the class ...§	250.00
Federal Tax ...............  §	337.50
Total ........................§4,392.50
Bids will be sold every day in the lobby of the Caf at lunch and dinner. Room reservations in South Bend hotels may be obtained at time of bid purchase. If bid sales surge early, as is expected, a limit of 500 may be imposed.
Father Steiner Prize Goes To Engineer in Talk Contest
For his talk on “The Problem of Stability on Power Systems,” John Machin-chick was awarded the Father Steiner Prize of §50 and a certificate of merit at a recent speaking contest for Engineering students.
Other contestants were James Carberry and John Gallagher, Chemical Engineering; Joseph Fallon and Michael Hartigan, Civil Engineering; and Howard Wurth, who, like Machinchick, is a student in Electrical Engineering.
Mr. Bernard J. Voll, president of the Sibley Machine and Foundry Corp., served as contest chairman, while Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., awarded the prize.
Machinchick’s paper had previously won a prize of §20 at an AIEE contest in March.
The Scholastic
10
Sophomores Sponsor Barn Dance at Palais
Get out your best blue jeans and plaid shirts, all you country boys, and make a date to attend the Sophomore Barn , Dance tomorrow evening.
Scene of this Soph hoe-down will be the hayloft of the Palais Royale, where student square dancers will swing their partners from 8 until 11:30 p. m. Originally scheduled to be the final Student Council dance of the year, the date has been taken over by the Sophomore class to give student dance-goers a change of diet from the usual, run of the mill, collar and tie affair. Jesse Snieder and his orchestra will furnish the music, and, for the benefit of any city-slickers who happen to attend, will come prepared to play as many dreamy dance numbers as are desired as a change of pace, and perhaps even a conga or a Charleston should the action threaten to taper off at any time. But always, informal fun will be the order of the evening, and casual barnyard dress the required attire. And though the Sophs are sponsoring the affair, everyone is invited, from Seniors getting set for the music of Charlie Ventura, right down to Frosh who haven’t quite recovered from their big dance this evening.
But the time is short, so call your gal tonight and make a date for one of the liveliest events on this year’s social calendar. Remember, the time is tomorrow evening, the place the Palais Royale, and the price only §1.50 per couple. And for the benefit of those big-city boys who
have never square-danced before, there will be an expert caller on hand to call off instructions until everyone gets the idea.
Council Sets Voting Time: Favors General Banquet
Notre Dame will go to the polls May 9 between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. and 4 and 7 p.m., following Student Council action at this week’s meeting. In conjunction with the campaign motif, the Sophomore class will have a meeting this evening to introduce its candidates.
The current question of joint or individual banquets for campus organizations such as the Glee Club, Blue Circle, and Student Council received much attention at this week’s conclave. The Council went on record as favoring a joint banquet.
A motion to form a committee which would select awards for Student Council members received approval.
Monogram Club to Give Year's Last Dance, May 13
The reorganized Monogram Club will sponsor the last dance of the year Saturday night, May 13, in the Drill Hall from 9 until 12 p.m. Gene Hull and his orchestra will be on the bandstand. Permissions have been granted until 1 a.m.
Tickets are priced at $1.50 per couple and all classes may attend. The feature of the evening will be the presentation of the first annual George Gipp trophy to the outstanding senior mono
gram man of the year. Selection will be based on athletic, scholastic and extra-curricular activities records. Also, certificates of honor will be presented to all senioi- Monogram Club members.
The new officers of the reorganized club include Jerry Groom, president; Jack Landry, vice-president; Jim Hennessey, secretary, and John Worthington, treasurer.
String Quartet to Appear In Washington Hall Thursday
The Concert and Lecture Series will present the Notre Dame Faculty String Quartet on Thursday, May 11, at Washington Hall. Professor Charles Biondo, supervisor of the group, will play first violin. Professor David Fal-koff will play second violin; Professor Robert Welch, viola; and Brother Jacob Eppley, c.s.c., cello.
The program includes the Clarinet Quartet in A major by Mozart, the Clarinet Quartet in A major by Beethoven, the Quartet in C minor by Beethoven and the Clarinet Quintet by Brahms. Featured as clarinet soloist for the concert will be Carl William Kohls.
Mountaineers Hold Dinner
The Rocky Mountain Club, at a meeting held last week, set next Tuesday night as the date for their steak dinner. The meeting will be held at the Ramble Inn at 6:30 p. m.. Members wishing to attend were requested to contact John Moran in 304 Lyons or Jim Kittell, 317 Sorin, sometime before that date. Movies will be shown following the dinner.
K. of C.'s Dance at Erskine Country Club
Approximately 75 couples enjoy the music of Gene Hull and his orchestra at Friday night's Knights of Columbus Spring formal. ® May 5, 1950
Bob Klingenberger, Tom Mullins and their dates take time out to talk at the K. of C. Dance, held at Erskine Country Club.
11
Hon. John J. Hearn
June 4 Set for Grads To Receive Diplomas
Approximately 750 men will receive degrees at the University of Notre Dame’s 105th annual commencement exercises to be held on Sunday, June 4. For the second year in a row, graduation and the baccalaureate service will be held in the Notre Dame Stadium in order to accommodate the large number of families and friends that attend the exercises. The Honorable John J. Hearne, First Ambassador of Ireland to the United States, will deliver the principal commencement address and the Most Reverend Francis P. Keough, D.D., Archbishop of Baltimore, will give the Baccalaureate sermon.
The festivities for the weekend begin Friday, June 2, when the University band will give a concert at the main quadrangle at 7:30 p.m. This will be followed by the colored picture “University of Notre Dame and Tomorrow” which will be shown in Washington Hall. On Saturday morning the class of 1950 will make their last visit to the Sacred Heart Church in a body and from there they will proceed to the Drill Hall for class day exercises at 10 a.m. At these ceremonies special prizes will be awarded and commissions will be conferred upon the NROTC and AROTC students. On Saturday afternoon there will be a baseball game at Cartier Field. Following this at 4:30 p.m. there will be a special reception at the Rockne Memorial to give the parents an opportunity to meet the members of the faculty and administration. Another band concert will be presented Saturday evening and the Glee Club will give a concert in Washington Hall at 8:15 p.m. On Sunday
morning a Solemn Pontifical Mass will be held in the Stadium at 9 a.m. and at 2 p.m. the degrees will be conferred.
In case of rain, Mass and Commencement will be held in the Drill Hall and only the members of the immediate families will be allowed admittance. Provisions will have been made for the extension of the Baccalaureate sermon and commencement address for the other guests in the gymnasium.
Cash Prizes Offered In Oratorical Contest
A hundred and fifty dollars in cash prizes are being offered to all students who participate in the Goodrich-Cavanaugh oratorical contest, with a first prize of $100 and second and third prizes of $35 and $15. This contest will be run off in two sections: the preliminary speeches being delivered during the schoolweek beginning next Wednesday, May 10, and the finals being held on Monday, May 15.
All undergraduates who have not yet completed eight semesters at the University are eligible to participate in rhis contest. Names may be submitted to any one of the teachers in the Department of Speech.
Under the terms of the foundation grant which makes this contest possible, the Goodrich-Cavanaugh prizes are to be awarded annually to three undergraduate students who, in the judgment of a committee, have delivered in the contest the best original orations on a subject of their own choice, dealing with the fundamentals of American government, particularly the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States. Speeches do not have to deal directly with these two documents, but they must have some bearing upon them.
Each competitor must submit three type - written copies of his oration, double-spaced, to Professor Frank Kelly of the Department of Speech, at 319 Main Building, not later than noon of next Tuesday. The manuscript must consist of not less than 1000 words nor more than 12 minutes in delivery. Quoted matter in an oration must not exceed 25 percent of the speech.
The orations will be judged on a basis of 200 percent: 100 percent possible on the thought and expression in the manuscript, and 100 percent on the delivery of the orations. Students are recommended to seek assistance from members of the 'Speech faculty. • Professor Paul Bartholomew will serve as technical advisor.
Miss Virginia Koschnick
Country Club Is Site Of Annual Law Ball
Prospective ND barristers will honor the graduating seniors of the Law School at their annual spring Law Ball at the Erskine Park Country Club to- : morrow evening. The dance will be	-
held under the auspices of the Student	-
Law Association. Dancing will last @ from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. and resident student permissions will extend to 2 a.m.
Myron Walz and his ten-piece band will provide the music for the dance. The affair will be semi-formal and evening clothes will be optional for men. Bids have been priced at $3.50 and will be limited in number because of the size f of the Country Club. Bill Etheridge V j is in charge of sales.	;
The theme of the dance is being kept ® I under wraps by the lawyers until the opening curtain tomorrow evening, but it has been revealed that the bids are in the form of a writ of attachment.
Miss Virginia Koschnick, a Senior at St. Mary’s College from Indianapolis t and guest of Ed Coleman, dance chair- ; man, will reign as queen of the ball.
Somewhat of an innovation, this f year’s dance is being given in honor of J the graduating seniors in conjunction with their Senior Banquet tonight at < the Oliver Hotel. Chairman Coleman f promises that “final plans have been ~ made and all in attendance are assured : an .evening of cordial entertainment.” t
Arrangements chairman for the Ball is John Panelli; publicity chairman is : Dick Cullen; music chairman is George Brady; and co-chairmen in charge of decorations are Vincent Cunningham X and Armand D’Agonstino.	j
The Scholastic I
12
Austrians perform Fernsterl scene from show beginning Monday in Washington Hall.
Legal Institute Fetes Law Grads Tonight
The second annual Legal Institute null continue tonight with a banquet at the Oliver Hotel at which Senator Herbert R. O’Conor (Md.) will speak. The banquet will be held in honor of the graduating Law Seniors.
Two more discussions are scheduled for tomorrow morning. Professor Roger L. Peters of the College of Law will lead a discussion on “Income Taxes and Corporate Dissolutions” at 9:30, and Mr. Turner L. Smith, Assistant Attorney General of the United States and Chief of the Criminal Tax Section of the Justice Department, will lead a discussion on “Criminal Evasion of Income Tax,” These discussions will wind up the two-day Institute.
This morning and earlier this afternoon discussions were held on “Defense of a Negligent Action,” “Public Relations and the Bar,” and “Modern Title Examination.” The leaders of these were
Student Club to Give Folk Music Program
Next Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday nights the Austrian Student Goodwill Tour to North America will give performances in Washington Hall. This group of Austrian students will present a program of folk and national music and dancing in order to acquaint ND students with the cultural heritage of Austria.
Organized after the first World War by some members of the Student Christian Movement of Vienna, the group, now known as the Amt fur Studenten-wanderungen (Office for Student Wanderings) had for its purpose the engendering of understanding among the youth of all nations. A novel idea to carry this out in practice was found when the first “Singing and Dancing Tour” was sent to Great Britain in 1935 and a second to South Africa in 1937.
As a result of these successful tours a third was planned for North America in 1939, but the annexation of Austria killed these plans. The group finally arrived in New York in November, 1949.
Members of the group have been chosen from among hundreds of applicants. The outfit is self-supporting, financing its movements with presentations of Austria’s folk songs and dances.
Such native entertainment as yodeling and Schuhplatteln (“Slap-Dancing”)— which consists of slapping the sole of the shoe with the open hand—and native costumes will highlight the show.
This .entertainment is open to stu-
May 5, 1950
dents and the public. Co-chairmen in charge of tickets and arrangements are Ray Yanics and Verne Kelley. Tickets are on sale downtown at Copp’s Music Shop, the Aquinas Book Store, and Wal-green’s drug store. Reserved seats are selling for $1.50 and general admission for $1. Students may buy their tickets in the cafeteria at a discount.
Wranglers Celebrate Silver Anniversary
McAlpine
Notre Dame's Wranglers celebrate their 25th anniversary with a banquet Saturday night at the Oliver Hotel. Former members discussing old times include: Vince Oppenheim, David Armstrong, Joseph McNamara, Frank O'Malley and Thomas O'Grady.
Mr. Carl M. Gray, Past President of the Indiana State Bar Association, Mr. Richard P. Tinkham, President-elect of the Indiana State Bar Association, and Mr. Robert D. Coleman, Secretary of the Indiana State Bar Association.
This Institute is co-sponsored by the College of Law and the Indiana State Bar Association.
13
Dr. Einaudi Concludes Talk Series on Europe
Last Wednesday night Dr. Mario Einaudi, professor of Government at Cornell University and son of Luigi Einaudi, first full term President of the new Italian Republic, concluded a series of lectures on Christian Democracy in Western Europe. The famed expert on Western European politics was brought to Notre Dame through efforts of the Committee on International Relations.
Dr. Einaudi has a background that enables him to speak with authority on the recent developments in Western Europe. He received his doctorate in jurisprudence, sum-nut cum laiule, at the University of Turin in 1927. He also stucied at Harvard University, the University of Berlin, and the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris and at Geneva. Since 1932 he has taught successively at the University of Messina (from which he was dismissed for refusing to apply for membership in the Fascist Party), Harvard University, and Fordham University graduate school.
In 1945 Dr. Einaudi was appointed associate professor at Cornell University and two years later became a professor of Government. During the years 1943 and 1944 he undertook several assignments for the Office of War Information and the Council on Foreign Relations. Last summer he went to Europe to make a three month study of postwar conditions in France and Italy. He is a naturalized citizen of the United States.
Dr. Einaudi expressed the opinion that
Christian Democracy is now firmly established in France and Italy in spite of the efforts of the Communists to gain control of those countries, but that immediately following World War II it was difficult for the average European to accept the ideas of Christian Democracy.
McAlpine
Dr. Mario Einaudi
“To the average European,” says Dr. Einaudi, “Christian Democracy after the war stood for a series of radical changes. It was not a class movement. Its basic appeal was that it tended to reconcile the conflicting interests in the Western European countries.” Christian Democracy was a complex movement which stood for daring advance in individual freedom, a concept that was not easily
understood by Europeans who were accustomed to highly nationalistic governments.
By 1948, however, Christian Democracy had increased so much that its followers were able to win the elections in Italy. At the same time the Communist Party was becoming stronger, but Dr. Einaudi expressed the opinion that “if Toliati (Communist leader in Italy) were to gain control in Italy, he would be liquidated within six months unless he could immediately tie up with Tito in Yugoslavia. Communism in France and Italy/’ stated Dr. Einaudi, “has reached its peak and is now on the decline.”
Dr. Einaudi’s lectures provoked many questions from the audience and he graciously consented to answer any problems concerning his lecture. In several instances the questions resulted in informative discussions by the questioner and Dr. Einaudi.—Jim Clark
Dr. Price Attends Annual World Federalist Banquet
Dr. Charles C. Price, Head of the Department of Chemistry, attended the annual banquet held by the United World Federalists last Wednesday night in the Oliver Hotel. Mr. Raymond Gram Swing, distinguished radio commentator and Vice-President of the United World Federalists, was the speaker for the occasion. Chairman for the banquet was Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady, Professor of Philosophy at the University.
Dr. Price was the founder and at present is the head of the local chapter of the United World Federalists.
Band Takes Notre Dame to West
The band's bus gets fixed up before taking the men on a 3500 mile, 12-day trek. The band gave 16 performances in 10 cities.
Group of band dudes dons Stetsons and tries rolling their own as they tour "wild West" on their annual Spring Concert tour.
14
The Scholastic

Geology Majors Travel To Illinois and Wisconsin
Field Trips occupied most of last weekend for a group of geology majors and two professors. Dr. R. C. Gut-schick and Dr. Erhard Winkler led about 20 students to attend an American Association of Petroleum Geologists’ field trip to several Chicago area exposures of reef formations. Both Dr. Gutschick and Dr. Winkler had attended the preceding convention of the A.A.P.G. Dr. Winkler presented a paper dealing with European fossils.
On Saturday and Sunday part of the group of students, together with Professor Winkler, continued up into Wisconsin for a look at the famed “driftless area,” the Baraboo Mountains, and the Dells of the Wisconsin River. This tour was made in conjunction with “ Milwaukee Downers’ College and a Downers’ teacher served as guide for the whole group.
Tomorrow about 15 geology students will go to the famous Kentland quarry, scene of the as-yet-unexplained cryptovolcanic structure.
Two New Officers to Lead i Notre Dame NROTC Unit
The NROT'C unit of Notre Dame has announced that two new officers, Lt. William B. Prigmore and Lt. Gerald R. Rian, will relieve Lt. William P. Baker I and Lt. Comm. John H. Bear at the end } of this semester.
Lt. Prigmore graduated from the Naval Academy in 1943 with a B.S. degree. During the war he served in the sub
McAlpine
Mr. Govern congratulates Bob Niquette, winner of Freshman Oratory Contest. Others are (l-r) T. Shelton, J. Gerber, C.S.C., L. McLaughlin, J. Houck, and J. Stanton.
marine service. Lt. Baker has been ordered to the U.S.S. Gerald Mitchell.
Lt. Rian was a graduate of St. Olaf’s College in 1942 with an B.A. degree. He served in aviation during the war, and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Air Medal.
Eisen Announces Speakers Honored in Public Contests
Professor William J. Eisen, Head of the Department of Speech, has announced that during the past month, four Notre Dame students have been honored in various public speaking contests.
In the semi-finals of the annual Hearst intercollegiate public speaking contest, Quintin Marlow, a junior economics major from San Antonio, Texas, captured fourth place in the Chicago area. Although only the first three place winners will go on to compete in the national final, Marlow nevertheless received a $50 savings bond for his achievement.
Also the annual Freshman Speech Contest was held this year on April 26. Winner of the $10 cash award for first place was Bob Niquette, of Two Rivers, Wisconsin.
And in the Indiana State Speech Contest, sponsored by the National Intercollegiate Peace Association, Tom Ninneman received a $15 award for placing second in the extemporaneous speaking event. In the same tournament, Pete Ninneman, the other half of the brother team from Tona, Wisconsin, captured fourth place in oratory.
Biology Department To Build Greenhouse
The Department of Biology at the University of Notre Dame soon will be supplemented with a combination greenhouse and research laboratories building. This new addition, authorized for construction this Spring, will be located directly north of the present biology building and will be 91 feet 5 inches long and 25 feet wide. It will be composed of a large first-floor greenhouse and special laboratories in the basement for teaching and research.
The greenhouse section of the proposed building 'will comprise four large botanical research sections and a spacious potting room. The research units will be equipped with temperature and humidity controls. These will be used specifically for experimentation in plant pathology, physiology, anatomy and morphology. The knowledge which will be gained through more extensive experimentation in the new greenhouse will be a significant aid in the instruction of botany at Notre Dame.
The basement of the new edifice will be divided initially into three large rooms which will be used principally for experimental research in the fields of both botany and zoology. The room occupying the east end of the building will be approximately 25 by 25 feet and will be equipped and used exclusively for research and instruction in plant physiology. The largest of the rooms will be approximately 25 by 40 feet and will occupy the central sec-/ tion of the basement. In the near future a part of this available space will be partitioned into four constant-temperature laboratories for investigation of problems in plant growth, photoperiodism and plant hormones. One of these laboratories will be a cold room which will be used for the study of low temperatures on plants.
The west room wall be approximately 21 by 25 feet and will be used by the zoology division of the department as an animal room for experimentation »n parasitology and other fields of animal research. Many animal cages and four large aquaria for fishes, amphibia and reptiles, as well as two specially lighted operating tables, will be housed in the animal room.
Two storage rooms, a utility room, and a mechanical service room complete the basement facilities. The entire basement will have insulated walls and forced ventilation.
The new building will have a concrete base, brick parapet walls, and glass and steel superstructure. The new structure is expected to be completed by next September.
15

May 5, 1950
Irish Debaters Finish Students Pack Hall for Soph-Sponsored Show Season at West Point As Chuck Perrin Wins Campus Talent Quest
Climaxing the most successful season in years, the Notre Dame varsity debate team, consisting of William Carey and William Dempsey, represented the University at the fourth annual United States National Debate Championship held at West Point. The Irish team was eliminated in the finals of the tourney which saw some 34 top-flight squads pitted against each other.
Highlighting the tournament was the awarding of an engraved Longine wristwatch to the highest ranking speaker, Bill Carey of Notre Dame. The award, emblematic of the United States Individual debate championship, is accorded by a point system, based on proficiency in argumentation, presentation, analysis and refutation. Carey was the only speaker in this year’s tourney to amass over 1000 points.
This is the second national title to which Notre Dame has fallen heir this year. At Lexington, Ky., early in March, Carey also won the National Tau Kappa Alpha Extemporaneous Speaking title. At the same meet, Carey tied for first place in the team tournament. The Irish team can also look back on victory in the Iowa Tournament last December, the equivalent of the Mid-West championship, and possession of the Freeley Trophy, which is awarded to the winner of the Boston University National Invita-t tional Tournament.
Debaters rest during West Point Tourney. L. to R.: Dempsey, Carey, Coach Sommer.
Has Notre Dame got talent? Brother, you know it has—or at least you would if you were at last Sunday night’s Talent Show in Washington Hall.
The Sophomore Class sponsored one of the most entertaining programs seen hereabouts in the past two years. It was well run from start to finish, the contestants were all chosen wisely, and, most important, it served its purpose of providing the entertaniment - hungry campus with a wow of a show.
The only disappointing feature of the almost two hour production was that there weren’t prizes for each of the seven acts and one left over for Gen Hull and his orchestra. The reception each act received proved that the jam-packed house enjoyed not just one or two of the acts, but all of them.
A little mechanical gadget, however, had the unenviable job of choosing the
Other jaunts resulted in fourth place at the Texas University Tournament, earned by Thomas and Peter Ninneman, as well as the Georgetown University Award to Dempsey and Carey as the best negative team represented. The overall record for the season is 90 wins in 108 debates, once again placing' the Notre Dame team, coached by Professor Leonard Sommer, among the finest in the nation.
winners. The top prize of $50 went to Chuck Perrin, the bill’s only comedian. He had the crowd screaming for more after a fifteen minute performance of imitations. Perrin’s original material was even better than the straight imita- A tion stuff.
There was a tie for second and third place so the cash awards were split, giving S15 to both Bill Murphy and Dick Casper. Murphy, who not only has a rich baritone voice but also a fine stage personality, won the prize for his rendition of Jonah in the Whale. He gave Some Enchanted Evening as an encore. Casper won the award for his piano rendition of Rondo Capricioso by Mendels- £ sohn.
The show began with a blast. The Trumpeteers, a trumpet trio, composed of Charles McCabe, Bill Graham and Bill Arzbaecher, got the bill rolling with their playing of The Trumpeteers by Agositini. Following them was Buddy Powers who presented two tap-dancing-numbers. Joe Desautels, a tenor, sang All the Things You Are and The Wif-fenpoof Song. Bill MacMillan ended the show by playing Fiddle Faddle by An- £ derson and The Flight of the Bumble Bee on the marimba.
Most musical shows have at least one or two show-stopping numbers. The Sophomores’ Talent Show had seven. And it wouldn’t be right to leave out Gene Hull’s orchestra, either. They provided backing for the numbers as well as accompanying selections. The band is as good, if not better, than half these combos that come down from Chicago. Bill Toohey also deserves a blow for his smooth job of MC-ing.
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., Mr. William Eisen, head of the Department of Speech, and Russ Skall read the electric applause meter and determined the win -ners. Bill Toohey and Gene Hull were co-chairmen of the show. Hank McCor
mick and Jack Moran were in charge of arrangements and George Sweet and Jack Powers took care of publicity.
Some have questioned if there is any talent on this campus. Sunday night’s show proved that there is. When you consider there’s plenty more in the band and the glee club, you can be sure ND abounds with gifted lads. If talent shows can be produced as well as last Sunday’s there doesn’t seem to be any reason why they can’t become an annual event. Or better still, why can’t the student musicals be. .revived?
The Scholastic

16
Finance Club Travels To Chicago for Field Trip
On Thursday, April 20, the Finance Club traveled to Chicago where they visited many financial institutions.
The group first went to the Chicago Board of Trade where they were given a lecture by Mr. Thomas Oaren and k shown movies explaining the functions " and operations of the Board. At the Midwest Stock Exchange, the next stop, the workings of the Exchange were explained and information was given as to activities on the trading floor.
The club members were guests of the Chicago Federal Reserve Bank for lunch and there were addressed by Mr. Fred Wilson, a vice-president, and Mr. Symchek, a governor from the Federal Reserve Board in Washington, D. C. After lunch a guided tour was made through the different departments of the bank and the idea of central banking and the way it works was explained.
Last stop of the day was at the investment firm of Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Beane. There the operations of the company were explained and it was shown how an order to buy or to sell stock is handled by Mr. P. F. Brautigan.
Arrangements for the trip were made | by Professor LeClaire Eells, faculty moderator of the club, and by Mal Dooley, president of the organization.
Saturday night barn dance committee gets in the right spirit. (Story on page 11).
May 5, 1950
Part of the 1000-man Grotto crowd.
Students sing during Monday services.
May Day Devotions Open Month of Mary
The 13 residence halls stood practically deserted at 6:45 Monday evening as thousands of Notre Dame men gathered at the Grotto to consecrate themselves to the Immaculate Heart of Mary. In sharp contrast to the Communist celebrations of May Day, the University joined with Catholics the world over to pray for peace and guidance.
The 30-minute ceremony included recitation of the rosary, hymn-singing, the act of consecration, and renewal of baptismal vows. Benediction was offered at a portable altar erected beneath the statue of the Immaculate Conception. Rev. William Robinson, c.s.c.. spoke on the love of Our Blessed Mother.
But Monday evening only marked the beginning of May devotions on the campus. An annual Notre Dame tradition has been renewed again this month with the singing of hymns at the Grotto every evening at 6:45 o’clock.
On each week day during the month, a two-hour period of adoration is being held in Sacred Heart church. The “0 Salutaris” at 11 a. m. is followed by an hour and 40 minutes of silent prayer. Preceded by the rosary and litany of the Blessed Virgin, benediction concludes each day’s devotions at 1 p.m.
Frosh Hear Candidates For May Ninth Election
Campaign promises, buttonholing, and election bets were in abundance at the Fieldhouse Wednesday, as the Freshman Class gathered to hear and meet the candidates for next year’s class offices.
Tom Reedy, present prexy of the Frosh, introduced all the prospective Sophomore officers. Then the old gym assumed a dream-world atmosphere as the four candidates for the president’s position propounded their parties’ platforms and promises.
Also on hand was Freshman Dance Chairman Brian Kelly, who talked about another “Enchanted Evening,” tonight’s Frosh festivities at the Palais Royale.
The propaganda program was intended to acquaint the Freshmen with the candidates and their respective policies.
17
The Scene: Notre Dame’s Burke Golf Course.
The Actors: ‘Scholastic’ Pro rr
The Time: An April Afternoon. Th
Scholastic’ Pro Get
Story by AL LAPORTE, Photos by HAL ?
“It’s easy. All you have to do is stand up there and hit the ball. That’s all there is to it.”
The come-on. That’s what it was. The well known come-on. Bait for the one born every minute, and I was the sucker. This would make me two years old —maybe a little more—figured by the old adage, because it was about April of 1948 that somebody tossed me the hook and I swallowed that stuff about golf being an easy game. Easy? Bah!
They started me out gently, those sadistic buddies of mine, started me out walking around with them and watching. That’s all I did for the first couple of times, just watched. It looked so simple. A little white ball, a few gleaming clubs, and nice green grass all around. The little white ball looked so nice sitting on the rich green grass, so tempting. Anyone could hit the little ball. Simple game.
By the end of the first week I was ready, begging for an opportunity to get
out there and blast the inoffensive pellet down the fairways onto the greens, there to tap it gently into the hole. The boys looked at each other in a sly, knowing way, it occurs to me now, and helpfully, gleefully went out with the new addict. Simple game.
Somewhere in an old battered file the scorecard of that first encounter with the links lies buried, hoping, I suppose, that the passage of time will erase the horrendous chronicle, hoping for merciful degeneration of its awful record. The correct total escapes me now, but I do recall that the card looked like an itemized account of the national debt, give or take a few digits. The strokes weren’t being added—they were multiplied !
It took a week or so before I’d calmed down enough to speak to those conspirators in words of more than one syllable and then only to vow on the broken putter that I’d never go out again. They
laughed, then worked in earnest to convince me that “it could happen to anybody, Al. Give it another try. After all, Sammy Snead didn’t get to the top in a day.” Persistence prevailed and, though I suspected that I was being taken along only for laughs, out we went the next weekend.
As a golfer I was a great comedian. You have to develop a sense of humor, slapstick variety, when the ball acts like it was being pushed along the ground by youi’ nose. Still, with all the grass cutting and ditch digging that went on that Spring, my score did drop. Maybe I should say it backed down for Lady Luck must have keen repaying me for all those ludicrous efforts with a miracle shot here and there. Slowly, reluctantly, like a padded expense account, the score gave ground. I began to get cocky. Simple game.
When the first snows came to Indiana that Fall the clubs went into storage
This play on the 18th was typical: Murph is nearest the pin; Phil lies within two putt range; and Al is away—three putts away.
dolf Team Pro.
Golf Lesson
[fER
Under the professional watch of the two partners, Murph tees off on the first.
wears a puzzled expression as Ai shies away.
1
The "Dutchman" unloads a fairway wood shot, fairly straight but into rough. Murph

and my blistered hands murmured a thankful “Amen.” Once or twice during the Winter when the white stuff wasn’t too deep I sneaked out behind the hall with a nine iron and tried pitching some old balls into a trash can. This practice was halted suddenly when some maintenance men made off with my trash can with the balls inside. So I waited for Spring with a new determination, if not confidence, to really tear that course apart.
For a history of the second season on the Burke fairways, go back a few paragraphs and reread the adventures of the previous year. It could be said that the improvement, if any, was negligible. It could be said that everything wasn’t what it should have been. It could be said that my game still was very odoriferous. Let’s say it and, in Christian charity, say no more. It was that bad. My faith was gone. My determination was gone. And my temper wasn’t.
Anyone with a reasonable amount of sense would have either: 1.) taken golf lessons, 2.) taken tennis lessons, or 3.) quit on the spot, retiring to a life of spectator’ interest and contemplative thinking. But the old competitive spirit still was there, though the flame had died down to a dull feeble glow. Next year. That was it. Next year.
Through the long off season I trained, practiced and sweated. The second floor
of Badin Hall wasn’t safe for anyone without a catcher’s mask and pads. Day after day I’d swing those clubs, read books on golf, polish the clubs. Then, when the flesh would cry out for mercy, I’d take another look at that last score— 114—and return to the practice with renewed vigor. No movies. No nothing. Just swing those clubs. Get ready, boy, get ready.
At last it came. Spring. Through the

raindrops I could see the long sweep of the course, challenging me to the duel. When the first foursome went out on the tee, I slipped over to the practice green and swung some more. Soon. Soon everything would be ready.
Last Sunday we went out — Phil, Murph and I. Murph’s on the golf team, a long ball hitter who had, it’s true, a slight edge on me. He’d played a few times this year already. Phil’s a big
Murphy blasts from the trap onto green.
bum who can, on occasion, unload a nice shot. Me—well, you know about me. Three guys from Badin going out to play this “simple game.”
We started fast. Murph teed first and ■ really boomed one out there. Phil followed suit, only he went over to the 18th fairway. I stepped up, addressed the ball, and swung. I swung again. On the third try the ball dribbled off the tee and out into the rough about twenty feet from where we stood. Graciously my partners forgot the first two muffs and even gave me a Mulligan, a practice which became a habit for the rest of the afternoon.
When we carded the first hole, Murph had come in with a par, Phil a bogey, and, by dint of some mysterious arithmetic, I got a 6. It went on that way for the most part, Murph getting pars, Phil shooting bogies and me bringing up the rear.
On the fifth, Murph bagged a bird. It was beautiful. Phil got into the swing of things by slipping in a par. Again, I brought up the rear. Going from trap to trap can be mighty wearing on the ball, wedge and nerves—and they have entirely too many traps on this course.
As if the fifth wasn’t enough, I had to play around in the sand on the next hole to the tune of a 5 as the hopped up little ball skipped from one trap to an
20
other across the green. Murph and Phil had, with great foresight, brought along a couple of books, so they sat on the green — the safest place while “The Blaster” was shooting—and read detective stories.
By the end of the eighth hole all of us were tired—Phil and Murph from laughing and me from providing the chuckles. But the ninth was my baby. By virtue of complete indifference I swung with reckless abandon on my fourth shot and the ball took off like a discovered goldbricker. Phil fainted on the green. The ball had gone in—on the fly! (That, contrary to what you might be thinking, is the reason I am not in the picture of Murph’s trap shot.) •
It was only with great effort that I managed to talk Phil and Murph into playing the back nine. Often during the course of the play these two would bemoan giving into my pleas. Somehow the bad golf wasn’t contagious, though once or twice Phil would imitate me and we’d both go off hunting through the rough.
As we finished the 15th I paused for a rest and a cigarette. The big one was next, Number 16. We all teed off together and met again on the green. In between the play was a nightmare. Had I been honest, the score probably would have been around fourteen but my pride had to be saved and I’m sure Phil couldn’t have counted all those shots. Anyway, Murph said we wouldn’t score anything over 9, so I got away with murder.
Writer Laporte, Murphy and Phil Schwarz talk over afternoon's fun in golf shop.
The Scholastic
We wound up the ordeal in pretty orderly fashion, Murph parring out and Phil shooting a pair of bogies. Some of the luck must have rubbed off, because even I grabbed a bogey on the 17th and made a miraculous putt on the last green for a six. By the time the ball was down, Phil was halfway through his book and Murph had finished his.
The postmortem in the Golf Shop was quick. Everyone wanted to forget certain things, so we talked about Murph’s score. My par on the 9th was dwelt upon briefly, too briefly, I thought. But that’s golf.
As we walked back to the hall, Phil started talking about next weekend and Murph shuddered. I’m all for playing again because, after all, I had shaved a stroke from my game, come in with one par, and was feeling great. A little more practice, a little more competition and I might get down to a respectable score—100—before graduation. Everyone knows that this golf, it’s just a simple game. . . .
Air Cadets Hold Dinner
The recently formed Air Cadet Club, composed of all the Air ROTC unit, held its first social function of the year last week at Rosie’s. William Anhut was the Chairman of the Committee which handled all details for the affair.
The feature attraction was a steak dinner with all the accessories. A few speeches were given, and movies were shown.
Scholastic Sports
Irish To Face U. of Chicago Tomorrow
Wisconsin netman chases a David smash.
Gene Biittner gets set for Badger shot.
* Notre Dame Net Squad Suffers First Loss As Wisconsin Badgers Brave Wind to Win
With a chill wind blowing across the courts to hamper the play of both teams, the Irish tennis squad suffered their first loss of the present campaign when they dropped a closely contested match to the Badgers of Wisconsin. It was Wisconsin’s first victory over Notre W Dame in the ten times they’ve met.
In the most decisive match of the afternoon, the steady play of George Peterson and Donald Page defeated Notre Dame’s Tom Overholser and Pat Tonti, 6-2, 6-1, to break a 4-4 tie and give the match to the Badgers.
In the singles competition, Captain Gene Biittner and Bob David gave Notre Dame its only wins, as Wisconsin took the other four matches. It was a repeat of last year’s meeting between ™ the two squads, but whereas last year the Irish came back from the 4-2 deficit to sweep the doubles competition and defeat the Badgers 5-4, they were unable to repeat their 1949 performance.
Outstanding for the Irish was the play of Captain Biittner who scored the easiest singles victory in downing James Deloye, 6-0, 6-0. In another rousing singles match Tom Overholser battled to win over Ken Ohm of Wisconsin, 6-4, 3-6, 6-2.
May 5, 1950
This week was a busy one for Coach Langford’s charges. Last Tuesday the team traveled to East Lansing to play Michigan State. Last year the Spartans defeated Notre Dame, 7-2, but they have lost some valuable players and Coach Langford hopes to turn the tables. Today, the team opened a two-day stand at Kalamazoo, Michigan, against Western Michigan and the University of Detroit. Both opponents have failed to beat the Irish on the courts and the Irish will be determined to keep their slate clean.—Joe Moresco
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
May 5—TENNIS at Western Michigan 6—BASEBALL at Chicago
TRACK at Pittsburgh
GOLF, Northwestern here
TENNIS, Detroit at Kalamazoo 8—GOLF at Wisconsin
TENNIS, Iowa here 10—BASEBALL at Wisconsin
TENNIS, Michigan here 11—BASEBALL at Wisconsin 12—BASEBALL at Minnesota .
TENNIS, Purdue here
Four-Day Road Trip Next on Schedule
By JIM BRISLIN
The diamond version of the Fighting Irish, hovering too close to the .500 mark to ensure many pleasant evenings for Jake Kline, will attempt to improve on their record during a five-game northwesterly jaunt this week.
Tomorrow the Klinemen journey to the west shore of Lake Michigan to take on Kyle Anderson’s University of Chicago charges, one of the better diamond aggregations in the Windy City. The Chicagoans haven’t beaten a Kline-coached nine since 1937. The Irish hold a 21-5 edge in the series, and from the way they looked in dropping a 6-2 decision at Cartier Field on April 18, it appears that the Chicago lads are still a jinxed ball club.
Play Four Days in Row
After- a three-day layoff, the Irish again take to the road and will play four days in a row, May 10 to May 13, with Wisconsin and Minnesota providing the opposition.
The Badgers, who could do no better than tie for last place in the Big Ten last season with a 9 and 18 record, have twelve major lettermen returning this season, and Coach Art “Dynie” Mansfield is confidently looking toward a first division berth this year. The Dairylanders are set in the outfield and well fixed behind the plate, but pitching is a question mark and plugging the left side of the infield may assume the aspect of a major dilemma.
Red Wilson, hampered by injuries last season, will handle most of the catching chores this year. Despite his aching bones, the Badger footballer managed to break into 21 games last season and led all Wisconsin batsmen with a .426 mark while driving in 21 runs, good enough to earn him a berth on the All-Conference team.
First baseman Bob Shea also made the All-Conference nine last year on the strength of a .413 batting average and 14 runs driven across. The only other major stickmen on the squad are Cap
21
tain Gene Evans, a second sacker who batted .387, and Bob Van Eerden, an outfielder who posted a .294 mark.
Ed Keating (0-4) and Thornton Kipper (3-3) are the only experienced flingers on the staff. Three of Keating’s losses were by the margin of one run, and he could prove troublesome.
The Irish beat the Badgers twice last season and hold an all time 34-26 edge in the series. Wednesday’s contest is a nocturnal affair, and it will be interesting to see just how the Irish react under the lights.
The team will move into Minneapolis to meet the University of Minnesota in another night game on May 12 and stay on for an afternoon game the following-day.
Gophers Finish Seventh in Big Ten
The Golden Gophers finished seventh in the Big Ten last season, and had the poorest fielding percentage in the conference. On the season, they won 14, lost 15, and tied one. Coach Dick Siebert, ex-major leaguer who turned down an Athletic contract in 1946 to become a radio sports announcer, has seven lettermen returning.
Last season it was a case of “weak field, no hit,” and Siebert has to make like a magician to put the Gophers in the running this year. Catcher Glenn Gostic’ was the only Minnesotian to break .300 in conference batting last season, and will be counted upon to produce this year. Behind Gostic, as far as Big Ten averages are concerned, were outfielders Duane Baglien and Ted Wesson who hit for .277 and .237, respectively, not fence-busting marks by any means.
The infield is improved, however. Jim Holker, 1948 shortstop who was out last
season because of a bad back, has returned to the wars and is counted upon heavily. Jim Anderson, a fine defensive ball-player, completes the keystone combination, and Bob Graumann, a sophomore phenom, looks like the goods at the hot corner. First is a problem. The initial sack will be covered—adequately, if not outstandingly—by either Bill Kranz, a senior, or Wayne Robinson, a junior.
Returning lettermen Dale Engstrand and Lloyd Lundeen are the mainstays of the pitching staff. Southpaw John Gar-
bett and Whitey Skoog, basketeer who won three games last season, may produce this year.
The Irish, themselves, looked none too sharp in their early season engagements, and Coach Kline is more than slightly disappointed with his charges. He still says that Giedlin and Martin are the only members of the squad whose jobs are safe, and promises changes in the lineup to find a winning combination.
Two Fencers Place In Chicago Tourney
Notre Dame epee men, Ralph Dixon and John Vincent, found the Amateur Fencing League of America to their liking as they placed first and fourth, respectively, in the Open Epee Championship held recently in Chicago.
The 19 participants, representing the top caliber of Wisconsin, Indiana, and Illinois, were divided into three preliminary pools from which the top three in each pool vied for top honors.
During nine consecutive hours of tangling blades, Dixon lost only one match, that being to Don Thomson who placed second in the ’48 Olympics. Thomson, however, lost two matches to other opponents to allow Dixon to win first and the Hurmanson Trophy.
By virtue of their high finish, both Dixon and Vincent automatically qualify for the regional meet this month at Columbus, Ohio and the national meet at New York in June.—Jack Keane
Foley Goes to St. Mary's As Head Basketball Coach
Tom “Red” Foley, former Notre Dame basketball player and assistant coach, was recently named head basketball coach at St. Mary’s College, Calif. Foley graduated from Notre Dame in 1949 and was assistant to “Moose” Krause during the 1948-1949 season.
With Foley to St. Mary’s will go another Notre Dame product, Senior Jim Conway. During the past season, Conway was Freshman basketball coach and chief scout for the Irish. Jim will serve in a similar capacity for the Gaels.
Freshman batter waits for the "groove pitch" during prac- Frosh first base hopeful stretches for low throw during try-tice game. Over 200 candidates turned out for frosh nine. outs. "Dick .Giedlin isn't gonna be around forever, smarty."
22	The Scholastic
Brickson
> Ray Jonardi streaks downfield after catching forward pass from quarterback Mazur.
BarreH, Landry Star In All-Out Scrimmage
Another all-out scrimmage marked the end of the sixth week of Spring practice but the Irish were as cold as the weather on wind-swept Cartier Field. The scrimmage was far from impressive. Williams wasn’t connecting on passes and the runners were gaining their yardage with very little downfield blocking. The only encouraging thing that afternoon was the beautiful running of Bill Barrett.
Barrett looked terrific as he ran and dodged his way for three touchdowns on runs of over 40 yards. But, even with the running of Barrett and Jack Landry, who also looked impressive, the downfield blocking was not up to par.
One improvement over last week was the work of the defense against passes. Most of Williams’ passes fell or were batted to the ground, but the coldness of the day was no doubt partly responsible. However, Mr. Williams was
definitely not in his best form. Too many of his passes either fell short or went far over the head of their intended receiver.
With the Old Timers’ game only a week away Frank Leahy and his charges are in for a lot of work if they intend to stop the charging Oldsters who will attempt to defeat the products of their old master with his own training.—Jack Varley
Fleming Takes First In Drake High Hurdles
Bill Fleming won the 120-yard high hurdles at the Drake Relays last Saturday to prove that his leg injury was a thing of the past, but the rest of the picture at Drake wasn’t too bright for the Notre Dame track men.
Broad jumper John Worthington, bothered by the unseasonable cold weather at the meet, pulled a leg muscle on his first jump and will be lost to the team for about three weeks. The tem
perature was in the neighborhood of 30 degrees, snow was on the ground and the winds were high—all of which adds up to dangerous conditions for track men. Coach Doc Handy, fearful of a permanent injury to his best javelin thrower, Jack Murphy, pulled him out of the event when his arm gave him trouble on the warmup tosses.
John Helwig, who has slipped a little in the shot put over the past few weeks because of a sore wrist, got third at Drake. The winner, ex-world record holder Chuck Fonville, was only eight inches in front of Helwig.
Fleming had an easy time in winning the highs. He beat Russ Merkel of Iowa, who had been cleaning up in midwest hurdle events while Fleming was nursing his leg injury, by three yards.
Alumni and Walsh Triumph In Interhall Baseball Play
Inter-hall basebailers batted an even .500 against the weatherman last week as they managed to sneak in two out of a scheduled four games. Alumni edged Morrissey, 2-1, in a tight pitchers’ battle • while Walsh pounded Cavanaugh pitchers to the tune of 8-3. The other 2 games, Farley-Sorin and Lyons-Howard, will be played off at a later date if possible.
Manager Bill Kroph’s Walshmen hit for 8 big runs to back up the neat five-hitter twirled by Jerry Bona. Speedy Wolfe was the catcher. Walsh’s attack was led by Angelo Carideo, who had a perfect day at the plate banging out 3 for 3, and by Jim Sullivan who slammed out two hits, including a triple.
Errors figured in all the scoring of the Alumni-Morrissey battle as both pitchers were stingy with hits. Jack Wilkinson spun a brilliant one-hitter for the win. His battery-mate, Ed Batterbey, lived up to his name as he smacked out Alumni’s only two hits, a single and a double.
—Ray Dittrich
Quarterback John Mazur takes off around end after failing to find open receiver on attempted pass during Saturday scrimmage.
May 5, 1950	23
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box
by Jack M^ney
“How Many, Coach?"
Back at the beginning of Spring football practice. Coach Frank Leahy and bis 1950 Irish ran through their paces for the benefit of the assembled newsreel cameramen. After getting shots of the team rushing out onto Cartier Field, backs high-stepping it, through the ropes, etc., the newsreel boys prevailed upon Frank to give them the lowdown on this fall’s team. Halfway through Leahy’s oration came the inevitable “How many games ya gonna lose this year, Coach?”
“We could lose ten,” remarked the Master. Before anyone could remind him that the Irish have only nine games carded for next year he added hastily, “I expect the Old-Timers to beat us, too.”
If Frank meant in the first two periods, he could be right. With a great many of them going into pro ball, the Old-Timers will be in a lot better shape than they were last year, but you can’t substitute handball for a two-hour scrimmage. However, they should be plenty tough in the first half. How does this lineup compare with any team the Irish will face this fall? Hart, Martin and Wightkin at ends; Cifelli, Hudak and Zmijewski at tackles; guards Lally and Oracko; center, Grot-haus. In the backfield there will be Sitko, Begley, Coutre, Spaniel, Swis-towicz, Zalejski and “Jarrin’ John” Panelli.
That’s going to be a tough team for the Varsity to beat — but that isn’t all. No, “Ziggy” Czarobski won’t be on hand to catch any passes or kick point after touchdowns this year; too much pressing business up in Chicago. But there will be George Strohmeyer, Lank Smith, Bob Dove, Corwin Clatt and possibly Coy McGee. If he goes through with his plan of giving up pro football, Marty Wendell may also be on hand to add his 200 pounds worth to the Old-Timer forward wall. Frank Leahy’s men won’t have much time to relax from here on in.
Time Out
There’s a new experience in store for the Notre Dame baseball team. On their coming road trip, the Irish will play two games under the lights, the first time an Irish nine has ever performed after dark. . . . For the second

year in a row, the American Association of College Baseball Coaches will select an All-American baseball nine. Nominations for the mythical squad are submitted by college mentors throughout the country. Last year, Notre Dame’s Dick Giedlin was selected as first baseman on the third team. Dick will be aiming for a higher berth this year. Incidentally, former California All-American football player Jackie Jensen, now up with the New York Yankees, could get no higher than a third team position. . . . Pete Koblosh. Irish shortstop of last year, is again making double plays with former Irish teammate Ben Kozlik. Both are with Decatur of the Three-I League.
A Suggestion
Every Spring there’s a day of days here at Notre Dame when the campus is jumping with athletic activity. This year is no exception; May 13 is “it.” Besides the Old-Timers game and the golf match with Minnesota, the track team is host to Michigan State in their lone home dual meet of the season. (Usually there’s a baseball game in Cartier Field but something went wrong this year — they’re playing away.) Could the time of the track meet be set ahead so as not to conflict with the Old-Timers game? Michigan State has some of the finest collegiate track performers in the country, and many fans would like to take in both events if at all possible.
TICKET APPLICATIONS FOR PARENTS
During the coming week, the Athletic Department will distribute request forms to all students, both on and off campus. To all students who fill in and return this card to the Ticket Office by May 31, the Athletic Department will mail a special set of football ticket applications for use by parents, families, etc. Advance sale to alumni and students will open June 20. General Public sale does not begin until August 1.
Graduating seniors need not make use of the above-mentioned forms, as their names w'ill be added automatically to alumni mailing lists.
Irish Take Michigan
In Season's Third Win
Sparked by the hitting of a new third baseman and the three-hit pitching of Bob Nemes, the Notre Dame baseball ' team beat Michigan, current leaders in the Big Ten race, on Cartier Field last Monday, 4-2.
Joe Pfaff, a Sophomore, was given his & first chance at the hot cornel’ this year and he really came through with flying colors. Besides handling four chances in the field flawlessly, Joe collected four hits, knocked in two runs and scored one himself. Not a bad start at all.
The Irish started to work early on the Wolverine starter, Pete Klein, and knocked him out of the box in the third inning. In the second Dick Giedlin walked and moved to second on a hit by Pfaff. Both men advanced on a wild pitch and came in on McHale’s sharp single.
Two more runs came across in the third inning. With one down Jim Manning singled but was immediately picked off first. Tom Martin then walked and
More Sports on Page 29
went to third on a single by Giedlin. Joe _ Pfaff then put his big bat to work and < tripled both runners in. It could have been a home run easily, or at least Joe could have gotten home, but some poor coaching at third lost the run.
Although Nemes was slightly wild, he walked seven, he seemed to be the master of the situation most of the time. The only bad inning he had was the fourth when Michigan scored all their runs. Harold Morrill, big first baseman, opened the inning with a long drive to left een- £ ter foi’ a homer. Then a walk, single, and a long fly brought in the other.
Nemes was helped by two double plays and some fine fielding on the part of Tom McHale out in right field. An accidental, but neat, double play highlighted the fifth inning. With men on first and second and one out, Morrill flied deep to left center where Martin took it for the out. The runner from second tagged up and streaked for third. Martin’s throw was high past third but Nemes was backing up perfectly and his quick throw to second cut down the runner from first. The double play went from the left fielder to the pitcher to the second baseman.	■
The Irish have now won three of five , ball games. This was only Michigan’s ' fourth loss against eleven wins. The game with Great Lakes scheduled for last Saturday was called off because of bad weather.	.
The Scholastic
24
* II
Names Make Neats
Compiled by JAY CONLON
FRANK LEAHY, ND football coach, and FRANK C. WALKER, vice-president of Notre Dame’s board of lay trustees and former Postmaster-General, were honored last Monday and Tuesday at a dinner of some 430 Chairmen and committee-members from the South Bend area. The dinner was designed to start off South Bend’s campaign to collect $500,000 for the new Science Building. . . .
The President of the University of Dayton has announced the appointment of RALPH McGEHEE as their new line coach. Ralph, a January ’50 grad, had won four letters in football, serving his last two years as right tackle. . . .
HARVEY G. FOSTER, ’39, is the youngest man ever to control a statewide FBI office. He is agent in charge of the Indiana office in Indianapolis. He is a member- of the Indiana State Bar Association and had previously coached football at South Band Central Catholic. He also serves as a director of the Alumni Association of Notre Dame. . . .
MR. RUFUS W. RAUCH, professor of English, recently gave a lecture and reading of poetry at the Sheil School in Chicago. The topic of the lecture was T. S. Eliot. Professors FRANK O’MALLEY and JOHN F. NIMS will present lectures in the same series in the near future. . . .
The Very REV. URBAN DE BASQUE who received a doctorate of laws from Notre Dame in 1918 was honored at a special dinner recently under the auspices of Bishop J. McGuinness of Oklahoma City. The occasion for the nationally known scholar was his golden jubilee as a priest. He was ordained in 1900 at Louvain, Belgium.
“A Mother Considers the H Bomb” is the title of an article written by KATHERINE T. DOOLEY, wife of William R. Dooley, head of the Placement Bureau at ND. in the April 22 issue of America. . . .
DR. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, President of Hunter College in New York, has been appointed Commissioner for
® May 5, 1950
Bavaria. The appointment of Dr. Shuster, a Catholic, for the job of directing the predominately Catholic population of Bavaria is regarded as one of the most important jobs in the European theater. Dr. Shuster was head of the English Department at Notre Dame from 1920-24. He also served as president of the Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute and St. Joseph’s College for Women in Brooklyn. . . .
MR. WALTER M. LANGFORD, head of the Department of Modern Languages, will be the speaker at the third University of Kentucky Foreign Language Conference to be held May 13 in Lexington, Ky. “Ways to International Understanding,” will be the theme of the conference. . . .
“Who is Blanshard,” is an excerpt from an Ave Maria Press pamphlet, “American Freedom and Paul Blanshard,” written by DALE FRANCIS, head of the publications department. The excerpt appears in the May issue of Catholic Digest. . . .
On May 13, a member of the Notre Dame Council of Knights of Columbus will receive the Order’s highest degree. He is DANIEL R. CONNELL of Howard Hall and Chicago, Ill. Connell will receive the 4th Degree in South Bend along with a number of other Knights from St. Joseph County. . . .
DANIEL PEDTKE, head of the Department of Music will be guest director at LaCrosse Diocesan Music Festival. He will also speak before the conference on the “Effect of Music on Earth.” . . .
Twenty-two year-old BILL ANDERSON former chemical engineering student at ND set the highest academic record ever made in the 10th Infantry Division’s six week special leadership course in preparation for Officers Candidate School. . . .
JIM GILLIS, ND baseball star, will be married June 5 to Miss Janie Knepp of South Bend. The couple will be married in Our Lady’s Chapel, Notre Dame.
“The Holy See at Work” is the subject of a new book by Father EDWARD L. HESTON, c.s.c. Father Heston, a
former member of the secreteriate of the papal delegate at Washington has had first hand acquaintance with the governing body of the church in action. . . .
The courage and quick thinking of EDWARD H. MALONEY, ’49, accounted for the capture of a burglar who had . stolen a ten-thousand dollar diamond ring from his Chicago neighbor. Maloney, an air force veteran, wrenched a revolver from the hand of the bandit, and held him until police arrived. At present Maloney is in the insurance business in Chicago.
Two Frosh Add New Twist With Caddie Scholarships
Each year the Western Golf Association awards several scholarships to deserving caddies who plan to continue their education after they finish high school. To qualify for these awards the student must have been a caddie for several years, must have a series of good recommendations, and a good scholastic record in high school.
Last year, the Association’s “Chick” Evans Foundation awarded fifteen scholarships, two of them to men at Notre Dame. Joe Jasiniski of Toledo and Zahm Hall is not only a good cad-
Rev. Holderith and scholarship winners.
die, but a good golfer in his own right. He won two letters in golf in high school and captained the team in his last year. He added a third letter to his collection bowling.
Norman Donato of St. Edward’s and Dover, Ohio, is another young man who was not only a good caddie, but a good golfer. He won three letters in high school golf while maintaining a high scholastic average.
25
Letters

HAVE MORE FUN...BE MORE POPULAR!

.0
, Special
36 anniversary
Hates Now in Effect
16
A ■*&!■■■ IkAu	W-
At Arthur Murray's
and you're cordially invited
You'll have more fun than ever learning: to dance at Arthur Murray’s. That’s because he is celebrating his 36th anniversary with extra special parties plus special rates. Learning is easier and quicker at Arthur Murray’s thanks to his wonderful discovery. “The First Step to Popularity.” You will be amazed and thrilled at vour dancing skill even after only one lesson. So come in or phone now and join the fun. Here’s a grand opportunity to learn to dance and save, too!
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne 2-3339
FREE CLUB DANCE
Every Thursday
Soph Challenge
Editor:
Attention Freshmen and Junior “citizens:” You are hereby challenged to turn out in greater proportions at the election “polls” this Tuesday than will the members of the Sophomore class. Here are the potential class voting capacities from the records of the Director of Studies: Freshmen—1,255; Sophomores—1,259; Juniors 754.
Are you game?
Sophomore Class Officers, Jim Garvin, President
Where’s Mom
Editor:
I’m not really a Junior but I see where one of the tickets for election in the Junior Class is promising a “Dads’ weekend” during the football season if they’re elected.
This seems to me to be a somewhat subversive campaign promise. What happens to “Mom?” Either she comes with “Dad” and sits alone in the middle of a mob of strangers while “Dad” sits in the middle of a bunch of strangers, or she stays home and crys for “Dad.”
Now since the family is the basis of our society and it is important that the family be kept together, it seems to me that a “Dad’s weekend” is contrary to good family life- Such a move would undermine the family and contribute to

A Special SPRING SALE of
Quality Suits and Topcoats
Having purchased John Parker’s interest-in this organization from his heirs, Earll Winterrowd and Joe Pinkola take this opportunity to pass on to you very substantial savings on these quality ready-made suits and coats. All new spring garments.
SUITS
A selection of spring suits in Sharkskins. Cheviots. Tweeds. Unfinished Worsteds and others.
WERE NOW
65.00	48.50
75.00 and	57.50
85.00	
Earll S. Winterrowd
TOPCOATS
Coats by Rochester-Adler, makers of famous Mt. Rock coat. Gabardines. Tweeds. Cheviots and others-
and Joe Pinkola, Owners
QQ 13% 00 off
Substantial savings on our tailor-made garments priced from 75.00 to 125.00.
25% off
25 % Discount on All New Spring Slacks!
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
26
The Scholastic
the breakdown of family life.
So I think either Dad should be able to sit with Mom at this weekend, in which case it wouldn’t really be “Dads' weekend,” or else he should stay home with Mom and forget about the whole thing.
My roommate agrees with me.
Roger O’Keefe Breen-Phillips
Talent Show
Editor:
It is difficult to put into words our esteem for those members of the Sophomore Class who made the Campus Talent Show the “it” it was, but our “sincerest” to co-chairmen Bill Toohey and Gene Hull, the masterminds of the affair. Our hats off also to Hull’s “lettermen,” the seven finalists, the committeemen, and the applause-meter. And thanks “a million and one” to the Student Council for their vital financial support.
We hope that this success will pave the way for even larger presentations, operettas, musicals, and other outlets for the non: recognized abundance of campus talent.
Sophomore Class Officers
(1
Junior Thanks	•
Editor:
Now that the Junior Prom weekend is a pleasant memory, we would like to express our thanks to those who contributed to make it a success.
Our thanks to Father Kehoe for- his counsel; to Mr. Leahy for providing an interesting Saturday afternoon scrimmage; to Father Grimm for- his consideration of Prom-goers on Sunday morning; to the Student Council for financial support; to the Scholastic, the Dome, and WND for coverage; to all those whose behind-the-scenes efforts made “April Showers” possible; and finally, to all of you, who by your presence made the weekend unforgettable.
In particular, we would like to thank the co-chairmen Tom Meyer and Mike Jacobs, whose efforts coordinated the activities of all committees. Bob Mor-iarity, the decoration chairman, whose untiring efforts made possible the outstanding decorations, is deserving of high praise.
To one and all, thanks.
Junior’ Class Officers
Winner Bows
'Editor:
I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Sophomore Class for the opportunity of appearing on their recent talent revue. Each of the t-cts (Continued on Page 28)
MIDNIGHT SNACKS WITHOUT COOKING
Delicious Scandinavian delicacies that make -wonderful hor d'oeuvres, perfect between-meal fillers! For yourself, your friends or a delightful gift for the folks back home.
The VIKING
Norwegian Kippered Herrings — Herring Tidbits in Wine Sauce — Lingonberry Preserves, imported — Norwegian Snacks, fillets — Ry-King, Swedish Crisp Bread — Brisling Sardines in Sild Oil — Swedish Fish Balls, Haddock in Lobster Sauce — Karvi Cheese, Caraway spiced — Anchovies, Sprats Paste.
MERCER, BEASLEY, TENNIS-FORWARD thinking coach, HAS DEVISED A NOVEL •MEANS OF IMPARTING wtsoawroHis
PUPILS AS THEY FLAYL
Send for FREE Catalogue showing beautiful Scandinavian gift items. Money back if not delighted.
No C. O. D.s please.
ALL FOR $3.50 P. P. PAID
SPECIAL—The NORSEMAN assortment has every item in the VIKING assortment plus nine different delicious items—Twice as much—for only $5.95 p. p. paid
NORSE SPECIALTIES. Inc.
Highland Hills, N. Y.
STEP INTO IT...
Dept. ND-1
SPALDING
The met. --
SPAWM
SETS THE PACE^ tN SPQRTS
SPALDING And WRIGHfcDlTSQN RACKETS are TRI* POWERED?
FIBRE-WELDING OR FIBRE-SEALING BRACES •tHs’THROftT'' RAWHIDE.
REINFORCES THE*SHOULDHRS NEW SBPERr STRONG ATHESIVE BINDS THE LAMINATIONS 1NTHE*BOW"
TIMEOUT
THEIR EARS VIA WAJLK1E-TALKIE
A HERE-Give ta TRY — FOB 20 YEARS OP.S0—
TOR MEALS?
THESE RACKETS STAND TACTORY TESTS EQUAL TO TWENTY YEARS OF play.
• May 5, 1950
27
FROM BALI AND CAT CAY TO YOU!
Arrow’s New
"Bali Cay” Sports Shirts
For sailing, golfing, or week-end parties — Arrow’s new Bali Cay sports shirts are terrific! Colorful island patterns! Long and short sleeved models. See your Arrow dealer nowr!
§3.95 - §5.95
ARROWSHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
f" Letters
(Continued from Page 27) portrayed such superb quality entertainment that I truly felt humble and privileged to appear among them.
Additional orchids to Gene Hull ana Bill Toohey for the many, many behind-the-scenes hours that were required to round out what I feel was Notre Dame’s best home talent show.
Chuck Perrin
Kelleghan on Class Officers
Editor:
The responsibilities of student leadership seem to have been generally rejected as Notre Dame, but nowhere is it more evident, especially at this time of year, than among the class officers. Though the officers are nominally leaders, both their platforms and activities reveal that they have forgotten what they really possess in their positions — student leadership. Student has been separated from leadership, and the leader has embraced a new art — that of “fellowship.” What ■else can this state of affairs be called wherein class officers only attempt to outdo each other in fulfilling the desires of the student body for bigger and better-good times? This policy can hardly develop democratic leaders, for leadership demands that what is right be the stand-ard, not what is wanted.	H
Promoting good times is the major-plank on any ticket; anything dealing with the proper life of the student has been expunged from consideration. Logically enough, one ticket for the Senior-offices has adopted the name “High Life Party.” Before long, there will undoubtedly be a Fast Life Party, a Wiild Life Party, and finally, at the point of honesty, an Animal Life Party. . . .
No student leader, particularly a class I officer, can forget that he is first and foremost a student, that he has been elected by students, and consequently that he must further primarily true student interests. Class officers should be
It's ADLER'S for
ARROW
MICHIGAN crt WASHINGTON
more concerned with developing the faculties of the soul and the powers of the intellect than in arranging circuses and carnivals which only help to improve the country-club aspect of Notre Dame life. Dances have their place, but that place is not first in the life of the student. |
In short, class officers, being as they are in the status of student leadership, should help students become better students, help Notre Dame become a better university, and help Christians become better Christians. In this scheme sociah recreation will have its proper emphasis, ' and class officers will mature to true leaders instead of champion good time Charlies, as they are now.
Howard Hall Tom Kelleghan
The Scholastic
2»
Golf Team Trounces Loyola Squad, 23-4
Father Holderith’s golf team bounced back from last week’s loss to Purdue by walloping Loyola, 23-4, last Saturday.
Medalist for the match was the Notre Dame ace Tom Veech, who scored a one-under-par 70.
The Irish got off to a big lead in the morning doubles round, shutting out the Chicagoans in three consecutive matches. In the first match, Veech and Bob Jors of Notre Dame carded a 70 and 74 respectively to take all three points from Jack Atten with a 75 and Bob Witt with 81 for Lovola.
In the second match, Irish captain Paul Hudak (75) and Larry Weber (74) teamed to take three points from Bob Balek (79) and Frank Stotz (76). The • last match of the morning saw Spence Daly (78) and Tom Klett (74) shut out Frank Hianik (76) and Jerry Whiston (80).
In the afternoon singles the Irish proved equally strong with four new men in the lineup. The scoring in the singles: Bob Rolfs downed Loyola captain Atten, 2-1; Maury White (74) defeated Stotz (78), 2%-%; Frank Marzolf (75) shut out Hianik (78) ; Larry Weber dumped Witt 2%-1/^; Jors of Notre Dame took Balek 2%-%; and Whiston of Loyola ended the day by salvaging 1% by splitting with Jack Wendling each firing 79’s.
This week Father Holderith’s squad will attempt to raise their record for the year above the .500 mark. Saturday, May 6, they take on Northwestern on the Burke Memorial golf course and on Monday they journey to Wisconsin for their seventh match of the year.
Trackmen to Meet Pittsburgh Tomorrow
Coach Doc Handy’s tracksters take on the University of Pittsburgh tomorrow in the Smoky City, their first dual opponent of the outdoor season. For most of the men, it will be their first taste of competition since the indoor season.
Last year Notre Dame smashed the Panthers on Cartier Field by an 86 2/3 to 44 1/3 score. Captain Bob Smith, who will compete in both the 100 and 220-yard events tomorrow, will lead his team in an attempt to duplicate the winning performance of last year. In the ’49 meet, Bob won the 100 and had a commanding lead in the 220 when he fell five yards from the tape, losing his chance for a double win. Willy Kupfer, Bucky Ewing and Frank Boiler will suppoi-t Smith in the sprints.
Bill Fleming, who won both high and ft
May 5, 1950
low hurdles and the high jump to take scoring honors in last year’s meet, will be the only man available for Notre Dame in the two hurdle races tomorrow, but he should be able to take them both without too much trouble.
Johnny and Joe Helwig took one-two in the shot put last year and John also won the discus. The two Helwigs will be throwing in both weights tomorrow while Jim Miller and Bob Charters will help out in the discus event. Miller will be a busy man tomorrow. He will be the favorite to take the pole vault and, with Charters and Jack Murphy, will form the javelin throwing team for the Irish.
In the other field events the Handymen haven’t such an overflow of talent. John Worthington will not be able to compete in the broad jump due to a
Arrow Sports Shirts
<3.65
A host of beautiful sports shirts by your favorite shirtmaker—ARROW! Plaids! Solid Colors! Many patterns and colors. Every shirt washable, too! Come in for yours today.
ROBERTSON'S
MEN’S SHOP — FIRST FLOOR
== FOR ARROW UNIVERSITY STYLES ==
pulled muscle he suffered at the Drake Relays last week. Buck Ewing will be forced to cany the load, but may get some help from junior Jack O’Brien. Tom Devine is the lone high jumper.
In the middle distance events, the Irish are much stronger, however. Bob Boyne and Paul Schwetschenau are sure bets to run in the 440 while Jack Wagner, Frank Boiler, and Dan Finn are possibilities. A mile relay team will be formed from the quarter milers. Vai Muscato, Joe Riley and Jerry Johnson will carry the Irish colors in the half mile. Tony DaDamio performed surprisingly well against the Panthers last year, taking first in the 880 and second in the mile. On a hunch he might do .just as well tomorrow, Coach Handy may run him in both these events.—Ted Prahinski
29
.	I
Sllawnrtlj’H
The Third Degree
Arrow Sports Shirt Spring Harvest!
Cool. . . Lightweight. . . Washable
(long or short sleeves)
THEY’RE COOL! . . . comfortable and handsome! Featherweight cottons and broadcloths, gabardines, meshes open to the breeze. In checks and solid colors. See them now.
3.95 to 5.95
By ED MERTZ
Are you the proverbial square peg in a round hole? If so, buddy, I’ve got news for you! Cease and desist from ~ beating your angular head against that circular wall. Hopalong Joe Mountain of the Grad Association Social Committee has ridden to the rescue with a special square dance which is just the thing for you, and people in your particular geometric situation. This hoedown is to be run off in the Vet Rec Hall tomorrow night at 8:30 p. m. You don’t have to know the routines in advance. Expert instruction will be avail- -able, and it is spirit not skill that counts. The keynote of the operation is informality, so discard those pin-stripe threads in favor of more casual attire, with low-heels a must foi- the belles of the ball. A mere sixty cents will slip you and the lady past the gateman so come on in and promenade with the best of them.
Men’s Shop . . . Main Floor
Makes a Man Love a Pipe and a Wbman Love a Man
A meeting of the Graduate Student Association is scheduled for Monday at — 8:00 p. m. in the Rec Hall. This will be • the final meeting of the semester aind plans will be made for the future of the organization. All members should be there, and those who have not had an opportunity to join as yet are still welcome. There will be cards available afterw’ards, and Father Basil and Co. are in the market for a couple of bathtub barytones for the inevitable barbershop work following the meeting.
The date for the final social affair of the Grad Student Semester has been set for May 20 at 6:30 p. m. A buffet supper will be provided through the cooperation of The Grad Wives Association, so all you topflight tenchermen who have been existing in an atmosphere of genteel poverty befitting scholars of your status are guaranteed a chance to fill that aching abyss in your gizzards, -j When all the chomping has died down, • and the groceries are one with Niniveh and Tyre, you’ll be on your own. There will be music on hand for those so inclined, and bridge addicts will be provided for. If you are one of those who takes his beer with a straight converse- ■ tion chaser, you can bypass both Culbertson and Dorsey, and just sit back and relax. You can bring wife, (your owh, that is) date, or roommate, (if it’s a man’s world you live in) and feel
The Scholastic
30

w equally welcome. A 100 per cent turnout is the available goal.
The Grad Softball League is on its way. Only three teams are entered, from Math, Chern, and Physics. At least one more entry is desired, and El Wolicki would like to hear from the Engineering, Social Science, and Arts Divisions. In an exhibition, the Mathematicians £ outlasted Physics by a 9-7 count on April 21. Manager Lou Goretta of the Chemists still has his squad in the tryout stage, but figures to be ready for opening day ceremonies.
Latin American Study Group Sponsoring Discussion Meets
The Committee on the Program of Latin American Studies has decided to begin a series of Colloquia under the sponsorship of the Program, in which members of the University faculty and occasional visitors will discuss problems of Latin American history, culture and politics.
The initial Colloquium will be held next Tuesday evening in Room 101 of the Law building. The topic for the evening’s discussions will be “The Mexican Revolution of 1910-1920.”
Mr. Paul M. Stoner of the Department of Economics will preside at the Colloquium as chairman.
Professors Thomas E. Downey of the Department of History and Walter Langford, Head of the Department of Modem Languages will read papers. Professor Downey’s paper is entitled “The Political and Economic Phase of the Mexican Revolution” and Professor Langford’s “Cultural and Religious Phases of the Mexican Revolution.” An open-floor discussion will follow the reading of the papers.
U The Colloquium is open to all students and faculty members interested in the program of Latin American Studies, and the general public has been invited.
Lecture Series Planned By Heidelberg Professor
Professor Richard Kuhn, of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute at Heidelberg, will deliver one of the series of Peter C. h Reilly Lectures in Chemistry during the weeks of May 7 and 14. The talks will be given in Room 213 Chemistry Hall at 4 p. m. on May 8-10 and May 17-19.
The topics for the first week are “Physical Properties and Chemical Reactions of Zwitterions” and “The Problem of Self-sterility.” The topics for the second week are “Researches on Naptho-quinones,” “The Story of TTC (Tri-phenyltetrazolium Chloride),” and Analytical Notes.”
I May 5, 1950
you're sure
to be seen in
TEE-ZERS
Are you a campus leader? Do you have nerve? We dare you to wear these new pullovers! Such blinding colors ... such zany patterns! Yet some Bright Man On Campus is going to start sporting one of these Tee-zers ... and the fad will spread like wildfire (and we mean, wildfire). Solid colors in fine new Van Gab gabardine ... stripes and patterns in cotton. Short sleeves, knitted waist, completely washable. S2.95 up.
Van Hensen
Reff. T. M.
"the world’s smartest”
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW
for the Names You Know
^GILBERT'S
for VAN HEUSEN
31


FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Senior Ball
LOGAN’S
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
White Gabardine Jackets, Midnight Blue Trousers—$7.50
Accessories—Shirts, Ties and Jewelry^—$1.00
NO DEPOSITS for Students or Faculty
Also SPECIAL RATES on Tuxedos
Insist on pure wool Gabardine.
Place orders early.
All Sizes — Free Alterations
LOGAN’S
107 N. Main St.
South Bend	Oliver Hotel
32
Elections
(Continued from Page 9)
South Bend” if the Highlife party wins besides having; a Spring retreat and an “improved” Senior Ball.
Seniors will also elect two classmates to represent them on the Student Council. The Foresight party proposes Phil Schwai-z and Tom Wolff. Supported by the Highlife ticket are Jack Broderick and Bill Carey. Running independently for the Student Council representatives are Al Bailey and Dick Herrle. Bob Auld appears on the ballot as an unattached candidate for class Secretary.
Juniors will find plenty of candidates from which to choose next year’s officers when they go to the polls on Tuesday. Topping the list of the five Junior parties is Your Party. Walt Wolff leads the ticket for the Prexy position and is followed by Tony Critelli for Veep; Dan Caulfield for Secretary and “Tex” Carubbi for the Treasurer’s post.
Your Party promises a special Junior retreat, vocational lectures for Juniors and the “best Junior Prom ever.” They “will welcome suggestions from Juniors and 'endeavor to carry them out with the class’s support.”
Improved class government is promised as a major plank in the Harmony party which is supporting George Sweet for Prexy; Dave Lajoie for Veep; Wally Purcell for Secretary; and Jack Moran for Treasurer. In line with their policy of better government they will sponsor-an early election of hall council members, bi-monthly hall council meetings, and monthly meetings of ciass councils.
Hank McCormack leads the One Way ticket as their candidate for Pre^y. Jack Hynes, Don Fager and 3 ack Daut are running for Veep, Secretary, and Treasurer respectively. The One Way men promise a Fall Junior- Weekend, “complete with an informal dance and picnic,” a Lenten class retreat, and “a stronger
WHY NOT STUDY THIS SUMMER IN EUROPE?
NUCLEUS $485 545 625
LL EXPENSE
UNIVERSITY OF BORDEAUX
UNIVERSITY OF PARIS UNIVERSITY OF ZURICH
PR
ROUND TRIP AiR TRanS’i TUITION ROOM AND B Rail transportat on -o ^n ve
STUDENT TOURS-24 TO 70 DAYS-S645 TO $1195—ALL EXPENSES
Student Travel Service ltd.
1540 E. 57TH ST.
and more effective” class council.
Housing for guests of the Juniors, their parents and dates, will be arranged by the Poll-Toppers according to their platform. Promising this are Jim Mannion for Prexy; Jay Fox for Veep; Chet Ostrowski for Secretary; Phil Everist for Treasurer. Besides the housing, the Poll-Toppers insure fund-raising activities to support the Prom, promotion of
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, May 6 — red—Greater Double—St. John before the Latin Gate; 2nd Coll. Against the Persecutors; Credo: Preface of the Apostles.
Sunday, May 7 — white — Semidouble—FOURTH SUNDAY AFTER EASTER; 2nd Coll. Comm, of St. Stanislaus, 3rd Against the Pers.; Credo; Preface of Easter.
Monday, May 8—white—Greater Double — The Apparition of St. Michael the Archangel; 2nd Coll. Against the Pers.; Credo.
Tuesday, May 9—white—Double —St. Gregory Nazianzen, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor; 2nd Coll. Against the Pers.; Credo.
Wednesday, May 10 — white — Double — St. Antoninus, Bishop, Confessor; 2nd Coll. Comm, of SS. Gordian and Epimachus, 3rd Against the Pers.
Thursday, May 11—white—Simple —Mass of the preceding Sunday; ’ 2nd Coll, for the Blessed Virgin for Paschaltide and/or Against the Pers.
Friday, May 12—red—Semi-double double—SS. Nereus, Achilleus, Dim-itilla and Pancras, Martyrs; 2nd Coll, for the Blessed Virgin during Paschaltide, 3rd Against the Persecutors.
STUDY TOURS
OXFORD SUMMER INSTITUTE
UNIVERSITY OF COPENHAGEN
UNIVERSITY OF HEIDELBERG
$495
575
590
ES NO.UDE
R’a* ON to EUROPE
ARD A’ UNIVERSITY
S With RETURN TO PARIS
CHICAGO 3T. ILL.
The Scholastic
Junior athletics, and a Junior Golf Tourney.
Two Junior Weekends highlight the promises of Pacemaker ticket. Running for Prexy is Sal Fiorella. Also on the Pacemaker party are Veep, Joe Straub; Secretary, Gene Lasmez; Treasurer, Ed Waters. The Pacemakers will promote the first Junior Weekend in the Fall and the second on the Old Timers’ Game Weekend. For the stay-at-homes the party promises a dance on the Student Trip weekend. One other plank in theii' platform is a promise of monthly mass and Communion breakfasts for the class.
There’s no lack of enthusiasm in the ranks of next year’s Sophomore class. Out of the huge mass of posters and banners decorating Freshman halls, the Scholastic finds that there are four parties seeking the class offices. They are the ABC, Four For You, Quartet and Unity parties.
Joe Moresco and John Porta are campaigning for the Prexy and Veep berths supported by the ABC (Action by Cooperation) party. Running with Moresco
B May 5, 1950
and Porta are Frank Blanch for Secretary and Ed Raque for the Treasurer’s position. Their voluminous promises would make enough reading material for a semester of Hygiene classes. Briefly, the ABC party would give the Sophomore class an “all around better” Cotillion with a general election of the committee by all Sophs, a class day in the Spring, tutoring on “a large scale” for students with academic troubles, Soph Tennis and Golf Tournaments, a monthly Communion mass and improved publicity for the class.
Seeking office on the Four For You ticket are: Prexy, John.O’Connell; Veep, Tom Reedy; Secretary, Dan Collins; Treasurer, Gerry Marshall. The Four For You party, if elected, will hold class officer meetings open to all, promote an
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
1. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad. All clues are in ad.
2. Submit answers on Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this publication office.
3. First ten correct answers from different students win a carton of Chesterfield Cigarettes each.
4. EnterasmanyasyouliketbutoneChesterfieldwrapperorfacsimilemust4CCQrapapyoach<mU^
5. Contest closes midnight, one week after this issue's publication date*
6. Alt answers become the property of Chesterfield.
7, Decision of judges will be final.
QUESTIONS
A Aslant, I lie surrounded by a word Which twice repeats a virtue which you’ve heard.
"D A letter (from the Greek), a conjunction (transposed) ’ One from Flanders, here reflected and posed.
\ P A ten dollar bill, and the term “to sell”
'A Gives one a title, if they’re combined well.
Answers and names of winners will be available-at magazine office. Winners will be notified by mail.
LAST MONTH’S ANSWERS & WINNERS •
The B of ABC. If you look intently at the letter B, you will see two D’s inside it.
g TRIPP. A prefix for three is “tri.” Like two peas (pp) in a pod give you “Tripp,” whose letters are odd (five).
Q YOUNG MAN WITH A HORN. A youthful homo sapiens is a young man. The rival of the Cape of Good Hope is Cape Horn.
WINNERS...
BILL HOGAN —315 Howard Hall
DICK SCHREITMUELLER — 153 Farley Hall TOM FITZGERALD—303 Walsh Hall JIM KELLEHER — 11 Lyons Hall JOHN WATERBURY — 144 Farley Hall FRANK BEITER —219 Alumni Hall EDWARD LUCAS —317 Howard Hall GEORGE CASSIDY — 278 Dillon Hall JAMES E. CURRAN — 109 Morrissey Hall E. B. MURPHY —227 Zahm Hall
inter-college council to represent interests of all colleges, complete plans for the Cotillion by May 30, improve the “Choose Your Major Program,” and organize “more and better” social opportunities and promote inter-class athletics for all Sophs.
Promoting better cooperation between the Sophomore halls is the aim of the Unity party, says Mike Downey, who is running for Prexy on that ticket. Supporting Downey are Al DeCrane for the Veep’s post; Dave Fox for Secretary, and Bob Niquette for Treasurer. The Unity party also hopes to plan the Cotillion and the picnic “in such a way that as many as possible will be able to attend.” They seek to preserve the unity of the class “not only through 1953 but further on until class reunions are held.”
33
Roughly Speaking
Poll Time
ND goes to the polls next Tuesday. Right now the leading question of many coffee-klatches is — Who’s going to win?
The spirit generated by the elections of past years has been repeated during the past week. Every place you go someone is talking about the candidates and the elections. That’s good. It shows that there is plenty of interest. And that’s the way it should be.
Campus elections could very easily be a matter of what fraternity the candidate belongs to and how much behind the scenes vote-trading can be arranged. Not here, though. Here, everyone has a chance.
One thing that most of the parties have apparently learned is that it’s stupid to give their classes a long list of promises. There’s no harm in proposing something for the first time, even if it does fail to become a reality. But this practice of exciting the voters with grandiose plans that never could and never will be carried out is a cheap way of getting votes.
This year most of the parties seem more interested in proving the worth of their candidates. They have listed the records of each man. And that’s sounder ground on which to decide a vote, rather than — Vote for me and I’ll give you blah-blah-blah.
There’s one important thing that every ND voter should remember. Your vote is important. Sometimes a guy will say, “Ah, why should I vote? It’s already sewed up.”
No class election is “sewed up.” Every vote counts. A good way of telling which year has the most spirit is to read the percentages of the number that vote in each class. Men who vote are interested in their class.
So, get out to those polls! Don’t let any smooth-talker convince you that so-and-so doesn’t have a chance. Everyone on that ballot has a chance. And do youi' own thinking. Choose the men you’re sure are interested in the class and not in themselves.
It’ll be interesting to see which class tallies the most votes. Try and make it your class.
Some Bows
There’s lots to be proud of at Notre Dame.
One class, one organization and one
student made that particularly evident during the past week. The class was the Sophomores. Their Talent Show was a long-anticipated production that paid off in full. It’s been quite some time since Washington Hall was jammed for a student production. The last time was two years ago for the student musical, It Ain’t Hay. Sunday night, however, the crowd filled every creaky seat available.
The mob came for entertainment — and that’s what they got. The Sophs deserve a hearty slam on the back for putting on this show. They put a lot of work into it but the applause, hoots and whistles that rocked Washington Hall proved that it was worth it. The Student Council can also take a bow for putting up the $100 prize money. ND can do with more cooperation like that.
The organization that did itself proud was the band. Just returned from an extensive tour of the West, they put on a concert in the Drill Hall that will be long remembered. It’s easy to understand why they garner praise wherever they go. They’re fine representatives of the school.
And, finally, the person who jumped into the limelight is Bill Carey. Bill captured the national debating championship at West Point. He has been turning in winning performances for several years but at last has copped the title he deserves.
And so: congrats to the Sophs, the band, and to Bill. Everyone is proud of you.
Merci
A few months ago this column gave the magazine Mademoiselle a light roasting for sending application blanks for a fiction contest open only to women. Two days ago a missive came through from the French lass. It said:
Dear Mr. Thoren:
You will be relieved to learn that Scholastic has received its last announcement of Mademoiselle’s Annual Fiction Contest for reasons that you made all too clear in your “Roughly Speaking” column which a thoughtful friend sent us on March 15.
Since you Notre Darners have presumably corralled all the smart coeds everywhere, you might like to tell them in tender moments about our fiction contest.
For your records, winners of previous Mademoiselle Fiction Awards fl have rarely been taller than 5’9” or 1 weighed more	than 130 pounds.	I
Joel Graham,	I
Press Editor	J
All that’s	left	to say is: merci, merci,	'
merci. As for passing on the word during “tender moments”—again, you have the wrong school, or, at least the
wrong men.
K>R MEM WOMEN AND CHILDREN
209 W. Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen Mgr.
Corsages
FLOWERS
for
All Occasions
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
<
Quelico * Superior Wilderness Complete outfitting service $3.50 a day with Grumman aluminum canoes. Food, your choice—extra.
GO-page Canoe Country picture booklet mailed postpaid anywhere for $1.00
“BASSWOOD LAKE LODGE' on Minn.-Canadian border. Main Lodge and 20 log cabins.» r Modern bathroom facil- s>M ities. American Plan rates $8.00 and up. Also housekeeping cabins.
1NILDFIWe$$
ELY. MINNESOTA ■■■■■
34
The Scholastic
ll/rflt MotLeto MwL'thAtb
SAYS
WALTER TENINGA
University of Michigan ’50,4-year star halfback. Senior president of the Michigan literary college
aood
•Made of “Elgiloy” metal. Patent pending
$55.00
$50.00
ELGIN
ELIMINATES 99% OF ALL REPAIRS DUE TO STEEL MAINSPRING FAILURES
21 JEWEL
$71.50
Lord and Lady Elgins are priced from $67.50 to $5,000. Elgin DeLuxe from $45.00 to $67.50. Other Elgins as low as $29.75, incl. Fed. Tax.
.Elgin is the watch you'll be happiest to wear. For with an Elgin you have assurance of style correctness — style endorsed by America’s “best-dressed”.
There’s extra satisfaction, too, in an Elgin’s continually faithful performance . . . the result of such exclusive advancements as the DuraPower Main
spring. This is the most dependable power for accurate timekeeping ever put into a watch!
For four generations an Elgin Watch has been the traditional graduation gift, a faithful companion and constant reminder of the great day. Now is the time to suggest that the gift you want most is an Elgin.

Hay 5, 1950
>4^^'
f.
Hawk



Smoke my cigarette, Chesterfield they're Milder... much Milder
...THAT'S RIGHT. CHESTERFIELDS ARE MILDER. I know that for a fact, because raising tobacco is my business, and Chesterfield buys the best mild, ripe tobacco I grow. Beside that, Chesterfield has been my steady smoke for 11 years."
PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMER WYLUESBURG, VA.
&M’^TOD«toCOi
*nd dinners - p. , 5	™3e 33