THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
^uhdee. fyeon. — 1867-1942
Volume 76
JUNE 26. 1942
Number 3
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
Just For The Records
Galluping through Holy Cross College recently a statistics addict arrived at the figure $109,248.75 as the amount students spend yearly in near-by Worcester, Mass., establishments. A poll taken among 340 boarding students showed their total monthly average to be $5,079.95. Of this amount $1,778.60 went for entertainment; $1,694.45 for food and drink (cokes) ; $475.85 for clothing; and $1,130.25 for miscellaneous expenditures.
Computing these figures by classes it was found that average expenditures per month were $16.20 for a senior; $17.60 for a junior; and $12.90 for a soplio-more. Freshmen still take wooden nickels.
By A Nose
Boston, Mass., April 19—Mounted on a swift horse, Paul Revere, well-known local silversmith, rode through the entire Middlesex district last night, and succeeded in spreading an alarm of the approach of enemy troops.
The Boston lad, carrying a nation’s fate, rode from Charleston to Concord in 2:13.4. The horse paid $9.50, $8.20 and $5.00.-
—Northeastern
At The Granite Block
Old Lady (to librarian): “I’d like a nice book.”
Librarian: “Here’s one about the cardinal.”
O. L.: “I’m not interested in religion.”
Lib.: “But this is a bird.”
O. L.: “I’m not interested in his pn- ' vate life either.” ' .	:
Day Coach
A man and a small boy were riding • bn a train one ;day. Upon entering, the boy left the door open.
Shouted the man, “Get up and shut that door. Were you'raised in a barn?”
The boy arose, closed the door, returned to his seat, and began crying. The man felt a bit remorseful and went over to the boy.
“Son, I didn’t mean to hurt your feelings,” he said softly.
“Oh, you didn’t hurt my feelings,” said the boy, “but I was raised in a barn and every time I hear a jackass bray It makes me homesick.”
—N.D. Juggler (of happy memory)
2	'
Camouflaging Ohio State
When Ohio State students started their summer semester last Tuesday they found the school curriculum was keeping abreast of the war with the addition of a course in camouflage. Prof. Morris Trotter, Jr., of the department of architecture, who is directing the course, studied fundamentals at Fort Belvoir, Va., where the Engineer Board of the Office of Civilian Defense recently opened a school on camouflage.
Downtown Drama
Cast of Characters.
One Girl: A South Bender living in that part of S. B. which is nearest that part of the country to which Horace . Greeley advised all young men to go.
One Boy: Registered as a student ar Notre Dame.
Setting: Michigan between Walgreen's and Palace. No prefects in sight.
Time: Saturday night.
Student (approaches young lady, grins and says Sir Walter like): “Nice night, ain’t it?”
Girl (grins back and stops to look into a convenient jewelry store window).
Student: (also stops to admire jewelry display): “Nice bunch of tin ware, eh
Remember when we kicked about getting the milk in half-pints?
what?” (Laughs at his own joke).
Girl (looks at him and grins).
Student: “Haven’t I met you some place before?”
Girl (grins a?ld looks at jetvelry).
Student: “Say, isn’t your name—let’s see—what’s your name again?”
Girl (snickers).
Student: “Aw, tell me your name.”
Girl (fluently and with western accent): “Ruska pasacama duma, ricka deema limpo tradusca.”
Student (exits).
Summer Squash
“How did you puncture that tire?”
“I ran over a milk bottle.”
“What’s the matter, didn’t you see it?” “No, the kid had it under his coat.”
The Watchman on the Job
There once was a watchman called Dorin Whose job was to guard over Sorin;
When a student came late, His plight was to wait While Dorin in Sorin was snorin’.
This Amazing World
Statistics show that Yale graduates have 1.3 children, while Vassar graduates have 1.7 children. Which proves that women have more children than men.
—Fordham Ram
Addled Ana
Then there was the secretary who didn’t mail the circular letters because she couldn’t find any round envelopes.
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 76	JUNE 26, 1942	No. 3
45th N.C.A.A. Golf Tourney Opens Centennial
Annual East-West Match Ends in 5 - 5 Deadlock; Irish Squad Shoots Seventh; Three Men Qualify
The first athletic event of the Notre Dame centennial began officially on Monday morning, as 130 golfers representing 41 schools teed off in the 45th annual National Intercollegiate Golf tournament. The tournament actually began on Sunday afternoon, Navy Day for the tournament, with many feature events taking place.
Sunday’s opening ceremonies were featured by flag raising exercises in which the 40-voice choir of the Notre Dame Naval Training station sang the national anthem as the flag was raised. The officers sang several other numbers for the benefit of the opening day crowd. The opening ceremonies were very appropriate to the program as it is the first big event of the Notre Dame centenary celebration and the proceeds of the tournament are going to the Naval Relief fund.	•
Other features of the opening day were: an exhibitiion of diving and life saving given by Ensign Earl Wilson, U.S.N.R. and Chief Specialist Pete Zaley, U.S.N.R., both of the Notre Dame Naval station; an exhibition golf match between a picked team from the Naval Training station and the South Bend Country Club team in which the home forces were triumphant by a score of 15-0. The Navy officers were handicapped by lack of practice and unfamiliarity with the course.
The third annual East-West match between picked squads of the college contestants ended in a 5-5 draw, the series remaining tied as each side had one of the previous matches. The final feature of the day, the driving contest, was won by R. W. Boynton of Princeton and Herb Rose, 210 pound Minnesota ace. Boynton dethroned Rose in the average division with a 256.97 yard average for three drives. Rose dethroned Louisiana State’s Earl Stewart in the distance division with a drive of 274 yards and two feet.
Monday’s official starting date found
Northwestern’s Richard Haskell leading the qualifiers with a two under par 69. Haskell, the captain of the Purple entry, did not fare quite so well the following day although his second round 73 gave him a medal - winning 142 total. This mark tied the one set last year by Earl Stewart of L.S.U. Stewart followed up his opening day 71 with a one under par 70 for a total of 141. Since Stewart was not required to qualify his 141, although the low score of the rounds, is not considered a record nor could he win
John Holstrom, N.C.A.A. president, drives off the first tee.
'	’	'	•	3	-
the medal for the second straight year.
Stewart in shooting the opening rounds was doing so for the team standings. He led the Tigers to a first place tie with Stanford for the team title. The members and score of the winners follow: Louisiana State—Stewart, 141; Morey, 146; Killen, 151; Wittenberg, 152; total, 590. Stanford—Brownell, 146; Tatum, 146; Traphagen, 146; Doud, 152; total, 590.
Behind the pace-setters in the team (Continued on page 17)
■	■	"■	'■■■	_ "■ aay
1 EDITORIAL t
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus '
FOUNDED 1867
To Active Service
In mid-May, while Notre Dame men were endeavoring to cram all the excitement of a full summer vacation into a short 18 days, some 1,100 new trainees came aboard the Naval Indoctrination School on our campus. For these men vacations were over “for the duration.” They had received commissions in the Navy, either as ensigns or lieutenants-junior grade. These men came as specialists in the deck, engineering and ordnance divisions. Their civilian life careers, either professional, industrial or college, were left behind as they assumed a much greater responsibility—the defense of their country in time of crisis.
During their five and one-half weeks training period they have become part of the life at Notre Dame during the war. Many of them have made friends among the students. Some of them are former Notre Dame students. Next Wednesday these men will finish with their intensified training period and will leave the School to go on active duty in their respective fields. With them will go the best wishes and prayers of the entire student body.
WRITE NOW.
Next Tuesday is another registration day for men eligible for the draft. A large number of the students will be registering on that day. There is .a great possibility that many of the June registrants will be called for Army service before the end of this year. Almost every day the call to duty comes to some students who registered previously.
The mail situation is an item of great importance here on the Notre Dame campus. The letter from home, from the girl, or from an old crony who gives you all the news is always something eagerly looked for. The letters from home arid the letters from the girl are usually regular items (we hope) but the letter from . a pal is sort of an extra feature, something that gives you all the dope—all the “info” on the things you’d been wonder-.ing about.	.	_ . .
You probably have friends who have already been drafted or who have en- . listed in some branch of the service. Have you written to them? If not, take' off a few minutes as soon as possible and write. If the friend happens to be a former N. D. student'he will be glad to hear any news about campus happenings. A short note will be sufficient. Merely hearing from you will help keep up his morale. Remember that you may soon be
4
in the service with him and will look forward to letters from your friends.
WRITE TO YOUR PALS IN THE SERVICE TODAY.—R. D. L. -
"Mens Sana in Corpore Sano"
Whether we realize it or not we students here at Notre Dame have one of the finest conditioning programs in the nation right here at arms reach. The extensive interhall sports program being offered gives us, one and all, a fine chance to get into real physical shape. Why aren’t there more of us taking advantage of it?
Participation in athletics not only gives you good physical health but helps to make the long hot summer days pass easier. You men especially who are expecting to be called into military service, should all be out there taking advantage of the opportunity to get into real physical condition before being called. The men in the Army, the Navy, and the Marines aren’t softies. They are toughened men and boys who are physically able to serve their country. They were not toughened up in an easy manner either—drill and rigid exercise has made them hard.	.
General Douglas MacArthur, and other great military leaders have all emphasized the importance of physical conditioning. Added proof of the emphasis the service put on body building can be found right here on our own campus. The Naval officers are going through a real conditioning period. They are getting their heads in shape, it is true, but more important they are being toughened up so that they can better serve , their country.	.
President Roosevelt added emphasis to the necessity of physical fitness himself when he gave the go ahead sign, to athletics. He not only is in favor of athletics as a body builder but also for making quick thinkers of our men and boys. The President in his letter to Baseball
Commissioner Landis stressed the importance of competitive sports in the nation’s war program. Baseball, as an example, gives good physical conditioning to its players and just as important it helps the morale of the spectator. .
Just as competitive athletics, help the nation they can help you, who are a. part of the nation. So if you are not already doing so, why not go out for some form of-interhall sport? . There is certainly one that you are" interested in.
.	—j.w. r: 1
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	‘
Robert D. LeMense, Editor
Edward Roney, Jr........Managing	Editor
Daniel Downey...........Campus	Editor
Bill Reynolds....;________Sports	Editor
Charles Kleibacker________Admin.	Editor
Robert Lonergan................Promotion
Ted Weber..................Photo	Edita)'
- George Thompson............Art	Editor
James CHRisovERGis.—Sio# photographer Gail Fitch, Jr  ..........Advertising
Howard Garrigan............Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco! THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 267 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.	:
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at
. 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
ADMINISTRATION	PAGE
N.D.—Key Information Center _;. 9 . Pioneer- Professor ________I I
CAMPUS
’ New S.A.C. Head ______i________ 5
- Drama Anthology _______________ 6
SPORTS
. N.C.A1A. Tourney Opens ....______.1. 3
. Interhall Boxing-...._________-	15
FEATURES
' College Parade;:.._________________2
The Week	14
. Picking . Splinters _____________........ 18
‘, Introducing —	19
-The.Clubs.. C.'.L.i..	 ...23
< Cover ’ photo' — by Drinkard. and ;	{ Chrisovergis.x . . .	' . .	•
WALTER JONES ELECTED STUDENT COUNCIL HEAD;
SEEKS REV. WILLIAM CUNNINGHAM AS ADVISOR
BOB DUNNE
Walter Jones, senior from Sorin Hall, became the Student Council’s new president Tuesday night when the council members met for the first time this semester in the Rockne Memorial.
As last term’s vice-president, Jones presided over the session which was devoted almost exclusively to organization; Other officers elected at the council meet were John Anhut, vice-president, Gerard Feeney, secretary, and Herb Melton, treasurer.
Walter Jones, who is from Anderson, Ind., is in the College of Law and is a candidate for graduation in December. After that time he will be known as Lieutenant Jones, U.S. Marine Corps. During his Notre Dame career, Walt played interhall basketball three years, belonged to the Academy of Politics, and participated in interhall sports.
. John Anhut is Cavanaugh’s representative and is also in the College of Law. Active in interhall athletics, he is serving his second term on the council board.
The Villagers voted the new secretary, Gerard Feeney, into the council during the elections last week. The South Bender is in his fifth year of law. As last year’s treasurer, Feeney was general chairman of the student council’s first dance held in the Memorial during the pastterm.
Sorin’s second officer, Herb Melton, begins his second session in the council. Herb is in the commerce school and is a member of the fencing team.
Aside from the elections, the new student governing • group discussed plans for a shelter to be erected near the local bus stop. Whether1 or not the council should -have a faculty . advisor was brought up and it was decided to invite Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., to serve in that capacity.
New Secretary Feeney suggested sev- -eral alterations in the constitution. He pointed out that council membership formerly constituted service from October of one year to the following October. Feeney advised that the term be changed to two semesters in the future in lieu of the present three semester year.
President Jones closed the meet after
appointing Vail Pischke as chairman of an extensive - publicity campaign proposed by Pischke himself.
Members present were:
Jim Allen, recently elected from Alumni, who is in commerce and a member of the golf squad; Ed O’Connor, new member from Dillon, also in the commerce school; Walsh’s representative, Art Ley, an engineering student from Chicago. Art plays interhall football, and was vice-chairman of the Arrow Club; Bill Costello, an honorary member from Alumni, who is in commerce; Frank Vignola, of Walsh, present vice-president.of the junior-class. Vignola is a member of the Chicago Club and the A.B. school; Don Potter, of Sorin, from the college of engineering. Potter is a former junior class secretary, and frosh stage performer; Bill Brady, newly appointed council member from Alumni, and New London, Conn. Brady served as chairman of his junior prom; Commerce representative, Tom Finucane, of Alumni, was also present as was Joe Barr, Villager law student.
The Student Council is part of the permanent intercollegiate organization, the Midwestern Conference of Student Governing Bodies, which meets annually. The purpose of the Council is to afford an effective channel of communication between the student body and the University authorities.
Call For Cheerleaders;
Students Offered Prizes
Our 1942 football team is going to outshine the ’41 aggregation. How? Mr. Leahy and his lads will see to that.
The 1942 cheering section is going
Something new to be added.
to outshine the ’41 edition. How? -The Notre Dame student body can and will see to that. Plans are being made now to supply each and every student with a small gold and blue megaphone at each home game, and to present the student body with a snappy cheerleading squad that will not only lead cheers but entertain between halves. Now, here’s where the student body definitely comes on the scene.
A §15 first prize will be given to the student who in the opinion of the judges submits, the most original cheer, rally song, or idea considered best for enactment this’ Fall. The student whose entry is judged second will receive §5, wtih the third, fourth, and fifth place winners each receiving §1. Students should address their entries, which may be no more than three per contestant, to Cheerwriting Contest Committee, 252 Alumni Hall. The committee will, be composed of members of the Student Council, which organization has offered to supply the prize money under the direct sponsorship of Father Burke, Prefect of Discipline. All entries must be in by July 25. However, up until this time, any questions concerning the contest will be answered .at 252 Alumni or by any member of the Student Council.
School spirit, although the primary factor, need not be the only incentive toward active participation by each and every student in this cheerwriting contest. The first prize alone is sufficient incentive in itself, but there are four other- cash prizes besides. This is the first time each and every student will have the long-desired chance to express his likes and dislikes in so far as pur cheers and cheerleaders are concerned— and be paid for it! Let’s really have an “all-out” response.
A call for cheerleading candidates has been posted on, bulletin boards. Applicants must present themselves at 252 Alumni Hall not later than June 29 in order to be considered. Special consideration will be given those with gymnastic and tumbling ability or previous high school experience. To all those chosen, special cKeerleading awards will be given this year at the football banquet closing the season.
Prospective Scholastic reporters -are invited to visit the office on Sun., Mon., / or Tues, evenings between 1:30 and 8:30. -
DRAMATIC CLUB TO PRESENT ANTHOLOGY OF SCENES;
SAVOYARDS PLAN PRODUCTION OF "TRIAL BY JURY"
Notre Danie’s two producers, Rev.
Matthew A. Coyle, director of dramatics,
FATHER COYLE
and Professor Cecil S. Birder, head of the department o f speech, are planning a unique production for the entertainment of campus residents in July. Remembering well the successful operetta “H.M.S. Pinafore"’ and the Shakespearian comedy, “The
Merry Wives of Windsor,” the student body will be eagerly looking forward to a production in the near future that will be as successful as the latter were.
Professor Birder will direct the short and light Gilbert and Sullivan operetta “Trial By Jury,” which will provide a fitting climax to the evening’s entertainment. The Notre Dame Savoyards, composed of the campus followers of Gilbert and Sullivan, are out to make this as delightful a performance as was the popular “Pinafore,” which they produced six times in Washington Hall. Returning to the stage are many of the “Pinafore” crew, including Dave Curtin, remembered well for his fine interpretation of the Admiral of the British Navy, Kevin O’Toole and Bill Murrin.
Father Coyle will direct an anthology of scenes from great American and English plays. Because of the summer heat and the consequent difficulties of producing a full length play, the Dramatic club has decided to present a variety of comedy and tragedy which will certainly
Scenes like this — "The Queen's Husband" — '39.
please any audience. In order to retain the element of pleasant surprise, Father Coyle is going to keep the identity of the various scenes secret. They will be presented, each lasting not more than five minutes, in a very singular way suggesting television. With six scenes from popular plays selected, a very entertaining evening is promised.
As yet, only tentative parts have been given out. Among those included in the cast is Jim McDonough, who represented Notre Dame on Fred Allen’s radio broadcast and, who is well known for his dramatic ability. Also taking parts are Lyle Joyce, Griff Allen, Andy McElroy, an! Dan Downey, all of whom were in “The Merry Wives of Windsor.” Barbara Dolzel, who starred in the latter, will take some of the feminine roles. Others listed are Charles Kane, a Sorin Hall senior; Johhny Mack, a sophomore; and David Skory and Harold Zink, both freshmen.
Sophomore Cotillion .
Set for End of October
The Sophomore Cotillion is to be held in October. That is the verdict. All rumors or hopes to the contrary may now proceed to the golf course and find themselves a convenient gopher hole in which to hibernate for the duration.
Frank Cusick, president of the Sophomore class, announced that the committee is attempting to draft the weekend of Oct. 30 for the affair. This date is not definite, but appears to be the most
probable at present. In making this decision, the committee took a concensus of student opinion which proved that those who were in favor of a summer cotillion were far outnumbered by those who wanted to make it a traditional weekend. The cotillion dance on Friday night, a football game on Saturday afternoon, and a victory dance in the evening will be the probable program of events.
October seems a long way off at present, but everyone knows these Indiana summers come and go in a hurry. It’s only 18 weeks till cotillion time; so cheer up, sophomores, it’s going to be well worth it, isn’t it?—Phil Keen
Entertainment Committee
Announces Boy Sopranos
The entertainment committee, under the direction of Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., and Rev. Joseph Powers, C.S.C., has announced the coming of the Boy Sopranos, Danny Ross and Donny Mc-Greal, to the campus for public appearance Sunday. The two young artists, known from coast to coast for their delightful programs, will sing at the 8:30 Mass in Sacred Heart Church, and in Washington Hall at 4 o’clock in the afternoon. Faculty members, students, and Naval Trainees are invited to attend.
Danny Ross, Jr., aged 7, is from Fairmont, W. Va., while Donny McGreal, aged 12, comes from Wheeling. Both are classed among the best in juvenile talent. They are coming here from Father Flanagan’s Boys Town in Nebraska, where they gave a concert Wednesday. The young singers are ably accompanied by Louis Marace, who will play a number of selections at the concert here.
The following is the program to be presented:	.
“Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes”; “Carry Me Back to Old Virginny”; “Ave Maria,” by Schubert; “Sunshine of Your Smile”; “Little Bit of Heaven”; and “My Buddy,” solos by Donny McGreal.
“Slumber Boat”; “Dear Little Boy of Mine”; “Trees”; “Little Mother of Mine”; “My Rosary”; “Smilin’ Through,” solos by Danny Ross.
“Polonaise,” by Chopin; “Clair de Lune,” by Claude-DeBussy, with Louis Marace at the piano.
American League Picture
Shown in Washington Hall
Campus baseball fans were given a real treat Wednesday night’ as the American League movie, “The Ninth
Inning,” was shown in Washington Hall under the sponsorship of the Scholastic and the Knights of Columbus. The movie, dedicated to the memory of Lou Gehrig, reviewed fundamentals of baseball and highlights of last season. '
“The Ninth Inning” is the latest of the series of American League films written and directed by Lew Fonseca of the leagues promotional department. The film was presented with the compliments of the American League of Professional Baseball Clubs. Its purpose is to teach the youngsters baseball and help to develop future big leaguers. Also, to give the fans a better knowledge of many inside plays of the game to help them enjoy and understand their baseball.
FINE ARTS EXHIBITION NOW OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
WILLIAM BAADER AWARDED EMIL JACQUES MEDAL
The Annual Fine Arts Exhibition of student work at the University of Notre Dame is now open to the public from 2:00 to 5:00 p.m. daily at the Wightman Library Art Gallery. As an added feature to the 38th annual exhibition of student work, the original drawings made for the Dome and other campus publications are displayed along with the finished proofs of these student projects.
A novelty in the field of Commercial Art is a wrapping-paper design which represents a satirical version of the usual and unusual sartorial style of the Notre Dame men with types from the bog and the Gold Coast depicted in color. This design is by George Barrett of Louisville, Ky., and was chosen as the best in a series of this kind.
A great variety of work is included in the exhibition. The senior theses in painting, some of which reflect the war spirit, are outstanding. These large oil paintings are a requisite for graduation from the Department of Fine Arts. The senior theses are: “Refugees” by John C. Bermingham of Wharton, N. J.; “Religious Allegory of Labor” by Daniel C. Roach of Bevington, Iowa; “Word Conflict” by Sister Patrice, O.S.B.; “Motor Design” by Bernard McKay of Indianapolis; and “Portrait of a Lady” by Fred Beckman of South Bend.
William Baader was. awarded the Emil Jacques Medal in. Art for the most outstanding work in the Senior class.
Dome designs are in Lithograph and represent various fields of activity with which the Notre Dame man ■ is related to the problems of the world and to
The American League director, Fonseca, and narrator Bob Elson are to be complimented on the fine job they have done in presenting the film which included the following sequences: batting shots of DiMaggio, Williams, and others in slow motion; hitting, fielding, and pitching by the Amercian League stars; special shots from the Great Lakes Naval Training Station; comedy shots; Connie Mack Day in Philadelphia; the 1941 All-Star Game in Detroit; and shots of the Yankee Dodger World Series.	■
The American League film was the first of a series of sports pictures to be presented by the Scholastic. Watch future issues for announcements of forthcoming movies.
some extent the role of the Notre Dame man in the present world conflict. These designs are by William J. Sherer of West Hartford, Conn.
Other fields of work in which the students are represented are watercolor and oil painting; charcoal cast-drawings; life and action sketches; portrait studies; creative compositions; landscape and outdoor sketches; bookplates etching and wood-block designs; commercial advertisement designs; bookjackets and decorative magazine-covei-designs; and novel campus wrappingpaper creations.
Student exhibitors are:
Drawing and painting division: William G. Doucette; John C. Bermingham; William C. Baader; Daniel C. Roach; Raymond Wilmer; Don Birren; William E. Binet; Robert Beck; George Thompson; John Andres; Paul Bracken; William Santocki; William J. Sherer. '
In the Design and Graphic Arts group the students exhibiting work are:
Edward L. Holland; Mark Praller; Robert Hackner; John J. Sherer; George B. Barrett; George Thompson; Jack Barringer; William E. Binet; Paul Godollei.
In the division of Creative composition and Landscape, the following students are represented:
Ventura Gonzalez; Raymond Zando; William Griffin; William J. Lyons; James V. Hirsch.
* Division of Figure Study and Portrait Drawing:	-
. George Thompson; William E. Binet; Don Birren; William G. Doucette; Robert Seek; Ray Wilmer; George Barrett.
Ambiguous Announcement;
"Dome" Plans Blitz Bow
The Scholastic does not wish anyone to become excited to a hysterical degree over this announcement, but the Dome is likely to be distributed sooner than students expect. Scholastic wishes to squelch insidious opinion now permeating the campus to the effect that the Dome was never prepared and that the worthy editors of the yearbook plan to report that a fire destroyed every copy of the book, including the manuscript.
Scholastic, though appreciating the exasperating circumstances causing such belief, wishes to prepare the student body for the surprise attack the elusive Dome is sure to make. It sees through the Dome editor’s attempt to thrust the yearbook upon the plebian so quickly the latter will forget the fact of it being 30 . days tardy.
Hear ye! Be ye not surprised should the Dome appear soon. (And be ye also not surprised should it not appear soon.)
17 Receive Sacrament of
Holy Orders Wednesday
Seventeen young men were ordained priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Sacred Heart Church on Wed- ’ nesday, June 24. His Excellency, Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of the Fort Wayne diocese was celebrant. Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C., was arch-priest, and Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C. and Rev. J. Howard Kenna C.S.C., were chaplains.
The rite of ordination begins when the Bishop facing the Congregation and seated on the faldstool before the center of the altar, hears the archpriest call the ordinandi each by name. Then, vested as deacons in amice, alb, cincture, stole and maniple, with a folded chasuble on their left arm and holding a candle in their right hand, and a white cloth for the binding of their hands, they go before the Bishop and kneel in a semicircle.
After the Litany of the Saints, during which the. ordinandi prostrate themselves where they are kneeling in the semicircle and the Bishop kneels at the faldstool, all stand up. Then follows one of the most impressive parts of the ceremony. The ordinandi kneel successively in pairs before the Bishop. In silence he lays both hands on the head of each one in turn. The same is done after him by all the priests present.
Afterwards the Bishop takes the stole that haiigs behind from the shoulder of each ordinand, brings it over the right shoulder and crosses it over the breast saying: “Take thou the yoke of the Lord, for His yoke is sweet, and His burden light.”. He next vests each one with the
.	.	7
chasuble, leaving it folded at the back but hanging down in front.
While the choir sings “Come Holy Ghost” the Bishop anoints the opened hands of each ordinand in the form of a crass. He now brings together the hands of each in succession so that their palms meet and one of the attendants binds them together with a white cloth. The ordinand then returns to his place. Afterwards the Bishop delivers to each the chalice containing wine and water, with a paten and host upon it.
After the Nicene Creed, the Bishop receives the offering of those who have been ordained. The ordinandi come two by two before him and kneeling, present to him their lighted candles, kissing his hand as they do so. The ordained kneel behind the Bishop, or on either side, each with his missal in readiness. From this point onward they join with the Bishop in the celebration of the remainder of the Mass.
Following the communion of the newly-ordained priests, the Bishop lays both hands on the head of each and confers on them the pow*er to forgive sins. He then unfolds the chasuble which each wears folded on his shoulder. The priests now put their hands, joined, between those of the Bishop, ■who gives each the kiss of peace, saying: “The peace of the Lord be ever with you.” Following the episcopal blessing the Mass is completed.
Hermens On War; Opens
Student-Prof. Meetings
Last Monday night the professors and students of the campus resumed their "weekly get-togethers in the Rockne Memorial. The guest lecturer of the week was Dr. F. A. Hermens, noted German political authority and well-known author. His theme for the evening was “psychological warfare.” Dr. Hermens emphasized that “we are fighting the bodies of men alone. Man is the body and soul. And a'faculty of the soul is the intellect. To completely conquer a man we must conquer his body and his intellect.”
With this statement he progressed into a discussion of the nature and necessity of propaganda. He compared present propaganda with that of the last war. “President Wilson was distinguished not only for his scholarship and leadership, but also because of the subtle and intelligent manner with which he propagandized the enemies of 1917-18.” Dr. Hermens believes that propaganda, to be effective, should not be entirely negative;-rather, it must offer the enemy something that is for his own good. “It is in this last respect that we have failed
during this war. The last war’s propaganda was characterized by the .insistence on the nobility of President Wilson’s Fourteen Points. This time, however, we have adopted a negative attitude and told our enemies they can expect nothing
Professor F. A. Hermens, Ph.D.
but pain and suffering from us when the war is over.”
This, Dr. Hermens concluded, will drive them to fight harder and more violently to preserve themselves from a threatened destruction. Finally, Dr. Hermens repeated that our- fight must continue, not against the body alone, but against the intellect of our enemies. “War is not won by bullets, bonds, and bombs alone. Subtle propaganda, subtly conceived and subtly injected into the minds of the enemy, can accomplish more than we realize in hastening the end of the war.”
The speaker for next week will be Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. As yet his topic has not been announced.
—Al Sommers
Stokes, Variety Show
Praised By Students
Before an enthusiastic audience composed of faculty members, students, and Naval Trainees, Harold Stokes and his famous radio orchestra presented an entertaining two-hour program in the gymnasium last week. Besides many popular numbers by a well-balanced band, Mr. Stokes featured several noted song writers in short skits, and an able quartet in a few light selections. The vocal solos were done by Louise Martel.
On the same program, and appearing for the first time on the campus, was a well-directed choir of Navy men, who
furnished the patriotic atmosphere with • “My Country ’Tis of Thee.” Also on the stage was an octet composed of Glee Club members who sang a number of selections, including “Notre Dame, Our Mother” and “The Shadow March.”
Last night a musical variety program supervised by Miss Helen Copp was given at 8 p.m. in the gymnasium for service men and students.. The show proved to be very entertaining, with all the performing done by polished and promising young amateurs.
The program consisted of music by Copp’s accordion ensemble; impersona-" tions by Louis Garnitz; classical vocal solos by Dorothy George and Jerry Bowman; tap and comedy dance by Vivian Rowley; ballet dancing by Mitzi La-Bree; baton twirling by Patty Jean Holderman, Ruth Ganser, and Richard Miller; Trumpet duet by Dorothy and Margaret Boscowan; vocal selections by Charles Reinbold; Ethel Artist, the singing cwogirl; the River Park Methodist Church band directed by Harold Hart; accordion solo by Boyd Rotruck; trumpet solo by Gene Sage; Marimba Band directed by Helen Erickson; ventriloquist act by Leroy Longenecker; and a violin ensemble directed by Harold Lamb.
N. D. Band to Give First
Summer Concert Tuesday
Next Tuesday, at 7:30 in the evening, the Notre Dame Band will present the first in a series of summer concerts. This will mark the opening of a new era in the history of this organization— this is the first summer band ever to be present on the campus.
For the past four weeks, some 65 members have been diligently working to make this appearance a success. Under the capable direction of Mr. Franklyn Wiltse, director of the St. Joseph Michigan Municipal Band, and present director of the University Band, a varied and interesting program has been prepared. The main theme of the program will be in with the holiday spirit, many patriotic numbers taking the spotlight. Specialty numbers will be rendered by soloists and twirlers. A five minute flag ceremony will precede the concert proper, which is to take place on a specially constructed platform in the front of the main building. The organization will be in summer attire—white duck trousers and the traditional N. D. band coat.
The second of this series of concerts is to be presented in the later days of the month of July. The showing thus far by the members of the organization is promising.—C. S. Coco
Admuuiitoaitoti Newi,
NOTRE DAME—KEY CENTER OF WAR INFORMATION FATHER O'NEIL AND PAUL BYRNE ON COMMITTEE
Recently the University of Notre
Dame, together with the universities of
Purdue and Indiana, was chosen as a
FATHER O’NEIL
Key Center of War Information. In the fall of .1941 the Federal Government organized a Civilian Morale Service at Washington. In November of the same year all the colleges and universities were
urged to begin at once to undertake as many of the suggested activities as possible.
The establishment of Key Centers has been going on since February, 1942. Their purpose is to provide certain places where there is a definite responsibility and to provide the basis for the cooperating councils which would result in a kind of network all over the country.
A special committee, of which Father Regis O’Neil, C.S.C., and Mr. Paul Byrne are members, met at Indianapolis April 8 to discuss the problem of organization by the representatives from the colleges and universities of Indiana. Full agreement was reached on the following points:
1.	That the Committee exchange information among the college and university centers in the state as to progress of the war information services and develop further measures of cooperation and coordination.
That each of the key centers give publicity to their war information services by printed bulletins, as part of the cooperative program, of Indiana, Purdue and Notre Dame universities working with the other institutions in the state.
2.	To continue to collect and organize inofrmation materials sent from Washington and cooperating publishers.
3.	To provide exhibits and displays in separate quarters; the materials not to be absorbed into the routine college library system; arrange for supervision and guidance by regular library personnel and voluntary assistants; distribute any surplus materials that may
become available to other colleges for their display centers.
4.	To develop types of extension work to local communities, including lending package libraries, providing speakers and discussion leaders and holding training institutes.
The first phase of this civilian morale program is that of a library information center of which Mr. Paul Byrne is in charge. In the University Library there are hundreds of pamphlets dealing with such subjects as “Planning the War for Peace,” “The Foundation of Peace,” “The Basis of our Will to Win,” “Where do Catholics Stand,” “Economic Democracy,” “American Spirit in Fiction,” “Sabotage,” and many others. Mr. Paul Byrne, librarian or any member of the University library staff will gladly cooperate with anyone seeking information that will be of service to his country, to his fellow-citizens and to himself. .
The second phase of the civilian morale program is to provide speakers and discussion leaders to local community gatherings in South Bend and in other cities and towns of this section of Indiana. This part of the program will provide many opportunities for students, who are interested in speaking, not only to do something for their country but also to gain practical experience in speaking before groups of men and women who are interested in learning, what they can do to help our country win the war and who wish to know what they can do to help make the world a better place to live in, after the war.
The Notre Dame Speakers Bureau has been given the task of providing speakers to local clubs and organizations. Any student or professor who is interested in giving his time and talents to this work should address Rev. Regis O’Neil, C.S.C.,’ Corby Hall, Notre Dame. He will send, along with other information, a list of subjects from which a speech may be selected.
Many Religious Orders Represented on Campus
Strange as it seems for the students to be on the campus during the sultry summer months, it is equally strange To
the religious who are in the habit of attending summer school at Notre Dame to be here in our presence. Due to tne new summer session and general world conditions the number of religious studying at the University this summer is only a fraction of the attendance in past years. Approximately 209 graduate students are registered of which 109 are priests and Brothers of the Carmelite, Dominican, Benedictine, Franciscan, C. P., 0. M. I., and the C.S.C. orders. Forty-one nuns from the Sisters of the Assumption, Dominican Sisters, Resurrection Sisters, Franciscan Sisters, Sisters of the Precious Blood, Ursuline Sisters, Benedictine Sisters, S.L., S.S.J., S.N.D., S.S.N.D., and C.S.C. orders are on the campus.'Fifty-nine lay students ■ are. also attending the summer course. The majority of the graduate students /are registered in science and language
courses. —Elmer F. Gillespie *
Admiral, Former Student, Host to King George
Rear- Admiral Robert G. Giffen, a student at . Notre Dame in 1895-96, was host recently to King George VI on the occasion of the latter’s inspection of a portion of the United States fleet which has joined the British home fleet to protect allied shipping lanes.
Admiral Giffen, who was formerly athletic director at the United States Naval Academy and at present is serving in command under Admiral Harold R. Stark, introduced the King to the ship’s officers after which the monarch was taken on a thorough inspection of the ship and its personnel. King George expressed surprise and pleasure at the luxury and fittings of the entire ship, especially the sick bay, laundry and six-chair barber shop.
Later Admiral Giffen gave a luncheon for the king and a staff of British officers which included Vice-Admiral John C. Tovey, commander of the British home fleet. At this time the British .monarch was presented with a two-foot cake baked by the ship’s chef for Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret Rose.
Commenting on the King’s visit, the former Notre Dame student pointed out .that England’s Royalty was very well . pleased with the American ships and with the manner in which they are kept shipshape and ready for action.
9
Offices Announce Data
on Student Employment
The Scholastic invaded the General Offices in the basement of the Main Building this week, and received for its effort word to the effect of the summer semester on two University functions.
From the office of Director of Student Employment, Mr. Edward Murray, came the news that 550 Notre Dame undergraduates are being employed on the campus this summer. Compared to total enrollment, this gives a higher percentage of student employment than last fall and winter when 800 received working assignments. However, the office expects a great number of applications for jobs this September, for many of those employed last year did not return for the summer semester.
A traditional publication, the student directory, may not be published this summer. In the Registrar’s office, an official announced that the directory would be compiled for publication if time permits. Complete typewritten lists of students, their home and school addresses have been distributed to University offices but whether these will be published for sale to the student body is uncertain.—Ted Weber
Flannery Author of Book
With Berlin Background
Harry Flannery, one of the more prominent members of Notre Dame’s department of journalism, has recently added more laurels to his already brilliant record. Slightly deviating from his usual course of newspaper and radio reporting, Flannery has completed a book telling of his experiences as a news reporter in Berlin. The book is entitled Assignment to Berlin.
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1923, Flannery returned to take postgraduate work and served as a member of the department of English. In his undergraduate days he was editor of the Scholastic, the Dome and editor of a Notre Dame daily. Apparently this didn’t keep him busy enough as he also served as secretary to Mr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism.
In 1935 he joined radio station KMOX in St. Louis as news director and analyst. He covered the 1937 floods for the Columbia Broadcasting System and in 1940 was sent to Berlin where he spent a year working with William L. Shirer as a member of the CBS foreign news staff. Returning to America last year he began work on his book which is to be released June 29. Alfred A. Knopf of New York is the publisher.
Before going to St. Louis Flannery worked on the staffs of the following
10
newspapers: The Baltimore Sun, the Albany (N.Y.) Evening Neivs, Decatur (Ill.) Herald, and the Ft. Wayne Hoosier Observer. He was also a member of the Chicago City News Association and a newscaster for station WOWO in Ft. Wayne. At the present he is living m Hollywood, Calif, with his wife and daughter.
Two more of Mr. Cooney’s proteges have also made the newspaper headlines in recent months. Bill Flynn, who received his degree in 1933, has been appointed city editor of the San Francisco Examiner. Harry Sylvester of the class of 1930, having published his first novel, Dearly Beloved, is currently writing Tor the Saturday Evening Post.
Always a Brooklyn Dodger fan, Sylvester, in 1932 and 1933, covered the Dodgers for the New York Evening Post. His latest story, Horses at Broken Boiv, appeared in the May 16 issue of the S. E. P.—Bill Reynolds
Holy Cross Brothers
Have Education Meet
Sessions of the Seventeenth Annual Educational Conference of the Brothers of Holy Cross will open this evening in the auditorium of the Law building. Brother Ronald, C.S.C., Vincentian Institute, Albany, N. Y., is chairman. At the first meeting Dr. John J. FitzGerald, associate professor of philosophy at the
INS REPORTER RELEASED FROM INTERNMENT CAMP
Louis P. Hari, veteran Paris newspaperman and graduate of Notre Dame in 1916, was one of the Americans recently released in the first exchange of United States diplomats and citizens in the present war. Mr. Hari along with 17 other press association, newspaper and radio correspondents, and several others had been interned in the Grand Hotel Jeschke at Bad Nauheim in Germany since hostilities between the United States and the Axis sent them into German custody nearly six months ago. Thirteen of his interned, fellow correspondents returned to the United States on June 1, but Mr. Hari decided at the last moment before sailing to join his French wife and five children in unoccupied France, if it is possible to determine their whereabouts.
Mr. Hari came to Notre Dame in 1912 from Owensboro, Ky., where he was born in 1895. His career at the University was phenomenal. He came here with 8100 and when he was graduated, with honors, in 1916 he owed nothing and had $300 in his pocket with which to make a start in life. While at school he worked on the
University, will read a paper entitled, “Teaching to Learn and Learning to Teach.”
Brother Aidan, C.S.C., Central Catholic High school, South Bend, will present a paper on “The Arches of the Years,” at the closing session Sunday evening. Afterward Brother William, C.S.C., supervisor of the Brothers’ schools, will make his report.
A number of departmental groups will meet on Friday and Saturday to discuss matters pertaining to the teaching of English, Latin, French, mathematics, science, social studies and commerce.
Zahm Hall Residence
For Priests, Brothers
Zahm Hall, for the first time in regular school history, is being occupied by members of religious orders. And for the first time in its history Father Maloughney, rector of Zahm, is havingperfect attendance every day for morning and evening prayers.
In addition to the 100 Brothers of Holy Cross, Zahm is acting host to nine Benedictine priests from St. Meinrad, Ind. There are also about 20 seminarians from the diocese of Toledo, Ohio, who are taking up studies of education. Likewise there is a priest of the Crozier Order and one of the Domincian Order. These last two are distinctive in their habits of black and white, and white, respectively.
old South Bend News-Times down town and was active in writing for the University publications. His first published article was written while he was still a student here. It was a story on the South Bend centennial and was sold to the Catholic World.
In 1917, with the entrance of , the United States into the war, Mr. Hari went to France with a Medical Unit. After the war was over, he returned to America to become the city-editor of the Owensboro Messenger. In 1922 he returned to France to marry a young French girl whom he had met in Parrs during the war. He secured a position on the Paris edition of the New Yorx Herald Tribune and worked on the staff for 18 years. Since 1940 Mr. Hari had been a correspondent of the International News Service and also reported for otheY European and American news agencies.
Mr. Hari was a member of the first class of the Journalism school which was founded in 1912, with Mr John M. Cooney appointed as head the following year.
Notre Dame President
Receives Honorary Award
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., director of faculty, were awarded honorary doctors degrees from the Catholic University of Chile on Wednesday, June 24.
The recipients were awarded the honors for their distinguished work in the
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
furtherance of inter-American relations. Father O’Donnell has led the University in its efforts to strengthen the international bond, particularly in the encouraging of Latin American students to come to Notre Dame. Father Cunningham has made three trips to South and Central America. In 1939 he served on the special commission which visited Venezuela. He now acts as adviser to the Spanish-speaking students at the University.
Presentation of the honors was made by Eduardo Alcayaga, graduate student from Santiago, Chile, on behalf of his country’s national Catholic University. The ceremony took place at a luncheon at 12:15 p.m. Wednesday in the President’s dining hall on the campus.
Guests included Rev. Peter Forrestal, C.S.C., professor of Spanish, and students from nine Latin American countries: Eduardo Alcayaga, Santiago, Chile, S.A.; Ramon Araujo, Cartagena, Colombia, S.A.; Miguel Facusse, Tegucigalpa, D. C.; Benjamin Luis Flores,
Arequipa, S. A.; Mark G. McGrath, Ancon, Panama; Patrick J. O’Neill, Ensenada, Puerto Rico; Armando Pacheco, Curityba, Brazil, S. A.; Peter Garcia Robles, Mexico City, Mex.; Enrique Tasis, Havana, Cuba.
The Catholic University of Chile, which was founded in 1889, has a faculty of 200 and 3,300 students. In February, 1930, by official decree of the Pope, the University was honored by being made a Pontifical University.
Visiting Professor Stresses
Importance of Aviation
Dr. Ben D. Wood, professor of education from Columbia University, New York City, told more than 100 northern Indiana educators in the Engineering Auditorium of the University on June 19 that today aviation is the most important thing in the world and must take its rightful place in the high school curriculum. The purpose of the meeting was to aid high schools in introducing elective courses in aeronautics, anS to add aviation material to already existing scientific courses of some types.
“Our youth must be air-conditioned,” Dr. Wood said. “They must be saturated in aviation skills and have a general understanding of the significance of aviation.
“Aviation is important not only for our present war effort, but is equally important for future security and prosperity. No nation will survive in the future world unless it is a nation on wings.”
The speaker asked the teachers, principals and superintendents present for their voluntary cooperation and participation in the government-sponsored air program.
“America has unparalleled physical and human resources and a matchless ingenuity for combining them,” Dr. Wood continued. “But it is becoming clear that mere airplanes and pilots may not be enough to win the war, and certainly not enough to keep the peace. We must understand how to build and use planes, and the place to start is with our youth.”
ProL Leo F. Kuntz, head of the Notre Dame department of education, which sponsored the talk, had charge of the meeting. Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., director of faculty, delivered an address of welcome.
Following the speech the meeting was turned over to discussion and questioning, and before the meeting closed Dr. Wood presented each of the educators with a lengthy outline for one year course in pre-flight aeronautics, prepared under the auspices of the civil aeronautics administration.
Pioneer Professor Pays Visit to Notre Dame
Recently Notre Dame was host to one of her most illustrious friends. She proudly welcomed back Jerome J. Green, one of the pioneering professors of Notre Dame’s College of Engineering. Professor Green, now retired, was the first man to send a wireless message in the United States, and his life in science is, step after step, the progress of science.
Professor Green was bom near Som-erse, Ohio, in 1865. During his youth there, he worked at carpentry and taught in the district schools. Before graduating from Ohio University, he had already started his life in science; for it was during his college life that he designed what we call a cash register. Following his graduation, he studied at the UnL versity of Paris and at the Technische Hochshule, Berlin. His first appearance on the campus of Notre Dame was in 1895, and he stayed here until the time of his temporary retirement in 1915.
After he had been here four years, Professor Green, together with his assistants, completed his wireless set. He sent messages through the workshops of Science Hall and so perfected his mechanism that soon he could send them from the church tower on the campus to the tower of St. Hedwig’s church in South Bend, a distance of three miles. A little later, at the Coast Guard station in Chicago, he sent the first ship-to-shore wireless message in America. He likewise experimented with the X-ray and the radio; and his contributions to these two modem developments were little short of astounding.
When- Professor Green left Notre Dame in 1915 he went to California to live the rest of his life peacefully. However, he was soon persuaded to become head of the technical department at the new San Diego junior college. Then in 1927 he became dean of the faculty at Pacific Technical University in San Diego. It was not until 1939 that Professor Green finally retired for good. •
The name Jerome J. Green is the keystone of scientific progress and a password in every scientific society. He has rubbed elbows with all the great scientists and inventors of two continents. Among his more notable friends are Nikola Tesla, famous European inventor, Dr. Robert A. Millikan, noted physicist from the California Institute of Technology, and Professor Harris J. Ryan, Stanford University’s widely known electrical engineer. At present Professor Green is honored in Who’s Who and is a respected member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and Mathematics.
11
„ x x Nauu, at Nobie ^bame >
va===============================================^^
NOTES TO YOU
The outstanding contribution the current class of student-officers made to the Naval Training School is the public address system recently installed in Washington Hall.
A total of $195.11 was contributed by the student officers. After the equipment was put in there remained $30.63 which the men generously donated to the Service Men’s Center in South Bend, deemed by Navy personnel as one of the outstanding organizations of its kind in the nation.
The committee in charge of contributions was composed of Lieut, (jg) Genz and Ensigns J. T. Galvin, R. C. Grantham and E. S. Gregory.
Cigars were smoked freely throughout the Third Battalion on June 6 or as soon thereafter as Lieut, (jg) George B. Rogers recovered. Mrs. Rogers presented her husband with a nine-pound, five-ounce son on that date in Chicago.
Lieut. Rogers, an attorney in civilian life, has one other child, a daughter, two years old.
A DEPARTING WORD from
CAPT. H. P. BURNETT, U.S.N., Commanding Officer
■Within a few days you will assume major responsibilities as officers in the greatest Navy in the world. You have served your training here in good order and we have tried to prepare you for your new duties ahead.
Your fellow officers, like you, are being sent wherever their country needs them. Within six months officers of this class will be stationed on ships and bases throughout the entire world. We hope you will take “something” with you from the Naval Indoctrination School at Notre Dame.
That “something” will not be difficult to carry. You won’t have to make room for it in your suitcases. And you won’t find it wrapped in a bundle, waiting for you at barracks. That “something” is a gift you can carry in your hearts no matter where you may go. It is spirit.... it is integrity. — it is the WILL TO WIN! Fighters may have powerful bodies and a good punch, but if they don’t have the will to win they can never become champions.
You men leave this school with our best wishes for your every success. We know that some day you will come back with a share of the victory which must and will be ours.
We are depending on you and we know that you won’t let us down. You are Americans. You are officers. You are fighters and you are leaders. But more than that....
YOU HAVE THE WILL TO WIN?
Ensign John S. Howard, Jr., who left for sea duty recently, took with him a little extra warm feeling toward the student-officers of the First Company.
The men of the First went a little beyond just wishing Ensign Howard good luck, and God speed.... they tendered him a surprise dinner Wednesday, June 10, at the Indiana Club.
The boys also gave Ensign Howard a beautiful navigation watch as an expression of their esteem. The timepiece was presented by Student Officer John Barker, Jr.
Lieut. J. K. Lord, head of the First Battalion, spoke to the company. His subject was a brief history of naval warfare.
Other speakers were Lieut. D. J. Lloyd and Ensign T. E. Brady.
Chief Athletic Specialists Richard K. Miller and William Dregalla were also present.
The Bowers family of Wichita, Kans., is now well represented in the Navy.
Student Officer Ben Bowers, received word that his two brothers, Bill Bowers and Sheldon Bowers have been accepted in the V-7 class.
Bill was graduated from Kansas University Law School last spring and Sheldon has one more year at Ottawa University, Ottawa, Kans. The Navy program allows him to finish his course.
Capt. H. P. Burnett, U.S.N.
For the second time in a row Lieut, (jg) Edward C. Fant has the honor of heading the best battalion in the Navy School.
Lieut. Fant’s Fourth Battalion, affectionately called “The Famous Fighting Fourth,” was first in Captain’s inspection, room inspection and athletics.
In athletics the Fourth won in the softball tournament and the medicine ball game, losing only in the shuttle race.
The Fourth didn’t have an easy time winning. In fact it was a photo finish, with the Second Battalion fighting it out with the Fourth down the stretch.
The Fourth Battalion was also awarded the best battalion prize when the last class of V-7’s were on the campus.
The Fourth consists of two companies, the seventh and eighth.
The seventh company was commanded by Ensign Alden W. Whitney until he left for sea duty recently. Ensign V. M. . Dickerson took over after Ensign Whitney’s departure.
Ensign Dickerson is assisted by Chief Athletic Specialist Victor J. Vidoni.
The eighth company is commanded by Lieut, (jg) G. R. Schlueter, assisted by Chief Athletic Specialist Pete Zaley.
12
The present class of student-officers, which will shortly be scattered to the four corners of the earth, proved to be very colorful from, the standpoint of news.... editors evidently thought the same.... realizing the unusual aspect of 1,000-odd officers assembled in one spot for training.... the Chicago Herald-American used three pages of pictures in one edition and one page in another; the Chicago Tribune also used about a fourth of a page in pictures and. the South Bend Tribune used a full-page “spread.”.... in addition the Universal Newsreel toook approximately 500 feet of pictures.
* * * •
The editorial, written by Capt. Burnett, commanding officer, hits the bullseye as far as winning this war is concerned. ... just this week we’ve seen an example where lack of the will to win has led to humiliating defeat.
# * #
Here are some new physical requirements for enlistment in the U. S. Naval Reserve which have been announced by the Navy Department.
The modifications affect the requirements for teeth, vision, height and weight and are expected to bring about the enlistment of large numbers of appli
cants who could not qualify for service under former requirements.
Volunteers for enlistment in the U. S. N. R. under the new plan must have “sufficient teeth or suitable replacements to supply satisfactory biting and masticatory function. Natural teeth must be servicable and the gums and supporting structures must be free of disease.”
A binocular rating of 15/20 vision with not less than 6/20 in the worst eye will be accepted, provided no organic defect is present.
Recruits must not be less than 62 inches in height nor more than 76 inches tall, while weight must be proportional to the height and build of the applicant; the medical examiner determining that any disproportion is not an evidence of organic disease.
Heretofore, applicants for the Naval Reserve have been required to have 18 sound teeth. This requirement has now been modified. They also have been required to have not less than 15/20 vision in either eye, while the minimum required height was 64 inches and maximum height 76 inches. The latter figure was not changed by the modifications just adopted.
With the exceptions of classes V-l, V-5, and V-7, the modifications apply to
all classes of enlisted male ratings in the Naval Reserve, as well as the two classes of ratings in the Merchant Marine Reserve.
Classes V-l, V-5 and V-7 are classes which men enter in enlisted ratings with the opportunity of becoming deck, engineer and aviation officers.
There has been no change in the physical requirements for appointment to commission rank in the Naval Reserve. Send this news on to anyone who may be eligible for enlistment in the naval reserve.	.
Heard Aboard
First Recruit: “Can you lend me $5 for a week, old boy?”
Second Recruit: “What would a week-old boy do with §5?”
* - *
Angry Father: “Say! It’s almost two o’clock. Do you think you can stay here all night?”
Storekeeper: “I don’t know—I’ll telephone the Commander and ask him.”
* * *
Yeoman (reading war news): “What does it mean here by ‘seasoned troops’?”
Machinist Mate: “Mustered by the officers and peppered by the enemy.”
Review Scenes like this — soon a memory.
13
THE WEEK
jack woelfle
Top Of The Week
All the pretty girls on the campus.
From the Huddle to the Morgue
An explanation came from G. H. Q. last week explaining the shortage of Notre Dame’s favorite beverage, (no, not beer). It seems that Cola has-been found to make an excellent embalming fluid. Pretty soon instead of hearing those familiar lines, “Time for a pick up—,” or “It hits the spot,” we will be hearing the haunting strains of “I’ll be glad when you’re dead you rascal you.”
So Sorry
It seems that the Seniors were sadly neglected in the Week’s initial appearance. Honest fellows, we didn’t mean it. The Seniors need all the “blows” they can get right now ’cause in a little while the only time their names will appear in print will be at roll call and on the K.P list.
This year’s Seniors are a distinguished looking group. Distinguished in this case meaning “conspicuous.” Have you seen those Coconut hats the boys from Alumni are sporting? They look like something the bunny rabbit might lay its eggs in.
We Still Get Them
.When one of the freshmen was informed that the Gargantua and his wife Toto would be in town, the freshie was heard to reply, “Oh yeah, I’ve heard them on the radio. He has a smooth band, and she sure is a keen vocalist.” Mayhaps he’s been listening to Gy Lumbago and his “Makes You Wanta Leave” music. Any similarity between Gy and Gargantua isn’t exactly coincidental. You see, Gy’s father had an awfully heavy beard.
It Ain't Fair
The theme song of the Navy men on the campus could very well be, “I Don’t Wanta Walk Without You.” It’s a common sight at the end of the day to see a group of these fellows strolling ’round the campus beautifuly attended. They have joined the service to defend their
14
country and are ready to face death. “0 death, where is thy sting!”
Manhattan Melodrama
Someone has to put the people wise to one of the biggest frameups in the history of the world. Not since Delilah gave our boy Samson a “crew cut” has such a fast one been pulled. We speak of the alleged “selling” of Manhattan Island for $24 worth of trash and a red and yellow bottle. Be brave fellow Americans, be brave. The truth has outed.
The so-called Peter Minuet was really an Indian English major whose real name was Holzberger. He was in cahoots with the Indians and conspired with them to steal 24 hard stolen Dutch dollars. You see, the Indians didn’t own the island. They were Jersey Indians spending the day in New York. They were having a picnic in Central Park when Holzberger the “Fifth Colossal” landed. In other words, it wasn’t a real sale.
The moral of this story is, you can fool some of the Indians all of the time and you can fool all of the Indians some of the time, but you can never fool a Holzberger Indian.
Famous Last Words
“Gee fellows, I hear there’s a swell carnival up on the Dixie Highway. Let’s go!”
As if the Heat wasn't Tragic Enough
It seems another Greek tragedy is in the offing this summer. 0 shades of Harpies! Here we offer a few suggestions for a theme:
“Downfall of Badin, or Who Sneezed, in the Cardboard Castle?” Instead of having Li’l Liza crossing the ice floe wtih the hounds at her heels, we could have the barbers from Badin .sloshing ’cross the bog with a bunch of irate "bush cut” students at their backs. The final scene which would be the real tragedy, would show the barbers sinking as if in quicksand while the boss tried to find the key to open the shop. With only their heads visible above the mud, an angry pack of students, drooling Vitalis, gleefully scalp the trapped tonsorialists. As the curtain falls, one of the students is heard to shout, “I’ve found one, I’ve
found one!” He holds aloft a piece of hair from the boss’s head. Curtain— (Much booing, from barbers).
Place: Hollywood—Time:
1920
Each year many famous stars of yesterday make a comeback. The only reason that it is possible for them to make a comeback at Notre Dame is because they are just getting here for the first time. It was with much interest that we noted that “many excellent movies” are to be brought to the campus this summer. Among the pictures to be presented is “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.” Gee!, won’t it be swell seeing how Frederic March played the role? But seriously, it will be warm enough in Washington Hall without having Lana Turner around.
First on the N. D. Hit Parade
Dear Mom,
Things certainly have been tough so far. (“things” in this case is synonymous with beef stew and lamb chops.) What weather! It’s like walking in and out of an air conditioned movie. By the way Mom, I (and my profs) just remembered that I need a few texts. Here is a list of the books with the ceiling (i.e. Book Store) prices.
Fiorello’s Still Fighting Fires, an autobiography, $5.50; How to Read the Funnies, $2.50; Pottawatomi Paradise, $4.00; A Eulogy on Snow White and Her Seven Dwarfs, or, Madame Bluebeard, $4.50. This last is a sweeping expose of Hollywood by two of our graduates, Brutz and Juzwik. Last but not least we are using Mr. Francis Leahy’s book, The Football, or, What a Noble Contribution Makes the Lowly Pig.
Hoping you are all well I am,
Your loving son, “Grabby.”
P.S. How do you like my new nickname? The fellows at my dining table gave it to me ’cause I’m so polite, (they - said.)
❖
A Toast to the Jap Navy
“Bottoms up.”
❖
Apologies To Readers Digest
Scene: West entrance to Notre Dame. Time: 11:45 p.m.
Sentry—“Halt, who goes there?” “Student.”
Sentry—“Sing the first stanza of the Victory March, Student.”
Silence.
Sentry—Pass student.” ❖
Bottom Of The Week
They’re Commissioned Officers’ wives.
"t kL'mtVA	J A '
ft cite ^bame	, , , , * * ' ' '
mm-	~	.... ■' '■■■'	"-'-■ "  	111 ~	»
Interhall Boxing Under Way;
Champs Help "Nappy"
Interest in interhall boxing spurted
ahead this week as a large group of
aspiring student
D. NAPOLITANO
pugilists began workouts in the Rockne Memorial under Coach Dominick Napolitano’s direction.
According to “Nappy,” interhall boxing will be conducted on the same basis as other athletic activities for the summer ses
sion. The first fight card is slated to be held in approximately two weeks with weekly bouts being held from then until the semester closes. These matches will be held in the gymnasium at night. Present plans call for a Bengal Bout tournament when the interhall program ends in the fall.
Meanwhile, the boxing squad faces the problem of getting in condition before the initial battles begin. In the light apparatus room of the Memorial, the glove lads daily go through a strenuous schedule of mat exercises, shadow boxing, rope jumping, and bag punching. A few of the boys, who are in better shape, have already started sparring sessions.
Five. Bengal Bout title-holders have returned this semester and have been appointed to coach their respective halls. The Bengal kingpins, their weight divisions, and their halls are listed below:
Kermit Rousseve, 145 pounds, Cavanaugh; Sam Atwater, 135 pounds, Dillon; Paul Malloy, 120 pounds, Alumni; Bill McNamara, 165 pounds, Walsh; and Farrell Quinlan, 155 pounds, Breen-Phillips.—Bob Dunne
Volley Ball League Starts: Composed of Eleven Teams
The newly formed volleyball league composed of 11 teams representing all the student resident halls, a faculty team, a Zahm Hall team of priests and brothers, and an ROTC team, started play Tuesday, June 16.
The faculty team, paced by Walter Langford, varsity tennis coach and professor of Spanish, Dominick Napolitano, Bengal Bout impressario, and John Scannell, head of the department of physical education, surprised a strong Cavanaugh
Hall team, as well as themselves, by kayoing the juniors 15-7, 15-10, and 15-9. The Alumni Hall team stopped Breen-Phillips, but not until the freshmen forced the seniors to four games. The ROTC won by default from Sorin, but played a pick-up team and lost. St. Ed’s A.C. lived up to their name by trimming Walsh Hall in three straight games, 15-13; 17-15; and 15-7.
Vince Commissa, physical education major and volleyball league chief, this week said that Alumni Hall, the Faculty, and Cavanaugh Hall teams looked the strongest.
Results: (Volleyball).	.
'	Tuesday,	June 16
St. Edward’s...........15	17	15
Walsh..................13	15	7
Cavanaugh won by default	from Dillon.
Wednesday, June	17
ROTC won by default from	Sorin.
Alumni ..........15	15	11	15.
Breen-Phillips .. 7	10	15	7
Thursday, June 18
Faculty ...............15 15 15
Cavanaugh ............. 7 10	9
—Jack Denniston
Gene Fehlig New Captain
Of Blue and Gold Linksmen
“Some day I’d like to play on Notre Dame’s golf team.” Thus stated young carrot-topped Gene Fehlig early in 1927. Down through the years the spark of his dream began to glow as three older brothers came northward to Notre Dame.	.
Brother Paul played on Notre Dame’s first golf team in 1931. Vincent Fehlig captained the 1934 golfers, and Louis led the 1937 edition of Father G. L. Holderith’s lads. At mid-semester in 1940 Eugene Arthur Fehlig’s dream flamed into a rich success. Gene tucked his golf shoes into his trunk; stuffed a few golf balls into his golf bag and left St. Louis University High School in St. Louis, Mo., his home, bound for Notre Dame and a brilliant golf and track career that was climaxed last week with his election to the captaincy of the 1943 golf team.
Some eyebrows rose when modest Fehlig won the University golf championship in his freshman year, but those who had heard of Gene’s amazing high school golf record, knowingly murmured, “it’s only the beginning.” _
Briefly, Fehlig’s golf history reads: won the Missouri high school title three years, was district champion four years. St. Louis junior golf champion, and St. Louis Amateur runner-up in the city tournament. Jack Conry, Tulsa, Okla., squeezed past sophomore Fehlig to capture the Notre Dame golf crown last year. Two Sundays ago Gene batted a blistering “69” against the Notre Dame Navy Officers’ School, which should prove some intention on his part to regain his “Notre Dame Golf Champion” crown next year.
Fehlig claims his greatest thrill from golf came in 1939 when he walked up to the first tee of the Oak Hill’s Country Club in Mobile, Ala., and proceeded to swat out a sizzling “65,” a new course record and win the exhibition match. The record still stands.
Next year’s captain has the nucleus of a great team. With sophomores E. John- Schleck, South Milwaukee, Wis., David Sullivan, Dedham, Mass., Richard Whiting, Detroit, Mich., and Francis Crowley, Dallas, Texas, plus Fehlig himself, the Irish might easily be equal . to this year’s great outfit. The 1943 team will probably be a five-man affair, with the above-mentioned quintet of brilliant individual golfers comprising the playing squad, similar to- Northwestern’s five-man upset squad of this year.	' '
So, to Fehlig, we offer our congratulations and send our prize bouquet of “orchids” for his excellent golfing and running — he ran on the Irish track team as a member of the famous Roy-Tupta-Schiewe-Fehlig mile relay team —and we will look forward, Gene, to many more years of your masterful golfing.—Jack Denniston
Varsity Courtman in Texas
Reserves Beat South Bend .'
The Irish tennis squad, undefeated during the regular season and currently on a trip to the deep South to take in two of the country’s toughest tournaments, reported early this week that Dan Canale and Olen Parks had won their third round matches and will face each other for place in the semi-finals.
Moving forward in the Texas section- . als, Olen Parks, Irish number two man, . scored a definite upset in defeating -George Lyttleton - Rogers, champion of ’ Ireland. Dan Canale, captain and ace of - .
15
our unbeaten squad, went three hard sets before defeating Walter Driver.
News from the home front announced the victory of the reserve forces over the South Bend Tennis Club 5-4. Playing their first meet in the Northern Indiana Tennis League, Coach Langford’s lads took three of the singles and two of the doubles to clinch the meet. The scoring:
Chreist (SB) defeated Biittner (ND) 6-2; 6-1.
Troup (ND) defeated McNerny (SB) 6-3; 6-3.
Weber (SB) defeated Doutel (ND) 6-0; 2-6; 6-1.
Pappas (ND) defeated Powers (SB) 9-7; 6-1.
Joyce (ND) defeated Seifert (SB) 5-7; 7-5; 6-2.
Top row, left to right, are: Faught, Pappas, Schaefer, Coach Langford, Biittner, and Parks; bottom row: Doutel, Hoffman, Capt. Canale and Ford.
BIITTNER, TROUP BATTLING FOR CAMPUS TENNIS TITLE
George Biittner, reserve member of the 1942 Irish tennis squad, is well on his way to recognition as tennis champion of Notre Dame for the summer . semester.
In the final match with John Troup, Biittner had won the first set 6-2 and was leading in the second set 4-2 when rain forced a postponement of the match. It is still either man’s match, but at this writing this advantage looks like a real problem for Troup to solve when they resume Tuesday.
In the semi-finals Biittner defeated Nick Pappas, also a reserve member of the undefeated squad, 6-1,' 6-3. In the meantime John Troup out-maneuvered
Coquillard (SB) defeated Schenck (ND) 6-0; 6-1.
Biitner-Troup (ND) defeated Chreist-Seifert (SB) 6-1; 6-3.
Doutel-Pappas (ND) defeated McNer-ny-Keber (SB) 6-2; 3-6; 8-6.	■
Powers - Coquillard (SB) defeated O’Connell-Whalen (ND) 6-2; 7-5.
This Sunday the Elkhart tennis squad will be here hoping to give the Irish their initial defeat.
The complete schedule:
June 28 Elkhart—here.
July 5—Sonneborne’s of South Bend— here.
July 12—Gary Club 25—here.
July 19—Plymouth—there.
July 26—Gary Club Sar—there.
—Phil Keen
still another varsity reserve, Fred Doutel, by the scores of 6-1, 7-5.	.
The doubles matches have not.progressed as far as the singles due to difficulties in getting the four fellows together at the same time. However, at present two teams composed of the four semi-finalists are conceded as favorites, namely, teams of Biittner-Troup and Pappas-Doutel. These fellows can expect plenty of trouble when they meet the Ray O’Connell-Jim Whalen or the Roy Grumbine-Jim Quinn combinations.
Unless there is further interference by the weather man, the finals in the-doubles matches will be played tlifs week-end.—Phil Keen
TEE TALK FOR CHAMPIONS
By Bill Boss
On and Off the Green: Bill Courtright, firing in the No. 2 slot for Michigan, is the son of the Yellow and Blue coach.... It was 5:30 last Thursday morning when the unit from the University of Washington trotted in. The boys arrived after 94 hours of constant traveling.... For scenic beauty we can name no other course in this section of the country that can compare with the Chain O’ Lakes landmark.... As one Stanford lad wailed when he finished his first round, “It’s a fine course but there’s more water on this land than in the whole Pacific.”. . . Incidentally there are nine holes with water hazards yawning....
Chip Shots: Stanford’s defending championship team was the first outfit to register for the classic.... Tom Nash, class of ’42, breezed in looking fine and ready to shoot some torrid golf.... The Irish combatants were a brilliant looking group when they arrived Thursday morning wearing their monogram sweaters. It is the first time in the school’s history that major monograms have been awarded the gold and blue mashie maulers.... Bob Brennan, an N. D. grad, waiting for an Army Corps call, wheeled the Irish team, managers, publicity men, Dome and Scholastic, to the links daily. A man who can stand the grueling schedule that he has faced certainly deserves a bouquet of orchids.... After trailing defending champion Earl Stewart for three holes Jim Chrisovergis, Scholastic staff photographer, who inclines to the plump side, wiped great gobs of sweat from his brow' and screamed: “From now on I’m sticking to stills.”	. s .
In the Trap: Yale’s Eastern champions were disheartened last week when they lost Captain Harry Grabner 7who had to leave on a draft assignment.... We don’t like to say anything but this kid, Dick Whiting, currently a sophomore on Irish soil, looked mighty impressive skipping the lakes last week. He carded magnificent scores during the practice rounds although not eligible for competition until next year.... Ted Payseur, sec.-treas.,’ of the N.C.A.A., and Northwestern golf mentor, reminded us early in the week that Harold Paddock of Southern Calif., plays a brilliant short game and. is long enough off the tee.... “This course is made for a player like him,” saith Mr. Payseur.... Johnny Krisko, who was near the top in the Collegiates last year is said to have biffed the longest drive off the first tee last week-end according to Pat, the caddy-master, who was stationed where he could see each slice or hook. The gal-
16
lery moaned on Sunday when young Mr. Krisko drove one far to the left off the first tee. John plopped his iron shot within three feet of the cup and dropped the putt for a birdie three. That’s why Mr. Krisko bears watching when the end draws near.	.
The most beautiful hole on the course, according to the experts, is No. 15 which . is flanked on two sides by water and is rimmed by four gigantic sand traps._____ “It may be beautiful,” says Grover Poole, Southern Conference king, “but I can think of other things to call it.”. . . The greatest argument of the tournament came not on the course, but in the club house Friday morning when defending champion, Earl Stewart and Dale Morey of Louisiana State, Bob Beekman of Southern Cal. and the South’s smoothest golfer, Grover Poole of Duke, became involved in a conversation concerning the merits of the football squads of their respective schools. Stewart and Morey came to the conclusion that the pass combine from Leo Bird to Ken Kavanaugh was the greatest this nation has ever seen. Although Stewart admitted, “Bird’s as slow as a turtle but he shoah can heave that bawl.” Captain Wilson, of Notre Dame, was satisfied to sit back smiling and take it all in.... Johnny Holstrom, Illinois’ clever ace who is president of the National Collegiate golfing association, rambled in with redheaded Jim McCarthy. McMarthy, Big Ten individual golf champion, played end for Bob Zuppke’s last team.
McCann Is Basketeer Too
Frank McCann, the slim lad from Stanford, is a star basketball player as well as Pacific Coast golf champion...’. Burleigh Jacobs, who holds the course record of 67 at Chain O’ Lakes, is entry number 13 of the tournament...; Blond George Trapenhagen, Pacific coast runner-up, is a great buddy of his fellow Stanford great, All - American Frankie Albert.... Purdue’s tournament representative, Wade Knipp, is currently stationed with the Naval forces here at ' Notre. Dame.... Most fascinating thing at the tournament was “Red” Stewart’s . Texas drawl. The L.S.U. kingpin hailing from Dallas is quite an actor on the Fairways both with clubs and personality.	_
Out of the Trap: A. C. Williams, of Yale, has been recognized Eastern collegiate champion. There was no official playoff but his game is so superlative to that of his section buddies that he has been conceded that honor. The New Haven lad couldn’t seem to find out the trouble when he came in with a nasty 74 the first time around.... Dale Morey, of L. S. U. and Martinsville, Ind., carded
a 69 his first time around but John Harrigan, the great red flame of Notre Dame, blasted through with a 68 the day after.... Yale’s Ivy League champions have won the team championship more times than any other squad in the nation. They’ve copped the national team title 20 times. Stanford and Michigan have come to the top of the circuit during the past five years. Manuel de la Torre, Northwestern’s No. 2 man, is the son of a noted Chicago Pro;... Amiable Eddie Twiggs, coach of the champion Stanford team was thoroughly disgusted because he couldn’t buy a glass of orange juice on the train within 80 miles of Chicago.
Evans Smiles
Genial “Chick” Evans, who guides the N.C.A.A., gave his smile of approval after looking the course over early in the week.... If there ever- was an AllAmerican Mr. Golfer it is the smiling Mr. Evans._____ When he and Francis Ouimet quit trying to thrash each other “Chick” became greatly interested in the fate of the college golfer. His capable guidance has provided many great tournaments and innumerable champions.... From tees to greens it is a 6509 yard span around the Chain O’ Lakes links.
Down in One: Father Holderith, ably assisted by Mr. J. W. McAllister (we call him “Mac”), proved to be the perfect host as the entrants filed in. His reputation as a capable golf director spreads far.... Among the golfing greats bom in the National Collegiates are: Johnny Fischer, the Queen City lad who went to Michigan and copped the 1932 meet, Johnny Kocsis, another top-ranking Michigan boy, and the South’s British Open wonder, Charley Yates of Georgia Tech.
The Days Gone By: The first collegiate match was held at the Ardsley Country Club which is parked on the Hudson in southern New York.... The Yales, Harvards, and Princetons sponsored the tournament and it was then the Yale superiority commenced. That was 1897... If it came to a coach’s play-off we’re afraid the title would go to Bob Kepler, the Ohio State coach who is pro at the luxurious Columbus lay out. Prominent in Ohio golfing scenes a few years ago his name was budding in the headlines
along with that of fellow-Daytonian, Bob .	.
Servis.... The true spirit of America '■ has certainly been presented on the fair- .'-'L’-'vCX ways and roughs of the South Bend
Country Club. From within the ranks of ~ \ -these great young collegians will come ? .	~
the nation’s greatest golfers.... More.
success to a great group of sportsmen, ,	; t?
“Chick” Evans, Ted Payseur, and Fath- . \	. ■
er Holderith. They along with a horde. . .
of other golfing enthusiasts, are the	“ :
men that make these meets possible. . "	.
45ih N.CA.A. TOURNEY .	/ \
(Continued from page 3)	'	. : ,:-
standings were: Northwestern, 597; Washington, 604; Yale, 605; Minnesota, 608, Ohio State, 610; Notre Dame, 612;	. -
Michigan, 614; Navy, 615; Michigan .	* '
State, 625; Wisconsin, 634; Holy Cross,	"
641; and Bradley Tech, 697.	’ ~ .
Notre Dame’s seven man squad while able to get but seventh place in the team : standings was only 22 points behind the “ . leaders. Last year in placing ninth the _	.
Irish entrant was 36 points behind the ..	’ ’
pacesetting Stanford club. Captain Bill ; ■	.
Wilson, shooting some of the best golf \ of his career, led his teammates with a • qualifying round score of 151. Bill fol-	.
lowed his opening round 75 with a 76.	; .
Bill Fisher’s 152 placed him next in rank-. . to Wilson, Bill Moorhead qualified with - \	.
a 154 and Paul Malloy’s 155 gave him .	-
a berth among the qualifiers. Irish golf- ■ ’ ers failing to qualify were Jack Harri- .	-
gan, 159, Gene Fehlig, 161 and Tom - - ■ Nash, 161.	-	\ -
Those 64 men who had 155 or less . ’ for the two qualifying rounds began . match play for the individual title on ~ ; . . Wednesday. The 16 quarter-finalists. ; ~ . battled it out yesterday for the four	\
semi-finalist spots who are twice touring the Chain O’ Lakes, today to de-	...
termine who will be the best two in col- V / legiate golfing . circles and have the chance to prove to each other who is the' :	. < *
1942 individual champion of the.Natidnal ‘	;
Collegiate Golf Association.	'	.
Among the leading qualifiers were • ..■	-
Earl Stewart, L.S.U., 141; Dick Haskell, - : \ Northwestern, 142; Burleigh Jacobs,	-
Wisconsin, 145; Eddie Johnston, Balti- - . ' more, 145; R. V. Welts, Washington, -Harold Gjolme, Washington; “Sandy”	? V’
Tatum, Stanford; George Traphagen,	;
Stanford; Robert Beekman, Jr., Southern . >	. •
California; John Stoltz, Northwestern^ . i-Dale Morey, L.S.U., Ray Brownell, Stan- .. : * ford, and Grover Poole, Duke, all 146.	< ~
Allan Whaling, Cincinnati, 148; Charles.
Lind, Denver, 148; Gilbert Mustin, Jr., r - .: Swarthmore; Bill Gilbert, Ohio State; A.
C. Williams, Yale;-John Holstrom, Illi-4= nois, and John Carlisle, Oberlin, all with ' 149. Men finishing with 150 were: Bob Drummond, Oberlin; Herb Rose, Mnme=' sota; John Ward, Syracuse, and W. E.1- -/ Beckjord; Yale.	.	<
“RED” LONERGAN
Opportunity Knocks for Baseball Men
Yes, men of the cowhide and hickory stick, your day has arrived. Jake Kline has been setting up a fancy schedule with all the semi-pros and college teams available. He will pick the N.D. team from two nines selected from the intramural teams. . . . From Andy Chlebeck, the Judge Landis of Notre Dame baseball, we hear that there are many boys out to deflate the ego of the successful varsity team. . . . After watching men like “Lefty” Clark and the like twirl a few* innings we can see what Andy means.... Let’s hand a pat on the back, while we’re at it, to Ollie Hunter for making the All-American in the Two Mile. ...
S:	A jjc
More N.D. Men in Service
Three former Notre Dame athletes have received commissions as second lieutenants and their wings at the Midland Texas Army Flying School. They are John Walior, Aberdeen, S. Dak., center on the ’39 and ’40 teams; Jim Ford, Binghamton, N. Y., center at the same time as Walior; and Jim Flynn, Seneca Falls, N. Y., reserve in 1937. . . . We know the golf team possesses good taste in choosing Gene Fehlig for next year’s captain. ... It must be true what they say about N.D. men for Ensign Howie Fahey was the only survivor in the recent blimp crash over the Atlantic. . . . After the faculty golf tournament there was a drawing of prizes in which several amusing incidents occurred. Practically all of the prizes were taken by the good fathers and the officers of the Naval Reserve. . . . Things reached a high point when the two tickets to the collegiate golf tournament were won by Father George Holderith, C.S.C., who is also chairman of the tournament. ...
■ Clergy Take Over Softball
Father Maloughney, C.S.C.,has turned his hall over to a group of visiting priests and brothers who are definite^ ly athletically inclined. According to “Boss” Commissa, Zahm has one of the hottest nines in the league. Father Huda, coach at a Cleveland high school which has a very good record, is their pitcher and coach. The R.O.T.C. team looks good on the softball lot, but don’t overlook Breen-Phillips and the Walsh boys. The fact is, Dick Nickson of Walsh is
18
the best twirler we have seen yet. He strikes ’em out and just as easily puts the ball where the fielders can’t get it.
* * *
Once In a Lifetime
A comparatively unknown man in collegiate golf suddenly became known over night a few weeks ago. He made his last putt in his first intercollegiate match to finish with a 70. He is Dick Whiting, a member of our own golf team, another reason Northwestern does not care for N.D. . . . Dippy Evans did it again, only this time in baseball. Cavanaugh was behind, 2-1, and had men on second and third, no outs. The batter put a liner to Dippy on third. Dip stepped on third for two outs and then threw to second for an unusual triple play — one for the books. ... In another hardball game Johnny Metzger was hit a stunning blow on the wrist, then Pfeiffer* and Mersch were knocked out when they collided while chasing the ball — all in one inning. . . . “Nappy” then told intramural director Scannell to “send the boys' out for boxing. I haven’t seen three boys knocked out in one round of boxing yet.” . . . Tennis Coach Langford tells us that the intramural tennis matches have brought out several outstanding prospects, Ray O’Connell, for instance, who swings a mean racquet.
■ * * * .
History Repeats Itself ■
About four months ago the student body was thrilled by the phenomenal puting and passing of one John Creevy, and less than a week ago Dick Creevy made some sort of a record in kittenball when he hit a 300-foot homer, a wallop that even amazed Dick. . . . We wonder why the Pacific Coast wonder “Corny” Warmerdam has had so much trouble -with his vaulting here in the midwest. Maybe it’s that vitamin D he’s missing; although the California Chamber of Commerce should be only too glad to send him some. ... “Rebel” Lanahan tells us that the volleyball tournament -is going great guns and has hopes of . increasing; here is the answer to all those opposed to the bodily contact program. . . . Don’t forget to go out to the golf tourney today and tomorrow for the deciding rounds of this fine tourney,. the proceeds of which are turned over to Navy Relief. .
Varsity Nine Named "Stars" To Play Neighboring Teams
To you fellows who have always felt that you possessed a shade of diamond greatness but always shied away from the scene when varsity try-outs were mentioned the Notre Dame summer baseball program is dedicated.
Although tryouts were held earlier this week by Commander Jake Kline, he and his assistants will be on a constant lookout during the summer weeks for any interhall players who seem to be proficient enough to bat or field for the Irish Stars, the summer varsity.
As yet the schedule for this squad has not been completed but. games will be played with all college units when transportation facilities can be found. The Stars will also battle neighboring semi-pro outfits and service teams.
The interhall entanglements provide the surprise baseball stories of the year. The batting performances aren’t minor “blitzkriegs” as one would logically expect but sane hitting contests with the 1 covers still intact on each ball. The pitching has been along the superior line. The hall hurlers have been able to hold the opposition to low scores in many instances during the first week of organized play.
' Although complete summaries were not kept on all the contests played during last week’s series, detailed accounts of the games will he kept by appointed scorekeepers hereafter. The Scholastic will then bring you an intimate game by game account of just what’s taking place daily on the* Cartier Field diamonds.
■ Three tie contest featured last week’s play. Dillon and Alumni wrestled through a seven inning affair to no avail. The score was two to two in favor of Diz Dean’s “nobody.” Sorin’s Senior suzerains weren’t so highly honored on the diamond as the Dillonites knotted the count at two all after seven frames. Walsh pinned Alumni’s power boys down to three tallies but could do no better themselves in the run column.
The days of the traditional athletic supremacy of St. Edward’s A.C. seem to have passed. The old tales of the hardened athletes is now cherished lore locked in the old walls. The Naval R. 0. T. C. brigade ran amuck on the basepaths and ponded St. Ed’s hurlers for a 23-1 decision. Breen-Phillips wasn’t very friendly either when they splatted the ■north campus boys with 15 runs to win, 15-1.
The bombers from Breen - Phillips shelled Cavanaugh to triumph, 3-1. Sorin sneaked into the win column with a 5-2 ride over Walsh.
The R.O.T.C. unit seems io pack the measure of power so far in league play. They plucked their second win from Cavanaugh hy an over-balanced 12-2 count.
League Standing
TEAM	WON LOST TIED AVE.			
Naval R.O.T.C.		 2	0	0	1000
Breen-Phillips .	2.	0	0	1000
Sorin 			 1	0	1	1000
Walsh			 0	1	1	000
Alumni 			 0	0	2	000
Dillon			 0	0	2	000
Cavanaugh 			 0	2	0	000
St. Edward’s ...		 0	2	0	000
			-Bill Boss	
Trackmen Place Sixth;
Hunter Is All-American
Notre Dame entered only three men in the National Collegiate outdoor track meet this year but the three won sixth place for the Gold and Blue among the 30-plus university teams competing. Oliver Hunter, III, took second place in the two-mile behind a 9:10 pace set by Ca-zarnes from Fresno State as Frank Con-forti barely missed nipping Les Mac-Mitchell of NYU for third place in the mile run with the best performance of his college career. Jim Delaney, recently elected captain of the track team for the next season collected third place in his event three feet behind Al Blosis, the Joe Louis of shot, and inches behind the surprising heave of a lad from the Coast.
The boys came through in the Nationals in fine form. Delaney’s sling of 51 feet, 8% inches is an all-time Notre Dame record, indoor or out, Conforti’s 4:13 shows great promise for next year while Hunter’s 9:13 burst over the two-mile stretch under great pressure and on the heels of four other performances of the season under 9:17 definitely stamps him as the most outstanding collegiate two-miler of the year. A week ago Dean Cromwell, veteran track coach of Southern Cal, a team which swept the Nationals, on Bob Elson’s Parade of Sports Personalities over WMAQ hailed Ollie as the two-miler of his All-America track selections.
The National Collegiates in Lincoln climaxed a highly successful year for Notre Dame on the cinder paths with Irish thinlies spattering old individual records throughout the indoor and outdoor seasons. Practically the entire squad which showed so much promise as sopho- • mores and responded so powerfully as juniors will be returning in the fall under Notre'Dame’s new head coach of track, Dr. Al Handy and captain-elect, James Delaney.—Frank Carver
INTRODUCING
F. “SLUSH” RICHARDS
The cool, luxurious, environment of Sorin Hall provides the canvas for the picture of Robert Fischer, the man of the week for this week’s Introducing.
They say it is best to start at the beginning. Going back some 20 years to the metropolis of Racine, Wis., where on one rainy morning (put in merely for local color) Robert Fischer came into the world destined to be a pitcher in the great American game of baseball.
It was in the fourth grade that Bob tells us he first started to play ball, but soft-ball it was. “And a mighty formidable aggregation it was,” relates Bob. His freshman year in high school saw him no nearer to baseball because of the very good reason that baseball was not included in the school’s sports program. This, however, could not stop “Bo” and to the Municipal League he went earning himself a berth on the pitching staff of the King Packard club. A record of 11 wins against one loss was accumulated here, his team going on to win the championship.
It was while with the Packard club that “Bo” got his biggest “kick.” To put it briefly and pertly we’ll merely say that a Frank Merriwell trick was pulled in the closing minutes when Fischer came. up to bat and won his own ball game by pounding out a mighty round tripper. “It felt swell,” was Bob’s modest comment.
While here at Notre Dame, “Bobo”
Invitation for Trackmen;
All Aspirants Welcome
An invitation has been issued to all Notre Dame men to participate in the extensive physical fitness program initiated by Dr. Al Handy track coach.
Participating in the program already are field event men including high and broad jumpers, some sophomore football men who have chosen Jim Delaney’s profession as an avocation, track distance men plus several boxing enthusiasts conditioning for the forthcoming summer junior edition of the Bengal Bouts.
Dr. Handy emphasizes that the workouts will be at the option of anyone whether he wishes to “get himself in shape,” tuning up muscles for future military service or just to keep in condition during the summer months. The
is pursuing a business administration course and if everything goes well he’ll graduate with a B.S. from the Commerce school in December. The Army Air Corps will command all of his commercial knowledge for a while after graduation.
While in 47 Sorin I couldn’t help noticing a very lovely picture adorning the desk of our victim, so pure journalistic curiosity prompted a delving into such affairs. “Austy” proved to be the answer and the O.A.O. comes from the home town. “Summer school is nice but—,r quoth Bob.
Here at N. D. Bob proved himself before Jake Kline and carved a neat little place as a starting pitcher in the now past campaign. The record of one win against two losses was far from showing the true pitching ability of Bob and with the materialization of the proposed summer season, it is quite probable that this-record will be bettered.
The cagey Western Michigan nine of Kalamazoo was Bob’s choice for the best all around team met last season. “Their well distributed strength .in the field as well as at the bat showed what a good team they were,” analyzed Bob.
Closing the door gently on the way out so as not to disturb all those who were-studying in the sub on that warm Saturday night, I paused to reflect that this week’s column did the right thing by introducing Robert “Bobo” Fischer.
student may think he has no talent or ability for track but that has no bearing on his participating in this very-valuable opportunity offered him.
With a proper show of interest prospects will be good for several interhall dual meets with a final invitation meet with all halls participating at the end of the season.
Cavanaugh Softball Hurler
Pitches Two One-hit games
June 13 proved to be an unlucky day for the Breen-Phillips sluggers softball team. They were shut-out by the Cavanaugh Flashes by scores of 4-0 and 8-0 in a double-header. The first game went-the full seven innings; at the end of the fifth inning of the second the ^Sluggers were only too willing to call it quits. ..
. . . »
The victories were largely due to the superb hurling of the Flashes ace pitcher, Johnny Borkowski, who allowed the men from the “Gold Coast” but one hit in each game. Borkowski, his battery mate, Ken Palmer, and the Cavanaugh infielders were very busy men all afternoon as there was only one ball in each tilt that managed to reach the outfield. Walsh Hall upset the Cavanaugh applecart on June 17 by a score of 15 to 5.
Walsh, Dillon, R.O.T.C., and Alumni also presented top-flight teams in the softball league’s first round games that we're played the week of June 15.
R e s u 11 s: Tuesday, June 16—Breen-Phillips 11, Alumni I 7; R.O.T.C. 17, Sorin 2.
Wednesday, June 17—Dillon 6, Cavanaugh 5; St. Ed’s 4, Walsh 15.
Thursday, June 18.—Alumni II 19, Zahm I 6; R.O.T.C. 13, Breen-Phillips 7.
Petchell Plaque Dedicated
By "Scholastic" Committee
“The first member of the class of ’42 lost in battle” is the inscription on the Plaque which was presented Friday in memory of Howard Petschel, a true Notre Dame man who lost his life in the service of his country as an Army pilot.
The Plaque, in memory of he who has joined Notre Dame’s honored dead, was presented by a committee from the Scholastic to Brothel' Justin Dwyer, rector of Carroll hall, the hall were Howard Petschel resided while here at Notre Dame. Those making the presentation in behalf of the class of ’42 included Robert Le Mense, editor in chief of the Scholastic, “Red” Lonergan, promotion manager and Bill Reynolds, sports editor. The plaque has the form of a shield and is about 14 inches high and 12 inches wide.
The plan for presentation of this shield of honor originated with William “Scoop” Scanlan, last year’s promotion manager of the Scholastic. Bill Reynolds and “Red” Lonergan raised funds . to buy the plaque by canvassing the senior halls, the juniors as well as the seniors in Alumni contributing.
Much can be said in behalf of this brave soldier from Our Lady’s school. Howard Petschel was born and raised in •St. Paul, Minn. In high school he was an outstanding football and basketball player and was honored by being chosen All-State in these two sports. In his freshman year here at Notre Dame he was first string freshman end and in his sophomore year was first string varsity with the qualities of becoming one of the greatest ends in Notre Dame’s history. In the spring of 1940 he was awarded the Hering medal for being
the best end in spring practice.
Greater things were in store for Howard Petschel as a star gridder had he not seen the wonderful opportunity- open to him in the Army Air Corps. He applied for admission and was accepted. He took his primary flight training in Nebraska and his advanced at Randolph Field, Texas. In October, 1941 he received his commission as a second lieutenant in the Army Air Corps. Upon being commissioned he married his high
The "Scholastic" presents plaque to Brother Justin, C.S.C., rector of Carroll Hall.
DECENT LITERATURE GROUP ISSUES NEW PAMPHLET
The Notre Dame Student Commission for Decent Literature, which was organized in 1938 for the primary purpose of distributing the Notre Dame No Smut pamphlets, has risen to greater heights and now takes on the nature of a permanent national organization.
Recently the commission issued for American soldiers a leaflet called “God and Democracy.” The pamphlet condenses into two pages the fundamentals of the relationship between God and the American form of government, as summarized in a meeting of the Catholic, Protestant and Jewish students of the University’s College of Law.
The primary function of the present organization has turned out to be the mailing of the Notre Dame Scholastic to men of the armed forces. The Commission, whose function is to gather names, collect, wrap and mail the. weekly magazine to every known Notre
school sweetheart. Howard Petschel was not a Catholic while attending Notre Dame but he attended mass with the hope of some day joining the Church. This wish was fulfilled when he married a Catholic girl from his home town.
Many of the students who really knew this hero have graduated but those who remain say that he was an idol of Notre Dame sportsmanship, well liked by all who knew him and a truly fine athlete.
—George Blackmore
Dame man in the service, formerly = aimed also to include Notre Dame chap- j Iains. These, however, increased to the j extent that the local organization found : it impossible to accommodate them.	|
The distribution of Bishop John F. i O’Hara’s pamphlet, Advice to Catholic । Recruits, also has proved to be an im- i mense task shouldered by the Commis- | sion. This particular pamphlet, which I has a 500,000 distribution, presents | Bishop O’Hara’s sound advice to young | Catholic men who are entering the | armed forces.
Walter Brennan, of New Rochelle, N. Yl, took over the helm in 1940 and in addition to preparing Bishop O’Hara’s pamphlet, the youth organization also prepared a pamphlet on Hints For Living the Faith. Reaching a distribution of 20,000, Brennan’s pamphlet gives helpful everyday suggestions for better living the Catholic Faith.
20

Among the accomplishments of the decent literature group is the redistribution of Catholic literature in order to effect better reading throughout the • United States. This redistribution is carried out to a large extent through the cooperation of the nation’s high schools. These prep schools write to the Commission frequently for various pamphlets or literature in demand by the particular groups. In this way it is hoped the people of the United States will raise the standard of reading done by them.
The final aim of the Commission, now headed by Louis F. Kurtz, of Des Moines, Iowa, is to clean up various newsstands now operating in South Bend. This task, which is being attempted by ’ a vigilance committee, is as yet incomplete, but will be pursued by the Commission until a reasonable measure of success is realized.
Popular Politics Man
Called by Armed Forces
Vincent Hogan of the class of 1942, who was continuing his studies here during the summer semester, left last week for the United States Army and is temporarily stationed at Camp Perry, Ohio. He was from Port Angeles, Washington.
“Vince,” as he was known to his countless friends, was awarded a scholarship in the Notre Dame Graduate school. He was formerly district supervisor for the Washington State Department of Labor and Industries on the Olympic Peninsula and was executive director of the Housing Authority of Clallam County, Washington. He resigned these positions in order to resume and complete his education at Notre Dame.
Almost as well known as “Vince” himself is his 1,000 feet of colored movie film taken in the mountains of Washington. These he photographed on various expeditions and has entertained many audiences with vivid descriptions of their scenic beauty.
“Vince” was an active member of many campus organizations, including the Economic Round Table, Catholic Action, Academy of Politics, Knights of Columbus, and the Inter-American Relations Club. At the time of his call into the Army, he was majoring in political science.
Civilian Pilot Course
Shifts to War Status
The University of* Notre Dame has received word that under new regulations of the CAA, the training formerly available to civilian pilots will now be offered only for training of pilots for war purposes.
Two phases of the new program, according to Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., CPT coordinator, include an extra-curricular training of 16 weeks open to those students at Notre Dame already enlisted in Class V-l or Class V-5 of the Navy, and an accelerated eight weeks program, full-time. This second phase is open to anyone assigned by the Navy from its Class V-5 backlog, and to anyone assigned by the Army Air Corps who has failed the AC examination and is fit only for non-combatant service.
The Navy CPT trainees will go on as Aviation Cadets, while Army trainees will become transport pilots, target-drag pilots, and instructors.
Applicants from 18 to 27 may enlist if they successfully pass a CAA mental and the CAA physical without waiver. They must also present a certificate from an Army Aviation Cadet Board saying that they have been examined for Air Corps Training and found disqualified as Aviation Cadets but have received a score of 65 or over in the Aviation Cadet mental examination.
Qualified male applicants with flight experience may be considered for enrollment in any course other than the elementary course.
The program at the University will begin on July 1.
Courses for the CPT accelerated elementary, during which the trainee spends full time on the work and his expenses are paid by the government during his residence at Notre Dame, include: 26 hours of mathematics, 20 hours of physics, 20 hours of C.A.R., 36 hours of navigation, 10 hours of G.A.A., 22 hours of radio code, 12 hours of aircraft identification, 24 hours of meteorology, 58 hours of military and physical training and 12 hours of • military science and discipline;
The course for the accelerated secondary is similar, -with more intensive work in the theory of flight and aircraft, en-
gine operations, and military science and training.
Applications for any of the above courses should be made to Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., CP-T coordinator, Engineering Building, Notre Dame, Ind.
Gifts of Leather
FOR ALL OCCASIONS ’
Personalized with initials or name in gold.
WRAPPED AS GIFTS and.	.
WRAPPED FOR MAILING
Luggage to suit * all requirements!
HansZ> Rintzsch
138 N. Michigan
THE HUDDLE
N. D: "T" Shirts
Gym Pants
Soft Drinks
Candy
Tobacco
Pipes
21
Raymond J. Donovan
In Publicity Department
Raymond J. Donovan, 1942 graduate of the University -and former sports writer and columnist on the Scholastic, has been appointed Assistant Director of Publicity' at Notre Dame under James Armstrong, Director of that Department.
Donovan, who served on the Scholastic staff last year as the author of the Introducing column, received his A.B. degree in journalism in May.
He was active in the journalism school as a member of the Press Club and was secretary to Mr. John M. Cooney, head of the Department.
Ray, a native of Hammond, Ind., was married on the campus, May 7, to the former Dorothy Gresk of South Bend.
Eight Hundred Students
To Register For Draft
Next Tuesday, between seven and eight hundred Notre Dame students will register for the draft. Everyone who was born on or after Jan. 1, 1922 and on or before June 30, 1924 has to register. As only 12 persons an hour can be handled by each registrar, there will be numerous offices situated around the campus in order to avoid confusion and to get everyone taken care of as soon as possible. The residence halls which are to have places to register are Dillon, Cavanaugh, Walsh, and St. Edwards. There will also be offices in the basement of the Library and in the Main building. All of these will be open from 8:00. in the morning to 5:00 in the afternoon.
Without a doubt most of the students are wondering if their chances of being taken into the army soon are very great. There has been nothing definite said about this, but it is certainly not unlikely. The army claims that young men between 18 and 20 years of age make the best soldiers because they are better able to adjust themselves to a new way of life and have fewer home responsibilities to worry about. Major General Lewis B. Hershey, selective service director says, “These youngsters want assurance of certainty to figure on; that doesn’t fit in with the world the way it is now. Nobody knows what will happen next anywhere, or who will be needed—not in this type of a war. The boys have just got to take their chances of having their plans disrupted any day.”
Students who are in technical courses such as chemistry, physics, engineering, and pre-medical are much less likely to be drafted before they finish college than students in other courses. The army needs technical men and therefore wants those studying these courses to finish them.—Robert Sinkle
22
Father Beider to Address
Science Students Monday
The Rev. W. H. Beider, St. Francis Seminary, St. Francis, Wis., will address a joint meeting of the biology club, Notre Dame academy of science, and the chemistry club.at 4:30 p.m., Monday, June 29 in the biology auditorium, on the subject, “Water Balance in Animals.” Fr. Beider holds a Ph.D. degree from Johns Hopkins university where he did research in his subject.
The first meeting of the biology club for the current semester was held -on Friday, June 19 at 7:30 p.m. in room 107 of the biology building. Officers elected for the year are: Robert Nelson, president, Don Seuffert, vice-president, and John Shea, seecretary-treasurer. Elective and appointive committee members are: Robert Rumely, Frank Kinn, and Jim Monahan.
Civil Engineer Club Elects Farmer Prexy
Election of officers for the summer and fall semesters was held on June 10 in the Engineering Building. Thomas M. Farmer of Syracuse, N. Y., was elected president.
The other officers are: vice-president, William Mengel, of Wisconsin Rapids, Wis; treasurer, Robert Collins, of Chicago; and secretary, David Higgins of New Hartford, N. Y.
At the introductory meeting of the year, held on June 4, Mr. James A. McCarthy of the Engineering faculty, lectured on the Wickert Truss. Mr. McCarthy illustrated the lecture with slides.
Regular meetings are to be held every semester by the Civil Engineering Club. Papers at these meetings will be offered by. both prominent engineers and the undergraduate members.
Fr. Bernard Topel Joins
Math. Department Staff
During the summer term, the Rev. Bernard' J. Topel, will be here at the University as a member of the staff of the department of mathematics headed by Dr. Karl Menger. Father Topel was the first man to receive a doctor’s degree in mathematics at Notre Dame, and this was conferred upon him in 1938. Since then he has taught at Carroll College in Helena, Mont.
Father Topel’s doctor’s thesis was published in the Reports of a Mathematical Colloquium, and since then he has contributed three more research; papers to these reports. The lasl; of these is a paper written jointly with Dr. Paul M. Pepper, and it is now in press.
—Joseph Conerty
Musical Powder Boxes with “Notre Dame Victory March” from $2.95
ATTENTION NAVY MEN!
Water-Proof Watches from $24.75

BLOCK BROS.
CORNER MICHIGAN »= WASHINGTON
COME ON OUT, SON . . .
Here's o schedule you con remember!
South Shore trains to Chicago leave South Bend every hour at 30 minutes past the. hour from 7:30 A. M. until 9:30 P. M. Two early morning trains, at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Two late evening trains, at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too! ,
NAVY MEN: Ask about special furlough rates!
For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111.
Chicago, South Shore and South
9
| *Z4e GLJ^ |
First Formal Meeting
Held by Wranglers
Presentation of the paper “Reconstruction after the War” by Joe Rud, Chicago junior, opened the summer series of formal Wranglers meeting last night in the seminal* room of the Law Building.
At two week intervals through June, July and August papers will be presented by members of the club. Bill Lawless, Buffalo, N. Y., Robert LeMense, Iron Mountain, Mich., and Mark Lies, Rivetside, Ill., are the speakers for the next three meetings. John Ryan, Denver, Colo., is president of the club and presides at the meetings.
Successful Villagers'
Dances To Be Continued
After a dismal failure three weeks ago, the Notre Dame Villagers’ “140 girls guaranteed” dance last Friday night was a great success. As a result the club, under President Vail Pischke, will hold more dances, the next probably being on Friday, July 3.
The first dance three weeks ago had to be called off after an acute shortage of girls was noticed. Last week, however, through the generous cooperation of a group of St. Mary’s students, everyone had a fine time.
Profiting by experience, the Villagers promise even better dances in the future. A greater number of girls will be sent personal invitations. In St.Pat-rick’s auditorium, where the dances are being held, a cooling system is to be installed, according to Mr. Pischke.
—Shaun McDermott
First Summer Meeting Held By Campus K. of C
On Wednesday evening, June 17, Knights of Columbus Council 1477 held its first meeting of’ the summer semester. Plans for the coming year were discussed and the members had an informal get-together after the meeting was closed.
Officers for the coming year are: Grand Knight, Jerry Killegrew, Hobart, Ind.; Deputy Grand Knight, Edward Hickey, Grosse Pointe, Mich.; Chancellor, Robert Lonergan, Wilmette, Ill.; Warden, Thomas Nolan (Did not return) ; Recording Secretary, James Danaher (Did not return); Treasurer, Warren Leary, Rice Lake, Wis.; Advocate, William Hormberg, East St. Louis,
Ill.; Inside' Guard, Leo Keating, Saginaw, Mich.; Chaplain, Rev. Walter McInerney, C.S.C.
The following committee chairmen were appointed by Grand Knight Killegrew; Membership, Warren Leary; Catholic Activity, Vince Hogan; Publicity, John Fogarty; Lecturer, Paul Kashmer; Santa Maria, Ed Rooney.
The Knights have been requested by Father Lynch to help him on the distribution of a Religious Bulletin to be sent to all military chaplains. Father Lynch will gather excerpts from different Bulletins published by the chaplains, make one bulletin of them all, and send them out again’ to camps all over the country. Edward Doyle was appointed chairman to take care of the mailing and distribution.
Brother Lonergan announced the presentation of the American League Baseball Movie, “The Ninth Inning.” This movie, dedicated to Lou Gehrig, was presented under the sponsorship of the Scholastic and the Knights of Columbus.
Plans were also discussed concerning a Picnic,.a K. of C. Open Golf Tournament, and a better issue of the Council’s Santa Maria.
Detroit Club Announces
New Officers For Year
The Detroit Club has announced the election of its new officers, which was held shortly before the close of the last semester.
The new officers are: President, Jerry Currier; Vice-President, Dick Mulliman; Secretary, Paul Rooney; Treasurer, Johnny Morris.
The Detroit club is one of the most active groups on the campus. It is the organzation which raffled off the ‘mystery car’ in the War Charities last semester. The car, as everyone remembers, was won by Jim Brutz.
The Detroit club on campus cooperates closely with the Alumni Detroit club, and though it is called by the name of the “Ford” city, it has members from all parts' of Michigan, including Saginaw.
Engineering Professors
Attend A.I.E.E. Convention
Mr. John A. Northcott, head of the department of electrical engineering, and Mr. Lawrence F. Stauder, assistant professor of electrical engineering and secretary of South Bend section of the A. I. E. E., are attending the National Summer Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, which n opened in Chicago Monday and continues
. through today. The program of this >
year’s convention is the most technical program in the history of the Institute and has been expanded mainly to aid the war effort. The A.I.E.E. has the largest membership of any engineering society.
A feature of the convention was the addresses by outstanding executives on the organization and management of large scale engineering work. With the activity resulting from the war effort,. Institute sessions devoted to the consideration-of questions relating to executive management was especially timely. The period for questions and discussion following the addresses gave opportunity for greater participation to members who were more concerned with management and policies than with purely technical matters.
A total of 20 sessions and conferences were scheduled and approximately 60 papers are to be given, besides informal presentations.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, MJ).
Phone 3-2805
Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY
FOOT AILMENTS
X-Ray Examination	609 J. M. S. Building
Hours by Appointment South Bend, Indiana
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, D.D.S.
Cyril F. Rose, DD.S. Peter J. Rose, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Building South Bend, Indiana
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building ;	Phone-3-2574 ‘ ' ■ < .
23	~
UNITED STATES DEFENSE
BONDS
STAMPS
Chesterfield
TOEMCTORt
Copyright 1M2, Licgeit & Nyus Tobacco Co.
Here’s the answer to that... Chesterfields are Milder, Cooler-Smoking and definitely Better-Tasting in just the way you want a good cigarette to be. And no question about it, there's a lot more smoking pleasure in Chesterfield’s Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos.
For steady enjoyment, make your next pack Chesterfields... regardless of price, there is no better cigarette made today.
Chesterfields are on the job