wCan you really talk through a wire?” people still asked when this telephone switchboard went into service back in 1881. C. Apparatus was crude—service limited —but the idea was right. It took hold in spite of ridicule. Today there are more than 13,000,000 telephones in the Bell System—telephone conversations average 60,000,000 daily—the service is faster and clearer than ever. <L Telephone growth and improvement will go on. For Bell System men and women work constantly toward one goal: enabling you to talk to anyone, any-where, anytime.
Wry no' coll Mother one Dod ’O n i g h• ' For Iowes' rates, cc;: by nurrben cf’er 7 P. M.
KELL TELEPHONE S1
STEM
COLLEGE PARADE
By Robert L. Grogan
From wood shavings he has made synthetic marble. From peanut shells he has made insulating walls for houses. From the muck of swamps he has made valuable fertilizers. From the peanut he has made 285 useful products including milk, cheese, instant coffee, pickles, oils, dyes, lard, shaving lotions, shampoo, printer’s ink, and even axle grease.
Such has been the incredible achievement of Dr. George Washington Carver, distinguished negro scientist, who for thirty-five years has been director’ of agricultural research at Tuskegee Institute, famous negro school at Tuskegee, Alabama, according to a report in the Associated College Press.
From the sweet potato he has made 118 products including flour, starch, library paste, vinegar, shoe polish, ginger, ink, rubber compound, chocolate, molasses, and caramels. From clay he has made non-fading paints and pigments. From worn-out sandy soil he has produced paying crops.
Besides all this, Dr. Carver is a skilled artist. His works have been exhibited at world fairs, and some are to be hung in the Luxembourg gallery after his death. He makes all his own paints using Alabama clays. His paper is made from peanut shells, and his frames from corn husks. He once toured the country as a concert pianist.
In a lighter vein. We learn of a college professor who drove fifty miles to see a basketball game. He accepted a ride home with another professor, and did not realize the absence of his own car until the next morning.
His wife consented to go after the car and drive it home, so the professor stopped at the depot and bought her a round-trip ticket.
Santa Clara valley, home of the prune and the apricot in California, has sunk five feet in the last 20 years. Stanford geologists plan to “refloat” it.
Driving on the campus has been forbidden to Purdue students.
The peculiarities of New England speech are being gradually lost, say Harvard authorities. Even the Harvard accent iself is no longer sacred.
Four Colgate frosh were dismissed for theft of exam papers.
Amherst students will be allowed unlimited cuts in the future.
Washington University (St. Louis) has one of the finest coin collections in the couontry. It numbers 13,000 pieces.
The Schola.stic
J
Two
CALENDAR
Friday, February 7
“Scholastic of the Air” from campus radio station over WSBT, 3:15 p.m.; Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff 6:30, general staff, 7:00 p.m., editorial offices; Track meet, Notre Dame vs. Chicago, at Chicago; Kentucky club meeting.
Saturday, February 8
Movie, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:30 p.m.; Fencing, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State at East Lansing.
Sunday, February 9
Student Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m., Sacred Heart Church. Interhall basketball, University Gymnasium, 9:00 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. Lecture, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m., by Fr. Lord, “The Beginnings of the Reform Movement.”
Monday, February 10
Broadcast from Campus Station over WSBT and WIND, 7:30, Professor James A. Reyniers; Basketball,
Notre Dame vs. Kentucky, 8:00 p.m., Gymnasium.
Tuesday, February 11
Meeting of Scholastic candidates, 7:45, editorial office; Reorganization meeting of Met Club, basement of the library, 6:30 p.m. Campus broadcast over station WSBT, 7:30 p.m. Lecture, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m., by Fr. Lord, “The Council of Trent, I.”
Wednesday, February 12
Lecture, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m., by Father Lord, “The Council of Trent,II. The Reforming Popes.”
Thursday, February 13
Lecture, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m. by Father Lord, “The New Religious Orders, the Missionaries and the Martyrs.”
Ph.D’s are almost certain jobtickets today, says Northwestern University’s placement bureau, with starting salaries averaging $ 2 0 0 monthly.

KENT
THE AUTHENTIC WIDE-SPREAD COLLAR
Fashion reporters say —
"White stiff collars worn

■s
T
with
rrow1
SHIRTS arfTIES

white or colored shirts are go- 1 ing places this season."
With the college man in mind, Arrow presents KENT, the new and fashionable wide-spread starched collar. Admittedly not for campus wear — but a requisite for your weekend social
engagements.
25c
Send Notre Dame Home . .
SCHOLASTIC and SCRIP
for the remainder of the year
$1.50
See Publications Office -	- Main Building
February 7, 1936
Three
NOTRE DAME'S CALVARY
hour
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
t Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX
February 7, 1936
No. 14
DEBATE SQUAD TO OPEN SEASON FEBRUARY 18
ST. VIATOR TO BE FIRST OPPONENT
ON EXTENSIVE WINTER SCHEDULE
List Intersectional Debates
By Louis Da Pra
Two intersectional debates with the Universities of - Alabama and Pennsylvania, and eleven other engagements with Midwestern schools appear on the Notre Dame debating schedule recently released by Professor William J. Coyne, varsity coach.
St. Viator College, of Bourbonnais, Illinois, will open the current debating season on Tuesday night, February 18, in Washington hall.
Two questions, one especially for radio broadcasts, will be debated this year: “Resolved, that Congress should have power to override by a two-third majority vote decisions of the Supreme Court declaring laws passed by Congress unconstitutional”; the radio question: “Resolved, that the several states should adopt in principle the Nebraska plan of unicameral plan of legislature.”
Coach Cbyne has'divided the squad into an A -team and a B tearii. The A team is composed of the following: affirmative, John Heywood, Robert Burke, Gene Malloy; negative, Robert Sclimelzle, Richard Meier, Arthur Sandusky; 'the B team affirmative, David Flynn, James Nerney, John Marbach; -negative, John Schemmer, Robert Heywood, Robert Colgan. Thomas Proctor and John Locher, graduate students in the College of Law, will participate in radio debates.
The schedule:
Feb./ 0. University of Pennsylvania affirm-\ ve at Notre Dame.*-
Feb.^21-22. Manchester tournament at North Manchester, Indiana. .
Feb. 23. Chicago-Kent College of Law over WGN, unicameral question.
March 6-7. University of Iowa tournament.
Iowa City, Iowa.	■
March 9. Creighton University at Creighton. March 13 or -15. University of Buffalo at . Notre Dame.
March 17. Michigan State at East Lansing, Michigan.
March 19. Michigan State at Notre Dame.
(Continued in 3rd Column)
Debate Coach William Coyne Words will fly.
MET CLUB
Because of a basketball game on Monday evening, Feb. 10,-the next meeting of those interested in the reorganization of. the Met Club will be held on Tuesday, Feb. 11 instead.
Following an announcement by the Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, that the defunct Met Club could reorganize after liquidating at least $100 of its debt, eighty-five prospective members held a meeting Monday, Jan. 27, and voted to raise the amount.
At the meeting, presided over by Robert Cavanaugh, S.A.C. campus clubs chairman, it was decided to assess each student $1.25. This sum is to be repaid after the club had gotten back on its feet.
The next meeting of the group is scheduled for Tuesday evening, Feb. 11, at 6:45 in the basement of the Library. At that time the results of the assessment will be announced.
Reverend Robert Lord
To Lecture This Week
Rev. Robert Lord, noted historian and writer, will give a lecture on “The Beginnings of the Reform Movement,” in Washington Hall on Sunday, Feb.-9. The lecture will be the first in a series of five by Father Lord during the coming week.
Dr. Lord was formerly president of the. American Catholic Historical association, and in 1919 was a member of the Inter-Allied Mission to Poland. His historical works,' including the “Second Partition of Poland,” “The Problems of the. Peace Conference,” and “The Origins of the War of 1870,” are considered authoritative works in the field. ’
He was boro in Illinois in 1885, was educated at Northwestern and Harvard universities in this country, and did. graduate work at the University of Vienna and in Poland. From 1910 to 1926 he was a member of the faculty at Harvard, where he taught history. His professorship was interrupted by his work on the peace commission.
Father Lord -will speak in Washington Hall on the following topics: On Feb. 11, “The Council of Trent”; on Feb. 12, “The Council of Trent”; on Feb. 13, “The New Religious Orders, the Missionaries, and the Martyrs”; and the final lecture on Feb. 14 will be on “The Saints.”
. (Continued from 1st Column)
March 25. University of Alabama at Notre ’ Dame.
March 26. Creighton University at Notre
Dame.- •
March 28. St. Viator College over station WCFL. unicameral question.
April—University of Buffalo at Buffalo. N. Y.
- non-deeision debates.
Since 1899 Notre Dame debaters have won 121 of 181 intercollegiate contests, lost 41, and taken part in no-decision discussions.
Last year the team won decisions over such opponents as Leland Stanford, Michigan State, and were successful in Delta Sigma Rho tournament at Iowa City.
February 7, 1936
Five
BERNIE CUMMINS AND HIS ORCHESTRA TO PLAY FOR JUNIOR PROM, FEB. 21ST
No Ticket Price Announced
Bernie Cummins and his orchestra have been selected to play for the annual Junior Prom at the Palais Roy-ale on Feb. 21, it was announced Thursday by Harry Baldwin, general chairman of the dance. No price for the Prom has been definitely set.
Cummins is no newcomer to the campus since he played here for several dances a few years ago. He has lately concluded engagements at the Hotel Biltmore and the Hotel New Yorker in New York City. After playing for the Junior Prom, Cummins will open an extended engagement at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago.
Chairman Baldwin said all Juniors whose eligibility for the dance is in doubt should consult Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, about their scholastic standings.
It was also announced Thursday that a tea dance will be held over the Prom week-end at the Oliver Hotel on Feb. 22, from four o’clock until seven. No orchestra for the tea dance has yet been selected.
Another feature of the week-end as announced by the committee will be the Pittsburgh-Notre Dame basketball game in the Notre Dame gymnasium. A special block of tickets have been set aside by the athletic offices for those attending the Prom. These tickets will be available at a special price to those who present
their tea dance tickets and athletic • books at the athletic office.
FR. BROUGHAL IN HOSPITAL
Among the casualties of the recent cold spell was the Rev. Lawrence Broughal, C.S.C., faculty adviser of The Scholastic. Father Broughal was injured when he slipped and fell on the icy pavement in front of Sorin Hall, Tuesday evening, Feb. 4. He was taken to St. Joseph’s Hospital where he was reported resting comfortably Thursday afternoon.
Four University- of Pennsylvania students have been put on probation because of a poem deemed “sacrilegious” which appeared in the campus literary magazine.
BAND LEADER
BERNIE CUMMINS
“The Music Goes ’Round and ’Round.”
KENTUCKY CLUB
The Kentucky Club, after six years of inactivity, will again re-organize Approximately 30 members have been present at the last three meetings. Much interest has been displayed in the forming of a new club and in the acceptance of. a new constitution.
Officers for the club for the remaining part of the schoolyear are; President, Bob Burke, of Louisville; Vice-President, Jack Meister of Newport, Secretary and Treasurer, Howard Barnett of Dawson Springs, and Ser-geant-at-Arms, Frank Schaeffer of Anchorage.
The new organization has embodied the essentials of the old club, which was the first local unit to organize on the Notre Dame campus.
A tentative program calls for one joint meeting with the alumni in Kentucky, and in this way keep in touch with the graduates back home. As yet, no dances have been planned.
Meetings on the campus are to include short talks and papers by the different members concerning their respective!localities with the view that each member may better understand his state.
Campus Group Conducts Parish Welfare Survey
The local chapter of the St. Vincent de Paul society has begun a survey of the welfare needs of Holy Cross parish in South Bend in which it will lend its aid to improve social conditions. The work is the first of its kind in the campus organization’s history, and its main objective is to make practical one of the purposes of the student St. Vincent de Paul conference, namely, the training of Catholic laymen who wish to partake in volunteer welfare work.
At the present time a chart of the parish is being prepared and the parish lists are being checked against the public and private lists of the city. After this preliminary work is over, the Notre Dame unit will begin actual aid to the stricken of the parish. The regular welfare work which has been carried on throughout cooperation of the professional agencies in South Bend will be continued.
The St. Vincent de Paul Society wishes to publicly acknowledge, through The Scholastic, the generous gift of the students of Morrissey Hall. During the recent cold spell, Morrissey students collected $10.10 for the poor and asked the society to distribute the sum among the needy.
FRED McNEILL WINS PRIZE FOR ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN
Fred S. McNeill, of Carlyle, Ill., a senior in the School of Architecture, recently received a First Mention award from the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design in New York City for this
Fred McNeill
His factory was second best.
solution of the problem, “A Canning Factory.” This was the second highest award possible.
Others receiving half mention awards were C. R. Campbell, E. Creel, M. C. Hertel, L. P. Hufnagle, J. M. Lee, and D. H. Smith.
Through the cooperation of Mr. E. J. Connolly, manager of the University Dining Halls, the Architecture classes were enable to visit a canning factory in Benton Harbor, Mich, and see the actual working conditions involved in their problem.
Dartmouth made $36,609 on football last season.
The Scholastic
S i x
"Tune In" Scheduled For March 28 and 29
CHARLES J. BOYLE CHOSEN CHAIRMAN OF WASHINGTON BIRTHDAY EXERCISES
Rehearsals will be resumed tomorrow afternoon at 12:30 o’clock in the music room of Washington Hall for the forthcoming glee club and university musical comedy, “Tune In.” Dates for the musical show have been set for Saturday and Sunday, March 28 and 29.
Some 80 or 90 students will comprise the cast of “Tune In.” Professor Joseph Casasanta, director, announced that there is still need for students who can dance. Choruses of
Ralph Cardinal Tune him in.
dancers and singers are to be employed in several of the numbers.
Musicians who play stringed instruments are also in demand. Prof. Casasanta plans to have an orchestra of some 12 or 14 pieces. The orchestra will learn their parts along with the chorus and soloists.
The principals have not been definitely decided upon as yet. Those who sang try out parts at the last rehearsal were Francis Schaefer, Norton A. Aleksis, Ralph Cardinal, John Ryan, Mark Finocchiaro, James Foo-hey, Lindsay Phoebus, and Irwin Goldman. Other than the soloists, there are groups consisting of trios, duets, and glee club singing.
Set in a background of a modern broadcasting station interested mostly in commercialization of music, “Tune In” presents to its audience an array of snappy, original numbers interpreted by “characters” of all types. The music of the work, while not being exactly jazz, contains much rhythm. Semi-operatic numbers and outright burlesque give the show a flavor which should render it attractive to those students interested in such a venture.
SCRIP REVIEW
Scrip, the Notre Dame literary quarterly, made its second appearance of the year on Friday, Jan. 24. The consensus of opinion was that this number equalled if not surpassed the high standards of the past.
This issue featured an article by Christopher Hollis entitled “St. Thomas More.” Mr. Hollis treated his subject from a rather unique viewpoint and explained just why St. Thomas held fast to a principle at the cost of his life.
Candidates ...
All candidates for positions on THE SCHOLASTIC staff are requested to meet in the Scholastic offices on Tuesday evening, Feb. 11, at 7:45. The offices are located behind the Main Building, just past the Express Office.
Applications will be accepted only from members ’ of the present Freshman and Sophomore classes.
. DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC TO LIST CAMPUS TALENT
Musical talent on the campus will be surveyed and catalogued by the University Department of Music, it was announced this week by Professor Willard Groom.
The purpose of the survey is to ascertain the variety of student talent in order to complete plans for a series of broadcasts featuring campus musicians.
J
Professor Groom announced that a University policy has been adopted against the playing of typical popular music from the campus radio station. Those who play or sing concert and light classical music of the type com-
Professor Willard Groom Are you musically inclined?
posed by Oley Speaks, Reginald De Koven, Carrie Jacobs Bond, and Victor Herbert, are desired especially by those conducting the survey.
All those who possess some musical talent are asked to send their name to any member of the music department.
A course in “civilization” designed to enable students to orient themselves intellectually and spiritually, is being given at St. Lawrence University.
Advertisement in the West Virginia University daily: “Men Wanted. By two popular sorority girls, two handsome gentlemen for dating purposes. Social assets required.”
Sub - Chairmen Announced
Howard C. Cusack, president of the senior class, announced this week the appointment of Charles J. Boyle, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters from Duluth, Minn., as general chairman for the 91st annual Washington birthday exercises to be held in Washington hall, Feb. 22.
President Howard Cusack He will wave the flag.
The other members of the committee appointed to make arrangements for the presentation of a flag by the senior class president to the University are John J. DeGarmo, of Niles, Ohio, and James C. O’Keefe, of Chicago, both students in the College of Arts and Letters; and William M. O’Connor, of Webster Groves, Mo., a student in the College of Commerce.
Cusack also announced the appointment of Wilbert J. Higgins, a senior . in the College of Commerce from River Forest, Ill., as chairman of the Cap and Gown committee. The members of this committee are Frank J. Smith, Leo J. Cushing, Arthur W. Vervaet, and Charles W. Dohnalek.
The Washington Day exercises had their origin in 1845, when the University arranged a program in observance of the day. At that time, the responsibility of the program was given over to the graduating class. Since then, it has been an annual event. However, the first flag presentation was not made until 1896 when Sam Murdock, president of the 1896 senior class, presented a flag to Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., president of the University.
In line with tradition, a senior orator will deliver an appreciation of Washington’s Farewell Address, and a senior poet will present an ode to Washington. As yet, Boyle has not announced the full program.
The entire graduating class will march in cap and gown to participate in the observance of Washington’s birthday. Higgins, as yet, has not posted any notices concerning caps and gowns.
February 7, 1936
Seven
Dr. Haley Speaks Before Academy Of Science
Dr. Paul Haley, >• speaking on “Glands and Personality,” addressed over a hundred and fifty students at an open meeting of the Academy of Science held in the Law Building on Monday evening, January 27.
Dr. Haley spent over a year in Vienna studying endocrinology. His talk proved more than interesting to all present since he presented it in a manner that everyone was able to understand and appreciate.
He described the nervous system and the more important of the endocrine glands and then brought out the interrelationship . which exists between the two. A classification of personalities based on malfunction of these glands and a mention of the more important treatments in connection with them was also included in his discussion. -Dr. Haley concluded by predicting that endocrinology, in the future, would become ’ one of the more important branches of medicine.
FR. OVER AND L. HUGHES TO CONDUCT EUROPEAN TRIP
A privately conducted special students’ summer tour of Europe and the Olympic games is being organized by Rev. Charles M. Over, graduate student, and Lyman B. Hughes, of Howard and Dillon halls, respectively. Both are authorized representatives for the Hamburg - American Steam Ship Lines.
The contemplated tour has the approval of the University, but is not sponsored by the University.
Group To Leave June 27
The group will leave New York June 27 and return August 15. At a cost not, exceeding $400, inclusive of tips, the student will be afforded the opportunity of a most interesting and educational itinerary. Tins itinerary includes the following: London and Shakespearean country; Brussels, Paris and. Versailles; Cologne and a famous trip up ' the Rhine; Heidelberg and Black Forest; Lucerne and steamer excursions on the enchanting Swiss Lakes; Bavarian Alps, Munich, Nuremberg; Berlin and the Olympic games.
. Various side trips will also be made. Plenty of time may be spent in each city and points of interest at one’s own leisure. Famous art galleries, museums and music festivals will be visited.
Father Over spent four years of study in Europe and Mr. Hughes was a member of an identical tour during the summer of 1935.
I
Slouch hat, bearded smile, and always a clever comeback . . . Thumbnail sketch of Terrible Torribio of Trinidad (and 403 Howard) ... It has been casually remarked that he slightly resembles Ghandi . . . Above Trinidad does not refer to British India possession but is somewhere in
Colorado .' . . Calls home wherever he hangs his hat . . . Spent last summer at N.D. . . . Couldn’t find his folks. ...
His name is twisted about as much as his hat . . . Favorite spellings are Trib, Tribe, and Tarribia . . . Even his family delight in ..juggling last name. ...
J. Albert Torribio, as he is formally known, majors in Sociology . . . Is looking forward to a career in the Salvation Army . . . Lacks a tambourine . . . Admits he’s the only man on the campus who won’t dance ... Or can’t.- . .?.
Was conspicuous by ’ his absence when President visited the campus. . . . Voted for any Congressman that, came along in his freshman year, in order to make up for previous ineligibility . . . Past voting escapades caused him to dodge the President’s G-Men . . . Quite dumb on the sub- . ject of girls ... Or at least mute . . . His walls bespeaks his stand on the subject . . . decorated with at least fifty Madge Evans pictures ... A staunch advocate of the one-night-a-week-out routine, and invariably uses Saturday night to howl ... As a sideline carries on a national correspondence with girls in Texas, Missouri,
Library Exhibits Work Of American Artists
An exhibition of paintings by outstanding American artists opened Wednesday, Feb. 5 in the library art galleries of the University. The exhibition will continue until Feb. 24, and will be under the direction of Professor Emil Jacques.
The paintings are a part of the travelling unit of the Isochromatic Exhibition which has been loaned through the courtesy of the Research Laboratories of M. Grumbacher of New York City.
There are twenty-two canvases in the exhibit 'ajid the subjects cover the entire range from rural and city scenes to life studies.
Jacques Work On Display
Outstanding" paintings in the exhibition are those by Prof. Jacques entitled “Myself,” “Rockport-Evening,” by Yarnall Abbott of Philadelphia, and “Hill Market-Haiti” by Florence Topping Green, Long Branch, N. J.
Other paintings to be shown are' “Still Life with Flowers,” Edith Gordon Adams, Shelbyville, Indiana; “Through My Mirror,” Xavier J. Ba-rile, New York City; “Red Lamp,” Otto Bielefeld, Milwaukee, Wis.; “Indian River,” Angir B. Cahill, Grand Rapids, Mich.; “Morning, Union Square,” Charles Carlson, New York City; “Sylvia,” Alice M. Cumming, Des Moines, la.; “Cypress,” Mrs. Jessie Fielder, Vicksburg,1 Miss.; “Idora Falls,” Charles D. Hoover, Youngstown, Ohio. ’
“The Farm,” Alice Judson, New York City; “In the Woods,” H. R. MacGinnis, Trenton, N. J.; “September Afternoon,” Violet S. Malin, Youngstown, 0.; “Cathedral in the Canyon,” Frank A. Nankivell, New York City; “Spanish Village,” Ernest D. Roth, New York City; “Still Life,” Mark Russell, Worthington, Ohio; “Landscape,” Mary Clare Sherwood, Vicksburg, Miss.; “Self, No. 12,” Clyde Singer, Malvern, 0.; “Radio City, “John J. Soble, New York City; “General U. S. Grant’s Home,” Hazel Waterman, Madison, Wis.; “In the Country,” J. Willett, New York City.
Ohio, and Indiana . . . Whistles “Louise” at odd moments. . . .
He’s a track man, a thinlie, a brother in the cinder-fellows’ union. . . . Acts as manager of N.D. track team ... Is a fellow Patrician of Cliff Brown’s, who is the only man on the campus he agrees with. . . .
Roomie Henry Steiner has practically the whole room to himself ... Al is seldom in and when he is, he sits on his desk . . . Will argue with anybody on anything at any time. . . .
Eight
The Scholastic
Faculty Members Continue On Campus Radio Series
The new series of faculty radio lectures broadcast over stations WSBT, South Bend, and WIND, Gary, every Monday night at 7:30 are proving to be quite popular especially with the Chicago audience. Last Monday night the speaker was Prof. Frank N. Brown of the Department
Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C. Dean of the College of Science.
of Aeronautical Engineering. Prof. Brown discussed the various phases of this new science a course in which has recently been inaugurated at Notre Dame.
Next Monday evening the speaker will be Professor James A. Reyniers of the Department of Biology.
Reyniers recently received nationwide acclaim for his work in successfully raising completely germ-free guinea pigs for use in pathological experiments. It is expected that he will discuss- his own work in this line as well as the various branches of biology. The following Monday night’s program will feature a lecture by Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science.
QUOTABLE QUOTES
“•	(By Associated Collegiate Press)
“Instructors talk too much, regulate too much and are too suspicious of students”—Dr. L. P. Stieg, president, University of Washington, talks about talking.
“Almost any English-speaking per-’ son can get a job in China teaching English.” — William E. Daugherty, Ohio State graduate, returns from Tung Chow.
“Hell Week? The only solution is . elimination.” Northwestern’s President Walter Dill Scott speaks his > ? mind.
“Brooklyn is the graveyard of the ministry.” The Rev. Cornelius Greenway, pastor of All Souls Universalist Church, Brooklyn, sends a tip to theological students.
i
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
Zero hour has come and gone. The big push is over for another four months, and though the profs led the charge -with their bi-annual battle cry of “They shall not pass,” we feel confident that the downtrodden students have acquitted themselves well and have won the day. If we haven’t upheld the honor of the corps, it’s up to us to carry on anyhow. Yessir, we’ll fight it out along this line if it takes us all summer school. But somebody’ll have to take care of that freshman who made a novena so that none of his professors would catch him cribbing.
It took Heine Becker to prove that there’s no lack of leadership among the men on this campus. When the flunkies at Zimmers one night last week decided to give the gang even worse service than they’ve been accustomed to dealing out, the football player became determined to do something about it. A few minutes later all the Notre Dame men in the place /Imd rallied to his call and, while waiters and waitresses looked on open mouthed, moved out en masse.
•
During the recent diabolical academic inquisition, one of the local lads found himself unable to furnish his inquisitor with the necessary information; so he sat back in his seat and nonchalantly scanned the efforts of his neighbor on the left. It was only a matter of seconds before he became aware of the figure of his persecutor hovering over him. Unshaken, however, our hero looked up into a scowling face and, with a derisive gesture to the left, said, “This guy doesn’t know a thing!”
That Shane Leslie influence persists in cropping up every now and then. Lately the students have adopted his fad of wearing a scarf over the top of the head. Those unlucky devils who don’t possess scarfs, however, have added a new note. They wear towels. We can’t help but feel that Mr. Leslie would frown severely on this practice as not being quite according to Hoyle. Well, with the mercury hanging about an inch or two out of the bottom of the thermometer, you can’t blame the fellows for going to extremes. Oh, why did we ever leave Little America!
In spite of all the howling blizzards that have been tearing across the prairies lately, in spite of the fact that the campus lawns are covered / a yiu with snow two or blip ' W i a. „ three yards deep, and in spite of •
i	been cold enough
iPJJJre /• make a person’s upper and lower teeth freeze to-Ul! C?	gether, we main-
vl	tain that spring is
here. You can ~ '	show us the new
skating rink on the lake and the ski jump that’s been built near Holy Cross seminary, you can advise us to take a look at the thermometer, and you can try to convince us by means of calendar and almanac that it’s still winter, but we’ll only grind our molars and maintain that it’s spring. Our proof! Well,, only last Monday we saw on our fire escape what is no doubt the first robin to appear in these parts since last summer. And we’d pick a robin over a groundhog any day to be the true harbringer of spring. Bundle up fellows, it looks like a cold summer.

Can you imagine the horror of certain of our reverend fathers who saw Joe MacDonald blithely enter the dining hall the other day with what looked like a bottle of Vat 69 nestling under his arm? It seemed like Joe’s finish until he sat down at the table and poured the contents of the bottle on his plate. The robed patriarchs relaxed with a sigh and wiped the clammy sweat from their brows as they saw nothing but good old fashioned Vermont maple syrup come oozing out.
It appears as though the South Bend journals had nothing else to do; so they thouoght they’d fill a little space by making it their business to publicize the most eligible bachelors of Notre Dame’s faculty. In our estimation, though, they didn’t make a very thorough job of it. How could they, when they forgot to mention pedagogue Tom Madden. Why, that omission is almost blasphemy. If any man on this campus is a natural for the “most eligible” group, it’s Dillon’s favorite prefect. If you don’t believe us, get him to recite a few love poems to you some time.
February 7, 1936
Nine
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE
Havn’t seen youse guys in about three weeks but according to your stories you haven’t changed much. . . Hidden on the inside of his notebook SPOTS MANNING has scribbled the following, “Louise Drees, Iowa City —Delta, Delta, Delta”. . . D’ya pass everything?. . . CARL FULNECKY was about 55 minutes late to class the other day (it happened to be a class in “The Family!”). . .
“MR. EDWARD GEORGE JOS-
Editor: “What makes you think you could be a columnist?” Gollege Grad: “I used to read Brisbane.”
Editor: “What makes you think he’s a columnist?”
EPH ‘WIMPY’ BENKERT,” constituted part of the address on a letter delivered to said Howardite. ... It happened just the other day—Miss M. V. told MIKE LAYDEN that his shoes needed a shine. Not to be outdone Mike up and packed the shoes and sent them to M. V. asking that she do as good a job as possible. . . LOU ALAMAN, eating downtown on a recent Friday night with four girls and five plates of spaghetti—what a conglomeration. . . JOHN J. RYAN THE THIRD is now of age. His birthday was on February third at which time he received approximately 20 cards, five letters, three packages and his semester certifications. . . .D’ya pass everything?. . .
NICK CASILLO has great difficulty with his hand writing. He has been writing to numerous medical schools asking for literature. St. Louis University in particular doesn’t seem able to read his script and as a result Nick has received several catalogues and letters addressed “Mr. Yuholas Caulk”. . . DICK BAKER no longer needs to worry about N. D. (not Notre Dame) —somebody else worries about her now. . . D’ya flunk anything?. . .
Heard while walking behind two fellows—“Come over this way a minute, I want to go by Dillon.” “No let’s go by the Post Office, it’s cheaper.” . . . Exams are over, now what’ll we do?. . . The new game of “Monopoly” is a great asset to the majors in Commerce. . . A new heating system is being installed in Washington Hall which means the Saturday night shows will be more enjoyable during these winter weeks. :
DON’T FIGHT WITH YOUR ROOMATE. CHALLENGE HIM TO AN ENCOUNTER IN THE COMING BENGAL BOUTS. . .
THE FUNNY FELLOWS
O. O. McIntyre Takes Over Caf Smoke For a Day
Thoughts while strolling about the campus: What if the students were to take over control of the University for one day? Confusion, perhaps . . . Do exams adequately register the ability of a student or do they merely test his eye and ear faculties ? . . .
Divided a doughnut with the S.A.C. head yesterday. Almost queried if S.A.C. stood for Student’s Asininity Council . . . Bumped into the usual beer* barons at Zimmer’s the other morning, noon and night . . . Pity the poor hall mailmen on days like these—but if the fellows won’t go to the mail, the mail must go to the fellows . . . Sipped a soda with the Senior Class President in the cafeteria the other night . . . He constitutes a happy medium in fashion— both dapper and comfortable... Most Heidelbergish name on the campus— Hufnagel. . . .
A new day and a new semester. . . . More in-between-semester-rumors are going about now than ever before. . . . Wonder if they’re called rumors because they travel from one room to another? . . . Someone ought to start a rumor to do away with all rumors. On second thought college men thrive on rumors . . . Someone casually remarked that the editor of The Scholastic possesses a sense of humor (perhaps that’s just another rumor!). . . .
Quite a collegiate throng at RIG-OLETTO the other night . . . The waiter’s strike wasn’t very successful —guess the white coats didn’t fire when they saw the whites of the enemy’s eyes . . . Most villainous name on the student register—Carlos Henkel ... Is it more profitable to know the subject or know the corrector? . . . Ask the man who knows one (corrector, I mean, because few know the subject). . . .
Classes in the morning and golf in the afternoon—a superb second semester schedule. . . . And so to bed with MRS. ASTOR’S HORSE. . ..
LOCAL LAMENT
The telephone call that never rang, The letter that wasn’t mailed, The date petitioned but never claimed, The meeting arranged that failed;
Have set me to thinking, as such things do—	■
Are men at ND all like you?
Ten
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C_________________Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN............................Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST___________________Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei______________________________The Weefe
Irwin L. Goldman In the Juggler Vein
William V. Ellis________________________________Art Editor
News Staff
Paul Foley____________________________________News Editor
Robert L. Grogan________________________Assistant News Editor
Clifford F. Brown_______________________Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus____________________________Gregory Byrnes
Joseph Ratigan________________________________Louis DaPra
John A. Gillespie__________________________Bertram Smith
Harold A. Williams____________________________John Hurley
Robert F. Ervin
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker___________________________Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron___________________________Co-Sports Editor
John Cackley__________________________James M. McMullen
Eugene Vaslett_____________________________Michael Crowe
Allen Bride___________________________________Arch Gott
John Glanzner
William R. Dooley, '26_______________________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
February 7, 1936
SMOKING AT THE BASKETBALL GAMES
T* HE practice of smoking during the basketball games has grown rather serious, to judge by the blue haze which settled over the court during the second half of the Illinois contest Wednesday evening. The thick clouds of smoke are injurious to the spectators, and decidedly hard on the players who cannot get the fresh air they need during forty minutes of strenuous activity on the court.
If the students will refrain from smoking during the games, the spectators from town will be more apt to observe those prominent “No Smoking” signs which decorate each side of the court. •
CAMPUS DANCE PRICES
Are campus dance prices too high?
The great majority of undergraduates thinks they are. And a comparison of local prices with the cost of bids at other universities seems to bear this out. In addition, the large surplus resulting from the Sophomore Cotillion last October is further proof that the prices of tickets for
Notre Dame dances are out of line with the cost of running such affairs. A surplus of nearly four hundred dollars is excessive and unwarranted.
Last year The Scholastic, in editorializing on the ticket situation, produced a rather extensive list of dance prices from other universities to prove that the costs of local affairs are unnecessarily high. Disregarding inflation, higher taxes, and the increased cost of living, we wish to point out that even this year the prices of dance tickets at these institutions are still far below the exorbitant campus level.
The Scholastic does not believe that the Sophomore Cotillion, the Junior Prom, or the Senior Ball should be staged with the idea in mind of making more than an ordinary profit. The officials in charge should endeavor to stage the best possible dances at the lowest possible prices. The social life of the University should not be so expensive that it prevents substantial numbers from attending even their own class dances. That is depriving such students of an integral part of their four years at Notre Dame. They have the right to graduate with memories of at least one University Formal instead of only a downtown thirty-cent Saturday night dance.
The Scholastic realizes that certain facts prevent the reduction of dance prices to the level of other schools with smaller ballroom expenses and larger crowds. Still, need tickets be so high that this year’s Cotillion can amass a surplus of nearly four hundred dollars? .
The Scholastic firmly believes that local dance prices can be lowered. The restrictions imposed on the Law Club, the Engineers’ Club, and the Monogram Club make it extremely doubtful as to whether these organizations will sponsor their annual affairs. Under these circumstances, it is imperative that the remaining formals be reduced in price to put them within the reach of more of the student body. We suggest a policy of providing the best possible dance at the lowest possible price, rather than providing the best possible without regard to the reasonableness of the cost.—J. S. M.
PLEASE. ARSENE!
The SCHOLASTIC is flattered to hear reports that some of our more avaricious readers cannot be satisfied with one copy of the publication. The regrettable note is that these over zealous patrons of the campus press have adopted the policy of picking up extra copies from their neighbors. This practice of stealing copies has become a nuisance to many who are pestered with weekly thefts.
If your picture is so important to the folks back home, if your club has elected you secretary and general factotum, you may get extra copies, legitimately from the Publications Office in the Main Building. A copy of Scholastic and of Scrip for the remainder of the year may be sent home for 01.50. You’ll find this far more convenient than trying to pick up strays.—P. F.
February 7, 1936
Eleven
FROZEN FEET, FACES AND FINGERS BRING BLANKETS, BEARDS, AND BONING
By John A. Gillespie
A LIGHT SMi
Now that the weather has returned to normalcy, at least for Indiana, it is time to take inventory. In as detached a manner as possible, let’s see i just what did happen. The water ' pipes are thawing-, and the ice on the ■ lakes is slowly melting. Soon the ‘ recent frigidity will be a matter of ' statistics.	(
The trouble at Notre Dame is that ; there are too many oldsters who scoff i at frozen feet and fingers. You know | the type—“Why back in ’88”—and ; far into the night. We know that |
. . . . A-s the temperature dropped.
there have been colder snaps, that the ice has been thicker, and the snow deeper, but our one compensation for suffering is complaint. Allow us that, if nothing else.
One of the best bits we heard was this:
“I’ll bet the wind is whistling thrpugh Corby.”
“Yea, but I’ll bet it doesn’t even bother to whistle in Freshman Hall.”
Coming as it did, during the preexam period, the cold was a boon to some. Since they couldn’t walk about the campus without the peril of collapse, they had to stay in their rooms. So why not study?
There was serious talk of establishing a rescue station in the basement of the Main Building. Can you imagine a giant St. Bernard plowing through the snow, carrying a jug of coffee and a dining hall frankfurter to a snowbound student? You can? That’s fine; now continue your fancy. Watch the frozen one gulp the coffee and feed the frankfurter to the dog.
Some of us waited the required ten minutes for the professor’s appearance, and then walked out, strangely silent. A cut class lost its delightful
quality of surprise and relief. After you had hiked from Alumni to the Main Building, or from Lyons to Commerce, you didn’t care whether oi- not the mark-maker showed up. You just wanted to get warm and stay warm for at least an hour.
Off-campus students strolled into class twenty minutes late with a justified nonchalance because the schedules of street cars had been reduced to whimsy. Anyone who essayed walking was looked on with a mingled disgust and awe. The days of heroes
didn’t go out with the nickelodeon.
Ask the men of Walsh about sleeping in rooms facing the library. That stretch of open ground between the rear of Walsh and the library attracted raw winds that caused the mercury in one room to collapse to two degrees below zero. The occupants of the refrigerated igloos had to move to the front of the hall and sleep on the floors of their friends’ heated huts.
The church clock froze and displayed its triple time—one for each face. Perhaps that unreliability prompted the religious bulletin on tardy church-goers.
All honors to Corbyites for their reports on cold weather privations. Father Ryan recognized the need of corner room inhabitants by providing extra blankets. Sweat suits took the place of pyjamas. The lakeside men constituted a potential House of David—nobody liked to shave with cold water, and the hot variety was just a memory. A fine of twenty-five dollars was assessed on those who left then* windows open.
Even the best dressed men on the
Luckies ai
Recent chemical tests show* . that other popular brands have an . excess of acidity J over Lucky. Strike of from .
^>'..$35 to ( '< -:>■
.'RESUHS VERIFIED BY INDEPENDENT CHEMICAL lABCRATpRIESANDRESEABCH GROUPS - <-.:
Excess of Ac
2	!
BALANCE
| LUCK
| BRA | BRA | .RA
campus forgot their dignity and ap-	J.
pearance in the name of comfort.
Perhaps they took their cue from the fes innovation created, last year by Mr.	)	de]
Shane Leslie—a scarf wrapped around	i	hel
the ears. Muffs and mufflers were tut draped around some of the proudest mo ears on the campus. What with extra	i	1
sweaters, jackets, and coats, it took	•	va:
(Continued on Page 22)	;	pO-
Twelve
The Scholastic
SMOKE offers something to each smoker!
ies are less acid
Excess of Acidity of Other Popular Brands Over Lucky Strike Cigarettes 2	*	o	M	o	m	o
O	O	—	—	m
f. U J—I—I—X—i_■ - * . S .	. . I ~ ■	, .	. ¥ .
balance	:	;	; :
| LUCKY STRIKE |	I	! •
1 BRAND B	! ■
| BRAND C	\ff//^	•
I
| -RAND D
Al! kinds of people choose Luckies, each for reasons of his own. But everyone agrees that Luckies are A Light Smoke of rich, ripe-bodied tobacco. It is a rather surprising fact that the leaves of the same tobacco plant may vary far more than the leaves from plants of quite different types. Chemical
analysis shows that the top leaves contain excess alkalies which tend to give a harsh, alkaline taste. The bottom leaves tend to acidity in the smoke. It is only the center leaves which approach in Nature the most palatable, acid-alkaline balance. In Lucky Strike Cigarettes, the center leaves are used.
JACQUES EXHIBITS PAINTINGS
An exhibit of the paintings of Pro-fessoi- Emil Jacques, head of the art department of the University, is being-held in the John Herron Art Institute at Indianapolis, during the entire month of February.
The collection includes forty canvases, depicting both landscapes and portraits. Mr. Jacques opened the
February 21, 1936
exhibit in person wi.th a lecture on Sunday afternoon, February 2.
Professor- Jacques has been on the faculty at Notre Dame for seven years, and is regarded as one of the foremost instructors of art in the Middle West. His outstanding work is believed to be a series of religious pictures which decorate St. Mary’s Cathedral at Portland, Oregon. The
last of this series is now nearing completion.
At the preview showing of the Hoosier Art Salon in Chicago on January 25, he was awarded the Peter C. Reilly prize for the best work submitted by a teacher of art in a college or university. His subject was “Sun Play.” Mr. Jacques is a native of Belgium and came here in 1923.
T h i r t e en
ATHLETICS
N. D. TRACK TEAM SET FOR SEASON’S OPENER
CHICAGO UNIVERSITY TO ACT AS HOST TO THE VISITING NICHOLSON PUPILS
Illinois Five Humbled
In Exciting Contest
DON ELSER AND BERWANGER TO WAGE INDIVIDUAL POINT BATTLE
TRACK SCHEDULE
Indoor
Feb. 7—Chicago at Chicago
Feb. 15--Marquette at Notre Dame
Feb. 28 — Northwestern at Notre Dame.
Feb. 29—St. Louis Relays
March 7—Illinois at Notre Dame
March 13-14----C.I.C. Meet at Notre Dame
March 21----Butler and Armour Relays
Outdoor
April 24-25—Drake Relays at Des Moines
May 2—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh
May 9—Ohio State and Michigan State at Notre Dame
May 16—Navy at Annapolis
May 23—Marquette at Milwaukee
May 30—State Meet at Lafayette June 5—C.I.C. Meet at Milwaukee June 12-13—N.C.A.A. Meet
By Al Bride
Today the Notre Dame track team matches speed and endurance with the thinlies from the University of Chicago in the first meet of an ambitious schedule recently released by Athletic Director Elmer Layden. The indoor card calls for four dual meets, three of which will be run in the
Jack Frawley ’Barna’s ready to go.
Fourteen .
TRACK COACH
J. Patrick Nicholson
Notre Dame fieldhouse, and three sectional meets including the St. Louis relays, the C. I. C. meet to be held at Notre Dame, and the Butler and Armour relays.
The spotlight in the Chicago meet this afternoon will be trained upon the individual performances of two of the United States’ outstanding contenders for the Olympic decathlon. Don Elser and Jay Berwanger. The two ex-footballers have replaced their cleats with spikes and have been training diligently in the various events required, and in all probability will be pitted against each other this afternoon. Coach Nicholson has had big Don lifting himself over the high jump and pole vaulting standards, sprinting down the straightaway, skimming both high and low hurdles, and tossing the sixteen pound shot around.
The exact strength and future possibilities of , Nick’s squad will be seen in clearer light after the initial meet (Continued on Page 20)
In its most exciting game so far this season, the Notre Dame basketball team won a decisive victory over the University of Illinois five last Wednesday night by the score 33-23. Although the Irish frequently crept into a substantial lead several times during the game the outcome was never certain for the Illini appeared to be-on the verge of a rally all the time.
The Illinois team took an early lead when the game started and their speed and tricky offense had the Keoganmen baffled for some time. It began to look as though the opponents could make a point every time they took possession of the ball. After a few minutes, however, the Notre Dame defense began to tighten up and the Illini found it difficult to get near the Irish basket. Notre Dame in its turn was rolling up a few points and the game proceeded to the half in nip and tuck fashion with Notre Dame finally forging into the lead to the tune of 18-13.
The second half began with Notre Dame intent on keeping its lead and the Illini fully determined to win the game at all costs. And so began the fastest, most thrilling second half that has been played on the local court this year. So tense was the game that Coach Keogan was unwilling to make any substitutions until the last few minutes. As the half progressed it became apparent that the (Continued on Page 22)
Paul Nowak
Local boy makes good.
The Scholastic

Fencers Meet Spartans
At E. Lansing, Tomorrow
Tomorrow night the Notre Dame fencing team travels to E. Lansing, Michigan where they will engage the fencing representatives of Michigan State in a meet that promises to be a real test for the local foilsmen. Michigan State is reported to have a strong team but the Irish are favorites to continue their •winning streak that started last season.
This meet will be the last trip taken by the fencers until March 28, when they will go to St. Louis and enage Washington U. A long home stay confronts the Irish swordsmen with six consecutive home matches on the schedule. Such teams as Ohio State, Chicago, Purdue, Northwestern, Cincinnati, and Michigan State will furnish the opposition for the team while they are here.
Purdue Match
Notre Dame defeated Purdue in its opening meet of the season on January 25 at Lafayette, Indiana by a score of 11 to 6.
In the foils, Co-captain Kehoe won both of the two bouts he fought, one from the Purdue captain, Silverman, which was a beautiful exhibition of foil fencing. He won this bout by the narrow margin of one point, 6 to 5, and it was the only bout lost by the stellar Purdue’s captain.
Telmo de Landero won two bouts from Reynolds and McWilliams, and lost to Captain Silverman. Mc-Auliffe won his only foil bout from Reynolds. Seco, competing for the first time, made a wonderful showing, winning from Reynolds and McWilliams, and forcing the Purdue captain to the limit in his bout with him, losing by only one point, 5 to 6.
de Landero Wins Two
In the sabre, Co-captain Carlos de Landero, as it is usual with him, won both of his two sabre bouts from Green and Seaborg, and the other Irish co-captain, Kehoe, won one from Green, while he was upset by Seaborg to whom he lost 5 to 6.
In the epee, McAuliffe won 3 to 0 from Sellers, and lost 0 to 3 to Hamman. Carlos and Telmo de Landero lost one bout each to Sellers and Hamman respectively by the same score, 2 to 3.
For Purdue, Captain Silverman in foils and Hamman in epee were the stars, each one winning two points for Purdue.
Both Seco for Notre Dame, and Seaborg for Purdue, in their first year of competition, surprised everybody with their splendid performances.
(Continued on Page 22)
February 7, 1936
KENTUCKY'S BRILLIANT COURT FIVE TO SHOW HERE NEXT WEEK
INTERHALL ...
The interhall basketball schedule was released this week by Mr. John Scannell, head of the Department of Physical Education. The various halls will swing into action on Sunday, Feb. 9. The officials will be supplied by the Phy Ed department, and the
Joseph O’Neil
A member of Walsh’s Quintet.
games, as in the past, will all be played on the different • Sundays throughout the winter months. The two divisions are the lightweights, which include the men weighing under 150 pounds, and the heavyweights will be those who go over that limit.
The schedule is as follows:
Feb. 9: Group 1—9:00, Freshmen vs. Off-eampus : 9:50, Dillon vs. Brownson ; 1:50, Carroll vs. St. Ed’s.; Badin—Bye.
Group 2—1:30, Sorin vs. Morrissey : 2:20, Walsh vs. Howard: 3:10, Alumni vs. Lyons: Corby—bye.
Feb. 16: Group 2—9:00, Sorin vs. Howard; 9:50, Walsh vs. Morrissey; 10:40, Corby vs. Lyons ; Alumni—bye.
Group 1—1:30, Freshmen vs. Brownson; 2:20, Dillon vs. Off-campus; 3:10, Badin vs. St. Ed’s.; Carroll--bye.
Feb. 23: Group 1—9:00, Freshmen vs. Dillon ; 9 :50, Carroll vs. Badin; 10:50, Off-campus vs. Brownson; St. Ed’s.—bye.
Group 2—1:30, Sorin vs. Walsh; 2:20, Alumni vs. Corby; 3:10, Morrissey vs. Howard, Lyons—bye.
March 1: Group 2—9:00, Sorin vs. Alumni: 9:50, Walsh vs. Corby; 10:40, Morrissey vs. Lyons ; Howard—bye.
Group 1—1:30, Freshmen vs. Carroll; 2:20, Dillon vs. Badin; 3:10, Off-campus vs. St. Ed’s.; Brownson—bye.
March 8: Group 1—9:00, Freshmen vs. St. Ed’s.; 9:50, Off-campus vs. Carroll; 10:50, Brownson vs. Badin ; Dillon—bye.
Group 2-----1:30, Sorin vs. Lyons; 2:20,
Alumni vs. Morrissey; 3:10, Corby vs. Howard ; Walsh—bye.
March 15: Group 2—9:00, Corby vs. Morrissey ; 9:50. Howard vs. Alumni; 10:40, Walsh vs. Lyons: Sorin—bye.
Group 1—1:30, Off-campus vs. Badin; 2:20. Dillon vs. St. Ed’s.; 3:10, Carroll vs. Brownson ; Freshmen—bye.
March 22: Group 1—9:00, Freshmen vs. Badin; 9:50, Carroll vs. Dillon; 10:50, Brownson vs. St. Ed’s.; Off-campus—bye.
Group 2—1:30, Sorin vs. Corby; 2:20, Walsh vs. Alumni; 3:10, Howard-vs. Lyons; Morrissey—bye.
Lost 3 Games In Two Years
By John Cackley
The blue-grass regions of Kentucky have long been renowned for their tasty mint juleps, their southern hospitality, their supra-speed race horses —and of more recent acclaim, for one of the finest collegiate basketball outfits in the country.
A rare treat, Monday night, will be afforded those fans who have the opportunity of witnessing the intersectional clash between Coach George Keogan’s proteges and the high-geared Kentucky five. Fresh from an invasion of Alabama and Tennessee, the Wildcats are reputed to be in mid-season form.
Their record this winter, as in previous years, is very impressive. Georgtown (Ky.) and Berea were both swamped by lopsided margins in the initial conflicts. Pitt was next to feel the Wildcats’ wrath as Doc Carlson’s men bowed before a 35-17 count. Incidentally it might be well to mention that the Panthers were trailing 22-2 at the intermission.
New York University has provided one of the defeats that Kentucky has experienced during their current campaign. The Violets eked out a 41 to 28 victory last month. Since then the Wildcats have garnered two wins over’ Tulane, in addition to smothering Xavier, Tennessee, Michigan State, and Alabama.
The visitors are coached by Adolph Rupp, former University of Kansas flash. Since coming to Lexington in the fall of 1929, Rupp’s aggregations have won 86 encounters while losing 11. They have been undefeated (Continued on Page 21)
Adolph
“Appus, hice cream—boys?”
F i f t e e n
INTRODUCING
Kentucky U. Scribe
Predicts Close Game
By Cy Stroker
By Joe Quinn
Lny general will tell you that the first line of defense must he backed up by a good second line, if it is to be effective. It’s the same way in basketball. A flashy first team can
be easily defeated if it has no reserves to fall back on because no team can keep up the pace that kills
for an entire game. And that’s where men like Johnny Hopkins come in.
• Johnny isn’t what you would call a first string player because he plays but a few minutes of every game, hut those few minutes are highly "important ones. They serve two purp°ses> —giving the other forward a much needed- breathing spell, and holding-back • the > opposition. Only Johnny isn’t content-merely to be on the de-	in, the summer.	. ing scorer to date, and his 17 points \
fensive. He insists on making -.some He and Co-Captain Johnny Ford; against N.Y.U. are still the high mark whom Hoppy vouches bears afi: exact	for the year at Madison Square Gar-
resemblance to Leslie Howard make up	den. Carlisle, a junior, acted as un-
the trickiest and fastest forward pass- derstudy for Leroy “Big Ed” Eding attack Coach Keogan has had in . wards last season and had few oppor-. a decade". Both are seniors and are tunities to perform but seems to have playing their last year of basketball . hit his stride during this camaign. . for the Irish. ,	. ■	.	. ,	■ -	(Continued on Page 23)	. ,
points of his own, and. those points have frequently saved the Irish from . defeat. - This is Hopkins’ third and last .year as a member of the'Notre Dame squad, and he-is making the most of it by playing in every game.
He .was bom in "’Hoboken, : New
trying to live it down ever since. Johnny attended Immaculate Conception grade school in Elizabeth, N. J., and prepared for Notre Dame at St. Benedict’s prep in Newark. It was
at prep school that he began playing basketball, holding down the forward
post on- that school’s team
for three
Jersey 22 years ago and years. ' He entered Notre
has been Dame in
1932 to study business administration in the Commerce school. When he graduates he intends to work on the Curb Exchange. At present he . rooms in Walsh with. Sonny Church.
Joe “Red” Hagan at forwards, Gar.	.	.	land Lewis in the pivot position, and
His favorite exercisers sleep, but. he Captain Andy Anderson and Warfield rouses himself occasionally, to play Donohue at guards . ,	.
billiards in the winter and soft-ball Carlisle has been Kentucky’s lead-
Lexington, Ky., Feb. 6. — When Coach Adolph Rupp’s University of Kentucky Wildcats move into South Bend, Monday night, it will be with the expectation of meeting one of the
George Ireland Another admirer of Nowak
strongest foes of the season in Notre Dame.
This game, the opener of a two-year series, marks the first meeting between the two schools in several years, and the Kentucky squad is anxious to make the occasion an auspicious one. The Wildcats realize that a win over Coach Keogan’s charges, recognized as one of the country’s outstanding teams, ■will go far toward alleviating the sting of the two defeats suffered thus far this season.
The Kentuckians, after running roughshod over Pittsburgh at Lexington, bowed to New York University in Madison Square Garden before almost 20,000 people early in January. ; After this setback, Kentucky won five -straight games including victories over Xavier and Michigan State. Last Saturday night at Nashville, the ’Cats dropped their first conference game in four years when Vanderbilt scored a surprise . win over them. It was -Vanderbilt . who defeated Kentucky for the last time, four years ago.	■
Although Coach Rupp has been experimenting with his lineup in the past several, games, it seems likely that he will start Ralph Carlisle- and
Sixteen
The Scholastic
i-
i
COMPETENT BOXING INSTRUCTOR WILL BE ENGAGED TO TEACH BENGAL FISTIC HOPEFULS
By James A. Waldron
With exams over, intensive training will be started in preparation for the Bengal Boxing Show to be held in the middle of March. The past few weeks have been used merely for doing light exercises which limber up the unused muscles. Now with examination worries past the pugilistic hopefuls are going into serious training.
As was previously announced The Scholastic will secure the services of a competent instructor to teach the fundamentals of boxing two or
>

Max Marek
Golden Gloves and Bengal Champ.
*
►
A
*

4

three times a week. A regular schedule will be posted on the various bulletin boards. Those who desire to become a student of these classes are not obligated to enter the show. Many students wish to learn how to handle themselves, but for various reasons would not be able to enter the bouts. Everyone is welcome to attend these classes whether or not he is a. candidate. ■ Often natural ability is discovered by the instructor in men who have had little or no experience. This ability will be - developed • and the rough spots of those who have fought before will be pointed out and corrected.
- Last year over fifty students attended the boxing classes conducted by Max-Marek, former Golden Gloves champion. They became so popular that many requests have come in for another class of this kind. A student manager will be on hand every afternoon with necessary boxing .para-
( Continued on Page 22)
February 7, 1936
UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL SQUADS PARTICIPATE IN A. A.
BANQUET
The athletic association, last Monday night, tendered its annual banquet to the varsity, reserve, and freshmen squads in the west dining hall. Coach Elmer Layden presided, and the Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C., of the faculty board in control of athletics, ■ spoke in behalf of that body.
An impressive feature of the program was the tribute paid to the memory of Captain Joe Sullivan, the entire assemblage standing in silent prayer for one minute.
Brief addresses were made by John P. Nicholson, track coach; Francis Jones, president of the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley; Bernard J. Voll, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association; George Keogan, basketball coach; Dr. Eugene McMeel, team physician; James M. Costin, sports editor of the Neius-Times; Bob Overaker, assistant sports editor of the South Bend Tribune; “Scrap” Young, trainer; Jake Kline, freshmen football coach; Tom Gorman, assistant freshmen coach; Dan Hanley, custodian of the fieldhouse; Tom Conley, end coach; Chet Grant, backfield coach; and Bill Cer-ney, coach of the reserves.
Senior players who spoke included Bull Belden, Harry Becker, Augie Church, Ed Dunn, Don Elser, Frank Gaul, John Michuta, Mike Layden, Wayne Millner, George Moriarty, Marty Peters, Dick Pfefferle, Bill Shakespeare, Hank Pojman, Fred Solari,, Ken Stilley, Matt Themes, George Carey, Bill Fay, Paul Krause, A. Pagliasotti, Bill Safia, Dan Smith, and John Hoban, as well as Student Managers, George Winy and Jim Burke.
PHILADELPHIA PRODUCTS
Ed Meehan, 1919 track captain; Joe Boland, 1924 and 1925 football monogram winner and varsity tackle the latter year; and Tom Conley, captain of the 1930 national champions all came to Notre Dame from Roman Catholic High school of Philadelphia. Meehan entered the newspaper business in South Bend, while Boland and Conley are members of the Irish coaching staff. Unknown to one another they moved into houses within a stone’s throw of each other in South Bend.
By Joe Prendergast
THEY’RE OFF AT CHICAGO
Coach John Nicholson’s hard working tracksters will stage their first indoor meet of the season tonight against Chicago University in the Midway fieldhouse. Last year the Irish left the Maroon athletes in arrears, 67 to 37, when the two schools met at Notre Dame. Jay Berwanger, poular All-American footballer and versatile track man, was a conspicuous absentee from the Chicago squad last year because of a knee injury re-
ceived in the grid game, but this year the Dubuque, Iowa lad is in the best form of his track career and will be heard from on all fronts. Tonight he is billed to start in four events with a possibility that he might try his hand at more. Our own Don Elser will try to match the efforts of Berwanger, and’it should be a merry duel. Both are considered ace high as far as Olympic decathlon prospects go and warrant this rating.
A MERITORIOUS LETTER
In the mail over the exam period came a letter from a prominent undergraduate hitting at one of the sore spots in the Notre Dame gymnasium set-up. ■ It is excellent in its criticism and very timely. The letter follows:
“I noticed in the last issue of “The Scholastic” that you are again planning to promote the Bengal Bouts. However, I would like to make the suggestion that “The Scholastic,” S.A.C., or the Athletic Board find a place where those interested in entering the bouts may practice boxing. Of course you will say that the exercise room in the north wing of the gym is fine for boxing, but it is too small. Between the members of the fencing squad, the Phy Ed men, and those who are just working out, there is no room at all. The ideal solution would be the finding of a special room for the fencing squad which would not only provide room for the boxers but would also eliminate the danger of someone getting his eye poked out because of the crowded conditions.
“It seems a shame that a school as large and as famous for its athletic (Continued on Page 21)
Seventeen
s
IRISH ADD PENN; SYRACUSE, BUTLER AND ST. BENEDICTS TO CONQUESTS
Sporting Bits Of Notre Dame's Teams and Men
Have Won Last 7 Starts
By Arch Gott
The Notre Dame basketeers, gathering momentum with every recent start, took the long jaunt to Philadelphia on January 18 to take the Pennsylvania Red and Blue in a fast free-scoring game, 37-27. The Palestra was jammed with a crowd of wild fans who cheered madly for their brilliant Quaker team. These same Quakers had been turning aside the best in the East, but the Keoganites seemed unaware of any such things as records and reputations, going through the game in a confident surefire manner.
Pennsylvania started a squad of five seniors, but before the game was far gone they were forced to enter many substitutes in order' to find a clicking combination. The game be-
gan fast with very little scoring for either side during the first few minutes until first the Irish and then the Quakers began to drop in the points. The best group for the Blue and Gold seemed to be Nowak, Ireland, Moir, Wade, and Ford. Moir piled up his already phenomenal point total by dropping in buckets from all over the floor, but he was closely followed by the lanky Paul Nowak. The latter on many occasions seemed to reach into the basket to avert possible scores by the Red and Blue and his play was outstanding during the entire contest.
In the closing minutes of the game, Penn, in desperation, shot from all corners of the floor but their shots failed to connect, and Notre Dame emerged safely with their lead, to win. By their victory over the Pennsys the Irish furthered their claims toward national recognition and dimmed the once-bright hopes of the Quakers.
Continuing on to Syracuse while in the winning mood, Notre Dame stopped off long enough on Monday, January 20 to administer a trimming to the confident Syracuse quintet. The towering New Yorkers had not previously lost a game on their home floor for a period of four years, and it was a great Irish team that exploded the existing myth that Syracuse just couldn’t lose a game. In
the contest the Irish bumped up against one of the tallest teams they will meet all season. Every man was over 6 feet in height and despite their resemblance to a group of Goliaths, they possessed remarkable speed and accuracy. Ed Sonderman, star center, proved a worthy foe for Paul Nowak, but neither secured a monopoly on the tipoff all evening. Johnny Ford and George Ireland played grand defensive ball with Ford continually snatching the sphere from the hands of the rangy New Yorkers.
Besides their record of no home defeats the Syracuse outfit enjoyed an unblemished slate in all games played this season, and it took the Irish to implant the initial blot on their escutcheon. Previously the Syracuse teams had played a second half game, allowing the visiting team to pile up an early lead and then overcoming it with a devastating second half assault. Evidently they did not believe in the lesson that the Notre Dame footballers showed all opponents last fall in the closing minutes of play—regardless, the Keoganites turned on the pressure, and not only forestalled the delayed Syracuse attack but also unleashed a fiery assault of their own, to win 46-43. Simonatis and Sonderman were kept in check all evening long by the alert Keogan defense, and victory was the result.
January 25 was the date of the renewal of the furious Butler-Notre Dame basketball series. Notre Dame, playing at home, appeared strongly confident, ringing up a sweet game of hoops to send Butler back to Indianapolis smarting under a 35-27 defeat. Braving a sub-zero blast, a crowd of 5,000 was on deck to see the best home game of the current campaign —there were even a group of Butler fans in the stands who loudly approved the every effort of their team. Johnny Ford, playing against a team from his home town, was again tops on defense and scrapped his way to honors for the evening’s play. Johnny Moir continued to demonstrate his consistency by ringing in some remarkable hoops. Penetrating a seemingly impregnable defense time and time again, Moir flashed into position under the basket in perfect place for a-pass from Ford or Wade. Ireland
(Continued on Page 20)
In its next two games, Notre Dame meets two of the greatest basketball teams in the country. The Irish play Kentucky, defeated only by N. Y. U., at Notre Dame next Monday, Feb. 10. St. Valentine’s day will find the Irish in Madison Square . Garden against the undefeated N. Y. U. quintet which defeated Purdue, only team to defeat Notre Dame this year.
—o—
Notre Dame’s fencing team, undefeated last year, and victorious in its opening match with Purdue this year, 11 to 6, will face Michigan State at East Lansing Saturday (Feb. 8). The sport was introduced at Notre Dame two years ago by Prof. Pedro de Lan-dero, and the Irish won the unofficial Middle Western championship last year. Co-Capts. Kevin Kehoe and Pedro de Landero, son of the Coach, lead the team. Another son, Telmo, Jack McAuliffe, and Bob Seco are other mainstays of the current squad.
—o—
John Francis, Notre Dame sophomore miler, missed a year of track and of school last year when he underwent two operations, for the removal of gall stones and his appendix, respectively. He won the A. A. U. 1500 meter run in Chicago in 1934. John Hackett, also a track man, has had more bad luck than Francis, however, having suffered his third leg fracture recently. He broke the small bone in his right leg hitting a turn last winter. While on crutches, he slipped on the campus and broke the other leg. Recently, in a slow and careful time trial, the old break in his right leg returned. He was unaware of the incident until his leg began to swell hours later.
The Central Intercollegiate Conference indoor track championship will be decided this year on a basis of five places instead of four. Member schools decided to use the 5-4-32-1 method of scoring instead of the 5-3-2-1 style. Pittsburgh is favored to retain the title it won last season in the best indoor meet of the season in the Middle West.
Mike Layden, Notre Dame backfield star and brother of Director of Athletics Elmer F. Layden, will be unable to defend his meet records in the high and low hurdles in the Marquette Notre Dame dual meet at Notre Dame, Feb. 15. He is out of competition with a football injury to his knee, and is resting the injured member in the hope of being available for the outdoor season.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
ON DOWN THE LINE j
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY’S basketball team defeated CARNEGIE TECH, leaders in the EASTERN CONFERENCE LEAGUE, 44-23. The DUKES started their second team and with the score of 5-3 in their favor, sent in the varsity who proceeded to run it up to 26-3 before CARNEGIE TECH could crack their sterling defense . . . From the list of college players to play in PITTSBURGH this season, PAUL NOWAK, sophomore center of the IRISH court team, was selected as the outstanding performer according to a PITT sport scribe . . . LARRY KELLEY, the “DIZZY DEAN” of football, will captain the YALE varsity next year, while JACK FILER, who was his team-mate and played the opposite end to him at PEDDIE INSTITUTE, will hold a similar honor at BUCKNELL . . . WES BENNETT, of WESTMINSTER, scored his 1,000th point of his varsity career against PITTSBURGH. He has 214 thus far this season, with thirteen games still to go . . . EDDIE CAMERON, coach of DUKE UNIVERSITY, says that CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY had. the best team he had seen in Southernterritory this season ... De PAUL UNIVERSITY’S 1936 football team is without a captain. HAROLD CARLSON, who was elected by a close margin over two teammates, called a meeting bf letter men and tendered his resignation.
PAGE MR. LAYDEN!
Among the UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY’S plebe football candidates next Fall will be 20-year old LINDSEY DONNELL, CUMBERLAND UNIVERSITY back who led the nation’s individual ground
gainers in 1935. The halfback romped through sition for 1,659 yards in an average of more than
170-pound the oppo-10 games, 165 yards
per game. His mark surpasses the total of 1,043 set up by elusive “KAYO” LAM, the COLORADO star.
BENGAL BOUTS’ GRADUATE.
MAX MAREK, University heavyweight champion of last year, is ex. .tending his winning streak as a professional boxer. His record is marred by only one defeat, by BOB PASTOR of NEW YORK. This decision was a disputed one, and that contention seems to be borne out by the fact that STEVE DUDAS, whom MAREK cut to pieces, slugged his way to a clear-cut win over PASTOR a week ago. MAREK defeated BOB GODWIN in his last fight in MIAMI. GODWIN was formerly one of the best light-heavyweights in the country.

EXTRA HIGH (IaDk
WWW
CAMPUS leaders have adopted the new “boy” in the Edge- -worth family—Edge worth Jr. Although Edgeworth Jr. entered the colleges only a few months ago, the new, light, free-burning tobacco for both pipes and cigarettes is already “tops” in every class. Made by Larus & Bro. Co., Richmond, Va. Tobacconists since 1877.
CORN COB PIPE CLUB OF VIRGINIA.
Crossroads fun, old-time music. Every Wednesday night at 9:00 (Eastern Standard Time) over coast-to-coast NBC Blue network, direct from Richmond, Virginia.
TOBACCO
151 a tin. Wrapped in moisture-proof "Cellophane.’
BASEBALL CONQUESTS (Continued from Page 18)
during this game further showed that he is one of the best guards in the game by his sensational pass-intercepting and his mysterious ability to see out of the back of his head. At one stage of the game while he was guarding closely a man in front of him, he suddenly reached behind to one -side and broke up a dribble to secure the ball for his own team.
Taking time off from exams, Notre Dame unlimbered - -on February, 1 just long enough to tender a terrific lacing to Moon Mullin’s St. Benedict’s quintet, 53-17. Using almost his entire squad, Coach Keqgan watched his various combines score.at will. Marty Peters, in the game\f<yrtynly a short time, got his famous£fdpuble-pivot working, and in a/few’ minutes he had scored eleven points. . <Ih.the first half before,the Irish..offensef.had"be^ gun to sizzle, Frank Wade suddenly decided to wake the boys, up, and in less than a half minute he had rung . up three lightning-like field goals. It was the prettiest bit of offensive play to he seen here all -season. For the Ravens, Dockery and Corcoran were outstanding. Corcoran made ten points to lead, his team in scoring, and Dockery was. the spark-plug behind the opposition.	'
CHICAGO . TRACK MEET
(Continued from Page 14)
with the Maroons. Several sophomores will take the first .plunge into collegiate competition, while seasoned members will be able .to see. just where they, stand in comparison with past' performances. '	.
Captain Meagher.^ in the broad jump, • Francis in ;the mile or two mile, Elser in the shot put, Bernard in- the 440, Ducasa; in the half mile McFarlane and Gott in the two mile, and Frawley and Boyle jn the sprints are all expected to collect points that will aid in an Irish victory.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BERRY ,
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
-228 S. Michigan St. '' ... . South Bend,;Indiana.	;
Brilliant Lecture Given
By Rev. John A. Ryan
Stressing a shorter hour week as one of the great factors in reducing unemployment, the Rev. John A. Ryan, professor of economics at Catholic University, Washington, D. C., addressed a large gathering in the Auditorium of the Engineering building, Monday evening, Jan. 27. The topic of Monsignor Ryan’s address was “Organized Social Justice.”
The speaker declared that New Deal legislation would have been the best thing for the people had it not been ruled unconstitutional.
In the‘course of his talk Monsignor Ryan touched on the NRA, the AAA, the Supreme Court, and Al Smith’s recent speeches. He also spoke briefly of Father Coughlin’s monetary plan, the WPA, and 'the PWA.
An M. I. T. chemical warfare class was routed ‘recently . when someone tossed a regulation army tear-gas ■ bomb into the room.	" .
Wrist Watch bracelets
Briarclille
Staunton
ijoun
to show you the latest HADLEY creations in Wrist Watch bracelets lor Men and Women You will find styles to suit every occasion, moderately priced.
Send for "SMART WRISTS," an illustrated folder showing the correct watch bracelet styles for 1936.
HADLEY’PROVIDENCE • * • i •
New York • Chicago • Los Angeles • COMPANY • INC• Toronto • Canada •• London - England •
WRIST-WATCH BRACELETS EXCLUSIVELY-SINCE 1912
Utah State College Has Unusual Town
Logan, Utah—(acp)—Newest municipality in Utah is “Windbreak City,” organized by Utah State College students who came to school in automobile trailers, removed the wheels, banked the travelling houses against the cold, and settled down for the winter.
The citizens of Windbreak City turned out of their 12 trailers the other day to elect Ivan Theuson of Rexburg, Idaho, mayor, and Leonard Christensen of Los Angeles, Calif., and Ned Tucker of Fairview, Utah, councilmen.
Education note: In the Southwest, a “soup-bane” is a personal check, and the Dean of Men is known as the “boot-giver.”
Ad in a Portland, Me., paper: “Wanted, three attractive young ladies for three Bowdoin men to take to house parties Picture must accompany reply.”

♦
Twenty
The Scholastic
a
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 17)
achievements as Notre Dame should not have better athletic facilities for those students who are unable to indulge in any of the major sports.
“In the present exercise room there is only one wrestling mat which is always so crowded that it is impossible to do any real wrestling. The
heavy punching bag was probably fine in its youth, but it is now so old that it looks and feels like a bag of cement. The only thing remaining of the light inflated punching bag is the wooden frame. Of course there is always the consolation that the Rockne Memorial will be built “soon,” and it will contain everything desirable. However, thoughts of the future will not put muscle on the present students. Something should be done right now, during the winter months, when the average students’ only opportunity for exercise is in the one, small, and inadequately equipped room.
“Also in one of the recent Scholastics I noticed in the campus opinion column that all but one of the students interviewed were in favor of intercollegiate boxing. Why not have a member of the University Athletic Board publish the opinion of the school concering this, with specific reasons for or against the organization of an intercollegiate team?”
Sincerely,
T. M.
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222}$ South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
Notice to Students:
All statements for glasses will be mailed home on request.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
KENTUCKY GAME
(Continued from Page 15)
by any Southern Conference opponent in a regularly scheduled game since that league was organized in 1931.
The Wildcats set an enviable mark in ’33, when they captured a total of 30 out of 35 contests. The following year they lost one of 16 games. During the winter of 1935 they chalked up 19 wins and succumbed to Michigan State and New York U.
Notre Dame and Kentucky have tangled on the hardwood only once before this setto. In 1929 the southerners sneaked over a 19-16 triumph from the Irish, here at Notre Dame. Two All-Americans have been developed by Rupp’s skillful handling. Forrest Sale, a guard, made the grade twice in a row, while Leroy Edwards managed to cinch the pivot rating a few years ago.
With the exception of Captain Anderson the Wildcats present a starting lineup that averages over the six foot level. Carlisle and Hagan are slated to be at the forward posts, while the center circle is well taken care of by Lewis. Anderson and Donohue will be stationed at their usual guard position. The Irish,
Qnini i tiiim limit mu tai urn i >■ 111111111(111111111111 ittiittti □
!	FOR RECREATION,	I
1	SWIM AT THE	|
| Natatorium |
E 1044 West Washington Ave. £
I FOR LADIES J j	and GENTLEMEN	1
E	One of the finest Swimming	E
E	Pools in the country.	E
=	Week days, 12 to 9 p. m.	=
=	Sundays 2 to 6 p. m.	E
|	_ Admission Fee includes	e
E 7 5 C suit, towel, locker, sun-	=
E	lamps and plunge. E
E Five Admissions for $1	£
E One Low, One High Springboard. E
j Private Parties can be arranged. E .
i	Phone 3-8611	I
3 iiiiimiiimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiimtiiiimitiniti>it*[a]
having lost but one game this year, will be gunning for their eighth consecutive victory. It is alleged that there is not even one man on the Kentucky squad that holds the rank of ‘colonel’—a unique distinction, to say the least.
Hockey was first played in America in 1901, starting at Vassar, Bryn Mawr, Smith and—Harvard Summer School!
“I’ll be in CHICAGO in 125 minutes flat!”
Make your appoint-■ ments in Chicago in the sure knowledge that the South Shore Line will get you there on time!
South Shore Line is SPEEDY!
The South Shore electric trains whiz thru to Chicago in great speed . . . yet with safety that comes from decades, of operating experi-e n c e . And it is cheaper than driving a car! .
50Uthnsehd^
February 7, 1936
Twenty-one
FROZEN FEET, FACES— (Continued from Page 12)
the average man five minutes to strip himself .of his outer garments.
But enough of this. You know all about the oddities evoked by the cold. Maybe you were one of them. Regardless of the chilled, chapped, and chewed apendages, the record-breaking weather at least provided a few extra paragraphs in your letters home. And our guess is that the flowers will bloom again.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
■ South Bend
PURDUE MATCH
(Continued from Page 15)
Summary:
Won Lost
Foils ......... 7	2
Sabre ......... 3	1
Epee........... 1	3
Final Score....11	6
The Notre Dame team in their first meet proved again to be a team and not to rely on any particular man. Kehoe scored 3 points, and the other four boys accounted for two victories each.
The schedule this year is the toughest that can be arranged for any team, and the Notre Dame fencers may drop two or perhaps three meets, but winning or losing the boys are going to be there, fighting until the last point is scored.
ANNUALS BOOKLETS
PRINTED OR ENGRAVED
INVITATIONS ‘ DANCE PROGRAMS STATIONERY • AN NOUNCEMENTS
McCLAVE PRINTING CO.
GRAPHIC ARTS CRAFTSMEN 4-7361	435 E. LASALLE. SOUTH BEND
ILLINOIS GAME (Continued from Page 14)
Illini could no longer keep up the terrific pace they had set earlier in the game and their passwork and general floor play began to slip. They managed, however to prevent Notre Dame from completely dominating the game and trailed them to the end when the score stood at 33-23.
To say that Notre Dame played over its head is perhaps not doing them justice. But the Irish displayed a brand of ball that most spectators did not think they were capable of. Also, it cannot be said that any one man won the game for Notre Dame. Ford and Moir at the forward posts were nothing short of spectacular, and Moir’s unbelievable shots added to the spirit of the game. Nowak at center played a wonderful game and shared the scoring honors with Moir by sinking six baskets. Ireland and Wade held up the Illinois offense in a remarkable manner, and Wade seemed to be the coolest man on the floor, not excluding the referees.
Illinois played the type of ball that makes good competition in any game. A classier group of ball-handlers haven’t appeared at Notre Dame in many moons and to them much honor is due in their defeat. The chief threat of the Illini was Vopicha, left forward, who scored four field goals and dominated the game for the visitors throughout. The Illini style of playing was radically different in many respects from orthodox basketball. On the center jump, one of the forwards would come over to the guards’ side, making three men on the same side of the center. In this way, the visitors were able to get control of the tip-off almost every time.
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 17)
phernalia. Boxing gloves, towels, and stop-watches may be obtained from him.
All of the returning champions have started preparation for their title-defense. They realize that condition is the biggest factor that will hel pthem to gain aother championship sweater. Competition, from early reports, will be exceptionally keen this year, and that little extra training will count a great deal toward determining the better man.
Poor, unfortunate fellow! He was ragged, tattered, hungry and broke. The lean, hungry look on his face betrayed the fact that he had not eaten for days and the eagerness with which he peered into restaurant windows bespoke of extreme poverty. Indeed he was a living skeleton.
This fellow — had attended the Christmas dance back home!!!
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
It takes 25 operations
to finish one Ford valve
Each Ford valve requires twenty-five separate operations from the time work starts on a rough valve until it is ready for use. That is a surprising number of operations for such a simple looking part, but typical of Ford care in manufacturing.
The stems of the rough valves first receive two preliminary grinding operations. Then they go through a furnace where the heads are brought to a red heat. Next, automatic fingers place them in a huge machine where a ram strikes the red-hot heads. This operation refines the grain structure in the head, straightens it, and forms the valve seat.
Valves then pass through other grinding, machining and
polishing operations. Each stem is ground five times for greater accuracy and smoothness. Inspection gages keep a constant check.
In spite of this care, each Ford valve is subjected to rigid final inspection. Amplifying gages check the stem for roundness within two ten-thousandths of an inch. Similar gages check diameter.
Other inspection equipment indicates the slightest “run out” of seat and checks stem end for squareness. Then the valves go into a constant temperature room where they are inspected for length.
The Ford V-8 runs like a fine car because it is built like a fine car. No car at any price is made to finer precision limits.
KENTUCKY SCRIBE
(Continued from Page 16)
“Red” Hagan, Carlisle’s running mate at forward, is a sophomore, a product of St. Xavier high school in Louisville, was a member of the AllAmerica high school court team when a senior. Hagan, the only regular member of the squad who is also a football player, is aggressive on the court and a good shooter.
February 7, 1936
Garland Lewis, Jeffersonville, is one of the two seniors on the squad, having served two years on the varsity. Lewis is one of the hardest working members of the team and is a> smooth ball-handler as well as a good shot.
Captain Andy Anderson and Warfield Donohue team up at guard, and have proved an exceptionally effective combination for two seasons. Ander
son has been the spark-plug of the team, directing from the back court. Both he and Donohue have held opposing forwai'ds to low scores, consistently in the past two seasons. Last year, Anderson was rated the best guard to show in Madison Square Garden all season.
After playing Notre Dame, Monday night, the 'Cats journey to Indianapolis to face Butler University on Tuesday night.
Twenty-three
UR. PAUL BYRNE,	.
LIBRARY, NOTRE DAKE, IND.
klere’s one cigarette that
writes its own advertising..
Jtis like this—
You see I’m reading a Chesterfield advertisement and I’m smoking a Chesterfield cigarette, and all of you are smoking Chesterfields.
iJftMWWOMMMMC
© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Now listen — Chesterfields are mild (not strong, not harsh). That’s true isn’t it?
Then you read “and yet they satisfy, please your taste, give you what you want in a cigarette.” That says it, doesn’t it?
Wait a minute—
It says now that Chesterfields have plenty of aroma and flavor. One of you go out of the room and come back. That will tell you how pleasing the aroma is.
Chesterfield writes its own