
15 November 2007 

University of Notre Dame's Student:' Magazine Since 1867 -----------------------­
aI  .iveb  
,di  aw sc  
cec  1g • n  
jarr  :iveec  
Jildin  awscI  
axect..  ....,,L1ing • ne"" .  
3 dam£  • executive educatio,  
.:iuildin£,  ,tre dame law school • th,  
.1 • executiv~  ,,ces building • new art mu.  
notre dame law  ,all • executive education CE  
nces building • ne  1otre dame law school • the  
hall • executive e,  mces building • new art mu~  
• notre dame law  ,all • executive education CE  
nces building • ne  1otre dame law school • the  
hall• executivee,  mces building• new art mu~  
,. notre dame law  hall • a new women's reside  
:k & field stadium ·  ame commons • duncan ha  
• geddes hall •stir  stadium • lacrosse stadium  
,avillion jacc renov  ;emer • soccer staaIum • iacrosse stadium • track & fielo staaium • soc  
renovations •notr« ,sse stadium.• trac :rtinson -resnick ha  _  .  ·  =great lawn • geddes hall • stinson-resnick hall • a new women's reside 1um • purcell pavillion jacc renovations •notre dame commons • duncan _ nter • soccer stadium • lacrosse stadli • track iq.1n·um •social ~ 

renovations •notre dame commonsduncan hall • notre dame law school • the great lawn • geddes hall • stinson-r i~ hj. 1fl'iflside ,rosse stadium • track & field stadium • social sciences building • new art museum • purcell pavillion • jacc renovat1 ;I M'tfe 1~ rMn! I eu 111 •stinson -resnick hall • a new women's residence hall • executive education center • sonelftadium • lecrosse stadium • track & fieli_ !tadium • s renovations •notre dame commons• duncan hall • notre dame law school • the great laVifVt8SSIV8n.P8fl(!>V8'"H&ft~si 
..,,..,sse stadium• track & field stadium• social sciences building • new art museum• purcell pavillion jacc renovations •notre dame commons• duncan • stinson -resnick hall• a new women's residence ha!I • executive education clnti!'.Vffi:i,tW_iii.s,,lillriiseAwa;i..•~iil~~~Kocia ::: renovations• notre dame commons • duncan hall • notre dame law school • ~El3~-~~l:itirleU:lrl~ll•WiLrlvliU-lsbsi lacrosse stadium • track & field!!,urg, • so~al scien!s building • new art museum •a1reii,Ipa 'Ilion • jitcc rHtions •notre Diecommons • d hall• stinson-resnick hall• a neVI .-ere1iern •VAtlllf!U<lfl'l"Arft 'LAl'l~GS ~r-k ~orso :c renovations •notre dame com !!Mcar.~II' Jlno e ~m't'i~dbh•"t~e'!t · ,~8'1 •Mis -3M~ r.aTI-S a cff-r&,'f•~e§id acrosse stadium • track & field stadium • social sciences building • new art museum • purcell pavillion • jacc renovations • notre dame commons • du 
~~,tin.LIt~--n~=~1~11ul·
i~~:11r1.·i~l!I,i:11:!!~1~•1:~:;,1::~;lVillion ja nov n tr n-iA:ommjl 'iJiia ~d e la ho ~r gedd all • st n~'J).~ ~~~ ium •lacrosses a Ium • rac ffllP1 stadium• socIa sciences b~ g • new a museum• purcell villion • Jacc renovauo'!I'~ notre ame common 1eddes hall •stinson -resnick hall • a new women's residence hall • executive.e_dµcation center • soccer stadium • lacrosse stadium • track & field stadiL • • • • I 


news 05 
06 Undercover Tailgaters 
Lisa Schultz 
Notre Dame Security Police calls in reinforcements to patrol home football game festivities. 
16 Cover: The Master Plan 
Brittany Lash 
Scholastic examines the impact of campus construction on the future of the university. 


13 culture 
14 At the Picture Show 
Amber Travis 
The Vickers Theatre offers ambiance for the foreign and independent film lover. 
22 Campus Chatter 
Maddy Zollo 
Signings take place every football Saturday amidst the chaos of the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 


s orts 25 
30 Sports Opinion: On Humility 
Marques Camp 
Some are calling for the firing of Charlie Weis, but what exactly are the reasons behind his poor performance this year? 
32 humor 
36 What Do Turkeys Say in Ireland? 
Natalie Kratz 
Even though some Notre Dame students are celebrating Thanksgiving across the ocean, they still find some unique things to be grateful for. 
15 NOVEMBER 2007 f SCHOLASTIC f 1 



EDNOTES 
NOTRE DAME'S NEW FACE 
I have only been at Notre Dame for four hectic years and the campus has already witnessed more construction and renovations than I can count. A state­of-the-art science facility was built where previously only trees stood; roads have been shut down, rearranged and reopened; and DeBartolo quad has been transformed from a grassy expanse to a large vacant pit in anticipation of the new law school and engineering building. Although these projects will change the face of Notre Dame for the better, I have to wonder why the university hasn't seen fit to build a light-rail system to make the commute from Carroll Hall a little less ~rduous. 
Notre Dame's hunger for expansion and renewal is not slowing down any time in the near future. In her story "The Master Plan," Scholastic's sports editor, Brittany Lash, spoke with various sources including University Architect Doug Marsh to unveil his comprehensive construction plan and the impact that this plan will have on future ofstudents and South Bend residents alike. It's more than likely that in four more years, I could return to Notre Dame and not recognize it at all. 
COACH, COMMENTATOR ... PRESIDENT? 
Also, when flipping through the magazine, be sure to check out sports writer Meagan McGinley's exclusive interview with former Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps, who is considering a run for the presidency in 2008. He lays out his plans for the country, specifically targeted at the problems facing today's college campuses. As a fixture at the university and a major contributer to social justice both in the United States and abroad, Digger's potential candidacy should be of particular interest to the Irish. Maybe by next year, the country could see its first coach/president. 
Have a safe and happy Thanksgiving break, 

Doug Schlarman Co-Editor in Chief 
2 I ScHousT1c 11s NoVEMBER 2007 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual,. 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 

STUDENTS 
and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP; 1.:.5550, Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Bautista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questi_oning students 
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
http://corecou ncil.nd .edu 

Colleges Collide 
New computer system lets Arts & Letters 
students register for business classes 
Maggie Condit 
Business Week Magazine recently rated the Mendoza College ofBusiness seventh among the nation's top undergraduate business schools. This fall, more non-business majors were given the opportunity to draw on the expertise ofMendoza's esteemed faculty. In a pilot program, the business school increased the number of classes and the availability of seats in each class for non-business majors. "It has been difficult for a number ofyears for non-business students to get into business courses," Assistant Dean of the Mendoza College of Business Sam Gaglio says. "Even though we had seats open, there were automatic conflicts with the courses in non-business majors." In the past, if a non-business major wanted to take a business course, the student would have to go to the dean's office and make sure all the sophomore business majors had finished registering. If there was an open seat in a class that fit with the student's schedule, the student would be given a piece of paper to then be taken to the registrar's office. "The process was very slow, very cumbersome, and treated non-business majors as second class," Gaglio says. With the new computer registration system and more business class sections, an increased number of students from other majors are able to register for business classes. Non-business majors can find courses such as Accounting, Principles of Management and Business Law .listed separately under BAUG in the course catalog. The number ofseats in these courses will be increased to account for non-business majors. The BAUG courses are the same as the courses for business majors. "We do not want to offer watered­down courses," Gaglio says. In today's global economy, companies are looking for employees with diverse backgrounds. Kevin Healy, an investment banker from Merrill Lynch who recently conducted interviews on campus, says that "most of the people we work with have similar backgrounds. A diverse view from a client perspective is often welcome and refreshing." In preparation for law school, senior English major Erin Rogozinski utilized the new registration system to take a business law class. "As a senior, I had some extra room in my schedule and was looking to diversify my classes," Rogozinski says. Notre Dame's new registration model is spurring changes in undergraduate business schools across the nation. Boston College recently called Gaglio to learn more about the new model in order to explore ways to implement a similar program into their Carroll School of Management. "We're really excited about this new model that allows students to pursue the academic passion they have and still have access to business courses to enhance their degree," Gaglio says. + 
15 NOVEMBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 5 

NEWS 

Undercover Tailgaters 
Multiple police forces look to catch underage drinkers 
Lisa Schultz, Brittany Lash and Mike Laskey 
Underage drinking is an inescapable fact of tailgating at Notre Dame. Campus parking lots swell with thousands of visitors each football weekend, many ofwhom bring alcohol and do not bother to ask their guests for procif of age. With such a large group of fl/J. . "It seems like there are no limits or restraints on football weekends," Kirk says. Kirk saw "immoderate drinking as a norm" prior to increasing tailgate enforcement. 
The supposed lack of restraints on gameday weekends motivated 
fans, some sort of crowd 1"d like a clearer explanation of why problems involved with underage control is necessary, drinking, their enforcement ensuring that being they've called in additional polic.. 1 cannot extend to tailgates. Kirk social does not mean says that this is where the excise being unsafe. But as the -Diane Lein, mother of cited student police take over. But there is a 
university sets multiple police forces to work on football Saturdays, some tailgating students claim that the police presence is doing more than promoting the peace. Is Notre Dame trying to get students in trouble? 
Bill Kirk, associate vice president for residence life, describes underage drinking at tailgates as "a bolder, a little more in-your-face violation" than a concealed defiance of the law like beer in a freshman dorm room. Kirk oversees both the Office of Residential Life and Housing and the Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP). 
NDSP to reach out to other agencies for assistance in enforcement. In the last five years, this has meant the inclusion of the Indiana State Excise Police -the law enforcement division of the state Alcohol and Tobacco Commission -on the tailgating police team. 
Currently, there are six to 10 excise police officers on campus for home football game tailgates, says Lt. Tim Cleveland of the Indiana State Excise Police. The specific numbers depend on the game. 
"The priority of the excise police is not to arrest every student," Cleveland says. "Our job is to curb the use ofalcohol for those who abuse it or use it illegally. Most students aren't problems." 
While the residence halls 
provide checks on campus for 
ii!{ 
·t!_ff' 

... 
,\:/.ft
,..,, ,­
~> 
..-. ,· 
thin line between enforcement 
and singling -out students for 
punishment. 
Despite Cleveland's claim that most students are not problems, some students who have been ticketed for underage consumption at tailgates feel like they were targeted by the excise police even though they were at low-key, quiet gatherings. Last Saturday, an underage female student who has requested anonymity was ticketed by the excise police at a small eady-morning tailgate hosted by some young alumni. After taking a sip of beer, she became nervous 
Ji~~,J\: ,J'.[ .. 
and put it down, intending to leave it behind. Several minutes later, approximately eight police officers approached the 12-person tailgate, and one asked to see her ID. "None of us were in any way causing any kind of disturbance," she says. "All of us were drinking our first drink. Someone was grilling and the rest of us were standing in a circle, talking." 
Later in the day, the student attended to some of her underage friends who were "belligerently drunk" and had not been stopped by the police. "It was funny that I was completely sober and got ticketed, and students who were obviously intoxicated would walk around and nothing happened to them," she says. 
Sophomore Bryan Lein had a similar experience last season at a tailgate hosted by one of his friend's families. Lein was holding his first beer, and before he had taken a sip he saw a group of police officers approaching the tailgate. In a panic, he put his cup on the ground. When he stood back up, an undercover excise police officer wearing a backwards cap and backpack demanded to know Lein's age. "It was like a sting operation," he says. 
The tailgate was not a loud or disruptive gathering, but was closely monitored by the host parents. "There wasn't heavy drinking at all," Lein says. "The parents were very protective of everything." After he was ticketed, Lein's parents hired an attorney, who helped him avoid discipline from the university. Lein paid a 170-dollar fine and completed 20 hours of community service. 
Lein's mother Diane, who was on campus that day, was surprised and confused at the height of police presence in the parking lots. "I'd like a clearer explanation of why they've called in additional police. I have not seen a lot of out-of-control behavior," she says. "Kids can't walk through the parking lot on gameday without being in the presence of alcohol. It's unavoidable." 
Other parents have also voiced concerns. Kirk references a parent letter that went so far as to suggest that police have quotas to meet or that the university gets some sort ofkickback from law enforcement. "Nothing could be farther from the truth," he says. Heightened police presence is warranted, he says, because each football weekend is such "a major event in northern Indiana." 
Less radical objections are common, as some students and parents lament that police reinforced a supposed anti-tailgating stance held by the university. Director of NDSP Philip Johnson maintains that NDSP does not want to "intrude," and Kirk argues that the police's purpose is far from getting in the way of fun. "I think [the police] contribute to a pleasant atmosphere. The abuse of alcohol can take away from that," Kirk says. "We all know that." 
Johnson says that while football games should be family friendly, the abuse of alcohol can sometimes make certain situations uncomfortable, especially for families with young children. "There are some number of people with no intent of going to the game," Johnson says. "They drink alcohol throughout the game." This type of behavior disrupts what Johnson terms the "rights of good fans." 
Given certain students' stories, it is unclear if the police presence at tailgates has been successful in the goal of maintaining safety without being unnecessarily intrusive. Kirk thinks the current tailgating situation is safer and more pleasant than it was in the past. "I think the nature of the event has changed for the better," Kirk says. "Those folks who come to get drunk are probably disappointed." + 
Additional reportingfor this article was done by Amy Meyers. 

PIZZA, ·pop, POLITICS John Roos, Mary Ellen SALSAWEEN Salsaween night at Legends is an GROTTO Students find their way to the Grotto for some O'Connell and Rev. Monk Molloy head up this year's annual event combining Latino music with Halloween. quiet contemplation and prayer. Rosary devotions are Pizza, Pop and Politics discussion, sponsored by Legends hosts various events at their night clubs held at the Grotto daily at 6:45 p.m. the CSC's ND Votes '08 campaign. throughout the year. 
<1---=
~--­
----.. ---
Shia LeBeouf's Arrest What's so great about a Walgreens anyway? Why 
wouldn't he want to 
leave? 
Air Force Loss 
Let's pretend wins are 
losses! Keep going 
guys! I-II!! Woo! 
''America's Most 
Smartest Model" 
She didn't know what 
a rhonbuswas! I mean, 
seriousl.y. 
Black Basketball Shirts I know Mike Brey's in his emo phase, but since when is black a school color? 
DPAC Stages Historical Drama 
"A Bright Room Called Day" relates the story of five friends in Nazi q-ermany 
Vanessa Adjei 
"We progress, but at great costs." 
"A Bright Room Called Day" is a dramatic production written by Tony Kushner that addresses the importance of remembering history. The play chronicles the lives of five friends and how each grapples with the fall ofthe Weimar Republic and the rise ofHitler's power in early 1930's Germany. 
Notre Dame's performance of the play is directed by Robin Witt and also thematically addresses the importance of choices, as each character ponders a course of action in light of the impending change in government. . 
"A Bright Room Called Day" assistant director, senior theater and philosophy major Nate Grams, describes its message as an "approach from a critical perspective to learn from history and respond to it accordingly." 
The play challenges its audience to think about systems of government and the courage required to take action against change. As fascism floods Berlin, the main characters discuss possible courses ofaction. This play offers a creative venue to think about changes in government, both past and present. 
"A Bright Room Called Day" is a production of Notre Dame's Film, Television, and Theatre Department and will appear on the Decio Mainstage Theater in the DPAC. The show runs Nov. 13-16 and 18. + 
s I ScH01AsTrc f 1s NoVEMBER 2007 
. -. 
t • • I • 
. . :· . ' . .. . ~ .. .., ' . /' ,' . , .. : . . . . '
\ ' 


NEWS 


ASIAN ALLURE Dancers perform at the 2007 production of Asian Allure. Now in its 1 2th year, the annual show promises a cultural experience for everyone on campus. 
Easiest Jobs on Campus 
of the Notre Dame tradition since 1858. Since Notre Dame is home to all four divisions -Air Force, Marines, Army and Navy -it would be helpful to be able to distinguish between their uniforms. Here are some highlights of each: 
Professional 
, 
' 
"Viewpoint" writer
1 
Decorations 

Notre Dame bowl 
Digicami 
game travel agent 
Air Force 
James Greenwood 

Health Services 
Decorations are a way to recognize the Their "digicami" uniforms have no achievement and rank ofindividuals in visible insignias because in the field, 
condom distributor 
a very "uniform" group. all Marines are seen as equals. 
,A JohnJenkins~ personal
Ribbons
Cover device and medals 
~ wardrobe assistant 
5 
Notre Dame North 
, 
' 
Face brand promoter
Justin Figueredo 
Cover devices are standard among Ribbons and medals represent officers and represnt an individual's an officer's accomplishments and rank and branch. attributes. 
15 NOVEMBER 2007 ) SCHOLASTIC I 9 


Cheer, Cheerfor Duke 
Sincewe showrespect to the service academies, 
why not our other opponents?
Two Saturdays ago, the Naval Academy's football team entered Notre Dame Stadium to a chorus of cheers and polite applause from the Irish student section. A week later, the Air Force 
Academy's team rushed in to a similar reception, if not quite as enthu­siastic. But on October 20, when the Trojans from Southern California ran onto the field, they were met with vociferous booing and a hail of words not printable in this magazine. The student section's inconsistent behavior raises an interesting question: Why do we act respectfully to­ward some rivals and disrespectfully toward others? 
The warm receptions for the Navy and Air Force teams emerged from a deep, widespread reverence for the institutions they represent. While Notre Dame fans hoped the Irish would win these games, the ideals ofservice and sacrifice synonymous with the academies led to the cheers, and rightly so. 
But when rival teams like USC or Michigan play at the stadium, the concept ofcheering the institution that the team represents flies out the window. Instead, we boo the team itself, thinking nothing of the place it comes from. Great universities like USC and Michigan, however, are as worthy of respect as the service academies are. In fact, both schools engage in leading research and community outreach that fall in line with Notre Dame's own mission. 
Some examples: In 2000, USC was named the "College of the Year" by the Time Magazine/Princeton Review college guide for its ambitious and effective community outreach program called the Neighborhood Academic Initiative. The initiative is a six-year pre-college program for young students from disadvantaged backgrounds, designed to increase their chances ofsucceeding as future students at USC. It seems that the program would feel right at home at Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns. 
The University ofMichigan is home to the National Poverty Center, a think tank that tackles the issues surrounding poverty both here and abroad. The center completes original, pioneering research on the causes and consequences ofpoverty and makes policy recommendations at the state and federal levels. Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies has a kindred spirit in the National Poverty Center. 
In this light, the student section's inconsistency should be resolved. Either all visiting football teams must be booed for being opponents, or all must be respectfully greeted for representing admirable institutions of higher learning. The latter option is more becoming. These are universities we face, not professional sports teams. 
So when the Duke Blue Devils take the field this Saturday, applaud them respectfully. Remind your bleacher neighbors of Duke's AIDS vaccine research, or its renowned school of divinity -two things as worthy ofapplause as national defense. + 
10 I SCHOLASTIC I 15 NOVEMBER 2007 



Courtney Ball 
Those frequenting Waddick's for a hot cup ofcoffee may have noticed a new attraction in O'Shaughnessy Hall -the Isis Gallery. The sudden appearance of a room full of artwork across from the cafe has students puzzled about its origins. "I walked past it and I wondered if it had been there all along and I had • just never noticed. I wasn't really sure what it was," junior Katie Dunn says. It is a gallery sponsored by the Departmentpf Art, Art History, and Design that will feature a new collection of artwork everyJew months. "The Isis Gallery was originally started by students who returned from Rome with artwork they wanted to display," art professor Martina Lopez says. "They organiz(:d the collection into a ·gallery which was named after the goddess Isis who kept dying and returning to life;'' The students could not have known· what a fitting name they had chosen for the gallery. Opened in :1974, the gallery was housed in Riley Hall until six years ago. Since then, ithas moved around the campus, disappearing for a year and returning the next in various locations. This time, however, the gallery has found a permanent position in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
The gallery officially opened in its new location on October 3 with a collection by Professor Emeritus Douglas Kinsey. The collection depicted often violent images inspired by media photographs, painted with vivid brushstrokes. 
The gallery's shows are already scheduled through this summer. The New Faces Show is scheduled to open on December 6 and will feature Notre Dame graduate student work. The artists prepare for the show the entire fall· semester and showcase their best and most provocative pieces in the collection. Future shows will include Egyptian artwork, as well as a colle~tion composed entirely of undergraduate work. 
The gallery is located just around the corner from the Snite Museum. Lopez is hopeful that this close proximity will increase attendance to the Isis exhibits. "We have had shows in the past in conjunction with the Snite, but we lost a lot of the audience in transit between the two buildings," Lopez says. The collections at the Isis Gallery will now be a short walk away for those interested in the artwork displayed in the Snite. 
It will no longer just be artstudents attending . classes in Riley or art enthusiasts touring the Snite who will be exposed to the work. All ofthe traffic in O'Shaughnessy throughout the day will pass the gallery. "Especially with us showing student artwork, there will be some controversial things presented. It will be an interesting dialogue, because there will be greater visibility," Lopez says. Students meeting friends for coffee can now engage in new topics of. conversation during the study break, regardless of a previous interest in art. As Lopez says, "It's out there for everyone to see now." + 
15 NOVEMBER 2007 f SCHOLASTIC f 13 
At the Picture 
Show 
The Vickers Theatre offers a . . . 
rare mov1ego1ng experience 
Amber Travis 
The Vickers Theatre, located in Three Oaks, Mich., provides a distinctive experience for any moviegoer. Upon arrival, one enters a room with spiraling staircases on either side that lead to the balcony. On the main floor, elegant white columns line the rich burgundy catwalk that leads to the front ofthe room. The huge white screen above the catwalk is the only indicator that the room is a movie theater rather. than a 1920s playhouse. Though many consider venues such as this extinct, the Vickers Theatre, owned and run by husband-and.:..wife team Jon and Jennifer Vickers, is a place that recalls an earlier era. The current location of the theater was a livery in the 1800s until it was turned it into a silent movie theater shortly after the turn of the 20th century. The original theater operated until the 1960s. The Vickers purchased the building in 1992. and opened for business in 1996 after extensive renovations. 
14 IScH01AsT1c 11s NoVEMBER 2007 
!  •  ••  .;  
)  .  .  .  
'  . . .  '  ,·  ..  .  '  .  .  .  - .  .  ;  ,  

The single screen theater stands out in this small farming community of Three Oaks. "We wanted to create something completely -unique for viewing films. People sit at the bistro tables and have their coffee, surrounded by art while watching the film," Jon Vickers says. The theater shows independent and foreign films, as opposed to the big-studio productions shown at multiplexes. Vickers Theatre also offers a variety of other events, such as a monthly artist reception and an occasional open-mic night. 
As ~pposed to other local cinemas, of the experience is well worth it. "It's Browning along with performing other the majority of the patrons of the not bad at all," he says. "It's the perfect administrative duties. Vickers says that Vickers Theatre hail from out of town. distance for a 'mini road trip' ifyou have his wife assumed "90 to 95 percent" Notre Dame senior Katie Hauswirth nothing to do on a weekday evening. It's of the day-to-day duties at the Vickers occasionally makes the 45-minute trek to a really good change of pace outside of when he began work at Notre Dame. the theater. "I love going to independent the things you do at Notre Dame." "The thing that we get most out of theaters because they have a unique vibe Paul Galloway ofMichiana, Mich. has the business is the people that we get to and distinct feel," she says. been coming to the theater for years. meet," Jon Vickers says. "It's amazing 
Senior Kerry O'Connor, who has been He and his wife, Maggie, have regularly how the arts can bring people together, to the Vickers Theatre twice, was guided attended the Monday night shows for as and we've made some really great friends there by a former calculus professor. "My long as they can remember. "This is like that way [ ... ] The theater has absolutely expectations were pretty high walking a church for us," Galloway says. 100 percent changed our lives." + in, because he talked it up so much. I was In addition to running the theater, really excited about going," he says. "I'm Jon Vickers also serves as the director The Vickers Theatre has two on Thursday from a really small town also, so it was of Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo and Friday, three on Satttrday and Sunday, reminiscent ofmy childhood." Performing Arts Center. He is respon­and two shows on Monday. Visit www. 
Despite the long drive from campus, sible for managing and programming vickerstheatre.comfor show times. O'Connor says that the singularity approximately 150 films per year at the 

, --___.---------------­


COVER STORY 

, 
i 
1 
/~. 
j 
~ L • --• 
. ' 
-~ . 
'l'IIE PllOGllESS 01? 'l'IIE (;Jl.)IPlJS 111.\S'l'Ell Pl..1\N 1\.ND IIEYONn 
Brittany Lash 
Remember when ... 
... Juniper Road used to run through campus? ... the only place to see a play was Washington Hall? ... there were only four dorms on West Quad? 
If the university officials who formed the Campus Master Plan have their way, a lot of current and future students, faculty, alumni and visitors will begin their sentences with exactly that question: Remember when? 
15 NOVEMBER 2007 ISCHOLASTIC I 17 
0 -~ • • • ' •
• 
. 

COVER STORY 
STINSON-REMICK HALL is the focal point of this artist's rendition of the future DeBartolo Quad. Stinson-Remick will be a multi-disciplinary engineering 
--... -· ., ••----•·· '. --.:."-:" .=;...:-..:...,.::,--,·,--. ---, ---. ..:··.--:-•·.--::.:.·-~~-..:.--·-· • •-... ·­
-~ .,;i~t~~t:~ 
•d:· \' Q 
. . f,f_.) =­
,~.';_~-_,,....:..:... ~-rp.;_: 
~~~..~~-­
•'.. -·,',',;,· 
:,--:·-. ;:< 1-:· ·, 
teaching and research facility. It is projected to open in late 2009 or early 2010. 
L'11IS11ilIEIJJ=i!LlIN.__ 
In the fall of 2002, the University of Notre Dame adopted a sweeping new plan to govern the design and construction of the physical campus. Called the "Campus Master Plan," its tenets and objectives were designed to guide the future of the appearance and layout ofthe Notre Dame campus. 
From the DonF. and Flora Guglielmina Athletics Complex (the Gug) to the Jordan Hall of Science, the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) to Duncan Hall, almost every major change the campus has seen this decade has been a result of this plan. Notre Dame is growing fast. 
Notre Dame is at a construction crossroads. While staying true to tradition, the campus must still innovate. Architects draw campus boundaries to avoid sprawl, but still consider opening the campus to the community. Future buildings wiH go "g_reen," and older buildings must adapt. 
How has the university faced this crossroads, and how will these issues influence what we see in the future? The answer to these questions and more can be found by evaluating the progress thus far and revealing what the future could have in store. 
rnum::1111rnno_u.N11WD1n, 
The process of creating the Campus Master Plan originally started in February of 2001. University officials involved in the Campus Planning Subcommittee, led by then-Executive Vice President Rev. Timothy Scully, C.S.C., Vice President for Business Operations James Lyphout and University Architect Doug Marsh, laid the foundation ofthe plan on seven tenets, each of which highlights a responsibility that campus development must uphold. According to the executive summary of the Campus Master Plan, the tenets are: 
Catholic Heritage and Sacramental Vision 
This envisions the creation and preservation of "sacred spaces that inspire contemplation and prayer." This will require the continued preservation of the Grotto, the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, the Presbytery and Corby Hall. It ensures thaticonography around campus, such as statues and murals, will continue to "engage spiritual subject matter," and all but ensures the preservation of land around the lakes and other locations inspiring contemplation. 
The Campus as Home and Academy 
"Campus development should nurture world class research and scholarship while enriching a sense of community." 
Community will be reinforced by grouping future residence halls while still keeping them as close as possible to the center ofcampus. Teaching, research and administrative facilities within the colleges will be clustered to promote the "collegial environment necessary for a vigorous exchange of ideas." 
Stewardship ofthe Natural Environment 
This ensures that the campus will ."remain predominantly wooded." The natural greenbelt of meadows, woodlands, lakes and recreational spaces will serve as a buffer from outside traffic, while providing a recreational space for both the university and local communities. 
Stewardship of the Built Environment and Architecture 
Some historic campus structures will be preserved as "campus landmarks." The list features dorms such as Alumni, Dillon, Lyons and Sorin Halls, the Main Building, the Basilica and the Rockne Memorial, among others. The plan states that these structures should be preserved "in perpetuity, for they represent the rich, historic and sacred iconography of the physical campus." Other notable buildings, including LaFortune Student 
/. . ---..-~­
.,,~~.'.="' --= .-: 
·------~:,==== 
·-. 
--~-=-­
:~~ 
1s ISctt01AsT1c I 1s NoVEMBER 2007 
!  •  •  •  • •  ;'. I  •  •  
~ '  ,,  ;:,­ •  • •  ,•  • ,­ ' '  '  ,•  •  •  "  ,.  • '  •  •  ,  I  
COVER STORY  

Center, will be preserved for as long as they can be "practically maintained." 
Exterior Spaces and Quads 
Notre Dame "will consist ofa singiilar campus." Quads will be maintained, and l they will be filled in before the creation 
l 
of new quads. 
The Ceremonial Focus ofNotre DameAvenue and Other Approaches to Campus 
Notre Dame Avenue will continue to be the premier approach to campus and will also remain its geographic center. 
Separation of Pedestrian and Vehicular Traffic 
Notre Dame "will remain a haven for the pedestrian." Growth will not occur beyond walkable distances. Appropriate accommodations will encourage the use of bicycles. 
These tenets compromise the recommendations that are to be implemented on campus. It looks great on paper, but how does it look in real life? 
PlJ'l'TIMmIJn>J.,AN
JN'f_UJ!RACTU]?~--­
"So far, so good," University Architect Doug Marsh says. A Notre Dame graduate of the School of Architecture in 1982 and head architect since 1998, Marsh is in a position to understand not only the technical means of the construction project, but also the spirit 
of the campus. 
Marsh's job is to make sure everything 
the university constructs fits the parameters ofthe master plan. Managing a team of 15 architecture and construction professionals, he says, "Our job is to define a project, define a budget, and define the schedule, and then identify the most qualified architects, engineers and · contractors to team together to design a project. We manage the project from 
inception to occupancy." 
For example, when proposals for the 
new law school expansion were made, 
many raised concerns over how the 
expansion would cut off pedestrian access 
to DeBartolo Quad-not to mention the 
band's game day path to the stadium. For 
Marsh, the solution was simple: Make an 
arch over the walkway. 
"The new law building [ ... ] will be 
connected to the existing building with 
a second floor commons. It will have 
tremendous views and windows above the 
ceremonial arch that will frame the east­
west corridor," Marsh says. Not only will 
the design thatMarsh and his team chose 
preserve a decades-long tradition, but it 
may even start new ones, a la the "Lyons 
Arch." It won't just be a building; for 
many, it will be a campus destination. 
That philosophy highlights everything 
Marsh has implemented thus far ­
solutions that reflect tradition without 
compromising the integrity of the plan's tenets. He is navigating the crossroads, and the progress is significant. 
For any plans to be viable, Marsh says that Notre Dame has to have a set boundary for growth and development, negating the urban sprawl effect that has fractured many other cities and universities. By drawing a line called the "blue line" around the outskirts of campus, Notre Dame is forced to become more efficient with its space and to keep the campus walkable. 
Notre Dame's residential character makes accessibility especially important. The next addition to the university's residential community will be Duncan Hall, a men's dorm. Duncan will be open for students in the fall of 2008 and will feature housing primarily for transfers and upperclassmen. 
"Before we started designing Duncan Hall, we met with a variety of students, those who were spending all four years in the residence halls and those who had chosen to move off campus," Marsh says. "I think what was enlightening was that the stay in-hall system was firmly reinforced as a significant asset as a part of community building at Notre Dame. You're in your dorm, ifyou so choose, for as long as you're here, and the community building that takes place there is the envy ofall our peers." 
Duncan, as well as future dorms (two may be located to the east ofMod Quad) have the students in mind first and 


COVER STORY 
foremost, according to the "Campus as Home and Academy" tenet. Marsh says that the "ladder system" will be in full effect in every new dorm, rewarding those who stay in-dorm for all four years to have a better selection ofroom location and size as they become upperclassmen. Additionally, he verified that the university is not looking to increase the student population. These new dorms will serve to remove students from cramped forced quads and study-room triples. 
The natural environment tenet is realized through the elimination of the need for so many "hard top" surfaces. With the removal of Juniper Road this year, the university succeeded in creating a lush landscape where there once stood nothing but pavement. "Whatwe want to do, as we design buildings and improve others, is to separate pedestrian traffic from service drive traffic," Marsh says. He suggests a future improvement: "Right now, behind [South Dining Hall], there's a common driveway, where pedestrians walk among the cars and such. One ofour goals, over time, is to make improvements in those areas so that we reduce the conflict." 
These future improvements will include a proposed recreation field between Pangborn/Fisher and McGlinn/Duncan Halls. To the east of that, a greensward will fill in the areas around the back of South Dining Hall. 
Additionally, numerous trees have already been planted on campus in order to replenish those lost to storms and disease. "We planted over 600 trees this year on the campus. We had a gift from an anonymous benefactor to plant over 100 trees on South Quad," Marsh says. "We're also strategically planting large specimen trees in other areas that already have a tree canopy because trees don't last forever." 
Other noteworthy campus construction projects since the implementation of the Master Plan have reinforced the university's commitment to being both a top research institution and a nurturing community for personal and spiritual growth. The DPAC (2004), Hammes Mowbray Hall (2004), the Gug (2005) and Jordan Hall (2006) strike an appropriate balance between administrative, athletic, research and creative endeavors. 
Upcoming additions preserve that same balance. The 64,000-square-foot, 14 million dollar Geddes Hall will be the new home of the Center for Social Concerns, with construction beginning 142,0 0 0-square-foot facility, is scheduled to begin construction in November of this year on the old site ofthe University Club. Facilities include a nanotechnology research center, the university's new Energy Center, an 11,800-square­foot semiconductor processing and device fabrication clean room and an undergraduate interdisciplinary learning center. The building will open in late 2009 or early 2010. Other projects include the 85,000-square-foot law expansion and two buildings on the south edge of DeBartolo Quad, a social sciences building and an executive education center. 
in  spring  of  2008, fulfilling the  
spiritual and  service oriented  
first tenet. A  new engineering  
bu i 1 ding,  Stinson-Remick  
Hall, a 69.4  million dollar,  

:Clllflfl'IN(rCJJMJIIINrfV­
while a border has been defined 
around campus to prevent campus sprawl, 
there is a strong desire to strengthen ties 
with the community at large, as shown by 
two upcoming projects: the Eddy Street 
Commons and the Town Commons. 
Just south of the DPAC, land is currently being cleared for the Town Commons, a park designed to be shared, by both the university and the community. 
"There are now sidewalks with 
pedestrian zones in them [ ... ] It makes 
it feel more welcome to the neighbors to 
actually come on to campus," Marsh says. 
"That's the principle idea of 
~ the Town Commons project, 
as far as trying to create a 
park-like atmosphere where 
one can stroll along the many 
ON MAY 24,1879, Scholastic printed an architect's sketch of the future Main Building after the original was destroyed by fire. It was constructed in less than four months by over 300 laborers working 16-hour days. 
20 IScHousnc 11s NoVEMBER 2007 

COVER STORY 
pathways, enjoy open grass and tree canopied areas, and also enjoy what we expect will be some programming out on that space, outdoor concerts with the glee club, band and other special events." · 
Just across Angela Boulevard to the south, development of the Eddy Street Commons is in full swing. Kite Realty promises 90,000-square-feet of retail space, including shops that will provide "his and hers fashions, books, movies, services and eateries," according to their Web site, along with a 255-room full­service hotel, a 135-room limited-service hotel, 255 apartments, 49 condominiums, 20 townhomes, 52 flats and 75,000 square feet of office space. 
While the university acts mainly in an advisory role to the project, Marsh's office is still involved -and it's still part of the campus plan. "There will be less reliance on the car to go with parents in town, for friends or just to change up and get a . little variety, step off the edge of campus," he says. "It's going to be highly walkable to connect there. We hope that people will enjoy the amenities there, and at the same time not have to rely on walking to the car and driving to Grape Road." There is no word yet about what tenants will fill the retail spaces, although one Kite fact sheet features an "Irish Pub" on the western corner ofEddy Street and Edison/Angela, across the street from a proposed bookstore. 
lrfflNfjGJDffiN~----­
Despite the wide range ofprojects, they all have one thing in common -Notre Dame construction is going green. 
One of the biggest objectives of the campus plan is to make every building constructed from now on "LEED" certified. According to Notre Dame's "green" Web site (green.nd.edu), "LEED stands for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design. It is a voluntary, consensus-based national standard for developing high-performance, sustainable buildings and interiors." LEED accreditation is based on a points system. The more eco-friendly the building, the more points gained. One example of an unconventional means of gaining points, according to Marsh, is providing more than just a bike rack for cyclists. IfNotre Dame were to provide showers in buildings for cyclists who get sweaty while commuting via bicycle, they would encourage more bicycle traffic for those who do not normally consider biking feasible, cutting down on car emissions and gas consumption. Other examples include heat-recovering mechanical systems and recycling of construction materials. 
Notre Dame has made great strides in the latter. According to university architects, they are attempting to recycle 50 percent of all construction materials. Almost all of the old post office's construction materials were recycled, as were those of the University Club. The university also strives to purchase construction materials from within 500 miles of the campus to reduce transportation pollution. "Our brick is made in Belden, Ohio, and steel comes from Gary, [Ind.}. Concrete is local. Recycled content of building materials includes most of the carpeting and ceiling tiles. 
We're committed to it," Marsh says. 
Stinson-Remick Hall, the new 
engineering building, will be the first 
building on campus to attempt to be 
LEED certified. Both Geddes Hall and 
the Purcell Pavillion, the south-side 
addition to the Joyce Center, will also 
attempt to gain certification. 
mrnmllU,~?_____ 
For now, Notre Dame seems to have the right idea -with the right man (and plan) at the helm. Marsh is proud of his work: "It's fun to walk, particularly on game day, around those areas and hear visitors and alums that come back to campus, and maybe haven't been on campus for a year or two, and just walk with amazement as they explain to their visitors, 'There was a road through here not long ago!"' he says. 
Remember when? + 
CULTURE 
Campus Chatter 
JOHN HANCOCK DEPT. 
BOOKSTORE GAMEDAY SIGNINGS 
The aisles teem with people. Clusters of alumni and visiting fans crowd around the many racks of Notre Dame apparel trying to find the perfect T-shirt to commemorate their trip. The hat shelf has been wiped bare, leaving only a few options for latecoJTiers. Children run around, waving their new stuffed teddy bears in miniature Fighting Irish jerseys in the air, and employees do their best to answer the barrage of questions about sizes and whether that one shirt could be ordered online. It is a scene that most students have learned to avoid, understanding that once Sunday has passed, the bookstore will return to its usually serene self. 
Among the long lines and throngs ofvisitors, many students and fans don't realize that on every home game Saturday there are book signings amidst the chaos. Located in the Hammes Bookstore lobby, these book signings are the calm before the storm, yet they tend to fade into the background, overpowered by the quest for souvenirs. 

After I wove my way through a large tour group of senior citizens, I finally made my way to the center of the bookstore lobby surrounded by chipper employees helping the lost navigate their way through the stacks of folded sweatshirts. Pushed up against the sides ofthe lobby, I saw the four tables of this week's visiting authors. Each table had a blown up poster of the book jacket displayed behind the stack of hard covers waiting to be signed. Despite having almost an entire section of the lobby dedicated to these book signings, there were only a few people making their way from table to table. Digger Phelps, perhaps the busiest of the aut_hors, was engaged in an intense conversation with an 11-year-old girl and her father while he feverishly pointed out different parts of his book. A 
kid in an oversized Brady Quinn jersey snuck 
up to take a picture ofDigger before scurrying back to his parents, who were waiting in the checkout line. 
I soon found myself talking with author Kenny Wayne Fields, a war veteran sporting a leather jacket and closely cropped hair. Fields was here promoting his book, "The Rescue of Streetcar 304," about his survival in enemy territory after his plane was shot down during the Vietnam War. After being contacted by the university, Fields agreed to come up for the Notre Dame-Navy game. It was only appropriate that he chose this weekend, because Fields is a Navy veteran, earning numerous awards for his service and heroic survival. "This has been just great," he told me. "I've enjoyed just talking to people more than doing actual book signings." Fields spoke of some of the encounters he had had with both Notre Dame and Navy fans, and even revealed how one man he met on campus was actually a fighter pilot who had been flying above him the day he was shot down. "Whatare the chances ofthat?" he said, motioning to our surroundings. "That out of all these people, a man witnessed the very event that made me write this book. That's just unbelievable." 
-Maddy Zollo 
22 I ScttoLAsTrc 11s NoVEMBER 2007 

CULTURE REVIEWS 
A Balanced Diet 
Scholastic reviews the best-selling "Eat, -Pray, Love," a memoir by Elizabeth Gilbert 
Molly Kring 
e other day m. prayer I sa1'd to God, 'Look, I understand . an
'~Th 
i 
unexamined life is not worth living, but do you think I could 
' someday have an unexamined lunch?"' A New York Times best seller for 40 weeks and counting, "Eat, Pray, Love" is the quirky memoir of a woman who is both inspiring and spunky. 
Single after a rough divorce at age 34, Elizabeth Gilbert embarks on a year-long journey around the world to find herself. She seeks pleasure (and consequently a 20-pound weight gain) in Italy, devotion in India, and finally a balance between the two in Indonesia. Gilbert's journey takes courage and originality. From watching an Italian soccer game with Luca Spaghetti -yes, that is his real name -to having her palm read by a Balinese medicine man, Gilbert's adventure is captivating. 
Although her wry humor and constant wit may irritate some readers, they are also what make her lovable. Gilbert writes that when· she becomes fluent in Italian, she "will be a real Italian· girl, instead of a total American who still can't hear someone call across the street to his friend Marco without wanting instinctively to yell back 'Polo!"' By the end of "Eat, Pray, Love," Liz seems like a childhood friend. 
But underneath the surface humor lies a woman searching for ·meaning. Gilbert's search for God is intimately linked with her search for herself. The fascinating accounts of her religious experiences speak to her advocacy of a highly personal religion, one that "cherry-picks" from any number of religious practices to find ultimate truth. The rawness of her 
; emotion coupled with scattered, deep insights 
:/'.;\~-•t' 
results in a book that 
,.-,;· ... ,.;,,•·. -.~\t,-Jfli:::,~ validates this searching 
woman's journey, even if her religious views seem unconventional at times. 
Upon finishing "Eat, Pray, Love," hopping on a plane to another country beginning with the letter "I" seems like a viable life option. Gilbert restores hope in the fairy tale happy ending, even if it's a little eccentric. + 
THE UNEXAMINED LUNCH One woman's 
journey around the world and search for truth. 
~!:,,,,,..__ -//,,;_;;:_,;•,-? . ,-~~ __ .. .....•,',~ ::,·
f{:l¾:~:___:.-~-"'--:.···_:y~:-.--,·:.-:: ~~;:,'_.i~
:;!I~t__'?_~~_;=i:Ftjr""'· -~---:-:-~ -.
! '.
l.:~;-.~ I: 

BLACKOUT Britney's new album doesn't live up to the hype. 
Past Her Prime 
Scholastic suffers through Britney's Latest Effort 
Allison Thomas 
n September 10, 2007, Britney Spears 
had a bad day. After a miserable MTV 
Video Music Awards performance of her new single, "Gimme More," the critics attacked. Of course she should be used to it by now -her series of parental fiascos and her 
· recent divorce have made her an easy target for negative commentary -but the performance was her chance to make a positive statement. Maybe Britney in lingerie and .fishnets doesn't quite have the same appeal as it used to, or maybe her latest musical effort is just plain weak. 
The new album, "Blackout," is what you'd expect from Britney -the insert contains several suggestive _pictures of the scantily­clad pop princess, including a particularly entertaining one of her seated on the lap of a priest in a confessional. Song titles include, "Ooh Ooh Baby," "Freakshow," and "Get Naked (I Got A Plan)," and only two of the 12 on the record were actually written by her. Some of the songs are catchy, but most are reminiscent of the repetitive pop-manufactured sound from her other albums. In general, it might be fun to have handy for a crowded, sweaty dorm party, but don't feel bad ifyou stop every song after just 30 seconds -you aren't the only one. + 
0 
15 NOVEMBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 23 




SPORTS 

Meagan McGinley 
M .. 
ost people know Richard 
Phelps, ESPN personality and 
Notre Dame men's basketball 
coach from 1971 to 1991, as "Digger" 
or "Coach." But how about, "Mr. 
President"? Scholastic caught up with 
Digger for lunch at Lula's Cafe, where 
he spoke candidly about his potential 
platform, his work in the White House 
and how he's taking the lead to rebuild 
New Orleans. 
The jacket on your new book, "The 
Undertaker's Son," describes you 
as "the attention-getting figure in President George H.W. Bush's anti­
drug program, part-time ambassador and possible presidential candidate," 
which has caught a lot of people's attention ... Well, ifwe can raise $30 million and get organized, we can still pull it off. 
What's the motivation to run? 
I'm a Democrat from New York, and Hillary's a . Democrat. It wa_s nothing against her running or anything else, but Congress has an 11 percent approval rating and when you look at who is running for president, the majority of them are from Congress, whether it's the Senate or the House. It's like, that's O!Jr choice for president? It's like the · nation needs a coach, and that's always 
been my thing. 
What .are the most important issues 
to you? 
Obviously, education is one -we look at where we're going in this globateconomy and to me it's always been, how do we compete? And have the right credentials to compete? To me, the two biggest issues on college campuses today are gender equity and minority scholarships. I think one solution is to let the NCAA BCS bowls play and then have a President's National Championship football game a week after. If you played that bowl game, you're talking about $50 million every year toward gender equity and $50 million for minority scholarships. 
26 ISCHOLASTIC I 15 NOVEMBER 2007 

SPORTS 
In four years you have $400 million in the pot and it can handle these big crises on the campuses. The two schools play for the rings and the trophy. Period. No, money. 
But here's another issue: college loans. My suggestion is this: take a job working for an accounting firm, making $50,000 a year. Part ofthat becomes them paying off your student loan based on you doing 5 hours a week community 
I gave· him a present from President Bush and he sent his aides to get me a present, which turned out to be this big kente cloth of the colors of the majority tribe -he was of the minority tribe ­so I asked him to help me put it on; it's like an Irish kilt. I said I don't know if you do wear underwear, ifyou don't wear underwear ... he got a big laugh. So we left later and the Japanese delegation was night school, go. Get a better credential, get a better job. 
The third thing they have to do is give me 20 hours a month in community service as a family, five hours a week. 
International Rotary gave us a $45,000 check in July to endorse [the project], to encourage all the Rotary clubs around the nation to join. I want businesses, conferences to pool their resources and 
build a home. It's a complete 
service teaching math at mission. People want to play; after school programs. It's I ls like the nation needs a coach, they just don't know how. a tax write-off for them, but you're still on company and that's always been my thing,, You'reknownasafashionista 
time as a company employee 
and you negate your student 
loan. 
During your tenure at Notre Dame, your team had a 100 percent graduation rate. What strategies did you use to accomplish this, and can you apply them to the nation as a whole? 
Mike DiCicco, the famous fencing 
coach, was the academic advisor for the 
athletes back then. He could walk onto 
the football field or my court at any time 
and take a player to get the message 
to those kids that they're here for one 
reason: to get a degree. That's the only 
promise I made to parents. 
Now, I also had the Digger Rule: If I 
found out that you cut class during the 
season, you would be dressed· for the 
next game, sitting on the bench and 
not playing. Put the pressure back on 
the schools. The only state on target is 
California. You have to have a C average 
in order to participate in extracurricular 
activities or play any sports. 
You said. your foreign policy would . return to diplomacy. Talk about your international experience. 
had two great experiences under 
President George H.W. Bush; one was 
being part of the U.S. delegation to 
the coronation of President Rollins in 
January of '93 in Ghana, Africa. 
At the audience, [President Rollins] 
and I went for a walk in the garden. We had a good.talk and he said, "I know what you've done. My friends have told me who you are and what that is and what · you're like back home.'' We sat down and had a good talk, which.was supposed to 
last maybe 10 minutes: itlasted 40. 
in the commentating world -. Richard "Digger" Phelps with your coordinating 
upset because we were in there so long, but I said hey, that's President Rollins, it's not my fault! 
That March a Notre Dame friend of mine working for the UN invited me to go to Cambodia in Mayas a UN observer to run a polling station for the election. What was amazing was on that morning, May23, the first women inline were there at six in the morning. I was in a rice field. But when the first woman voted, I cried. She came out and stuffed her vote in the box and looked at the other women and said, "Everything's okay." I was watching the birth of democracy, and wow, it was heavy duty. 
Can you talk a bit about the big "Walking to New Orleans" housing project you developed? 
The Michael Jordan of my team in New Orleans, Glenn Smith, and Father Doyle of St. Aug's picked one family, the Collinses, to receive the first house. They'll be moved in by Thanksgiving. But it's not "give the keys to the family and walk a~ay" ~ that's my family for life. 
What the family has to do is three things: one, pay the $30,000 mortgage over 20 years, which is peanuts and they can get it because the house is collateral. It's a tax write-off for me and my $90,000 that I put into their house. 
The second thing they have to do is sign up with Tulane University. It will do four things for them: teach them budget and home management skills, tutor the kids and help with career enhancement for the parerits, so if they want to go .to 
highlighters and ties. Do you see that being a trend-setting staple as president? 
[laughing] I think on Air Force One they usually give out candies with the presidential seal on them; I'll give out red-white-blue highlighters with the presidential seal and Digger's signature on them. 
What· color would you make the power tie? 
I think if I'm going to be who I am, it's gotta be green. Kelly green. Can't let it go. 
Who would be your vice president? 
I'd love to get Melinda Gates. She and Bill know the world and know how to get to the world and money hasn't spoiled them. And they've given back. I think that's the signal to say, let's go! We have to put ourselves in the position to say, who's walked the walk? I think she'd be a great vice president. 
Any last thoughts? 
This is funny because I always talk about him [Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.], but Hesburgh has been the one person in my life, I mean, you talk . about Mother Teresa as a nun -she's a saint. Hesburgh's a living saint. But he's always on me about; "What eliie are you doing?" He's just that spark___.:: he knows if you can make a difference, go for it. And everybody can make a difference. If you get distracted, whatever, but gci do it. And so. he's been the spark and it's not that I blame him for this, I give him credit for this. + 
15 NOVEMBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 27 
• <.. ' • -• :._ ' • • 
. . 
/ . . . . 


On Humility 
Is Charlie Weis' Ego Ou,t of Control? 
Marques Camp ' 
Contr.ary t? the increas~ngly frequent calls for _Charlie ~eis' head, I will preach patience for our coach, a vtrtue certainly lost on the administration in light of Ty Willingham's 2004 
dismissal. And, contrary to the popular belief ofWeis' _defenders, our horrific record this year is not Willingham's fault. Sure, it seems like he left the cupboard pretty bare, but the lack ofupperclass talent is not the main concern. The 2007 season was expected to be a "rebuildin,g" year -but wh:it concerns most fans is that game after game, the Irish seem to be so inept at every aspect of football that they aren't even competing. 
It's not that they lost to Georgia Tech or Michigan or USC; it's that they lost by scores like 33-3 and 38-0. It's that our line can't execute a proper block; our defense can't tackle; and our field goal unit is so beleaguered that our coach doesn't believe that they can convert a 41-yard field goal. It's certainly a matter ofexecution on one front. On another front, our team just doesn't seem prepared for our opponents, as shown in our struggle to even play respectably. Preparation falls on the coaching staff-most particularly, Coach Weis. . The biggest problem with Weis' coaching is his massive ego. Ego is not necessarily a bad thing; in fact, itis a defining characteristic ofmany great coaches, including Weis' mentors Bill Parcells and Bill Belichick. For Weis, though, this ego seems to be a defense mechanism that jµsti:fies his existence as a coach at The Premier Football Institution 
.in the Country. After all, Weis probably wasn't the first. choice to succeed Willingham, given that Urban Meyer spurned the echoes of Notre Dame Stadium for The Swamp. Weis also had no previous head coaching experience above the high schoollevel. 
This massive ego was stroked seven games into Weis' tenure with the 
. most ill-advised, preemptive contract extension_ since Allan Houston re-upped with the New York Knicks for six years and 100 million dollars in 2001. It has given ~eis the license to capriciously play-call and not worry about his job security. It has given him justification for · not adj11:sting his coaching strategy to the college environment. We know he can diagram a play with the best of thein, but can he teach? We know that he cari recruit, but can he _inspire recruits to fulfill their potential? Cari• he inspire college kids to improve their level of" play, and not just give them abrilliantly devised game-plan for doing so? 
Weis seems to have taken the "we should take a look at the coaching" . attitude in the past few weeks, but these ·remarks seeni strangely disingenuous, especially given that he has said on repeated occasions, "I'in not going anywhere/' What will it take. to humble The Great Charlie Weis? Perhaps he needs to learn the lesson ·that winning · · breeds the ego, and not the other way around. Perhaps som~one needs to give him a stern warni:q.g that his '.'we'll be able to compete when 
.·_ we're. experienced" attitude will no longer be tolerated. Perhaps he needs to realize that four Super Bowl rings as an assistant coach won't automatic\llly translate to consistent success at the college level. Hopefolly Weis can learn a lesson in humility and prove to Notre Dame that he is a winner before it's too late. · + 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the view ofScholastic. 


Elisa Suarez 
Assassins. Maybe when you hear that word you think of sinister, gun-toting spies. But to some, 
the word conjures up visions of Christ­loving crusaders. That's right. Two of the major faith organizations on campus, Four:7 Catholic Fellowship Group and Iron Sharpens Iron Interdenominational Ministry (ISI) are engaging in a game of assassins. Assassins is a bloody war of stealth and espionage where members of opposing teams stalk each other in order to catch their assigned target. When a player is caught alone, a member of the rival team has the opportunity to swoop in and strike, thus attacking said player with an unstoppable water gun onslaught. At this point, that person is murdered. Killed. Deacl as a doormat. The game continues until one team is completely annihilated. 
Who will win in this clash ofreligious powerhouses, you ask_? Let's look at the players: Four:7 is not a force to be trifled with. It has made its way from a lowly night prayer group meeting to the Jesus powerhouse it is now, ·changing its name to Four:7 in 2003 and emerging 
32 ~ SCHOLASTIC I15 NOVEMBER 2007 
as an evangelical Catholic Fellowship Group. Meanwhile, ISI has been on the Notre Dame scene for 11 years as a more general faith study, containing about an equal ratio of Catholics to Protestants. It started out in the basement of the Knights of Columbus building, later emerging as a force not to be taken lightly, and as what some claim to be "the best thing since sliced bread." 
This battle of dominant faith groups (think Colts vs. Patriots) raises many questions that have the Notre Dame community wondering. I felt it my job to search for the answers. An anonymous source deep within the ranks of Four:7 risked her life so that these responses could be reported. The most important concern is, obviously, which side would Jesus play for? The source answered: "Though He's currently being heavily recruited by both teams, Four:7 is expecting a verbal commitment from Jesus any day now ... We think He'd bring a lot to our team, particularly His walking-on-water move which will help a lot with defense, as well as His ever­useful water-into-wine skills (to be used 
.J 
.J 
< 
J: 
z 
w 
.J 
w 
J: 
>­
!ll 
z 
0 
~ 
a:: 
~ 
3 
::! 
only for the Eucharist, ofcours_e)." That's what they all say. I also inquired whether or not opponents were allowed to be caught and "killed" during mass. Our source responded with a resounding yes, as long as the gun in question was filled with Holy Water. A final inquiry was made concerning the bi-spirituals (those people who take part in both Four:7 and ISI), but it received no response. They must have a "don't ask, don't tell" policy. No other sources could be reached for comment, because they're all laying low. 
The mock fighting between faith factions may come as controversy to some, but Brett Perkins, director of Catholic Peer Ministry arid Protestant Student Resources at Campus Ministry begs to differ. He states, "The groups are really similar, which is why both of them get along so well and do things together. These events are to bridge the gaps between the groups, since there is so much more that unites us rather than divides us." Well then, keep on fighting guys. Just don't let me get caught in the cross hairs.-+ 
HUMOR 
Darling Gipp-sies, gypsies and wayward woodlanders! Set up encampment, bedeck 
thyselves in stolen jewelry, and send out your naked urchin children to forage for food and scrap metal. Once again, prepare to witness the Gipp rob some Darners of their respectability. 
Our first adventure takes place in the hinterland of downtown South Bend. Our male Gipp-sie, smitten by one "Esrnerelda," sought out pertinent information from Ezzy's wench-friends to enhance his chances of wooing the exotic siren. The scouting report indicated that Esrnerelda desired a "nice guy," because she is a "nice girl." Of course, to find favor with that type of fern, one must practice propriety in heated conditions. Our man, let's call him Decent, took Ezzy out on the dance floor, hoping to further his ambitions. Because moral proscriptions and upright values ruled these two hearts, they took to dancing alongside one another in a chaste 50s doo-wop fashion. 
No line on Decent's palm could have foretold ofthe disaster thatwould follow. The dance got dirty as the most foreign of local subjects placed himself directly behind, not Esrnerelda, but Decent and began a disgusting combination of pelvic gyrations and booty rub on our hero. Remembering his commitment to chivalry and pacifism, our "nice guy" decided to ignore the townie in the hopes tnat he would go away. But, this predator was in it for the long haul. 
As the minutes passed and the situation became desperate, the townie remained dedicated to continuing the discomfort of our friend Decent. Self-restraint and the fear of upsetting Esrnerelda prevep.ted poor Decent from sending a heel flying into the nether regions of the town nomad. 

Needless to say, at the end ofthe night Esrnerelda was notimpressed by the man­molestation she witnessed and refused to give Decent her number. In her mind, a man should assertively protect his own. Would a man who won't defend his own honor be able to defend her? 
Our next tale details the gypsification of one Dorner who was forced, against his will, to embark upon a desperate quest in search of the nearest hospital. 
Whilecongregatingwitha disreputable band of associates to watch that horrific massacre which future generations will remember as "ND-Michigan 2007," our wayfarer drank copious amounts of liquid giggles and resolved to raucously celebrate the first offensive play from scrimmage thatwent for positive yardage (something that would turn out to be a rare occasion this year). 
Well, thanks to a defensive penalty, the next play resulted in a first down, and this was enough to send our protagonist hurtling into the outstretched arms of one ofhis equally inebriated companions. Trouble was, there was a doorfrarne in between them. Quite soon after our hero's feet left the earth, the top of his head became intimately acquainted with the unforgiving doorfrarne. Everyone thought this was hilarious until it became apparent that the wounded cheerleader was not rising from the ground and that a pool of crimson liquid was forming around where he lay. 
The companion whose sobriety was most intact was charged with getting the wounded individual to the E.R. During the caravan to the hospital, our now Gipp-sified ne'er-do-well became highly upset at himself for what he thought was his own excessive effeminacy ­mistaking the blood trickling into his eyes for tears. After being admitted to the E.R., the patient was asked if there was alcohol involved in his injury, to which slurred the reply, "Sauza Gold!" while incoherently pointing both arms up toward the heavens. 
The name of the caring physician was Sweeney, but through the dense fog of semi-consciousness our patient was only able to grasp that his doctor was Irish. Thus, the patient took to addressing his caretaker as "Dr. Fitzpatrick." The per­spicacious Sweeney/Fitzpatrick gathered that the patient was intoxicated well be­yond the point of feeling pain and, seiz­ing the opportunity, popped five staples into the head of our gypsy without any anesthesia. 
Gipp er Law: Thou shalt recognize thy enemies -unless said enemy is armed with a staple gun. 
After several hours of observation, the medical professionals decided that more than anything the drunken gypsy needed bed rest to work off the effects of his revelry. Before they sent him home they wrote up an official in-patient report, which read, "The patient, after enjoying a few alcoholic refreshments, while celebrating ND's first 1st down, leaped into a doorway causing a 3 cm laceration in the top of the patient's head. Patient occasionally drinks alcohol." 
As always, faithfully (and drunkenly) yours, the Gipper + 
TfPTHeg;PP 
0 e ~ g @ ® at gipper@nd.edu 
15 NOVEMBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 33 

Listening In ... 
1-"Nowif}his bo~k doesn't get you sexually excited, I don't know what will." l___ English professor 
c_ __,,,/­
1'Tdanq!d with every serviceman that asked me to last-night. I'm a huge i patriot!" ·--_________, -overheard female student after the Air Force game 
;"Onfo0tball weekends I say suggestive things about sex and alcohol out loud LJ~.1!9,shock the children and old alumni." -overheard student 
1-"rwa?going to go to the game, but we're so bad that I just stayed in and 
'I • . .. J 
:_watchecl 'A Neverending Story'." -male senior student 
[''5cholarly is not a synonym for boring! It's not! It really isn't!" l_ ________/,:_ history professor . . 
Seventeen Years Ago 
Sometimes when I'm feeling down, I like to sit and reflect on the state of life, the universe, global warming, the potential extinction of Sumatra tigers, and the Notre Dame football team. Did students of past eras feel as much pain as we do now? Let's look back to the days ofyesteryear, when Will Smith still wore bright pink backwards hats and overalls, and when Notre Dame students knew what it was like to win a national championship. 
Blind faith and hero worship is probably the most despicable trait embodied by much ofthe student body here. WAKE UP, YOU TWITS!!! The team doesn't like any ofyou as much as you think and couldn't care less ifyou get punched in the mouth by your roommate afteryou tell him to quit bitching aboutfumbled punts by saying to him, "Hey, we're all ND." 
Wow. This guy is experiencing a lot of emotion. I'm not even sure what he's trying to say. Whoever he is, he's a mover and a shaker. We need more people like this on campus. Well, in 1990 Notre Dame football went 9-3. And I know that sometimes that's not good enough, but somehow I think we might take it. 
-Elisa Suarez 
34 f SCHOLASTIC f 15 NOVEMBER 2007 



HUMOR 
What Do Turkeys Say in Ireland? 
Even without Thanksgiving, there is 

plenty to be thankful for. 
Natalie Kratz 
Thanksgiving is by far my favorite holiday. I would supply a list of reasons, but really there is only one. Overeating is not only accepted, but encouraged. I would go so far as to say that in my house it is frowned upon to eat any less than what a small nation could survive on for a month. Last year I ate so much that I spent about 15 minutes in the bathroom, convinced I was going to vomit (I didn't, if you were wondering), and I am not at all ashamed to admit it. In fact, anyone who doesn't celebrate the holiday to such an extent should be ashamed. In the spirit ofthis fine holiday, and despite the fact that I am spending my Thanksgiving in Dublin, I feel that it is still important to express what I am most thankful for this year: 
1 
The fact that my tutorial instructor thinks I'm an idiot. She thought I had difficulty reading the English language because I'm an international student. Also, whenever she asks if anyone has any questions she looks directly at me. Yesterday she actually said, "Natalie, are you completely lost?" for no apparent reason. Most people would consider this attention a bad thing. But I think I've managed to make it work in my favor. She should be impressed with my midterm, in which I successfully string together actual sentences into a semi-coherent paper despite my supposed illiteracy. 
2 
Dutch Gold. This beer has the smoothness of Keystone and is one of the cheapest you can find. Add to that already-winning combination the fact that there is a picture of a shirtless man holding a keg on the can. I'm sold. 
3 
The freshmen Irish boys who live in my building. They are drunk probably 75 percent of the time and have spilled beer all over our apartment door. It was like they were leaving us a present. 
4 
The non-existent workload of Irish universities. As a math major, I'm used to ample amounts of free time, as well as homework that I can accomplish while still catching every glorious line that comes out ofMichael Scott's mouth during my frequent marathons of "The Office." Meanwhile, my friends pull all­nighters writing papers in Hesburgh. It's even better here at. University College Dublin. Not only is my math homework basically optional, but three weeks into my class on Homer's "Iliad" and "Odyssey," my TA was satisfied that the majority of people had seen the movie "Troy." 
5 
Surcharge-free ATMs. As if the dollar to Euro conversion rate isn't bad enough, it's impossible to actually obtain my cash without being further slammed. I think when I get back to the States, I'll get out money and then go directly to the bank and re-deposit it, just because it's free. 
6 
NOT being in the country for this football season. Don't get me wrong, I am by no means a fair-weather fan. Being from Philadelphia, I stand strongly behind a baseball team with the most losses in history, a football team yet to win a Super Bowl, and a hockey team with the worst record in the country for the 2006-2007 season. I'm not really a basketball fan, but I know the Sixers are a disappointment too. But it is nice to avoid the torment of my Penn State friends, which I really deserve after my behavior last season, when I mocked random students while visiting State College. 
I realize that I've omitted the standard answers to the Thanksgiving question -friends, family, my dog -but I like to think that I'm deeper than the average person. If I had a Euro for every time one of those answers ended up on a hand turkey, I could buy enough pints to keep my neighbors drunk for the rest of the semester. Like they won't be anyway. + 
Natalie Kratz is Scholastic's Foreign H1mzor Correspondent. She is tl junior math major studying at Universit:y College Dublin. 
15 NOVEMBER 2007 ( SCHOLASTIC ( 35 


Good ~o~ning worl~, it's 4 a.m. I'm s1ttmg here m my off­campus apartment with more homework to do than Britney has wigs. Don't worry, I won't bore you with the "I'm so busy, I'm an engineer" speech. Everybody's busy. Except some of us are occupied with stuff like actual work while others do things like sing songs and build statues out of popsicle sticks to express their · feelings. Anyway, I'm feeling about as humorous as cancer right now but my editor tells me that if I get this :finished I'll win a prize. I'm hoping for sour Skittles . . . Scholastic's budget is pretty low. Since my schedule is so time chal­lenged, I probably shouldn't have sat on my couch for six hours today watching "That 70s Show" reruns while eating beer-soaked candy corn left over from my Halloween party. And by reruns, I mean the shows I've seen once before already ... today. This television mishap happens to be the latest mistake ofa whole gaggle of mistakes I've made, descending down from my very first _blunder when I was two and ate those batteries. They look convincingly like Oreos, to a toddler with bad vision. Since then I've developed acid reflux. Coincidence? I think not. Life is a learning experience, and my learning curve is more like a flat line. 
36 IScH01AsT1c f 1s NoVEMBER 2007 
In other words, I screw up a lot. First there was the time that I ate one of the "Bigaz Beef Burgers" they sell in the vending machines at the library. That late-night snack decision was obviously influenced by hunger and what I like to call "the crazies." Since then I've become a vegetarian and avoid anything with intentional misspellings, like donuts, lite beer and pie shoppes. 
A second slip-up I've made this past year was going to work for a random construction company in the middle of suburban New Jersey. Let me give you an example of an average Friday night. Ever go to the high school graduation party ofsomeone you don't know because you were so bored? Next time you go for an extended stay in Jersey, bring a few friends along. And then there was the whole loan shark thing ... I'll never look at Louisville Sluggers the same way. 
I also laugh at inappropriate times. Maybe this isn't a mistake as much as a character flaw, but I'll include it because who's writing this article, you or me? Some might brush this off as a minor problem, but its awfulness is as underestimated as the hotness of Flaming Cheetos. Think of the danger at funerals. Ten-person lectures. Talking to my boss! It's this character flaw and about 20 pounds that are keeping me 
from being a cast member on "SNL." At 
least that's what I tell myself. 
Heck, maybe choosing engineering as mymajorwas an error ofepic proportions. You know that you have a problem when you fall asleep in the student lounge and get woken up by concerned cle;ming staff at 4:30 a.m. Being an engineering major is kind of like being on crystal meth, except there are no disturbing TV ads about it and you make a lot of money at the end. Maybe I liked engineering in my younger, thinner, happier days. But the honeymoon is over and all that's left is ·dfrty socks and a lack of communication. No, no, no, I can't fix your computer. No ... I can't answer any science .questions. Um .... how's this stapler work again? Sometimes I_ just want to watch· TV, 
okay? 
Let's cut to the chase: We _all make 
blunders in our· lives sometimes. Maybe 
once you wore those white jeans you 
like out to a party. Maybe you blew 300 
dollars• on those informational DVDs 
from that timeshare-selling opportunity 
infomercial. Maybe you confusedJa Rule 
and DMX ... I could see it. It's the raspy voice. Maybe you went to the Kidz Bop World Tour last summer. Maybe you've search~d through strangers' fridges for 
cheese at parties. Maybe this column 
doesn't have a conclusion. My bad. + 
. -· ./ 
• ' • f 
-_ ' . . : . . . , . . . ,/ , .· ' ·. . . , :-. . , ' , . 
• ' ' I , • • 

. ,-'4E co~Et>'f Of 
<i~E<i 
Fil2Sit-'"'ONS 





