^Cbe^
Dotre Dame Scholastic
DI see QVASI- SCITIPCR- vicTvevs • • Vive ^VASI- cras-moritvrvs-
Vol. XLV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December 9, 1911.
No. 12.
Review of the Football Season.
JOHN P. MURPHY, *12, Manager of Athletics.
WflTH the opening of our football season, yjy of 1911 conditions were • not alto-| * gether roseate. Although the coach’s call for candidates was answered by about
forty men, nevertheless, they were, for the most part, inexperienced hopefuls. Despite this handicap the coach set to work and by the time the few old men of last year arrived he had given our enthusiasts cause to predict the successful season that has resulted.
That the season has been a successful one few will gainsay. Not only have we been successful in closing our season without a defeat, but we have been successful in many other ways. Not the least of these is the fact that Marks has been building up and perfecting a squad that should carry Notre Dame through next season with even .a better record than that of 1909., In the coming year we are for
tunate in. losing but two men of this year’s team. It is indeed true that the loss of these two men will be severely felt, but we have reason to believe, from conditions this year that their places will be well filled. Another success of this season, and one which
Manager John Murphy who has shown judgment and discretion in handling the football situation. *
is^ peculiarly interesting locally, is the fact that so many past inter-hall stars have “made
good” on the Varsity. It is to the interhall teams we rightly look for our Varsity material.
Our season’s work has amply demonstrated that the men who “make good” on hall teams can also “make good” on the Varsity.
The causes for these successes are many, but perhaps the most potent is the werk of
the men who have had to do with the coaching and training of the squad. Coach Marks came to'us well recommended, not only as an indefatigable worker but also as one who would give his men a square deal. He has come up to expectations in both recommendations. He began his. work by winning the confidence of the squad and retained it throughout the season. Such perfect control had he of his men th,at he was respected and obeyed on all occasions.. = His coaching has received the recognition it deserves throughout the country. The Milwaukee' papers stated that never before had any team displayed such perfect team work as that exhibited by Notre Dame on Thanks
giving day. This is surely high praise.
To Maris, our trainer, is also due a considerable share of the laurels won this season. He has proved to all of us how necessary and helpful a trainer can be. Although the work of a trainer is not so noticeable to the general
178
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
observer as- that of the coach, nevertheless, it is just as essential. The squad this year was the largest in the history of the school but despite this, there were less injuries, and the men were kept in the best of condition. We have finished our season without a serious mishap.
Don Hamilton, assistant coach, was another big asset in the year's work. Many a member of the squad owes his position on the team to Don’s cheering words of encouragement. Were it not for the clever work put up by the second team perhaps our successes would be greatly diminished. Another feature of Don’s work was the spirit which he instilled into the men. An instance of this was seen at both
.	The Coach
who has made an army of friends.
the Wabash and the Marquette games. At the former he gave the men a talk between halves that sent them out on the field again with the determination that finally won the game.
In the Marquette game Luke Kelly closed his football career at Notre Dame. Ever since Luke first reported for the team four years ago he proved himself a valuable man. It seems though that his past three years were spent in preparing himself for this year’s work. Notre Dame has registered some mighty men at the tackle position, but none of them have shown work superior to that of Luke’s this year; time and again has he been the cause of preventing a score made upon us
1
i
Captain Luke Kelly who played his last game for Notre Dame Thanksgiving.
and of opening up holes in the opposing line to allow us to score. Not only as a player has he made a reputation but also as a captain. He proved himself a valuable aid to Coach Marks in practice and in the game. His natural reticence was forgotten with the sound of the whistle and he fought every inch of ground. It may safely be said that he never lost an opportunity to gain an advantage or to secure a right for his team that he believed belonged to him.	.
A feature that deserves especial notice in any review of the seasen is the perfect harmony that existed in the squad. Coaches, trainer, captain and men worked together in the most friendly relations. Every man seemed io give his best and receive in turn his just due. Another feature that made cur season more enjoyable was the receptions the team received at the hands of our Alumni and friends in
Ass’t Coach Hamilton who talked fight into the men between quarters.
the different cities we visited. This is especially true of the Alumni of Pittsburg. Our gratitude also goes out to all our friends who in any way aided us
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
179
in making this season’s work tell. With the prospects of a good team and a good schedule, our next football season should be even rrore successful.
This Year’s Team.
JOHN F. O’CONNELL, ’13, Editor Varsity Athletics.
The season of 1911 has gone the way of all seasons, and it only remains to say in passing that it has been successful beyond our hopes. While it would have been more satisfactory to be victors over Pittsburg and Marquette, still we were not defeated by either,rival and that affords no small mete of consolation. Coaches, managers and trainer Bert Maris have worked harmoniously for the good of
Trainer Bert Maris
to whom is due tbe top notch condition of the, men during the season
•Assist. Mgr. Wm. Cotter who arranged the basketball and track schedules
the team. Of the players it may be truly said that each man gave the best he had.
Luke Kelly, Captain (Tackle). -
The best player on the team, and one of the best turned out by Notre Dame in recent years. His work in the Pittsburg, Wabash and Marquette games was a fitting exhibition by the leader of the 1911 squad. At breaking through the opposing line, in running down punts and in stopping any play directed at his side of the line, Luke proved
George Philbrook whose place win be difficult to fill next year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
181
himself so capable as to win a place on the All-State selection by Coach Heze Clarke, and a position on the second All-Western team picked by the Chicago Daily News.
„ George Philbrook (Tackle).
The giant tackle rounded out his football career by an exhibition of play equal in every respect to the showing which won him the All-Western honor two years ago. It was necessary to use him in but two games, Pittsburg and Marquette, although Coach Marks permitted him to work out in one minor college contest. “Phil” proved a wonder at getting away with forward passes over the line, his height aiding him in obtaining the ball. This is his last year.
.	Torgus Oaas (Guard).
In a position where merit passes unnoticed, while faults shine with added lustre, Oaas went through the season in the same consistent manner with which he played the first game. Late in arriving at school it required but two days to convince the coach of his right to a position in the line, and until the end there was no change. This is his second year.
Charles E. Dorias (Quarterback).
Dorias proved himself last year, and his arrival shortly after the opening of the practice season was hailed by the knowing ones as a sign of what was to follow. One of the headiest men on the team his direction of the eleven brought forth all the strength of the squad. The Marquette game gave him the best opportunity of displaying his worth, his tackling _ alone preventing certain touchdowns. Accurate at forward passes, clever in dodging and a good punter, another year will see Dorias in the running for All-Western quarterback, a position conceded him by many who had the opportunity to compare his work with that of the best Conference men. This is his second year on the team.
Charles F. Crowley (End).
Another second year man who gained even greater glory than was won during his first season at Notre -Dame is Charlie Crowley. Showing unusual speed at going down under punts, and in smashing up opposing interference, Crowley satisfied football authorities throughout the state of his superiority over all other claimants fcr the All-State position. Cool and determined, his work stamps him
as one of the best ends seen on the local gridiron in years. Crowley is a junior in law and has another year to play.
K. Rockne (End).
A fit companion fcr Crowley and a close rival for All-State honors, Rockne landed -the’ end position early in the season. Tackling was his strong forte, and in this department he equalled any man on the team. Although one of the lightest men on the squad—he weighs but 156 pounds—no opponent was too fierce nor any interference too strong to deter his smashing plunges. This is his first year.
Ray Eichenlaub (Fullback).
The heaviest man on the team, the best punter and the most consistent line plunger, a first-year man who upset all traditions by taking a place at the opening of the season and holding it without fear of loss until the end, “Eich” was one of the finds of the season. Carrying 195 pounds of brawn he made himself feared in every contest in which the gold and blue engaged. This is his first year, but it proved him one of the stars, and he should be invaluable during the coming seasons.
A. Berger (Halfback).
“Heinie” combines the speed of a track star with the beef of an ideal gridiron herd. Discovered by “Don” Hamilton he demonstrated early in the season that the eulogies of the ex-Varsity quarterback were not based on mythical viitues. A 10 second man, and weighing 185 pounds, Berger showed up well around the ends as well as through the line. This, is his first year on the eleven.
E. J. Harvat (Guard).
Built close to the ground and carrying no superfluous fat, Harvat is one of the most deceiving men on the eleven. Under the coaching of the captain he developed into a splendid guard, his 188 potmds providing an impenetrable defense, while his work on offense ranked him with the regulars early in the season. “Speedy” won interhall honors for Brownson two years ago, but this is his maiden effort in college football. He will be back next year.
Albert Feeney (Center)..
Feeney put in his first year on the team this fall and played a strong, consistent game. His work at Wabash was sensational and-drew favorable comments from several scribes in the selection of the All-State team. Coach
182
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of yardage gained by him alone almost equals the total gains of the balance of the team for the entire season. Bergman went as far as the law allowed in one of the minor games when he received the ball back of the goal posts and carried it the length of the field for a touchdown. His dodging was stellar, but his lack of weight worked against him toward the end of the season. -.	-
Yund and Larson in the line, McGinnis and Dolan on the ends, Lee at quarterback and McGrath at fullback furnished a group of substitutes whose playing; was but little below that . of the regulars. McGrath was unfortunate in that a wrenched neck kept him out of the game for nearly two weeks and the . handicap prevented him from doing his. best. He took part in the Pittsburg battle, and played a fine defensive game.
One would like to mention every member of the squad since every member of the squad has a share in the glory of those who made the Varsity. But a limited space is allotted me, and those whom I can not mention individually may well rest satisfied with the place they . hold in. the hearts of every loyal rooter.
The mention of “ rooter” recalls to mind those who played our games from the side-lines. This year the organization of the students’ rooting association had the effect of . quickening enthusiasm at the home contests. Let the organization continue by all means. I think I. have mentioned them all—players, subs, the whole squad, the rooters. Yes, I have mentioned them all, for. the coaches and
Marks tried him out at guard early in the season, but his accurate passing made him preferable for center. He is a junior lawyer and will be back next year.
Joseph Pliska (Halfback).
• Backfield material seemed at a discount early, in the season because of the amount of it, but the value of a good thing can never be destroyed. Pliska was a man whose value increased as time went on. Line plunging was his forte, and his showing in the three big games places him on a par with the best of his mates. This is his first year of college football.
William Kelleher (Halfback).
One of the most reliable substitutes on the squad, and the only man sent into the Marquette game after the beginning of play, “ Bill” is gameness personified. A sure tackler, a fair punter, one of the best defensive players in the backfield, and a marvel at squirming through the line, he has made an enviable record in his first year at Notre Dame. Bill played his prep football at Columbia Academy Portland, Oregon.
K. Jones (Fullback, Center). .
Jones was a victim of an unfortunate state of affairs. Possessing ability which would easily have earned him a regular place under ordinary circumstances, he was prevented from landing a regular berth by the prowess of heavier men. His defensive work ,in the Pittsburg game was one of the really good things of the season.
Alfred Bergman (Halfback).
The fastest man on the
r
team, whose, record managers are not in my province:
The All-Hall Selection.	’
donald m. Hamilton, ’12 (Aw7 Varsity Coach).

FIRST TEAM.
Carmody. (Corby), left end; - -
. Bartel (St. Joseph), left tackle;
• Dunphy (Brownson), left guard; ; . Heyl (Corby), center;	.
. . Hicks (St. Joseph), right guard; , s McDonald (Corby), right /tackle;' ;
. H. Newning (Walsh), .right/end; ■	;
McNichpl: (Walsh), captain, quarter-back Gushugst ; (Corby), left half-back; v, ;' Maloney (St. Joseph); right /half -back ? Howard (St.; Joseph), fuU-back. > -	■
;	SECOND TEAM. ..	'
Baujah (Walsh), / left end; ?	'.
. Shaughnessy (Walsh), left.“.tackle;--'' Dew (Brownson),leftguard; .
O’Brien (St. Joseph),
Fowler. (Brownson), righti guard; ■ Robinson(St.Joseph),righttackle;
Don^ovan(Corby),right
. Ryan (BrownsOn),quarter-1ra^
' •Kane (St. Jo^ph), l^
Withams;^
«

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
183
r
,t i
{
Never before has interhall athletics brought remarkable thing about Corby’s success this forth such keen competition and good-natured year is the fact that Father Farley’s “Braves” rivalry among the students residing in the won the bunting without crossing their op-different'halls as has this past football season.- ponents’ goal line once, and by scoring only Such interest speaks well for the future Varsity, nine points—a drop kick each by Hebner mid teams, as many points have been learned this McDonald, and a place kick by Donovan, fall by the younger men which will help them Yet credit must be given to the Corby team in the years to come. May the rest of? the for its pluck and determination in rallying school year bring forth the same honest rivalry and coming back strong after its most valuable that has been shown in the football season men had been barred by the faculty board. ~ just past.	? To Mike Carmody of Corby goes the position -
Following a time-honored custom of selecting of left end'because of his undisputed, brilliant an all-hall eleven at the end of each football work from the start of the season. He is season, the time is now at hand to honor the aggressive and brainy, and is a splendid man players who have done the best and most. going down the field under kicks. He is cool consistent playing during the inter-hall series. , and collected, a hard and sharp tackler, .and in The men selected for this honorary teamhave addition,'he is an adept , at handling forward been picked not because of their playing in passes and in boxing his tackle. Baujan of
one contest, but the selection is based on the
Walsh, and Mike’s running mate, Donovan, are performances of the players in all the struggles both ver/ clever, and very fast, but are slightly
after a careful and thorough review of their inferior; to Carmody and Harry Newning, .
efforts by the different coaches.
' and-sohave been placed on the second team
j J (
I might mention for instance Elwood of Brown-
Picking an all-hall eleven is. beset with At left tackle will be found Bartel of St. difficulties, as some of the men, who, ho doubt, Joseph’s hall. He is an extremely hard man would have made this mythical eleven, were - to box, because, of his aggressiveness and shifti-barred during the season by the faculty board, ness; an excellent man to get behind his opponents’ line to block kicks or forward passes,
son and Mehlem and Finnegan of’Corby. or to get an opposing runner before he had
While there always is a difference of opinion 'started; and going down the field he was very in these selections, they must be;made without fast." In addition, he was a good man to open . prejudice, and the work of each player must, holes in the opposing line. This combination be considered carefully. The hard, effective of qualities -won-hun his coveted position. . checking, boxing of opponents, ability to size . Dunphy of Brownson is given the position up quickly the opposing team’s method of of left guard, and although he played an ex-.
attack, varying of charges by the linemen,' ceedingly . good game at half, the abundance . the power and drive of the backs,, and many of backsand the dearth of linemen caused the
other points,.have been considered in selecting coaches to: select Dunphy as guard. He is 1 the personnel of this eleven. . The method pur- not new; to this position, as he has played the sued in choosing the team' was; as. follow?- line before. Dunphy is big, strong, ..fast; Each coach chose, a first and second team-r and is an excellent defensiveman who can. with a captain for each—eliminating from his easily hold up his end of the battle. He choice all members of . his own squad; Then has; also the drive and push necessary to a - the choice fell to the manreceiving the highest good lineman, and is a safe man to have . -
number of votes. Members of the Sorin hall by the side of the snapper-back. Tiemey, squad were not included in the candidates for Dinnen, O’Rourke and Dew are also .good theall-hall team because of the Tact that -guards,but lack the requisitesnap and dash.: they did not finish'the season, and thus, faffed v Captain Heyl of Corby is chosen center on to show their ability.	?	■ this mythical elevenj and he justly deserves
The Corby hall , team again Won the flag, the place. His passing : has been beyond ? ' going through the season without a loss and reproach, and hewasafastmaningetting ■_ r retaining a perfect average of 1000. True,; down the field under ki<^< *He w . the Brownson boys/tied them. 3-3, butXtfrej . at full during part of the; St Joseph-Corby > “Erownies”. lost to -the Walsh squad, which / game, and he ?did dreeedingl^ m .turn;wasfd#«at^.	■ asset?; as. ja
=3

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	185
was his defensive ability. Playing a loose showed that he has nerve, pluck and brains
center, he figured in practically every play, and his hard and deadly tackling contributed’ largely to Corby’s success in going through the season without a defeat. Hence Heyl is the choice for the pivotal position. O’Brien of St. Joseph and White of Walsh played well, but after due consideration, the choice fell to Heyl.
Bill Hicks of St Joseph hall is the pick for right guard, and is the best lineman in school, as well as being the fastest charging forward among the hall men. At times his eagerness cost his team a few yards, but Bill’s defensive and offensive work more than offset this fault. Full of fight, brainy, and possessed of an ability to follow7 the ball, Hicks is certainly worthy of being in the line-up.
On the side cf the line opposite to Bartel, Joe McDonald has been selected to play right tackle. Joe is an excellent (defensive man who tackles hard and low. His best asset is his kicking ability, being good at either punting, drop kicking or placement. He opens holes very well for his backs, and is fair at throwing a forward pass. He won the championship for his team by his toe-work, and is properly entitled to the place. Other good tackles are Robinson of St. Joseph’s who is a hard vorker all the time, Shaughnessy of Walsh and Fowler of Brownson.
The position of right end goes to Captain Harry Newning of Walsh. He is, without a doubt, the best end on the hall teams. Silent and reserved, Harry “delivered the goods.” He is a clean, hard and consistent player. His speed and ability to judge punts enabled him many times to drop the opposing backs in their tracks. Harry tackled low and hard, and often got his man for a loss. ■ He was a very clever man also in receiving forward passes and blocking his tackle or end.
Dan McNichol of Walsh is easily the best quarter-back in interhall circles this year. No one is near him in ability to run a team. To McNichol may be attributed a very large part of the success of the Walsh team. He was a bundle of nerve; fast, brainy, an excellent forward passer—one who knew how, when and where to pass the ball—and quick to size up opponents’ defense. In open field-running, too, McNichol outclassed any man in the halls ; and his'magnificent and thrilling run of .115 yards from behind his own goal for a touchdown
enough to run our mythical, all-hall eleven. He is a grand defensive player, ’and no one backed up his line more brilliantly than did “Fish.” Then, too, he is a fair kicker. With McDonald doing the punting, drop and place kicking, and -McNichol booting on-side kicks, the all-hall eleven would be well fortified in the toe department. And because of Dan’s sterling qualities as a “footballer” in every respect, fie has been selected as captain of this eleven, and no one doubts that he will fill the bill in an acceptable manner.
Ryan of Brownson and Kane of St. Joseph’s were both excellent men, but the unusual ability of McNichol made it impossible for these men to place.
Gushurst, the gritty, speedy, plunging halfback from Corby, is awarded the left half-back position. Besides being a powerful line bucker, he can drive off tackle in a dashing way that is certain to result in a substantial gain. -On defense he is equally strong, and being an earnest, hard-working fellow, is the logical choice. Harvat of Walsh, Williams and Nowers of Brownson, and Bensberg and Soisson of Corby are all good men, but our choice is limited.
“Buck” Maloney of St. Joseph is chosen as Gushurst’s funning mate, and he can easily fill the bill. He is probably the best half-back of the year .in carrying the ball on end runs, and as an open-field runner ranks with the best of the other hall men. He is a good defensive, man with speed and weight, and is an excellent man in returning punts. Maloney is a good interceptor of forward passes, and in interfering for his team-mates he has few equals.
Howard of St. Joseph is the best full-back of the season. He was handicapped by sickness the early part of the season, and was thus unable to show to his best advantage. Possessing weight, speed, and plunging ability, “Del” was an exceedingly hard man to stop. He is a veritable battering-ram, and is the best man for the position he won. On defense he is a tower of strength, tackling hard, intercepting forward passed nicely, and running interference in a valuable manner.
There were’ many other good half-backs as well as other good linemen and ends, but they all can not be placed on the first team, so a second team is named also, on winch Donovan, Ryan, and Kane would do the kicking and forward passing.	.
i86
-THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Term at tha University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana
Vol. XLV.
December 9, 1911.	* No. 12.
Board of Editors.
JOHN P. MURPHY,
PATRICK A. BARRY
CYRIL J. CURRAN, 12
SIMON E. TWINING, ’13
LOUIS J. KILEY, ’13
EDWARD J. HOWARD, *12
RUSSELL G. FINN, *12
WILLIAM J. MILROY, ’13
JOHN F. O’CONNELL, ’13
MAURICE NORCKAUER, '14
—The Scholastic’s editorial on the proper way to pronounce the name of our University
has attracted press. After
The Press on Our Name.
considerable attention from the quoting what we had to say about variant pronunciations, for example, the editor of the New World says:
“Now the editor of the New
World has given much time- and thought to orthoepy, and pronounces Notre Dame—one of the best equipped and most up-to-date Catholic universities in America. As long as it holds this enviable position we don’t suppose that its popular and energetic President cares where the accent falls.”
—The football season which came to a dose
Thanksgiving day many respects. A
The Pull-Together Spirit
has been remarkable in new team, new coaches, new managers faced the new problems which are peculiar to every year. Yet not in our athletic
history have The new and untried worked together so harmoniously. The men who coached and the men who managed and the men who played exemplified in a remarkable way the strength-in-unity, the pull-together spirit, or any other saw that will convey the notion
doser together athletically; it should set them to formulating set rules and policies for the of cohesive effort. The coaches kept a large direction of ; their athletic relations. It should squad continually on the jump till the very: unify them, and make the fight against the last whistle sounded out the end of the season, discrimination more bearable. .
There was no dearth of players, hence no man was sure of his position. For all that, into the competition for places no ill-feeling or bitterness entered. No one doubts that Marks, and Hamilton, who assisted him, taught the team of 1911 a great deal about football; and next year when practically the same team takes up the game no one will fail to credit this knowledge to these tvyo men.
Of the team itself the students and alumni of this school are very proud. The players showed the clean, square, hard fight characteristic of Notre Dame. They had no bad names to call opponents, no disagreeable after stories of mistreatment. Two—Philbrook and Kelly— played their last game in Milwaukee Thanksgiving. Their going will mean the last of the great team of ’09. We will miss them, the last of that gallant band, of whom one, we hope, is home with God.
Managers Murphy and Cotter are faithful workers who may be trusted to handle difficult situations that arise in their positions with tact and judgment. They have already proved by their good services that they are worthy of the high trust placed upon them.
—The Scholastic
does not know what
are the purposes of the athletic boards of either Notre Dame or Marquette about a football game next year. It speaks for itself, therefore, and not for A Ghost in the Attic, them. It hopes that neither institution will decide to discontinue the annual football game which has quickened so much wholesome rivalry between the two schools. Both schools should know by this time—and probably do know—that the mid-west universities have built up an athletic trust of which they are not, and may not be, members. Educationally, athletically, ethically, no good reason can be given why they should be discriminated against. It is un-American and suggests the presence of a ghost in the attic we had thought banished.
All this, we are well aware, will not change the minds of those who govern athletics in the universities of the mid-West. But it should bind Notre Dame and the Milwaukee school

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
President’s Day Festivities.
Church Services.
The day on which we elected to honor "our President showed due appreciation for the I	distinction conferred; for Wednesday came
in with a blue sky and a sun that June might be proud of. Thanks to Wednesday; we will remember the day for next year.
?	At eight o’clock Rev. Father Cavanaugh
- - sang the traditional solemn high mass of the day in the Sacred Heart Church, assisted by the Vice-president, Father Walsh, and by Father Schumacher, director of studies.
The Very Rev. Father Provincial and a number . of the local clergy were present in the sanctuary ;	The seminarians’ choir rendered a very creditable
musical program, the Offertory selection "and ;	the solo, Veni Jesu, being particularly good.
i	Military Inspection.
At ten o’clock in the gymnasium the President and the officers of the University, accom'	panied by Captain Stogsdall, instructor in
• Military Science and Tactics, and his staff, j	inspected the battalion. The student soldiers
•	in their gray uniforms presented a splendid
I	appearance. It was especially gratifying to
i	notice the military bearing of the company
।	composed of the elder Carroll hall boys. The
President expressed himself as very much pleased with the showing of the companies. The band, which is fully equal to that of last year, played a number of excellent pieces during the inspection. .	.	.
Dinner at Noon.
■	. President’s day without an appropriate dinner
|	would lose no little of its charm for the under-
graduate. The chicken days are marked with
|	red numerals in his calendar. There was . no
1	disappointment in store for him this time,
[	either. It was a typical Notre Dame banquet,
with the addition of excellent music. The University orchestra under Prof. Petersen’s direction carried out its part of the program very satisfactorily.	.
In the Brownson refectory the President’s table and those near it were reserved for the faculty and visitors. Of the latter there were many, some of whom had come from • great distances. The following were among the guests: Judge Anderson, Rev. Dean O’Brien, Rev. John Guendling, Dr. Dinnen, Mr. C. H. Fosset, Mr. Marvin Campbell, Mr. J.. Stude-.
187
baker, Mr. D. Gulfoyle, Rear Admiral Day ton, Mr. Charles A. Carlisle, Hon. Charles L. Goetz, Rev. John DeGroote, Mr. P. O’Brien, Mr. Joseph Sullivan, Mr. V. Jones, Mr. F. H. Wurzer, Mr. William Moore, Mr. William A. McInerney, Rev. John Wall, Dr. Stoekley, Mr. F. L. Sims, Dr. Sensenick, Mr. Frank Murphy, Mr. Max Adler, Rev. Father Schramm, Mr. O. Bastian, Dr. Olney, Dr. Lucas, Mr. T. M. Hoban, Rev. Father Welsh, Rev. Father Martin, Mr. William. O’Neil, Mr. T. Harley, Mr. S. Adler, Dr. Berteling, Mr. George Senrich, Dr. Powers, Mr. J. A. Wood, Rev. Father Regan, C. S. P., Mr. John Weber, Mr. W. D. O’Brien, and Rev. Dr. John P. Thillmann.
Address and Response.
The largest President’s day audience in some years assembled in Washington hall to witness the presentation of “ The Redemption of Jimmy Anson.” Previous to the play the following address of greeting was delivered by Russell Finn, president of the senior class:
That institution which represents to man his own well-being which lives for him and identifies itself with his existence, demands unswerving fidelity’ to its ideals. For this reason, that loyalty is engendered which finds expression in the heart of a student. Not alone with the fleeting impulse of enthusiasm, but with a purer inspiration of genuine affection does the college man embrace the ideals of his Alma Mater. The love which a man bears with him when he forsakes the tender graces of his college life is a love which will never die, against which the destructive hand of time can never prevail. The love of a student for his college is that which he bears his native land, partaking of the unselfish devotion of patriotism, for the college- has granted him a full realization of all that is good for him in life. It has opened to him a vista of righteousness and shown him the power of noble achievement. It is there that his hopes have been conceived, there fostered, and thence he goes, dad in the tempered armour of his training to combat and to conquer.
The man who loves his country loves his home, loves all that is good and is a true man. The loyalty which springs from the heart of such a man is the rarest beauty in all nature. Because the nation represents to man the parent and protector of all that he possesses, his home, his- love, his liberty and his very life, he is willing to bleed and die for its honor.
It is with this strong feeling that men commemorate the glorious achievements of a nation and pay tribute to the memory of those heroes whose sacrifices have lived to’ bless the prosperity' of a later day. This same feeling leads the Faculty and students of Notre' Dame to celebrate the glories of the past and. to signalize the triumphs of the present. -	.	’ .
Wonder, affection, gratitude, possess pur. souls when we look back upon those men who nearly seventy
i88	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
years ago, through toils and hardships, which only the courage of a saintly heart could endure, brought forth in the hostile wilderness of a new country our Alma Mater.
To the men of the past we submit the immortal tablets of memory. There is imprinted a story which can not be transmuted, which lies beyond expression, the story of how through years of constant care they nursed the infant mission, of how it grew under their guidance, developed into a college and bloomed at last into the great University which is ours today. Self-sacrifice with no earthly remuneration, unbroken conformity to the divine principles and indefatigable zeal for the attainment of sacred ideals are the foundations upon which they have erected this temple of culture and morality.
To the men of the present, those whom we know from personal experience, whose benevolence and virtue we are made to feel in every day of our college life, who smile with approbation upon our every effort and help us with paternal regard in every difficulty, to them we express the deepest gratitude. Though the debt can never be discharged, we shall strive in sweet remembrance of their unselfish attention, and tender solicitude to repay with lives true to their ideals the sacrifices they have made for us. Not only have they been our professors, not alone advisors and instructors, they have been our sympathetic and friendly companions. The cheering smile, the helping hand and familiar words of the President are always eager to encourage and make glad those who approach him. There is no student among us but has felt the beauty of his fine character, but has been inspired by his noble example. Even the incessant stream of routine work and the numberless duties that press upon him are turned to the students’ advantage, for the good will of Father Cavanaugh and his paternal interest have always been awaiting those who seek hint. Though it is beyond us to pay proper tribute to his character, we can and do pledge him our affection and the University through him our everlasting loyalty, thanking God that such a man has been given Notre Dame.
Today, Father Cavanaugh, the University is assembled to celebrate the sixth anniversary of your presidency and to congratulate you upon the success and blessings that have attended your administration. If words of praise could be so expressed as to convey their real significance it w ould then be possible for us to phrase our thought. Our gratitude is our affection, our praise the expression of our loyalty. When this day shall have passed and been numbered among those of the long ago, the pledges we now make will remain fresh in our memory of Alma-Mater. We thank you, Father Cavanaugh, for the blessings you have brought us; we congratulate you upon the success you have attained and pray that the favor of God may smile upon your noble work granting, you the full measure of your reward..	- •
In reply Father Cavanaugh thanked all who had taken part in the evefits of the day, and in a few stirring and inspiring words lauded the work of his predecessors, their untiring
zeal and self-sacrifice. The President spoke with feeling of the present Faculty, and congratulated them on the successes they have achieved for the educational growth of the University. He ended by presenting to all a vision of the future Notre Dame, greater and more influential than even today, but cherishing and teaching the same noble ideals.
The Play.
Of the play one may speak with very little of qualifying phrase. The drama itself presented a good moral, not a preachy moral, to be sure, but a good, everyday lesson of struggle against temptation and final triumph. There was plot enough to make the story interesting, humor enough of the quiet kind to vary light with shade—but a subdued light all the way.
The actors do not need to throw themselves on the mercy of the critic, for they are saved by virtue of their own good works.- This makes it all the more pleasant for the critic, since, let the cynic smile as he will, it is much more agreeable to praise than to blame.
Mr. McGarry as the prison warden was natural, which is the sum and substance of the actor’s art. He was a hard, cold man, fitted to his life—a life in which every man is weighed in the balance with all his crimes and sins on the opposite scale. Mr. Hicks as Doyle, the detective, grew on you as the play progressed. He was especially effective in the duel of establishing identity against “Jimmy” and also in the final scene. Mr. Dockweiler was reserved and dignified, and played his role very acceptably. Messrs. Milroy and Galvin, the two pals in ways that are wild, did some clever acting at times. Perhaps they made too many gestures, perhaps they were just a trifle too near the conventional stage “ bad ” men. But a trifle is -nothing in them who put such vim and movement into their parts. Mr. Daly’s German accent might be improved, but again that is a detail which should not be too much emphasized in view of Mr. Daly’s general presentation. The hero as handled by Mr. Lynch did not suffer. “Jimmy” may weli be satisfied with Mr. Lynch’s reading, which was Sincere; and at times strikingly dose to the edge of emotion;. Mr. Finn as Lieutenant Governor Fay played the part with quiet dignity. .	/	.
The ladies,—ah, yes, the ladies. Here we must be cautious. Ifr.Twining pre^ted a Mrs. Webster that made the ladies in. the .
i

I f I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
189

audience suspect we had kidnapped some of the queens from our neighboring school. The lady was Mr. Twining, however, for we saw him before the paints were applied. Mrs. Moore had some trouble with her hat, but hat or no hat she was a lovely little person. We thank Mr. Cox for introducing us. Mr. Birder was calm and serious and gave us a very charming Rose Lane. Perhaps a little more spirit, a little more action, a trifle more of nervous
Bobby..........
• Kitty.........
Clerk of the Bank
.John Shedd Holden Lauren Ferguson Loker .James Vermont Robins
Program by Orchestra. •
Selection—“TheTopo’ the World,” Klein and Caldwell
Selection—“The Beauty Spot”.............DeKoven
Selection—“The Broken Idol”...........Van	Alstyne
March....................................Selected
St Edward’s Hall Celebration.
movement would add to Cecil’s reading. Mr. Cotter as Smith did not have a part for the development of personality, but he showed in the ladies of the Gate of Hope and Dick the Rat, el alii, with a fine flourish. And then the others, Messrs. Lenihan, Williams, Clark, Robins—they all showed the effect of careful training; and those two youngsters, Johnny Holden and Lauren Loker, were the sharpest and cleverest performers one could wish to see.
Father Maloney has done well in his reading of the “Reformation of Jimmy Anson.” He worked marvels with his student castr as the smoothness of the whole performance fully testified. He has our thanks for the pleasure of the evening. He can fill the house at any future time.
The stage setting was built here at home, and surely the home manufacture may well be patronized. There were four complete scenes, and every one of them showed taste in design and care and construction. Bro. Cyprian and his stage-hands share in our thanks and woids of congratulation. Prof. Petersen was in evidence with an exceptionally good orchestra and added his part to the smoothness of the performance.	■
Yes, President’s day was remarkable for bright sky and sun, joyous company, and a splendid play. May we have many such.
The Cast. Warden Handler ..........William Everett McGarry
Smith....................William Edward Cotter
Blickensdolfenbach...................Hugh James Daly Doyle.......................William Joseph Hicks
Bill Avery.................William Joseph Milroy
Mrs. Webster.................Simon	Ercile Twining
Mrs. Moore.....................Louis	Charles Cox
Lieutenant Governor Fay.... Russell Gregory Finn Rose Lane....................Cecil	Edward Birder
Blinky Davis.............Emmett George Lenihan
Dick the jiat..........   .William	Joseph Williams
Jimmy Anson............-.........George Alfred Lynch Spike Flannigan............. .William Michael Galvin Mr. Lane..............Thomas John Dockweiler
Messenger.................	^ .George. Walker Clarke
On Tuesday the boys of St. Edward’s hall had their own day and celebration for the President. The exercises consisted of solemn . high mass in the beautiful new Holy Family chapel at 8 o’clock. Father Cavanaugh was the celebrant, assisted by Father Schumacher as deacon and Father T. E. Burke, as subdeacon. The hall choir had special music for the occasion. -	_
In the assembly room after mass, Newman Wittenberg read a brief address to Father . Cavanaugh that conveyed to the President the feelings of loyalty and high regard which the St. Edward’s hall boys have for him; ■ The President responded and in plain, direct language told the lads many useful and interesting things, for which he was heartly applauded at the close. The study-hall was decorated with flags, college colors and rich potted plants, which added to the ordinarily neat appearance of the room.
Brownson Entertainment and Smoker.
Tuesday evening the students of Brownson Hall gave their annual entertainment in honor of the President and faculty of the University. The program consisted of the following numbers: “ Darling Nellie Gray” by Brownson Glee Club; “An Interesting Trilogy” by J. Clovis Smith; “The Ballad of the Tempest” by Jeremiah McCarthy; Selection by Orchestra; “Kelly’s Dream” by George Clark; “Canon Sheehan’s -Masterpiece” by Raymond Walsh; Selection by Orchestra; “Our American Cardinals” by ” James Robins; vocal solo by James Wasson; / “The Phantom Congregation” by Brother Alphonsus, C. S. C.; “Come Where the River Winds” by Brownson Glee Club; address and presentation of flowers to Father Cavanaugh by M. Emmet Walter; closingremarksby J, the Reverend President of the Universi^r. . .	; ’
After the entertainment a smoker was hdd in one of the dining-rooms. When each bne '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
190
had been served with refreshments, afterdinner speeches were in order. Mr. M. Emmet Walter acted as toastmaster and called on the following for wit and humor: Fathers Burke Bolger, Hagerty, Carrico; Brothers Alphonsus and Hugh; Messrs. Derrick, Vaughan, Mann, Marshall, Robins, Viso, Ely, Emerson, Burns, Krug and Gillis.
Dr. Banks on Persia.
Dr. Banks delivered a lecture last Saturday on Persia, maintaining the standard set by his talk on Egypt the previous week. In obtaining views of Persia, however, the professor and his party labored under difficulties arising from the nature of the strict government regulations concerning photographing and excavating. He succeeded, in spite of the unfavorable circumstances, in obtaining some very interesting pictures of the public buildings, temples and ruins. In the course of the lecture Dr. Banks explained many of the customs of the people and their religious practices which, though in some instances, resembling those of other Eastern countries, in others are widely different. The lecture this week will be on India. -
Knights of Columbus Elections.
At a meeting of the local council of the K of C. last Wednesday evening the following officers were elected for the coming year. Grand Knight, Professor James F. Hines; Deputy Grand Knight, James E. Sanford; Treasurer, James F. O’Brien; Financial Secretary, Earl S. Dickens; Recording Secretary, Edward J. Howard; Chancellor, Henry J. Kuhle, Jr.; Advocate, William P. Donning; Warden, Leo J. Condon; Inside Guard, Julius Meuninck; Outside Guard, Fabian N. Johnston. The officers will be formally installed by District Deputy Weber of South Bend at the first meeting in January.
. Society Notes. -
Architectural Club. * ' -
The regular meeting of the dub was held Monday evening. President Kaiser called the meeting to order, and explained to the members
that owing to some misunderstanding only one-paper was prepared to be read; Mf. H.
Munger read a resume of the articles contained in the Architectural Magazines of the past month. He treated his subject in a pleasing manner, quoting from articles written by prominent architects of the present day. After the usual criticism and discussion of the paper, the members indulged in social conversation. It was agreed to hold the next meeting of the club . Sunday evening, Dec. 17th, at the Haney Hotel.
Civil Engineering. - ’
The Civil Engineering Society hdd its eighth regular weekly meeting on Tuesday night, December 5. “Hydrographic Surveying” was treated by Mr. Marcille in an interesting and instructive paper. Hydrograhic surveys are observations taken about, and on, bodies of water, for the purpose of determining the character of the bottom, the depth, the rate of flow in the case of rivers, etc. Hydrographic surveys are of importance in the location of harbors, in the building of bridge- piers or river beds, and , in numerous other ways. Mr. Gonzales fold how to find the meridian, that is, a true north and south line, in a paper on the “Determination of the Meridian.” Thh can be done in several ways. A crude way to-find the meridian is by the use of the surveyor’s compass, finding first magnetic north and applying a small angular correction which is necessary because of the non-coincidence of magnetic north . with true north. Observations on stars particularly upon Polaris, the north star, give more accurate results than the aforementioned method, while, a still more accurate method is the use of the sun as a medium. Mr. Madden gave two allimportant considerations as arguments in favor of . the existence of . large . drainage systems, in a paper on the “Benefits of Drainage.” These are the reclamation of otherwise valueless lands, and the preservation of the public health through the removal of leverage. A gen era! discussion concerning the weights of bodies in the atmosphere relative to their weights in a vacuum followed, with Mr. Bracho and Mr. Kirk the central figures. This' discussion was unusually interesting.
- Electrical Engineering. •
The Engineering: Society, of the University held its first meeting Friday evening, December' first, with - fifty -two members present. :. The Society was organized for the coining year with
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the following officers: president, L.' F. Garrity; vice-president, L. J. Condon; secretary and treasurer, W. J. Maguire; sergeant-at-arms, F. N. Countiss; honorary president, Prof. J.
' J. Greene.
New constitution and by-laws were adopted. I	It was decided to hold meetings on second and
i	fourth Fridays of each month at which not
less than two papers are to be read. Arrangements are being made for securing speakers from South Bend and elsewhere to address the Society on engineering subjects. Several trips to nearby plants will be made this spring. ,	Prof. Greene gave a short talk in which he
pointed out some benefits to be derived from well prepared papers on subjects of interest to engineers in after life. Deans of the engineering schools will act as a board of critics for the coming, year.	' •
Personals.
—Leo D. Hamerski (C. E. ’09) successfully underwent an operation recently and is quickly recovering.
—Otto B. Levanger, a former student of the University, is engaged in business in Christiania, Sweden. Some of the older students and alumni will remember him;
—Charles A. Baer (student ’05-06) is a member of the firm of the Dalles Dressed Meat • Company. .His address is The Dalles, Oregon. We congratulate Mr. Baer on the notable success he has attained since leaving school.
—A belated card announces the marriage cf Michael A. Diskin (LL. B. ’07) and Miss Florence Dinegan at Goldfield, Nevada, Nov. 25th. Rice and the other customary attentions may be delivered after the first cf January when Mr. and Mrs. Diskin will be at home in Goldfield, Nevada. Cordial congratulations.
- Local News.
—Father Hagerty and Mr. O’Hara recently organized an athletic association in Carroll Hall.	'
—A meeting of the boys in Carroll hall held . last Monday evening resulted in the enlistment of about forty in the Daily Communion League. The Director looks forward to the time when every boy in the hall will be an active member.
191
—The Walsh Chicks were defeated by the Carrollites, 16-5 in a basketball contest Tuesday. The game was too one-sided to be eveninteresting.
—Walter and Edward Jacobs, of Brownson and Carroll, were called to their home in Shreves-port, Louisiana, last Wednesday by the serious illness of their sister.	«
—Brownson hall football team, which the good people of Adrian were beguiled into con-, sidering the Varsity second, lost to Adrian college 36 to o Thanksgiving.	.
—The social program for the year of 1911 will open next Wednesday evening when the Sophomore class will give its annual dance. Extensive preparations have been under way for the last few weeks, and the boys of ’14 evidently expect to outdo all previous events of its kind. . •
—Since the opening of school, nearly all of the men in St. Joseph hall have made it a practice to receive Holy Communion every Sunday, at least; some of them, daily. There is no good reason why every Catholic young . man in the University should not profit by this good example. -
—The Senior Monogram Club of Walsh hall gave a banquet at the Oliver last week, honoring the new members who had been initiated the previous evening. Coach Don. Hamilton.was presented with a splendid gold watch in token of Walsh hall’s appreciation of his work in hall athletics.
—The interhall champions added another scalp to the already burdened belt of victory by defeating the Friars’ Club of Fort Wayne on Thanksgiving day. The game was one of speed, skill, and endurance against beef and brawn. From the first sound of the whistle until the final time was called it was plainly seen that Corby with the skill of her backfield, the speed of her ends, and the wonderful endurance of the team was far superior to the Friars. Not once did the Friars come within striking distance of the Corby goal, but quite frequently did the Corbyites place the ball in the shadow of their opponents’goal. Gushurst, Carmody, Donovan and Mehlem starred for Corby, while Capt. Braden, Strieder and Pierre played brilliant ball for the Friars. Score, 18-0
The Corby boys received,
royal treatment from the Fort Wayne athletes. "
in-favor of Corby.
'nA’
tQ2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Basketball and Track.
WILLIAM E. COTTER, ’13, Ass't Athletic Manager.
Now that the football season is over, all attention' points to basketball and track, the outlook of which is especially bright. When Coach Maris issued his call some weeks ago, he was busily engaged in lining up the eligibles with a view to rounding a crack basketball team into form which would equal that of any previous year. The showing so far speaks for itself and proves that he was correct when he predicted that he would again develop a strong aggregation. Captain Granfield, who earned the right to lead the team by his consistent work last season, seems better than ever. He is cool-headed at all times, and exerts a great steadying power over the team. He has almost every quality needed in a good guard, and possesses a mania for breaking up plays of his opponents.
Feeney who has played guard; has evinced a striking similarity to the great Vaughan in his habit of shooting baskets from anywhere and everywhere and always with apparent ease. McNichol, the little forward, whose lightning work was the sensation of last year, has again donned a uniform, and has been doing some very clever work so far. In O’Neill, Maris has a center who will hold his own with any in the state. Terry has a fondness for shooting long goals, and is exceedingly hard to cover. But the coach is particularly fortunate' in having some notable material to fill the places of Fish, Maloney and Ulatowski, who for the past three years have put _forth all their best efforts to uphold the honor of the school in basketball.	.
Of the new recruits Jimmie Cahill, the crack hall man of last year, will in all probability, fill the place of one of the three who were graduated in June. Feeney from Holy Cross, Dougherty of St. Mary’s, and Mehlem stand alone and have shown that they are capable of doing all that is expected of them.
Of this year’s football team Pliska, the plucky little half-back, who for the past two years has been picked by Chicago papers for the all star high-school team, and Bergman, captain of the interhall champions of last year, with Larson, will try for places.
Last year’s track squad, conceded' by the leading sporting critics of the country to be one of the best teams ever brought together, and winner of the Pennsylvania games, will once again try to duplicate this feat. The men will start working in the large gym in a week or so, and are in great trim for the beginning of a hard training season. Captain Fletcher thinks that he will be able to round up some promising material among the new students.
Of the old stand-bys it is not necessary to say much. Yet we like to give expression to loyalty where loyalty is so well deserved; for Captain Fletcher, Jim Wasson, Bob Fisher, Bill Hogan, Si. Williams and John Plant are men that we can rest assured will hold their own .with any team on the cinder path for the coming year. They have a very hard schedule before them, but we are confident that they, as well as the basketball team, will cop off the large end of the tally. And when the curtain falls at the close of the season of 1912 we are positive that Notre Dame will be well satisfied with the showing of the teams of this year.
Basketball Schedule.	_
Lee. 6th—Commercial Athletic Club at Notre Dame ” 9 th—Lewis Institute at Notie Dame ” 16th—Hull House at Notre Dame
Jan. 15th—Denison University at Notie Lame
” 20th—Northwestern at Notre Dame
” 27th—Wabash College at Notre Dame	'
” 31st—Marquette University at Notre Dame Feb. 2nd—Wabash College at Crawfords\ ille
” 5th—De Paul University at Notre Lame.
” roth—Detroit University at Notre Lame ” 13th—Commercial Athletic Club at South Bend ” 14th—Earlham College at Richmond ” 15—Miami University at Cincinnati ” 16—St. Mary’s College at Dayton --” 17—Ohio State University at Columbus ” iS—Open
” 19th—Heidelberg University at Tiffin ” 20th—St. John’s University at . Toledo ” 21—Detroit University at Detroit ” 22nd—Hope College at Holland . ” 24th—Open
March 8th—De Paul University at Chicago Track Schedule.
January 20th—First Regiment at Chicago February 12th—A. A. U; Championship March 14th—Ohio State University at Notre Dame March 30th—Penn State at Notre Dame . April 27th—Pennsylvania Relay Games at Philadelphia' May 4th—Ohio State University at Columbus May nth—Pittsburg -University at Notre Dame May 18th—Seventh- Annual Intercollegiate -Field
-	Meet at Pittsburg -	•
May 25th—Invitation Meet ..at Notre Dame . June 1 st—Conference meet at Lafayette -