
Jlt 
--~ 
-~~~­
-~\.~~ 
-. ·-#.:.;~:.
-~ :'I'-~•.;, ~-;,,.:1~~ 
-~ ·ui.~;~; 
------------------------r/./ 

.~et y9ur f~iends · .a·nd fa~ily ·know what's g~ing 'on a~ f:-!D. 
:Send them a subscription :of·scholastic magazine. ·Only $5.00-per year. 
Do· you :ha~e a complaint,-. _c9m01ent or· opi~ion? 


Tell the . world I. W r·ite a·· 1-~tter:·t~: Scholastic.. 

· Address all letters to: Editor·. Scholas~ic M~gazirie . laFortune StudentCenter. Notre Danie, ln9iana 46556' 
-NOTRE DMIE SCHOLASTIC · NOTRE DAl\lE, INDIANA 46556 
. . . 
Please. send. me ·a subscription to SCHOLASTIC· for ······ years-at $5.00 a year. .. I am enclosing $ ......• ; .............••• .~.......... : ....... CASii ..:............... CHECK. 
· Name ................................................................................................................................... 
• 7 • 
:·::-:-:--· 
Address··· ..................... ·........ ·...... · ........... ·....... -.. ·.·.......... : ... . 
·City ..· ......................... ·........ · .. · .............. ·· ... · ..... •·· ..." .... · .... . State:........................... · ............ .-............Zip ..·.....··.: ... ....: 


·_: i 
... ·;_-_ .. 




.~ 
•"
i
~ 
I 
a,,..·.~ 
I ~,· •,:!, . . . I cl 
\ .. .' 
~ 
~~ 
. J~ 

Illustrations: Tom Paulius 3, 13;'. 14, 20, 21. Photographs: Ed Brower 8,. 9, 25, 26, 28, 29 (2) / .Courtesy of Notre Dame Art Gallery 4, 5, 6 / Tom Paulius 19, 22, 24; 30 I Kevin Walsh 10, 11. Cover: .Photo by Tom Paulius. 


Scholastic 
Volume 117, No. 4, October 24, 1975 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES  
4  Mixing the Technical & the Esthetic  John Feeney  
8  Curators, Regents & Guardian Angels  Kathy McElroy  
12  The Sixties' Dissent: A Curious Animal  Mike Sarahan  
18  The Ordered Dance of Sunday  · Julie Runkle  
20  Night at the Nazz  Dan Adler  
24  "What Fools These Mortals Be" Mark Thomas Hopkins  
28  ·  Where Have You Gone, Charles Atlas?  Paul Hess  
29  The' Eccentric Art of Winning  Bill '!)ela11ey  
REG ULARS  
7 15 30  Jottings Gallery Last Word  Gary Zebrun Andrew Waterhouse Sally Stanton  

Editor 
Sally Stanton 
Art Director 
Tom:Paulius 
Production Manager 
Annemarie Sullivan 
Managing Editor 
John Phelan 
News Editor 
Bill Gonzenbach 
Culture Editor 
Robert Baker 
Assistant Art Director 
Kathy McElroy 
Assistant Production Manager 
Steve Slater 
Sports Editor 
Bill Delaney_ 
Business Manager 
· Kathy Salzer 
Asistant Business Manager 
Joanne Toeniskoetter 
Circulation Manager 
Kevin Murphy· 
Photography Editor 
Ed Brower. 
Advisory Board 
Ronald Weber, Carl Magel, Ed Sanna, Madonna Kolbenschlag, Bro. Charles McBride, C.S.C., Richard Conklin 
Staff Thomas J. Waldoch, Anne White, Dave Beno,. Ron Rundstedt, John Kenward, Dav~ Dreyer, Leo J. Mulcahey, Mike Sarahan, Chris Meehan, Mike Feord, Mark Hopkins, Bob Gilroy, Rich Nugent, Dan Adler, Richard G; Landry, Paul Starkey; Susan Grace, Dan Lombardi, Rhonda Kornfeld, Barb Frey, Mark Luppino,· Gary Harden, Christie Herlihy, Paul Hess, John Delaney, Judy Robb, Sean McUnden, J. Peter Delaney, Jim Romanelli, Paul Barickman, Bernie Valenti, Karen Caruso,. Jim Ryan, Ed Lecuyer, Cary. Gerber, Moira Keating, Mary Ann Chambers, John Bartone, Andee Gotuaco, Randy Cashiola, Kate _Bernard, Mike Saroha, ·Marianne Murphy, _Melanie Jorgensen; Maureen Reynolds, John Feeney, Mark Amenta, Missy Heard. · · 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic 
. and ·do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. . 
Second0 class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine 'is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, .New York, N. Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year _except · during vacation.and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are .available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic; Notre Daine, Ind. 46556. 
All. unsolicited material becomes' the property of Scholastic. 
copyright© 1975 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. 

Mi~ing the Techrlical & the· Esthetic 
The University of Notre Dame Art Gallery is now exhibiting a one-man· show of works by Everett Mc-Near, a Chicago resident who has 

distinguished himself as an artist, · . became interested in theater and 
designer and collector. McNear's combined ability as artist and design­er has enabled him to serve as the chairman of the Exhibition Com­mittee of the Arts _Club of Chicago for 20 years and as · a designer-consultant for the Art Institute of Chicago for 15.: He is also a. pio­neer· member, along with his wife 
Ann, of _the Advisory Council for the ~~tre Dame Art Gallery. 

McNear believes that "it is with sensitive, sensual exploitation of the 'technical ~·eans' of . painting. iiiat . the designer, painter or illustrator makes a . supraverbal statement . worthy of.· himself and. his. times.". McNear's attention to minute detail and precision along with his ability . to subtly combine colors gives his works a 'soothing, pleasant aura; orie 'that, fa comfortable and relaxes the viewe1<--:McNear sums up this .quality when he says, "My paintings are iri two categories: those that are painted: before nature or _worked up iri 'the :studio from. watercolors or' sketches· with color notes made on 
:the spot, and pictures. that are sheer fantasy; , based on daydreams. or half-submerged· memories handled in a. purely piayful, abs.tract mood." ICis" this duality that tempers hi_s works and gives therri. their smooth, textured look. 
·Born in ·1904 ·in St. Paul, Minne­sota, McNear's artistic talent sur­faced early. He was a professional designer at the age of 16 when he 
stage design. His devotion to art. 

. _ came soon thereafter..."By the time I had finished my firs't year at Cen­tral High, there was a firm con­victlon that I' wanted to spend the rest of my life with a brush in my hand." '· ·. · While attending the Minneapolis School of Art in 1924, McNear first 
by John Feeney_ 

came under the influence of Cam~ eron Booth, who was well versed in the expertise of French painting· and involved in the cubist and impres~ sionist traditions. "Cameron Booth taught me to love the smell of tur­
··pentine, the feel of. a bristle brush in oil pairit. He opened the doors for me." Influenced by Bcioth, Ed­mund Kinzinger, and his fellow stu­dents, McNear adopted the cubist ideal as his theme. 
McNear travelled to· Europe in 1932 for the first time. Following an . exhaustive . itinera~y, he visited most of the major. cities anci com­piled a large collection of drawings, etchings and writings ·_· that record the i~fluences. inade upon him in his exposure to Europ.eari art.. This' col­lection was ·later' 'published under the title Young Eye Seeing.· During his stay in Paris, McNear turned' to etching under the tutelage'of Loliis Marcous·sis, a contemporary 'i:>f Pi­casso. He c'ompleted a .sefof· nine etchings, depicting views from the Seine, that ·were printed iri a. small edition: Painting, h·owever, remained his true love and McNear dispensed with the ~tchin'g needle. "Painting," says McNear, "gives me. the: satis­faction and. pleasure . of an excellent dinner ·or a plunge· into cool water." The latter part. of the trip exposed McNear to the art form he now favors-most-th~. sculptur~. of Ro: . . manesque art. shade, on values ~nd modeliing arid line, rather than through it; thus 

Upon his return to the United 'scientific perspective.' " his works maintain graphic feeling States in 1933 McNear worked as an Thus painting becomes the organ-and linear order. . illustrator and. designer, both in ization of space .with sculptural Essential to McNear is the feeling Philadelphia and Chicago. He con-qualities. McNear believes that the he injects into each painting. The tinued to paint in his spare time and first quality of painting, the "space artist achieves a visual communica­decided. in 1941 that it should com-motif," can work or be related to tion offering more than just paint mand more of· his attention. Using the second quality of painting, the . and graphic designs~ "The creative weekends and. vacations; McNear "color motif," arid yet the two quali-artist does more than merely estab­amassed a large collection of highly ties need not be dependent upon lish pictorial facts. He makes play­finished studies of nature in peri and each other. "I used the Golden Mean, . ful, imaginative, dramatic, satisfy­watercolor. His collections were geometric. or simple mathematical ing use of.fact and the documentary exhibited in one-man. shows across. formula to determine basic. propor-aspect of his material. He breathes the· nation, including one at Notre tions and divisions of area in a paint-into his drawing or painting a life Dame in' 1961. McNear's· work as ing. · I. played with Une .and shape of its own which is something apart a designer also prospered and he in r_elating the picture rectangle to from. any reference to a particular was given national recognition for a. the square, a stable basic· unit with landscape, person or event." • series of two-color illustrations' for equal sides, equal angles.._Its unity · · McNear as a·rtist is evident in his the Kimberly~Clark . Corporation's and completeness offer a solid foun-graphic designing. His imprint is calendar. . dation on which to build the. archi-unmistakable in the publications, 
McNear is foremost a draftsman. tecture of a painting.'' . catalogues, bulletins and posters of He admires greatly oriental callig-Color does not appear. on Mc~ the Art Institute of Chicago on dis­raphy and the linear qualities of Near's canvasses until he has made.-· play at Notre Dame. Exhibitions and Persian and Indian· miniatures. This his abstract statement with the line. publications of the Arts Club of approach to painting, according to . With the design and space estab-Chicago, all initiated and organized McNear, · . is emblematic of the lished; McNear,. applies pigment so by Everett McNear, are also being ~hanges that have come over paint-that the color does not destroy tlie shown. ing _in recent years. It is McNear's integrity, or. unity :of the initial The third aspect of Everett Mc­conclusion that the illusion of space · drawing. The artist uses color as a . Near emphasized in this _exhibition has "become dependent on light and stream· that . flows in ·front• of the is his role as collector. Naturally, 
,:­

"A GOOD ARTIST SETS HIS OWN ESTHETIC AND TECHNICAL STANDARDS." 
McNear's tastes as an artist influ­enced his collection, which includes works of cubism, primitive, pre­Columbian and Near Eastern and Western manuscripts. By limiting his collection to those areas he values as an artist, McNear has ac­quired objects that have personal meaning for him. Some of the works being shown are by people who have played a major part in McNear's own artistic beliefs: Louis Mar­coussis, Edmund Kinzinger and Cameron Booth, as well as works· by George Braque, Serge Ferat and a single self-portrait by Picasso. These pieces embody the qualities McNear seeks to achieve in his works. The McNears are very generous with their collections and recently be­stowed their collection of Persian and Indian miniatures upon the Uni­versity as a gift. This collection is now on. loan to the Art Institute of Chicago. 
A unique aspect of Everett Mc­Near is his relationship to Notre Dame. Since he and his wife were in­troduced to the University by Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., the Mc­Nears have been generous. benefac­tors and enthusiastic members of the Art Gallery Advisory Council. It_ is fitting that the University honor so faithful' a companion and at the same time pride itself on a major contribution to art in the area with this exhibition. · · 

·Everett McNear's · life has been one of accomplishment and ·success in a field which prides itself on sin­cerity and personal insight into the world. No better description of his works can be found than the artist's own words explaining. how he views his art. "A good artist sets his own esthetic and technical standards: His object is not just to please the• client or editor but first of all to satisfy himself that the ·work is · a clear, graphic communication, sensitive in its use . of medium and means, and reflecting the pleasure in its crea­
tion."·. 



Elegies 1n• Spring 
-Amor Vincit Omnia 
I 
Last April I kissed Sonia; Then 'she sailed away, leaving a candle in th_e cellar. 
Her preparations called me to play the golden guitar, the last key on the 'piano, 
my fingers nudging her-breast. 
All asked Love's return: & giving in she began again. Now in long nights alone 
I kneel down to worship her. Like a mad priest without a god I whisper, "Love," & again, "Love." 
,. . 

Outside she waves good-bye, 
& unannounced sounds, a song from her bones, 
drift up into stars; my kisscarves their number, 
opening·into zero. 
II 
On a train g6ing East she met ­a boy without a leg; he was: fingering lilies. 

At home the birds stare down smiling at my daughters playing in the yard; & I worry about a.nother betrayer 
who, then, in the daylight, _comes around corners. 
With bright garments he hangs himself on the clothesline, blowing like an angel over the lawn. 
. ' 
Once ·sonia listened to ·hatred spread & hid: Faces turned away, doors· locked· in the church, & all the homes were abandoned. 
Creaking gates close slowly now; they click shut._ Everywhere in the neighborhood shadows snatch the final crack_s of light. 
Under a small moon her candle fades 
OCTOBER 24, 1975 
by Gary Zebrun. 

into burnt fumes; the wax hardens. In the dark she whispers, "Love, no matter what." 
III 

The dead won't leave me alone. It is another Spring & my friends are laughing. 
Bars are filled with drunks. Along the wooded lakes lovers are walking to bedrooms. 
. . 

Every animation mimics love. 
In a dream Sonia visited me again. She carried a guitar without strings. _ Her mouth was welded closed. 
Then her tears fell over me into an ocean spoiled by dead fathers who drowned 
crossing the water · from· Russia and prison, when their wives were alone in bed. 
·She drew back carrying a spade. Her guitar crumbled. Then, she mimed love's final song & fled. 

IV 

& Alex died on a train going East one year. I didn't know him. 
· Won't everyone_Ieave a.n old boy alone? & Sonia died .in Spring . . ·. I heard my bearded grandfather burned 
in Canada with his lumber mills. Now my own father never phones me. & each night cold wires droop. 
Sometimes I think of suicide, but the dead tell me to survive; "love, no matter what," she said. 
If the Spring lasts a day longer I'll stay. Don't call me anymore. 

Curators, Regents & Guardian Ang~ls 
While involved in defining and living contemporary conceptions of their roles, Notre Dame rectors-are guardians of · tradition, trusted · to continue the University's valued his.: tory of residentiality. Written be­tween the lines of the Residence Hall Staff Manual's formula for the ideal rector is the understanding that each must possess. wisdom and generosity to perceive the needs of . today's students. In the fulfillment of their moral responsibilities, and 
tions no longer dictate lights out at 11 p.m., but the de-emphasis of such rigorous supervision also separates the rector from a safe, clear-cut role as disciplinarian. This freedom is difficult to handle as a rector at­tempts to determine his or her ex­. tent of involvement in the lives of 
students. 
Much has been said, and un­
doubtedly will continue to be said 
about the University's place in in~ 
fluencing the moral development of 

daily obligations emerges a more -.· the students. Last year's com­realistic expectation most clearly . mencement exercise speaker, Alan translated as the need to be human.. Pifer. of the Carnegie Foundation, 
The ability to relate to students .. stated, "Gone today and properly on a meaningful. level is one that · · so is the doctrine of 'in loco paren­
must be realized by the rector who . wishes to be an effective and sup­portive figure in the hall. Although the challenge is not peculiar to this age, it calls for a unique depth of: understanding. University regula­tis,' in which colleges and universi­ties were expected , to act_ as sur­rogate parents, superv1smg the moral behavior of their students." It. is true that these days are gone, but the caring atmosphere at Notre 

Fr. Terrance Lally 
by Kathy McElroy 

Dame remains an indispensable qua.I~ 
ity of its character. · .. ­
Fr. Matthew Miceli, rector of Cava­

naugh Hall since. 1959 notes .. that 
American universities and colleges 
have historically exercised a certain 
"paternalism" towards their students 
which at this :University. enters into 
countless aspects of the student's 
life. In his sermon, "In Loco Paren­
tis -Life With (out) Father," 
given in 1972, :Fr. Burtchaell says, · 
"While standing for the formula, I 
suppose I shape its_ meaning some­
what differently than its despisers." 
It is therefore left to the rector, as 
University representative to inter~ 
pret this concept in a positive sense, 
divorcing from. it 'tlie students' un­. derstanding of it as a licensE; •for: authoritarianism. 
The phrase is often times mis­

construed and lends itself to inter-· 
pretations beyond those intended; 
Fr. Richard Conyers, rector of Keen­
an Hall, feels that the administration 
does itself a disservice in claiming to · 
adhere to this philosophy since it is trying ·to impose upon students a role which contradicts their striving to achieve independent personalities. "There is definitely no. 'parent-child relatio_11ship.' If you look at your role as a replacement; you're doomed."· Elaborating on the posi­tive approach which a rector must assum_e, Fr. Conyers says, "I en­vision .the role of_ dorm life as a unique factor at Notre Dame. We are all involved in pedagogy, by im­parting life values in a living situa­. tion..We can see the effect of these attitudes as we learn about and care 
for others' needs.'' 
During his time in college, ~ stu­

dent is impressionable in a different. 
sense than in earlier years, ·but he 
is· still in a ·position to be influenced by those he respects. Fr. Conyers explains this· as an extention of a universal phenomenon starting in high school, of encountering people outside the' :family 1·ife • who ·are looked to for· advice. "I experienced such a·, relationshii in ·my college years ·of perceiving a · teacher as awise man.· I found that by learn~ .._ing from another's wisdom, you gain c': ·an ability to approach wisdom your­f (self. I don't like to use .the word ;:.. ;.. ·•if1spirational,' but a· rector can be 
in a position to influence students as an active or .passive model." 
It ·becomes apparent that · each rector. must' engage in a conscious commitment to what is envisioned to be the place of, the rector: The in­dividual experience and personality which a rector brings· to the:· job manifests itself in the different ap­proaches which· each adopts. Sr. Jean ·'Lenz,•:rector •of Farley, says, ''I am here to share my life with young people. _This includes my in­sights on good things; hard things; and' any of my own experiences I 
· can draw from iri dealing with. my position. Part of this sharing of life is deciding· what makes for good 
living." · · · · · Taking it·from a different angle; Fr, . Conyers. says;· "My view is to combine the ability for organization, · !housekeeping,' and· relating• inter­personally. If yoti have all of these you ·can live up to the expectations of being a wise disciplinarian, in~ formarian and teacher, able to re­spond to physical, spiritual and academic needs." ' · · Ms;: Sally :Duffy is· bringing a fresh enthusi~srn to he~ position as rector ofLewis in its first year as an undergrad women's dorm. She:·sees her. role· as .a ·facilitator with ma­. terial 'and. immaterial _responsibili~ ties. ·"While· ·in college,: you , learn somethfog in the--classroom; and something outside· of ·it.·· Orie should personally mature or receive some~ thing' less than an education. I value most being involv·ed witli people at 

a point in life. when they form in-. Because of the responsibilities in­dependent relations and peri<?dically herent in acting as rector,· the se­need someone." lection and appointment process is 
Few rectors find themselves able _of major importance. The Commit­to speak of their. position without__ tee ·on University Priorities cites in acknowledging the r_eciprocity in° , its report, ''Nothing else we do can volved as they develop a feeling for· have as much influence on hall resi­how they have been changed by the . dents as· naming a group of com­experience. Fr. William. Presley, in · .petent adults who• dedicate them­
his fifth year as rector of St. Ed­ward's Hall says, "I appreciate most the opportunity available for help­ing .to humanize studei:i,ts, ·which I would hope helps to make me more human. You can be a rector with . four years of experience or you can be a rector with one year of expe­rience that you've gone through four times and never learned in the process. Through my four years as ·· rector I've been made ;more trust­ing and become more aware of the students' strengths,·weaknesses and · problems." _._ . _ . . ·· 
Sr. Jean Lenz also gives the ini­pression of :a 'fulfillment . the .job . offers. "I did not see the ministry of the position at first, but I knew selves to living with students to help them become mature Chris­tians." Fr. Terrance Lally, assistant vice president of . Student Affairs feels, "The biggest single thing to be looked. for is a strong commit­ment of faith." In order for a rector to be of value to students, he must feel secure, at ease with himself and free, to give generously to the stu­dents. There is a sensitivity and perception which must be part of his· nature. A_ person . who feels threatened ·cannot communicate a spirit of trust and understanding. 
This year's rectors have their own ideas as to what qualities those in their position should possess. Fr. Presley says, ."I suppose the. words 
that I believed in young people. For .. available, approachable, and knowl­
the first couple.of weeks all I could say was_ that.we were all alive and the plumbing was working. Now I · see how meaningful these two years have been in my life." · edgeable best describe how I think a rector must be. He must realize that no time is his own, and not only realize this, but be willing to give generously of his time to stu-dents." Besides feeling secure in an understanding of ~heir faith and certain of their priorities, Fr. Con~ yers stresses that rectors must live by a system of values. "If you com­promise . these, . you do no one a service.":· 
· With regard to a more concrete criteria, many feel the need for con-. tinuity of service. "The rectors,''. says Fr. Lally,_ "become identifiable· in the community which is .an im~ portant feature and a. constant tra,;. dition within the resident hall sys­tem." Fr. Conyers recommends not hiring anyone without a commit­ment for at least·four years. "With­out continuity and longevity there is. no· chance to develop a spirit in which the personality of the rector becomes an integral part." Fr. Pres­ley also. expressed a concern that those a~pointed should have served 

"Advertising appeared in·· the Chronicle of Higher Education last year,". ,says Lally, . "and· we also passed the word to present rectors to look out .for, people they .think would be qualified._Each .year. there is a .large turnover, -and we often promote from within..We're com­mitted_ to the C.S.C. order and keep in close contact with provinces. and personnel . directors." 
Due to. the large response to-the advertising, extensive processing and interviewing were undertaken by: a team .of rectors, Student. Affairs. personnel and students. "The com­p_etition is keen,'' says Lally. "We're looking <for people with religious orientation who will become in­volved, with the place." How qual­. ified . persons are attracted· to. the position is another story. _It seems · to have. been an indirect act of God which was responsible for Sally Duffy's decision. to make Lewis her h~me for this year. Notre Dame was 
·. to have been the first stop on a tour of job possibilities in the Midwest, but a rare South Bend snow storm left . _her stranded cm campus for four days. :Sally: con_tends that if was the people, not the snow, which impressed her. Fr. Lally feels that, through_ the :selection process, Stu­dent_ Affairs seeks an arrangement which , should be mutually advan­tageous: "There are fringe benefits, °!)esides · the .. $9,000 a year salary, which I thi_nk, gives -us a basis ,for being competitive. We expect some~ thing: unique and I believe we find . 
it."_ ,..,.C. ~: '' .. 
Fr. Lally also notes that students are . demanding of their rectors: He interprets .the dissatisfaction which students have_ felt ,at . times to an instance of Joo high expectations,. "They .. have come to take. -for granted the superlative, instead . of accepting the_. least· common denom­inators and then. realizing how far above average are the efforts made by_ their rectors. . They .have .the capacity to set high standards. _for themselves and they seek to fulfill these goals. Too often the heroic is accepted as the ordinary." 
Rectors' contracts are· renewed on a year-to-year basis. Twice during this year self-evaluation forms are distributed to the rectors. Follow­ing the personal appraisal which each makes, they· meet· to confer with Brother Just Paczesny, Vice President for Student Affairs. Some of the halls · exercise the practice of giving students _the opportunity .. to evaluate their hall staffs. Sr.· Jean Lenz has made it her. practice in Farley . to pr~vide a• questionnaire covering general and specific areas of hall life. F;_''Lally believes that eventually Student Affairs wili. de­vise a standard evaluation form to 
. . , ' . . 
be. used by all halls. If taken seri­
ously; .. such solicited reaction could 
serve as a valuable foundation for 
encouragement and improvement . 
. In. general, it is, University policy to allow. rectors to handle questions of hall "order-and disorder within their own dorms. "Rectors have proven to be a testy _and somewhat independent lot," says. Fr. Lally. "The advice we in Student Affairs · give is that they deal with matters as they see fit, within certain guide­lines." It is the "as they see fit" part of the advice which· can sometimes manifest itself as a pressure. A rector realizes. that the subjective interpretation. of regulations . which is' required must be in conformance with personal convictions as well as 
University policy. . . 
The alcohol question immedia'tely 
comes to mind as an issue still not 
completely understood. In expressing 
his concern, Fr. Presley says,· "Al­
though the alcohol issue has been 
further defined, an important ques­
tion is still left to be resolved . .The 
new rule states that if a. student 
under age is . drinking, the matter 
is between him and the state of 
Indiana. The University is no longer 
liable, we as representatives are no 
longer liable, but what about as 
human beings? We-must act in two · 
capacities. Before, we knew what· we had to do·. Now we must wonder when we should express disapproval. We must face the question as an individual with a responsibility." 

Parietal hours involve another area of discussion, although Sr. Jean has stated that if they are pushed beyond 2 a.m., they had better hire a night staff. Fr. Conyers points out, "In Keenan, we have what I hold to be the only interpretation possible of the parietal regulation. The rul­ing is made for the convenience of a chauvinistic society who wants to be a_ble to roam the halls in their shorts. We make a mistake when confusing parietals with sexuality. We cannot assume that if a girl is.in a guy's room after midnight that immorality is involved." 
In pointing out that discipline is the least favorite aspect of the job, Fr. Lally says, "The concept of discipline has changed but• the rec­tors also. have ·tradition to keep in mind. It is not how much of a disciplinarian a rector is that counts, but how wise the person is who exercises it. The Committee on · University .Priorities also stresses, "The influence of the rector depends ·less on, authority than on· tempera­ment. The test of leadership is the extent to which one can draw stu­dents into_ a mature understanding of what it is to be a responsible per-:­son." 
"We are getting a different kind of person today," says Father Lally, "who, although every bit as dedi­cated, is probably a little more di­versified." Few boast of being power figures and most would rather de­emphasize the discipline in order to live as an influencing agent in the halL Sr. Jean says that the expe­rience of hall living has taught her to "believe anything, as long as it's incredible." Much of the life of the rector. is incredible, especially .• at times when bowling balls are heard rolling down the corridors, or when one is faced with a mob of war­painted streakers..Perhaps Fr. Mi­celi sums up the total experience best when he says, ."I like being rector, even if it does mean going through these interviews." 


The Sixties' Dissent: 
A Curious Animal 

Student activismis ·~ curious thing to trace at Notre Dame because the study must be undertaken in the face of an innate skepticism that there ever was such an-animal. And it is a difficult--thing to trace in some ways because student activism rapidly rose, fell and disappeared completely on this · campus. But in · 1968-69 and in the "peak year" of 1969-70, . Notre·. Dame .was unde­niably. (and curiously) active.; 
In these more settleci; sleepy days,. it is easy to romanticize. the student activist, since any other way of ex­periencing life will, at times, be at­tractive. However, it: probably is necessary · to have a· more factual basis concerning the actions and re­actions· of students in order to dis­tinguish fantasy from. reality. But for a· student accustomed to Notre Dame in the post-activist . years, even the . reality of activism .·· can seem a fantasy. · 
·Notre Daine activism, with one or two very inajor exceptions, was a response to the Vietnam war: While protests on -other•.· campuses (Co~ lumbia and Berkeley, for example) raised a wide · variety of -· issues covering topics as diverse ·as pro­posed building projects and the de­personalization of the student, the Notre Dame "conscience" was more particularly stirred by· the•war, and it was considerably stirred. · · ··.•.· 
The.·· degree · of : involvement · of Notre Danie students in the national youth .. ''movement"· is ·striking · in terms of the:large numbers of stu­dents who eventually participated in organized protest activities; but it is also impressive · in respe'cF to< the depth of thought that opposition to the war summoned from some mem­bers of the student body. Prof. Don­
12 
. . . 
aid Sniegowski highlighted·_ this as­
pect in a recent comment: ''The is­
sues that emanated from· the pro­
. tests were very important issues; 
large -'considerations were made. 
People· were more. conscious of their 
own morality and the moral tone of 
the country." 
In a 1968 Scholastic, a former stu­

dent, Donald Hynes, presented his .. 
summary and his synthesis of the 
turmoil he saw about him: 
Young men, Americans. Going 
to college . . ; Time to think, to 
learn about their country's sin. 
They·wouldn't sin; they won't sin'. 
Jail. : Canada. Underground · in 
Americas No face,· no name .·:. -. 
People who wear • a cross. The 
· Cross. Love . ; . We must love.: . 
We must war ... 
The·-.-statement emphasizes the 
predictably ·christian· orientation· of 
Notre Dame's activism .. A certain 
stridency, a. sense of clearly. defined 
purpose, is also·•apparent; · and one 
can question easily whether a ·con­
temporary student should· make ·the 
same self-assured challenge to a 
''system" which has reassumed ·the 
upper•hand. 

· But the late 1960's was a strange world, separated from ou·r own much more by spirit than by tiine. A look at afew specific campus events in · the activist years (along with · a temporarily unexpressed· but . ulti­mately unavoidable comparison with present conditions ·on campus) •will · point to the differences. · · . 
The students who returned . -to . 
campus in the fall of ' 1968 1 were 
politicized to an unprecedented ex­
tent. They were both shaken and 
strengthened by the · events of the 

by Mike Sarahan 

summer -the Democratic conven­
tion in Chicago took place in August 
..'...:...and they were confident.• · · 
An'·editorialist for The Observer 

wrote in September of that . year: 
"This has in a very realsense been 
the year of the student. We -were 
the ones who forced Lyndon John­
son into · retirerp.ent, who_ mobilized 
the sentiment which led· to·the' de-: 
escalation of the war, an·d · who 
mounted 80% majorities for''peace 
..." There had been· achievements, 
and 'yet the high-water mark· of 
student. activism· was still.' to· be 
reached. · · 
• On.camplis with the active leader: ship -and ·support of Student Body President Richard Rossie, . numerous· anti-war· protests were orgariized­the most· significant, by far; being the Dow~CIA sit-ins. For three days students protested :the: presence of recruiting agents, and as acliniaX to the .• : sif-in,_. the :ciA . representative was physically barred from the ·ad: ministration" building'. '; : ' . _ . .· Father Hesbiirgh was'. awaY frori?­
•· campus at the time, but on his re­turn·' he· ··criticized•' th'e· students ·. in­volved;· saying, "I believe they used their ·freedom of'action to obstruct the freedom of others.. . : .'In a free society like the· University. this is completely out of order." : . ' 
Hesburgh's .remarks expose the . tension for students between a cc:i"m­mitment to •the' University'and ·a need'to· actively resist events'taking place outside: the "community." The activism· of '1968-69 arid especially that of 1969-70 thrust s·tudents· ihto previously :unexperienced·,· positions of decision. · 
Students were increasingly mobi­lized by the direction the government· was taking in the conduct of the 
. SCHOLASTIC . 


war, but they vvere. in· search of a direction of ·their own as. well, and at times.they would differ from the administration in: the means of pro­test that they chose. The seriousness of. the . issues· ensured ,that. actions were taken which could never be "recalled,".but on only two occasions in a feverish two years did the ad­ministration and the students square off directly. " 
The first of . these . administration­student conflicts took place over an issue. which _was,: in, fact,· unrelated to ,Vietnam. ;In February. of ·1969; the Student. Union -Academic ; Com­mission , sponsored: :a conference . on pornography,:.-·and censorship, and the tenor of the event,was,in:·sup­port of ;"freedom of expression. The Commission had :originally planned to premiere a,,pornographic: movie as part of the festivities,,:but when it :backed off from the idea, a group of , students: ~ndertook: to show the film, Kodak ;Ghost .. Poems, ·them-: selves. .... • ·'.·., :,: .:: 
'However;·'on the prompting .of a South Bend group,• the Citizens for Decency: in• Literature, . South, Bend police raided the auditorium of . icism on an. intellectual level rather Nieuwland Hall in an effo.rt"to con-· than dwelling ~n the legal :aspects 
fiscate the film. After minutes of of it." ' · · confusion, the film: was retrieved by .. Fathei Edmund Joyce,. however, 
an alert policeman from underneath as acting president in the absence of the dress' of' a· St. Mary's student; Father Hes~urgh,·. could ·not ignore and with film; in hand, the . police.: the legaliti~s. The publication was made their way out of the building. ' , to have been under Student Union 
Outside, a mele~· erupted in which auspices, and Joyce·. felt that the students blocked the retreat of the . University should not be responsible police and p~Itea" them with snow-· for 'a magazine in which he saw balls. The police retaliated with· there was a question .. of the "inher­mace and finally closed th~mselves .ent decency of the material." off in O'Shaughnessy Hall to e~cape · Studerits then turned the fables on the students. · ·order was , restored · the administrators and. claimed the soon after, but the intrusion of ,: violations .of freedoms; And the police in· University activities intro: :·particular case :was settled (~nd the duced a new and .'frightening dimeri-pornography issue'as. a: whole died sion to protest within the University. . down:on campus). when .the Student 
Even . though the risks were evi-Life Council, after a' month' of de­dent to _the students, the controversy. liberation, decided that the magazine continued. Several of the prominent .. could' be published in its entirety. figures in the conference activities: . · The SLC held also th~t t~e ,Univer­announced the forthcoming publica-· ·sity should pay the ·full cost. One don of V aciline, a magazine present-thousand copies of the magazine ing the.students' views' on 'the issue were produced; •300 of 1which•were of censorship. -Their leader was, given to teachers for 'use in ;class:. again, Donald Hynes/and ·he was rooms. But Vaciline never saw a quoted at the time as saying that second printing:, · · . · · the: magazine would "deal with erot-·In this instance., then, the stud~nts. 
.,.,,..• 
13· 

, i 

t:::>. ' 
c:::::::::, 




sought_ redress through existing _Tl1ey will be _told that they are, chann'els. As a result of first-by their, actions, going counter to semester_.·. activities on campus, the overwhelming convictions of though, and especiallyin the face of . this community ~s to what is nationwide student . unrest and proper here. U·tJi_ey do 11ot with-: violence, there was concern on the · in that time cease and desist, they parts of administrators, faculty and will be asked for· their identity students alike about the.possibility . cards. Those who produce these of illegitimate. dissent. The violence . . . will be suspended·from this com-. of the pornography conference did · munity as not··. understanding nothing to ease the· fears, so in the what· this community is. Those week following the . police . raid, ··.·.who· do not have, ·or will not pro~· Father · Hesburgh responded·• with · duce. identity _cards will be as­guidelines, including. his famous fif.: surried not to be members of the teen~minute rule, to ensure order on · · community and will be ... treated campus. · accordingly by the law. ·.c. ·... 
In a late-night letter to .the stu­dents and faculty, Hesburgq em­The rule, as a legal mechanism, · phasized . that "this community seems too simple, too weak, to deter recognizes ·the validity of protest in · infractions. And indeed, it did not our day-sometimes even the neces­deter student violations in its first sity-'-regarding the burning issues major test in the fall of1969. It is of our society . . .": But, claiming· an indication, however, of a spirit a mandate from _the University, he at work--of the. attempt· on both also denied anyone the right to. pro­sides to determine what the "com­test in such a way that "the normal munity" was and what it should · operations of the University were ·have been at the_time. in any way impeded" or "the rights · Predictably, some . outside ob~ of any member. of this community servers scoffed at the rule (and were abrogated; peacefully. or non­· soine, including; President Nixon; . peacefully." . . -. . 'praised it): Browri' University Dean 
•· Hesburgh . outlined the following F: . Donald Eckelmann claimed that provisions as a means to restore or­"You would need a completely in­der in case of illegitimate dissent: timidated student body to make that 
. sort of statementand get away with · ... Anyone or any group that ·it." .. substitutes force for rational per-Ultimately, in -November. of 1969, 
·suasion,. be it violent or nonvio-· · the fifteen-minute rule was invoked lent, will be given fifteen minutes at a sit-in to protest the return of of meditation to • cease and desist Dow Chemical and CIA recruiters. to campus,· and the affair did end in court action initiated by the' Uni­versity· against several students. It should be noted• that at -.least the original motivations of the students were far from menacing to the·uni­versity. 
The organizer of the· sit-ins, Chris Windel, justified the participation of students • in the protest, stating simply, "There seems to be a contra­diction in the S:hristian philpsophy taught and symbolized by Notre Dame and the actions -taken by the CIA." The highest goals of the Uni.: versity-were · thus recognized and affirmed before the·protest, and this is characteristic of Notre Dame's activism and activists. • ' 
If 1968-69 was an important build­ing year, the 1969-70: school year was the "zenith" of activism at Notre Dame. As portrayed by' the students who were involved in the year's various protests, it ·was a re­markably exhilarating, and-yet a very frustrating time. · 
Notre : Dame, from · 1968 . to 1970, was a forum for _discussions in which students were· forced to':face im­portant questions and to respond with conscious decisions. which af­fected the rest of their_ lives. The current Notre Dame Magazine con-. tains a record of six ·of. those lives. 
Notre Dame was a place at which students could express their sense of .being alive in an almost breathless manner, as Betty Doerr did in her description of the October 15;· 1969, 
· moratorium, "Words cannot describe what happened· here yesterday at Notre Dame. 
"If you were there you felt it..If not, it wouldn't do you any good to read about it here-for it was feel­ing, pure feeling." 
And Notre Dame itself was alive and experiencingehange. Joel Con­nelly; in an Observer article of May, 1968, commented, "We can speak endlessly of changes and· growing activism, but . I wouldgo even fur­ther to suggest that there is today 
. a new Notre Daine in the student, faculty,_ and even theclerical realm." 
Connelly wrote these• lines at a time when involvement in_ anti-war activity was not overwhelming. But 
· by 1970, as the vast majority of the campus rose in opposition to United States strategies in Southeast Asia, it was clearthat there was, after all, something new on campus. 

But if in vain, down on the · stubborn floor Of Earth, and up to Heav'n's unopening Door You gave Today, while You are You-how then Tomorrow, You when shall be You no -Rubaiyat 
Andrew Waterhouse junior chemistry major Notre Dame 



17 

depend upon?" It is an example of scholarship, experiment ·and re­-search in a work/study situation. The Mass is a University thing;
The 
it would not be possible in another setting because such a concentration of talented people -i~ found in few

Ordered 
places. By incorporating the con­tributions of Campus Ministry and the departments_ of music and
Dance 
of 
theology, the educationalpossibilities for learning about human life, na­ture arid worship are_ virtually un­
limited in . the ongoing process of finding out how to "do" liturgy. · Over 100 people are involved be­hind the scenes of the 10:45 Mass

Sunday 
· each week. Included in this group are the 60 members of the Chapel Choir directed by Professor Sue Seid, 12-student and . f~culty -.cupby Julie Runkle ministers, four student acolytes and · four deacons who serve the cele­
'Characteristic of" Christian wor-attempt· to ~tilize the resources ~f brant, four student ushers and sev.: ship in the Middle.Ages were solem-both liturgical and musical tradition, ... eral student anci -faculty readers. nity and rich symbolism, expressed texts and -talents, and the various -These latter groups are also coordi­and enhanced by means of ritual,-·pos·sible ministries of the clergy and ;.ated by students. _Each 'Mass is choir · music and even the -·massive laity. The result is a liturgy that is concelebrated by several priests of Gothic architecture of tile churches. .an enriched celebration involving the the University community.. · . _ 
_The Divine Office, together with the · whole participation of the congrega~ Because such · a large group of daily Mass and rituals for adrilin~ tfon .through ·song, symbol, prayer people take part in the Mass, it is istering .the· sacraments, constituted . and the sharing of the Eucharist. necessary to do -a _great deal ·of _ the liturgy, the solemn public wor-The contemporary Mass was born planning to keep the service running· ship of the medieval Church. They of Vatican II and the chance for smoothly, rather than relying on formed an intricate cycle of daily variety, self-expression and freedom spontaneity. Each Monday, a meet­prayer,. each day's prayers linked to celebrate in a comfortable way~ In · ing takes place to organize the com­to those of -the next, forming a co-many ways, this · Mass is unique, •ing week's Mass. Those most closely herent pattern spanning. the year. because it actually is a learning ex-· involved in the· planning are Rev. 
Each Sunday, two forms-of wor-· perience and a model for people all_ John Gerber, C.S.C., -the overall ship take place on th_e Notre Dame over the United States and Canada. . coordinator, · Rev. Richard Ruther~ campus which all too often conjure The liturgy gains this distinction as ford, C.S.C., who is responsible for up images of robed monks ·and Gre-a result of Notre Dame's Graduate · the .liturgy, anci · Pro.fessor Sue Seid; gorian chants in the minds of those Program -of. Liturgical Studies, who coordinates the music. The prin­who are unfamiliar with 10:45 Mass presently directed -• by Professor cipal celebrant of the week is also in Sacred Heart Church and even-. William Storey. -presenito share ideas on his homily song at 4:30 in the Lady Chapel. Founded in 1947 by Fr. Michael .from which a theme can be drawn. While it cannot be denied that these, Mathis, C.S.C.; and · revitalized _in Appropriate music_ is then chosen, li~e all church ·services, have ori-1962 by Fr. Aidan ·Kavanagh, a often. original compositions by Pro­gins in ancient history, in fact, they monk of St. Meinrad --Abbey, the _ fessor David -· Clark isele,·-Notre are probably -manifestations-_ of the program is a historical •and theo-· ·name's resident. composer who has two most modern 'and forward-look--logical study of·-_ the formulation, .written two complete Masses. •. ing forms-of Catholic worship today. growth and direction of worship. · Even ·the· most minor details.• are 
The 10:45 Mass, properly referred· From the beginning, those involved taken irito_·account to keep the Mass to as a ··"contemporary" ·liturgy; is in Jhe program have been studying rurining:smoothly.:;_Slightvariations the solemn opening of Sunday as a• the means to help Christians·partici"' in procedure will occur, for instance day of worship, . It is riot a repro-· · pate, . celebrate _and worship more on football. weekends, when a largely duction of something old, nor •an fully; The results oftheir theoretical visiting community. is expected. . exercise in nostalgia. Neither is it studies are then applied.on Sundays -· ·The tiine and preparati9ri that al'.e. merely usmells and· bells," a.·stigma •to implement some ·of their prin-spent by the -many . committees . • applied -to.· the traditional C'high" ciples and offer possibilities to the leave the rest of the .congregation Mass of the past. Rather, it is ari question "What. does a good liturgy free to . concentrate more: fully on 
18 . ~ SCHOLASTIC 

the Mass itself.. The Mass operates on. the principles of ritual and the habit of participation. Many various and complex: bits of familiarity and formality hang on _·one framework that maximizes group participation: 
Once the Mass begins, however, it ceases to be a series of well-defined : and rehearsed parts; It must be so well coordinated that. it takes 'on complete imity~it must be a full expression of worship, not· a grand performance of 'the arts. Despite the . fact that the choir, . priests, servers and readers have crehearsed numer­ous times in p·reparation, on Sunday their functions arejo contribute to worshipping God in the best way they know. ­
on·e of the most distinctive char­acteristics .of t}\e 10:45 Mass is its high quality and-variety of · music. Many of thepieces are contemporary (amassed from. the past five or ten years), other selections ··are classic· because. oLtheir lasting art quality. Besides the ·regular hymns, the Or­dinary oL the Mass i13 . also sung. Many times other instruments will join the choir and : the organ for variety .and· contrast. The musical arrangements allow for a high de~ gree of congregational participa~ tiori through repetition. Recently there has _been an attempt ·to grad­ually familiarize the. community with parts-of·Alexander Peloquin's Mass, which joins Professor Isele's widely. used Notre.Dame and Sacred Heart Masses. , . . Liturgical celebration . does not . end with the Mass, however. In an attempt to ~ake people aware o_f other genres ·of worship, Notre Dame's liturgical. group also holds evensong services as a formal closing to Sunday as a day of .prayer. Also known as.· vespers, this celebration, organized and.written by Professor. §torey, consists of prayer, song and . ahomily which is often gi~en by a member of the. lay0 faculty.· The choir also participates in this seryice under the direction of Professor Isele, as . do the acoiytes. While not as complex a .form of celebra­tion; the same organizati~n is ·neces­sary .to its formality and· solemnity in order: to achieve the same full participation and sense of prayer. Evensong can be seen as an "alter­
nation of song and. silence, ritual and simplicity, of pattern and spon­taneity." It is a peaceful, relaxing close 'to the day. .. . 
·Both forms of'liturgy are Univer­
: sity-oriented, aimed at all the.sectors ·of Notre Dame, not ju~t the students or the faculty. _The ..services are·. meant to teach liturgy and celebra­tion in a subtle way to help _com~ municate the possibilities and op­tions opened by Vatican II for a whole participation in worship. Be-_ cause of the rich storehouse of tal­ented resources found on Notre . 
,Dame's _campus, and through the_ guidance of the Graduate Program 
_:of Theological Studies, the contem­porary .Mass and evensong are unique celebrations. They provide a model that is rapidly being spread throughout the United States and Canada, awakening thousands to the potential of liturgical celebration as an experience in singing, reading and intercessionary prayer. In look­ing .to. the future, the work done here on campus today is importantfor the American Church as a whole in setting trends for. worship. _ 
~ 
by Dan Adler._ " 
-

-The~e I was·, on a Sat~rday night; :_ II~ only. eleven o'clock, _nothing _good on.. ~ T.V., and . two of _my : roommates· ~~ were already_ in bed. So ·I. grabbed•. ~ a roll of. mirits 3:nd my jacket, arid. ~ left the dorm, headed for _the Huddle ­and then, 1 supposed, for-one of the neighborhood bars. ·Out .· of· Pang-· born, across the greeri . in front of 
Fisher, . through• Howard's · archway, ­over the bookstore courts, . between Sorin and Walsh, on the blacktop .. ~ walk to La Forturie-it. was 'when I was between Sorin. and Walsh, and. saw · two people go· down the steps to the La Fortune basement, that I remembered the Nazz; by the time I -. got ·. close I decided·· to . see what · went' on there. So I followed them down the steps. (wondering if I had ever walked down the steps before), 


~ 
I 

. 

# 
. 
1 
• 
. ~ I 
. . . .
. 
' 

j 
·scHOLASTIC 




·_.-. 

. : .: . 
.·.. .





FOLK

. . ~t1 ... 

,
.. ~ 


. 
. . 
~ . 
. . 


opened the door, went __in; and ais..:· covered the Nazz. 
The room ~as.filled 'with people:' some were lying on cushions on the· floor, some• ·sat on folding: chairs,· most s~t on ·heavy. wooden chairs· around small · wooden tables, some· were ori the benches that stretch be­tween the pillars, a few stood lean.:.' ing against ·the wallsL·Each wooden table had a small white candle burn-­irig on ·it;· _. ~ · ··· ~ · -: _ 
.. Except' for the candles and . two· yellow • lights shining on the three guys with guitars, the room wa.s' dark. I ·found: a . place· to sit ·our one of the benches. I unzipped inyjacket arid: l_eaned back· against th~• pillar: The: padding on. the bench made it pretty' conifortable;-·and I thought' that 'the nitisicwas good; I"listeried for a: while. · · 
..· My stomach reminded me' that I had' planned 1:o·• get_' something <to snack ori wheri I left the dorm.' There were··people coming out of_a ·room carrying: paper • cups;' .'so'. i:· got·. up a.nd 'werit'fo' the roorii"°that \vas' in the back of the·Nazz where refresh­ments are '·sold.. A : friend : named Brent Mcirinls was behind' the: coun~ ter, ,as. was-a girl·:named, Terese to whom; Brent ',introduced,:•me;:• The menu .was ·-written on ,paper' plates that hung on the wall: coffee, tea, hot· chocolate-ten cents; various carbonated beverages-fifteen cents;· cheese and crackers -seventy-five 
OCTOBER• 24, 1975 
cents. I bought acup of hot choco-: ~fessi~rials -Dylan, :Seeger, Taylor, late and talk~d to Brent about the· Crosby,·. Stills,. Nash and Young, Nazz. · . .·. _ . . . • . . ,Simon, Fogelberg, Kottke, Brom­
. The Nazz began ayear ago under ' .berg .:__:_ but some people use original the direction of. Ralphi.>ennino. It materiai." .· -. . ·. . . was sponsored then· by th·e student:" i On Wednesday nights, from ten to gove~nmerit as-an experiment, and so · twelve· o'clock, the Nazz · presents was the responsibility of the student"-, "Jazz in the Nazz," when either a body president and .his administra.;. . · six::.man combo or ari 18-ma.n°big tfon. This year, the· Nazz has· been band'' appears. In charge of this is incorporated as a permanent part of Rev.-George Wiskirchen, C.S.C., the 
. the Student · Union's Social_. Com-· assistant, director of bands. , mission, using·the,Student.-Uriion's :"Jazz ,really only happens :when sound system · and funded by the you perform; you can't really prac~ Social. Commission and Student -Ac.:. tice it. It has to be current,, now. tivities. In the mechanics of its oper-It's not a museum type of -concept ati_on; _however, the Nazz , is pri-: · and so there has to be someplace to marily ·an independent• student. ser-perform. ·' vice, piloted by Dennis O'Brieri, Dave -· "We ·use the Nazz .as· a ,mean·s:·to Shaheen and. John Fitzpatrick.' ·. :_ give a 'guy some playing experience. ·,_John.Fitzpatrick takes care of-the !·.like· it very much because,•it has scheduling of. performers for Friday a· working-type-atmosphere.•· It ·-is and Saturday nights.<·He foherited more-like a club than· a concert from·last year a list of students who hall ~ a little more intimate, people want to play·at the Nazz; He·sched--are closer. _ ules-?individtials or. groups:'of0·two -:·"A _lot of• music-we. do· ''on or ,three· to. play.dn,:one-liour sets,· Wednesday is rock-oriented. :rwant three sets a night. The list is:open to, do· ·some'. kind. of-. lecture ·on to,anyone who· wishes to perform.. Miles Davis.'·for example; or Frank ·11As much as.possible, I try·to get Zappa. 'Also, there will, be, some a -·pi-ofessiorial :~ show,:,:' something guests; local pros,' co.ming· iri from worthwhile to ,go1 to; It's· amazing time·to,tfme.'!•:::_ :··:,,,,, .. -;;: ,_,' •..,,.,.i the talent': that is. on -this cariipt.is.-"::, The :big band will,be .at the Nazz .There are some ·really good musi-usually once a -month,.· beginning cians here. most likely on October 29. "It's. nice to have a spectrum at The Nazz is open to forms of en-. the Nazz, and I try to get a variety. tertainment other than contem­'. Most of the music is written by pro-porary guitar and jazz. As Dave 

Shaheen. comments,• "We have. pia~ nists and a classical guitarist, also. And last year, we did a benefit con­cert in. Jim Ward's name. We may do more of this sort of thing ,in the future, say for Logan Center or the United Way." 
Fitzpatrick explained, "Variety­type shows wouldn't be bad, but I'd like to stay away from. a circus atmosphere .. , I. could see a Juggler­type thing once in a while, or a poet­ry recital, or a sax or clarinet." 
"The Bill Steele performances on October 17 and 18 are an experi­ment. He is a professional whom we are paying $200 for the. two nights. We want to. get, people's· reactions. We are hoping to do more of this type of thing if the ~teele thing is successful. There would be an admis­sion .charge, probably fifty cents, for the professional performances . be­cause .we would have to pay for them," · added O'Brien... 
• The students who perform at the Nazz give favorable reports. · Joe Klockenkemper is · a senior . who played .last year..."I enjoy playing. at the Nazz a lot. I'm glad·it is there and I have the opportunity to play for people. It's very easy to play at the Nazz; you're in a college atmosphere and so students are gen­erally more open to what you want to· do. The.Nazz filled a need: it's really necessary to perform iri front of people. , Those at the Nazz are there mainly to listen and enjoy the music." ·· ·· 
Mari Gumble said, "The Nazz isn't like your average· coffeehouse, be­

. cause people don't go there to talk, they go there to listen. By the end of the night, all the chairs are turned towards the stage." 
Bill Boris, a member of the jazz combo, explained, "(playing) at the Nazz is the only time I get to per­form with an audience. The people there are pretty respectful-they're there to listen. It's a plus for the campus." 
Dennis O'Brien speaks from the standpoint of the non-performing audience. "The Nazz is a quiet, very informal place. There is some soft talking, but mainly people sit around and listen. But it's not an audi­torium-type static· crowd. People are moving ·in and out all the time. There is a constant crowd, but not an intent one. The Nazz is a good alternative to the social routine ­without it, a lot of people wouldn't know ·where to go. But there are still people who don't know about the Nazz, and we want. to expose people to. it." 
Dave Shaheen has also per­formed at the Nazz and says of it, "You get to love the Nazz. It has such a subtle atmosphere and people are really there to hear you. Every Friday and Saturday night, unless thereis a special event elsewhere for the students, there will be someplace to go, even after a concert or a movie or a party, with a date or 
:alone. It's unlike the parties and bars around campus. And .there's a Jo~ of good campus entertainment­
. people might be surprised by the quality of entertainment. Once peo­ple come down. and see, I think they would come back. The Nazz is here to stay." 
The Nazz is open from ten until one on Fridays and Saturdays. · At nine-thirty, three of four people pr~­

· pare for the night. They get things ready, setting up, helping with the sound system and opening .the re­freshment counter. They stay until eleven-tllfrty, when they. are re­lieved by three or four more voiun­teers who close .the place and clean . up afterwards. There . ~re. about twenty of these workers like Brent and Terese who usually• .work abc:mt once a week. The Naiz has requested $3,000 . from the Social Commission, but no decision on the final amount appro­priated has been made yet. O'Brien estimates . that , the experimental 
Once people come .dowrl. and· see, I think they ·would come back. The Nazz 1s here· to stay~ 
music bringing in professionals nis O'Brien estimated, "I'd guess alternative social outlet for students occasionally -would cost approxi­that about 100 to 150 · ·people per who go to relax and be entertained. mately $700 more than the admis­night visit the Nazz on weekends, in And most likely, it is here to stay. sion charge would • pay for. Perma­and out.. It fluctuates a lot on Wed-· I had finished my hot chocolate nent lighting has been requested, at nesday nights, but there should be and asked for another. I had been an expected cost of $200, and a standing room .only for the big band ·.·. teUing Brent abciut what my parents needed parabooster for an amplifier · nights. Last year, the turnout was had told me one time last year: would cost $300. The refreshment poorer during the second semester. They, my parents, had come to counter is . designed to· break even, The best time is in the winter." Notre Dame for a football game, and · but money · is needed to keep it in "The attendance will depend on that night, after the game, asked me supply. Also, the menu may be what other activities are happening, what there was for them to do 
. expanded on an experimental basis like a concert or a dance. · In fact, · around the campus. I had a party to -to include such possibilities as cup­we won't be open Friday, ·October go to, and consider it bad form to cakes, doughnuts, pretzels and 24. That is the day of the Homecom­bring your parents along to that potato chips. If the Indiana drink­ing Dance. There probably wouldn't sort of thing. So I mentioned the ing law is ever changed to include be very many people using the Nazz Nazz. The next day they told me 18-yearsolds, ·then · wine or beer that night. Plus the fact that the ·it was .very good, asked ·if I had would. be considered at the Nazz. tables we use will be used for the ever been there, and encouraged me 
Another large expenditure,. over dance. But the Nazz will be open to try .it some time, which I never $200, . goes for publicity -,-posters the next day, Saturday, October 25," did until now. and,. The. Observer _advertisements. Dave Shaheen further explained:· Brent handed the cup full of ·hot Candles also cost money, and four The question often comes up about chocolate .to .me and demanded a microphone stands that were stolen how the Nazz got its name.· The dime, which I gave him. Then I went from La Fortune during the summer answer to that question, comes up · back and sat down. to listen. Later, had to be replaced. Rathskeller re­a lot less often. In fact, I -have yet on the way back to the dorm, I was pairs and. refurnishing are hoped to hear a satisfactory explanation. ·glad I had gone to the Nazz instead for; .the basement of La Fortune re­The people at the Nazz that I asked of a bar, . Not that I was going to mained unchanged while the upper could agree only that it was in some stop hitting the bars-I will prob~ floors went through recent face-lift­song, somewhere. No one could name .. ably frequent them with consistency. ing operations. Since .the Nazz does the album or even agree on the art-But the Nazz seems to be a worth­not charge admission, all of these . ist. Maybe Ralph Pennino knows. while change of pace. It's quality, needs are dependent upon the bud­Maybe not. low-key and inexpensive. In my getary decisions of the Student But whatever the origin of its room at the dorm again, I took the Union and Student Activities. name, the Nazz is here for the enjoy­unopened roll of. mints out of my 
So far this year, the attendance at ment of the students who decide to pocket, tossed them on my desk, the Nazz has been fairly good. Den-use it. It is an option open to all, an undressed, and went to bed. 


Considering the fact · that some people tend. to lean toward· that which. is,. and some towards that which is not; it is easy to see how.the subject of·· whether or .not 'a ·ghost does indeed reside in the ra:fters a.nd walls: of Washington Hall can ,be quite an argument -the basis· being the individual persuasion of the per­son· questioned. · · • · . •There· are some who are firmly convinced and are·adamant,in their persuasion that som·ething:·;_ .. or someone -dcies indeed inhabit the shadows of Washington Hall; that those of. this persuasion·. are not among a minority is easily-seen wheri evidence for their coritention''is pr~ .. serited for consideration:: reports of walls sounding,· Iarge,curtairis mov~ ing, keys being left-:in doors, steps being heard with no one noticeably around to make them -,-all of these and others appear as 'probable rea~ sonsfor . considering as valid the alleged• manifestations · ·of what. would be. considered.· a ghostly occupant -or at least the doings of said resident; : 
. Among those persons subscribing to this school of belief. -let alone subscribing to this magazine -are persons who .have' ·lived there. and those who -~ave·stayed· there ~ all . of -whom' will readily attest to the aforementioned phenomena's·_ credi­bility... ,.. · 
A recent resident of the •hall, who would .. rather not be named, ha.d · mentioned sounds of footsteps -and sounding -walls. Still.· others will swear to their · having seen an·ap­parition of some sort, -sometimes beckoning them on, but more often cautioning them to not look any further -whether for; reason of surprise or danger has · never· been indicated. 
Ron Dallas is the current-resident, and.therefore one most aware of·re­cent occurrences '(if any)· in the hall built in 1881. He could be easily de­scribed as:one who would riot adhere to the belief-or thought just· men­tioned, out rather; as one who would tend toward the answer: of-"mi.tural occurrences" for refuting any argu­ments introduced in behalf of ·the ghost's ·credibility. He ·cited as the 
· most obvious explanation the mo­tion of• the ·wind;•·· and .the obvious age ·of :the -building -two factors which · would ·· seem · to account for noises from· odd placesand ·curtains supposedly moving under their own power. Other factors which he 

cited were those dark imaginings· steps. of Washington Hall; ·Being a. -opposition to their ~elief that they 
which may come from living in an cold night, it did not· seem all that are sufficiently refuted. old building. Stories which have built impossible that something would So, how should one approach up would tend to promulgate come out of it -and it did. Aggra-Washington Hall, arid how should rather than discourage the legends vated by other factors, and compli-one determine whether or not rea'." 
Now at this point someone may cated by the winter night's rest, son exists for believing thatsomeone ask, "Just who or·what is supposed George Gipp contracted pneumonia, or something is actually there pre­to be in Washington Hall, anyway? from· which he subsequently died. sent? Let the reader.be directed to 
.Just how did all this come about?" He is now said to reside in Wash-the simplest · ·and most orderly The answer to that is quite basic:· ington Hall. . method: spend some time there, 
·tradition and time, though not rieces-. The credibility of this' story may especially making it a time wheri sarily in thaf order, but the one im-be ca.lied to question by any one of the winds are heard to blow in a plying the other: Tradition and time . the firm cynics, butit does seem to distant way; and the clouds are tend to present things in a manner have the necessary criteria to estabs rushing · and changing beneath the often distorted from their original in-lish it as a reasonable explanation dark of the moon, and ,most impor-: tent or occurre~ce; a locker room. for the motives of the ghost. Anyone tantly, when it is a night thatone speech.during the half-time of a well-who can offer information to the con-is open to experience and to new known football game,· for_ example, trary is, of course, welcome. · ideas, when one would be thenwill~ can come to a statement of religious What then. is to. be believed, and ing to seat himself in a darkened affirmatfon and determination for what is to be refuted? Let us sup-Washington Hall, and in a darkened those who desire or need some ex-pose that the answer to that ques-row of chairs, therewith to converse traneous confidence or assistance, tion lies best in what one chooses to with the · hall, or letting the hall whether it· be a football game or believe, and what one chooses to re-converse ·with itself, it all being some other pursuit. . _ fute, the basis for decision being fairly much the same who answers; 
George Gipp, also recognized as . that some things have enough reason but whether the answer is a ghostly "The Gipper," is usually cited as the and sense to attest to their credi-one is answered by your own discre­Ghost of Washington Hall. Ask-any-bility, and others have enough in tioll and experience. one the question who the ghostly presence . in the hall is ·..:_ most oftentimes the answer _will be (though sometimes someone will say Ronald Reagan -to which it must be explained that he is not yet phys-· 
·ically dead) that "The Gipper" · is the one living there -but living b~ing a relative term in such state­ments. . . . But why George Gipp? And why "The Gipper"? Forthat story a few years must needs be taken away, and a few football games. removed from the fields.. 
Supposedly, while . George Gipp lived in what · was then known ­
-and for aU practical matters is stiH knowri --' as Sorin Hall, he was not able to •return to his room one· win-· ter night; having. been_ oiit all night ~·or at least out pa.st the time when the doors. were locked.. Being tired frorri. the evening's pursuit, he did : . not find iLtoo much out of the ques-, tion to find an alternative sleeping place. So,-he chose to · sleep on the · 

"Well, let's just say I have heard you, and that I think I could agree with you." 
"What have you heard?'' "Oh, steps, walls sounding, the usual sort of stuff." "What makes you think that was 
me?" "Well you are the only one here." "You're-here." "Yes, but I am and you're not:­
it's as simple ,as that." "And how so, if I may ask?" "Well, you were and are not now, 
and I was and am now." "You are what?" "What you are not." "And what's that?" "Sitting here talking to you." "I was only asking.". "May we get on with this? You 
are a most disconcerting ghost." ''_Who's a ghost?" · "Now let's not argue conjectural 
·points."·. 
'.'Well, . would you like someone accusing you of being a ghost? It really could do harm to your .repu­tation.'.' 
"I should not think that I would 

_have that to -worry about right now. But as for your case, I'm afraid it's a bit too late." 
"And _-. what makes .. you think that?" 
..«Well, word _does get around, you know. -You haven't been. the most silent occupant here." ... , 
"Oh, I try to keep in shape. It does me good to see those students run now_ and again-and I daresay it_ does them some good too." 
. "Are you the one who's been keeping keys in doors?" . "Where'd you get that idea?" "Well, a professor here said that you-" "Oh, he probably just •forgot to_ turn and leave, that's all. It sounds 
· a. bit mad now, doesn't•. it, to leave keys in doors? What would I need a key for?" ­
"Obviously not-to get through a door." "Ergo, we can agree upon that point." 
OCTOBER ·24, · 1975 
"But there are others-" "Such as?" "Your reputedly following per­

sons down steps, and then not being 
there when they turn around." "I wouldn't do that." "Well, someone said.you did." "They're lying then. Whoever 
heard of a ghost sounding on steps?" "Someone obviously did, or else he'd not have mentioned it." 
"It was probably his own foot­steps, and he forgot that this place echoes." 
"Yes, it does have a solid echo to it." 
"I wouldn't know; being all 'over this place it all sounds pretty much the same to me.. I really couldn't 
tell you." · · ·· "But can ,YOU explain• how you manage to move the curtain on ·stage? It's quite a heavy one." ''Oh, nothing to that, just a little brush against it . now and again­with the assistance of the wind, of course." . "Why the wind?" "Well, have · you ever seen the wind?" "No, I don't, suppose anyone has." "Have you ever heard it?" "Only the sound of what it strikes against." . "Theri how can you be sure it's not the wind?" .. "Let's .get ori to the next ques­tion."·;· "What· are all of. these questions for anyway? You aren't some sort 
of alumnus, are _you?" _ "No, not yet at any rate." . "I have had some times with some 
of them-and the students are even worse. They come· around here at all hours of the night and day, ex­pecting to find some sort of appari­tions or something. . Apparitions! God, that hasn't been done since the likes of George Gipp!" 
"You mean · you're -not the Gipper!?'.' "Whoever said I was? I played q uarterbcick." "It's the general consensus of opin­
ion around here that you are George 
Gipp." ·­

"Now calm yourself. How'd that story ever get started?" "Supposedly, one night in De­cember-" 
"In the winter?" 

"Of course in the winter. Anyway, one. cold night it seems he, George Gipp, I_ mean, the Gipper, was not able to get back ,into Sorin Hall, and-;-" 
"What was he doing out so late?" "You've b·een here long enough .to answer that." ­"Just wanted to make your point clear." 
"-He was out late and he could­n't get back to his room,-so he slept here, or rather outside on the steps -and he caught a cold or somethtng which was aggravated by other fac­tors and subsequently he_ died-" 
"And that's why everyone does one for the Gipper?" "I don't know a_bout that, but it's why he's said to be here." · 
"Well, I hate to .disappoint .you, but it seems he_ left here a while ago." 
"Left!" 

"Yeah, something .about the noise and all. Said he wanted a little more quiE?t, so he thoughthe'd move to St. Joseph ~all or someplace .. Y 
"Who.. are you then?" ''I'm the ghost of Washington Hall.". . . . "And you;ll agree to let me print that?" . . . . "I thought that that was u11der­stood." "As you· say, .I-just• wanted. to m,ake the point clear.". -­"Have you _anything else to ask then?" 
"Just one more question.". 
"Go ahead.''._ _ 
-«Why cio you_Uve here?'' 
"Have you ever tried to sleep in 

a. residence hali?'' . -. 
-And with that cryptic comment he rnov_ed along his way, but not without knocking against a few chairs here and there,. and turning ona few Hghts. 
Where Have You· Gone, Charles Atlas? 
by Paul Hess 
At the extreme north end. of the ACC ice rink pavilion there • is a mahogany door with a bronze name­plate. The inscription. on the plate reads, "Weight Lifting." Outside, a vociferous contingent of would-be Bobby Orrs are playing hockey with great enthusiasm. They appear to 

· be about twelve · years old. Inside, another group of athletes work at their sport with just as much en­
, thusiasm. A rather hardy bunch, they labor in anonymity, and seem not. to care. They are' the Notre Dame weight. lifters, the would-be Vasily. Alexeevsi 
·"Vasily Alexeev? Who's he?"you ask. He just happens to be the world heavyweight weight lifting champion (which might not be a bad trivia question for you to ask at your next social gathering). · Notoriety is a rare thing for even 

· the greatest lifter. But this doesn't seem to bother Jaclc Va.no too much; Jack is the man who's in charge of the Notre Darne weight lifting room from seven 'til,nine,-six days a week. He takes an · active part in the weight room proceedings, and he cari lift with the best of them; a look at the "House Record Chart" . testifies to this. The chart, an an­cient scroll of yellow paper posted on the wall right by the door, with various marks -scrawled· unassu'm­
. ingly in pencil, shows that Vano holds all the records for his weight class. This includes · an amazing bench press of. 320 pounds. 
Vano stands about 5'6" tall, with curly auburn hair and a burnt · brown mustache, not· to mention ·an awe-inspiring upper torso. He claims to. weigh 160 pounds, but he looks · much larger. He is, in his own wqrds, "just an ordiriary guy." .He. lifts weights solely because he en­

. joys it. "If you want someone to 
. tell ' you aH the philosophy behind . weight lifting," he good-naturedly advises, "then you ought to talk to 
. one of .the other guys; I just do it because I like it." .·· But lifting weights, it would ap­pear to . the casual observer, is not something which one easily . grows to love. "I · started lifting in the seventh grade," Jack explains. "My 
father got me interested and I picked up the rest on my own from books and magazines. There's not a lot else to learn from." Apparently not. ·But Vano has learned well. And watching him work on the in­cline press lifting· 200 pounds, it's 


not hard to see why.he enjoys it so much. · With roomie Dave Richter shouting "C'mon,. Johri· one more!" and former · Notre· Dame fencing captain Tom Coyle· at his side should something go wrong, one gets the impression that they are as much a tea.m as any. And· Jack's· successful repetitions of the rigorous drills are as much a victory to them as, beating Alabama (or USC?) is to the rest of us. . . . . . . . 
•Just. as the. weight lifters 'them0 selves are a rare and . intriguing breed, so too is the room in, which they ','live." Scattered about the room are various barbells, benches and weight stands. The omnipresent "No Smokingll sign is out of place to say the least, for it is hard to imagine .Vano or ariy of his com­panions · holding a · cigarette. . One 

. wall bears a plaque reminiscent of the•·more glorious· days· of· weight Hfting at Notre Dame -it is the 1953 NCAA championship trophy. Looking around the room, Vano's 
face lights up. "It's a good facility," 
he enthusiastically proclaims, and 
listening to him speak one is led to 
believe that he considers the weight 
room as much his home here atND 
as the tenth floor· of Grace Hall, 
which is his mailing address. Jack 
derives great · satisfaction by com­
paring his weight room to ·Ohio 
State's. "At OSU, they've got an 
eight by ten foot box for 50,000 
kids," and though he may be slightly 
exaggerating, his point is well taken. 
He concludes, "We're really lucky 
here." 
The radio in the far corner is blar­ing a Jethro Tull tune, but it is doubtful that any of the lifters can hear it .-such is their single­minded dedication to the sport. But, unlike many other athletic en­deavors, weight lifting is not some­thing that one dabbles in. ·"H is a year-round activity," Vano declares, "but you'd be surprised how many people think otherwise." Jack cites the "Lauderdale syndrome," a year­ly occurrence each spring when he finds his home-away-from-home del­uged with outsiders who ·try . to . build themselves up in two weeks so as to be a success on the beaches of Florida. But the cold, hard· fact is that it doesn't work that way, fortu­nately so for Jack and his cohorts, for whomlifting weights is far more than ·an . exercise in vanity. ."The Good Lord gave each of us a body," he says, "and I'm just trying to 
make the best of it.''. · 
He mentions the late Father 
Lange, the founder of weight lifting 
at du Lac-:' On the near wall, not too 
far from the mahogany door, there 
is another plaque; this one, how­
ever, differs from its counterpart 
across the room... It is no coveted 
trophy, but rather a modest vignette 
with a simple erigraving. It reads: 
To· Fr. B.RB. Lange, C.S.C. · "From His Boys'; 1968 
Seven years have. passed and "his boys"· have been replaced. But the weight lifting family has not dis­appeared. 
'SCHOLASTIC 


·,'There' are many ways to win a football game. Starting out big and continuing to roll up the score, is one. Steadily scoring , is another. Breaking a game open oll one: play 
is yet ariothei:\ , . 
,, Or you can do ,what we've been doing for the past three gam,es. For in that span, a loss and two come­from-behind wins have, left Dan De­vine with frightening nightmares each night. Just how much more both he and we can endure waits to be seen. 
These games are· riot your average comeback games either---\ve've been down as many as twenty points with less than a 'quarter of playing time 
~ 
.. 
remammg. These ·are the kinds of games people leave in the third quarter with the feeling that Notre Dame has no chance of winning. 
· We have , had our problems though. Half , of our starters were injured in the Michigan State game. The heat killed off many at North Carolina. But these are not and should not be excuses: we had the better team on both occasions. The inability to move and score early has hurt us throughout the season. One play by Ted Burgmeier has brought us a victory, while another sweep by Michigan State ruined a perfect season. What can you say? 
And then there was the Air Force game. Down twenty points seemed an insurmountable obstable to over­come. Yet Montana, Hunter,, Restic and MacAfee enabled the "Cardiac Kids" to pull it out: 31-30 was' one of the best scores ever envisioned after 


' ' 

the game by those who left the team 
for dead on the short side of a 30-10 
score. 
The rumors have spread. Dissen­

sion has been the major one making 
the rounds throughout· the campus. 
And then there was the thing about 
the firing. Dan Devine, is not Ara 
Parseghian reincarnated; he never 
will be. Coaching Notre Dame has 
to be, th'e hardest; most demanding 
Job in the ·world. Devine has had 
pressures you would not believe from 
all corners. He has not cracked. His 
team has bent· a bit, but has not 
died. His team, has, by the way, a 
5::-1 record going into tomorrow's 
game with Southern Cal. .He is a 
man easily misunderstood in . his 
feelings by the student body.. He 
needs time to get to know you: He -.doesn't, need a divided student body for Jolin McKay and his boys. That is the worst possible thing thatcould happen . 
. Southern, Cal is ane~' bail game: all the elements of the classic rivalry are there. Now, if we could only , score first this time and go out ahead, we'll experience a new feel­, ing. Being on top., It's the only tra­dition Notre Dame has ever known. 
29 


The sun sets. All grows dark. A few stars show. Suddenly, the street­lights .are on. 

First one, then another: doors be-· gin to open, spilling oblongs of light out_ onto the sidewalks, the lawns. Figures appear, singly, in pairs, are silhouetted.-briefly, then pass out into the night. . 
. Halloween is a strang1: kind of holiday: like. a birthday, after a certain age, it's easy to forget. Maybe it was designed to balance off New Year's Eve _when the kids are left at home and the old people go_ .out and play: Halloween is the kids' night out. 
Actually Halloween and New Year's Eve do have some connection. In· Druidic times, the year ended_ on October 31. Evil spi_rits--,-Local 20: ghosts, . goblins, witches, and other "things that go bump in•the night" _:_roamed the highways and byways of the world, preying on unsuspect­ing mortal_s, . c~using _._general mis~ chief. · The human alternative to botheration by these. _beasties was either to disguise oneself as a ghoul and try to <'blend into the crpwd'' or to placate the banshees with sweets and other dainty morsels when they came banging on one's po_rtal. 
The; spirits which roam these Halloweens·· do . not , seem overly frightening. Half of .· the~ appear in store-bought costumes, the kind ·that.used to come in thin cardboard boxes with cellophane windows in the lid and a bounteous supply of glitter. Their mothers or fathers have bundl.ed the!ll UIJ warmly under their 
paper 'finery so that Arabian princesses and · whirling dervishes both look much like. mu.lticolored sausages. . 

Sometimes you can get a hint of what they're supposed to be from ·· the plastic masks they wear. 
Masks are funny things. I suppose 
. ·there are large factories which switch into high gear in June, mass-producing plastic faces, elastic strings and those .. sharp-pointed metal spears which hold string and mask together. They must stamp the colors on as the plastic flies by because it seems their locations are only approximate and the mouth slits, if evident at all, are not very realistic. It's a fortunate thing that the dialogue is ritualized: anything said through plastic . tends to come out "mftbft." : . 
If you're one of .the later stops, you may be saved _the crisis_ of identi­fication entirely. The masks tend to get very warm-I b~lieve they _may soon be marketed as inexpensive humidifiers-and toward the end of the night a number of ghouls have. pushed their faces up and are wearing them as hats. . 

Perhaps the other half-the. ones in homemade creations--,-offer more of a challenge to diplomacy. Often a.· portion of their psyche. has . gone . into the costume production and a misstep here· might result in a tear or two and a wounded evening. 
The · ghosts and witches are ·easy ·, to pick out, but . I once went as autumn in a sheet, long hairpiece and construction-paper leaves. Some lady thought !'was a hippy. Another 
time I w~s prepared to· venture 01 
as a Martian "in an old terry-clo 

bathrobe: brown . paper ._ bag a.._ 
chrysanthemum branches. Luckily I ·self-destructed.before I got out the door and had to go as a make-shift ghost.;_! fear I ·would have been taken for an aHing bush or an ar­thritic reindeer. 
Perhaps it's. my imagination,. but 
it seems .fewer kids go out on. Hal­
loween these days. Maybe they've 
got too much_: class now for such 
juvenile pursuits.. 

Or maybe it has something to do 
with the morning. _news November 
1.· Stories of. razor blades in. apples. Acid in candy. Rat poisoning. Senseless stories. 
. I suppo~e if I wanted to make this 
a moralistic piece, I could say that 
such atrocities are a function of the 
impersonal trend of our society · 
where persons become numbers and 
destruction isjust another hobby or 
experiment..·.. 

Or I could say this is another shat­
tering of trust, humor and ·child­
hood, sending us all inside to play, · 
locking the doors and windows and 
posting a guard at the gate.. 

Or I could say we've finally gone fullcircle and the Druids have taken us back to their feast. 
The last . ghoul goes home. The 
door· doses. The lights go out. Every­
.one is asleep. · 

. In same window a candle sputters 
against the side of a jack-o'-lantern 
and. goes out amidst the smell of · burnt pumpkin. 

;'-:, I
Parallel Patti 
WHAT'S RED, WHJTE AND BLUE ANDNE.E.DS. 
YOUR. HELP TOG-ET GOLD, SILVER AND 
BRONZE"? 
Help us develop the kids who want to win for you, and incidentally cut your skiing costs up to $500. Support the 
U.S. Ski Association and see how proud you'll be of the money you'll save . 



THE U.S.SKI TEAM! 
. For information, write: Skiing USSA Style, 1726 Champa Street, Denver, Colorado 80202. 



JUGGLER 
N·otreDame's 
·.Journal of 

·the··Arts 

Juggler is Notre Dame's magazine of the arts. It is a semi-annual publication containing poems, pieces · of fiction and drama, photography, essays; and re­views of students, faculty and. staff members. of the 
· University. · · 
. . -. . . . . 
·Juggler urges all of iou to send your creative or critical wri~ings to the magazine. The Juggler, staff will thoughtfully r_ead the. manµscripts and contact the critics and artists ·soon· after ·receiving their 
work: · ·· · · 
. . . .. . . 
The imagination . holds many pleasures and sur.:. . prises for both beginning and experienced artists. · AROUSE your.imaginations, and send the.creative "Come to our jolly desert · ·residues to the-Juggler. wherfJ even dolls go whoring 
Mail submissions , al~ng .:_with a self-addressed,
where cigarette-ends 

stamped envelo.pe to·: Juggler, LaFortune Center, ··· . University of Notre._ Dame, Notre Dame,· Indiana 46556. Send manuscripts as often as you'd like. The 
become intimate triends 
staff promises a quick reply to everyone submittingAnd where it's always three­to the magazi_ne. · · · · 
in-the morning.'~ 

For further information .concerning ·Juggler, call .· I 
_·_W.-H; Auden 
283-6263.. 


.-.I 
.,.<'·' I 
·I 



