^GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
s O U T H BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
2	'	'•
1946
BEAT ARMY!
1946
You are Always a Guest Here Before You Are a Customer
Home of Famous Names in Men’s Quality Clothing Hickey-Freeman ... Society Brand ... Burberry .. .“GGG”... Alpagora...British-R...Dobbs
GILBERTS
815-817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
a
H ANS-RINTZSCH
Headquarters for all Luggage
NOT TOO EARLY TO SHOP
FOR CHRISTMAS
Women
Handbags, $3.00 up
Manicure Sets, $5.00 up
Compacts, $2.00 up
Billfolds, $2.50 up
Umbrellas, $5.00 up
Jewell Boxes, $3.50 up
Men
Pipes, $3.50 up
Tobacco Pouches, $1.50 up
Cigarette Cases, $1.00
Billfolds, $2.50 up
Toilet Cases, $5.00 up
Key Cases, $1.00 up
HansXrintzsch
Shop
138 N. Michigan
every evening after 6:30 p.m., Monday through Friday.
Unsigned letters will not be printed, although names will be withheld on request. Contributors are asked to be as brief as possible.
To Whom It May Concern:
Come now, men of the Scholastic, why not face the facts? Last week, you printed an article headlined, “SPATNC Terrorizes Army Coach With Daily Reminders,” in which you clarioned the misgivings of two postcard-happy students, Burns and Fronrath. After reading this article, I am sure that someone ruined two good monkeys by cutting off their tails.
Why not print the truth? You know just as well as I that on the afternoon of November 9th tears will be flowing on the Notre Dame campus faster than Drewry’s beer down at Rosie’s. And you blurt, “Coach Earl Blaik of Anny is teetering on the brink of hysteria.” What a lie! The only thing that’s teetering is Notre Dame’s claim to the national football title.	•
Already, Mr. Blanchard (Mr. Inside) is laughing on the outside. Tucker and Davis are talking about turning the shamrock into a daisy, and burying the Notre Dame football team beneath it. Coach Earl Blaik, I am told, has instructed his player to hold “down” the score. He doesn’t want to dishearten the Notre Darners—three years in a row, you know—and the termination of such a lucrative series would be like refusing John D. Rockefeller’s check.
The Army team will wear black for the game. It will be the third Irish wake for most of the players. And, after the game, there will be a unique ceremony held on the field. Army’s Black Knights will be made Noblemen.
One suggestion: Take plenty of towels with you on the student trip, you’ll need them on the way back from New York.
Privately yours, Donald R. Lee
Dear Editor:
In the last issue of the Scholastic, a letter by a DON LEE stated that oui* Irish would be a pushover for the Army on Nov. 9. I beg to disagree with the above “Mr. Lee” and would like him to know that I have $100 on hand to back . up my difference of opinion.
Put your money where your mouth is, Buster, and then we’ll see “how busy you’ll be collecting bets after the game.” Frank P. Mancino 321 St Ed’s Hall
P.S.—Call at any time Mr. Lee and if I’m not at home leave a message. I’m in
Dear Sir:
For the benefit of those who didn’t attend the pep rally before the Navy game: We all owe a loud round of applause to Father Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., he . of handball fame, for his thought-provoking speech at that rally. To the undersigned’s knowledge, Father Brennan is the first person to mention publicly the names of former Notre Dame footballers who died saving the Stars and Stripes—men like George Murphy, Herky Bereolos and Johnny McGinnis. We should all remember them when we’re listing our incentives to victory. Prayers for grid conquest are fine, but it seems that most of Notre Dame has forgotten these men when we do our pre-game kneeling at the Grotto.
Incidentally, does anybody know the story on why Notre Dame hasn’t retired the numbers of former’ football players killed in the war? It’s little enough tribute to them, for what they have done for its/
George McCarthy.
Dear Editor:
Three cheers for the letter criticizing Roy Lang’s praise of the Notre Dame band for its performance during the Purdue game. “Name Withheld” should be very proud of himself—for his masterpiece. No doubt he expects an award for his efforts, perhaps one of the yearly literary prizes.
“In my life. . ..” I wonder just when the author stopped wearing “three cornered pants.”	’
Had the author ever seen the formations displayed during the Purdue game half-time show? If not, there must have been some degree of originality.
“Musical quality”—on just what particular band instrument, or any musical instrument is “Name Witheheld” a virtuoso?
“Ninety-six nonpariels”—truer words were never spoken. The band really has school spirit, which is more than can be said for many of the “big shots” who hide behind a pen or typewriter—following the motto “Let George do it.”
If the Notre Dame band was “loaded” with “ride men” and “ringers” . . . perhaps it would be able to march as snappy and play with the same degree of quality. Our band is a 98 percent volun-te.er_group and should be considered as such. All time put in on marching and practicing is the member’s own.
Because majority rules, the efforts of the band to. entertain are appreciated ' and for this the members are grateful.
All of the members know there is much (Continued on Page 7)
4
Dil PontOgil
Items of Interest In fBe HeMs ef Chomistry,Engin«erin^^
Low-Cost Sulfamic Acid Was Result
of Newly Discovered Process
Once obscure laboratory chemical now finding wide use in industry
Sulfamic acid, which for years was merely another obscure laboratory chemical, is today being produced in carload quantities for a constantly growing list of uses because of a discovery made by a Du Pont chemist.
Believing that urea could be sulfonated to give a product which might have commercial utility, the chemist treated urea with fuming sulfuric acid. The reaction was exceedingly violent, and it appeared that decomposition had taken place to give ordinary ammonium sulfate. However, the chemist noted that the white precipitate which had formed did not dissolve rapidly in water as ammonium sulfate should, and further
investigation proved that he had obtained sulfamic acid.
NH2C0NHa + S03 + H2SO4 urea
---> 2NH2SOzOH + C02 sulfamic acid
Thus the way was pointed to an inexpensive method of making this
Crystals of sulfamic acid
scarcely known chemical, and an intensive study of its chemical and physical properties has led to its development for a wide variety of industrial uses.
. First Industrial Applications
The salts of sulfamic acid are being used extensively as flame-proofing agents. Highly compatible with cellulose, ammonium sulfamate is unique among fire retardants in that it does not cause stiffening or otherwise adversely affect the hand or feel of textiles and paper.
Another outstanding use for ammonium sulfamate is as a weed killer for the control of poison ivy, ragweed, and a variety of noxious annuals. Its effect on poison ivy is unmatched by any other product.
One of the most important industrial applications for sulfamic acid is based on the fact that it reacts quantitatively and very rapidly with nitrous add. This has led to its wide use in eliminating the excess nitrite employed in diazotization reactions
for dye and colored pigment manufacture.
Soluble in Water and
Non-hygroscopic
Sulfamicacidisastrong acid, and despite the fact that it is exceedingly soluble in water, it is a solid non-hygroscopic, non-volatile material which has found application as a laboratory titrimetric standard. Additional information will be found in the bulletin "Sulfamic Acid and Its Salts.” Write to 2521Ne-mours Bldg., Wilmington, Delaware.
Understandably, men of Du Pont are proud that their work in the laboratory has created and developed many products like this "chemical curiosity” to help make life safer, more pleasant and comfortable for all Americans.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
IS THERE A FUTURE
FOR ME AT DU PONT?
Every effort is made to initially select graduates for a specific job in line with their training and expressed preferences. Men are advanced as rapidly as their capabilities permit and openings occur. The broad research program and the ever expanding development of new chemical products as well as the growth of old established products offer ample opportunities for the technical graduate to grow in the organization.
«e. U.S. P*T. OFE
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Mondays, 7 P. M. CST, on NBC
...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
L L DU FONT DI NIMOURS * CO. (MCJ WILMINGTON 99, DILAWAM
5
1944: Army 59, Notre Some 0.	1945: Army 48, Notre Borne 0.
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus — E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND
MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street
E- eninir* ly Appointment
I
Elim
PIPES
yw illioti Filters Sold
1

. . . THIS IS WHY: ★ Reduces nicotine and tars * Filters flakes and juices ■ * Improves tobacco aroma * Cools and cleanses smoke -
IF/wz filtei is stained from tars and nicotine, rifdact with fresh one.
2
■i
ROYALDEMUTH
IMPORTED BRIAR

By JACK FRAIER and BILL PFAFF
Dashing off to Gotham this week-end to see what the squad can do about the Black and Blue Knights of the Hudson, we are in hopes of returning quite sophisticated. Then we will be able to toss off quotations from Nick Kenny at the slightest provocation, we’ll have the savoir-faire of Zygmont Czarobski, will be able to write like Jerry Olwell, chat about our influential friends in the Met club and generally be the answer to any girl’s dream.
Who is the unsung hero that finally got around to putting handles on the dining-hall side doors? Now they can be opened from the outside as well as the inside. Perhaps we are naive but we never were quite able to see the practicality of a cafeteria that could only be left. Last winter, we understand, the watchman found the body of a student; a frozen, crumpled thing sprawled before the east door. He had arrived late and decided to wait for someone leaving to open the door for him. No one came.
❖
We have heard from reliable sources that, in view of the good work Bing Crosby has been doing in the last couple of years, he is to be made a monsignor, in his newest film. Now this is strictly off the record, but we were told he has even higher aspirations.
Here is some incidental intelligence we made note of: The next motto for the religious bulletins might well be, “Vish-insky went to Mass, why can’t you?” This next item we cooked up after lights one night last week. It no doubt would be better left out but we can’t resist it. Would you say that when an innocent man is hanged he is good to the last drop? Now you see the effect of the Nuernberg trials upon an innocent mind.
❖
It annoyed us considerably to hear that a so-called class in advanced French experienced considerable difficulty in translating a simple, picayunish quotation that appeared in the last issue of this column. The quotation—Hamilcar a la tete des chenets, sur un coussin de plume, etait coucee en rond, • le nez entre ses
pattes—means nothing more than Hamilcar was lying in front of the andirons, curled up on feather cushion, with his nose between his paws. It is one of the pithier passages from Anatole France’s classic novel, Le Crime de Sylvestre Bonnard, which freely translated (attention: French majors!) means the crime of Sylvester Bonnard.
It was like hearing a voice from the grave last week when we had a visit from a member of a practically vanished race—the fellow who is working his way through college selling magazine subscriptions. After a brief, chummy introduction he flapped a sheaf of certificates of identification in our face and explained, “Now this here concern sends me 500 bucks when I get 10,000 points.” Smacking his lips he pressed a list of magazines into our hands. “Each time you buy a subscription from me, I get from 1% to 7 points in my favor depending on the magazine you fellas are gonna buy.” He kept running his finger up and down the list which contained periodicals like Forbes (2 points), The Garden Chronicle (7 points), and a few others that can always be found on the Dining Hall magazine rack. We pointed to several that had been scratched out. He reddened a little and said, “Aw, those are girls’ magazines, and the fellas used to jibe me about them until I crossed them out. They’re all high-pointers too. The titles of some of these magazines aren’t too classy but they’re all real in- j teresting. You know, I’d of had a harder job selling them if they’d put the Ave ; Maria on the list.” We all laughed over ■ that.	1
I
Doing some quick mental arithmetic, ; we pointed out that he’d have to sell = around 3,000 subscriptions to get his 10,000 points. “Shucks, I got lots of patience,” he said, “and business was real good until about three weeks ago. You know,” he confided, “a couple of econ j . profs started selling 'Newsweek subscrip- j tions in class then. I don’t want to do j any accusing, you know, but Newsiveek j is a high point magazine, and I’ll swear s I’ve seen a lot of new clothes in the eco- j nomics department lately.”	1
1946
BEAT ARMY!
1946
THE WEEK
All the excitement this past week wasn’t brought about by the coming clash with Army. A new type of evening’s entertainment was inaugurated for the masses by the History Department. At special eventide sessions held early in the week hundreds of ND men, cramnotes stuffed in their shoes, wrestled with examinations covering their outsidereading assignments. Up to the last minute the reference room of the library bore a heavier traffic than Route 66. Most boring all all the Department’s selections was Tawney’s “Religion and the Rise of Capitalism,” but most students managed to weather the storm of words. So until the next outside reading exam on or about Dec. 15, the reference room of the library ought to be a quiet retreat.
Pyschiatrists have tabbed the recent flood of horrific caricatures that inundated the press during the Lena the Hyena contest as the expression by the American male of general dissatisfaction with American women. Could be. Immersed in flattering photographs of pinups during the war years, the American man has returned to find that all girls aren’t long-stemmed American beauties, so the reaction has set in. A course in understanding women, the intricate workings of their fickle minds, and their strange practical make-ups is hereby recommended.
Best dressed man of the week: Dick Byrnes. His Homburg hat topping off a dark suit restores our faith in ND tastes. Not all campus sharpies have gone over to the zoot-cap, and the collegiate flattop fedora with up-turned brim is strictly a jazz-age resurrection. Runner-up: Cliff Brosey. For their efforts on behalf of raising ND style levels, all persons mentioned may collect a green banana at the door of the cafeteria or pick up a damp sweat-sock at the end of the year from Mac.
❖
Two Iowa City scientists recently reported that experiments disclose that the female of the species begins to jabber sooner and faster than the male. Little girls, after the first year, far exceed little boys in words spoken per hour, and continue to beat their gums, with increasing velocity, as the years roll on.
John A. O'Connor
Lovers of the finer things of life at Notre Dame were recently treated to probably the sweetest song to pour out of their radios in a year. We’re talking about Christopher Lynch’s magnificent and mellifluous rendition of “The Rose of Tralee.” This guy Lynch is, with Jimmie Melton, bringing back some of the beauty to American radio music which was subjugated during the war to the brashy tastes of the marijuana clan.
❖
Maintaing its position as Number One on the Gore Parade, South Bend didn’t disappoint the chill-seekers over Halloween. In local flicker houses Notre Dame men shuddered while the gruesome twosome, Bela Lugosi and Boris Karloff, raised all Sheol with everybody’s hairdos.
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 4)
room for improvement, both in marching and in playing, and that is why they are in attendance at the rehearsals—to “iron out the rough spots.”
If the author doesn’t like the uniforms the band wears, he had better address a letter to someone in authority as this matter is completely out of the hands of the band members.
Regarding eastern tours—the concert band will answer this question when the time arrives.
“When are we going to have a band that will be a definite credit to our great University?” Well, the majority of students, alumni, and friends of Notre Dame are of the opinion the band is a definite credit to our great University noiv. Of course, improvements can and always will be made, especially when the author, and any other students with similar sentiments get enough “intestinal fortitude” to get out and do a better job themselves. Constructive criticism is appreciated while destructive criticism is not wanted.
“Actions speak loudei- than words.”
Bill Cullen.
Editor
Dictator Antonio de Oliveira Salazar of Portugal disapproved of Time Maga-(Continued on Page 25)
Not too early far lay-away gifts far
CHRISTMAS
126 N. Michigan Street
A LIGHTER
YOU'LL LIKE
$2.50 — initials or name engraved 75c additional
At the BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
1
THE ME DRIHE SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quast Semper l^icturus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
tiituitntHiiiiitmtiitimiiiiitttiiittiiiuiuiiitiiuitiiHtttit'tniiiiittiii <
John Defant, Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Ted Weber__________________________H. Smith Keel
iitiiiiiiiutiniiiittiintiiiiiiiiiiuiiiuiinitiiiiiiiiwiiutiiiHiiiiiiittiiiiii
James Clemens____________________________News	Editor
Frank Keenan_____________Associate News Editor Joe Cheney Sports	Editor
Joe Wilcox____________________________Feature	Editor
Frank Cacciapaglia__________Photographic	Editor
REWRITE
Bob Stock______________________________Ed Snyder
Joe Doyle
Cover by Don Birren
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
_______________________________Faculty Advisor
Tom Gargan, Bob Kopf ____________________Circulation M. E. Varga______________________________Advertising
PHOTO CREDITS
Pictorial feature, "Road Trip," by Frank Cacciapaglia; families occupying Vets Housing, Page 12, and pictures on Pages 10 and 26 by Dave Cowden; Page 9, Jim Evans; cartoon on Page 11 by Duggan; and Gerry Cowhig caricature on Page 20 by Don Birren.
UIIHIIIIIIIIIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIItUlllltHIIIIHItlllllllllllllllllllHIIIIttlllHII
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
8
fynm the	.
The Spirit of Notre Dame
To many persons the name Notre Dame conjures up pictures of crowded stadia, blaring bands, waving pennants, and full blown chrysanthemums. To them, Notre Dame is a football team, a group of smartly trained boys who parade colorfully across the gridirons of the nation; sometimes losing, more often winning, but always providing a thrilling spectacle. Many have cast their lots with this group, have adopted is as their own, have become synthetic alumni proudly boasting their allegiance. And Notre Dame welcomes them, is sympathetic toward her synthetic children. She gives them her spirit — THE SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME.
The spirit of Notre Dame is a pervasive thing. The leather-lunged newsboy in the Loop, the hard-boiled cab-driver on Broadway, the snarling traffic-cop on the Square have acquired it; the little grayhaired lady, who knows no more about football than that the team with the higher score wins, sits at her radio and wants Notre Dame to win. The sisters in the schools, who spend five days of the week instilling ideals and knowledge into youngsters w’hose minds wander to lighter thoughts—these sisters, too, retain their one contact with the pleasure-seeking world in their radioview of Notre Dame games.
The foremost manifestation of the Spirit of Notre Dame lives not in organized cheering but rather in organized praying. No one is a true alumnus of Notre Dame, by graduation or by adoption, until he has learned to pray. When Notre Dame goes out to play she is represented apparently by only a small percentage of her student body, yet the rest of them are on the field in spirit, they are joined to them in prayer. Nor is this a wild statement — an empty phrase. I could cite numberless examples wherein prayer was the link which joined those in the stands and those at the radio more closely to those on the field.
It is an oft-repeated story concerning that day at Nebraska. The odds were heavily against Notre Dame. The plays did not seem to function properly; something seemed to be lacking. Time was called. Someone suggested a prayer; it was George Gipp, a non-Catholic. Someone led the prayer; it was Chet Wynne, the son of a minister. What other school
could incorporate this in her annals? It is a commonplace incident here.
From the field to the stands is not so far a jump, nor from the field to the radio receiver where the scene is reenacted. Sometimes almost inaudibly, sometimes almost incoherently you can hear a fan mutter, “0 God, let them score just once.”
In the crowded stadium there is the echo of the joyful crowd; at thousands of radios is a hushed audience breathless with each moment of suspense and thrill. But behind it all, beneath it all, above it all is the Spirit of Notre Dame, the spirit of prayer, the spirit of Our Lady of the Golden Dome.—The Bengalese Magazine.
—John Roberts
Army Beware!
Army’s football honeymoon is due to end! After luring the cream of the nation’s grid crop up the Hudson, the Cadets ran amuck during the past two years, trampling war-weakened opponents underfoot. Notre Dame in particular felt Army’s crushing wartime strength. In 1944 and 1945, the Army appeased its losses during normal years by rolling up 107 points against young, inexperienced Irish elevens.
But now the situation has changed. No longer are boys being sent out to do a man’s job. Army has already discovered this in a small way—tomorrow they’re going to discover it a big way! The famous, duo, Mr. Outside and Mr. Inside, have found it necessary to play almost the full 60 minutes in each game this season to assure Army victories.
Tomorrow the Army meets its most formidable opponent of the season in a game that the sports -writers have termed the “Battle of the Century.” Notre Dame is no longer sparse of grid talent. To put it mildly, the Irish are loaded with power, three teams deep.
If Army can beat the 1946 Fighting Irish, it is worth of all the ballyhoo heaped upon it in the past two years. However, there are 4,500 Notre Dame men, innumerable alumni and subway alumni who are certain the Army can’t do it! They feel that Army’s mule will be badly beaten by Irish Clashmore Mike and that the grid classic of the century will be just another hurdle on the road to a national championship for the fight-ingest band of Fighting Irish that have donned Notre Dame uniforms in many years.—Edward J. Snyder
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
VOL. 88, NO. 7
NOVEMBER 8, 1946
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
Students Head for Mule's Demise
Council to Install 15 Phones In Cat
By JOHN W. NOONAN
Plans are being advanced by the Student Council for the addition of fifteen more telephones in the basement of the Cafeteria to relieve the serious student congestion that results nightly. This was made known by Council President William D. Pelling at the weekly meeting of the Student Council on Monday night the 28th of October. Provisions have already been discussed with the Prefect of Discipline and the administration has promised to do everything possible to obtain these phones. As the Council meeting was in session a sketch drawn to scale was being made of the area in which the phones were to be placed.
The Student Council will sponsor a contest for the best decorated hall of the Homecoming Southern Cal weekend. There will be a definite expense limit to be announced at a later date. Prizes will be offered and these too will be announced later by the Student Council.
'The Blue Circle will organize plans to meet the team returning from New York, which has always been a student tradition.
In reply to a petition by the Student Council to declare Monday the 11th of November a holiday Father Kenna said that he hoped “The student body generally would take advantage of the extra holiday to recover from the fatigue induced by the Army trip.”
Bob Strong, noted mid-west band leader, has been contracted by the Student Council to play for the Victory Dance following the Southern Cal game on Homecoming weekend.
The California Club was granted permission to hold a pre-game dinner on Nov. 29 in the Bronzewood Room of the LaSalle Hotel. The purpose of the dinner is to bring together the coaches and Alumni of the two schools as well as sportswriters, radio and movie stars.
Architect's pin back the Army mule's ears. They are. left to right, Lido Shia-manna. Joe Lang, John Truemper, Ventura Gonzalez, and Paul Godallei.
Architects Paint Army Mule As Irish Meat
The thought uppermost in the minds of ND men of late—Beat the Army— crystallized into an idea at a meeting of the officers of the Architecure club last week. The next day three students in the department executed the idea and this week it was draped on the front facade of the department’s building— an army mule mercilessly pinned to a wall with two huge spikes driven through his ears and titled “End the meat shortage, slaughter the Army mule.”
The drawing of the mule was executed with regular house paint on a bed sheet by two seniors in the department, Ventura Gonzales and Joe Lang. Lido Shia-manna did the lettering. Members of the department are planning to take the drawing along on the trip to New York where the Cadets will have a visual presentation of the treatment they can expect at the hands of the Irish.
(Continued on Page 20)
1.150 ND Men to See
"Battle of Century"
By ED SNYDER
An old hand, like Uncle Mike Jacobs couldn’t have staged a better show as far as the ticket scalpers are concerned. While five tickets went for $1,000 in downtown South Bend, others were going for- anywhere from $50 to $100, but 1,150 Notre Dame students still sat back and breathed easily, because tomorrow they will be on hand at Yankee Stadium to see their Irish meet the Army in the battle of the century for only $4.80.
As this issue of the Scholastic rolls off the presses, the special trains are already chugging up the siding to take on their quota of passengers for the 17 hour trip to New York. The trains are scheduled to arrive at Grand Central Station at 7:30 tomorrow morning.
All week long the campus has been gripped by a wave of tense anticipation. Although less than a third of the student body is making the trip, it is certain that all Notre Dame men will be at a radio tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 E. S. T. when toe meets leather in the stadium that Babe Ruth built.
While the contingent of Notre Dame students in disembarking from the trains tomorrow morning, the corps of cadets-will be loading on specials to make the 50 mile jaunt down the Hudson River. At 12:40 p. m., the long line of grey marching figures will enter the stadium and take their seats in the stands.
A crowd of over 80,000 spectators is expected, come rain or shine, and the stadium’s undernourished press box is slated to be bulging with newspapermen and radio announcers.
The game will mark the 33rd meeting of the two schools on the gridiron, which (Continued on Page 33)
9
1944: Army 59B Notre Dame 0.	1945: Army 48, Notre Dame 0.
Stork Delivers Baby Girl to "Scholastic"
Among proud fathers in South Bend last week was the Notre Dame Scholastic, which fathered its first child, with the assistance of Mr. and Mrs. James Clemens. Jim, the Scholastic News Editor, was unable to realize that there was any news more important than the birth of his baby girl, Patricia Kathleen Clemens, who made her official appearance into the world and into Scholastic circles at 1:08 a. .m. on All Saints’ Day, November 1, at St. Joseph’s Hospital.
Unable to speak coherently for some time, Mr. Clemens managed to pass out the cigars and stammer that he came from the Bronx, New York, and that his wife was the former Veronica Fleming, also of New York City. The new arrival has reddish brown hair, blue eyes, and weighed 6 lbs. 8 and % ounces at birth.
In an excusive story to the Scholastic, Miss Clemens said, between feedings, that she expected to be either the future editor of the New Rochelle Tattler or that she would serve in a similar capacity on the St. Mary’s Daily Blurb.
Bernadette Macko, left: Marie Despres, standing, and Helen McAvinchey delve into Thomistic philosophy in the St. Thomas Aquinas room at St. Mary's.
Late Nun's Dream Comes True As SMC Acquires Thomas Aquinas Room
Prof. R. F. Ervin Elected Indiana Bacteriology Head
Robert F. Ervin, assistant research professor of bacteriology, was elected president of the Indiana Branch, Society of American Bacteriologists at the group’s Fall session at Terre Haute in mid-October. Mr. Ervin, who handles business administration for lobund on the campus, will serve in his newly-elected capacity until February, 1948.
In May, 1947, the spring meeting of the Indiana Branch, Society of American Bacteriologists will be held here for the first time since 1941. Some ICO Indiana bacteriologists from the colleges and universities of the state as well as from commercial firms will attend and will have an opportunity to see the rapid strides made in germ-free, micrurgical and biological engineering research at lobund here at Notre Dame. For the uninitiated, lobund means simply— Laboratories of Bacteriology, University of Notre Dame.
Professor James A. Reyniers, director of lobund, and Rev. Robert Sheehan, C.S.C., head of the Department of Biology here, also attended the Terre Haute gathering at the Indiana State Teachers College.
Lest the jabbery conversation of some of the citizenry in the Gothic halls across the Dixie lead you to think that the young ladies are incapable of thinking seriously about anything except the decorations at the forthcoming tea-dance, henceforth think otherwise. For the feminine generation at St. Mary’s has its mind on very heavy matters indeed; the philosophy of Thomas Aquinas himself, no less. For the college library has added a new St. Thomas Aquinas room.
Such a room was the dream of the late Mother Mary Verda, C.S.C., twenty years the head of the Department of Philosophy, and now, three years after her death, her wish has been fulfilled. Despite difficulty in obtaining volumes of Thomistic philosophy, the St. Thomas Aquinas room has at last begun to take on a “library” appearance.
In 1939, Mother Verda completed 20 years as the Philosophy Department’s head and became Midwestern Provincial Superior of the Holy Cross nuns, but her particular desire was still for a special Thomas Aquinas room in a new library. The Dasch family of Baltimore, Md., Mother Verda’s own family, generously donated funds for the construction of this room. In 1944, the room was completed, but it was too late for Mother
Verda, for she had died in 1943.
The room was designed by Mr. Francis Kervick, head of Notre Dame’s Architecture Department. A unique wooden grill work sets off the room on the landing between the second and third floors of the library building. The walls are lined with rosewood shelves, which are indirectly lighted, and a writing desk with a statue of St. Thomas in a niche above, graces one wall of the room. Four coats-of-arms associated with the saintphilosopher: that of the Aquinas family, the University of Paris, the Order of Preachers, and the Abbey of Monte Cas-sino have been placed on the wall.
Sister Rita Claire, C.S.C., college librarian, reports that the college has encountered untold difficulty in obtaining works of St. Thomas Aquinas to fill the shelves; yet, nevertheless, a trickle of books has begun to come in and take their place on the shelves, and before long, the room should be complete, a living memorial to one of St. Mary’s most distinguished educators, Mother Mary Verda.
If on your next date she begins to give with a syllogism in Latin, she’s not trying to drive you away; she’s been in the St. Thomas Aquinas Room.
10
1946
BEAT ARMY!
1946
FROM THE APOCRYPHA OF NICODEMUS
Now the month of September wast already half waned, and Ralph O’Rafferty didst have a class on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays that wast called Fishmongering, 10. And the man who didst teach that class was goodly fat, and upon his head he had no hair, and he wast yclept Phineas McGluck, Ph.D. And this man hadst a wife and seven children, of whom he didst speak unto the class without ceasing, and he scarce mentioned Fishmongering.
When Ralph went unto that class, as unto all others, he said unto himself, Verily, shall get me to ye Pierian Spring, and anon I shall indeed know mickle. But when he wist what manner of class thus wast, he wast sad at heart and set him to weeping, and said: I am sore carked to hear of this man’s wife and seven children and nought of Fishmongering; I shall betake me unto yon dean, who will appoint unto me another professor.
And Ralph gat him unto ye dean, and he didst beseech him that he send him unto another professor, for Dr. McGluck didst prate mightily of his wife and of his children, and he didst wish that the other professor have both less than kin

II
and less than kind. But the dean didst comb his mustache, and didst at length set aside ye Chicago Tribune, a great oracle, in which he wast reading Little Orphan Annie, and spake thus unto Ralph: Verily, dost thou know not that it is not allowed to change thy professor at will? Aroint thee, varlet and knave, and get thee anon to Professor McGluck, and take care that thou flunkest not his course, for outside yon gate preparing to climb yon stile there do await ten thousand Rhodes Scholars.
Then the dean didst grin a most fiendish grin, and he didst send for his secretary, a damsel yclept Lena ye Hyena, and bade her forthwith to write a notice unto Professor McGluck, and to acquaint him with what manner of scuiwy villain he hadst in his class, that cared only to learn of Fishmongering, 10.
And time didst pass. And in the Days of November, there wast a quarterly examination, wherein all ye students sat them down to write what they wist of ye subjects. And Ralph didst prepare foi- it well, and bethought him most wise that he dist commit to his memory the names of the wife and children of ye clan McGluck. But alas, ye professor sought only
to know what Ralph wist of fishmongering, and Ralph wist nothing. And Ralph didst flunk. Then the Professor didst dance for glee, and he didst labor most mightily that he might prepare for Ralph ye pink slip. And he spake unto Ralph: Wretch, thy grade is 49. And he didst mumble to himself, saying: He shall not pass.
When Ralph wist that the land lay thus rockily, he set him at learning the matter in ye text that McGluck hadst covered, and ere long he kenned all that had been taught unto him, which wast indeed very little. But when at length the semester was accomplished, and the day of reckoning hadst arrived, the Professor had but reached that part of the book intended for the middle of October, and he said unto the class: Ye must needs know the entire book, for alas, I hadst not time to cover it. Dist hear of my uncle in San Francisco? And Ralph nigh despaired, but he didst labor the more and dist learn the entire tome.
But upon the morn of ye examination, Professor McGluck dist ask what wast the name of his Aunt who dist abide in Kansas City, and woe, Ralph wist not. And again his grade wast 49. And the professor didst smirk at him and related unto him a joke about his wife, and said, thou wilt be with me again next year.
But anon the bulletin didst come out, and Ralph wast astonished, for his grade wast 94 in Fishmongering, 10. And he said: there are more things in. heaven and earth than are dreamed of in.Mc-Gluck’s Fismongering. Anon he kenned the truth, and indeed, Lena ye Hyena hadst by accident reversed the grade, but as 94 it hadst been set down in ye record. And when he didst again meet Dr. McGluck, he dist inquire of the health of his aunt in Kansas City.
100 Attend ACS Meeting Addressed By Dr. Steacie
Dr. E. W. R. Steacie, director of the chemistry division of the National Research Council of Canada, addressed the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society in the Chemistry Building auditorium on “Photosensitized. Reactions of Hydrocarbons.” The talk, which wTas attended by about 100, followed a dinner held by the chapter at the Hotel LaSalle.
The speaker was introduced by Dr. Milton Burton, professor of physical chemistry at the University. Chairman, at the meeting was Dr. Francis Lee Benton, vice-chairman of the organization, in the absence of Professor P. A. McCusker, ,who_Js_ ill.-.A lengthy discussion period followed Dr. Steacie’s address.'
11
VETERANS NEWS
Although it is November 8 there are still many veterans on our campus who have received no subsistence checks. Some of them have already been to the Guidance Center and have sent tracers to Indianapolis in an effort to get their checks. To these men and to all others the Guidance Center extends an invitation to stop in and start a new tracer on its way. Ask for Mr. Tolle or Mr. DeCook and they will be glad to take care of you.
In a statement from the Indianapolis Veteran’s Administration Office we find somewhat of an excuse and a slight reason for all the delay in the subsistence checks. According to this statement the Finance Office is swamped. Since there are approximately 25,000 veterans in colleges and training centers in this area, and since there was a 20% increase in all compensation checks for disabled veterans, the adjustment of these pensions and the size of the office force maintained to take care of these checks has left them about 20,000 checks behind of October 28. So be'patient, they’ll get it all straightened out soon. (We hope!)
Here is a tip for you veterans enrolled under Public Law 16: Those cards relative to summer school, that were mailed out by the Director of Studies office are mighty important. All men attending school under Public Law 16 must attend summer school if it is available otherwise they are endangering their rights to further training under this law.
24 Families Occupy Vet Housing Project
The long awaited occupation of the Notre Dame Vets’ Housing Project began last Friday, Nov. 1, as scheduled, despite a week-long strike which hampered work on the houses.
Mr. and Mrs. Joe Walsh and Joe, Jr., are among the first occupants
On Oct. 31, government representatives officially turned the project over’ to the University with the presentation of the keys. The next day, Friday, the first of the eventual 117 families began moving in. Now, a few days after the official opening, 24 vet families are occupying the units on the south side of the project.
According to Rev. Bernard J. Fur
stoss, C.S.C., business manager of the project, 24 additional families will move into the three unit buildings about Nov. 20, and the remaining units should be occupied by the middle of December.
Vet families occupying units without furniture pay $27.00 per month rent while units complete with furniture rent for $33.00 per month. Each unit contains two bedrooms, kitchen and bath. After several days of occupancy the project assumes the appearances of complete home life as pieces of laundry are visible on clothes lines. Every unit is equipped with individual gas water heaters, assuring the families of plenty of hot water. The chill of northern Indiana winter will be combatted by gas heaters furnished with each unit. Kitchens equipped with modern gas ranges will handle those well done steaks and chops for the hungry scholar.
—Steve Valetich
Air Force Association Groups Grow on Campus
The Air Force Association, composed of former AAF members, is cropping up on a number of campuses throughout the United States, Willis S. Fitch, executive director of the group, announced this week.
Headed by former Lt. Gen. Jimmy Doolittle, the group was formed in January of this year to keep AAF vets abreast of new developments in aviation and to support the maintenance of an adequate Army Air Force. Membership is open to all men and women who served in the Army Air Forces.
Groups have already sprung up at Northwestern, NYU, Columbia, Fordham, Texas, and Kentucky.
Left Mr. and Mrs. John Murphey fondly gaze at their new kitchen while, right Mr. and Mrs. Leo Ouillette start putting things in shape. Carol Ann Shiver watches.
12
9t feelia&ueA
Me Q’waiLf,
By ZYGMONT CZAROOSKI
Reverend Fathers, Members of the D.A.V., Sweetbriar Women, Members of SPATNC, and Men of Notre Dame:
Commencement With a Splash . ..
LOOK Magazine reveals the fact that in order to be graduated from Notre Dame, a student
must be able to swim a quarter of a mile. This bit of news brings to mind an inter
esting possibility. Commence-ment could be held at the Rockne Memorial pool, with the University officials at one end and the prospective A.B.’s and
B.S.’s at the other. Having completed the first eight of a mile to the officials, the
candidate would grasp the sheepskin in his teeth and negotiate the return distance keeping the document as dry as possible. If he succeeded without drown
ing, he would get a plain degree; if he came in with no water on the diploma, the result would be cum laude; if he succeeded without using his hands or feet, he would be valedictorian. If Notre Dame
set the precedent and awarded degrees by natation instead of convocation, the practice might spread; instead of four years at SMC, it would be four laps around the duck pond.
Behold—An Electrically-Resistant Rat...
One of the great English writers once said, “If you build a better mousetrap, the world will beat a path to your door.” A recent newspaper dispatch announces that some fellow had developed the latest “sure-kill” device for the giant of the rodent family—the pesky rat. Based on electricity, the trap electrocutes Mr. Rat when he attempts to requite his passion for cheese by nibbling on the bait. As sure-fire as the new trap may be, it backfired on its first solo flight. While a number of prospective manufacturers looked on, the inventor lured a rat into his compartment-like trap. As Mr. Rodent crept in for a peck at the cheese bait, the door slammed shut and the buzzing of high voltage was heard. Triumphantly, the inventor opened the door of the trap to extract the “fried” fellow, but just as triumphantly, out walked the unharmed rat. As the story goes, the inventor’s
FATHER PUTZ DISCUSSES EUROPEAN TREND TO SOCIALISM BEFORE GRADS
“Europeans now generally regard America as the last stronghold of a passing economic system,” Father Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., told the graduate students and their guests Friday night, October 25th, at a smoker and social held by the Gi’aduate Students Association in the faculty dining hall.
Father Putz, who recently returned from an extensive tour of England, France, Switzerland, and Germany, observed that the war has swept away the old structure and a new society based on a moderate form of socialism is emerging. Reviewing the course of history, he said that just as the French Revolution had ushered in the era of the bourgeoisie, the present war has so wrecked European capitalism and the bourgeois class that a new era of the common man seems to be in the making. Though Western Europeans fear Russia as a political power and the Communist party as an instrument of that power, they neither have the fear of socialism that many Americans show nor do they necessarily identify it with the Soviet type.
“There is even a strong healty feeling,” he remarked, “that state socialism can be avoided in favor of a people’s socialism or economic democracy. Just as a hundred years ago people struggled to achieve a political form of government responsible to the people through representation, so now they want to have a say in the direction of big industry. This means that the board of directors, instead of being elected by stockholders who have only a monetary interest in the industry, is elected by the people,
lawn has yet to be beaten into a path, which may mean that the saying just goes for mousetraps.
❖
Just a Few Thoughts .. .
Although Saturday’s game with Army is regarded of cosmic importance and certain sports writers have prognosticated a cataclysmic upset in this crucial encounter, permit me to assuage your misapprehensions and assure you that, if there be a debacle Saturday, Notre Dame will be topside. In closing, men, the Notre Dame football team respects Army’s terrific machine, but we do not fear the Army mule. Our team is composed mostly of veterans of World War II; only a year or so ago many of them were facing much more formidable missiles than a few Anny passes. When the kickoff comes in the Yankee Stadium tomorrow we will be on the field prepared to give Army the game of their lives.
that is, the workingman, the management and the consumer. This process, if allowed to work out, seems to point to a more equitable and fair distribution of responsibility.” He brought out that this people’s socialism is being realized particularly well in France, where it is removing the breeding-ground of Communism, economic distress.
Father Putz visited in all the four zones of Germany. Conditions vary greatly according to zone. The fear of the Russians is universal, but there is also a growing dissatisfaction with the American occupation forces. Last year the American troops enjoyed tremendous prestige and were hailed as liberators. This prestige was due to a double factor, the moral force of the Atlantic Charter and the physical impact of the superior war machine. Today the Germans realize that the Atlantic Charter was not for them and all the experimenting with democratic processes is not solving the urgent problems that demand immediate emergency treatment. Many Germans in the American zone say they would rather be governed directly by the military authorities which have the power and would then have the clear responsibility than by weak regional governments of German citizens which, however well-intentioned, are of limited power and responsibility. It is unfortunate that such weak, toothless government is being called democracy.
“The greatest mistake, in my view of things,” said Father Putz, “is being made in this denazification process. Many of those who are being investigated became party members only under pressure after 1937. The real Nazis seem to remain tightly organized, if we can judge from the steady manufacture and circulation of nimors against the occupying forces. The great danger is that the Nazis and Communists will come to terms in a powerful anti-democratic union. Whoever is running the country now will be discredited with the people as inefficient sycophants. It is to be feared that the whole democratic process will be eliminated along with these “collaborators” once the occupying forces pull out. The fundamental error, of course, in the German problem is the establishment of separate zones.”
Father Putz concluded with the observation that the German intellectuals and students are in great need materially of the bare essentials of life, and spiritually, of the freedom of communication with the outside world which is so essential to intellectual life.
la
Road Trip N. D.
By BILL LEAVEY
Annually, more than 400,000 football fans pack stadiums all over the country to watch the Notre Dame football team in action away from home. One of the most important factors in placing Notre Dame in the enviable position that she enjoys in the sports world, and which has given her teams a national following, is the great number of people from every section in the U. S. who have watched them play for the past 30 years. These fans leave the games each year confident that they have received their money’s worth; whether Notre Dame won or lost, they have seen the Fighting Irish play hard-fought football with an equally game opponent.
However, the vast majority of fans who witness a Notre Dame football spectacle are unmindful of the tremendous transportation and housing problems involved in bringing an Irish squad hundreds of miles across the country from South Bend to New York, Baltimore, Los Angeles or New Orleans. Notre Dame road trips are planned according to a standard operating procedure worked out weeks ahead of time by Business Manager of Athletics Herb Jones and the head football managers. The itinerary agreed upon will generally take care of all contingencies except the unpredictable behavior of the ball players themselves. Here the manager must be prepared for anything. A player may get lost; he may oversleep; or, as has happened in the past, he may miss a train or bus. Veteran football manager Bill Boss often recounts an incident that happened during the Wisconsin trip of 1942. The team was staying in Chicago, and was scheduled to leave early Saturday morning for Madison. The players assembled in the station as instructed, but as train time approached it was apparent that the squad’s star passer and quarterback, Angelo Bertelli, was among the missing. A manager was hurriedly dispatched back to the hotel to take up the search. He finally found the “Springfield Rifle” calmly lying down in his hotel room reading the funnies. Meanwhile, the train had already left. Perhaps the 7-7 tie ball game that afternoon was a result of the players’ having been unnerved because of the star’s absence, although Bertelli did manage to catch a late train and arrived at Madison five minutes before game time.
It was my pleasure last week to go with the team to Baltimore for the Navy game and to observe first hand the inside mechanics of a Notre Dame football trip. Preparations for a game away from home usually start in the middle of the
Kosikowski. Rovai, Urban and Signaigo (top) pack trunks in the stadium Thursday prior to departure for Baltimore and the Navy game.
Panelli. Sitko, Lujack and Earley (center) talk things over before leaving for La Paz.
Coaches, players and other members of ND-Navy official party await special train to Baltimore. (Ziggy flagged train to stop).
14
1946 BEAT ARMY!1946
week with the packing of equipment. 18 trunkloads are brought along for every game. They include complete uniforms for all the players, sweat suits for practice, fur lined jackets for cold weather, and, in the event of inclement weather, special rain pants and ponchos are included. One trunk alone is used for Trainer Hughie Burns’ medical supplies. This piece of baggage contains enough materials to cover any eventuality requiring medical attention up to a major operations. In every item of equipmnet that is taken there is always plenty of extras, for it is the unwritten code of the equipment manager never to be caught short. Handling the supplies on any trip is the responsibility of equipment manager, Bill Flaherty. His capability can be attested to by anyone who observed the excellent way he conducted his job during the Navy trip. Considering the fact that the equipment had to be moved from one place to another on seven different occasions, we can realize the logistical problem Flaherty had on his hands. However, from start to finish there were no hitches. When the players arrived at Baltimore’s Municipal Stadium on Saturday morning they found their uniforms in individual lockers with their names on the lockers. Flaherty had gone down from Washington with the trunks on Friday evening and had everything set up for the game.
Perhaps the most unusual item of equipment taken by the team is the 19 cases of special spring water that are carried on every trip. Each case holds six %-gallon jugs of water; in other words, 72 gallons of water are consumed on every trip. The reason that such particular care is taken concerning the drinking water can be illustrated by the story of an incident that happened to the Ohio State team in 1942. Paul Brown, coach of the Buckeye eleven, blamed their defeat that year at the hands of a mid-western opponent on the fact that the majority of players became ill from drinking plain drinking water while on the trip. To protect our players from a similar circumstances, Notre Dame teams since 1928 have always carried their own special drinking water.
The transportation problem on road trips is taken cai-e of by the student managers who accompany the players on the trip. Head Managers Bill Boss and John Kelly, ably assisted by Tom Earls and Bill Flaherty, handled every detail of the Navy- trip" smoothly and efficiently. The thousand and one details that come up in a long trip regarding train reservations, hotel accommodations, meal schedules, and bus transportation to and from the train stations were carried out perfectly and were evidence of the fact that the managers had indeed done their job well.
The actual trip7 to Baltimore got underway on Thursday afternoon when the team left the campus on busses for La Paz, Indiana, and there boarded the “Capitol Limited” to Washington, D. C. Three pullman cars and. a private dining car were at the disposal of the Notre Dame party.
Team members drink special water on all trips. Top, Lujack “pours one" while Mastrangelo sits by.
Strohmeyer and Earley look worried as Limoni and Urban seem completely satisfied with what the cards have to say.
The team arrives at 8:26 a. m., Nov. L at Silver Spring, Md., for ND-Navy game.
15
Surprisingly enough, very little football was discussed on the trip to Baltimore. Discussion of the Navy game was left to the coaches in their special compartment. Instead, the players passed their time on the 15 hour trip with innumerable “bull sessions” on every conceivable topic except football. “Ziggy” Czarobski was heard bemoaning the fact that he feared he had missed the deadline for his Scholastic column, and was inquiring whether it would be possible to wire the copy back to school at the next stop. (Ziggy didn’t miss it—editor’s note.) Johnny Lu jack and Paul Limont were the bridge enthusiasts and challenged all comers. The one exception to any talk of football or the impending game with Navy was the skull session Coach Leahy conducted for his quarterbacks.
The train arrived in Washington Friday morning. Following Mass and breakfast at Holy Cross College, the theological seminary of the Holy Cross Congregation at Catholic University, a sight seeing trip of Washington was next on the schedule. After viewing the main points of interest in the nation’s capital from a bus ■window, the party went to the Wardman Park Hotel, where we spent Friday night.
Coach Leahy’s pre-game strategy had called for a secret practice session at Catholic University. Though Leahy might have thought he was ordering up a very private workout, where his charges could apply the finishing touches for their game with Navy, he certainly did not reckon with the local chapter of Notre Dame’s “National Sidewalk Alumni.” When Leahy arrived with his team, there were over 3,000 spectators on the field, filling half the seating capacity of the stadium.
The work Mr. Leahy did stage was about as clandestine as a traffic accident at Michigan and Colfax at high noon on
(Top) Terry Brennan assists the team chaplain at Mass at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C.
At the game. Manager Bill Boss, Tripucka, Lujack and Coach Leahy on the bench. (Center).
Navy player dives futilely as Fred Earley's kick starts on its extra-point journey (Bottom left).
Terry Brennan goes for 15 yards in third quarter (Below).
16
Saturday. Athletic Director Eddie La Fond of Catholic University surveyed the half filled stands and observed, “This is a better turnout than we used to draw at some of our own football games.” There were representatives from just about every religious community in the U. S.: Franciscans, Carmelites and Atonement Friars in their brown habits were seen in the stands; there were white robed Dominicans, Jesuits, and upwards of fifty of our own Holy Cross Community. In addition every kid from the northeast end of Washington was out in force looking for autographs. And let us not forget the “bobby sockers”; the way they mobbed Johny Lujack, George Connor and “Moose” Fisher would put Sinatra and Van Johnson to shame.
The great spirit of the out-of-town fans, the so-called “side-walk” or “subway” alumni, was evident everywhere in both Washington and Baltimore. One found it among the bell hops in the hotel, the cab drivers, the waiters in the restaurant where the team ate their meals, the youngsters looking for autographs, and particularly among the people of Baltimore who cheered the players as they passed through the down town section of the city in busses en route to the stadium behind a motorcycle escort. Perhaps the most striking example of individual loyalty to Notre Dame was observed outside St. Thomas Church in Washington on Saturday morning. An old Irishman, complete with green bow tie and bowler hat, stood outside the Church. As the players filed out from Mass he shook each one’s hand and added, “God bless you, son; beat the Navy, but be sure and save a lot for the Army next week.” A surprising tribute to Notre Dame was paid by the Midshipmen from Annapolis. As the players trotted off the field at the end of the game, the middies arose en masse and chanted, “Go Irish, Beat the Army.”
For every out of town game a different member of the community is assigned as chaplain to the team to minister- to the spiritual needs of the players. The religious activities for the Navy trip were conducted by Father Robert Sheehan, C.S.C. Mass was celebrated on Friday, All Saints’ Day, in the beautiful chapel at Holy Cross College on the grounds of Catholic University. The pre-game Mass on Saturday was heard in St. Thomas Church, opposite the Wardham Park Hotel, in downtown Washington. On Sunday morning'Mass was held en route to Indiana in a specially reconditioned baggage car fitted out with an altar and stained glass windows. The car was painted white on the inside, with bronze fittings. During the principal pai-ts of the Mass the train was held up -for fifteen minutes at a siding near Willard, Ohio.
During the half time ceremonies of the Navy game, the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, the Most Reverend Bishop Peter L. Ireton of Richmond, Va., Admiral of the Fleet Chestei- Nimitz" former Postmaster. General Frank Walker, ’06, and members of the U. S. Naval Academy’s official party met in the center of the field. When Scholastic photographer Frank Cacciapaglia asked permission to take a picture of the dignitaries Admiral Nimitz said that it would be okay as long as Frank left the scoreboard out of the picture.
On the trip back to Notre Dame, unlike the trip eastward, there was plenty of talk about football. The afternoon’s game was rehashed by all the players. Comments and compliments were passed back and forth, and suggestions and plans for the all-important Anny game of the following week were openly discussed. A belated Halloween party was held on the way back; noise-makers, paper hats, pop-corn, apples, coke, sandwiches and candy were provided for all. Jim Mello took over as a very competent Master of Ceremonies at the party.
During the last leg of the journey from La Paz to Notre Dame on Sunday afternoon the team held an impromptu rally
of their own for the Army game. Already the Navy .trip was a happy memory but another journey—to New York, and involving the Cadets of West Point, loomed on the horizon. As we drove along Notre Dame avenue, echoes of “GO IRISH, BEAT THE ARMY” issued from the busload of the 1946 football eleven.
Former Postmaster General Frank Walker, Naval Academy Commandant Admiral Fitch, unidentified. Father Cavanaugh, Admiral Nimitz, Bishop Peter L. Ireton of Virginia, and an unidentified priest meet during the game.
Stormeyer and McBride nurse ankles in ice on trip home. The favors they hold in their hands and the caps on their heads are the accoutrements that went with a Halloween party the team held on the train.
17
ime-s
:nger, the iLJni
iversityi
ranco-
Torld-sn
leski
WO TOP TEAMS CLASH
ADIUM TOMORROW
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR
at Yankee
turday, No-ght the greatinvading Goths t Adrianople it will rank h at Agin-port it will nd against gther tlii the
raced
games, and undisputed monarcl America's wartime grid domain, i mean the first serious threat to claim as the greatest football m of all time. For Notre Dame, itgg mean a chance for Frank Leahy’ to regain the lofty heroic heights i pigskin realm so masterly domina the South Bend school during the ious days of Knute Rockne.
To millions of Americans, su alumni, kids in the sandlots, famil their radios, and sportsfans everyx it holds more significance and is ax with more nail-chewing anxiety than Allies beach-party at Normandy on D-Day.
Army will go into the game a slight favorite. By virtue of their brilliant record, and armed with two of the greatest ball carriers in the history of the sport, the Cadets can rightfully claim the hoghide throne u n ti 1 dislodged therefrom. Contrary to wishful rumors, mostly emanating from the South Bend cam
At center Jim Enos, two year man and originally from Santa
1 seaso rmers, fury just
pus, the Mules are definitely deep in all positions, but the 60-minute prowess of the Army first-string supermen has served to cloud over this striking fact. Against tougher competition than faced last year’s Pointers, this year’s black-gold-and-grey aggregation, especially in the key replacements, has proven to be a better outfit all around.
ach Earl Blaik has the best inal men in the country, From the land of tall stor-
omes a tall play-wrecker, Hank Foldberg, sudden-eath under punts, a pass- grabbing ormorant, and right nasty about tossing rould-be ballcarriers to the ground.
with this bearcat is Barney entioned an the “All” teams in and ’45, and playing rough and ball so far this season. Poole 230, and has a bad habit, acquir-
d over two years of experience, of not
etting anything come around his hese stalwarts are backed by rman fro a guy n he boy’s
ast en
end. Tom Jim , no the
nd
letter-Clara,
s g
about t Coulter, math-allergi year’s crew, stilled Army supporters go string Cadet tackl A-M captain, Gobi the Hudson folks while the other ta ed by Shelton Bi serves Blaik has 230, Tavzel, Fitz Art Geromet
pack of Cadet ball. His runni Chattanooga c ing in enemy are both full Mules have Ray’an
handles the ball-snapping chores. He’s aided by Yeoman and Livesay.
Army’s backfield is rated by some as the greatest of all time. Reminiscing sports-scribes have likened it to the Pitt foursome Chickerneo-Cassi-a n o - S t e b-bins - Gold-
berg. Others compare it with Stan-f o r d’s Albert - Kmetovich-Gallarneau-Standlee. To some it represents a greater combo than Minnesota’s Seidel-Alphonse-Lun-Kotska. A few daring souls have even (heaven forbid!) ranked it alongside the immortal Four Horsemen. Regardless of how the historians tab this year’s Army four, one thing is certain: it is the best in the land now, and the greatest since ND’s 1943 quartet of Ber-telli-Rykovich-Miller-Mello.
Arnold Tucker, field general in the Blaik forces, has just this year come into his own. A passer extraordinary, flawless ball handler, and expert strategist, Tucker has managed to implant the fact in rival coaches heads that there are
more than just two stars shining in the ucker’ heaves may Irish, if the aided, but
reat Army backfield red men in football, o since Castor and final fling at Notre
e last time the Irish Outside and Mr. In-been written about shudder when their
. Kids throughout
y them. Old Army
position tuckian, on last and sno\ way for romps to
eking half n, 225 pound Ken-first string center n. A demon runner
ter, Fuson clears the own Twins on their glory.
Roundi are the The best Pollux is Dame. T get a c
side., R them. Ri names a the country s
18
~^7
"The cheering thousands shout their battle cry"
.n-,u-:er >e-ve g-te-lis n: he
>r-
he to w-st, ct re he iy he ut

men beam and strut when announcers call their names. It will be these two that Leahy’s lads will have to stop and stop soon. They are the scythe-legged, bull-charging, ram-shouldered Felix B chard and the gazelle-swift, cut-and-sprint artist, Glenn Davis.
And Army has more. There’s Jack Stuart, team’s fastest man, sp Davis at half. There’s Rip Rowan, line-plunging feats have been difi only by the Great Doc. There’s We Gabriel, Shelley, Galiffa, and An
But defeat, as it must to every team, may come to a great Army Saturday. If it does; if the Iris ’em; if Notre Dame whips the Na Champions and avenges the fou humiliating scourgings of the pas
LUJACK MORE THAN SUP
TOPS IN DEFENSIVE PLAY AC
By the United Press
Great quarterbacks are both a tradition and a football success formula at Notre Dame and today the Fighting Irish were willing to pin theii- hopes for another national championship squarely
on the field leadership Johnny Lujack.
of 21-year-old
among the Mi pletions in 46 against Iowa, h out of 11 chances
ilf n-er er he ir
years, then the men will be on t the country. The be the toast of ■will be the Man sible Republica other champion;
Id 11. id re sh n-ut ir at iy

PR
Notre Dame Martin_______ i Conner_____ . Signaigo___
Strohmeyer.. Mastr angel Fallon___ Zilly____ Lujack.__ Sitko____ Brennan..
Mello....
The annual f TIC
6, pa d st
GRID
the
distrib-
of the press-eatures, e Fight-
egular subscribers, those a copies of the issue, or ibers who wish to purissue. should have their
by Nov. 28, or delivery of ine cannot be guaranteed,
f the football issue will be
5 com-turday seven 33 yards.
Lujack has bee Notre Dame team nois, Pittsburgh, P without taking a way. The game a
jack a chance to p cal Eastern audie since the Army ga
He proved then makings of a brill week before the cr Angelo Bertelli wa rine duty and dir
to the unknown L Connersville, Pa., by completing eigh hich were me w
the Illi-avy the
CK FOR LUJACK
oiled around he was in urned to the collegiate
ampai by th
u-
ar
touc
the s
ed e
the
the N
scene
tre ry LadSf k an
eat an-
H. ____ . B____
Y Poole
Biles teffy os etta ant rg
sue of this chronicle carried Johnny Lujack which we read. Somewhere along the ealous rewrite man thought
he saw us dangling our participles. As a result a comma made good—it became a period—and what was to have read: “. . . Lujack’s . . . ping-pong and pool are worthy of only ranking competition, financially well-healed.” turned up as “. . . worthy of ranking competition. Financially well-heeled Johnny will . . .” Which, obviously, is a horse of another color.
, who is most conserva-tingly ranks Lujack over
e better all-round play-“He is a superb defens-that is often overlooked e offensive ability and rection.”
tionist himself, admires Lujack.
er, ive pl in vi excell
tough taskmastei- and exacting in his demands on the practice field and in a game,” Leahy says. “When things suit Johnny, then we know the performance will be satisfactory to the coaches.”
Notre Dame hasn’t been forced to open up with a full-scale passing offensive yet this season, but Lujack ranks well up
19
INTDCDUCING
Moose Connor’s slurs on Beans and Bacon are well received by almost all his teammates and audience. The sole exception being a group called the Back Bay Chowder, Beans and Marching Society, headed by Gerard Finbar Cowhig. The same Gerry Cowhig who last Saturday raced 83 yards through a stunned Navy eleven only to have the gallap called back. Some days it doesn’t pay to get up.
But things have not always gone awry for this 208 lb. Irish back. He began his grid career at Marionapolis Academy in Thomason, Conn., in the company of George Tobin, Luke Higgins, and John Yonakor. In 1941 he proceeded to Notre Dame and played freshman ball. The following season he moved up to the varsity and earned his monogram. His most sparkling exhibition that year was against the Iowa Seahawks, when he paced his teammates to a 28 to 0 upset of the Service squad. Gerry carried the mail for two scores that afternoon. During the season he joined the ERC and in June of ’43 was called to active duty, and we use the term ‘active’ to its hilt. For the next three years saw T/5 Gerry Cowhig of the Medical Corps win five battle stars while a litter-bearer attached at various times to the 9th Armored, 82nd Airborne, and 6th Calvary Divisions. His tour of duty took him to England, France, Belgium, Luxembourg, and Germany, which about readies him for travelogue narrations should he decline bids from professional football magnates.
At present Gerry is looking forward to another year of collegiate competition before deciding on coaching or entering the pro grid ranks. He is slated for his Phy Ed degree in January of ’48.
Last spring on his return to football after a four year absence, Gerry experienced a great deal of difficulty working his legs into shape. As was true with Bob Livingstone and most of the other ex-G. I.’s, the Cowhig undercarriage was subject to frequent and painful injuries.
Luke Higgins, Gerry’s inseperable buddy and world-traveling roommate, was threatening to take a course in nursing at SMC in order to effect faster and more lasting cures on his ailing sidekick. But eventually ice-packs, diathermy and Sloan’s Linament rallied to the call and Gerry was once more reeling off sizeable gains for Coach Leahy’s A team. His pulverizing pre-war power now fully restored, Cowhig is coming at the opposi
tion from a sligthly different angle this season. In ’41 and ’42 Gerry hit from the fullback slot but his speed and a change from the Notre Dame Box to the T have sent him to right half in the new system. It doesn’t make any difference to Gerry where he plays, just as long as he’s in there.
All of which brings us to the uppermost topic of the day. Refusing to climb out on a limb and predict the final score, Gerry nevertheless did size up the situation as seen from the Badin attic. Both teams are potentially very powerful. The Army squad has been keeping the lid on its offense as illustrated by their n^eager 19-0 conquest of little West Virginia. We, though quoted underdogs by those ‘in the know,’ can definitely win. It, according to Gerard, is squarely on the linemen’s shoulders. They have to, and will, open the holes for the backs to rip through. The team has never been in higher spirits than for this collision.
No, Gerry, and neither have the 1,100 fellows going with you. We’ll see you late Saturday afternoon on 5th Avenue, on our shoulders, in the darndest parade Mayor O’Dwyer has seen since Garfield’s administration.—Bob Leander.
ARCHITECT'S MULE
(Continued from Page 9)
Gonzales is chiefly responsible for the vividness of the drawing. An outstanding student with a brush in classes, his efforts in the extracurricular activity of depicting a battered Army mule is worthy of high artistic praise. The bloodshot eyes, battered black and blue, the pulpy tongue drooping from the side of the unhappy donkey’s mouth and the generally miserable condition he appears to be in, are indeed indicative of the highest hopes that ride with the Notre Dame gridders this weekend in New York City.
The Notre Dome Scholastic Announces
The Third Annual FOOTBALL ISSUE for 1946
TO BE PUBLISHED DECEMBER 6
This issue will contain a complete review of all games — pictures and biographies of coaches and players -rr action shots of all games — large autographed squad photo — newspaper comment — all-American selections, etc. Price 35c. Orders- should be sent to: PUBLICATIONS OFFICE, Notr Dame, Indiana.
To insure delivery, orders should be placed before November 28.
20
Lyons Downs St. Ed's For Interhall Title
HARRIERS BATTLE FOR STATE CROWN; LOSE TO MICHIGAN STATE AND DRAKE
The fighting words of Coach “Rocky Jibralta” Chamberlain were somewhat dampened by the liquid mist on Cartier Field, but the mighty men of Lyons had enough to overcome the St. Ed’s Saints in Sunday’s Interhall Championship game. A good group of rooters turned out to cheer for each team and though the rain continued to fall, spirits seemed to be at a peak.
Big Walt Mahannah, Lyons fullback, was the offensive star of the ball game as he ran, passed, and punted his team to victory. In the first quarter, he romped around end from the 30 yard line to score the first touchdown, and late in the third period he chucked a pass to Muscatello for the final touchdown giving Lyons a 14-0 win. St. Ed’s, badly outweighed and out-manned but never outfought, controlled the ball throughout the first half and had the ball on St. Ed’s one yard line as the half ended. Stout defensive work by Sampson, Hanifan, and Mahannah stalled many offensive threats by St. Ed’s as Wolfe and Sheridan broke through for good gains.
The Lyons team proved that organization in interhall athletics is the big factor. This team got organized early, practiced hard, and with adequate spirit within the hall kept the ball rolling. Lyons also won the lower* division baseball title and are playing the same rival, St. Ed’s, for the championship in that field. Halls on the campus could well take a lesson from these two halls, and the players, coaches, and supporters from these halls deserve this hard earned praise.—Joe Doyle
Defeated in its last two starts, the Notre Dame cross-country team will seek to gain its early season form this Saturday when it competes in the Indiana State Meet at Lafayette. After opening the season with victories over Wisconsin and Purdue, Notre Dame has dropped its last two contests with Michigan State and Drake.
Despite the two successive setbacks, the Irish harriers are expected to battle it out with Indiana for the state crown, Coach Elvin R. “Doc” Handy predicted early this week. Notre Dame is the defending titlist. Coach Handy plans to start the seven man squad which has competed in all four meets.
The team making the trip to Lafayette, where the race will be run over Purdue’s three and one-half mile course, will then be comprised of Cornelius Sty-ers, Jim Murphy, Louis “Bud” Tracy, Bill Tully, Bob Mitchell, Gerald Johnson, and John Lyons.
Michigan State 27, Notre Dame 28
Notre Dame went down to its first defeat of the season on October 26 at East Lansing, when Michigan State nosed out the Irish, 27 to 28. The race was won by Jack Dianetti, Michigan State’s brilliant freshman, who led Jim Murphy of Notre Dame at the finish by 40 yards. The winning time was 18:36.5, and it was the
The Notre Dame Guidance Center announces that the contact officer. Mr. Hull W. Chester who comes to the center each Tuesday, will also be here on alternate Thursdays starting Thursday, Nov. 7, 1946. His hours are from 8:00 aan. to 4:30 pan.
first race run over Michigan State’s new three and one-half mile course.
Summary: Won by Dianetti (MS); Murphy (ND), 2nd; Styers (ND), 3rd; Jim Gibbard (MS'), 4th; Walter Mack (MS), 5th; Tully (ND), 6th; Tracy (ND), 7th; Herb Kebschull (MS), 8th; Ed Kiczenski (MS), 9th; and Mitchell (ND), 10th.
Drake 18, Notre Dame 43
Led by Captain Fred Feiler and Bill Mack, Drake University romped over the .Notre Dame harriers here last Saturday, 18 to 43. The defending national champions were too strong for Notre Dame as they placed six men among the first seven finishers. Lone. N. D. runner to come in among the first seven finishers was Corny Styers who finished third. The winners were clocked in 20:52.2 in the first race run over the new four-mile course here.
Feiler set a wicked pace over the first mile, as he was clocked in 4:35. He slowed down a little during the next three miles, but there was little question that any Notre Dame runner could keep up with his blistering pace. Bill Mack stayed at the heels of the number one Drake runner, who has won the individual cross- country national title two straight years, for almost the entire distance, and a dead heat with his teammate.
After Styers came in third some distance behind the winners, four Drake runners tied for fourth. Summary:
Won by Feiler and Mack (D); Styers (ND), 3rd; Fred Schoeffler (D), Ray Prohaska (D), Eli Toplansky (D), and Bill Kavanaugh (D), tied for fourth; Murphy (ND), 8th; Tracy (ND), 9th; Gerald McQuilling (D), 10th; Mitchell (ND), 11th; and Johnson (ND), 12th.
Qiut DOME AiMCG now in the making.
Orders will be accepted until December 15 —
Price: $7.00 the copy.
DOME will be forwarded about May 15, 1947.
(Thia does not apply to undergraduate students who will receive a copy, the cost of which is included in the general fee.)
|	Name......................................-..........................
I
I	Address-------------------------------------------------------------
|___(Clip blank and mail to Publications Office, Notre Dame, Ind., with your remittance.)
21
1944: Army 59, Notre Dame 0.
1945: Army 48, Notre Dame 0.
Stdinte/ii	Pleil
— By JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
While Daisy Mae chases Li’l Abner through the outskirts and inskirts of Dogpatch this Saturday, November 9th, the Black Knights of West Point will hold their own Sadie Hawkins’ Day at Yankee Stadium trying to catch the faststepping Irish of Notre Dame. We’re betting on Li’l Abner and the Irish. Like the famous comic strip of Al Capp’s, the first part of the race will be very close but after the second quarter begins, Notre Dame will be a hard team to catch.
So far this season the cover has been on all of Notre Dame’s “Top Secret” plays. Not a single reverse play has been called and for the first season in a long time, the Irish have played colorless ball. This Saturday afternoon the football fans lucky enough to get seats to the “game of the century” will see two top teams display more thrills than any the chorus girls toss at the customers at Billy Rose’s Diamond Horseshoe. Nevei before have the nation’s number one and number two teams met to decide the mythical national championship.
The sports writers of the east have heard about this year’s great Notre Dame team but they are still picking the West Pointers with “Mr. Inside” and •“Mr. Outside” to beat Notre Dame by at least two touchdowns. Bill Corum of the Journal American who broadcasts for Gillette razor blades, has been a staunch Army rooter all season. He helped Jim Britt broadcast last Saturday’s Navy game. After the game, he said, “I saw Notre Dame play today for the first time this season but I might just as well have stayed in New York. I don’t know any more about Leahy’s first team now than I did when I left the city yesterday afternoon.” Most Notre Dame students have seen them two or three times this year and they are in the same boat. But wait till Saturday. . . . Two long years is a long time but let’s hope the fruit is ripe!
❖
THE TOUCHDOWN TWINS AND ARMY
Thanks to Red Blaik’s coaching and the gridiron brilliance of Glenn Davis and Doc Blanchard, the Army has piled up a remarkable record. The last Army defeat occurred in 1943 when Navy beat the Cadets 13 to 0. That was Navy’s fifth straight win over Army and then Blaik took command in ’44. Army’s wealth of material during the war years
enabled the Pointers to run up staggering points over most of their 25 opponents. The count is 1122 for Army to a measly 133 for her opponents. Math majors will find that the average game score is terrific. Army’s highest score was 83-0 over vulnerable Villanova in 1944. (We won’t pause here to give a “He’s a man for Blaik”). After the game Blaik boldly told reporters that he was trying to hold back the score. PHOO-EY!!!
In 25 games Davis has scored 48 touchdowns. He was blanked only in the Oklahoma game this year. In 23 games Blanchard scored 35 touchdowns. Doc’s injuries kept him out of two games t.'.is season. Grantland Rice, the country’s dean of sports writers, named Darts and Blanchard, “Mr. Outside” and “Mr. Inside,” respectively, last season. The names have fitted them perfectly for the past two seasons as Darts rambles around the ends and Blanchard ' plows through the center of the opposing teams’ lines. We think that Zilly and Martin will take care of Darts, and Connor and Mastrangelo look like the two top Irish linemen who the Doc will find tied around his legs. After the first quarter, the touchdown twins will probably see too much of Notre Dame’s potential All-American center, George Strohmey-er, who does a terrific job of backing up the line.
❖
SHAVINGS FROM THE SPLINTERS
Red Blaik witnessed the Navy-Notre Dame game with 11 Army scouts. Each scout was assigned a different position but “The Champs” were wearing their best cover-alls again. . . . Athough Pa-nelli, Strohmeyer, Czarobski, Brennan, and McBride were reported injured in the Navy game, Czarobski and McBride will be the only ones who possibly won’t be ready for Saturday’s game. Ziggy has some painfully tom muscles in his hips while Bob McBride again injured his left ankle. . . . Here’s hoping the Notre Dame students who make the trip let the rest of the fans know that' they’re in the stands by supporting the team vocally as loudly as we did a few years ago. The team will definitely be “up” for Army. Let’s hope the cheerleaders are too!
One big factor in favor of Army is that while Notre Dame has been on the
road for the past two weeks, first to Iowa City and then to Baltimore, the Army team has played Duke in New York and then entertained a determined West Virginia team at home. This week finds the Irish once more on the trains. But when the final whistle ends the Big Game, we think that Notre Dame wil have a right to proclaim their Alma Mater, win, lose, or tie. Our guess is Notre Dame 35, Army 20.
NOTES FROM HERE N' THERE
There was internal dissension on the University of Southern California football team. It became so intense some of the players wanted to fire Coach Jeff Cravath. All that is ended. The Thundering Herd of USC is one big happy family again. In their last three games they have beaten Washington, Stanford, and Oregon. Dick Nash, USC publicity director, said last week, “We started the season with 40 lettermen. Obviously, not all of them could play regularly. Those who saw little action naturally were unhappy. There was confusion among the players. But the difficulty solved itself when 11 lettermen turned in their suits, four of them were lost through injuries, and another failed to make the team. Now we’re down to 24 lettermen who are seeing plenty of action. That’s the whole story, and, thank goodness, it’s a closed book.” . . . The same thing could have happened here at Notre Dame.
Our selections so far have been: 15 right, 4 wrong. Our percentage .733. This week we’ll take UCLA over Oregon, USC over Washington, Purdue over Minnesota, Cornell over Syracuse, Georgia Tech over Navy, Iowa over Wisconsin, Northwestern over Indiana, and Duke over Wake Forest. No big upsets in sight this week.
Pat Dowd reported in the New York Daily News, “Frank Leahy is more than a top football coach. He is really a priest in civilian clothing.”
We’ll see you at the Commodore Saturday night celebrating that 35 to 20 victory over those uniformed rascals from West Point.
ND's BEST BACKFIELD?
Many an Old Grad and “subway alumni” of Notre Dame regard the celebrated Four Horsemen as the greatest backfield ever produced at South Bend. But not Knute Rockne. According to an American Magazine article by George Trevor* the famed Irish coach picked the 1929 foursome of Frank Carideo, Marchie Schwartz, Marty Brill, and Joe Savoldi as his super-creation. '
22
1946	BEAT ARMY!	1946
No YANKEE Stadium for Four ND Rebels
There are four men on the campus whom you couldn’t pay to see the Anny-Notre Dame football battle in New York on Saturday. Why? Because these four men are dyed-in-the-cotton Southerners who would sooner do another hitch in the Army than go near YANKEE stadium.
Bill Delaney, Fred Eichorn, John Crimmins and Fletcher Daniels are the men in question, all members of the rebel Chattanooga club and overly proud of it. Radicals, you may say; but you don’t know the half of it. Their ideas swerve farther to the left than Senator Bilbo’s. For instance, their Chattanooga club has no constitution, no rules, no
TWA RESERVATIONS CANCELLED
Transcontinental and Western Air, Inc. (TWA) has asked the SCHOLASTIC to make the following notice:
It will be necessary for all Notre Dame students holding TWA reservations to reinstate their reservations as soon as the present pilot strike is ended. ALL reservations have been cancelled. Call 2-1414, South Bend, as soon as the strike has ended to have your reservation reinstated.
Loyola vs. Irish— Chess Men Wanted
The stalwarts of Loyola College, Baltimore, Md., came out of their crabtown sanctuary last week and challenged the rugged Irish of Notre Dame to a bloodtingling game of chess.
In their first athletic venture of the year, the dismounted pawn-jockeys from Loyola (enrollment 200, including profs and janitors) extended an invitation to the huskies from South Bend to meet them in a “chain letter” chess match. According to Tom Comber, head Loyola chessman, the contest will be held on a club-to-club rather than a person-to-person basis. And—to further complicate matters—as neithei* school has a traveling chess squad, nor funds for the same, the games will be played via mail.
Somebody has asked whether* Postmaster Robert Hannegan or ex-Postman Jim Farley wil referee the match. This we do not know, but in case of a playoff it is quite certain that the fracas will be held in the “dead-letter” office. You’ll have to have a civil service job or better to enter.
Seriously, however, the important thing now is to muster a chess team here at Notre Dame. And, as soon as possible, for these Loyola chessmen are really steamed up about the whole thing. So, in order to save time and maybe blow off a little of that steam, it is requested that anyone interested contact either Fred Hoover, Law building, or Bill Pell-ing, 106 Howard, immediately.
—Bob Vie'rhile
NOW IN STOCK
PARKER 51
Pens and Pencils •
KAYWOODIE PIPES
•
ZIPPO LIGHTERS
BUSINESS SYSTEMS
126 S. MAIN
Across from the Court House
funds, no nothing; yet it meets five times a week “somewhere” in Badin hall. Incidentally, the four men previously mentioned are the only members.
Walk into one of these meetings and you’ll probably think there’s still a last ditch stand being made by the Confederacy. And you’d be just about right. The Chattanoogans refuse to heed Father Kehoe’s official manifestos (a very imprudent act, indeed) because they emanate from the disciplinarians stronghold on the NORTH end of the campus. Only atfer the Southerners had been convinced that Notre Dame was located in SOUTH Bend did they consent to attend college in the North. And, needless to say, they spend most of their spare time across the Dixie highway at St. Mary’s.
—Bob Vierhile
23
AtuMtai QgmmA Name OomeA te AMeM

In bringing to South Bend this famous line of suits, we consider ourselves fortunate because suits like these are literally doled out to selected stores . . . and they are exclusive with us in this area. We invite you to see these fine worsteds, flannels and worsted cheviots in the rich Kanmak fabrics.	.
MTK COUBk...MKNIHN ( MSNHflN
24
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 7) zine’s recent cover story about himself and his regime. The Government censor prohibited the distribution and sale of Time, thus adding it to Portugal’s long list of forbidden foreign publications. Time subscribers continued to get their copies by mail. Last week, the Portugese Government permitted Time Magazine to enter the country once again.
This is almost a parody on Time Magazine’s notable absence from the Notre Dame newsstand (although it is tolerated by the University Library). There are extensive and very often erroneous theories depicting reasons and causes for the lack of this first-rate magazine’s sale on campus. . . . Regardless of rumors, the reason for the ban of Time is so outdated that present members of the student and faculty body are unaware of it and it must reside only on a yellowed memorandum on the desk of the person responsible for placing order for those publications which are to appear or not for sale on campus.
There can be little said in apology for the past indiscrimination of Time’s editors. But I question if the permanent condemnation of the magazine is not a reflection on the University’s ultra-sensitiveness. Time’s policy toward the Uni-
ELLSWORTH'S
Gentlemen,
At Ease!
Sleep as you like it ... . No more wrestling with the wrong kind of sleeping gear, because we have knit Balbriggan pajamas that are full cut for freedom and really style wise. In blazer stripe tops with plain colored trousers. In brown, red or blue. Sizes small, medium or large.
3.98
Men’s Wear . . . Main Floor
versity in late days can hardly be regarded as unjust or “fresh.” It is sad to believe that heedless of the publication’s present policy it is forever cursed and banned from that little world which is Notre Dame. Surely the newsstand carries a sufficient amount of second-rate material to warrant the occasional addition of a first-rate magazine. Time was excused for its violent attack upon Portuguese administration within two months of its assault; it is not nice to think that the smug totalitarian state of Portugal is more forgiving and liberal than the state of Notre Dame.
A narrow and discriminatory view toward news material entering the University is not to the advantage of the student. On the whole there is more good to be derived from the sale of Time Magazine (despite its faults) than there is from the sale of The Western Flying Magazine. There are few people who will contend that Newsweek is a satisfactory substitute for Time.
All editors occasionally err. Last week the Editor of Scholastic advertised under the heading of “Have You Read?” a book of Robert ‘ Grave’s: King Jesus. King Jesus, which was criticised by Time is an amazing book of outright heresy fundamentally dangerous to Catholicism and Christianity as a whole.
—Paul F. Carr
Notre Dame University November 1, 1946 Dear Mr. Editor:
Did we students see an article in the Scholastic stating that our laundry service would be improved and that hence-forward our clean clothing would be returned within one week?
The situation is becoming worse instead of better. This week laundry came back just two weeks after it was turned in. The quality of the work was good; the service, confidentially-(any boarder can supply that missing word). Many of us have been forced to wear dirty clothes to accommodate the laundry service. And who among us doesn’t resent the idea of sleeping between the same sheets for three weeks and then of having someone tell us that if we wish to supply our own clean sheets in the meantime, the school room service is not authorized to change the bed linen for us! If the campus facilities are inadequate, please, for the sake of encouraging cleanliness, let us have better service by the employment of additional facilities on or off the campus. A three-week wardrobe will not keep a student covered at Notre Dame.
—Name Withheld
TYPING DONE
TERM PAPERS. MANUSCRIPTS. PRECIS Typing done ten cents per page (denkle space). Carbon copies one cent each.
Paper tarnished.	-
W. J. WISSEL, 32S Badin
Specializing in the examination of the eyes
Dr. EJ.Com
OPTOMETRIST
«(►
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our oivn laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
STORE HOURS Monday — open till 8:3* p. a*. Tues.-Fri. — 8 a. m. to 5:3* p. m.

CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC
SUPPLIES
Students, we are devoted entirely to your photographic needs. Everything for the amateur and professional photographer.	'
Ault’s photo service in the Cafeteria
AULT Camera Shop Opposite the Ceerthoeae
122 South Main St Phone 3-5041 "
1944: Army 59, Notre Dame 0.	1945: Army 48, Metre Dame 0.
15 "GI WIVES" WORK IN ND OFFICES
Wives of fifteen veterans attending Notre Dame are working on the campus, a Scholastic survey shows. Most of the GI wives, as they are called by the University employment office, hold jobs as administrative secretaries.
More than half of the wives are slated to move into one of the veterans housing units and are anxious to get settled. The remainder are those who call South Bend their home or whose husbands’ “school days” will soon be a thing of the past.
The GI wives who are working at the University were complimented by R. H. McAuliffe, assistant business manager. Commenting on the desperate help situation at the present time, he said the veterans’ wives have helped immeasurably. He pointed out many of them came early in September to aid in registration work, which helped in getting required work completed as quickly as possible.
One objection raised to the employment of veterans’ wives, McAuliffe said, was the short tenure of work for many. As usual with business, permanent employees are preferred, he added. The GI wives have agreed to work as regular
employees, he said, thus foregoing the extra length Christmas and Easter vacations which their husbands, as stu-
Mrs. W. J. O'Connor, Veteran's Wife who Works in Comptrollers Office.
dents, will receive. They will work on the same vacation schedule as the regular employees, he explained, with two weeks of vacation for every 50 weeks of work time.
Most of the wives decried lack of amusement facilities. A Halloween party was the club’s first social activity, with a full slate of events planned after that.
Wives who are employed at Notre Dame and the offices in which they work are Mrs. Robert B. Kurtz, secretary to Herbert Jones; Mrs. Eugene Vander-hagen, secretary to the coaches; Mrs. Paul J. Rigali, Veterans Administration; Mrs. John Klempay, auditor’s office; Mrs. Herman Zitt, auditor’s office; Mrs. Ernest Fleck, accounting; Mrs. William B. Ball, receptionist, Main Building; Mrs. Charles E. Seghers, secretary to the Rev. Thomas P. McAvoy, C.S.C.; Mrs. Nicholas Villarosa, library; Mrs. Frederick A. McFaul, library; Mrs. Frank E. Ray and Mrs. Francis H. Curran, both Office of Veterans’ Affairs; Mrs. Bernard A. Bannon, Office of Students’ Accounts, and Mrs. Fred Hoover and Mrs. Royce Kennedy, both employed as typists for the M. J. Corboy Co., one of the. firms working on the veterans housing units.
Back of the Quality
That’s back again . . .
PARKER-WINTERROWD
Tailors and Clothiers
All the refinements of peacetime quality are back again in our custom tailored, made to measure clothes.
Superb tailoring and distinctive styling are again enhanced with the beauty and quality of imported and American finer woolens.
Indeed an encouraging indication of a brightened future.
Home of Adler-Rochester ready-to-wear Suits and Coats
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
11554 - II754 North Main Street — upstairs North of the Oliver Hotel
26
1946	BEAT ARMY!
1946
WHOT Carries News From Catholic View
By BOB VIERHILE
For the radio listener who seldom, or never, gets far away from his loud speaker on Sunday afternoon, “Catholic News and Views” provides a sort of weekly travelogue every Sunday at 12:45 p.m. over station WHOT.
Organized about a dozen weeks ago by the energetic South Bend Knights of Columbus, “Catholic News and Views’’ is a straightforward program with the immediate goal of presenting an accurate picture of the weekly Catholic news to the general public. Each week questions from listeners pertaining to the Catholic Church and its policies are answered by leading South Bend priests and laymen. Casual, informative and self-styled, the program was originally tuned to local Catholic ears, but has since become equally popular among non-Catholic listeners in the South Bend area.
Highly responsible for much of the program’s success are two members of the Notre Dame Radio club. Bill Slavick, who was practically raised in his father’s Memphis radio station, deserves an A-plus for his masterful radio adaptation of the recent trial of Yugoslavian Bishop Stepinac. Bill has since been the work-horse script writer for the show. Another radio clubber, Dan Gentile, donated his magic-carpet voice to the K. of C. group and in return has been used extensively as an announcer and filler-inner on recent broadcasts.
Last week, John V. Hinkel, Notre Dame director of publicity, gave a hardhitting address on the evils of Communism and its present influence in the United States.
Church Submits to State Control In Mexico—Downey
Dr. Thomas E. Downey, instructor in Latin American history here, addressed the Inter-American Affairs Club recently on the “Problems of Church and State in Mexico.”
“The nature of the problem,” according to Dr. Downey, “concerns which has the prior right over the conscience of man, the state or church.. The present condition is actually a compromise, but in legal theory the state is supreme.
“In the Colonial Period,” the instructor continued, “the Church and state cooperated, the Church teaching obedience to the state and the state in turn punishing heretics condemned by the Inquisi
tion. However, the Church gradually acquired large tracts of land, much of which was not used for education and charitable enterprises, thereby bringing dissent among- many. Then too, the higher- posts in the Church were the exclusive perogative of the Spaniards, the mestizos rarely obtaining anything higher than the position of parish priests. During the revolution for independence these two groups were divided, the higher clergy favoring Spain and the lower opposing that regime.
“During the Nineteenth Century a series of laws and bills were passed, including the Constitution of 1857, in which the Church was denied most of the rights it formerly held in the state.
“The present Constitution, adopted in 1917. makes all education entirely secular, prohibits anyone to be tried by private laws or special tribunals, allows religious services to be held only within buildings designated for such purposes, and makes it illegal for any church, to hold, acquire, or administer real property.
“At present the Church is running some religious institutions and schools without government interference. This is
being done extra-legally, however, so if a radical government again got into power the Church could legally be forced to close again. Although the government is' petitioned annually to eliminate the distasteful articles from the Constitution, there is no immediate hope for the Church to secure legal backing.”
—Tom Murray
IATEST TUNES
Rumors Are Flyin? Five Minutes More Night and Day — Crosby J. D.’s Boogie Gaillards Boogie
Copp's Music Shop
122-24 E. Wayne St
27
COLLEGE PALACE
“Mother, put the kettle on, we’re going to get boiled tonight!”
❖
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
On the Home Front . . .
The main topic of conversation for months has been the Army-Notre Dame game. Now the day of retribution has come and we predict the Irish will emerge victorious tomorrow afternoon. Final score: Notre Dame 27, Army 13.
We Wonder Why ...
Many women wear an hour glass gown on a beer glass figure. . . . Johnny “Five o’clock Shadow” Agnone longs for the days when men were minute men and the gals loved every second of it. . . . Clashmore Mike is such a particular dog; he even has his own family tree. . . . John L. O’Connor went for a swim last Sunday in the St. Mary’s duck pond with an unidentified accomplice, suit and
holds of democracy.” A Daily Northwestern editorial sizes up the situation pretty well . . . “the American people are forever crying ‘Liberty and justice for all’ . . . and then add, as a postscript . . . except for Negroes, Jews, and Catholics.
99
Zoltan's Thesaurus . . .
Mason and Dixon line—the boundary between “you all” and “youse guys.”
Dreams—what some men believe in until they marry one.
Guillotine—the first real cure for dandruff.
Manners—customs invented by wise men to keep fools at a distance.
A couple of Sundays ago one of our local campus heroes was attending the weekly frolic at Lower Slobbovia on the Dixie. After exchanging a few niceties with one of the Belles, he inquired,
“Are you doing anything Halloween?”
The sweet young thing, after the pause demanded by polite society, answered, “Why, no!”
Our campus hero quipped back. “Well, how about lending me your face?”
After standing in the Caf last week and being a silent observer we note that the second most popular magazine on the campus (thanks to John Lujack) is Look — The most popular? — Naturally, the Scholastic!
And now—Off to New York — GO IRISH— BEAT ARMY!
all. . . .
On Foreign Fields . . .
Pi Kappa Phi and Pi Kappa Alpha fraternities down Purdue way held a pie eating contest. Everything went along fine until the judges tried to pick the winner—they couldn’t tell a Pi Kapp from a Pi KA.
Boston University News is advocating a policy whereby the veterans would be awarded their degrees as of the year they would have been graduated under ordinary circumstances. Not a bad idea, but it would certainly confuse things.
❖
Coed (reading birth and death statistics) : “Do you know every time I breathe a man dies?” *
Bright Fellow: “Very interesting. Why don’t you try Sen Sen?”
—West Pointer ❖
Strongholds of Democracy??? .. .
The Minnesota Daily reports an incident that is disgusting to say the least. A sign “Kill Jews” had been painted over the Union entrance and printed poems of racial discrimination have been posted on campus bulletin boards. It’s not known whether it was the work of pranksters or fanatical students.
And from down South we get word that Mississippi State has made a request that Nevada drop their two Negro football players from the team for their Nov. 16 game.
All this is pretty alarming when we consider the fact that American universities are supposed to be the “strong-
South Bend BOOK HEADQUARTERS
BOOKS	FOUNTAIN PENS
STATIONERY	RELIGIOUS ARTICLES
The BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan Street
Paris
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE CLEANING	DYEING
Pressing While You Wait
One of Our Specialties: Sweaters Cleaned by our experts keep that “new” look.
Conveniently located at
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Across the Street from the Sunny Italy Cafe
28
We've Waited
This Army game ivill no doubt prove The contest of the season;
Those Kaydets think they’re in the groove
—For this they have good reason.
They plan on poiver from their “Doc,” Whom all sports critics honor;
But these men never saw him lock With waiting arms of Connor!
When Blanchard fails, their eyes will turn
To their fleet-footed “Glenn” ;
But Wendell soon will kill his yearn To take the ball again.
Then “Little Arnold,” backfield brain, Will meet on just one play
The might of Fischer’s left guard reign, And run the other way.
But this is just defensive might That Notre Dame will use;
Sitko’s runs and Lu,jack’s right Will spark our offense fuse.
So when “The Arm” prepares to throiv To “Jungle Jim” or Zilly,
Those Mercurys will really go
—They’ll run the defense silly.
they looked like sponge;
I’d hold that football tighter than any clamp or vise
And anyone who barred my way would never do it twice;
The croivd would be delighted to see me dodge and whirl	.
And 0 how I would win the heart of every pretty girl!
And when the game was over, I’d modestly decline
To spend the eve with millionaires, drinking their choicest wine;
I wouldn’t even wait for photographers to snap
A hundred handsome profiles of my impressive map; ■
And when the crowds all gathered around my house that night
And started in to shout and cheer with gusto and delight
I’d tell them I was sorry I’d done so poor a job
And if that didn’t touch their hearts I’d start to whine and sob;
And by that time a copper would surely come along
And bring me to the nut house where guys like me belong.	—T. E. B.
Will Our Team Beat Anny?
A team worthy of the memory of
Knute Rockne will battle Army tomorrow, and yet, the team ALONE cannot win. It will take the full support of every last son of Notre Dame—cheering, praying-, fighting—to explode our power and spirit against the Army.
We are rolling into New York with one objective: To stand behind our team with the full might of our Tradition, our Campus, and our Dome. Our team will lead the way, but the victory will belong to Notre Dame.—‘Don Lee”
Mail or deliver all contributions to THE STUDENT PRINTS, 124 Lyons Hall.	’
Dr. Calcott Inaugurates Memorial Lecture Series
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, has announced that the Nieuwland Memorial Lecture Series, to be presented by the Department of Chemistry, will be inaugurated by Dr. W. S. Calcott, of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Co., Organic Chemicals Division, who will speak in the LawAuditorium at 8 p. m. on Nov. 11, 13, and 15. The lectures are designed to honor the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s famous scientist, who discovered the basic formula for synthetic rubber in 1920.
Dr. Calcott, who was a close associate of Father Nieuwland and worked with the scientist-priest on many laboratory experiments in Chemistry, will speak on “Industrial Research.” All students are invited.—George McCarthy
Our many fruitful running backs
Will that day show their tricks And prove that all the Army lacks
Is victory twenty-six.
’Tis time that Notre Dame, in strength Repay those Football Czars,
Who trounced us by a greedy length While service held our stars.
—Attentive Abie, Lyons.
Team Slogan
By the time we get through, you’ll need a Doc, Blanchard.
—Jim Sennott, Alumni.
A Sale Bet
Although Johnny Lujack is still very much alive and far from being dead, I’ll bet the Army will mourn his passing this Saturday.
—John McKinley, Cavanaugh.
Ain't Football Wonderful
I’d like to be a fullback with lots of speed and plunge,
I’d fill opposing lines with holes until
PALAIS ROYALE
PRESENTS
Celebrate the Irish
Victory over Army
Saturday Night
NOV. 9
29
1944: Army 59, Notre Dame 0.'	1945: Army 48, Notre Dame 0.
Ad-Men Hear McCarthy Defend Profit System
Speaking before the Cincinnati Advertisers’ Club last Thursday, James E. McCarthy, dean of Notre Dame’s College of Commerce, asserted that “business should use advertising to reply to crackpots and demagogues who would destroy the system of free enterprise in addition to using it to sell its goods.”
Dean McCarthy further told his audience that “the advertisers now have the desperate responsiblity of helping preserve our freedom by giving the people the real facts about our free enterprise system.
“Our business men have failed to provide the true story of the glorious acieve-ments of American free enterprise especially during this perilous time when atrocious economic beliefs, originating in jealousy, frustration, ugliness and ignorance are stalking the land.”
In defending the profit system, Mr. McCarthy declared, “without profits there would be no money to extend or
create new industries, no matter what enjoyable tale of economic utopia is pictured by economic charlatans, impractical dreamers and political stuffed shirts.”
—John Waters
"Meet The Professor" Show Features Profs In Parley
Do you think your prof is strictly on the ball? You’ll have a chance to confirm or change your opinion when the Notre Dame Radio Club begins a new series of broadcasts entitled Meet The Professors. The series is scheduled to start on Friday, Nov. 15, at 4:30 p. m., over WSBT. The program will consist of a discussion by two professors on major issues of the day, and will be a half hour in length.
It is planned that the various campus clubs will send representatives to the show each week as guests. These club representatives will ask questions of the professors at the conclusion of their talks; both questions and answeres will be broadcast. A different club will be represented each week.
Some of the topics being considered for discussion are the strike situation, production costs, free hospitilization, and the constitutional trends in legislation.
If Professor Zlictch is verbose in airing his opinions, tell him he can now air ’em on the air. And if you want to hear your profs in action, “Meet the Professors!”
Give Tree-Ripened RedBlush Grapefruit
A wonderful gift for family and friends. Bushel gift box (50 lbs.) prepaid to most of midwest §9.50; regular bushel §8.00. Oranges or pink grapefruit §5.95. Add 50e to Mich., Minn., Ohio, Wise, and as far as N. Y. State.
Other gifts §2.50 to §57.25. Write for illustrated booklet.
(Paint (Pan^ Onchand
San Benito, Texas
30
1946	BEAT ARMY!
1946
Concerts Planned for New Symphony
To complete Notre Dame’s program of cultural offerings, the University’s Symphony Orchestra is being organized under the direction of Mr. Rolf Scheurer, B.M.
Mr. Scheurer joined the faculty in March of this year after being graduated from the Cui-tis Institute of Music. While there, he majored in Composition under Rosario Scalero and was protege of the noted conductor, Dimitri Mitropolis.
Although the orchestra is still in the formative stage, the director is confident of developing a truly top-notch organization that will rank beside the best orchestras in Notre Dame’s history. He presently has 25 players, some of whom were members of the last University orchestra in 1941, and are regarded as the nucleus. Of course, due to this long period of inactivity, a number of these musicians were considerably out of practice, but are now progressing nicely.
There are still many unfilled positions, and all musicians, particularly string instrumentalists, are urged to attend the next meeting, which will be held Monday evening at 7:30 in Washington Hall. Mr. Scheurer emphasizes that no one should be deterred because of rustiness. Although the schedule is only tentative as yet, several concert trips are planned.
It is the ambition of the orchestra to play some of the truly great works of music. The repertoire will be chosen from among the following selections: Beethoven. Overture to Egmont Weber Overture to Oberon Tschaikowsky Capriccio Italien Glinka ____Overture to Russian and Ludmilla Beethoven Overture to Coriolan Schubert Fifth Symphony
—Jack Maloney
Freshmen Lawyers to Hold Smoker In Indiana Club
For the Law Club “smoker” of Thursday, Nov. 14, to be held in the Indiana Club at 8:00 p.m., members of the Freshman Class have arranged for a talk by Mr. Richard P. Tinkham, of Hammond, a member of the Indiana State Board of Law Examiners, on “How to Write a Bar Examination.”
Frosh Co-chairmen Jack Berry and Michael Hines have appointed the following committees: Entertainment, Donley
Bradey, Edward J. Flattery, John Anderton, and Thomas Tearney; Refreshments, Joseph Lynch, Robert Fitzpatrick, Robert Ott, and George Bariscillo; Re-
ception, John Whitely and William Ball; Arrangements, Lee Johnson, James Sug-net and John Cosgrove; and Publicity, Frank Cacciapaglia and Carl Ringhoff.
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
FAMOUS PHOTOGRAPHY...FAMOUS ADDRESS
31
ARMY TRIP
(Continued from Page 9)
began with a Notre Dame victory in 1913 and led to the subsequent rise to football fame of Knute Rockne and his Fighting Irish. Although Notre Dame still leads in the number of games won during the series, Army holds two impressive victories over the Irish—a 59-0 walloping in 1944 and a 48-0 shellacking in 1945. The 1944 catastrophe marked
BLOCK BROTHERS
The Diamond House of South Bend
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME STUDENTS
for over 25 years
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D. M. J. Thornton, M.D.
' •
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER 3. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
the highest score ever rolled up against a Notre Dame team, but came when ND was at the bottom of the grid-talent barrel, while the Cadets possessed an overflowing cup of stars—headed by the AllAmerican Double Idemnity Twins, Glenn “Junior” Davis and Felix “Doc” Blanchard. Army has run the gauntlet of 25 straight wins—beaten last by a Lu-jack-led National Championship Notre Dame in 1943. Winner of national honors in both ’44 and ’45, the Cadets will be hurdling their highest obstacle to a third repeat of this feat.
The Irish, unbeaten in five starts this year and now thoroughly loaded with pigskin talent, will also be heading for the main jump on the road to a national title.
Both teams will be accompanied by bands, the Notre Dame musicians leaving today on the special train. Though the corps of cadets will outnumber the ND student cheering section by about 1,000, the famous New York subway alumni is expected to make up for the difference.
The festive weekend gets underway tonight at New York’s Waldorf-Astoria Hotel where the New York City alumni will stage a huge pre-game rally.
Farm Problem Topic At Round Table Meet
High wartime prices and the subsequent extensive use of marginal and sub-marginal land was declared to be the seed of farm depression in a paper delivered by Bernie O’Hora before the Economic Round Table-International Relations Club.
The weekly dinner meeting of the club at the Ramble Inn was further highlighted by the presentation of a rough draft of a Constitution by Tom Fitzgerald.
O’Hora blamed war and rehabilitation food requirements for upsetting the delicate balance of supply and demand which normally governs farm prices. “Until the marginal and sub-marginal producers (who have accounted for an emergency, but high-priczed rise of 36% in farm production) are wiped out of production,” he stated, “no farm wil be able to show a profit.”
To ease the strain on consumer’s pocketbooks as well as to maintain a reasonably high farm income, O’Hora advocated the elimination of middlemen by a more widespread adoption of farm cooperatives.
In addition to the proposed constitution, the Round Table also adopted as official club insignia, a gold pen-and-scroll-like emblem.
Villagers Announce Plans
The Notre Dame Villagers, on the long trek back to reorganization and rejuvenation, with the Halloween dance at the Izaak Walton League behind them, now train their sight on the possibilities of renewing the annual Christmas formal, which, in the days before the war, was a social highlight of the Yuletide season in South Bend.
Officers for the year are: president, Fred Tansey; vice-president, George Stratigos, a past president of the club; secretary, Ed Chartier; treasurer, Beve Liebig; student council representative, Art Clark; Sergeant-at-arms, Joe Casa-santa; co-chairmen of the social committee, Bill Sheehan and Johnny Bodie; athletic director, Leo A. Couch; and publicity director, Jack Miles.
Tentative plans for the coming year call for a banquet for the Irish basketball squad, which has always fallen to the lot of the club in the past; an Easter dance, and a summer formal, in addition to many other affairs of smaller import.
Knights of Columbus
Grand Knight James D. Sullivan, of the Notre Dame council No. 1477, Knights of Columbus, has issued a call to all students interested in joining the Knights to contact a member of the local council for information regarding membership applications, or see Membership Chairman Larry Turner any day from 3 to 5 in the KC clubrooms in the basement of Walsh hall. The council is planning another first degree initiation sometime this month, preparatory to a second- and third-degree exemplification somewhere around the middle of December.
There will be a meeting Tuesday night in the Walsh hall chambers, and all members should attend, for at the meeting two offices will be filled. A trusteeship, vacant since the inception of the present semester, and the position of lecturer, now open due to the withdrawal from the post by Frank Coleman, are the unoccupied vacancies. The trustee will be elected by vote of the members present, and the lecturer is to be appointed by Grand Knight Sullivan.
Tryouts for the anuual K. of C. Vaudeville show will get under way the 20th and 21st of the month, and all students of the University are eligible to compete for the $30, $20, and $10 prizes. Entries should be submitted to Jack Galloway, recording secretary and chairman of the vaudeville show, or to anyone in the council chambers during office hours.
32
Information gives YOU the answers ... who gives them to HER?
A lot of people take the Information Service of the Bell System for granted. Little do they realize what it takes to answer some two and a half million questions during a normal day.
Of course it takes operators . . . over 12,000 highly skilled "Information” operators.
But, in addition, it takes a staff of trained executive personnel.
They plan this service for cities and towns across the country so that "Infor
mation” can quickly find the latest listings of the many telephones within her area—from records that are brought up to date daily. And it is they who study operating methods and equipment in the never-ending search to make this service ever faster, ever better.
Is it any wonder that today, more than ever before, management is interested in young men with imagination and ambition ... men to develop with the industry?
BELL
There’s Opportunity and Adventure in Telephony
TELEPHONE SYSTEM
1946	BEAT ARMY!	1946
ND Graduate Addresses Chemical Engineers Club
Mr. William Minges of the Carbide and Carbon Corporation of Charleston, W. Va., was guest speaker at the last meeting of the Notre Dame Chemical. Engineers Club in the Engineering Auditorium. Mr. Minges, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1942 with a degree in chemical engineering, spoke on the design of plants and apparatus for synthetic products. He related how data is compiled in pilot plants (experimental buildings) and then used in the.de-sign and layout of synthetic plants.
Bill Greeley, president of the Chemical Engineers Club, opened the meeting by asking for a vote on the type of meeting the Engineers would like to have in the future. It was decided that it would be best to have speakers from nearby industries tell of the work of chemical engineers in this part of the country.
Prior to Mr. Minges’ address, Mr. .Ronald E. Rich, head of the Department of Chemical Engineering at Notre Dame, announced that the annual meeting of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers will be held in Philadelphia this year.
Toth Tells Architects of Profession's Problems
Members of the Architects Club heard an address in the Engineering Auditorium on Thursday night, October 24, by Mr. Andrew A. Toth, well-known South Bend architect. The subject of his talk was “The Practice of Architecture.”
In his speech Mr. Toth declared that architecture today is one of the most difficult of the professions. He went on to outline at length the technical problems facing the present-day architect when he begins to design a home or public building. Several of the attributes essential to the successful architect were also enumerated. Among other things, Mr. Toth asserted, an architect must be an artist, in the truest tense of the word. He should also be, according to Mr. Toth, a fairly competent engineer.
—Bill Bradley
Business Brisk for PD;
Reason: Long Weekends
Last week the Office-of the Prefect of Discipline was busier than a Dining Hall phone booth. The reason: Extended week-ends.
It seemed that everybody on the campus either had a date with his dentist
or had to see his Aunt Bessie for the first time in ten years last Friday. Father Kehoe’s normally cold and tomb-like office was turned into pandemonium.
Most far-fetched story of the week: “Dear Father: Thursday I must have three teeth pulled, be fitted for glasses, and have my last selective service physical.” (WOW!!! Some Day)
Another Headquarters for ARROW
*
GILBERTS
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Here—You are always a Guest before you are a Customer
Always— we choke on that two-letter word! \
When you stop by and ask us for Arrow Shirts . • • we hate havin to say "No” so frequently.
But we don’t have a nearly large enough supply of always popular Arrows in stock. It’s far below your demand ... so that nasty negative often has to come out, even if it chokes us to say it.
And even when we do have Arrows, we may not have your correct size. (There’s no point in buying a larger Arrow, expecting the laundry to cut ’em down to size. Arrow Shirts just don’t shrink even 1% because they’re Sanforized labeled.)
But keep on trying—Arrows are worth waiting for.
MAX ADLER CO.
ON THE CORNER... MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
-----------ARROW SHIRTS-----------------
Most unusual story: John Sullivan of Effingham, Ill., wrote, “My brother, whom I haven’t seen for three years, will be home for the week-end.” The unusual twist: John actually saw his brother.
Business should be good again this week, but it is doubtful whether the stories will be any better.—Bob Vierhile
Ifs Adler’s for ARROWS
MIK <MNEK...MKNIMN ( MMNMN
The MEN'S Corner
Home of Nationally Accepted Merchandise
and
ARROW
Products
• ' >•
ARROW
Sport :	Shirts	- • ’
Lay that Crossbow down!
We realize it’s still pretty difficult to walk into your Arrow dealer and find a stack of Arrow Gordon Oxfords or Arrow Doublers . . . but they will be back soon.
Our Arrow dealers are doing their level best in a tough situation. So don’t hunt them up with your crossbow or Luger.
Keep dropping in on your favorite Arrow dealer and the first thing you know he will have just the shirt you want!
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • SPORTS SHIRTS • HANDKERCHIEFS
Rose & Katz
For Men and Young Men
Main and Colfax
35
CrU'Kiw (JtfkCifii its
Chesterfield is the big favorite
in the Big Town, outselling
| all other cigarettes by far.

xS.0L^ SMoKlNG
*'W;«WW	'
MW#.
