The Notre Dame Scholastic
71
COMMENT
And for the -third time we go to press! There is something rather nice about the word “third.” It has in it the elements of mystery and magic and awesome things. We remember an old fellow, who was, in his way, something of a magician; but perhaps the most magical thing about him was his name—Parape-lius Necromantius.
That’s a real name—no doubting on that score. And speaking of names, we are reminded that we have a pretty good title (and in it a pretty good name) in this week’s issue of the Scholastic. “The History of Dorelia the Dancer,” who “was the eldest of the three daughters of Jas-sek, the carver of cameos.”	.
Richard Sullivan, Literary Editor, makes his bow with this unique (we stand by our word, fully realizing the consequences!) story of a dancer and her art. There is, clinging to the story, a certain Biblical richness of phrasing; for instance, this sentence: “In the passage of war twelve thousand-. were killed each fortnight, and the war endured for seven years.”
And of course we are all aware of the coming debut, tomorrow, of the group of gentlemen referred to as the Notre. Dame football team. We wish them the best of luck—and we know your wishes are included in that, too.
We wonder what you think of a full page “cut.” Morrissey Hall is a beautiful place—and we see no really good reason why it should not have its likeness included in a record of the contributions of Notre Dame to civilization.
Speaking of contributions to civilization—Doesn’t it seem to you, that, life being rather short and its length a trifle unpredictable, whatever we do while we’re in it, ought to be a contribution to something? And as the word “civilization” seems to represent a collection of some rather fine ideas that great men, and men not so great, have shed as they walked down the lines of the years—well, then, there is really no reason why we shouldn’t attempt to “repeat.”
And if we can’t do this, well, to see what has been done by these gentlemen—and let it mean something— is not exactly a “no percentage” business.
You’ll probably accuse us of “preaching again.” And the trouble is you’re probably right! ■
z		=
=	No^re Dame S cho last- io	
	Disee- Quasi - S mperAfict UFUS'-Vlva-Quasi^ras-Moritms	2
=	Founded, in 1872	X
2	Murray Hickey Ley	Editor-in-Chief	
Z	Harley L. McDevitt	Graduate	Manager	2
2	EDITORIAL STAFF	Z
Z	T. Vincent McIntire	Managing	Editor	■	
z	Emil L. Tflfel	.tss’t	Managing Editor	Z
Z	Thomas A. Cannon	.-Iss’t	Managing Editor	•
	J. Archer Hurley	The	Week	
X	Walter Langford	The	College Parade	
2	Joel Egerer	Music	and Drama	2
Z	Joseph Reedy	Campus	Clubs	2
=	A.lfred E. Gall	Script	Editor	
	Paul J. Hallinan	Features	Editor	
=	LITERARY STAFF NEWS STAFF	SPORTS STAFF	2
	Richard Sullivan	John Bergan, News Editor John A. Kiener, Sports Editor	
•	Literary Editor	James J. Kearney	William J. Magarral,	Z
z	William Knapp	James Collins	Interhtdl Sports Editor	2
x	Louis L. Hasley	Howard Webster	Harry A. Sylvester	
	John L. Nanovic	Richard J. O’Donnell	Henry B. Asman	Z
	Edward E. Brennan	Neil Hurley	•	2
2	Louis A. Brennan	,	
2	BUSINESS STAFF	2
2	Harrington J. Noon	Local	Circulation Manager	
Z	Chester M. Ashman	Foreign Circulation Manager	
Z	Frederick N. Davis	Local	Advertising Manager	Z
Z	James L. Rizer	Foreign	Advertising Manager	2
	James H. Rorke	"William Sherman	John Blanda	z
-	Frederick J. Bauer	Frank J. Conboy	Andrew McGuan	2
—	.	
—		-
2	VOL. LXIII.	OCTOBER 4, 1929.	No. 3.	
Z		2
=	TABLE OF CONTENTS	z
		2
5	Morrissey Hall______________________________________Frontispiece	£
E	Coming Events________________________________________________ 73	=
E	Jack Crawford to Play for- Cotillion 73	=
!	Campus Personalities—Ramon G. Smith__________________________ 76	=
5	Campus Clubs—Joseph Reedy 77	5
j	The Wink 78 - |
|	Editor’s Page 79	|
a	The History of Dorelia, the Dancer—Richard Sullivan---------- 80	i
i	The Town and the Man—Richard Anthony------------------------- 81	h
5	On Hearing Beethoven—Murray Hickey Ley----------------------- 83	s
:	N. D. Hopes High—John A. Kiener------------------------------ 84	=
=	Splinters From the Press Box—H. A. S., Jr.------------------- 91	=
'l't-1 k SCHOLASTIC is published -weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may he addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of ■	All Notre Dame Men
MORRISSEY HALL

i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
73
! I . Coming Events
FRIDAY—Scholastic editorial staff meeting, Publications’ office, 7:00 >	p. m.
SATURDAY—“Movies,” Washington Hall, 6:00 and 8:15 p. m.—Football, Notre Dame vs. Indiana at Bloomington; Gridgraph, Notre Dame gymnasium, 2:00 p. m.
SUNDAY—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 .	a. m.—Benediction, Sacred Heart
Church, 7:30 p. m.
MONDAY — Scribblers’ meeting, Scribblers’ room, 8:00 p. m.— Knights of Columbus installation of officers, Council Room, Walsh Hall, 8:00 p. m.; Villager’s meet-
-i	ing, Lay Faculty Dining Room,
6:00 p. m.
TUESDAY — Grand Rapids Club ,	meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 8:00
p. m.
WEDNESDAY — Wranglers’ meeting, Walsh Hall, Public Speaking room, 8:00 p. m.
THURSDAY — Spectators’ meeting, Spectators’ room, Law building", 8:00 p. m.
“DOME” TO PHOTOGRAPH SENIORS
The Dome announces that beginning Monday, October 7, pictures of all the seniors at the University will be taken. The photographers who represent the Russell Company of Chicago will remain on the campus for the next three weeks. All seniors will please accommodate the editors of the 1930 Dome by having their pictures taken as soon as possible. Actual work on the annual will be started within the next week according to Robert Pendergast, editor.
WISCONSIN TICKETS DISTRIBUTED MONDAY
Distribution of the tickets for the Wisconsin game will begin Monday, October 7, in the ticket offices at Cartier Field. Seniors only will be permitted ’ to get their tickets the first day, while Tuesday will be reserved for the Juniors, Wednesday for the Sophomores, and Thursday for the Freshmen. The office will be open for the securing of tickets from 3:30 until 5:30 in the afternoon. All students must bring their A. A. books, and only one ticket will be given to each student.
INTERHALL DEBATING TO BEGIN .SHORTLY
Under the auspices of the Wranglers’ Club, interhall debating will begin within the next two weeks according to plans made known by James J. Walsh, president of the campus forensic society. Only the freshmen halls will be included in the league, the purpose of which is to arouse interest in debating among the class of 1933. Brownson, Carroll, Howard, and Freshmen will be the halls to compete for the Lemmer trophy, the gift of Victor Lemmer, A. B. ’26. Brownson hall is the present holder of the cup having won it last year.
The question for debate this year, along with the various members of the Wranglers who will coach the various halls, be announced at a later date.
JACK CRAWFORD’S BAND WILL PLAY FOR COTILLION
Cotillion guests, coming from cities and towns all over the country, will dance to the strains of a nationally famous orchestra—Jack Crawford’s Victor Recording band. The music committee, eager to insure the success of the sophomore formal, is now definitely assured that everything will be tunefully satisfactory along the musical line.
Crawford, best known for his nightly broadcasting over WPG from Atlantic City Steel Pier, has also played engagements in the Badger Room of the Schroeder Hotel, Madison, Wisconsin, and the Drake Hotel, Chicago. He is making a midwestern toui* at present, and following the example of Notre Dame’s ’32 class, other* colleges are planning to engage his band for their dances. He begins an engagement at Louisville, Ky., soon.
Posters which appeared on the campus Wednesday, announced the dance as the “Cotillion of Charm.” This name was selected to convey the idea to the mind of the committee— a dance marked with dignity and simplicity. Programs, decorations and other incidentals intended to elicit the approving comments of the guests, are being planned with the same motive of simplicity in view.
The posters were done by Joel Ostrander and Pete Trolio, assisted by Joseph Lopker. Other committees are working hard; especially the ticket sales group. A canvass of the Sophomores halls will be made soon.
I! . . S.A. C. Notes. ' ’ |j
The following standing committees have been announced by President Robert Hellrung:
Dances—Frank Kersjes, chairman; Ray Reardon, James Collins, and Vernon Knox.
Grid-graph—Jack Walker, chairman; Harold Duke, James Collins, Vernon Knox, and Paul Dailey.
Publicity—Gil Prendergast, chairman; Tim Benitz, and Jack Keefe.
Campus Clubs—Jack Sigler, chairman; George Higgins, and James Collins.
Student Trip—Harold Duke, chairman; Jim Deely, Oliver Field, Jack Sigler, Tom Conley, and Frank Leahy.
Hospital—Ray Reardon, chainnan; Jack Walker, and Paul Dailey.
Food—Jim Deely, chairman; Tim Benitz, and the president of the Freshman class (to be. elected).
Concessions—Oliver Field, chairman; Frank Leahy, and Tom Conley.
Chairman of the Blue Circle— Robert Kuhn.
COLLEGE OF LAW NOTES
Announcement is made by Dean Konop, of the College of Law, that alhough the requirements for admission to the law school of three years college work has gone into effect this fall, the first year class of the law school numbers fifty-one, which is -greater than the number expected.
Six out of seven graduates of the law school last June,' who took the bar examinations in Michigan, passed them with success. Those who passed the examination are: Sullivan, Grathwohl, Landsman, Roach, Lukas-zewicz, and LeBlanc. .	'	-
Dean Konop and professors Earl and Manion have completed their plans for the seminar. The seminars are for the members of the senior class, and they constitute an innovation in the school of law. The seminars are conducted for the discussion -of current legal and government affairs.
—.
The first year law class has completed the organization of “Eleven Clubs,” which are meeting regularly.
Information for the new Law Alumni Directory is now being catalogued and prepared for publication.
74
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COMMERCE FORUM HOLDS FIRST MEETING
The Commerce Forum held its first
meeting of the school year Tuesday evening, October 1, in the Journalism
room of the Library. Plans were outlined for the ensuing year in -accordance with the hopes and intentions on the part of its members that the organization may become stabilized, so that it shall be permanent in future years.
The Commerce
William N. Sherman President, Commerce Forum
Forum is a com-
paratively new organization on the campus, for it has only been in existence since last May. Previous to that time it was the desire on the part of numerous students in the School of Commerce to have some form of organization in which its members could carry on individual instruction and promote their own initiative outside of the regular routine work of the University. As a result of their efforts and the co-operation of the University officials, the Commerce Forum was organized.
The Forum is governed by the administrative officers and a board of directors. The officers are as follows: W. N. Sherman, president; J. L. Sigler, vice-president; H. E. Duke, secretary, and F. J. Butler, treasurer. The members on the board of directors are: W. H. Miller, L. Theissen, H. E. Manske, G. J. Kirwan, C. T. Brennan, J. J. Barrett, and V. J. Slack.
Meetings are to be held every two weks, and it is intended to have some one actively engaged in the commercial field address the Forum at each meeting.
Eligibility to membership consists in being enrolled in the College of Commerce for at least one semester and having a scholastic average of 80 percent in addition to having the qualifications for membership passed upon by the board of directors.
FIRST “PEP” MEETING HELD LAST NIGHT
Headed by the University band, the entire student body marched from the Dining Halls to the gymnasium last night, and took part in the first “pep” meeting of the year, this meeting being in the nature of a send-off for the
team to the Indiana-Notre Dame game tomorrow at Bloomington, Indiana. The procession formed at 6:30 p. m., and the students, with red flares and torches, wound their way, singing and cheering to the gymnasium, where immediately Dan Barton, head cheerleader sent the crowd through the varsity cheers and songs.
The. students, spurred on by the thoughts of the coming game, were wild in their celebration. After the cheering had died down, Bob Hellrung, chairman of the S.A.C., introduced each speaker, who received a thunderous welcome. Speakers of the evening included Thomas Lieb, varsity line coach, Tommy Mills, Freshman coach and assistant varsity coach, the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., chairman of the Athletic Board of Control, Johnny Law, captain of the 1929 football team, Frank Coughlin prominent South Bend lawyer and captain of the football team of several years ago, and Knute K. Rockne, Director of Athletics and varsity coach, who introduced each member of the team.
During the course of the evening, the new Radio-Gridgraph was demonstrated to the student body. This will be used for the first time tomorrow afternoon when results of the Indiana game will be sent by direct telephone wire to the Notre Dame gymnasium from the playing field at Bloomington, Indiana.
S. A. C. OFFICIALLY ANNOUNCES STUDENT TRIPS
The Student Activities Council has announced the Wisconsin and Southern California games as the official student trips. Classes will be dismissed on the days of those games. Tickets to the games will be free, but a dollar band assessment will be made on each student one time during the season. Permissions for the Drake and Northwestern games are subject to the usual regulations. Classes will not be dismissed for these two games. For all four games, a letter from parents or guardian is required. Permission is granted for the days of the games only, save that in the case of the Wisconsin and California games, students whose homes are in Chicago \ may stay over.
BROTHER ONESIMUS, C.S.C., FORMER STEWARD, DIES.
Brother Onesimus, C.S.C. died last Thursday at the' Community House after a protracted illness. He was 92 years old, and had been steward at
the University, which post he held for* 35 years. The funeral services were held last Saturday and he was buried in the Community cemetery.
“HOWDY HOP” WELL ATTENDED
The “Howdy Hop” which was held last Friday evening in the Palais Royale ballroom was enthusiastically received by the 300 couples present. The dance which was the first informal affair of the year served as a climax to “Hello Week” and as a medium for the freshmen to meet the girls of South Bend.
PHILLIPS ADDRESSES PRESS CLUB
The Press Club held an interesting meeting in the lay faculty dining hall Tuesday night, Professor Charles Phillips, of the English department, and Doctor John M. Cooney, of the Journalism department, giving the principal speeches of the evening.
Both speakers congratulated the Club on their membership and encouraged continuous attendance throughout the year. Tire ethical side of Journalism as taught at Notre Dame was pointed out as an invaluable asset to the students in their activities.
“NOTRE. DAME JUGGLERS” START PRACTICE
The “Notre Dame Jugglers,” well-known campus jazz orchestra have already begun practice for the year. Joseph J. Casasanta, leader of the orchestra, expects the season to be a banner one. During the last week tryouts were held for the prospective members.
Director Casasanta has ten veteran musicians with whom to start. The older members are: P. Maroni, and Albert Brasseur, trumpet; Al Stewart, trombone; J. Folks, C. Schmeid and G. Pope, saxaphone; John Beljon, piano; P. Lavenberg, bass; Pat McLaughlin, traps, and W. Phillips, violin. These men with the exception of Lavenberg who was a member of the orchestra two years ago have played in the orchestra. “Diny” Donovan, banjoist of last year, is not in school this year.	•
The Jugglers have no definite engagements yet, but they expect to start their season soon. The orchestra will be remembered for its remarkable recording last fall of the “Victory March” and “Hike Song,” these records having an exceptionally fine sale.
The Notre D a m « Scholastic
350 STUDENTS EMPLOYED
BY THE UNIVERSITY
Part-time work—in the refectory, the University library, the dormitories, the projection booth or elsewhere— is making a college education, more particularly a Notre Dame education, available for approximately 350 students These figures are from the Offices of the Vice-President of the University, Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C. The jobs are varied; so are the compensations.
The clatter of dishes in the dining halls calls the largest number of employes. There are 132 waiters, 22 “set-up” men, 11 workers in the cafeteria and 49 in the kitchens. There is one man in charge of the newsstand in the cafeteria.
Deans and professors must have secretaries; 68 students, including laboratory assistants, do the work. At the reference and delivery desks of the Library there are 15 men. Visitors to the Art gallery necessitate a guide. Another man handles the volumes of the law library.
Other jobs include those of 9 student prefects, 8 janitors, 8 watchmen, and several are in charge of the athletic equipment in the gym. Four men are at the candy store; two act as freshmen coaches. The most novel positions are probably those of movie operator in Washington hall and student-commissioner in - the Isolation House.
Newspaper work, driving automobiles and employmq^t jn the stores down town, offer t possibilities outside of campus de^anjs • jt is the policy of the University to provide employment for those who really need it to complete their college years; for that purpose, lists of extra-campus jobs are obtained by the rector of Off-Campus. There are probably as many men working in South Bend as there are on the campus.
CLASS DUES TO BE COLLECTED
As part of the “Organizations Week” campaign launched by the S. A. C., representatives in each hall of the sophomore, junior and senior classes have been collecting class dues. The collection will, however, extend over into next week.
The members of the junior class who are to collect the dues were named in last week’s issue .of the Scholastic. Sophomores collecting dues are: St. Edward’s Hall, Joe Foley and Jim Igoe; Lyons Hall, Ray
Boyce and Felix Fr,nk; Morrissey Hall, Rollin Baldwin aid Jim Downs; Sophomore Hall, J<e Judge and Vance Uhlmeyer; Wdsh Hall, Emil Jane; Off-Campus, Ciarles Fogarty, Eugene Gussenhoven and Leo Banes.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
J! Music and Drama	11
The Civic Repertory Theater opened its fourth season with “The Sea Gull,” Anton Tchekov’s forlorn and splendidly dramatic play. Eye Le Gallienne directs the fortunes .of this rather famous little playhouse located on Sixth Avenue at Fourteenth Street, New York City. She is striving to produce good plays ,for a nominal sum. So far her productions have been admirable and her top price a dollar and a half. Coming events at the Civic Repertory include “Cherry Orchard,” “Sunny Morning,” “Cradle Song,” and “A Would-be Gentleman.” If possible, try and see one of Miss Le Gallienne’s productions. Her theater is gay-ninety and tumble-downish, but who cares? Her casts are excellent and of course Eve plays as well as directs. Not only a remarkable looking woman but a talented and striking actress.
If the comedy-farce appeals, what better could one see than “Little Accident,” which is playing at the Selwyn, in Chicago? The play has a flimsy and rather impossible plot, but don’t go to criticize for you will remain to howl and kick out the walls. It is, to say the least, a wow, a riot and a scream from start to finish.
Of a more serious type “Journey’s End” is certainly a most laudable presentation. It is a war story and crammed with drama. At the finale there is a wholesale slaughter of the cast, but New York went -wild over it and so will you. At the Adelphi, Chicago.
BAND TO APPEAR AT CHICAGO GAMES
The University Band, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, has been holding daily practice for the past two weeks in preparation for its appearance at the Notre Dame-Wisconsin football game in Chicago, October 19. Present plans call for the appearance of the musicians at each of the three games in
Chicago as well as at the Northwestern game in Evanston.
Director Casasanta has many veteran members around whom to form this year’s combination. Many of the members are participating for their fourth year, which insures the student body and general public that the quality of past bands will not be lacking this year.
Henry S. Tholen, six feet and four inches of stately grace, will again lead the band in its marches. Tholen will be remembered as the tall fellow who whirled the baton so gracefully last year.	.
There are 83 candidates for positions still in competition, but this number is expected to be cut to about 60 within a few days.
K. OF C. INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS TUESDAY
The installation of Knights of Columbus officers for the year 19291930 will be held Tuesday evening at 8:00 p. m., in the council rooms of Walsh Hall. District Deputy Otto Dorsey will install the new officers in their respective positions. Grand Knight Chevigny will also announce his appointments for lecturer, financial secretary and editor of the Santa Maria at this meeting.
SCHOLARSHIP DANCE TO BE HELD OCT. 11
The first Scholarship dance of the year will be held in the Knights of Columbus ballroom, South Bend, the evening of Friday, October 11. Art Haerens’ Syncopators will furnish the music for the affair which will be from nine to twelve.
Tickets will be placed on sale the early part of next week and can be secured from hall rectors.
❖---------------------------❖
COTILLION TICKETS
Tickets for the Sophomore “Cotillion of Charm” can be procured from the following men: Morrissey Hall—Charles Bauman, Room 19; Jack Collins, Room 437. Lyons Hall— Bob Gorman, Room 325; Clayton Duerr, Room 17. Sophomore Hall — Maury Murray, Room 217; Frank Treiweiler, Room 222. St. Edward’s Hall— Jim Gleason, Rqom 402; John Senger, Room 157. Off-Campus—John Crowe, 1522 East Colfax Ave.; Joe Laughlan, 730 East Madison St.
♦>--------------------------•&
f
76	The N otr e Da me Scholastic
II Campus Personalities II
This week’s personality needs no introduction. Everyone knows him, from the greenest freshman to the most sophisticated senior. For the past three years, John Brenden Law has been before the students at Notre
■John B. Law
Dame as a gentleman and an athlete, and now that he has entered upon his third year of varsity football as captain of the 1929 team, we present him as a Campus Personality.
Not every man furnishes us so much material for an interesting article as does Johnnie, so we should certainly excel ourselves this time. We might, in speaking of him, refer our readers to “Miracles of Sport,” or to Ring Lardner, in his illustrious article on Ice and things, but we won’t—we know John better than Ring knows him.
John’s home is in Yonkers, New York. From the date of his birth until his matriculation at Notre Dame, we find very little about him upon the records, but it is very likely that he could tell us more if he chose. In September, 1926, we find him a center on the Freshman squad. He will tell you himself that he didn’t last long, but they were unusually good at picking right guards that year, and he has played there ever since.
Since then, we find he has been appointed chairman of the Honorary Senior Ball Committee, elected S. A. C. representative of the class of ’30 one year, that he has been a member of the Metropolitan Club four years, is a senior in Commerce, and unlike most of the Personalities, lives in Walsh. Again, we find that
he is no mean hseball player, rating a monogram in baseball as a catcher. Verily, his list-; of achievements is great!	i
Not only that’ but he is a likeable fellow even to arriving freshmen, a fellow invariably spoken to whether the unknown ieels that he should speak or not, and has such a modesty and quiet reser\e about him that, instead of being ashamed for boldly quizzing him, we asked him his feelings about several of the games he has played in It seems that his toughest game was with Carnegie Tech last year, but we smiled never-the-less, for he also told us that the most exciting, the most perfectly satisfying game of his bright career, was the week before when he played against Sprague and Hammack of the Army.-
He figures it out though, that this year he has a huge task before him. We heartily agree with him and have promised to express his wish for wholehearted support to the student body. He feels so long as the team doesn’t start endorsing cigarettes and cold cream they desei-ve that at the very least. Now we do not agree with The Week in saying that all our traditions are laying down but Sorin. One of the staunchest we have states that since Notre Dame became an institution, her students have supported her teams in prayer and with school spirit. Records of her athletic prowess will bear out the statement. All the teams—freshman, interhall, and varsity—know the value of prayer and their years here are filled with novena after novena. Now we leave it up to Father O’Hara and yourselves for the fulfillment of that desire of John’s. All-Americans don’t grow on bushes and national champs are still appearing like century plants. It sometimes takes more than all the heart and endurance in the world to make one, so now that you are informed support is needed, we shall expect it.	—R. G. s. '
NOTRE DAME TRADITIONS TO BE EMPHASIZED DUR-
ING COMING WEEK
Following close upon “Organization Week,” .a movement to revive and promulgate the many time-honored traditions of Notre -Dame is to be sponsored by the Student Activities Council. The week of' October 6-12 has been selected as the proper time
for placing particular stress upon the University traditions. This constitutes another new phase of the campus program inaugurated by the S. A. C. Placards announcing the more important and venerable traditions will be posted on the various bulletin-boards, and a history of the growth and development of these traditions will be published in next week’s Scholastic.	.
The purpose of this drive is to make all the students acquainted, or better acquainted, with the prevailing-traditions. There are numerous respected traditions about the University, of whose existence many of the students are totally ignorant.
Traditions certainly comprise one of the finest and most endearing aspects of college life, and consequently should be of vital interest to every man. It is the duty of every student not only to discover and know the traditions of his alma mater, but what is even more necessary, to practice and to live up to them as well.
PALACE THEATER HOST TO STUDENTS
More than 2,000 students of the University were entertained at the Palace Theatre last week through the courtesy of Manager Jack Gross and the Radio-Keith-Orpheum circuit. All of the acts and movie were received’’ with much applause by the students present.
Preceding k£he performance, talks were given by Js^ck Gross, manager of the Palace; “DoX Miller of the Granada; Robert Hellrung’-, chairman of the Students Activities Counit, and Dan Barton, cheerleader. The “Victory March” was sung and yells were given by the throng present. This entertainment was made possible through the S. A. C. and the Palace Theatre as a feature of “Howdy” week.
N. D. “LAWYER” TO BE RELEASED SOON
The Notr.e Dame Lawyer, publication of the Hoynes College of Law, will be released to the members of the Law school within the next two weeks, according to Francis Ready, editor of the publication. The first issue will contain articles by prominent alumni and barristers throughout the country. This periodical is sponsored by the Law Club, which is headed by Robei-t Eggeman.
I
j
The Notre Dame Scholastic	77	i
UTICA CLUB
The newly organized Utica Club held its first meeting of the year in the basement of the library Tuesday evening, October 1, at 7:30. Twenty-five charter members were present and plans were discussed for a smoker and banquet to be held in the near future. Mention was also made as to the possibility of a formal dance during Christmas vacation. The Club invites all Notre Dame men who live neai-Utica to be present at the next meeting.
INDIANAPOLIS CLUB
The initial meeting of the Indianapolis Club was held Wednesday evening in the Badin “Rec.” Approximately ten new men made their first appearance and bolstered the membership to thirty members.
Gatherings during the summer months were limited to a banquet held in conjunction with the Alumni on September 5. The purpose of this was twofold: to acquaint the members of the campus club with those who proceeded them at Notre Dame and to introduce the Freshmen to upperclassmen.
The next meeting will be announced in the Scholastic and all students who live within the environs of Indianapolis and who were unable to attend the first meeting are invited.
Officers of the club are: John T. Rocap, president; Thomas Cannon, vice-president; Frank Noll, secretary, and John Blackwell, treasurer.
METROPOLITAN CLUB
Approximately one hundred and fifty students from New York and environs attended the Metropolitan Club meeting Monday night. The president, Warren S. Fogel, announced that a special train would be chartered to accommodate the members to and from the army game. Plans were also taken up concerning a testimonial banquet to John B. Law, football captain. Francis Walker was appointed chairman of the committee, to be assisted by William Walsh, Fred O’Connor, Henry Frey, and George Winkler. A short talk given by Father Reynolds, chaplain, concluded the meeting.
THE ROCHESTER CLUB
The Rochester Club held its first meeting of the year Monday night in the Law Building. The meeting was well attended and greetings were extended to the new men from .Rochester and vicinity. The number of new men from Rochester this year exceeds the number of any year to date.
Plans for the annual alumni dance were talked over. This dance is given by the alumnae to the students during Christmas week.
Plans for a banquet to be held a week from Wednesday night were completed. This will be held at Morningside.
All men from Rochester and vicinity who were not at this meeting are urged to attend the next one which will be Monday night, and get acquainted with the fellows from home.
CALIFORNIA CLUB •
Eleven new members of the Freshman class were admitted to the California Club Tuesday night at the first meeting held in the Journalism room. President Clarence Mullins presided at the meeting and introduced a number of plans for the organization during the year. A report was read explaining the activities held during the summer, especially the club dance held in Los Angeles, which was a social as well as a financial success.
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI CLUB
The first meeting of the Louisiana-Mississippi Club was held Tuesday night in the Law Building, President John Dubisson presiding. The President welcomed the new members of the club and explained to them the purposes and traditions of the organization. Business matters were taken up by the secretary and announcement made of the activities for the year. The club lost a number of members last year through graduation but with the incoming Freshmen it has reason to believe that the organization will continue as successfully as ever.
DETROIT CLUB '
The Detroit Club held its initial meeting of the year’ Thursday night, October 4, in Badin “Rec.” Many suggestions were presented by the officers. Several banquets are anticipated before the holidays as well as a Christmas dance to be held in Detroit during the recess.
The club held an entertaining “Stag” party in Windsor, Canada, June 10, in company with the Alumni.
PHARMACY CLUB
The Pharmacy Club held its first meeting Friday night, October 4, in Chemistry Hall. Many new Freshmen were admitted to the Club and plans for the coming year were discussed. The officers elected for this year are: H. Edward Myers, president; James M. Coram, vice-president; Karl W. Scherer, secretary; Edward Draves, treasurer.
SCRIBBLERS CLUB
The Scribblers met last Monday night in the Scribblers Room for their second meeting of the year. Louis Heitzer and Cyril Mullen read short stories entitled, respectively, “Wandering,” and “First Day.” Murray Hickey Ley read a poem, “On Hearing Beethoven.” A coming election was discussed but definite decision on the matter was deferred until next week.
SPECTATORS CLUB
The Spectators met last night in the Law Building. John Dubuisson and Richard Sullivan reported on business matters and then the club proceeded to its regular program. Robert M. Dinkle and Murray Hickey Ley discussed topics relevant to contemporary civilization.-
78
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Dear T. Talbot Tabloid:
There is an old French expression which is: “A vaincre sans peril, un triomphe sans gloire.” For the benefit of your worthy self and many of our dear readers, may I translate this. In the “hoi-polloi” terms of today it would be: “To conquer without peril, one triumphs without glory.” This perhaps offers an explanation for the submitting of a poem, which you so unwittingly refused to print. To render this from the stage of Washington Hall, as you have suggested, would be foolhardy, for in that case it would be totally unnecessary to print it in the Wink, which is sorely in need of material, for we of the great reading class are being exposed to a bit of ennui from deciphering your so-called “airy persiflage.” May I also suggest in passing, that you add to your signature the word, “Tantalizer.”
—SANS GENE.
A lively discussion was enjoyed the other day in an economics class. The question was whether Peter Pan’s dislike for growing up was for financial reasons. (Page Jackie Coogan.)
SHELLPROOF
A gallant knight from Erin Land Stepped in a transit bus.
With pipe in mouth, he took his seat Beside a grouchy cuss.
The old, man eyed the Irishman
With ever deepening scowl;
Regarding most the other’s pipe And its aroma foul.
“Young man,” said he, then straightening As one known near and far,
“Please read that sign up on the wall: ‘NO SMOKING IN THIS CAR.’ ”
“Moi faith,” replied the Erin knight, The devil in his eye, “Oi knoived th’ sign was deref guid man.
But smokin’? No, not Oi.”
“Arumph!” the old grouch grunted loud, “If I have good eyesight,
You have your pipe stuck in your mouth;
Come now, am I not right?”
“But shore,” returned the Irishman, “Oi wish ye’d quit your squawkin’;
Oi hov two feet stuck in me boots, But faith, an’ Oi’m not walkin’.” ■	—No. 55.
—o—
A question which has been bothering us very much of late is whether or not a more appropriate and perhaps more subtle name for a gambling den would be an anteroom.	—THE VAGABOND LOVER.
In reference to an article published in last week’s issue of the Scholastic, someone has submitted a counter article entitled, “If I Were the Keeper.” We find it impossible to publish this due to the fact that the writer goes a bit too deep into the folds of psychiatry.
—o—
OUR OWN DUMBERICK
In pictures cinematic
And plots supposed emphatic
I hate to see Virginia Lee ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
In pictures vitaphonic
And plots supposed ironic
'	I love to knoiv
That Clara Bow ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
We know that there will be no solutions to this because we spent days and days trying to think of last lines for the two stanzas and failed. Note the result.
—o—
We have inside information that a couple of Freshmen paid twenty-five cents apiece to see “Welcome Notre Dame,” which was supposed to be playing at the Palace, according to the sign outside.
—o—
ADVICE TO THE LOVELORN
Dear Miss Queerquax:
I am a poor lonesome Freshman who would like to know some method by which to get acquainted with the girls of St. Mary’s. Please help me.	—lonesome.
Dear Lonesome:
Stay lonesome, young man, stay lonesome.
.	—Miss Q.
Dear Miss Queerquax:
The “light of my eyes” expects me to make the football team while at college. Can you suggest the best way of doing so.	—Elmer.
Dear Elmer:	,	'
Show “Rock” your wallet and sing for him, “Oh, Gentryville, fair Gentryville.”	—Miss Q.
•	• G
W.e were wondering if by any chance Schubert could have had Venus de Milo in mind when he composed his Unfinished Symphony.
We’ve fretted our few minutes upon the stage and we “ ’ope you’ve liked it.” To No. 55, The Vagabond Lover, Wild Orchid, and Illini Pat we are deeply grateful and a brief glimpse of their work makes us wish and look for more. We take our last bow, thinking already of our next act and who will comprise the cast.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
79
EDITOR'S PAGE
A FEW CENT/ MCCE”
In less than twenty-four hours after the appearance of last week’s Scholastic we received a letter from “a member of the class of ’31.”
Now in the letter there were several points of value; we quite seriously thank the winter for his interest in his publication and his practical suggestions. But there were good reasons for the steps that occasioned his remarks; more, we are not concerned here with a reply. What we do wish to comment upon is his objection to what he seems to consider an over-emphasis of the literary department; and the meaning of what he has to say. While admitting that the literary section is “okay,” he goes on to suggest that it might be diminished, as, “for a few cents more .... a fellow can buy Harpers.”
Now we might dismiss the matter immediately by pointing out that Harpers is just a little in advance of a “few cents more,” (bringing, as it does, some forty cents). But that would localize the matter, and indicate a supine acceptance of a too easy path to facile rebuttal. We are concerned here with general, rather than particular, implications and significance.
What seems to us to be the crux of the matter is, “would they buy?” (For the particular name, Harpers, is, here, nothing more than a symbol of the whole field of worthwhile reading matter.)
The two questions implied in the above interrogation are at once evident; if they do buy, what of it, and if they do not, what of that?
A many volumed apologia could not do justice to our first question; for us it is enough to comment briefly on the real value of reading. And our comment consists of the lone observation that all literature worthy of the name is the written record of experience, the compression into words, of occurrences in life that have racked and torn, sung to and cheered, the hearts and minds of men.
In the reading of such works, we add to our experience, we assimilate what the writer has to say, and, in the absorption, we integrate into ourselves something new, a something that, from then on, goes with us in every day, hour to hour, office to street, breakfast to lunch to dinner, existence. And just as each man added to an army renders a little more certain the victories of that army when confronted with obstacles, so do these integrations of experience join themselves to the already existing army that is ourself, and lend their flesh and bone to the parade, the continued march, of this army.
So much for a reply, at best fragmentary, to the question, “And what’ of it?”
Now a word concerning “if they do not.” Here, we have no space to go into a long windmill of discussion on this question; though the matter is enormously complex, it seems to us that we can point out the results consequent upon a refusal of the path sketched in the answer to our first question.
If we may, without incurring the anger of the so-called pacifists, continue our figure of the army, what would a calm, detached observer say of a general in the field, who, when confronted with a force superior to his own, refuses the passionately proffered services of a regiment of volunteers? The answer is obvious.
On this point further comment seems superfluous. To our correspondent we would say that no great numbers will spend the “few cents more” in spite of our observations set forth above and the far more competent handling of the matter by others; and in the absence of a thundering rush to the nearest news-stand handling. Harpers, we will continue to give space to the “still small voice” in the hope that it may, some time, for someone, “speak out loud and bold.”	—M. H. L.
80	TheNotreDameScholastic
The History of Dorelia the Dancer
Richard Sullivan
IT is the story of Dorelia the dancer that I am telling now, and she was the eldest of the three daughters of Jassek, the carver of cameos. She was beautiful as moonlight on the water. The garments which she wore in her dancing were of sheerest silver cloth and blue, hung in rhythmic foldings, and clasped with hammered silver clasps. And upon her head grew fine brown hair, which she combed in a smooth, tight line across her brow.
Now as the record of those times tell, the country in which she lived had been for long a peaceful land, and her life was quiet and happy. She was content in every way, as indeed any other woman might have been in her place, what with the people quick to see the beauty in her dancing, and they lavish in their praise, and the young men forever talking about her loveliness. And yet despite her satisfaction in living Dorelia was ever striving for even greater perfection in her art. Such were her scruples of temperament that she allowed herself no diversion in the way of flirtation now and then; no dalliance with young men would she permit to interrupt her eagerness for the dance.
It so happened however, that a war sprang up, wherein this peaceable nation became involved. And in the countryside where once fair trees had grown, rich alike in fruit and songbirds and some of them with brown nuts upon them; where once yellow and green fields had stretched afar into thin white mists—here now was only desolation. The fruit and the nuts and the leaves were stripped from the trees, and the birds were frightened away. The fields became black, and the mists were commingled with the dust of marching armies.
In the passage of war twelve thousand were killed each fortnight, and the war endured for seven years.
Then at its cessation the people also, in like manner to the countryside, were changed; for they understood no longer the refinements of beauty but became savage and lustful. When Dorelia danced now before their eyes, they had smelt already the smell of blood and had been viciously inflamed thereby. So a new fashion was born into dancing, which pandered to the voluptious desires of the people; and the classic beauty of Dorelia was a thing passed over because it could not excite the fever that was in this new dancing.	.
Now was Dorelia sorely distraught. How the notion sprang up that an art may be pursued for its own sake, I do not know; but this I know, that it is a fallacious notion which identifies the means with the end. And Dorelia understood all the fallacy of it when she found none to say to her: “This thing is good which you do. We at least, among the many, see the beauty in it.” For the
first necessity of the artist is this, that his work be understood. If only one person is moved to response thereby, that one alone is sufficient; but always there must be one at least who understands. And Dorelia, finding no one at all, felt urgently the need of appreciation, and saw in her heart that she could not go on dancing and dancing for the mere pleasure of the dance. Equally sharp as this realization was the sense of disillusion which penetrated her soul when she beheld the corrupted tastes of the populace. She was saddened so grievously that for nine days (as the records tell) she could neither eat nor sleep. At the end of this period she sadly took up her dancing garments of silver and blue and hung them on a high hook in a secret closet and bolted the doors upon them. This done, she disconsolately sat down in her green leather chair, to consider how she might thenceforward earn her livelihood.
At this juncture the artist Marashinno approached her. As she saw him approaching Dorelia felt that she divined his errand, and the thought stirred uneasily inside her mind: Twice before had Marashinno, the painter of pictures, asked that she marry him, and once she had said that in the future she would be his dear friend, and again she had said that henceforth she would be his loving sister; but for the words to a third refusal she was at loss. Indeed, she hastily considered accepting the man, for he was rich and she was now poor and he would make a good husband.
Marashinno said: “I am at work these days upon a magnificent painting. Soon it will adorn the walls of the city’s wealthiest home, there to be admired, there to be marvelled at. Ah, Dorelia, knowing my talent, you may anticipate its perfection. A masterpiece! Already I have it completed in my mind. Nineteen figures shall I compose in it, harmoniously grouped about a twentieth in the center. Oh, it will have the delicacy of the ancient art and the vigor of the new, and these two made more splendid by my own original genius.”
Pausing, he drew in his breath and stared for a moment with transported eyes. And even as she waited for him to resume, Dorelia was somehow aware that on this visit he came not a-wooing.	’
“Having heard that you no longer dance, I am come upon profitable business. For the twentieth figure I shall 'require a woman surpassingly beautiful, a woman lovelier than others have been or can be. And for this reason I have approached you, Dorelia, that I might persuade you to sit as my model.”
Then she replied (and her voice was said to be sweeter than church-bells chiming low in the twilight) :
“Marashinno, your proposal intrigues me, and I will
The Notre Dame Scholastic
81
accept it with this one provision, that I receive for each sitting- thirty pieces of silver.”
The artist, straightway becoming practical, produced the stub of a pencil from some inner fold of his cloak, and commenced to balance upon his cuff the expenses of his paints and his canvas against the price he would get for his picture. At the end of seven minutes of complex calculation he pronounced the bargain closed. Then he politely withdrew, with never a hint of matrimony at all.
And when he had gone Dorelia fell to biting the fingernails of her left hand, the while she paced in excitement up and down the floor, with her heels clicking angrily upon the wood. Presently she gave vent to her agitation in the following words, which she cried out aloud to herself:
“I could twice have married that man, and now be a wife and perhaps with some children too—
“But I was too busy dancing to marry, and now what has my dancing got me but poverty?
“Now I will be his model because that is all I have left to do, and I would rather do that than go starving—
“But I wonder- why the man did not ask me to marry him!”
And thus vexed in her heart, she sat down and wrote off a long letter full of woe; this she sent to Didor, her sister, the wisest of women, asking her counsel. That night she lay down still sadly perplexed, and pondering her troubles she fell asleep slowly.
Now mark the cumulative power of events trivial enough themselves, but fatally arranged in tragic sequence. For in that same night a poisonous bug flew into her chamber, and settling for a moment on her nose, stung that member viciously. And the next morning Dorelia ‘ stai-ted in terror, for a huge lump had grown on the end of her
nose, so that she must now breathe through her lips in the gaping fashion of a fish with its gills. Immediately came the despair of her income from posing, and hastily Dorelia reached for a soothing ointment with which to alleviate the irritated part. But quite accidentally (or as some say, by the trickery of Fate) she put out her hand upon a mixture used for the polishing of dancing slippers. Having bedaubed her most liberally with this polish, thinking all the time it was the healing ointment she used, she anxiously leaned toward her mirror, waiting for the lump to dissolve.
But the slipper-polish, with no merit whatever as an-unguent, served only to aggravate, and caused intense pain in the tip of hei- nose. After a time, as the ancient records plainly tell, a pei-manent mole appeared where the bug had bit. It was an ugly thing with three curly hairs sticking out of the middle of it. It totally ruined the beauty of. Dorelia.
Now at this point the records of those remote times become obscure, and certain differences appear in the various statements of the further history of Dorelia. Certain it is, however, that soon after the unfortunate episode of the poisonous bug and the eruptive polish, she retired to the secluded home of her sister Didor, who lived upon the middle of the prairie beyond the hills that border the River Kulex. Here, it is said, she passed the rest of her days, gloomily, forever vexed. And it is small wonder she was shaken to her innermost parts; for what with the quick succession of one thing on another, there was overmuch sudden calamity in her life.
One historian relates a significant incident which, though plausible enough, may not be true, for it passes unremarked by other writers of the period. It would seem, however, that upon the failure of Dorelia to fulfill her appointments for posing, the artist Marashinno came inquiring, all unaware that the beauty he sought for his picture had been destroyed. Being moved by the sorry plight of Dorelia, and nothing daunted by the mole upon her nose, that poor man must ask her for the third time to marry him. But he chose an unfortunate moment, for Dorelia, it is said, turned upon him sharply:
“I will not have you!” she cried, with the hairs of her mole all raging in misery. “I will have nothing at all any more!”
The Town and the Man
Richard Anthony
THE town was called Baysweep. You were aware somehow that it was a hard, chilly name; yet the inhabitants all deemed it fitting. They felt simply that the name lent an air of breezy smartness to their town; and when they mentioned in their travels that they lived in Baysweep, they added with an air:
“Baysweep, you know. Right on the lake. All the advantages of Chicago, but none of its dirt and bustle.”
The people were proud of their town, and they were proud of the great, deep, cold, grey lake that lay beside it. In the winter when high waves spurted up over the breakwater* and left the trees ice-caked for a hundred yards inward—then the people nodded with simple wisdom and remarked how pretty was the silver-ice. And in the summer when the lake was glittering all over the tiny points of sunlight and was smooth and fawning—then the people would forget the sheer capriciousness of the whole round
of storms and calms . . . And without ever realizing it, they were themselves capricious as the lake.
The man was called Wilfred Waters. You looked at him once and remarked to yourself how well his appearance suited his calling. He was the physics instructor in the Baysweep High School, and so meek, so slight, so sandyhaired, he looked—merely insignificant, that was all.
You never heard the name of Waters if you stopped in at Turtel’s Drug Store, kitty-corner from the high school, the rendezvous of all the students, where they gathered each day at foui* o’clock for sandwiches or soda. There was lively talk at Turtel’s—talk of dancing and games; and sometimes in a quiet corner a fuzz-chinned youth would blink and scrape his feet over the tile, as he spoke of love to a girl with yellow hair and thin, blue eyelids. The surging talk of students, if it settled for a moment upon the faculty at all, was of those teachers who were favorites
82
The Notre Dame Scholastic
or of those who were almost universally condemned. Waters was ignored, and this indifference to him signified that he so little obtruded upon student notice as to make himself neither beloved nor despised but only passed heedlessly over.
Nor would you hear his name if you listened to the brittle chatter of the women teachers at the high school, when they convened of a noon hour to discuss with meager knowledge all the latest books they read, or to recall with ridiculous rapture their sorority-days at college. The women teachers had all their own little interests, and for them Wilfred Waters had not any charm. Once, however, Miss Finlee remarked that in her eyes the physics instructor was a nincompoop.
“Oh!” cried Miss Briskett, who was forty and leaned heartily toward anything masculine. “What ... I mean—”
“He spilled ink on me,” said Miss Finlee. “He had not even the grace to apologize. Instead, he offered to show me the notes he has taken on student reactions. My new organdie. A whole bottle!”
“He is absent-minded,” said Miss Briskett, with a sweet, consoling smile. She thought of herself as a little sunbeam, a happy dispenser of joy and gladness. She would have defended anyone against any sort of onslaught by anyone else.
“You might understand how the people of Baysweep took for granted that sometime it was summer and sometime winter without ever wondering why these things were so. In like manner, with much the same indifference, they were casually aware that Waters existed somewhere in • their midst. Not maliciously or even actively did the town ignore the man. You saw him walking home each day from the high school . . . Walking as he had always done, slowly, alone, somewhat stooped at the shoulders. Perhaps you noted how his overcoat of sober grey went a-flapping in the wind, and remarked that it was too large for his slimness.
For five ironic years Baysweep moved, and the people congratulated themselves upon living in a town where progress was so certain . . . There was the malt-house fire . . . and the erection of the new Elks’ Club upon the charred location . . . There was the murder on the west side . . . and the apprehension of the murderer' . . . and his hanging . . . and justice predominant in Baysweep . . . There was the talk of a new factory . . . and much bickering in the Chamber of Commerce . . . and the building of the new factory . . . and a thousand new people, factory hands, to be reckoned in on the next census . . . Baysweep moved, and was progressive.
And then, one night last winter, the people were happily surprised when-they read the “Baysweep Evening Journal.” Under the caption, “Local Citizen Lauded as Author,” in a news article headed by the name of the editor himself and written with all the flourish he could muster, Baysweep read how Wilfred Waters, “the professor of physics in our
local high school,” had published a book on educational psychology. It was a curious account. It told that for the past five years Waters had carefully experimented with various teaching methods, had coolly made tests upon the students working in his physics laboratory, had tabulated their responses and reactions, and had checked his findings into a scientifically-organized exposition. The people nodded their heads in approval. Baysweep did always what it was expected to do, and did so warmly, and was content with itself, because it saw no reason to be otherwise.
Then perhaps you noticed at Turtel’s, where the high school students gathered each day at four o’clock for sandwiches or soda, that the conversation hung with persistent hum upon Wilfred Waters. He was the author of a book. A giddy little girl remarked that he had soulful brown eyes, a feature that had passed unnoted by the girls of previous years. But now Waters had become the author of a book, and by student estimation he was all-deserving.	-
Among the women teachers at the high school there was much excited babbling. The women teachers, though they put on casual nonchalance, were somewhat proud of their professional connections with the author of a book. Even Miss Finlee, who had acquired new dresses with the passing years, told her classes that Waters was a thorough scholar, and set him up for emulation. The other teachers made of him a little god, to be adored quite seriously by all the students in the high school. “Mr. Waters does this!” they cried;- and “Mr. Waters says that!” Miss Briskett, now grown forty-five but still a sunbeam, gushed and cooed as she told how years before she had correctly estimated the worth of Wilfred Waters.
And presently, in about the middle of April, a whisper went around the town—a whisper that Waters was being considered for a chair at the state university. The “Baysweep Evening Journal,” encouraging the rumor, commented on Mr. Waters’ book being quoted as authority by writers who themselves were not insignificant. And the people of Baysweep, who had not read his book, echoed this statement, and with simple wisdom cried out how famous was their fellow man, Wilfred Waters.
When the “Journal” came out flatly—sometime in June —with the announcement that next year he would take up his office at the state university, then the Women’s Club of Baysweep asked Mr. Waters to speak at one of its meetings. Such an invitation was a signal honor, the last speaker having been the Republican candidate for governor, a man of renown.
. . . Then you looked at Wilfred Waters with a deep admiration. And perhaps you complimented yourself for a shrewd perception when you remarked how well his appearance suited his calling. Mr. Waters was a distinguished faculty member of the Baysweep High School. And so meek, so slight, so aloof ... he seemed indeed the typical man of science, that was all.

Optimist
Pessimist
Life’s but a dance of color and fire. Happiness clothed in her best attire
Pirouettes thru the night
Flashing silver and gold.
In the happy star light
Youth never grows old.
Life is a dirge, and never a dance, A tale of sorrow, {not gay romance), That’s sterile of splendor
And froivns in hate;
A solemn pretender
The prelude of fate.
—PHILIP DE ROULET.
The N o tr e Dame Scholastic

CN I l il lX BEETHOVEN

i.
LL is quiet. Then, after a sudden storm of stars,
Clouds of flutes flow low over the gray waters of my being, And iron brooms sweep away the blasted pillars of the mind.
Winged in red sound four hawks fly round and round The island towers of the Soul, shrieking the question, “And what art thou?”
Monstrous hooded cobras of noise dart down Upon the bone turrets of the castled body, These dissolve and crumble inwards.
Lightning takes human shape and walks on the ruins,
Laughing thunder for such an easy victory;
But, far off, great glaciers of music stab the sky
With freezing daggers that are fingers of ice.
And the laughter shivers its bells on the forge of the air.
Silence, like a filing cape of silver,
Shrouds with dark quiet the unanswering towers.
II.
Then, up the enormous black rose of the West
Stream small white doves each bearing
One word of Revelation from a lilied God, Choiring these across the stricken waves In trembling secret heavy veils of music. And the towers rock in new found rhythm.
III.
When-, no loaming given, the lashing
Firmament rocks and tosses.
And in darkest middle the waters
Turn back; there, swiftly rising,
White mountains of light crowned
With eagles crying in voices turned
Frozen rivers of gold, “0 hawks
You are answered! These towers are spars ’	-
On the homeward helmed ship of the soul.
And every ship in the world
And around, the world
And out of the world,	■
Is given its port.”
IV.
Now showers of orchid wine drench the dust tongued body With revelation and terror and wonder and beauty. And gardens of organ pipings blossom fire in the far Lands on the fringe of the coasts of the soul
As the falling petals of the great Rose of the Music drop away.
..	—Murray Hickey Ley.
84
The Notre Dame Scholastic
5 PORTS
Hop es High on Eve of Opening Game
Indiana Contest to Decide N. D. “Comeback”
One of these years Pat Page is going to turn out a great fooball team for Indiana University. The Big Ten expects it, rather tremulously, but unless Page happens to be a magi-
Jack Elder
cian and pulls some trick from his sleeve, several teams will be disappointed. The greatest of them— Notre Dame.
Indiana has a week’s start on Notre Dame but in that advance is included a victory and a loss. When Notre Dame steps out onto the field tomorrow it will be her first major test of the season.
Indiana Splits Even
While Indiana was losing to Ohio University and trouncing Wabash, Coach Knute Rockne and his bunch of Ramblers were tearing around Cartier Field, plowing furrows through the humble freshmen.
Not once did we get an opportunity
to see at one time the whole first string lineup in play. Perhaps we didn’t want to see them just yet, perhaps Rockne didn’t want us to see them.
No matter whom he had in the contest, from the first team down to the fifth or sixth—we lost track of them at the close—they tore through the freshmen line relentlessly for touchdown after touchdown.
Freshmen Are Smothered
At the end of the game the score was computed to be 60 to 0 in favor of the blue-jersied veterans. Then to make matters worse, Rockne continued the fun and several touchdowns more were accounted for.
Practically every one got a chance to perform and from 'what we saw our predictions are fit to stand for a while longer; Notre Dame’s representatives are going to be fast and clever. There is no doubt about that and there will be nine badly dented teams at the end of the season who will be able to verify the statement.
The game tomorrow is to be a double test for Rockne. Not only will he be able to see how his first string line-up performs against an experienced outfit but also the strength of his reserves.
Ipiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiniiiininitnmiii			e»	
=	PROBABLE		LINE-UP	z
X	Notre Dame		Indiana	
z	Colrick	LE	McCracken	z
z	Leahy, F.	LT	Unger	Z
z	Cannon	LG	Bennett	z
z	Moynihan	C	Ringwait	z
z	Law (c)	RG	Swihart	z
•	Twomey	RT	Shields	z
	Vezie	RE	Catterton	
z	Carideo	QB	Brubaker	z
2	Brill	LH	Todd	=
z	Elder	RH	Ross	z
	Mullins	F	Magnabosco	
di..				
“Shock Troops” Again
The “shock troops” are coming-back into existence this year; that’s more than certain after last Saturday’s workout.
Indiana will present excellent competition but we must bear in mind that Pat Page, the- wily mentor of the Hoosiers, has no Chuck Bennett, all-
Ted Twomey
western halfback, nor Clare Randolph, all-western center, neither Pooch Harrell, one of the greatest punters of the Big Ten.
To fill these positions, Page had nineteen lettermen report to him. Eight of them have been on the team for two years, albeit the Hoosiers have been a very pessimistic squad this fall.
Offsetting that condition, Rockne was confronted with an excellent squad of heady players. Unlike last year, when he had difficulty composing one fail- team, this year he is having trouble in keeping away from it.
No Change in Style
Notre Dame will not present a much different style of play than that used last year. Unless very much was kept , “under cover” we expect to see practically the same repertoire as we did
The Notre Dame Scholastic
85

Lind Now Comes Life’s Longest Laugh
It’s indeed a pleasure to announce the opening date of the theater beautiful in South Bend, the
on next
SATURDAY, OCT. 5
The opening picture
5 ?
the all singing, laughing movietone marvel has broken all records throughout the entire United States. The cast headed by the hot shots of “What Price Glory,” Victor McLaglen, Edmund Lowe and Lila Damita, are indeed the greatest comedy trio ever; and from these alone, the picture bears the name of LIFE’S LONGEST LAUGH.
The TALKING equipment that has been installed at the Granada is now the same master equipment as the Golden Gate in San Francisco, Keith’s Memorial theatre in Boston, and the Palace in New York City. On this master equipment, every word that’s spoken and every note that’s sung, comes to you as clearly as if it were spoken from the artist’s lips, and from the reports of the R. C. A. acoustical expert, the Granada, after the installation of the special wool acoustical ceiling, the best sound in town will be found at the theatre beautiful.
The same weekday prices will prevail, 25c till six p. m. on week days; Nights and Sundays, Balcony, 25c, Mezzanine 35c, Main Floor, 50c. At the opening, Saturday, with its new drapes, carpets, organ, seats; after repainting and redecorating, the Granada will again be found the theatre beautiful with everything new but the name. So come down, gang, you are always welcome, and REMEMBER, the manager, JUST “Doc.”
86
The Notre Dame Scholastic
in years past. There will be- minor changes, however.
The Ramblers will present a running game, that is certain, to be varied by a stiff line attack.
The line will be one of power. It will provide the necessary support for the backfield and enable them to gain ground repeatedly.
The Notre Dame team this year is going to have strong offensive power and they will lack very little defensive strength.
The public at large will have its eyes focussed on Notre Dame in the game tomorrow. If the Ramblers decisively defeat the Hoosiers it ■will be looked upon as a comeback •within a season.
The foui- defeats last season were inevitable. .After a half-dozen wonderful seasons it was only natural that there would be a time when the “crack” would show.
This year is the first after the break and by all rights and laws is not supposed to be the one in which to recoup the losses. However, as in many other cases the Irish are bound to upset the dope and prove the exception to the rule.
The Indiana game tomorrow is going to mean a plenty. It is going to
make or break a great team. Indiana will be tough opposition but, we believe, not quite tough enough.
INTERHALL FOOTBALL TO OPEN SUNDAY
The new system of controlling interhall sports, as planned by Coach Rockne, harks back to the days when the hall rector was schedule maker,
Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C. coach, trainer, physician, and general supervisor of his team. In the past several years the entire labor fell to the Reverend E. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., former head of the Physical Education Department.
--------------a---------------
Present plans call for a more distributive procedure: to the interhall committee, of which Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C. is chairman, is assigned the task of schedule making, while Coach Keogan, director of interhall football, assigns the fields and officials, sees that all games are played on schedule, and makes judgment on all disputes and protests.
By choosing the interhall coaches solely from the School of Physical Education, Coach Rockne and Mr. Masterson devised this means to enable the men to obtain the practical coaching hours required in the. course, and to offer competent instructors for the league teams.
On Fridfiy, September 27, a meeting was held in each of the twelve halls at which candidates for the respective teams were present. Last Sunday, equipment was given out and keen enthusiasm was shown when more than four hundred uniforms were distributed, almost exhausting the supply.
An additional feature of the new system will be the introduction of an hour’s drill, two nights a week for each team. This will be held in the gymnasium. The night practice is intended to enable the varsity coaches
0
l i Ai Watch Vaitjet
19 Jewel
Watch
Our $50.00 19-Jewel, Adjusted, Thin Model, 12-size South Bend Watch. Fancy engraved or plain back cases in newest styles. Knife and chain FREE with each watch. Complete with latest design fancy dial—

^enc ^atch £6.
SOUTH BEND
Cyma Ladies’ Bracelet Watch. Beautifully engraved Rolled Gold Plate Case with latest design fancy dial—
$12.CC
jinijjjiM
Tavannes “Seminole”
Strap Watch for men. Highest grade Cyma movement in handsomely engraved Rolled Gold Plate case. Luminous dial—
$12.OC
The Notre Dame Scholastic
87
i PALACE I
i Announcement Extraordinary
3	Days Commencing
SUNDAY
I Estelle Taylor
Mrs. Jack Dempsey
I	in
Person
i	with
4	Other Big Acts
I	I
j	ON THE SCREEN	|
| A Merry, Mad Melange of Misadven- I
|	tures, Mix-ups and Mirth	i
I Sailor’s Holiday
I With Alan Hale and Sally Eilers. i
|	100% TALKING—FUN	|
■ItitiiiiinH'iiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiuiini'iiiiiinmnnimnHni'i'HiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiifilj
LOVE, Laughter, Gaiety, Music . . . they’re calling to Youth . . . and Youth joins the party heedless of tomorrow ... You can’t be thrilled if this one won’t stir you.
Jazz Mad Youth Meeting Life in Moments of Flaming Drama.
Better than “Our Dancing Daughters”
Joan
Crawford
in
Metro-G<Mwyn-Ma yer Production
“OUR MODERN MAIDENS”
with
Douglas Fairbanks, Jr. Josephine Dunn Rod LaRoque
and
Anita Page
The epic of the age of Jazz ; . . Jazz . . . frivolity . . . and broken hearts in a whirlwind of emotion. Jazz made lovers in a poignant drama.
“WHAT DO I CARE”
Paramount Novelty
Paramount Sound News
Saturday-Tuesday.
I 
A Publix Theatre
fOLFAY
THEATRE VW
III COMING HI “The Two Black Crows"
MORAN & MACK	I
in
|	“Why BringThat Up” | | | |
88
The Notre Dame Scholastic
who will be occupied with practice during the afternoon interhall drill, to plan offenses, remedy defects in play, and supply any other helpful or necessary information.
A single week’s training is hardly sufficient- to produce smooth coordination, yet every coach is hopeful of presenting a team which will get off to a satisfactory start and one which will offer worthy competition to its opponents next Sunday when the season opens.
The opening games are as follows:
Sunday Oct. 6; Group 1—
Lyons vs. St Edward’s; Morrissey vs. Corby; Sophomore vs. Badin.
Group 2—
Freshmen vs. Walsh; Carroll vs. Howard; Off-Campus vs. Brownson.
You can “keep up” in your studies as well as engage in college activities if you maintain good physical condition.
Since constipation is the cause of
■■■■■■■■■■■■I most ill-health, it pays to prevent this
widespread evil.
The most popular ready-to -eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Corn Flakes, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krum-bles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
Kellogg’s all-bran is guaranteed to bring prompt and permanent relief from constipation—even in chronic cases. It supplies the system with roughage in generous quantities. Just eat two tablespoonfuls every day. With milk or cream—fruits or honey added. Ask that it be served at your fraternity
HARRIERS IN QUAD MEET, OCTOBER 19
A notable change in the crosscountry schedule was announced today by Coach John P. Nicholson. The schedule, as initially arranged, called for a meet with the Badger harriers of Wisconsin on October 19, to be held at Notre Dame. In place of this dual match, a quadrangular one, bringing together the teams of Wisconsin, Northwestern, Illinois, and Notre Dame, has been arranged. It will be run over the Northwestern course in Evanston on the morning of October 19.
This change in the schedule gives the Gold and Blue harriers an opportunity to match their ability with that of the strongest teams in the
Middle West. It also affords those students who will be in Chicago for the Notre Dame-Wisconsin football game, the chance to see the crosscountry team in action for the first time this season.
The meet will present the team with perhaps its strongest opposition of the season, and a favorable showing in it will mean much toward the later success of the season.
Coach Nicholson has been putting the squad through a stiff workout each day during the past two weeks and the boys are rapidly rounding into shape.
A time trial over a three and one-half mile course was held last Saturday afternoon. Wilson led the squad to the finish line in 19 minutes flat.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
• 89
He was followed by Cavanaugh, Quigley, McConville, Biggins, Miller and Lawler in the order named.
WANT TO ATTEND ARMY GAME VIA AIRPLANE?
TICKETS ONLY $275
All students wishing to spend a week-end in New York City and to
see the Notre Dame-Army game last of Novembei- may do so, if they receive permission, as the Hastings Aero Co. of South Bend is sponsoring a special trip to the metropolis for the price of only §275.00 round trip. This also includes your ticket to the game and hotel bills. Planes will leave South Bend Friday noon, arriving- in New York that evening.
The return trip will be made Sunday noon, returning by way of Philadelphia, Cleveland and Toledo, arriving at the South Bend airport at eight o’clock, allowing the student to be in his place of residence by ten.
The game tomorrow with Indiana will be the Hoosiers’ annual homecoming contest. ■
wunijt/
Non-stop line plunges won an A ll-A merican berth for" Biff” Hoffman of Stanford University. Then it comes to non-stop writing, "Biff” depends on a Parker Duofold.
For
cNon-Stop Writing
These All-American Football Stars, Like All Real Fellows, Depend on Parker Pressureless Touch
Non-Breakable Barrels—24% Greater Ink Capacity—^Guaranteed Forever Against All Defects
R K E, R
Hitch your writing to the star of all pens if you want to be in the same class with the Big Fellows who star in every line of endeavor.
There’s never been another so handsome to carry as black-tipped Parker Duofold—never another so shapely to hold—and none with our 47th Improvement —Press tireless Touch.
It adjusts its flow to the speed of your hand by easing your stroke. It sweeps pen worries out of your mind, so
The headwork which made Howard Harpster of Carnegie Tech, All-American Quarterback isn’t confined to football. He uses good judgment in the classroom too, writes — -via Parker Pressureless Touch.
ffiKumMiKmiwru
|*To prove Parker Duofold is a pen of lifelong perfection, we offer to make good any defect, provided .omplete pen is sent by the owner direct to the factory with 10c for return postage and insurance.
Pencils to match $3 to $5
irr tiHiiCZlUE
your brain has a clear track for thinking.
Do you know that by actual count Parker’s Pressureless Writing now rules throughout America?
A census of pens in 13 technical schools disclosed that Parker leads in popularity 2 to 1. It was voted the favorite by students in 55 colleges. And a nation-wide poll conducted by the Library Bureau proved Parker the prefer-enceby 25%abovethesecond pen,and 48% above thethird.
Step to any good pen counter and select your point. Imitations can’t deceive you if you look for the imprint, “Geo. S. Parker—DUOFOLD.”
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY, Janesville, Wis. Offices and Subsidiaries: New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Buffalo, Dallas, San Francisco.
Tiu^bld^o
90
The Notre Dame Scholastic
T>E prepared now to enjoy all the big games this season. You can’t expect to support your cheering section lustily or enjoy watching that forward pass if you’re getting drenched.
Sawyer’s “Frog Brand” Students’ Slickers have become staple and universally adopted everywhere. The new Sawyer “Forain” Zephyr* weight garments are now accepted as the very latest in wet weather protection for college men and women. Every garment tailored in the most advanced styles and rendered absolutely waterproof and wind* proof by the famous Sawyer process. The Sawyer’s “Forain” street coat weighs only 20 ounces. See these new live models and staple “Frog Brand” slickers at the nearest dealers.
Get Yours—TODAY
HL M. SAWYER & SON
EAST CAMBRIDGE	MASSACHUSETTS
NEW SCREEN GRID SETS
Wholesale Prices
Everything in Radio at Wholesale Prices—New Screes
All-Elcctric Seta-Standard A. CL sets— battery operated sets—
*15S
F
B'	'J

—also an attractive array ofbeautiful conaoles— accessories, parts, kits.
Most complete catalog in radio —196 pages of unusual price values. Write for it today.
Priced
70/
II
j Take Care of Your Feet = I	i
| dr. j. j. McKinney 11	phone 31254	|
1	Registered Podiatrist	| I	1
I (Foot Ailments)	||	Dre. Singler & Probst I
I	t i	DENTISTS	I
; Open Sunday and Evenings ; E	E
s	by Appointment.	E	E	E
:	Phone 2-1840 for Appointment	:	:	E
|	_	j| 261 Associates Bldg. I
5	313 PLATT BUILDING	E	|	f
5	Wayne and Michigan	s s	k	s
J 4
3
*
ALLIED^RADIC

The Notre D am e Scholastic
91
❖ ❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖ ♦ ❖ ❖ ♦ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ♦ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ❖
BY H. A. S. JR.	♦:«
❖ <8* ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖	❖ *5* *J*
Not the least significant feature of last Saturday’s games was the unusual lack of big scores, which major elevens usually pile up against their opponents. Of course . there were a few made, but there were any number of big teams which barely eked out a victory against a small opponent; while others scored two or three touchdowns instead 'of their usual eight or ten. This would seem to indicate that football strength is becoming more and more evenly divided each year.
fl fl fl
Not always are upsets confined to mid-season or later: Springfield surprised by beating Brown, 7-6; and Oglethorpe trimmed the once mighty Georgia eleven, 14-7.
fl fl fl
Cross-country season is at hand, and Coach Nicholson’s charges are looking in the pink; especially a young man by the name of Cavanaugh, who didn’t amount to an awful lot last year, but who surprised last Saturday by placing second to Alec Wilson, blonde Olympian, in the first time trial. A significant feature of this year’s team is that there isn’t a single senior on the team, which augers well for next season.
fl fl fl	•
Al Marsters, captain of the Dartmouth football team this year, and sometime the Green Ghost, ran on a straight line some sixty or seventy yards along the sideline to score against Yale two years ago, using only a change of pace to leave half the Yale team grabbing- air.
fl fl fl
, Fall track is in full swing, and it is significant that some of the men out are already talking about beating Illinois. It would be well to remember that the Illini have never bowed to a Notre Dame track team. Incidentally, prospects are brighter this year than they have been in some time.
fl fl fl
Another thing which makes this season different from any of its predecessors, is the number of big games being played early. Notre Dame-Indiana, Wisconsin-Colgate, U. S. C.-Oregon State, Nebraska-Southern Methodist, and Illinois-Kansas are a few of the tougher games being played tomorrow. Then, too, the Stanford-Oregon game will be no quilting party.
fl fl fl
Sharkey’s quick and more or less decisive defeat of Loughran was unlooked for and in the nature of a surprise ; and it only goes to prove that Sharkey is possibly the greatest in-and-outer of boxing history. But the idea persists in my mind that an element of luck entered into it; it would not be the first time that an inferior boxer landed a hay-maker on a better fighting man. Others will say that Loughran just stepped out of his class, and will point to the precedent of Jack Delaney, another really good light-heavy, not faring so well in heavyweight ranks; but, nevertheless, our money will be on Loughran should there be a return bout between the two.
-	fl fl fl
In the third of a series of lectures given at Columbia University, Tad Jones, former Yale coach, said that the merits of the balanced line and hackfield were being overlooked in the craze for deception.
KUPPENHEIMER I
G OOP CLOTHES J
Livingston’s |
Guessing Contest |
Now On I
I Stop in and make your guess । j on the next Notre Dame I ! Football Game I
$25.00 in Merchandise Free i to the right guessers i
(No purchase necessary.)	=
| G 0 0 D C L 0 THE S I | FOR UNIVERSITY MEN | I*laatiataaaaaaaaatttaiaaataataaaaaatiitnaaatttataaaittttltltaaaatatiunitttitiltttttttttitttttaaaiatltaaaaaatttiatatf^

92	.	The Notre
%
^^iitinminmimntnnmitnnmimmnninnmni min timmt mi iiiiiiitiniiiiiitittnnmmiimif^
j	HELLO MEN!	|
| SMITH’S CAFETERIA |
=	111 East Jefferson Boulevard	=
Dame Scholastic
g|itnitnninnmiintiiininiinmitiiinnniininiiinniimitinnnnniininitiniininimniitmiin|a|
|	Prof. Charles Phillips	j
E	of the English Department	=
j	Knute Rockne	j
=	Director of Athletics	E
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
-= WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
| SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
1	West Washington Ave.
^Lmnnninniiinninnintnii.mu ................ilium]
{•pmittmmiiittniiiitittiniimmimitiiiimiiinminnmimininiiiuintiiitnmiiiiinmntnniii
I THE SOUTH BEND j CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
=	—0—
j First National
I	Bank
e	—o—
j INVITES THE ACCOUNTS
|	OF NOTRE DAME MEN
|	—o—
=	204 North Michigan Street
Qaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaal
1	Two Notre Dame
1	men whose articles
E	appear exclusively
E	in
I	THE
I NEWS - TIMES
=	“First in Sports”
Qnitmtitniinmiiiminmnniinnminnnimniiniiniiinintiiniiinnimttnnnnniiitiiiiiinnii
Q^nitintmt num iiinniiniinmitniiitiiinnmiintnitiiint mini tintnnntiniiniinmuiiiitimiQ
! For school supplies i
1	and	I
i appropriate reading material | j	patronize	|
| The Book Shop |
|	119 North Michigan St.	|
^nuninniiinnimmimmiiiniininmiiminunnitniiiminimimniiiiiininiiiiiitnimiiunn^^
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
93
Ki
||
«!
&
&
?3
i
Recommended by the English Department of the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE
The Best Abridged Dictionary—
It is based upon
Webster’s
New International
A Short Cut to Accurate In-formation—here is a companion for your hours of reading and study that will prove its real value every time you consult it. A wealth of ready TlgBKBBSBSSSBBlBBB& information on words, persons, places, is vB^BBB&BSSI^EB^Ba instantlyyours. 106,000 words with definitions, etymologies, pronunciations and use in its 1,256 pages. 1,700 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography and	-j-sstf
other special features. Printed on Bible paper. ^05^
See It at Your College Bookstore or Write for
Information to the Publishers. Free specimen pages if you name this paper.
G. & C. MERRIAM COMPANY Springfield, Mass.

11
""....0
Where Notre Dame Men Meet
“Always in the Croivd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili
Hot
Tamale
Ice Cream
Candy
Delicious Malted Milks KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG 327 North Michigan Street
I	|	CAMPUS	TOGS	J	I
E	E	A Regular He-Man Outfit can be found at this	E	E
E	E	store at Prices That Please.	E	=
i	!	CORDUROY PANTS—Cream, Brown, Tan,	1	I
E	1	Red$2.50 to $3.85	1	|
I	j	DOUBLE SOLED ARMY FIELD SHOES,	1	!
=	E	with riveted vamps$3.85	E	=
E	=	SWEATERS—Coat style, Curl oi' V neck—	E	E
E E	$2.85 and up e	E
I	|	GILBRO’S	I	I
E	' |	FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE	E	E
E	|	330 South Michigan Street	E	=
NEW BOOKS IN UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
The following is a list of hooks which have been added to the University library and may prove to be of interest to the members of the faculty and students:
Philosophy—W. B. Pillsbury, “The History of Psychology.”
Religion—Rev. Karl Adam, “The Spirit of Catholicism”; J. J. Harbrecht, “The Lay Apostolate.”
Sociology—Frank Gallagher, “Days of Fear”; T. F. MacManus, “Men, Money, and Motors.”	•
Education—B. H. Bode, “Conflicting Psychologies of Learning.”
Literature—St. J. G. Ervine, “Jane Clegg,” and “John Ferguson”; C. G. H. Japikse, “The Dramas of Alfred Lord Tennyson”; Brander Matthews, “Essays on English”; G. C. D. Odell, “Shakespeare From Betterton to Irving”; D. L. Sayers, “The Unpleasantness of The Bellona Club”; R. C. Sherriff, “Journey’s End”; S. C. Stimson, “The Farm” and “The Trench Lad”; A. H. Thorndike, “Tragedy”; C. E. Vaughan, “Types of Tragic Drama”; E. B. Watson, “Sheridan to Robertson”; Margaret Yeo, “A King of Shadows.”
Applied Science—H. S. Dimock, “Camping and Character”; J. J. Walsh, “Histoi-y of Nursing”; R. F. Yates, “A. B. C. of Television.”
Bibliography — Fitzhugh Green, “The Romance of Modern Exploration”; W. A. King, “Elementary School Library.”
“MOVIES” ON OCTOBER -5th
Washington Hall will be open for entertainments by October 5th, according to the University officials. Since the beginning of the school year, and for some weeks previous, the hall has been going through a process of reconstruction.
For the benefit of the new students at Notre Dame, it might be well to state that Washington Hall is the University auditorium. It is here that on nearly every Friday or Saturday “movies” are given for the benefit of the students; and the first “movie” to be shown during the fall session will be on Saturday, October 5th.
Here addresses and lectures are given by distinguished speakers; concerts are presented by the glee club, band, and orchestra of the University, in addition to a series of concerts given by traveling artists and interuniversity debates are held.
94
The Notre Dame Scholastic
E"
THE OLIVER BARBER SHOP A. M. MYERS, Prop.
THE N. D. MAN’S FLORIST SHOP
0
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
COMPLETE, COURTEOUS
Floioers Telegraphed Anywhere on Short Notice.
205 W. Washington Avenue THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE. TELEPHONE 3-5149
...............................    tiitiiiiiiiiiiiiniQ
GEORGE L. MILLER	|
103 North Main Street	|
South Bend, Indiana	|
We take pleasure in introducing to Notre Dame Men the most famous of all Irish pipes, the “Peterson Pipe.” $5 and up
IMPORTED and DOMESTIC MBITS WEAR f
taiiitiiiiiitaimimniiiiidiiiitiiutiiiiiiiiiiHtiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiimiiiiiiiiimitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiutiiiiQ]
(■jidHUdddddmddHidddnnnnndUdndHddUtiidUdiddiuddiiifiniHdu
1 SODAS	PAPERS
I	UNIVERSITY	I
|	CAFETERIA	|
i	—and—	e
i Soda Grill |
1	DAILY SPECIALS	|
I	Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.	i
I CIGARS	CIGARETTES j
uni tin aaaaaa aiiaaiiaaaaaiaaaaaaaiaaaaaiaaaaaiaaaaaaaaiiiiaaiaiiaiaaaaaaaiuaiaaiaiiaaanaiiaira]
The
Notre Dame Scholastic
95
SQUAD OF FORTY MAKES INDIANA TRIP
The Notre Dame varsity, forty strong, accompanied by Coach K. K. Rockne, Assistant Coaches Leib and Chevigny, and Student Managers Quinn and Conroy left this morning for Indianapolis via the Pennsylvania railroad. The team will spend tonight in Indianapolis, leaving- for Bloomington tomorrow morning.
Benard J. Conroy
Entire details for the Indiana trip were arranged by the student managers, John Quinn and Bernard Conroy. These two men will handle all arrangements for further trips and accommodations throughout the season.
The players making the trip were: Moynihan, Nash, Yarr, Law, Cannon, Bondi, Metzger, Kasscis, Leahy, Twomey, Donoghue, Culver, McMamnon, Colriek, Vezie, Collins, Murphy, Conley, O’Brien, Vik, Kergis, Carideo, Gebert, Keneally, Elder, B. Leahy, O’Connor, Brill, Schwartz, Kaplan, Koken, Mullins, Savoldi, Shea, Locke, McNamara, Christman, and Cronin.
RAMBLERS MEET INDIANA IN 14TH GRIDIRON EPIC Rockne’s Ramblers -will not be strangers when they plow up the turf at Bloomington tomorrow afternoon in Notre Dames’ first gridiron clash of the 1929 season. The last game played between these two formidable elevens—Indiana being a potential candidate for Big Ten honors, and Notre Dame, laying strong siege to the Midwestern if not National Honors—was played in 1927 when Pat Page’s Scrappin’ Hoosiers just .didn’t scrap hard enough—as the final score was 19-6 in favor of Notre Dame’s fighting eleven.
Over a period of 30 years the downstaters have met the Blue and Gold on the gridiron 13 times. The Hoosiers have won three, and the Irish nine. One game resulted in a tie.
Ready-made And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY STYLES. TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT
Charter h erase
L	Suits $40, s45, S5O Overcoats .
OUR STORE IS THE
Charterhouse
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
The character of the suits and overcoats tailored by Charter House will earn your most sincere liking.
MAX ADLER
Inc.
On the Corner Michigan and Washington —
BEAUTIFUL ALAMAC CARDS MAKE SELLING A PLEASURE
Selling ALAMAC Christmas Greeting Cairds is an easy, pleasant way for college men to make money. This distin- . guished line opens every desirable door.
Intelligent selling plan, sample hook of ■ personal cards and dollar box assortment start you off to Christmas profits.
FREE SAMPLES.
The Alamac Compant yNewloRK
Dept. CW—6 Varick Street—New York
96
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The seat	won’t seem so
hard at the end of the session when you’re energized by a breakfast off shredded wheat. The vital ffood elements, vitamins, proteins, carbohydrates, mineral salts, bran—all answer “present” in Shredded Wheats? EAT IT WITH WHOLE MILK
SUPERNAL PEARL AND BLACK
Identify a Conklin Endura by annular lines in contrasting color on cap and barrel
of the college mode in writing equipment is this new Conk-
TOLEDO, OHIO New York - Chicago San Francisco
Black pen. Priced at $6 and $8. Pencils to match $4 and $4.50—and worth it. Other Conklin Enduras that can qualify for any fraternity $5 and $7. Pencils $3.50 and $4. In ultra-up-to-date color combinations.
Not obtainable in static stores.
PENS—PENCILS—SETS DESK SETS—LEADS
SERVICE DNCONDHICNAUY AND PERPETUALLY GUARANTEED
| On Down the Line ❖ I 111111 1111111111111
. . . Pitt’s Panthers received their name from- Panther Hollow ... a ravine near the campus . . . Willie Kamm of Chi Sox is ranked as leading third sackei- . . . this is his fifth season as leader . . . Coach Stagg has adopted unique system . . . Gives new formation each day . . . practices it repeatedly until perfect . . . Longest home run on record smacked by Roy Carlyle . . . 618 feet it traveled . . . Carlyle is member of Oakland Club in Pacific Coast League . . .
. . . 500 fans viewed the exchampion Yankees other day . . . How the mighty can fall . . . Dick Frank-ensteen, tackle on Dayton U. Flyers, weighed 230 pounds at opening of practice session . . . afterwards he dropped to 205 . . . Kid Chocolate, Cuban bantamweight, has knocked out two men in one week . . . that’s happened four times . . . Tulane University has the only flying football captain in U. S. . . . Bill Banker is also instructor in department of aeronautics there . . .
. . . America won the Davis cup seven times in a row . then France won it in-1927 . . . Cleveland Indians are keeping their eye on the New Orleans Pelicans . . . they have taken seven of the Southerners this year . . . Nick Altrock is paid more now as a clown . . . than when he was still a pitcher . . . Babe Ruth averages pay of more than $450 for only one game . . . Pittsburgh Phil Smith was a “plunger” by trade ... He is only gambler who beat the horse racing game . . . Died in possession of over two million . . .
. . . School children of New York City are creating a $500,000 Public School Athletic fund ... by contributing a penny apiece . . . brush up your math on that one . . . Tommy Loughran, he who made the “Flippity Flop” a success last week, has been fighting ten years . . . appeared in 120 bouts . . . one per month for the decade . . . Forest Berry pitches for Port Royal, Kentucky . . . He drew back his arm to deliver a fast one . . . The arm snapped at the elbow with the terrific strain . . . The football teams started their slaughter in earnest last week . . . John Carroll of Cleveland drowned Valparaiso . . . 90 to 0 is all . . .
The Notre Dame Scholastic
97
ALLIGATOR
REC. US. PAT. OFF.
Let rain, wind or chill sweep the field—you’re dry and warm. Smartly dressed, too I Expertly styled in a wide range of distinctive colors. For men and women, 87.50 to 825. THE ALLIGATOR COMPANY, St. Louis
New! ALLIGATOR STEPPERS
(Pat. App. for)
Protect trouser legs—all colors to match all coats.
-	82 and 83.50 a pair
Ask to see them
KEEP DRY FROM HEAD TO FOOT
98
The Notre Dame Scholastic
On To
Wisconsin!
October 19th
South hore
Interurban Lines
Express trains for Notre Dame students leave every half hour from South Bend direct to Soldiers Field
$3.65 round trip (Return Saturday) •
$4.25 (week end rate) Friday to Saturday
Tbe Notre Dame Scholastic	99
UNIVERSITY MEN
You get the date We’ll supply the Tuxedo
The “Cotillion” of Charm
Palais Roy ale, Friday, October 25th
Now that the social season has opened— and formal affairs will be more frequent, young men are finding it quite necessary to make room in their wardrobes for a formal suit.
Get ready now with a tuxedo of charm, dignity, of real university style, the kind . that gives you a smart, snappy appearance. The newest styles are first to be seen here!
(The price is modest).
others at $50. ■
JuhtingdoM
KUPPENHEIMER

100
The Notre Dame Scholastic
for campus wear
wool college jackets
of navy blue .... $6.00 corduroy trousers
light tan and brown .	5.00
sweaters
the popular pullovers .	6.00
trench coats
with fall belt .... 10.00 hobbs caps . . . .' . . 3.00 N. D. belts — monogram
buckle and belt . . . 2.00 leather coats
black and brown . . 10.00 slickers — yellow,
brown and black . . . 7.50
• i ■ pennants . .	.	.	.	. .	1.00
memory books	.	.	.	. .	3.00
football blankets .... 13.50
adler brothers