
JflNUORV
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
January 18.1957
13 14
18 19
is
16
31
30
POTB^Sl^^
<55

9 io
is always good company
T 4
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO..WINSTON-SALLM. N.C.
Enjoy a finer filter cigarette 1
R R
WINSTON
TASTES GOOD/
like a cigarette should/

The moment you touch a match to your first Winston, you’ll know why it’s so popular! Here’s real flavor, rich and full. And here’s a real filter, too — a filter that does its job so well the flavor really comes through to you.
Enjoy finer filter smoking. Switch to Winston.
Switch to WHHSTOH America's best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!
| 'HSESHSiHSB5HSES2SESHSH52S2SBSH5E5HSZS2SHSHS2S2SESESB5BSB5il525HSBSB52525E5H5B525H5H5E5HSB52S25H5H5Z5HSH5E5H5H5B5HSB
MAKE
BURROUGHS
APPOINTMENT
NOW!
CORPORATION
a worldwide leader in the manufacture of business machines, electronic computers, data processing systems and other electronic equipment for both industry and defense ...
Burroughs
WILL OFFER YOU EXCEPTIONAL CAREER OPPORTUNITIES HERE ON
FEB. 11,1957
See or phone your college placement office now for your appointment.
Engineers
Exceptional opportunities for men with a BS, MS or PhD in Ind. Eng., ME, EE, Chem. Eng., Math or Physics. At Burroughs Corporation, you start on the work for which you’re trained— no getting lost in the shuffle. You work on some of today’s most challenging problems in ballistic missiles, electronics, computation, data processing, optics, magnetics, communications and electro mechanical equipment. Full program of activities for government, defense, business and industry. Fine starting salary. Realistic promotion-from-within policy.
A ccounting and Finance
Growth opportunities for men in Business Administration and allied fields. Burroughs Corporation offers you positions leading to a topflight career in Corporate Accounting, Financial Planning and Control, Distribution, Cost Accounting and Analysis, Manufacturing Accounting, General Auditing, or Methods and Procedures. Good starting salary. Plenty of chance to know the corporation inside out, from every point of view. If you want to start as a traveling auditor, you can see the country, too. And promotions come fast because we’re expanding fast.

January 18, 1957
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
THERE’S A CHANCE
TO GROW
WITH B&W
SEE YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICER FOR THE INTERVIEW THAT OPENS YOUR WAY TO A BRIGHT CAREER
WITH
BABCOCK & WILCOX
ON FEBRUARY 5. 1957
Vol. 98 January 18, 1957 No. 1311
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, . Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of; postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized' June 23, 1918.
Charles McKendrick
Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DEMEES	BOILER DIVISION	TUBULAR PRODUCTS DIVISION	RBRACTOR1ES DIVISION	ATOMIC BCRGY DIVISION	RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Mechanical Engineering	X	X	X	X	X
Ceramics Engineering			X		X
Chemical Engineering	X		X	X	X
Civil Engineering	X			X	
Electrical Engineering	X			X	
Engineering Physicists				X	X
Physicists				X	X
Fuel Technologists	X				X
Industrial Engineering	X	X		X	
Metallurgical Engineering	X	X		X	X
Metallurgists	X	X		X	X
Business Administration and Engineering	X			X	
Chemists				X	X
Nuclear Engineering				X	X
Mathematics	X			X	X
DAVE THOMPSON Associate Editor
JIM STEINTRAGER ........  News	Editor
JAMES McDonald ..........Copy Editor •
DAVID KUBAL .........Feature Co-Editofc JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS......Assistant News
JIM DULAN ........... Assistant	News	;
BOB VONDRASEK........Assistant News
HARRY McKEE...........Assistant Copy	■
MARSH PIDGEON.........Assistant Copy	1
DON STUHLDREHER—.Circulation Mgr. HARRY CONLON ............Business Mgr.	?
JOHN GLAVIN....................Sports	Editofc
BOB EARLY.............Assistant Sports	t
MIKE FITZPATRICK ......Assistant Sports ;;
Background in any of the fields listed in the left-hand column is all you need to begin your career with B&W. Check the activities you want to talk about with the B&W representative when he’s on your campus. He’ll be glad to see you... and you’ll be glad you talked to him.
News Staff: Tom Banchoff, Mark Bradley, Jack Coughlin, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, David Karnath, Bob LaMontagne, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Jerry Leppek, Jim : Naughton, John O’Hara, Ed Plumly, Walt Rudge, Dave Schwartz, Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Bob Williams, Jim Yoch.	£
Sports Staff : Pat Defoe, Jim Goethal^ ‘ Jack Grady, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg? Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson,^? Doug Zilliox.	J
Sports Features: Joe Bride, Tom Ed-F wards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon. ?
aucocjr ‘Wicox
161 East 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, As- if sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., gf 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during tiwV? school year, except during vacation and examina®. ,' tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-^.. dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre^; Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per vear. Sinele copies 25c.
---------------------------------------...g
ON THE COVER Ivan Osorio agoin g gains the SCHOLASTIC cover as he| depicts the Pre-Exam panic of most’
The Scholastic | r J
a

big bad doll
•. MV.'
american core
A few weeks ago one of the more populai’ television /Ji documentary programs reviewed a situation that has received considerable notice on the American scene.
The program presented a filmed report of the attempt to integrate Negro and white students in the public schools of Clinton, Tennessee. More specifically, however, it reported on the reaction to that attempt and the conduct of the citizenship of Clinton after being provoked by one John Kaster, a rabble-rousing white supremacist.
It is almost unbelievable, in this day and age in the ^United States, that demagogues, like Kaster would be able to go unknown into a community and incite ordinarily peaceful people to irrational violence and hatred. But he did this and he did it effectively.
Kaster was filmed in action as he preached his doctrine in another city. His tactics were simple enough; he didn’t try to impress his audience with abstract principles but merely waved a photograph of a Negro soldier kissing a white girl.
“It ain’t right,” he told his rapt and seething listeners, - “and it’s all that integration means.”
• He told them that they, the simple folk, the “hillbillies,” were the core of American society and that it was up to them to stop this corruption of their way of life.
In Clinton, Kaster had excited these staunch Americans to threatening the lives of teachers and the head of the school system and mauling a clergyman who had escorted Negro children to school. The state militia and the FBI finally moved in to restore order.
Kaster’s preaching had appealed to the logical minds of these Americans. One hillbilly (Kaster’s own term) who ijlvas interviewed declared that he saw a telling similarity in the U. S. Supreme Court and the ruling arm of the Communist party, since each is composed of nine members.
Of course these people are not the representative Americans Kaster appraised them to be. At least they are not when violence and hatred have distorted their reason. Nor are they typical of a geographical area, for prejudice has been common in Chicago and San Francisco as well as in Clinton, Tennessee. But they are a product of a dying sjra in American history which cannot hope to recover, has been superseded by an age which dictates the absolute necessity for humanity among men.
Evidence of this new era awareness was offered in the opinion of a Clinton high school student. He didn’t favor
y integration, but he said that he accepted it because he knew it was right. It is a credit to the much maligned youth of America that they seem to have a keener appreciation « of justice than have some of their parents’ generation.
£ 9	-J. N.
F
[ January 18, 1957
£xam week hardly seems like the appropriate time to be writing a few words about a motion picture. However, there is a movie now showing at the Avon theater which should not go by unnoticed. As most know by now it is the Hollywood version of Tennessee Williams’ “Babv Doll.”	'
The film is the story of Mississippi “po’ white trash,” and is intended to be a character study of several individuals in that area. Baby Doll is a young girl who is married off to a cotton gin owner when she is 19 years old. The story itself revolves around her husband’s struggle with a cotton ginning syndicate, and the seduction of Baby Doll by the manager of the syndicate, o	*
Not having seen the film, I am in no position to judge its artistic worth. But there are several things I would like to comment upon regarding the prudence of Notre Dame students viewing the picture at the Avon.
First of all, “Baby Doll” has been banned for all Catholics of the New York area under pain of mortal sin by Francis Cardinal Spellman. A number of other Catholic bishops throughout the nation have imposed similar restrictions.
To the Catholic college student, who is expected to be at least semi-educated, these warnings should not be accepted as license for viewing the movie at first chance merely out of spiteful motives. To the student at Notre Dame, one who should be trained in resisting the occasions of sin, these statements should serve as a stop order toward seeing “Baby Doll.”
Secondly, the Notre Dame student must keep in mind that his attendance at the show could give rise to scandal for those South Bend residents who see him there. In this area Notre Dame is a separate society. Its representatives, the student body, are expected to put into practice the truths, both scholastic and moral, which thy have been taught at the University. Logically then, the people of South Bend would be right in assuming that the University has given approval to “Baby Doll” if hundreds of students pour into the Avon each night. They would also have grounds for believing that the University was falling down in its efforts to develop its students’ morals.
Lastly, I would like to comment on the stealthy manner in which the picture was introduced by the management of the Avon. No advance publicity was released. Pastors did not have opportunity to warn their congregations from the pulpit this past Sunday. The same sensuous advertisement was run in the South Bend Tribune starting on Tuesday. However, this is not the first time the Avon has shown objectionable movies. “The Moon Is Blue” and “I Am A Camera” were exhibited there also.
Again, let me urge all students to pass up “Baby Doll” both in South Bend and at home. However, for those whose moral fiber is too weak to resist, please leave your Notre Dame jacket in the closet.
—C. McK.
5
THE 'IVY LEAGUE' SPORT COAT
A campus favorite all over America, you’ll find a huge selection of these smart, comfortable jackets at your Campus Shop. Styled with soft, natural shoulders, less padding, 3 buttons, narrower lapels, tapered sleeves. In a wide choice of rich, exclusive fabrics. Perfect for classroom wear or any informal occasion where you want to look your best—be comfortable. See them tomorrow!
^GILBERT'S;
^^ampug^ho^Y
On the Campus—Notre Dame
The Scholastic
PAY
1 3
MAY
PAY
1 3
JULY
CHARGE IT. THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
Enjoy the clothes now that you expected to buy with the money you earn next summer. Just charge them the Campus Shop way. Yes, you can buy now and pay nothing until next May. In May you pay one-third, pay one-third in June, and the balance in July. Use this convenient charge account to buy all of your clothing needs. No carrying charge, of course.
DRESS RIGHT . . . You can't afford not to!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
1
Wolford wants to know:
How often does Du Pont
transfer technical
men?
Fred V. Wolford receives his B.S. in Chemical Engineering from the University of Texas in January 1957. “Van” is a member of the Southwestern Rocket Society, Canterbury Club, and local VicePresident of A. I. Ch. E. Like all students, he’s interested in finding out about the best opportunities offered in his profession.
answers:
Edward H. Berg received his B.S. Ch. E. from Cornell in 1944 and served as an Engineering Officer on destroyer duty until 1946. Since coming with Du Pont, he has worked at New Jersey plants as a Field Supervisor in Du Pont’s Engineering Service Division. Ed was recently transferred to Du Pont’s Design Division to further round out his professional development.
likely to be more transfers in production and sales, fewer in research.
But one thing is certain. Du Pont transfers are always purposeful. The majority are a natural result of Du Pont’s continued growth and expansion. And they invariably represent opportunity for further professional development.
We’ve just completed a study on that subject, Van, so I can speak with some authority.
Using technical graduates who came with Du Pont in 1949 as a base, we found these men averaged 1.7 transfers of location in 7 years. We frequently shift men from one assignment to another at the same location, to broaden them professionally. But it’s interesting to note that 38% of those surveyed had not changed their location of employment at all.
Changes of work location depend a little on the type of work a man enters. For instance, there are
Additional employment information is given in “Chemical Engineers at Du Pont.” This booklet describes in detail the work and responsibilities of chemical engineers who work at Du Pont. Write for your free copy to the Du Pont Company, 2507C Nemours Bldg., Wilmington 98, Del.
’EC. U.S. PAT OFF
BETTER THINGS FOK BETTER LIVING. . . THROUGH CHCM/SW
Walch “Du Pont Theater" on Television
The Scholastic
e
by Bryan Woods
Zicapa
yuletide in
south bend
Things you will never read in any newspaper.
2,000 N.D. STUDENTS
B WILL STAY AT SCHOOL OVER HOLIDAYS
In a move that is absolutely unprecedented, 2,000 underclassmen at the University of Notre Dame informed University officials that they planned to stay at the school over the three-week Christmas vacation. They said that they have made up their minds and would not ^consider changing them. This paper sent a reporter to cover the story and to interview some of the students who are taking part in this movement. Below are some of the comments he received:
John Kuhn, senior, said, “In my case it’s the food. After eating at the dining hall for over three years I don’t think I could stand to eat the stuff my mother cooks at home.”
Pat Hughes, junior, had another rea-j^son: “In my case it’s the climate. Back in California it’d be the same old warm sunshiny, spring-like weather. After all, the best part of the St. Joe valley weather has just started to arrive. How could anyone want to leave?”
John McGinley, also a junior, says, “They told me there was no Santa Claus. I feel crushed. Life has lost all meaning. ^1 don’t think I could face my family ^knowing they’ve been deceiving me all these years.”
Terry Lamb, sophomore, said, “Don’t you know that exams will be here in a month. I’m in commerce and you know what that means. I have to start cramming right now, and I can’t be bothered with dates, parties, and all that foolish-j|ness. I’ll stay right here.”
Frank Spiering, freshman, explained, “In my case it’s very simple. I don’t expect to finish pre-registering for at least three weeks.”
Bob Landry, junior, went into more detail. “My reasons have to do with the social life around here. After the wild parties I’ve become accustomed to at Notre Dame, I am sure that I would be bored silly having to spend three whole weeks in a jerkwater place like New York. This South Bend night life really grows on you, believe me.”
Tommy O’Brien, junior, put it this way. “I’m in army ROTC and it’s my ambition to be the best cadet ever. I’ve noticed lately that my drilling is a little sloppy. By staying here I will have the field house to myself and can practice to my heart’s content. That means more to me than any vacation.”
In the same military vein, Jack Kirchner, senior, told us, “I’m a marine and marines are tough. None of this pogey-bait holiday stuff for me. I’ll spend my time hiking to Mishawaka and back every day. That’s my idea of a vacation.”
Chris Walsh, sophomore, put it neatly: “I haven’t ever slept in a sack quite like the one they gave me here. That’s reason enough for me.”
Here’s what Tiny Ryan, a junior, said: “Look, it’s like this. I stay here and I get to bed at ten at night. I’m leading a healthy, relaxed life. If I go home, I’ll stay out late all the time, go out with girls, drink beer, drive around, and all that stuff. I like it right here.”
REGISTRATION BLUES
You say you’re having a hard time figuring out the new system of preregistration and registration. Don’t
worry, there are a few other people with the same problem. Really though, it’s not that hard. All you need is a little thought and the use of an IBM calculator. Most of the talk about guys collapsing from starvation as they come up to the counter, or being found walking from the Main Building to O’Shaughnessy and back again in their sleep at three and four in the morning are exaggerated. Those are unusual cases and not at all the general rule.
As a matter of fact if you are willing to put in a normal eight or nine-hour day, you can register without any complications. Unless of course one oi* more of your courses is filled, which means another day, but then you probably aren’t very busy this time of the year anyway. If you are like me you probably don’t have more than five or six papers due before tests start.
The thing to do is look at the brighter side of the thing for a minute. First of all, what’s so bad about spending a day in line. Think of the interesting people you will have a chance to meet. Chances are a Notre Dame version of the Canterbury Tales might come out of the whole thing. Another thing, when you pick up your class cards you get a whole sheet of S&H Green Stamps as a special bonus.
Then, too, the new system is a test of youi* intelligence and nervous stability. I hear it was inspired by the famous experiments with white rats and mazes. It has even been suggested that it be given to incoming freshmen instead of the usual College Boards and entrance, exams. If they got through it okay, they would certainly be college material.
As for the exam and registration schedule, what will you ever do with the whole five-day weekend?
January 18, 1957
9
a
£
for the graduating E. E. and M. E.
A JACK & HEINTZ REPRESENTATIVE
WILL BE ON CAMPUS
MONDAY. FEBRUARY 4
Check your placement office NOW for complete information concerning interview time and place
Jack & Heintz:
An internationally known designer and manufacturer of electric systems and components for aircraft and missiles: also a leader in the development of customized electric motors to meet special industrial and commercial needs.
Openings:
Excellent opportunities now open to electrical and mechanical engineers in:
• RESEARCH
• DESIGN
• DEVELOPMENT • MANUFACTURING
• SALES
• FIELD SERVICE
£ S' r
z
52-week rotational program to acquaint engineers with all J&H operations . . . engineering, manufacturing. sales and service.
Subsidized Advanced Study:
Jack & Heintz pays for study toward advanced degrees which can be won at such nationally known technical schools as the Case Institute of Technology and Fenn College, both within a few miles of Jack & Heintz.

Special Opportunities:
J&H also has need for a limited number of men with majors in aeronautics, industrial engineering, engineering administration, accounting and industrial management.


ACT NOW'
Contact your placement office for a Jack & Heintz Interview!

10
The Scholastic
SoMpMi Scent
FR. HESBURGH WILL LAUNCH • MARRIAGE INSTITUTE FEB. 5
ND President to Talk on 'Selecting the Partner1; Lecture Series to Continue for Six-Week Period
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, will deliver the opening lecture of the 1957 Marriage Institute on the evening of Feb. 5. His talk, scheduled for 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall, will be: “Selecting the Marriage Partner.” After the lecture there will be a question and answer period. Later, a coffee hour will be held in the Rathskeller of the LaFortune Student Center, and books on marriage will be offered for sale.
Tickets for the series of lectures, which are open only to seniors and graduate students, will be sold on Jan. 29 in the Dining Hall and the bus shelter. Cost of the tickets for the series of six lectures is $1.
The Marriage Institute, now in its sixth year, will consist of a series of weekly lectures, beginning Feb. 5 and ending March 12. Father Hesburgh’s talk concerns preliminaries to marriage; _ the remaining lectures center on living & in marriage.
The second lecture, Feb. 12, will be on “How the Man and Woman Look at Marriage,” by Mr. and Mrs. David Matthews of South Bend. On Feb. 18, Rev.
Unity Octave Services Open In Dillon Hall Chapel Today
; & This afternoon at 5:15 in Dillon Hall ; Chapel, Benediction and special prayers will be held in observance of the Church
, Unity Octave, according to Tom Kristo? peit, Student Senate spiritual commissi sioner.
3 Services will be held every afternoon ? of the Octave, through Jan. 25, and will last for about 15 minutes. Between sing-■ ing of the O Salutaris and Tantum Ergo, special prayers for all branches of Christianity under the Pope in Rome will be offered.
The Church Unity Octave begins on the feast of St. Peter’s Chair at Rome. Each year, observance of the Octave is held at Notre Dame, with arrangements ; for the services being made by the Sen; ♦ate spiritual commission.
Arthur Maloche, from Canada, will speak on “The Image of the Trinity in Sanctity, Sanity, and Sex.”
Dr. Louis B. Leone, of Chicago, will speak on Feb. 26 on “The Doctor’s Viewpoint,” followed on March 6 by Mr. and Mrs. Charles Strubbe, also of Chicago, speaking on “Unity Through Love.” Mr. and Mrs. John Clark, also of Chicago, will conclude the series on March 12 when they will speak on children.
Father Hesburgh in his lecture opening the series will draw on his past experience in teaching a marriage course at Notre Dame and his service as Vet-ville chaplain.
During his studies and teaching, Father Hesburgh has specialized in the subjects of Christian marriage, Catholic Action, and in the theology of the modern period of the Church.
Father Hesburgh was ordained a priest in the Sacred Heart Church on June 24, 1943. Following his ordination, he continued his study of sacred theology at the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., receiving his doctorate in 1945.
While in the nation’s capital, Father Hesburgh served as chaplain at the National Training School for Boys and as auxiliary chaplain at nearby Fort Myer, Va. His interest in servicemen and veterans led to his appointment as chaplain to the married veterans and their families when he returned to the Notre Dame campus in 1945. He was named head of the department of religion in 1948 and was appointed executive vicepresident of the University in 1949.
‘SCHOLASTIC’ REPORTERS
Any student interested in writing news stories for the SCHOLASTIC during the coming semester may attend the regular staff meeting on Wednesday evening, Jan. 30.
The meeting will be held in the new SCHOLASTIC offices on the second floor of the LaFortune Student Center at 6:45 p.m.
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH “On selecting a partner.”
K. of C. to Hold Initiation | For 45 New Members
The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus has scheduled a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn foi- Sunday, Feb. 3, following the 8 aan. Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Some 150 members, guests, and candidates for admission into the order are expected to attend.
William McGowan, deputy grand knight of the Council, announced that John Rocap, from Indianapolis, Ind., a member of the Supreme Board of Directors, will be the main speaker at the affair.
Later in the day, 45 candidates will be initiated into the K. of C. at ceremonies in Mishawaka. The new membership drive for the second semester will begin on Feb. 8, according to Bob Porst, the Council’s membership chairman. Students interested in joining the K. of C. can contact Porst after Feb. 8 at the Council offices in the basement of Walsh Hall any weekday from 3:30 to 5 p.m.
McGowan also announced the appointment of two new officers. Fred Freeman, a member of the University personnel department, was recently appointed by the Supreme Council as financial secretary. Freeman succeeds Charles Petretic who resigned last December. Jim Gormley, a senior business administration major from Indianapolis, Ind., is the new Council activities chairman, taking over from Charles Grace who was recently elected president of the Commerce Forum.	.
January 18, 1957
11
AT THE “CAROUSEL”
Sue Brown, Sue Hacker, Bob Vranken, and Ann Hurley
'Carousel* Rehearsals Reach Final Stages; St. Mary's Musical Scheduled for Feb. 6-10
The St. Mary’s College production of the musical play, Carousel, which will be presented in the new O’Laughlin Auditorium Feb. G through 10, has now reached the final stages of preparation. A number of run-through rehearsals are planned after semester exams to ready the musical for final presentation.
The Rodgers and Hammerstein musical will mark the first theatrical production in the new O’Laughlin auditorium.
Carousel, a Broadway success on three different occasions is currently a highly acclaimed movie starring Gordon MacRae and Shirley Jones.
It is the story of Billy Bigelow, a carousel barker, and Julie Jordan, a
Monthly Winners Announced In Master Point Bridge Meet
The monthly Master Point bridge session was held last Sunday in the LaFor-tune Student Center with Tom Lee and Bob Vondrasek the north-south winners and the team of Brian Moran and Lou Stettler east-west victors.
Runners-up in north-south play were Frank Geremia and Dave Roberts while the team of Pat Bradford and Bob Var-diman took second place in east-west competition.
The regular Sunday sessions will resume after examinations. Coming highlights will be the University Pair championship and the Team-of-Foui- championship.
12
young girl who works in a cotton mill. The two marry, and Bigelow, unable to forego his former ways, learns that he is to become a father. In an effort to obtain money, he is killed during an attempted robbery. Fifteen years later, he returns to earth and finds his daughter unhappy because of the father he had been. The musical ends as he redeems himself in the eyes of his child.
In the St. Mary’s production, Sue Hacker will portray Julie Jordan and Robert Vrancken will be seen in the role of Billy Bigelow.
Sue Brown and Marty Tierney will play the parts of Carrie Pipperidge and Mr. Snow, respectively. Billy’s troublesome friend, Jigger, will be portrayed by Joe Maier. Other lead roles have been assigned to Ann Hurley, Pat Quinlan, Peggy Barnish, Bob Moran, Robert Stolfi, and Edward Sullivan.
The production is under the direction of Edward A. Warren of the St. Mary’s speech department. Rocco Germano is musical director, and Marie Buczkowski serves as choreographer. Donald Rath-geb will serve as technical director, assisted by Howard Lord. It will be produced under the auspices of the St. Mary’s College speech and drama department in conjunction with the de-pai-tment of music.
Orchestra seats will sell for $1.50 while balcony tickets will be $1. Reservations may be made by phoning CE 3-9042. Curtain time will be at 8:15 p.m.
ND Receives Bequest From Alumnus Zahm
The University has received a bequest of $225,000 from the estate of the late ??. Dr. Albert F. Zahm, pioneer aeronautical f scientist and inventor, according to an announcement made this past week by t the Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., vice president for business affairs.
Zahm, who died in the campus infirm- £ ary July 24, 1954, at the age of 92, was \ a Notre Dame alumnus, a former faculty member and the recipient of the Uni- • versity’s Laetare Medal in 1925. He was a brother of the late Rev. John A. S Zahm, C.S.C., Notre Dame priest-scien- r tist and former provincial of the Holy < Cross Fathers.
According to Father Wilson, Dr. •,. Zahm stipulated that the net income ? from $100,000 of his bequest be used to f finance study for doctoral degrees at the Catholic University of America “by as large a number of Notre Dame pre-doctoral fellows as such income will permit.”
Dr. Zahm, an 1883 Notre Dame graduate, is credited with building the first . wind tunnel while still a student on the • campus. He taught at Notre Dame for ®. ten years and later was a faculty mem-ber at the Catholic University of Amer- t ica, Washington, D. C.
During his long career, Dr. Zahm * contributed greatly to the development of aviation with his invention of the three-torque control for airplanes, the wire tensometer, the vectograph protractor, the three component ameno-graph, aerodynamic balances and other devices. From 1929 to 1946, when he retired, Dr. Zahm was chief of the aeronautical division of the Library of Congress. He continued to live in Washington during his retirement until 1953, when he established residence on the Notre Dame campus.
Dr. Daist Gives Lecture • On 'Economic Reforms'
Dr. D. A. Daist, economist and former j president of the Economic Relations L Council of Boston, Mass., gave the first [? of a series of lectures last night in Room 13 of O’Shaughnessy Hall. Dr. Daist’s | topic was “Impassibility and Modern Economic Reforms.”	J"
t ■:
Dr. Daist, who recently returned from .v a speaking tour of Canada and the west coast, is scheduled to deliver several ad- |? ditional lectures elaborating the same subject sometime during March. These .V lectures are sponsored by the University | Round-Table Discussion Council in con- £ junction with the Economic Relations J-? Council of Boston, Mass.
V The Scholastic ।
i * Leadership Training Sessions to Open Feb. 1; Conference to Include Lectures, Discussions
Glasser Band to Play For '57 Military Ball
Rev. Celestin J. Steiner, S.J., president of the University of Detroit, will open the 1957 Leadership Training Conference on Friday evening, Feb. 1, with a speech on the “What” of student lead-O’ ership. The conference will continue on Saturday afternoon, Sunday morning, and conclude Sunday afternoon.
This year’s conference is a continuation of the recent policy of student government which, for the past several years has conducted a leadership training program for the students of Notre Dame. The conference this year is being conducted by the Blue Circle Honor So-^ciety. The purpose of the current pro-* gram, like that of its predecessors, is to develop interest and responsibility in the student body for the many student activities offered on campus.
The conferences are scheduled to develop the theme of the current program: “Student Leadership — What? Why? How?” Following Father Steiner’s address, discussion groups will be formed to analyze the ideas presented in the ^speech.
Saturday afternoon’s conference will consist primarily of group discussions and practical demonstrations of the different kinds of leadership, the problems involved with student leadership, and methods of meeting and handling these problems effectively. These demonstra-
_ Sen. Fulbright Offers ; ^Student Tax Relief Bill
I Two proposals designed to favor stu-' dents of colleges and universities with | an increase in tax deduction have been i proposed before the present U. S. Senate by Senator J. W. Fulbright.
The first bill would allow an additional income tax exemption for a taxpayer, spouse, or dependent child who is a full-time student at an educational institution above the secondary level. The sec-' ond bill would allow a student who was a taxpayer to deduct expenses for books, tuition, fees, and other necessary supplies. The later bill is primarily designed to assist students who are working their ; : way through college.
; ’ Fulbright, in submitting the bills, said : -that he considered them vital to the de-f ®velopment of our educational institu--11 tions, and to the general educational j standards of our country. He cited the • continually rising costs of a college edu-; cation, coupled with the lack of a deduction adequate to cover these expenses, as undermining any incentive provided by tax laws for one to pursue an educa-
> — lional goal.
tions will be in the form of practical workshops in which participating students will portray the different kinds of leadership in hypothetical but practical situations. They will discuss the portrayals under the guidance of a group leader.
On Sunday morning a special Mass will be celebrated in one of the hall chapels for the participating students. Immediately after the Mass a Communion Breakfast will be served in the Morris Inn. Following breakfast, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will deliver the second of the program’s major addresses, dealing with the “Why” of student leadership and its importance in the educational growth of the student at Notre Dame.
Sunday afternoon's program will consist of a series of short talks by several of the present student leaders in their respective fields, for example, the Senate, Circle, hall councils, WSND, Dome, Scholastic, and campus clubs.
The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president for student affairs, will deliver the final major address, summarizing campus activities and enlarging on the student leadership opportunities here at Notre Dame. The conference will then close with Benediction.
Anyone interested in student leadership is invited to attend the conference. Those who are interested should contact either the Blue Circle at the Blue Circle office in the Student Center; Rick Ninne-man, chairman of the Leadership Training Program committee, at 219 Dillon; or their hall president before Jan. 21.
MUSIC FOR THE MILITARY BAU Don Glasser and Lois Costello
Don Glasser and his orchestra, together with his featured vocalist Lois Costello, “Miss Energy,” will provide the musical rhythms for the 1957 Military Ball. This first major dance of the new semester will be held in the LaFortune Student Center on Friday, Feb. 8, from 9 pun. to 1 a.m.
Glasser and his orchestra have played in ballrooms and hotels across the country. Miss Costello, the band vocalist, is a former student at St. Mary’s of the Woods Center.
Dress uniforms will be worm by all ROTC cadets attending the dance, and officers of the various units will be guests of the cadets. Queens of land, sea, and air will be crowned during the evening.
Definite plans for other weekend activities have not been made since Carousel will be playing at St. Mary’s College and there will also be a Charity Ball held there. Tentative plans are being made for a dance to be held on Saturday evening, however.
Bob Duffy, representing the Army, is acting head chairman of the dance. Assisting him as co-chair-men are Don Machenberg, Navy, and Brian McMahon, Air Force.
Committee heads from each of the three units are: business, Ed Buckley, Army; tickets, Bob McHale, Army; blind dates, Hugh Plunkett, Army; publicity, Jim Behme, Navy; entertainment, Bob Cushing, Navy; hotels, Dave Noland, Navy; decorations, Al Richert, Air Force; programs, Frank Hennessey, Air-Force; and refreshments, Tom Berg, Air Force.
January 18, 1957
The ABC of the
NEW JAZZ
by JOHN MEHEGAN • :
John Mehegan, contributor to Downbeat and the Saturday Review, is a highly versatile musician. Having taught himself to play the piano, he entered Julius Hartt Music School and majored in composition and theoretical subjects ivhile playing with numerous groups around Hartford at night. At the age of 20, he came to Neiv York and zvorked as a soloist in many night spots.
He became head of the jazz department of the Metropolitan Music School in 1946. The next year, Mr. Mehegan wrote some of the score and played through the entire run of A Streetcar Named Desire. He also found time to write for modern dance and direct a summer dance festival.
Mr. Mehegan is presently appearing at the Composer. Although modestly omitted from his discography, Johnny Mehegan and his Quartet, a Savoy release, belongs in any jazz library.
He is currently teaching at Julliard School of Music, jazz critic for the N. Y. Herald-Tribune, preparing his well-received Metronome series How to Play Jazz Piano for book publication, and assembling music for Tennessee Williams’ new play Orpheus Descending.
In the short space of some 15 years progressive jazz has brought to the world some of the most exciting sounds since Stravinsky’s “Rite of Spring.” We now hear discussions by learned scholars and musicologists of a ^'burgeoning art form,” “counterpoint,” ■“influences,” and “new heights of creative expression comparable to the seventeenth-century contrapuntalists.”
Concerts in staid citadels of music are the order of the day; jazz musicians today discuss their European tours as jazz man 20 years ago talked of club dates and one-night stands. Jazz is now taught in many of the leading universities and music schools in either lecture or performance courses. Offbeat TV shows such as “Omnibus” find jazz a fitting subject for an hour-long study; concerts in open-air amphitheatres attract avid throngs in the thousands. What does this all mean? Where is it go-
14
ing? What happened to the jitterbug who thrilled to Benny Goodman and how about the “two-beat” fan who liked to go to Condon’s once a month and tie one on to the strains of “When the Saints Go Marching In?”
Many a died-in-the-wool jazz fan has
THE AUTHOR
looked about him and said “What happened?” Well, plenty happened; not only to musicians but of course to their audience—the listeners. The old victrola has evolved into a hi-fi system with coaxial speakers, and with enough power to blast all the windows in the house. In the record library of any present-day jazz fan you will find Brubeck just beyond Bartok and Mulligan down below near Monteverdi. What happened? Well, first of all, twenty years ago jazz was something to do something to—usually dancing. It was what the scholars call a functional folk music. When you heard your favorite band you didn’t go to a “concert,” you went to a “dance.” You might stand around and watch a while but the real business of the evening was to dance. Of course, there were theatre dates but even then there was the usual spate of third rate acts for which the band played, plus a movie. Every band had two vocalists, a pretty girl and a
i, collar-ad boy, who struggled with four I reeds, five brass, and a drummer wholly j intent upon “pushing” the band and the ’ vocalist right through a wall.	f
Then, in 1938, Benny Goodman gave a I concert at Carnegie Hall. This was not _ f the first jazz concert but it was a mem- i orable one because it signalled the end £ of an era. Shortly after came the war	r
and the draft. Big band business took '■ a nose dive and band leaders gave up the { fight. Thus, the era of the vacuum-fill- ~ ing vocalist was ushered in. Frank Sin- • atra was, and probably remains, the key ; figure of this period, which lasted from 1940 to the present day, although in ; the late Forties this trend began to lose^ 4; much of its significance. But what of f jazz?	I
Around 1939 and 1940 there began a $ revolutionary movement in jazz, from -• which eventually progressive jazz ; evolved. The revolution centered about > the very core of jazz—the beat. The musicians associated with this movement felt that the time-honored “dance beat” of jazz with the accented second and fourth beats which gave a dancer a*' . “lift” was too restrictive; it prevented ? the free-flowing expression of melodic • ideas these musicians were more and : more coming to hear not only in Stravinsky, but even in Bach. In other words, the musician declared his freedom from the dancer and at this point jazz ceased to be folk music and became a struggling art form.
The leaders of what became known^j successively as rebop, bebop, bop, and i finally progressive jazz were Charlie t Parker, Dizzy Gillespie and Bud Powell, s There were many others who contributed I to this movement but these were the | giants. Parker, in particular, was the ( guiding genius of this upheaval.	|
The American jazz public knew noth- I ing of this until the middle 1940s when„I influences of the movement began to be’-* heard in the big bands of Stan Kenton & and Woody Herman and also in the ft George Shearing quintet. As is often the 9 case, the innovators were not able to consolidate their advances and present S; an integrated artistic product to the American public.
Up to this point New York had been^^
The Scholastic f :
the scene of the new developments. But the geographic pendulum suddenly swung around and rumors began to circulate among musicians of a West ' Coast movement centered around Los
Angeles and San Francisco. Dave Bru-■ beck emerged as the early leader of this movement; later Shorty Rogers and Gerry Mulligan gave the new trend added impetus.
Drawing heavily upon the innovations created on the East Coast by Parker and other experimentalists such as Lennie Tristano and Horace Silver, the West Coast men were finally able to cast ® these new ideas into a mold which could be understood not only by the aficionados but also by thousands not thought of as a part of the traditional jazz audience. A strange thing happened: all normal categories of jazz versus non-jazz completely disappeared. Jazz fans who for years had followed Dixieland and swing with unremitted devotion hated Bru, ^beck’s music and would have no part of it. On the other hand, people who never cared for jazz found themselves buying the latest West Coast releases and trudging faithfully to jazz concerts. What had happened was this: Any new art form must possess two basic qualities—content and form. In other words, some thing new to say and an effective ♦ way of. saying it. The East Coast, con
tributed the content, the West Coast the form.
For all the revolutionary changes in jazz in the past fifteen years, there have been equal revolutionary changes in the demand on the listener. First of all, one cannot do anything to progressive jazz except listen to it. The jazz musician plays the melody of a standard Gershwin or Rodgers and Hart tune and then improvises on the chords or “changes” of the piece within his own musical and technical limits. The jazz man is a composer using simple folk material and bringing an esthetic design to these materials somewhat as Beethoven or Brahms brought artistic grandeur to a simple peasant air. This is the creative drive of all musicians; this is the heartbeat of all music from the choral chanting in Euripides’s “Orestes” to Gerry Mulligan “blowing” on the “changes” of “Laura.” The fun of listening to jazz lies in the listener’s abilities to match the melody of the tune against the improviser’s variations of it. One aspect of early East Coast jazz which prevented its acceptance by larger audiences was the constant creation of “originals” which left the average listener nothing to relate to. This has largely been abandoned by the West Coast, and presentday East Coast, musicians who are willing to give the listener a break by. sig
nifying a familiar melody at the start of their improvisation.
On a broader level (as it has done so often in the past) jazz has turned to classical forms for inspiration. Just as the early New Orleans musicians adapted the forms of the French marching bands the Progressives turned to two sources—Bach and Handel (Neo-Clas-sic); Stravinsky and Hindemith (Modernists) .
The utilization of these materials has varied from school to school (East Coast jazz men have shown a preference for the Stravinsky-Bartok concepts; West Coast men, particularly Mulligan, have preferred the more austere discipline of Hindemith) but generally, the tendency has been that of adapting Bachian basslines and superimposing modern mannerisms above them.
What has evolved from this is a new jazz technique of writing contrapuntal lines in the same manner that a serious composer would approach the problem of writing a string quartet. At a time when serious music seems to have reached an insoluble crisis with the developments of Schoenberg and Berg, serious music lovers who never before cared for jazz are attracted by the vitality and freshness of this new sound.
In this fruitful exchange of ideas, jazz has some place to go since it has hardly touched upon the vast world of sound created. by Bartok and Schoenberg. Whether jazz will be able to absorb these new materials is a critical question since jazz has always been and still is a music rooted in tonality (a definite key feeling).
The utilization of these atonal (no key feeling) materials will constantly occur in the next few years and may very well be the determining factor in the future of jazz.
Unfortunately, the reversal of roles (jazz to serious music) has not been as redeeming for the simple reason that the very quality of jazz which is its most exciting aspect (the 4/4 beat) becomes restrictive and cumbersome when cast into classical molds. Furthermore, what of the improvisational problem, since this is also basic to a jazz feeling?
These are probably not insurmountable problems, but they certainly will challenge the classical composer in his search for new, malleable materials.
Listening to progressive jazz is probably like falling in love at sixteen with the most wonderful girl in the world. At twenty-one she is not quite so wonderful or perhaps even more wonderful —it’s very confusing—at least she is not the same girl. But, after all, there’s no reason why she should be.
Shop around and see if some one of the progressives doesn’t give you a new lease on musical life.
15
January 18, 1957
e,

Playhouse 90
Television from its commercial birth has been content to feed the American viewers a sub-standard entertainment, and to confirm them in their beliefs, the viewers have not complained to any great extent. The public seemed quite satisfied to sit in front of the fuzzy screen watching loosely constructed plays. 20-year-old movies, and buffoons that make fools of themselves with little •comedy’ stunts.
However, under the biting criticism of reviewers and stepped-up competition between networks, one is able to enjoy a few programs a week. Two Hollywood studios have released their best movies from the last decade, and name stars are jumping at large offers to appear on the ‘spectacular.’ On the whole, plays have been increasing in quality under the leadership of Playhouse 90 which has been running away with all the ‘Emmies.’
Playhouse 90, seen on Thursday evenings from 9:30 to 11:00 EST, began its weekly presentation early this fall. The producers and directors are not satisfied with unknowns playing the all-too-fa-miliar melodrama, but have hired top writers and actors from the Broadway stages and Hollywood movie lots. It has been reported that writers receive as much as §7,000 per play, which usually secures a worthy accomplishment. Also such stars as Dianna Lynn, Vincent Price, Peter Lawford, Eddie Cantor, Piper Laurie, John Kerr, Barry Sullivan, Jack Palance, Marilyn Maxwell, Nannette Fabray, Tim Hoovey, and the wonderful Harpo Marx have appeared.
The producers and sponsors, nevertheless, are not going to stop. They have forecast more and better of the same.
A week ago Playhouse 90, perhaps, reached one of its high spots with a production, “The Ninth Day.” John Kerr, of “Tea and Sympathy” and Piper Laurie combined to give life to a mysterious and meaningful story. It took place some years after an atomic attack, and concerned the worries of eight people over the preservation of the human race. A delicious comedy flavored a tender, moving plot. It reminded us that a deep faith in the providence of God should always assure us in the time of trouble. This timely story also showed how and why a young man must find what the world is, in order to prove something to himself.
Playhouse 90 has moved aside television playhouses that were comfortable in their places because of the lack of competition. The viewer should in the future be treated very well.—D. K.
16
At the Movies
COLFAX
r-
Bundle
I guess have their that fact.
of Joy. (A-2) Eddie Fisher, Debbie Reynolds, Adolph Menjou. everybody knows that Eddie and Debbie are married and they own bundle of joy, and this picture was made to capitalize on The story has nothing to do with their real lives, but on the
complications that develop when Debbie picks up a foundling that fell off a nursery doorstep. The plot is not particularly interesting, but should suffice for the fans of Eddie and Debbie.
Summing up: If I don’t start studying, the finals will be a bigger comedy.
GRANADA
Giant. (A-l) Elizabeth Taylor, Rock Hudson, James Dean. A good way to spend three idle hours.
Three Violent People. (A-2) Jan. 23. Charlton, Heston, Anne Baxter.
The Civil War has just ended and all the Confederate officers, have moved west to start a new life. Heston is only one of the many but those dirty carpetbaggers are just picking on him. But that’s only half his trouble, the other half being Anne Baxter. Before the picture ends the carpetbaggers bite the proverbial dust and Heston and Baxter end up in the traditional clinch.
Summing up: A warmed over plot that has lost its taste.
STATE
Arrow in the Dust. (A-2) Cowboys and Indians.
Co-hit: Let's Go Navy. (A-2) Bowery Boys.
We’re No Angels. (A-2) Jan. 20. Humphery Bogart, Aldo Ray, Peter Ustinov. A thoroughly enjoyable comedy about three escaped convicts and their exploits in a small village. Things are pretty funny until the snake gets loose and then it’s hilarious.
Co-hit: Angels With Dirty Faces. (A-2)
PALACE
The Great American Pastime. (A-l) Tom Ewell, Anne Francis. To set the record straight the great American pastime is baseball. Tom Ewell is a lawyer who manages his son’s little league team right into last place in the league. Because of this he loses all his clients, since they are the fathers of the other players. When he finally gets out of the mess he becomes a Cub scout leader.
Summing up: A nice save by Tom Ewell.
Co-hit: Murder On Approval. (A-2) Tom Conway, Delphi Lawrence.
RIVER PARK
The King And I. (A-l) Yul Brynner, Deborah Kerr.
Co-hit: He Laughed Last. (B) Frankie Laine, Lucy Marlowe.
Run for the Sun. (A-2) Jan. 20. Richard Widmark, Jane Greer. Richard and Jane escape thru the jungle from two crazy Nazis. If you see it, please write to the Scholastic and explain why he doesn’t pick up the gun.
Co-hit: Ambassador’s Daughter. (A-2). Olivia de Havilland, John Forsythe.
AVON
Baby Doll. (C) THIS MEAN'S CONDEMNED. Actually this picture isn’t worth seeing anyway, so stay away.
1

The Scholastic
This Is My Best
by GERRY TRAFFICANDA
Scholastic
This week
the
the best of Gerry Trafficanda.
features
Traffi-
THE PHOTOGRAPHER

canda, a senior from Chatsworth, Cal., a well-known photographer around campus, will graduate this February. His favorite pictures which appear on this and the following two pages concern many subjects, from Paul Hornung, the Dome, to the child. His pictures are noted for their living action and personality.
Trafficanda, after graduation, will enter an art school in Los Angeles, and plans to follow a career in advertising design. He has contributed much to the Scholastic (see p. 18), and we would like to use this opportunity to say thank you and good luck.
1
January 18, 1957
18	The Scholastic
a Career
January 18, 1957
19-
“Sure, I’m for the Irish!”
This past Monday, Jan. 14, Miss America of 1957 emerged from out of the snow storm to give the campus the pleasant reminder that Spring may not be too far away. Scholastic photogs Martin, Mertz, and McDonaugh converged on the lovely Miss Marian McKnight from Manning, S. C., to get these fascinating pictures just before the deadline.
Miss McKnight is now on a tour of the country, and when the 19-year-old beauty was asked about marriage, she smiled, “I don’t have a ring and I don’t have a boy friend, but I wouldn’t rule it out.” Besides all the prize money, etc., she has been offered a movie contract.
“Oh baby, it is cold outside!”
Miss America
Visits
“No ring, no boy friend!”
20
The Scholastic
THE MISSION
Illustrations by BOB COLAIZZI
Our plane sweeps low within the clouds, and from my position I can see the night emptying itself into valleys, rivers, and homes of light. The vibrations from the engines drone forth against the soles of my boots, and the wooden pencils on the cellophaned drawing chart move slowly with the rolling weight. A voice came statically through the intercom.
| “Jerry.”
I hear the tail-gunner answering, and then I hear nothing save the pounding of my heart, the racing of blood within my very soul. My sheep-skin lined jacket is warm against me, and yet my hands are cold where they rest. My mind is cold . . . thoughts rise and fall . . . and then drift like vapor with my gaze into the grayness of the swirling clouds.
If I’m to die before I
I Wake . . . before I wake . . .
As a child I pray, as a child I fear, and as a child I watch the rush of time . . . and then far below Dover’s cliffs of white sweeping, jutting, and fading with silence . . .
“Channel . . . we’re over the Channel. Navigator, wake up. That’s your job . . . not mine.”
I reply quickly and my mind focuses ^automatically upon the chart before me. FThe pencil moves in my hand. ... I trace a line, make a marking. My lips
are chapped, the earphones cold, where the blood rushes in a low roar.
“Henry. Do you miss your tea, Henry?”
There’s a click, and then Henry’s voice comes back hollow and deep. His breath wheezes with the fat of his body, and my mind pictures him tight within the ^glass cage below ... in the belly with nothing but sky beneath him, a world of moving gray steel above. Sitting in a boil with the light on his face . . .
Some tea . . . some tea ... a Liquid lie . . . before you die . . .
My eye wanders slowly to the window beside me. The moving plane tears gaps in the clouds and I catch glimpses of ’the water far below. It shimmers in
wrinkles of grayness, and then the fibers of the clouds knit once again and I see nothing except my own reflection in the glass. So many things lie out there beyond this swirling blackened moisture, this vortex, this fathomless night of time.
) The minutes and the seconds pass, and
by Frank Dasek
my eyes glance up, and from beneath weighted lids of tiredness I see the door of the cabin swinging ahead. It sweeps back, it sweeps forth . . . dim lights spread through thin openings, and in the blue glare hands adjust dials. Slim fingers dabbing at a delicate brain . . .
the tissue black, the fibers and nerves . . . red lines crossing, recrossing against a yellowed screen . . .
“Hey?”
I glance to my right and see the waist-gunner leaning heavily on his machine gun. He motions for a cigarette. I shrug and shake my head. He looks away, then back at me.
“First mission?” he says and his voice is young.
I tell him yes.
“Rough . . . first one’s always rough.” His fingers drum slowly against the trigger guard. “This is my fifteenth,” he says at last.
I say nothing. He looks at me, then slowly away.
My fingers twitch, my mind . . . the heavy thoughts lift and fall, and then swing back deeply into a past of candle light and gold. So many things come forward, and my lips are lost once again within the velvet liquid of a glass. It swirls orange and red. ... I taste, I lift, I rise, I dream, I fall back, and I feel that which is to feel. The essence of a wonderful moment. I see not the shadow, not the trace, the vague outline . . . but the essence, the very blood-pounding heart of it. Its heart, its tendrils reach
ing out into lush, rich, green grass, and I feel its wetted warmth . . . and that which is beyond . . . which is always be-	:
yond . . . never seen . . . and yet sensed	i
. . . tasted . . . lived in . . . thriving in a	!
shadow of scented breath. And I hear	:
... I hear. What was it with the soft	j
echoes tracing themselves against matted	i
walls, and the blondest hah- in the light.	i
The painted nails of fingers slim ...	j
caressing in the air . . . the voice lifting	I
. . . lifting me out of myself . . . making	■
me forget war, death, the blackness of	;
suffering. If I could hear those words	i
now . . . hear above the	drone . . . the ■
drone . . . above the drone.	j
A cup of tea.	\
A shot of rye.	i
Within the bubble.	’
“. . . reading . . . check.”	:
The intercom clicks, shuts, opens ...	]
a rush of static and air through the	j
wires. I lean forward, my heavy flying-	।
jacket bunches, the wool soft against	!
my arms, and the breath touching the	i
collar comes back with the stale smell	i
of once-smoked cigarettes ...	1
“Oh, Suzanna, don’t you cry ...”	।
“What a voice!”	j
“Thanks.”	;
There’s a click and a young voice i comes quick and fast. “Hey, if it’s three	‘
in the morning here, what time is it in ■ Casablanca?”	,	j
“Ask Henry.”	;
“Henry?”	i
“Don’t bother me with more problems.”	■
“Why? You got problems, Henry?”	i
“Yeah, I got problems.”	j
“Oh, Henry . . . don’t you cry for me.” i And the droning and the even waiting.	’
I repoi-t, I check ... I read . . . my j mind fills . . . light against cellophane j . . . and miles pass with time ...	।
Le Havre.	i
Fields of darkness.	’
City of light.	■
Endless time . . . and endless line of	*
red ...	|
There beyond, reality’s scream	!
And yet my mind wanders, wanders - j into endless dream ...	I
•	1
Minutes . . . minutes passing, and the	j
breathing heavy . . . and then the long- j awaited click.	r
“Stations . . . stations . . . something-	।
on radar. Eyes open!”	;
The command is hoarse, almost fright-	|
ened. I glance at the gunner beside me	;
and see him buckle the heavy strap-	I
around his jacketed waist. The machine	I
gun swings its nose into the night ...	|
its smooth heaviness waiting silent. The cartridge belt trails down the side, and shells glisten like gold in canvas sockets . . . points sharp . . . backs broad . . . fingers sweat and twitch . . .
“He’s coming ... coming.”
(Continued on next page)
January 18, 1957
21
w
(Continued from page 21)
The engines drone deeper as we lift suddenly and then drop. We bank, sweep . . . red pencils rolling over a cellophaned map of France, Germany against a broken point where my fingers clutch. I lift the pencils, feeling their smoothness . . . my hands are cold . . . the breath within me deep and tired within itself.
In your arms hold me, Lord, In your arms oh let me cry; Please, oh, please, if I’m to die!
And the moments lift and drop, lift and drop . . . each one a leaden fist . . . a booted heel digging into the veins with heat and strength. The blood races and stops and sends itself racing back to the brain with silence ... to wait . . . and wait . . . and . . .
“There he is!”
The shout is young, wild, and dies suddenly . . . and then wells up, sweeps forward and roars into a curse as the gun coughs its fleeting, stabbing shadows of redness into the black.
From the bowels below, vibrations shoot up, and broken, automatic shots buckle forth.
“Missed, missed, we both missed!”
“Watch ’em!”
And then there’s nothing, and yet there’s everything. I look into the swirling gray that opens and closes . . . blots and then smooths out into nothing. My hands are shaking, my nerves alive . . . the sweat heavy beneath the earphones . . . down my back.
“Dog!”
Clicking . . . clicking . . . grayness within the blackened moisture . . . boots scraping back . . . leg muscles pulling cramped bodies into position. Within the boil . . . within the boil . . .
The luminous dial on the clock stares. I watch, I listen, I breathe deeply with the wire . . . the black wires against my face . . . lifting, rising, falling with each breath . . . the cardboard-like insulation . . . the cold, glittering connectors.
“Again!”
The roar is close . . . upon us . . . beneath us . . . and then above us as fiftycaliber shells shatter glass and perfora-
tions mushroom through the steel. We lift . . . we stagger ... we vibrate as out of all sides guns pump rhythmically. I watch the gunner, the fixed expression on his young face . . . the machine gun sweeping out . . . etching a line of red in the sky . . . shells falling at his feet.
“Devil! Oh, you devil . . . your face, give me your face!”
“Navigator . . . reading!”
My hand moves stiffly. I give the reading, and searchlights lick the sky with suddenness, stroking us with light.
“Stations . . . climbing.”
The engines dig into the sky and we pull ourselves up. The lights far below sweep deep, and then it happens. The plane . . . the gray monster of moving steel lurches and the roar comes forth from our left wing where fire springs and gushes, sweeping back in the air . . . rushing, rising, falling, lifting, fuming and coughing forth blackness into the blackness.
“Approaching target.”
“Gunner, gunner, gunner!”
“There . . . three o’clock!”
“Pump ’em! Come, come!”
We lurch crazily, and the guns pump themselves heavily into the night. Spent shells flip . . . rise . . . fall . . . roll across the flooring . . . against my feet. Lights flare up in the sky, and the gunner’s face is white and young and ghost
like within them. His figure outlined, the) gun alive . . . and then the pain comes with suddenness across his face, and the blood wells between parted lips. Lips . . . lips of youth. The gun whirls dizzily with his sinking weight. The firm finger still on the trigger . . . spent, broken shots at the stars. Knees on the floor

. . . arms out . . . clutching ... a sprawl- f ing figure in death.	<
“Gunner . . . waist-gunner hit! Hit!”^^ “Drop ’em! Over target!”	w
And then the weight is gone within
the blackness and we rise slowly. I step ' J from my desk and kneel beside the i broken body. The eyes stare in death, j the blood so rich, so red, so alive in its wetness.
“Navigator . . . get us out of here!” 'j The earphones shout. I reach over, : |
pick them up, give a reading . . . thegk tiredness deepens within me. I sink into $ my chair, lean my face into my hands
and wait.
Our guns are silent now, the drone ; continues, and then the flack bursts -below us, above us, within us. The sky f. is aflame with redness and shadow . . . t the clouds dirty and broken . . . and far ? below black flames cascade up from the very bowels of the earth. We wait < anxiously, and my eyes scan the break-^g ing clouds. The seconds tick off slowly. W
“Everybody all right?”
The intercom goes through a series of v? clicks as reports come back from all ■■ sides.
“Johnny dead.”
“Henry?”
“It’s his face . . . he’s blind.”	(
“Rough one, huh?”	I
“Yeah . . . rough . . . let’s go home.” I rise slowly and cover the gunner’s^B body with a blanket, and then I sink 1 wearily back into the chair. The drone . deepens, lights twinkle, leather creaks, chains of shells tinkle, and then the silence above it all deepens and sets itself within my brain. I wait, I listen, I try to think, but thought has gone. There is nothing anymore. Just this moment, this one moment of faded existence. Everything is distant, everything is close . . it’s life, it’s death, it’s peace, it’s war i . . . it’s the end, it’s just the beginning. The beginning, the beginning of the end.
•University Opens Program in Gnotobiotics; Constitutes First Grad Work at LOBUND
The inauguration of a graduate program in the new scientific field of gnotobiotics at Notre Dame’s LOBUND In-
stitute was announced last week by Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., dean of the Uni-^versity’s Graduate School, and Prof.
James A. Reyniers, founder and director of the research center.
The new program, which leads to the doctor of philosophy degree, constitutes the first graduate work offered by LOBUND Institute, which has attracted international attention by its develop
ment of the germfree animal as a unique tool in biological and medical research. Gnotobiotics is a term coined by the
Columbia Southern
Chemical Corporation
Interview Date Feb. 7
Opportunities available in seven plants: New Martinsville, W. Va.; Barberton, O.; Lake Charles, La., Corpus Christi, Tex., Jersey City, N. J., Bartlett, Calif., and Beauhamois, Quebec, Canada.
Producers of heavy industrial chemicals: soda ash, chlorine, caustic soda, anhydrous ammonia, titanium tetrachloride, and other chlorinated products.
Research, development, production, design, and maintenance opportunities open for men in these categories: BS, MS, PhD Chemists, BS & MS Chern. Engrs., BSCE’s, BSME’s, BSEE’s, BS Indus. Engrs.. BS Instrument Engrs., and PhD Physicists.
Nationally Advertised
Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
MltWTURB0W
^OPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
LOBUND staff to describe the production and study of organisms isolated from all other species or in association with recognized species.
Dr. Thomas Ward, nationally known virologist who joined the LOBUND staff last June, has been named an associate director of the Institute in charge of its new* Graduate Study division, Father Beichner said. A co-discoverer of the APC group of viruses, Dr. Ward is one of a team of research scientists who have developed a vaccine which has proved to be effective against certain types of respiratory infections. In his own research at Notre Dame, Dr. Ward is continuing his work in virology with germfree animals.
Inauguration of the graduate program is a significant development in the history of Notre Dame’s LOBUND Institute. For the first time, young scientists will have the opportunity to study the techniques for rearing germfree animals developed by Professor Reyniers and his associates during the past two decades.
Germfree apparatus modeled after that developed at the LOBUND Institute has recently been installed at the Walter- Reed Medical Research Institute and the National Institutes of Health. Several other institutions are now planning to carry on this type of research both in this country and abroad. As a result of the LOBUND work, the demand for germfree animals is increasing as scientists find them valuable for a great variety of problems. This accelerated interest will increase the need for scientists trained in the field of germfree life research.
According to Dr. Ward, candidates for Notre Dame’s new doctoral program in gnotobiotics should have a bachelor’s degree in pre-medical studies, biology, or biochemistry. A limited number of students will be accepted for the semestei-beginning next September, he said, and their programs will be tailored to their individual needs and interests.
Students entering the new LOBUND graduate program may major in biochemistry, bioengineering, microbiology, or physiology, Dr. Ward said. About one-third of their work 'will be in tutorial-type classes, he explained, while two-thirds of their time will be devoted to research.
Tuition scholarships, research assistantships and fellowships will be available to qualified students, Dr. Ward said. Further details on the LOBUND doctoral program may be obtained by contacting the Dean of the Graduate School, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind.
Pirker-Wiitemwi Inc. TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 115%-117% No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
hrker-Wiitemwd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115%-117% No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Consult our campus representative:
JOHN E. KUHN, 366 Alumni
January 18, 1957
23
I
"What’s it like to be
A PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT ENGINEER AT IBM?”
Three years ago, college senior Gerald Maley asked himself this question. Today, an Associate Engineer and leader of a nine-man team, Jerry reviews his experience at IBM and gives some pointers that may be helpful to you in taking the first, most important step in your engineering career.
“What really sold me,” says Jerry, “was the way they conducted engineering. I’d expected rooms full of engineers at desks. Instead, I found all the informal friendliness of my college lab.”
Gerald, an E.E., came directly to IBM from the University of Buffalo, in 1953. Starting as a Technical Engineer, he was immediately assigned to work, with two others, on designing a small calculator. The supervisor of this project was Dr. R. K. Richards, author of “Arithmetic Operation in Digital Computers.” Jerry learned a great deal about computers in a very short time. Incidentally, his particular machine is now going into pro-
Assigns problems to his group duction. As Jerry says, “It makes an engineer feel good to see his project reach the production stage—and to be able to follow it through.”
Promoted to Associate Engineer after 16 months, Jerry is now the leader of a nine-man team. He assigns problems to his group for solution, approves their block diagrams and the models they build. Perhaps an hour a day goes into paper work such as requisitioning equipment for his group and reviewing technical publications, in counseling members of his team and preparing for trips to technical society meetings. Apart from his regular responsibilities, he teaches at night in the IBM school.
Why Jerry chose IBM
Of course, there were other reasons why Jerry selected IBM. He was vitally interested in computers, and IBM was obviously a leader in the field. He comes from a scientific family
(his brother is a mathematician) and is fascinated by these mathematical marvels which are revolutionizing man’s ways of doing things in so many fields. He enjoys working on large equipment... and on “pulses.” “It’s more logical,” he says. “In computer
This Reid is so new
work, you can actually see things happening, which is not the case with all electronic equipment today. And it’s not all solid math, either. What’s more, this field is so new, that pretty soon you’re up with everybody else.”
Gerald has done recruiting work himself for IBM and believes he understands some of the college senior’s problems. “I usually begin an interview by determining a man’s inter-
Reviewing technical publications
est,” he reports. “Then the diversity of work at IBM enables me to offer him a job which will challenge that interest.” Gerald distinguishes between two kinds of engineers—those who like to work on components, such as circuit designs, and those who are interested in the part the component
plays. The latter is his own interest,, which is why he is in advanced machine design. He points out that IBM is careful to take these factors into consideration—another reason, perhaps, why turnover at IBM is less than one-sixth the national average.
What about promotions?
When asked about advancement opportunities at IBM, Jerry says, “You can hardly miss in this field and in this company. They tell me sales about double every five years—which in itself makes promotion almost axiomatic.” He endorses the IBM policy of promoting from within, with merit the sole criterion. The salary factor, he remembers, was not his first consideration. While excellent, the tremendous advancement potential was of far greater importance.
Promotion almost axiomatic
IBM hopes this message will give you some idea of what it’s like to be an E.E. in Product Development at IBM. There are equal opportunities for I.E.’s, M.E.’s, physicists, mathematicians, and liberal arts majors in IBM’s many divisions— Research, Manufacturing Engineering, Sales and Technical Service. Why not drop in and discuss IBM with your Placement Director? He can supply our brochure and tell you when IBM will interview on your campus. Meanwhile, our Manager of Engineering Recruitment, R. A. Whitehorne, will be happy to answer your questions. J ast write him at IBM, Room 0000, 590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.
IBM
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION

DATA PROCESSING
ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS
TIME EQUIPMENT
MILITARY PRODUCTS
iiuk Seem
CAGERS BEGIN HEAVY SLATE AGAINST ILLINI
MARTY ALLEN
Takes over new post.
Allen Named Head In Manager Change
Marty Allen has been named head football manager beginning with spring lootball practice following Joe Lauer' man whose duties end with the completion of the spring semester. Tom Goz-decki will act as associate manager in charge of the office while John McFadden will be the associate handling the equipment. Gozdecki is from Highland Ind., and McFadden hails from Chicago.
Allen, a business administration ma-g^or from Grand Rapids, Mich., was ap-' pointed head manager by the senior manager staff for this year’s athletics.
In speculating about the forthcoming gridiron season Allen commented, “The schedule will be tougher, but we’ll do all Tight if we get some breaks and keep away from damaging injuries.”
Walt Huurman from Rochester, N. Y., ts the new head basketball manager. Joe l; ' Ream of Fort Wayne, Ind., will be track manager, Jack Maguire of Wilmette, Ill., baseball, Frank Fox of Chicago, tennis and wrestling, and Jim Barr of Columbus, Ohio, fencing. All the head managers will be seniors next year.
Each manager receives a . partial scholarship for his services.
Hoopsters Face Illinois in Chicago Stadium; Host I.U. Before Buffalo, Boston Eastern Swing
by BRUCE HUOT
Notre Dame’s improving eagers will open their second semester’s play a week from tomorrow when they travel to Chicago to meet powerful Illinois in the Chicago Stadium. The Irish will play the second game of a twin bill which finds Oklahoma A & M and Loyola of Chicago battling in the opener.
The last two victories over Loyola and Michigan State upped the Irish won-lost record to eight and five. Against Loyola,
UP AND IN
McCarthy scores against Loyola.
whom they beat 90 to 76, John McCarthy was the big gun, bagging 23 points.
Also at home Tuesday, the Irish rolled up a quick 27-point lead early in the second half and then fought off an effective Spartan press to trample Michigan State 86 to 76. Tom Hawkins led the winners with 32 points and 17 rebounds.
Five lettermen are back from last year’s Illini squad which won 18 and lost four. Lost by graduation were Bill Ridley, the Judson twins, Phil and Paul, and Bruce Brothers. Returning, however, is the 6-8 pivotman and the team’s leading scorer, George BonSalle. The ambidextrous BonSalle compiled a 19.5 point per game average last year. Second in the Illinois scoring brigade this
year is captain Harv Schmidt, a 6-6 forward. Schmidt averaged over 13 points a game last year and is remembered by the Irish as the sharpshooter most instrumental in Illinois’ 103-93 decision over the Jordanmen last year.
At the other forward post will be 6-4 Hiles Stout. Stout plays quarterback on the football team as well as first base on the baseball squad. He is an excellent rebounder and a rugged defensive player. At the guards the Illini will employ 6-3 Don Ohl and a 6-0 sophomore sensation, Roger Taylor. Both are steady on defense and lightning quick on the fast break.
The Irish haven’t beaten the Champaign crew since 1940. The two teams have only met six times since then. The schools have played 20 times, Illinois winning 14 of the contests.
The Irish entertain Indiana on Jan. 29 in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. Three days later they travel to Buffalo to meet Canisius.
Veteran coach Branch McCracken has built his Hoosier quintet around their high scoring, 6-8 center, Archie Dees. Dees averaged over 17 points a game last year and is currently leading the
JERRY THOMPSON
South Bend sparkplug at I. U.
January 18, 1957
25
JOE HUGHES
Holy Cross forward
Big Ten in scoring. At the forwards will be lettermen 6-4 Jerry Thompson and 6-5 Dick Neal. Thompson, in his limited play last season, had a .455 shooting average. In the guard slots will be two lettermen, 6-2 Hallie Bryant and 5-9 Charlie Hodson. Bryant netted 302 points in the last campaign and is considered one of the finest outside shooters in the Big Ten.
Canisius’ coach Joe Curran is depending on three returning starters to better last year’s 19-7 record. Back from last season’s starting five are captain Hank Nowak, Dave Markey and Joe Leone.
Nowak, a 6-3 forward, won a berth on the United Press All-East second team and was selected on the NCAA regional first team. Playing opposite Nowak at the othei* forward post is 6-1 sophomore Jim Springer. Joe Leone, the 6-5 pivotman, is a rugged rebounder and the biggest man on the team. Curran will field the sharpshooting 5-10 Markey at one guard and 6-0 Greg Britz at the other. Britz is the team’s second leading scorer behind Nowak.
From Buffalo the Irish will move to Boston where they bump into tough Holy Cross on Feb. 4. They return to the campus to host Portland Feb. 7.
Holy Cross’ biggest loss via graduation was All-American Tom Heinsohn. But coach Roy Leenig’s Crusaders have many returning experienced performers like captain George Waddelton, Joe Hughes, Pete Houston, Tom Ryan and Dick Lutz.
Waddelton, a 5-11 guard, and Hughes, a 6-3 forward, are the chief threats in the Holy Cross attack. Waddelton averaged close to 13 points a game last year, and is an exceptional ball handler. He possesses an uncanny one-handed jump shot. Hughes is considered by many as one of the top players ever developed in
GEORGE WADDLETON
Holy Cross captain and guard
New England. He averaged ten points per game last year and can shoot with either hand.
Pre-season warnings on the Pacific Coast pegged Portland as the top independent in that section of the country. They have run almost true to form, but must be rated behind Seattle who dumped them 87-81 in an overtime the first week in January.
Coach Al Negratti has six returning lettermen from a crew who won 20 and lost eight last season. He also has seven fine sophomores who put together an unbeaten 23-game frosh slate.
The two top returnees are 6-4 Gene Kutsch who snagged 335 rebounds for the Pilots last season, and the 5-11 sharpshooting playmaker Jack Scrivens. Also back is guard Frank Rector, who played varsity ball last year although he was but a freshman. The Pilots will have good height in sophs John Westermann, 6-7 and Larry Walsh, 6-5.
Interhall Basketball Schedule Opens After Semester Exams
Interhall basketball, which has been engaging in practice games since Nov. 28, will begin its official schedule shortly after semesters.
The leagues will be made up of close to 60 teams, with all the halls and most of the clubs on campus represented.
The halls will play their round robin schedule in the Rockne Memorial gymnasium and the clubs will play in the Fieldhouse.
The teams will be grouped according to their play in the practice rounds, with the winning teams playing in a round robin tournament in the Fieldhouse. The winner of the tournament will be crowned Interhall Champions.
Wilson Worries Over
Indoor Track Outlook
The loss of three key men, miler Bill Squires, high jumper Bernie Allard and distance man Spike Daley, have made indoor track coach Alex Wilson rather pessimistic about the approaching season that starts Feb. 2 with the Michi-_ gan State Relays at East Lansing.
In the high jump, Notre Dame has. " Tom Sanfacon, whose 6-5 leap last winter ranks him ahead of Mike Kearns, a senior. Byron Beams, a consistent winner on the track team last year, is gone but two men who saw plenty of meet competition last season, Mike Kauffman and Frank Gerimia, are being counted on heavily by Wilson. Jack Cote, a junior, will again be the Irish’s best in the® pole vault, broad jump and is adding = another event to his busy competitive ' schedule by trying the high jump. John Stevenson and Jim Redmond will back up Cote in the pole vault while Don	j
Faley is counted on for duty in the	•
broad jump.	i
Aubrey Lewis, NCAA 400-meter hur- . die champion who narrowly missed representing the United States in the Olym- ; pics last December, is scheduled to heaefcaa the 60-yard dash men and the junior speedster will also see action on the mile j relay team. Joe Foreman, who participated in the Olympics for his native । Canada, will run with Lewis in the 60-yard sprint besides holding a spot on the mile relay team. Another good sprinter* is Frank Hall, a senior. Booker Rice, Steve Dornbach and Jim Holzbach will carry the colors for the Irish in th^v 60-yard hurdles.	'w
Bill Keegan is the best of the quarter- ’ ’ mile contingent and Barkley Ewart, of Jamaica, will probably be the No. 2 man. Keegan is another returnee from last season’s crack mile relay team.
In the half-mile, ND has smooth running Dale VandenBerg and seasoned senior, Al Porter. Marty Clynes, a sophomore, and junior Mike O’Connor are also expected to bolster the Wilson^Jf men here.
Monogram winners Dick DiCammillo and Ed Monnelly head a strong field of distance men. Mike Haverty, John Mich-no, John Burns and Neil Wallace also are top contenders in the one- and two-mile events for the Irish.
INDOOR SCHEDULE
Feb. 2—Michigan State Relays
Feb. 9—Purdue at Notre Dame	I
Feb. 16—Marquette at Notre Dame W
Feb.	23—Indiana at	Bloomington	I
Mar.	2—Central Collegiate Conference I
Meet at	Notre Dame	I
Mar. 2—IC4A Meet at New York I
Mar.	9—Milwaukee	Relays	I
Mar. 16—Chicago Relays
Mar. 22—Cleveland Relays
The Scholastic 1
26
COACH LANGFORD Fencers begin Feb. 2.
Fencers Open Season; Meet Buffalo, Oberlin
On Saturday, Feb. 2, the Notre Dame fencing team will embark on a new ./Reason when they face Buffalo and Oberlin here at Notre Dame.
Coach Walter Langford faces the difficult task of replacing his best talent in all three divisions this year. Lost through graduation was Captain Don Tadrowski, who comniled a record of 76 wins and only 11 defeats in the epee division in his three years of varsity competition. Besides Tadrowski, the lost the third high scorer in the npee, John Brogan; the top three ner-formers in the sabre, and the leading duo in the foil.
Five of last year’s monogram winners are returning to bolster an inexperienced squad. Heading the list is cocaptain Denis Hemmerle, who finished second to Tadrowski last season in the epee with a 35-7 log. Along with Hemmerle, the epee will be strengthened by «he return of monogram-winning senior Dick Colman, senior Ray Brennan, juniors John Kerns and Ron Farrow, and sophomores Dan Clancy, Jim Brogan, and Jim Jock.
In the foil event, the standout returnee is senior Pierre du Vair whose record last year was an impressive 16-6. Seniors Joe Blazina and co-captain John ^lyan provide added depth in this department while Langford also has several sophomores in John Shields, John Lauerman, and Chuck Dugan to call upon if needed.
With the leading scorers graduated from the sabre, this division remains as the biggest problem, as it was last year, when the sabremen could win only 88 of 'Q (Continued on page 28)
Hom to Watch A Fencing Match
by JOE BRIDE
On Saturday, Feb. 2, the Notre Dame fencers open their season at home against Oberlin and Buffalo. Following, is the first part of a two-part series on how to ivatch fencing matches by Joe Bride, assistant at the Department of Sports Publicity.
Although Notre Dame’s fencing teams have had remarkable success, few people attend their intercollegiate matches. Those who do attend know as little about fencing as South Americans do about football.
Here is a plan to end your bafflement and increase your knowledge of the sport. To carry it out you must attend four matches.
At your first fencing match, study just the competing fencers. Basically, the aim of fencing is to touch your opponent before he touches you. Look for the touch and try to see who touched first.
It’s easy to follow a boxing bout if you watch one fighter only, and the same is true of fencing. Concentrate on one fencer. Follow his blade and see if he scored the touch.
WATCH ATTACKER
When the fencers start, try to see which is the attacker and watch him. As the match progresses watch for fast footwork, speed with the weapon, and co-ordination of mind, weapon and body. These skills tell how good the fencer is and how fast he thinks.
When you attend your second match take a close look at the weapons, and how they fit into the team effort.
A fencing team has three weapons— the foil, epee, and the sabre. The foil is the lightest and the movements of the foil fencers are the fastest. Touches are made by thrusting the point.
The sabre features slashing movements and touches can be made by thrusting or cutting.
The team score is totalled from the results of the bouts in all three weapons. In the foil, for instance, three participants from each team fence round-robin against each other. This makes nine bouts and there are also nine similar bouts in the sabre and the epee.
FIVE TOUCHES WINS
The team that wins the match is the team that wins the most bouts of the 27 that are fenced. The first man to score five touches wins the bout and tallies one point for his team.
At your third match observe the judges. They are on the mat to tell if a touch was good. In the foil and the sabre there are four judges and a director. Two judges watch each fencer and the director watches the general action.
In the epee, an electrical apparatus is used to score the touch, but one judge is necessary to be sure that the blades do not touch the ground.
When a judge thinks a touch has been made, he raises his hand to signal the director, who halts the action. The director reconstructs the action and determines which fencer attacked.
LEARN FROM DIRECTOR
When the director reconstructs the action, watch him. You can learn what has happened.
If the judge thinks a touch was scored, he answers yes; if he thinks not, he says no; and if he is not sure, he abstains.
From the vote of the judges, the director awards the touch. He only votes if the judges disagree. He can overrule the opinion of only one judge watching a fencer, never both.
(continued in next issue)
January 18, 1957
TIME OUT
Fencers Open Season JL (Continued from page 27)	;
153 bouts. Junior monogram-winner Dick Fagan, senior Art Price, and jun- , iors Jerry Meyer, Joe Klein, and Ed Warnicke head this year’s list. Promising sophs in this division include Tom Lee, Pat Green, and Klaus Muller-Bergh.
Coach Langford, also head of the— . Modern Language Department of the^V school, and a former Irish tennis coach, 1 is in his eleventh season as Irish fencing coach, taking over the reins in 1951 after having previously tutored them from 1940 to 1943. In ten seasons, Langford-coached teams have won 88 and lost 24, adding 15 of those wins against two setbacks last year.
Looking ahead to the 1957 season, as far as bettering last year’s 15-2 recorct is concerned, Langford feels that, “Since \ we must replace practically the entire lineup, the odds are against it but it is not impossible, since the potential, desire, and willingness is present.”
After watching the Irish eagers perform in the Holiday Festival Tournament, this reporter has become thoroughly convinced that Notre Dame is definitely a tournament ball club. Notre Dame’s record in tourney play is an impressive ten and three, compiled in the last four years under Coach Johnny Jordan.
In the NCAA tournament in 1953, which was Jordan’s second year, Notre Dame reached the quarterfinal round of eight before losing to Indiana, the eventual winner, by a score of 79-66.
In the NCAA the following year, Notre Dame won a preliminary game at Fort Wayne by defeating Loyola of the South, 80-70. They then moved to Iowa City and upset a heavily favored Indiana club by one point. With a trip to the finals hanging on the verdict, Penn State dumped the Irish the following night.
During the Christmas holidays of ’54, the local quintet won the Sugar Bowl classic by defeating Loyola of the South and the tourney favorite, Holy Cross. The following year, Jordan took his crew first team to ever defend the crown successfully. On
both nights, Notre Dame was a decisive underdog but they defeated Alabama and Utah, both teams in the Top Ten.
The amount of success the Irish have in tournament play makes one wonder if a conference made up of Catholic independents might improve basketball at Notre Dame. With a title at stake, not only would more interest be aroused, but Notre Dame, if the records prove anything, would win more ball games. The conference might include such teams as Marquette, DePaul, Loyola, Dayton, Duquesne, Xavier, Villanova, La Salle, St. John’s, Seton Hall, Fordham, Georgetown and possibly Providence, Holy Cross and Boston College. Some have suggested the teams in Western New York’s Little Three, Canisius, Niagara and St. Bonaventure, as possible teams in the eightteam loop.
Five of these teams already appear on Notre Dame’s schedule: Marquette, Loyola, DePaul, Holy Cross and Canisius. With an eight-team circuit, each team would play every other team in the league twice on a home and home basis. Each team would then have 14 conference games and leave each club with ten other games to schedule since most colleges play a 24-game slate. Doubleheaders in Chicago Stadium and Madison Square Garden featuring conference games would draw well and help the conference financially.
Of course, the first objection is that such a league might produce hard feelings among some schools. This idea could easily be banished by the fact that Notre Dame already competes on a highly competitive plane with some of these schools.
The whole idea seems quite feasible but we would be glad to hear the pro and cons on the subject. Something of this nature should be started by Notre Dame. If Notre Dame shows interest then certainly other schools will express an interest. Someone around here should take the initiative to start something like this. How about someone in our own Administration carrying the ball? Is anybody willing?
POP SHOTS: . . . Six of the ten top teams that we picked at the beginning of the season are still rated as such. ... St. John’s, Dayton, San Francisco and Niagara have all been a disappointment. ... St. John’s and Niagara get the nod as Flops of the Season. . . . Former Irish assistant, Johnny Castellani now has his Seattle club sporting a 13-2 record. . . . ECAC Holiday Festival champion, Manhattan, leads the country in field goal percentage with 47 per cent. ... A belated thanks to basketball manager, Bruce Fedor, for all the help he gave us during the Holiday tourney. . . . Fedor is Coach Jordan’s man Friday who handles all the itinerary when the Irish travel. . . . The nod as No. 1 Notre Dame roundball rooter goes to John Stevens graying 26-year-old businessman from Chicago. . . . Has rarely missed a home game in the last few years.—J. G.
TYLERS’ BASKETBALL PICKS TONIGHT:
Brigham Young over Utah State Montana State over Colorado State Columbia over Cornell
Idaho over Oregon SMU over Texas Seton Hall over Temple Washington over Stanford
SATURDAY:
Alabama over Auburn
Montana State over Colorado State Duke over Virginia
Dartmouth over Pennsylvania Dayton over Eastern Kentucky Vanderbilt over Georgia Tech Iowa over Wisconsin
Idaho over Oregon Louisville over Kentucky West. Kentucky over Tennessee Seton Hall over Lafayette Syracuse over LaSalle Ohio State over Michigan State North Carolina State over Maryland Canisius over Niagara Iowa State over Oklahoma St. John’s over St. Francis (NY) Santa Clara over Fresno St. Bonaventure over Steubenville Utah over Montana Washington over Stanford
MONDAY:
Northwestern over Iowa Minnesota over Marquette Ohio State over Wisconsin Seattle over Gonzaga Bradley over Tulsa
TUESDAY:
Canisius over St. Bonaventure

Last Week:
29 Right, 6 Wrong. Pct. .829
28
The Scholastic
BEWARE OF DEWULF
Devine drives around Loyola center.
^Jablonski, Ranieri, Lead Kampus Keglers
After a full semester of activity in I the five leagues of the Kampus Keglers, Tom Jablonski of the 6:30 Wednesday league, seems to have a firm hold on the individual honors. Jablonski leads in three-game series total with a score of 609. He also holds the highest average in the league with a 179. High '^game honors are held by Dick Torda, also bowling in the 6:30 Wednesday league, with a 254 game.
Holding second honors are Nick Ranieri with a 606 series and Joe Grace with a 246 high game. Grace and Ranieri are also tied with a 175 average. Both roll in the 6:30 Thursday league. In the third slot are Frank Perbenda with a series of 601 and Jones with a 240 ,^ame. Pete Loda has a 174 average.
The Cleveland Club followed by the Kansas City Club and the Met Club lead the 6:30 Wednesday league. In the 8:30 Wednesday league, the St. Louis Club is on top with Wisconsin in second place. The Chemical Engineers and ASME are tied for third. California, Chicago and the Irish Club lead in the 6:30 Thursday league while at 8:30 on Thursday 1 ^he Architects and the Villagers trail the Koper Klub. In the 6:30 Friday league, the Holy Rollers lead the field.
Other outstanding Keglers are Clancy and Pivnicka with 234 and 225 games, respectively, Virg Minnick and Bill De Bott with averages of 173 and 165, and Ed Sullivan and Ervin Purucker with Series totals of 596 and 575, respectively.
I January 18, 1957
Swimmers Travel North; Face Central Michigan
In the third dual meet of what coach Gil Burdick terms one of the toughest schedules of any Indiana school, the Notre Dame Swimming Club takes on the team from Central Michigan College tomorrow evening at Mount Pleasant.
Central Michigan, undefeated in 24 meets, is the squad that defeated the Irish swimmers 47-39 just prior to the Christmas vacation.
Coach Burdick will be counting on his breast stroke specialist Dick Breuner and two freshmen who are developing fast, Tom Moran and Tom Kennedy.
Following the Central Michigan meet the Irish face two home meets. Ohio University, one of the best teams in the Mid-American conference, will be here on Feb. 2 and North Central College on Feb. 8.
Wrestlers Drop Two Matches To Miami, O., Eastern Illinois
Plagued by an apparent weakness in the heavyweight division, the Notre Dame wrestling team dropped two matches, by 14-12 to Miami of Ohio and by 19-11 to Eastern Illinois, this past weekend.
Three home meets now face the team as it hosts Chicago U. on Feb. 2, Western Illinois on Feb. 8, and Northern Illinois on Feb. 9.
Thus, after their opening loss to Northwestern followed by a triumph over Findlay of Ohio, both before Christ-
Smyth, Hawkins Spark Offense
Captain John Smyth and soph Tom Hawkins control the individual basketball statistics for- the first 13 games. One of the two paces Johnny Jordan’s crew in every offensive department except free throw percentage.
Some pre-season polls said that Notre Dame had lost too much scoring punch from last year’s squad, which they would not be able to replace. But, so far, the Irish have been pouring the ball through at an 80 point-a-game clip. This includes a season’s low of 60 in the first Northwestern game.
In the four games since the Holiday Festival Tourney in New York, the Irish have averaged 85 points.
Five men hold double figure averages for the eagers. Hawkins and Smyth lead the team with 19.9 and 19.4 marks, respectively. The 6-5 sophomore has poured in 259 points with Smyth only seven points behind him. Bob Devine and John McCarthy have hit for 11.2 points a game while Joe Morelli has pumped in 10.2 in each of the first 13 encounters.
Smitty has connected on 98 of his 192 shots for a .511 percentage to top the regulars. McCarthy and Hawkins have both found the range on over 40 per cent of their shots with Hawkins popping 100 times from the field and McCarthy registering on 60 attempts. Gene Duffy has scored on three of his five shots from the floor.
The team as a whole is hitting at a good .407 pace on 400 buckets out of 985 tries.
Ed Gleason is still the most deadly free throw shooter, missing only seven times in 29 attempts. Joe Morelli, Devine, and Smyth have all hit better than seven out of ten from the charity stripe. Tom Hawkins has the most points from the 15-foot line, 59, while Smyth has connected on 56 and Morelli 42.
Tom Hawkins has hauled down 238 rebounds-in 13 games for an average of 18.3 a game. Smitty has picked off 185. McCarthy and Devine have contributed 103 and 65 rebounds according to 13-game totals.
Notre Dame has outrebounded its opponents 768 to 584 and have given up an average of 73.0 points to the first 13 opponents.
mas vacation, the Irish grapplers now sport a one win, three loss record.
Coach Fallon, however, managed to find one bright spot as a result of last weekend’s trips. Jim Rankin, a sophomore competing in the 137-pound class, won both of his matches. Rankin is a comparative newcomer to the sport, having had no high school experience.
29

PARTIES ARE MORE FUN WHEN YOU TAKE PICTURES
*
SEE US FOK THE KODAK CAMERA
AND FILM YOU'LL NEED
BROWNIE CAMERA
Most popular snapshot camera ever built!
Simple, sure, smart—no wonder it's the world's most popular camera. Just load, aim, and shoot for grand pictures by sun or by flash. Get 12 big, sharp black-and-white or color pictures from a roll of film. Come in today for full details.
Camera
Flosholder
Notre Dame Bookstore
'Face Red Challenge,' Prof. Ker+esz Urges
The United States must negotiate with Russia, but American diplomats should “recognize the USSR and Soviet representatives for what they are according to their own doctrines and practices,” according to Dr. Stephen Kertesz, head of the University’s Committee on International Relations.
“Soviet diplomats,” Professor Kertesz emphasizes, “are, in practice, Communist agents who use diplomatic privileges and immunities for realization of Communist aims, that is, ultimately for undermining the state to which they are accredited.”
A former Hungarian diplomat and one-time Hungarian minister to Italy, Professor Kertesz gives his views on Soviet and American negotiating behavior in the January issue of Notre Dame’s lieview of Politics.
Even though “Soviet diplomacy has often equated diplomatic negotiations with deceit and treachery,” Professor Kertesz believes it would be a “sign of weakness not to accept the Soviet challenge.”
A major stumbling block in all diplomatic negotiations, Professor Kertesz points out, “is failure to understand the different mentality and value systems of foreign nations.”
American negotiators, Professor Kertesz contends, “often reflect the sub-conscious idea that ‘what is good for the United States is good for the world; what is good for the individual in the United States is or should be good for less fortunate foreigners as well’.” This instinct, he observes, “has been the cause of many irritations and failures in diplomacy, because foreign nations with different political institutions, social backgrounds, and economic conditions are unable or unwilling to take for granted ‘the American way of life’.”
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
DEVELOPMENT READING PROGRAM
Registration for the elective, noncredit course in developmental reading for undergraduate and graduate students who desire to develop efficient reading techniques, improve comprehension, and develop effective methods of study, will continue in the developmental reading program office, Room 240, Main Building, from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.
For additional information on the course content, students are advised to contact one of the program staff members in Room 240, Main Building. Registration will continue until the nine sections are filled.

STUDY AIDS
127 West Washington St.
1 bl. west of N. D. Bus Stop Phone CEntral 3-5377
j
t
sb
&
bmps
STUDENT TOURS:
10 countries... $1198.00
IS countries...$1365.00 18 countries —$1498.00
First class and De Luxe Hotels, excellent transportation—especially selected guides, limited to students only. Write or call for in-fornation now ...
G1JENINGER TOURS
117 S. Illinois Indianapolis, Indiana
ME. 4-4037
higher grades
BARNES & NOBLE
FIRST-YEAR COUtGf CHEMISTRY
COLLEGE OUTLINE SERIES
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
30
The Scholastic
<!
^ •Jan. 24 Still Scheduled For Washington Trip
The dates for the student trip to Washington have not been affected by the revised exam and registration schedule. Dr. Paul Bartholomew, who organizes and conducts the yearly trip, announced that the students will leave ^Thursday evening, Jan. 24, and return jn time for classes on Wednesday, Jan. V 30. Arrangements have been made with the administration so that those who make the trip may register late without penalty.
A visit to the Swiss Legation has been added to the itinerary. Another event, not listed, will be a party given Sunday evening by Mr. Walter Trohan, an . alumnus of Notre Dame and a member ' " Wof the advisory board of the College of / Arts and Letters. Mr. Trohan annually holds a party for the students on the trip. His guests often include members of Congress and other governmental departments, and representatives of major news services.
Goody Voted '57 President ^Of Grad Student Association
Joseph Goody was recently elected president of the Graduate Student Association for the current scholastic year. Other officers elected were Jack Carey, vice-president; Tom Morrarity, secretary; and Ralph Nelson, treasurer.
The new administration has since established an executive committee to assist the officers in planning and running ^the association’s many activities, and ”has appointed a Graduate Student council. The council, with members from each department of the graduate school, will have as one of its first tasks the drawing up of a suitable constitution for the Association.
Among current activities of the Association are the weekly GSA Sunday Mass, at which the congregation participates in the singing of the Mass, and £the Graduate Student Forum. The last presentation of the Forum was Dr. John Kane’s talk, “A Protestant View of American Catholicism.” Other talks will be given throughout the year which will be followed by open discussion from the floor. With the new semester, the GSA also plans to begin a classical film series.
MARDI GRAS BALL TICKETS
Bids for the 1957 Mardi Gras Bal! will go on sale in the Drill Hall Feb. 6 from 6 to 9:30 p.m. and Feb. 7 from 4 to 6 p.m. It was erroneously reported in last week's SCHOLASTIC the tickets would be sold in the La Fortune Student Center.
Nobody Gave A Hoot For J. Paul Sheedy* Till Wildroot Cream-Oil Gave Him Confidence
"Wise everybody avoid me so ?” h-owled J. Paul. "Because you’re such a ruffled old bird”, replied his best buddy. Well that really opened Sheedy’s eyes. He took a taxi-dermist down to the store and pecked up a bottle
of Wildroot Cream-Oil. Now he’s the picture of confidence because he knows his hair always looks its best from morning till night. So if people have been hooting at your messy hair, screech for a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil. It’s guaranteed to keep your hair neat but not greasy. And all the gals will go out of their way to beak to you.
* of131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
WILDROOT' g
CREAMOIL I
LANOMN
Wildroot Cream-Oil gives you confidence
tx( m«i»
ttuim enam iwom loon CA«:?crr
Employment Interviews
Leading container manufacturer has opportunities for scientists with B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. degrees.
A Canco representative will be on campus on February 13 to interview
CHEMISTS CHEMICAL ENGINEERS
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
for positions in the Research and Technical Department.
You may sign for an interview at the Office of the Placement Bureau, Administration Building.
American Can Company
COURTESY BARBER SHOP 112 E. Washington Street South Bend, Indiana Under Max Adler Company B. FRED CRAVEN N. D. Boys Welcome
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Ndg.
January 18, 1957
31
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented 7 days before insertion date.
JACK & HEINTZ. Monday. Feb. 4—Placement Office.
AMERICAN CAN. Wednesday, Feb. 13—Placement Office.
COLUMBIA SOUTHERN. Thursday. Feb. 7 — Placement Office.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
BABCOCK & WILCOX. Tuesday. Feb. 5—Placement Office.
IBM. Tuesday. Feb. 5—Placement Office.
BURROUGHS CORP., Monday. Feb. Il—Placement Office.
1QUIW UBUtYud INK SUP
INLAND STEEL. Friday. Feb. 8—Placement Office.
STANDARD OIL. Wednesdav. Feb. 6—Placeemnt Office.	'
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
K. of C. BALL
Bid sales for the 1957 Knights of Columbus Ball, “Columbian Valentine,” will be held on Wednesday, Jan. 30, Thursday, Jan. 31, and Friday, Feb. 1 from 5 to 7 p.m. at the council offices in the basement of Walsh Hall. The price of bids is $2.50.
The Ball will be held from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. on Friday, Feb. 15 at the K. of C. Hall in South Bend. Ken Morris and his orchestra, who played at the Law Ball earlier this year, will provide the music.
The usual late and Friday night car permissions will be in effect.
NOLAN DUGAN SAYS:
DO-YA-NO
That just 1708 yards 1 foot 2 inches from campus you can enjoy a FRANKIE SPECIAL

n
FRANKIE'S
closest Resturant to campus
N. D. Debaters Host Loras Vv
Last Saturday, the Notre Danie • Debate Team was host to representatives f from Loras College of Dubuque, la., in a series of debates between the two schools. The program included two rounds of debate in the morning, as the • four men from Loras faced a completely different Notre Dame team in each j round.	I
Representing the University at the af-^- | fair were: Robert Dempsey, Dennis Shaul, Gerald Goudreau, Thomas Ban- ’ choff, William Barrett, Brendan Fagan, Victor McCrea, and John Sullivan.
1957 Graduate Engineers
Here are the opportunities you have been seeking. Investigate our top salaries and excellent opportunities that prepare you for technical and administrative responsi-
Supervisory Training
Equipment and Plant Maintenance
Plant Engineering
Research and Development
Quality Control
Field Engineering
Roll Design
Industrial Engineering
Electrical Engineering and Maintenance
Power
These are career opportunities unprecedented in the history of our company as the result of a tremendous expansion program now in progress. Become a member of our management team. On February 8, 1957, our representative will be on your campus.
Inland Steel Company East Chicago, Indiana
32
The Scholastic
• Engineers Schedule Communications Talk
The Engineering Advisory Board will present another in its series of talks for all engineering students on Feb. 5. • Scheduled to get underway at 7:45 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium, the presentation is intended to give a clear picture of all the research, development,
•1
§

and engineering involved in the communications industry.
This program will be presented by four different segments of the American Telephone and Telegraph Co. Following a lecture by each participating concern, there will be a unified question and answer period. The program will end with refreshments, during which time the speakers will be available for consul-tation.
Bell laboratories will open the program with a discussion of research in the field of communications. The speaker will be C. E. Fisher who will represent the main Bell laboratories in Murray Hill, N. J.
The manufacture of communications equipment will be the topic of the second lecture. Daniel Moore, the industrial $ relations manager, and Hal Heath, the college relations coordinator, from the Chicago branch, will present the story of manufacturing activities of Western Electric. Color slide movies will also be included in this portion.
The commercial use of short and long range communication devices will be the subject treated by Indiana Bell Telephone in the third segment. Robert Holmes, of the South Bend office, and
'.^Robert Gangsted, of Indianapolis, will conduct this portion of the program.
In the fourth lecture, Sandia, the atomic research center in Albuquerque, N. M., will be discussed by John Ford. Sandia is the research center that deals with Armed Forces missile development.
The Feb. 5 program will be of special interest to all student engineers in that it will be presented by six engineers _ from different fields.
Interviews will be given by all the companies participating in the program on Feb. 12 and 13.
About interesting and challenging opportunities in all phases of Petroleum and Chemical Research and Engineering?
Standard Oil Company, (Ind.)
Has openings at all degree levels for
CHEMISTS and ENGINEERS ■ Chemical ■ Mechanical ■ Electrical I Civil | Metallurgical
J. E. FRIDEN and J. W. COOPER of our Research and Engineering Technical Staff will visit your campus to answer your questions.
Arrange for an interview on WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6 At your placement office.
WSND to Broadcast Music
During Examination Period
The regular broadcasting activities of radio station WSND, on the campus, Wwere brought to a close last Saturday night. In their place, during the period of final examinations, uninterrupted music will be presented. An FM station in Chicago will provide the music which will start at 9:30 a.m. and last until midnight. The regular program schedule will return to the air on Monday ^morning, Jan. 28.
i January 18, 1957
Indiana University Center Art Film Forum
JANUARY 30—GATE OF HELL (Japanese)—Winner of the 1955 Academy Award for best foreign picture and best color costume design.
FEBRUARY 6—A LOVE STORY (German)—Winner of the Berlin Film Festival Award for photography.
FEBRUARY 13—MELBA (English)—Patrice Munsel, Metropolitan Opera soprano, plays role of great Nellie Melba—in color.
FEBRUARY 20—RETURN OF DON CAMILLO (Italo-French)—Sequel to The Little World of Don Camillo, with Fernandel and Gino Cervi.
2 Performances nightly—7:30 and 9:15
Shown at the RIVER PARK THEATRE, Mishawaka Ave. at 30th
Series enrollment $2.40. Mail check to River Park Theatre or Indiana Univ.
Center, Central High School, South Bend, Ind.	Single tickets 90c
33
Hack. Patft
bv Hal Blakeslee
•/
who is1
Sometimes I wonder if the people who aren’t in college know more about college life than the students themselves do. At times it seems that way. Over the holidays, for example, I heard a conversation neatly killed by a description of someone as a “typical college student.” The knowing smiles and nodding heads indicated that everyone listening knew exactly what kind of person was described. I sure didn’t. I’d have known just as much if someone had said he’s typical of the younger generation.
In seven semesters I’ve seen a lot of people around Notre Dame. All of them are loosely known as students. That’s just about where the similarity ends (if there even is one there).
As everybody knows, there is a group here at school who make a daily trip to the Rock. Armed with gym shoes and green shirts they trudsre off to the basketball or handball courts as soon as their classes end. Once in the Rock they see the same faces they saw the day before, do the same things, and they love it.	.
ROCK-LOVERS
It isn’t hard to find the Rock-goers on the campus. But how about the students? I mean the ones who really study —the kind that lock themselves in their rooms and only come out for classes and weekends. Maybe it’s knowledge, or maybe it’s marks they’re after, but they go about it the same way. They study, and study, and study. It never occurs to them to work out in the Rock. They like to study.
SLEEPERS
There’s another group around here that is often hard to find, providing you don’t know them well. They’re the ones who like to sleep. For them, time has absolutely nothing to do with being tired.
34
Their greatest delight is to kill a good share of the day by ignoring it. They aren’t necessarily lazy. It’s just that they like to lie down every once in a while.
POLITICIANS
If the guys who hit the sack a little too often could be accused of lacking energy, this next group more than makes up for it. They are the school politicians —the ones who do the things that everybody criticizes. Their lives here are largely comprised of projects, work, and deals. Tirelessly they scamper around getting things done. In return they occasionally get their names in print. Oh yes—they also get a nice looking recommendation for graduate school. Their’ daily reward is abuse from the student body. I guess it’s easier to ridicule someone than to do a better job yourself.
THE FRIENDLY ONES
Somehow related to the politicians are the largest group on the campus. They’re the ones who spend four years here and make a lot of friends. Their first two years are chiefly devoted to movies, the last two to bars. They like a good time and they have it. Thriving on bull sessions, they find classes a mere formality, and finals disastrous. College for them is a great place to spend a little time. Everybody ought to do it.
SOCIALITES
Somewhere along here I think the socialites need mention. Maybe socialites isn’t the right word to use, because it takes a mighty good man to merit the title of socialite at Notre Dame. Daters is probably a better term. Just about everybody here succumbs to the lure of St. Mary’s once in awhile, but what I mean by daters are those who continually respond to the lure. (Those who
date one girl regularly aren’t included in this group—that’s their own business or problem.) The daters are the ones who wade through hours of busy signals to line up blind dates. If they’re happy, that’s all that counts. What more can be said?
MUSIC-LOVERS
Any list of this kind would be incom-	y
plete without a brief look at the music	i
lovers. Some like music in general. | Some like symphonies. Others can tolerate nothing but jazz. It really doesn’t	ji
matter what their preference is. The	a
symptoms are the same—feet on the j j desk, record player on, and thoughts / ? anywhere. Hi-fi in the halls presents a ; j few concentration problems, but after^,..; all, it’s just music. The hours that music “ ; lovers spend listening to records mark I f the high spots of their college year® ; t Makes you wonder if hi-fi will ever find It its way into the business office.	I
WHICH ONE IS TYPICAL?	t
So now comes the question, which one ? is the typical college student? Is it the ; dater, the Rock-goer, the politician, any one of those sketched above? Is it ip someone who has all those qualities to some degree? Even here where everyone ’ has approximately the same background, 1 where religion is a common denominator, there doesn’t seem to be a typical Notre Dame student.	■
It makes you wonder if there is such a thing as a typical anyone. I’d hate to^. try to pick out a typical businessman, or*' J. a typical farmer. Different people enjoy w different things. Personalities just 1 aren’t built and packaged in assembly 1 line fashion. Perhaps some people can ■ see a sense in which one person typifies n all students, or housewives, or fathers. H I’d like to know how it’s done, or better ■ yet; meet the typical person.
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS H
------------------------------------------------j
A Campus-to-Career Case History	}
Claire Hruska (left) discusses progress of a new telephone building with the contractor.
What’s a civil engineer’s job in the telephone company?
Claire Hruska graduated in 1953 from die University of Washington with a B.S. in Civil Engineering. Today he’s with The Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company.
“I supervise construction at every stage.” Claire says. “Every telephone building is designed around the equipment diat will be in it. When a building is needed. I work closely with the architect to make sure his plans fit the needs. Then I check the contractors’ bids. When the contract is let. it's my responsibility
to see that the builder sticks to the plans in detail.
“Right now I’m handling the construction of several telephone exchanges, a large office building in downtown Seattle, and additions to other buildings. It’s satisfying work, because I’m on my own a lot, and getting the jobs done is up to me.
“I’ve got a career that offers big assignments and responsibilities, and real opportunities to get ahead in a business that’s growing rapidly. That’s what I was looking for.”
Claire Hruska is typical of the many young men who are finding rewarding careers in the Bell Telephone System. For more information on career opportunities in the Bell Telephone Companies, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation, see your placement officer.
Beil Telephone System