^luA baiAeA a Question
A picture like this raises a question. . . for you to answer.
At this moment, hundreds of thousands of America’s finest young men are fighting in the greatest military effort of this war. For them, there are no half-way measures.
Ask yourself—are you doing anything to match their supreme sacrifice?
If you can say “yes” to that question—and no one can, who isn’t actually under fire—that’s fine.
If not... go out now and buy those extra War Bonds. The Bonds you didn’t think you could quite afford.
Keep UfiUl
— feuy Wga, RgmAa. job KeepA!
This space contributed to the Treasury Department's Spring War Bond program by
The Notre Dame Scholastic
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 84
MARCH 29. 1945
NO. 3
Student Council Elects Linehan President
V-12 Holds Regimental Review; First of Year
After an entire winter of inactivity and hibernation, the V-12 unit came out for the first time last Saturday morning to stage the first regimental review of 1945. The review was staged on the Navy drill field at 1100 with the entire 440 men, five-company unit participating.
Though the review was staged on a much smaller scale than those spectacles staged by the 1000-plus units of the past, the precision and order of execution were as apparent as in the past. The entire review was under the overall supervision of Ensign Byron Summon, drill officer and barracks officer assisted by Chief Clason, drill instructor. Also aiding in the organization and preparation were Athletic Specialists Zuckowsky, Durdach, Von Pinnon, LePage, and Houghton who serve as company instructors. ,
The regimental band numbering 65 pieces, gave an exhibition to demonstrate that it is one of the best as well as the largest in the history of the unit.
The drill uniform was dress blues, white hats and leggings and the reviewing staff included Captain J. Richard Barry, commanding officer; Lieut. Cmdr. Clarke Olney, executive officer of the V-12 unit; Lieut, (jg) Bradford Lamson and Ensign Summon.
The review was the first of a regular series planned for the spring semester. The next review will be held Saturday in conjunction with the first monthly personnel and barracks inspection.
GOOD FRIDAY CLASSES
The dismissal of classes for Holy Week services, this year will be the same as last year, according to the Director of Studies. Only the 2:15 , and 3:15 classes on Good Friday will be dismissed; but all other classes will continue as usual.
John F. Power elected Vice-President; John V. Allen new Secretary-Treasurer.
By ROBERT RIORDAN "Scholastic" Editor
Frank Linehan, senior representing the College of Commerce, was elected president of the Notre Dame Student Council for the Spring semester at the organizational meeting held last Monday night. Elected to serve with Linehan as vice-president was John Power, from the retiring council, and as secretary-treasurer, John V. Allen, senior representing the College of Science.
Three men were elected to serve with the three officers on the newly created executive council; these men were Robert Brown, V-12 regimental commander, representing the V-12 Unit, Joseph Brady, Law College representative, and Rob' ert L. Mulcahy, Cavanaugh Hall representative.
The Council began immediately to lay plans for the coming semester as President Linehan called for a revival of the infonnal dance series which was inaugurated by the council last semester. A committee of James Retter, James Clynes, and Robert Riordan was appointed to act as central committee and all hall representatives were asked to submit outline plans for such dances. The council took this step because of the success which was accorded the dances of last semester presented by Zahm and Breen-Phillips halls and sponsored by the Student Council.	.,
President Linehan also presented the proposal that the Student Council sponsor a showing of the new publicity film recently taken on the campus, the film titled The University of Notre Dame. The presentation of the film will be on next Tuesday evening, April 3, at 8:00 in the Engineering Auditorium.
The membership of the council this semester will consist of 17 men, representing colleges, halls, and the council
of last semester. The names of the men are as follows:
Francis M. Linehan, College of Commerce; James J. Clynes Jr., Arts and Letters; John V. Allen, Science; Joseph L. Brady, Law; James Retter, Engineering; James J. Donovan, Sorin; Philip Callan, St. Edward’s; Robert L. Mulcahy and Mike Bush, Cavanaugh-Alum ni; Thomas W. Jackson and William B. Hopke, Zahm-Breen-Phillips; William W. Moore, NROTC; Robert G. Brown, V-12 unit; and John F. Power, Janies V. Donnelly, and Robert Riordan from the council of last semester.
Commerce Forum Meets
The first regular meeting of the Commerce Forum this semester was held last week. The initial speech of six to be given this semester was delivered by Francis Malone. His subject, “The United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference at Bretton Woods,” was as excellently treated as it was timely.
Mr. Malone’s views stressed the need of the International Bank as set up in the conference plans. However, “The International Stabilization Fund seems to be too broad and the purpose of the fund could be reached more satisfactorily by incorporating it as an agency of the Bank. The resulting combine would require less capital and would make possible a unity of policy.”
The discussion that followed was benefited greatly by the presence of the three guests for the evening in the persons of Dr. Raymond Kent and Mr. LeClaire Eells, professors of finance, and Mr. Wesley C. Bender, professor of business administration.
—John Vaughn
3
^he S^otre ^bame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
EDITORIAL

Holy Week

THE STAFF
Holy Week will be observed this week on the Notre Dame campus and in all of the Christian world. In many parts of the war-ravaged earth this observance will be only in the hearts of the people and not in the colorful and traditional ceremonies which have been annual occurrences for many centuries. These people have lost much in life and property and have felt the anguish which has been brought upon them by Mars’ latest march through the blossoming youth; leaving but a few untouched.
The sufferings of the multitudes of today are brought into sharp focus before our eyes as we see the men of the armed forces of the Allied Nations giving their life’s blood for the cause for which they fight, and we see the peoples of the battle-tom nations undergoing hardships such as we never thought the human body and soul could stand.
ROBERT RIORDAN, Editor-in-Chief
ED IT OKI AL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND -	- Navy Associate Editor
GEORGE DESPOT -	-	- Managing Editor
JAMES REGAN -	-	-	- Sports Editor
JAMES F. McCARTHY - .	-	- . Feature Editor
AL KUENZLI -	- -	. - Advertising Manager
RALPH HAYMAN -	- "	- Circulation Manager ’
BOB O'TOOLE -	- -	-	- Promotion ■ •
... COLUMNISTS	...
POWER - WALTERS	• The - Green., Banner. A
E. F. GILLESPIE	-	-- The College-Parade
ART WAGNER -	■=.	- .	- , Swabbie's Log ■
FRANK GUIDO -	-	-	-	'' Photography
REV, CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Fdculty ASviso?
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS7
FRANK GRIMALDI JOHN FEENEY . JOHN MILES JACK-FREESE- J. J. TENGE • OCTAVE EMOND GERARD HEKKER DAN DANISZEWICZ ROBERT J. SHAW JOHN DEFANT '■
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented -for national advertising by National Advertising Service,' Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los-Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
A now famous statement was that of the G.I. who said, “There are no atheists in fox-holes.” In times of extreme need man turns to the Supernatural, and in the crisis facing the whole world today its peoples must turn to God for protection and guidance. The conditions of the world today and the probable state of affairs after the present conflict will require great patience and fortitude of the people, and what better example of these qualities to have than that of Christ sacrificing His life that man might be redeemed.
In the Passion and death of Christ we see the patience and ' charity toward which we should strive in all of our sufferings— both as part of the war.and in our ordinary lives. If this suffering at times seems to be unreasonable, man need look only to another who' Sacrificed Himself oh Calvary. Through His sacrifice on the - Cross,, the gates of heaven were reopened for mankind. Suffering here pn earthiis the test to which man is put before he earns his ■ eternal, reward in heaven.
Much of the evil in the world today is a result of the thinking and actions of men who either do not know or have forgotten the true purpose for their being here on earth. The avarice and greed, the immorality and injustice, the complete disregard of the teachings of Christ—all of these are a result of men forgetting, —or not knowing—the purpose of man’s life in this world.
As children, many students who are now at Notre Dame recited the catechism, “Man is a creature composed of body and soul. . . .” It is important that as men of Notre Dame they never forget what they memorized as children—“. . . body and soul . . .”—and guard closely the welfare of that soul which will live through eternity in heaven or hell.
It is good for us today, as we pause in observance of Holy Week, to examine ourselves, and reaffirm our purpose in life. Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus, “Learn as if you were to live always; live as if you were to die tomorrow.”—R. R.
Knights to Reorganize
Floundering at its lowest ebb in years, the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus met Thursday, March 22 in the Law Building and suggested proceedings fox’ a complete reorganization of the council.
This preliminary discussion concerning a complete revamping of the council set Tuesday, April 3 the date for the re-organizational meeting, and an urgent appeal is being made to all members on the campus to attend. In recent months the council has functioned under- adverse conditions with a poor- attendance at the meetings and little interest displayed by the officers and members. At the meeting of last Thursday it was decided that the council be completely reorganized, beginning with the resignation of officers en masse and the election of new men into the positions of leadership.
Normally the Knights are the largest and most active club on the campus; but it has been most severely hit by wartime exigencies. As a result it can pride itself in claiming a higher percentage of members in the services than any other- council in the nation, and it can resign itself to admitting that it must function at present in a limited fashion. Hence the move was made to initiate proceedings for a rebirth, with the hope of putting the council on a firm new basis to continue progressive, if limited activity. The ultimate aim is to retain a continuing liveliness for the postwar return to normalcy.	.
The chief social function being planned by the Knights is the annual spring picnic to be held this semester. Dick Martin, E. F. Gillespie and Frank Grimaldi make up the committee appointed to lay plans for the affair.	-
The reorganization meeting is to be held in the Basement of the Law Building at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday, April 3.
—Frank Grimaldi
Durin? past semesters the Officers of the V-7 unit have been kind enough to express their appreciation of the thoughtful attitude of the civilian students on their deference to the marching columns of V-7 trainees on the walks of the campus. It is expected this semester that the civilian students will again conduct themselves so as to win the respect of the the officers and men of the V-7 unit.
FATHER McAVOY TO GIVE RADIO ADDRESS SERIES
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Department of History, will give three radio talks on “Pope Pius XII and the Coming Peace,” over station WHOT at 4:00 p.m. on the first three Mondays of April. The first talk, Pius XII and the Causes of War, will be given April 2. That of April 9 will be Pius XII and the Principles of a Just Peace; and that of April 16, The Pope and the Coming Peace. Because of the approaching peace conference at San Francisco which opens the last week of April and the importance attached to the statements of the Pope regarding the moral principles of the coming peace, those talks will be of interest to many.
In the first talk Father McAvoy will review the Pope’s analysis of these moral causes of the present war which must be removed before a lasting peace can be made. In the second talk he will discuss those principles of a just peace which the Pope has set fox-th as the cure foi-these causes of war. In the final talk Fathex- McAvoy will discuss the means the Pope has pointed out for carrying out these px-inciples. The Pope’s Chxnstmas
N. D. Men Liberated
When the Yanks liberated the Philippines and many prisoners of wax- who had been on the islands since their fall, many Notre Dame men participated in the liberation. From one formex- student, comes an interesting tale.
John Finneran, 1933 graduate of Notre Dame and a first lieutenant of the 11th airborne division, led a number- of paratroopers against the prison camp in Los Banos. Among the internees he liberated were four members of-the Holy Cross .order- and two civilians who had previously attended Notre Dame.
The' Rev. Jerome Lawyer, C.S.C., of Portsmouth, 0., was offering Mass and at its completion, he observed parachutes falling. The same day, Lieut. Finneran led his raiders against the camp. Others liberated were Rev. Robert McKee, C.S.C., of Malone, N.Y.; Brother Theodore Kapes, C.S.C., of Hazelton, Penna., and Brother Rex Hennel, C.S.C., of Evansville, Ind. The civilians and former Notre Dame students were Michael J. Adrian of New York City, graduate of the class of 1925 and Anthony Alsobrook of Chatanooga, Tenn., who attended the University from 1925-1927.
The members of the Holy Cross Congregation were trapped while enroute to their Bengal mission in 1941.
message on Christian Democracy will form the basis for this address. The talks are given on the “Queen of Peace” program sponsored by Monsignor John Szabo, of the South Bend Deanery.
Bev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.
Three Naval Heroes on
Campus Receive Medals
Three students of the naval unit at the University of Notre Dame have recently been presented with presidential citations fox- valor in action against the enemy.
Bernard Aloysius Minarik, Chicago, Ill., of the V-12, and Harry Mills McNeill,, radarman first class of Rowland, N. C. received their awards for their participation with the ship’s company of the U.S.S. Bogue, an aircraft carrier, in its outstanding performance against the enemy from April 1943 to July 1944.
The third to receive a citation was Bernard Joseph Middleton of the V-12 unit. He received the Air Medal for his part as a radioman gunner at New Guinea and the Caroline islands. Middleton wears the Pur-ple Heart which was presented to him at Notre Dame in July, 1944.
The presentations were made by Capt. Richard Barry, U.S.N., commandant of the school.	'
Opera to be Presented
The San Carlo Opera Co. will present Rigoletto on April 18 in the Navy Drill hall. This is. one of* the student entertainments planned in the concert lecture series.
5
OUTDOOR WAY OF THE CROSS ON GOOD FRIDAY
As in Past Years, Again Tomorrow
Lt. E. W. Bowman Takes
Duties as Course Officer
Lieutenant E. W. Bowman is the new course officer for the V-12 unit. As such he replaces Lieutenant Beatty who is being transferred to Naval Station, San Francisco.
Lieutenant Bowman was formerly stationed at Illinois State Normal University; Normal, Ill. His duties there were those of a combination executive and course officer.
Coming into the Navy from a position of Superintendent of Public School’s Administration in Washington state, he has had valuable experience in education. He was an integral part of the state board of education, and was influential in developing systems to be used in schools.
He has been in the service since 1942. He received indoctrination at Naval Training School, Tucson, Ariz. From there he was sent to the Midshipman School at Columbia, N. Y. He was an instructor there up to the time of his transfer to Normal, Ill.
• He is married and has two children. At present his family is living at his former station; he hopes to have them join him soon.
S
For the first time in many years, the Way of the Cross will be conducted out of doors, along the path about St. Joseph’s lake, terminating at Calvary, the rustic shrine in a wooded area adjacent to Moreau Seminary.
This devotion will get under way at the Grotto, at 2:50, tomorrow afternoon, and it is being planned especially for both civilians and servicemen of the student body.
Father William Craddick, C.S.C., prefect of religion, will lead the devotions. Hymns will be sung by students, under the direction of Father Simonitsch, C. S. C., assistant prefect of religion.
In case of inclement weather, the devotion will be held in Sacred Heart Church, in union with the Community which will terminate its services by benediction with a relic of the True Cross.
Glee Club Elects Carson
At the first special practice held Monday, March 25, members of the Glee Club gathered to elect officers for the coming semester. John Caron, NROTC student from Rochelle, Ill., was elected president, succeeding Bob O’Toole, senior from Chicago. Garland Dowling was elected vicepresident, and Barney Slater, secretarypublicity manager.
Caron took over the meeting immediately upon his election and asked cooperation of the members during the semester, pointing out that the membership of the club had become more stable in recent semesters and that the club had much greater possibilities of success in its concerts. Minor’ officers were appointed by the new president and a new arrangement for practice sessions outlined in preparation for the first appearance of the club in Kankakee on Tuesday, April 17.
Reading Room Adds Books
About 85 new books including novels, books on art, science, literature, religion, travel, sociology, current and post war problems have been added this week to the fast growing Cavanaugh Hall Reading Room. The Reading Room is open to all the students on the campus from 7:00 to 9:00 each evening except Saturday.
Three N.D. Midshipmen
Grads Reported Dead
Three graduates of the naval reserve midshipman’s school at the University of Notre Dame have been reported as dead and another as missing in action in the Pacific theatre.
Lieut, (jg) Karl W. Kappus of San Antonio, Texas, and Lieut, (jg) Lloyd A. Carlson of Melrose, Minn, are both presumed to be dead after having been missing in the Pacific since Dec. 18, 1944. They were attached to destroyers lost in a typhoon near the Philippines.
A classmate, Ensign Jack A. Reid of Sioux City, Iowa, is dead as a result of enemy action early in 1945.
Missing in action since January, is Ensign William A. Ferguson of Holyoke, Mass.
Menez Re-elected Prexy of Inter-American Affairs
Mr. Joseph F. Menez, senior in Arts and Letters, was re-elected president of the Inter-American Affairs club at their first meeting of this semester.
For three elections, Mr. Menez has been unanimously elected as president by the club. Mr. Enrique R. Lulli was selected by the members as vice president and Rolando Duarte was elected secretary-treasurer.
The club officials will soon hold a special meeting to make plans for the Spring meeting in Chicago of the Commission on Inter-American Action, of which the club is a member. A number of the club members will attend the meeting as representatives of the University of Notre Dame. The club may also send speakers to the meeting, to be held April 14, but final announcements will clarify the situation.	'
Illinois Leads All States
In Student Enrollment
Paced by Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan, the enrollment for last semester included students from every state but two, Nevada and Vermont. This figure includes civilians, V-12s, and NROTCs.
Illinois topped the list with 370 students, Indiana second with 345, and Michigan third with 226. Not far behind in student representation with over 100 is Ohio (193), New York (162), and Pennsylvania (110).
In the foreign class, the leader is Ecuador (6) with Mexico (5) and Panama (5) second. There are three each from Chile and Cuba, two each from Guatemala, Peru, and Puerto Rico, and one each from British West Indies, Colombia, Canada, France, Java, and San Salvador.
FAN MAIL
At last we are a literary success. We have received a fan letter; at least we prefer to call it that, since we always look at things through rose - colored glasses. •
For a while the only thing that was sliding under our door was the Religious Bulletin. We began to feel cut off from the world at large. Last Saturday, Tom Vail, Sorin’s panting postman (Snow, rain and sleet do slow him) tossed a dainty white envelope in our direction. It was for us—a genuine, unadulterated, letter. It was postmarked Holy Cross, Indiana, which we have heard is a suburb of Roseland, with a population of 400, no industries to speak of and no claim to fame except its proximity to the Notre Dame freight line.
Our correspondent spoke in glowing terms of our literary efforts, compared us to Chaucer, Milton, Tennyson and a few others we won’t mention here. But what are the tortures with which she threatens us if we were to dare cross the Dixie.
❖
... By Harry Walters and John Power
there’s a fire in the hall,” and was last seen going down the laundry chute in his night shirt. We’re expecting to pick him up at Badin’s wet wash establishment early Friday morning, stamped “3549.”
"EXPOSE"
The Precincts have reported, the votes are in. The ward heelers have been paid off. Tammany Hall was put to shame as out of the murky depths of Sorin Solid Sub came a political upheaval which rent asunder the once powerful machine headed by “Boss” Jim Clynes, who together with Mayor Joe Brady once claimed to control every vote from Ithaca to Mishawaka—Pat “Benedict” Mazza walked, talked and crawled on his belly to win votes for Jim Donovan. Three-cent cigars were distributed to the select masses by Mazza’s junior partner in crime Joe Sylvester and John O’Rourke .... Colonel George Johnson displayed the Kentucky ways and means of stuffing a ballot box with Donovan-marked votes. Said Boss Clynes concerning his machine: “The organization will continue to function; and although we took it on
the chin in Sorin, it will not impede our campaign to elect Iron Hat John Dock-weiler chief janitor for the Biology building.
❖
BENGAL BOOKS:
Bob Donlan is really going scientific in his training for the Bengals. He is not doing much road work, nor is he punching the bag but he’s been reading a lot of books on boxing. He’s recently added Hoiv to Throw a Left Hook, How to Ride With a Punch, How to Jab, How to Uppercut and The Fine Art of Footwork. Will Granfield says “He’s forgotten to read the most important book of all, How to Get Up Before Ten.”
❖ •
OPEN LETTER TO ST. MARY'S:
Before the situation becomes more aggravated than it is at this very moment the Green Banner would like it known that any comments which it might make carry no criminal intent. Let it be said that we are news-hungry and wouldn’t think of disillusioning any of our fair headed freshmen in their attitudes toward the Rock. It might also be noted from recent appearances that Static and The Saturday Evening Shriek as published by. . . . (Oh, why mention names) are evidently news-hungry as well.___Is that nice girls? The Banner also has been angling for literary contributions from the hidden dimly lighted closets of some of the St. Mary’s queens, but to no avail................................So Sorry.
YOUTH ON THE CAMPUS:
Phil Martin, hailing from San Diego, Calif., home of Mission Bell Wine, working for a degree in Brewmastering.... Maintains a 100% average.... Never fails. Carries a tough schedule on Saturday (nights) from 7:30 to 11:30.... then leaves Georges and catches the 11:31 bus.... a good prospect for Doc Handy .... a rabid Republican, a Republican being one who has to work for a living .... Hasn’t talked politics since November. ... Hasn’t had any money since either.... Keeps telling his cousin Dick “what’s yours is mine, and what’s mine is my own,” hence his dates with Dick’s girl. Well liked, but seldom seen in Sorin.
❖
IT ALL COMES OUT IN THE WASH:
The “Green Banner” Memorial Award of the week goes to Fathei* Glueckert’s lads on the first floor of Alumni. One massive green banana will be their reward for submitting to the blasting of the V-12 boogie-woogie bugle boy and his 6:00 reveille.
Jim Simon was so stai-tled his first morning by the blast that he jumped out of bed hollered “Hubba, hubba, hubba,
O'Toole has me training for the Bengals
7
l.Educational Achievement Credit Applications: Former V-12 students who completed their work and have gone into other training and service in the Navy will be interested in the new, improved three-page, “Application for Credit for Educational Achievement During Military Service,” recently distributed to all Naval districts. The new form, USAFI No. 47 (Revised 1944, Navy Reference BuPers Circ. Ltr. 349-44, 17 November ’44), should expedite and systematize the procedure for securing academic credit by naval personnel for their training and experience in the Navy.
2.	Mathematics and Naval Architecture : Eight or more of the special billets for Naval officers in post-graduate work require calculus. The newest announced opportunity, for example, is a postgraduate course in naval architecture, seven months in duration. Applications are desired from reserve officers interested in the Regular Navy as a career. College graduates not over 26 years of age are desired for the class opening in June 1945. The preferred qualifications are schooling in mathematics through differential and integral calculus with a major completed in mechanical, architectural, civil, or electrical engineering, or a degree in applied physics. This is another example of the truth of the statement that one of the most valuable academic qualifications for success in the Navy is a major or a minor in college mathematics.	•
3.	21 Majors Open in V-12 Now: In addition to the pre-medical and predental curricula in regular V-12, there are now 21 major fields of concentration open to V-12 trainees who on 1 July 1945 will have completed not over five college terms, and who are eligible to enter the expanded NROTC plan. There are five majors in the College of Science, 11 in Engineering, two in Commerce, and in Arts and Letters eight: English, Economics, History, three Modern Languages, Political Science, and Public Administration. Of the total complement of 779 men for V-12 and NROTC combined, 103 men were transferred from V-12 to NROTC on 1 March 1945.
4.	Flight Quota Traveling Party: On April 9 and 10 the line and medical officers to examine the candidates for the
8
July 1945 flight training quota will be at Notre Dame. Eligible to apply is any trainee now in V-12, including NROTC, who entered the program through V-12 (a) and is now in or beyond his third semester of college; likewise any V-12 man, including NROTC, who entered V-12 (not V-12 (a)), and is now in or beyond his fourth semester of college, regardless of his classification. Prospects are good for a large quota to be approved.
5.	Shoving Off: Twenty-one months of duty here have given me an enduring interest in the University of Notre Dame as well as an appreciation of many fine persons in the staff and the student body, civilian and Naval. Like many another Naval officer,, hope when peace is ours to return to Notre Dame at home-coming, to enjoy the famed spirit of the place.
Possibly in my new work in Civil Readjustment Counseling on the West Coast I shall meet returning Navy veterans who have been in V-12 at Notre Dame. I salute the University and the Unit.
Flying Club Organized;
Officers Are Elected
The return to Notre Dame of a flying club has taken place. The group met this week and officers were elected for the semester. At the head of the club, as president, is Eldor Kortas. The vice-president is Warren Fronrath; the secretarytreasurer is Harold Wisnann, and the publicity director is Otto Shander.
The club is open to civilian and navy students who are interested in aviation. It is not necessary to have a pilot’s license to become a member. Club meetings are held twice monthly and each meeting is highlighted with a movie on some phase of aviation. A short explanatory talk is presented with each movie. At the next meeting, April 4 in room 103 of the Law building, the movie will be “Action With the Eighth Air Force,” filmed by Clark Gable over Germany.
The ultimate aim of the club is to buy an airplane. Plans are now being made toward that end and announcements as to their progress will be given regularly.
N.D. Continues to Foster
Good Taste in Music
To an American, music of one form or another is an integral part of his daily life. Perhaps we have little or no use for the classics, or for swing or jive or for folk tunes, but everyone with any1 emotional development at all knows of some type of music which pleases him.
In these days when our people are suffering and dying to preserve the American way, it is rather alarming to note the pathetic lack of interest among the younger set in good music. Today our people, for the most part, are so engulfed in the vicious whirlpool of society that they liave time for only the frothy, foamy type of music — more correctly classified as scum.
Too many people have allowed their mentalities to drop to such a dismal degree that they are completely unable to understand and appreciate music unless it is accompanied by a sentimental or nonsensical lyric which strikes their fancy. Some fear that our system of
radio entertainment has done much to foster the development of short, snappy tunes and to the advent of the vast hoard of moaners and groaners (excluding, of course, the good Dr. Crosby) who, it seems, are chosen more for their physical appearances than for their vocal abilities.
Here at Notre Dame, however, good music still seems to command considerable attention. The productive efforts of our Glee Club and Band have done much to identify Notre Dame as a center of good sound musical taste and development. In the past the friendly and informal concerts in Washington Hall, the pleasant outdoor concerts, and .the formal presentations in the Navy Drill Hall, have been enthusiastically endorsed by the men of Notre Dame. It will be interesting to note whether our University will continue to be a center of real American musical culture.—Octave Emond
Capacity Crowd Attends First ND "Town Meeting"
A near-capacity crowd of enthusiastic listeners heard T. Bowyer Campbell, BD, professor of Oriental History at the University, speak Tuesday evening in the Law building auditorium. The lecture, sponsored by the Young Christian Students’ campus organization, marked the beginning of a series of “Town Meetings” designed to initiate closer cooperation between the students and faculty and to provide the former with pertinent information on topics of current interest. The series will be resumed on April 10 when Prof. Waldemar Gurian, Ph.D., ■will discuss Russia.
“The traditions and religious motivations of the Japanese canriotibe treated lightly,” said 'Professor .Campbell in weighing post war problems with which this country’s government will have to cope-in regard to Orientals. After outlining Japan’s military history, the former missionary and traveler declared “We shall pass over the obvious problem—a victory by force of arms by the United States — and consider- the psychological difficulties the enemy presents.”
Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell
Professor Campbell advocated that the Allies, after their military triumph, back the deified emperor of Japan and through his person control the people. This, he pointed out, has been done with much success by the “jingo” or warring faction of the Japanese politicians. The speaker also remarked that, in the post war world, the Japanese people, even though defeated, will remain as a nation, and thus it is essential that our contacts with them be such as to promote peace.
Professor Campbell spent many years in China and Japan and is regarded as
one of the foremost authorities on the problems relating to these peoples.
Following Professor Campbell’s talk, an informal and spirited discussion was held during which Mr. Campbell answered numerous questions. Robert Rior-
Log Chapel, Historic Old Building, Continues In Notre Dame Life as Scene of Weddings
By I. J. TENGE, Jr.
The yeai- was 1831, the setting was what is now the campus of the University of Notre Dame. It was at this time, on this location, that Rev. Stephen T. Badin built a log Chapel.
The Chapel as we see it today, is a replica of the original; however, the location remains identical. The original Chapel remained in use until 1848 and it was destroyed in 1856 by fire. The construction of the replica Chapel was completed in 1906 and this Chapel is still in use.
Fr. Badin was born in Orleans, France, the 17th day of July, 1768, and later was to be the first priest ordained in the United States. A missionary for 60 years in the Mississippi valley, he did much work among the early settlers of this region. At the age of 85 he died in Cincinnati, Ohio. His body was then placed in the Cathedral of Cincinnati, and remained there for 50 years. Before his death, Father Badin had expressed the ardent desire of being buried on the grounds of Notre Dame. His wish was granted when Father Zahm, who was then Provincial, went to Cincinnati and requested this favor of Archbishop Elder. Father Badin’s remains now lie in the center of the log cabin chapel.- -
After the fire in 1856, Father” Cavanaugh and Father Zahm wished to rebuild the church. At first, they had much trouble in finding an architect. After a short time however, they were most fortunate in finding an old Negro who could do this work for them, and the new chapel was completed in May 1906.
The remains of Father Badin were first brought into Sacred Heart, .Church from Cincinnati. In procession, the choir sang the Miserere and Benedictus, as Father’s body was carried to the log chapel and here it was deposited beneath the floor. Above the coffin is a slab of marble, on it is an inscription composed by Rev. Fitte which tells the visitors facts concerning Father Badin’s life, and his faithful work.	.
The building is most picturesque in location and in architecture. It stands on an elevated section of land near the shore of St. Mary’s Lake. The small one
dan, editor of Scholastic, presided at the meeting and presented the speaker. -
The entire lecture series is being directed by General Chairman Stratton Easter and his assistants, Jack Schneider and Bill Murtagh.
and one-half story structure is built of logs which are sealed together with cement, and as one enters the simple, albeit rich in tradition chapel, he finds an interior, which donates warmth by the very presence of the sanctuary lamp.
The interior of the Chapel with its brown walls and floors of plain pine wood, illustrates an atmosphere of simplicity. On the right side of the building one can see as he enters, a painting, depicting a pioneer congregation assisting at holy mass. There are three altars within the Chapel, the center one and two smaller altars which are in the rear of the building.
The Chapel has been the scene of countless nuptial ceremonies. Here many graduates return with their prospective brides, to be joined together in holy wedlock on the campus of Our Lady. As marriage is the beginning of new life, so also was the log chapel the beginning of a great institution.
Midshipman School to
Close on November 8
The Naval Reserve Midshipman school at the University will be decommissioned after Nov. 8, according to announcement made this week by Vice Admiral Randall Jacobs, chief of naval personnel.’
Capt. J. Richard Barry, commandant of the naval establishments at the University, revealed that the last class of middies will enter the school on July 12 and will be commissioned on Nov. 8, the closing date of the school.	.
Student Council Sponsors
Showing of New Movie
The Student Council will sponsor the showing of the new movie “The University of Notre Dame.” The movie will be presented Tuesday, April 3, at 8:00 p.m. in the auditorium of the Engineering building.
The movie presents scenes around the campus,, incidents in student life, and shots of many of the buildings on the campus. .
9
Holy Week Observed On Campus This Week
By JOHN DEFANT
The celebrations and ceremonies of Holy Week, which have their origin in the church at Jerusalem, will be concluded on the campus with the celebration of masses on Holy Thursday, Good Friday, and Holy Saturday.
The Church, by stripping the altars and silencing all organs and bells, gives expression to the grief which she feels at the memory of the death of her divine Spouse.
The celebration of Holy Week began in Jerusalem, where, with the Holy Gospels in hand, the Christians would follow their Redeemer step by step, piously gathering on the very spot precious souvenirs of the most solemn among all events, that which marked the close of His mortal life.
These celebrations, at first local in character, were adopted into the liturgy at Rome. Ever, the churches in Rome were planned in such a manner as to make it possible to carry out the offices of Holy Week in the way that had been customary at Jerusalem.
On Good Friday Christians are reminded of the most frightful of all crimes, .the bloody drama of Calvary, foretold by the Prophets and by God Himself. As the fatal end approaches the Church’s accents of grief become more and more penetrated with feeling.
It was on this day that Christ offered Himself as a substitute for His guilty brethren. As the Prophet says: “He clothes Himself with our sins as with a garment,” and He was “made sin for us.” David’s prophecy is accomplished: “We adore Thy Cross, 0 Lord.... for behold, by the wood of the Cross, joy came into the whole world.” Christ triumphs in the very act of His self-sacrifice.
In the veiling of the crucifix can be seen a trace of the customs of suspending a curtain between the sanctuary and the nave during the whole of Lent. In those times public penitents who had been excluded from the Church could not enter it again until Holy Thursday, and when this custom was abolished, all Christians were more or less placed in the position of such penitents.
Following is the schedule for the last three days of Lent—the Sacred Triduum.
Thursday, 7:30 p.m., Tenebrae; Friday, 8:00 a.m., Solemn Mass of the Presanctified; Friday, 3:00 p.m., Stations of the Cross; Friday, 7:30 p.m., Tenebrae; Saturday, 7:30 a.m., Mass.
THE CRUCIFIXION"
A representation of the cruel epitome of Holy Week—the crucifixion—painted by one of the most famous men in the history of art hangs in the art galleries of the University Library. Painted by Anthony Van Dyck more than 300 years ago, the masterpiece is probably the most treasured piece of art on the campus.
With the approach of the end of another Lenten season at Notre Dame, attention is once again drawn to the masterful rendering by Van Dyck and its history which is as colorful and faded as the painting itself.
The painting was originally brought to Notre Dame in 1852 and presented to Founder Father Sorin by an Irish professor named O’Leary. It is 33 inches wide, 47 inches high, and though it has darkened in tone and mellowed to a dimness with age, it remains the work of a master, an object of rare beauty. Van Dyck has portrayed Mary Magdalen kneeling at the foot of the cross, and it is believed that the painting was originally made for the lady who posed as Magdalen, as was the custom in that era of art. Beneath the extended arms of the dying Christ the Flemish master has depicted cherubs holding chalices to catch the blood as it drips from the crucified Lord’s hands. The scene is desolate. No other figures appear, and though the centuries may have blackened it out, no background is clearly discernible. The figures are not idealized, nor are they treated with undesirable realism.
The year in which Van Dyck painted this particular crucifixion scene is not definitely known. At one time it was questioned as a genuine Van Dyck. In 1882, the famous Italian painter, Luigi Gregori testified strongly and decisively as to the genuineness of Notre Dame’s proud possession. There is a possibility that the painting is one of two Van Dycks which were at one time stolen from a gallery in England. If so Notre Dame has certainly made no secret of the presence of the masterpiece.
The famous Van Dyck of the renowned Flemish school was a student under the equally famous Rubens, a contemporary, 20 years the elder. The period of the Flemish masters — the 16th and 17th centuries—followed that of the Renaissance and the works reveal many beautiful sequels of the works of the Renaissance masters whom they studied. Van Dyck, prodigy of Rubens, spent years in Italy studying all the art treasures on the peninsula. He copied the masters with such exact and colorful skill that he has been called a plagiarist by some critics who refute his genius. Enroute to
Italy, Van Dyck stopped for three months at a village near Brussels and did some paintings. Two hundred years later, in 1814, villagers gave their lives protecting the works of the master, so highly were they treasured. Such is the painting at Notre Dame.
Biographies of Van Dyck would indicate that the painting in the Notre Dame ; gallery was rendered at about the time of his trip to Italy or just preceding it,
Reproduction of Valued Van Dyck’win
10
}
- By Frank Grimaldi
during his apprenticeship under Rubens when he came into his own. After his triumphant return he was invited by Charles I to go to England to paint. There the smooth, handsome Van Dyck devoted himself almost strictly to portraits, turning out a thousand in seven years, all for people of high position, for, j unlike Rembrandt and Titian, he painted ' no pictures of paupers or poverty. He
was a great favorite of Charles, and he
d; ’ctinting now in University Library
gloried in his position in the courts where his manner was silken and refined. Knighted by Charles, he was known as Sir Anthony Van Dyck for more than nine of the ten years he spent in England.
In 1840, suffering from ill health, Van Dyck was persuaded by Charles to marry. Up to this time the short, compact Van Dyck, with his smooth manner, good looks and personality plus had been a conquering Don Juan and his affairs of the heart would fill a book. After his marriage he did religious paintings and is is possible that the painting in the Notre Dame gallery was done at this time, but it is more probable that he did it earlier in life. Born in 1599, Van Dyck died at the early age of 40.
On July 30, 1874, Luigi Gregori arrived on the campus of Notre Dame. He had been invited by Father Sorin to come to America from Rome to do some paintings at the University. He was at the peak of his career during the 20 years he spent here. His works are seen the campus over. The paintings in Sacred Hearth church are his; the stations of the cross, the paintings on the ceilings and vaulting. In the Main Building he painted the Landing of Columbus as seen on the first floor, and he did the works appearing on the famed dome interior. The painting of the Columbus landing was used at the World’s Fail- held in Chicago in 1893. Another painting by Gregori which attracted much attention at the fair is the Nativity scene which now hangs in the south wing of the University Library.
It was in 1881 that Gregori, to his great delight, discovered the authorship and was given the task of renovating the treasured painting by Anthony Van Dyck. When the painting was presented to Father Sorin it was then at least 200 years old, and the beautiful cherubs pictured below the Saviour’s bleeding hands were not visible until Gregori, in cleaning and renovating the work, uncovered them. Writing from his Chicago studios to Father Sorin, he stated that the painting “would be a credit to the most illustrious art galleries in Europe.” He added, “a Flemish painting of this size and merit is extremely rare.” Gregori worked arduously for weeks on the canvas.
In 1882, Gregori, who was one of the highest authorities on the subject, wrote: “I unhesitatingly certify that the painting, now at Notre Dame, is a genuine Van Dyck, and that the production of that master of rare beauty, is a work beyond price.”
Notre Dame Midshipman School Underway Again
By JAMES F. McCARTHY
Possibly most of Notre Dame knows them as that gang in the stadium who cheer occasionally for the other team, or that hustling outfit moving about campus sometimes marching, sometimes running, but always on the go. These brief glimpses of the Midshipmen unit, however, are merely exterior observations of a highly efficient and extremely important part of the United States Naval Reserve.
Organized for the purpose of providing indoctrination and training in officership for the U.S.N.R., the Midshipmen School had its beginning at Notre Dame in March of 1942. Since that time eight classes have graduated, sending more than 8-500 newly commissioned officers to their important posts. Classes numbered 9 and 10, with a combined enrollment of 1150, are now undergoing training.
Annapolis on a small scale would be a good way to describe the V-7 unit, for in a brief period of four months the Middies are given the essential elements of officer training.
The V-7 school at Notre Dame, whose specific task is to train men as deck officers, teaches such subjects as seamanship, navigation, ordinance, damage control, and recognition. Classes are held for the most part in a newly constructed building which many of the civilian students have probably never entered.
For more practical training the Navy Drill Hall is used. Here the various types of ordnance are examined, and in Cartier Field, directly behind the hall, special demonstrations in damage control are given. Classes in boating are held from a newly constructed pier extending out into St. Mary’s lake, while for physical training purposes the middies use the Rockne Memorial. Here they are required to pass the Navy first class swimming test.
In a Navy that has often been called a “citizen navy,” i.e. a navy in which 85% of the officer material comes from the population at large rather than from a professional officer corps, the V-7 program is performing a vital function. With each man that passes through the Midshipmen School to be transformed from a civilian or enlisted man into an officer in the fighting fleet, our Republic is more ably defended and an important chapter is added to the wartime history of Notre Dame.
11
» ( IU
Bengal Aspirants Concentrate in Workouts;
More Men Enter and Great Show is Assured
BY BOB O'TOOLE "Scholastic" Promotion Manager
point total of 48. A crowd of 4,000 witnessed the games.
Scoring for Notre Dame were the sprint medley men—Steve Provost, Fred Jones, Bob Schirmer and Bill Tully—who captured fourth place and the distance medley performers—Bob Prosche, Provost, Jones and Tully—who came in third. Other members of the Irish thin-clad traveling team failed to place.
Coach Handy plans a short layoff period for his men before he assembles them again for the outdoor campaign. Elsewhere in Scholastic is printed the schedule for the coming season.
Contestants in the University Boxing tournament, which will decide the campus champions of the “Squared circle” on May 4, went into serious training this week under the guidance of Navy Specialist 2/c Jack Durdack and A. J. Buono of the department of physical education. A few new men presented themselves for instruction at the daily workouts in the Boxing Room of the Old Gym. For the convenience of those men who are unable to work out at the afternoon sessions the facilities of the Gym were made available three evenings a week to insure their being in the “pink” when ring-time rolls around.
Coaches Durdack and Buono have expressed themselves well-satisfied with the caliber of the men who have turned out for the championships this year. Al-
Daily instruction under skilled leaders is a feature of Bengal Bouts promotion.
though not as great in number as in years past, a majority of this year’s candidates' have had some previous experience and have begun to train seriously, thus assuring the patrons of the show a real thrill on the evening of May 4.
A new award is planned for the finalists in the tournament, an innovation likely to prove popular with those shooting for fame in the bouts. Rev. Charles Carey, faculty adviser to the Scholastic and director' of the bouts, sent sketches of an ND emblem with a boxing glove worked across the lettering to a few jobbers to check possibilities of its production in time for the bouts. Should this plan prove impractical, he plans to revert to the type of award presented last year, a miniature gold boxing glove for the champions, a silver glove for the finalists.
Mr. D. C. Ford, manager of the Dining Halls, announced that the annual Huddle trophy for sportsmanship will again be presented this year to the man who has best displayed qualities of sportsmanship in the bouts, whether or not he is successful in winning his way to the finals. Last year’s trophy winner was Seaman John Murphy who has since transferred to medical school.
Beginning next week the Scholastic will feature sketches of those contestants who appear most likely to succeed in their quest for fistic glory in this year’s Bengals.
Indoor Track Season Ends
Coach Elvin “Doc” Handy’s Irish track squad closed the books on its 1945 indoor season by scoring six points to place eighth in the Purdue Relays, held at Lafayette, Ind., last Saturday. A select field of some 200 athletes representing universities, colleges and service schools competed in the relays. Michigan, defending champion in the university division, again captured the crown with 36J/2 points. Illinois was second with 20. Miami of Oxford, Ohio, reigned in the college, taking honors for the third consecutive year with a record-breaking
Twenty-six Students Try Out For Golf Squad
By ROBERT J. SHAW
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., Notre Dame golf coach for the past 12 seasons, announced that 26 men answered his call for try-outs for the team. However, only two men returned from last year’s National Intercollegiate Champions’ squad, Jim Clynes and Tom Kennedy, the latter a monogram winner. Rookies out for the team are P. H. Pearse, Paul Paxton, Joe Flood, Tom Dove, Jack Clynes, B. Natt-kemper, Art Mosher, George Despot, Robert E. Kelly, Mike Welch, Don Fisher, Dick Sadowski, Raymond Betts, Jim Truschel, Bob Reynolds, George Jeschke, Dennis Sully, Jim Bacon, and David Armstrong, Charles Morrow, H. L. Frai- ; ley, D. A. O’Donnell, and T. L. Doran.
All of the members of last year’s^ fine squad are in the service except the-two mentioned above. Jim Besenfelder, who was to be captain this year, is now an ensign, stationed at Harvard. Mel Wilke, Bob Terry, and Dick Sidel are in the Navy, while Jack Fitzpatrick is in the Army. All are still in this country.
The season is due to open on April 29, but about a week before- that, .Father Holderith will hold the elimination com-'-, petitive rounds to decide which eight or ' ten men will qualify for the team. He is still accepting entries for these rounds and will continue to do so until April 3. Further applicants for the team may see Father Holderith in Walsh Hall.
Father Holderith announced that there will be an interhall golf tournament held in the neai' future. The first 36 holes medal play will decide the hall championship, and the top 16 will qualify for a match play elimination tourney, which will decide the campus champion. No varsity men are eligible, but every hall, including the Navy, is invited. Father Holderith urges all interested in this tournament to pass the word around to other golfers in their halls.
12
Chevigny Killed on Iwo;
1927-28 Star Halfback
Capt. Jack Chevigny, football star of the University of Notre Dame in 192627-28, met death on Iwo Jima while serving as liaison officer of the 27th regiment of the Fifth marine division.
Capt. Chevigny is the third former varsity football player and the 205th Notre Dame man to die in this war. Chevigny is the best known athlete from Notre Dame to die in this war.
He needn’t have been any closei- to
When romantic thoughts in spring demand
GIFTS
especially for "her" Visit
The place where Notre Dame men meet
for
Delicious Italian and American Food
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
You'll enjoy our prompt courteous service and the collegiate atmosphere. Plan to meet your friends here often.
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
the fighting than Camp Lejeune, N. C., but the spirit which made him famous at Notre Dame lived on with him and
he asked to be sent where the fighting was going on. Chevigny died on the same day that the invasion of Iwo Jima was undertaken by the marines.
" Chevigny was starting halfback on
Halfback Jack Chevigny
the squads, of 1928 and 29. He remained here as backfield coach qntil he received his degree in law in 1931. Upon the death of Knute Rockne, he became assistant coach here under “Hunk” Anderson.
After the 1931 season, he became head coach of the Chicago Cardinals of the National Football league. The following
year, he accepted the position of head coach at St. Edward’s University, Texas, and remained there until 1934. Then Chevigny became head coach of the University of Texas where he became the second former student to return as a coach and defeat his Alma Mater.
He is well remembered for the famous victory over Army in 1928. This was the particular game where Knute Rockne, -between the halves asked the boys to fulfill the last request of George Gipp, Notre Dame’s prime football immortal. It was Chevigny who kept reminding the team of that incident. Although he was out of the game in the closing minutes when the final victory was established, it was mainly through his efforts that Notre Dame triumphed over another Army team.
Notre Dame Jackets Sweat Shirts Pennants
Athletic Office Reveals Outdoor Track Schedule
The Sports Publicity Office recently released the schedule for the fast approaching outdoor track season. The docket calls for one preliminary dual meet with DePauw University of Greencastle, Ind., April 21. On April 27, Coach “Doc” Handy will take his squad to Des Moines, Iowa, to compete in the famed Drake Relays.
Coach Handy will depend primarily on the men who carried Notre Dame through the indoor season to bear the biggest share of the burden during the Spring meets. However, new candidates from among the recently enrolled freshmen are expected to make their appearance when the official call goes out. At present the indoor performers are en-(Continued on next page)
When you’re down-town . . .
Books Stationery Greeting Cards Gifts
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Golf Clubs Hand Balls and Gloves
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax
Phone 3-3702
H H H H H H
H H H H H H
13
Baseball Team to Open Season April 14;
Indiana Meets Irish in Doubleheader Here
Glasses Correctly Fitted J. BURKE
BY JOHN FEENEY "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Notre Dame’s recently-assembled 1945 baseball nine, favored by remarkably mild March weather, is progressing favorably as daily workouts in preparation for the coming season are held on historic Cartier Field. “Jake” Kline, mild-mannered director of diamond activities, continues to work with his large squad, here and there spotting the performers capable of handling varsity positions. No definite commitments have been made and all berths are still wide open.
The veteran Kline has only three lettermen— pitcher Jack Barrett, third baseman Frank Ciszczon and outfielder Frank Gilhooley — from last term on hand but a good turnout of new hopefuls, including both civilians and Naval trainees, insures a formidable team. The Irish club will be strongest, perhaps, at the infield positions with John Sutoy and footballer Jim McGurk vying for the first base job; Johnny Dee of cage renown and Bill Otis, a V-12, working out at second base; Billy Hassett, N.D.’s All American basketballer, and Tom Martin leading the shortstop candidates; and monogram
(Continued from previous page) joying a brief respite before beginning their outdoor activities.
The schedule:
DePauw at Greencastle. Ind. ..........April 21
Drake Relays at Des Moines, Iowa __April 27-2S Drake, 'Iowa Pre-Flight.
and Wisconsin at Iowa City, Iowa .....May 5
SANDWICHES
SOFT DRINKS
ICE CREAM
man Frank Ciszczon being challenged by John Harm. Others also still merit consideration and may yet usurp any of the four posts.
Leading the catching staff are Bill Tracy, a discharged veteran and Leo Murphy, varsity basketball reserve this winter. In the outfield eager Frank Gilhooley, Al Whittingham and Leo Kelly are holding forth with a number of others still very much in the running.
The Irish pitching corps includes Barrett, who twirled in 1944; lefty Bill Albert, also a squadman from last season; and newcomers Jack Stewart, a transfer from Georgetown; and Harry Ramsey.
Notre Dame will open the curtain on the year’s activities on April 14 with a double header against the Indiana University Hoosiers on the local sod. The docket for remainder of the campaign has not yet been released but the Kline-men have tentative engagements with Purdue, Michigan, Ohio State, Great Lakes, Western Michigan, Bunker- Hill Naval Air Station, Northwestern, and Iowa Pre-Flight School.
Indiana State Meet ac Bloomington. Ind..........................May	12
Illinois at Notre Dame -------------------May 19
Western Michigan at Kalamazoo. Mich.......May 26
Central Collegiate Meet at Milwaukee, Wis...........................June	2
National Meet (site yet to he determined) ................June	9
STATIONERY
GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
For
Notre Dame Men!
The
New Notre Dame Scapular Medal $1.95 with chain
Beautifully manufactured in every detail by expert workmanship. You'll want one for yourself or as an attractive gift for a friend.
NOTRE DAME
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
Hours:
Week Days—8 a. m. till 4:15 p.m.
Saturdays —8 a.m. till 1:00 p.m.
FINE PIPES
TOBACCO
T* SHIRTS
(Monogram and Plain)
THE HUDDLE
14
Tennis Hopes Rise as Many Report for Practice
By ROBERT J. SHAW "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Practice is underway for a sizeable group of aspirants for the tennis team under the tutelage of Coach Walter Langford. Returning from last year’s squad are Charles Samson, Bill Tully, and Jim Griffin, who were the number one, three, and four men, respectively, last season. Only Jerry Evert is missing from the “Big Four” of the 1944 team which ended the campaign in a tie for the N.C.A.A. championship after going undefeated in regular season competition.
Of the newcomers, Coach Langford points out that it is still too early to venture a definite opinion, but Ralph Baiocchi, of Chicago, shows good form and should be a great help to the team. Also, the team would be bettered if George Ratterman, who ranked number one in the Ohio Junior division of last year, could find time from his baseball and spring football activities to join the team. Other men trying out who have caught the coach’s eye include Phil Martin, Bill Moore and Ralph Witucki.
Turning to the coach himself, we find that Mr. Langford is starting his sixth season as head-coach and has attained an enviable record. In his five previous seasons his teams have won 34 of 40 matches and have lost but three in the past four years. For- ten straight years,
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
the tennis team was not able to come up with a record better than .500, but in 1940, Coach Langford’s first year at the helm, the string was broken. Since then the Notre Dame tennis team has achieved the best record of the Middle West.
“This will be another good team,” said Mr. Langford, optimistically, “although possibly not up to last year’s standard; however, not far from it. We’ll be hard to beat!”
The schedule again will be formidable, although it is not yet complete, and will include Wisconsin, Northwestern, Purdue, Western Michigan, Loras College, Michigan, and other foes yet to be announced. In all, a nine-game season will be offered.
This season, as in the past, Michigan University looms as the trouble-maker for Notre Dame. In 1944, Michigan was the only team that really was able to press the local netsters before they fell four to five. Of the six losses incurred by the Irish of Langford’s era, two of them were to Michigan.
Tennis fans can look forward to another successful season if the Irish can stop the Wolverines.
PERSONAL STATIONERY for MEN
Highest grade rag content bond. 50 sheets and envelopes to the box. Monarch size, 7% x 10%, with large envelopes.
Price including printing $3.00 Unprinted $1.50 We will pay postage.
DON MERRILL. Printer 60 Hollywood Avenue East Orange, N. J.
15
MUMBLINGS ABOUT THE FIRST REGIMENTAL REVIEW AFTER “HIBERNATION"
Last Saturday, as some of you no doubt are well aware, the Notre Dame V-12 Unit held a regimental review— the first since the recently passed four months’ “hibernation.”
“Snappy” and “precise.” That’s what was said about us.
The straight ranks brought back to mind the words of a company commander -of over a year ago: “O.K., you guys, line up in four* rows like corn.”
One of the most remarkable maneuvers of the morning was a “change step” executed—not slaughtered—by one of the companies to get in step with the cadence of the V-12 Band. No one broke a leg in the process either. Wonders will never cease!	.
Congratulations to Bernard A. Mlnar-ik and Bernard J. Middleton, the two men who were decorated!
After the ordeal was over someone ventured: “We may not have been the best looking outfit out there but we sure were the eagerest.” •
The usual share of the neighborhood dogs were present for the occasion, all probably wondering just what was going on. An airplane zoomed in its two-cents worth, too, just when the presentation reports were being announced.
The V-12 Band was right on the ball, as is common with the Notre Dame V-12 Band. Those three notes they play after the marching are very impressive.
In practice for one of the reviews, now long past, a regimental officer—must have been a marine—shouted at the top of his voice and from the bottom of his lungs the familiar, “Orders for today!” then added at the same volume, “There are no orders for today! By order of Commander Walter S. Gabel, Exec.”
On the morning after the night before, which the night happened to be the spring V-12 Ball of 1944, such a review as last Saturday’s was held. It. was a hot day and many had had a big night of merriment and very little of sleep. The guys quickly started dropping like flies and kept several corpsmen as busy as little bees, jumping from one faded flower to another. Of course, our reporter was one of the stronger ones, but from where he was lying he counted eighteen as they hit the dust, and noticed countless others either wobbling or standing at a forty-five degree angle.
IF YOU ARE STILL ABLE TO TALK, WE LL FIX THAT
The best Athletic Specialist joke since the remark made to the fellow who had just broken his leg on the obstacle course, telling him not to just lie there wasting time while waiting for the doctor to arrive, but to start doing pushups, occurred recently in one of the phy. ed. classes. After about thirty minutes of strenuous calisthenics a few of the trainees began to gasp “sour somethings” to their buddies. Upon hearing
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display. -
Use our lay-away plan.
Notre Dame BOOKS for Notre Dame Men
Campus Centenary Publications
An abiding gift with the flavor of the campus. Order today!
NOTRE DAME — 100 YEARS $4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL. C.S.C. $2.50
The Set — $5.00
•
These books mailed in an attractive box. Direct orders to:
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
WELCOME NOTRE DAME MEN!
For a pleasant evening, you are cordially invited to visit
The LaSalle Dining Room
in the LASALLE HOTEL
Enjoy dinner music Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday evenings rom 6:30 - 8:00 p. m^ Sundays 12:00 - 3:00 p. m.
16
these outbursts indicative of an excess of energy the athletic specialist said, “Oh! I see that you are still able to talk. Well, then you surely need some more calisthenics.”
♦
SALTY THEATER USHER PASSES THE WORD TO THE V-12 NAVY
Before having had his required two semesters of “Naval Organization,” a Notre Dame V-12 went to the Granada theater in down town South Bend and calmly asked the usher where the men’s rest room was. The usher gave the V-12 the once over and just about as fast as his sixteen-year-old tongue could sputter the words, he poured forth with, “If you’re looking’ for the head, mate, go dead ahead down this passageway, up the ladder to port, to the second deck, the first compartment.” The bewildered V-12 took off quickly to the right, up the closest stairway to the second floor, down a hall, to the last door on his left and then looked at himself in the mirror, marveling that he had understood every word of the navy lingo that that smart usher had tried to confuse him with.
STRICT BED-CHECK TONIGHT
“Strict bed-check tonight! Have the right face on the right body in the right sack. No dummies will be accepted.” To which we add: “How can they tell?”
❖
Notv Easter time is the time for eggs, And the time for eggs is the Easter time. Happy Easter!
PRESS BOX SPLINTERS
By JOHN FEENEY
' Billy Hassett,. N.D.’s invaluable basketball asset and captain-elect of next season’s quint, has been given a post on the second team of the All American selections recently published by The Sporting News. The bouncing Irishman was selected to Argosy’s first team and before this column is read there is strong likelihood that he’ll be chosen on other mythical fives. Hassett’s attention has now turned from the court to the diamond where he is currently busy trying to cinch a position on “Jake” Kline’s nine .... Vince “Bullets” Boryla, pivot man and record-breaker par excellence of the ’44-45 hardcourt club, was placed on the honorable mention list by The Sporting News. Boryla, now in the U. S. Navy, surpassed every existing Notre Dame offensive record in compiling an average of 16.1 a game.
THESE NAMES ARE
FAMOUS for QUALITY
ARROW
Shirts and Neckwear
COOPER
Underwear
VAN HEUSEN
Shirts and Sportswear
BRENTWOOD
Sweaters
• Greeting Cards
• Artists’ Supplies
• Picture Framing
I. W. Lower Co
DECORATORS
128 North Michigan Street
BOOKS
For Your
Reading Enjoyment
"BRAVE MEN"
The new book by America's best-loved war correspondent, Ernie Pyle.
B. V. D.
Underwear and Sportswear
McGregor
Sportswear
MARLBORO
Sportswear
HICKOK
Belts and Braces
SUPERBA — BOTANY — WEMBLEY Ties ARCH PRESERVER and BRITISH WALKER Footwear DUNLAY and PORTIS Hats WELBROOK Clothes
you'll find them all at
R0BERTS»O
of^outh^end
211 S. MICHIGAN ST.
"The Robe"
"The Violent Riends"
"Great Son"
"Young Bess"
"Tomorrow Will Sing" "The Green Years"
"Lower Than Angels" "At His Side"
"My Unconsidered Judgment'
"Yankee Rom Olympus" "Lake Michigan"
"Anything Can Happen"
And a complete line of other popular novels, recent best sellers, fiction and non-fiction, at
RU
NERS
NEWS CENTER • CIGAR STORE 127 W. Washington St.
"In the J. M. S. Building"

17
COLLEGE PARADE
. . . . By E. F. Gillespie
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
CAMPUS COMMANDOS
At least two persons were admitted to the Kingston General Hospital, Ontario, Canada, as a result of the latest student disturbance on the Queens University campus. In the latest fracas 500 engineers. attacked about 100 artsmen, dragging them from one of the buildings, clipping their hair, and daubing yellow paint on their faces and chests. The trouble started when red “Plumbers” were painted on several Science buildings one night. The Engineers immediately suspected the Artsmen and retaliated by carrying off the piano from the Artmen’s club room. More painting and riots ensued, finally bringing about the last free for all. At last reports the trouble had not yet been settled.
❖
FRATERNITY INITIATIONS
Notre Dame students were shocked and saddened by the recent death of Robert Perry. Bob was a V-12 trainee on the campus, very well known to many
of us. In June he was transferred to the University of St. Louis Medical School where he died as a result of burns suffered during a fraternity initiation.
This tragedy has wrought repercussions throughout the collegiate world. The editor of the Ohio State Lantern ridicules the hazing traditions of fraternities as “childish and adolescent.... a golden excuse for grown men to participate in gestapo tactics.” The editor hopes that Ohio State fraternity men will kindle a huge bonfire of their wooden paddles as a tribute to Perry, who died trying to join a fraternity and as an indication of the abolishment of hazing on the Ohio State campus.
❖
ODDS AND ENDS
The fiftieth edition of the Jambalaya, the Tulane annual features a humorous contrast of the scenes “way back when” with the more recent Tulane settings.
Boston College returns to the “good
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M.D. M. J. THORNTON, M.D,
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D. D.s. CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.s. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-2574
Let’s raid the icebox... Have a Coca-Cola
... a way to make a party an added success Have a Coke are words that make the kitchen the center of attraction for the teen-age set. For Coca-Cola never loses the freshness of its appeal.' nor its unfailing refreshment. No wonder Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes from Maine to California,—has become a symbol of happy, refreshing times together everywhere.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
18
ole days” of two semesters and one graduation a year in 1946.
Carnegie Institute of Technology students are pledging all their war bond and stamp buying to purchase an ambulance for the Army Medical Corps. As an added attraction the CIT girl selling the most bonds and stamps will reign as the campus “Bond Queen.”
The S. S. DePauw Victory, a 10,730 ton cargo ship named after DePauw university, was recently launched in California. The naming of this vessel was part of a program of the Maritime Commission to pay tribute to a group of the earliest institutions of higher learning in the United States.
NOT FOR US
In a recent poll of Loyola University (New Orleans) students, 75 percent were in favor of the accelerated program. Many thought the program should be continued after the war. The lawyers strongly dissented, favoring those nice long summer vacations which our grandparents tell us about.
GOPHER NEWS
Thirty-six conscientious objectors are the human guinea pigs for the starvation diet experiments being performed at the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene at the University of Minnesota. After the subjects have been scientifically starved, they are brought back to nonnal through the administration of six different diets. The object of the experiment is to determine the diet most effective in rehabilitating the starved masses of Europe.
It’s rumored that the laboratory has a branch office in our own dining hall for the observation of the effects of a typical Notre Dame meal. When one of the technicians was watching a meal serving the other day, a lone meat ball slowly raised itself from a tray and tried to walk away. Ziggy came running with a bazooka, gave the offending meat ball one blast; the local coroner pronounced it dead, and the chow line resumed production.
Noted Author to Lecture
The noted lecturer, columnist, and author, the Rev. John W. Lynch will give a lecture to the students and faculty in Washington Hall on Tuesday, April 17 at & 00 p.m.
Father Lynch of Manlius, N. Y., is the editor of the Catholic Sun of the Syracuse Diocese. He is the author of one of the most spiritually penetrating books to be published in recent years, namely, A Woman Wrapped in Silence.
—Dan Daniszewicz
TRACKING DOWN TROUBLE
This laboratory, ready to move anywhere on short notice, runs down “crimes” against good telephone service. Finding these threats is one of the many jobs of the Bell Telephone Laboratories’ scientists.
The “criminals”’are such things as threads of lint, traces of acids, or sulphur compounds in the air—any of which might damage telephone equipment.
In their interesting war work Bell Laboratories’ scientists have been on a new kind of hunt. They have tracked down different materials for those now hard to get, found others that would serve in special conditions, and have detected in captured equipment the kinds of material the enemy uses.
These are some examples among many of the ways Bell System research is helping to serve America at war.	-
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
"Service to the Nation in Peace and War”
19
iii:sn:i{i iii.ij
Yes, it’s a lasting friendship... well-earned . by Chesterfield’s three top qualities...
MILDNESS * BETTER TASTE
COOLER SMOKING
anew
Copyright 1945, Liggett & Mvers Tobacco Co
Come on Chesterfield
wene changing to
And when your G. I. Joe steps out of khaki into a blue pin-stripe and he’s home for keeps, you’ll again enjoy Chesterfields together and agree that nothing measures up to their...
RIGHT COMBINATION * WORLD'S BEST TOBACCOS