THE SCHOLASTIC
— COVER BY JIM BRUNETTE
^GILBERT'S r?@ampusShof?
On the Campus—Noire Dame
THE CORDUROY
SUIT WITH
CONVERTIBLE VEST
29.95
The natural shoulder jacket is lined with an antique print . . . the rounded corduroy vest reverses to match the jacket lining, and the matching breast-pocket handkerchief. The coat has narrow lapels, slightly cut away three-button front set off with antique gold buttons. In antelope, black, tobacco or antique olive. Practical and handsome for all casual occasions.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
EVERY Notre Dame man has a charge account at the Campus Shop. You are invited to use this convenient way to purchase what you need when you need it. Here you can select from the most famous brand names in America . . . from the finest
clothing and furnishings obtainable in today’s world markets. Here you will find a complete range of sizes, styles and models. So come in soon . . . get what you need and charge it the Campus Shop way.
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
No Carrying Charge
I
On Campi® MaxShuIman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
THE PARTY WEEKEND: ITS CAUSE AND CURE
With the season of party weekends almost upon us, my mail of late has been flooded with queries from young inmates of women’s colleges wishing to know7 how-one conducts one’s self when one has invited a young gentleman for a w-eekend, so let us today take up this burning issue.
Well, my dear girls, the first thing to remember is that your young gentleman is far from home and frightened. Put him at his ease. You might, for instance, surprise him by having his mother sitting in a rocker on the station platform when he gets off the train.
Next, what kind of corsage should you send your young gentleman? Well, my beloved maidens, orchids are alw-ays acceptable. So, indeed, are phlox and delphinium. In fact, most any flora will serve. Do try, however, to avoid carnivorous plants.
If you find, my esteemed fillies, that your local florist has run out of stock, do not be dismayed. Make a corsage out of paper. But pick good, stiff, durable paper—twenty dollar bills, for example.
Remember at all times, my fond wenches, to show your young gentleman courtesy and consideration. Open doors for him, walk on the traffic side of the path, assist him to the punch bowl, zip his parka, light his Marl-boros. (What, you ask, if
he doesn’t smoke Marlboros? Ridiculous, my precious nymphs ! Of course, he smokes Marlboros! Don’t you? Don’t I? Doesn’t everybody who knows a hawk from a handsaw? What other cigarette gives you such a lot to like? Such easy-drawing filtration? Such unfiltered taste? Such soft pack or flip-top box? No other, my sweet minxes, no other. Marlboro stands alone, and any man worthy of you, my estimable damsel, is bound to be a Marlboro man.)
If you wall follow7 the simple instructions stated above, my good lasses, you will find that you have turned your young
* * *
Every weekend is a party weekend with. Marlboros—or Marlboro’s unfiltered companion ciyarette—mild, flavorful Philip Morris. Try the newest Philip Morris—the sensational kiny-size Commander. Have a Commander—welcome aboard!
4
gentleman into a fast and fervent admirer. There is nothing quite like a party weekend to promote romance. I am in mind of a party w-eekend some years ago at Miss Pomfritt’s Seminary for wellborn females in West Linotype, Ohio. Serafina Sigafoos, a sophomore at this institution, majoring in napkin folding, sent an invitation to a young man named Fafnir Valve, a junior at the Joyce Kilmer School of Forestry, majoring in sap and boles. Serafina had been ape for Fafnir since high school, but Fafnir preferred a girl named Gelia Fleshwround, the high school drum majorette who once threw a baton so high she impaled a southbound mallard.
Anyhow, Serafina sent an invitation to Fafnir, and he came, and she showered him with kindness and cuff links, and then he went away, and Serafina sat anxiously by the mailbox, wondering whether she would ever hear from him
again. Sure enough, two weeks later she got a letter: “Dear Serafina, Can you let me have fifty bucks? Yours, Fafnir.”
Whimpering with ecstasy, she ran to the bank and withdrew7 the money and mailed it to him. From then on, she got the same request every week, and as a result, she became very w7ell acquainted with Ralph T. Involute, teller of the West Linotype Bank and Trust Co., and their friendship ripened into love, and today they are happily married and live in Stamen, Oregon, w7here Ralph is in the extruded molasses game and Serafina is a hydrant.	© I960 Max Shulman
Defenders of the Faith
Editor:
The extent to which misinformed people have indulged their opinions on this matter- is disconcerting. These fallacious arguments all raise the same cry of condemnation, “The Church is ‘playing politics’ in Puerto Rico.” But is it? Should a political party promote com-* mon law marriage, sterilization, and birth control in the United States, there is no doubt that the Church would immediately give strong opposition. And, this is as it should be. This is not “playing politics” but simply the safeguarding of Faith and Morals, the natural function of the Church. For a political party in an overwhelmingly Catholic country like Puerto Rico to promote these evil practices is not simply politics. • It is an attack on the Catholic Church itself, through undermining the morals of its people. The Church not only has a right to express itself on this matter, it has a duty.
Regardless of the cause of common law marriage, it is still a threat to both the Church and Society. It is bad enough for a political party to sit back and allow this practice but it is worse to condone and promote it. It is true that^ the Church should try to correct this ignorance but why should it also promote the very thing it is trying to correct?
Mr. De Haro says that in view of the present level of education in Puerto Rico, it seems rather foolish for the Church to want to cut down secular education time in order to teach Religion to the children. Religion should be prominent in the curriculum. Isn’t it possible* that with an increase in the teaching of Religion there would be a corresponding decrease in ignorance and the problems due to it such as common law marriage?
The Church has a right and a duty to’ oppose anything, including a political party, which tries to undermine Faith
(Continued on page 25)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic*1

Vol. 102
Notre Dame
4 4

"I

No. 7
NOVEMBER 11, 1960 1^
Founded 1867
- editor-in-chief ’ < > 4 -. ’; -4 ’. . .. CHARLES RIECK
e associate editor ? ROY RUBEL!
■ •. -hews: editor .	'* ?; Vr'.'c
THOMAS WEISS
' . John McCabe f
features editor .	-
THOMAS SULLIVAN ; , William Gorman
Andrew Griffin	'
Thomas Hoobler
sports editor	;
4 4,: JAMES KILROY' < >;
4? - ?' William Cary ' -• •' ; -;
; John Bechtold •_ ,4
’ copy editor	S
;	< THOMAS MARCINIAK
: 4 < Gene Dombkowski 4:44-;xPlffiip :iqrrabee^4';
exe<^*e< mastax ' ^44? WILLIAM VEEDER 4: " arteditor 4> 444 4'4 . ^yp-DB^Nisnu^K7^
4r444T^c>^s<Hani^h\y4'4 ’ ‘ f^k^apAwv4?'44sJ^c-4 /4|44
" '(l^hths'; mqna^^	.

JOSEPH FINNIGAN
-l&bdrt^Buc^
•drciikrtkm
inadenrt^	O
REV.CHARLESCAREY,c.s.c ;	/*V444r'7“Kv< v"-<'<V''' ■ '	' '
Joseph Caspar ; / .. Franlt Cbiffp $ f?-' >v\' ^Riehar^^^^
LawrenceKavanaugK ,;Rq^h/Kent^£r^^ T^mas^heunng
S^S-W? '\s^»*-„_s5SvF».wx?-»	w‘>
3 '4
I -
CHURCH AND STUDENT: In the November 7 issue of Time Magazine, Professor Frank Keegan launched an attack upon the Catholic college student and, by implication, the Notre Dame student. Prof. Keegan’s cause for concern was the 13th century outlook that supposedly dominates the Catholic student’s view towards the place of the Church in political life. “Catholics tend to view political opportunities as opportunities for the advancement of their church.” If the letters in response to Tony de Haro’s Back Page on Puerto Rico are any criterion, then we certainly must agree with Prof. Keegan. But these letters are unable to change our impressions of most students’ attitudes. What seems to prevail on this campus is rather the Reformation view that the formation of a conscience is an individual concern. Most students admit the serious moral aspect of such political acts as voting and decision-making. But they implicitly deny the Visible Church’s right to form the conscience of its members when they are led to deny the Church’s right to legislate in these political matters. The distaste is not an attitude arrived at solely by consideration of the Church’s political fumblings in past ages, nor by acknowledging that a greater spiritual good may be reached by noninterference in the political machinery of a pluralistic society. Rather, it is an insidious result of life in a secularist culture. Prof. Keegan is much too optimistic when he classifies the U.S. as simply a secular society.
THE NEW ORDER: In days of old, when knighthood was in flower, there was a small kingdom of Ruritania, with a much smaller province, Unmall. Now, this province of Unmall was controlled by an aristocracy but after several eons the Unmallian aristocrats were persuaded to let the people have a queen, purely nominal be assured. However, the federal government of Ruritania became aware of this untraditional move. At first this government was quite willing to appease the provincials, by allowing them a queen, but one of then- diplomats, Herr von Galloppe, pointed out that Ruritania’s neighboring democracies would be very disturbed by this revisionism. Ruritania’s foreign prestige as graded in the Galloppe polls would drop noticeably. In fact the foreign aid of the democracies so necessax-y to Rux-itania’s economic excellence, would be diverted, to perhaps the realm of Saint Louis, ox- Fordingham. Herr von Galloppe was successful in his lobbying, and hence the national administration ordered a complete news blackout on the queen’s investiture, and the whole monarchy affaix- in Unmall was handled with the utmost of secrecy. One condescension was allowed by the national administration; the coronation gown included an expensive white fur taken from the local animal—a white bunny.
TIME FOR A CHANGE: Trapped, as we all are, between a fixed budget and rising costs, the South Dining Hall has introduced several economy measures. One of these seems to be a fewer numbex- of student employees to cleax- off the tables. The result has indeed been unfortunate. About half way through the meal hour one must begin to search fox- a place to sit down and when one is found it is usually in the midst of dirty trays and plates. The fate of having to eat a meal while surrounded by the leftovers from others is not a pleasant one. The solution is twofold. Students must cooperate by filling every available seat instead of leaving a space between themselves and people they don’t know, and the Dining Hall management must beg ox- box-row the money to pay fox- additional help. The combination of poox- food and poor surroundings is getting to be too much to take.
MUCH ADO: What was originally intended by us as an honest question about Student Center policy now seems to have grown into a political football and a clash of personalities. And evex-ybody wants to get into the act. After much bickering by two members of the Center’s house committee, they finally agreed to keep it open if Student Government would pay the bills fox- any damage oxcleaning. Since it is the Senate that appoints the mana-gex- and appropriates a large part of his operating funds it would seem to us to be the group with final authority on Centex- matters. Thus, the manager’s continued reluctance to cooperate leaves us a bit confused. However, there is only one remaining home game and we cannot see much point in provoking a majox- cx-isis that will cause ill feeling fox- the rest of the year. We only hope that this issue and the broader one of authority will be worked out well in advance with the candidates fox- next year’s Student Centex- managex- position.
—R&R
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
•
POCKET LIBRARY OF FINE ART Abstract Art Impressionism Rubens El Greco
•
SIMON SCHUSTER PAPERBACKS How to Read a Book Mortimer Adler
Men of Music
Wallace Brockway
New Chemistry Scientific American
•
UNIVERSAL UBRARY Freud and His Time Fritz Wittels
Shock of Recognition Edmund Wilson, Editor
Reville in Washington Margaret Luch
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students • Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.) • Special Price $5.50
Notre Dame Bookstore on - the - campus
SIR WALTER RALEIGH
Protective Pouch Keeps Tobacco
This protective aluminum foil pouch keeps famous, mild Sir Walter Raleigh 44% fresher than old-fashioned tin cans. The sturdy pouch is triple laminated. Carries flat. Sir Walter Raleigh is choice Kentucky hurley— extra aged! Tty it.
SMELLS GRAND — PACKS RIGHT! SMOKES SWEET — CAN'T BITEI
MOWN A: WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION
THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS
6
The Scholastic
animal farms
Knowing that the Escape column is ,written for a highly diversified group of intelligentsia, we can’t write what we want. If we did we would be declared “Unsatisfactory” (see Student Manual, P. 23, sec. C). We cannot even offend SMC (Seeking Marriage Constantly) or we will be blackballed. Not even can we criticize the Student Body or we will not be. . . .
This column will include our own memorable and distorted images of the ‘ things which make those long, four years at insti ... at Notre Dame Unforgettable — although we try mighty hard. These distorted images will at times, we hope, be humorous and light-heai-ted. But, if at any time, you don’t understand a joke or the socio-psycholo-gical connotations of a story, DON’T TRY. Undoubtably we have failed and any attempt to understand them will be in vain. God knows we’re not subtle! Any characters portrayed herein are ficticious (we hope) including the authors — be thankful that we are writing this column; would you rather have another Gilbert’s ad?
The unforgettable and unforgivable things which we shall relate to you as the time passes will concern the relationships which all of us, as animals (and according to Webstei- we all are — Mary Webster, she worked down at Frankie’s until one night last Spring . . . ), have to our surroundings: The Notre Dame Zoo. And if, at times, this may sound like the “Lincoln Park Leopard,” “The Belvue Bulletin,” or the “Levenworth. Herald,” well if the shakels fit. . . .
This “hole” outlook may look out-landishly ridiculous to the incoming inmates, but those of us who are serving 10-20 for that Washington Student Trip two years ago, will remember: those “visitors” days in the Spring, when all those “cute little boys and girls” throw peanuts to the animals; those concession stands and Sorin Hall “monkey shows” (sorry guys) on football week ends; the stampede of the “wild animals” into Washington Hall on Saturdays; those oft-forgotten “bear-backed” bicycle races of Howard Hall; and, finally, the tradition of raw pork at feeding time.
The first part of our environment
November 11, I960
which we scrutinize is that of the guards (guides). Every zoo has them. Well, why be the exception?
The poor Frosh, who on his first day at Notre Dame, mistakenly walked up to the Main Gate by the Circle on the “Mall” (it used to be the Quadrangle, but Mall is so Ivy League) and asked the chief uni (n)formed guide (and by the way, it’s been rumored in the back room at Thilhnan’s that their uniforms are hand-me-downs from the Marching Band) how to reach Farley Hall, knows just what we mean. After much hemming and hawing and a mumbled: “Why dontcha go play in da traffic,” he returned the verdict: “Da, I don’t tink dat ya can git der from here.”
But, if you think that this is an isolated instance, you are wrong. The following episode concerning your writers and one of the K.K.K.’s is true, only the names have been changed to prevent a liable suit. One day last Spring during the Monsoons (which is redundant) while we were feasting on iced tea in the Huddle, a Kampus Kop, who we will call “F.F.” to keep his name anonymous, came in and asked us where he could get a Frisby for his nephew. For those of you who have not been informed about this new phenomena of American folkways, a Frisby — the mechanism of which completely “escapes” us — is a frustration alleviating device normally used by would-be architects, and generally found around “Keep-off-the-Grass” signs on college campi. We told him that we thought he could purchase one at Walgreen’s, a Cobra hangout in our nefarious city to the South. He granted amenities and left.
Several days later, after failing at our conscious effort to avoid him, F. F. charged out at us from behind Sorin Hall. In a puffing, wheezing voice, said: “Hey, yous guys! Guess what?” (We waited, terrified, concealing the six-pack behind us) “I gotta fwisby!” (Exhaling, we listened to his story with overawed (hung) expressions on our faces) “I seen dese guys, see, on da gwass pwaying fwisby, see. An I goes wight upta dem, and I sez: ‘AU wight youse guys. Ya fwisby or ya LD.’s. Ain’t I smart?” Maybe he was. Maybe he was. Maybe we were.
This recalls another vivid episode we
recently encountered. It presents a problem (actually we have many problems, but some are obscene and we would rather not mention them). This problem comes in the form of a little white bulletin with blue letters (there’s so many of them) from the curator of the zoo. Rather than describe it, we’ll print it verbatim and let you draw your own conclusions.
—BULLETIN—
It has come to the attention of the Administration that certain students have been dying on the campus and either refusing or neglecting to turn in the proper I.B.M. card. This practice must be stopped at once. Any student found dead on the campus or surroundings, either in an upright or a prone position, will immediately be subjected . to a grave (penalty).
In the future, if a Rector notices any student that has made no movement for a period of two (2) hours, it will be his duty to investigate. As it will be im~ possible to distinguish between death and the natural movement of many students, Rectors are cautioned to make a . careful investigation.
A. Leo Liontrainer
Curator	-
Now this brings us to another rather prominent publication (which generally	■
no one reads). The grandaddy of all . “don’t feed the animal” signs.	<5
The Student Manual which covers the complete range of calculus and the ;	-
Rubyat of Omar Kyam in hieroglyphics.
And even if you could understand it, . you’d find that some things are permissible sometimes, other things are not per-ble, and nothing is permissible during an eclipse of the sun.
And then there is that unanswerable - . 7 question which always accompanies the ’ highly specific and unambiguous clarity ' which characterizes all things like the , . Student Manual, the powers of Notre ; Dame Student Government and the Mississippi Mud! What is the difference ’ - " between a grave penalty, a more grave.
penalty, and a most grave penalty?
The answer is — and this is straight .'jiS from our freshman- prefect — just a->/^ matter of degree.
ARTCARVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING RINGS . . . JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY ★
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
THE EYE AND YOU
“Television and American Culture’’ will be the subject of a lecture given by Professor Edward Fischer of the Communication Arts Department, on Monday evening, Nov. 14 at 8:00 p.m. in Room 2A of the Student Center. The lecture is the second in the Junior Class Lecture Series dealing with “Modern World Problems.” All are invited.
D*KWTURB0W \pPTOMTTRirr
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-5777
■J
two heads are better than one
F0H9S INC
ibdFtff
Way
Vaseline
MATH
TON IC
Vaseline
HAIR TON IC
Especially when one happens to be a delectable girl-type head. Lovely heads are always attracted to male heads that use 4Vaseline’ Hair Tonic — made specially for men who use water with their hair tonic. 'Vaseline' Hair Tonic’s 100% pure grooming oil replaces oil that water removes. In the bottle and on your hair the difference is clearly there! Just a little does a lot!
J'
VASELINE HAIR TONIC
'VASELINE* IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK QF CHESEBROUGH-PQNO*S tNC
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
8
The Scholastic
BARRY’S ‘HOLIDAY’ OPENS THEATER SEASON WITH COMICAL OVERTONES
* Performance Pits Love, Money in Romantic Baffle; Play to Run Five More Nights in Washington Hall
by LARRY KAVANAGH
Love and money fought on the stage of Washington Hall yesterday evening when the University Theater held opening night for its first performance of the year, Philip Barry’s Holiday.
It all started when Johnny Case, an 0 energetic man but financially mediocre, became involved with the fabulously wealthy Seton family. There was a . period of fluctuating finances for Johnny, and a fierce battle between cash and Cupid. And the play ended with some unexpected decisions about money and its relationship to happiness. The action will be repeated at 8:30 p.m. tonight, and also on the nights of Nov. 12, 17, 18, and 19.
® Love vs. mammon. Directed by Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., with technical assistance from Mr. Owen Klein, Holiday is a sophisticated comedy about the love affair between two people caught in the clutches of a dollar sign. Johnny Case (Joe Harrington) falls in love with Julia Seton (Chris Gladis), but Julia’s father, Edward Seton (Dick Kavanaugh), is opposed to the match. The father’s opposition is softened when
• Johnny pulls off a shrewd business deal which nets him a considerable sum of money.
But money is not Johnny’s prime con
BOB OBERKOETTER, MARILYN WOLTERS, JOE HARRINGTON, DIANE CROWLEY A case of rags and riches in season’s debut.
November 11, I960
cern; he would prefer to quit his business for a while and learn to live. This, of course, violates the code of the Setons. Julia’s sister Linda (Diane Crowley) becomes sympathetic with Johnny’s ideals; but Julia’s father and even Julia herself are suspicious. The play ends with a rousing and surprising climax that leaves the actors guessing almost as much as the audience.
Familiar faces. Holiday marks the fourth appearance on the Washington Hall stage for Joe Harrington and for Diane Crowley. Joe was last seen as Johnny Pope in A Hatful of Rain; and Diane last played Cassandra in Tiger at the Gates. Dick Kavanaugh was also seen in Tiger, in the role of De-mokos the poet.
Other members of the cast are Larry Finneran as Ned Seton, Marilyn Wolter as Susan Potter, Jane Sazama as Delia, and Greg Weismantel as Henry. Two freshmen making their first appearance in Washington Hall are Bob Ober-koetter and Jerry Oertling.
Tickets for Holiday may be purchased any day from four- to six in the box office of Washington Hall. Prices are $1.50 foi" the orchestra or center balcony and $1.00 for the side balcony. Special rates for students, faculty, and University personnel are $1.00 and $.75.
St. Mary's to Present Aristophanes' Satire
Aristophanes’ comedy The Birds will mark the opening of the drama season at St. Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium at 8:15 Friday and Saturday evenings, and at 2 pan. Sunday, Nov. 11, 12, and 13. These three performances will be presented under- the direction of the St. Mary’s College Department of Speech and Drama.
The Birds as a traditional Greek comedy, will feature a chorus trained by a professional actress, Mrs. Donald A. Rathgeb. A recent addition to the St. Mary’s faculty, Mrs. Rathgeb has appeared on stage in Medea, The Trojan Women, and Lysistrata. Director James Cronin has gathered a cast that includes Patrick Hart and Tony Bill, both students at the University. A third member of the faculty, Dr. H. Bertold Dietz, is directing the musical accompaniment.
The following week, on Nov. 17, the Goldovsky Grand Opera Theater will present one performance of Don Giovanni at 8:30 p.m. in the O’Laughlin Auditorium. The title role will be filled by 23 year old baritone, Ronald Holgate of South Dakota. Mr. Holgate is a winner in the 1959 Metropolitan Opera Auditions of the Air.
The Goldovsky production will be sung in English, using the special translation from the original Prague version prepared by Ruth and Thomas Martin.
Arts Festival Features Architecture Lectures
Professor Earnest Brandl, of the University’s department of architecture, will speak at 3 p.m., Friday, Nov. 11 in room 104 O’Shaughnessy Hall. As part of the Festival of the Arts, and in conjunction with this year’s theme, Professor Brandl will discuss architecture of the Romanesque period. Lawrence B. Perkins, also of the department of Architecture, is to present a lecture entitled “Environment for Learning,” Friday, Nov. 11, in the Law Auditorium at 8 p.m. These lectures according to the format of the Festival will be open to the public at no cost.
A color film, “Images Medievales,” using French illuminated manuscripts to depict the Romanesque era, will be shown in the Student Center Amphitheater, November 14 through Nov. 17. To be offered three times daily, the film will ran continually between 3:30 and 5 p.m. on these days.
Other events in the Festival’s program are scheduled for Nov. 10, 30, and Dec. 2, all featuring Romanesque art. During this time the drama department will give six performances of Holiday, a comedy by Philip Barry between Nov. 10 and 19.
9
Stanford's Freshmen Win Decoration Award; Pangbom, Howard Take Runner-Up Prizes
Stanford’s “trainer” steals the show.
Unfortunate indeed was the plight of the Panthers who visited the campus over the week end, as the homecoming displays, using the theme of a carnival, portrayed the luckless felines in many different situations — all bad.
All over the campus, meek panthers were being subdued and clobbered by mighty leprechauns. The homecoming day fans kept the walks crowded before the game as they wandered around the campus, looking at the products of the students’ imagination.
First prize in the decorations contest went to Stanford Hall and the display “Irish Make Panthers Eat Defeat.” The scene in front of the freshman dorm displayed five panthers being trained, by a leprechaun, to eat shoes of defeat which represented past Irish victories over Pittsburgh. John Marlow was the
Select Parent Week End Heads Within One Month
Early next Spring on March 10, 11 and 12 the Junior Class of Notre Dame will sponsor the annual Junior Parent-Son Week End. Chris Buckley, president of the class of 1962, will select the committee chairmen for the three-day event within the next month. The earlier selection date has been set to allow additional time for completion of the work involved in staging the activities.
The following twelve positions are presently open: executive coordinator, President’s dinner, luncheon and breakfast, President’s reception, Arts and Letters reception, Commerce reception, Engineering reception, Science reception, R.O.T.C. reception, tickets, accomodations, and transportation.
chairman for the first prize entry.
A giant panther’s head against the front of Pangbom with the mouth of the cat over the door constituted the junior dorm’s second place effort, “Pangbang — 3 for 25c.” The panther in this scene was mangled and beaten and was being used as a target for baseballs as in the familiar carnival game. The giant baseballs used for the target practice were inscribed with the names of the Pangborn players on the football squad. “Pangbang’s” chairman was Bob Hoffman.
The sophomores in Howard Hall claimed third prize with their display of a caged and subdued “panther.” Lying on an electric blanket to ward off the autumn chill, was a black kitten. A tape recorder blared forth with the roars of the ferocious “panther” before it was tamed. The kitten was a rather expensive article: $1.00 foi" the “cool cat” and $1.50 for taxi fares. Howard’s Fritz Wilson directed the display.
“Pang-bang” Panther takes second.
ACTORS AUDITIONS
The University Theater announces tryouts for the first annual Musical Comedy Experimental Theater at Washington Hall on Tuesday, November 15 at 7:00 p.m. This experimental workshop will consist of scenes from various musicals. All are invited. The Theater is also interested in the acquisition of original scripts, drama, and musical, for presentation in the workshop. Any pianists interested in playing with University Theater musical productions are requested to see Father Harvey in Washington Hall immediately.
Publish New Book Depicting Lives of American Martyrs
The courageous lives of eight Jesuit missionaries, who brought Christianity from France to the Indians of the New World, are recounted in The First Martyrs of North America. The book is a recent publication of the Notre Dame University Press.	y
Rev. John A. O’Brien, research pro- < fessor of theology at the University, is the author of the volume which chronicles the lives of the first individuals on this continent to be canonized as saints by the Catholic Church. The book represents several years of research by the author and embodies the latest findings of modem historical investigation in Canada and the United States.
The First Martyrs of North America % is based largely on the letters and diaries of the missionaries themselves. The book presents a vivid picture of Father Isaac Jogues, the first priest to enter what is now New York City, and of his two lay assistants, Rene Goupil and John de Lalande. It also tells the story of the sturdy giant, Jean de Bre-beuf, who towered above all the missionaries, and depicts his remarkable journey with the Indians to the Huron territory.	'
Others whose lives and martyrdom are described in Father O’Brien’s book are Jesuit Fathers Gabriel Lalemant, Antonie Daniel, Charles Gamier, and Noel Chabanel, all of whom perished at the hands of the Indians.
NSF Fellowships to Support-1200 During Graduate Study
National Science Foundation graduate and post-doctoral fellowships will support approximately 1200 graduate 150 post-doctoral scholars during the 1961-62 academic year.
Committees of outstanding scientists will evaluate applications of all candidates; final selection will be made by O the Foundation and awards announced on March 15, 1961.
These fellowships are open to citizens of the United States and applications are evaluated solely on the basis of ability. Fellowships may be applied to advanced study in the mathematical, physical, medical, biological sciences; also in the social sciences of geography, mathematical economics, econometrics and demography.
The annual stipends for graduate Fel-^ lows range from $1800 to $2200, while those for postdoctoral Fellows are $4500. Deadline for receipt of applications for postdoctoral fellowships is December 19, and for graduate fellowships, Jan. 6. Further information and applications are available from the Fellowship Office, National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council, 2101 Constitution Ave. N.W., Washington 25, D.C.
. $
The Scholastic
10
Bigger, Better Mardi Gras Festival Planned; Bermuda Trip, TR-3 Offered as Student Loot
/&Z Qnaluun
Coordinated by General Chairman Rich Jalovec, this year’s Mardi Gras Committee is well under way in planning what may well be the biggest and best Mardi Gras week end ever.
The annual Mardi Gras this year will be held the week end of Feb. 10 -14. The gala event will commence with the Mardi Gras Ball Friday evening in the North Dining Hall; the tickets will be sold on a lottery basis. The jazz concert will be held in the fieldhouse on Saturday afternoon. As yet, a jazz group has not been selected for the show, but Concert Chairman Angelo Militello promises a group comparable to those of the past; » two years ago Dave Brubeck played and * last year “The Dukes of Dixieland” were headlined. Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday evenings, the big carnival will be held in the Drill Hall. Every geographic club on campus will construct booths in which games of chance will be played. Paper money with which to play the games will be bought at the entrance.
Last year’s net gain, $30,000, was di. vided equally among the Student Center, ’ foreign missions and the Senate scholarship fund. This year the committee is attempting to eliminate the scholarship fund grant, and instead reward the student body with mixers at lower admission cost, more lectures and better movies. This proposal, however, is still
Civil Service to Accept I Examination Applicants
Young men of college caliber will be hired in this region through the Federal Service Entrance Examination for careers in the Federal Civil Service in one of some 60 different occupational fields. Applications for the 1961 examinations are now being accepted by the Civil Service Commission.
College juniors, seniors, and gradu-B ates, regardless of major are allowed to take the test. Starting salaries of either $4345 or $5455 are offered depending upon the qualifications of the candidate. Management Internships will also be filled from this examination with salaries of $5355 or $6435 a year.
Tests on Nov. 19, Jan. 14, Feb. 11, April 15, and May 13 have been scheduled for this school year. Management Internship exams will be given only on November, January and February dates. 0 Applications for the February tests will not be accepted after Jan. 26, 1961. On April 27 the Federal Service Entrance Exam will close for the May 13 test.
Civil Service Announcement No. 240 contains full information concerning the benefits of this program, and copies may * be obtained from any Post Office. Application forms can be procured from the same source or from the Sixth Regional Office, U.S. Civil Service Commission, Cincinnati 2, Ohio.
November 11, 1960
in the planning stage and may not even materialize.
The climax of the Mardi Gras will come Tuesday night with the raffle. This year the Grand Prize is a 1961 Cadillac. The big surprise, however, is the student prize. In past years, a convertible has been awarded, but this year a 1961 white Triumph TR-3 plus an all-expense paid trip to Bermuda for two over the Easter vacation has been promised by Raffle Chairman Dave McCann. In hopes of increasing sales, the raffle tickets will be distributed at Thanksgiving. All students selling ten or more books will receive a free bid to the Mardi Gras Ball.
Other committtee members are: executive Chairman, Greg Weismantel; dance chairman, Tom Conneely; carnival chainnan, J. T. Phillips; business manager, Bernie Craig; publicity chairman, Jim Kaval; advisor, Ken Bourgon.
The committee has set a goal of $41,290. They feel this should be attained because of the early distribution of tickets and the new student prize.
Fellowships Available To Faculty Members
A Fellowship for the study of International Relations, offered by the Foreign Policy Association-World Affairs Center for the academic year 1961-62, is now available for interested young faculty members. The program, operating for the fourth consecutive year under a grant by the Rockefeller Foundation, is aimed at college or university teachers who hold a Ph.D degree or its equivalent and have not yet reached 40.
The stipend allows the selected Fellow to study first hand the functions of the United Nations and related agencies for either a nine or twelve month period. Strengthening the instruction of foreign affairs by giving a solid background in international affairs and enabling the recipients to complete work in a particular project. The Fellowship provides transportation to and from New York City, close contact with delegations, staff and non-governmental personnel in the UN, part-time academic study in New York, office space, limited clerical help, current university salary and various other incidental expenses the Fellow might incur.
Candidates for the award should be from any area which deals with world problems, such as economics, history, law, political science, sociology or public administration. Another requirement necessitates a firm desire to continue in the teaching field.
Application forms may be obtained directly from the Foreign Policy Association, First Avenue, New York 17, N. York. The deadline for application is Jan. 16, 1961.

Slightly disorganized, but firmly determined to get things done, the Senate dealt with a staggering amount of business last Thursday night. John Keegan, SBP, ably guided the body through a labyrinth of parliamentary procedure in the longest session to date.
Matters of importance:
A motion was passed establishing a
transportation committee headed by Chris Buckley. The committee will make available standardized forms whereby campus organizations may apply for permission to use buses. The committee will also try to bargain for better rates with bus companies in the area.
A motion concerning policy on loans “clearly carried.” A fine of 5% per week of the amount of the unpaid loan will be levied, if the loan is not repaid on the date it becomes due. This stipulation seems unnecessary since loans are easily extended.
Experience has shown that dance chairmen like to spend money—usually more than they have! To encourage them not to do so, Simon St. Laurent submitted a resolution which, among other things, would provide for a bonus of $25.00 for chairmen who keep within their budget as approved by the Senate. The resolution was a long one, many points being questioned. A motion was passed to table it and a committee was appointed to investigate the problem.
Ollie Williams, Senate “ambassador” to Pete Doran, Student Center manager, returned Thursday with a partial solution to the Student Center closing policy. He said that Doran would agree to open the Rathskeller all day Saturday if the Senate would underwrite any damages done during this time. The Senate voted to do so.
Later in the evening Chris Lund and others, not satisfied with this solution, brought the matter up for reconsideration.
Williams assured them that the opening of the Rathskeller was all they could hope for. John Keegan informed the body that there was no way to mandate the Center manager to open the rest of the Center. It was suggested that since the Senate had appointed the manager, they might fire him.
Saturday the Rathskeller was open after the game only. At no time were . there more than 175 people there. It took the assistant manager six minute* to clean up!	-
Doran’s position is unreasonable. Perhaps more “diplomacy” will assure an open Center for the Iowa week end.
&
Reilly. Keating Top Duplicate Bridge Opponents Last Week
In the weekly duplicate bridge game at the LaFortune Student Center, Sunday, Nov. 6, Todd Reilly and Bob Keating were first place winners among East-West players with a score of .671. Other winners were Bill Matz and Jamie Schwartz, .595; Ed Arnold and Neil Butler, .555; John Delane and Ed Delehanty, .508.
Bob Peters and Wally Guillaume topped the North-South players with a score of .645, followed by George Mack and Tony Carpenter, .576; A. C. Williams and Charles Carroll, .507; and Dean Graveel and Dick McManus, .500.
The monthly Master Point session will be held next Sunday, Nov. 13, at 1:30 p.m. in the Student Center, and is open to all students and faculty members.
Hold ASCE Student Chapter Banquet Wednesday Evening
The Northwest Branch, Indiana Section, of the American Society of Civil Engineers will hold its banquet on Wednesday evening, Nov. 16 at the Knights of Columbus Hall, at 815 N. Michigan in South Bend. The student chapter of ASCE at Notre Dame will host this meeting.
All engineering students and faculty members are invited. Featured speaker will be Dr. John Scalzi of United States Steel Corp.; entertainment will be supplied by the Notre Dame Glee Club.
Tickets may be obtained from Don Mars, David Petre, 118 Alumni or from Dave Hipp 102 Walsh. Prices are $2.50 for ASCE student members, and $3.00 for faculty and non-members.
McDonald Studios
“The Finest in Portraits”
129 N. MAIN Temporary location HAVE YOUR CHRISTMAS PORTRAIT TAKEN NOW!
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
Positions with Potential
ENGINEERS • CHEMISTS • PHYSICISTS
Chemical
Electrical • Industrial • Mechanical
Union Carbide Consumer Products Company, America’s foremost manufacturer of dry cell batteries and flashlights, and one of America’s most forward-looking companies in the development of new battery concepts, now offers career opportunities to qualified B. S. and M. S. graduates who are interested in creative scientific advancement.
Positions are available at Union Carbide Consumer Products Company’s 8 plants, located in the following states: Iowa, North Carolina, Ohio, and Vermont.
Interesting, rewarding careers in research, process and product development, production and methods engineering, product and process control, machine development and plant engineering. A Union Carbide Consumer Products representative will be on campus—
(INSERT DATE HERE)
UNION CARBIDE CONSUMER PRODUCTS
COMPANY
Division of Union Carbide Corporation
212 S. Michigan
CE 4-4874
RUBIN CLEANERS
Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card
217 E. JEFFERSON
Downtown—on the Bus Line
Complete Laundry Service
FIVE SHIRTS LAUNDERED FOR $1.10
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
eveready trade-marks
BATTERIES
PRESTOHE
BRAND ANTI-FREEZE
T-Bone Steak Special Thursday—$1.25
DINNER SPECIAL
Monday thru Friday — $1.00 Between 4 P.M. and 8 P.M.
•
CE 2-5141
ROMAN INN
Comer Notre Dame - So. Bend Ave.
Kitty-Komer from Fire Station
J2
The Scholastic
0

great way to make a
HOLIDAY
e
FROM THE back shadows of the darkened stage steps a student. He walks to the edge and looks out at the rows of empty seats. Half-closing his eyes, he imagines the seats filled with I people awed by his magnificent performance. He turns his full profile toward the seats and starts to quote a line . . .
... when his dream is rudely shattered : by the shrill notes of a would be quartet gathered around the piano in the orchestra below. Jerked back to reality, the student steps off the stage, drops into a seat, and begins a long wait.
This is the story of a play. It is also the story of the people who make the play—the producers, the directors, the actors, the stagehands, the ticket-salesmen, the ushers. It is the story of emo-9 tions—of hope, of disappointment, of joy, of irritation, of doubt, of fear, of triumph. (A little background music, please)
But the story does not begin with the student and his dreams; it begins months ago in an office in Washington Hall. Three men are deciding which plays the dramatic society will present this year. Their choice for the first play is- Holiday, a comedy by Philip Barry.
After the choice is made, there are £ certain technical details to be taken care of: permission must be secured to use the play, a royalty must be paid, copies of the play must be bought for the cast, the dates of presentation must be decided. Finally, these are taken care of; now the directors must wait.
School starts; their wait is ended. Posters appear on campus announcing when tryouts for the play will be held. Enters our hero, the student. He comes to the back of Washington Hall, mounts
November 11, 1960
the fire-escape steps, and announces his desire to act. He is instructed to perform the twentieth-century ritual of filling out a form, upon completion of which he plops into a seat and waits. More students perform the ritual. When an occasional St. Mary’s girl sits down, she immediately acquires a necklace of boys who have casually sauntered over to say hello.
Finally, a well-built, balding priest starts to speak. He makes the usual announcements, that the play is a light comedy revolving around a love triangle, that there are five major male roles and four female, that obviously everyone who tries out can’t make it but there will be other chances, and so on. No one is especially moved by his speech, since everyone fully expects to win a starring role.
Then the actual tryouts start. The first ones chosen to read groan resignedly, while the others scramble for copies of the script so they can prepare for their reading. Once called, the student is whisked on and off the stage so fast that he doesn’t think he had a chance to get started; everyone is treated in the same way, however. The procession moves swiftly across the stage, yet it is hours before the tryouts are finished. At the end, the tall priest announces that a list of people will be posted to come back for a second casting.
On the day when the list is to be posted, the student squeezes a few minutes in between breakfast and his first-class to go over and look at the list; the result is predictable: the list is not yet posted. Frustrated, he can do nothing but wait. Later he returns and finds that his name is on the list; he should be glad, but now he begins to worry.
How can he make the best impression at the final tryouts? Should he try to get a copy of the play and study it? Or should he relax and try to be natural? What if he does make the play? Will the rehearsals take up too much of his time? What if he does a bad job when they put on the play? By the time the second tryouts come, he is a nervous wreck.
As described above, he comes into the hall hopefully and takes a seat. The others who have been called back also filter in. The same priest who officiated at the first tryout again makes a short speech. He announces the times of the rehearsals, and makes it clear that everyone is expected to attend them, unless he has one of the smaller roles. After a final warning that “You can back out now if you want,” (not surprisingly, no one accepts his offer) he joins the two other directors in the back and calls the first name.
From the start of the second tryouts it is evident who will be picked for the play. Some are asked to read only once, and remain seated for the rest of the three-hour tryout. Others are on the stage almost constantly, being shifted _ from one part to another until the direc- * tors are satisfied. Nevertheless, none of the “outs” grow tired of sitting; their ambition exceeds their common sense, and they stick it out to the end.
On the day when the cast of the play is posted, however, all of the little Brandos and Bergmans must face reality. Some stand around the list laughing and talking with all the others who made the play; for others there is nothing to do but turn around and walk back out the door, murmuring: “O life! thou art a galling load, along a rough, a weary (Continued on page 16)
13
CHESTERFIELD, L&M and OASIS invite you to the
Iowa - Notre Dame
JUST PREDICT THE SCORE AND WIN UP TO.
Game Contest!
s»
5 £
< *
A,>J \
/■Ww, •*
. v A
*300
FIRST PRIZE JACKPOT
*150
SECOND PRIZE JACKPOT
f r * 2H4*’ i
y<>
''''y''
l'- X -	' ,i<'s
*50
THIRD PRIZE JACKPOT
* Kv
;*^<5
SF w"*^ 'A.
&:• f^- v^v* * »x<s J
$$ 5><' i
^*4


















-Mv 1
$ <X
V vW;
- y^'; a t


FOR THE STUDEEISA


Pick up a pack and take a crack at experting the big game. If you are the only one to come up with the correct half-time and final scores, the first prize jackpot is all yours. If there are ties, you share the money. The same applies to winners of the second and third jackpots. Enter as often as you like ... and to make it easy, use the backs of packs* as your entry blanks. So each time you finish a pack ... take a crack at the big money!
HERE’S ALL YOU DO TO WIN...
1.	Predict the final score for each team.
2.	Predict the half-time score for each team.
3.	Use an empty pack* as your entry blank.
READ THESE EASY RULES...
1.	On the coupon below or on the back of an empty wrapper or on a plain sheet of paper, select the winner of the above game. Predict the final score and the half-time score (predict ties if you wish). Each entry must be accompanied by an empty wrapper from L&M, Chesterfield or Oasis cigarettes (or a single hand drawn copy of the lettering L&M, Chesterfield or Oasis as it appears on the face of the package). If entry is submitted on back of empty wrapper, be sure to include name and address, printed clearly.
2.	Mail entries to Liggett & Myers, at the address appearing in coupon below. All entries must be postmarked by midnight five days prior to date of game and received by midnight the day prior to date of game. Enter as often as you want, but be sure to enclose an empty wrapper (or acceptable substitute) with each entry. Illegible entries will not be considered.
3.	Prizes: FIRST PRIZE JACKPOT—$300; SECOND PRIZE JACKPOT-$150; THIRD PRIZE JACKPOT—$50. Winning entries will be selected according to the accuracy of the entry against the following in the order listed: (a) the winning
team; (b) the final score, and, as a tie-breaker, if necessary (c) the accuracy in determining the leading half-time team and the half-time score. In the event of ties among contestants, the prize money for each of the three prize categories will be divided equally among contestants tied for the respective prizes.
4.	This contest is under the supervision of the Bruce, Richards Corporation, an independent judging organization, whose decisions are final and binding on all contestants. Only one prize per family.
5.	This contest is open to the college students and college faculty members of the above competing colleges only. Employees and members of their families of Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company and its advertising agencies are not eligible to enter.
6.	All entries become the property of the sponsor, and none will be returned. Winners will be notified by mail. A complete list of winners is available to anyone sending a stamped, self-addressed envelope to the address below.
7.	This contest is subject to all Federal, state and local laws and regulations governing contests and their validity.
START SAVING PACKS NOW!
Themore oftenyou enter... the more chances you have to win.
Write clearly the final score and half-time score of the game to be played November 19, 1960 in boxes indicated:
FINAL HALF-TIME
IOWA	(	)	(	)
NOTRE DAME	(	)	(	)
Mail this entry to:
LIGGETT & MYERS, P. 0. BOX 327, NEW YORK 46, N. Y.
Attach an empty pack (or an acceptable substitute, see rules) of L&M, Chesterfield or Oasis cigarettes with this entry.
NAME
(PLEASE PRINT)
ADDRESS----------------------------------------------------------------------
L & M has found the secret that unlocks flavor in a filter cigarette. (Pack or Box).
© Liggett & Myeri Tobacco Co.
CHESTERFIELD-Now “Air-Softened", they satisfy even morel (King or Regular).
OASIS—Most refreshing taste of all. Just enough menthol... just enough!
*or acceptable subitltute (see rules).
Entries must be postmarked no later than midnight November 14, 1960, and received at the above P.O.Box in New York by midnight November 18, 1960.
Submit as many more entries as you want on the backs of empty packs.* On each one print the team names and scores with your name and address as shown above.
'Holiday'
(Continued from page 13) road, to wretches such as I!”
Meanwhile, the un-wretched have their problems too. Prominent among these is the rehearsal schedule. It is such a masterpiece of calculated torture that it bears repeating here:
Monday, 8:15 p.m.-lO p.m.
Tuesday through Thursday, 6:30 p.m.-10 p.m.
Friday, 6:30 p.m.-ll p.m.
Saturday, 1:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m.
Sunday afternoons, optional.
A little mental calculation will determine that the major characters of the play must spend close to 27 hours a week rehearsing (general program scholars may wish to check the result with paper and pencil). However, the members of the cast unanimously choose glory over grades and all decide to stay with the play. At this point preparation for the play begins in earnest.
The cast begins the first rehearsal by reading the play over a few times to get the feel of their parts (the script is written in braille). The director explains the different characters, sub-plots, and themes of the play. The actors then have a general discussion about the play, their parts, their acting ability, how the rehearsals will affect their studies, the football team, and the world situation. One of the little extra joys of being in a play is the friendships (not all of them Platonic) one makes in discussions such as these. This first meeting, of course, is not the normal type of rehearsal.
A typical play rehearsal is difficult to describe. It is not exactly a spectacle; closer, in fact, to a debacle. On or about the appointed time for the rehearsal, the cast drifts in. The mode of dress is casual, to say the least. Many students
have brought their books, for the rehearsal schedule has begun to take its toll. Soon the director starts the rehearsal, and the long drive toward perfection begins.
“Let’s try that one over again . . . once more now . . . no, no, not ‘Hello, Mr. Seton,’ it’s ‘Hello, Mr. Seton.’ . . . watch your feet . . . not that far down . . . now walk over and—slowly, slowly . . . what was that word ... let everybody hear it . . . don’t look at the audience, look at her . . . let’s try it one more time . . . no, no, what did I say about that sentence . . . try it again ... I think we’d better move you over here . . . no, go back where you were . . . that’s still no good . . . stay there for now, we’ll figure it out later . . . start from the top . . . look towards the audience . . . watch that foot . . . that’s it . . . let’s go over it one more time and then we’ll take a break . . . slower, slower ... I CAN’T HEAR YOU . . . all right, now be careful when you come over . . . good, good . . . watch it now remember what I said ... all right, that was fine. Let’s take the next scene . . . oh, I’m sorry, all right, two minute break, then we’ll take the next scene.
Take that bit of dialogue, spread it over 27 hours a week for six weeks, and you begin to get some idea of the preparation for a play. The director’s patience begins to grow ragged and his voice takes on a shrill quality that the actors did not notice at the first few rehearsals. The actors themselves seem to be living in an opium dream, as the familiar phrase, “Let’s take it again,” begins to be imbedded in their minds. Rehearsals, as the time for the play draws nearer, seem like brain-washing sessions, ‘with the actors going over and over each little movement, each line,
until they become undeviating cogs in a I great machine—the play.	i
Meanwhile, the unsung heroes who do so much work for so little glory are silently toiling behind the scenes. As a matter of fact, they are building the scenes—they are the stage crew. For I some, their work would be drudgery, but they enjoy it. Sawing, hammering, driving nails, painting—putting all these together to make a room, a house, a street, £i a city, a forest, a valley; “. . . and the stage crew said ‘Let there be light.’ ”	;
Unfortunately, it’s not as simple as I merely willing light. Over and over the । crew and director experiment ■with different lighting effects: “Put some more blue ones in . . . turn out that big white jj one there . . . you know, if we installed ■ a bank of red ones just left of center, we ■ might get it . . . no, that’s not quite it ; . . . turn down the blue ones and see how J it looks . . . not bad, but we need a little •] more white . . . O.K., we’ll try that and I see how it looks . . . you know I think it 1 would’ve looked better- if we had kept f that big white one in after all . . . try | taking down those four blue ones you put in the front yesterday . . . now i,-we’re getting it . . . red . . . blue . . . white . . . blue . . . white.” Lighting changes are made right up to the day of presentation and sometimes between performances after the play has already @ been presented.
Other minor but important details must be taken care of. Tickets must be printed and sold (Is there any job more 1 frustrating than trying to sell season tickets for the university theater), ushers must be found, posters must be distributed, other ways of publicizing the play are sought (“That kid from the Scholastic didn’t hear a single word I
(Continued on page 19)	®
e
STUDENT1960
which most students have of the United MH	H	States National Student Association Con-
ASSOCIATION
SUMMER CONGRESS
gress, held last August at the University of Minnesota, is a picture of young students occupying themselves in a quixotic two-week skirmish with big ideas. It is the picture of a congregation of young cliche experts dropping “studentship,” “student responsibility,” and “student movement” and feeling every bit authentic as a young boy using the jargon of one of the professions which is to his fancy in play. (How many times have we heard the statement, “We may be ideologically opposed, but despite it all we are still good friends?”)
This picture would be quite realistic in conventional years and in conventional organizations, but in a year when young students are deeply involved in the vital issues of America—the sit-ins, the loyalty oath, the Federal Education controversy—and when students are forced to accept or reject an invitation from the Soviet Union to participate in a World Youth Forum in Moscow (a kind of “kitchenette” meeting with young Soviet intellectuals) the picture becomes absurd.
The Congress, then, was somewhat important. The Student Government of the University of Notre Dame sent six representatives to the Congress: Tom Colleton, Rich Jalovec, John Keegan, Jan Tabeka, and the authors. An editorial representative from the Scholastic was requested, but the editor was either unable to find a suitable representative among his forces, or he completely overlooked the issue. This negligence proved quite embarrassing to the Notre Dame delegation, since there was no one to speak at the editors’ conference on such issues as Censorship in the student press, when a spokesman from the Catholic Student Press was definitely in order.
More than four-hundred colleges and universities sent delegates—the sophisticated colleges, the provincial colleges, the large state universities, the small sectarian schools and the great Eastern Ivy towers of learning. In this melange of institutions, Notre Dame had a distinct and necessary role—to sober a crowd self-convinced that they were the
November 11, 1960
17
vortex of some movement, however wild, undisciplined and misdirected this movement might be. (You will notice that we said “sober” and not “tranquilize.” Far be it from the Notre Dame student to preach tranquility!) Some element in our society—perhaps the inundations of the Dewey school, had produced almost a majority of radicals questioning such values as the value of religion, the value of patriotism and even the value of existence! But if anything distinguishes the Notre Dame student, it is the quality of not questioning the value of patriotism and, certainly, the values of religion and existence. Hence, the role of the Notre Dame representatives was clearly determined.
What was brought out most strikingly by one speaker at the Congress was the necessity for the United States National Student Association to remain an open forum. A congregation of liberals, as the USNSA almost succeeded in becoming (or degenerated into, depending on your viewpoint) would not permit the organization to remain an open forum. An organization in which views are not presented objectively and in which minorities are frustrated could not remain an open forum. John Keegan, Notre Dame’s Student Body President, read a proposal composed by the delegations of Harvard, Yale, Columbia and Notre Dame, urging the USNSA to reinstate its objectivity. The speech, delivered on the last night of the Congress, was most necessary. Surprisingly, the crowd was receptive— so receptive, in fact, that a motion was passed to have the speech printed and distributed to all delegates. The speech grew out of a few sub-basement meetings of the Conservative camp at the Congress. (They might well have been held in a telephone booth, considering the size of the Conservative group, as one delegate suggests.) Incidentally, the term “conservative” is used only relatively here. Many who were devout liberals in their normal existence were labeled conservatives only because of their distance from the extreme liberals and radicals who pervaded the Congress. The Catholic student, if only to represent his principles, had to adopt this attitude.
One of the great values of the Congress was the opportunity of meeting a variety of individuals with one common interest: do-somethingism. (For those unaware students, do-somethingism is at the opposite pole from do-nothingism.) The exchange of ideas, opinions and projects results in a stimulation, particularly if the defensive attitude must be taken. And if any students think such a gathering and such an exchange are useless, let them remember that they are inevitable. ■“Doing things in crowds” is always the mode of expression for the youthful. Notre Dame had to be the Catholic spokesman at Minneapolis just as Orestes Brownson had to be the Catholic spokesman in the youthful and Utopian Brook Farm settlement in the 1840’s.
The basic procedure at the Congress involved small in which specific topics of Educational procedures, vital issues and intellectual movements were debated, and legislative sessions in which the pro
18
posals which grew out of the workshops were either accepted or rejected. If they were accepted, they became a part of the “Codification” of the USNSA, in which case they were sent to all member schools with the implication that this was the way USNSA felt about certain issues and this was the course of action recommended. On the level of the workshops and on the level of the legislative plenaries, there was much fruit for controversy—some it cankered and some of it ripe and fresh. In a few instances, the Catholic cause suffered simply because the non-Catholic majority was abusive. For example, in both “freedom” issues, freedom of the press and academic freedom, the majority obstinately refused to omit the clause which prohibited an interference by ecclesiastical authorities from the resolutions. This only antagonizes the officials of Catholic institutions. It is a bitter implication that Catholic universities are provincial. They are not provincial — they are simply Catholic. As Newman states our case: “It is not that Catholics are afraid of human knowledge, but that they are proud of divine knowledge . . .”
Among those resolutions proposed by Notre Dame delegates at the Congress was “The Liberal Education,” proposing that the USNSA reconsider the value of education as an end in itself rather than as a means to some immediate end— (employment, as the case generally is). Although the Resolution, drawn up by Michael Nash (with some vertiges of a General Program indoctrination), was passed unanimously by the Ohio-Indiana Region, it was directed by the steering
SPORTS AND FINANCE
. . . at a coming senate meeting, the money allotted to the minor sports committee will be distributed among the various sports, therefore, all university minor sports which will require a senate appropriation this semester must submit a budget to 307 walsh hall by monday, november fourteenth.
committee, along with Cardinal Newman, into some oblivious file in the National Office. It never reached the Legislative floor.
In addition to the rather tedious legislative process, there was plenty of bread and plenty of circus for the delegates. The U.S. presidential campaigns made the Congress even more colorful. One session was devoted to a debate among party representatives. Another session was taken up by speakers and a singing troubadour who praised the sit-ins in one of the most Evangelical gatherings in the history of the organization. However, the session was accused of being a non-objective one, and was followed by a sit-in session in which both opinions on the demonstrations were voiced. The
range of opinions, in the true USNSA H tradition, ranged from conservative to ■ fanatical, with radicalism as the mean. I Other speakers included Charles Percy, I Chairman of the Republican Platform I Commitee and President of Bell and ■ Howell, who spoke for big business and H the Republican Party, and Victor Reu- H ther, of the United Auto Workers, who ■ spoke for labor and, obviously enough, B the Democratic Party.	ijj
What would force one to question the J value of the USNSA as a representative organization was the striking conflict between the Student Body Presidents, who met together in a pre-Congress conference and were in constant discord with the general tenor of the Congress throughout. One would think that the Student Body Presidents from the member schools, who expressed a conservative and logical view toward the issues, __ would be far more representative thanV those delegates who limit their activities to the USNSA and are more liable to keep their viewpoints in tune with the cacophonic attitudes of the past USNSA staff.
Mr. John Keegan made known his views on the role of the student in the early stages of the Congress. (Many of the same views were expressed in this year’s initial issue of the Scholastic.) Not only were they chewed and digested by^j the Student Body Presidents from colleges and Universities of the nation, but their true value was shown in the election of John Keegan as Chairman of the Presidents’ Conference by 95%% of the voting members. Later- in the Congress, he was drafted for President of the
USNSA by 148 colleges, but he withdrew the nomination because of his obligations at Notre Dame. These facts suggest that the judgment of the Scholastic editor are not here representative nor absolute and would caution readers with Aristotle’s maxim: “The guests, and not the chef, are the final judges of a^ feast.”
Those students who would like a sampling of a USNSA gathering gone objective should attend the Ohio-Indiana Regional Conference, which will be held at Notre Dame-St. Mary’s on December 3 and 4. The theme of the Conference, ironically enough, will be “An OPEN Forum.”
—Jack Walsh Mike Nash
The Scholastic
51

I
|	'Holiday'
(Continued from page 16)
| said. This article looks like it was written by some moron freshman; he didn’t even ' mention the director’s name, much less the actors. We didn’t get nearly as much space as Festival of the Arts. They just take us for granted, that’s all.”)
And all the while, over and over again •;to the actors: “Let’s take it again . . . you haven’t got it right . . . again . . . again . . . again.”
Mercifully, miraculously, the day of the play comes. The actors, numb with fear, expectation, doubt, and an ironic sense of relief come to Washington Hall. (What if I get stage fright? . . . Judy and, my parents are going to be watching, and they’ll be able to see every mistake I make ... I wonder if I know that one part well enough . . . they said there’d be a prompter, but I might not be able to hear him . . . Oh well, what do I care? . . . Suppose I do a lousy job ... At least it’ll be over for a while . . . Why did I ever try out for this crazy thing? ... I knoiv I’m going to forget my lines . . . Relax, I’ve got to relax . . . Just don’t think about it, that’s all . . . But Judy and my parents will be right there ivatching . . .)
Other people are worrying. The stage ® crew: (Sure hope that light stays up there . . . I’d really get killed if it fell down during the play . . . Hope nobody leans against that back panel . . . it’d really be a riot if Flaherty fell through
. . . sure glad I don’t have to go ozit on
that stage.)
I The director: (Well, I’ve done all I
could . . . they ought to be all right, though ... I can’t remember anybody ever making a real mess out of it before q ... if he can just remember not to pull his front foot over . . . can’t let them
see I’m nervous encourage them
be confident and
There is one more ordeal to endure; probably the most confused, disorganized scene in the whole process is make-up time. It’s not quite as wild as the old Milton Berle TV show when the clown would rash out swinging a rag full of powder whenever anyone yelled “make-• up!” but there is an element of the comic about the whole affair: “You mean I’m supposed to put that on my face? . . . Where’s the Kleenex? . . . when are you supposed to put on the powder? . . . how’s this, have I got enough on? . . . Not in your hair too . . . I’ll never get this out . . . I’ll just leave this in my hair and I’ll pass for 21 even in Indiana . . . Who took the jar of No. 12? . . . Let me at the mirror, willya? . . . You’re getting it all over my shirt . . . what 9 happened to the Kleenex? . . . hey, I was using that . . . just let me at the mirror for one second and you can have it right back . . .”
Finally the moment comes. People are scurrying around, shouting in whispers, and the first ones on stage are standing in the wings. The house lights go down, the crowd hushes, there is a single second of expectancy, the stage lights go on and the curtain opens.
—Thomas Hoobler
At the Theaters
It is only fitting to stai-t this column off with sincere congratulations to our newly elected President—whoever he may be. (This was written last Sunday, which explains the uncertainty.) But even he won’t be able to remove me from this page. Onward!
The Avon seems to have found Sons and Lovers profitable, since they’re holding it over for a second week. This is based on the famous novel by D. H. (Chatterley) Lawrence, and stars Trevor Howard, Wendy Hiller, and Dean Stockwell. Could be worth seeing.
A short note: at the Morris Civic Auditorium (nee the Palace), the road company of Archibald MacLeish’s JB. will be housed for two nights next week. This will be Tuesday the 15th and Wednesday the 16th.
Also a holdover, Midnight Lace will be showing at the Granada until Thursday. It is fairly obvious, even before you enter the theater, that this movie thrives on suspense, even though they allow people to come in during the showing. This serves to confuse the latecomers very thoroughly. The movie, starring Doris Day, Rex Harrison, and John Gavin, is too much like others I’ve seen. And the same Doris Day starred in two of these: Julie and The Man Who Knew Too Much. Miss Day’s life is again threatened, and she can’t make anyone believe the threats are true. She hysterically cries her way through the script, as Rex Harrison and Myrna Loy stand by sadly shaking their heads. Aside from the facial contorsions demanded of Miss Day, the script is unusually easy on the actors. I must honestly say I found the movie very disappointing. Of course, it’s never good to go to a movie expecting too much from it. But I couldn’t help it once I saw the trailers. Never be taken in by those things.
About forty years ago, a young schoolteacher named Scopes was brought to trial because he was teaching the Darwinian theory of evolution to his pupils. The immortal Clarence Darrow chose to defend Scopes, Fundamentalist William Jennings Bryan took his place as prosecutor, and H. L. Mencken covered the whole sordid affair for the papers. Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee (not that one) made a play of it, starring Paul Muni, and now it comes to the screen of the Colfax. Its name: Inherit the Wind. The names of the characters have been changed, but they are still very recognizable, except possibly H. L. Mencken. Gene Kelly puts a little bit of extra bite and leer in his lines which doesn’t quite fit in the Mencken personality. But Spencer Tracy and Fredrick March as Darrow and Bryan respectively not only try to outshine each other -in the plot, but also vie for the spectators’ favors. The story treads the path between Godliness and quasi-paganism, with March claiming that the Lord speaks to him and Tracy deriding the remarks and defining March (or Bryan) as the only man he knows who “struts sitting down.”
Also in the movie is Donna Anderson, who made her screen debut in another Stanley Kramer movie, the controversial On The Beach, and Dick York, who plays Scopes. Recommended, in spite of the let-down expectations regarding Midnight Lace.
The State this week finally offers something which makes the walk from the bus stop worthwhile. It is a story adopted from a Japanese motion picture and placed in a Mexican setting. It’s called The Magnificent Seven and stars that old smoothie Yul Brynner, Eli Wallach, and Steve McQueen (of) “Wanted—Dead or Alive” (fame).
(Continued on page 24)
19
November 11, 1960
BUY YOUR ESTERBROOK PEN
at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
CE 3-0578
224 E. LA SALLE ST. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
★
Famous for Pizza, Spaghetti and Ravioli
Scholar dollars travel farther with SHERATON HOTELS
STUDENT-FACULTY DISCOUNTS
Save on the going prices of going places at Sheraton Hotels.
Your Sheraton card gets you special save-money rates on singles and greater savings per person when you share a room with one, two or three friends. Generous group rates arranged for athletic teams, clubs and college clans on-the-go.
Send for your Sheraton Student LD. Card or Faculty Guest Card with credit privileges. Please tell us where you are a student or full-time faculty member when you write to:
JAMES F. TWOHY, 105 Walsh Hall Notre Dame, Indiana Phone CE 4-9011, Ext 375
Shades of Aladdin's lamp—the genie is back! And Esterbrook is the sorcerer that turned the trick... with the Esterbrook Classic fountain pen! It works magic with ink! Makes it write smoother . . . makes writing with it easy to read!
But that’s not all! The Esterbrook Classic Fountain Pen offers you a choice of 32 points. Pick the point that suits you best and—presto!—begin writing the way you’ve always wanted to write!
Choose from as many colors as you’d find in an Arabian Street Scene ... six in all! Put magic in your handwriting ... with an Esterbrook Classic fountain pen!
Sde/ijUi Simo
•T.M. The Esterbrook Pen Co.
The Esterbrook Classic Fountain Pen
*2.95
Other Esterbrook pens from $1.95
THERE'S A POINT CHOICE OF 32-ONE IS CUSTOM-FITTED FOR YOU!
$
20
The Scholastic
TOUGH MIAMI ELEVEN MEETS GRITTY IRISH
Johns Sparks Offense For Gustafson's Team
Tomorrow evening a Notre Dame team which just fell short of victory against a strong Pittsburgh squad last Saturday takes the field in the Orange Bowl with the desire to beat a good Miami eleven.
Headed by the play of 217-pound Jack Novak, an All-American candidate at guard, the Hurricanes have triumphed ®four times and lost twice.
Miami and Notre Dame have played two common opponents, North Carolina and Pittsburgh. Miami topped North Carolina, 29-12, but lost to the Panthers, 17-6. Notre Dame was upset by Carolina, 12-7, and bowed to Pitt 20-13.
Johns sparkles. Before the start of the season, Miami had a quarterback problem. Little Fran Curci, a man who U received recognition on several All-American teams, had graduated. His chief understudy, Theron Mitchell, was also missing from this fall’s roster. A third signal-caller, Billy McClain, put his name on a pro baseball contract. Eddie Johns, a 194-pound sophomore who likes to run with the ball, soon solved the problem. Against North Carolina he traveled overland for 114 yards. Both Johns and junior Bobby U Weaver have shown good passing abil-
JACK NOVAK
All-American prospect

ANDY GUSTAFSON
Successful Miami mentor
ity. Last week Weaver wrecked Florida State with a 32-yard touchdown pass. George MacIntyre, injured last year after having won a monogram in 1958, provides valuable assistance.
Sophomore Nick Ryder and juniors Ron Fritzce and Charlie Yanda take over the right halfback post vacated by Jim Vollenweider.
Vollenweider is Miami’s primary running threat at the left halfback spot. Sophomore Ted Saussele will bear some of the load at this spot. Seniors Larry DiGiammarino and Mike Harrison plus sophomore Racey Timmons are expected to make most of their appearances on defense.
Frank Bouffard, Stan Markowski and Doug Davis lettered at fullback last year. All three return for their final year and are joined by sophomore Bobby Green, giving the Gustafson eleven power at this spot.
Last year’s top two right ends, Larry Wilson and Jack Herman return. On the other end of the line, Bill Miller excels at pass receiving, while his fellow junior, Frank Reinhart takes care of enemy offensive attacks. Last year’ Miller ranked number five in the nation at pass receiving.
Senior* John O'Day and junior Vic Savoca operate at the left tackle position next to Miller and Reinhart, just as they did last year. Ray Lardini, another outstanding prospect who was injured last year, projects his 251 pounds into the tackle fight.
The right tackle position is also well stocked. Chuck Linning and Bill Watts, return to their first and second string berths respectively. Letterman Charlie Livingston has operated at both tackle and center, seeing action mainly at center.
Juniors John Mayhew and Bill Dia
mond are back at the left guard slots where they won letters last year. Sophomore Jerry Reynolds supports them.
Rugged Novak. The right guard spot boasts of three lettermen, led by the rugged captain Novak. Senior Larry Babb and junior Bob Eggert are the other lettermen. All this and a promising sophomore named Jim O’Mahoney funiish the Hurricanes plenty of strength at this position.
Because the top two centers on last year’s team have graduated, Junior Charlie Livingston has had to add the pivot chores to his tackle duties. Senior Reuben Mills has switched from guard to center. Sophomore Bob Dental, Paul Schowalter and senior letterman Tom Clark are also fighting for this inexperienced position.
Senior end Al Dangel specializes in field goals and extra points for the host Miami eleven.
In his twelve years as Miami head coach, Andy Gustafson has become one of America’s finest coaches. During his tenure, the Hurricanes have amassed 70 wins against 46 losses and 3 ties. His excellent coaching has produced such All-Americans as Al Carapella, Frank McDonald, Jim Dooley, Don Bosseler and Curci.
This game will be only the fourth night football contest in the history of Notre Dame. In the lone previous meeting between these two teams, the Irish took a 14-0 win in 1955.
—Bob Chiappinelli
JIM VOLUENWEIDER
Hurricane hustler
November 11, 1960
21
Six Lettermen Return To Lead Irish Cagers
Notre Dame’s basketball team is speeding up practice with the opening game against Western Illinois less than three weeks away. Coach John Jordan and his assistant Jim Gibbons are quite pleased with the results of early practice. With six returning lettermen and some good sophomore prospects, hopes are high for repeating, or bettering, last season’s impressive 17-9 record.
The tentative starting lineup will feature a letterman at each position. Playing the double pivot in the Irish’s 1-3-1 offense will be last year’s 6'6" sophomore, John Dearie, and 6’7" senior John Tully. Captain Bill Crosby and Armand Reo are experienced forwards with 6'1" sparkplug Eddie Schnurr in the backcourt. This lineup which averages 6'5" is the tallest in Notre Dame history.
Pressing these regulars for starting berths are Bill Noonan, Ray Vales, Carl Rosseler and sophomores John Matthews and Bill Kurz. Matthews is battling Schnurr for the backcourt position, while 6'8" Kurz is fighting for one of the pivot positions. These two sophomores have been the surprise of pre-season practice and figure prominently in future Irish hardwood plans.
The Irish hoopsters started practice on October 17. During the first few weeks, full-court scrimmages were held from 40 minutes to a complete game. However, this past week Jordon has extended the scrimmages to 60 minutes to get the players in peak condition.
This peak condition will be necessary because the Irish face many strong teams during the month of December. In the first week alone, NCAA small college champion Evansville and topranked Kentucky are opponents. Other powers faced during this first month will be Bowling Green, UCLA, USC, Indiana, Purdue, Illinois, and Northwestern. Jordan feels December will be the important month for the Irish, and is hopeful of another fine start like last year’s 11-3 record.
However, after December, Notre Dame still will be up against formidable opposition. Such powerhouses as North Carolina, Detroit, St. John’s, Michigan State, Bradley and St. Louis dot the schedule.
The 12-game home schedule this year promises to be the best in Notre Dame history. Returning home opponents are Western Illinois, Butler, St. Francis, Detroit and DePaul. Evansville, Bowling Green, St. John’s, Michigan State, Portland and St. Louis are newcomers to the home schedule. Irish fans will see many star performers including AllAmericans Dave DeBusschere, Charlie North, Howie Carl, Tony Jackson and Bob Nordmann.
The Irish freshmen basketbailers have also been practicing with the Varsity. Assistant Coach Gibbons is instructing this eager group of first-year men.
RON GREGORY
Cross country ace
CCC Meet Scheduled Today; Gregory Leading Wilsonmen
After opening the season with a 2135 victory over Marquette on the seventh of October, Coach Alex Wilson’s 1960 Notre Dame cross-country team was defeated 26-29 by a powerful Indiana squad on the following Friday.
The Irish then held the Notre Dame Invitational Meet on October 21 and placed second in the field of four teams. The Western Michigan Bronco’s won this meet.
The Fighting Irish harriers came close to victory once again at East Lansing, Michigan in a triangular meet with M.S.U. and Ohio State University. The Spartans from Lansingland were the victors in this one, followed closely by the Wilsonmen. This second-place jinx continued last Friday as the Wilsonmen bowed to arch-rival Indiana in the eleven-school Big State Meet at Indianapolis. Notre Dame finished second to the Hoosiers in the same meet last year.
Today the Green are engaged in the Central College Conference Meet. Western Michigan will be in this meet once again along with many other strong entries. Next Monday, the Irish harriers face Michigan State again, this time in the IC4A Meet held in New York. The IC4A, along with the CCC, are two of the most important meets on the Notre Dame slate this year.
Team Captain Ron Gregory is the pace-setting number one man, aftergetting off to a rather slow start in the first stages of the season. Sophomore Bill Yaley is the number two runner, and shows considerable promise for the next two years. Junior Tom Dempsey holds down the third spot on the team currently. Dempsey was the individual winner in the meet with the Marquette Warriors in the season opener. Dennis Johnston and Bob Latsko are fourth and fifth respectively.
Dillon, Morrissey Clash; Both Seek Campus Title
Dillon Hall, campus champion for the last two years, took a giant step toward their third straight crown last Sunday with a 8-0 win over a rugged Alumni Hall eleven. The Dillonites scored in the final two minutes of play on a sevenyard pass from quarterback Bob Henry j to John Hutton. The same duo combined " efforts on the two-point conversion with a similar play.
The victory was the third straight this season for “Broestl’s Boys,” and assured them of their division crown. On Sunday they play Morrissey, a 20-0 victor over Zahm last Sunday, for the campus championship.
The Dillon team, paced by such standout performers as John Tidgewell and Dan Sauter, in addition to the Henry-0 Hutton duo, will present a powerful foe for Morrissey.
In the freshman league, perennial powerhouse Stanford meets Farley for top honors in the underclass section. If Stanford wins, they will be the freshman champ. However, should the Farley gridders emerge victorious, these two teams will tie for the title. The tie will then be resolved in a playoff the following week.
C 4 R K CALLS 'EM
Tomorrow
Kansas over Colorado Pitt over Army Baylor over Southern California Penn State over Holy Cross Illinois over Wisconsin Mississippi over Tennessee Navy over Virginia Syracuse over Colgate Texas over Texas Christian U.C.L.A. over Air Force Minnesota over Purdue LSU over Mississippi Notre Dame over Miami Yale over Princeton Arkansas over SMU Missouri over Oklahoma Duke over Wake Forest Washington over California Georgia Tech over Alabama Clemson over South Carolina Michigan over Indiana Florida over Tulane
Game of the Week Ohio State over Iowa
Upset of the Week
Northwestern over Michigan State
Last Week’s Results 18 right, six wrong, no ties 75 per cent
Totals to Date
109 right, 37 wrong, four ties 74.7 per cent
22
The Scholastic
pi
ya
Curtin and Donlon Direct Graduation-Hit Fencers
| Notre Dame’s fencing team began I practice three weeks ago and included i among the 37-man squad were but two i lettermen, Co-captains Mike Curtin and John Donlon. Coach Walter Langford, n ^who now is in his 15th year as Irish ^fencing tutor, remarked: “We are more damaged by graduation than at any time since the war.”
! The principal loss was Jim Russo-mano, three-time All-American in foil for the Irish. Also lost in the foil were Jerry Johnson, Norb Spitzer, and John Hutchings. In sabre Langford lost Ted De Baene, Gene Spejewski, and Rivers Patout; in epee, Pete Giaimo, Jim Rad-^de, and John Ronayne.
The team has some reason to hope for a good season though, as Langford has good potential in all three divisions. In each encounter, the team must use a nine-man squad.
In foil Captain Mike Curtin heads the list with Ed Barton and Tom Dwyer backing him up. Curtin had a creditable 6-3 record last year and is counted on for a big season this year. ;*In abre there is good experience, but no letter winners return. Rudy Ehren-sing, rated number three in this division last year, Larry Keough, Tom Schipp, and Hal Schaefgen have all been in three or more meets. Epee boasts the other letter-winner, Donlon. Miguel Fernandez, Dan Kenny, and Bob Henry are others to be counted upon.
Sophomores are the big question mark if there is to be a return to last year’s (seventh-place finish in the NCAA. Sophomores Tom Langeway and Tim Tomasi in foil, Ralph Dematteis in sabre, and John Wagner, John Ricci, and Bill Cochrane are men who Coach Langford expects much of. The season begins in the middle of January.
CURTIN, DONLON AND KEOUGH Leaders look ahead
November 11, 1960
GRIDIRON PERSONALITIES
The usher can be seen at every football game. Dressed in blue and gold, he seats the fans as they come into the Stadium. When the game ends, he watches and assists the fans as they file out of the Stadium. Then he retires—another job well done!
Irish Sailors Hold Fall Meet With Zusi, Mulhern Winners
Despite the snow and the near-freezing temperatures that were prevalent in South Bend last Sunday, the Notre Dame Sailing Club held its Fall Interclub Championship. Four novice skippers sailed a round-robin of four races each. These races were to determine a berth on next spring’s team.
The final standings, including the results of a protest, were: John Zusi, 18 points; Jay Mulhern, 16 points; Hank Chamberlin, ten points and Tom Fox, nine points.
Because of his fine performance in this regatta, Mulhern will sail in at least one regatta next spring for the University. Zusi was also outstanding as he placed first three times.
The regatta was well carried out because of the fine efforts of Chuck Finnegan, fleet captain, and Ed Bukowski, Vice-Commodore.
This week end, the Sailors are at Lake Monticello, near West Lafayette, for the District Eliminations for the Tim-mie Angsten Memorial Regatta. The elims are being hosted by Purdue University.
The Sailing Club has free open sailing every day until Thanksgiving vacation. Nonmembers interested in joining should see a Club officer at St. Joseph’s Lake any afternoon until two o’clock, or should come to a meeting any Wednesday night at seven-thirty in Room 207 of the Engineering Building.
In recent years interest in sailing has increased greatly. The sailors will continue this fall until the ice covers St. Joseph lake, and then wait until spring to resume this growing sport.
ODDS and ENDS
SCHOLASTIC’S “NEW FACE OF THE WEEK.” Football fans here have seen little of center John Linehan. But last Saturday, Number 51 was really showing his class to the capacity crowd in the Stadium. A six-foot, 205-pounder from Tulsa, Oklahoma, Linehan was the talk of South Bend Saturday night, due to his vicious tackling and relentless pursuit in the Pittsburgh game. . . .
Three cheers for Murray Warmath and the Golden Gophers. Warmath’s years of persistent coaching amid showers of protest from Minnesota fans finally paid off in Memorial Stadium at Minneapolis last Saturday. Great spirit and harder hitting have been the formula for this team’s success in 1960. Somewhat hobbled by a lack of great speed, they have made up for this deficiency with their great spirit._
FORMERLY UNBEATEN Navy, a 14-7 victor over the Irish last week, was upset by Duke, 19-10. It was the first game this season in which halfback Joe Bellino has failed to score at least one touchdown. ...
In a surprise move, the American League made good its promise to the now defunct Continental League by expanding to ten teams. The franchise and team of the Washington Senators were transferred to Minneapolis-St. Paul, and new franchises were granted to Washington and Los Angeles. The two new clubs will get preferential treatment in the draft and on the waiver lists. . . .
THE ORANGEMEN of Syracuse, beaten by Pittsburgh last week, lost their second game of the season to Army. The Kmghts ran up a 9-0 lead before Syracuse rallied to score a single touchdown late in the fourth period. ...
Goalie Jack McCartan, former Minnesota and Olympic Team star now with the New York Rangers, is currently the only native American playing in the National Hockey League. McCartan, who made the big jump from amateur hockey to the NHL (Continued on page 24)
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pina
•
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
23
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 38 YEARS.
Gifts Wrapped and Mailed To All Parts of the World
BLOCK BROS.
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
campus character:
BLACKSTONE TORT
Pride of the law school, Blackstone has never lost a moot trial. But there’s nothing moot about his preferences in dress. He finds that when he’s comfortable, he can trap a witness and sway a jury like Clarence Darrow.
So he always wears Jockey brand briefs while preparing his briefs. Exclusive Jockey tailoring gives him a bonus of comfort he gets in no other underwear. Fine Jockey combed cotton is more absorbent, smoother fitting, too.
To look your best, feel your best, take a tip from Tort. Always insist on Jockey brand briefs, $1.25. Your campus store has them now! COOPER'S INCORPORATED-KENOSHA. WIS.
A.
tyockeq ® BRAND briefs
ODDS and ENDS
(Continued from page 23)
at the end of last season, has done a more than credible job, considering the poor quality of the defense he has playing in front of him, and the seeming inability of the Rangers to score. . . .
HERO IN DEFEAT: Former Notre Dame All-American quarterback Paul Hornung accounted for 18 of Green Bay’s 24 points in the Packers’ 38-24 loss to the Baltimore Colts. Hornung, winner of the Heisman Trophy as the outstanding college football player of 1956, scored two touchdowns and kicked three extra points and a field goal to retain his lead in the NFL scoring race. . . .
The Packers, prior to their loss to Baltimore, led the Western Division of the National Football League with a 4-1 record, and were the surprise of the season. The loss dropped them into second, behind the Colts and ahead of the Chicago Bears. . . .
Mike McKeever, one of USC’s famous football twins, is showing rapid improvement following brain surgery for the removal of two blood clots. . . .
BACK TO THE GOLDEN BOY: Paul Hornung won the National Football League Individual Scoring Championship last year with 94 points in the twelve-game season. This year he has scored 83 points in six games!!!!
Brother Act: Bump Elliot’s Michigan boys beat brother Pete’s Illini in their first Big Ten meeting. A two-point conversion did the trick for the Wolverines from Ann Arbor. . . .
At the Theaters
(Continued from page 19)
It’s rather melodramatic in parts, but all in all it’s fast moving and should hold your interest. Our expert in the field of Westerns, A.B.U.H. Research Institute, says this one must be a winner if it stars Steve McQueen.
The University Theater will be having its first treat of the Notre Dame season starting tonight: Philip Barry’s Holiday. For those of you who don’t know who he is, let me tell you he wrote The Philadelphia Story, which was tailored for Grace Kelly, Bing Crosby, and Frank Sinatra as High Society. Diane Crowley and Joe Harrington play the leading characters, with help from Dick
Kavanaugh, Chris Gladis, Larry Finneran, Bobo Oberkoetter, Marilyn Wolter, Jerry Oertling, and Pat Gallagher. Father Harvey is directing, and the show will run on November 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20. That’s at Washington Hall. More on it as soon as I see it.
The attractions promised for the next few weeks are interesting enough to merit advance mention. The Granada is getting ready to receive Elizabeth Tay* lor, Lawrence Harvey, and Eddie Fisher in Butterfield 8. The Colfax has booked Sunrise at Campobello, Dore Schary’s sort of “Roosevelt: the Private Years,” with Ralph Bellamy, Greer Garson, and Hume Cronin. And, of course, so?netime in the near future the Avon will show Career Girl — if it can advertise the thing.
In closing, I’d like to send my heartfelt thanks to all of you young ladies who have been patronizing Kenny and Wax-1’-ie’s shuttle service. They have so many unfulfilled requests that they now ask all of you to send pictures. All those who qualify will be entered in next year’s Homecoming Queen contest. Right, Kathy? Or is it your sister Mary, Waxie?
See you.
Tony Wong
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES
Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 1 to 24-Hour Service	>
305 S. Michigan	AT 7-5477 I
• NOTRE
* DAME • STUDENTS
Eat At
EDDIES DINING ROOM
1345 Ironwood Drive
★
10% Student Discount
24
The Scholastic
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
and Morals. I sincerely hope that Mr. De Haro will realize this and reconsider his attitude.
Francis Miceli
I Editor:
i It is the duty of the Church to point I out to Catholics the morality of the । ^actions of individuals, organizations, and [.governments. The last of these becomes i! especially obligatory when the Catholics | are a very large part of the population.
In Puerto Rico the government is pro-; moting immoral acts such as artificial contraception and sterilization. Furthermore it is definitely undemocratic co force on a people customs which are against their moral code, especially us-I ing their taxes to pay for this. Those I who vote for this party share in their I ^ynoral guilt. Therefore the Church has
Rally 'round boys and
look 'em

over!
INDIANA BELL
LONG LINES DEW
SANDIA CORP-
Other Associated
Telephone Companies
Here's real opportunity, men
BEU. TEIEHJONE laboratories
WESTERN electric
Come and see us. We're always glad to "talk shop" with you.
Check with your placement officer NOW.
OUR REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE ON CAMPUS
NOVEMBER 16-17
^November 11, 1960
the duty to prohibit the faithful from supporting this party.
Mr. De Haro also claims that the Church has meddled too much in politics in the past. Certainly to some extent this is tine but there are other occasions when it is not so. Almost everyone thinks the Church acted rightly in Italy and Germany when she attacked the Fascist governments for their immoral and inhuman policies.
God bless you and bring you to the Truth,
Hugh McQueen
Editor:
“In short, easy to understand language: religion and politics do not mix.” I disagree most wholeheartedly with this statement. “Religion and politics don’t mix,” is an old Protestant cliche which has been drammed into the heads of nonthinking Catholics in the U.S. We all know of the 2-cent Catholic who is all
the way for birth control, believes, in separation of church and state, and sits in the first row in church on Sunday. If anyone thinks a little they can see the Church’s attitude in these matters more clearly and come to understand that it is right! There are certain things which the Church itself cannot change! People who compare minoi' ecclesiastical laws with major laws of a universal and divinely-revealed nature had better consult a logic professor for further instraction.
Leonard Kuberski
Anti-Slander Editor:
The new covers and their explanations are all well and fine, and do, in most cases, achieve the end for which they were developed or written. My complaint or objection stems from usage of this column for the unwarranted rebuttal of constructive criticism previously given by Dick Gemperle, in the October 28 issue of the Scholastic.
Should the Art Editor be unable to write a lengthly explanation of the art work appealing on the front page, then he should acknowledge the fact and refrain from childish and slanderous remarks about individuals critical of his work.
Raymond Gaio
The Swelling Tide
Editor:
Kudos to Arthur Dechene for his fine Back Page discussion of the Bengal Bouts.
A sport whose highest perfection consists in rendering the opponent unconscious can hardly be called Christian. Mr. Dechene’s analysis of what constitutes a serious injury is both lucid and realistic.
Tom Murch
THE RECORD SHOP WITH THE TUNES ON TOP!
•
If We Haven’t Got It We Can Get It
CORNER COLFAX AND MICHIGAN
Protect your future with Guaranteed Insurability
in the third oldest life insurance company in the world—PENN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Anyone interested in insurance counseling, contact
Robert Buckley at 319 Zahm
religion1 and politics
It is a naive and facile maxim that religion and politics do not mix — The Caesar was divinized in Roman politics; Emperor Hirohito was divinized in Japan of 1940. Throughout the history of politics we see religion exerting an influence. This is a fact we must accept, like it or' not. For a thousand years or so Western Civilization was organized under the dual headship of Pope and Emperor, while the Byzantine world was caesaro-papist, religion and politics integrated in one leader.
One of the proofs of the existence of God is the proof from history, that always and everywhere men have posited some kind of Supreme Being or Power. This proof relies on the presence of a religious impulse in man, that man must revere something — heroes like Oedipus in Greece or Lao-tze in China are said to have been assumed into heaven and entitled to reverence as gods; leaders of the Greek city-states, according to legend, consulted the oracle before making any important political moves; • Odysseus dared do nothing before making the ritual obeisance to the gods. If always and everywhere men have revered some sort of Supreme Being or Power it is equally true that always and everywhere religion and politics have mixed. Why should our age be any different?
PAST AND PRESENT
But is our age any different? England today is ostentibly an Anglican Church state; Sweden is a Lutheran Church state; Spain is a Catholic Church state; Israel is a Jewish Church state. And here I think is an interesting problem — why should Israel attempt to try Adolph Eichmann when the state of Israel did not exist at the time of Eichmann’s “crimes”? Religion and politics are very clearly mixing here.
Another line of thought is the strange directions the religious impulse in man has taken since Luther established the invisible shield between Pope and
26
Emperor in 1517. If war is a political problem to be solved by armies, diplomats and heads of state, how cah we account for the religious wars that ripped Europe up and down during the Reformation? The religious wars made a children’s sandpile of Europe that is still not smoothed over. The wars ended in 1713, and each prince was allowed to prescribe the religion that was “official” in his realm. Only since that time has the hated concept of “sovereignty” come into political use.
Since the wars that lasted until 1713 were religious wars, reaction against reason followed, very logically I’m afraid, and since that time Western Man has revered some really crazy things — the first one’ was Rousseau’s Tarzan. Americans worship the ability of scientism to answer any problem well — to hear Americans speak, man into space is the ultimate triumph of man and machine. Science is creating new vistas for man, we hear, “better things for better living” are being invented every day. Prosperity is just around the corner, and when we get around the comer all our worries will be gone and there will be permanent peace for all. Very slowly we are coming to recognize the vanity of this dream. And the latest object of reverence for men has become the communist system — the dictatorship of the proletariat and the ultimate universal communist state are the latest religious impulses man has turned to politics. We see very clearly the direction the religious impulse has gone in Russia of today but we do not realize that this is essentially the same impulse that is behind “the American way.”
Communists are burned as mercilessly in America of today as witches were in Salem of 1680. It is the duty of American citizens to avoid communism and admire democratic and Christian principles not because American government is the best governmental form ever (it is damnably inefficient at times) or because America is the best country that ever existed, but because the only way we can keep this government of ours in operation is to eliminate per-
9
sons who don’t revere the same forms and ideals we do. It is a practical solution to a practical problem — just as the monarchists in France of 1789 did everything in their power to keep the monarchy going, and Edmund Burke said it worked, whether is was right or wrong. The bishops of Puerto Rico were very simply taking steps to solve the problem in a practical way. Their solution may have been the wrong oneJ) (as it seems to be, according to ecclesiastical reaction) but the practical solution is not to tell the people to vote for what the bishops consider a dangerous party. Of course Catholic bishops would do the same in America, but America is not a state where nine out of every ten persons are Catholic, so there is no danger of it ever happening as long as Americans accept and preserve the fact of a Catholic minority4?) here.
NO COMPROMISE
We see religion and politics mixing every day — in the light of this how can any sensible person say that religion and politics do not mix? It was an issue in the election we just wit-^) nessed in America; it is a current issue in Germany; French politics is chaotic, perhaps because of its complete proscription of religious considerations in government. Government must legislate, execute and judge, and religious principles have relevance in each of these functions. Madariaga, in the Saturday Review of last week, attributed all political power to moral power. States are composed of individuals, each of which is a combination of religious*) and political impulses, and the facts do '7 not support the naive and facile maxim that religion and politics do not mix. A world organization is only a dream in a world that does not adhere to common religious principles, and as long as communism and democracy command religious principles, and as long as communism and democracy command religious reverence there can be no compromise between them.
The Scholastic^
Your razor rides easy all the way. Softens the most stubborn beard instantly for a faster, closer shave, soothes and lubricates your skin. Extra-rich, extra-thick, push-button quick. Regular or Mentholated, only 1.00
This is the B-52. Advanced as it may be, this airplane has one thing in common with the first wargalleys of ancient Egypt...and with the air and space vehicles of the future. Someone must chart its course. Someone must navigate it.
For certain young men this presents a career of real executive opportunity. Here, perhaps you will have the chance to master a profession full of meaning, excitement and rewards... as a Navigator in the U. S. Air Force.
To qualify for Navigator training as an Aviation Cadet you must be an American citizen between 19 and 26J4—single, healthy and intelligent. A high school diploma is required, but some college is highly desirable. Successful completion of the training program leads to a commission as a Second Lieutenant... and your Navigator wings.
If you think you have what it takes to measure up to the Aviation Cadet Program for Navigator training, see your local Air Force Recruiter. Or clip and mail this coupon.
%mh°°vteh
There’s a place for tomorrow’s leaders on the t Aerospace Team. I ;
Air Force
S HI U 1_ T O Nl
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY AVIATION CADET INFORMATION DEPT. SCL010 BOX 7608, WASHINGTON 4, D. C. I am between 19 and 26'/,. a citizen of tlie U.S. and a high school graduate with ....years	of college. Please send me detailed information on the Aviation Cadet program.
NAME.______________________
STREET...... CITY........ COUNTY™..........STATE_____
Solid opportunities with solid state devices
A big part of Western Electric’s job is to manufacture the miniature “new arts” products that are changing the science of communications. It’s a job which offers you a challenging career—a chance to plan new methods of mass producing ever-improving kinds of transistors, ferrite devices, diodes, special purpose electron tubes, etc.
You’ll be with a company that is expanding rapidly in this field. At present our Allentown and Laureldale, Pa., plants are devoted exclusively to making electron devices, and a big new plant is under construction in Kansas City. The needs of the Bell Telephone System for these products are increasing daily and will multiply enormously with the introduction of Electronic Central Office switching now nearing trial operation.
These devices are changing the scene at all our manufacturing plants as they go into the startling new communications products developed by our associates at Bell Telephone Laboratories. From microwave transmission equipment to submarine cable amplifiers, our products call
for creative production engineering, installation planning, and merchandising methods. Our job for the Bell System and the U.S. government has grown to the point where we are now one of the nation’s “Top 11” in industrial sales. And your chance to play an important part in our future growth is solid!
Opportunities exist for electrical, mechanical, industrial, civil and chemical engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. For more information, get your copy of Consider a Career at Western Electric from your Placement Officer. Or write College Relations, Room 6105, Western Electric Company, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. Be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus.
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago. III.: Kearny. N. J.: Baltimore, Md.: Indianapolis, Ind., Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.; Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distribution centers in 32 cities and installation headquarters in 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y