DO YOU INHALE?
Then you're better off smoking PHILIP MORRIS
... because Philip Morris is definitely less irritating, definitely milder than any other leading brand!
PROVE IT YOURSELF
Take the PHILIP MORRIS NOSE TEST

NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
PHILIP MORRIS
2
The Scholastic
Teapot Tempest
Editor:
It was wise of you to counsel an end to the recent ND-SMC hostilities. After all it was just a tempest in a teapot.
C. A. Reilly 126 Howard
Another Hat in the Ring
Editor:
This fellow, Jack Lambert must be quite a guy but I, along with a great number’ of Sophomores feel that the Sophomore class also has a candidate for the presidency. (I refer to the letter captioned “Lambert for President.”) The blame for the Sophomore Cotillion of this year rests almost entirely upon his shoulders and nearly everyone that attended the Cotillion can say that it was one of the best dances held at Notre Dame. Although he should have been eating instead of selling tickets in the lobby of the Dining Hall, or sleeping instead of spending his time trying to figure out how to meet the budget, he was rewarded by the many compliments he received on the dance. I feel that the Class of ’54 owes the Co-Chairman of the Sophomore Cotillion, Walter Vaughan, a vote of thanks for his important part in making the Sophomore Cotillion of ’52 a dance that will always be remembered as tops.
Name Withheld
A Marine’s Hymn
Editor:
Orchids or something to Scholastic for the Oct. 19 cover. The shot of Jason O’Connor disembarking at the Athens of the West is one of the finest ever printed in the ND newsmag in the last three years. How Al Muth managed to climb from the depths of that Oct. 12 cover of Fieldhouse bricks is a mystery —but he did it.
The whole of “Night in the City”— did you clear the title with Gerald Kersh?—was, in fact, a great production. Which leads to the question of John Slavich and where has he been all the time?—not out listening to rumbling renaissances, watching fissures in the earth outside Farley, or chortling with female meteorologists named Georgie, I’ll wager (Georgie and six points). Let’s see more of the Muth-Slavich combo.
The makeup of Bill Riley’s “The Back Page” suggests precisely the drab, gray character of many Catholic organs against which he has been crusading.
Nov. 9, 1951
Van Gab gabardine sport shirts by Van Heusen
REG. T. M.
Brother, you’ll never find a gabardine shirt that stays so luxurious and handsome for so long! These Van Gabs are as washable as you are!
For gabardine that’s brimming lored to perfection, better get Van Gab!
with style, tai-a Van Hensen
Van Heusen "the world's smartest" shirts
Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Even the American Dye Stuff Report is using sub-heads, you know. Riley’s writing surmounts such minor drawbacks. The Buick job was great.
My faith in American institutions has been restored by learning that infantilism still reigns in Washington Hall. They and that surly band of Lascars who drive (sic) for N.I.T. are the two greatest arguments for the popular sale of lewisite.
The Oct. 19 issue showed Scholastic is on its way to a great year. Keep it that way.	-
Pfc. Charley Dullea Ex-Class of ’52 Camp Lejeune Globe Camp Lejeune, N. C.
Charley Dullea, note a Marine and a writer for the Lejeune “Globe,” was Assistant News Editor last year and one of the best at that.—Ed.
“Commonweal”
Editor:
I am enclosing a letter from Commonweal in the hope that you will consider this urgent appeal for funds. . . .
Name Withheld
Shortage of space and time prevented us from editorializing on this. We agree, . however, that “Commonweal’s” drive to stay above zcater ought to be aided here at Notre Dame.—Ed.
Cotillion Pix
Editor:
The students who liad the concession for taking Cotillion pictures instructed customers to pick them up between 12 and one o’clock on Monday and Tuesday. They didn’t show up on Monday and were late Tuesday. I and several others missed getting them because of noon classes. I would like to know when and where we can pick them up.
John H. McCann 429 Lyons
Nationally Advertised
WATCHES DIAMONDS GIFTS REPAIRING
Ifs ADLER’S for
. ..ARROW
Nr!a ri'in
12 6— NO.MICHIGAN ST
4
The Scholastic
SUN	MON	TUB	WED	THUR	TRI	SAT
SUN MO	N TUE	WED THU	R TRI SAT
t			
Three Times a Day	.
Overheard in the Chow liner
“Hey! Who d’ya think you’re shovin’?”
“I don’t know, what’s your name?”
No St. Bernard Dogs?
Top of the Week
The Irish travel to East Lansing to spank the Spartans . . .
For Shame
Not having joined the cavalcade of wanderers who made the trek to Baltimore last weekend, and those who did being too tired from the four-day jamboree to tell us anything about it, we find ourselves this week a bit out of step with the local cadence and at a rather embarrassing loss for any bright and scintillating items concerning the student journey.
We can only imagine the placid citizenry of Baltimore and Washington (those cities being noted for their placid citizens) picking up the fragments of their shattered tranquillity (and furniture) and recalling, with a shudder, the picture of the visiting hordes from N.D. who, like the ancient armies of Ghengis Khan, swooped down on their hamlets and for a brief but raucous interlude, turned them upside down before folding their tents like the Arabs and silently taking off.
Unfortunately, though, we are forced to imagine all this, and being one whose imagination at times runs off with him, we hesitate to imagine any further.
All we can do is commiserate with the people of Baltimore and Washington and explain that it only happens once a year. Oh yes, there was a football game there, too, wasn’t there?
Poem of the Week
Lots of little zeros Not so very quaint Make my graduation Look as if it ain’t.
Hot-Rod Happy
We recall with a smirk, an article in this publication several weeks ago which hailed the city of South Bend as “Test Town U.S.A.”
Since that time we have often had occasion to wonder, when lounging in front of Walgreen’s with our drugstorecowboy associates, if South Bend isn’t also a test town for super-charged V-8 motors, Hollywood mufflers, blast horns and the endurance potential of Goodyear tires.
By Jack Hynes
For the main avenues of “Test Town U.S.A.” resemble more the backstretch of the Indianapolis Speedway, with embryonic Mauri Eoses double-clutching and jockeying their four-wheelers from rocket starts in a frantic effort to beat the next light, the other guy’s fender and the pedestrians notwithstanding.
The result being that the local fender shops do a brisk business and the pedestrian has developed into the most sharpeyed and nimble-footed individual that we have ever seen step off a curbstone.
The local gendarmerie seem to take the pedal-happy drivers as a matter of course. I don’t know about you, Dad, but where we come from you get a ticket for speeding on the main drag,— or anywhere else for that matter.
We therefore suggest a follow-up on the “Test Town U.S.A.” article; let’s call it “Spesdville U.S.A.”
BRING A FRIEND
. .. and take advantage of our special low
DIAL 7-1517
For FREE
Analysis Lesson
’South Bend’s largest studios!1
CORNER MICHIGAN AND MONROE

Who gets the dates? Who has all the fun? It’s the GOOD DANCERS . . . naturally! Why wait when you can learn to be a smooth dancer at our low 2 for 1 rates . . . just bring a friend and start today!
With the inevitable and lengthy Indiana winter drawing on with its usual assortment of sleet, snow, wind and virus pneumonia, Low-Overhead Lomas-(Continued on Page 20)
Engineers
see the
STUDENT FLORISTS
for
QUALITY IN CORSAGES
For perfect service and early delivery see your hall representatives by Monday.
Nov. 9, 1951
Calendar
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
NOVEMBER 9
PALACE (through Nov. 12)—Force of Arms (Legion of Decency rating A-2) starring William Holden and Nancy Olson and Bannerline (A-2) in probably the longest double feature in town this week. However, its quality fails to equal its length. Nothing is known about the first pix (our reviewer stayed over in Hollywood because of the snow) but the second may be of interest to all stars-in-the-eyes journalists who believe that every newspaper office is an adjunct to the local police department.
NOVEMBER 10
EAST LANSING, MICHIGAN—The Irish go after their sixth win of the year against undefeated Michigan State. Game starts at 12:30 CST.
PALAIS ROYALE—Away-game Victory Dance with dancing from 8:30 till 11 to Gene Hull and cohorts. Usual restrictions, privileges and tariff.
WASHINGTON HALL—King Solomon's Mines with Deborah Kerr and Farley Granger.
NOVEMBER 11
STATE (through Nov. 14)—John Wayne in Angel and the Bad-man and Flame of Barberry Coast.
NOVEMBER 13
PALACE (one day only)—Two-hour stage show featuring Duke Ellington and his orchestra, Sarah Vaughan and the Nat King Cole Trio. Shows are at 7 and 9:30 p.m. and all seats are reserved.
NOVEMBER 14
COLFAX (through Nov. 20)—An American in Paris (A-l) is probably the best musical to come out of Hollywood this year and should rank as one of the top productions of the last decade. Starring Gene Kelly, who gives the best performance of his career and newcomer Leslie Caron, a vivacious breath of France, the picture presents masterful musical numbers mounted against the Compositions of George Gershwin. A must see for all musical fans.
PALACE (through Nov. 20)—James Cagney starts out as an alcoholic ex-newspaperman in Come Fill the Cup (B) but before the pix is over he’s back in his old element, only this time he’s chasing the gangsters. It’s not the typical Cagney film of old, though, but there are flashes of the old Cagney along with some of the new. Cagney and non-Cagney fans will go for this one. A British import Her Panelled Door is the co-pix and it featured Phyllis Calvert as a victim of amnesia who is afraid of discovering her true identity. A good film, if you care for the British stuff.
Our Specialty
% Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.20
JOE NABICHT'S RESTAURANT "Chicken in the Rough”
213 N. Main	Open Sunday
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
oJzdi torials'-J
Vol. 93 November 9, 1951 No. 9
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate, of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOHN J. POWERS Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO..........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY..........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
WILLIAM J. LONDO.........Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER........Photography LEON GARDNER.............Librarian
C. B. FARMER.........Campus Circulation RONALD E. ZIER.......Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN.............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185. Notre Dame, Indiana.
Crisis for the 'Juggler'
The Juggler is in trouble again. Financial trouble, that is. During its long and rather spotty history, our sister magazine has been in this sort of trouble before. Now it looks like the boys have to really sell their magazine—or else.
It’s really too bad that this situation exists. Certainly Scholastic and Dome don’t suply all that’s desired in the way of student publications. There should be plenty of talent and plenty of market for a literary magazine here at Notre Dame. But yet the Juggler hasn’t always sold.
There are a couple of reasons for this and we think they could be corrected. For one thing, some of the past Juggler staffs haven’t exactly knocked themselves out trying to sell their magazine. Why, we never found out. Perhaps they thought it beneath their dignity. Perhaps it was just too much work trying to put out the Juggler and sell subscriptions too.
But you’ve got to have a good circulation to keep a publication in the black— whether it’s a literary magazine or a football program. This year’s Juggler staff seems to realize this. They plan to go all out to sell subscriptions. And they plan to have something worth selling too.
That’s been another fault with the Juggler. Too often its contents have been just a little too literary. Some of the past Juggler writers have been too intent on writing for themselves and not for the reader. This never goes very far if you have to sell what you’re writing. Editor Jack Ward realizes this. He and his staff have given every indication that they want things to be different this year. They plan to have a readable and interesting set of issues. We’d guess that they’ll succeed.
With this thought in mind, we hope that the Juggler subscription drive nets results. If it does, the Juggler will get a new lease on life. Sign up for a subscription when the man comes around to see you during the next few weeks. The talent and attitude of this year’s staff indicates that it will be money well spent.
COVER: The two lads on this week’s cover are, as you may have guessed, heading back to Indiana after the Student Trip weekend. Along with 448 other Irish, they evacuated Campus for the sunnier (?) climes of Baltimore and Washington. Every year about this time, the boys try to cram some American city into the short space of one weekend. Usually they don’t but most will vouch for the fact that they have a good time trying. This year, the troops boarded a train at St. Mary’s siding on Wednesday afternoon and arrived back here before class on Monday. The intervening time was spent seeing Baltimore, touring the national capital and environs, quenching thirst and watching Notre Dame subdue Navy, 19-0. All this left little time for sleep or The Uses of Knowledge. —Photo by Dick Bennett.
The Wayward Bus Riders
One of the most amazing things about life around here is how so many intelligent and level-headed college students turn into real dopes when they’re riding the late bus back from town. Truly a phenomenon—and one that can hardly be explained.
It’s always hard to gripe about something like this, but it is just about time somebody did. The antics of some of the lads who ride those last few wagons on Friday and Saturday nights leave an awful lot to be desired. Anyone who has traveled on same knows what we’re talking about. Lately it seems to have gotten a little worse.
Right about now would be a good time for some' of these troops to grow up. They annoy other passengers, embarrass everybody else connected with the University and distract those long-suffering bus drivers. We agree with columnist Bill Riley that it’s this sort of thing that will help set back the cause of student government. So wise up lads. If you want to be treated like men start acting like men. -If you don’t particularly care, try thinking of those of us who do. Right now some of you are really dropping the ball.	. .
Nov. 9, 1951
7
Students who have taken Foundation’s training agree with these N. D. men who say:
I Scholar, 21, Proves It Takes
Common Sense, Not Genius
Robt. J. Moskal
I did not have a
“I was amazed to find that in only 20 hours of instruction I was able to increase my reading rate from 311 words a minute to 1215 words a minute and at the same time to improve my comprehension/’ says Robert J. Moskal, N. D. Law Student. “I am very sorry that chance to take the course when
I was a freshman."
“. . . has helped in all forms of reading. My increased reading speed enables me to cut study and outside reading time in half/’ says Jack Becker, N. D. Senior in Commerce. ‘‘Even the reading of involved and difficult material is made much more enjoyable.’’
John J. Becker

*2
1
l
ARE you GETTING THE MOST OUT OF YOUR READING TIME?
■s rtt
R
BY DAVID TAYLOR MARKE.
Associated Press Education Reporter.
NEW YORK, Sept. 29.—Getting good college marks isn’t difficult. Take it from Albert M. Wojnilow-er.
Albert proved it by achieving a near straight A record and coming out top man in Columbia college’s class of 1951. In addition, he made Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholastic society, and walked off with the Albert Ascher Green prize, Columbia’s highest scholastic honor.
Albert, a scholarly-looking chap of 21 years, is not one of those geniuses who scoot through college without cracking a ‘ book. Neither is he a grind. He credits his good grades to his ability to read the printed page and understand what ne reaas.
“I’d sit down in a comfortable chair and read my class assignments without interruption,” he said. “The trick is to read everything Twice. No matter how difficult or simple, I’d always get more out of a second reading.
' ‘.‘Since the readings were related to the lectures in class, I didn’t have to make many notes but could concentrate on what the instructor was saying.
“If you’re up to date with your readings/1 he continued, “this shouldn’t be too ditEiculE^ j Instead of cramming“fbr exam-; iinations and trying to decipher' 'hastily ‘jotted down, class notes, he simply re-read the material to be covered by the examination.
“If you read with comprehension,” says Albert, “you soon get to know the essential points in an assignment and latch on to them permanently.”
Albert took great care in preparing his examination answers. He never answered a question without first taking several minutes out to make an outline into which he put every relevant point he could think of.
“But knowing the points to be covered is only part of the job," :he says. “The next step is to put iyour answer into good prose. You |need good writing style and clarity of expression. I.always avoided the choppy answer like the plague. Also, I made sure to include one or two detailed explanations to show the instructor I actually had read the course material.”
If you’ve read your material conscientiously throughout the semester, Albert says, “it’s not a good idea to study for an examination the day before you take it. Instead, study for some examination later in the week.
i c
t p o. G
(Reprinted from the South Bend Tribune)
FIND OUT HOW WELL YOU ARE READING NOW ... LEARN HOW OUR TRAINING WILL HELP YOU.
Write, call or stop in for valuable
reading analysis certificate at no cost or obligation.
-----CLIp AND maii NOW*
Foundation For Better Reading
South Bend Center
114 E. LaSalle, South Bend
□ Send me a free copy of “How You Can Read Better... Faster"
□ Send special reading analysis certificate.
Name..................................................
(Please Print)
Address...............................................
Major.............................  Year..........(D)
GET THIS HELPFUL 16-PAGE BOOKLET FREE!
It tells you how you can boost your class standing and have more free time.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING 114 E. LaSalle	South Bend 3-0077
Ako in New York and Chicago (OPEN EVENINGS UNTIL 9)
8
The Scholastic
Notre Dame jffcllwllasOe
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 9
NOVEMBER 9, I95I
Frosh Pick Parties in Thursday Election
Kelley Lists Tentative Mardi Gras Program
Elaborate long-range plans to make this year’s Mardi Gras a four-day celebration, complete with masquerade ball, jazz concert, and carnival, were announced this week by the NFCCS, sponsors of the pre-Lenten festival.
JERRY KELLEY
Plans, Proposals, and Hopes
In a report to the Student Council last Monday night, Jerry Kelley, chairman of the NFCCS planning committee, outlined an extensive list of activities, running from Feb. 23 through Feb. 26, the day before Ash Wednesday. These proposals are tentative, dependent upon Council and administration approval,
but it is expected that final action will be taken on them soon. However, definite machinery for the management of the festival will be set up in the near future.
Kelley announced that plans call for the celebration to open with a free jazz concert in Washington hall on Saturday, Feb. 23, followed by a masquerade ball that night. The committee hopes to hold the dance in the Indiana Club, decorated in a New Orleans’ Mardi Gras fashion.
A special Mardi Gras Mass is on the tentative docket for Sunday morning, with a dance at St. Mary’s to be held Sunday afternoon. Then the traditional two-night carnival, Monday and Tuesday evenings, will round out the festivities. A plan is being considered to enlarge the carnival to fill both the Drill Hall and the Fieldhouse, instead of just the former, as has been the practice in the past. Small prizes will be given out throughout the two evenings, plus the grand prizes, which will be awarded each night at the close of activities.
Kelley also recommended a new system for redistributing the grand prize raffle books in order to insure greater national coverage. He proposed contacting alumni groups in different cities across the nation, delivering books to them at Christmas and asking them to handle sales in their respective cities. This is, of course, contingent upon their approval, and will be in addition to the student sale of chances, and possible sale by St. Mary’s women. Prizes will again be awarded to the student selling the most raffle tickets.
VICTORY DANCE
Number seven in a series of Student Council dances will begin tomorrow evening at 8:30. The Notre Dame men and their dates will dance to the music of Gene Hull and his Lettermen at the Palais Royale. The usual permissions have been granted.
Monday Night Made Nominations Deadline
A new cycle of campus activity will gather the political spotlight within the next week when candidates for class officers will present an array of banners, ballots and promises for Freshmen elections to be held Thursday, Nov. 15.
Jay Conlon, chairman of the Blue Circle’s election committee, will be in charge of the contest. He will be assisted by Jim Mannion, vice-president of the Student Council.
Any party intending to register its candidates should submit a list of such men and the positions for which they are running, to Tom Reedy, Student Council secretary, in the Student Council office. Deadline for applications is Monday, Nov. 12.
The Student Council office, located on the first floor, Main Building, is open from 2:15 pan. until 4:15 p.m. on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday afternoons.
Tentative plans have been made to hold the election in the basement of the Dining Hall during the regular lunch and dinner hours.
There will be openings for four prospective officers — president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer. Independent ballots are also to be respected.
The winning candidates will take office as soon as possible and the president and vice-president will automatically command positions on the Student Council as representatives of the Freshman Class.
Any Freshman holding clear academic and disciplinary records is eligible for candidacy.
Plans have also been formulated for the presentation of an election rally to be held in Washington Hall on the evening of Nov. 12. At present, they remain tentative, pending approval by the Student Council and University officials.
Hopes for an increase over last year’s (Continued on Page 20)	’
Nov. 9, 1951
University's Expansion Marked by $6 Million Building Boom During Cavanaugh Presidency
This is the second in a series of monthly articles on the accomplishments during the administration of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, who currently is in his final year of office.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who will retire next Summer as President of the University of Notre Dame, leaves behind a $6,000,000 building program on the Notre Dame campus as tangible evidence of the tremendous physical expansion of the University during his six-year post-war administration.
Father Cavanaugh, who was elected President and religious superior of Notre Dame in 1946, according to Canon Law must retire from office in 1952. By Canon Law, the superior of a religious community may not serve more than two consecutive three-year terms.
Four new buildings currently are under construction on the Notre Dame campus as a result of funds donated to the University for building purposes during Father Cavanaugh’s administration. As a result of this rapid physical expansion of the University under him, the University of Notre Dame Foundation has launched a “Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund,” with a goal of $3,000,000 by July of 1952.
Funds for Building Program
The fund, designed as a tribute to Father Cavanaugh, will be used, through the improvement and expansion of campus utilities systems, to carry forward and complete building projects inaugurated during his administration.
Father Cavanaugh and his administration realized, as a result of Notre Dame’s vastly-increased scientific research both during and following World War II, that the University’s laboratory and classroom facilities were totally inadequate to house the enlarged Departments of Chemistry, Physics, and Mathematics. Notre Dame was receiving an ever-increasing number of research contracts from both government and private industry, and more adequate facilities were badly needed.
One of the first projects of the University of Notre Dame Foundation, organized in 1947 under Father Cavanaugh to coordinate gifts to the University, was a nation-wide campaign among Notre Dame alumni and nonalumni friends to raise $1,750,000 for a modern Science Building.
The campaign reached a successful
conclusion in 1950, but since that time increased costs have forced Notre Dame to seek an additional $800,000 to complete and equip the building, which is scheduled for completion in 1952.
More Residence Halls Needed
As a result of the 62 per cent increase in the Notre Dame student body following World War II, another of the University’s most urgent needs was more student residence halls.
FATHER CAVANAUGH
Residence Halls Still Needed
Under Notre Dame’s boarding school system of education, University officials feel it is desirable to have all of its students living on the campus, with the exception of those who live with their parents in South Bend or vicinity. At the end of World War II, with existing residence hall facilities, it was possible to accommodate only about 3,200 of the University’s 5,000 students on the campus.
A step to alleviate this situation was taken by Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, of Detroit, Mich., widow of the founder of the Fisher Body Company, when in 1949 she announced the donation to Notre Dame of a $1,000,000 gift.
Mrs. Fisher, whose late husband was a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame, specified that $750 000 of the gift was to be used for the construction of a new student residence hall, and the remainder was to be used as a revolving student loan fund to assist needy and deserving students obtain a Notre Dame education. The residence hall, which was begun
this Summer, is scheduled for completion in 1952.
Inn Houses Visitors
Two other members of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame helped Father Cavanaugh’s administration advance the University’s physical plant with gifts totaling $3,173,533 for the erection of a pair of badly-needed buildings on the Notre Dame campus.
Father Cavanaugh had felt for some time that a place to house visitors to the campus was a very important Notre Dame need. It was desirable, he believed, for parents of students, delegates to learned and scientific meetings at Notre Dame, and other visitors to be housed on the campus.
E. M. Morris, chairman of the board of the Associates Investment Company in South Bend, shared Father Cavanaugh’s views. Shortly before his death, Mr. Morris gave Notre Dame a gift of $1,000,000 to make such a hostelry possible. The result is the new E. M. Morris Inn, now nearing completion at the entrance of the Notre Dame campus, which will house nearly 200 visitors to the campus.
New HQ for AB’s
For many years the Notre Dame Administration Building has been the center of the University’s College of Arts and Letters. Recently, however, and especially after World War II with the influx of so many additional students, these facilities became overcrowded, and the liberal arts students overflowed into other campus classroom facilities.
I. A. O’Shaughnessy, of St. Paul, Minn., president of the Globe Oil Refining Company, became impressed with the need for a new Liberal and Fine Arts Building during his lengthy service to the University as a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, donated $2,173,533 for the construction of the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, now under construction and scheduled for completion in 1953.
By July: $3,000,000
Under Father Cavanaugh’s direction, the Notre Dame Foundation in 1948 announced a long-range goal of $25,000,000 in the ensuing ten years. Since 1948 $7,000,000 has been given to Notre Dame by alumni and non-alumni friends throughout the United States. These generous gifts — including the Science Building, the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial Residence Hall, the E. M. Morris Inn and the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building — have intensified the need foi-the improvement and expansion of campus utilities systems.
10
The Scholastic
University officials hope, through the “Father Cavanaugh Tesitmonial Fund,” to realize their $3,000,000 goal by July of 1952, in order that the University’s ten-year program may be on schedule to turn over to Father Cavanaugh’s successor when he takes office.
Admission Test Results Ready For Frosh in Guidance Office
Results of the admission tests given to the class of ’55 in the first week of the semester are now available. They may be procured at the Department of Testing and Guidance, Room 4 Administration Building.
The tests- are given entirely for the welfare of the student. It is not obligatory to find out the results. They give an indication of a person’s ability and aptitude and also serve as a help in selecting courses and ultimately a career.
Mr. Edward Quinn and Mr. Richard Willemin of the department are prepared to give personal advice on whatever vocational problems you may have. These tests tie in with another that can be taken in the Sophomore year prior to choosing a major.
Below is a partial schedule of the dates on which results will be distributed. Freshmen are asked not to seek their score and its interpretation before the date set for their hall. Breen-Phillips, St. Edward’s, and Farley Halls are eligible to receive their results immediately if they have not already done so.
Frosh living in Zahm Hall can pick up test results between Nov. 15 and Nov. 20.
Off-Campus Freshmen and those not living in Freshman halls will receive test results Nov. 21 through Nov. 27.
The Department of Testing and Guidance is open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., excepting the noon hour.
Hull Provides Music For Engineers Friday
Next Friday evening, Notre Dame’s College of Engineering will present its annual Ball, under the title of “The Loveliest Night of the Year.” This year’s affair, which will be held from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Indiana Club, will feature the music of Gene Hull and his Lettermen.
Supervising the plans for the dance and directing the activities of the weekend are Co-Chairmen Roger O’Hara and Pete Skerrett. Assisting O’Hara and Skerrett as committee chairmen are: Dick Novitsky, tickets; Joe Scherer.
Nov. 9, 1951
programs; John Urbain, personnel; Phil Meyer and Dick Hardin, publicity, and Dick Schoenfeltner, decorations. Bob DeLine is in charge of tuxedo and date arrangements.
A limited number of 300 tickets, priced at $3.60 each, have been placed on sale by Ticket Chairman Novitsky, and are available during meal hours in the cafeteria. In addition, all engineering students will be contacted personally by committee members.
The Engineers will sponsor the Student Council Victory Dance which is to be held on the evening following the Ball.
Two o’clock permissions have been granted for all campus residents attending the Ball.
U. S. Business Topic Of NFCCS Seminar
“How can American business speed economics abroad?” will be the question open for discussion Nov. 20 at the first of a series of Round Table Seminars to be presented by the local NFCCS. The inaugural meeting of this series will originate from Room 101 Law Building.
At this meeting, a panel of four students and two professors will discuss whether American business should or should not continue to send capital products and technical advisors to noncommunist countries. Following this discussion among the members of the panel, the floor will be thrown open to the questions and opinions of the audience.
A committee of three students, including Dick Harvey, Bill Fagan, and Marshall Desmond, has been appointed by the NFCCS to direct the proceedings of these monthly town-meeting style seminars for the remainder of the school year.
Designed to encourage more campus groups to actively participate in the educational life of the University, the discussions will enable students and faculty to discourse upon matters of a somewhat controversial nature.
On the agenda for December is a political science discussion, at which time the question will be brought up as to what are the political and economic effects on the world resulting from the nationalization of Iranian coal.
Discussions on Communism To End With Nov. 15 Parley
The last in a series of five discussions on Communism in theory and practice, sponsored by the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations will be held Nov. 15 in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial at 8 p.m.
Topic of the discussion will be “What Must Be Done Against the Communist World Danger.” All members of the Committee will participate.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, chairman of the Committee, expressed the hope that more of the student body, especially those in the Departments of Political Science and History and those interested in world affairs, can attend and participate in the discussion.
Marketing Club to Present Movie on Tobacco Industry
In accordance with its policy of instructive programs, the Marketing Club has contracted with the Chesterfield people to present at its next meeting Nov. 14 the color film, Tobaccoland, U.S.A.
The film has been highly commended by both educational ’ and recreational authorities, as it presents factual information against a pleasant background and without the usually conspicuous commercial “plugs.”
At its initial business meeting last week, the club opened a year of programs which it hopes will uphold standards maintained in the past.
The highlight of the evening was a talk by Mrs. Nellie Morris, buyer of domestics and linens for Geo. Wyman & Company of South Bend. Mrs. Morris spoke on the duties and functions of a buyer in a large department store.
Wightman Galleries Receive Third Painting by Giovanni
“The Madonna With Saints,” a religious painting by Matteo di Giovanni di Bartolo, has been presented to the Wightman Art Galleries at Notre Dame by Dr. M. L. Busch, director of the Mission Hospital, Huntington Park, Calif.	.
The latest gift painting is the third to be presented to Notre Dame by Dr. Busch. The Californian previously had donated to the Wightman Galleries a portrait of Madame Brabant, by Joseph . Highmore, and a portrait of Lady Grenville, by George Henry Harlow.
Giovanni, 1435-95, was considered the best of the Siennese painters of his time. He was one of the designers for the pavement in the Cathedral in Sienna, and his masterpiece, “The Madonna of the Snow,” .now hangs in the Sienna Cathedral, Italy. Giovanni also designed “The Samian Sybil Deliverance of Bethulia and the Massacre of the Innocents,” and is represented in the National Gallery in London by two paintings, an Ecce Homo and an Assumption.
.	U
Debate With Oxford Duo Here Next Thursday Tops Full Week of Action for 'Arguing Irish'
Highlighting an intensive week of debating, Notre Dame’s “Arguing Irish” will face a two-man team from England’s Oxford University Thursday night in Washington Hall. The debate, open to the public without charge, is scheduled to begin at 7:15.
“Outlawing Communism” will be the topic of the verbal battle, with Notre Dame’s Bill Dempsey and Al DeCrane taking the negative side on the issue: “That any attempts to outlaw the Communist Party endanger the liberties they are designed to protect.” Oxford’s Dick Taveme and William Rees-Mogg will argue the affirmative.
DeCrane, who had no debating experience before coming to Notre Dame, is now president of the University Varsity Debate Team in his Junior year.
Dempsey, a Senior, has seven years of previous debating experience under his belt. The year before he enrolled at Notre Dame he was declared the outstanding high-school debater in the nation.
A Lawyer and Journalist ,
■ Twenty-two year old Taverne is a product of England’s Charterhouse School and Balliol College. He formerly served as secretary and librarian for
AL DECRANE, BILL DEMPSEY, COACH LEN SOMMER Mapping Their International Campaign
the Oxford Union Society, the University’s forensics organization, and is the ex-president of the Oxford University Labour Club. Now studying ancient history and philosophy, he intends to practice law after graduation.
A RAF veteran aiming at a career in journalism, Rees-Mogg, 23, attended the same schools as Taverne and is nnw studying history. He is former president of the Oxford Union Society and of the University Conservative Association.
The English duo is touring the eastern half of the United States. Their appearance here was booked by ND Debate Coach Len Sommer through the Institute of International Education.
Notre Dame debaters will also face the Indiana University squad Sunday at the Richmond (Ind.) Civic Forum.
ND Seeks Bradley Crown Again
Eight men will split the chores Tuesday in two exhibitions, before the Ardmore and St. Joseph schools’ PT A groups.
Closing out the full week, five pairs of Freshmen will represent the University Nov. 16-17 in the annual Bradley Invitational Tournament at Bradley U. Notre Dame is a perennial winner in the Bradley tourney.
In all, 24 different men will be debating for Notre Dame in this one week. The team has 50 members.
In the first of its 250 debates this year, the ND team vied with the University of Mississippi in a novel “Oregon style,” question-and-answer debate before an open house at St. Mary’s Academy Monday. In this type- of debate, a student wishing to speak must ring a bell to be recognized.
This debate was followed by a question-and-answer period in which the audience participated.
St. Joseph's Linnets Stage Musical Revue
Take the cream of the singing crop from the Notre Dame student body; mix harmoniously with a liberal supply of South Bend sopranos and contraltos; pour into an auditorium with a 20-piece orchestra, and add a dash of Rodgers and Hammerstein, a pinch of Irving Berlin, a dab of George Gershwin, and a wee mite of Irish whimsey. Rehearse well. Guaranteeed to last for five nights.
This recipe is for a musical. dish called “Bits From Hits.” It’s a musical revue presented by the St. Joseph Linnets next Wednesday through Sunday in the St. Joseph school auditorium, Hill street at East Colfax avenue.
Excerpts from four all-time Broadway productions are offered. Audiences will see full-dress adaptations of “Oklahoma!,” “Porgy and Bess,” “Finian’s Rainbow,” and “Annie Get Your- Gun,” plus 24 other tunes.
“Oklahoma!” roles will be portrayed by Charles Hof as Curly, Marjorie . Ruetz as Laurey, Bob Hart. as Will, Deni Egry as Ado Annie, and Mary Jo White as Aunt Eller.
Three principals are cast in Gershwin’s American folk opera. The part of Porgy will be taken by Mike Kelly, Bess by Regina Ivory, and Sportin’ Life by Patrick Coffey.	.
John Noland is the Linnets’ choice for Finian, with Denise Becker as Kathleen and Thomas Welch as the Leprechaun.
South Bend’s foremost contralto soloist, Theresa Lazzara, guns for her man in the role of Annie Oakley, with lyrical support from Gene Fanning as Frank Butler, Gloria Falco as Jane, and John Peck as Buffalo Bill.
The 30-voice Linnet chorus rounds out the vocal complement.
The show is directed by William
12
The Scholastic
Sahm, former president of the Notre Dame glee club and a regular in student productions. He is now a staff announcer at WHOT. Musical director is Dudley Birder, also a veteran of Notre Dame and city musicals, who last year directed the Linnets’ top offering, “The Mikado.”
Curtain parts at 8 o’clock each evening. Tickets, at $1 a head, are available from members, Copp’s Music shop and the Knights of Columbus clubrooms in South Bend. They will also be sold at the door.
ND Is Probable Site Of '52 NFCCS Meet
Notre Dame has submitted a bid for the Ninth National Congress of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, and, subject to the almost certain approval of the NFCCS National Council, will be the site of the student convention late next summer.
Notre Dame Junior John O’Connell, president of the Fort»Wayne Region, told the local NFCCS Council Tuesday that the University administration has reconsidered a request from the National Council to serve as host school for the Congress.
The local council then appointed O’Connell general chairman of the Congress if it is held here. He met yesterday with other members of the council to discuss selection of capable Notre Dame men to serve on the Congress committee.
Tentative date for the opening of the week-long convention has been designated as Aug. 29 or 30.
According to a resolution passed by the Eighth National Congress meeting in St. Paul Sept. 1, the 1952 Congress is to be preceded by a two-day Student Body Presidents Conference, at the site of the convention.
As soon as official confirmation of Notre Dame as the Congress site is received, O’Connell and his committee will begin active preparations for the event. A mail vote of the National Council may be taken shortly on the University’s bid, submitted by Senior Delegate Al DeCrane.	•
Over 600 students attended the Federation’s first summer Congress this year, and an even greater attendance is expected in 1952.
All Congress activities would be held on the campus, with University facilities available for meetings, lodging, meals, religious services, and various special events.
Nov. 9, 1951
Embryo Composers Moke Debut at Music Department's First Student-Written Program
For the first time in its history, the composition class of the Department of Music will present a student-composed program for the benefit of the entire student body Tuesday at 8 p.m.
A series of numbers will be given in Washington Hall as a representation of
MSC HOSPITALITY
Students:
The Engineering Council of Michigan State College invites all University of Notre Danie students and their dates to attend the annual “All College” Engineers’ Ball, Nov. 10, 1951.
The dance will feature Deral Lamb’s orchestra, intermission entertainment, the unveiling of the Engineers’ Queen and her court, and door prizes.
The decorations will be in keeping with the theme, “Falling Leaves.” Also, symbols of the various engineering societies will be shown.
Dress will be semi-formal; admission price is two dollars. Tickets may be purchased at the MSC Union.
Cordially,
The MSC Engineering Council
the first serious creative effort of the composition class in public.
Mr. Mathes, professor of the class, has announced that the music for the conceit has been written by six members of the class and ranges from a chorale
in octet to the background 'music for a dramatic setting of a poem.
Members of the glee club and several girls from the secretarial offices of the University will comprise the chorale in four-point harmony, while two trumpets and two trombones will make up the instrumental background for a prelude of a brass choir. A rondo in violin and piano, and a fantasy in cello and piano numbers will add to the versatility of the program.
Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s “How Do I Love Thee?” is employed as the basis around which is constructed a piano accompaniment. The dramatic reading as well as the octets, quartets and the instrumental arrangements with piano accompaniment will be among the most outstanding of the nine pieces to be presented.
Focal point of the concert will be the five musical settings arranged and designed for the psalm text of Panis Angelicas. The five settings will be handled separately throughout the program and will represent different ways of interpreting and developing the text. Vocal interpretations will range from a single-voiced alto in song to an octet in four-part harmony.
These different arrangements for the text of Panis Angelicas will clarify the distinctions of different temperaments handling the same material, since the five musical scores were all written separately.
The entire program affords an opportunity for students to observe the development of Notre Dame’s embryo composers, as well as a study for the distinctive handling of composition work by different personalities.
13
Register Nov. 15-21 For Next Semester
Preregistration for courses in the second semester of the 1951-52 academic year will be held between Thursday, Nov. 15, and Wednesday, Nov. 21. Students will register with the deans of their respective colleges.
Students should report to their deans on the day assigned. If for any reason he cannot report on that date he should notify his dean so that another time may be assigned. According to University regulations, there is a fee of $10 for registration of students of the University after the close of the specified preregistration period.
Students obligate themselves to take the courses for which they preregister. Before preregistration, students should consult the current academic bulletins of their colleges and such instructions as are posted by their deans. In case of difficulty, the student should consult with his dean or with his department head.
Students interested in working for a teacher’s certificate should consult Dr. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, Head of the Department of Education, Eoom 125, Social Science Building, concerning the course requirements of the various states.
Dates for preregistration will be assigned according to classes. It will be announced according to the following: Arts and Letters—as notified by letter; Physical Education—as announced in class and on the Physical Education bulletin board; Science—as notified by letter; Commerce—as notified by letter; Law—as announced in class and on the bulletin board; Engineering—as notified in class and on the bulletin board of the College of Engineering.
Teacher Exams to Be Given 1n 200 Test Centers Feb. 16
The National Teachei- Examinations, prepared and administered annually by Educational Testing Service, will be
Mass Schedule
Monday, Nov. 12—Feast of St. Martin I; Collects 2, Saints 3, at choice.
Tuesday, Nov. 13—Feast of St Didacus; Collects 2, Saints 3, at choice
Wednesday, Nov. 14—Feast of St. Josephat.
Thursday, Nov. 15—Feast of St. Albert the Great.
Friday, Nov. 16—Feast of St. Gertrude.
Saturday, Nov. 17—Feast of St. Gregory the Wonder-Worker; Colls. 2, Saints, 3, at choice.
given at 200 testing centers throughout the United States on Saturday, Feb. 16, 1952.
At the one-day testing session a candidate may take the Common Examinations, which include tests in professional information, general culture, English expression, and non-verbal reasoning; and one or two of nine Optional Examinations, designed to demonstrate mastery of subject matter to be taught.
The college which a candidate is attending, or the school system in which he is seeking employment, will advise him whether he should take the National Teacher Examinations, and which of the Optional Examinations to select.
Application forms, and a Bulletin of Information describing registration procedure and containing sample test questions, may be obtained from college officials, school superintendents, or directly from the National Teacher Examinations, Educational Testing Service, P. O. Box 592, Princeton, New Jersey.
Completed applications, accompanied by proper examination fees, will be accepted by the ETS office during November. December, and January so long as they are received before Jan. 18,1952.
University Given Only Copy Of Century-Old Book in U.S.
A rare, 122-year-old volume entitled .4 Skort History of the Diocese of Cincinnati has been presented to the University by Joseph Gregorich, Oak Park, Ill., engineer, who is prominent in the study of Catholic history in the Middle West.
Written in German by Bev. Frederick Bese and published in 1829, the book is the only copy in the United States. So rare is the volume that it is not even listed in the British Museum.
A Short History of the Diocese of Cincinnati was influential in the setting up of the Leopoldine Association in Vienna. The Association was established to raise money for American Catholic missions.
First Sociology Talk To Feature Dr. Kane
The Department of Socioolgy will launch something new in the way of public lectures at Notre Dame next week when the first of a series of “Sociology Periods” will take place. The Sociology Period will consist of a 30-minute talk followed by 20 minutes of discussion.
These sessions will be confined to a single late-morning class period and will be held in one. of the larger classrooms of the Main Building. It is hoped that this lecture plan which will make it unnecessary to leave one’s room in the evening will appeal to students who have a free hour in their morning-schedules.
The first Sociology Period on Friday, Nov. 16th, at 11 o’clock, in Boom 250 will feature a talk by Dr. John J. Kane of the Sociology faculty. His topic will be “Protestant-Catholic Tensions.”
Dr. Kane’s article on this subject which appears in the current issue of the American Sociological Review has attracted nation-wide attention.
If this new lecture-plan proves to be popular, future Sociology Periods will present outside speakers and advanced graduate researchers as well as members of the Sociology faculty. The days and hours of these talks will vary so as to permit as many as possible to attend.
The project is under the direction of Bev. Eaymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the Department of Sociology.
'Who's Who' List Complete;
Final Vote by Council Soon
When the polls for nominations by the student body of Juniors, Seniors, and Graduate Students to ‘Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities’ closed Oct. 30, approximately 80 names had been submitted. These names will be given to a committee of the Blue Circle, consisting of the sophomore and junior members of the club, for screening.
The names finally chosen will be submitted to the Student Council within the next few weeks for the final vote.
The Blue Circle believes that the results of the poll from the student body were the most satisfactory ever received at Notre Dame. Ed Noonan, speaking for the Blue Circle, said that the members of the hall councils of the Sophomore, Junior, and Senior halls did a wonderful job in boosting interest in this year’s Who’s Who by distributing circulars and by talking enthusiastically about the honor society.
14
The Scholastic
'Review' Gets Membership In Engineering Association
The Notre Dame Technical Revieiv, engineering publication at the University, has received membership in the Engineering College Magazines Association.
John Minck, who represented The Review in the ECMA Philadelphia convention recently, reported that the organization voted unanimously to accept the magazine into its membership.
The object of this organization as given by its constitution is to develop better engineering college magazines through cooperation in securing more and better advertising.
Twenty engineering publications were represented. Business and committee meetings and panel discussions comprised the usual convention agenda.
Some important topics considered were: selections of editorial matter, how technically involved articles should be handled, subjects of editorials, and an examination of advertising procedures.
Awards were offered at a luncheon to various publications which during the past year had distinguished themselves in certain lines. Typical awards given: best all-around, best editorial content, best layout and make-up, best covers.
“We feel we have a very fine and representative magazine,” said Minck. “I received many favorable comments from delegates and advisers and believe we should return from the 1952 convention with more than our share of awards.”
Danfortfi Foundation Offers Fellowships For Teaching
The Danforth Foundation of St. Louis, Missouri, has announuced the inauguration of a series of Graduate Fellowships for College seniors and recent graduates who are preparing themselves for a teaching career either at the college or high -school level, and are planning to enter graduate school in September, 1952, for their first year of graduate study.
Mr. B. J. Kohlbrenner has been named as liaison officer to work with the Danforth Foundation on the selection of candidates.
The fellowships will be granted on the basis of need, with the amounts varying from $500.00 to $2,400.00. Students without financial need are also invited to apply and, if accepted, null participate in the annual Danforth conference on teaching and the other activities of the program.
The qualifications of the candidate as
Nov. 9, 1951
listed in the announcement from the Foundation are: Evidence of superior intellectual ability in his college record; a good record of health and emotional stability; an outstanding personality and the concern for people, essential for successful teaching; a choice of teaching as the form of Christian Service; and deeply religious convictions and growing religious perspectives.
Applications may be submitted any time after Dec. 1, 1951, through Mr. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, Head of the Department of Education, Social Science Building, Room 125. They must be completed with all required recommendation forms, by March 1, 1952, to be considered by the Fellowship Committee for 1952 awards.
There will be 50 Fellowship grants for 1952-53, and only very superior students from any institution should be encouraged to make application.
ND Grad, Korea Vet, Made Chief Chaplain in Yokohama
The Rev. Maurice E. Powers, C.S.C., an alumnus and former faculty member at the University of Notre Dame, has been assigned as chief chaplain of the Central Command in Yokohama, Japan, according to word received at the university.
Father Powers, a graduate of Notre Dame in 1933 and now a , Lieutenant Colonel in the Chaplain Corps, previously has seen combat duty on the Korean battlefields as division chaplain of the Seventh Infantry Division. The Notre Dame priest had been with the Seventh Division from its original landings in Korea, through the retreat from the Chosin Reservoir and the Im jin landings:
A native of Los Angeles, Calif., Father Powers served as Chaplain of the Berlin Command during part of World War II. He also saw action in England and France, and was cited for heroism, receiving the Bronze Star for valor in combat.
Mr. Keith Millis Will Speak At Metals Society's Meeting
Mr. Keith D. Millis of the Division of Development and Research at International Nickel Company, New York, will deliver an address entitled “Nodular Cast Iron” at the November- meeting, Wednesday, of Notre Dame’s Chapter of the American Society for Metals.
The technical session will be preceded by a dinner in the University Dining Hall at 6:30 p.m. The technical session is scheduled for 8 p.m. in Room 5, Engineering Building.
Mr. Millis has been actively associated
with Ductile Iron since its inception.
In his talk, Mr. Millis will give a resume of the development of ductile iron and its properties, and will include the progress made commercially in its three years of production. There will be numerous slides to illustrate the wide variety of applications in which ductile iron has given service.
The speaker received a degree in metallurgical engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1938 and an advanced degree in 1939.
He then joined the research staff of the International Nickel Company, of Bayonne, N. J., and remained there through 1950, when he was transferred to the New York office to do development work in the field.
ND Among Catholic Colleges Offering Experimental Tests
Notre Dame is included in a group of 51 Catholic colleges and universities participating in a Catholic Views Experimental Testing Program sponsored by the Catholic Business Education Association.
The. program has a four-fold objective: to intensify the habit of students following Catholic current sources; to assist students in answering anti-Cath-olic charges about the faith; to encourage students to speak from the Catholic viewpoint and be more effective Catholic Actionists; to increase the Catholic reading public.
The Catholic Views Tests will be multiple choice type, will take 50 minutes, and will be issued in January and in May, to be administered to students of Junior standing. An analysis of scores will be available to all schools participating, but scores of particular schools will not be given.
TARDY CLUBS
The following clubs have failed to register with the Student Council: Air Cadet	Rhode Xsland
Akron	Rockford
Calumet	Rocky Mtn.
rDayton	Sociology
Gymnastics	Villagers
Int’l. Affairs	W. Virginia
Kansas City	Propeller
Le Cercle Francais
Clubs not registered with the Student Council cannot function on campus without official sanction from the Student Council.
A $5 penalty will be assessed to the above clubs upon their registration.
MM
Some knew if from the start . . . others learned from experience . . . but soon all came to the same conclusion . . . sleeping on a train is just about impossible. The marching band had one solution . . . they jammed 'till all hours of the night. Others fooled around . . . played cards . . . while the thin kers pondered over chess.
There was plenty of time to look over the Nation’s Capital. . . and plenty of places to see . . . but as could be expected, it took a newspaper to suggest what to do . . . but on Sunday morning everyone was of the same mind . . . Mass in St. Patrick’s Cathedral . . . another look at the paper . . . and then the long ride back.

Capital Capers
Text by DICK CODY
Photos by DICK BENNETT
great American’s
A Collection
of a
relics . . . the Lincoln Memorial . .
Only the trip
. others just brooded.
tried
. . . With the stark white beauty of ancient Greece . . . the trip was not all merriment.
■ 1
The cold, gray Indiana dawn was their spotlight. The icy wind which whipped up their coattails as they stepped off the train was the orchestra which greeted them at the station. Through the four-inch snow they slogged, peering for cabs and busses with eyes reddened from too much smoke and too little sleep. Washington was a thousand miles away, and with it the football game, the parties, the dances, the week-end in general, and even the long ride back. The wetness seeping through their shoes was about the only thing coming through this morning, that, together- with the trouble of getting transportation back to school, and pity the guy with an early class.
Oh, yes, it was a different scene than that same vicinity Wednesday evening. They were 4-50 happy lads then, 450 men off for a big time. They piled onto the train with pockets jammed with magazines, candy bars, and an occasional textbook. Then came the rush for seats to keep the boys together, the search for suitcase sufficiently large and smooth enough to handle the cards, yet light enough not to be wearisome on the knees, and the struggle to attain a comfortable position. “I hope my ribs aren’t too uncomfortable on your big fat feet.” Conversation was strong for a while—the merits of Washington as a party town, the earnest hope that a certain pass defense would be improved enough to corral a certain Robert Zastrow, the exact degree of pleasure to be attained from
getting away from campus for a few days, the merits of Washington as a party town—the talk waxed strong until a few definite conclusions were arrived at. Namely that Washington better be a pretty good party town. It waxed, then gradually died. Off came the shoes, loose hung the ties, and evident was the fact that the cowpoke who had to sleep in the saddle had a pretty soft touch compared to this. “Beat Navy”, they had shouted several hours ago, but now the (Continued on Page 20)
back surpassed the Eastward ride in uncomfortability . . . some
the feet-higher-than-head method of relaxing

Boots at the Bedside
Tezr. rz? A^ELTA	by AL MUTH

AAr,# az a a	>. gyzaz texyr?,
io; z ;: Zf ‘/M irmg irzzh fu: ;,A ',A} >'e Zff- fArvertiAizAA 'AwDaczD. Az 'A^a by ^.fA:	fife b>‘M zzzi yzz*/rZ
•; a AazaDa'S '£ t;A .vxzZ ^,'L Arbiz: ZS f , 'A'r	fA tfiZit
ioy^, Urfs ne,^ yzzAit//, *za, :>WZ 'rt Czy, ?<i! 'At'Anhy, Z hfZff'AA I*. fiffZ yCfi/m W'nOVf -er’WAA, if pOS&ifa, V>Z
Az ehmirADA UfifmtArA^y ‘(W^i, ht‘A tfAt Cftfizti'/er ?Z/th 3jfe ZfS, yfftyCrty ZfC Zfi ZWZVnfiZ fCzMiy. Iio hisinry ot ft'/lfc Darnc v/cvM ;xr f/imyl^y wititwt t»clu4ing the many fir‘A that have (frAirtfA here. Yrr>m the fzitAf/z hfase nt which rem-fh'fiA the lioil/jins/ useless, causing the University In close flown, until the present e4ihce vias erected, tn the I fames that threatened tn rami the yar-tfaliy finished ffcieum Building in 1W5J, thw is hardly ft structure on the cam-
v.rzr wrbn zire,
Ta&P&Z & yt^:r.id\ ey^ ozt the 850 z^ffgs 'A (yttayj^ enzi'A^rra^ eotu! 120 Sl ViZ-rfr. (j-Ahrze, and the styrrn-'irAim' yxi'.Aly, ^rr:re Dame’s 5re rieiArtrrA:^ x'Ar.Ai. as a safeguard zyaifiszt dlsasier. Sheared on Juniper '.A^wenn the Biology Building zrA the Dower Plant, the zwo-story hrick structure that is the mre house is rfrohahly the must unique station in the UniuA States.
To begin y- ith, it is operated by eight Holy Cross Brothers. Although they are technically termed volunteers, they are in reality, full time firemen who receive no yay. Its Fire Chief, Brother Borromeo, is in charge of what amounts in a small-scale city fire department. , Its functions include: fire prevention,
careful inspection of all buildings on a monthly basis, rescue and salvage work, investigation of fires and their causes, repair and maintenance of equipment.
Before campus dances, concerts and theatricals, all inflammable decorations are checked. In addition, they have to do battle with numerous brush fires and keep an ever anxious eye on the veterans’ settlement across the way. All this is done with the help of som£ excellent and very up-to-date equipment. We have only to glance at the remains of the old fire house in back of the Administration Building to realize that this was not always so.
After the New Gym burned in 1900, it was decided that a volunteer fire department should be formed on campus. Three companies were each the proud owners of a hand truck and a
The Scholastic
THE ALARM
It Takes a Mere 30 Seconds . . .
fii'e hose and they practiced the latest fire-fighting methods weekly, holding contests with the other companies. It was well that they did, because perhaps more than just the Chenrstry Hall, Engineering Building, and the University Barns might have been levelled to the ground.
This sad state of affairs still prevailed in 1939 when Brother Borromeo took over. He is in a large way responsible for raising the standards of the department to the status it holds today. All he had to start with were the original three hand trucks, and 500 feet of somewhat rotted hose. Very quickly, the hose was replaced, a 750-gallon-per-minute pump (from a wrecked South Bend city service truck), and 55 feet of ladder were bought. A keen need for a more modem means to tote this new equipment about the campus was immediately felt. In a lean-to against the Power Plant, work was begun on a newly-acquired International truck chassis and by 1940, out emerged a modern designed combination pumperladder truck, hand built by Brother Borromeo’s master craftsmen.
A temporary building housed the equipment for three years, but one of the complications was that the Brothers had to come three blocks on the run to answer a call. Although this might not have fazed Brother James Edwin who used to catch cinders from the heels of Greg Rice a few years back, 1945 saw the erection of the present two-company station with permanent living quarters on the second floor for eight men.
Behind the motorized overhead doors lie the two fully equipped trucks in a spotless room in which every piece of
Nov. 9, 1951
apparatus is carefully cleaned and polished with the greatest care, since engines are supposed to last from 20 to 30 years. Upstairs is a large combination dining and recreation room. Off this are the eight private bedrooms, the kitchen, and last of all, the private chapel.
Although they stand ready to come to the aid of our- nearby neighbors in an emergency, the erection of a new fire house in Clay Township and some very good fortune have prevented sight of the firemen Brothers in serious action for quite a while. However, don’t get the idea that all the good Brothers have to do is sit around, waiting for that special call. The fireman’s schedule is one that even the most disgruntled freshman would call —rough.
When dawn starts cracking at 5:00, they rise. Morning prayer and meditation is followed by Mass at 5:45. Breakfast is served at 6:30, after which all join in to do the dishes and clean house. At 7:30, the actual working day begins. Brother George, who does the cooking, remains in the house while Brothers Borromeo and Beatus go along, to the Power Plant where alarms are also received. Brother Borromeo is also in charge of the Power Plant and Beatus is the assistant fire chief, a position which is identical with the one his father holds at Kenosha, Wis. Brother Emmanuel is at the Community infirmary and Brothers James Edwin and Valery work at the Ave Maria Press. Brothers Roderic and Nilus (blood brothers as well) are toiling at the Notre Dame Farm.
THE RESCUE—SPEED IS THE PAYOFF
. . . By Notre Dame’s Fire Department ... a Safeguard Against Disaster
THE DASH
. . A Slide Down That Famous Pole . .
In addition, Brother Roderic is the assistant farm manager.
Should an alarm ring in the daytime, the three Brothers in the vicinity and five laymen at the Power Plant would be alerted. In this event, the entire force could be on the apparatus inside of two minutes. After 4:30, when the Brothers return, it would take a mere 30 seconds. Before retiring for the night, the Brothers go through the rite of setting their rubber boots alongside the bed. With doors left open, they can quickly hear the alarm, jump into their clothes, slide down the famous brass
(Continued on Page 22)
Capital Capers
(Continued from Page 16) ringing cry reverberating up and down the aisles was “Shut up, you guys. People trying to sleep around here.”
When their troubled rest was terminated the next morning they were in the East, but the East seemed to be a bit damp, as well as old, historical, and the place to live in this great country of ours. Finally Washington, but the 450 stiff and wrinkled Notre Dame men who stumbled off the train weren’t much in the party mood. To the hotel they headed, there to clean up for a day of sightseeing and rest. Festivities didn’t really begin until Friday, when the belles from Trinity College threw a most enjoyable dance. That evening there was a pep rally followed by some general merry-making. And on an ice-cold Saturday still slushy from the previous day’s downpour, there was the game. No. 1 disappointment was the condition of the ■playing field which prevented the middie brigade from parading in its famous style. No. 2 disappointment was the condition of the playing field which prevented the Irish backs from parading in their own inimitable style. But it was very worthwhile. And so was the evening which followed the game.
Sunday was spent quietly, as though the day’s project was recovering from the night before, and storing up energy for the ride ahead. It was needed, too, since concensus had it that the return route was by way of British Columbia.
The snow only proved it. And then they were back. Nothing had changed. The campus was still there, an hour and a half’s sleep still totalled up to 90 minutes, professors still took roll early in the morning. You’ll be seeing them pretty soon. They’re just about beginning to stir.
The Week
(Continued from Page 5) ney over there in Alumni Hall has brought out his winter stock, and has requested that we note a few of his features here.
Top Lomasney bargains are: Six man Bog Sled, for all those who make frequent crossings on Badin Bog. Only $69.50, with team of three dogs— $89.50.
Felt-lined, Cossack style Mukluks— $17.00.
“Admiral Byrd” Eskimo-type parkas —$34.00, zip-in heating blanket slightly extra.
Genuine elkskin, “Maine guide,” mittens—$22.95.
Coonskin caps with built-in Sterno heat unit—$13.45.
Nose drops—89 cents a bottle.
Send for Low-Overhead Lomasney’s free booklet, “How To Find the Infirmary in a Snow Storm” or “What To Do Until The Coroner Comes.”
Bottom of the Week
. . . and there isn’t an extra ticket to be had.
Frosh Elections
(Continued from Page 9) ballot-day turnout have been bolstered by the fact that this year’s Freshman class is the largest in Notre Dame history.
In the same election of last year, slightly more than half of the class cast ballots. A total of 253 of a possible 611 votes elected John Reidy as president, and Joe Gallagher, vice-president, gathered 343 of the 625 votes for that office.
Jewish Relations Committee Donates Two Paintings to ND
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., president of Notre Dame, has received two original paintings of Israel presented to the University by a group of South Bend citizens.
The pictures are “Holy City” by Matus, and “Lane in Jerusalem,” an original woodcut by Jacob Steinhardt. Mr. Henry Fefferman, Mr. Julius Tucker, Mrs. J. Kohen, and Mr. Samuel Brown were members of the committee for the presentation.
The pictures are part of a group which have been on tour of this country, sponsored by a group of Jewish citizens who are interested in friendship and better understanding through the medium of the universal language—art.
The paintings were presented as a token of friendship to the University.
TONIGHT’S THE NIGHT
Tonight is the night to yell as never before! The time: 7:30; the place: the Fieldhouse; the occasion: the loudest pep rally in history, before the biggest game of the year. All special sidelines seen in past rallies have been cut out of this one so that- all efforts can be directed toward PEP.
Head Coach Frank Leahy and Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, will divide speaking honors, the coaches and all of the players will be introduced.
The team will return tomorrow night at 7:30, and a big reception is planned for them at the New York Central Station downtown. Be there!
They say that the spirit shown for the MSC -game last year can’t be topped, but this is definitely the time, place, and occasion for the pep rally to end all pep rallies.
20
The Scholastic
SC Pays Dillon; Hears Rally, Carnival Plans
Tonight’s State game pep rally in the Fieldhouse was among the items dealt with at this week’s Student Council meeting. Definite plans for the rally and for greeting the team upon its return from East Lansing Saturday night were completed by a Blue Circle committee during the week.
The Council urged the student body to offer Mass and Communion for the team Saturday.
The Council also heard a detailed report on the 1952 Mardi Gras festivities by Jerry Kelley, who had been commissioned by the campus NFCCS Council to draw up tentative plans for the pre-Lenten affair. The Student Council deferred action until next week, when it will discuss the program, determine the use of proceeds, and appoint a general chairman.
Rev. Charles Carey, c.s.c., vice-president in charge of student affairs, disclosed that the Dillon entry in the recent Hall Decorations Contest had been dismantled because it was “too realistic.” It depicted the “wake” of a corpse, representing the Purdue team, complete with fresh flowers. Father added that the display would have been approved had the candles been removed and the coffin been closed.
Dillon Reimbursed
Since Dillon Hall was not informed of its disqualification by the decorations committee until the display had been completed, Father Carey recommended that the Council defray part of the hall’s §45.97 expenses.
The Council decided to reimburse Dillon to the extent of §37.70, the difference representing certain assets held by the hall and usable again.
Two payments from the Campus Charity Chest were also authorized by the Council. A contribution of $100 was approved for the National Service and Scholarship Fund for Negro Students, while $125 is to be sent to the Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions, with the stipulation that the Charity Chest Committee be notified as to the worthiness of each disbursement.
Fifty students submitted for Council action a petition that the St. Mary’s bus be scheduled to stop at the college to pick up students so as not to necessitate their walking to Roseland Ave. The Council will present the petition to the Northern Indiana Transit Company.
Council President Jim Garvin recommended that a monthly profit-and-loss statement be published to inform the
students how the Council funds are being spent.
Junior Class Vice-President Jim Hutchinson was appointed publicity chairman to see that the student body is informed of Council activities.
Students interested in receiving condensed minutes of the weekly Council meetings may contact Council Secretary Tom Reedy at 349 Dillon or at the Council office in the Main Building.
Reedy disclosed that minutes are now being sent to over 60 members of the administration, faculty, and student body.
Rosary College Women Want 40 ND Freshmen — for Dance
There’s a manhunt being carried on at Notre Dame—by women.
Forty ND Freshmen have been invited to attend a dance next weekend at Rosary College, River Forest, Ill., according to a letter received by the Notre Dame Student Council.
The letter from Rosary asked the Council to seek that number of Freshmen to escort a like number of Rosary women at festivities in the Chicago suburb on the weekend of Nov. 16.
Tickets to the dance will be paid by the girls, but the gents will be stuck for $2.50 corsages at the door.
Any chivalrous Frosh eager to help a fair (?) damsel in distress can learn what it’s all about by seeing Councilman Floyd Blair at 170 Dillon.
“I don’t even have a stamp!”
SMC Throws Party Tonight For 250 ND Ticket Holders
St. Mary’s College opens its portals tonight to 250 Notre Dame men for a. party at the SMC Rectangle across the-Dixie. And it’s free.
The tete-a-tete is informal, sweaters and sport shirts being de rigour for the gents. This evening’s party begins at 7:30 with farewell chimes sounding at 10 o’clock.
The limited number of tickets were meted out on a first-come first-served basis by the ND residence hall rectors.
McClure and Kilian Receive Prize for Top Football Picks
Winners in the Medico Pipe-sponsored “Football Forecast” for the last two weeks are Bill McClure of Cavanaugh, and Leonard Kilian of Alumni.
For submitting the most accurate predictions of the top ten college grid games of the week, each receives a set of two pipes. McClure topped the. Oct. 28 prognosticators, while Kilian called the Nov. 3 contests most successfully.
The contest will continue for several weeks, with a two-pipe Smoker’s Set as prize in each case.
Entry blanks are printed in the Scholastic each week (see page 35) and may be turned in at the Huddle.
Nov. 9, 1951
21
Prominent Jewish Rabbi Among Speakers At 5th Natural Law Institute Here Dec. 14-15
Dr. Solomon B. Freehof, nationally-prominent Jewish rabbi, will be one of the principal speakers at the fifth anniversary convocation of the Natural Law Institute to be held Dec. 14 and 15 in the College of Law at Notre Dame.
The two-day program of the Natural Law Institute proper, which is expected to attract legal experts from all parts of the United States, will be devoted to the Natural Law philosophy in the nonChristian tradition. Speakers are being procured from leading non-Christian sects of the world.
Dr. Freehof, who has been Rabbi of the Rodef Shalom Temple in Pittsburgh. Pa., since 1934, was born in London, but came to the United States at the age of eleven. He is a graduate of the University of Cincinnati and of the Hebrew Union College. During World War I Dr. Freehof was a Chaplain in the American Expeditionary Force.
The Pittsburgh Rabbi taught at the Hebrew Union College for nine years and then became Rabbi of the Kehillath Anshe Maariv Temple in Chicago for ten years before assuming his present position. He has been president of the Central Conference of American Rabbis, is a member of the Executive Board of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, and also a member of the Division of Religious Activities of the National Jewish Welfare Board.
Other speakers for the Institute will be announced in the near future.
Former Speakers Return
The anniversary convocation also will be highlighted by a return of speakers of the four prior Institutes who will participate in panel discussions with the public. This innovation in the proceedings will be held Dec. 11, 12, and 13, and will be in keeping with the objects of the Institute.
The three-day panel discussions preceding the regular Institute program will involve a discussion and seminar between the public and the speakers of past Institutes, wherein the speakers will answer questions and elaborate upon their studies of the Natural Law.
Expected to return for the Anniversary program are: from the 1947 Institute, Dean Clarence E. Manion, University of Notre Dame; Ben W. Palmer, Special Lecturer, University of Minnesota; Mortimer J. Adler, professor of the University of Chicago; and Harold R. McKinnon, San Francisco attorney.
From the 1948 Institute: Professor Maurice Lebel, Laval University, Que
bec, Canada; Dr. Gordon Hall Gerould, Princeton University; Dr. Heinrich Rommen, College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn.; Hon. Robert N. Wilkin, judge, Federal District Court, Cleveland, Ohio.
From the 1949 Institute: Richard O’Sullivan, King’s Court, London, England; Professor Edward S. Corwin, Princeton University; Professor Stephan Kuttner, Catholic University of America.
From the 1950 Institute: George E. Sokolsky, nationally syndicated newspaper columnist; Felix Morely, Washington journalist and author; Rev. John C. Ford, S.J., professor Weston College, Weston, Mass.; Hon. Joseph C. Hutcheson, Jr., chief judge, U. S. Court of Appeals, 5th Circuit, Houston, Texas.
Aims of the Notre Dame Natural Law Institute include a better and more general public understanding, appreciation and observance of the Natural Law (man’s participation in the Law of God), along with recognition and acceptance of the Natural Law by the nations and people of the world.
The Institute is being sponsored for the fourth time by Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati, Ohio, businessman.
Boots at the Bedside
(Continued from Page 19) pole, and, having chosen the shortest route to the alarm, zip out. These are the things that make the department so essential, because it is in the first few moments of a blaze that much costly damage can be prevented. All of this makes the university’s $80,000 investment in the station seem more than worth while.
Chief Borromeo is an honorary member of South Bend Local No. 362, firemen’s association, and a member of the International Association of Fire Chiefs. Some of his most prized paraphernalia includes a new truck—vintage 1948—which carries a resuscitator and inhalator as well as a deluge gun that can deliver a steady stream of 1200 gallons per minute or a fine blanketing spray. Both trucks come with stretchers, extinguishers, gas masks, nozzles, plus the ladders and hose. Some of the equipment not contained in the house is the 23,000 feet of one-and-one-half inch hose, the 900 fire extinguishers and the nine alarm boxes, all placed strategically throughout the campus. In addition, Washington Hall boasts of an up-to-date springling system.
Honorary chief of the squad is Bell, a beautiful Dalmatian, who with a casual air makes extensive tours of inspection during hours. A sleek, swift, intelligent animal, she typifies the essence of the Notre Dame fire department. Although we never like to see them put to the test, they are an outfit in which we can confidently place both our safety and that of the University.
Vet Bonus Deadline Extended
Indiana World War II veterans who filed their bonus applications after the first deadline (April 30, 1951) or who failed to file any application will now have the opportunity to receive the benefits due them.
An amendment to the original Veterans Bonus Law will allow the Veterans Department to accept as valid all applications postmarked before midnight, Dec. 31, 1951.
Oslo Summer Session Open To American Students in '52
The University of Oslo will hold its sixth Summer School from June 21 to Aug. 2, 1952, for Aemrican and Canadian students who have completed at least their Freshman year in any accredited college or university.
A special feature of the 1952 session will be an Institute for English-speaking teachers similai- to the one held in 1951.
All classes will be conducted in English and an American Dean of Students is on the administrative staff.
Students may choose courses in four fields: 1) General Survey of Norwegian Culture; 2) The Humanities; 3) Social Studies; and 4) Education System of Norway.
Single students will live in the Blin-dern Students Hall and married couples in private homes. Six semesterhour credits may be earned in the six-week course, and the session is approved by the U. S. Veterans Administration. Applicants should have completed their Freshman year not later than June, 1952. A limited number of scholarships are available for the Summer School.
Students of the Summer School will leave New York on the SS Stavanger-fjord June 11, 1952. Reservations for the return trip are available Aug. 5, 19, and Sept. 2, 1952.
For a catalog of courses, preliminary application material, or any further information, write: Oslo Summer School Admissions Office, St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minn..
22
The Scholastic
^ckdadlic Qaed. a-CallitUf,
Encore for Delores
Text by HARRY SIEMONSMA Photo by AL MUTH
Whole pages of the Scholastic are often filled with news and articles about the VIPs on campus. But what is lacking among these news items in most cases is any mention of the fairer sex. There are, however, some very colorful personalities around campus other than students and faculty. This is about one of them.
A recent Scholastic contained a picture which was intended to bring attention to the lost and found department in Father Leahy’s office. There in the midst of clothing, briefcases, and othei? lost articles, was something of particular note to all who enjoy the finer things in life. We refer to the charming brunette playing coatrack in the center of the picture. Now this really doesn’t do justice to a girl who is much more than just a coatrack! She is by no means a stranger around campus as anyone can testify who has had any business in Father Leahy’s office. And who hasn’t at sometime or another due to a slight oversight as to curfew or- absences. But for the benefit of those who have not as yet had the pleasure of such a visit, and that rare breed who are too distracted with their disciplinary problems to take notice when in the office, this attractive young lady is Delores Perry. She hails from Sault Ste. Marie, a town which lies on the northeasternmost tip of Michigan, bordering Canada. As a matter of fact she has only lived in South Bend for two years. She came down here to live with an aunt after finishing hex-first semester as a Senior in high school. Her last year was completed at Central High here in South Bend, but she promptly reminds you that she considers Sault High as her alma mater.
Delores’ career at Notre Dame began when she started work in the B-X. Then a year ago this September she assumed her new job as the receptionist in the Prefect of Discipline’s office. Her duties there vary between routine screening of absences reported to the office to making appointments for Father Leahy. When a student has cut a class, she notifies him of
the bad news. In other words, she keeps the tally on absences. When a student has an excused or- cancelled cut, she issues the report to the professor concerned. But all of her duties
MISS DELORES PERRY She Softens the Blow
aren’t so routine. For instance, Delores takes the calls from the off-campus students telling their reasons, the most common of these being colds and a variety of “morning sickness” common among certain college students for not coming to class that day. She smiles rather knowingly when thinking of some of these calls. It seems our off-campus students are sometimes afflicted with rather disabling symptoms, after a big night. Those cases having “morning sickness” very frequently are referred to Father Leahy. In one instance, she tells, “The poor guy went into the most gruesome details about how he had athlete’s foot so badly that he couldn’t walk, what with such deeply cracked feet and all.”
Students trying to get reprieves on their official campus sentences pour their hearts out to her, giving the
usual excuses of no buses or cabs downtown at 11:5-5. She listens to them all and tries to be encouraging in a “my heart really feels for you, guy, but ...” way.
Delores assists Mr. Paul Schrantz, Assistant Prefect of Discipline, in arranging rooms for off-campus students and week-end visitors to the University. While interviewing her, one student came in and wanted to arrange for rooms for six girls coming up. She turned and winked, saying in an undertone, “A harem, maybe!” More probably an enterprising Senior running a date bureau on the side.
Of course there’s the lad who entered and said very suavely, “What a strange coincidence, neither of us have ever met each other before,” and proceeded to try to get a date. But Delores thinks the Notre Dame student, taken as a whole, is a perfect gentleman and most of her dates are with fellows from school rather than town. Naturally, the next thing to ask is whether she has any marital plans in the immediate future? And to this question, she promptly answered, “Definitely not. I’m still free, and twenty!” It’s hard to pin her down as to the ideals she is seeking in a husband. In fact, she claims she is not sure what she wants yet. But one thing she does want and that is a career as an airline stewardess, for which she expects to go into training next summer, after her twenty-first birthday, probably in Chicago. The airlines’ gain is our loss. So you see, she isn’t in any particular hurry to get married. She’ll wait for her guy.
Delores’ other interests are dancing, classical music, tennis, and a good mystery story now and then. She insists she isn’t a “party girl” but does enjoy them.
And sb we have a portrait of a most pleasing personality, one that makes life at Notre Dame a little more colorful and interesting. The blow of the week though; she wouldn’t let her telephone number be published. Sorry fellows!
Nov. 9, 1951
23

----1950-----
Mich. State 36
Notre Dame 33
GO IRISH!
24
The Scholastic
Sch olasli c Sports
This is It! Irish Meet Unbeaten State
Undefeated Morrissey and Cavanaugh Clash In Battle for 1951 Campus Gridiron Laurels
By ROGER FERNANDES
ND Seeks Revenge In East Lansing Duel
By BILL LONDO
Barring the unforeseen in the way of injuries or bad weather this Sunday’s clash between Morrissey and Cavanaugh Halls at 1 p.m. in the Notre Dame Stadium for the campus interhall football title of 1951 should turn out to be a whale of a ball game. What happens when two unbeaten, untied, and unscored upon teams meet for the championship? The answer is that it is one
AARON DYSON
Just Missed Last Year
■game a fan would not want to miss.
The encounter rates as a toss-up. On .paper the Morrissey and Cavanaugh ‘squads are nearly equal in strength and any advantage one team may possess over the other in any department of the igame is slight indeed.
Both Undefeated
' Both sophomore halls stormed over all opposition to emerge from the interhall gridiron wars unblemished and boasting identical won-lost records of three and nothing. In fact, over the
past two years, the teams from Morrissey Hall have yet to be scored upon in interhall play.
Last season Morrissey won the Western division crown with two wins and a scoreless deadlock with the Off-Campus team, and then went on to whip the Eastern division title holders, St. Edwards, 32-0 in the N.D. Stadium. Cavanaugh on the other hand finished fourth behind St. Ed’s with one win, two losses and a tie.
This year both clubs were nothing short of sensational as they rolled over the opposition in their two divisions. Morrissey opened their season with a 20-0 romp over St. Edward’s, edged the powerful Dillon eleven 6-0, and then vanquished Lyon’s Hall 21-0. Cavanaugh trampled Breen-Phillips 25-0 in their opener, disposed of Farley 19-0, and then sewed up the division crown with an 8-0 triumph over second place Zahm Hall.
In games outside of the interhall league Morrissey held the ND Frosh team augmented with “B” players to a 7-0 win and routed the Michigan City State Prison team 19-6 in an exhibition contest. Cavanaugh also met the ND Frosh and “B” team combination and held them to a 0-0 tie.
Amato vs. Dyson
Much credit for the fine showing of these two sophomore hall clubs should go to their respective coaches—Frank Amato, Morrissey’s mentor, and the Cavanaugh leader, Aaron Dyson. Both boys are old hands around interhall football and directed teams last year.
Dyson’s Farley eleven missed the Eastern division title last year because of a lone defeat suffered at the hands of Amato’s Zahmites, who finished a half game behind the Farley outfit. So this Sunday’s encounter will see the re-
(Continued on Page 29)
The 1951 football season reaches its midyear climax tomorrow when once-beaten Notre Dame invades East Lansing to engage the undefeated Spartans of Michigan State. A capacity crowd of over 51,0C0 will jam Macklin Field to witness the struggle between two of the nation’s gridiron giants.
DON COLEMAN
State Could Least Afford to Lose
This is the big one for both teams-The Irish will be seeking revesge for the 36-33 licking handed them by the Spartans last year, while State will attempt to become the first team to defeat Notre Dame twice in succession since the great Army teams of ’44 and ’45 turned the trick.
If Coach “Biggie” Munn’s Spartans, ranked second in the country, get by the Irish they can lay a strong claim to the national title, and only Indiana and Colorado will stand between State and its first all-winning season since 1913.	.
Notre Dame has ambitions of its own
.	25
Nov. 9, 1951
Captains and Outstanding Ends
BOB CAREY
Played a Big Part
JIM MUTSCHELLER in the 1950 Tussle
in addition to the revenge incentive. A victory, plus a win over Southern California in the season’s finale, would •put the Irish in contention for national honors.
Comparative scores help little in predicting the outcome of the game, but they do show the power of both clubs.
State has won six in a row shutting out Oregon 6-0, and Michigan, 25-0, in the season’s first two games; then coming from behind three weeks running to dump Ohio State, 24-20, Marquette, 20-14, and Penn State, 32-21. Two
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS
(Offense) MICH. STATE NOTRE DAME Carey, Bob ____LE_______ Ostrowski Coleman ________________.L T_ Poehler
Garner --------GG........ Seaman
Creamer _______ C......... Hunter
Kapral ........R G...... Bardash
McFadden ______RT....... Tonefl'
Carey, Bill ___RE---- Mutsche’ler Dorow ---------------QB___ Mazur
McAuliffe _____1H------ Petitbon
Pisano --------RH....... Barrett
Panin ---------.F B...... Worden
Kickoff time: 1:30 EST.
weeks ago the Spartans swamped Pittsburgh, 53-26.	.
Frank Leahy’s Irish have won five of their first six, losing to SMU in the now famous sky battle, 27-20. Pittsburgh. the only team to test both squads was defeated 33-0.
Michigan State has plenty of individual stars, headed by Captain Bob Carey, Don Coleman, Bill Hughes, Al Dorow, and Vince Pisano, but the Spartans’ main threat lies in their tremendous reserve strength. Munn’s squad is three deep at most positions with 25 lettermen forming the backbone.
Coleman Line Standout
At ends against the Irish will be the Carey twins, Bob and Bill. The former, a sure-fire All-American, kicked the winning field goal in last year’s game, and is State’s best pass receiver. Brother Bill lettered at quarterback in ’50 but was shifted to the flank this year. Behind the Careys is Paul Dekker, the squad’s number two pass catcher.
Two more seniors, Don Coleman and Marv McFadden, are set at tackle. Coleman, another All-American prospect, is heralded as the player Michigan State could least afford to lose. The 190-pound watch-charm Negro plays
tackle offensively and guard defensively. McFadden, a 195-pounder, has been a regular since the middle of last season.
Year after year State is strong at guard and this season is no exception. Dean Garner and Frank Kapral follow the tradition of Ed Bagdon, Don Mason, and John Yocca, stars of the past two Spartan elevens. On defense a David and Goliath combination Frank Kush and Dick Kuh, who weigh in at 180 and 225, will start.
Jim Creamer, a 6-3, 210 senior, is the offensive center while Hughes is the defensive standout. He is one of the nation’s top linebackers, a crushingtackler and ace pass defender.
Dorow Directs Offense
The starting backfield will be Dorow at quarterback, Don McAuliffe and Pisano at the halves, and Dick Panin at full. However, Munn has a whole host of subs that can be just as dangerous as the starters—LeRoy Bolden, Bill Wells, Tom Yewcic, Wayne Benson, and Evan Slovac.
Dorow completed 32 of 60 passes in the first five games for 423 yards and two touchdowns. The Imlay City, Mich., senior has had a hand in all the Spartan victories this year.
McAuliffe won the Oregon game almost single handed and was a standout against Pitt and Penn State. While Pisano, who led State against the Irish last year with 124 yards gained in 19 carries, played a great game against Michigan.
In the Marquette encounter Bolden was the star, and it was Yewcic who threw the winning pass to Dorow in the Ohio State game.
VINCE PISANO 124 Yards In 19 Carries
26
The Scholastic
Tomorrow’s Field Generals
Trojans Thunder On;
North Carolina Loses
JOHN MAZUR	AL DOROW
They’ve Met Several Times Before
Irish Edge Middies
In their last warmup before meeting this array of Spartan power, the Irish sloshed through the mud of Baltimore's Babe Ruth Stadium to defeat Navy, 19-0. Three long scoring runs gave Notre Dame the win.
The game was a scoreless tie until late in the second period when the Irish tallied twice within two minutes. Neil Worden made his first touchdown since the Indiana game to break the contest open. The Milwaukee sophomore took a handoff from John Mazur and churned 36 yards for the TD.
A moment later, after Dave Flood recovered a Middie fumble, Mazur
Irish Harriers Win 19th Loyola Invitational
By placing five runners among the first twelve finishers, Coach Alex Wilson’s harriers won the 19th annual Loyola Invitational cross-country meet last Saturday in Chicago.
Jack Alexander led the Notre Dame runners by coming in third. Following him were Ben Almaguer, fourth; Bob Feiler, sixth; George Helfenstein, seventh; and Con Tetrault, twelfth.
scored one of his own on a 21-yard keeper play. Menil Mavraides converted after Mazur’s tally.
Billy Barrett supplied the biggest thrill of the game in the final quarter when he scampered 75 up the sidelines with a Navy punt for the last touchdown.
The Irish defensive platoon must get a large amount of the credit for the win. Navy was held to 84 yards lushing and 44 passing, and did not make a first down until the last minute of the second quarter. Linebackers Jack Alessandrini and Dan Shannon, centerguard John Lee, and tackle Sam Palumbo paced the defensive squad’s impressive performance.
Phil Coleman of Southern Illinois, with a time of 18:35.9, won the 3% mile race which was considerably slowed by a stiff wind and sub-freezing temperature. •
Notre Dame won with a low score of 32 followed by Wheaton, 61; Loyola, 76; Illinois State Normal, 115; Bradley, 132; Chicago, 136; and Elmhurst, 178. Southern Illinois had an incomplete team.
While undefeated Michigan State took a week off to rest in preparation for the invasion by Notre Dame, the three remaining opponents on Coach Leahy’s agenda, won, lost, and tied in last weekend’s encounters.
And of course as expected, it was the mighty Trojans of Southern California who won, as they racked up their sixth straight victory in dumping a fighting but outmanned Army eleven 28-6.
Led by Frank Gifford and his bruising teammates, the Trojans overcame the miserable weather conditions and a first period touchdown by the Cadets, to ramble on to a 14-6 edge at halftime.
In the third period it was Gifford again who led the ground assault, but it was fullback Hal Han who scored the third TD, while Johnny Williams tallied the final marker on a beautiful 66 yard carry down the side line. Gifford kicked all four extra points, and paced the Trojans by gaining 138 yards in 26 tries.
Snow and cold weather continued to dominate the football picture, but it did not stop Iowa’s unpredictable Hawkeyes from scoring 20 points in the final quarter to gain a spectacular 20-20 tie with Minnesota.
The big gun in Iowa’s terrific garrison finish was fullback Bill Reichart, who scored twice in that last period, and booted two out of three extra points.
With less than 12 minutes remaining in the game, Iowa capitalized on a blocked Gopher punt, with Reichart lugging the leather 16, 6, and finally 8 yards and the Hawkeyes first score.
Iowa’s second TD came eight minutes later when quarterback Burt Britz-mann passed to Hubert Johnston on an off-tackle eligible play, climaxing a 66-yard downfield march.
Then, with less than two minutes left, Iowa found itself only 44 yards from paydirt. Britzmann pitched to Dusty Rice for 7 yards to the 37, and from there Reichart legged it the rest of the way to conclude the Hawkeye’s amazing comeback.
Not so fortunate as the Hawkeyes were North Carolina’s bewildered Tarheels, as they absorbed their fifth defeat in seven starts, this time being shutout by top-ranking Tennessee, 27-0.
The Tarheels, who will face the Irish next week at Chapel Hill, couldn’t stop the Volunteer’s mastermind, Hank Lau-ricella, who engineered all four touchdowns by scoring twice himself, passing for another, and setting up still another.—Jack Sand
Nov. 9, 1951
27
Tennessee Reserves Rout Irish Bees 38-6
After drawing first blood early in the game, the Notre Dame B gridders succumbed to the sparkling passing attack of the Tennessee reserves to wind up on the short, end of a 38-6 score at Memphis last Saturday.
Quarterbacks Pat Oleksiak and Joe Moore threw two touchdown passes apiece as the junior Vols kept their unbeaten record intact.
Splinters fromihfflressbgX
By Jack Varley
BOBBY JOSEPH On a Five Yard Jaunt
Bobby Joseph was Notre Dame’s offensive star of the game and scored on a five-yard jaunt to climax a 44-yard drive after six minutes had elapsed. But the slim, chilled crowd of 2,451 soon had plenty to cheer about as the Vols took command.
Oleksiak passed 45 yards to end Chuck Bender for the first Tennessee tally, and the same combination clicked again for 23 yards later to put the Vols in front to stay.—Tom Foote
STUDENT COUNCIL AGENDA
The agenda for the next meeting of the Student Council, which is to be held Monday at 7:15 p.m. in Room 101 Law Building, will be highlighted by a discussion of the forthcoming Mardi Gras.
The selection of a general chairman and the division of the Mardi Gras profits will also be taken under consideration.
Tomorrow’s game with Michigan State is very important to Notre Dame. For if the Irish can win this one they will have a very good chance to end up among the top teams in the country. If they lose, they’re completely out of the running. They have to win tomorrow.
The Irish Will Sweat Tomorrow'
Will they? Chances are that while they will really have to sweat, Coach Frank Leahy’s charges will return from East Lansing victorious. Michigan State is undefeated; Notre Dame has suffered one loss. But, Michigan State has had to come from behind in its last four games to preserve its record while Notre Dame had very little trouble in copping its victories. Notre Dame’s loss . . . that was to a team whose offense was based almost completely on a passing attack and centered around one of the best passers in the business. Michigan State has no Fred Benners.
So the Spartan attack will most likely be via the ground and on the basis of statistics Notre Dame’s forward defense wall should hold them and thus be the deciding factor* in an Irish victory.
Prediction of the Week
MSC does have a passing attack . . . and a pretty good one. In six games State’s quarterback Al Dorow has connected on 43 out of 76 tosses for a .565 average and 594 yards. Still chances are pretty slim that it will be as devastating as the aerial bombardment Southern Methodist unleashed in the stadium a few weeks back and that forward wall should stop the Spartan’s fleet backs long enough for the Notre Dame offense to grind out a 27-20 victory.
Last year a twice-beaten Irish squad almost did the trick. They did everything on the gridiron that day but win. The game was even closer than the 36-33 score would indicate. John Petitbon ran 171 yards in ten tries for a 17.1 average and one TD. . . . Jim Mutscheller caught six passes for 109 yards and three markers . . . and John Mazur tossed 11 passes, completed eight for 107 yards and two six-pointers. That was last year ■when the caliber of the team was much lower than it is this year and when Michigan State had Leroy Crane and “Sonny” Grandelius who racked up three-fifths of the Spartans’ rushing yardage.
Odds ’n’ Ends
Since the Notre Dame-Michigan State series was inaugurated in 1897, Notre Dame has won 15 times and the gridders from East Lansing three times —17-0 in 1910, 13-7 in 1918 and the 36-33 score last year. In the 18 games the Irish squads have scored 445 points while holding the Spartans to 100. ... If you look at Michigan State’s starting lineup you will find two Careys listed — both of them ends. They are twin brothers, Bob and Bill, and the same two who played basketball against us the last few years. Bob is rated as one of the outstanding athletes to ever perform at East Lansing. -Besides being captain and first string end on the grid squad and first string center-forward on the basketball team, he is Big Ten shot put champion in track. His best effort was measured at 53 feet, two inches—enough to win him All-American rating in 1951. . . . Jim Driscoll, B.S., June, ’51, shattered a record at the Army Field Forces Physical Training School at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, when he performed 117 consecutive push-ups. The previous record was 69. Driscoll is undergoing a seven weeks course in physical training at the school to qualify him as a physical training instructor in the army.
28
The Scholastic
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J. M. S. Bld?.
AQUINAS Library and Bookstore
wmuwhw lw raw—
209 W. COLFAX AVE.
Paul Wehlan, Mgr.
Next to the grace of God a taste for good reading is one of the greatest gifts we can possess.
TYPING CLASSES
for
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Monday Evenings, 7-9 p. m.
South Bend College of Commerce
212 S. St. Joseph St. 3-3191
IIO EAST LaSALLE
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because Be Flunked The Finger-lNail Test
POOR PAUL was eggzasperated because every chick on campus gave him the bird. They told him: "We’re all cooped up!” Then one day his roommate said: "The hens avoid you beak-cause your hair’s messy, you dumb cluck! I don’t know feather you’ve heard of Wildroot Cream-Oil or not, but you better fry it— er, try it! Contains soothing Lanolin. Relieves dryness. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test.” Paul got Wildroot Cream-Oil— and now the gals think he’s a good egg! Better lay down a few poultry cents on the nearest drug or toilet goods counter for a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil. And .ask for it on your hair at your favorite barber shop. Then the girls’ll take off their hatch to youl
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. K
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.

Championship Game
(Continued from Page 2-5) newal of the feud between Dyson and Amato.
Morrissey will again rely on their indestructible defense to hold the Cavanaugh backs in check. Few teams have been able to make more than a couple of first downs much less threaten to score against the staunch defensive unit of the Western division champs.
They average around 205 pounds on the line and 190 in the backfield. At the ends Coach Amato has Don Zech (180 pounds) and Don Hoffman (190), an outstanding defensive flankman. Bill Till and Bill Morley (both at 215 pounds) man the tackle slots both on offense and defense.
Morrissey Has Speed
Manning the center of. the line is guard Matt Tadisch (225). A trio of big reliable boys, Bob White (200), Clem Mawicke (185), and Glen Sliger (190), work in close support as linebackers.
Dyson, of Cavananugh, has plans to crack this vaunted Morrissey defense with an emphasis on speed and deception. His club uses the T which is also the basic formation, .of the Morrissey squad.
Cavanaugh’s offensive team’s line will average around 198 pounds and the backfield about 165 pounds apiece. At the ends Dyson will have Tom Short and Paul Dyer; tackle: Paul Kelley and Joe D’Antoni; Jim and Dick Moran at the guards posts; and center, Rich Hohman.
In the backfield it will be Pete Chase directing the team with Mike Lagrou playing fullback. Chase is an excellent field general with lots of poise and a fine passer but he will meet an equally capable quarterback in Morrissey’s Marty Vieth.
Both lads are fine passers and have four T.D. tosses to their credit during league play. Vieth’s favorite receivers are ends Bob White and Don Zech. White has two touchdowns to his credit to lead his team in scoring and Zech has one.	«
Working with Vieth (who has tallied eight points of his own) to make the Morrissey ground attack click are Joe Bandiera and Mike Walsh. Walsh has yet to score but his running has been responsible in setting up many of his team’s scores. He’s the workhorse of the Morrissey backfield and a fine breakaway runner. Rounding out the Amato-men’s top offensive backfield is their big, bruising fullback Fred Bellissimo.
Pete Chase’s top receivers have been
29
Nov. 9, 1951
Bill Dyer and Pat Connley. Each player has been on the receiving end for two scoring passes. But the top scorer for the Cavanaughites and the leading point maker of the league will be available for only limited action in the championship battle.
Fullback Dick Duffy scored three T.D.’s in Cavanaugh’s opener but in the very next game he was sidelined for the rest of the season with a shoulder separation. Coach Dyson plans to use Dick’s accurate toe on his team’s extra point attempts against Morrissey.
The final league standings follow:
EASTERN DIVISION
W	L	T	PCT.	TP.	OP.
Cavanaugh -----3	0	0	1.000	52	0
Zahm ..........Ill .500	6	8
Breen-Phillips	..0	1	2	.333	6	31
Farley ........0	2	1	.167	6	31
WESTERN DIVISION
Morrissey .....3
Dillon ......  2
Lyons .........1
St. Ed’s....... 0
0	0	1.000	47	0
1	0	.666	37	6
2	0	.333	7	34
3	0	.000	0	51
Sport Briefs
John Petitbon, Notre Dame’s left halfback from New Orleans, La., has had his two greatest days in collegiate football against two teams from neighboring Michigan. Last year against Michigan State, he gained 171 yards in 10 carries, for a 17-yard-per-try average, and caught four passes for 42 yards, to bring his total yardage for the game to a hefty 213. This year, against Detroit, he did as well or better. From scrimmage he carried 12 times for 113 yards. That is away above average per-carry of 9.4 yards. On the side, he ran two punts back for a total of 85 yards, ran one kick-off back for 85 yards. These gains brought his yardage for the game to the startling total of 183 yards. He scored three touchdowns while amassing this total.
Jack Alessandrini of Notre Dame, called by the Fighting Irish coaching staff one of the best line-backers in collegiate football, shifted his role from teacher to pupil when he returned to Notre Dame at the beginning of fall practice. Alessandrini, along with his former high school teammate 'Lou Fisher of Ohio State, had been tutoring the linemen at Catholic High in Charleston, W. Va., his prep alma mater.
Morrissey Wins Western Division Title;
Cavanaugh Downs Zahm, Cops East Honors
A fiercely charging Morrissey forward line ripped the Lyons line to shreds to spring backs Mike Walsh, Joe Bandiera and Fred Bellissimo loose for consistent long gains and a smashing 21-0 victory. By virtue of the win, Morrissey now faces Cavanaugh in the stadium on Sunday, Nov. 11, for the campus championship.
Morrissey dominated play throughout the first quarter and was on the Lyons 15-yard line when the period ended. Walsh and Bellissimo ripped off gains of 40 and 38 yards respectively during this period.
At the start of the second quarter a 15-yard penalty set Morrissey back to the 30, but in two plays Bandiera had carried to the 1-foot line and on the next play crashed over for the score. Lyons fumbled the ensuing kickoff, but recovered on their 4. Five plays later however, a bad punt ended up on the Lyons 10, and two plays later Bellissimo had reeled around end for the necessary 10 yards. Quarterback Marty Vieth converted and Morrissey led at the half, 13-0.
At the start of the second half, another bad Lyons punt gave Morrissey the ball on the Lyons 12. The Lyons line dug in, however, and held for four downs inside the 10-yard line. After a Lyons fumble and another 15-yard penalty against Morrissey, Bellissimo heaved a 30-yard pass into the end zone where End Bob White gathered it in for the touchdown.
Morrissey continued to outplay their opponents in the final quarter and in the course of a drive into Lyons territory, Vieth and Bandiera teamed for a 20-yard pass play. Evantually a punt rolled dead on the Lyons 2, and three plays later the hard-charging Morrissey forward wall smeared a Lyons runner in his end zone for a touchback and the final points of the fray.
As the game ended, Morrissey was again driving goalward, with End Don Zech picking up 20 yards on an end-around play.
Dan Finn’s outmanned but valiant team from Lyons was paced by Quarterback Guy Mecina, Guard Ed Burns, End Bob Adams and Fullback Al Jannett.
The entire defensive line of Coach Frank Amato of Morrissey deserves special mention. They were Ends Don Zech and Don Hoffman, Tackles Bill
Till and Bill Morley, Guards Clem Mawicke and Matt Tadisch, Linebackers Bob White and Glen Sliger, and Halfback Al Jannett—Ken Murphy
Cavanaugh, 8; Zahm, 0
The gridiron men of Cavanaugh Hall earned their right to meet their crosscampus rivals from Morrissey this weekend in what might be appropriately called the “Snow Bowl” for the interhall championship. They acquired the right by means of an 8-point victory over the gridders from across the way — Zahm Hall. It was the Sophs third and final conquest without being-scored upon in “conference” play.
In a sluggish first half neither team seemed to be going anywhere. In fact the 2-0 score posted at the half-time was due to the Zahm quarterback going too far back in his own end-zone and being tackled while attempting to punt.
However, after the three-time winners received their- between-halves instructions from Coach Aaron Dyson, the linemen began clearing the road, and the halfbacks started driving-through for huge gains. Nevertheless when it came to scoring the game’s lone TD, it was Cavanaugh’s capable quarterback Pete Chase chucking a fourth-down pass to halfback Pat Connolly good for 18 yards. The try for the extra point was blocked, and the final score remained 8-0.
The outstanding play of the various Cavanaugh halfbacks attracted more attention from the crowd than anything else. Among these were Mike Laughlin who gained twice as much ground as any other back in the first half; and Connolly, who besides catching passes, was making yardage on end runs on sheer speed alone. Near the end of the game Jim Langrow and Bob Chickey gave notice that they were quite adept also with some exceptional running.
Except for guard Jim Maclnnis, the line play of the Cavanaughites was not very conspicuous. Maclnnis made many tackles as defensive linebacker, and supplied some good blocks while on offense.
Defensive tackle Jack Connolly and Captain Joe Hayden were two good reasons why the Sophs were held to their lowest margin of victory for the season. Zahm halfback Pete Billick did a fine job as a two-way man during the contest.—Tom Moore
30
The Scholastic
Vetville Wives Offer Students Chance at Real Home Cookin'
Notre Dame students will have the opportunity to taste real home-made pastry goods again next Wednesday evening when Vetville “gives away”' cakes, pies, and cookies made by the wives of the married students. The Vet Rec Hall will be the scene, beginning at 8 o’clock, of the winning of these culinary products.
Tickets will be sold at the door for ten cents each, and will be used to buy a number on any of the three or four “Wheels of Chance” which will be situated at various places in the Hall.
Each spin of the wheel will be for a certain cake, pie, or number of cookies from those contributed by approximately 115 women. The wheels will be spun until the last prize has been won, so no time limit has been set for the affair.
Every student is invited to attend and try to win as many of the baked goods as he can.
The affair is sponsored by the Vetville Council in order to build up the community treasury.
GREYHOUND...
Heap Big Bargain for Everybody Going Home for Thanksgiving!
Engineers!
You can leave your sliderules back in the hall when you go to SOUTH BEND FLORAL for those flowers for the Engineers' Ball.
No formulae are needed to see that they've got the stuff to give that special girl that special look.
SOUTH BEND FLORAL
114 South Michigan Phone 3-8227
Fares from South Bend
Kansas City, Mo._______$ 9.75
St. Louis, Mo.......... 6.50
Detroit, Mich.......... 4.30
Chicago, III........... 2.00
Toledo, Ohio .........	3.30
Cleveland, Ohio _______ 5.40
Louisville, Ky_________ 6.20
Cincinnati, Ohio_______ 6.05
Denver, Colo._________$21.85
New York City_________ 17.35
Pittsburgh, Pa.......	8.65
Boston, Mass._________ 19.40
Memphis, Tenn. _______ 11.05
Grand Rapids, Mich... 3.00
Knoxville, Tenn. _____ 11.30
Atlanta, Ga.___________ 14.45
Dallas, Texas ________ 18.60
Battle Creek, Mich— 2.40
UNION BUS TERMINAL
117 Western Ave.	Phone 3-8283
*
GREYHOUND
Nov. 9, 1951
31
Ill I III PARADE
A little boy was saying his goodnight prayers in a very low voice.
“I can’t hear you, dear,” his mother whispered.
“Wasn’t talking to you,”. replied the wee one.
The little boy woke up at four in the ■morning, and asked mother to tell him a story.
“Just be patient, dear,” she said. ■“Daddy will be home soon, and we’ll heai- a story that’ll be a whopper.”
I ivish I were a kangaroo, Despite his funny stances; rd have a place to put the junk My girl friend brings to dances.
He: “Can I have a match?”
Him: “Here’s a cigarette lighter.”
He: “Don’t be silly, I can’t pick my teeth with a cigarette lighter.”
Two little girls were discussing their families.
“Why does your grandmother read the Bible so much?” asked one.
The other replied. “I think she’s cramming for her finals.”
Red corpuscles: Non-com in the Russian army.
Officer: “Don’t you know better than to point that empty gun at me?”
Private: “Who said it was empty?”
Observations on the process of maturing:
Freshman. Mama, may I go out?
Sophomore: I’m going out, Mama.
Junior: Bye, Ma, don’t wait up. -Senior: Night, Mother. I’ll bring in the milk.
Little Boy: “Mommy, didn’t you tell me we came from dust and we’ll go back to dust?”
Mommy: “Yes.”
Little boy: “Well, you’d better look tinder the bed ’cause somebody’s either •coming or going.”
The best way to drive a baby buggy is to tickle his feet.
“Mother, are there any skyscrapers in heaven?”
“No, son, engineers build skyscrapers.”
“It’s true,” said the husband, pen
sively. “My wife ran away with my best friend.”
“Too bad. Was he a handsome devil?”
“Can’t say. I never met the man.”
The medical officer was testing the water supply.
“What precaution do you take against infection?” he asked the sergeant in charge.
“We boil it first, sir,” the sergeant replied.
“Good!”
“Then we filter it.”
“Excellent!”
“And then, just for safety’s sake, we always drink beer.”
“A man of large caliber, isn’t he?” “Yes, he is a big bore.”
“So youi' son got his B.S. and his M.A.”
“Yes, but his P.A. still has to support him.”
To make a girl laugh at your jokes
Is really quite simple;
Just pick out one ivith pretty teeth, Or one who has a dimple.
“I hear you’ve been to a school for stuttering. Did it cure you?”
“Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers.”
“Why, that’s wonderful!”
“Yes, but it’s darn hard to work into an ordinary c-c-conversation.”
Father: “Well, son, what did you learn in school today?”
Son (proudly) : I learned to say Yes, sir, and No, sir, and Yes, mam and No, mam.”
Father: “You did, eh?”
Son: “Yeah.”
The spinal column is a collection of bones running up and down that keeps you from being legs clean up to your neck.
Drunk (looking down at, moon’s reflection in water): “Say, is that the moon?”
Cop: “That’s correct.”
Drunk: “Well, how did I get way up here?”
First Electrician: “Have we any foui’ volt, two watt bulbs?"
Second ditto: “For what?”
Second: “Two what?”
First: “Yes.”
“It’s so simple,” modestly explains one of the Physics lab assistants, “to hook up electric power circuits. I merely fasten leads on terminals and pull the switch. If the motor runs, we take our readings. If it smokes, we sneak it back and get another one!”
“Mabel, you really ought to wear a hat when you go out in the evening.”
“But, Mother, I am wearing a hat. It’s on the other side.”
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
WANT A , DANCE DATE SATURDAY NIGHT?
ENROLL AT
ARTHUR MURRAY'S
TODAY
Even if you’ve never danced before — you can dance with carefree confidence this Saturday night. It’s so easy to learn “The New Arthur Murray Way.” Because once you know the Arthur Murray Magic Step, the secret to all dances is yours. Come to Arthur Murray’s today!
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne Street
Phone 2-3339
SPECIAL N. D. RATES
32
The Scholastic
Placement News
On Monday, Nov. 12, representatives from the U. S. Steel Corp., Pittsburgh, Pa., will interview January graduates in engineering. On this same day, representatives from Merck and Co., Rahway, N. J., will interview Ph.D., M.S., and B.S. Chemists who are to graduate in 1952.
Mr. Jack Stuart from the Westinghouse Corp., East Pittsburgh, Pa., will be here Wednesday, Nov. 14, to interview mechanical and electrical engineers and physicists on all degree levels who are to graduate in 1952.
On Thursday, Nov. 15, representatives from the National Aniline Corp., Buffalo, N. Y., will interview Ph.D. chemists interested in doing research, and also chemical engineers. Philco Corp, representatives will interview on the same day B.S. and M.S. electrical engineers and also some mechanical engineers who are interested in their organization. ‘ The representative from DuPont de Nemours, Wilmington, Del-will interview all engineers on the same day.
Mr. J. F. Manning, representing Rolfs, a division of the Amity Leather Co. of West Bend, Wis., will interview on Friday, Nov. 16, candidates who are interested in going into sales with his organization.
BEST AND LATEST AT
Al SmiUA
RECORD BAR
Complete line of
JAZZ—DIXIELAND—POPULAR CLASSICAL on all 3 speeds
412 S. Michigan Phone 7-3553
Don’t miss our WND shows.
REPAIR ... IT!
Reweaving
COMPLETELY E' IMINATES
MOTH HOLES—BURNS TEARS—DAMAGES
Suits-Coats-Dresses-Skirts Trousers-Linens-Knitted Garment*
Rubin Cleaners 217 E. Jefferson On the Bus Line
lOman-iH
When filter turns brown—in Medico
Pipes or Cigarette Holders—throw it away, with the nicotine, juices, flakes and tars it has trapped. Insert fresh filter for cooler, cleaner, dryer, sweeter smoking. Imported Briar.
NEW: MEDICO CREST-SIN
Medico's Fineslf Rich Burgundy finish.
MEDICO V.F.Q. — SIN MEDICO MEDALIST-S1.N
Wide variety of styles and sizes.
Write S. M. Frank * Co., N. Y., for Booklet 0
MEDICO CIGARETTE HOLDERS 5
A D
DON’T TAKE
...DANCE LESSONS AT AdM
THE INSTRUCTORS ARE LOUSY — UGLY TOO
A
They trip you and stomp on your feet when you are trying to learn a new step. If you don't get a new step the first time you try it, they throw rocks at you and break phonograph records on your head. When you are crawling out of the joint they kick you down the steps.
IT ISN'T FUN . . . IT'S PLAIN TORTURE
Anyhow who wants to be a good dancer. It’s much more fun to watch the others. So it's common knowledge that being a good dancer is an asset insofar as being popular and having social poise. Who wants to be popular? Who wants to be well liked or fun to be with? Those things aren't important. But even if you do want to become a good dancer, it's too expensive at ADAIRE'S. Our group lessons are very unreasonable.
10 Hours for $10.00
Pay $1.00 a week if you desire.
SCHOOL OF DANCING Phone 2-0166
216 S. Lafayette Blv'd
For an Introductory Lesson
Nov. 9, 1951
33
~lhe IBack Vage
'___________________By Bill Riley
This is another in the series of “stories without morals.” Mare may appear. —Ed.
Big black headlines in newspapers all over the world told the story. The members of the Russian delegation had walked out. This in itself was not too unusual, but the head of the delegation, one Marilslov Vichovich, who customarily brought with him to committee meetings in a brown paper sack, a big hunk of salami, some brown bread and a clean pair of socks and skivvies, had, when leaving, picked up this same sack and taken it with him. Heretofore, diplomatic hearts, set beating rapidly by the walk-out, had been calmed when their owners noticed the brown paper sack nestling in an obscure corner under the table of the Red group. Now it was gone. As inevitably as the sinking of the Maine, the attack on Fort Sumter, or the sinking of the Lusitania, it meant war!
Peace-lovers around the globe had been getting progressively more worried during the six months preceding the crisis. In the first place, steadily growing in volume from the Soviet Press Sen-ice, there had been calls for peace. Premier Stalin had issued a famous statement which began: “I do not want war, Vyashlevli doesn’t want war. . . .” He had even bought a small black scottie. The Scottie carried a white dove between his teeth. It was all very frightening.
And inevitable. Not only had hysteria begun to seize the populace of the coun-tiies of the world, but dogs, possibly unnerved by their master’s instability, had begun biting themselves. The humane society was puzzled, but finally solved the problem by shooting all those dogs who hadn’t yet bit themselves, in •order to keep the fantastic plague from spreading. Little children, owners of the unbitten dogs, also shot themselves, in sorrow. The situation was tense.
It was just a matter of time before the first atom bomb would fall—in New York, Moscow, London or Paris. No one knew just where. The president of the United States had flown to London for a last-minute conference, only to find that the British prime minister had flown to Paris, also for a conference. The premier of France was in Moscow, trying to reach Stalin.
A need for leadership
A large metropolitan tabloid, in a city in the Eastern United States, had set up a cosmograph photo on its front page. The picture was one of Hiroshima, superimposed on New York. One could just make out Washington Square, buried beneath the rubble of a Shinto shrine. For the first time in many years, the situation was out of the hands of the leaders of the various governments. In San Francisco, Miami, New York, Cleveland and Mishawaka, the people were thronging the streets, throwing marshmallows at each other. There was a deep need for leadership.
Henry Messerschmidt, a truck farmer from just outside Osceola, had come in to sell his produce in Mishawaka. He was riding a bus, looking at a sign on how to prevent forest fires, with the window open, when a marshmallow hit him, squarely on the right ear. Now, beinghit with a marshmallow while riding on a bus, looking at a sign on how to prevent forest fires was a new experience for Henry, especially on the right ear. He wondered what was happening, and, picking up the cahoo squash which he was carrying with him, got off the bus to find out.
He was amazed at what he saw. Marshmallows littered the streets. Dogs were chasing their tails, humane society men, carrying flame throwers were chasing the dogs, and small boys, aimed with B-B guns and an occasional luger, were chasing the policemen. Henry saw that there was some need for organization. Setting his cahoo squash down on the sidewalk, he mounted upon it and cried:
Solution: a world fire
“Citizens of Mishawaka.” The crowds slowed down, looked curiously at him, standing there on the squash. “Citizens of Mishawaka,” Henry cried. They stepped. “What is all the furore about? Is it because we are going to war? Is it because you have had enough of war?” A deep throated “yes” surged from the crowd, mingled with an occasional yelp, or the pop of a revolver.
Meanwhile, as Henry spoke, a roving radio reporter had set up a mike in front of him. Every word he spoke went out across the nation.
Like the World Series
“Then, citizens,” Henry said, “let us not go to war. Let us have all the effects
of war without anyone getting hurt. Let us have a great world fire. Into this fire we will throw all of the masterpieces of the world of art—all of the great paintings, the great books, and such incidentals as all the Stradivarii violins. Also we will set fire to the most beautiful buildings, and gut private homes. No one, however, will be injured. It will be a most beautiful fire, and people will talk about it for years. After it all burns down, and only embers are left, we can have a conference, and redistribute all the burned out lands. Then, when war threatens again, or when all the ravaged lands are renewed, whichever is first, we can have another great world fire. Maybe it will become an institution, like the world series, or canned beer.”
A great cheer went up from the crowd. Henry’s idea was, as they say, a natural. Immediately, as if by some strange alchemy, world’s fire clubs were set up all over the world. Nobody read the papers, no one listened to the radio. Everyone was arguing over what was going to be burned first. The choice had narrowed down to one between St. Peter’s in Rome and the National Art Gallery in Washington, D. C. St. Peter’s was leading. However, there were some, a powerful minority, who were bucking for the Sistine chapel.
It was going to be resolved by a world-wide ballot. A large metropolitan tabloid in the mid-west ran a cosmograph of St. Peter’s being engulfed in the flames of the Chicago Stockyard’s fire. Betting on which would go first was heavy, and the commissioners in East St. Louis quoted 5-3 on St. Peter’s, 2-1 on the gallery, with the Sistine Chapel an outsider at 15-1.
Just then, when the balloting was almost completed, those who were counting the votes got a long distance call from Al Gluzik, who owned a delicatessen in downtown New York. Gluzik would speak to no one except the committee head. When he did speak, he explained that he didn’t want to say anything, as it was hard enough to make a living, but that Russian Vichovich was even now in the delicatessen, buying salami. Vichovich had explained that his original salami, which had kept him alive for 19 months, had finally been completely consumed. He was restocking.
Preparations for the world fire stopped. There was no longer a reason for one at that time. An investigation of Gluzik was begun. It was discovered that he had bought heavily in marshmallows, and stood to lose a lot of money if the fire came off. He was denaturalized and sentenced to 15 years in the federal penitentiary.
34
The Scholastic
tyoGihaU tyofacaAt. . .
Here’s your chance to prove that you too are an expert in rating football games. All you have to do is to mark in your favorite predictions in the space provided and leave them at the designated points before noon of the Saturday on which the game is to be played. What could be simpler? The makers of Medico V. F. Q. pipes will award a Smoker’s Set containing two pipes (as pictured) each week to the winner of our contest.
DIRECTIONS—Please circle the ten teams that you think will come out on top. Also indicate your prediction as to the score of each game. In case of ties duplicate prizes will be awarded. To facilitate judging please use the form below. Only University of Notre Dame students are eligible.
	
FOOTBALL FORECAST	— Games of November 17fh
	-
NAME	ADDRESS
Notre Dame 		North Carolina 	
Ohio State 		Illinois 			
Tennessee 		Mississippi		
Princeton 		Yale 	
Kansas U		Oklahoma A. & M	
Pennsylvania 		Army	—
Wake Forest		Baylor		
Texas Christian 		Texas -		
Dartmouth 		Cornell 	
Iowa 			Wisconsin 			
Nor. 9, 1951
35
MAIN library
”t^ JOSEPHINE
See GLORIA DeHAVEN starring in "FRIENDLY ISLAND A 20th Century-Fox Pro du c f ion - Co/or by Technrcolo^
THE BIGGEST
PLUS
IN CIGARETTE HISTORY
No
Unpleasant
After-taste
-added to the world’s
most famous ABCs-
Always Milder
Keffer Tasting
pooler Smoking
CHESTERFIELD IS THE ONLY CIGARETTE of all brands tested in which members of our taste panel found no unpleasant after-taste/7
From the report of a well-known research organization
Always BuyCHESTERFIELD
Copyright 1051. teani Muxs Tobacco Co.
