

ft
Cl
'he^otre

Volume 84, No. 7
Town Meeting Tuesday


*?x 3?
'i

ante Scholastic
May 4, 1945
Notre Dame, Indiana
T ■ Li_ The "Scholastic" in its annual i omgnt:- ...	....
w charitv show, oresents the too-
notch boxing talent of the Campus in Dame's celebrated Bengal Bouts.
Notre
&


-1
.t r. J
J. I’ JI' 5
&
-x, •i
I
s.
• 4
«
*«
I
I
%
I
M;
Chief Durdach and Instructor Buono demonstrate to a group of boxers the art o; self-protection.

Home of Famous Names in Quality Clothing
First Choice Among Coliege Men!
SPORT COATS
by SOCIETY BRAND

Others $15 to $40
EASY-fitting sport coats in fine, luxurious all-wool fabrics ... all done up handsomely by Society Brand in perky patterns, solid tones and pleasing plaids. Intelligently tailored for freedom - of -action, at - ease comfort and sparkling good looks.
ALL WOOL SLACKS
Bedford Cords, Flannels, Gabardines
no
Others $5.85, $7.85 to $20
MEN'S SHORTS. 45c to $2
Including Boxer Shorts with elastic waists
It’s Taxi Free in South Bend — to Gilbert’s
7Hf£ MODERN
GILBERT'S
AU",
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
On Saturdays see the N. D. Representative
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing - at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	'
VOL. 84
MAY 4. 1945
NO. 7
Colorful Gathering to Witness "Scholastic" Boxing Show Tonight
This evening, in the University fieldhouse, beginning at 8 p.m., one of the most colorful programs of the traditionally famous Bengal Bouts will be presented before a capacity throng.
Inaugurated as an outlet of the student physical fitness program years ago, the University Championships were adopted by the Scholastic in 1932, and the proceeds sent to charity. Today, the Bengal Bouts hold the number one spot on the list of student activities. They are another material manifestation of the Spirit of Notre Dame.
On this Friday evening, only the strongest of the brave will answer the call to the center of the canvas; for others not so potent fell by the wayside in the preliminaries, and in the semifinals of last Wednesday evening. Tonight each fighter is a rugged veteran of stiff competition. And at the close of the evening, only eight warriors will have their right arms raised in token of victory. Eight others must bow to the winners. This is the night for champions.
Program for Bengal Bouf Finals 8 p.m., Friday, May 4, 1945		
Eugene Sterett (C)	127-Pound Class vs.	Don White (V-l2)
Bill Summerlin (C)	135-Pound Class vs.	Bob	Pasquarella (NROTC)
John Groves (V-l 2)	145-Pound Class vs.	Ken Rousseve (C)
Peter Hamill (V-l2)	BATTLE ROYAL 10-Minute Intermission 155-Pound Class vs.	John Caron (ROTC)
Ralph Deem (V-l2)	165-Pound Class vs.	Bill Bevington (V-l2)
James J. Dougherty (C)	175-Pound Class vs.	Joe Owens (Q
John Trave (C)	Heavyweight Class vs.	Tony Cash
Grouped about the ringside will be a host of celebrities gathered from the civic and sports world, and invited by the Scholastic to be Honored Guests. Heading the list will be the Commissioner of Professional Football, Elmer Layden, one of the most illustrious of Notre Dame’s gridiron greats, and a member of the Immortal Four Horsemen. It was Elmer Layden who, not so many years ago, coached the football team with rare success, and directed the athletics of the University. Tonight he returns to the scene of his triumphs as Honorary Ref- ■ eree of the Fourteenth Edition of the Bengal Bouts. The Scholastic is honored in the presence of Mr. Layden tonight.
Another colorful figure, known to millions of Americans who read the comic . strips, will grace the ringside this evening, in the person of Stanley Link, creator of Tiny Tim, Ching Chow, and who in recent years has handled both Moon Mulins and The Gumps.
The Scholastic is equally honored by
the presence of Captain J. Richard Barry, U.S.N., Commandant of the U.S.N. Midshipmen’s Training School on the campus, and by the presence of Mayor Jesse I. Pavey, of South Bend. Fui-thermore, they will be accompanied by Mr. Ernest Morris, Lay Trustee of the University, and other prominent business and professional men of South Bend, including Mr. Joseph F. Donahue, Mr. Otto A. Pfaff, Dr. Stanley S. Clark, Mr. E. E. Richards, Mr. Woodson S. Carlisle, Mr. Clarence A. Budd, and Mr. Carl Hibbard, Sr. All will act in the capacity of honorary judges for the bouts. All together, they comprise one of the finest groups of distinguished guests in years.
For a full list of the men who will officiate at - the bouts, this evening, see the sport section's account of the Championship Bouts. . . ..
Added attractions on the show this evening, include a concert by the*’University Band; and a Battle Royal which will present the best in buffoonery, and provide the program with a note of hilarity. Just before the intermission, the Huddle Sportsmanship Trophy will be awarded to the boxer in the tournament who shows himself most deserving of this honor.
Admittance to Bob Hope Show by Bond Purchase
Students from the University will be admitted to the Bob Hope War Bond show in the stadium May 28 by purchasing a war bond of any denomination from the Accounting Office in the Main Building before May 10. This arrangement was worked out by the Student Council in cooperation with the St. Joseph County War Bond office. At least 70,000 people are expected to attend the event sponsored primarily for the benefit of the thousands of regular payroll buyers of War Bonds.
The following night, May 29, the famous comedian of radio and screen will present his weekly radio show on a coast-to-coast hook-up from the Navy Drill Hall. Hope’s entire cast will take part in both performances and a famous guest star is expected to appear with him. Only navy personnel will be admitted to the Tuesday night radio show.
3
^he ^Notre Q)ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
College Parade
... By E. F. Gillespie

THE STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN, Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND -	- Navy Associate Editor
GEORGE DESPOT -	Managing Editor
JAMES REGAN -	Sports Editor
JAMES F. McCARTHY -	-	- Feature Editor
AL KUENZLI -	Advertising Manager
RALPH HAYMAN -	- Circulation Manager
BOB O'TOOLE -	Promotion
COLUMNISTS
POWER - WALTERS -	- The Green Banner
E. F. GILLESPIE -	The College Parade
ART WAGNER -	Swabbie's Log
TOM McCAUGHEY -	- Man About Campus
FRANK GUIDO
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C.
Photography
Faculty Adviser
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS
FRANK GRIMALDI JOHN FEENEY
JOHN MILES
JACK FREESE J. J. TENGE	OCTAVE EMOND
GERARD

DAN DANISZEWICZ ROBERT J. SHAW '
JOHN DEFANT
PAUL WEYRAUCH
TOM RYAN
JOHN THOMAS
DAN McGUIRE
LOUIS HAFNER
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los-Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all ..manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
ACROSS THE CAMPUSES
Creighton University has instituted a system of precollege guidance programs in which various faculty members appear before high school audiences to explain the purpose, nature, requirements, and functions of university life. . . . Alice Marble, former tennis star, recently appeared at the University of Minnesota where she spoke on “A Will to Win” and then presented a demonstration tennis match. . . . One hundred and forty-three students of the University of Mary-.land achieved honor ratings for the past quarter. Of these, 94 were Arts and Science students, which, if you are a statistician, should prove something or other. ... A “Sadie Hawkins’ Day Race,” complete with dungarees for the men and appropriate “Daisy Mae” costumes for the co-eds, climaxed "Sadie Hawkins’ Day” at Boston University two weeks ago. . . . The University Daily Kansan has sent its own reporter to cover the San Francisco Conference.
MEMOIRS OF MID-SEMESTERS
The first I’d really like to slam—
• The one who copies my exam;
The other is the dirty skunk
Who covers his and lets me flunk!
SAN FRANCISCO CONFERENCE
University and college students the country over have shown very deep concern over the present proceedings of the World Security Conference at San Francisco. At Miami University, Ohio, collegiates participated in a Post-War Organization Conference which focused attention on the Dumbarton Oaks proposals and the possible conflicts which might arise at the west coast gathering and the manner in which they might be solved. . . . Ohio State University held a Campus Security Conference last week patterned after the California conclave. To add to the reality of the meeting, various nationality groups among the students represented their nationality at the conference. . . . The majority of college publications have featured editorials and special articles to inform and educate the students about the purpose and aims of the parley by the Golden Gate.
THE PAYOFF
She took my hand in a sheltered nook,
She took my candy and my book,
She took the lustrous wrap and fur, ■ She took the gloves I bought for her, She took my words of love and care, She took my flowers so rich and rare, She took my time for quite a while, She took my kisses, maid so shy, She took—I must confess—my eye, She took whatever I could buy, and then— SHE TOOK ANOTHER GUY.
—Ball State News
HERE AND THERE
After much bantering back and forth, Ohio State Greek societies again vetoed a plan to abolish hazing. . . . Northwestern University’s war bond quota for the “Fighting Seventh” has been set at one	(Continued on page 19)
Seniors Plan Formal Dinner-Dance;
Riordan and Gillespie are Co-Chairmen
Approximately 25 men with high hopes of graduating in June gathered last week in the Law building to discuss a proposed Senior Ball. After a verbal battle which would do credit to the Okinawa invasion, the boys decided to undertake the Gargantuan task of throwing a dinner-dance in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel on Saturday night, May 26. All graduating seniors are eligible to attend—RO, V-12, and civilians.
The meeting was called to order by Student Council President Frank Linehan who presided until the election of the dance chairmen. Robert Riordan, Scholastic editor, and Elmer Gillespie, Newburgh, New York, pre-med, were elected co-chairmen.
The two main battles raged over the points of the cost of the bids and the nature of the attire required. After seesawing back and forth for an indeterminable time, mathematical superiority won out in both cases as it was decided that the bids should go on the block at $8.50 a couple and that the event would be formal, meaning tux or tails. This will be the first formal campus-wide dance in nearly three years of wartime social activity.
Because of the chronic famine among these small-change boys, an installment system of payment was worked out. Of the $8.50 bid, $3.50 is to be paid by today to Tom Bergin, 130 Sorin, or Frank Pendarvis, 201 Dillon. The remaining $5 is due by May 21 to the same chancellors of the exchequer.
Swinging into immediate action, Frank Linehan, music chairman, had signed Myron Walz and his band on the line within 24 hours. Walz, according to Linehan, is the outstanding South Bend band and will be on hand that Saturday night to provide the sweet rhythms the boys all want.
Because of the limited space available in the Rotary Room for an affair of this type, the group must necessarily be limited. Reservations chairman Tom Bergin has announced that the crowd must be
limted to 60 couples. Beginning tomorrow, after all graduating seniors have made their reservations, other eighth semester seniors will be accommodated at the established rate under the same plan of payment until this 60 couple quota has been filled. After- that, no amount of money will sway Bergin from his decision to keep the crowd down to this limit.
Any senior who wishes to get in on this big blow-out should contact Bergin or Pendarvis immediately to get their names on the list before the bids are all gone. The quota can be filled by eighth semester seniors from the V-12, civilians, or RO’s.
For God ond Country
Including the tragic death of the Hon. Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the Notre Dame men known to have died in World War II have amounted to 221. Those missing in action touched the 36 mark; those captured remained at 31.
Listed below are the latest casualties, as reported to the Scholastic:
★1st Lieut. Michael H. Bradly, ex. ’45, was killed in service on Dec. 27, 1944.
★Marine Pvt. Robert J. Calahan, ex. ’46, was killed in action on Okinawa on April 6, 1945.
★Sgt. Joseph A. Mariano, ’29, died of wounds on March 29, 1945, while fighting with the 77th Division in the Okinawa area.
Langford to Discuss Argentine Problem In Fourth Town Meeting Tuesday, May 8
Tuesday, May 8, the fourth lecture of the series presented by the Town Meeting will be held in the Law auditorium at 7:20 p.m.
Mr. Walter M. Langford, professor of Spanish, Portuguese, and Latin American history at'the University, will serve as the speaker for the occasion.
A graduate of the class of 1930 at Notre Dame, Mr. Langford received his M.M.L. degree from the National University of Mexico in 1937, following four intensive summers which he dedicated to study there. He is an active contributor to many nationally known publications within the United States. Among them are the Catholic Historical Review, Hispanic Amsrizan Historical Review, The Ave Maria, The Catholic World, and others.
★Major Fred L. Morris, ’35, died March 28, 1945, of wounds received two days earlier in Germany. He had seen considerable action in the last nine months of fighting in Europe.
★1st Lieut. John B. Murphy, ’41, was a bomber pilot in the 12th Air Force. He was killed in action over Italy on November 11, 1944.
★	Sgt. Robert J. O’Toole, ’39, was killed in action on March 9, 1945, by the explosion from a land mine. Sgt. O’Toole was a combat engineer.
★	Capt. Maurice J. McEIligott, ’26, of the U.S. Army Medical Corps, died in service in Tucson, Arizona, on April 24, 1945.
★	1st Lieut. Louis J. Bemish, ’39, gave his life while participating in a bombing mission over Northern China on Oct. 14, 1944, as flight engineer on a Super Fortress. Lieut. Bemish had been awarded the Air Medal for overseas service.
T/Sgt. Edward V. Ankli, ex. ’46, of the U.S. AAF, has been missing in action over Germany since Oct. 6, 1944.
Knights Honor Nieuwland
A formal dedication banquet, attended by almost ICO persons Sunday night in the Bronzewood room of the Hotel LaSalle, headed a day of ceremonies of the South Bend Fourth Degree Assembly, Knights of Columbus, and tribute was paid to the memory of Rev. Julius Arthur Nieuwland, C.S.C., of Notre Dame.
Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., who had many associations with Father Nieuwland, spoke on his numerous contributions in the fields of science, theology, and philosophy and for which he received many honors during his lifetime.
In 1941, Mr. Langford was one of the 30 special students of Portuguese in an intensive language institute, sponsored by the American Council of Learned Societies.
The topic for the current meeting will be Argentina, Good or Bad Neighbor. Mr. Langford’s study of the Argentine problem enables him to speak authoritatively on the subject which basically attempts to review the cause and growth of disaffection between the governments of the United States and Argentina. He will point out and answer several questions which are in the minds of all familiar with the topic.
Mr. Henry Lulli, senior in Arts and Letters, will preside as chairman of the meeting. '
5
April Issue of the "Review of Politics" Treats Many Topics of Current Interest
Some deep thought and sound reasoning intimate with stories that consume the most important space in our current newspapers is presented in the April edition of Notre Dame’s erudite Review of Politics, appearing this week on the campus.
With San Francisco being carefully watched, more and more attention is directed toward Russia’s movements in the
Dr. Waldemar Gurian
realm of world politics. Notre Dame’s outstanding spokesman on Russian affairs, Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of political science and editor of the Review, presents a discourse on “Russia and the Peace” in the current edition. In his article Dr. Gurian asks for a better understanding and cooperation of Russia. Granting that Russia’s past provides some base for distrust of her present and future actions, he points out that fear of a world revolution causes many to be distrusting. After a discussion of the Russians as a world power in which he calls them “prisoners of their own realism,” Dr. Gurian comes out for a firm stand against Communism infiltration and a limit to the territorial expansion of Russia. He calls for a policy of cooperation which will avoid the alternative—a war against it.
“The Sixth Partition of Poland,” appearing in the April Review is a powerful article by Oscar Halecki, director of the Polish Institute of Arts and Sciences, and professor of history at Fordham University. Mr. Halecki rejects the Curzon line agreement that Russia has long proposed and which was approved by
6
the U.S. and Britain at Yalta. He states that the participation of the English speaking allies in the deliberations which ended in the sixth partition were a terrible disappointment to Poland. The article carries a brief history of the five previous partitions of Hitler’s first victim and reveals that the Curzon line splitting of the country as agreed to in the sixth partition is the same as the third. Mr. Halecki writes that the deal handed Poland at this time will eventually lead to the total annihilation of the country.
A background for pictures now being presented of German activities under the Nazi era and especially in the jaws of defeat is contained in two articles on nihilism in the April Revieiv. Enlightening discussion anent futile, last-man resist-
V-12 Formal Ball Scheduled for May 25; Week-End of Entertainment Planned
The sixth of the Regimental Formal Balls conducted by the V-12 unit will take place, for this the spring semester, on May 25. Instead of its traditional site in the Navy Drill Hall, the ball will be held in the Servicemen’s Center and will feature the music of Ted Fio Rito and his orchestra.
The plans for the ball and the accompanying week-end are under the overall direction of Jack Schneider and already the tentative framework has been laid for a complete and diversified plan of entertainment for the entire three days of activity from May 25 through May 27.
The music committee, under Chairman Jim Butler, chose Ted Fio Rito since his subdued style is perfectly suitable for the requirements of the occasion. Fio Rito and his skyline music have been highlighted in some of the country’s most prominent theaters and supper clubs and most recently at the Cocoanut Grove in Los Angeles, the Trocadero in Hollywood, the Hotel New Yorker, Meadowbrook Country Club in St. Louis, and the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago. Accompanying the sweet and swing arrangements of Maestro Fio Rito will be vocals as handled by Patti Palmer, Ward Swingle, and the “Solid-aires,” vocal quartette.
Saturday morning the entire regiment will fall out for a review on the Navy drill field before all of the week-end guests and on Saturday afternoon four
ance and the sadistic methods in the German concentration camps is presented in the thoughtful articles.
Congressman Jerry Voorhis of California writes in the Revietv on the reforms of congress in an article called “Congress and the Future.” Steps have already been initiated toward reforming the U. S. legislative body. Mr. Voorhis, who spoke recently at Notre Dame on co-ops, agrees to the general reforms which will revise seniority rules, eliminate unnecessary committees and limit the power of the rules committee. He advocates a special system which will inform the legislature of proposed legislation and favors a check on the grant of power to the executive department.
A study of the political thought of Cardinal Newman also appears in the April Review of Politics which is on sale in the Bookstore and cafeteria. Also appearing are six book reviews by members of the faculty on books of current political, religious and economic interest.
members of the undefeated varsity tennis team, defending National Collegiate co-champions, will stage an exhibition match on the University courts. Charley Samson, national singles finalist, will team with Jim Griffin against George Ratterman and Billy Tully.
The Rockne Memorial will be the site of the Saturday evening edition of the week-end as trainees and their guests adjourn to the renovated phy.-ed. chambers for the “Rockne Romp,” an informal dance with music by the V-12 Commanders.
Sunday morning will begin appropriately with Mass on campus and other church services in South Bend. Sunday afternoon will find an informal tea dance in progress at the Service Center with music by a local band.
Bids covering admission for the entire week-end of entertainment are on sale now for the announced price of $5.00. Allowance has been made for the sale of only 300 ducats and at present, bids are selling like ten dollar bills for the same price. Every trainee is therefore advised to purchase his ticket as soon as possible before the supply runs out and before recently augmented cash supplies dwindle to their usual deflated status. Since the unit is smaller and more compact this semester every effort is being made to make participation in the ball week-end a unanimous affair.
—Gene Diamond
TRAINEES BEGIN PLANS
to replace the old-fashioned doughnut
FOR V-12 BALL
hole.”
ward bound Sp. A/lc Jack Wardley the best of luck in their new adventures.
❖
LILY-WHITES QUIT WITH CAKE AND COOKIE CONVENTION
The Notre Dame V-12 chapter of the Lily-White League and their war against cussing announce the dissolution of the organization. It was brought' to formal and final adjournment by draining the common fund collected by taxing all obliquy and throwing one big cake and cookie convention. However, we have since heard that there was very little cake and very few cookies present at that last session.
It’s nearing V-12 Ball time again. Lt. (j.g.) Brewbaker—who claims that it is easy to get volunteers for anything; its simply all in the way you make the request—has designated the various committees and committee chairmen, some of whom already have their tasks half finished. The others have at least started thinking about their parts in making the traditional ball the traditional success in spite of the greatly reduced ranks of the .Notre Dame V-12 regiment. Because of the smaller unit, more than ever1 before each trainee should begin to think and act in regard to his own undeniable responsibility to the success of the V-12 Ball on May 25, 1945. Even if not on any formal committee, everyone has been chosen to act as chairman of the success committee—the biggest, most important Job of the whole affair. Everyone plays a very necessary role, and a . great deal of cooperation is absolutely necessary; so fulfill your responsibilities to the esprit de corps of the Notre Dame V-12 Unit, get that date—with the girl of your dreams if you happen to be lucky enough to know her—and by all means plan to attend the coming V-12 Ball.
"BASICRANIALS FOREVER!"
Two students of comparative anatomy, Jim Beeson and Charlie Miserendino, for some mysterious reason have picked out the scientific name of an opening in a skull bone, and have glorified it to the extent of driving all in the class who are “non-members” of the “Basicranials Forever” to the verge of madness—the members have reached this stage long ago; examples in point:
C.M.: “Say, who was that basicranial I saw you with last night?”
J.B.: “That was no basicranial; that was my foramen hypophyseos.”
C.M.: “The basicranials are destined
J.B.: “Basicranials forever!”
Readers may not think that this is a sad case, but please remember that this is only what we consider an effective, not lethal, dose. After weeks of such humor the co-workers of “Basicranials Forever” are becoming immune, to a certain extent, to its disastrous effects.
CHIEF CLASON AND SP. A/lc
JACK WARDLEY LEAVE NOTRE DAME
The V-12 trainees of Notre Dame were crying in their buckets of beer last week, because two of their oldest and dearest friends were reassigned by the Navy Department and had to shove off for duty elsewhere. All join in wishing westward bound Chief Clason and east-
If you're having trouble deciding, flip a coin; but get that date and plan to attend the V-12 Ball May 25.	.
❖
AIR CONDITIONING INSTALLED IN QUANT STUDENTS' UNIFORMS
The only thing that could possibly be worse than telling someone that he eats with a rusty steam shovel would be to tell a student of quantitative analysis that he titrates with a dirty beurette.
At inspections many are questioned about how they managed to do such, a good job of getting so many holes in one suit of blues, and are sent to the stadium stores to secure another old -style, nonair-conditioned set. It seems that the cleaning solution used to give those dirty beurettes the once over isn’t the best thing to spill on clothes. When drawn too far into a pipette, some say it doesn’t taste so good either.
7
Band to Provide
Music Before Bouts
Where Kirstin Thornberg and Eugene Ormandy stopped, the University Band will take up, when the Bengal Bouts get under way, this evening, in the local fieldhouse. According to Director H. Lee Hope, the organization will be at its full strength, and will get off to a good start at 7:30, thus providing the early comers with a number of selections calculated to entertain even the most fastidious. At 8 o’clock, just before the bouts begin, the band will bring the crowd to reverent attention with the strains of the “Star Spangled Banner.” The next notes will appropriately be those of the “Victory March,” and then the fights will go on.
Four Members of Order
Return from Internment
Four members of the Congregation of Holy Cross returned to the United States and the University recently after a hectic three years as prisoners of the Japanese.
The four, Rev. Jerome Lawyer, C.S.C., 1935 graduate of the University; Rev. Robert McKee, C.S.C., 1936 graduate; Brother Theodore Kapes, C.S.C., 1941 graduate, and Brother Rex Hennel, C.S.C., were of one thought upon reaching the University campus—all turned toward Our Lady of the Golden Dome. Special devotions and novenas to Our Lady had marked their stay in the Philippines and to her they attributed their rescue.
During the past year, tales have been related of the experiences of soldiers fighting overseas and the tragedies which have befallen those who have been taken prisoner, yet this is the first experience that has been encountered by the Univer-sitty where religious have been subjected to the horrors of prison camps.
Father Lawyer said, “At the Los Banos internment camp things were in a desperate condition. Our starvation diet was reaching its lowest ebb. Daily we were burying the dead from starvation.”
There was little contact with the Japanese themselves, as the prisoners elected a central committee which ran the camp. Among the internees in the camp were 123 Catholic priests, 150 nuns, and two bishops in addition to a number of Protestant clergymen. The -whole camp was a diocese and 16 orders of priests and Brothers and 13 orders of nuns were represented among the Catholics. .
The four members of the local order lost an average of some 30 pounds each during their long internment. Despite the hardships they always maintained hope and on Feb. 23 the American forces overran the camp.
By TOM McCAUGHEY
Walter “Mac” McDermott . . . present Grand Knight of the K. of C. . . . has made big plans for having refreshments at every meeting. . . .
Mac’s fame at Notre Dame started at the Field Day last summer when he won the Phomp Race. . . . He blind-folded and tripped the other contestants so he could win. . . . That night he received Father O’Donnell’s praise for his brave exploits. . . .
At the Old Timers versus the varsity football game on April 8, Mac starred with his oratorical brilliance . . . seems the officials didn’t call them as Mac saw them ... he didn’t start the game because he had to rest to store up his energy. . . . After being in there a while Mac received his coach’s applause, namely: “That’s right, Mac, play close to the ground. Stay on your hands and knees!”
One of the varsity brutes kicked Mac in the leg and he’s been moaning and groaning ever since. . . . Mac says: “Wait’ll next time.” . . . Mac was playing over his head that Sunday because there was a beautiful blonde among the spectators. . . . The reason he got kicked was because he was watching this blonde instead of the opposition. . . . Incidentally, that’s Mac’s girl, Kitty. . . . She must be attractive because Mac sees hei' quite often. . . . Every time he doesn’t take a midnight he donates a dollar to the Red Cross. . . .
Mac’s favorite amusement these days is doing Insurance research work over at the library. . . . Mr. Smith takes a delight in reading Mac’s-masterpieces . ... If you ever walk by Room 109 Commerce on Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday morning at ten o’clock, the big noise you hear is just Mac splitting his sides at one of Mr. Eell’s jokes. . . .
Mac intended to pitch this season for Sorin Hall’s softball team. . . but after being reminded that Dick Sadowski of the Commerce Forum slugged out three triples in one game off him last year, decided he had better play short field
Mac comes from Mineral Point, Wisconsin. . . . Anybody know where it is? . ... If you don’t, ask Mac. . . he’ll gladly inform you of its whereabouts . . . . They say it’s a wide space in the road. . . .
Philadelphia Orchestra Presents Concert
Eugene Ormandy and the Philadelphia Orchestra presented an inspiring program of music for the enjoyment of an audience which filled every available chair in the Navy Drill Hall last Monday evening in order that they might hear the distinguished conductor and his highly praised orchestra.
From the moment Mr. Ormandy came on the stage it was evident that the evening would be a profitable one. His personal conduct, as well as that of his musicians, reflected the excellence previously attributed to the organization.
The smooth blending of instruments, the range and finesse of the musicians, as well as the marvelous interpretations by the conductor all contributed to the magnificence of the performance. To our friends of Philadelphia, may we offer our hearty congratulations and sincere thanks for contributing to our nation so brilliant an orchestral group; we enjoyed them immensely.
The South Bend Symphony, Edwyn Hames conducting, presented a concert in the Navy Drill Hall on the evening of Friday, April 27, featuring Kerstin Thornberg, mezzo-soprano.
—Octave Emond
Co-Hop Tomorrow Night
Tomorrow night the Co-Hop organization in - South Bend will present another in the popular series of informal dances for all students of the University. Dancing will be from 8 to 11 in the Indiana Club of West Jefferson street in downtown South Bend.
The Connie Sykes orchestra, featuring a drummer who drums all over the bandstand, will furnish the musical syncopation for the evening. The Co-Hops have yet to present a dance in which there has been a deficiency of feminine dancers or an unvaried field to pick from. Civilians and naval trainees alike have found the past dances to be pleasant affairs and their popularity is on the upswing.
8
^Ike, Qteen HaMneA,
... By Harry Walters and John Power
TOP OF THE WEEK
The Bengal Finals, of course!
The best show of the year starts tonight at 8:00 when Bob O’Toole shoves his rapidly-thinning scalp under the powerful spotlight to announce the first bout. From then o.n, it’s going to be a night of flying leather as the lads from Dillon, Alumni, Walsh, Cavanaugh, St. Ed’s and ever old Sorin square away for the coveted championships. Best deal of all is that the proceeds go for charity. Those of us who have had the opportunity to talk to Father McKee, the Bengal missionary liberated from the Jap concentration camp, can realize that the Bengals deserve our full support.
See You There!
HE'S A MAN
. While still on the subject of the Bengals, we’d like to give a blow to George McDonald of Zahm Hall for his plucky showing in last week’s semi-final bouts. George was on the floor more than the janitor’s broom, but kept right on getting up. It was a grand display of courage and showed that George is a champion at heart.
NOTES ON NORTHERN INDIANA
For six semesters we have been wondering where does the Rum Village Bus go? Does it lead to a nefarious portion of South Bend, noted for the many fire water stations within its borders? Does its inhabitants live on nothing but Rum and Coco Cola? The problem has caused us many sleepless nights.
Finally we could stand the strain no longer. We pulled our hat down over the eyes, gave a furtive glance in all directions to see if that “Man with the Grey Fedora” was on the prowl, and hopped on the bus.
We were doomed to disappointment. There isn’t a rum distillery in Rum Village. The people are all sober Poles. Rum Village, the bus driver told us, is so called because one of the original Studebakers bought the land for a bottle of rum.
We think he was cheated.
SYMPHONY NOTE
Culture was the byword in the Drill Hall during the past week as the South Bend and Philadelphia symphony orchestras displayed their talent in Sorin City.
The students, as usual, sat in the peanut gallery of the Drill Hall on what that very afternoon had been the first base stands in the Cartier Field. There must have been a few baseball rooters left over that evening as one was heard to remark as Kersten Thorburg broke into “I didn’t know Gilhooley had such a nice voice.”
REALISTIC LISTENING
Mike Garry sent a new shirt in his last laundry. When the bundle was returned the itemized list carried no mention of the shirt, but carefully listed was the notation “4 rags”—Yes, it was the shirt.
GRIPES OF WRATH
The “Starving Sons of Sorin Sub” have once again raised their voices in protest, this time about the frigid weiners that are making their appearance on the Dining Hall menu with increasing frequency. Says John O’Rourke, The Stump from Brooklyn who blossomed forth in April and was frostbitten in May: “I’ve eaten so many hot dogs in the last month that I feel like I’m living in Ebbets Field.”
YOUTH ON THE CAMPUS
John Elderidge Stearns Dockweiler, a senior pre-med hailing from Los Angeles, Calif., the first state after Alaska to join the Union, possesses a haircut like Frank Sinatra, the finesse of Charles Boyer, the glamour of Van Johnson, and a nose like W. C. Fields . . . plays bridge by electric and candle light, stacks the deck, empties your pockets, and when leaving—coyly offers you a cigarette and a barrel, . . . was recently seen prowling around Chicago with reasonable facsimiles of Hedy LaMarr, Rita Hayworth, Paulette Goddard in the form of Rosary girls . . . seeking a date for the Senior Ball. Those not possessing a beauty title, such as St. Mary’s girls, need not apply.
❖
ODDS AND ENDS
Mike Manzo, the Medford Mauler, is carrying on a romance with Celia, the newspaper girl in the Caf. At last count during the past week Mike had bought 45 Chicago Suns, 27 Chicago Tribunes, 14 Saturday Evening Posts, and one copy of True Romance.
Bill Hasset is a budding geologist.
RO's Han Ball
Raymond Scott’s outstanding and unusual dance orchestra will play for the eighth NROTC Naval Ball to be held June 8 in the. South Bend Servicemen’s Center. The signing of the band was announced by Rudy Anderson and John Caron, co-chairmen of the ball.
Scott will bring with him the band that has gained national acclaim as a strikingly modern and fascinating aggregation. With vocalist Dorothy Collins the band will provide the same danceable and diverting music that has been featured on the CBS network for the last two years as well as in many motion pictures. Scott’s own briliant arrangements immediately identify his music which was formerly starred on the Lucky Strike “Hit Parade.” .
Raymond Scott originally attracted wide attention with his popular six man “Quintet.” His brilliant six-piece group earned many plaudits with their renditions of Scott’s novelties. However, his recently enlarged orchestra has now dwarfed even the amazing popularity of the quintet. In addition to the best in popular music, the band will delight dancers with Scott’s original and-striking instrumental classics such as Eighteenth Century Drawing Room, War Dance for Wooden Indians, and Dinner Music for a Pack of Hungry Cannibals.
The announcement of obtaining this famous orchestra coincided with reports of progressive arrangements on the elaborate decoration plans. The innumerable suggestions have been coordinated and altered until the final plans are beginning to take shape. Joe Lauck is handling the main problems of renovating the Servicemen’s Center and is now setting up a liaison with the Midshipmen’s dance committee who will hold their ball the preceding evening.
The other committees are working hard in an effort to keep up with the fine work of the band and decoration committees. The final plans for entertainment as well as for the decorations will be kept as sheltered secrets until the ball. But the plans are big and the work is diligent and is well on its way to being rewarded with a spectacular success.
Not only has he been breaking all sorts of records in “Rocky” class, but he has been carrying his work into the field and has classified Pat Mazda’s head as solid limestone.	•
♦
TRAGEDY OF THE WEEK
The lugs who will pass up the Bengals, tonight.
9
Bengal Finals in Fieldhouse Tonite
By JOHN FEENEY
The 1945 Notre Dame Boxing Championships, popularly known as the Bengal Bouts, are on tap tonight in the University Fieldhouse. The perennial charity program, popular alike with students and other fisticuff followers, gets under way at 8:00. In all, seven bouts of three rounds will be offered, from each of which will emerge a new title holder to replace last year’s champion. A near-capacity crowd of approximately 3000 is anticipated to witness the fights. All proceeds go to the South Bend Servicemen’s Center.
Fourteen pugilists — seven civilians, five V-12 students, and two members of the campus NROTC — will enter the ring tonight. Of these, each will be in quest of his first N.D. title except Kermit Rousseve who copped a championship in 1942.
Civilian Gene Sterrett and Naval Trainee Don White, vying for the 1271b. diadem, will open the program. Both were given byes to the finals because of a dearth of competition in their weight division.
In the 135-Ib. group, Bob Pasquarella of the NROTC, takes on Civilian Bill Summerlin. These fighters each won
quite handily in the semifinals; Pasquarella, in fact, scored one of the two technical knockouts of the evening.
John Groves of the V-12 program is pitted against ex-champ Rousseve in the 145-lb. battle. Both took preliminary bouts in stride.
Pete Hamill, a V-12 trainee, meets John Caron, an RO, in the 155-lb. division. Caron went to the finals unopposed by virtue of a shortage of competitors in this weight classification. Hamill, however, beat J. A. Burke in the semifinals.
An all V-12 final is assured in the 1651b. bout, with Ralph Deem matching
punches with Bill Bevington. Deem reached the finals on the strength of his win in the semis while Bevington reached the finals by virtue of a default in the semi-finals.
The 175-lb. class is monopolized by civilians and the heavyweight contenders are also civies. Joe Owens and James “Harp” Dougherty tangle in the former contest and footballer Tony Cash opposed huge, 6 foot-eight inch John Trave
in the windup. Of the four, Cash is the only one who saw no action in the semifinals. The other three bested their respective opponents, and Cash was given a bye.
Adding to the luster of the evening’s proceedings will be the presence of Elmer Layden, former Irish grid coach and star, currently the Commissioner of the National Professional Football League. Layden, one of N.D.’s immortal Four Horsemen of 1922 through 1924, will act as honorary referee. Thus he becomes one of a long succession of distinguished figures who have officiated at this famous boxing event since its inception in 1932. Included in this elite group are such personages as Barney Ross, Billy Conn, Arthur Donovan, Jack Elder, and others of note.
Other honored guests tonight will be Mayor Jesse Pavey of South Bend, Captain J. Richard Barry, U.S.N., and numerous prominent alumni.
In addition to the official awarding of the championships, a special tribute will be paid the boxer who displays the best sportsmanship during his fight. Any contestant taking part in either the semifinals or the finals is eligible for this distinction. A committee of judges will make the choice.
George Vanderheyden and George Nate will do the refereeing for the finals while Cecil Wallace will be the timer. Albert Doyle, William Lubbers and El
mer H. Tepe will serve as judges. Handling the boxers’ training room preparations will be Hugh Burns, the varsity trainer. F. Maxwell, the tournament clerk, will again be on hand and Student Proomter Bob O’Toole will continue in his role of announcer.
Ten Bout Semi-Final
Highlighted by 2 TKO's
With two technical knockouts featuring the action, ten men advanced to the final round of the annual Bengal Bouts on Wednesday evening, April 25, before an enthusiastic crowd in the Notre Dame gymnasium. Four other men entered the finals by drawing byes.	’
Bob Pasquarella was too experienced for J. P. Kitson in the 135 pound class and the former was the winner of the bout by a technical knockout shortly after the start of the second round. In the other technical knockout, John Trave eliminated Carl Coggins from further competition in the heavyweight division. Trave’s height and reach proved too much for the NROTC boy in the last bout of the evening which was halted in the second round also.
John Groves defeated Jack McGrath, winner’ of the 135 pound championship last year, in the closest match of the evening. Groves was adjudged the winner in a split decision. Ken Rousseve experienced considerable difficulty in defeating J. T. Kosnik in a 145 pound bout.
James “Harp” Dougherty who was a late entrant in the 175 pound class, entered the final round by defeating C. D. Marks. Dougherty received permission from the four other competitors to enter the event late and gained the semi-finals by defeating G. Albert in a preliminary event. Summary of all the semi-final bouts :
135-lb. Class: Summerlin defeated Hasten, decision ; Pasquarella defeated Kitson, technical knockout, 23 second of second round.
145-lb. Class: Rousseve defeated Kosnik, decision ; Groves defeated McGrath, decision.
155-lb. Class: Hamill defeated Burke, decision.
165-lb. Class: Deem defeated MacDonald, decision ; Bevington defeated DeVries, default.
175-lb. Class: Dougherty defeated Marks, decision Owens defeated Wingender, decision.
Heavyweight: Trave defeated Coggins, technical knockout, 1.12 of second round.
10
Irish Open '45 jf Spring Season
N. D. Netmen Defeat
W. Michigan in Opener
The Notre Dame tennis team under the tutelage of Coach Walter Langford last Saturday successfully opened its 1945 schedule by handily beating the University of Western Michigan setters 8 to 1.
With Bill Tully participating in the Drake Relays, Charles Samson, Jim Griffin, and George Ratterman led the Irish team to the easy victory, each winning in straight sets. Samson and Griffin then paired to win their doubles match in straight sets as did Joe Brown and Ralph Witucki.
Notre Dame won the first eight points, before they gave the visitors a point, this coming in the final doubles match.
Summary:	,
SINGLES: Samson (ND) defeated Rotan (WM) 6-0, 6-2: Griffin (ND) defeated Atkins (WM) 6-1, 6-2; Ratterman (ND) defeated Hilliard (WM) 6-0. 6-2; Martin (ND) defeated Pfaff (WM) 6-1, 8-6: Fountain (ND) defeated Grundy (WM) 6-4, 6-1 : Baiocchi (ND) defeated Yops (WM) 6-4, 5-7. 6-2.
DOUBLES: Samson and Griffin (ND) defeated Retan and Yops (WTM) 6-2, 6-1 ; Brown and Witucki (ND) defeated Hilliard and Atkins (WM) 6-4. 8-6; Grundy and Pfaff (WM) defeated Garrels and Gailey (ND) 4-6. 6-4, 6-2.

\ The Notre Dame golf team, coached f by Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., offi-I cially opened its 1945 schedule Sunday, । by defeating Detroit University’s four-i man team 10% to 7% on the Notre I Dame course.
I Despite perfect weather, the eight ’	golfers managed to turn in only two
;	scores under 83, and took nearly five
hours to do it. Father Holderith was not ' at all satisfied ■with the results, pointing . out that with five weeks of practice be-i hind them and the course in excellent I condition, better scores should be ex-l pected. He has hopes that they will im-& £ $
SPORTS SCHEDULE FOR WEEK-END
BASEBALL:
Friday, Western Michigan at Kalamazoo. Michigan.
Saturday, Western Michigan at Kalamazoo, Michigan.
Sunday, Bunker Hill Naval Station at Notre Dame.
GOLF:
Saturday, Northwestern and Minnesota at Evanston, HI.
TENNIS:
Saturday, Michigan University at Ann Arbor, Michigan.
TRACK:
Saturday, Drake, Iowa Preflight and Wisconsin at Iowa City, Iowa.
Klinemen Take Two From Service Teams
Large scale run production marked the opening games of the 1945 Notre Dame baseball season at Camp Atterbury where Coach Jake Kline’s nine de
prove by tomorrow when the Irish team meets Minnesota and Northwestern in a triangular- meet at Evanston.
Father Holderith was seriously considering using a four-man team for the remainder of the season because of the poor showing of the rest of the squad.
The Scores: Sal Pomonte (Detroit), 40-37—77 ; Adam Nowicki (Detroit), 46-39—85; Tom Kennedy (ND), 39-38—77 : Paul Porter (ND), 4142—83. Points: Notre Dame 5, Detroit 4.
Harold Cook (Detroit), 44-41—85; Robert Ryan (Detroit), 45-43—88 ; Jim Clynes (ND), 43-41— 84; Charles Morrow (ND), 44-43—87. Points: Notre Dame 5%, Detroit 3%. Total points, Notre Dame 10%, Detroit 7%.
feated Camp Atterbury 11 to 6 and Wakeman Hospital 6 to 4 on April 21 and 22. The Irish made a total of 17 runs on 13 hits in the two games. Steady pitching by Jack Stewart, Johnny Le-Brou, and Jack Barrett coupled with opponents errors saved Notre Dame batters the trouble of producing base hits.
' Nine runs in the eighth inning against Camp Atterbury put the opening game on ice. Gilhooley led the attack with a double, one of three hits made during the nine run splurge. Martin and Schneider drove out singles.
Notre Dame got away to a 5-0 lead over Wakeman in the first five innings of the game, stretched it to 6-1 at the end of eight, and withstood a three run rally in the ninth to win 6 to 4. A four run fifth inning paved the way in the Wakeman victory. Hurler Jack Barrett contributed to his own cause with a single in that inning.
Open Track Season;
Defeat Illinois Tech 73-48
Paced by three-double winners, the Notre Dame track team opened its outdoor season here on Saturday, April 21, by defeating Illinois Institute of Technology, 73 to 48. Notre Dame men finished first in 10 out of 14 events.
Summary:
120-Yd HIGH HURDLES: O’Neil (ND). 1st; Walsh (ND), 2nd: Wawrenuk (IIT), 3rd. Time. 17.2.
100-Yd. DASH: Murphy (ND), 1st; Hankins (IIT), 2nd; Thomas (HT), 3rd. Time, 10.4.
MILE RUN: Tully (ND), 1st; Finger (HT), 2nd: Lindahl (HT), 3rd. Time, 4:51.7.
440-Yd. RUN: Hammack (HT), 1st; Provost (ND), 2nd; Jones (ND), 3rd. Time, 51.8.
220-Yd. DASH: Murphy (ND), 1st; Thomas (IIT), 2nd: Hankins, (HT), 3rd. Time. 23.3.
SHOT PUT: Kelly (ND), 1st; Scott (ND). 2nd: Ezzell (HT), 3rd. Distance. 42 ft., 7 in.
220-Yd. LOW HURDLES: Entrikin (ND), 1st; Walsh (ND), 2nd; O’Neil (ND), 3rd. Time, 27.5.
880-Yd. RUN: Tully (ND). 1st; Thurston (IIT). 2nd; McCarthy (ND), 3rd. Time. 2:03.3.
TWO-MILE RUN—Prosche (ND). 1st; Matthews (ND), 2nd; Finger (HT), 3rd. Time, 10:40.8.
HIGH JUMP; Hankins (HT). 1st; Sayles (HT), 2nd: McKeen (ND) and Struble (ND), tied for 3rd. Height. 5 ft. 4 in.
DISCUS: Kelly (ND), 1st; Hoffman (HT). 2nd; Lander (HT). 3rd. Distance. 128 ft.. 3 in.
POLE VAULT: Struble (ND), 1st; Vosburg (ND), 2nd. Height, 11 ft., 7 in.
BROAD JUMP: Papps (HT), 1st; Sayles (HT), 2nd; Duarte (ND), 3rd. Distance, 20 ft., 11% in.
880-Yd. RELAY: Won by Illinois Tech. (Thomas, Grable, Hammack and Hankins). Time. 1:33.7.
H
Irish Nine Loses Two
to Michigan Ball Team
Notre Dame’s baseball nine, victorious in its first two games of the season, tasted defeat twice last week as the Michigan Wolverines continued their winning ways by defeating the Irish in both frays of a two-game series, 6 to 1 and 12 to 4. The Wolves’ record is now seven victories and only one loss. The Irish are batting an even .500 so far with two wins and an even number of setbacks.
Jake Kline’s team fell behind in the fourth inning of the first encounter last Friday as Michigan produced two runs on a triple and a pair of singles. A three bagger by Captain Frank Gilhooley and Weisenburger’s error on Neil Kelly’s infield roller sliced the margin to one run in N.D.’s half of the fourth. It stayed that way till the ninth when Michigan loosed a barrage of hits that accounted for four more tallies. N.D. threatened mildly in its half of the ninth frame but the attempt fizzled.
Jack Barrett and Jack Stewart were Notre Dame’s pitchers while “Red” Lou-then twirled for Michigan.
In the second game, Saturday, Michigan again took an early lead of 2 to 0 but the Klinemen tied the count in the second inning as Jim McGurk supplied the blow that drove home John Martin and Kelly. Two innings later the Irish went ahead on a walk to Martin, a sacrifice, an infield out, and timely hits by Barrett and Bill Tracy.
However that ended N. D.’s success for the afternoon. In the sixth the Wolves knotted the score on four walks and Stevenson’s single. Then came the big seventh during which Michigan scored seven times on five walks and three hits. As an anti-climax the winners added their final run in the ninth. Johnny Le Brou was the loser for N. D. while Bliss Bowman went all the way to win for Michigan.—John Feeney
Netmen to Meet Strong Wolverines Tomorrow
The Notre Dame tennis team after soundly beating Western Michigan to run its consecutive match winning streak to 12 straight, tomorrow tackles one of the strongest tennis teams in the' country in the University of Michigan. It is curious to note that the last time Notre Dame lost a tennis match, was in 1943 to Michigan, and this, after the Irish had amassed a total of 12 straight. Thus, if they beat Michigan, the 1945 tennis' team will have accomplished something that no other Irish tennis team has ever been able to do—win the 13th straight.
This, however, is easier said than done.
Returning from last year’s fine Michigan squad are Roger Lewis, number one man; Alden (Jinx) Johnson, number two; David Post, number five; and Roy Boucher, who plays on the second doubles team with Post. With several newcomers added to these men, Michigan looms as the biggest stumbling block on the Irish netster’s schedule for this year.
So far this year, Michigan has played just one match, that with Purdue, and won handily, 5-2. They are the favorite to win the Big Ten conference, and are believed to be on their way to an undefeated season — if they can get by Notre Dame.
Coach Langford will send Charles Samson, Bill Tully, Jim Griffin, and George Ratterman against the Wolverines, and two other men yet to be named. In the doubles, Samson will pair with Griffin, while Tully and Ratterman will play the second doubles match. It looks like the best tennis match of the midWest for 1945 will be played at Ann Arbor, Mich., tomorrow.
Really FINE FOOD
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
--------Try Our	■
Spaghetti, Steaks, Chops, with crisp French Fries, green salad, basket of fresh Italian bread.
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
When you're down-town . . .
Books Stationery Greeting Cards Gifts
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
12
Spring Practice Ends Sunday; Play "Vets"
Spring football practice for the grid-ders who’ll make up Notre Dame’s 1945 varsity eleven comes to a close Sunday when Coach Hugh Devore’s proteges again meet the “Old Hands” in a practice game. The tilt is scheduled for Cartier Field at 2:30 and is open to the public.
This will be the second competition between the two teams. On April 8, the “Alumni” whipped the current N. D. contingent, 19 to 6. The seasoned “Vets,” with a club including such backfield stars as Bob Kelly, Frank Dancewicz, Steve Nemeth, Marty Wendell, and Jim Brennan, scored once in each the first, third, and fourth quarters to clinch the victory. George Ratterman’s quarterback sneak provided the varsity with its only marker in the third.
Devore’s players, in action almost daily since March 21, have been concentrating on offense during the past week. Earlier the Irish ran plays against formations that may be used against them during the approaching season. Only one change of consequence has been made, that being the shifting of tackle Jack Fallon to a guard post. This was effected to make room for Ed Mieszkowski who has been
performing creditably during the drills.
No starting line-ups were released for Sunday’s scrimmage, but many of the men who took part in the first game will see action again. However, Devore did announce that summer football drills will begin approximately July 15 and be continued for four weeks.
Glasses Correctly Fitted J. BURKE
LAST CALL FOR TICKETS
Student tickets at student rates for the University Championship Bengal Bouts will remain on sale until 7 p.m. this evening, in the Huddle only. No student ticket can be sold at the box office of the gymnasium at student rates. Those purchasing tickets at the gate must pay the established price printed on each ticket.
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Stamp Size Photos
Send any size negative or photograph. We reproduce it exactly, glossy finish, perforated and gummed. Stick on letters, greeting cards, etc. Start a photo stamp album of your friends.
Black and white. 100 for S2.00 Colortone, 100 for $2.50
Minimum 100: photo returned unharmed. Cash with order. We pay postage, or C.O.D.
PHOTO STAMP AGENCY
1424 S. Main	South Bend 14
Don't Forget "THE GIRL who married dear old Dad"
Mother's Day is Sunday, May 13th
DOUBLE-STRAND PEARLS — (simulated) with handsomely wrought clasps. 12.00 including fed. tax.
MARY DUNHILL COLOGNES White Hyacinth . . Gardenia . . Flowers of Devonshire . . Bewitching — in a bottle _	bearing your Mother's own intials.
1.75* and 3.00*.	'
FLOWERED HOSTESS COAT simply, charmingly designed in washable . rayon shantung. 10.95.
4 Plus 20% tax	Accessories, first floor	Lingerie, second floor

BOOKS
Reading Enjoyment
"BOLTS OF MELODY
And a complete line of other popular novels, recent best sellers, fiction and non-fiction.
Over 650 heretofore unpublished poems of Emily Dickinson
RU00NERS
"You Can’t Stop Living" "Now That April's There" "The Wide House" "Party Line" "Yankee From Olympus" "The Violent Friends" "Lower Than Angels" "Of Smiling Peace" "Pipe Night" "American Guerilla in the
Philippines" by Ira Wolfert "Rank Leahy and the Fighting Irish" by Arch Ward
NEWS CENTER • CI6AR STORE 127 W. Washington St.
“In the J. M. S. Building"
For Your
13
Irish Nine to Play
Three Game Week-end
The Broncos of Western Michigan will be out to bust up the Notre Dame baseball team when the two teams meet in Kalamazoo today and Saturday, May 4 and 5. Western is riding on the crest of a four game winning streak following a
“Tagged"
sweep of the two game series with Northwestern last week-end. On Sunday May 6, Notre Dame will return to Car-tier for a game with the Bunker Hill Naval Air Station nine.
Western Michigan has only one veteran on the team from last year’s squad. He is Tom Krupa, left fielder. Tom Hill, first baseman, and Harold Throop, outfielder, won reserve letters last season. The remainder of the Bronco squad is green but improvement this season has been consistent. Coach John Gill has two dependable hurlers in 17 year old Charles Maxwell, a southpaw, and Tom Urquhart, a V-12 trainee. Maxwell shut out Northwestern 3 to 0 last week while Urquhart held the Wildcats to four hits as his teammates won 5 to 2. Infielder
Glen Selbo has been a sparkplug for the Brones all season with his steady hitting and fielding. Selbo is after his third varsity letter this spring, having won letters in football and basketball. Western has won seven and lost one this season, their one defeat at the hands of Michigan being revenged by a victory over the same club.
Bunker Hill is expected to field its usually strong team. As the Scholastic went to press, Bunker Hill had played but one game, defeating Kokomo Merchants 12 to 2. Last season Bunker Hill won 35 games while losing 13. Coaching the Bunker Hill nine this season is Lieut. James Scoggins, former baseball coach at Vanderbilt University for nine years.
The Bunker Hill team is comprised of men with varying amounts of professional and amateur experience. The only former major* league player listed on its roster is Al Piechota, seaman first class formerly a pitcher with the Boston Braves. Charley Schupp, also a first class seaman, is another pitcher who may see action against the Irish. Schupp is a former Louisville Colonel’s player.
The three games this week-end will probably find Coach Jake Kline exercising his entire pitching staff. Barrett, Stewart and LeBrou may be the starters in the games with Western Michigan and Bunker Hill.
Notre Dame BOOKS for
Notre Dame Men
Campus Centenary Publications
An abiding gift with the flavor of the campus. Order today!
NOTRE DAME — 100 YEARS $4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL. C.S.C. $2.50
The Set — $5.00
These books mailed in an attractive box. Direct orders to:
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
THESE NAMES ARE FAMOUS for QUALITY
ARROW
Shirts and Neckwear
VAN HEUSEN
Shirts and Sportswear
B. V. D.
Underwear and Sportswear
McGREGOR
Sportswear
COOPER
Underwear
BRENTWOOD
Sweaters
MARLBORO
Sportswear .
HICKOK
Belts and Braces
Appropriate GIFTS for MOTHER'S DAY May 13th
SUPERBA — BOTANY — WEMBLEY Ties ARCH PRESERVER and BRITISH WALKER Footwear DUNLAY and PORTIS Hats WELBROOK Clothes
you'll find them all at
ROBERTSOO of SPowthSiend 211 S. MICHIGAN ST.
14
Irish, in Triangular
Track Meet Tomorrow
Well satisfied with his team’s performance in the Drake Relays, Coach “Doc” Handy settled down to the business at hand, a triangular meet with Iowa Preflight and Wisconsin university at Iowa City tomorrow. The Irish track mentor announced earlier this week that he would select 22 men to make the trip and he has been holding trials throughout the week in order to determine the top performers. The Notre Dame squad ■will enter the contest a mite under par, since Bill Tully, ace distance runner, will remain behind to play with the tennis team.
Notre Dame will play the role of darkhorse, according to Coach Handy, with the Seahawk athletes in the favorite’s spot. He stated that the Irish can win “if we get a break.” Little is known about the Badgei- squad’s cinder reputation, but they are expected to do their part in making the competition interesting.
Illinois university’s tracksters, favored to cop more than their share of the laurels, lived up to expectations last Saturday when they annexed the university title at the 36th annual Drake relays before a crowd of 7,500 fans which filled the Drake stadium. Miami university thinlies, by winning the half-mile and sprint medley relays, captured the college crown.
Notre Dame trackmen scored in five events, taking two seconds, two thirds and one fourth. Joe Kelly notched third place in the discus throw and Ray Struble tied for the show spot in his specialty, the pole vault. Billy Moore, Western Michigan’s versatile cinder star, gave the record books quite a scare in this event when he made the only 14 foot vault of the collegiate year, missing the relay’s record by one-sixteenth of an inch. In virtue of his outstanding per
formance, he was' voted the top-notch individual performer on the day’s program.
Notre Dame finished fourth behind Iowa State, Wisconsin, and Missouri in the four mile relay and second to Drake in the distance medley relay, in which both colleges and universities competed. The Irish mile relay team of Jones, O’Neil, Provost, and Murphy led all the way before losing out in the back stretch of the anchor’ lap to a crack Illinois quartet. Bill O’Neil and Dave Murphy also qualified for the 120 yd high hurdles and the 100 yard dash, respectively, for Notre Dame.—John C. Thomas
Sportsmanship Trophy
After the ring has been cleared following the Battle Royal tonight, will come one of the highlights of the tournament, as the Sportsmanship Trophy is presented to that man who during the course of the tournament best displayed the qualities of sportsmanship. The trophy, a coveted honor, is donated annually by the Huddle—the campus candy store —through its manager, Mr. D. C. Ford, who is also director of the University Dining Halls. Mr. Elmer Layden, formerly head coach and athletic director of the Fighting Irish, and honorary referee of the evening, will make the presentation.
Ostoortb’si
To Remind You to Remember
Mother's Day
May 13 * «
Here are special gifts for a Special Lady . . . Mother. Choose from our excellent selection, the gift that will thrill her with pride and happiness.
Corde Bags__________________
Sparkling White Gloves__ Exquisite Perfumes_______--.-
Simulated Pearls------------
*	Main Floor
FLOWERS are the Perfect Gift for Mother's Day
If you place out-of-town orders early, you save’ telegraph expenses.
Corsages Cut Rowers
WILLIAMS
West of the Oliver Hotel PHONE 3-5149
12.60 to 21.60 . .2.00 & 2.50 J.00 to 32.50 .3.60 & 4.20
15
Irish Beat Wildcats 4-0
Behind the fine five-hit pitching of Jack Stewart, Notre Dame gained its third win in five starts Tuesday by defeating Northwestern 4 to 0 on the latter’s diamond. Notre Dame scored single runs in the third and fifth innings and produced two runs in the sixth to com
plete its scoring. George Schneider, Jim McGurk, and Billy Hassett led the Irish
attack with two base-hits each.
Summary:
Notke Dame ab i:
Schneider. 2b 6 2
Hassett, ss	4	1
Gilhooley. cf	4	0
Martin. 3b	5	0
Kelly, If	2	0
Barrett, rf	3	0
McGurk, lb	5	0
Koluch, c	5	0
Stewart, p	5	1
h ro No'westebn ab
2 1
2 2
1 1
0 2 0 2
1 1
2 14
0 3
1 1
Tornquist, rf 2
Weil, 2b 4
Jones. If 4
Farrar, lb 4
Gargas, c 4
Phillips, cf 4
Pagan. 3b 1
Benger, 3b 2
Anderson, ss 2
Totals _______39 4
-----Remke. ss	1
9 27 Glander. p	2
Bokamen. p 0 xTenneson 1
it it ro 0 10 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 2 9 0 0 13 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Schulz, p 0
Totals _____31 0 5 27
x—batted for Bokamen in Sth.
Notre Dame_______ 0 0 1 0 1 2 0 0 0—4
Northwestern  000 000 00 0—0
Two-base hit, Farrar. Stolen bases, Schneider 2, Hassett. Barrett, Tornquist, Weil. Base on balls off Glander 3, Bokamen 1. Schulz 2. Stewart 3. Left on bases. Notre Dame 14. Northwestern 7. Struck out by. Glander 7, Schulz 2. Stewart 4. Double plays. Koluch 2. Hits off, Glander G in G innings: Bokamen 3 in 2 innnigs: Schulz 0 in 1 inning. Losing pitcher, Glander.
All Finalists Receive
Monogramed Awards
For the first time, this year’s bouts will see all finalists provided with awards bearing the Notre Dame monogram. Across the top part of the awards given
SANDWICHES •
SOFT DRINKS
ICE CREAM
FINE PIPES
TOBACCO
THE HUDDLE
to the champions will be emblazoned the word Champion. Below the monogram, on the cuff of the glove, will be the letters, “1945.” The other eight finalists will likewise receive monogramed boxing glove awards, but without the word champion. The monograms of fine interwoven chenile will be presented to the winners by the Scholastic, on Saturday morning, following the bouts.
■ % At the half-way mark in tonight’s fight card, the band will entertain with a number of tunes, filling in the intermission, as only the band can. Then will come the Battle Royal, involving an unlimited number of hardy contestants keyed to fury. There will be no referee; there will be no rules; there will be no time limit. It is hoped that there will be a winner. The affair is designed purely to amuse, and thus relieve the tension created by the regular and serious business of the evening. Rumors have it that a team composed of Sorin stalwarts will oppose the best of the strong-armed St. Edward’s Hall rugged peasantry. It is just as likely that the NROTC of Walsh will oppose the V-12 set in Dillon.

HOLD THAT HAIRLIHE!
Mid aodal €*0 depend ©• yovAM, vijprpirt appearance. Let pur trained graduates «x* •mine your hair Mid tcalp •••tat die real causa of seceding hairline. Free enmUetioa. Treatments
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
STATIONERY GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS
"T" SHIRTS
(Monogram and Plain)
For
Notre Dame Men!
The
New Notre Dame
Scapular Medal
$1.95
with chain
Beautifully manufactured in every detail by expert workmanship. You'll want one for yourself or as an attractive gift for a friend. •
While they last!
Although the supply is limited, we have a very attractive line of
Mother's Day Cards
Also you won't want to miss our fine selection of gifts — just the right thing to send home for Mother's Day. Come in today!
NOTRE DAME
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
Hours:
Week Days—8 a.m. till 4:15 p.m.
Saturdays —8 a.m. till 1:00 p.m.
16
By JIM REGAN
Seven bouts are on the docke.t for tonight’s Bengal Bout finals with seven civilians, five V-12 trainees, and two members of the NROTC scheduled to battle. With the crystal ball in front of him, and a coin in his hand, this columnist predicts the results of tonight’s encounters.
The most difficult bout in which to pick the winner is the 127-pound event. Gene Sterett and Don White are pitted against each other in the first appearance of either man. Although we have seen neither man in actual competition, we go out on the limb and pick Sterett to win in a split-decision. Bob Pasqua-rella, member of the NROTC from Alumni Hall, is our choice to defeat Bill Summerlin in the 135-pound division.
The 145-pound class finds Ken Rous-seve, a former Bengal Bout champion, facing John Groves of the V-12 unit. Rousseve gets our vote for the championship because of his experience, although Groves cannot be overlooked after his fine performance in defeating Jack McGrath in the semi-finals.
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. • Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHOREA SO. BEND R. R.
SOU™nseh°RE
Peter Hamill impressed this writer in defeating John Burke in his semi-final match, so we will string along with the lad from Michigan in the 155 pound class to defeat John Caron who will be making his first appearance.
In what should prove to be one of the best bouts of the evening James “Harp” Dougherty clashes with Joe Owens in the 175 pound division. Both men were impressive in their semi-final bouts, but Owens appeared the more ring-wise and so gets our vote for the championship.
Ralph Deem and Bill Bevington, both members of the V-12, meet each other in the finals of the 165 pound class. Deem looked strong in defeating George MacDonald in his semi-final match, and thereby merits our nomination as the winner over Bevington who advanced to the finals with a default win over- Jack DeVries.
1	Greeting Cards
• Artists’ Supplies
• Picture Framing
I.	W. Lower Co
DECORATORS 128 North Michigan Street
17
John Trave, six feet, eight inch civilian from Kansas City, Mo. is our pick for the winner of the heavyweight class. Trave will meet Tony Cash, also a civilian from New Orleans, La. Cash has had previous ring experience and may make things very tough for the Missourian.
* * ❖
Jim Clynes, co-captain of this year’s golf team, achieved membership in the “hole-in-one” club last week when he banged his ball into the cup on the 15th green in one shot. Clynes was participating in a pre-season match with three other candidates for the Irish golf team when he made his shot.
Clynes’ hole-in-one is the seventh to be made by a Notre Dame student, five of them by members of the N.D. golf team. Three of these have been shot on the 15th hole, which is a 133-yard, par three hole. Jim Steinle was the last to accomplish this unusual feat on the N. D. course in 1941.
* * *
Visitors to the Notre Dame campus during the past week included two former luminaries of the gridiron. The football players were Gaspar Urban, second-string lineman on Notre Dame’s 1943 . National Champions, and George Martz, guard on the 1944 eleven. Lieut. Joseph Petritz, sports publicity director for 13
years at Notre Dame, who has just returned from overseas service, was another visitor- at N:D.
* * *
The questions for this week’s sports quiz are: (1) Who is the only major league player to lead his league in batting the first time that he batted over .300? (2) How many pitchers have won over 300 games in the major leagues during their life-time? Name six. (3) What is the record for the one-mile walk, established in 1910 by G. H. Goulding of Canada?
Answers to Last Week’s Questions : (1) Lou Gehrig hit 23 home runs in his major league career with bases loaded. (2) Bob Feller pitched the only openingday no-hit game in 1940. (3) Ann Curtis, swimming champion, is only woman to receive the Sullivan Memorial Trophy.
Navy Administration
Staff Dance Tonight
A dance for the members of the Officers Club at the University of Notre Dame is to be held tonight, May 5, in the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel LaSalle in South Bend. The music for the affair is to be furnished by Harlan Hogan and his orchestra.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL. DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING
SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BENO. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND,IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-2574
Greetings, brother.. ..Have a Coca-Cola
... or initiating a new subject of Neptune Everybody enjoys a moment of good-natured friendliness. Such a moment begins at the words Have a Coke. That’s why a pause for ice-cold Coca-Cola is greeted with a smile in so many places, on the seas and overseas, just as it is in your home. It’s a happy symbol among people who understand the pleasant ways of friendship.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
18
Middies to Dance May 11 at Center
The entire corps of Midshipmen stationed at the University of Notre Dame is to have a dance at the Servicemen’s Center in downtown South Bend on the night of May 11. The music for the gala event will be the strains of Myron Walz and his orchestra. The dance will begin at 9 o’clock and will last until midnight.
Aero Club Hears
J.	A. MacLean
Mr. J. A. MacLean, of Bendix Aviation Products Corporation, spoke to the Aero Club at the bi-monthly meeting last week. Mr. MacLean, who is chief engineer in his firm’s landing gear division, spoke on “Helps to Becoming a Success.”
He listed five factors governing an engineer’s success, namely: 1) his working habits, 2) a knowledge of business methods, 3) cooperation, 4) intelligence, and 5) fortune. These he applied to an engineer’s relations with his work, his employer, his business associates and his employees. Cooperation was most emphasized by Mr. MacLean. He showed how cooperation is vitally important not only among the engineers within one firm but also among scattered groups of engineers throughout the country.
Before the talk a short business meeting was held. William Killam'reported that the softball team is to meet the chemical engineers this week. The annual spring picnic was gotten under way under the leadership of Joseph Haggar.
< COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from page 4) million dollars. . . . Lieut. Jan Karski, author of the Story of a Secret State, recently delivered a lecture on “The Polish Underground” at Loyola University, New Orleans. . . . Cecil Isbell, Purdue University football coach, is now assisting in the administration of the coaching program in the Mediterranean Theater’s central sports school. . . . Also from Purdue: Cartons of cigarettes are being offered as prizes in the university’s bridge contest. . . . Seven members of the Marygrove College unit of the American Red Cross are working on trial manuscripts in order to become certified Braille transcribers. . . . The Pullman Company has christened one of its 12-section drawing rooms after the College of New Rochelle.
❖
DAFFYNITIONS
The spinal column is a bunch of bones that run up and down your back, keeping you from being legs all the way up to your neck.
A wolf is a person who has devoted the best leers of his life to women.
moving up in a hurry!
Every unit ties in by telephone to report on contact between companies, and to discuss the next move.
That means combat telephone wires must be laid down with every forward push. And communications crews must work continuously repairing the breaks in lines torn by tanks and amphibians and blasted by artillery and mortars.
Our Armed Forces still have urgent need for huge quantities of communications equipment of all kinds. That’s why there is a wait for home telephone service.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
"Service to the Nation in Peace and War”
19


IUH
It’s two again
Just the way it used to be... Two to grab for the morning paper, Two places to set at the table . . . and Two Chesterfields over Two cups of coffee...
Yes, and when you share Chesterfields together you share all the benefits of smoking pleasure Real Mildness—Cooler Smoking—Better Taste.

-
^Lfield^