LOOKING FOR A SUIT THAT YOU
CAN REALLY
WASH *N WEAR?
Exclusive tailoring details like no other wash and wear
suit can give you! Beach’s contour-cut (which gives perfect
Palm collar fit in
the neck area) means the perfect fit will never wash out . . . and there are 11 other special construction .details that insure a long life.
a.
waMVri wecut
$


PALM BEACH REALLY HAS IT!
t.-
&
k
Here are the wash and wear suits that you can really count on! No matter how many times you wash it, Palm Beach wash ’n wear comes out of the washer looking freshly pressed — ready to wear. See our selection now and choose from a »
group of the handsomest wash ’n wear suits you’ve ever seen . . . cords, poplins, excitingly patterned tropical looks ... in deep tones and light colors ... in sizes and models for ALL men.
and there's no better value at $39?$
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
1/3 IN JULY
1/3 IN AUGUST
1/3 IN SEPTEMBER
NO CARRYING CHARGE
On the Campus—Notre Dame
7
^GILBERT'S )
April 17, 1959
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
On taqns
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, "Barefoot Boy with Cheek**)
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Tenth Year
•	1,500 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students •See our New Colored Coats Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including all accessories $59.95
LOGAN’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
ADVENTURES IN SOCIAL SCIENCE: NO. 2
Today, with earnestness and sobriety,’we make the second of our forays into social science. We take up the most basic of all social sciences—sociology itself.
Sociology teaches us that man is a social animal. It is not instinct or heredity that determines his conduct; it’s environment. This fact is vividly borne out when you consider the case of Julio Sigafoos.
Julio, abandoned as an infant in a dark W’ood near Cleveland, was adopted by a pack of wild dogs and reared as one of their own. When Julio w’as found by a hunter at the age of twelve, the poor child w’as more canine than human. He ran on all fours, barked and growled, ate raw’ meat, lapped w’ater with his tongue, and could neither speak nor understand one single w’ord. In short, he wras a complete product of his environment.
Julio, incidentally, w’as more fortunate than most wild children. They never become truly humanized, but Julio was exceptional. Bit by bit, he began to talk and w’alk and eat and drink as people do. His long-dormant mental processes, when awakened at last, turned out to be fantastically acute. He w’as so bright that he learned to read and w’rite in a month, got through grammar school in three years, and high school in two. And last June as thousands of spectators, knowing the odds Julio had overcome, stood and raised cheer after cheer, he w’as graduated valedictorian from Cal Tech with a degree in astrophysics!
Who can say to what towering heights this incredible boy would have risen had he not been killed the day after commencement while chasing a car?
But I digress. To return to sociology, people tend to gather in groups—a tendency that began, as we all know, with the introduction of Marlboro Cigarettes. What an aid to sociability they are! How
. * * ♦
For real sociability, provide Marlboros for filter smokers and Philip Morris for non-hlter smokers. Both are made by the Philip Morris company; both sponsor this, column; both are tops! .
.	The Scholastic |
benignly one looks upon one’s fellow’s after puffing on Marlboro’s filter that really filters, on Marlboro’s flavor that’s really flavorful. How eager it makes one to extend the hand of friendship! How’ grateful wre all are to Marlboro for making possible this togetherness! How good not to live in the bleak pre-Marlboro w’orld with every man a stranger!
The groups that people live in today (thanks to Marlboro) vary widely in their customs. What is perfectly acceptable in one society may be quite outlandish in another. Take, for instance, the case of Ug Van Wyck.
Ug, a Polynesian lad, grew’ up in an idyllic South Sea isle where the leading event of the year was the feast of Max, the sun god. A quaint all-day ceremony w’as held, with tribal dancing, war chants, fat-lady races, pie-eating contests, and, for the grand finale, the sacrifice of two dozen maidens.
According to Ug’s folkways, sacrificing maidens was entirely acceptable, but when, in his eighteenth year, he was sent as an exchange student to the University of Wisconsin, he soon learned that Americans take a dim view’ of this practice—
in Wisconsin, at any rate. The first fifteen or twenty maidens Ug sacrificed, he was let off with a warning. When, however, he persisted, drastic measures were taken: he was depledged by his fraternity. A broken man, Ug quit school and moved to Milwaukee where today he earns a meager living as a stein, ©ms Max shniman
> the Scholastic
Vol. 100 April 17,1959 No. 19
Diice Quasi Semper Victurua Vive Quan Crai Moriturus
Founded 1867
I Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, I Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of ’ postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
? - ■ - .... — =
BOB SEDLACK
Editor
*	LOU STETTLER
Associate Editor
f	RON BLUBAUGH.................News	Editor
|	WALT RUDGE___________________Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH................Features	Editor
»	TEDDY THOMPSON.............Sports	Editor
JON SIDDLE..................Cover	Editor
DAVE SOMMER................Photography
PETER HASBROOK---------Business Manager CONRAD SUSKI-----------Circulation
I ROY RUBELI................Assistant	News
AL GENIESSE..............Assistant	Copy
CHAS RIECK...............Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA_____________Assistant Features
JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER...Ass’t Features CHUCK MILLER...........Assistant Features
। TOM ROSE...............Assistant Sports
BOB SCHAEFER------------Assistant Sports
BOB HORN..............Assistant	Business
FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C...Moderator ► _______________________________________
JAZZ AND MORE JAZZ: Plaudits to the student affairs commission for sponsoring probably the most popular student function of the year, the 1959 Midwest Collegiate Jazz Festival. Special congratulations to Bill Graham and company for overcoming such paramount obstacles as poor- acoustics and initial student apathy to promote and present the music marathon in a most efficient manner. Few students, we think, expected the near-professional show which entertained so many so well last Saturday. In our isolated existence we tend to forget that other colleges have musical talent equal, and in some cases, superior to our own campus virtuosos.
The “big band” sound came to Notre Dame in the stellar arrangements and professional presentation of “Dave’s Band” from the University of Indiana. Though we claim only the dilettante’s knowledge for musical criticism, we can safely say, with no derogatory implications regarding campus organizations, that this was the best musical sound we have heard in many week ends.
In the small ensemble class, the assembled groups gave us the entire range from the Brubeck to the Four Freshmen sound. The representatives from the University of Minnesota and the University of Detroit, as acclaimed by the judges, brought contemporary jazz to those who appreciate it most in a manner that made the seven hour show seem all too short.
We hope that the commission will, in the future, recognize the almost unlimited potential for student satisfaction which last week’s performance revealed and make the Festival a two-day affair as hoped. Also, it appears that “big name” entertainment can be replaced by less expensive and more enjoyable affairs such as the Jazz Festival. A case in point might be to the comparative reactions of the spectators to Dave Brubeck earlier this year and last week’s collegians. Brubeck, despite his name and skill, just didn’t have the crowd; the college groups, with their diversity and showmanship, did catch the fancy of the spectators. The latter could, conceivably, be engaged for campus dances and entertainment at a great financial saving; a move of this sort would result in a stretching of the budget to give the students more of what they want to see. Again, however, congratulations to the Festival Committee for a job very well done.
INTEREST: Apparently unbeknown to most students, the Student Forum held its fourth session the Saturday before vacation. The subject was timely, the exposition a mite better than mediocre, and the discussion nil. In general a repeat of the ingredients of the last meeting will destroy all interest in future Fora.
BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carey, Bernie Dobranski, Jim Keough. Roger McMahon.
NEWS STAFF: Jim Byrne, George Casey, Wade Clarke, Bill Flaherty. Bill Galvin. John Hoey, Bob Kelley. Jim McGranery, Tom Maraniak. Tom Romans. Charles Tausche. Tom Weiss.
SPORTS STAFF: William Cary. Dick Ciccone, Dick Corso, Jay Kilroy, Tim O’Reilly, William Reagan, George Voris, Tom Walsh.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dante. Subscription rate, $5.00 a year.. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Intfiaaa.
ELECTIONS: Already most of the underclassmen have been bombarded with a heavy barrage of campaign literature ranging from a serious and esoteric dialogue discussing the “ideals of student government past and present” to the small flyers with an attached lollipop and inscribed “Don’t be a sucker, vote for Mac Smith.” Each candidate will have his own special twist to the party line which may not differ substantially from his competitor’s but which he will attempt to palm off as something new and fresh. Unfortunately, this year the students will not be subjected to the ordeal or spectacle of the largest and most impressive of these contests — the one for Student Body President — because there will be no contest.
This is unfortunate not from the point of view that the freshmen will not be receiving solicitous visits from the upperclass polliwogs but rather it is unfortunate when viewed as a reflection of the position of student government at Notre Dame. It is an indictment of student government if there is nothing but apathy to the issues critical to its progress. It is also an indictment of student government if it fails to produce, in this stage of development, at least two strong candidates to contest these issues.
If student government is to progress and if it is to fulfill its ideal as a representative body, it must make better use of the one opportunity afforded it each year to take its case to the electorate and to take from the electorate confidence and new ideas. At the present time the Senate, which is the principle organ ef student government and which is the only source of potential candidates for the major political office, is a closed corporation. It has achieved an almost dynastic and self-perpetuating quality by imparting to all new senators a set of doctrines concerning most issues and especially what the Senate believes it is.
More work, and constructive work has been accomplished this year by the Senate than had been in the previous years; but if this progress is not too stagnate, the Senate must cast out for new ideas, it must also find a more realistic appraisal of its position in the community, and finally it must return to the electorate' for aid and decision on critical issues. Little is accomplished but much is lost by an uncontested election. It is hoped that in the future those who eulogize student government will take constructive action lest their system degenerate into the comedy which is the mark of the senior hall elections. If they do not, the Senate will lose every distinctive feature which it once possessed^—S. & S.
?	5 M
April 17, 1959
minis
LIBRARY aid BINK SHOP
New Catholic Books’ Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
stale
Please return this coupon for free brochure.

TWO EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY PROGRAMS
European Art & Music Program
40 days Study Tour through 8 countries. 10 day study session on Art, Music and History in Vienna 7 days relaxation in Salzkammergut mountain area. 9 European Festivals. Tour emphasis on art and music.
Sailing: SS Ryndam, June 28. Return flight: SAS Air Line. Application deadline: April 15. All inclusive price: $1235.
Salzburg Study Tour
13 days of lectures and seminars. 28 days Study Tour through 6 countries. Faculty of University of Salzburg invites scholars and students from Europe and US to discuss: "EUROPE: THINKING, CREATING AND GROWING", from a Christian point of view.
Salzburg Festival included.
Sailing: SS Ryndam, June 28.
Application deadline: April 15.
All inclusive price: $890.
The INSTITUTE of
EUROPEAN STUDIES
35 E. Wacker Dr., Chicago 1
Check program interested in:
Izburg Study Tour
Art-Music Program
name	
address	
city	zone
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC INVITES ITS READERS TO
I WIN A FIN I ;______________• from LIMERICK LAUGHTER
ENTER NOW! PROCRASTINATION WON’T PAY
Put a little sunshine in your life. Put some cash in your pocket. Enter the monthly SCHOLASTIC “Limerick Laughter’’ Contest. It’s easy. It’s fun! You have THREE chances to win every month you enter. Here’s how the contest works:	.
Each month, the SCHOLASTIC will award $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty L & M cigarette pack. Another $5 will be paid for the best limerick submitted with an empty Chesterfield pack, and a third $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty Oasis pack. Ten (10) honorary mention limerick winners each month will receive Happy Talk game, the new hilarious word game.
Write your limerick on any subject you choose. Enter as often as you wish, but be sure to accompany each limerick with an empty pack of L & M, Chesterfield, or Oasis cigarettes.
This contest is open to all Notre Dame students and faculty members. Entries must be delivered to the Scholastic office or mailed to: LIMERICK LAUGHTER, % THE SCHOLASTIC, University Press Office, Notre Dame, Ind. Limericks for the April contest must be received by April 30. Names of the winners will be published in the May 15 edition of the SCHOLASTIC.
So enter now and keep entering each month. The samples below show you how easy it is to write a winning limerick.
I oft must suppress a strong yen, To think for myself now and then. In all this “security," Why strain my maturity?
It’s done for me by “competent men.”
On Ruddy Pierre let us tarry. He dated a coed named Mary. With taste as their basis, They of course smoked Oasis. Compatible pair — need you query?
CHESTERFIELD KING Nothing Satisfies Like the Big Clean Taste of Top Tobacco
MENTHOL-MILD OASIS Delightfully Different —a Refreshing Change
L & M is Low in tar with More taste to it. Don’t settle for one without the other.
6
The Scholastic
. a sentimental column
by CHARLES BOWEN
Mr. Bascomb is the University Custodian of Custom and Tradition.
A few golden hours spent in his cozy * office and listening to tales of the glory that was and is Notre Dame is enough to restore the pride and dignity of any man; to make him walk tall and proud * in the sun; to make his back straight, his eyes bright, his chest deep, his coat glossy, and his nose cold and wet.
Mr. Bascomb is a kindly little old r gentleman with white hair, twinkling eyes behind rimless spectacles, and a habit of prefacing everything he says to you with “Well, shonny ...” which serves to heighten his already strong resemblance to Walter Brennan. His office is furnished with comfortable leather u furniture, walnut paneling, a little statue of Fr. Sorin, and over the fireplace one of the University’s 427 oil portraits of Knute Rockne. The walls r are lined with many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore, all bound in blue and gold leather. Of course there is an outer office and a secretary with > the omnipresent electric typewriter, but she seems part of another world altogether. And actually she is. Mr. Bascomb has in recent years turned over one-half of his duties, those dealing with the production of new traditions, to his secretary, a bright young lady named Miss Ichabod, and has himself concentrated exclusively on the rich past.
You must have seen Miss Ichabod’s ► work. She’s very efficient. Suppose Fr. Cumberback is disturbed because he discovers a footprint in the peat moss of his tulip bed as he is setting bulbs one afternoon. One brief phone call is all it takes, and within a day or two at most the following bulletin is contributing to the campus-wide thumbtack shortage:
Notice-. It is traditional for Notre Dame Men to express their reverence for living things by staying on the sidewalks and not stomping on the grass or traipsing through flower beds, especially the one immediately north of the front entrance of Pangbom Hall. This tradition will be effective immediately.
But however fascinating this work is, and in spite of its obvious importance to the University, it is in the inner office of our kindly Custodian of Custom and Tradition that the real treasures of spirit are to be garnered.
An afternoon visit, for instance, might include tea with dear, sweet, 104-year-old Fr. Wimple, who came here in 1861 as a minim and has never left the University grounds since that time. He can spin out endless fascinating stories about men that are just awesome names to us today, and his reminiscences of Fr. Sorin are lumps of pure gold, dropped
April 17, 1959
in a pond of pleasantness and placidity, to ripple there at will as the shadows in the room slowly lengthen and the pile of scones disappears from the teacart. But you see I am allowing myself to become subjective and gushy.
Anyway, I visited Mr. Bascomb just the other day and our talk was even more interesting and inspiring than usual, so I thought I would pass along the story he told me. I can’t hope to duplicate his inimitable narrative style, but that’s all right, because he made the scene so present to me that I can easily see it as a drama. In that form I am presenting it, and I hope to have it produced as a pageant sometime before I graduate (which may well be a-distinct possibility).
(Our scene is our beloved campus, “somewhere north of Vincennes,” on a balmy morning in 1879. A motley horde of amateur and professional stonemasons, bricklayers, carpenters, priests, brothers, students, etc., are swarming over a vast and shapeless mass of piled bricks which gives promise of someday becoming the Main Building. Supervising the construction are Fathers Sorin, Corby, and Dillon.)
Corby: Well, what do you think of it, Father?
Sorin: Bah.
Dillon: Well, we’re sorry, but we’re doing the best we can.
Sorin: Oh, I know. Eet ees not your fault. We should have known better zan to start out weezout an architect. But oh! Quel miserable!
Corby: You’ve been working pretty hard, you know, Father.
Sorin: I know. Nevaii' mind zat. (aside) But ze breakfasts zey serve here! Agh! Le morte yellow again zis morning! Ees no wondei' I feel lousy. Pfui!
Dillon (to Corby): Say, Father, doesn’t the left wing look a little off-balance?
I don’t think they’ll ever meet the right at that rate.
Corby: I was wondering myself. Isn’t Brother Innocentius supposed to be watching from the front to take care of that?
Dillon: Yes, but'ever since he broke his glasses he’s been having trouble lining things up. We’d better put in another turret over on the left there to even things up.
(They are interrupted by an excited professor who rushes up to exclaim): Fathers! Fathers! The back wall just fell off and the class of ’81 is buried alive!
Sorin: Everyw’ere I turn — Incompetence!
Corby: Well, we ought to have enough marble left over for a small memorial. Save as many bricks as you can.
(Exit the professor.)
Sorin: I am geeving up on zis whole crummy beeziness. You said you could do eet. I lat you try. Zis is ze result! Eet looks like a set for Seven Keys to Baldpate!
Dillon: Well, perhaps I did speak .a little too enthusiastically. But you mustn’t judge until we’ve finished, Father. True, there have been setbacks ...
Sorin: (sarcastically) Oui, zere havo been setbacks. Like for instance ze front door getting put on ze second story.
Dillon: (nervously) Well, don’t you think the porch looks nice there now?
Sorin: Oh, sure. Ees so good I may keel myself.
Corby : Well, Father, we’ve come this far pretty successfully, and there isn’t time for much of anything else to go wrong.
Dillon: (After frantic gestures to Corby which are missed'.) Uhhh ...
Sorin: (groaning) Oh, no, Father, what ees eet now?
Dillon: Well, er, it isn’t really so much, but it’s just that, um, well, you see I didn’t quite get the orders straight and there’s this like, well, SC€y running right up the middle and we don’t know what to put on top of it.
(Sorin is temporarily incapable of speech, reverting to a series of inchoate babblings interspersed with groans, and kicking an occasional rock.)
Corby: Um, why not just some more chimney pots and things?
Dillon: Nothing to hold them up with, Sorin: (recovering himself with an effort) I wash my ’ands of zis whole sing right ’ere and now. I don’t care w’at you do. I’m going home and sack out. Wake me up for Gunsmoke.
Corby: A steeple?
Dillon: Got one already. Might try a dome.
Sorin: A dome. A dome! Cest assez ridicule! Ohhhhhh. I just don’t care any more —. do whatever you want, but don’ bozzair me again. (He walks away.)
Dillon: Have you any suggestions for the color, Father?
Sorin: (turning around) Ze color! Bah! ' Paint eet peenk! Paint eet gold for J all I care! Get gold leaf! Ohhhhh! (muttering) A dome! Zat I should ' see ze day . . . (exit.)
Corby: Did he say gold leaf?	?:
Dillon: (shrugs) That’s what he said.
Jehosaphat!
Corby: I’m not going to be able to stand . J this much longer. I wish somebody ; would hurry up and invent football.
1GDM qsauj /vtous o*. s+on uloy. tpHAAg
JOBS on SHIPS
PLAN NOW FOR SUMMER
a
EAM HIGH PAY • TEAYEL THE WOULD Men-Women . . . work aboard Luxury Ocean Liners Freighters, Tankers. An opportunity to see the world, travel to many foreign lands while earning high pay. (No experience needed on many jobs.) Work full time, season, or on one-trip basis.
For lafonMtioa	Write Dept. 21-Z
MIVERSAL SNIP NF0MUH0N
1020 M Sinti Ntmrk, N. J.
N a a
a
N V
H S _3 a
9
i

□□Bias
s a 3 d
a
a a 9 V N 3 3
s
a
v j n s n
i
a
o
N
V
V
s
N
0
M 01 N
S
N
.3 >1
3 a
s
H 1
v w
a o
2 N 3
H 3 A V
d IN O d
U3MSNV1GDM
KGDL (CROSSWORD No. 20
SWITCH FROM
KGDL
ACROSS
1. Mount for a starry night
8. Important parts of burlesque
13.	Spent too much time at the feed bag
14.	Reversible principle
15.	Mild refreshing------
16.	Goose in a mixed-up snare
17.	Short for Ike or Elvis
18.	Nothing, made out of yarn
20.	Kind of versity
21.	Half of Wittenberg with a lotta sex
22.	One response to “What do you say?”
23.	Fresco’s first name
24.	Measure of newspaper space
26.	Poll cat
27.	Best part of Barry
29. Hardly those fdierain Westerns
80. Creates a hot neck
82. IPs run out of on moonlight drives
85. Theatrical cowshed
36. Cheezit, the cops!
40. Kind of ego
42. Understanding between nations
44.	Once you--- a Kool, you'll always
45.	Unparch the Ups
46.	Manhandled
47.	They rhyme withfetehers
DOWN
1.	Companion of circumstance
2.	Kind of age
3.	Thin-sounding sound
4.	Scraps at the end of sports
5.	Jongg’s first name
6.	This music just hasn’t got tone
7.	Sit down; light up a Kool
8.	Don’t go!
9.	Lad from Kentucky
10.	Another way to switch from “hots”
11.	Rock ’n’ roller
12.	Are these bass sergeants?
19. Slightly reluctant
21.	They even made a rope out of it
22.	Switch from hots to-------
----Filter Kool
25. Kind of Y tower
28.	The 49
29.	This one’s impossible
31.	Frenchy moo juice
32.	When this is last, you’re finished
33.	Gal from Alabama
34.	Put away
35.	Made babies
37.	Pot fattener
38.	Road in
Viterbo
39.	of iniquity
41. It sounds as if she saw a mouse
43. Half a twitch

• As cool and clean, as a breath of fresh air.
o Finest leaf tobacco.. .mild refreshing menthol and the world’s most thoroughly tested filter!
KGDL
• With every puff your mouth, feels dean your throat refreshed!
Qmeiicah Most- Pushing Cgaidfe
MILD MENTHOL
ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTER
• 1059. Brawn * WlUianwon Tobacco Corp.
The Scholastic
DOME ANNOUNCES RECIPIENTS OF AWARDS
Highest Honors Slated For 3 June Graduates
Traditionally the highest honor the University can bestow upon its students, the Dome award, has been presented to three outstanding seniors. The 1959 seniors are: John Hayward, Mike Phen-ner, and Bob Sedlack.
The meaning of the award is summed up in the words of John Thurin, editor of the Dome, as cited in personal letters to each of the recipients. Thurin explains that the award is made because of “true leadership in the academic area, in the field of extracurricular activities, and by their personal character exemplify true gentlemen.”
John Hayward has become particularly well known for his service as this year’s president of the senior class. Academically, he has distinguished himself with his fine average which will enable him to graduate with honors and have a Dean’s List rating. John is also cochairman of the YCS and membership chairman of the Blue Circle Honor Society.
In his letter notifying John of the presentation, Thurin stated, “Even more evident to your fellow classmates and underclassmen who selected you is your mature and perceptive character, a gentlemanly character which has tabbed you as an outstanding member of the class of 1959.”
In speaking of Mike Phenner, another student to be named, Thurin praised his achievements as nation-wide president of the National Federation of Catholic College Students when he stated, “You
JOHN HAYWARD
April 17, 1959
MIKE PHENNER
have constantly represented Notre Dame in a way that she can be proud.” Mike, an honor student, has also been active as a former co-chairman of the YCS and, as an undergraduate, was a member of the debate team.
English major, and magna cum laude graduate, Scholastic Editor Bob Sedlack, is the third recipient of the award. Thurin was sincere in pointing to his “quiet and decisive control, initiative, and successful handling of the 1958-59 Scholastic.” Bob is also one of the twenty-three Notre Dame men granted a Woodrow Wilson scholarship. He is planning to use it for study at Harvard University.
Formal presentation of the plaques will be at the annual Publications Banquet. The dinner will be held in the Mahogany Boom of the Morris Inn on May 13.
The committee, chaired by Thurin, which selected these students was made up of juniors from the four colleges, the president of the junior class, a member of the student government, and a representative from the Scholastic and the Dome.
“I WANT A GIRL ..."
To accommodate those who were unable to purchase tickets for the Senior Ball Week-end, “Reflections,” at the regular sale last Sunday, there will be another ticket sale on Monday from 7:30 to 10:00 p.m. in the Rathskeller of the LaFortune Student Center.
Beatniks Invade Rathskeller Saturday for Bohemian Party
Bowing to the Beatniks, the social commission is sponsoring a' Bohemian Party tomorrow night in the Rathskeller of the LaFortune Student Center, from 8 to 11:30 p.m. Costumes peculiar to the San Francisco group are optional.
Guy Carawan, folk balladist like the Kingston Trio, has been booked for the . party and will perform on the guitar and banjo, accompanying himself vocally. Carawan has appeared in such famous places as the Ash Grove in Hollywood, the Gate of Horn in Chicago, Detroit’s Caucus Club, and in San Francisco’s Purple Onion, in addition to his many appearances on campuses around the country including Wisconsin, Michigan, and California. He also has won the coveted Gold Medal of the Moscow Youth Festival, 1957.
The dance was decided upon by the social commission because of two recent occurrences, according to Crane Day, social commissioner. First, the new sub-culture called the Beat Generation has introduced itself, even at Notre Dame, and secondly, the Kingston Trio with its similar format drew a sellout crowd and stirred overwhelming interest in folk ballads.
In the ballroom of the Student Center, Gene Bertoncini and his combo will play for those who care to dance.
STATION MANAGER STALTER
For the best sound around
Stalter Named New WSND Station Manager; Geary, Ryan, Ahern Appointed Fall Directors
J. Neil Stalter, a junior communication arts major, has been named WSND Station Manager for 1959-60, Warren Albright, present station manager announced last week. Stalter hails from Wilmington, Del., and was previously head of WSND’s traffic and continuity department. In addition, he is a member of the Blue Circle Honor- Society, a Dean’s List student, and president of the Delaware Valley club.
Stalter appointed Michael Ahern, program director, Joseph Geary, news director, Tim Ryan, sports director, and John Sears, chief announcer for- the coming year.
Ahern’s home is in Indianapolis, and Ryan’s in Toronto. Both are communication arts juniors, and have worked as
ELECTION DAY
The date for the student government election has been set for this Thursday. The polls will be open from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5 to 6:30 p.m. with the preferential balloting system to be used.
The following positions shall be filled in the election this semester: student body president, college senators, and sophomore, junior, and senior class officers.
All ballots will be tabulated on April 23 in the LaFortune Student Center, with WSND providing coverage.
WSND sports announcers. Ahern was sports director during the past year.
Geary is a native of Stevensville, Mich., and a junior in the AB-Engineer-ing program. Sears is a junior premed from Syracuse, N. Y.
J. Michael Divney, a mechanical engineering junior from Hartsdale, N. Y., was named head of the public relations department. John Myers, a freshman AB-Engineer from Pittsburgh, will head the traffic and continuity department.
Stalter also announced that two new posts have been created in anticipation of next year’s expansion program. Jack Shaughnessy, a junior history major from North Platte, Neb., will act as record librarian, and John Cooney, a sophomore commerce student from Wyomissing, Penn., as bookkeeper.
Dick Favret, a junior commerce student from Cincinnati, will take over as head of sales, and Pierce de Gross, a junior commerce student from Mountain Lakes, N. J., as business manager.
The production engineering staff will be headed by A. John Glockner, Jr., an Electrical Engineering junior from Columbus, Ohio. Tony Chessick, a junior engineering science major from Arlington, N. J., will continue as Chief Engineer.
In announcing the new appointments, Stalter said WSND will continue to maintain its high standard of service as the “Voice of Notre Dame,” and hopes to make an even greater impact on the student body through the use of several new innovations.
Notre Dame Participates In National Competition ‘ 1
Notre Dame entered the William Lowell Putnam Mathematical Competition together with 115 other colleges and ' universities this past November. Three of the Notre Dame participants placed in the first 80 of the 506 competitors, and all eight members of the Notre Dame * group placed in the upper half. As a team Notre Dame placed twenty-second.
Notre Dame sent six junior math majors to the tournament who were: ' Claiborne Johnson—Sc.; Robert Serfling —AB; Thomas Banchoff—AB; Michael Butler—AB; Paul Chestnut—AB; and Gordon Berg—Sc. Thomas Scharle, a ’ junior physics major, and James Wirth, a sophomore in science, completed the eight-man team.	,, „
Mrs. William Lowell Putnam inaugurated the Putnam Competition approximately 25 years ago when she decided to sponsor intellectual competition #, between Yale and Harvard. In time this competition spread to a nation-wide status, and came under the sponsorship V of the mathematics department of Har- y J vard. In 1946 the Mathematical Associ-	|
ation of America assumed sponsorship	|
with Prof. L. E. Bush of Kent State Col- I lege serving as Director.	, L
A $3,000 scholarship to the Harvard j Graduate School is awarded to one of J the top five competitors, with each of the top five participants receiving $75 » , each. The next five in rank receive $35	•
awards apiece. Cash awards are also given to the five top ranking schools, ranging from $500 down to $100 in $100 increments. The recently announced team winners in order of placement are: 4 < Harvard, Toronto, California Institute of Technology, Cornell, and Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. .	I
Architects Group to Present Beat Beaux Arts Ball Tonight ' ’
The Beaux Arts Ball, the only costume dance held by a campus group, will be presented tonight by the Archi- *1 ■ tects club at the Hillside Barn on Dragoon Trail from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
Providing the music, is a group from Benton Harbor, Mich, which is led by I Ernie Whiteside. As in the past, prizes will be awarded to the persons having the best costume. The committee is expecting a good number of parodies on * the current fad of Beat Generationism.
A Bohemian note will be struck in the mode of transportation being provided. Scorning the conventional buses 1 of the Indiana Transit Company, the committee is providing a panel truck for those who want transportation to the dance. It will leave the Circle at 8:30 " " p.m.
Chairman of the dance are Bob Becker, a senior from Cleveland, Ohio and Stan Lacz, also a senior, from Mississippi. The Architect’s club is sponsoring the dance. President of the club is Steve Dragos.
The Scholastic
10
t NSF Makes 18 Fellowship Grants to School; Brace Babbitt Given $1100 for Arizona Work
The National Science Foundation has announced that 18 fellowships have been awarded to students in Notre Dame’s undergraduate and graduate schools. In addition, Student Body Secretary Bruce Babbitt has been awarded a grant by the Foundation to do geological field work this summer.
Fellowship winners include seven seniors, two teaching assistants, eight graduate students, and one postdoctoral 4 student. The Foundation selected 1160 outstanding college graduates for the awards as part of its programs to encourage students in the Natural Sciences
NSF WINNERS WEINER AND BABBITT
and allied fields to obtain advanced training on a full-time basis.
The awards were based upon scientific aptitude and achievement tests administered by the Educational Testing Sei-vice, academic record, and recommendations. These were then evaluated by panels of leading American scientists. The results were then sent to the Science Foundation where final selection was made.
Babbitt, a junior AB-geology major, will receive an $1100 grant to allow him to work in the Southwest this summer in an attempt to discover the source of some triassic sediments in the Arizona and Nevada Plateau area.
Senior winners are the following: Leon Keyser, a chemistry major from Waukegan, Ill., who will study at Harvard. Dennis Ready, an engineering 4 student from Aurora, Ill., will work for his advanced degree at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. A geology major from Chicago, Ill., John Weiner, will study earth science next year at Illinois University.
John Polking, a math major from Breda, Iowa, will continue his studies here at Notre Dame’s Graduate School.
William Wessel will concentrate on Physics at Cal Tech next year. His home is in Louisville, Ky.
David Miller, a senior engineering student who hails from East Lansing, Mich., will attend Purdue next year. James Short, who majored in philosophy of science, may study at Yale University. His home is in Philadelphia.
The teaching assistants who will do their study this summer are: John Erskine from Milwaukee, and Francis Rush from Brooklyn.
One of the 160 grants for postdoctoral study went to Thomas Stewart who will receive his doctorate in mathematics this June. He plans to continue his work at the Institute for Advanced Study. Stewart is an off-campus student from Memphis, Tenn.
The seven Notre Dame graduate students who received fellowships are: mathematics students John Cantwell from St. Louis, John Derwent from Chicago, and Ronald Knill from South Bend; zoology student Donald Leary from Attleboro, Mass.; engineering students Allan Malvick from Oak Lawn, Ill., and John Mantey from Sharon Springs, Kan.; and Thomas Weber from Chicago who is studying physics.
In addition, Sister Mary Rosaleen Dunleary, C.S.C., who is studying microbiology received a Science Foundation research fellowship to enable her to continue her work at Notre Dame.
Delayed Knights to Hold Annual Columbian Dance
The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus will hold their annual ball in the downtown Council chambers. The dance, which was earlier cancelled due to weather conditions, will be held under the theme of “Columbian Capers.” Dance music and the evening’s entertainment will be supplied by Gene Bertoncini and his sextet.
Presiding as queen of the dance will be Miss Frances Rufe from Doylestown, Pa. Miss Rufe, a student at Saint Mary’s College, will be escorted by her fiance, Pat Gorman, the general chairman of the ball. The climax of the evening’s activities will be the crowning of the queen by Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C.
Honored guests for “Columbian Capers” include Edward Rademaker, State Deputy of the Indiana Knights of Columbus Council, and several Grand Knights and district deputies from around the state.
Elaborate decorations will cover the hall. The dance floor will be made in the shape of a ship with the title of. the. boat aptly called the “S.S. Columbian.”
Pat Gorman, the general chairman of the dance is a fourth year business administration major from Philadelphia.
“States’ Rights” a la Notre Dame
The argument about the possible intrusion of student government, especially in the Senate, into realms where it doesn’t belong, has transported me mentally back to the halls of Congress where the Southern senators lick wounds they claim to have received from a nosey Federal Government and read David Lawrence foi- sympathy in what they view is their fight for individual freedom. Though many in student government don’t realize it, a “states’ rights” issue of sorts has risen at Notre Dame.
It was first apparent when the student organizations policy was discussed a few weeks ago, but things were smoothed over when organizations with a University approved budget were judged to be outside the Senate’s jurisdiction, except for activities such as athletics which would not come under the scrutiny of the Administration when the budgets of the clubs in question are considered. However, the issue is now more acute.
“Sam” Cahill, commissioner of student affairs, submitted a policy shortly before Easter, which would have split the Mardi Gras into its various sections and put them under the proper Senate commissions. Cahill did this because he felt the bypassing of the commission system for one group (the Mardi Gras people admit they are an identifiable unit—in Cahill’s words a “clique”) has had a divisive effect on the whole realm of student government.
Tom Carroll, past chaii-man of the Mardi Gras, argued that, though he was pei-fectly willing to be under student affairs, he was very much opposed to splitting the Mardi Gras into parts, even though the general chairmen would theoretically control everything. What Carroll most feai-s is that the various commissions wouldn’t be able to give it the undivided attention he says is necessary to make it successful.
The Senate compromised Monday night by putting the dance under the social commission but they left the choice of the general chairman up to the student body president though the student affairs commissioner is an advisor in the choice.
I fear that the question hasn’t really been faced. Are there certain organizations which operate better in the interests of the students if they are left a measure of autonomy, even though this might have a corrosive effect on “the system”? I think we should put that question to the current crop of candidates, making their rounds in quest of votes.
April 17, 1959
11
GEIL PRESENTS AWARDS TO GILLES AND MERZ
Minn. Quartet Takes a > First at Jazz Festival
Thomas More Medab Given to Giles, Merz; Student Apostle Work Recognized by Awards
Don Gilles and Jim Merz are this year’s recipients of the Saint Thomas More Awards. These two seniors were chosen from 15 seniors, nominated for the award. A committee of the Catholic Action organizations on campus under the direction of Chairman Tom Geil chose them. '
The purpose of this award is “to give special recognition to those seniors whose work in the student apostolate at Notre Dame has -been outstanding.” And thus the award is named for St. Thomas More, the patron of the modern Catholic layman. The award was originated by
DOES 1 EQUAL 0?
The freshman and sophomore math competition will be held on Saturday, May 2, from 1:30 to 4 p.m. Any interested Notre Dame freshman or sophomore may make himself eligible by signing up in the math department office no later than April 30. This is a local competition designed to test students for originality and mathematical insight as well. as correctness and elegance. In past years participants have come from ' the four colleges of the University,- with oyer 100 entries usually placed. Winners will be awarded math books of their choice.
the YCS and has now been recognized as an official University award.
Don Gilles is a senior in the General Program from Greenwich, Conn. As spiritual commissioner, he had a great deal to do with bringing the liturgy closer to the student, for example, the Byzantine Rite Mass held earlier in the year. A regular in the NROTC, Don is the President of ND’s Naval Institute Society. He has been chosen for the National Collegiate Who’s Who. Don is a member and promoter of the Third Order of St. Francis and is executive chairman of the Senior Ball.
Jim Merz, physics major in the College of Science, hails from Teaneck, N. J. Jim is Co-Chairman of YCS this year and served as chairman of its freshmen program as a junior. President of the Physics club, he has been on the Dean’s List for four years. Jim received a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship and intends to do graduate work in physics at Harvard. In his first two years at N.D., Jim was a member of the SCHOLASTIC sports staff.
The winners were picked on the basis of excellence in religious activity, leadership ability, spirit of generosity and unselfishness, and academic merit.
Gilles and Merz will receive their awards from Fr. Hesburgh, at the Senior Class Day Exercises on June 6. The award consists of a sterling silver medal and a citation.
Last year’s awards, given by the YCS, were won by Martin Kominiarek, Jr. and Richard Phelan. The awards are made annually in the spring.
Led by a classics scholar, the UJW Quartet of Minnesota walked off with first prize at the Midwest Collegiate Jazz Festival held last Saturday on campus.
The group rehearsed under tenor sax Gary Berg for only a few weeks prior to the competition. With the victory, the quartet has received a three-week engagement at Chicago’s famous Blue Note Night Club, a possible invitation to the Newport Jazz Festival, and $200 from the student government.
The winning quartet also features chemistry major and part-time beer salesman Herb Pilhofer on piano; a psychologist on drums, Tom D’Andrea; and, of course, a music major, Tim Hughart at the bass.
Second place was taken by one year old Dave’s Band from downstate Indiana, under the direction of Dave Baker, and featuring Arlene Martel as vocalist. The group of musicians with six trumpets and five trombones may get a recording contract with Warner Bros. Records, and has been noted for its recent jazz concerts around Indianapolis. Best band award also went to the I. U. group.
A six-year-old group, the Ohio State University Jazz Forum Big Band, copped the third place award with its saxophone taking the tenoi* sax award.
With two individual awards — drums and bass — the University of Detroit wound up in fourth place with its Bob Pierson Quartet under the direction of the versatile Pierson, master of the clarinet, flute, and sax. Ben Appling won on drums, and Bill Woods took individual bass. Pierson’s quartet also took the award for the best combo.
“SOME BLUES” WINS AWARD
An eight-minute original accordion number “Some Blues” won the best instrumentalist award for Bob Sardo of Purdue’s The Duke’s Men. The other individual awards by the Selmer Music Instrument Co. went to Lois Nemser of Cincinnati, best vocalist; best trombonist, George West of Oberlin; Dave Hutson of Illinois on the alto sax; trumpeter Jim Benham of Michigan State, and guitarist from Cincinnati, Don Miller.
The other group finalists were The Ivy’s from Western Michigan who went home with a special merit award, The Yeomen from Oberlin, and the Chuck Lewis Sextet of Michigan State.
Impressed with the quality of the contestants, Art Van Damme, one of the judges said “It’s the finest affair I’ve ever been to; it just knocked me out.” Another judge, Editor Charles Suber of Down Beat magazine echoed Van Damme with “Five years from now I am going to be very glad to say that I was here at the first one.”
The third judge, Frank Holzfeind, owner of the Blue Note Jazz Room, expressed his sentiments, “I’ve renewed my faith in jazz.”	,
The Scholastic
12
> Old Maintenance Dept. Buildings to Dissolve; French Quarter Replaced by Modern Center
Time and progress must inevitably catch up with everything, and thus it was last week as a wrecking crew de, scended on the motley cluster of old buildings which lie behind the Administration Building. These buildings, which have until recently housed the various i. shops of the maintenance department, are being razed now that the ultramodern Maintenance Center on the northeast corner of the campus is fin, ished.
The old buildings, which in recent years have become increasingly dilapidated due to the rotting of their all wood frames, once held fond memories * for those connected with the University’s early days. At one time the string of buildings known to the oldtimers as the French Quarter, because of the French priests who inhabited them, formed an essential part of the heart and soul of If the University which was centered in t- the Administration Building.
Exact dates for most of the buildings are not to be found, but some of them most certainly predate the present Administration Building which was built on the ruins of its predecessor destroyed in the great fire of 1879.
Mr. Vincent Fraatz, University en-
Integration Talks Set By Lawyers on May 6
Seeking to constructively approach the issue of desegregation and to illuminate the problems involved in order to make practical suggestions for their solutions, the Notre Dame Law School is scheduling a symposium on the problems and responsibilities of school desegregation for the week end of May 9.
Dean Joseph O’Meara of the Law School, emphasized that the group has “no intention of debating the merits or demerits of the Supreme Court’s schoolintegration decisions, which we support.”
While avoiding platitudes or generalities, the speakers will concentrate on the practical problems that have arisen and on the responsibilities they impose on churches, public officials, educators, the Negro community, and the legal pro-■ fession.
If these problems are examined and the responsibilities assessed, Dean O’Meara feels that “we will be abe to find a viable way out of the present calamitous situation, and thus to face the challenge of a thermo-nuclear world as a united and a free people.”
The oral presentations, which are limited to 30 minutes, will be printed in the Notre Dame Lawyer, the school’s law review.
Participants will be honored at a dinner on Friday night, May 8, prior to the first session which will be held at 8 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. The Symposium will continue through Saturday, May 9.
April 17, 1959
gineer and director of maintenance, has been unable to find a date on the Old Fire House, one of the more picturesque buildings to be razed. This quaint old structure with a wooden tower on top originally used to dry hoses was first used to house man-drawn carts which served the purpose of fire engines. Lately it has been used as a garage, but it still attracts many tourists. Only last year Architecture Prof. Ernest Brandl and his students recorded its plans for future generations. It’s date remains a secret, but many old grads from the pre-World War I era remark at the fact that it still stands, as it was already old when they attended school.
Another building to fall under the workman’s axe will be the present maintenance office. There are no doubts as to its origin for on the threshold are clearly marked the words “Bakery . . . 1902.” The greenhouse by the infirmary, the warehouse behind Stanford and Father Lange’s gymnasium are being spared for the moment. The fate of the latter is particularly in doubt, and there is a possibility that Father Lange and his equipment will be moved into the newest of the older maintenance buildings which was recently remodeled.
The University has not yet determined what to do with the space vacated by the wrecked buildings, but most likely a new building will be erected there in the future. For the present the area will be landscaped.
As for the newly built Maintenance Center, it has just been completed and the crews are in the process of moving in. The building is located directly north of the Heat and Power Lab which is somewhere north of the water tower which is visible on campus.
Providing 67,500 square feet of floor space the new building provides modern facilities and ample quarters for the paint, sheet metal, electric, and carpentry shops with additional storage space. A series of lift trucks will help utilize storage space by stacking items. A railroad spur of the Notre Dame and Western Railroad parallels a series of loading docks on the west side of the building; and a completely equipped garage and filling station will service over 60 vehicles of the maintenance department’s fleet.
Mr. Fraatz is quite pleased with the new setup. The new building, he said, “gives us much more efficiency since it brings together in a compact space shops and storage areas formerly scattered through several buildings and on several floors.” The office section even includes blueprint and drafting rooms not available before. The University spends about $530,000 a year on maintenance for the school. The construction of the* new Maintenance Center was part of the 66.6 million-dollar building program inaugurated last year.
—Charles Tausche
Gendel's Surplus Sales Brasso, BOTC Collar Insignia All Officer Insignia Collar Straps Kits Cloth You Save Every day at GENDH.’S 512 SO. MICHIGAN
^HMWUHNES CANOE 1HK
We furnish everything for a thrilling KaklkJ| vacation in famed wfNaBw Quetico-Superior wB-darneaa! Aluminum canoe, complete camping outfit, fine food all at low daily rate. Write today far csnse trip planning kit, map, lists, rataa (PA. Girb make canoe trips, tool) Border takes Owtffttfeg P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
J. Gutenberg, bookmaker, says: "If you want hair that’s neat, not greasy, you’re just the type for Wikhoot!”
HARRY LAWTON, JR., received his B.S. in
Physics at Union College, Schenectady
N. Y., in 1950, joining General Electric
that same year. He received an M.S.
degree m Management Engineering from
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute m 1958.

"Long-range programs are important —for both men and missiles”
“In a company dedicated to research and development, a young man’s opportunities to learn more—to increase his technical skills—are almost unlimited,” says 31-year-old Harry Lawton, Jr., a General Electric engineer engaged in the development of inertial guidance and fire-control systems for ballistic missiles. “And to maintain America’s scientific leadership, we’re going to need all the technical training and skills we can produce.
“An important aspect of my job at General Electric is the continuing opportunity to learn more. I’ve been able to continue my education in the company’s Physics Program for college graduates. And I also have the advantage of association with top technical experts in . my. work. Opportunities like this have helped me realize that long-range programs are important—for both men and missiles.”	.	.
Hatry Lawton is one of several hundred technical graduates 'who are devoting their skills to the develop
ment of 14 government missile projects to which General Electric is a major contributor. More and more our scientific progress and our national security depend on men like this —men who bring high qualifications to their work and who continue their quest for knowledge, both on and off the job.
General Electric believes that individual initiative and career growth are essential to America’s continued technological leadership. To this end, the company encourages all of its employees — including more than 30.000 college graduates —to develop to their fullest capabilities by providing opportunities for increasing knowledge and working skills.
Pogress Is Our.Most Important Product
GENERAL^ ELECTRIC
14
The Scholastic
Sfumtl PictiM
. Spring Football Drills Open Under Kuharich; Big Rebuilding Task For New Grid Mentor

Preparations for the staid; of the 71st football season at the University of Notre Dame began on Saturday, April 11, when Coach Joe Kuharich greeted more than 100 candidates for spring practice. The squad had assembled on Friday, April 10, for a “picture-taking” day.
Coach Kuharich stated that 20 practice sessions will be held, starting with the opening drill on April 11, and ending up with the Old-Timers game on Saturday, May 9. The first few days of practice will be devoted mainly to the conditioning and testing of players. An intersquad game is scheduled about April 18 or later.
Instructing the football candidates
w along with Kuharich will be his assistfl ants. All, with the exception of fresh-■lr man coach Hugh Devore, are new on the

Notre Dame scene. They are: Bill Dad-dio, first assistant and end coach; Dick Evans, line coach; Dick Stanfel, assistant line coach; Don Doll, backfield coach; Joe Scudero, assistant backfield coach; and John Murphy, assistant freshman coach.
Kuharich stated that “the players will be new to us in a sense, and we will be new to them. So, more or less, everybody will be starting equal.” However, he added, “We do know something about the returning squad members, having studied the movies of the 1958 games in some detail.”
There are only 13 lettermen returning
from last year’s squad, plus two winners
from 1957. Twenty-two are being gradu
50
9.
RETURNING LETTERMEN: (left to right) First row: Jim Colosimo, Dick Ciesielski, Ken Adamson, Bob Scholtz, Dave Hurd, Myron Pottios, Al Sabal, Joe Scibelli, and Monty Stickles. Second row: Don White, Bill (Red) Mack, Bob Scarpitto, George Izo, Jim Crotty, and Pat Doyle.
April 17, 1959

ated this year. Most of the graduate losses from last year’s squad are in the line, with the exception of center. The
backfield is experienced, except back.
At end, Monty Stickles is the turning letterman from last
at full-
lone reseason.
Stickles, remembered for his pass catching and place kicking, plays left end. Jim Colosimo, who was injured this past season, also is returning for his final year at the end position.
There are also only two lettennen returning at tackle. They are Joe Scibelli, a 235-pound sophomore who was on the ■third team last year, and Dick Ciesielski, a junior, who lettered in 1957.
Monogram guards returning are 205-pound Ken Adamson and 210-pound Al Sabal. Adamson was the number two right guard and Sabal a third string left guard for the ’58 Irish.
The three top centers from last year’s squad, 225-pound Bob Scholtz, Myron Pottios, 215, and Dave Hurd, 215, give the Irish depth at this position. Kuharich has indicated that one of these men may be shifted to another position in the line.
Juniors George Izo, a 210-pounder, and Don White, 190, are the two veterans returning at the quarterback position for the Irish. Izo was the first team quarterback during the latter half of the 1958 season, and White was the third team signal caller.
The Irish have four- monogram win
ners
fighting for the halfback positions
this spring. Bill (Bed) Mack, a 175-pounder, and 190-pound Pat Doyle return at left half while 185-pound Jim Crotty and Bob Scarpitto, 185, are back at right half.
There are no lettermen returning at fullback. Nick Pietrosante, Norm Ody-niec, and Ron Toth, the top three last fall, are graduating. A halfback may be moved to this position, but Kuharich and his assistants will be watching the fullback candidates closely also.
Irish Eighth in Nationals; Russomano Places Sixth
Notre Dame’s fencers finished eighth in a field of 29 competing teams in the NCAA Fencing Tournament at Annapolis, Md., March 27 and 28. The host school, Navy, made an unprecedented sweep of tournament honors. Navy men placed first in all three divisions with Roland Wommack of Navy named “fencer of the year,” and the Navy coach named “coach of the year.”
Jim Russomano compiled the best record of the Irish entrants, placing sixth in the foil division with 21 victories and five losses. He was also placed on the All-American fencing squad for the second year in a row.
Tom Lee captured eleventh position for Notre Dame in the sabre division with a 13-11 score for the two days of competition. Completing the scoring for the Irish was Jim Jock who gained 15th position in epee on the strength of his 13-13 record.
Irish Coach Walter Langford said that the showing of the team was satisfactory although it was not all that had been hoped for.
“Every top school in the country was represented, and the competition, especially in the foil division, was some of the best ever seen in the tourney.”
Coach Langford pointed out that this was the eighth time in the past ten years that Notre Dame has finished among the top ten schools in the country in the national championships. He added that the rules of the tournament allow each school to enter only one fencer in each of the three divisions, and thus a school such as Notre Dame, which depends on team depth and strength rather than individual performances, is not able to give as good an account of itself as it would in a regular season meet. The tournament is run on a round-robin basis with each entrant meeting every other entrant in his division.
Graduation will take seven of the nine starter’s on the team, but Langford feels that these positions will be adequately filled, and he is anticipating another good season. With the return of Russomano and Jerry Johnson in the foil he says we will have a solid nucleus on which to build. The size and balance of the squad will supply adequate replacements, and no letdown is foreseen.
15

Remington's first again...with the
1
between THESE SETTINGS lie the SOLUTIONS TO every SHAVING PROBLEM 'NTHE WORLD’
LEFT TO LOWER Roller Combs as beard gets tougher, grows longer; and to trim sidebums.
RIGHT TO RAISE Roller Combs when skin feels more tender, and for "teen-age skin.”
UNLIMITED SETTINGS in between for every man’s personal shaving needs.
Roll-A-Matk shaving obsoletes them all! A single fabulous shaver now adjusts to solve every shaving problem from your first shave on, all through life — no matter how your beard or skin may change.
Secret’s in Remington’s exclusive Roller Combs. They made Remington America’s biggest selling shaver — roll skin down, comb whiskers up to reach your Hidden Beard: whisker bases below ordinary shaving level.
Now, they adjust, fit any face—while 6 diamond-honed cutters in the largest live shaving area of all give you faster, closer shaves that last hours longer. So get the only shaver that adjusts to you all your life—Remington’s Roll-A-Matic Shaver. At your campus Remington dealer, or any jewelry, drug, department or appliance store.
NEW I ADJUSTABLE
REMINGTON ROU A MATIC
ELECTRIC SHAVER Product of iKaaafafUNe. ^Eaa£ Ckaeflnie JObnw*. Divisioa of Sperry Road Corporation, Bridgeport 2, Connecticut
•ver 4R% aara aea aew boy Reouagtaa than the second raakiag electric shaver
Watch TV’s No. 1 show "Gwisaoke” oa the CBS TV Network.
16
The Scholastic
‘ Coaching Corps
Directing the Irish during the 1959 season will be an entirely new varsity ' coaching staff. Joe Kuharich has taken । over the head coaching job for Notre i Dame and leads the Big Green into their 71st football season. Kuharich assumes „ an unenviable position as he is faced with a tremendous rebuilding job (only 15 returning monogram winners) and the charge that Notre Dame is going , “professional” in its attempt to stay at ’ the top of the national football picture.
Kuharich is a native of South Bend, ! having been bom here April 14, 1917, and attended Riley High School. He enrolled at Notre Dame in the fall of 1934 i and reported for the football squad which was then under the direction of k Coach Elmer Layden.
| He went on to become a regular at right guard for three seasons, earning | three varsity monograms. After gradu-V ating in 1938 with a Bachelor of Science degree in physical education, he served as assistant freshman football coach for the 1938 season while taking graduate courses.
In 1940-41 he was a member of the professional Chicago Cardinals football team. In the latter year he was an All-Ar Pro selection at guard. He then served I for four years in the United States Navy during the World War II as a lieutenant. | Upon his discharge from the Navy in | 1946, he became the line coach of the 1 Pittsburgh Steelers. Following a year § as line coach, he became head football g coach of the San Francisco University I Dons for the 1948 season. His teams I won 26 and lost 14 in four years, gaining national recognition with an undefeated season in 1951.
His success at San Francisco led to his appointment as head coach of the Chicago Cardinals of the National Professional Football League in 1952. He went to the Washington Redskins in , 1954, and in 1955 he was named “Coach of the Year” in the NFL. He coached Washington until his appointment at Notre Dame, compiling a 26 won, 32 lost record.
First assistant to Kuharich is Bill Daddio, end coach at Purdue for the last five years. Daddio was an All-American W end for the Pittsburgh Panthers from 1936-38 and ranks as one of the greatest ever to don the Panther colors.
Upon graduation from Pittsburgh he became end coach for the Panthers for two years. He played pro ball with Kuharich in 1941 and then went into the Navy and served as a lieutenant for foulyears.
After the war he was end coach for Pittsburgh again and also the Buffalo Bills of the All-America Football Conference. He served as head coach at Allegheny College for five years until 1952 when he joined Kuharich as end coach of the Cardinals.
. All New But One
He took the Purdue job in 1953 and remained there turning out such fine ends as Lamar Lundy, John Kerr, Bob Khoenle, and Tom Franckhauser.
Dick Evans is the new line coach under Kuharich, following his boss from the Redskins where he had been line coach for the past four years. Evans is a graduate of the State University of Iowa, having been a member of the famed Hawkeye “Iron Men” of the 1939 eleven. He then became a teammate of Kuharich and Daddio on the Cardinals for two years and played for the Green Bay Packers for a like time.
Evans went into the service for the duration of the war with the Marines. After the war was finished he coached at Long Beach City College, Nevada University, and then joined Kuharich with the Cardinals in 1952. From 1953 until he took the line coaching job here, he was coaching service ball in this country and in Japan.
Don Doll has taken over the backfield coaching job, coming here from Southern California where he had coached for two years. Among his achievements at USC was the defense he thought up to stop George Izo last season. Previous to his USC job he had coached at Wash-nigton and was head coach at West Centra Costa Junior- College of California in 1956.
While in college Doll earned four varsity letters at Southern Cal in 194446-47-48. His college career was interrupted by a year in the service in 1945.
NEW IRISH COACHING STAFF
(Left to right) Hugh Devore, freshman coach; Don Doll, backfield coach; Bill Daddio, first assistant and end coach; Head Coach Joe Kuharich; Dick Evans, line coach; Dick Stanfel, assistant line coach; and Joe Scudero, assistant backfield coach.
He signed a contract with and played for the Detroit Lions for four years before being traded to the Redskins and then the Los Angeles Rams. As a pro he attained All-League honors four years as a defensive back.
All-Pro lineman Dick Stanfel will be the assistant line coach this season. Stanfel is a veteran of seven years of NFL football in which he was picked five times as a top performer. During his career- he played four years with the Detroit Lions and was voted the most valuable player on the World Champion 1954 Lions. His last three seasons were spent with the Redskins.
Stanfel is a graduate of San Francisco where he played under Kuharich. He was captain and guard on the 1950 squad.
Joe (Scooter) Scudero is the youngest member of the Irish staff at 28. He is a graduate of San Francisco where he played under Kuharich and with Stanfel from 1949 until 1951. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1951 and went into pro football where he played for the Detroit Lions and the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian League. Last season he played halfback for the Redskins under Kuharich.
Hugh Devore is the only holdover from last year’s coaching staff and retains his position as head freshman coach. Devore was an end on the Irish teams of 1930-31-32, and in his senior year he captained the Big Green.
After graduation Devore coached at Fordham (1935-37), Providence College (1938-41), and Holy Cross (1942). In 1943 he was appointed end coach at Notre Dame, and in 1945 he coached the Irish while Frank Leahy was in the service.	Bob Schaefer
TIME OUT
■ Preceding the Wisconsin game on Cartier Held this afternoon at 3, ceremonies celebrating Notre Dame’s first "Baseball Appreciation Day” will be held. The band will be on hand, and it should be a gala welcoming of the baseball team.
It isn’t so momentous a change on the part of head football Coach Joe Kuharich that students are permitted to attend spring practice sessions, but it indicates that Kuharich is sincerely desirous of student support.
Nothing very secret is going to happen during these 20 practice sessions before the May 9 Old-Timers game, and there is no reason for students’ not being able to attend, provided they stay out of the way of the coaches and players. Their attendance might serve to develop student interest in the team and an added concern for its success as well as fostering interest in the Old-Timers game.
It is not necessary that large numbers of students flock to Cartier Field during the afternoons; in fact such is not even advisable. But the opportunity is there for all who so desire, and those who wish to attend at least can.
NO LOST TIME
Even though rain forced the “picture day” foi” the football squad inside last Friday,' Kuharich and his staff lost little time. While last year’s monogram winners monopolized the picture-taking, the assistant coaches drilled the rest of the 121 candidates in fundamentals.
As an example of the serious application on the part of the coaches to the instructing of the primarily inexperienced squad, Dick Stanfel, assistant line coach, was working with the inteiior linemen on their starts.
Stanfel lined the men up facing him and had them run toward him, five on a line. Constantly correcting even the most minor faults.. Stanfel was striving for perfection with these men. He stopped them to correct imperfections in such things as balance, the positions of the aims, and the exact position of the feet. Those players might not know their positions now. but by the time the first game rolls around next September the coaches wil1 have these boys ready if this early serious instruction is any indication of the effort that will be forthcoming from both the coaches and the players.
IT WILL BE HARD, BUT . . .
No one will deny the difficulty of the job Coach Kuharich and his staff have before them. With a small number of returning lettermen available and with the dearth of experienced linemen and the absolute lack of an experienced fullback, Kuharich will have to field a team that has present weaknesses at such key positions as tackle and fullback.
Not even the most optimistic of Notre Dame football followers could have the audacity to foresee an undefeated season next fall. The Irish may well have a hard time finishing with less than three losses.
But this new coaching staff has an air of ability and confidence about it. Many of them have been active in the professional ranks, and they have the looks of professional coaches. The staff, at least during the first days of practice, looks unified; it looks as though it has appraised the situation, decided on a course of action, and is ready to pursue it.
Whether or not the staff actually has the ability is another question, of course, and one will not be able to judge for at least a few years. But, on the basis of the zeal and intsructional ability exhibited so far, one may, I think, tentatively assume that this staff will not let down the realistic Notre Dame football followers next fall and in the ensuing falls.
BELATED BENGAL COMMENT
Though a little belated, some comment on the finals of the 1959 Bengal Bouts still deserves to be made. The 152-pound final bout won by Dave Miller over Pat Hagood featured outstanding action throughout the fight and a superb show of strength by the two boxers.
Possibly the two most interesting fights followed each other. In the first, the 167-pound class, Frank Nacozy avenged a defeat last year by taking Bill Brelsford in a split decision in one of the best displays of boxing skill during the Bouts. Next, Bill (Red) Mack pounded out a unanimous decision over Joe Anderson in the 177-pound class, and pound they both did throughout the fight. The other bouts featured good fighting, but these three stood out.—T.T.
Klinemen Meet Badgers At Cartier Field Today ' f
This afternoon the Notre Dame baseball team battles Wisconsin on Cartier Field. Today’s game will be the 80th game in the series between the two schools. Notre Dame now holds an edge in the series, 43-36. Tomorrow afternoon the teams will meet again. Today’s game starts at 3:00 p.m. Next Wednesday, April 22, the ball club travels to Evanston, Ill., to play Northwestern on the Wildcats’ home diamond.
The regular season opened on April 3 with a 5-2 Irish victory over Indiana. The following day Notre Dame accomplished a sweep of the two-game series with a 7-5 win over the Hoosiers. On April 10 the squad was scheduled to play the first game of a two-game series against Ohio University, but the contest was cancelled because of rain. However, a game was played the next day, April 11, and Ohio U. edged the Irish, 3-2.
Pitcher Jack Mitchell leads the team in the batting average department with one for two, .500. Denny Hagan, the third baseman, is six for 13 for .462. Other batsmen over .300 are John Car-retta, lb, .417; John Dorrain, ss, .333; Jerry McNamara, c, .333; Gene Duffy, cf, .333; and Dick Selcer, 2b, .300.
Hagan has the only home run thus far, and Duffy the only trippie. Mitchell, Carretta, and Selcer have each hit a double. Duffy and Hagan are tied for the lead in RBI’s with three apiece.
Pitchers Jim Hannan, Nick Palihnich, and Mitchell have appeared in two games, Hannan and Mitchell for a total of eight innings each and Palihnich for a total of six. Hannan was the losing pitcher in the Ohio game while Mitchell and Palihnich each won a game against Indiana.
On a preseason tour of the South the team surpassed its expectations by winning five of six games. Their only loss was a 3-2 defeat at the hands of Mississippi.
Coach Jake Kline was more than pleased with the outcome of this tour. He had been pessimistic about this season since three probable starters, Frank Carpin, Larry Nosse, and Carl Ya-strzemski, signed major league contracts over the winter.
WSND BASEBAU BROADCAST ' SCHEDULE
.Friday, April 17 .......Wisconsin
Saturday, April 18......Wisconsin
Tuesday, May 5------Michigan State Wednesday, May 20....Northwestern
U
The Scholastic
KEGLERS' KORNER
Still showing the youngsters how it’s done, Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., poured in nine straight “curfew” balls during the Kampus Kegler Green league for a 278 game, only one pin shy of the all-time high league game for the Notre > Dame Alleys. One stubborn ball that was almost in the pocket broke up a strong bid for Notre Dame’s first sanctioned perfect game.
* The annual Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Conference team and singles tournament will be held at the Alleys starting at 1 p.m. Sunday afternoon.
' Arrangements for the annual Kampus
. Breen-Phillips Captures First In Interhall Track Competition
By this week end the organizers of this year’s interhall baseball and softball programs hope to have their teams in action. They expect to have four | leagues with four or five teams in each _ league. The teams will be formed by halls and various campus organizations.
Breen-Phillips took highest honors in the interhall track meet, held in the Fieldhouse on February 26.
B-P won the meet with 24 points. Second and third places were captured by Dillon, with 20 markers, and Cavanaugh, , with 15 points.
First places in the 60-yard dash, the high jump, and 880-yard relay were all captured by B-P athletes. George Sefcik took the 60-yard dash with Don Baumgarten of Dillon and John Nebel of Cavanaugh following in second and third places respectively.
Sefcik also won the broad jump, this time followed by John Mulrooney of Cavanaugh and Mike Henderson of Howard. Dillon took second place in the 880-yard relay while Badin was third. -
Myron Pottios won the shot put for Zahm. Tom Liggio of B-P and Ted Romanowski of Morrisey took second and third place honors. In the broad jump, Leo Dilling of Dillon, Mark Goldsmith, - of Farley, and John Barber of Zahm took first, second, and third places respectively.
Bill Hadney of St. Ed’s and Bill McCoy of Dillon finished second and third behind Tony Saluto of Howard in the 440-yard run. Saluto also notched a victory for Howard in the 60-yard low hurdles.
Ian Whishaw of Keenan took top honors in the 880-yard run. Mulrooney of Cavanaugh and John Connor of Dillon put their marks on second and third places respectively.
Hall point standings:
1.	Breen-Phillips ............. 24
2.	Dillon ....................  20
3.	Cavanaugh .................. 15
4.	Howard ..................... 13
5.	Zahm ....................... 11
6.	Keenan ...................... 5
7.	Farley ...................... 4
8.	Morrissey ................... 3
9.	Badin ....................... 3
Kegler bowling banquet have been completed, and it looks like the best ever. The dinner will. consist of roast beef, complete with all the trimmings and dessert. After dinner trophies will be presented to winners in the Classic league, the Kampus Kegler leagues, and the Notre Dame singles tourney. Another highlight of the evening will be a movie of bowling stars in action.
Reservations for the banquet, to be held May 14 at the Knights of Columbus Hall, may be obtanied from Ed Silliman, 263 Dillon. The ticket price, $1.00 for members of the Kampus Keglers and $2.75 fox- all others, must be paid in full when making reservations.
CLASSIC
Project Construction  63-21 LaSalle Hotel  62'/2-21'/2
Ray Grubbe, 196-224-198—618; John Diebel, 213195-207—615; Fred Hoey, 211; Mick Redohl, 210; Jerry Cangiano, 206; Stan Pecora, 203; Denny Pa-nozzo, 202; Fred Vida, 202.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 192; Ray Grubbe, 189; Tom Jablonski, 181.
KAMPUS KEGLER — RED
Detroit Club “A”  64>/2-19y2 Holy Rollers “A”  62'/2-21,/2
Earl Mossner, 204-193-199—596; John Curran, 215-212-155—582; Len Trotta, 208; Bob Miller, 205; Pat Heenan, 204; Ed Joyce, 201.
Averages: John Curran, 181; Pat Heenan, 175; Earl Mossner, 174; Jerry Cangiano, 174.
KAMPUS KEGLER — WHITE
St. Louis Club  53-31 Frisbees  52-32
Fred Hoey, 165-205-179—549; Bruce Prangle, 198175-159—532; Fred O’Connor, 202; Jerry EUis, 195.
Averages: Fred Hoey, 172; Jerry Albers, 171; M. Kubiak, 167.
KAMPUS KEGLER — YELLOW
Cleveland Club “B” _____________________56'/2-27‘/2
Michillos  52-32
Frank Mullen, 189-224-221—634; Stan Pecora, 193201-190—584; John Diebel, 207; Jim Thompson, 198.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 186; Jim Flannery, 180; Denny Panozzo, 175; Chuck LeRose, 175.
KAMPUS KEGLER — GREEN
Padres ------------------------------------ 52-24
Fighting Five _____________________________ 48-28
Phil Huller, 213-203-191—607; Father Brennan, 133-278-180—591; Bill Gaynor, 197; Father Shea, 197.
Averages: Father Shea, 180; Father Baxter, 171; John Burns, 166.
*	Ed Silliman
EUROPE
DeHa to the free Getefa; Africa to Sanden Yoe*n trrnegM'H ent hrH Mini Ceb lege groom. Abo dwcter trim WN-ffMl EUROPE SUMMER TOURS
255 Seguin (Bee 6)	Bmlme, ChL
THE NEW BOWLER
LIGHT TRIM SAAART AND ONLY .................7.95
Complete style selection-545 to 145
WORMSER HATTERS TO MEN 216 S. MICHIGAN • NEXT TO THE STATE
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
*	A Handful of Dust and Decfino and Fall
Evelyn Waugh
*	Idea off a University
Newman
*	The Russian Revolution Leon Trotsky
*	Barefoot Boy with Cheek
Max Shulman ,
*	The Masters
C. P. Snow
* The Exurbanites
A. C. Spectorsky
* Anne Frank: The Diary off a
Young Gid
Save Time and Money
CLEO PATRA, snake charmer,says: "All the queens admire handsome hair... so asp for Wildroot!”
Just a little bit of Wildroot and...WOW!
Shop at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
April 17, 1959
The NoDoz View
Off-Campus Captures Team THfe in Bengals; Young Awarded 'Outstanding Boxer* Laurels
Off-Campus won the team title, with 26 points, and Leighton Young was voted the “Outstanding Boxer” on the final evening, March 20, of the 1959 Bengal Bouts. Walsh Hall led in ticket sales with 61% of its quota realized. Dillon was second with 55%.
Young was the only defending champion that managed to defend his title successfully as he won a unanimous decision over Milam Joseph of Walsh Hall in the 139-pound class.
Millions of times a year drivers and students keep awake with safe NoDoz
Let NoDoz*alert you through college, too
NoDoz keeps you alert with caffeine—the same pleasant stimulant you enjoy in coffee. Faster, handier, more reliable: nonhabit-forming NoDoz delivers an accurate amount of dependable stimulation to keep your mind and body alert during study and exams until you can rest or sleep.
P. S.: When you need NoDoz, it'll probably be late. Play safe. Keep a supply handy.
The safe stay awake tablet— available everywhere
Netmen Travel to Ohio; Sophs to Bolster Squad
Notre Dame’s tennis squad will be in Columbus, Ohio, participating in the Ohio State University quadrangular tournament. Besides the Buckeyes, who will host the meet, the Irish will face Denison and Ohio Wesleyan.
Next week end the netmen will play host to Kalamazoo College, the University of Indiana, and the State University of Iowa in another quadrangular meet. Iowa was the only squad to defeat the Irish last season, and the host netmen will be out for revenge.
The season outlook is bright, according to Coach Tom Fallon, and this year’s squad should be powerful with sophomores Don Ralph and Bill Heinbecker, currently first and third men respectively, adding strength to the team.
During Easter vacation the netmen went on a busy 17-day tour of Mexico where they posted an unofficial 2-3 record in dual meets. The tour was primarily for preseason practice and getting into shape the starting six men.
In their first dual meet of the regular season last Saturday, the Irish netmen defeated Toledo University by a 9-0 count. Max Brown, Hector Cabello, Ray Bender, Dee Stephenson, Heinbecker, and Ralph all won their singles matches.
The doubles teams of Ralph and Brown, Heinbecker and Cabello, and Bender and Stephenson all defeated their opponents.
MEXICO CITY COLLEGE
SUMMER QUARTER...................  June	22 to August 28
Special Summer Session ..June 22 to July 31
Latin American Workshop..June 22 to July 31
FALL QUARTER................   October	6 to December 18
Approved for Veterans Information: Dean of Admissions Mexico City College Mexico 10, D. F.
The first bout of the evening saw Mike Morrow of B-P capture the 130-pound title on a second round TKO of Dick Morrissey. Morrissey was an Off-Campus fighter.
Following the Young-Joseph bout the next three fights were all won by split decisions. Bill McCoy was the winner in the 142-pound class. He deeisioned Dick Kreul of Sorin to give Dillon Hall its first title. In the 147-pound class Off-Campus picked up its third victory as Bob Fitzsimons earned a split decision over Sam Haffey of Morrissey.
Pat Amoult of Dillon and Ron De Lamielleure of Alumni, staged one of the most lively and hard-fought bouts of the evening. Arnoult was awarded the decision by the judges, thus giving Dillon the 152-pound championship.
The 157-pound title was awarded .unanimously to Dave Miller of Sorin Hall. The short, stocky Miller won the bout on the basis of his effective counterpunching against his taller opponent, Pat Hagood of Morrissey.
The 167-pound final was the main attraction on the card. The fighters, Frank Nacozy of Fisher and Bill Brelsford, of Walsh, had met in the finals of the 1958 Bengals with Brelsford winning the title in a close fight. This year Nacozy wrested the title away from Brelsford by split decision. Both fighters were excellent boxers and hard punchers.
Bill (Red) Mack, fleet-footed Irish football player, won the 177-pound title with a unanimous decision over Joe Anderson of Badin. This was Mack’s first year of competition in the Bengals. Mack’s lightning-quick punches in the early rounds were the main factors in his victoiy.
In the Junior Heavyweight division Leo Krzywkowski gave Off-Campus its fourth victory and the Bengal Bout team title by winning a unanimous decision over Bob Pietrzak of Pangborn Hall. Pietrzak was unable to land many punches on the elusive Off-Campus pugilist.
Two Irish football teammates opposed each other in the finals of the heavyweight division. Ken Adamson won a split decision over Dick Ciesielski. Adamson represented Badin Hall, and Ciesielski was from Howard. Adamson’s superior boxing skill enabled him to jab and hook effectively as the plucky Ciesielski tried to get inside close range. The bout was fought at a fast pace, and both fighters were exhausted at the finish.
The points were awarded on the basis of five for a victory in the finals, three for a semi-final win, and one for each Monday night triumph. Walsh also received five points and Dillon three for their ticket-selling efforts.
Off-Campus won three bouts Friday night in accumulating its total. Morrissey had 19 points to finish second and had one winner in the finals.
20
The Scholastic
I Golfers Open Season | With Quadrangular Meet
I Monday, April 20, the Irish linksmen I open their season at Audabon Country i Club in Louisville, Ky. Six Notre I Dame golfers will compete against Bel-I larmine, Kentucky, and Centre College in 3 a 36-hole, medal-play meet. This year’s | team will be bolstered by the return of I seven monogram winners from last year; I they are Gerry Webster, senior captain; H Frank Hund, junior; Budd Zesinger, junior; Terry Lally, junior; Tom Kose, junior; Don Williams, senior; and Christy Flanagan, junior.
Presently there are 27 out for the team, but it will be cut to twelve by the end of April. One of the biggest factors in determining the varsity squad will be the best average scores. Each week over three rounds are played, and the accumulating averages are kept. Once the best twelve have been determined, they will compete against each other to see who plays in intercollegiate competition where the limit is six players per team.
Besides the seven lettermen returning, - two seniors, Denny Nead and Jim Kennedy, and four juniors, Ed Murphy, Dick Manns, John Arneson, and Tom Adamson, have looked very good so far. Among the sophomores, Ray Patak, Phil Schuster, and Jim Stahl have displayed favorable potential.
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., the team’s coach, said that this year’s squad can go a long way, but they must be able to shoot between par and 75 consistently in order to win. He went on to say that competition will be rugged with the Irish facing seven teams from the strong Big Ten.
Tom Garside, a star performer on last year’s team, is back at school acting , as practice moderator for the team and giving the team members valuable bits of golfing advice. “Gar” graduated last year as a philosophy major but now plans to enter the medical profession. He has been accepted at St. Louis University Medical School pending the successful completion of his present aca-j demic program. He will assist Father I Holderith in the handling of intersquad competition.
GOLF SCHEDULE
[ APRIL 20—
Bellarmine, Kentucky
Centre College....-.........at Louisville
APRIL 25—
Detroit
> Northern Illinois............at Notre Dame
MAY 2—
Northwestern Michigan State
			 at Evanston	
MAY 4— Iowa Michigan State....			at Notre	Dame
MAY 9— Western Illinois Tri-State College.			at Notre	Dame
MAY 11—
Wisconsin
Iowa
Minnesota  at Madison MAY 16—
Indiana	.
Purdue  at Bloomington JUNE 22-27—
NCAA tournament.__________at Eugene, Oregon
Two semester Study-Travel Program for undergraduates. Students take English taught courses at the University of Vienna and live in Austrian homes. Includes 2 months of travel through 9 countries on three Study Tours.
YEAR IN EUROPE
CHICAGO 1, ILL.
35 E. WACKER
name		
address		
city	zone	statu
। school
we’re tops
for new and used books
You’ve reached the summit when you visit our second floor. See the widest selection of textbooks and books for reading pleasure.
Textbook companies will pay “peak” prices for your used books.
Stop in soon. We’re always happy to see you.
Save on the finest at the:
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Price includes: Ocean transportation, room, board, tuition and travel. Depart from U.S. on SS Ryndam, sailing September 9, 1959.
Application Deadfine: June 15, 1959
INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES
SEND THIS COUPON TODAY FOR DETAILED -BROCHURE.
April 17, 1959
21
For the man who can’t press after every meal
These DICKIES flap-pocket Ivy slacks take minimum care because they’re real Wash and Wear. Your exact size assured with the exclusive Dickies “no sew” waistband let-out.
DESENBERG'S
(N.D. *31) Buchanan, Mich.
BROWN'S STORE Mishawaka meyers & McCarthy Fort Wayne, Ind.
Engineers to Present Show Next Friday at 2
At 2 p.m. next Friday afternoon the doors open to the annual Open House sponsored each year by the College of Engineering. An Engineering Show featuring a guest speaker will open the , week-end event.
Mr. David Rossin, a Cleveland born physicist from the Reactor Engineering Department of the Argonne National , Laboratory, will lecture on the current U. S. Atomic Energy Program and its achievements as compared to those of Great Britain and the Soviet Union. Mr. Rossin has a Bachelor of Engineering degree from Cornell and a master’s degree from M.I.T. The public is invited to the lecture. Aftei- the talk the / Engineering Dean will present “Engineer of the Year” awards to five engineering seniors.
The Open House, this year entitled . “Project Tomorrow” will feature auto and air shows along with the various exhibits of the different engineering departments. The auto and air shows will ; be held on Saturday afternoon, April 25.
The auto show will offer exhibits of new models, sports cars, cutaway engines, and advanced styling models. The , Levacar, one of Ford Motor Company’s current research projects which is supported by jets of compressed air rather than wheels, will be shown. The -« Chevrolet Division of General Motors has sent the Featurama Exhibit of the cars of tomorrow. Through the courtesy of Hoosier International Motors a Rolls Royce will also be featured at the auto show.
The Air show will be highlighted by a “Spot Landing” contest on Saturday afternoon. Several neighboring universities will attempt to land their Piper cubs nearest a designated spot and win the grand prize. In addition to this, there will be displays from Bendix aviation and a student-built wind tunnel.
Among the othei’ attractions are an exhibit of the Mackinac Straits Bridge, rocket engines and fuels, and a miniature generating plant. And as usual, < the customary chariot race between the various engineering departments will be held.
IN FORMAL AND INFORMAL
Bids for the campus-wide dance, “April Showers” on April 24, fea- < taring Bobby Christian and his orchestra may be purchased until April 22 in room 310 Lyons. Ticket returns are scheduled for April 19 in the Rathskeller of the Student Center.
The second and final ticket sale < for another dance, the Freshman Formal “Hedonia” will be held Monday from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. in room 1A-1B of the Student Center. Price of the bid is $6, and the bids may be held until May 15.
The Scholastic
[ Eastertime Symposiums [ Mark Progress on Values
I Two Eastertide symposiums were held I on the University campus within the | last few weeks. The first was a forum I on “Values in American Society,” con-I ducted by the sociology department on I the last two days before vacation. The I other was a Symposium on Gnotobiotic I Technology sponsored by Lobund Insti-I tute and held at the Morris Inn.
I Five visiting scholars participated in I the “Values” discussion which explored I the approaches to the study of values as I well as the standards of goals prevalent in specific areas of American life such as religion, education and industry.
Taking part in the discussions were distinguished men from Haiward, Cor-
I nell, Columbia, Southern California, and I other leading universities.
| At the Second Symposium of Gnoto-I biotic Technology Dr. Philip Trexler of I Notre Dame’s Lobund Institute told of techniques learned by biologists in developing germfree animal colonies which will serve as an important barrier
- against germs from other planets.
The meeting at which Dr. Trexler spoke drew more than 100 scientists who work with various aspects of gnotobiot-ics, or germfree life. It was co-spon-sored by the National Institutes of Health, the Office of Naval Research and the Institute for Laboratory Animal Resources.
Council Approves Setup For New Political Clubs
Climaxing a long period of debate, negotiation, and compromise the University Council approved with only minor changes the constitutions for partisan political clubs on campus. Previous Student Senate resolutions in favor of the formation of the political clubs had been rejected by the Council because of a feeling that provision had not been made to offer adequate safeguards for control of the clubs.
With the revised constitutions presented this year by student leaders, notably Bill Graham, student body vice-president, the Council felt that these clubs would become an integral part of the University’s extracurricular program.
Present juniors will bear the major part of the responsibility of developing the activities of the clubs when the 1959-60 school year begins.
ARE YOU CHIVALROUS?
The Notre Dome Council of the Knights of Columbus is presently accepting new members in its spring ' drive. Information can be obtained from the hall representatives or in the council chambers located in the basement of Walsh Hall. The office hours are between 3:30 and 5:30 p.m. This is the final drive for the present school year.
M<WTURB0W
\OPTOMITRIST
CONTACT LENSES
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
LOST
A pair of green, hom-rimmed glasses, hi vicinity of the circle. Please return to:
LAKY LEACH. 338 BADIN HAU Nominal reward offered
CANOE TRIPS
Personal service for wilderness canoe tros into the Quetico^uperior wilderness. Camping etpiipwcut, Grumman aluminum canoes and choice food scgiplies only $6.00 per-person' per day. For complete ie-formation, write Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS—Box 717C, Ely, Minn.
<*> American Impress K75Q Siudenflouts of Europe
Wherever, whenever, however you travel, your best assurance of the finest service is American Express! On American Express Student Tours of Europe you’ll be escorted on exciting itineraries covering such fascinating countries as England ... Belgium ... Germany ... Austria... Switzerland... Italy... The Rivieras .. . and France. And you’ll have ample free time and lots of individual leisure to really live life abroad!
7 SMeat Tam of Esrape . . . featuring distinguished leaders from prominent colleges as tour conductors . . . 40 to 62 days... by sea and by air... $1^97 and up.
4 EttKatiaaal Statat T*m af Earape ... with experienced escorts — by sea... 44 to 57 days... $872 and up.
Otter Earapeas Teun AvribMe... from 14 days... $872 and up. Tom to Hants, Winssii, Meric*, West lattes sod ban.
You can always Travel Now—Pay Later when you go American Express!
Member: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel.
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service ... or simply mail the handy coupon.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL	SERVICE
*	65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. e/o Trani Sala Dmin	J
•	•
•	Yes! Please send me complete information	•
*	about 1959 Student Tours of Europe!	J
•	Name.....•.................................. •
•	•
•	Address...,...............................   *
•	•
*	City..................Zone....State......... *
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL FUNDS WITH MBKMOHBSnAIEURSaKaKS-SPENOABU EVOnMUK
SPH.Y SMS fM YSSB CSRMKSEaSK MKSKM wp. WORU-SRK C8BV Cite
April 17, 1959

BUSINESSMEN EXECUTIVES FAMILIES
Piper Slacks These extra-slim trousers epitomize the campus* oriented styles you’ll find in all sportswear that bears the HIS label. Seek them at your favorite men’s shop. $4.95 to $6.95, in a wide variety of washable cottons.
his
SPORTSWEAR
Mon.! April 27, Marks Start of Ticket Sales for 'Boy Riend1
Ticket sales for The Boy Friend, a University Theatre production being held April 30, May 1, 2, 7, 8, and 9 at 8:30 p.m. in Washington Hall, will start April 27. The box office will be open from 3:30 to 8:30 p.m. daily. Prices are: orchestra $2 and balcony $1.50 with faculty and student rates $1.50 and $1 respectively.
The play is a satire on the musical comedies of the 1920’s. The setting is a girls boarding school in France with the familiar plot of boy meets, loses, and eventually gets girl. Ann Rody and John Smith play the romatic leads. Boy Friend was a smash hit on Broadway five years ago as an English comedy.
“Charley and his Bearcats” will furnish the fast-paced music, written for the production by Sandy Wilson. The feature song, the Charleston, will center a variety of production numbers. The play is produced by Fr. Harvey, famous for his success with Oklahoma and Good News.
preferred
During certain convention periods, all available Chicago hotel rooms are frequently taken.
You can be assured of comfortable accommodations in the heart of the Loop, anytime, by writing for your FREE “Pre* fened Guest Card” from the Hotel Ham* ilton, today. The Hamilton—preferred by the family, and business executives for downtown convenience and courteous hospitality at sensible rates — guarantees (with advance notice) reservations anytime of the year to you, the preferred guest Ask for your “Preferred Guest Card”, today ... at no obligation.
School Graduate Enters Naumberg Final Rounds
Richard Casper, recent graduate of Notre Dame’s music department, has entered the final round of the Naumberg competition in New Yoi-k City. The com- . petition for pianists offered a Town Hall recital as first prize. Mr. Casper was one of six pianists chosen from among the 35 entrants to compete in the final round.
Mr. Casper received his B.A. degree magna cum laude from Notre Dame in 1953. The following year he received his master’s degree in piano. While at Notre Dame he served as accompanist . for the Notre Dame Glee Club.
After leaving Notre Dame, Casper studied at the Julliard School of Music where he received a master’s. He recently returned from a successful tour of Europe where he was very well received.
THE NEW ^HAMILTON 20 SOUTH DEARBORN HOTEL IN KANSAS CITY ITS THE BELLERIVE HOTEL
100% AIR-CONDITIONED
Last VOS Retreat Scheduled For St. Joseph's, April 25-26
The last in the series of YCS closed student retreats will be held at St. Joseph’s Hall (Old Moreau Seminary) on April 25-26. This retreat will be given 4 by Robert Nogosek; his topic will be the Mass and the mystery of Easter.
The schedule begins at 7 p.m. Saturday and ends at 5 p.m. Sunday. A slight charge of $2.50 per person to cover the two meals on Sunday and the service charges for clean linen and towels and other incidentals will be asked by the 4 YCS.
Registration for the retreat is in the YCS office in the basement of the La-Fortune Student Center, and registration can be made any time up to Thursday, April 23. The retreat is open to anyone interested.
24
The Scholastic
i SMC Features Shearing At Performance Monday
The Senior Class of Saint Mary’s College will present George Shearing and his quintet Monday evening at O’Laughlin Auditorium.
The story of George Shearing is one V. of talent and courage. Born totally blind I , in the slums of London in 1919, he grew up in a family of eight children. Shearing left school at 16 and began his - *. career by playing the piano in a local pub. Up to World War II his fame steadily increased.
By 1941 he was able to begin his 41 dominance of British jazz polls which lasted for seven years. In 1947, Shearing came to the United States. Impressario Irving Alexander featured him at his r new Clique on the Broadway site currently occupied by Birdland. It was here that the quintet was formed. Since that time Shearing has become a star i and has sold a countless number of records on both MGM and Capitol labels.
no sm it hush
A column off incidontal intelligence by«/OcA*V brand
"EVERYONE TO HIS OWN TASTE" There has never been any accounting for tastes, and the man who appreciated this truth first was Francois Rabelais. In his "PantagrueT, he coined this now-famous judgment:
"Every one to his taste, as the woman said when she kissed her cow.”
t' Dr. Thorson Appointed Head Of University's Biology Dept.
Dr. Ralph Thorson has been appointed r head of the University’s department of biology it was announced last week. Thorson, a Notre Dame alumnus, has been a professor of parasitollogy at Ala-r' bama Polytechnic Institute. Dr. Thorson will head the germfree research programs at Lobund Institute as well as head the biology department. In recent months both have been supervised by acting heads.
’ Thorson, a native of Minnesota, received his bachelor and master’s degrees at Notre Dame in 1948 and 1949. He received the degree of Doctor of Science ’ in parasitology from Johns Hopkins University in 1952.
Thorson is a member of the editorial board of the Journal of Parasitology. He is a member of many professional groups among which is The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hy-giene.
"LOVED AND LOST”
It’s better than not loving at all according to Lord Tennyson’s "In Memoriam”, XXVII:
”1 hold it true, whate’er befall/! feel it, when I sorrow most/’Tis better to have loved and lost/Than never to have loved at all."
"PRACTICE WHAT YOU PREACH" Sounds like advice right out of "Poor Richard”, but Plautus said it many centuries before Ben Franklin. Classical scholars, of course, know this statement in its original Latin:
"Facias ipse quod faciamus suades."
Jockeri SKANTS
MAN0
striped brief
‘RECOLLECTION’ AT VETVILLE
A day of recollection will be held for Vetvillers Sunday, under the direction of Rev. Thomas F. Cady, C.S.C., and Doctor John J. Kane. ► The first conference will take place during Mass at Farley Hall 9 a.m. Fr. Cady will deliver a second conference in the Vetville recreation hall at 4 p.m., followed by a third talk, Dr. Kane's, at 8. p.m.
The topics will center on family £ life, from a religious, sociological, and psychological point of view. Those who need baby sitters, should calle Walt Daly, CE 3-1802. The event is being sponsored by Vetville Chaplain Fr. William T. Morrison, C.S.C., and the Vetville Council.
"Purely sensational"— that's the judgment of college men who have seen the new Jockey Striped SKANTS. Jockey stylists have taken this 100% stretch nylon bikini-style brief ...added candy stripes...and produced a garment you’ll really enjoy wearing.
SKANTS is cut high on the sides with a low waistband and comes in a choice of red, black, green, rust or blue stripes. Look for SKANTS—in stripes, or solids—in the Jockey department at your campus store.
fashioned by the house of
April 17, 1959
^ack Pa^e
/I
criticism, again4
by BILL SCHECKLER
On a Scholastic “Back Page” of last November 14, Bob Ghelardi saw fit to remark: “There have been signs of life in the Scholastic this year; a barrage of mordant criticism has apeared on the ‘Back Page’ and elsewhere. Its fate, though, is too common: read once desultorily by beady eyes and used immediately after as wadding to stuff wet shoes.”
Now, some months later, this article will take a closer look at the “barrage.” This “Back Page” will attempt to focus on criticism itself — its nature and its function, especially in the context of the Notre Dame community.
Many times, between the negative and vindictive mutterings about this or that aspect of Notre Dame life, someone will plead for constructive criticism. Often this plea is simply a dodge used by those who really don’t want criticism. They think (and perhaps rightly so) that no one will bother to come up with any constructive criticism. But even a sincerely intended plea is probably misunderstood simply because the would-be critic has no true concept of the meaning of constructive criticism. The following is proposed as a key to that meaning.
Constructive criticism should seek to improve and perfect, not to destroy. It should clarify, not obscure the essentials of its object. If the criticism is both reasoned and an attempt to better its object, then it merits the approval of being called constructive criticism.
This description is admittedly an emphasis on the positive attributes of criticism. It is hoped that a close look at Notre Dame variety of criticism will clearly underscore the necessity of this approach.
First of all it would be well to dispose of a rather widely entrenched activity generally referred to as griping. Apparently the nature of the “Notre Dame man” demands indulgence in a certain amount of vocal displeasure with a variety of day-to-day realities (e.g., dining hall food, St. Mary’s girls, regulations, and waiting in lines.) Most people generally concur in the opinion that a degree of such “griping” is nothing more than an external sign that the students are emotionally healthy.
However, when an individual is continually complaining in a negative way, ' something is wrong. If the object of the gripe is similar for a large number of students and is a matter of a more deepfelt rather than casual complaint, then it
26
is very likely that the object in question could bear a close and serious inspection.
But most griping is, as has been mentioned, simply a reflection of emotional health. More often than not the griper is not wholly committed to his protestation of displeasure. The remarks thus made are more facetiously than rationally intended — they aren’t meant to be taken seriously.
Most problems arise when the critic does intend his remarks to be seriously considered. Hopefully, most of the criticism which is voiced in the public forum of “bull sessions” and especially on the printed page of the Scholastic carries with it a degree of serious thought. All too often, however, this “serious thought” is obscured by a sarcastic style, an illogical opinion, a lack of knowledge, or a deep-seated prejudice. Often the object under fire is only narrowly viewed. Thus the picture presented is either out of focus or extremely distorted. A time perspective is lost and the criticism presented lacks depth.
Now recall some of the requirements of constructive criticism. It should be reasoned and an attempt to improve, perfect, and clarify its object. Most of the criticism one reads is at least an attempt to improve. Whether or not it possesses the other attributes is quite a different question.
An examination of the categories can best illustrate the true meaning and application of constructive Criticism. First, and possibly most important of all is the quality “reasoned.” Reasoning presupposes a knowledge of relevant facts. Without this knowledge the mind is without a basis for the reasoning process. For in the construction of logical thought, the mind needs the material facts with which to build. No matter how much logic or “reason” the mind employs, the product of the structuring will only be complete and inclusive if the knowledge was complete and inclusive. Even with such initial factual understanding, the critic is often led astray or leads astray when his mind gives false emphasis or mistakes its orderly functioning.
Clarify means to make clear, to sharply- define. - It is included as a necessary quality because all too often it is completely ignored. Many times an issue, a process, or a particular method of doing things is justly criticized with the intent of improvement. The problem occurs when the critic , beclouds the object with
irrelevant facts and an emotional or biased approach. Then it is necessary 41 “to wait for the smoke to clear.” Usually all that remains is the charred and twisted wreckage of what might have been a worthwhile contribution.	-.<1
The idea of perfecting or improving is not meant to imply an attitude of simple acceptance and bettering of the status quo. If any aspect, of the status * quo of student life would, after thoughtful consideration, seem to merit the light ' of criticism, then the critic should not hesitate. If the student society or aca- w demic community would be measurably improved by the complete destruction or replacement of the critic’s object, then the concept of perfecting is still em- 1 ployed but on a broader plane. Criticism which is not designed to destroy or replace something for a foreseen better- • ment should concern itself with the per- 11 fection of the existing procedure. Most criticism will probably fall into this latter category.
Implicit in the foregoing is a denial of the value of negative criticism. (This < is the attitude which states, “I don’t like it,” but doesn’t suggest a course of improvement or action.) Instead, a premium has been placed upon the idea that , worthwhile criticism should attempt to make better — to accomplish something positive. This is not to say that the critic must necessarily follow up his thoughts with a course of action. It does imply, though, that it might be a very good thing if he did so.
The examination of the proposed qual- (J ities for constructive criticism is now complete. These qualities are not meant to be all-inclusive but are put forth to serve as a general guide. Others might well be added. This writer feels, however, that those which were mentioned
• are important if understood but valu- . 'able only if applied. This article isn’t < meant to be entertaining. Its purpose is to pinpoint the issue of criticism in the context of student life.
To. return to Mr. Ghelardi’s initial point, this writer suggests that you, both ' as a critic and a reader of criticism, ap- < ply some of the tests of constructive r । criticism mentioned in this article to the v “barrage” in question. If the criticism is right and reasoned don’t use it as “wet shoe” stuffing but do something about it. . If the criticism is shallow and illogical, then deposit it in the wastebasket, don’t -bother your shoes, and criticize the critic — demand constructive criticism.
\	The Scholastic ;
Prom-perfect...
or for any date
It’s easy to see why Arrow White Shirts are the most popular on campus. Authentic in every style detail, they’re the best-fitting shirts in circulation today.
Our exclusive Mitoga®-tailoring makes them that way from collar to cuff to waist. “Sanforized” fabrics keep their fit and the wildest bop won’t pop their anchored buttons. $4.00 up.
„	Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
first in fashion
step
Arrow White Shirts
with style
We’ve been busy as a dixieland drummer ever since the new Arrow White Shirts came in.
These are dress-up shirts as you like them. Arrow-styled in oxford or broadcloth, in drip-dry cotton or Dacron* and cotton . .. with the smartest new collar styles and French or regular cuffs. See them soon.
♦Du Pont polyester fiber
-GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
Have a real cigarette—
have a CAMEL
Nobody beats Camel to the draw for rich tobacco flavor and easygoing mildness. “My kind of cigarette-no fads or fancy stuff,” says “Lawman” star John Russell. Co-star Peter Brown goes along: “Tastes good, smokes mild.” Today more people smoke Camels than any other brand. The best tobacco makes the best smoke.