578	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE PROGRESS.
A SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL EDITED BY THE ALUMNI OE NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
VOL. i	NOTRE DAME,' ST. JOSEPH’S CO., IND., JUNE’26, I860.	no. L
INo more when grief and death are near. Shall toll their notes of sadness:
Nor on the festive day, shall ring ; Their joyful peals of gladness;
No more the booming bell of nine, Wide through the darkness bounding, Shall sink the wearied mind to rest;
Amid its loud resounding;
iNo more for us on Sunday morn, Their sweetest hymns are ringing, While meek in silent march we list
The organ choir singing.
Ah friends! bright youth and hopes may fail, And eveiy love we cherish,
But pleasant sights,-like these, and sounds . Of joy, shall never perish.
While some may leave forevermore— The sad and lonely hearted—
And others once again return	'
.To greet the friends they parted,	i
We all alike, the far and near, Must feel the pangs of leaving.
And clasp the parting student’s hand, In silent, heartfelt grieving.
But those who go to come again, And those no more returning, Will ever-bless the days and hours, Of this bright year's sojourning.
A dear loved spot to look upon, A memory fair enchanting, [When o’er the western hills, the rays j Of life are dimly slanting. iThen fare ye well, dear college boys!
And seek your homes endearing.
A journey pleasant, faces bright, A welcome warm and cheering!
And may tie loved delights of home Be yours in joyous measure.
AniLmemories dear of Notre Dame
Be evermore your sweetest pleasure. ।
SPRING AND BOTHOOD. '
The bright month of May is passed, with its thousand delights. Notre Dame.
THE FAREWELL.	I
The year has rolled away dear friend^ The months are fled forever,
Since first we walked these pleasant groves, On days forgotten never.
Then smiling faces once again, Were seen in joyful meeting, As each old comrade's generous hand Was clasped in friendly greeting.
And tales were told of pleasant days. And pastimes in vacation, With all the fortunes each had met, While traveling through the nation.
And others, too, were standing round, In silent, lone dejection,;	[marked,-
Whose thoughts or home and friends were Upon the sad complexion:
For thev had sought the mazy world, To brave its hidden dangers;
And every sigh and look declared, The homesick, friendless strangers.
But when the first long hours rolled by, Their saddened hearts were lighter;
And, day by day, the cheerful scene, To eath yonng eye grew brighter.'
For, everywhere, the stranger boys Were met by friendly faces, And soon they found that home was here, And blessed with all its graces.
For while together in the play, -Or in pursuit ot knowledge,	|
We seemed a happy family, more	j
Than students in a college.	।
Thus, dear friends, our meeting was,— But soon will be the parting, And we must leave these happy shades, ' Amid the tear drops starting.
For while the glad young heart for home, And home’s sweet joys, is yearning;
Par back npon as fair a past, The glistening eye is turning, * And there beholds the bright way decked. With golden, glorious treasures, Where all the joys we've felt shall he The future’s dearest pleasures.
And years may pass and troubles come, But memory’s brightest finger-
Will point to many a quiet scene,	|
Where she will love to linger.
And oft will age with silvered hair, And cheeks no longer ruddy, Look back where long ago he sat.
Within the quiet study;
And well remember all the rooms Where every class recited, And when with answers prompt and keen, His teachers were delighted.
Andlhen.he’ll turn to seek the hours Of Wednesday recreations,
When'all was life and laughing joy,	'
Around'the play-ground stations;
Or on the march, a happy youth;
- Along the woodland wandered, And picked the nuts or berries brown, .
Or on his studies pondered;
When often gleaming down the hills, The bright St. Joseph river, Or smiling lakelets, lift his heart In praises to the Giver,—
Or at the morning dawn awakes
-. The Continental party, To win in pleasant towns remote, * Deserved applauses hearty. '
Then Sunday comes with prayer and hope, To curb the passions lowly,
And lead the youthful mind to love The true, the good and holy.- .
0, many a night, dear friends, alike	-
In-June or bleak December,
The gushing, warm and generous heart, These scenes will fond remember.
And now' we all must part awhile. ’ And some perhaps forever,	-'
And many a sight and sound weye loved Unkindly Fate must sever. '	'
When first appears the prince o^day,	'
The hiHs and vales adorning,'
No'more’the mellow bells shall wake The slumbers of the morning
No more when all around, is hushed, At noon, at morn and even, '	.
Shall all their sounding chimes salute -The Virgin Queen of Heaven; '* ’
begins to deck itself in its most delight. fnl garb. The flowers which were des-Jtroyed by the winter months, arc conceived anew by nature, and spring up again to drink the golden sunbeams; and appear as fresh and .lovely as Nature’s first. The little plants whose seeds were scattered by the unkind winds, bnd up again from the bosom of the generous earth, as smiling as ever before.— The merry little birds return from their tour in tho South, to greet us once more with their sweet notes, and to add their joy to -the festivity. Man, too, like ail living things, responds to the voice' of Nature—becomes the receptacle of her congratulations, and mingling them-with his own, sends them up to the throne of that Great Being, who is no longer mysterious to him, but whose voice in nature, is as soft and sweet as when it “ thrilled through earth’s first paradise.” '	.
Spring is the morning of life, with its unclouded sky—it is the childhood of nature. • Just as the seasons would be uninteresting without .Spring; .so' life' would be..dark indeed,, the world, would be dreary-if it.was not for childhood.— How.many associations cluster around the .Word, how many-fouhtains it unseals, from which gush forth the pent-up memories of other days, It is a bright spot in a cheerless waste—a bright green oasis in life-’s desert. It is the-morning of otir existence, its sun is brighter, its breezes are purer, its flowers are more fragrant arid beautiful, its -meadows are
greener, the music of its waters is.swcet-
er, its step is lighter and its heart is , Mr. Editor :—I had lately the plea-happier. The slow lingering light of
life's evening sun is lovely to look upon as it fades oolmly away, but give us the morning sun which beams out and gilds with glittering beauty the early dew-drops of innocence and truth.
In the .words of an ancient' author, , “give us. childhood.” Its sorrows are like shadows, and its griefs are fleeting,, its troubles are dissipated by a smile, or a kind word; its storms are hke mists, • and its clouds are always edged with the {mellow crimson-of hope. In the stern ! struggles of nature’s age, the scenes of boyhood’s years will find their way often to the heart, and their visions will haunt tho memory like the airy shadows of-pleasant dreams. Yes, give us boyhood with its wild laugh; and its College pleast ures.
Fellow Students, cull the flowers of Spring, for the banner of death floats over them ; and when Winter comes with his icy breath, God will receive you into realms of heaven and glory—perpetual spring arid everlasting joy.
TlIE STUDENT RETURNING HOMEEVENING MEETING AT VACATION.
When first the torrid king of day, Returning to the west,
Enwram>ad his fire in cloudlet spray. .Thq^softly gives it zest, The leafy trees in whispering glee Evolve the cheering news, Nor long' unblest the lawu shall be By cooling evening dews.
Ye wilted leaves and drooping flowers Be noon-day's power to show!
But cooling groves and breezy bowers Befit this milder glow;	.
And now with tbrobb’ng-hearted joy Returning at their ease,
Regard the toiler and his boy O’erjoyed with evening’s breeze.
Nor long till meeting at the grove. Forth comes the joyful wile, On each her look of pride and lore
Renews the joys ot life. ' Nor h'ear they now in social talk, .
So soft that noiseless tread, How slow he steels along the walk, - Each step ip. trembling dread;" . Now stands before the wondering three,.
Then speaks maternal joy, “ Indeed it is—I know ’tis he,
My own, my darling boy!*’ [love; Enough, nor mortal know that evening Alone, let angels bend above.
And thus may happy meeting be To all who leave this lovely place, And when at home',-may each one.see Bright joy-togiftld each friendly face.
The joys of boyfiood cling through lite, And. while thcamhd in weary strife Seems sickof living,’tired and worn, Lamenting, sad, the day ’twas born, Then flashing" bright, as if inspired, By youthful visions quickly fired. The joyful spirit smiles again, And dashes far the cup of pain.
Tis thus my friends, when years roll by And faded hopes compel the sigh, The pleasant scenes of boyhood years, Will make you smileamid your tears; And, oh 1 when memory plucks the flowers Arid seeks the.briglitestyouthful hours,-Think ye shrill find a dearer place, Or on her tablet fondly trace Old paths more loved, than wind around This dear familiar qg^ege ground ?	•
iYh, no 1 while years ^(11 onward roll,.
• Fast here must cling the willing soul, And feast on. memory’s untold joys, - Among those dear “ old college boys.”
A Visit to TJiompklnavIUe University.
sure of making a visit to the world-renowned University of Thompkinsville, and as I am led to believe that the details of my trip may not prove altogether .uninteresting to your readers, I beg to.sub-mit them to your notice. I must'first premise that the occasion of my visit was an invitation to lecture on the Impenetrability of Ultimate Atomic Particles; and I was prepared to meet with a cordial reception, which,, in fact, I received.
I left Notre Dame on the evening of the 3rd of May, took the cars at South Bend, and after a rather tedious journey, arrived at Thompkinsville on the'morning of the 5th. I was met at the Depot •by-a deputation appointed to receive'me, which came provided with a wheelbarrow, whereon they conveyed me trinmphant-Jy to the College,, -passing through the thriving city of .Thompkinsville, amid the enthusiastic .cheers of the populace. We were accompanied on our march by the .Thompkinsville Brass Band, which performed several pieces of music exceedingly well; the names of the performers on the principal instruments were as follows:
Drum (3 inches in diameter) Herr Don-nundbLtzen ; Tin Trumpet, Herr Windischgratz; Penny-whistle, Signor Flauti-Magico; Contralto do, Signor Jack- Robinson-; .Tews' harp, Monsieur Clavecin.
I need not give you a lengthy description of the University buildings and grounds, which doubtless already are'sufficiently well known to you, owing to the wide-spread celebrity which the Institu-: tion enjoys. I received a hearty welcome from tho President,.and was introduced by him to those of the Faculty, with whom I was previously unacquainted.- I found, however, that although personally unknown to them, the study of my numerous works had' caused them all to look upon me as an intimate friend.	—
We went first to the rooms of the Professor of Ethnology, and it was fortunate for him that we. did so; for we were but just in time to save his life. It appears that he had’ been reading the' seventy-third volume of my work on the Origin of the Seljukian Turks (which I wrote in Arabic at the-request of the Sultan Abdul Mcdjid) and in attempting to pronounce a word of sixteen syllables, he had been choked by a combination of consonants, and was just turning black -in the face as we entered. We applied the .usual restoratives, and soon had the satisfaction of seeing him begin to recover. He was, however, too much exhausted to engage in conversation, and so, leaving-him in the care of that eminent physician, Dr. Hippocrates Squat, we proceeded to the rooms of the Pro^ fessor of Astronomy.
We found this gentleman in a terrible state of anxiety regarding his favorite
Specimen page—size of original printed matter t4 x 9 inches—of the First College Paper printed at N. D. University.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE PROGRESS.
dlanct, Venus.’ • She had imprudotly placed herself just between the horns of the Bull, at the imminent risk of being tossed into the middle of Germini, whilst she still.kept twinkling on as unconcernedly as ever, appearing perfectly unconscious of the proximity of danger. ‘-That 'ungrateful planet,” exclaimed he, indignantly, “ gives me more annoyance than aU the rest of the solar system together.! In spite of my continual warnings- and of the experience which she ought to have by this time, sue is continually getting into trouble. I have often been tempted to leave her to her fate:—it would only serve her right, but, however, I have allowed my affection to prevail once again and have- despatched a message by the telescope to Orion, exhorting him to endeavor to keep Fawns at bay until Venus shall have escaped the threatened danger. I am now anxiously expecting his answer.” Finding the Astronomer too much engrossed by the absorbing cares of his station to attend to any thing else, we bade him good morning; and went next to visit the Professor of Mathematic, Sig" nor Figurante, an Italian by birth, and a very clover man, indeed.
We found him engaged in extracting the 55 th root of a polynomial of several thousand terms. He did not seem, however, at all annoyed, at our interruption of his labors, but received us with the utmost courtesy. -After some time spent in interesting and instructive conversation, I asked him. what ho considered to be the best definition of an obtuse angle. He replied that it signified an Englishman remarkable for .the dullness of his reasoning faculties, whereupon I immediately took my departure.
I intended next to have paid a visit to the professor of Botany, for whom I bad brought a specimen of the Solanum Tuberosum, a rare plant, found in the vicinity of Notre Dame, but to my regret he was not at home I therefore proceeded, still in company, with the President of the institution, to the room' of the celebrated Dr. Lolyglott Lcxiconivorus Bnggs Professor of Syro-Chaldaic, Coptic, Sanscrit, Armenian, &c-, &c., whom we found talking Hebrew to one of his friends, and endeavoring.to prove to him that the site of the tower of Babel, was in the middle of the Bed. Sea. He offered me a cigar, .which .1 imprudently accepted—imprudently, I say, because after lighting it I happened to drop the match upon the train of arguments'which the- Professor, bad just adduced.' As .might have been expected, an explosion- immediately took place, and I thought myself happy to escape with slight injuries to my boots—» my compauiou, the President, was not so fortunate, as the ealf of his left leg was blown completely bff. What became of Professor-Polyglott Lexiconivorus Briggs Lhave not been able to ascertain ; but I should. judge that his fate was horrible in the extreme, from the quantity of- adjec-tires, -prepositions, demonstrative pronouns, and other parts of speech belong--ing to vaxibus oriental languages, - which were afterwards picked up in the courtyard under his windows.
You may sdppose that I had no desire to remain any longerin a'place whose at-
mtisphere was so very combustible. 'I fled precipitately to the depot, and finding a train about to start for South Bend, 1 jumped in, and bade farewell to Thomp-krnsville for ever,
I have the honor to be. Mr. Editor, Yours, &c.,
Pilkington Wilkinson.
THE
NOTRE DAME, IND., JUNE 25, 1S60.
PROSPECTUS.
to ocn reii-ebs. |
Kind readers, we present you with the | first printed copy of the Progress.— Upwards of a year ago the little paper was established by the students of Notre Dame University. Its composition has formed the recreation of many hours, during the intervals of laborious college duties. Its object has been to draw forth the latent energies of our young men, and prepare them for active life. Our officers, conscious that being the mere passive receptacles -of the knowledge of the past does not constitute ability, have kindly afforded us the opportunity to reproduce the thoughts of our masters, and to realize them in action. Hitherto our humble sheet has been known only to our fellow students; to-day we lay it before our parents, relatives and friends. Its defects are numerous, but by indulging us a little, increased confidence will be added, and the humbleauthors of the little Progress will acquire that tact which governs genius and directs talent. Thus new powers will be brought into action, and the Progress will continue to greet the numerous visitors of Notre Dame.
During the next scholastic year the Progress will be issued Semi-Monthly.
A WORD TO OTR YOISC FRIENDS.
Young friends, do you ever consider your position? Do you ever Consider that you are arriving at man’s estate, and that you must, ere many years are wafted in the past, take upon yourselves the cates and duties of men? Do you ever contemplate the great "field, into which you will soon be called, to act and to .do for your country and for mankind what past generations have done" for you? If you do, you will certainly model your lives and actions accordingly.
You must hear in mind that you have a great mission to fulfil; that you are soon to leave these hallowed and endearing shades of your alma mater, to. go out on the high-way of life and there work what Gon has predestined you should do.
You are now here for the purpose of tramingyourselves up and of shaping your future course, and if .you fail to do your duty, a happy anticipation of your becoming good men and blessings to your country can hardly be risked. Each and every one of you will have his own calling; but whatever that may be, let every one act well his part; above all, let him be honest, true and generous to his fellow-men.
You cannot in these tnrbutdut times, (and perhaps worse to come) he too true .to your country. Men now gam influence and power more by means of money than by honesty, merit and patriotism; while virtue and honesty and sterling worth are cast aside and disregarded. Carry with you those germs of virtue, which have been nurtured in your bosoms while at College, and remember that it is virtue, honesty and patriotic integrity that link society together and that will perpetuate our glorious Republic.
Be generous with whom you come in j contact; for it is thus that true happiness is attained; it is by the reciprocal manifestation of sympathy that happiness is universally diffused. Do not follow the general rule, that • when a man begins to go down hiH, everybody administers a kick, sending him a little farther.’’ You may say that you may be treated in the same way. should fortune place you in the same down-hill path; still though the world should suffer you to perish, you will have the consolation of knowing that your humanity outtops the world’s. Be affable without suffering any man to ride over you. Have an end in view, and in gaining it, push men o it of your course without knocking them down.
A true friend is one of the greatest blessings we can have. A true friend is a treasure; but many vicious and false ones surround us and do their best to effect our ruin by destroying all the good, rich qualities which are implanted in our hearts. Let virtue gain all these for us: it is nobleness' and purity of soul that gives happiness to men, and Plato wisely says, “He"is most happy who is most perfect.” Virtue is a weapon which Goo gives us to gain the victory-in our worldly strife : it ennobles the soul, exalts it above the grovelling things of this world and cnnables it to move in a sphere where happiness surrounds it; it breaks the chain of the evil one and strikes terror into his fiendish legions.
“ Virtue! inestimable gem! ureet type of Heaven aboral *	•
- In thee is conccntrated.aU that vias our noblest lore!
Refulgent in tby beaatyy-Uoa impartat joy to earth,
- Thy kindred rosea around thee, all extol thy worth;	’
Upborne on wings; celestial mayht thou soar above tby fears,	.	.	.
Endowed with life'eternal, may’st thoil pass this vale of tears.”	•	•
Cultivate in your hearts virtue iuiia strict signification. It is not merely an abstaining from outward deeds of profligacy, it is not a mere-recoil from-impure action. It is an abhorrence of impure thoughts, a sensitive delicacy to which the thought of evil inoffensive. It hasits residence within. Jt is the sole monitor of the heart, making it a citadel of holiness, an inviolate sanctuary in which an evil imagination cannot dwell.
It is an elevated purity of the heart assimilating it to the likeness of its Creator, and if it be once engrafted deep 'and firm in the heart it draws with it peace, triumph, and untroubled serenity of mind', and in the maintenance of this there is harmony and joy: not only does it diffuse light; joy, peace, and happiness, but it makes the soul the temple of God, and prepares it for the enjoyment of the glories of eternity. .
There are two other indispensable
companions of fortune and py-gr-rt -hope and courage. Hope is that beacon' far off in the future which encourages us to persevere, and courage is that which keeps jis m the'path that leads to the object of our hopes 1 ' It is the sublimest feature in man’s character, it shows trust in God and in ourselves; that he who guides tho planets through the countless paths of space, and yet who sufers wot the sparrow to fall to the earth, will guide us in our course through this-world; it does not allow us to stop awbUs to drop a tear of regret over the tomb of some cherished hope, but never ceasing; drives us on through the changes^ and vicissitudes of life
If you cultivate these noble qualities, young friends, you will prove a blessing to your country, you can go forth comparing those priceless qualities with the corruption which everywhere abounds, and do your utmost endeavors to remedy it. The Union has a great call for patriotism and integrity in the generation about to step forth, and you are that generation.
You will fail to do your duty to God and man, if you do not exert all your powers anil energy in behalf of that Union and of the constitution which has not its equal in the records of man. It is a noble bond that binds a noble 'people I bnt it must needs be supported by all the power which man can command: evil and corruption creep into all places wherein man is concerned. Therefore.-young friends, go forth with snield and buckler to beat down its enemies, and preserve its glories and blessings for future generations. Let Esto Perpetua be your watch word. Let it resound from ■the shores of our lakes to oar southern coasts; from the stately mansions of the East to the humble cabin on our Western prairies, and still let it sound over the ashes' of our forefathers, who won our independence, and moulded our institutions, till it is taken up by our sue-, cessors and resounded still.
Esto Psrektoa.
nvEi>u!(G AMeso rrauo mbm.
We are American—JroailZy-American. We partake in-one small share of national prejudices. We think, and per-., haps not without cause, that America is unexceptionably, the greatest country in the world, and the American people the greatest people in the world; that they have the biggest towns, the bigest houses, the biggest children, (andmoreofthem,) the best government, the best schools, the best stump-speakers, ' the fastest horses, the fastest steam and the fastest boys—in a word the biggest, best and fastest institutions' in the • world ; but,-thank God, we are not yet so blinded by prejudice, nor so completely mislead by our nationality, as not to be able, as far as our judgment goes, to disrihguish between right and wrong, jastice and injustice, even though tho fault or crime, somewhat compromises the national -kon-or and vests with our Statesmen, the representatives- of the people. To-day we have to chronicle some acts, which, we think deserve the appellation “diagaaia-ful,” and refleet anything but credit ob the American .people. We do so, not
RO TRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE PROGRESS..
iple “ Where there are two or three gathered togeiher in fuy name, there am I in the midst of them.” They determine to detime in personal debates, and persona] Tote a ^bort period of their College life quarrels, where he should serve them in' to religious exercises—to the culture of consulting their best interests.	those germs of which hereafter Catholici-'
,y shall not be ashamed, nor they ashamed
the people, by showing them an exam]
that it is a pleasing task, nor simply to i have something to write about, but be- i cause we hope it may be useful to some of our fellow Students It is "not improbable that many now amongst us, and perhaps those that least expect such an event, will be called upon to serve their country in some public capacity, and it will not be mat apropos, to know the evil consequences of the abuse of power, and of injustice towards the people.
“Tenerosanimos alien* opprobria saepe abster-rent vitus.”—Hor.
Oft <loes another’s shame the tender mint] alarm, And oft may it deter the youth from >ice aud harm.
The events to which we lefer and winch induces to write what follows, is the Potter-Pryor affair, which took place some time ago.. We intended to have noticed it long before, but were too much occupied with other matters. The incidents of' this case, are too well known already to be again detailed by us. •
Fortunately for the parties interested, this duel has been indefinitely postponed, but for the honor of the eountiy, it makes little difference; if any, it has added to the disgrace of ‘the disreputable occurrence, by uniting with rowdyism the deserved opprobrium of cowardice. We had hoped that, -with the lamentable result in the Broderick affair, depriving the country of one of its most promising Statesmen, and the equally unfortunate and still more shameful Sickles case, the country would be freed from such discreditable affrays; that the evil, which seems to have hung over the countenance of all Americans, excluding from the eye a proper view of these acts, and their results, would be dashed away by shame, and that the people with one spirit and with one voice would condemn both the deed and the' doers, and that with the condemnation our .Statesmen would join in crushing the venomous serpent, which is poisoning the ranks of all political parties, and bringing sure death to the Union.— Such difficulties must cease to occur. The cause of good public morals and the credit of our country require it; challenges to mortal combat arc always to be regretted; they sin against the laws of God aad man. Not only does national and temporal welfare forbid them, hut God, in Lis'goodness and wisdom has condemned them, and were “ Christian nations, nations of Christians,” they, together with their ruinous results, would have long since ceased to prevail. But when a challenge is sent and accepted by a member of Congress, a representative of the people, a man who should be a mod-del for all political integrity, social virtue and honorable principles, and in the face of the whole nation of this late and enlightened period, the disgrace and even the crime is’ aggravated, and the occurrrence more deeply deplorable.— For in this case the man adds to the actual sin of intention to murder, a .sin against the people, by whom and-through whom he holds his honorable position, and for whom he is to legislate to the best of. his ability; he sins against his country, by misrepresenting it to other nations; We say misrepresenting it, because happily these outrages are almost exclusively confined to the class of men of whom we are speaking; hesins against
of vice and crime—by employing bis
consulting their best interests.
Let us pause, in these difliculties.— Are those actually and immediately interested. the principals of the duel, the only ones upon whom the blame is to fall. We arc afraid not. The chief blame they must receive, for no excuse whatever is sufficient to palliate in the least, the crime of duelling. But there are others, who arc not a little culpable— others, who would perhaps never intentionally countenance Such acts. But still they do it. We mean, the leaders of our different sectional parties and the public political Press. They are culpable—because they view the occurrences, as those of a political character, and think themselves called upon to support the man of their own party, when indeed they should condemn both equally, and exclude them from further participation in public affairs. But we do not wish to be understood as freeing from all merited blame the chief actors in the political drama of the day. The members of Congress, the principals in these disgraceful affairs.
When engaged in such dishonorable actions, they are doing the purest injustice to themsilves, to those whom they represent, to their noble fore-fathers and to their country. It was not for such liberty as this that noble-hearted and talented Samuel Adams, incited the few inhabitants of the infant colonies to revolution. It was not for this, that the immortal Washington together with the Fathers of the Revolution, and their brave Soldiers fought, bled and died. This was not the example that Wasaincton gave to posterity, after the battle was fought and the victory won, when occupying the first Presidential chair of the American Union. Would that we now had a Washington, who, with a magnetic influence and a gentle sway, might collect the immense and widely extended flock to a place of rest and peace; who might with his sweet voice gently murmur, “Peace, Peace be still,” and quiet at his command the troubled waters of political controversy. Would, that we had a Webster or a Clay, to represent in.glorious colors the right and the wrong, and influence the people to the preference of the one rather than the other. Would even that we had a JaCk
of Catholicity.—throughout the whole action of society, at the bar, in the legislature, in the court, or in the camp.— Literary pursuits they prise, but they know that at every period of history, Religion and Literature have been more or less united.
The Nocturnal Adoration, as its name implies, has for its object the worship of our Divine Redeemer in the Blessed Sacrament, where he manifests his power, and what is better, his wisdom, and what is better than power and wisdom, his benevolence.
Once a month, each member worships silently and alone for a short space of time, before the Adorable Sacrament, conscious that in life he is overwatched by a God—omnipotent, good and merciful, and that behind the dusky shadows of the tomb, all shall be the work of a justice, and benevolence ihuhrcew without hounds. . The Abch Confraternity is devoted tb the Blessed Virgin. As in better times, when men were great and simple, the members piously, worship piety, and patience, and fervor, and honesty, and elevation of mind and purity of heart, and a whole crowd of shining virtues incarnate in the amiable person of their Virgin Mother.
The Holy Angels, composed of the junior Students, having Blessed Michael for their patron, learn to depend upon those guardians of earthly life, the Angels ; and when death is upou them, and their mortal existence has flitted by, their souls shall be called and garnered by their author. These arc the religions societies of Notre Dame.
All these associations have for their motto—Love, Pibity and Fidelity. A prouder motto has never been adopted by any combination of men, one to which the human heart which beats only for the best interests of mankind, could more gladly yield allegiance, and honor No breeze on earth ever fanned a nobler j banner—ho sun ever flashed upon a more comprehensive emblem. It is not borne by armed men—it floats not above the smoke and carnage of hostile conflict—it is not rent by the iron tempest of death
—blood-is not upon its sslken folds—it has uever been consecrated upon the battle field amid the shouts and shrieks of contending foemcn. Thank God there is none of this ; it is the emblem of peace and of Catholic times.
Love for the universal face of mankind and as brave as the universe, and which finds a brother in all, and whose godlike teachings steal into.-the hardest heait agd recalls it from its wanderings. It is one of the noblest attributes of the Deity. The same principle, that called a Savior, from a better world to die for a wicked one, which wept over the grave of an humble Lazarus^-which in the still midnight hour, agonized at Gethsemane— which bore meekly a thorny diadem, and the buffetings and scourgings of a bloodthirsty populace—which bared bis shoulders to the Cross, and bore it wearily up Calvary—which yielded to the iron the bands that were never raised hut to bless, and the feet that never movod but to do good—which spoke peace and hope to the repentant thief upon the Cross, which breathed, out with its expiring breath the prayer, “ Father forgive them.” which wept over the a world—which filled the sepulchre with a God.
God points out the hapless victim of sin and crime, purity washes him from his stains, while .fidelity binds him a willing captive to their united sway. This is the motto of our Religious Societies. May it be cherished by the members herCaflcr in the world whose fair beauty glitters in her tiselled robes, her specious false-
son, who, unitingin himself the indvmi-| table will of the"statesman and the undaunted bravery of the'warier, might exclaim in tones of thunder. •• By the Eternal, the Union must and shall be preserved,” causing the guilty ones to crouch and tremble But we must tear ourselves away from this question, else we shall begin to tire our readers; one word more. Let each party decry the others, and' war in battles of words. Let. the fanatics of both parties rave, the Northern abolitionist condemning the Southern Fire-Eater,- and the Southern Fire-Eater cursing the Northern abolitionist ; let the Unionist come in, crying out that both parties will desolvc the Union, with their “ irrepresible conflict ” —until such extremities as we have mentioned to-day, and other similar ones are resorted to, the Union is safe. Let us trust, however, that wisdom may yet be extracted from experience and that such disgraceful, acts, as duels among public men, may ce^se to be tolerated.
OUB BELIGIOUS SOCIETIES.
The .most attractive feature for the Catholic Student at Notre Dame, is its religious associations -Here societies are formed by-our Catholic youth, religiously cherishing those words of Christ.—
hoods and pleasant sin's, where the God of the world spreads his richest banquet, and provides seductive but poisoned viands for their destruction.. . Nay it "be unfurled everywhere, and may the youthful -and humble members of our religious associations, go forth, strengthened by theteach-ing of their zealous Directors, to achieve the triumph of “Love, Purity and Fidelity.” Student.
Ol'R M1L1TAKT COMPANY.
Among the many societies established at Notre Dame, there is none that yields more of pleasure and utility to its members and to the institution, than that .of the Continental Cadets. Although this Company has been in existence for several years, yet its active organization may be said to have commenced but little more than a year ago on the arrival of the present thorough and energetic captain, Mr. W. F. Lynch. Its career since that time has been one of uninterrupted and brilliant success, until, by the skill and vigilance of its officers, and the discipline and good conduct of its members, exhibited in a senes of splendid public parades, its claim has been established to a place among the first military companies of the State. The advantages of such a Company in a retired educational institution, can hardly .be overrated ; aud we wish, in this last issue of the Progress, to urge on our fellow students, and on those who are to join us at the beginning of the coming year, the importance of uniting with the Cadets for their own and the general interest. It is quite commonly admitted that the great defect of American schools and-colleges is the neglect of physical education. The mind, and to some extent the heart, is carefully developed, but the training of the body is almost totally overlooked; the natural result is that American scholars, though surpassed by none in mental activity, are physically weak and soon wear out the tortured body by the constant action of a restless mind. The-evident remedy, for this is physical exercise. But unless accompanied by pleasure aud excitement, constant physical exercise is disagreeable to the young and ardent mind of the student. The novelty of gymnastic amusements soon becomes old, and, sick of exercising, his books or a chat in the shade become his only refuge from ennui. Noticing these things, many of our .best educators have long advocated the establishment of military companies among students, as a means of healthy and exciting physical exercise. . The mathematical precision of the drill, the spirited step to the fife Sind drum and the beautiful evoluticns on the parade before the citizens of a neighboring town, give a life and buoyancy Io the spirit of the young Cadet, which the same exercise of the yard could never inspire. Add to this the moral culture of the soldier—the I proinptn ess in action and respect for order, the pride of honor and love of country, with the consciousness that he is preparing himself to defend those sacred rights handed down from his fathers—and you will find nowhere a means of pleasant exercise uniting so much of manly life and honor to the spirit and excellent training to the body as the military Company. Our young Company, during the past year, has had several public parades; and we have reason to feel proud of the admiration elicited on these occasions from the citizens and press of the different cities which we visited: the uniform of *76, must always eall forth the love of a true American for it is the representative of the heroic age of America,—and while the Cadets.march beneatn the stars and stripes we may never fear that this uniform will be dishonored. The Company numbers at present about fifty members and we have every reason to hope that by next September it will be augmented by a large body of true soldiers who will add to the fame and participate in the honors and benefits of the Notre Dame Continental Cadets.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE PROGRESS.
S8?
OVB LITEBARY' SOCIETIES.
It is said, and perhaps rightly, that a ■well conducted Literary Society in a College, as regards the acquirement of useful .knowledge, is, for an assiduous member, even better than two regularclasses.- Certain it is,' that the advan-- tages, which may be'derived from such an association by the earnest student, are many and pre-eminent. An active part, in the debate oftetf requires much application and research, in which many his-torical.facts are acquired, and many good authors have to be consulted; splendid opportunities are presented for gaining useful information of various kinds; an acquaintance with the leading topics of the day is formed by discussions on such suijcets; a fixed style of composition, and a fluency and variety of expression is obtained, and that diffidence which is always found in a young speaker is gradually worn off by constant practice, and a confidence and self-possess on is arrived at, which will remain firm and unchanged through life. But besides these positive advantages, there are many others, which, although looked to, in most instances, as secondary considerations, are in fact, equally as important. Literary Societies afford a relief and recreation to the mind, wearied by 'hard and abstract studies, not attainable by any other means. Without absolutely breaking the connection of study, they refresh-and amuse more than boisterous play or mere idleness. They also tend to form a social - fellowship among tho Students, and join in. closer bonds, of friendship their members, each to each, a thing not a little to be desired ih a College composed of so many boys as we have here. Our Literary Societies, i. e. the societies of Notre Lame, offer more than the usual opportunities and benefits. Possessing, through the kindness of Very Bev. Father Superior, tho finest room in the house, of large dimensions and well ventilated; each having a smalkbut choice library of its own, selected by competent judge s; the members of both being allowed the use of the large and fine collection of books belonging to the College. Both societies being daily in receipt of large and Well known Journals from all parts of the country—an abundance of reading matter is presented to members, suited to the most different tastes and from whieh amusement not less than instruc-. tion may be easily derived. To all these and many other adv'an-ages, a great part of our Students have been blind—some too, .who were really aware of them, have perhaps been deterred from becoming members through motive^ of bashfulness, acting upon that ancient and very wise maxim, “ Never go near the water till you learn how .to swim.” The “Academy,” a society which has for its motto "Liberty and. Eloquence,” and for its principle object the discussion of literary and historical questions, and the promotion of oratory among the students, is an association of long standing in the College, being first established in the year 1850. Its history, for the present year, has been an eventful one, to which, however, we do not wish to refer. Yet, not withstanding. its many vicissitudes, it has made not a little progress; many highly
ipteresting debates have, taken place during its sessions; and lam confident that .no active and industrious member is dissatisfied.' The “Philo-Historic Association,” is of more recent date, being organized only in the beginning of th’ i year, and therefore could not be expected to effect much good as yet. Its object, however, is a good one, it lias now a sound foundation and with proper support and encouragement, will in two or three years rival the “ Academy.” The Students, if they consult their own interest, will pay more attention hereafter to these associations, and next year, we shall expect to see the societies composed of a much larger number of our talented young man.
.PBOSrECTCS	-
■or THC 'TR-CTE PRESS: J FAMILY XEWSPARER. ■ its object: -aELioios, JJaaA-irr, utebatces; . AGSlCELTCnE, POLmCAL AND CENCBAC '	INTELUCEXCE.
UNIVERSITY OF
St. Mary’s of the Lake,
Superior St Bet Wolcott and Cass, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
TEB.HS-PAYABLE IN ADVANCE.
Day School—Classical Course per Session of 5 months $15 00
** . Comnu-rdal •*	“	** 1000
•* French and German each,.	“ G 00
Music per quarter, ....... 12 00
In the reception of Pupils, no distinction of Creed is made. Catholic Student.’ arc obliged to attend all the religions exercises prescribed by the rules of the Institution. Protestant Students arc not obliged to attend any ofthe religious exercises, except the Prayer at the opening and closing of dosses, at which, they will attend with decorum. It is expected that all, while attending at tho College and gulngto and returning from thesame, will act as becomes gentlemen. The u«e of tobacco on the premises is absolutely forbidden.
N. B. During this vacation arrangements will be mode sufficient to accommodate a limited number of Boarder?.
Kev. P. DILLON, S. S. C. President.
ST. HARI'S ACADEMY.
CHARTERED ITT 1355:
St. Mary's Academy is beautifully situated on the St. Joseph Hirer, 60 miles from Chicago^ two miles from S >nth Bend, on the Southern Michigan Bailroad, and seven miles from Niles, on the Michi-San Central Railroad. A stage, connecting these two Railroads, passes the Academy twice a day. The grounds are very extensive and beautifully adorned. Bathing, riding on horseback, and thorough Calisthenics constitute some ot the means used to promote the health of the pupils. The literary advantages are of the nighest order; the Institution possessing a fine Laboratory and Philosophical Apparatus, choice and extensive Herbariums of foreign and native plants, and a large and carefully selected Library. The french and German Languages are spoken in the Institution as fluently as the English, several of the community being educated Ladies from Fra* co and Germa iy. Great attention is paid to music; independent bf the private lessons received weekly by the pupils; regular instructions are given, in classes three times a week, in all the principles of vocal and instrumental murie.
TERMS PER SESSION OF FIVE MONTHS:
Entrance Fee,..*...........................00
Board, Washing and Tuition* In ordinary English
Branches..............................50	00
Board, Washing and Tuition. Including Rhetoric, As-trouomy, Philosophy, Algebra, Geometry, and Chemistry..........................................55	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus.5 Oi>
, French, German and Italian,.............6	00
Latln,w—.........................  .....12	00
Puno..................................  15	00
U>e of Instrument,...........................5	uo
Harp, and use of Instrument.... ........SO 00 : Guitar, .....................,.........15	80
Painting OIL................................15	00
Painting in Water Colors,..................6	00
Dandag and Calisthenics,...............  6	00
Board to Vacation....................  .IS	UO
The first Session commences .*n the first Monday of Sjptanber, and the Secund on the first Monday in February. Plain rad every variety of firacy and ornamental needlework taught without additional charge. Payments required semi-annually in advance.
REGULATIONS fob the wardrobe.
Every pupil should be furnished with six towels, six table napkins, six pairs cotton hose, and the same number of woolen hose, six chemises, six pairs of drawers, six night-wrappers, six right-caps, one dressing gown, two pairs of gloves, three pairs of shoes, one pair of rubbers, two knives and lorks^ one dessert and one tea-spoon.
The uniform for winter consists of dress and cape of mazarine blue merino, and bonnet hummed with bluo. The summer uniform of aaure blue delaine er lawn, ahd bonnet trimmed with white. No particular dress required for school days.
A SCHOOL FOR DEAF MUTES has also been opened at St. Mary's.
AD letters to both institutions must bo addressed t® £t. Mary's, Notre Dame P. 0^ Indiana.
It would not be easy to find a parallel to the rapidly increasing population of this city. It would bo more difficult, by a vain scrutiny into the future, to determiac the limit to which it may approach. But should a judgment be formed from the past, one may reasonably expect that henceforward it is destined to advance in au accelerated ratio.
The concourse hither is not from Europe alone. From all quarters, multitude are pouring in to those western regions to form settlements, and iound towns. Tins done, a press is established, to be tho type of their sentiments—the representative of their interests. By means of tue press, religious opinions and politico! combinations are diffused, from city to town, from town to hamlet.— The pres- is. important—cay* inaispensible, to every social circle.. It is the efficient representative of every interest—it gives rigor and unity to all. If this be, and it is so, for union it strength, why should not tho CurAofi'e community be equally sensible, as any other, that their chief interests are intimately connected with a Catholic journal?— Undoubtedly, the time is come, when a numerous class having similar opinions, should have several; rallying points—a centre from which a Catholic spirit may radiate—a point to which its wants, hopes and interests may converge.
After having* carefully reflected on these thoughts, and then having duly submitted our conclusions to wiser and more revered counsellors, we, encouraged by their coincident views, have determined to commence the publication of the Tree Parse, on or about the 15th of July, from Chicago,—a city, the tocos cf so many railway connections, where telegraphic intelligence is received almost instantaneously with the occurrence of events, gives a journalist great facility for the transmission of foreign news, and many other more important facts. This city also, in consequence of its business and commercial relations, is continually furnishing itemsof news most important to be accurately and speedily made known to the agricultural population of its own neighborhood, as well as to the other inhabitants of the great volley of the Mississippi. ’To accomplish such an event, it shall be.a special care of Ibis Journal to procure and transmit the earliest and most reliable accounts of the actual state and tendencies of tho grain market, prices current, 6tc. j&e. Such information may serve, ns a faithful guide, to those having business relation’ nt home or elsewhere.
Although there are. many CathoUe Churches here, stilt more are needed for constantly multiplying numbers. The same fact may Le substantiated as regards many other cities and districts ot adjoining States. Here, and elsewhere, arc nary religious and benevolent societies, orphan asylums, charitable institutions, tc. &c. The greater usefulness of these may bo promoted by luring at. hand an accessible medium, ready and willing to circulate their proceedings and statistics.
LnxaATUBE—calculated to instruct and intertain—will be selected for the perusal of the family circle. It is unnecusary to place prominently before a discriminating public the great influence of a journalist to promote, by judicious gleanings, the mental culture of its readers—a result confidently expected from- the compilation of the True Press.
Nor while mainly intent on benefiting and pleasing a more mature class, shall youthful readers be disregarded. Narratives of a moral tendency, specially culled fur their contemplation, will be invested with attractive excitement, in order to allure the growing family to religious and intellectual elevation, the most desirable of all. attainments.	,	'
And when avoiding all politics tending to jmbit-ter party feelings, it will ear testly direct the attention ofncwlyarrived emigrants to witdraw their minds from retrospective glances of regret at the homes of their childhood—the n^ociations ot native land. Because, in this hapyy country of equal privileges, equal protection, and rightful government, their duty should be to center their affections un the osteringsoil. Here, where there is aeither aristocracy nor oligarchy bonded together to maintain the assumptions of a particular class— here, where are no unjust nor oppressive taxes, no tenants at will nor grinding landlords, no subletting act nor tithes, no church-rates nor compulsory contributions, in sh *rt, nothing savoring of the effete systems of older countries.
Such being the case, the province of a well meaning journalist is to point out how attainable is the object which emigrants had in view when resigning all the associations, al! the ties, which bind mankind to the land ot their birth; and such shall be the aim of this journal, while inculcating order harmony au«i the imperative duty o new settlers to become thoroughly acquainted with the laws, habits rad institutions of their adopted country— to love them, to preserve them, and to promote them. Moreover, to make them sensible, that there is enough of comfort for oil, who wish, to be mors! and industrious. Here is a virgi i soil, here are fertile lands welcoming the emigrant, here will bea manifold and quick return for little toil.
“Ireland is no longer for the Irish,", no more than Po and. tor the Poles. This is their country, this their hope, this their mainstay, this the great continent inviting—longing to receive population, and here there is no, huger the old struggle of Teuton and Celt, for they, and all others, who come in the vast tide of emigration, receive a common welcome in the bosom, of the land of exiles, ths country of emigrants, and the home of the friendless.	* '
•Here, and here alone, they are to work ont their own destiny, their own greatness, and their own. glory. TusuQh results the strenuous efforts of this. Journal shall be directed.	*
Booh, very briefly, are same of thf designs loom-, isgfornainthediataotpanpective. To the future
Wk* shall leave the working out of our plan, bring sensible that promises, if too profusely given, tend to lessen confidence; on that account then, we for the present, are content with resting hope of Support on the impartial, judgment of our resder*, while we trust that they, and others may wish a prosperous career to the mission of the TaccPkkss.
The Thue Press mil be published every Saturday, and terved by Carrier at $2.00 a year in advance.
E^A limited number of advertisements willbc inserted at tl e usual city rates.	* *
s. b. downing, L. L. D. DOWNING 4 FLAVEN3, e. x. via ten,	Pcatisaxas A PaorzizvoRa,*
3U’Ftav*v,	’Office. Nd. 40 3. Claris
UNIVERSITY'
OF
St. Joseph’* Co., Ind.	.
THIS Institution is situated near South Bend on the Jlichiran Southern Rail Raad, within a few hours travel of all oar principle titles*
TEBBS.
Board, Washing and Tuition in
the English Course, . . $ 125 00 per anuz. Latin and Greek extra.	...	20 CO	“	*
Spanish, Italian, French,
and German, each.	... - 12 00	*	-
Instrumental Music. ....	20 00
Bed, etc.	5 CO	“
Entrance Fee.	500	u
Doctor’s Fees and Medicines. .	5 00 “
Payments to be made half-yearly, in advance.
Class Book®, Statioaary^ete, furnished at the usual price*.
Cloths, Linen, etc., are 'also furnished*by the College, at current price*, but an equivalent smzi must be deposited ia the hands of the Treasurer.,
No student wilt be received far 9 shorter period than fire months.
Each pupil must be provide*! with six shirts, six-pair* of stocking* six pocket hnakerchiefs,sixr?w-eb, a knife and fork, teaspoon, and table speons; a hat and cap, two suits of cloths, an overcoat, aptir of shoe* and a pair of boots for winter; two suits of cloths, and two pair ofshoes for summer. Pocket-money is not allowed except when placed Id the hands of the Treasurer, and subject to his dis-cretiontuyapplicatian.
When parents wish to hare their childcra-sent home, they must give timely notice, settle all accounts, and supply means to defray all travelling, expencc?. No deduction is made on accounts, unless in case of sickness or dismissal.
At the termination of the Winter Term, aa Ex amination is held, in presence of all the Faculty. The principal and public Examination, and Annual Commencement, take place in the last week of June. The- first Session commences on the first Tuesday in September-	*
N. B. There is an additional charge of $20 far board and washing daring the vocation.	*
V. REV. E. SORIN, S. S.
PRESIDENT. .
gT. MARY’S SELECT SCHOOL.
Cate St. Bet. Superior and Chicago. Arenue,' CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.	•
Uxd£c rac DiEzcnos of the Ststebs' of the Holt Cboss.
Opens on the First Monday ortSeptemhev
The Course oflnstructiou embraces the Ets^xx-tasv Studies as well as the Highest Bkaxcbbs of the most refined and liberal education.	'
The French and Gkrxax Languages ars spoken in the Institutionosfluentlyas the English, several of the community bring educated Ladie* from France and Germany.
Instruction nr Musxo is very thorough- Independent of the Private lessons receive! by the Pupils, regular instruction is given in Classes three times a week, in thorough Bass, Harmony, apd th* Principles of Vocal and Instrumental Musis.
Dancixg and Calisthenics’, taught by a competent Professor.
E7- Great attention paid to the Polite and Lady-like Deportment of Pupils.
TERMS Fer Quarter, of Ten Weeks?
Juvenile Class,	3.W
Preparatory,............................... WO
Highest English Class, itiuding French,. - 12J0
German,	6.0J
Music on Piano,
Drawing and Painting;	5.00
Guitar,	10.0Q
. . . .	... — . . . . - • 1A0O
Use Philosophical Apparatus, per annum, • 5.0Q Dancing and ^H^b***’*** ** the Professor's Charge Plain and every Variety of Fancey Needlework
Taught, without additional Charge.
CSTFor/itrUer particufare vqnre ottfcc fietilerio*
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
r
-
■■
/•
Bound Friends.
RAYMOND G. O’MALLEY, ’98.
HAD rather possess books than lands.or gold. If I have but choice volumes I do not covet your eagle-stamped metal. My bookshelves can not out-run my wish; I would not have my purse-over-
. \ filled. Neither do I love a library dingy with tomes and secreted from - the world, quiet with but the sleeping past shelved about me. The home of books is a noiseless place despite the many old voices that speak to you, if you but turn back the cover that hides them. Some of these same fellows have talked to earlier generations, and will live to speak to your children’s followers; yet in the end their voices are not hoarse; their manners are pleasing, just as they were when
learned their use, modified, perfected them, put them on wood, stone or bark instead of on sand—man’s earliest. slate,—and finally they reached perfection by using the waxen tablet. and the stylus. So the men. in ancient times wrote, and so they left some words that have not been surpassed.
Later many a life was spent in copying on parchment, and so they worked until printing came into use. Since then the trade has developed and become an art. Now the beauty of the book sometimes surpasses that of the words in it; which, I take it, is the reason for making books. Now, too, we have books that are but blank sheets and others that are the work of the wisest men. Not a few useless; many priceless.
It was a problem at one time howto preserve what was written; now we try to be rid of much that we have. It. is an objection to the printing-press that it will put on paper whatever is given to it; would it print but the
first given place in the group. You may fashion best, what an invention it were!—that it does a prison with books for walls; Give me the not is a proof that it is a mere machine. On volumes of my choice and a room that looks seeing much that is given us in books I am out at the world, where I may learn the past, ' inclined to fear they that rule the press have
view the present, and out of these fashion the been harmed by association. They refuse nothing that comes to them—so it seems when you
future. ■ Let there be an opening, too, through which I may go out into the strife, and which I have but to. bar and am alone again with
read, not so when you write. Man.is after all .human, whether he be a publisher or a dweller
the past; but this Task, and you may turn the in the “garden of pleasure.” .
course of the golden stream as you will.	In reading as in other matters it is reasonable
Should I meet one of the ancients today my to remember that man is the author of books.
~ first care would be to give him a volume—:not If you come to the delight in another mind ' of my own—even though he. could not read your pleasure is not the reason. In childhood it, he would understand. It is no small part we would, if the power, were ours, do away of my thought to conjecture, what would our with our cruel elders that write for our greater ancestors think of us, if, by changing the course torment and punishment; most of us live to of time, we should confront them. We are a bless our one- time persecutors. There is a . different people from the Greeks or Romans, room with a great slate on one side and. filled We are more intense and more hopeful than with many desks that I remember as the scene' they. The difference between , us is so great of my trials with large letters and small words, that I fear they wfeuld be startled on first look- figures and crosses, all the terrors at the very
‘ ing at us. I have no doubt they would despise outset of a long, hard way. I am not sorry for us greatly for much, of the machinery that helps those days spent in such troubles. They were,
us to live. Not so with our books. I think they: perhaps, not too hard? I somehow remember -would add the printer to their list of gods. . that I lost more than a few minutes from my ■
We have so lately learned'to make books task in watching the birds, insects, shadows, that I fear we pity our elders too greatly on * people and whatever came within range of my
account of their lack of them. There was one
eyes. Very early I found a pleasure to repay advantage at least in the old time—not every- me for the small labor! had in the beginning, thing was preserved in writing. The way from	1.1 soon discovered that all	books are not	J
the earliest scrawl of man to the present	uncompanionable, if one be	kindly disposed.	;
. exquisite volume is to me,—and much I fear	The sun now shining, that	makes the place	'	/
> to the world as well—unknown^ They began	below me bright with many	greens, looks in	'
with quaint characters quaintlyfashioned;. they on my few; volumes. They are not so many as

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I would have them; yet there are some I would not. part with. I am ready to confess the most of them are text-books;—so we call those that engage our attention here,—yet there are . a few that cannot be classed with these. Briefly, Shakspere ’ with. many lesser ones is here. There are perhaps some that would not be in the collection were it not that they are useful in the present. Some could be more complete;
was filled..with the noises of .the night. -The fronts of the buildings shone out. from their1 frame of pines, whitened and'purified by. the moonlight. The willows . beyond the lake,-because of their brighter foliage, were easily, distinguished from the other trees. The lalce was of that sullen slate, color suggestive of


is
suicide, though. it ; probably appeared more pleasant at a closer view.. Engine smoke-hung all are a joy for what they were to me or what over, the lightless town, and now and then-J
they may be. I shall forget some of them, I fear, when they have been dropped; yet have, they been of no less use to me than others I shall remember. Many shall always be in my memory,
RI
heard .a querulous whistle..	■	.
It was just the night and the time for. the fairies, but I looked in vain over, the black grass below for signs of their magic rings* but then the only people that -everwere allowed
"Ay /.. while memory holds a seat	to see the fairies were, dr unken fiddlersgoing-
In this distracted globe. .	home over lonely moors after playing at .some
. There is more joy to be had in the possession country dance, and who were-obliged by? the of one leather-bound friend than you may find fairies to furnish music for the rest of the night?
in a long journey. It is a truth that you must possess pleasure that you may find it by searching. Very many of our greatest pleasures are
fairies to furnish music for the rest of the night.
And then of course there are those superhumanly good children who • are almost r as - tinfairiiliar to'us as the fairies that adopt them, discovered to us by a single sentence in a As , I belonged to neither of these classes I could not hope to watch', the revels of/the .	“good people,” but. I was sure, nevertheless/
of all time compare poorly with those of your that they were all around me. .'	/ ’ ?/
acquaintance in the book-world. Greatest of A dog somewhere barked dejectedly with all pleasures, they are not lessened by a single . long .mellow “woofs.” Some night elf must’ .enjoyment; not as the bright flower that withers have bothered him, and then the sprite came on being plucked, not as the songster that Up to the stable, for soon a horse began to’ ceases to sing on being brought indoors; they kick frantically. I heard, boards crack,"and are constant, ever ready to please the heart, presently a man came out and swore vigorbecoming more dear with age. My precious ' ously. Sorriething near the lake-was uttering . lonely, cries like those of the plover/ and ;I
favorite author. You find no such friends in the world as there are in many a volume. Heroes
volumes, you are a comfort.
Night and. the Goblin.
. /was, sure that I had located my . elf, and ..that these were his= exultant cries. I wondered if
the fairies, angry, at his outrage of;their play • time, would pick, the .profane/man up and carry him. to their home, under the lake; or wherever' their home may. be, arid condemn For some reason I was' unable to sleep the him td .be kicked and sworn at by tireless ■ other night, so I got. up and sat by the open phantom horses. But I guess/civilization;has, window to quiet my nerves. It was a beautiful destroyed their romantic, cruelty, or they: did night: ;the moon was almost full, and the blue, not think him worth the trouble. -/■- . .	' X:
sky was not tinged by the smallest cloud. . . A few late; going frogs kept up an. indistinct The sky was not really blue; it would be hard. croaking, it may have been a good-night song,/ to describe-its real color,, a shade .of blue, on their ;return,from some hard-drinking, club lighter than slate. , Only the larger ..stars were, down among the marl-stained rushes.. I pitied visible in the bright moonlight. Jupiter glit- them, for it was almost certain that the
:	tered> brilliantly; in the: w^.Beneath it,.and fumloving7goblin would incite their scolding.
. apparently of the same size, was the . red ; spouses ’ to: prepare a <warm reception for the , *- J switch-light on the.railway. - Once or, twice’a delinquents;/Oyer, in the“Pro fessed House’’/ . falling star shot into sight; for an* instant and that same mischievous elf now began to worry disappeared. - .	;■	'■ //;<; / thechickens, the guardian cock crowed loudlyi
•	■ It appeared like a different, world than that arid defiantly, and the sleepy hens cackled a
J of.the sunlight., Nothing moved/but, the air; /stahirneririg Remonstrance.; _	.' -R
FRANK R. WARD, ’99.



//pg

584
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, June 4, 1S9S.
Publtsfjrli r&crn SaturljanJiuring Crnn STinxr at £. D. Snibcrsitn.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Terms, $i.jo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Board of Editors.
ELMER J. MURPHY, ’97;
PAUL J. RAGAN, ’97;	FRANK	J. F. CONFER,	’97;
FRANK E. HERING, ’98:	THOMAS	A. MEDLEY,	’98;
WILLIAM SHEEHAN,’98; RAYMOND G. O’MALLEY, ’98;
EDWARD J. MINGEY,’98;	FRANK	W. OMALLEV,	’99;
JOHN J. DOWD, '99:	JOHN F. FENNESSEY,	’99:
LOUIS C. M. REED, FRANCIS O’SHAUGHNESSY,
Reporters.
—On Tuesday the University had the pleasure of giving welcome to Right Rev. Joseph Rademacher, the bishop of our diocese, whose visits have become of late all too seldom. The occasion of his presence was the administering of the Sacrament of Confirmation to a large class composed of younger students from St. Edward’s and Carroll Halls. In this was it a memorable day for our younger friends, for it marks their elevation to the dignity and honor of a soldier of Christ. The Rt. Reverend Bishop explained in a few well-chosen words what the duties were that they took upon themselves, and never did words carry greater thoughts to the minds of the young hearers. The solemnity of the occasion made the ceremony most impressive. It was hoped that the bishop would’ remain at the University for a moment of pleasure, but the press of future engagements made necessary a hasty departure. It is to be hoped, however, that the bishop soon will confer on us the favor of another visit.
The Statue of the Sacred Heart.
One of . the ' last acts of Father Walsh’s beautiful life was the erection of the statue of the Sacred Heart that graces our college campus. He wished it placed just where it is in order that Notre Dame’s sons in going to and from their daily tasks might often see this figure of Our Lord, and, heeding the Divine
invitation, might come with their many little trials, ambitions and sorrows and lay them at the Master’s feet. Such was the beautiful idea that prompted the erection of this statue; and thus associated with the memory of one whose life was given in labor for Notre Dame, this image of the Saviour should be very dear to us all, and the Vcnite ad Me omnes should have for us a deep and special meaning.
The statue stands upon a summit at the very centre of the college park, the sombre bronze figure, serene and beautiful with arms extended, bidding all to come for solace, encouragement and grace. It is, indeed, a fitting spot; for this is Our Lady’s College, and here there has ever been a general and earnest devotion to the Sacred Heart of her Divine Son.
This image of the Master should aid to awaken in our breasts an appreciation of His great love and care, and should lead us to carry through life this devotion to His Sacred Heart. And when the troubles of maturer years replace youth’s little sorrows, may we remember the lesson that this statue was intended to teach, may we remember and heed Christ’s tender words—Vcnite ad Me omnes. i
—Our track team won not only State cham-. pionship honors but also a host of friends at the meet in Indianapolis on the 2ist ult. The following letter is so cordial 'and sincere that we gladly give it space:
The Indianapolis News (Editorial Rooms.) Indianapolis, Ind., May 28th. Charles M. Niezer,
Manager Notre Danie Track Team:
Dear Sir:—
The correction asked for in your letter of the 26th has been made and a copy of the News containing it forwarded; also a copy of Monday’s News containing the final report of the field day. I did not cover the bicycle races Saturday morning, but left them to Whallon of Hanover, a member of the executive committee of the Association. It was his report that appeared in the News, added on to the story of the Friday events.
While writing you 1 desire to congratulate the Notre Dame team, not only on its success but also on-the gentlemanly bearing and courtesy of your men. Such men interested in college athletics can not help but raise the standard of the sport.
Respectfully,
Hal W. Reed, Sporting .Editor.
The error referred to was the alleged fouling of Boyd of Purdue by our Foley in the half-' mile bicycle race. It was Boyd that fouled Foley, and when the attention of the Indianapolis papers was called to the mistake they gladly cprrected.it.

586	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Memorial Day.
Notre Dame’s First Paper.
For the first time since the organization of the Notre Dame Grand Army Post, Memorial Day was celebrated with all possible ceremony at the University. The little body of veterans took it upon themselves to mark their comrades’ graves in the cemetery by the lake with wreaths, of myrtle and the many-colored blossoms of the springtime. To their aid came the Auten Post of South Bend, the Auten Relief Corps and the Ladies’ Aid Society; and every one at Notre Dame willingly took part in rendering this service of duty to-the dead.
In the. morning at eight o’clock Solemn High Mass was offered up for the souls of the departed soldiers. Then the procession formed outside the church in the following order:
_ Notre Dame University Band. -
U. S.- Volunteer Reserves. Students of the University. Students of the Manual Labor School.
.	Students of Holy Cross Hall.
Novitiates.
'	Brothers, House of Studies.
Professed Brothers.	<
Auten Post, No. 8, G. A. R., South Bend. Auten Relief Corps, No. 14, South Bend.
. Ladies’ Aid Society, No. 45, South Bend.
. Notre Dame Post, No. 569, G. A. R.
' Reverend Clergy.
In this order, to the step of a march by the Band, veterans, volunteers and all, marched. down the tree-lined avenues that lead to the cemetery. There the drums were muffled, the pace slackened, while the space about the , little, plain crosses was filled with the givers of tribute to the memory of the dead. The national .melodies were played by the Band and sung in chorus; the roll of honor was read; the graves were covered with myrtle arid ~ flowers by the Grand Army veterans. Col.
Jasper E. Lewis' was the orator of the day. He spoke of the bearing of memorial ’ exercises upon the.patriotism of the present generation, ? and grew eloquent in his eulogy on those that
: died in our great war. Rev? P. P. Cooney, . chaplain of the Notre Dariie Post, offered up
. a prayer for speedy victory in our present war,' arid for the cessation of hostilities. ’The Notre Dame .reserves then fired three volleys over the graves, and the procession filed but of the , _ .cemetery back to the college campus in mar-
TiaL step, where the lines of reserves and of : veterans filed ‘by. the: iriain balcony, drew up / and broke, putting an end to Notre Dame’s
Day.	;
The history of Notre Dame’s journalism, or | attempt at it in early days, is very interesting. j The Scholastic will soon have finished its | thirty-first year—ripe age may we call it; but | before it came out under the burdensome name, | The Scholastic Year, there was another paper | ■ called the Progress. The following letter will 1 explain how we came by the first copy of it:	|
Dear Scholastic:—	.	- I
Enclosed please find a copy of the only number of the	|
Progress ever printed. I did not know that a copy of	!
. the venerable pioneer of Notre Dame journalism was in	i
existence, until I came across this the other day when	j
looking through some old papers. I think it will please s the Scholastic to see ..its venerable predecessor in • print; even if the copy is yellow with age.
■ '	'	. Very truly yours,	1
T. E. Howard.	1
The envelope that held this letter contained	I
also the modest four pages of the Progress, the	|
first printed number of the college paper. To	|
the Scholastic it was a. delight due to the	I
kindness of Mr. Howard. Itjs a quaint relic	I
to lovers of print, for whom this history of	I
publications at the University is given.	|
“ The earliest formal publication containing	1
selections from the writings of students was	|
the Progress, a manuscript paper. Its origin	|
was due to John-Collins, Francis C. Bigelow,	1
Ben. B. Barron and John H. Fleming, and it was	I
.’ at first circulated amongst the more appreci-	|
ative literary denizens of the University. An	|
earlier manuscript paper called the Notre Dame	I
Literary Gazette, through a prefect’s misunder-	|
standing, had been summarily destroyed; and	g
through .this reason chiefly John Collins was	1
'.inspired to bring put the paper permanently, f and hence the bold-name Progress. So well t . was the Progress' received, however, that the I faculty appointed an everiing every two weeks when the little paper was read in public in the senior, study -hall./. A One copy only .'was printed, that was for the Commencement of : i860, when it was read by: James B. Runriion, ' one of- its chief contributors, and who himself / became afterwards noted as an editor and j dramatic author.” //a	I
The Progress, however, fell into obscurity .and : died. The Olynipic-Gazette, the Weekly Bee and other publications took its place; until in 1867 ■„ when a modest eight pages, attached to the Ave Maria, and called the Scholastic Year, took ; the lead; and grew into bur 'own Scholastic: ...
The first number of: this, dated September 7,'

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
58'7
printed on wretched paper, contains a greeting three -balls pitched can hardly be equalled/ The rest of the team, Kearney, Conners arid
to the incoming students of the year, a list of students’ names, a few stray “ Locals ” and a , column on an accident that befell Marcus Foote, who was fishing from a railway bridge so intently he failed to notice an approaching' train. The rest of the Scholastic’s history is a matter of growth. The “St. Mary's Notices” filled a column until the Chivies came into existence.
The verse of this first number of the Progress that is here printed was written by Hon. T. E. Howard, then a modest student. Prof. Stace, also a student at that time, was accountable for the “Visit to Thompkinsville University,”— rare humor in these ages of philistinism. The rest of the prose was done by T. B. Runnion and Prof. Stace, for the most part. Strange it is to see the note on the military company, whose captain, W. F. Lynch, afterward organized a company for the War of the Rebellion at South Bend and Notre Dame. Prof. Howard himself afterward came to the dignity of commander of the Notre Dame company. Who will look back to this Scholastic four decades from now and tell of one that fought in the war that is now upon us? .
You of the present student body that are - thinking of the end that is fast coming look to the verse, “The Student Returning.” Very little do we change, after all, even though the art of printing is developed and journals grow flimsy and coarse looking to those that come years after they were first read. This little

semi-monthly tells of a host of things which have happened in the long interval since ’
its
birth.
Notre Dame, 8; St. Viateur, 6.
- Manager O’Shaughnessy took his band
of
reconcentrados to Kankakee,' Illinois, on Dec. oration Day for a preliminary warm-up.- The team was splendidly entertained and returned the compliment by putting up an interesting * game of ball. St. Viateur’s College had won the great majority of its games-until the Varsity broke its winning streak, and before the
Walsh, especially, played earnest gentlemanly': baseball.
' Notre Dame had the game won all the way. McNichols and his captain led in the fielding; department, and while the hitting was /not' strong it was timely. Mr. Conners kindly supplemented all deficiencies inthis line* by pre-, senting the visitors with seven bases on .balls? when such-articles* could be used to advantage-
' THE GAME.
Sammon popped a weak-fly to-McDonald' who. smothered it. Daly tore through- the prairie grass in-centre and secured Walsh’s difficult line-hit. Martin was easy for Her-; mann and McDonald.	* 2
Then came the most complete case, of bal--loon-ascensions that Notre Dame ever hadthe good luck to drop on. _ How the home team lived through it is one of the seven wonders of Kankakee. Not one of the four balls . thrown by Follen came within shooting distance of the rubber. One of Conners’ wild shoots connected with Fleming’s ribs, and on a passed • ball .Follen landed on third-with Fleming one base behind. Powers walked, and on Sammon’s grand-stand error Follen- and Fleming scored? Daly got free transportation and McNichols singled. Callahan was hit.by pitcher and McDonald fared the same fate. Donahoe got the fourth base on balls of the inning, arid Waists error gave Herrmann a life. Then, the head of the batting list came up .again, and Follen/ waited successfully. After, the smoke drifted from the scene of the slaughter and the Varsity had secured seven runs, Daly and Fleming went out.	‘ _	...	'
It was soon apparent that St/ Viateur’s could never overtake that lead, and the visitors? played leisurely, but nailed on another/.run/in. the seventh .to clinch the thing. St. Viateur’s, squeezed six runs on the card after terrific efforts on their part, and almost placid-indif-/ ference on the side: Of Notre Dame;--? .-?//<?/
The
Notre Dame .
Official Score


”4, ^5


3^?
■?fw



??J




,	.	,	1	, ,, .	, Follen, r. f. .
contest, her supporters declared that? Notre Fleming, 3 b. Dame would fall by the wayside when Conners Powers (Capt.), c. and' Sammon ;began to mix them up. As a McNichols, 2 b. matter of fact, Captain Sammon,Who has a, Callahan, l.f.
. McDonald, 1 b.
local reputation as a catcher, started to'mix
, lOCdl rcpU.ld.UCHJ da d. LdLUlCl, OLdlLCU -LU < 1111A. DonatlOC S S them up at the start. He gave; a scientific Herrmann, p. exhibition of how baseball should not be played, Gibson, p,
and his record of three passed balls out of
a.b,
R.
1
3 : i
j
3:
3 . o
Totals 26
I I
: r
1 1-o.
1
0.
<8-
H.
I I - /
O
- .1 / . I : * 2:
P - O . °
O •
_6t
P.O.
1 , 1
II
4 o
8 6 o o
o
-Pr'S
Pppypl?, PLpPyP.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
St. Viateur’s	A.B.	R.	H.	P.O.	A.	E.
Sammon (Cap’t), c.	5	O	I	6	0	5
Walsh, 2 b.	3	I	1	4	0	, 1
Martin, r. f.	4	O	I	0	O	0
Conners, p.	4	1	I	0	4	0
Whearity, s.s.	4	I	O	1	2	0
Quille, 1. f.	1	I	I	1	0	0
Kearney, 1. b.		1	. O	8	0	0
Rooney, 3 b.	4	I	I ‘	2	1	0
Patterson, c. f.	4	O	0	2	0	1
Totals	32	6	6	24	9	7
Score by Ixxixgs—i	2 3	4	5 6	7	8 9	R.
Notre Dame—7	0 0	0	0 0	1 1	0 *=	:8
St. Viateur’s—0	0 1	4	0 0	1 1	□ 0=	:6
Innings-pitched by Herrmann, 7; by Gibson 2; by Conners, 9. Bases on balls—off Herrmann, 4; off Gibson, 1; off Conners, 8. Hit by Pitcher by Herrmann, Walsh, Quille; by Conners, Fleming,' Callahan, McDonald. Struck out—By Herrmann,>4; by Gibson, 4; by Conners, 4. Two base hit—Walsh. Sacrifice hit —Patterson. Umpires, Legree and Roy.
Louis T. Weadock.
Ths Festival of the Music Makers.
On Thursday the members of the University Band were given a rest after the hey-day of marches, mazurkas and overtures. The instruments were silent for one Thursday at least, . while their masters-marched off to the rustic grove, where the sunshine, flowers and buzzing insects creep around the oak trunks, and gave
Mr. L. M. Reed found an inspiring subject in , themselves up to the pleasures of idleness “American Patriotism,” and demonstrated that
. when some fierce, ill-played game' of primitive baseball was not in progress. The festival was - full of unconventional merry-making. Some, filled with the hilarity of freedom, galloped down the dusty roads, through the meadow , and forest, for sheer hilarity’s sake. Others, in the -same spirit, tried to play a game that might be called baseball and. might be called . whatever you please. Others lay in the shadow . of the leaves and let time go by without serious thought. .
When the dinner hour came — which the
of Edward Sorin gave a subject to Mr. A. J. Duperier who likened our great Founder to custom of man has fixed at twelve by the St. Benedict,, and paid his memory a worthy tribute. Mr. P. J Ragan closed the program
clock—some looked for the supply wagon; and there was much joy when it came lumber-
ing down the hill. A forest fire cooked what
needed to be cooked; the rough-hewn table opportunities for the young American, and was filled with those evidences of civilization, he supported his belief with many pertinent dishes and. linen and eating-implements, and arguments;: The contest was a very creditable two score hungry rangers ate with.a zest that one and showed that Notre. Dame has many very good orators, and to whomsoever the \be eaten.- When it was over the afternoon was medal may go every one of the contestants given to the god of idleness, and the day went -may feel that he made a good fight;, that his L happily by to its sunset. Then supper was effortwasappreciated, and that it was by ho
dealt out. The supply wagon rattled home means labor, lost. Professor Preston and his empty, and forty dusty, happy, music makers musicians? added materially to the pleasure of came.straggling in as evening grew into night, the afternoon’s entertainment, .
boded ill for the cook's whose meal was yet to
The Oratorical Contest.
On last Wednesday afternoon at four o'clock the Oratorical Contest took place in Washington Hall. The judges were the Hon. T. E. Howard, chief justice of the supreme court of Indiana, the Rev. P. J. Muldoon and the Rev. T. E. Judge of Chicago. There were eight contestants for the medal. Mr. E. J. Mingey spoke on “The Social Influence of the Novel,” pointing out that if rightly directed, the novel can wield a great influence for the betterment of man. Mr. F/X. McCollum’s subject was “The Catholic Element in Public Life,” and he strongly appealed to Catholic young men to take a lively interest in national affairs and
make themselves felt in public life. “ The Consecration of Liberty” was Mr. F. E. Hering’s oration, and he showed that great men and great principles are evolved through centuries, and he made an application of this theory by pointing out that it required centuries of oppression to bring about that ennobling scene on the battlefield of Gettysburg when the Irish Brigade under shot and shell received absolution from their chaplain Father Corby.

from the Colonists’ rally at Lexington down to the present time, patriotism has been the mainspring of all great deeds done for land and liberty. Mr. F. H. Wurzer dwelt on “The Destiny of America” and set a high ideal in statesmanship and culture for our great republic. The noble life of Pere Marquette called forth the best efforts of Mr. J. J. Crowley, and he fittingly eulogized the great missionary of the northwest. The deeds and achievements
with an oration on “Our Chances.” Mr. Ragan believes that’the future has in store abundant
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	589
such splendid fruit,and to the gallant men that Notre Dame, 12; University of Chicago, 9. wore the uniform of Ahnd Mater- all Notre
Somewhere in the boundless extent of the world’s literature there( is a proverb of which the spirit, if not the letter, is, “ that all things come to him who waits.” As an amendment, the Varsity wishes to suggest that sometimes things “come” so fiercely, so remorselessly and so exuberantly, that the course of events is changed and new idols are set up in the public places. All of which throws a side-light on the simple narrative that follows.
Hitherto, in speaking of baseball, athletic Notre Dame has said under its breath that the Varsity could beat anything except Chicago. This feeling that the Maroon was nailed at the mast-head forever, so far as the Gold and Blue was concerned, was founded on Chicago’s victory over us last year and her good record with other teams this. She was regarded as an all-powerful Juggernaut, and the -Varsity was told that unless Notre Dame got out of the high-way Chicago would ride over Powers and his men. Well, the croakers received an objectlesson last Tuesday, which it is hoped they will learn backward and forward.
The Varsity stayed on the high-way, and the team that took to the woods wore Chicago across their breasts. With their bats the representatives of Notre'Dame demolished Chicago’s reputation as a sure winner, and put Stagg’s team in the same list with Northwestern, De-Pauw, Indiana and Michigan, whom we have defeated this year. Wisconsin has beaten us, but neither Michigan nor Chicago recognize Wisconsin; while Illinois, who cancelled her game with us, has lost two games to Chicago. O'	o	O
Out of this tangle comes Notre Dame with no uncertain claim to first place barring only. Wisconsin. And the prestige we have was obtained by. good ball playing and gentlemanly conduct in every particular. For men that believe in the Kneipp cure as applied to baseball, and to ; whom a wet blanket is a fetich, the victory at Chicago means little, but to men with good red blood in their veins and with a love of old . Notre Dame in their hearts, the Varsity of ’98 will live long as.a team of hard-working players - that achieved a victory over sturdy foemen, and with whom there was no such word as inglorious defeat.	'
To manager Frank O’Shaughnessy/whose arrangements were skilfully made and perfectly carried out; to Coach Hering, who. put heart and soul into the work .which brought forth
Dame is grateful. Then to Father .Morrissey,	>
whose generous co-operation in all that relates . . > to athletics is famous, the team returns its . ./A thanks. After the game, the victors marched in triumphant procession from the train-to its hotel, followed by the loyal alumni of Chicago •-/,-“/ shouting till they were hoarse. In the lobby /	-
of the hotel the crowd swung into a circle, and - V remembering the men at home, cheered heartily	• ..
for grand old Notre Dame and her President. < . There was not a flaw on the trip, either on the ' V. diamond or off, and beside making many new- ; friends, the team strengthened the admiration j < with which the University is held in .the hearts	: ?•/
of her sons.	/.<-/
THE GOLD AND BLUE ABOVE THE MAROON. '_■///■
There, never- was a better day for baseball .,/’	//•
than last Tuesday in Chicago, and both teams were in condition for a vital struggle. Coach 1 Stagg, who is wise inhis generation, chose the . . field, and when Umpire : Jevne called time, . Follen went to bat and. struck out as did //. "• Fleming. A short roller to Vernon - settled . //./? Powers. While Chicago’s enthusiastic rooters _ G V were beginning their work, Daly caught Merri- . '//1 field’s fly. Herschberger’s big bunch of foot- . / ball hair dangled inhis eyes as he tapped an - ■ /. easy out from Gibson to McDonald. McNichoIs	. : ‘
and McDonald extinguished Gardner.	.	. '
In the rapidity with which the first inning	'
was played, the spectators saw indications of ’//// a fast, close game, and were confirmed in their • '■/-■view when the second inning ended with the - V . score nothing up.	.	.	. y
: Notre Dame went out Indian file in the third, .. but Chicago cracked the ice on what later ■-?e-/// proved to* be a whole: tub of base-hits, errors, sensational plays and excitement flung together, indiscriminately. -Kennedy began his private //'/g cannonade right here with a hit to left. Smith’s out put him on second, and he scored after -Vernon hit safely and had been retired at third./ „ With Merrifield and: Herschberger poised on / -/• the bases, Gardner failed to locate Gibson’s : J curves.—One run. ..	.	, , ' .
Notre Dame’s, opening of the fourth was . fruitless, but Clarke.went to first on Callahan’s . error, and in season crossed the plate.. Three base hits in succession, in blinding, heart wringing succession, scored Kennedy. Smith and/" Vernon were waiting when Callahan’s catch of : . Merrifield’s- aerial-explorer closed the -inning.< Tworuns. \	. .	:	:	/. /;/
59°	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
In the fifth Callahan saw that the score stood . 3-0 the wrong way, and redeemed his error by driving a three-bagger into left. “ Silent ” Me-Donald came up, took a lingering glance at the Vigoral sign on the far left-field fence, and smashed, the ball over it square as a die, chasing Callahan in before him. Notre Dame’s delegation in the grand stand yelled till the earth shook, and even after Donahoe, Gibson . and Follen died in order, the Varsity saw there was a good chance.—Two runs.
. Implacable Kennedy slammed a two-bagger . to the bicycle track in centre, and Smith singled to left. Callahan retired Vernon, and Follen’s error on Merrifield’s easy one scored Kennedy and put Smith on second. Fleming put Smith in dreamland; but Herschberger and Gardner advanced Merrifield until he was compelled to score.. Two men were on base when Gibson and McDonald put Clarke out.—Two runs.
In the first half of the sixth Fleming had , scored on Callahan’s single, and McNichols had hit safely; so that when the visitors fondled their bats in the seventh the score stood six . - and three, and Notre Dame had the three.
Then it was* that the Varsity rushed gloriously into the lead-to the spirited accompaniment of cloud-scattering shouts of exultation. Then it was that the Gold and Blue for the first time in two years had more runs to its credit than the Maroon, and her lieutenants ■ resolved that the lead should be kept. Donahoe led off with a base on balls. Gibson’s fly to left was held, but-Follen’s hit was too fast for ■ Vernon and Donahoe was on second. Another pass by Clarke put Fleming on first and filled the bases. Captain Powers smashed the leather on the nose, driving it high and clean over - the left-field fence'for a magnificent home-run, clearing the bases and making the score seven to six and Notre Dame had the seven. Tn the pandemonium which broke loose, the stands became a mass of hysterically-waved Gold and Blue, and Powers was forced to remove his ' cap to the storm of congratulations. Daly and . McNichols landed on the ball, but the sad/. dened Chicago fielders accepted chances. .
Sawyer kep.t.up the excitement by getting a
. base on wide ones, and quit when Southard’s grounder; from Fleming to McNichols killed
~ him and put Southard on first. Kennedy, who is in the same category with Powers as a timely
. hitter,’brought- Southard home, with a three- . Two-base:hits^Powers; Callahan, MacDonald, ken-
- bao-ger to" centre? - Smith and Vernon didn’t. nedy. Three base hits, Kennedy, Callahan. Home runs— ‘get-the sphere;out of .the infield, and again the . clarke, 5?? Struckout—by.Gibson;3; by Clarke, 7. Sac- . keys were tightened with"the score.seven up. rifice^hits-^ponahbe, Sawyer. -Umpire—Jevne. -	;
The Varsity were still hitting-, and started in to recover the lost run. They did better, and _ again got into the lead, when Callahan got a beautiful two-bagger and went to third on McDonald’s single to left, scoring on a passed ball. McDonald put the team ahead when Gardner, in attempting to catch him at third, hurled the ball into left field. Merrifield’s hit in the eighth produced a run; McNichol’s error put Herschberger off at. first-street, and Clarke’s hit scored him. Sawyer fanned, and Donahoe1 erred on Southard’s easy grounder. With both on base, Gibson caught Kennedy’s fly.—Two runs.
So the score was again a tie 9-9 when Notre Dame opened the ninth with the prettiest, seasonable batting of the year. Fleming cut a single into right. Again Powers was equal to the emergency, and his two base-hit placed Fleming on third. Smith’s error on Daly’s hard-hit ball sent Fleming and Powers across the bar with those useful runs. McNichols went out from Vernon , to Kennedy, but Daly was safe at home on the play. Callahan’s line fell in the same waters, and McDonald’s two-base hit to left- closed the batting. Donahoe’s pop-up was . easy for Merrifield.—Three runs.
Again the tension was on deck. Chicago might win out in the last half. The crowd breathed easier when Donahoe caught Smith’s fly. Vernon'was given a chance on four balls. Follen pulled Merrifield’s fly into his glove, and Callahan’s out of Herschberger’s fly was the signal for a general rush to carry the winning captain and his men off the field.
Official Score:
The
Notre Dame	A.B.	R.	H. .	P.O.	A.
Follen, r. f.	5	I	-7	1	0
Fleming, '3 b.	■ 3 -	3	I	-7	■7
Powers, (Capt.), c.	5 -		-7	4	0
Daly, c. f.	’	4	1	• O	2	O
McNichols, 2 b'.	.	5 -	0	I	r	4
Callahan, 1. f.,	'	5	•7	' 3	3	0
McDonald, 1 b.	5	•7	3	12.	0 -
Donahoe, s.s.	.	3	I	0	1	4
Gibson, p.	.	4	O	0	1	3
Totals	'	. 39	12	12	27	13
Chicago .	A.B.	R.		P.O	A.
Merrifield, 3 b.	; 5	•7	' 1	3	O
Herschberger, c. f. .	5	I	1		Q
Gardner, c. .	. 4 ?	I	1 .	7	O
Clarke, p.	5	I	.	-7	0	*7 .
Sawyer (Capt.), r. f.-,	4	’ O	O	2 ■	O
Southard,1. f.	'5 ■ •	I	I	-7	0
Kennedy,,i b;1	’ 5.	3	■ 4	7 \	I
Smith; 2 b. ■ ’	.	5: r	0	’ -7	. 2	3.
Vernon, s.s.; ,	.4	0.	2	2	
Totals ty ' . - ; ..	4*	9	13-	.27 .	8
< Score by. Innings—1	.2: 3	4	5, 6.	7 8	9- .
Notre Dame—0	0 0	0,	2 1	.4 2	3=
.	Chicago—b	0 -1	2'	; 1 2-	1 2	0=
o
o
9
5 .
E. o o
I o o
E I
I o o
I I o
I o
4 ,R
'!
£

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	591
The End of May.
Every student has recognized, doubtless, his ' good fortune in being able to attend the Maydevotions. In the business of life in the noisy world these evenings will be a matter of memory, for then it will be almost impossible to attend the simple evening ceremonies. The short sermons of instruction have done a vast amount of good.
As a fitting close to the month of May a procession was made for a short pilgrimage to our little Grotto of Lourdes that lies back of the church, a monument of the kindness of the late Rev. Father Carroll. With the band playing a slow march at the head, the students, the acolytes, with soft-gleaming candles, and the celebrant and assistant priests in their golden vestments, the procession was very pretty. In the green and red light, under the shelter of the May foliage, the picture was most beautiful. Here voices rose and fell in the singing of a hymn to the Virgin; after which prayers were said for the repose of the soul of Father Carroll. Thence the procession led into the church, where Benediction closed the devotions of May. At Benediction Very Rev. John A. Zahm officiated. The altar was ablaze with candlelights; the air was soft as it is of a May evening, and everyone seemed to enter into the spirit of devotion, the singing was done by the congregation, and after the Benediction every voice rose in a grand Te Deum that could be heard swelling and diminishing far away. In this way the devotions ended; and they will be long remembered by those that have attended them for the last time. •
' * - ------------------«•••>------
Our Soldier Boys in Camp.
The Hoosier farmers were reclining beneath their apple trees and thoughtfully stroking - their beards;. mild-eyed horses and cattle were grazing peacefully, and all . nature was im its - calmest mood; when suddenly a golf-stockinged, sweatered aggregation of young men with long,-wicked-looking rifles appeared on the scene—and the pigs on the neighboring.
- farms have been squealing ever since. Cy • , Prime jumped up. in terror and saw a number of “gol dern critters” running across his best
, wheat field, yelling a.nd firing, and as Jamie; .. Giggles dropped on one knee and .fired, point- .
blank at him he fled in terror. The U. S. Vol. Reserves, Brigadier-General Green command-' -/-y-* ing, were simply going through a skirmish drill ’	•
on their way to the woods, but when Cy saw , Giggles he -thought he-was-being attacked-by.
the Irish Brigade, so he fled to his wife for ; protection. When the “soldiers” reached a , y pleasant wood about two miles from the Uni- _ ; 5 versify they shelled it thoroughly and then	y
entered and went into camp.	.	.
The first thing of importance after the guard . was posted was the court-martial of Jamie. '	\
The latter was pacing up and down on guard i . duty—chin in, chest out. and every inch a sol- ; ;-dier—when Lieut. Col. Atherton approached' 5 . . him and asked him for the countersign. Now ' Jamie was raw, and he told the Lieutenant-	3
Colonel that the countersign was Dewey, which . Z. was unwise. So he was.taken before Judge Advocate Austin O’Malley who was present and kindly consented to preside at the court- . y martial. The court was thirsty, so the prisoner	,y
was sentenced to bring a pail of water from a \ farmhouse a mile away. The sun was. hot, : too. The morning was passed in arresting farmers and their families that tried to get y through the guard and in correcting faults by -	/
court-martial; and at noon every one, except V ? the poor sentries, sat down-to an excellent . . dinner—beg pardon, mess—which was cooked ?. ;	,
in camp. The Commissary-General Silver and .	. : .
Quartermaster Benson have the thanks of all	J
for the excellent rations served. .	k
The afternoon was given up to a search for . \k a detachment of the “enemy”—Col. Walsh and	j . y
a few men—by a scouting party. When they	- e
were found the signal corps climbed a hill ■ ' A?y ■/ and “ wig-wagged ” the news with their, red k...y y-r\y and white flags to General Green. The latter k-yLy broughthis troops through the woods at a double / ' y/y quick; the enemy’s stronghold, Fort Wienie- - yly wurst, was surrounded, and the battle was fierce , ‘.: -yry until the last round was fired. There.were few y-yy/k/ky/ mishaps. Sergeant. Murphy lost his temper; : J i . Corporal Haley had the part in his hair blown y'yskk/k| from : the middle to the left. side,y Private y y Giggles had the padding of his golf stockings blown away, and Private O’Malley had the newsyV:^ wart blown off his nose. Private Giggles is the > /// // only one whose case is serious. The.Reserves'/kyk/ky// returned to the University at sunset, very tired 'j''"yyyy-/ and in a very weary state, but all agree that Thursday was one of the most enjoyable days ’'/kkkyyyy! they ever spent. For all of which and many y/y/ other favors besides -they sincerely/ thMk;..y >. kyyk/j Professor Green. . - ;	y y . -..k.yyykykyk
592	NOTRE DAME
Local Items.
SCHOLASTIC.
ward L. Manion, Charles J. Nix, Alexander W. McFarland, Edgar J. Sinnott, John C: Bernero, I George P. Phillips, Clement G.Cresey, Laurence ; A. Hart, George H. Ebbert, Herbert P. Schaus, | William J. Butler, Shirley Fleming.— Saint	f
Joseph’s Hall, J. Burke. Besides these there f were several others belonging to the parish | adjoining the University.	|
'—Prize Story No. 3—“The Duke.”—Once	f
upon a time in a little unbalanced cottage by 1 the sea, there lived a beautiful young maiding | named- Sylvia: She had dainty, well-rounded fingers, five on each hand, and her hair fell in	f
delicate, laughing ringlets matched only by the	|
golden-tipped clouds in the far west. All the	|
neighbors admired her, and they used to come	f
and borrow a cup of sugar and a nutmeg from	|
her now and then. Even the uncouth, tangle-	|
haired woodmen loved to hear her sweet plead-	|
ing, Salvation Army voice, as it rang out over	J
the fluffy tops of the mighty oaks in the forest.	j
One day as Sylvia was plugging in the	|
kitchen a fit of melancholy seized hen She	i
began to think that life ought to hold out to	I
her more than a dish-pan and a wet rag.. Then	|
with fretted brow and drooping ears she began	|
to sing quivverlingy;	।
Oh, would that I had .ne’er been born .	'1
' To work away , my life!	. 4
Oh, would that some one, e’en forlorn	j
Would take me as his wife!	I
■	-	- ■	■	I
A young forester that had been cussing the | resistible oaks, hearing the fragrant, informal 1 solicitation, dropped his ax on the toes of a I fellow worker, and with bulging eyeballs and abbreviated breath, started in the direction of the/pigmy cottage.. The voice seemed to	I,
grow sweeter and sweeter as he neared the	I
house nearer and nearer, and when at last he	|
stood beneath the kitchen window-sill he trem-	|
bled so violently .from emotion that he was	I
obliged to sit down on.an adjoining tomato can.	|
Thus with clasped, figer-nails and bowed head	I
he listened while Sylvia/washed the figured	4
chinaware and repeated the alluring melody.	J
.When the last, soup-plate had been with-	|
drew from the dish-pah, Sylvia up and dumps	I
the dish-wdter out of the elevated kitchen	|
window, unconsciously_ drenching the enrap-	ft
tured, ill-starred woodman; but wisely he knew	11
that Tie could not win the fair goddess by	|
swearing,so with outstretched. elbows and	/i
twisted neck he sang the following air to the	|
melody: of the unfiltered; goo-goo as it slowly	e
dripped from his greasy coat sleeves into his	|
wrinkled,boots: .-. / . :/	.	f
. / , ; Oh, here/be, oh, here I be, •	' A-little damp' myfairest sweet;
■; /. : But.- come -my dove, and marry me, •	' .
/ /	../Be mine, be .mine, I. still repeat!
/ But Sylvia, looking:atThe dripping wretch, simply said, “1’11/pass.”.. And then with dilating nostrils and shaking eyebrows the i j young forester High ted a cigarette and turned back again to the forest. ’ f .	II
—Band concerts are now being clamored for with much energy. It is time.	.
—So Ensign has proved that he is a ball player! This is a queer world.
—Professor: “Beware of ‘isms,’ they lead the wrong way.”
Student: “How about Catechism?”
—It has been noticed that many students are coming up from the shops with their boxes for early packing. In two days Sorin Hall will be desolate.
—The Carrolls take up the cry “Swimming”, every “rec” night. Bill Shea has his hands full instructing the beginners, and rescuing those who go too far.	.
—The members of the Boat Club wish to express their sincere gratitude to the Notre Dame fire brigade for saving the lake from the ravages of Thursday’s fire. .
- —The following non-commissioned officers . were appointed last week after a competitive drill by the Notre Dame Company of Volunteer Reserves: C. H. Atherton, ist Serg’t; R. G. O’Malley, 2d Serg’t; W. S. Murphy, 3d Serg’t; St. John O’Sullivan, 4th Serg’t; S. J. Brucker, 5th Sergeant.	-
—The Reds, the crack team of Brownson Hall, bowed to the Carrollites Thursday in a well-contested game. The Reds put forth their best, efforts to win, but the heavy batting of Captain Tom Murray’s men in the ninth inning . won the game. The Carrollites have much ciuse to rejoice over their victory, as the Reds had been coached for several days before
. the game. Score, 18-15.
The Carroll Hall Specials have won four . games, and lost one in the inter hall league. -' The standing of the teams is as follows:
_	Lost	Won -
Carrolls -	4	. I
Reds .	2	2.
- Whites	1	.	2
x Greys	o	_	3--
' The Carroll Hair reserves defeated a team
* from South Bend last Monday by the score 3-2. Leffingwell’s pitching was the feature of the game.	.
—The following students were confirmed by the Rt. Rev. Bishop Rademacher oh June.ist:
Brownson Hall.—Samuel L. Hunter, Henry A. Sherman, William'J. Adams, Asher M. Jen-.
. nings, Charles J. Baab, Gregor N. Burg, Bradley " B. Metcalf;; . . :. .	.	?	.
. Carroll. Hall.—Fred G. Schoonover, William ; . R. Hickey, Christopher E. McSheehy, William
Vori Albade, James E. McNaughton, Laurence H. Luken, John C. Hanner, Michael J. Crowley, Joseph A. Clyne.	.'/
-	/ Minim Department;—Jeremiah; Hart, Grant
./ C. Dyer, Paul H. McBride, Milton Flynn, Ed-