The Notre Dame Scholastic
E Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailingT at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918. j
Volume LXVIII
February 22, 1934
No. 17
VARSITY DEBATE TEAM
ENTERS TWO TOURNEYS a	_____
North Manchester is the host to debate teams from several midwestern colleges for a debate tournament today and tomorrow, Feb. 22 and 23. Among the schools represented will be Notre Came, Northwestern, Kent College of-Law and Albion.
Professor William J. Coyne, coach of varsity debating, announced that he would take the following men to the North Manchester tournament: — George Krug, Richard Meier, Frank-• lyn Hochreiter, Thomas Proctor, John Weppner, Eugene Malloy, John Heywood, and James Burke. Professor Joseph Apodaca will accompany the men on the trip as assistant coach.
The debates will be carried on with three man teams and both sides of the question “Resolved, that the nations should agree to prevent the international shipment of arms and munitions.”
During their stay at North Manchester the debaters will reside at the college and will be the personal guests of the administration.
On March 1 and 2 Mr. Coyne is taking two teams to the Phi Sigma Rho debate tournament in Iowa City. Last year Notre Dame tied for first w place at this annual event which draws forensic squads from the colleges of the far west.
THREE IMPORTANT CHANGES MADE IN CURRICULUM RY ACADEMIC CODNCIL
DIRECTOR OF STUDIES
The Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C. His tvork will be increased.
LECTURES AND CONCERT COMPRISE RADIO PROGRAMS
AERONAUTICAL COURSE
Alfred Loritsch Speaks To Bookmen on Fantasy
For the first time this semester, the Bookmen, gathered in the Commerce Library, heard a paper by a fellow member. Alfred Loritsch had chosen to speak on fantasy in modern litera-S ture. Rapidly he sketched the methods and manners of those writers who have gained literary permanence for themselves by realizing the appeal and human interest of life’s trivialia. Excerpts from these writers of whimsical fairy-tales for grown-ups were read. Bookmen were particularly impressed by the readings from Lewis Carroll, James Stephens, and Robert Nathan. Bookman Loritsch believes that these authors are producing work which is prophetic of the liter-a, ature of the future.
The past week’s programs from the Notre Dame radio station included lectures by Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science; Rev. Bernard Lange, C.S.C., Curator of the Museum of Natural History of Notre Dame; and a concert by the Moreau Seminary Choir.
In a fifteen minute broadcast from the campus radio station on Friday afternoon, the Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, gave a talk on “The Insect World.
Joseph Mansfield, student announcer, introduced the lecturer, after which Bernard Burkart, in interview form, asked Father Wenninger the leading questions which were to furnish topics for explanation. The answers given revealed interesting and amusing facts about the life, structure, and habits of our many common insects.
In his talk on Tuesday, Father (Continued on Page 8)
Three important changes will be made in the University of Notre Dame curriculum as the result of action by the academic council at its semi-annual meeting.
With one exception the changes will mark elaboration of courses now being taught with a groundwork being provided for extensive graduate study.
The curricular additions which involve the colleges of engineering and of arts and letters include:
1.	Establishment of complete course in aeronautical engineering.
2.	Establishment of a five year course in architecture instead of the four years of study now required.
3.	Establishment of a separate department of politics.
The determination to include a complete course in aeronautical engineering came as the result of demand by students and of an extensive survey of the aviation field, which included consultation with leaders in every branch of the industry.
A score of men who have made aviation history attended an aeronautical conference at the university early this year, among them: Vincent Bendix; Comm. H. B. Grow of Detroit, who helped to organize naval aviation; Col. William A. Bishop of Montreal, Canadian ace of aces during the World War; and Victor Kleis-rath of the Bendix Aviation corporation.
Others who consulted with the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president, and the Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., dean of the college of engineering, while the course was being planned were: Admiral Ernest J. King, chief of the naval bureau of aeronautics; Captain Eddie Rickenbacker, and operators of the large air transport lines.
On the advice of these men, the subjects to be taught will embrace all phases of metallurgy, with emphasis (Continued on Page 3)
One
February 22, 1935
Don Bestor to Play for Prom;
Tickets Are Priced At $5.00
GLEASON IS WINNER IN FRESHHAN ELECTION
DINNER DANCE SATURDAY
By Mitchell C. Tackley
Junior weekend begins a week from tonight, the evening of March 1, when Chairman Thomas Reardon an coordination with Class President Thomas Murphy present the Junior Prom of 1935 at the Palais Royale in South Bend. Don Bestor, nationally famous for his up-to-the-minute dance
Lawrence J. O’Toole For three days only.
band, will furnish the music for the dance. Bestor’s orchestra can be heard every Sunday night over a national hookup on the Jello program with Jack Benny.
Lawrence J. O’Toole, Pittsburgh, has been named chairman of the ticket committee. The sale of tickets will begin Monday and will extend for three days only according to a rule - that makes the purchasing of tickets obligatory during this specified time.
With the assistance of Richard Eckrich and Robert McDonough, Chairman O’Toole will handle the ticket sale in the basement lobby of the dining hall at the following hours: Monday, Feb. 25—from 12:00 noon, to 5:00 p.m.; Tuesday, Feb. 26 —from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; Wednesday, Feb. 27—from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
According to the orders of the Prefect of Discipline, Chairman O’Toole announces that the sale of tickets will absolutely terminate Wednesday afternoon at 1:00 o’clock. This rule will be strictly adhered to and no exceptions will be allowed. The price of the prom proper is $5.00 and the dinner dance price is $3.50. Although the tickets are sold together, prom goers have an option of attending the dinner dance.
The hours of the two dances have been set as follows: The Prom, 9:30 to 1:30 with 2:30 hall permissions: the dinner dance, 7:30 to 10:30 with (Continued on Page 8)
Armstrong Is Elected Program Chairman Of N.C.A.F. Convention
James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary of the University of Notre Dame, has been elected chairman of the program committee of the decennial convention of the National Catholic Alumni Federation, to be held in Chicago on April 25, 26, and 27.
Mr. Armstrong directed the convention of the Federation in Chicago in 1931 and was for three years convention director of the American Alumni Council, an organization including the alumni association executives of all the colleges and universities of America.
Other members of the program committee are Judge Edward S. Dore of the Supreme Court of the State of New York; Paul Kiniery, Ph.D., and William Conley, of the faculty of Loyola University, and Howard Egan, Ph.D., of DePaul.
Prominent speakers invited to attend the convention already include Prof. L. J. A. Mercier of Harvard, Ross Hoffmann, historian and author, and Hon. Thomas Woodlock, editor of the Wall Street Journal.
Charles Phillips Cracow Club Has Banquet Downtown
On Wednesday, February 20, the Charles Phillips Cracow club of Notre Dame had a banquet in South Bend, instead of having the regular Wednesday evening meeting on the campus. After dinner, the members of the club went to the State theatre to see the Polish movie, “Przez Dziurke Od Klucza,” or, in English, “Through the Keyhole.” Daniel F. Kalczynski, of South Bend, was chairman of arrangements for the banquet and theatre party.
At the meeting of February 13, Arthur L. Korzeneski, president of the organization, presented the members of the club with a new record book, for the purpose of keeping minutes of official club business. Until now the club has had no such means for tending to these matters. Joseph Skoczylas, Carroll hall, was appointed to take charge of the records. His duties will consist of classifying the minutes and enrolling them in the new record book. Also at this meeting, it was decided that members would be allowed the opportunity, at future gatherings, to give three minute addresses in Polish.
Forging his way through a crowded field of candidates in the primaries, Joseph “Red” Gleason, of Chicago, Ill., breasted the political tape ahead of Eugene Vaslett, of Brooklyn, N.Y., when the yearlings broke through the barrier Wednesday afternoon in the first race of this year’s political card.
Gleason, who ran behind Vaslett in last week’s primaries won in a typical Garrison finish. Trailing in the balloting throughout the day, he took the lead in the late afternoon returns aand managed to eke out a 17 vote margin.
Clark Reynolds, originally nominated on Vaslett’s ticket, succeeded in running ahead of his stable-mates, and was installed as vice-president.
The post of secretary went to Francis Crowley, running under the Gleason colors, while Charles Sweeney was entrusted with the treasurer’s position.
In the sprint for the presidency the Freshman - Carroll - Brownson silks were up on the winner. The Dillonites were successfully outsprinted for this office in the primaries when the post position was allotted to Freshman hall, both the nominees coming from that sector.
Clark Reynolds, successful in the dash for vice-presidency, kept the Gold Coasters in the administration, however, since he ran on a Freshman-Dillon combination.
The elections were held under the guidance of Charles Schill, chairman of the S. A. C. election committee. Balloting was held in Carroll Recreation rooms.
The year’s first voting brought out a heavy ballot with 267 Freshmen turning up at the polls.
Doctor Frank Kirby Will Give Talk on Halibut
Dr. Frank B. Kirby, director of education, Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, will address a joint meeting of the Pharmacy and Chemistry clubs next Wednesday night in the Chemistry Building at 8:00 p.m. "Catching Vitamins with Fishhooks,” is the title of this talk.
The speaker will give the story of the preparation of halibut liver oil in his lecture. This product, because of its high vitamin A and D content, is gradually replacing cod liver oil as a source of these important substances. Abbott is one of the leading American producers of halibut liver oil.
The Scholastic
Two
LESLIE LECTURES ON HAMLET INTERPRETATION
Tickets for Fourth Annual Bengal
Boxing Show Go On Sale Monday
By Clifford F. Brown
“To keep the audience amused, interested and informed for 45 minutes shall be my aim as suggested,” is the manner Shane Leslie opened his third lecture of the weekly series, Tuesday evening, Feb. 19, upon the “Catholic Interpretation of Hamlet.” As usual a large representation gathered in Washington Hall to hear the inspiring, sometimes humorous, words of the great author and teacher.
Before entering into the serious matter of his subject, Mr. Leslie related several highly amusing anecdotes and experiences. In the course of his speech he aroused laughter from the audience by relating incidents of important and of amusing-men in England during the age of Shakespeare.
“Very daring it is to leap at Hamlet, but I always believe in leaping at the best,” Mr. Leslie began in his consideration of the immortal play.
“To treat the subject adequately,” the speaker said, “it is necessary, before understanding the Catholic interpretation of Hamlet, to touch upon other plays of that time and point out how the Protestant of England, Shakespeare, showed Catholic sympathies when he needn’t have; and to form the interpretation of Hamlet with the atmosphere of the time.”
To elucidate the subject of the English atmosphere of that period, the speaker referred to the conflict between the Reformation and the Renaissance; and to the mixed population of England, composed of one-third Catholic, one-third adherents of the new learning, and one-third “looking which way the cat would jump.” Shakespeare’s intimate association in spirit with Sir Thomas Moore, famous English martyr, was interestingly revealed as a specific example of the condition of England during the Elizabethan period.
Suggestions came forth from the speaker by his many illustrations from' various Shakespearian plays, that the immortal bard might have been a Catholic. In Hamlet the placing of Ophelia in the nunnery portrays the deepest feeling of Shakespeare toward the religious. • Likewise, in the same play, the scene of the king on his knees would make an excellent scene for the murder, but Shakespeare never treats such occasions or any similar scenes with irreverence. From Romeo and Juliet, Mr. Leslie also drew an interesting account of Shakespeare’s characterization of the Franciscan friar.
A Junior Specializes in Attending Unnecessary-
Class Lectures
It was five minutes after ten last Saturday morning when the door of Mr. Wack’s German class banged open and a breathless Junior burst into the i-oom. He stopped short, glanced around confusedly, then while the professor and the rest of the class watched curiously, sidled over and took an empty seat up front. Mr. Wack resumed his lecture in German, occasionally glancing sideways at the individual.	*
Fifteen minutes later the newcomer turned around and asked his neighbor what time it was. On being told 'it was twenty after ten, he became visibly alarmed. The professor, observing his uneasiness, interrupted the lecture to lend him a German text book. The student opened it curiously and began looking at the pictures.
Thirty minutes later the bell rang and the class was dismissed. The student returned the text-book. When Mr. Wack asked him for his class card the student grinned. “I haven’t any,” he explained, “I have history in this room at eleven o’clock, and I guess I got my time mixed up and came an hour early. Anyway, “he added brightly, “I enjoyed your class, though I couldn’t make out what you were saying.”
We understand that last semester the same individual took Religion 2a for almost a quarter before he discovered he had passed the course the preceding year.
CURRICULUM CHANGES
Continued from Page 1)
on the lighter steel and aluminum alloys; internal combustion engines; stream-lining and other construction problems.
The five year course in architecture will lead to the professional degree of bachelor of architecture with one additional year of study required for a master’s certificate instead of two as at present.
Notre Dame students have made exceptional records in Beaux Arts competitions during the past few years and it is believed that the added courses will place the architectural department on a par with many graduate schools.
According to Father O’Hara the separation of politics as a department comes as the result of “persistent requests for specific training for government seiwice.”
MC GRATH, SHEEDY TRAIN
By William H. Tourney
Tickets for the annual Bengal Boxing Bouts will go on sale Monday. The tickets will be on sale in each of the halls and at the newsstand in the
A detailed account of the training activities of the boxers will be found on page 13. There follows an exclus-
Sheedy	McGrath
One ivill probably die.
ive interview with Gunner McGrath, the human arsenal and Mike Sheedy, the human fort, who will be the participants in the special honor joust between the Sorin Hunt club and the Walsh Tea club.
Hissing, scheming, crafty and elusive, ‘Gunner’ McGrath today began intensive training for his fight-to-the-finish battle with Mike ‘Talker’ Sheedy, bane of Sorin, at the Bengal bouts a few weeks hence.
“I’ll soon have another notch in this,” said the Gunner when interviewed as he was oiling a six shooter in his Walsh trophy room. “But you can’t bring that into the ring,” we reminded him, fearful of a casualty.
“Who can’t?” he shot back at us. He backed us up against a picture of one of the Dean brothers, and, with the glint of battle in his eyes and the foam of the kill dripping from his mouth, he said: “Listen, buddy, down where I come from, w-e ask no quarter, and we give none. This is a grudge fight, see? And if this guy Sheedy wants to use a gat, it’s all. right with me; but when I’m out to get a guy, I don’t waste no time in smacking him down.”
“But,” he added, “I don’t think I’ll have to waste a good bullet on that mug. They tell me that he folds up like an English major when he gets one on the nose. He can’t take it.”
Then he became docile again and showed us a letter wtih a one cent stamp. It was from the “Gunner McGrath Club” across the lake, and informed all concerned that the girls were knitting a white robe, with red hearts on the breast, for the Gunner to wear into the ring that night.
“Bless their little hearts,” he said;
(Continued on Page 6)
February 22, 1935
Three
Seniors Present Flag To University
At Washington Birthday Ceremonies
MEDIAEVAL INSTITUTE TO PUBLISH STUDIIES
By Franklyn C. Hochreiter
“Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports,” was the theme taken from George Washington’s “Farewell Address” by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president and acting president of the University, in his acceptance of the American flag pre-
. Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
. . a peace time tribute. . .”
sented by the class of 1935, at the 90th annual observance of Washington’s birthday at Notre Dame.
Father O’Donnell pointed out in the course of his remarks how Notre Dame had responded to the “call to arms” in the Civil and Spanish-American wars. The memorial door in Sacred Heart church stands as a lasting monument to Notre Dame men who answered the obligation to their country in the World war. “This exercise,” he said, “is Notre Dame’s peace time tribute to George Washington.” The history and significance of the traditional celebration was then recounted.	‘
“This year being the bicentennial of John Carroll, first bishop of the hierarchy of the United States, it is fitting that his work. under the ad, ministration of Washington should be stressed.” Upon the election of the first president, Bishop Carroll, on behalf of the Catholic clergy and laity of the country, sent to Washingt-ton a document of congratulations signed by himself and four Catholic laymen. This was answered by a letter of appreciation for the aid given the Revolutionists by the Catholics of the colonies. On many later occasions Carroll’s advice •was solicited by the President.
In his exhortation, Father O’Donnell appealed to the men of the class of 1935 to carry out Washington’s words to promote peace. It should always be remembered that man is “a social being and as such he has
French Club Hears Talk On Paris By
Mr. Thos. Campbell
Last Wednesday night at a meeting of the Cercle Francais of Notre Dame, Mr. Thomas B. Campbell, professor of European history, spoke to the members of the club on historic sights and associations around Paris and on some provincial French associations. Mr. Campbell is very well informed on these subjects because of his extensive knowledge of the history of European nations.
During the past week, a collection of excellent photographs of distinguished living French authors has been displayed in the library exhibit case in connection with Biography month which is now being celebrated throughout the country.
an obligation to his God, to himself, and to the State.” He told them to remain “faithful to the principles of Catholic education in regard to society and state by adhering to the Catholic tenets of true religion and morality.” In so doing they would “contribute, by right thinking and acting,” their part in “safeguarding our country from false thinking and false reasoning.”
Father O’Donnell was preceded on the program by the Washington Day oration entitled “An Appreciation of Washington’s Farewell Address” as delivered by John J. Locher. In the course of his speech Locher remarked that “Washington’s valedictory address to the American people is, in many respects, a reiteration of the principles of natural justice.” He continued, that “if the time should ever come when equal rights are temporarily displaced, if the nation is ever subjugated to law that is not law in its true sense, if our representatives should ever be blinded to the ultimate source of authority ... let the principles of liberty and morality as expressed by Washington ... be the criteria of oui' conduct.”
In presenting the American flag to the University, Thomas G. Proctor, president of the class of 1935, likened Washington to “the Christian ideal.” He expressed the desire that the flag “may remind the University of us who have gone out imbued with strong faith and principles.” Proctor said further, “we pray that it may. forever float above and before us as a reminder, constant and true, of Washington, the Christian ideal, of Notre Dame, the stronghold of Catholic faith and the true ideal of Notre Dame . . . Our Lady.”
Publication of a series of research studies, covering all fields of medieval learning has been started by the Institute of Medieval Studies of the University of Notre Dame, under the direction of the Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C. The series will be known as Publications of the Institute of Medieval Studies of the University of Notre Dame.
The series, which will include studies of medieval writers and their works, will be critical, historical, literary or doctrinal in nature. The publications will also include the critical editions of works still unedited, and of works which are now available only in uncritical editions.
Of these critico-textual works, the Institute, under Father Moore, has in view specifically, the editing of the systematic compendiums of theology, Sentencebooks and Summae, which date from the last half of the 12th and the first half of the 13th centuries. These works are not now available in critical editions.
The first work to be edited will be the Sententaiarum Libri Quinque of Peter of Poitiers which dates from 1168 to 1176.
The first photostats of the manuscripts of this work to arrive at the University of Notre Dame have come from the Monastery of Klosterneu-berg in Austria, from the National Library of Vienna, and from the Public Library of Erfurt. Other manuscript of the Sententiarum Libri Quinque—34 in all—are found in the libraries of Belgium, England, France, Germany, Italy and Spain.
The Institute of Medieval Studies has a double objective in view:
1.	Research work in medieval sources, and the training of students for research work.
2.	Teaching of medieval subjects, and the preparation of students for teaching.
To realize these objectives, the University is intent upon the training of teachers in the various fields of medieval learning, and the building up of adequate library facilities.
At present purchase has been made not only of the more important collections of theological and philosophical sources such as the Opera Omnia of St. Thomas Aquinas, and St. Bonaventure, the Patrologia Latina, etc., but also of the large collections of historical sources such as the Rolls Series,, the Monumenta Germaniae Historica, and the Recueil des histor-iens des Gauls et de la France, and of collections of sources in other fields of medieval study.
7 heScholastic
Four
WASHINGTON DAY SPEECHES
Following is the text of the Washington Day oration delivered by John Locher, a junior in the College of Law ivho will be graduated from the College of Arts and Letters this June:
Father O’Donnell, Reverend Fathers, members of the Faculty, Gentlemen of the Class of 1935:
On December 4, 1783, nine years after the battle of Lexington, General Washington olfered a toast and bade
John J. Locher
“W ashington laid nation's policy." farewell to his officers in the main room of Fraunce’s Tavern in New York City. During the simple ceremony there was no eye but what shed its tear because the Washington who had saved the country in the French and Indian War, and had carried the Revolution to success was leaving them. Later as he crossed the Hudson river on his way to Mount Vernon, bells ran in the church steeples and cannon boomed until his familiar form faded away on the Jersey shore. Once more he became simply George Washington of Virginia.
But this tall Virginia gentleman was not long to remain in retirement. A few months later he was recalled to become the first president of the United States and by a unanimous vote. For eight years Washington piloted the wavering bark of state through troublesome waters. He had done much, but the condition of the country was still far from secure. The financial condition was chaotic while the diplomatic situation was uncertain and dangerous; the new Congress but a short time in operation, was having a difficult time, while the Supreme Court limited by a lack of precedent found the way tortuous; there was a crying need for the development of domestic and foreign commerce, and the question of public education was ever present; the problem of determining the correct Western policy and of mitigating the prejudice that still existed—occupied the best minds of the day. Worried and
February 2 2, 19 3 J
tired by his office, Washington announced his decision to retire, but before he left the public stage gave to his country the ‘Farewell Address’ that is now the most treasured state paper of the American nation. He tells the people to forego sectional jealousies and warns against the pally spirit. He begs the people to preserve and exalt their unified country and asks them to remember that religion and morality are basis of sound government. And so, with this parting advice Washington retired to his estate on the Potomac where he died without realizing the prophetic wisdom of his words.
If our first president were to come back today he would not see a totally different picture. Conditions are again in a flux. He would find a world without religion and morality, a world battling for political existence because it failed to follow his advice when he said, “of all the dispositions and habits, which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports.” He would find nations hating God and men living under communistic forms of government that destroy initiative, deprive men of the right to live as they please, and disregard their fundamental liberties as a human being. He would observe a predatory capitalism giving rise to a perpetual conflict between labor, and capital. He would discover that nations of the world had turned their backs on his wise counsel to “observe good faith and justice toward all nations and to cultivate peace and harmony with, all.” He would realize that the world’s departure from his advice resulted in disastrous wars and national debts beyond his wildest dreams —in conflicts that revamped the boundaries of the world and intensified racial hatreds that will be alleviated only by bloodshed.
Having sensed the conflicts impending between the nations of the world, Washington gave his country the famous warning against foreign intrigue. In doing so he did not instruct a closed door policy toward Europe, for as he says, “Harmony and a liberal intercourse with all nations, are recommended by policy, humanity and interest.” Rather he asks that the nation refrain from “permanent alliances with any foreign world,” and from artificial entanglements with the vicissitudes of European rivalries. With a few lucid words, Washington laid the foundations of a nation’s policy, and all who have stood on the watchtower since, have seen his nation marching with seven league boots to a greatness based on the foreign doctrine of its immortal president.
The ‘Farewell Address’ was not written for a year, nor for a century, (Continued on Page 20)
Following is the text of the flag presentation address delivered this morning by Thomas G. Proctor, president of the senior class:
Rev. Fathers, Gentlemen of the Senior Class, Friends:
It is not my purpose to tell today the story of George Washington, the man, the leader, the patriot. Those of us who are American born know him well who is called ‘The Father of His Country,’ understand his faith in principles even in the darkest hours,
Thomas G. Proctor
“Washington—a Christian ideal." love his steadfast courage, venerate his belief in the justice and goodness of the Almighty Father; those of us who are from other lands have learned of Washington and so. have come to love him. Our own beloved late Professor Charles Phillips found world-wide devotion to this man, at the flag-draped crypt of Kosciusko, at his ancestral home in England, at the Parisian monument dedicated to his greatness.
But the peoples and the nations do not rever Washington as the man alone; he is an ideal. Washington stands today in an age of cynicism and doubt, even despair, as a great Christian ideal. He is the man as he should be, strong, courageous, noble, pure, God-fearing, God-loving—a man whose broad shoulders and clean-cut face rise high above the crowd and point the way. We are thankful that such men are given the earth, that they had the strength of purpose and understanding of the right to do the right. We pray that our leaders today, and that we ourselves, may see as Washington saw, act as he acted, for God, country, and fellow-man.
Father Sorin founded a University; Washington founded a nation. Both strove for an ideal and found it. So the members of the Senior class of University of Notre Dame meet again today, as they have every year since 1896 to recall the ideals of Washington and Father Sorin and make them their own. Notre Dame and our parents have made it possible for us to (Continued on Pase 20)
Five
LIBRARY UNCOVERS MS.
OF ORESTES BROWNSON
An unpublished manuscript written by Orestes Augustus Brownson, father of American philosophy, has come to light in the archives of the University. The manuscript, dated December 19, 1834, is entitled “Letters To An Unbeliever In Answer To Some Objections To Religion” and consists of eight complete and one incomplete letter, the whole work totaling approximately 25,000 words.
Doctor Brownson often expressed his desire to end his days at Notre Dame and in 1875, when he was offered a professorship at the Univer-sity, he willingly accepted. While on his way to Notre Dame he stopped at Detroit to visit his son and there died April 17, 1876. Buried in the Catholic cemetery of Detroit, his body was transferred to Notre Dame in 1886 and was buried in a crypt beneath the church. Thereafter the basement chapel was known as the Brownson Memorial chapel which was named after* him as was also Brownson Hall.
The letters of the manuscript are addressed to a created character, Charles Elwood, and are answers to objections on philosophical questions. In 1839, Orestes Brownson published a book entitled Charles Elwood in which he himself takes the part of Charles Elwood. Though the content of the two books is similar, the proofs offered in the manuscript are far more convincing than those offered in the published book.
The work offers an insight to the process of his mind at the time. He was not only a philosopher but also a lover of humanity and a so'cial reformer. He constantly advocated labor reforms which did not differ essentially from those in use today but was considered a radical by his contemporaries.
The question of the manner in which he became a Catholic has not been satisfactorily answered but it is thought that these very rebukes led to his search for an authority to enforce his views. He proceeded to prove the existence of God, and from this he deduced that there must be some organ to interpret and enforce His precepts. This was followed by the proof that the Catholic Church was the authority endowed with the power. His proof of the existence of God may shed light on the much-disputed question of whether he was an Ontologist or an Occasionalist.
In the preface of the manuscript he states that William E. Channing started him on the road to Christianity: “I own, however, with pleasure that I am somewhat indebted to Doctor Channing.”
Six
Like all true Hoosiers, Norbert Wallace Hart thinks Indiana is the brightest spot on earth. And no wonder, for his infancy and childhood were spent in seclusion (through necessity, perhaps) in Dunkirk, whose staunchest claim to glory is its situa-
tion within fifteen miles of the famous Middletown. On Sunday mornings, in that glorious community, his talents were devoted to the Church choir. It is reputed that he seriously considered thoughts of missionary work when, as a result of his solo renditions, three maidens were converted to the faith. His present build belies the fact that he was star guard on Dunkirk’s High School basketball team for two years. His summers were spent in the glass factories so common to the natural gas region of Indiana. He still tells of his twelve hour night shifts.
September of 1931 saw Norb barracked in old Freshman Hall. He soon acquired ease in his evening clothes because of his frequent appearances with the Glee club. He recalls with joy the many trips made with that organization, especially the numerous Greyhound treks of the summer of 1933. This year, he looks foi*ward as a ranking officei* of the club to the promising trips in store. The effect of his rising popularity among the students was shown last spring with his election to the vicepresidency of the Senior class by a larger majority than any of the other class officers. This ovei*whelming election was due to the fact that he was known and respected by practically every member of the class.
A “yellow sheet man” of the Commerce School’s accountants, Norb looks forward to a position with a
GLEE CLUB PREPARES FOR FIRST CONCERT
On the evening of March 17 the Notre Dame Glee Club will give its first formal appearance of the year in South Bend. The concert, according to Prof. .Joseph J. Casasanta, director of tft'e' -group, will be held in St. Joseph’s Parish hall under the auspices of the Holy Name Society of that parish.
The club has been practicing daily since September to attain the singing perfection demanded by its conductor. The repertoire will consist, for the most part, of new numbers, although several of the more popular selections from previous concerts have been included in this year’s program by public demand.
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 3)
“I’ll carry their honor into the ring with me that night. I’ll be fighting only for them.”
“I hate St. Mary’s girls,” screamed Talker Sheedy as we caught him practicing verbs and adverbs before his mirror in Sorin.
“That Walsh smoothie does his road work across the lake. He’ll be meat for me when I get him in the ring.”
We watched in admiration as he talked -a fast two rounds for us.
“Ain’t that nice of the gals?”, he said, tossing us a letter with a three cent stamp.
From the contents we learned that the Bendix ladies were. embroidering the Palais Kid a violet pair of ring booties for the big occasion.
“I’ll think of them every time I kick McGrath,” promised the garrulous one.
We had to remind him that no kicking would be allowed.
“Say!” he shouted. “This is a private grudge affair. I’m going to use everything I’ve got, and if I want to kick that half-stride hill billy all the way back to Sedalia, it’s my business see?”
We saw that it’s going to be a bloody spectacle. The promoters tonight received an order from the South Bend chief of police advising against “out and out murder.” But three doctors and a waiting ambulance will be in attendance to prevent any unnecessary loss of blood.
May the better man win.
Chicago insurance company, with hopes of later becoming the sole insurance agent of Dunkirk. The shadowy chambers of Corby “sub” will turn forth this potential C.P.A. with a cum laude degree on June 3.
The Scholastic
i
SCHNELZLE SPEAKS TO WRANGLERS ON DOCTORS
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
TRUANT OFFICER KEEFE WATCHES CLUB’S DEFICIT
The problem of “Socialization of Medicine” was discussed at Wrangler's meeting last Tuesday evening. Robert Schmelzle, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, presented the case against such a measure.
Schmelzle based his dissenting contentions on the following issues. He claimed that the propagandized
I
»
Robert Schmelzle He debates too.
“need” for the Socialization of Medicine was built upon four major fallacies, namely: all medical cases need exhaustive treatment; socialization would meet all calls; modern skill solves all problems; and, production of personal services is the same as production of goods.
The mechanization of the medical profession would not only be a menace to the patient but to the doctor as well. That such a measure would be detrimental to the public in general was proved by the failure of the system as tested in Germany, Belgium, and England.
John Logan, chairman of the committee on membership, reported that many applications had been received and that if there be any student that desired special consideration his application would be accepted up until Sunday.


Patricians Hear Mr. Rauch
The Patricians were privileged last Wednesday to hear Prof. Rufus W. Rauch analyze Humanism as seen in Tragedy. Two great periods of tragedy, the Periclean and the Renaissance, were connected, said Prof. Rauch, by the bond of Humanism, which unmistakably forms the basis of true tragedy. With his complete and sympathetic understanding of the subject, Prof. Rauch illustrated his lecture through inspiring quotations from Shakespeare. Marlowe, Milton, and Donne, and references to the tragedies of Aeschylus, Euripides, and Sophocles.
ANTIQUITIES
The oldest house of learning under the American flag is the Univ, of Santo Tomas at Manila . . . established by Dominicans in 1761 . . . Harvard, vintag 1763, oldest now existing in the states proper . . . Next come William and Mary, 1693, and Yale, 1702 . . . Parchment manuscripts from as far back as the 9th century wax old in U. of North Carolina’s library . . . Oldest architectural school in the country that of M. I. T. . . . And the grandfather of New World universities is San Marcos in Lima, Peru . . . founded 1551.
According to a Penn State plant pathologist.potatoes aren’t Irish after all—they came first from, Chile and Pent.
WAR? —NO!
The Literary Digest’s peace poll covered 119 American colleges and heard from about 65,000 students. The results need no interpretation:
The U. S. can stay out of war if it wants to—more than 2 to 1.
I would fight if my country were invaded^—5 to 1.
I would not fight if we invaded another country-5 to 1.
In case of war there should be universal conscription—5 to 1.
Against “an American navy and air force second to none”—2 to 1.
For munitions control—10 to 1.
To join the League of Nations— about 50-50.
SCRIBBLER’S NOTE
When editors of the Literary Workshop asked Sherwopd Anderson for advice to young authors he replied that too many college writers think of writing “as some sort of clever trick . . . It’s a way of life,” he explained. “Too many young people are more anxious to be writers than to write. We have too many smart, wise loriters now.” (Three cheers for Scrip)!
A daily average of 63 students attended morning chapel at Harvard during the past year. Evidently no dawn patrol there.
Thanks to the Boston College Heights we hear every day in the week is Sabbath somewhere. On Monday, the Greeks ceremonize; Tuesday, the Persians, Wednesday, the Assyrians; Thursday is holy for Egyptians; Friday is the Turks’ turn; Saturday, the Jews, and Sunday, the Christians.
Thanks to St. Mary’s for our very special copy of the Static.
By Paul Foley
Six guardians were appointed by the S. A. C. to look after the Metropolitan Club’s step-child, its healthy deficit, at the special meeting held in the North Room of the Library last Sunday.
The duties of chief watchman have been imposed upon William Keefe who will act as chairman of a committee composed of John Edwards, John Donovan, Joseph Bittner, Vic-
William Keefe He is a step-father.
tor Mercado, and Frank McGahren.
The committee, whose duty it will be to investigate all the many sides of the club’s huge deficit, and report their findings to the members, was the gift of the Student Activities Council, in the latest effort to clear up the financial muddle of the New York organization.
It is understood that the committee will have the power of recommending means of liquidating the debt after thorough study of the club activities, dances, membership roles, and statement of financial standing.
Last Sunday’s session was the first successful attempt to put the proposition directly before a large group of New York members. In response to pleas from the S. A. C. about 100 New Yorkers attended the conclave.
Philip Purcell, chairman of the S. A. C. campus clubs committee, was confronted with some wrangling members who were interested in prices of favors, number of couples, and other historical data, but for the most part the meeting was centered in its purpose of wiping out the debt of the club without throwing too many members into personal debt.
While it is understood that the committee has arrived at nothing definite in the shape of a liquidating plan as yet, they are expected to report their findings and recommendations at a second meeting of the club to be held at 10:30 Sunday morning in the Library.
Thomas LaLonde, chairman of the S. A. C. along with Philip Purcell expressed the hope that the affairs of the club could be straightened out by themselves without any general assessment being necessary.
Seven
February 2 2, 193 5
ST. VINCENT DE PADUANS HEAR WM. J. DONAHUE
Dome Dust
By William Toumcy
FATHER NOONEY SPEAKS AT K. OF C. MEETING
At the regular Tuesday evening meeting, Feb. 19, the Notre Dame conference had as its guest Mr. William Donahue, treasurer of the St. Vincent de Paul society of St. Patrick’s parish in South Bend, who spoke of the difficulties encountered by the society in his parish, asked for suggestions from the Notre Dame conference, and evinced surprise at the size and organization of the society here. Admirable work for the society, thought Mr. Donahue, would be that of getting cripples to Mass on Sundays, and getting them to the Sacraments.
The Notre Dame Conference of St. Vincent de Paul Society works among Negroes; the St. Vincent de Paul Conference .of St. Benedict’s College, Atchison, Kansas, works among both Negroes and Mexicans. Both conferences conduct drives for old clothes and magazines on their respective campi and the work of both has a strong religious coloring and background. These and other parallels between the work done by the conferences of the St. Vincent de Paul society at Notre Dame and St. Benedict’s College were brought out in a letter sent from the head of the St. Benedict’s conference to the Notre Dame conference’s president, Vincent McAloon, at the request of Larry “Moon” Mullins, former Notre Dame football player, now head coach at St. Benedict’s.
The St. Benedict’s conference has had a longer existence than the one here at Notre Dame, and hence is qualified by experience to offer the suggestions about charity work found in the letter.
JUNIOR PROM
(Continued from Page 2)
12:00 hall permissions. The dinner dance will be held at the Oliver hotel on the evening of March 2, Saturday.
Invitations are already available and may be secured from the following hall representatives: Tom Treacy, Alumni; Don Kelly, Howard; and William Darcy, Badin. Invitations must be secured from the resident hall of each junior student planning to attend the prom. For seniors and other students, invitations may be secured from Don Kelly, Howard Hall representative. Chairman Reardon advises that all prom goers obtain their invitations immediately.
Any upperclassman may attend the Prom who is deficient in not more than six (6) hours for the first semester of 1934-’35. Freshman physical education deficiencies in no way deprive one of the right to attend the Prom.
Eight
In the Mail—
Walsh Hall
Since I mentioned your name in my column last week, I have been deluged with requests to make a public apology to you. I didn’t realize at the time how school-girlish the whole thing was. I know now that it was the worst of me coming to the surface. Please believe me when I say that I am heartily sorry and consider this a public apology.
The Week.
South Bend
Being so demure, Dome Dust, we couldn’t take it upon ourselves to write directly to the- parties concerned. We hope that you will publish this for us. It seems that the Don Juan of our city has successfully launched a big time football center on a social career that is fast becoming the talk of the town—much . to the detriment of the launcher. We can forgive him for that, however, but we want to publicly state that we don’t think the apple of his eye is so ^hot. Of course one or two of our sisters were foolish enough to fall for his smooth line, but the rest of us are sorry for our hasty actions, and are willing to take back the numerous affections of our Don Juan, with no questions asked on either' side.
The Town Girls.
Central High School
I would consider it a personal favor on your part if you would ask the young men of Alumni Hall to please not block our main door when school is dismissed in the afternoon. I know their intentions are honorable, but please let them know that the average age of our seniors is seventeen. Thank you.
The Principal.
Laundry Dept.
We haven’t had so much fun in years since we insisted that you boys present your laundry card every time you call at Badin Hall. Many the time we hid behind the post over there and laughed until we were sick when a boy living in Freshman or Sorin forgot to bring his ticket, and, although presenting enough identification to get a passport, was told to hike all. the way back and forth between the puddles and pools of mud before we would give him his buttonless shirts and mutilated sox. Oh, how we enjoy it!
The Manager.
Dining Hall.
It is with pride that we announce (Continued on Page 20)
Rev. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., field director of the C. Y. O. movement, was the speaker at the Knights of Columbus meeting last Monday night. Father Mooney, who graduated from Notre Dame as a layman, was grand knight of the local council while a student. Before outlining the work of the C.Y.O. movement, he described the council as it was in his day. He outlined the Catholic Youth Organization in its origination, its organization, and its results to date. Fr. Mooney discussed dire results of the undermined state of youth as it is generally, and his plans for correcting that condition.
Because of numerous activities during the next two weeks, the Communion Breakfast has been postponed until early in March. A call was issued for members volunteering to work on the membership drive. The Santa Maria staff has been reorganized, and under a new plan the magazine will be published bi-weekly in a four-page form. John Coyne issued a call for ushers from the recently initiated Knights.
RADIO BROADCAST
(Continued fi-om Page 1)
Lange lectured on- the different species of snakes. The snakes of particular interest mentioned by Father Lange were the Bushmaster, called “the silent death” by the Spanish, the King Snake, and the King and Spitting Cobras. Paying somewhat more attention to the interesting Cobra, Father Lange stated' that it was noted because of its prodigious- length averaging from 12 to 15 feet, and the extreme deadliness of its venom. This venom which is neuro-toxic renders useless the nerves controlling the breathing apparatus of the victim who dies of suffocation.
The nationally - known Moreau Seminary choir was featured in the third of a series of programs from the Engineering building on Tuesday evening, Feb. 19. James Boyle announced the program, which also presented Professor Richard Seidel, of the music department of Notre Dame, in two violin solos: “Romanza,” by Reis, and “Cradle Song,” by Brahms. Professor Seidel was accompanied on the piano. by Professor Willard* Groom, also of the University Music department.
The next broadcast will be that of the Washington Birthday Exercises, at 4:30. On Monday, Feb. 25, at 4:30, the Itev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., and Professor. O’Grady, of the Philosophy departinent, will deliver addresses.
! • The Scholastic

Voice of theCampus
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
No Smoking
Editor of The Scholastic:
The members of the S. A. C. feel that many Notre Dame men have been violating the traditions of the University because of lack of knowledge rather than because of deliberate intent.
One of the oldest and best known of the Notre Dame traditions has to do with smoking on the Quadrangle. The old grads retain the memory of the unwritten can on. long after they have forgotten many of the theories of economics, physics and philosophy to which they had been exposed, while at the University.
Will the student now at Notre Dame let-'this age old restriction pass out during our college years? It is up to every, generation to maintain the legends of the past, and perhaps to formulate new ones. Shane Leslie, in his first lecture here, told of many traditions, among which he cited one 400 years old which is still closely observed at Eton. We, also, have our traditions and we should do our best to maintain them.
Many of the men here now do not seem to understand clearly the outlines of the Quadrangle. After consulting a number of the older priests on the campus the S. A. C. has arrived at what it believes is an authoritative opinion on this matter. The Quad is bounded by the Main Building, Church, Sacred Heart Statue, and Washington Hall. This ..part of the campus should be regarded by the students as somewhat different from the rest of the University grounds since it made up the whole campus for many years, and today possesses an air of age and dignity not yet acquired by the more newly developed sections of the University. The memory of this boundary impressed on our minds together’ with a little thoughtfulness on our part should go far towards perpetuating this tradition, one which is at present more omitted than honored. There is plenty of room for us all to smoke on the rest of the 1200 acre campus without violating this tradition which has taken so long to establish.
THE S. A. C.
Layden in East
Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics and head football coach of the University, left for New England last Wednesday on a brief speaking tour. Stops will be made in Waterbury, Conn., on Feb. 21, followed by engagements at Hartford, Conn., and Providence, R. I.
February 22, 1935
Pitt
Well, guess that’s the last time we’ll see Pitt play. Last time we’ll see Cribbs play, too, unless we happen to drop back on the campus next winter, or the winter after, or the winter after that. The rumor that he and Doc Carlson alternate every other year in coaching and playing, is untrue. We can’t conceive of how it started.
Incidentally, if the orange-tinted words of Coach Keogan • meant anything, it was also the last time for the boy with the stop-watch. The watch stopped you know. Yes, really —the watch stopped! For fifteen minutes. And nobody knew it.
Yes, of course you know all this, but we just wanted to see what it looked like in print. The tuatch stopped for fifteen minutes and nobody knew it. My word! Looks like, if we want to beat Pitt, we’ll have to play the Army.
Let ’em Eat Their Own Cake!
The Rev. John Farley, C.S.C., is 60 years old and still blushes. Sometimes it’s because of excessive praise, and sometimes because he is enthused over something. Of recent, he has had cause to blush as Rector’ of Sorin Finishing School. However, he’ll tell you it’s the wind.
Father Farley blushed for hours last Friday night. They had placed a pink birthday cake at his place in the dining hall, and surrounded it with flowers. He said it was sissy stuff and he wouldn’t eat it that night. Instead, he went to see what happened to Charlie Chan in London. The cake was returned to the vault for next year.
•
Marshes
An example of unnecessary importation came to our attention a few days ago, when we learned that somebody had sent O’Keefe of Alumni Hall an alligator from Florida. We would like to advise O’Keefe of Alumni Hall that if he will fish around the swamplands in front of Walsh after a rain or a thaw he will prob-abliy find larger and more interesting species which he can ship to Florida, to whomever it is that is getting a sunburn which, we hope, itches like the devil.
•
Statistics
On the inaugural broadcast from the campus radio studio, one of the boys engaged in spouting facts and figures at the armchairs mentioned that one of the items for an ordinary
dinner in the Notre Dame dining halls, was 30 bushels of spinach. He didn’t say how much of it was eaten.
Another figure that puzzled us was the 400 pies item. There are 2600 students at the University. Are there 2200 students who don’t eat pie?
•
Observations.
The strange combination in Corby: Tombragel and Hill. One is an English Major; the other an Engineer. Both amuse themselves for hours on end by hurling darts made from needles and matchsticks into a paper target on the wall. Both are Seniors.
The Collegiate Digest picture of the dining hall as the last building erected on the campus.. It isn’t. There’s the sentinel’s lookout across from the taxi stand.
And as we write, there’s a nut crawling along the eaves on Badin’s roof, putting up an aerial. And here we are without a film for our camera. We could get a fine shot of him just as he passes the second story on his way down.
The situation in Sorin is much worse than we thought. We mentioned flowers last week, and already four inmates have denied that it was their window boxes we were writing about.
President
It’s just too bad about Tom Proctor. It seems nobody will believe that he’s the President of the Senior Class. Perhaps after being photographed handing over the new flag this morning folks will begin to take him seriously.
Last fall he was crossing the campus when a freshman came up to him. “How’s things?” inquired the new man brightly. “Fine,” Tom replied. “Everything taken care of?” said the freshman. “Everything,” said Tom.
The two walked on, and the freshman kept asking Proctor questions. How did he like the place? Was he homesick? What course was he taking? What hall was he in?
“Walsh,” said Tom shortly.
“Gosh,” goshed the freshman, “I didn’t know they let freshmen in there!”
This month, at a meeting of the English Majors, a professor was outlining the program when someone mentioned that Proctor wasn’t present.
“Proctor?” said the prof., “is he a senior?”
And that gives you an idea of the spot he’s in. Anybody want the job?
ne
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame. Indiana.
JOHN D. CARBINE__________________________Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING..............Managing-Editor
Associate Editors
JOSEPH A. BUCCI_______________________Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN LOUIS H. HRUBY ROY O. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY___________________________The Week
WILLIAM H. TOUMEY.___________________________Dome Dust
VINCENT A. GORMAN, Jr______________________College Parade
MITCHELL C. TAGKLEY_______:______________Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN______________________________News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN___________________Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL.-----------------Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN____________________JOSEPH RATIGAN
PAUL FOLEY__________________________IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI_________________ ....FREDERICK	SHANLEY
PHILIP F. WELSH.___________________JOHN A. GILLESPIE
ANTHONY F. O’BOYLE.___________-FRANKLYN HOCHREITER
BERTRAM SMITH_________________________LOUIS DA PRA
LINDSAY PHOEBUS___________________HARRY A. BALDWIN
Sports Staff
JOSEPH, P. PRENDERGAST...................Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER__________________Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN L FLANAGAN.__________________JAMES A. WALDRON
EUGENE VASLETT________________________JOHN CACKLEY
james mcmullen
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY.____________________Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated Collegiate ^ress
-=1954 (SttUgidfDigfSt *935 e-h*hsoh	W1SCOKSH
February 22, 1935
A MOST SIGNIFICANT TRADITION
This morning Thomas G. Proctor, acting for the senior class of 1935, presented an American flag to the University. By this presentation the class continued a most significant Notre Dame tradition. On Commencement Sunday, this flag will be blessed at Mass and will become the official University flag for the ensuing year.
The traditional ceremony points to the essence of Notre Dame education. The presentation of the flag to the University signifies the patriotism of Notre Dame men. Blessing the flag — the second and more important phase of the program — signifies the emphasis placed on the spiritual side of Notre Dame education. The procedure, taken as a whole, symbolizes one of the foremost aims of Notre Dame — to produce Catholic gentlemen who are good citizens. Indeed, as a matter of fact, the two terms cannot be really separated for a Catholic gentleman is, of necessity, a good citizen.
It is especially fitting that this ceremony should take place on the anniversary of the birth of George Washington. Much has been written of Washington. His fafhe has been puffed by historians with more sentiment than sense; his name has been slandered by historians
Ten
with more commercialism than citizenship. Despite all this slander and ostentatious glorification, Washington has come down to us as a real man. Of all the heroes of American history, Washington seems to most real and the most human. Franklin was too prosaic; Hale, too heroic; Lincoln, too homely. Grant’s life was hardly emulable; Wilson’s career ended in disappointment.
Washington, however, has a very definite appeal to seniors going out into a world of depression. The iconoclastic historians have pointed out his faults which — rather than rob him of our admiration — make him seem more human than the legendary figure of cherry tree fame. To the senior Washington typifies the great American who after a series of fortunes and misfortunes finally triumphed in his great task. That is why Washington has been, for two hundred years, the inspiration of both the man in the street and the President in the White House. That is why his life has a special significance for this year’s seniors.
THREE VERY GOOD REASONS
Sometime within the next week a determined salesman will knock upon your door and ask you to buy a ticket for the Bengal Boxing bouts. There are three good reasons why you should buy one of these tickets. The first is a purely selfish one: the purchase will guarantee you a full evening of entertainment. The second is a charitable one: the entire profits of the show will go to aid the Notre Dame men who are so valiantly struggling to establish Catholicism in India. The third reason, although somewhat intangible, is nevertheless, a good one. The success of this boxing show will do much to establish boxing as a minor sport at Notre Dame. The show’s success will logically enough, be judged by the attendance for that will be the only available mean for measuring interest in boxing at Notre Dame.
This is not a “spend your money” campaign, but, working on the theory that you would otherwise invest your quarter in malted milks or movies, we strongly urge you, for three very good reasons, to purchase a ticket for Bengal Boxing Bouts.
A STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
Members of the University’s faculty are now delivering two lectures every week over the campus radio station. These lectures are welcomed, as they should be, by both students and townspeople.
The modern student enrolled in one of the Colleges of a large university is forced to more or less specialize in one branch of learning, and, as a result, fails to secure even a working knowledge of the subjects taught in the other Colleges of his own University. These radio lectures by the faculty members of the various Colleges will do much to alleviate this condition. To be sure, they will not cause this condition to disappear for that calls for a general revamping of our educational system. The radio lectures are, however, a step in the right direction and are commendable as such.
To the townspeople these talks offer an excellent opportunity for an educational program before their own fireplace. They are certainly more worthwhile than the general run of programs at the motion picture theatres.
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
By Edward J* Van Huisseling
THE WINNER LOSES
BUTLER BULLDOGS WILL ATTEMPT
TO AVENGE EARLY SEASON DEFEAT
OUTSTANDING GUARD
TO PLAY AT INDIANAPOLIS
We’d like to say something about what happened to that stop watch Saturday night, but find further comment on Charlie’s faltering timepiece almost an impossibility. One thing should be corrected, however. Contrary to semi-popular opinion, Manager Phil Kirley had nothing to do with the tragedy. A former student manager was at the controls; and knowing him as we do, we can assure any who might be interested that any failure on his part was not intentional.
One thing struck us as extremely sportsmanlike. That was Doc Carlson’s frank admission that his Panthers had won a ball game which they really should have lost. That’s about the best way to sum up the situation. There seems to be an agreement that Notre Dame was on the long end of the score when it was discovered that the stop watch had developed paralysis. The most unfortunate aspect of the incident is that the Panthers, outscored by the Irish, were permitted to play four minutes — after the erring watch had been exposed. Had the game been concluded at the right time the score would have shown a Notre Dame victory by four or five points. That this was not the case was unfortunate for the team and Coach Keogan. Wisconsin lost a Big Ten title in a similar way and Notre Dame has lost a golden opportunity to shatter a spell that Pittsburgh’s athletic teams have cast over the Irish for the past three years.
ONE TO GO
Nick’s “average” track team continues to buzz along the winning route. To date the Irish spikemen have collected three wins and no losses in dual competition. One two-way affair remains on the schedule before Nick’s combine enters the big meets. When this time comes Nick believes his team will show the world (Continued on Page 15)
George Ireland He panned the Panthers.
NOTRE DAME FENCERS WIN THREE MORE MATCHES OVER WEEKEND
The Notre Dame Fencing- team kept their victorious string intact this week by defeating Wittenburg, Ohio State, and Cincinnati.
February 14 the Irish met and conquered the team from Wittenburg College, at Springfield, by a score of 9-5. Of the nine points five were scored in the foil, three in the sabre, and the remaining point in the epee. Wittenburg scored one point each in the foil and the sabre, and the other three points in the epee. In the individual scoring both Grosso and T. deLandero won their two bouts in the foil, and Caserio contributed the last point when he won and lost in his two encounters. Captain C. deLandero won both of his bouts in the sabre, the second win coming after a long uphill battle in
(Continued on Page 15)
By Cy Stroker
The Notre Dame basketball team travels to Indianapolis tomorrow to look for the sunshine after the storm. The sunshine, it is hoped, will be the return game with the Butler University quintet which the Irish have already beaten this year, 30-29.
The storm was last Saturday’s game with Pitt in which Notre Dame outplayed as well as outpointed the visitors for the first 40 minutes of the game. The difficulty for the Irish arose from the fact that they didn’t seem to have much spirit left during the fifth quarter and were consequently nosed out by the powerful Panthers from Pittsburgh.
Close Game Indicated
Notre Dame has consistently defeated Butler during the last three years but not by decisive margins, as the 30-29 score of five weeks ago well indicates. Without a doubt the Butlerites will be out to reverse that one point difference tomorrow night and Keogan’s men will have to play their best ball to prevent it.
In their first game of the season with the Irish, the Bulldogs were in excellent form. So well did they perform, that not a single substitution was necessary throughout the game. The Butler game is built up around Demmary, the towering center, and depends upon the guards for a large part of the scoring. Jones and Braf-ford, both guards for instance, are the high scorers on the team.
Notre Dame’s work in the Pittsburgh game proved conclusively that the Irish compare favorably with the best teams in the Middle West. The Butler game is no set-up but the Irish will undoubtedly use the same combination that has worked so well all season, Ford and O’Kane forwards, Peters center, and Jordan and Ireland guards. The lineup for Butler will probably be Armstrong and Batts forwards, Demmary center, and Jones and Brafford guards.
February 22, 1935
Eleven
Coach Nicholson’s Track Team Sets Back Hawkeyes’ Threat
rm FIVE CONQUERS IN STOP-WATCH BATTLE
SHEILS WINS IN HALF MILE
By James McMullen
The previously successful Hawkeyes of Iowa failed to extend the now thrice victorious Irish trackmen, when they met in the feldhouse Saturday afternoon, the sixteenth. By winning five firsts, the relay, and a
Paul Rubly He chooses to run.
tie in the high jump, Notre Dame had little trouble in annexing the team decision, 51 to 35.
The afternoon was far from dull. A fair sized attendance was treated to a new gym record in the shot put, several close verdicts on the cinder path, and a decidedly unlooked for and unwelcomed upset in the high jump. Captain Vince Murphy experienced one of his few off afternoons, and allowed the versatile Francis Cretzmeyer to earn a six foot two tie, and with the high jump deadlock, the high scoring honors for the day. Big Don Elser’s mark of 47 feet, 11 inches, exceeded his former fieldhouse record in the shotput, by four inches, and fulfilled his follower’s expectations of a better effort.
Running events provided the most excitement of the day. Bob Bernard, and Paul Rubly, in competition with Andy Dooley of Iowa, put on a great show in the 440 yard dash, when doubtful whiskers were all that separated the three in a drive down the stretch. Bernard looked a little the better, and Dooley was given the place decision. The winner then came back to run a beautiful race as anchor man in the relay against Phillips, speedster who had been handed a disqualification in the one-fourth mile event. He defeated the Hawkeye by a full 10 yards after an even passing of the batons. Jim Sheils ran a fine race in the half mile for the Irish, to clock the distance in one minute 58.6 seconds, the best time in that event any Nickman has attained this season.
The open date in the schedule this
‘Twelve
Plans Being Made By Local Monogram Club
For Annual Show
Having initiated some 37 members into the organization, with all due pomp and ceremony, the Monogram club, under the leadership of Rocco Schiralli, is now embarking rapidly on their intended program, which includes a show, a banquet, and a dance.
A committee, made up of Mike Layden, Jack Edwards, Jim Sheils, and Wayne Millner, has been appointed for the purpose of handling the plans in connection with staging the Monogram show, to be given in Washington hall, the date, as yet, not definitely decided. George Melinko-vich has corresponded with Walter Donaldson, noted composer of California, in the hope of securing his aid in producing the musical share for the presentation, or for the arrangement of a few new songs that will be appropriate for the occasion. It is urged that all students exhibiting talent in the proficiency of writing skits, will please contribute their ‘masterpieces’ to Mike Layden, in Badin hall.
week will be followed by a dual en-couter with Illinois at Champaign, March 1. Notre Dame has never defeated the Illini on their home grounds, and so have made that meet the big objective of the indoor season.
Summary:
SHOT PUT—Won by Elser (ND) ; Mail (I) second; Michuta (ND), third. Distance. 47 feet. 11 inches. (New Notre Dame Record.)
MILE RUN—Won by Nelson (I) ; McKenna (ND), second : Pratt (I) third. Time, 4:36.5.
GO-YARD DASH—Won by Owen (I) ; Jordan (ND) second: Nelson (I) third. Time. :6.3 seconds.
POLE VAULT—Won by Edwards . (ND) : McCarthy (ND) and Oslund (I) tied for second and tihrd. Height, 12 feet, nine inches-.
440-YARD DASH—Won by Bernard (ND) : Dooley (I) second; Rubly (ND) third. Time. 0.51.7.
GO-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Cretzmeyer (I) •. Layden (ND) second; Lathum • (I) third. Time. 0:07.7.	'
2-MILE RUN—Won by Gott (ND) ; Haas
(I) second; Pratt (I) third. Time. 10:07.
S80-YARD RUN—Won by Sheils (ND) : Ducasa (ND) second; Page (I) third. Time. 1:58.6.	.
HIGH JUMP—Murphy (ND) and • Cretzmeyer (I) tied for first and second; English (ND) third. Height. 6 feet. 2 inches.
MILE RELAY —Won by’ Notre Dame. (Frawley,- Parsons. Bowdren and Bernard). Time. 3:27.
By John Cackley
Outplaying and outscoring a mighty array of Panther sharpshooters for three periods, Notre Dame was again made the victim of a powerful whirlwind attack. The latter succumbed to a 27-25 defeat, administered by another well-coached aggregation of ‘Doc’ Carlson’s notorious eagers, before an assemblage of 6,000 frenzied fans, who were privileged to witness a fast-moving contest that will carve a niche in the annals of basketball. Save for an oversight on the part of the timekeeper—his watch stopping and being forced to allow an additional 12 minutes of activities— Keogan’s men would be the possessors in the official book of a 21-17 count, and not the two-point defeat that is chalked up against the losers.
Boosting a smooth, rythmical variety of pass-work, the Irish, led by Marty Peters, Ireland, and O’Kane, rolled up a 7-2 lead before the visitors were able to function in their usual clock-like precision. With the insertion of Waino, ace marksman, Pitt fared little better, annexing but five additional points; but Notre Dame, aided by Ireland’s doubledecker just prior to thew histle, enjoyed a 12-7 advantage at the intermission. Their defense, just short of perfection, proved to be a ‘fly in the soup’ for Pitt—checking the Smoky City lads on every attempt, and permitting them to register but twice in the matter of field goals during the entrie first half.
Jordan rang the bucket for a long shot at the resumption of play, but Roderick, Cribbs, and Emrick, the latter on a ‘sleeper,’ retaliated'to narrow the gap, 17-16. Pete “Hi” Noon lanky pivoter, left the game after starting the final stanza, having failed to shake Marty Peters off his heels long enough to register so much as a charity toss.
Pitt swept to the front when Emrick garnered two baskets from the floor, and at the same time staved off a barrage of shot that would ordinarily rip the cord for scores. Substituting Cuhna and Hopkins for Ford and O’Kane in the waning moments, the Gold and Blue fell short of their quest as the pill rebounded off the rim to be snatched up by an alert Pitt five. Waino put the game* 1 on ice when, on a pass from Roderick, he looped a marker through the hoop to give the Panthers a two-point majority in the ‘extra quota of play’—the gun sounding 40 seconds later. George Ireland and Emrick came to a deadlock in settling individual honors, (Continued on Rase 15)
The Scholastic
J
INTERHALL QUINTETS
PLAY CLOSE CONTESTS
Talented Group of Boxers
Prepares For Bengal Bouts
By Jon L. Glanzner
Heavyweights
Group 1	W	L	Group 2	W	L
St. Edwards	.... 3	0	Brownson . 1	0
Morrissey .... 4	1	Alumni ...... 3	1
Badin ________ 3	1	Carroll ----- 3	1
Dillon ....... 1	2	Walsh _______ 2	2
Corby ........ 1	3	Howard ______ 2	3
Lyons ........ 1	3	Freshman ____ 1	3
Sorin ........ 1	4	Off-Campus	..0	4

Lightweights
Group 1	W	L	Group 2	W	L
Badin ........ 3	0	Carroll _____ 5	0
Lyons ........ 3	1	Brownson ____ 3	1
Dillon _______ 2	1	. Howard .... 3	2
Sorin -------- 2	2	Alumni ______ 2	2
St. Edwards .... 1	2 Off-Campus ..1	3
Morrissey ____ 1	3	Walsh ....... 1	3
Corby ........ 0	3	Freshman .... 0	4
9
Interhall basketball struck a snag Sunday when only a few of the scheduled games were played. The gymnasium was being used for the antics of the Monogram men who were torturing the newcomers into full-fledged membership.
Brownson and St. Ed’s, leaders in the heavyweight loop, were idle and maintained their topnotch positions. Morrissey moved into a threatening position by winning her fourth game in five starts. With seconds remaining, Bill Foley, who had missed six consecutive charity tosses, dropped in two to give the Gold Coasters a 12-10 win over the revamped Sorin five. Foley led the scoring with 12 markers. Jerry Shine was high for the Tigers.
Badin’s defense stopped the high-scoring Phil Arnheiter of Corby and the juniors won easily 20-7. De Gar-mo was the individual star. Corby was completely baffled, and even Josh D’Amora could score only once.
The quintet from Alumni romped over Off - Campus 25-12. McNally tipped in 12 points for scoring honors. The Carrollites registered their third victory by a fast finish to nose out Howard 13-12 in an overtime contest. Robinson sank the winning tallies for Carroll. Beddon paced Howard’s attack.
Walsh established a new low by losing to Freshman 10-2. Late in the second half Hoban dropped in a long shot to prevent a whitewashing.
Carroll ran up her streak of victories to four and is still far ahead in the lightweight division. Badin, unbeaten in three starts, ranks next. Carroll, led by the interhall scoring leader, Kilrain, overcame Howard 21-17. Kilrain tossed in four baskets and two free throws for ten points.
Walsh shoved Freshman farther' into the cellar with a 19-15 victory. Claude Tourek was the leading scorer with eight points. In a listless game Alumni won as she pleased over Off-Campus 20-6.
Tennis Schedule Lists
Outstanding Opponents ■ For Irish Netmen
By Jon L. Glanzner
“The team’s prospects are brighter than ever,” said Coach deLandero in reference to his tennis team. “We may lose, but we’ll lose fighting and we won’t be blamed,” and that in the typical deLandero manner signalizes a warning cry to opposing net teams.
The Irish team has not met with much success in past years, but with deLandero’s assurance we may be sure that Notre Dame team will climb to a high spot in collegiate tennis. With five lettermen from last year back and with unusually promising squadmen the 1935 team will probably be developed into one that opposing netsters will hate to meet.
Competition for the team will be keen, and with all this promising material no man is assured of a position on the team. Captain Frank Weldon showed great improvement in winning the fall tournament and will be outstanding this year. Joe Waldron and Joe Prendergast, the other lettermen of last year, are back ready to make the opponents feel the sting of their speed and accuracy.
Ed Buchart, runner-up in the fall tourney, is almost certain to snare a varsity position. Bill Fallon, University singles champion in 1933, will enter into his first year of varsity competition. Three Georges, Cannon, Feeley, and Specht, are outstanding threats for the team and will press the regulars for their posts.
The season will open with Bradley and Wabash, not breathers by any means, for Captain Lee Handley of Bradley has been a dominant figure in Little Nineteen teniiis circles for three years. Western State Teacher and Michigan State, perennial rivals of deLandero’s charges, will have better than average teams.
On May 24 and 25 the Irish team will take part for the first time in the state tournament at Earlham. The cream of the tennis crop of Indiana colleges and universities will furnish the competition.
The schedule:
April 24 Bradley here.
April 26 Wabash here
April 30 Indiana there
May 3 Northwestern there
May S Chicago there
May 11 Michigan State here.
May 15 Ohio State there.
May 17 Illinois there
May 22 Western State Teachers here.
May 24-25 State meet, Earlham.
WRESTLING MATCH ADDED
By Jannes A. Waldron
To the fading winter sport season at Notre Dame, the Bengal Boxing Show, held on March 22, will add a final dash of color with its thrilling championship bouts. From over 50 of the University’s finest boxers will emerge eight school champions. Competition in every division is very close and gives promise of a great fight in
Reno Zarantonello
.4 heavyweight champ on heavy bag.
each class. The show was given considerable boost this week when Max Marek, international amateur champion, announced that he would definitely participate in the show.
Providing the show with the “pause that refreshes,” the inimitable Cy Connor and his partner, Nick Tancredit, will demonstrate the finer points of wrestling. It should be a very interesting bout from the standpoint of the audience for these two men have had a good deal of experience in the “grunt and groan” sport.
On the outskirts of Chicago there is a little town called “Hegewisch.” The people of Chicago are at odds whether to claim this community as a suburb or not. But from this town emerged Battling Nelson, one of the greatest fighters who ever lived. Now this community has developed another fighter in the person of Bart McKernan, middleweight champion of Notre Dame for the past two years. Under the tutelage of the “Hegewisch Pride” Battling Nelson, Bart was taught the fine points of boxing.
(Continued on Papre 15)
February 22, 193 5
Thir teen
INTRO DUC ING
By Joe Prendergast .
FIVE GAMES REMAIN ON BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
On the 25th of February, 1933 Notre Dame and Ohio State were the opponents in a duel track meet in the local fieldhouse. The particular event was the 880 yard run. Notre Dame had King, Roberts, and Sheils as entries with Brown, Smith and Moore bearing the hopes of Ohio State. Most of the fans placed Notre Dame’s chances in copping this race either
on the slim shoulders of Eddie King or Clyde Roberts. Ohio State had Brown, a Negro runner who was flaunting an undefeated record at this event in question, to count on.
For three laps of the race the running was true to form with Brown, King and Roberts battling on even terms. Sheils of Notre Dame in fourth place trailed the leaders by seven yards as the gun marking the final lap sounded. Sheils picked up three yards on the bunched trio going around the turn preceding the back stretch. Here he caught his second wind, put on a burst of speed to overtake the leading trio and assume the lead on the final turn leading into
the last stretch. Brown made another bid to overtake the flying sophomore on the straightaway, but was not equal to the task. Sheils won the race, creating, by doing so, the biggest upset of the day. This was the first event ever won by Nick’s sophomore runner and the one prized mostly by the victor.
James Henry Sheils is the youth’s
full name. Jim is a native of New Rochelle, New York and prepared for Notre Dame at Iona Preparatory School, New’ York. He first broke into public print as an athlete during his days at Iona. Here he played four years of football, either as a fullback or right-half; four years of baseball as a second baseman; and four years of golf. Jim was president of the Monogram club, the senior class and his biggest achievement, so he states during his time at the New York "Prep” was on the evening he won the prize debate trophy as a senior.
Jim Sheils came to Notre Dame because “my brother, Bill, preceded me (Continued on Pape 15)
By Gene Vaslett
The Irish basketeers, entering the home stretch of the 1934-35 season, have before them teams that are without a doubt among the strongest quintets in the country. Before the last basket is scored and the final whistle is blown in Cincinnati, March 11, when the Irish ring down the curtain on their current season in a game with Xavier the local eagers will have engaged Butler, Marquette, Minnesota, Temple, and Xavier universities.
Butler, over whom Notre Dame eked out a one point victory early last January, is impatiently waiting for the arrival of the Irish and hope to vindicate themselves before their home supporters for the setback handed them at Notre Dame. The Butler team has improved since their appearance at the Irish field house and it is certain that an interesting game will take place at Indianapolis, Feb. 23.
Final Home Game—March 4
Marquette, another team that lost a close decision to the Irish earlier in the season, wall meet Notre Dame in Milwaukee on March 1. Only by a last minute basket by Marty Peters was the Irish able able to defeat the Hilltoppers in their first encounter • this season. Marquette with such men as Rubado, Morstadt, and Rasmussen will prove to be no easy tussle for the traveling basketeers of this school.
The final home game of the season will take place March 4, at which time the Minnesota University team will be the guests of Notre Dame. The Minneapolis team, by taking advantage of the many free throws allotted them and of Notre Dame’s failure to convert on their own free throws, defeated the Irish last Jan. 5.
The two final games of the season will take place in Philadelphia and Cincinnati where the Irish will meet Temple and Xavier on March 9 and 11, respectively. The Temple contest, to be held on the Owl’s court, will find Notre Dame pitted against one of the habitually strong teams of the East. This year Temple is as powerful as ever, and holds decisions over Pittsburgh and C. C. N. Y., two of the strongest teams in the East.
Xavier of Cincinnati will provide the action for the Notre Dame team in their final game of the season. Xavier has the reputation of putting tough teams on the court for the opening, whistle, and the locals will have a task ahead of them in subduing the Cincinnati team.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 13)
Although he fought C. Y. 0., club and parish champions, he never engaged in actual competition until he came to Notre Dame. His boxing has been polished up in his physical education training at school. Entering the Bengal Bouts, Bart has been the University champion in his middleweight division for two years. Last year he was a member of the school team that entered the Chicago Golden Gloves and reached the quarter-finals of his class. Incidentally, the hardest fight Bart ever had was in his freshman year when he defeated Frank Schiavone for the middlewegiht championship of the Bengal Bouts. When the finalists are announced for this year’s championships, look for Bart McKernan — another “Hegewisch Pride.”
From the same town that has given the boxing world such personalities as Jack Sharkey, former heavyweight champion, and Jimmy Maloney, comes ► the light heavyweight champion of Notre Dame, Harry Marr. As a youth Harry got his boxing training by fighting in boys’ clubs and tournaments. In this way, he acquired quite a reputation in and around Boston as a boxer. Harry has only taken part in one Mid Western tourney. Last year, with a team from the University, he reached the quarter-finals of the Chicago Golden Gloves light heavyweight class. As a freshman last year, he defeated Bob Conlon for the light heavy crown in one of the most thrilling bouts ever staged at Notre Dame. Harry Marr, by the way, held down left end post on the “A” squad last fall. Now that football is over, Harry has been in train-► ing for the Bengal Show—a defend-* ing champion I
Marchy Schwartz Signs as Creighton Football Coach
Marchy Schwartz, former All-American backfield star at Notre Dame and backfield coach here in 1932 and ’33, was recently signed as head football coach at Creighton University, Omaha, Nebraska. Last fall Schwartz was backfield coach at Chicago University where one of his pupils, Jay Berwanger, achieved All-American rank.
Diving Lessons
Rev. Julian P. Sigmar announces that diving practice has been resumed and will take place every Monday evening at 7:00 p.m. and every Thursday evening at 5:00 p.m. in the natatorium on West Washington street.
Anyone interested in diving is kindly invited; tickets should be acquired beforehand — five tickets may be secured for a dollar.
February 22, 1935
(Continued from Page 11)
what he means by “average.” The lack of an outstanding performer ■will greatly limit the team’s accomplishments and push the dual meet victories far into the realm of forgotten laurels.
But before the thinlies are “put in their place” there is that final dual meet of the indoor campaign to face. Illinois will - provide the opposition next week. The rivalry between Notre Dame and the Sucker State school has been a long and bitter one. The Illini have a definite advantage of something like 18 wins against six for the Irish, with all of Notre Dame’s wins being turned in on the home track. The Illini act as hosts this year so you get the picture of Notre Dame’s chances. Even Manager “Monk” Keating is anxious to get this meet out of the way.
PETERS LEADS
With five games remaining on the Keoganite schedule we made a checkup on the leading scorers of the team and the results were much along the lines we expected. Marty Peters holds a twelve point advantage over Joe O’Kane, the only man who has a chance of cutting him down. Peters has amassed a total of 115 points. Behind O’Kane are Ford and Ireland with 72 and 70 points, respectively. Neither appears to be in the running for high scorer but it will be interesting to see what the results of their
little duel will bring.	The	seven
leading scorers follow:		
B	F	p	TP
Peters 	 46	23	25	115
O’Kane 	 41	21	17	103
Ford 	 27	IS	25	72
Ireland 	 27	16	32	70
Jordan 	 14	11	14	39
Hopkins 	 17	3	12	37
Wade 	 10	3	20	23
PITT GAME (Continued from Page 12)
each capturing eight markers, while closely paced by Cribbs, All-American center, and Peters who were able to sink seven points apiece.
The lineups:
Pittsburgh (27) G F P
Jesko, f ------0	0	0
Roderick, f ___3	0	4
Waino, f ______0	2	1
Hughes, f _____1	0	1
Noon, c--------0	0	0
Loucks, g-----.1	0	1
Crihhs, g -----2	3	1
Emrick. g _____4	0	3
Totals _______11	5	12
Notre Dame (25)
Ford, f______0 0 1
O’Kane, f —3 0 0
Cunha, f_____0 0 0
Hopkins, f ....0 0 0
Peters, c____0 0 0
Jordan, g(c) 1 1 0
Ireland, g --3	2	3
Wade, g------0 1 0
Totals -------9 7 7
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 14)
here, graduating last year and anyway I always wanted come here.” He never really became enthused over track until the spring of his freshman year. He had run two races at Iona but they were along the intermural lines. In the spring of his freshman year he decided to try to win his numerals. He reported to Nick and has been with Coach Nick ever since. Needless to say he won his numerals that spring and a varsity berth on the track team the following year.
Last year in the “Kacey” games in the New York garden, Jim was a member of the crack two mile relay team which placed second to Manhattan in one of the most exciting races of the evening. Frank Weldon, this year’s tennis captain, was a schoolmate of Jim’s at Iona. Golf and tennis are this half-miler’s chief hobbies. He is one of the few half-milers who has what it takes on that gruelling last lap. He never makes a bid for the lead until that most important final lap is reached and then when he does, judging from his showing last Saturday, he cannot be denied.
Jim is an economic major and expects to take up law after his graduation. He is 22 years of age and rooms in 423 Walsh with Jim Dwyer.
FENCING
(Continued from Page 11)
which he was trailing 1-4 but he finally rallied and won 5-4. Kehoe scored the other point when he won decisively. In the epic Kehoe won and lost in his two bouts.
The following evening they journeyed to Columbus where they defeated the strong Buckeye team, 10-7. In the foil Caresio won two and lost one bout, Grosso won one and lost two, Kehoe won his lone bout, and T. deLandero returned victorious in both of his matches for a 6-3 verdict in this event. The contest in the sabre found the two teams deadlocked 2-2, Kehoe split in his two bouts, and Captain C. deLandero after taking his first bout stepped upon the strip intent upon stretching his winning streak to 13 consecutive victories, the first three being held over from last year, but perhaps by a little overconfidence he relaxed and met his first defeat of the season in his ten starts. In the epee Kehoe and Caserio each won one and lost one bout, both being fought brilliantly, making the score in that-event two to two.
Last Saturday the Irish encountered the stiffest opposition so far this year, and narrowly eked out a 9-8 victory over Cincinnati at the (Continued on Page 16)
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Jim McMullen
Football statistics show the Notre Dame system is holding up well . . , Teams coached by former Irishers last year compiled 98 wins and 33 losses, and amassed 2329 points against 825 for the opponents . . . The New York Metros, professional basketball quintet, is composed of the last five captains of City College, New York . . . BILL TILDEN and ELLSWORTH VINES have received very tempting offers to display their wares in Soviet Russia ... A former pitcher who batted crosshanded is now a slugging first baseman for the Cleveland Indians . . . the gentleman is HAL TROSKY . . . Only four American high jumpers have attained marks of six feet 8 inches or better—HAROLD OSBORN, GEORGE SPITZ, WALTER MARTY and CORNELIUS JOHNSON . . . SUNNY SUNDAY, ELMINA BREWSTER’S famous hunter, turned model recently, and was a fit subject for LEOPOLD KOZAKIEWICZ, sports sculptor . . . The giant IMPELLETIERRE, who fights CARNERA in the Garden, is a star basketball player . . . and PAUL BIRCH, Duquesne’s captain, is doing fairly well himself along that line. . . He had averaged 11 points a game for 21 games last season, and is keeping up a similar pace this year. . . .
•
There are more baseballs knocked out of the parks in fair territory than in foul. ... Last year the Cubs used up 9,036 balls ... of these, 1,908, went out of Wrigley field as fair, 1,675 as foul tips . ■: . Balls cost the Cubs anywhere from $12,000 to $15,000 a year ... JOHN SMITH, Army captain, plans a 3,000-mile sea trip in an open 18-foot motor boat — from Manila to Sydney . . . Here’s a new way to earn your way through school . . . WILLIAM MOSCONI, Eastern pocket billiards champion, is depending on his trained cue to send him through the University of Pennsylvania . . . During the past four years there has been an extensive movement to popularize billiards among college students . . . only 41 colleges now sponsor the game . . . WALTER S. VOSBURGH has missed only two days of racing in the Metropolitan district during the past 50 years — and it has been 50 years since he played a bet . . . says MR. VOSBURGH ... The Jockey club has 50,000 registered names of race horses . . . GEORGE EARNSHAW and PHIL COLLINS were the circuit ciouter’s boons last basebail season. . . . each allowed 30 home runs to be hit from their slants . . . CAZ-MER NEVULIS, of Amsterdam, New York, is an ambidextrous pitcher. . . . he’ll be hurling this year for the diamond strutters of Michigan State.
5 ixteen
N. D. FENCERS WIN
(Continued from Page 15)
latter’s home court. The foil and the sabre were both won by the Blue and Gold, the former by a score of 6-3 and the latter by a score of 3-1, but the epee proved disastrous when Cincinnati won all four of the bouts. Cesario and T. deLandero were successful in both of their foil bouts, and Grosso, while losing one bout, won his other two for the six points. Snooks, a new man making his first appearance for Notre Dame, lost both of his bouts but showed great prom-
GOLDEN RULE
p WASH o
S' I KI /- I Kt KI A T I - - A LI I A '
through its local representative
J. PATRICK RIGLEY
announces its
Advance Spring Showing
of a new line of
Domestic and Imported Fabrics
CHEU/OTS	■
TWEEDS	'
WORSTEDS
FLANNELS
GABERDINES
A Most Complete Selection of Patterns — now available in all materials and price ranges. Our designers have prepared for your approval new and authentic styles.
The same Nash fine tailoring is available in all garments at
$23.50
$28.50
$33.50
$38.50
$42.50
[We suggest that you make your selection now while our lines are complete.]
GOLDEN RULE
pMASHp ci NCIN NATI • • OH IO
Ike ircdiorGi Wk
South Bend Branch: 542 Associates Building
J. Patrick Rigley
ise and gave a fine exhibition of fencing. In the sabre both Kehoe and Captain C. deLandero won their two points in their usual fashion.
During this invasion of Ohio the four veterans of the team, Caresio, Grosso, Kehoe, and Captain C. deLandero, and the sophomore regular of the team, T. deLandero, scored all of the points for Notre Dame as follows: Caserio, Kehoe, and T. deLandero won six bouts, Grosso and Captain C. deLandero won five bouts.
At Cincinnati Myron almost won his sabre bout as did McAuliffe in his two duelling sword bouts, both of which he lost by one point.
Phone 3-2644
The Scholastic
A GOOD
PIPE TOBACCO
MUST HAVE
MILDNESS
AND
FLAVOR



UNDERGRADUATES—here’s a logic lesson that’s a “pipe”!
(No pun intended!) Your tobacco may be mild or it may be flavorful. In either case you say, “It’s good!”
But if it had mildness AND flavor both, wouldn’t you say, “It’s better!”
Yes. And that’s what you get in Edgeworth, the blandest, mellowest, tastiest blend of fine old Burley you’ve ever stoked in a pipe!
Try a 15^ tin! You’ll go for it? Not alone for its mildness AND flavor, but for its slow-burning economical quality as well. Pipe-smokers report to us that one pipeful has lasted them as long as one hour and ten minutes!
There’s a record to shoot at, fellows? Light up today! Edgeworth is made and guaranteed by Larus & Bro. Co., down in Richmond, Va., where they know good tobacco.
^G
EDGEWORTH HAS
MILDNESS FLAVOR
L U CKIE CENTER
LEAVES
QENTElt-LEAVES GIVE YOU THE MILDEST SMOKE
I am a friend indeed. A better friend than others, because I am made only of mild, fragrant, expensive center leaves. 1 don’t permit a single sharp
top leaf nor a single coarse bottom leaf to mar my good taste or my uniform mildness. I am a soothing companion, the best of friends.

Copyright 1935, Thu American Tobacco Company.

LOCHER’S ADDRESS
(Continued from Pase 5)
but for all time. The import of its words will be felt as long as human nature exists, as Washington’s valedictory address to the American people is, in many respects, a reiteration of the principles of natural justice. As graduates of Notre Dame we will be presumed to know these principles and their application. A favored few, we have been exposed to the true philosophy of life—we have been given an opportunity to realize the full implications of the three-fold relationship that obligates each one of us to God—to himself—and to his fellow men. As to those who have profited by that opportunity, Washington’s ‘Farewell Address’ is a noble work, pregnant with wisdom and meaning. If the time should ever come when equal rights are temporarily displaced, if the nation is ever subjected to law that is not law in its true sense, if our representative’s should ever be blinded to the ultimate source of authority and say with Bismarck, ‘When the country’s power is in question, I know no law5—then, gentlemen, let the principles of liberty and morality as expressed by Washington in his last address, be the criteria of our conduct.
Although the last century and a half has brought with it the development and expansion of America, it is still far removed from the pattern of Washington’s dreams. The United States and other nations of the world are yet permitting the harboring of false political, social and religious doctrines within their borders. War is still an instrument of national policy and the hope of ever attaining a-true internationalism has been almost extinguished. But it is my strong conviction that we will yet see the dawning of a brighter day. Our progress will necessarily be determined by the measure of our acceptance of the philosophy underlying the Farewell Address. Only in that way will we cross the table-lands and ascend the heights, where presides Washington, the immortal.
PRESENTATION
(Continued from Paste 5)
meet today, men from many places, drawn together for four years by our search for the ideal, thrilling in the recognition of it, bound together by its discovery. We offer this American flag today to the University as a pledge of our three-fold devotion to God, Country, and University.
Father O’Donnell, we present this flag to you, with the undying hope and fervent wish that it may remind the University of us who have gone out imbued with strong faith and principles. We pray that it may forever float above and before us as a reminder, constant and true, of Washington, the Christian ideal, of Notre Dame, the stronghold of Catholic faith, and the true ideal of Notre Dame men, in the words of Father Charles O’Donnell, “the figure of a woman, with a man child in her arms,” the Golden Dome of Our Lady.	@
DOME DUST
(Continued from Paste 8)
a record breaking week in the matter of knocking coats off the backs of chairs. Our outstanding waiter was able to average three a meal in his short’trip from the kitchen to a table in the middle of the hall. He didn’t look for setups, either. He went out of his way to cleverly brush off the most secure of coats. We have been enjoying the most successful year of the present decade and hope to do even better in the future.
The Head Waiter.
Just cant scratch.that's the charm of Old Golds says ''fyowCf
_ See Loretta Young, starred opposite Ronald Colman in "Clive of India”. .. A 20th Century Picture ® p-Twenty	The Scholast ic