The Notre Dame Scholastic
781
{■JuiiuiuKiiuiini.......
COMMENT
The morning after the night before. And we are still laughing at Marty Brill and his performance in the Absurdities. Honestly, Marty, you were a scream.
The “Gold and Blue Revue” of 1931 should go down in the annals as the best bit of entertainment the campus has seen in a long while. From the opening gun, so to speak, the show was a wow. While there was nonsense in abundant quantities, there was also a reverent tone which added greatly to the performance. Out of respect to Mr. Rockne, the revue contained numbers appropriately dedicated to him. The scene wherein the monument was displayed was most impressive. More praise to the director.
The performance of Greeney and Terlaak as the Gold Dust Twins should cause much consternation among the Al Christie comedy directors. The petite little blondes who prefaced each show with their announcements will worry plenty from now on. Greeney and Terlaak mean business. Look to your laurels, little girls!
And who could have done a better job as “Mayor” than Johnnie (Cer-mak) O’Brien? From his noisy en-’ trance until his calm conclusion, “His Honor” was hot. Johnnie tore up a lot of planks in his platform but who cares; they were good ones. Street car service to each and every hall was a wise suggestion. Hope you can do it, Mayor.
We are hoping that copies of the song, “Carry On,” will soon be available. The composers, Austin Boyle and Walt Phillips, get a hand for' their work. The song should be a big seller if it is put on the market. We promise to buy a few copies right now.	,
We haven’t space enough to say all we’d like about the show, but we want to thank Professor Frank Kelly and his associates for producing a revue which fulfilled the expectations of the most skeptical. The ballyhoo preceding the show was elaborate, but it was justified. It’s too bad we have only one such performance a year.
—W. V. B.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi CrasMoriturus
Founded 1867
z	EMIL L. TELFEL—Editor-in-Chief			z
z	Assistant Managing Editor	Managing Editor	Assistant Managing Editor		
z	Neil C. Hurley	John E. Bergan	John A. Kiener	
		Associate Editors		z
	Edward E. Brennan	James J. Kearney	Edward R. Brennan	z
z	Austin Boyle	James Carmody	Paul J. Hallinan	•
z	John Pick	William W. Corr	Lloyd Teske	z
	The Week	Make-up Editor	College Parade	z
	Richard J. O’Donnell	Walter V. Beesley	Daniel C. Williams	Z
	Music and Drama	Feature Editor	Campus Clubs	Z
z	Frank E. Seward	James K. Collins	W. Leslie Raddatz	z
=	-	Nezos Staff		=
s		William C. Karl, News Editor		z
	Edmund Stephan, Assistant Neus Editor			-
z	John Conley	AArrnoia R. Schreiner	.	Lawrence Prybylski	z
-	Myron Crawford	F. Granger Weil	Edmund Stephan	z
=	Richard Molique William Knox	Walter Johnson	Joseph Degnan La whence Dunda	w	=
z		Sports Staff		z
s		Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor		z
2	Cleve Carey	George Belting	T. Edward Carey	z
z	James E. McFeely, Jr.	James Kearns	Irving B. Halper	z
z	Edmund Moriarty		Harry Burchell	z
=		Business Staff		z
z	John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr. Andrew McGuan,		Foreign Circulation Mgr.	z
z	Frederick Bauer	Raymond J. Naber	John P. Hess	
z	J. Albert Smith	Daniel E. Brennan			2
=	James H. Rorke, Advertising Manager			z
z	JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications			
=	Merle	Baldwin, Publications Office Manager		=
=	Vol. LXVI	MAY 1, 1931	No. 25	
Frontispiece_________________________________________ The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell
Blue and Gold Revue Presented This Week—Neil C. Hurley_ New Editors Are Named—Edmund Stephan___________________ Annual Publications Banquet Held—Paxil J. Hallinan_____ Book Reviews—John Pick
Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan-----------
Campus Clubs—Leslie Raddatz__________________________
Editor’s Page________________________________________
College Parade—Daniel C. Williams-------------------- The Wink--------------------------------------------- Trackmen Make Fair Showing at Drake—Edmund Moriarty— Introducing Captain O’Keefe—James S. Kearns---------- Hillsdale, Iowa Are Beaten—James McFeely------------- Splinters From the Press Box—Henry B. Asman---------- On Down the Line—Cleve Carey-------------------------
782
783
784
785
785
792
793
794
795
796
797
798
800
804
808
812
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 2S, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve ths Patronage or All Noma Dame Men.
782
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame Dining Hall
The Notre Dame Scholastic
783
♦ THE WEEH ♦
JaMES (ROCCO) WALSH, proprietor of the Sorin hall “rec” room, has announced his intentions of writing a book on how to break into the movies. Mr. Walsh, ac-•cording to Mr. Walsh, has the leading role in the picture which was taken on the campus this past week. Though he had no previous ■ experience in dramatic work, the finesse and technique which he exhibited while the cameras were grinding led onlookers to believe him an old trouper. James is very modest about his success, and attributes it mostly to the experience he gained through four years’ attendance at the Monogram Absurdities. “They have provided,” said James, “an excellent opportunity for me to master the intricate details of the art of acting. Four years of consistent attendance at their performances has provided me with a complete knowledge of the things an actor should not do.” Mr. Walsh considers himself, therefore, capable of writing a book on how not to be an actor, as well as one on how to break into the movies. By combining the two, he would undoubtedly produce a masterful text book for the flicker stars of the future.
T HAT silly look on the faces of the immature off-campus men may be explained by the recent general advancement of clock hands throughout South Bend and its environs. Boys from the farm or from small towns in which the position of the sun is the accepted means of determining1 the time of day just can’t get accustomed to these strange ways of the city. Daylight saving time may be one of the admirable ideas of modem America, but it is bewildering when it is accepted in one place, and rejected in another. Weeks pass before the Day Dogs get over the first shock of leaving their homes on time for an eight o’clock class and arriving at the campus when the breakfast parade is under way to the dining hall. Of course, such a discrepancy between Notre Dame and South Bend has some points favorable to the student. The old explanation of a late signing in can always be used at least once. As matters stand, the natural mistake would be an early return to one’s-room, since when it is midnight in town, it is only eleven on the campus. But students have a pronounced antipathy toward making a mistake so serious as this.
Since Johnny O’Brien, present mayor of Notre Dame, ■will be forced to relinquish his local duties after the first week in June, we should like to nominate as his successor, Mr. John Perone. Mr. Perone is probably not known to the majority of the men on the campus. He is the shy, demure type, filled with potential abilities which his own modesty prevents being brought before the public. What John needs is a publicity agent. Someone should bring before the boys of Corby hall the fact that unrecognized genius exists among them. He will be glad, in all probability, to tear himself away from his books, long enough to get acquainted with his fellow students. It is rumored that aside from his many academic capabilities, Mr. Perone is talented in matters of entertainment. Freddy
Rahaim credits him with being a gifted songster, musician, versifier, dancer, monologuist, sleight-of-hand artist, and juggler. He can, according to Mr. Rahaim, do everything but speak Esperanto. We suggest that the Blue Circle investigate this gentleman. Such gifts should not be left unnoticed in the darkness of Corby subway.
IMIqST writers are notoriously bad speakers. And most silver-tongued orators get mental paralysis when they attempt to express themselves through the written word. It was therefore an agreeable surprise to the guests at the publications’ banquet on Wednesday night to find that the talks which followed the dinner were of an excellence equal to that of the food which was served. Mr. Rauch, chairman of the Board of Publications, was the briefly witty toastmaster. The occasion demanded that there be a large number of talks, but there were few uninteresting moments during the whole program. Eulogies were as sincere as the laughter was infectious. Though competition for honors was keen, the prize undoubtedly goes to “Pat” Manion, who outdid himself and further endeared himself to the men who have always thought so highly of him. Mr. Manion has no near rival on the campus in this capacity. He has an individuality of wit, an attractively graceful presence, and a ready command of language which enable him to rise to any public occasion. Especially at a gathering limited to Notre Dame men is he effectively engaging. He has a love of and an admiration for Notre Dame, and the men of his Alma Mater that is apparent in all his references to them. The publications men were fortunate to have him as their guest. His interest in their work and his sympathy for their endeavors should prove a real stimulus to them.
If political campaigns have ever been waged .more enthusiastically on this campus than the ones that are under way now, this innocent bystander cannot remember them. The vote-getters are doing everything but painting signs on the Dome in announcing the admirable qualities of their candidates. If the gentlemen who will eventually win out would, only pursue this diligence in fulfilling the duties of their offices, there might be more honors and importance connected with their positions than there is at present. The fly in the ointment apparently is the tradition whereby so much enthusiasm is wasted on winning an election that there is none left to carry on through the following- year. Students who direct activities of this sort, who spend their time and their energy in managing and guiding an election, should consider this work as merely preliminary to the essential part of student government. A man who is successful in the former should be eminently more capable in the latter. Too many class officers and S.A.C. members have been content to rest on the honors connected with their positions, and forget their responsibility that rests with them. Their abilities are rather unquestioned, since the winners of political contests which are so keen as those being held at present must necessarily be among the most competent men in the University.
784
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“COLD AND BLUE REVUE" PRESENTED BY THE MONOCRAM CLUB THIS WEEK
Annual Varsity Show Receives Plaudits of The Student Body and Visitors
BY NEIL C. HURLEY
Comedy skits, minstrels, and parodies, intermingled with dramatic tributes to Knute Rockne and other bygone football heroes, which alternately swayed the audience from silent solemnity to fits of ear-splitting laughter, featured the annual “Blue and Gold Revue” of the Notre Dame Monogram club, given in Washington hall during the past week.
The most successful of the humorists was Johnny Perone, who as radio announcer for the Japalappa waffle hour, presented an uproariously funny one-man show, which later became a team act when Freddie Ra-haim came on to do some sprightly tap dancing. Not very far behind Perone’s antics as a laugh-provoker was the name of the Scholastic’s editor-in-chief, which was i-ather disrespectfully bandied about during the show.
A well-done theatrical tribute to the late Knute Rockne was excellently portrayed by Frank Carideo and Master Charles Andres. The glee club, standing behind a curtain, hummed beautifully the “Victory March,” while the two principals in the scene knelt before an illuminated white monument containing the names of Notre Dame’s dead football heroes.
Johnny O’Brien, as a candidate for mayor of Notre Dame to supplant the “tyrannical” rule of the S. A. C., , brought into the revue the most original skit of the entire show. His rapid-fire platforms for election were consistently funny, and his method of presentation was very clever.
Terlaak and Greeney as the Monogram Twins scored a laugh with their burlesque opening of the revue in a perfect take-off of Al Christie’s movie
Press Club Holds Meeting
The Press club met Tuesday night in the Journalism room of the library to discuss plans for the last quarter. The matter of the banquet has been placed in the hands of a committee
twins. The burly athletes, daintily dressed, informed the audience concerning the direction, script, and settings.
The music was excellently handled . and ably arranged by Joseph Casa-santa. Indeed, I thought the overtures and song specialties were the outstanding hits of the revue. The theme song, “Fathers Be Pals to Your Boys,” was very clever, while the new school song, “Carry On For Rockne,” was well accepted. “Romance by Moonlight” and “Just You, Only You,” the theme songs of the Senior Ball and Lawyers’ Ball respectively, were also featured in musical specialties.
The Backfield Quartet, with Carideo, Brill, Howard, and Lukats, were enthusiastically received and did two encores. Instead of wearing dresses as in other year, the quartet wore silk football uniforms. The facial expressions of the danseus, especially the grimaces of Brill, were even funnier than the dance itself.
The second part of the revue was rather dull and in no way comparable to the first part. Doubtful humor and poor horseplay decidedly detracted from a fairly good musical program.
Taken in its entirety, I thought the Blue and Gold Revue was a fairly diverting presentation. At times it ‘ reached the heights, and at others it was rather poor. The revue was under the direction of Professor Frank Kelly, while the musical scores were arranged by Professor Joseph Casa-santa. The songs were written by Austin Boyle and Walter- Phillip, and the skits arranged by the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., and Austin Boyle.
headed by John Sheehan. A round table discussion of present journalistic trends was held. Robert Balfe, president,-and Walter V. Beesley, secretary, led the discussion.
PHARMACY STUDENTS HEAR THREE SPEAKERS
Three delegates of the Indiana Pharmaceutical association were heard at a special meeting of the students in the department of pharmacy, held Thursday, April 23. They were Mr. E. E. Goodnight of Lafayette, Indiana, Mr. J. A. J. Funk of Galveston, Indiana, secretary of the Indiana Board of Pharmacy, and Mr. F. V. McCullough of New Albany, Indiana, managing editor of the Indiana Pharmacist. Professor R. L. Greene of the pharmacy department introduced Mr. Goodnight to the students, and he in turn introduced Mr. Funk and Mr. McCullough, who emphasized the need of association work after graduation. -
Following the meeting a luncheon was tendered to the delegates by Professor Greene in the lay faculty dining hall. Professor T. R. Leigh, head of the University of Florida, Profsesor H. B. Froning, head of the department of chemistry at Notre Dame, and Professor Lawrence Bal-dinger were also present.
2,500 Students Registered
2500 students have registered for admission to the University next year. Of this number, 600 are prospective freshmen. From all indications, the class quotas will be filled by June.
' All students who have registered must present their slips to their respective deans in order to arrange their class schedule for next year. Those who fail to do this may not succeed in securing a place in the class quotas. The last day for preregistration for classes is May 15.
K. of C. Helps Poor
According to the Reverend Edward Finnegan, C.S.C., pastor of Sacred Heart church, the recent drive sponsored by the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus brought in a large supply of very much needed old clothes. Father Finnegan states that he is most grateful to the students for their cooperation in this matter. The clothes have already fulfilled several wants of the poor of the parish. There is still need of further donations, however, which may be left at the door of the presbytery of Sacred Heart church, at any time.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
78-5
NEW EDITORS ARE NAMED
Hurley, Kiener, Gorman, Raddatz, McCabe, Appointed For Next Year
Business Staff Men Are Also Announced By Board of Publications.
By Edmund Stephan
Neil C. Hurley, Robert E. Gorman, Leslie Raddatz, and Joseph A. McCabe were named editors of the University’s four publications for next year at the annual publications’ banquet held Wednesday night in the lay faculty dining hall. The announcement of the appointments decided upon by the Board of Publications was made by Professor Rufus W. Rauch, chairman of the board. Othei- appointments to the lesser positions on the various staffs were also’made known.
Hurley “Scholastic” Editor
Neil C. Hurley, who succeeds Emil L. Telfel as editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and lives in River Forest, HI. He has been on the staff of the Scholastic for three years. For the past year he has served as news editor and assistant managing editor, and has written editorials, special news stories, and feature articles, besides demonstrating his ability in an administrative capacity. He is also a member- of the Wranglers, University honorary forensic society, the Press club, and the Chicago club.
John A. Kiener, of Cleveland, Ohio, a junior in the College of Commerce, was appointed to the position of man
aging editor. Kiener has served as sports editor of the Scholastic for two years and has been exceedingly active as a member- of the editorial staff. Like Hurley, he is also an assistant managing editor at the present time.
Gorman, Raddatz Appointed
The responsibility of editing next year’s Juggler falls to Robert E. Gorman, of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, an Arts and Letters junior. Gorman is an associate editor of this year’s publication, and, according to the present editor, Jack Dempsey, has been one of the big reasons why the Funny Fellow’s magazine has received such acclaim during the current school year. Paul Hallinan, retiring head of the Dome, will become managing editor for the Juggler in 1932. Directing the art work next year will be Joseph Lopker, another junior, who will take the place of William O’Brien as art editor. Lopker’s drawings and paintings have met with nation-wide favor during the past year and his appointment to the art editorship was a popular one.
Leslie Raddatz, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, will direct the production of the 1932 Dome, taking the place of the 1931 editor, Paul J. Hallinan. Raddatz is well known as the capable campus clubs editor of. both the Scholastic and the present yearbook. In the latter capacity he has been of great help to (Continued on Page 790)
ANNUAL PUBLICATIONS’ BANQUET HELD IN LAY FACULTY DINING HALL
PROF. MANION IS SPEAKER
Speakers, Old and New Editors, Discuss Conditions Frankly
Under “Cloak of Secrecy”.
By Paul J. Hallinan
In Washington each year, the Gridiron club (national organization of the press) meets and dines, lampoons existing institutions and listens to important executives speak. With hundreds of reporters there as guests, speakers would be careful in their expression, had not traditions ruled that “no reporters are present.” Presidents, senators and judges talk frankly and to the point. This is one time when the outside world hears them not.
At Notre Dame’s annual publications’ banquet, editors, ad-men, artists, writers, gag-men and circulation managers gather in like manner. Wednesday evening in the lay faculty dining room, more than a hundred—from the staffs of the Scholastic, Juggler, Dome, and Scrip—listened to important announcements from Prof. Rufus W. Rauch, chairman of the Board of Publications, and toastmaster; heard new editors installed in office, and outgoing editors strike new notes in farewell addresses; listened to the Reverend James McDonald, (Continued on Page 790)
Neil C. Hurley
John A. Kiener
Robert E. Gorman
Leslie Raddatz
Joseph A. McCabe
786
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Campus Opinions
Question: Do you think Notre Dame needs a daily newspaper?”
John J. Raleigh, Walsh hall, senior—“It seems to me as if a weekly-publication is adequate for the needs of Notre Dame. It doesn’t take long for news to circulate among three thousand students and the publication of this news after it has become common property on the campus would be something in the nature of carrying coals to Newcastle.”
George Aug, Lyons hall, sophomore —“How ridiculous! A daily newspaper for Notre Dame, when there is scarcely enough news to fill a weekly. A daily paper would hardly find a few readers, for at present there are enough activities at Notre Dame to take up everyone’s time without adding to these activities. One paper a week is enough to satisfy anyone’s hunger for campus news.”
Joe Welsh, Carroll hall, freshman —“I think Notre Dame should have a campus daily newspaper. The majority of larger universities have a daily. The only weekly publication on the campus now is the Scholastic. With a daily, students could be informed of occurrences such as nominations and elections which are now subjects of discussion.”
John J. Collins, Badin hall, junior —“I do not think there is any need for a daily paper at Notre Dame. There would not be sufficient news to warant such a publication and hence it would be uninteresting. Then, there is the problem of financing such a paper. This would "be very difficult —more than likely a losing proposition.”
Bernard E. Thompson, Badin hall, senior—“No, because a pre-requisite for a successful daily college publication is an abundance of local news. Such is, not characteristic of the Notre Dame campus, when false rumors are eliminated. Further, the attitude of the students is not favorable enough in support of present campus journalistic endeavors. What is a newspaper, lacking in content and readers?”
GRAND RAPIDS CLUB ELECTS NEW OFFICERS
At the election of officers for next year, the Grand Rapids club chose Paul Fanagan as president, John Areheardt as vice-president, Martin Donnolly, secretary, and Joseph Kelly7, treasurer. The elections were held at a banquet at the Rose Marie tea room on Wednesday.
All the activities of the club, both social and financial, were successful for the year. Because of the success $ of the Christmas dance the club officers returned to the members of the club the contributions to the treasury7 made at the beginning of the year.
Plans for the postponed Easter dance were discussed, and the dance will be held the week after Commencement at some country club near the city.
Fr. O’Hara to Move Office
Sorin hall chapel, the scene of late Communions for forty-two years, must give way before the onward march of progress. The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion, will move his office next fall to Dillon hall. The location of the new hall along the road leading to the cafeteria makes this change advisable.
Although the chapel for late Communions and the office of the prefect of religion will not be located in Sorin hall, the old tradition will be carried on. The new hall is the recipient of a time-hallowed tradition and it is to be hoped that Dillon hall will perpetuate the tradition begun in Sorin.
Express Office Notice
The following students have packages at the express office: Joseph Egan, St. Edward’s hall; Frank Radke, Brownson hall; Edwin Cunningham, Freshman hall; Burton Skinners, St. Edward’s hall; John Van Dike, Walsh hall; John Dorsey, Carroll hall; Frederick Sullivan, Lyons hall; and Edward Japp, Lyons hall.
Express office hours are from 12:30 p. m. to 1:10 p. m.
Glee Club Invited
The University Glee club has been invited to observe National Music Week on Wednesday, May 6, at Mishawaka High school.
COMING EVENTS
Dates subject to change without notice.
FRIDAY, May 1—Last day for handing in prize essays and graduation theses.—Golf match, Loyola at Loyola. — Scholastic staff meetings, editorial bo^rd, 6:30 p. m., Publications office; news and sports staffs, 7:00 p. m., Room 222, Main building.
SATURDAY, May 2—Golf match, Iowa vs. Notre Dame, at Iowa City. —Track, Ohio relays at Columbus. —Movie, “Abraham Lincoln,” 6:40 and 8:15 p. m., Washington hall.
SUNDAY, May 3 —Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart church.
MONDAY, May 4—Italian club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 2, Main building.—French club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 3, Main building.
TUESDAY, May 5 — Spanish club meeting, 7:00 p. m., Science hall.— Press club meeting, 7:00 p. m., journalism room of the library.
WEDNESDAY, May 6—Election of class officers and S. A. C. representatives, 8:30 a. m. to 4:00 p. m. —Baseball, Purdue vs. Notre Dame, 3:30 p. m., Cartier field.—Scribblers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard hall “rec”.—W ranglers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law building.—Cleveland club meeting, 7:45 p. m., lay faculty dining hall.
THURSDAY, May 7—Baseball, Hosei of Japan vs. Notre Dame, 3:30 p. m., Cartier field.—Spectators’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard hall “rec.” —New Jersey club meeting, 7:45 p. m., old Law building.
FRIDAY, May 8—Baseball, Hosei of Japan vs. Notre Dame, 3:30 p. m., Cartier field.—Senior Ball, Isham Jones’ orchestra, 10:00 p. m., Palais Royale.
Fr. Clancy Given Watch.
As a token of appreciation for his careful rectorship, the Reverend Raymond J. Clancy, C.S.C., was presented with a wrist watch by the off-campus students, who appointed Clarence Kozak as a committee of one to make the presentation. About 765 students collaborated in the gift.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	787
CLASS NOMINATIONS CONDUCTED
BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES COUNCIL
Numerous Candidates Show Intense Rivalry In Keen Battle For Offices
In accordance with the usual custom, the nomination and the election of senior and junior class officers and S.A.C. representatives was held this week at the University.
The nomination of senior class officers was held on Tuesday, April 28, in the gymnasium. Eugene Connelly, Vincent Whelan, and George Cullinan were named as candidates for the presidency. For the office of vice-president, Joseph Willis, Frank Reilly, and Florence McCarthy were chosen. Thomas Burns, C. Budd Dyniewicz, and William Newbold were nominees for the secretary’s office. The nominations were closed with the selection of Joseph Foley, Oliver Powers, and Joseph Judge as candidates for treasurer. As the result of a ballot Cullinan, Willis, Dyniewicz, and Judge were eliminated by a very close vote.
The sophomores nominated their candidates for junior class officers on Thursday, April 30, in the gymnasium. David Powers, John Finneran, John Poynton, Maurice Lee, Patrick Crowley, and Frederick Fayette were chosen as candidates for the presidency. For the .vice-presidency, Joseph Kurth, Nicholas Lukats, John O’Shaughnessy, John Baldwin, Robert Terlaak, and Leonard Bice were nominated. Edward Moriarty, Theodore Nolan, Edward Ackerman, Maurice Scanlon, Frank Hurley, and John Ryan were nominees for secretary. For the treasurership, Frederick Mac-Beth, Charles Fiss, Laurence Vejar, James McFeely, Charles Jaskwhich; and Douglas Georgio were selected. William Walsh, Ray Branchau, William Bodo, Louis Murphy, George Rohrs, and Leslie Raddatz were chosen for two years S.A.C. representative. -For the other position of two year S.A.C. representative, Peter Conley, Anthony Brick, Edmund Stephan, Owen O’Neill, Russell O’Shea, and James Gerend, were se-• lected. The candidates for the S.A.C. representative for one year were Chauncey Brantfort, James Galligan, Thomas McLaughlin, Ralph Moller, Frank McGee, and Robert Cooke.
The winners in the vote that was taken were: John Finneran and John Poynton for president; Nicholas Lukats and John Baldwin for vice-president; Edward Moriarty and John Ryan for secretary; Frederick Mac-Beth and James McFeely for treasurer; Raymond Branchau and Louis Murphy for one two-year S.A.G representative; Edmund Stephan and James Gerend for the other two year S.A.C. representative; and James Galligan and Robert Cooke for one year S.A.C. representative.
Nominations of the S.A.C. representatives from the four colleges were held on Wednesday, April 29, in the Main building. Robert Law, James Collins, and James Carmody were nominated as candidates from the College of Arts and Letters. As the result of the ballot that was then taken Carmody was eliminated by a very close margin. Members of the College of Commerce nominated John Higgins, Benjamin Mikes, and Walter Mullins. In the vote, that followed Mikes was eliminated. In the College of Science, Myron Crawford, Charles Quigley, and John Jackson were chosen as candidates. In the balloting then taken Jackson was counted out by a single vote. The engineers provided a lively meeting with the selection of John Perone, Vance Uhl-meyer, Eugene Calhoun, and James Chadwick as candidates. The winners of this ballot were Uhlmeyer and Calhoun.
The nomination and the election of the off-campus S.A.C. representative was held on Monday, April 27, in the library. Jerry Hodges, Clayton Duerr, and John Kramer were nominated. A primary vote was taken and Duerr was eliminated by a single vote. In the final ballot Kramer was elected by a large majority.
The election of the S.A.C. representative of the College of Law was held on Thursday, April 30, in the Law building. John Voss and Henry Pratt were nominated, and in the election that followed Voss was the winner. He is a junior in the College of Law and lives in Elkhorn, Wis.
NEW TUITION SCHEDULE
Charge Is $250, But Will Cover All School Fees.
Beginning next year, tuition will be raised at Notre Dame. The new amount is set at S250, which is fifty dollars more than that which has been the customary charge for a number of years.
The aggregate cost, however, has not been materially changed. Included in the tuition will be the library and entertainment fee, the athletic fee, the Scholastic, and the Dome, and all other incidental fees which may arise in the meantime. Previously all of these had been extra. Included also in this will be free medical attention and free use of the golf course.
Tuition is payable as before—half at the beginning of each semester. All other items may be paid as in previous years.
No changes have .been made in the prices of the residence halls. Dillon and Alumni halls, the new buildings now being erected, will hold 273 and 209 students respectively and will house freshmen and juniors. Most of the rooms are singles and will cost between four dollars and a half and six dollars a week.
ONE REEL SPORT SHORT FEATURES N. D. COACHES
The Universal Pictures corporation invaded the campus Tuesday morning with the necessary equipment for taking a reel of sport “shorts.” The movie will feature “Hunk” Anderson, Jack Chevigny and the team. The subject of the film is a group of Notre Dame plays, showing how they work and how effective they are. Some of the most effective plays of other colleges will also be shown. The picture will include “shots” of the campus, with students in the background, and views of the buildings, to give a collegiate atmosphere. The film will be one reel in length, and is one of a series of sport films which are planned for this Spring.
Paintings Exhibited
A collection of water colors and pencil drawings, the work of Donald Kreis, ’29, and Roy Worden, ’27, done while in Europe, is on exhibition in the architectural library.
788
The Notre Dame Scholastic
WISCONSIN COMMITTEE HAS DISCIPLINE PLAN
Would Eliminate Expulsion of First Offenders.
(Intercollegiate News Service)
The preliminary report of the Wisconsin student discipline committee outlines a plan whereby the duty of counseling would be distinctly separated from the office of the deans, and would be placed in the hands of a central staff of advisers.
The advisers will have the power to hear all cases of first offenses, and in cases that go to the disciplinary deans, the adviser will not be obliged to appear before the Student Conduct committee or disciplinary deans to give information. This will protect the advisers from being forced into giving information against their will.
“We believe,” the report declares, “most university students will respond better to counseling by their advisers, backed with the threat of discipline, than to the discipline of a committee, backed with the threat of counseling. On a man’s first offense, we want counseling to be the ordinary recourse and discipline the alternative,” instead of vice versa. “The counseling should be done by the person who knows the student best—his adviser.
“We question whether expulsion is satisfactory except when the student is an unregenerate offender or when the university can suggest some alternative more beneficial than college education. Young people of college age usually are still plastic.
“Therefore, if kept on in the university under the wing of ah adviser, they may be properly molded; if thrown out into the haphazard interplay of life, the first offender may be as easily ruined as saved. The most desirable course would seem to be to retain first offenders—under helpful scrutiny of their advisers.”
The staff of advisers is suggested to be made up of half older faculty members and half younger graduate students.
Geology Class Makes Trip
The geology class made a field trip last Friday to study the various geological strata in this section of the country. Professor Knowles Smith accompanied the students, pointing out to them the formations of Interest.
SOUTH SHORE TRAINS RUNNING ON NEW TIME; SCHEDULE CHANGED
Trains and motor coaches of the Chicago, South Shore and South Bend railroad have been operating on daylight saving time — one hour faster than Central standard time— since Sunday, April 26, it was announced by Charles H. Jones, general manager. Most of the communities served by the railroad’s trains and motor coaches will change to the faster time on that date, he said.
At the same time new time tables, showing several changes, will become effective. South Shore Line trains will continue to leave Randolph Street, I.C. Suburban station in Chicago every hour, on the hour, for Michigan City and South Bend, and every half hour, on the hour and half hour, for Hammond, East Chicago, and Gary.
The Chicago departure time of three late trains will be changed, however. The after theatre limited, formerly leaving Randolph Street at 11:15 p. m., will leave at 11:30 p. m.; the midnight train, formerly leaving at 12 o’clock, will leave at 12:30 a. m.; and the limited train, formerly leaving at 2:15 a. m., will leave at 2:30 a. m.
Dining cars and parlor cars will continue to be carried on trains out of Chicago at 8 a. m., 12 noon and 5:15 p. m., and on trains out of South Bend at 7:04 a. m., 12 noon and 5 p. m., except on Sundays, when only parlor car service will be furnished. Parlor cars also will be attached to trains leaving Chicago and South Bend at 10 a. m., and 3 p. m.
South Shore Line trains out of Chicago at 7 and 11 a. m., and 1 and 5:15 p. m., will connect at Michigan City station with South Shore Line motor coaches for St. Joseph-Benton Harbor, Michigan.
Lawyers’ Ball Success
The Lawyers’ Ball which was held last Friday evening at the Palais ballroom, was a complete success according to the reports of many of those in attendance. Some four hundred couples, the largest crowd ever recorded for a Lawyers’ ball, attended the function.
The choice of the orchestra and the tasteful decorations of the ballroom were very favorably commended by the guests.
SPANISH CLUB BANQUET
Members End Year’s Activities With Informal Dinner.
The members of the Spanish club enjoyed a banquet last Tuesday evening in the lay faculty dining hall as a fitting close to the year’s activities of the club. Some sixty students of Spanish as well as many guests were present.
An Hispanic atmosphere pervaded the gathering. The meal, consisting of favorite Spanish dishes, was served in Spanish style. In order to make the setting complete, Spanish musical selections were played during the dinner. Most of the after-dinner speakers used the language of the club. Among those who spoke were the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C. S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters; the Reverend Francis Maher, C.S.C., chaplain of the club; Mr. H. C. Staunton of the philosophy department; and Mr. Jose Corona, Mr. Pedro de Landero, Mr. Gilbert Coty, and Mr. Philip Riley, all members of the Spanish department. Officers and several members of the club were also called upon to speak. The toastmaster for the occasion was Mr. James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce.
During the course of the evening Mr. Jose Corona of the Spanish department sang two Spanish songs.
The meeting was closed with a short talk by Mr. Jose Martinez, director of the club. At the end of his address he read a poem composed by himself especially for the occasion.
Beaux Arts Awards
In a recent competition for juniors in the department of architecture conducted by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design of New York City, eight out of a total of twelve submitted designs of a marionette theatre, the subject of the competition, were given recognition. The work of P. Flanagan received a first mention and was given a place among the best designs turned in. Other students whose work was noted are: W. Cerri, J. W. Jauch, F. Kelly, P. Trolio and E. Wieczorek, all of whom received full mentions, and L. Blom-maert and J. H. Hinkel, who were given half mentions.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
789
K. OF C. HOLDS INITIATION
Rev. John Reynolds, C.S.C., Gives Welcoming Address.
Eighteen candidates for membership in the Knights of Columbus received the first degree initiation of the order, exemplified Monday night in the Walsh hall chambers of Notre Dame council 1477, by the first degree team of Mishawaka.
The candidates were: Patrick Crowley, Cyril Collins, Howard Flannery, Frank Madden, and John P. White, all of Notre Dame; and Michael Evan, Louis Iniugro, Edward Oberibe, Theodore Bunaiuto, Walter Hertel, Chris Dresch, Frank Laidlaw, Francis Mc-Gaun, Charles Ludwig, Edward Gorm, John Woodford, Jacob Deloni, and Clarence Sorenson, all of Mishawaka.
Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., chaplain of the Notre Dame council, gave the welcoming address to the new first degree members. Father Reynolds vrarned them that in the United States there were six million men out of work, and that whether these men were to be influenced or not by Communism or Christianity might depend on what little influence they, as organized Knights, could exert in the way of traditional American and Christian principles. ’ Critics have asserted that about sixty wealthy men control the country, President Hoover being merely a puppet. The way to overcome this situation, Father Reynolds asserted, might be to tax heavily the tremendous wealth of these men, as proposed by Senator David I. Walsh of Massachusetts, and more recently by Senator James Couzens of Michigan.
Following the speech of the chaplain, Grand Knight Emil Ribordy, of the Laporte council, Laporte, Ind., and Grand Knight Aly Goeller, of the Mishawaka council, made short addresses to the candidates and assembled Knights, introducing the officers and members of their councils who were present.
Announcements were made concerning the second and third degree initiations of the order, which are to be exemplified in the chambers of the Elkhart council, Elkhart, Ind.
Edward J. Roach won the attendance prize given by the Notre Dame council.
A. I. E. E. MEMBERS ELECT OFFICERS FOR NEW YEAR
The last regular meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held on Monday night in the Chemistry hall. At this final meeting of the school year, the officers for the next term were elected, and Doctor E. J. Mahin gave an interesting talk on a subject of interest to the chib.
The newly elected officers are Hugh Ball, chairman; G. J. Andres, vice-chairman; F. Consolati, treasurer; and L. Rohlof, secretary.
A senior paper was read by Charles Podlaski, on the topic: “A New Type of Loudspeaker.” Dr. Mahin, the speaker of the evening, talked on “Relation of Electrical Engineering to Chemical Engineering.” His talk was well received by the club.
PROF. RAUCH SPEAKS AT MUNDELEIN COLLEGE
Rufus W. Rauch, professor of English and chairman of the Board of Publications, spoke to the students of Mundelein college in Chicago recently. The Chesterbelloc—“that mysterious giant of the contemporary world of thought and literature”—was the subject of Mr. Rauch’s lecture. Into the Victorian atmosphere of materialism and dilettantism, the Victorian compromise, according to Mr. Rauch, the Chesterbelloc “boomed like a thunderbolt.”
Reading many of the poems of these two authors, Mr. Rauch pointed out that it is greatly to their credit that they remained free from puritanical dogmatism in opposing the philosophy of the decadents. The satire of Belloc was contrasted with the humorous and broad irony of Chesterton.
Pharmacy Dept. Inspected
Professor T. R. Leigh, head of the department of chemistry and dean of the School of Pharmacy at the University of Florida, inspected the department of pharmacy at Notre Dame on April 22-23 as the official representative of the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy, of which Notre Dame is a member. While in Indiana, Professor Leigh also inspected the pharmacy schools at Purdue and Valparaiso universities and at Indianapolis.
DEBATING TEAM WINS AND LOSES LAST WEEK
Negative Squad Defeats Illinois Here; Affirmative Loses.
Both victory and defeat were recorded for Notre Dame teams last Friday evening in a dual debate with the University of Illinois. While the negative team was winning decisively in Washington hall, the members of the affirmative lost an exceptionally close decision at Urbana. The resolution again concerned the adoption of compulsory unemployment insurance by the various states.
William Darrow, Timothy Benitz and Michael O’Brien represented Notre Dame at home, successfully refuting the assertions of G. McDevitt, J. N. Rodeheaver and G. A. Fruit of Illinois. Mr. William Coyne of the department of speech, served as chairman. Professor D. E. Bowen, director of debating at Indiana university, as critic-judge, awarded the debate to the Notre Dame team.
The negative based their opposition to the proposed plan of unemployment insurance on the lack of actual evidence, the inability of economists to foresee the amount and nature of unemployment, and finally, on the total lack of success with the plan on the part of some nineteen foreign nations. The debate was heated and interesting, but there could be no doubt as to the superiority of the negative.
At Urbana the affirmative team did not fare so well. Charles Hanna, Leonard Horan and William Kirby were defeated by a small margin. Allan Baldwin, J. S. Robinson, and F. C. Gale, representing Illinois were responsible for Notre Dame’s fourth loss of the season. Professor Allan Monroe, head of the division of public speaking at Purdue university, judged the debate. At Illinois, as elsewhere, most courteous treatment was afforded the debaters.
The two debates last Friday were the final contests of the present season. During the past three months Notre Dame teams have won ten debates and lost but four. The record for this year does not equal that of 1930, yet it is one of which Father Boland and his debating squads may be justly proud.
790
The Notre Dame Scholastic
NEW EDITORS ARE NAMED
(Continued from Page 785)
Mr. Hallinan. Assisting Eaddatz will be Arthur N. Becvar in the role of art editor. Both are Cleveland products and active members in their local club.
McCabe to Edit “Scrip”
Louis A. Brennan hands over the direction of Scrip, the youngest of the campus publications, to Joseph A. McCabe, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, and a member of the board of editors of the present publication. McCabe lives in North Attleboro, Mass., and is a member of the varsity football team. Francis J. O’Malley, president-elect of the newly formed classical association, was appointed assistant editor to McCabe. John Cooper and Francis X. Nulty were chosen to be associate editors for the coming year.
Appointments to the business staffs of both the Scholastic and the Juggler were also made known at the banquet. Frederick A. Bauer, of Memphis, Tenn., a junior in the Commerce college, was named advertising manager of the Scholastic; and Eugene M. Fleckenstein, of Oil City, Pa., a sophomore in commerce, will head the advertising staff of the Juggler. Robert Fitzsimmons was named assistant advertising manager of the weekly. The new circulation manager is Andrew F. McGuan, of Baraboo, Wis., a junior in the College of Commerce. He will be aided by Eaymond J. Naber, assistant circulation manager, and John P. Hess. The Dome circulation managership will be taken care of by Alfred J. Artz, of Marquette, Mich., a sophomore in the Arts and Letters college. As yet the advertising managei- of the yearbook has not been chosen. The leading candidates for the position are Matthew Erickson and Jackson T. Gan-dour.
Pre-Registration in Law
Pre-registration in the University Law school will continue from May 1-5 inclusive, and May 11-14 inclusive. One hundred and thirty-five students have already preregistered, but those who have not as yet had an opportunity may do so at the office of the dean, from 11 to 12 a. m. on any of the above dates.	„
HONORED
John E. Dempsey, Notre Dame’s Funny Fellow and popular editor of the “Juggler," breaks into the June edition of “College Humor" via the page entitled “Interesting Collegians." He is pictured alongside of Mary Silver, Alabama’s most gifted girl.
PUBLICATIONS’ BANQUET
(Continued from Page 785)
C.S.C., tell of the work and attitude of the Board, and John F. Stoeckley, graduate manager, speak lightly and cleverly of his contacts with the men; and in a final burst of oratory, listened to Professor Clarence (Pat) Manion, whose sparkling address was eloquent and uproarious.
It was Mr. Manion, incidentally, who suggested that a “cloak of secrecy” similar" to that of the Gridiron club, be thrown over the words of the speakers. He recited verse of enobling grandeur; he joked with the graduate manager (who in his turn had laughed at and with nearly everyone present). And he struck a responsive chord in the minds of the publications’ men when he told of his own mailing list, through which he was proud to herald their excellence to his friends beyond the campus.
Mr. Eauch, with carefully chosen metaphor, characterized each of the publications in opening the speakers’ program. The “mantle” of the Scholastic went from Emil L. Telfel to Neil C. Hurley; the “bouncing ball” of the Juggler was passed from the hand of John E. Dempsey to that of Robert Gorman; the “Golden Dome" was transferred from the shoulders of Paul J. Hallinan to those of Les
lie Raddatz; and Scrip the “lusty baby of Notre Dame' publications” was taken from the arms of Louis A. Brennan arid given to the tender care of Joseph A. McCabe.
Liberalizing Tendency
Mr. Telfel and Mr. Hallinan, after thanking their staffs, expressed hope in the “liberalizing tendency in the publications’ field” which seemed to them, near at hand. Mr. Dempsey spoke of the Juggler improvements and the winning of the Art award, recently at Madison, Wisconsin.
Mr. Brennan in his interesting remarks spoke of the ease with which Scrip is published with a staff of two. One of them, he said, left in February with half of the poems for the next issue, and the other went out for football.
The incoming editors in a few words, expressed appreciation and a desire to continue in the steps of their immediate predecessors.
Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., former chairman of the Board, and Louis Heitger, director of publicity for the University, were introduced by the toastmaster.
Witty Stoeckley
John F. Stoeckley, graduate manager, waxed witty and sarcastic in an address, the text of which was some five pages in typewritten form.
Ray Moran of Peerless Press, and Mr. Carl Hibberd of the Hibberd Printing company, were also guests at the banquet.
The best characterization of the program, perhaps, was Mr. Manion’s remark, that he had never “basked in the sunlight of such beautifully dripping sarcasm.”
Ex-Student Made Bishop
The Right Reverend Urban J. Vehr, rector of Saint Mary’s seminary, Cincinnati, who has been appointed Bishop of Denver, Colorado, attended summer school at Notre Dame a few years ago.
NOTICE!
There will be an important meeting of the news and sports staffs this evening at 7:00 in Room 222 of the Main building. The regular 6:30 editorial staff meeting will be held in the Publications office. All members are required to attend.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
791
A Man. About the Campus
MUSIC STUDENTS GIVE TWO-PIANO RECITAL
Dick O’Donnell should be one of Notre Dame’s nominations for the title of busiest college man. Right at this time, anyhow, he could make a strong bid for the honor. Dick, you see, is publicity chairman of the Senior Ball, and is over in his room in Sorin now scheming out posters, banners, slogans, pennants, and placards to catch the eye of the tardy senior who has not yet made up his mind to go to the Ball. Or perhaps he is downtown bringing stories in to the newspapers or furnishing them glosses to reproduce photographs of some of the beautiful Ball guests.
This is but one phase of the activities crowding his young life. Richard J. O’Donnell, as the Scholastic masthead informs you, is responsible in every issue of this publication for the Week, that springhtly column of colorful comment which leads off informally every Friday afternoon in the Scholastic’s presentation to the campus of what the school and those connected with it have been doing for the past seven days.
The Week, you may not know, is a man-sized job for any one to handle in his spare time. If you don’t believe it, try tapping out twelve hundred words a week on your little tin typewriter, striving to make your observations timely and at the same time beat the deadline bugaboo. The combination of three or four ideas in your head, three or four sheets of copy paper in your typewriter, and three or four minutes before going to press is a hard one to beat, but Dick O’Donnell has turned the trick successfully so far this year.
Of course, it isn’t always as hard as that. Sometimes paragraphs are written several days in advance. This is the ideal system advocated by the editor. But then editors can seldom, if ever, be pleased. Dick O’Donnell’s current Week and this article are both being written on Thursday morning. Dick always manages a facile flow of seemingly effortless prose which belies the worry it causes him. If it be true that hard writing makes easy reading, then his task must seem arduous indeed to one who enjoys his entertaining speculations and opinions on life at Notre Dame every week.
Dick sticks to his columnizing, however, because he believes that it is good training for him. He is majoring in English, and can now afford to laugh at any of the five hundred
Richard J. O’Donnell
word assignments handed out in that course. The professors may laugh at them, too, after Dick hands them in, for he writes with a quiet humor whose effectiveness followers of the Week appreciate. He is able to voice his opinions well in a more serious vein also, and some of the editorials which have appeared in the Scholastic were his. With a half dozen other dependable men, Dick was instrumental in getting out the hurried issue of the Scholastic which appeared on the tragic Tuesday afternoon before Easter vacation when Knute Rockne died.
But he is much more than a “big publications man.” Dick is now president of the Pittsburgh club, and arranged for the special train to the Pitt game last fall among his other duties in that organization. He is also a member of the Spectators and Scribblers. His remarks during the heated debates of those bodies are as cooly appropriate as those which in written form stirred a nearby campus a few months ago on the subject of bait dance.
Dick pounds out his copy from his
A program of two-piano music, under the direction of Mr. Willard L. Groom, A.A.G.O., instructor in piano and organ, was presented in Washington hall this afternoon by students of the Music school. Compositions by Bach, Beethoven, Hill, Grainger and Gurlitt were played.
The recital, while given primarily for the class in musical knowledge and appreciation, was nevertheless well attended by others interested in classical music. Those taking part were J. Danehy, J. Sharpe, G. Wenz, M. Alvaniz, W. Newberry, R. Schneider and W. Karl.
Lost and Found Notice
Articles bearing the names of the following men have been turned in to the lost and found office, and the owners may obtain their property by appearing at the office:
Walter Barlow, W. A. Hunt, M. Estiada, Gilbert Augustine, Arthur Weile, Fred Sullivan, Jerry Greer, Lawrence Doorley, Jules De La Vergne, R. J. Stone, Robert Joyce, E. L. Moriarty, Ed. F. Chudzinski, George Selfridge, C. B. Gordan, Merrill J. Van Dyke, Charles Busser, and Richard Dericks.
retreat in 101 Sorin, a room he shares with Tim Benitz, chairman of the S.A.C. Last year he was enscounsed on the fourth floor of Morrissey in a double room with Billy Magarrall, the boxing journalist. It may be due to Tim’s influence that Dick is a member of the dreaded vigilance committee. His activity on that body is rather mild, and he frowns on all suggestions to throw freshmen into the lake.
Not that Dick frowns very often. He is even agreeable when visitors drop in while he is confronted by blank sheets of paper which must shortly be converted into Ball publicity or a Week. Number 101 is one of Sorin’s mammoth tower rooms, and while he is batting out four more paragraphs visitors may stroll about for five minutes without even running into Tuohy or Pendergast, who are usually in there trying to get up a bridge game. In any event, they are always welcome there. And they always come away with the impression that Dick O’Donnell is a regular fellow—and a smart one.
792
The Notre Dame Scholastic
I
Book Reviews
GLEE CLUB SINGS AT ST. JOE ALUMNI DINNER
The Wanderer of Liverpool. By John Masefield. Macmillan. $2.00.
John Masefield’s first book since his ascendancy to the poet laureateship of England settles none of the old questions about the merits of his poetry and succeeds in arousing a few more doubts. Back in 1911, or so, when Masefield was first arousing critical attention, the questions concerned his poetic style, his powers of self-criticism, his appreciation of feeling for beauty, and what were called his fine and simple beliefs and outlook upon the world. The old questions have never been satisfactorily answered and certainly they remain unanswered in passages of poetry in The Wanderer of Liverpool.
The Wanderer of Liverpool is the story, half in prose and half in poetry, of one of the last of the sea-faring sailing vessels, launched in 1891. This combination makes it inevitable that Mr. Masefield’s prose should be compared with his poetry and gives rise to new doubts about the latter.
The deep sincerity of Mr. Masefield’s motive in writing the story of the Wanderer is undoubted. This alone makes the book memorable and a volume which lovers of the sea will cherish. The Wanderer was all that Masefield claims for it in the way of a beautiful and romance laden ship, and there is a fine tale to be told of its adventures under sail, of the superstitions and legends that cluster about it, of its inglorious and yet glorious end at sea. But it remains still to be told.
The Catholic Church and Art. By - Ralph Adams Cram. Macmil-millan, $1.00.	.
What, as a matter of fact, we confronted today, is a new estimate of aesthetic values, a corpus of new dogmas on the nature and function of art. It is useless to expect a change of heart on the part of any of the existing “schools of fine arts”- that would result even in a recognition of the existence of religion or. a willingness to meet its needs and satisfy its demands.
It is indeed a reflection on the nature and quality of our civilization
that it does not provide for adequate instruction in the history and philosophy of art. It is badly needed and must be applied if the Catholic church is to recover hei' old position as instigator, the patron, and the guardian of good art. The author* of The Catholic Church and Art points to two schools which are assuming the lost leadership of the Church, The Academic de Saint-Luc in Belgium, and the University of Notre Dame in America.
The Virgin and the Gipsy. By D. H. Lawrence. Knopf. $2.50.
Not long before his death on March 3, 1930, D. H. Lawrence wrote: “I haven’t any important unprinted . works, and I don’t think that any exist.” Whether The Virgin and the Gipsy, which was found among his effects and which is now published posthumously, refutes that statement depends entirely upon one’s individual point of view.
At first glance The Virgin and the Gipsy seems to be but a repetition of those factors which have gone to make up the Lawrence novels of the past. But again, into The Virgin and the Gipsy may be read a new note. Does one discover here a Lawrence practicing restraint and a detachment unknown in his former books? Was Lawrence on the brink of a new phase of his career when he died ?
The Virgin and the Gipsy concerns primarily Yvette, veritably a virgin, fresh, lovely, awakening to vague desires, doubtful and questioning of the prejudices which hem her in a household ruled by her grandmother. The . gipsy, lithe, dark and handsome, enters the story and into Yvette’s consciousness, but more as a symbol than as a person, a symbol of the unfettered and more beautiful life that Lawrence has always—one does not hesitate to say the word—“preached”.
But in describing the gipsy’s longing for Yvette and Yvette’s awakening to her womanhood, Lawrence exhibits a reticence and detachment .rare in his other books. Withal, the book is as rich in comprehension and feeling as any of his former novels. And it is the same fragrant, lucid, and vigorous prose that distinguishes most of his work.
The University Glee club presented a concert at a banquet of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni association held last week. The program presented included such favorites from the club’s repertoire as “Regina Coeli,”“In Old Nassau,’’“Mosquitoes,” “There’s a Hole in the Bottom of the Sea,” “When Irish Backs Go Marching By,” all part songs; followed by songs of the campus, “Hike, Notre Dame!”, “Down The Line,” and the famous “Victory March.” Jerome Roach presented several baritone solos. The concert was given before an assembly of over three hundred persons.
According to J. Edward Phelan, manager of the Glee club, the . club members are practicing daily in preparation for the program to be presented at commencement time. The commencement program is an annual feature.
Journalists Hear Trohan.
Walter Trohan, ’26, special writer for the Chicago Tribune, delivered lectures to the students in the school of journalism on Tuesday, April 22.
Mr. Trohan related some of his interesting experiences as a reporter and writer. He made it clear io the students, by reason of actual experience, that the profession of journalism can not be taught, on a large scale, in the classroom. The real place to learn journalism is with a newspaper. The theoretical principles learned in the classroom have their value, however, according to Mr. Trohan.
Konop Attends Convention
Dean Thomas F. Konop of the College of Law, will represent the University at the annual meeting of the American Law institute which is to be held at Washington, D. C., on May, 7, 8, and 9. The purpose of the institute, of which the University Law school is a member, is to re, state the law. Tentative restatements of several courses will be discussed and revised at the convention.
In Criminal Law II propositions for these improvements of criminal justice will be considered by the Institute: “The right to comment on the fact that the defendant did not testify,” and “Killing or wounding to effect an arrest.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
793
DIVER DESCENDS INTO LAKE TO REPAIR PUMP
Francis Moore of Michigan City, a diver, descended to the bottom of St. Joseph’s lake last Friday to make repairs on the suction pump. He was clad, in the regulation diving suit, including shoes with rubber tops and lead soles weighing thirty pounds each, a lead belt supported by a harness about his shoulders and weighing seventy pounds, and a helmet weighing sixteen pounds.
The strainer of the suction pump was originally only three feet from the surface of the lake. Since this interfered with the working of the pump, an extension had to be added in 1925 which lowered the strainer to the lake bottom. The bottom has been filling up and the pump was sucking mud. The diver was sent to remove the extension and raise the strainer to its original level.
Library Gets Medallion
A bronze medal, exhibiting the bust of Abraham Lincoln, struck to commemorate the life of the Great Emancipator, has been sent to the University library by the Medallic Art company of New York.
The medal is pure bronze, about two and one-half inches in diameter. On its face the medal is stamped with the dates of the birth and death of Lincoln, and on the back with some of the cardinal principles for which Lincoln stood.
3,000 Use Golf Course
According to figures from the management of the Notre Dame golf course some three thousand persons have played since the opening day, March 31. This total includes clergy, people with season passes, match players, and single ticket holders. The biggest day was Sunday, April 19th, when two hundred and forty played the course.
The thirteenth hole, which was changed because of the new halls, will soon be in good condition. The green is in perfect shape and the fairway will be finished in a short time.
The water evaporated every day at the University power plant amounts to between seven hundred thousand and one million two hundred thousand pounds.
Glances at the Magazines
Reverend J. R. N. Maxwell, S.J., in last week’s issue of America, commenting on the past decade of American letters, states that, whereas we have often been told that Sinclair Lewis and Theodore Dreiser are supreme realists, they are in fact idealists, who desire to present a dark picture of life, and to do so omit all the pleasant phases and exaggerate the darker elements. Theirs is a distorted idealism for their* method is not so much illusion, as delusion.
There are, however, true realists, who present a universal and honest view of life and living, who interpret American life vividly and sincerely. Such are Willa Cather and Edith O’Shaughnessy (author of Other Ways and Other Flesh.), writers who do not stress unduly the shabby side of life, w’ho know that “life is not entirely evil, as Dreiser and others would have us believe; life is not at all futile; human nature is not a laughing stock.”
In this week’s issue of America there appears a short story, entitled “Six Fried Eggs,” by Mr. Norbert Engels of the Notre Dame English department.
An editorial in a recent issue of The Commonweal recounts the misadventure of Theodore Dreiser in Hollywood. Dreiser, you know, sold the movie rights of An American Tragedy for §150,000, but when he saw the horribly mutilated and distorted condition of his opus when the scenario writers had done their “adaptation,” he threatened to stop public showing of the film, even if it were necessary to fight the case in court.
That is an admirable sentiment, notes The Commonweal, but “authors who sell to Hollywood must realize, by now, the hazards to which they subject their work; and an author who sells for §150,000 must know that he is selling not so much his work as his name.” And while professing no great enthusiasm for the work of Mr. Dreiser, the editorial finds much shrewd sense and humor in Dreiser’s stab at the movie moguls: “If an earthquake or any other catastrophe happened, much less an economic depression, they would still be employ
ing their magnificent brains out there on the right length of a kiss.”
Professor William Lyon Phelps in Scribner’s (May issue) writes a brief note upon the alarming condition of the American theatre. He blames the public to a certain degree, because “the average theatregoer will not choose a play because its subject or presentation has an especial appeal to his own particular taste. He wants to follow the crowd.” Thus many a good play, too intelligent for some, is taken out of a theatre where high rents and high costs of production make a full house necessary to keep a play going.
In a review of the successful plays of this season Professor Phelps includes criticism of “The Barretts of Wimpole Street,” “Philip Goes Forth,” “Grand Hotel,” “Once in a Lifetime,” “Elizabeth The Queen,” “Mrs. Moonlight,” and “Tomorrow and Tomorrow.” He picks Rudolph Besier’s “The Barretts of Wimpole Street” as the best of these. In “Tomorrow and Tomorrow” he thinks that Philip Barry “has succeeded for the first time in combining a serious and thoughtful play with box-office appeal.”
Columbia announces that its June issue will contain an article by Professor Charles Phillips concerning “Ladies, Literature and Prize-Fights,” also another college story by Harry Sylvester* of last year’s graduating class.
Mazo de la Roche’s new novel of the Whiteoaks of Jalna, Finch’s Fortune, is running serially in the Atlantic Monthly. The second installment is published this month. In the same magazine Robert Whitcomb writes a vivid and powerful narrative, entitled ‘.‘The New Pilgrim’s Progress,” describing his ten-month pilgrimage in this country in search of work. He purports to describe the human element of unemployment, and not simply economic facts and figures.
Willa Cather is the author of “Poor Marty,” a poem, in the -Atlantic Monthly. The poem is “a lament for Martha, the old kitchenmaid, by her fellow-servant, the stableman.”
794
The Notre Dame Scholastic
(AHIU CLUE J
ROUNDUP
An annual event hereabouts is the spring “Roundup” sponsored each year by the TEXAS club. This year’s affair is to be held in the basement of Walsh hall on, according to present plans, Friday, May 13. In charge of refreshments and entertainments in Texas Man James Simmons.
On account of the distance of Texas from Notre Dame and the size of the state, it is impossible for the TEXAS club to have the Christmas dance which is the year’s big event for most campus clubs. To take the place of the dance some ingenious Texan thought of the “Roundup.” For twenty-five cents any student on the campus may go to Walsh hall, there to receive all the doughnuts and refreshments that he wishes in an atmosphere reminiscent of the old West.
MOST ACTIVE '
Credit for being the most active club on the campus this year goes to the CHICAGO club. Last August members attended a summer formal at the Knickerbocker hotel under the direction of General Chairman Jerry Desmond. The Army dance held during the Thanksgiving recess was successful. Chairman was Walter Kelley. Art Kassel and Herbie Mintz and their orchestras played. Johnny Hamp and Tweet Hogan were engaged by Chairman Stanley Nowotarski to play at the club’s Christmas dance on the evening of December 30. An Easter dance, sponsored by the CHICAGO club, was postponed until June 8 on account of the death of the club’s honorary president, Knute Rockne.
An innovation made by the club this year was the awarding of a medal to the four members who received the highest average in their classes during the year. Medals this year went to Frank Linton, Ralph Furstoss, Thomas Duffy, and Donald O’Toole.
Well known about the campus are the CHICAGO club’s golf, handball, and baseball tournaments.
Officers of the club this year were: Benedict McShane, president; Edward Ryan, vice-president; Francis Holland, treasurer; Walter Kelley, secretary. To them goes much of the credit.
—o—
SEVEN WAYS
At the meeting of the METROPOLITAN club last Monday, the Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., faculty ad-vicor to the club, told members that hereafter three class representatives will be chosen to supervise the work of the officers in order to still persistent rumors of corruption in the club. Cynics thought that the new move will merely result in the dividing of graft among seven instead of four.
VISITING SPEAKERS
Last Monday evening FRENCH club members were addressed, in French of course, by the Reverend Charles Doremus, C.S.C. He spoke of the handicaps under which professors of modem languages at the University work. Lack of training in fundamentals, the difficulty of assigning language students to certain classes, are all difficulties that retard professors, said Father Doremus. The FRENCH club’s director, the Reverend Conrad Hoffmann, in a brief talk urged members to read more French literature, to become more familiar with French culture.
—o—
FESTIVITIES
Next Monday, May 4, the VILLAGERS’ club will have its last and most important meeting of the year, at the Oldenburg Inn. Reservations may be made with any of the club’s officers before next Monday.
Members will meet at the Knights of Columbus Home on West Jefferson Blvd. There a fleet of cars with a police escort will take members to the Inn. Cars will leave at 6:20. At the Inn final plans will be made for the VILLAGERS’ dinner dance; nominations for next year’s officers will be made. After the meeting a free miniature golf tournament will be held on the “Florida” links. A handsome prize is promised the winner.
SI, SI, SENOR
The spirit that made tango, Alphonso, “In a Little Spanish Town,” castanets and black lace things to be reckoned with last week made the annual banquet of the SPANISH club an unprecedented success. Spanish speakers, Spanish music, Spanish food served in Spanish style, all cooperated. Spanish speakers were the Reverend Francis Maher, C.S.C., chaplain of the club; Professor Pedro de Landero, Professor Jose Corona, Professor Phillip Riley, Professor Jose Martinez, who wrote a poem for the occasion. The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean James E. McCarthy, and Professor H. C. Staunton spoke in English. All praised the club and its purpose.
The meal was a Spanish gem that only the University dining halls could turn out. Pimentos, tart sauces, chicken especially prepared, these did much to further the illusion. French fried potatoes alone were a jarring note.
NEW ONES
Elected as officers of the CONNECTICUT VALLEY club for the coming year were: Frank Mumame, president; Gerald Andres, vice-president; Austin Sullivan, secretary; Roger McGovern, treasurer.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
795
I EEITCR’/ PACE
IT MAY BE THE DEPRESSION
“Without benefit of complimentary tickets.” Thus must Student Activities council officers, editors of campus publications, the chairman of the Blue Circle, and the sophomore class president attend the class dances. Long a tradition at Notre Dame, the courtesy of the honorary ticket is ruled oiit by the dance committee. It is no longer an honor to represent officially the student body. The committee argues that some of the men cut from the guest list get salaries. They imply that these men can well afford to buy a ticket. But the point at issue is not the mercenary one of the purchase of a ticket; it is the matter of certain courtesies and honors due to certain students because of their positions, and because they have almost as much to do with the success of class dances as the men running them.	'
The action of the committee is not one which’ affects only a group of a dozen or so men. It has, on the contrary, a more far-reaching and vital consequence. Various student organizations on the campus should receive some distinctive recognition, which they in all justice deserve. The drastic move of the committee removes one of the few marks of prestige from these groups and, in a sense, belittles them, since their leaders are to be disregarded.
Undoubtedly the dance committee means well in its action. The privilege of being on the complimentary list has been sought by many during the past year who do not deserve the distinction. The ban was intended to counteract the all too many requests for “comps.” But the measures taken have been entirely too severe.
The Student Activities council did object, it seems, but the lack of power of that group was never more emphasized than in their gesture. Their protest meant virtually nothing. The chairman is denied a time-honored courtesy; the organization’s protest is futile.
Student committees, rejoicing in the reduction of the complimentary list, forget the courtesy of the press. They forget that the Scholastic devotes columns of copy to the Cotillion, Prom, and Ball; that the Dome ordinarily gives four pages to each class dance, with photographs of the chairman, president, and
their guests; that the Juggler sometimes gives a few pages to the dances.
But the Scholastic hesitates before condemning the dance committee. It may be the depression.
THE NEW EDITORS
To the newly-chosen editors of the University publications for the next school-year, the Scholastic extends its heartiest congratulations. Their achievements and excellent standard of work during the past year are now adequately acknowledged.
They have reached the top in their chosen extra-curricular activity. The Board of Publications has selected them to edit and manage the Juggler, Dome, Scrip, and the Scholastic for the year 1931-32. These student editors will encounter hardships, disappointments, and long hours of tedious work when they assume their new duties. They will also know the satisfaction of accomplishment at the end of the year which the present editors are about to experience.
The Scholastic feels assured that the most capable men available have been chosen. The work they have already done more than justifies their selection, and may be taken as an indication of another highly successful year of publications activity at Notre Dame.' The new editors and their staffs, we are sure, will fulfill all the bright promise they have shown. Again we say, “Congratulations—and good luck.”
IT'S BEEN NOTED
There are observers who insist that a SCHOLASTIC editorial writer can only “gripe”. Rosecolored glasses are not for him. With one eye set on the foibles of the student organizations and such pet peeves, the other eye cannot be expected to appreciate anything constructive.
Nevertheless, the Scholastic is decidedly appreciative of the recent campus landscaping. Badin’s lake has been dried up; the area bounded by Corby, Sorin, Walsh, Badin, and the library has been levelled and grass is forthcoming.
It does not take an aesthetic soul to feel that this is an artistic improvement. The Badin lagoon was a good joke, but that was about all.
The Scholastic would like to go on record as praising the development.
796
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE PALACE
BEST PROF, BEST MARKS
For those who went on the rocks during the mid-semester exams, Walter Dill Scott, president of Northwestern, has a message of condolence. He said recently: “I investigated the grades of our best instructors and of our poorest. By best, I mean those who were chosen to receive the largest increases in salaries this year, and by the poorest, I mean those who, upon recommendation of the heads of the departments, were not re-employed. This group of poorest instructors gave seven times as many low grades last semester as the group of best instructors. The function of the professor is to develop intellectual interest rather than to provide difficult hurdles, and to reward successes rather than to furnish failures.”
If President Scott’s statement is completely true, then an entirely new light is thrown upon the so-called “pipe course.” Perhaps the professor who makes his class interesting and awakes the student’s interest in the course will be able, in all justice, to give out good grades at the end of the semester simply because his students have become thoroughly acquainted with the subject. At any rate, it is a consoling way to regard your “pipe course” professor, and an equally consoling thought when you are flunked by the low marking pedagogue.
SO LONG, TRADITIONS!
“Our attempt to revive traditions is quite futile,” said Wallace Hall in the Student senate of Ohio university recently. “The trend of most colleges is to abolish them.” This statement seems to be just another rebuttal of the current gripe around here that Notre Dame is old fashioned. Notre Dame has never in her history been burdened with a group of weighty and useless “traditions” which have neither rhyme nor reason to them. A minimum of worthy customs have been observed here; no foolish hazing of freshmen, no nonsensical frosh caps, no class banquets with their inevitable fights have detracted from the more important activities of college life. There are certain traditions which have stood on their feet year after year. So long as they have this inherent vigor, they should be maintained, but once they begin to wobble, they might as well fall. Artificial props under these traditions are senseless and in
effectual, are mere hollow ceremonies. The tendency in colleges to break away from these pre-McKinley practices has even attracted the attention of Heywood Broun, Scripps-Howard columnist, who said recently:
“To a certain extent I have a notion that much which passes for college tradition is due to pressure. Collegians all too frequently act like collegians because they feel that it is expected of them.
“Such pranks as bring police and first-page headlines I refuse to accept as normal exuberance upon the part of youth. It belongs to an artificial tradition sponsored by alumni old enough to know a great deal better. I refuse to believe that the average youngster is addicted by nature of hazing, cane rushes, and other monkeyshines. He is merely bound to the wheel of what has been.
“Since there activities have endured at good old Siwash for half a century, it takes a good deal of stamina to stand out and refuse conformity. But the light is at last beginning to break.”
JUST IN PASSING
College is a pipe.
We toss out this gristly morsel to be chewed over as you blink at a sickly marked card. There is no denying the fact that no more ideal an existence could be arranged for twenty-year-olds.
Figuring that nearly everyone in college takes five courses which meet three times a week, we may say that we spend an average of two and a half hours a day sitting in class rooms. Add to that not more than two and a half hours more preparation (mind you, this is an average) and there results a grand total of five hours a day spent in work.
And we venture to remind you that a goodly portion of the two and a half hours dedicated to preparation is consumed in drearily thumbing through pages. The time of real, eye-straining concentration is not more than a full hour and a half.
Five hours a day; three meals; entertainment always at hand; a goodly array from which to choose your companions.
College is a pipe.
—The Dartmouth.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
797
♦ THE WINE ♦
LOVE SONG
Roses are red, Violets blue, Deuces are wild— And I. 0. U.
The contributions to this department have been piling up in huge waste paper baskets so that now we (and you, too) can rest a bit from the usual monotony of padded copy, while the poets strew their selected verses across the page.
LIFE
How quickly the drama is over,
Hozv short a role there is to play, Be it king, clown, rogue or lover,— ’Tis but a fleeting holiday.
Hozv quickly rolls the curtain down, Scarce time have zve to doff our mask, No encores, no acclaimed renown To conjure faded scenes gone past.
Remember, at best ’tis a moment In the fathomless scheme of things; Ours not to grieve nor to lament— No matter hozv short the fling.
—Rumjahn.
REMINISCENCE
You. may, dear one, be waiting For me back there alone.
Then too, you, may be sitting By a silent telephone.
You may zvhen evening slowly falls
And moonbeams shine again, Grow just a little bit less cold And miss me nozo and then.
Mayhap you’re sometimes zueeping
Beneath a lonely sky;
But I’ll bet nine or ten to one Yozi're zvith some other guy.
—CoGoM.
Pretty cagey fellow, that, with no warm illusions to be shattered, no vivid bubbles to be burst when his Ball invitation is rejected.
TO A.B.E.
Who plays zvith me
As shadozvs play zvith a waning sun;
Who tortures me
When she says I am the only one.
Oh, I can see
I’m not her onlzj beazi— Others, like the shadozvs, Come and go.	—Canaras.
But life is practically an open book to us now, except for one or two small matters that the Senior Ball will straighten out for us.
DAWN FROM POINT DISAPPOINTMENT
The sounds of night have ceased, a hush prevails, A silence, through zvhich zvisps of mist arise As if from elfin cauldrons, thozigh zmseezi Save by the stars, slozu paling in the skies.
Then one by one uncertain forms appear, As imperceptibly the shadozvs go.
The fairy smoke is wreathed into a fog Which buzzes in its folds the vale belozv.
There stretches far azvazj a sea of zvhite, Whose soundless billozvs beat the foliaged shore Of phantom isle, which changing with the tide, Seems rugged, mountain high, and isle no more!
Upon a mighty mass of earth upreared
I sit, and gazing far across the land, See fairest natzire’s countenance unfold, And marvel at the zvonders of her hand.
—Attache.
One of our serious poets, Attache. No thoughtless levity or jackassery about him.
And back to nature, a month late (our fault):
MARCH SUNRISE
Through the branches of a lilac tree That stood denzided on zny lazvn, I sazv the glory of the sun Ride in zipozi a vivid dazvn.
It was a riotous color spree: Debaziches izi purple and blue, Wizidshaken for a moment, then calmed Into a dance of mildez' hue.
—Bishop M.
We acknowledge a letter:
“Dear Sir:
“Sorin apparently is infested with composers who are laboring very strenuously these days to write appropriate songs for this and that Ball or Prom. As an aid to some unknown striving for renown and desirous of inspiration, let me suggest this title for a song. (Hope you like it.)
“ ‘Yesterday’s Prom Girl Is a Ball Lady Now.’
“Sincerely,
“Oirving Boilin.”
Well, what appealed to us was that “Dear Sir.” It made us feel pretty, pretty good. Your courtesies are appreciated, friends. Tsk. The Weary Bumper.
798
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Wildcats Defeat Balltossers, 7-5
Notre Dame Handed Season’s First
Loss by Northwestern’s Late Rally
Pitchers Fyfe and Kruft Keep N. D.’s Five Hits Well Scattered.
A six run rally in the fourth inning sent Notre Dame’s ball tossers to their first defeat in four starts Wednesday afternoon. It took Northwestern to calm the slugging bats of Sullivan, Askew, Kolski, and, the others which previously had spelled disaster' for Wisconsin, Hillsdale, and Iowa. Two Wildcat pitchers allowed the locals but four hits at Eoycemore field, in Evanston, and copped the first of a two-game series by a score of 7-5.
Both teams went scoreless in the first two innings of play, but in the first of the third Notre Dame forged into the lead with two runs. Fyfe, the Northwestern hurler, hit McGrath, walked Palt and then made a wild pitch, scoring McGrath. Captain Denny O’Keefe, the next batter, hit a hard smash into deep right field which was good for three bases. Palt scored on the play. The Wildcats were not to be outdone, however, and Evans, the first man up, walked. Dempsey singled to left and Schuett dropped one behind the second base cushion, scoring Evans. That was the only marker that the Northwestern ‘ aggregation could garner until they put on their six-run rally in the fourth.
Oliphant started things off when he reached first on Sullivan’s error.
, Seghi walked and Leach lined a single to center, bringing in Oliphant from second. Evans drew a pass from Palt, filling the bases. Crizevsky was safe at first when O’Keefe muffed his bingle, Seghi soring. Pitcher Fyfe then got hold of a fast ball and drove it far into right field for a double which cleared the bases. At this juncture Palt was replaced by Romanin, who fanned Dempsey and forced Schuett to roll a lazy grounder
to O’Keefe, who tossed to Sullivan for the put-out. Hanley then singled to deep center field, scoring Fyfe. Another play, O’Keefe to Sullivan, retired the Wildcats after they had sewed up the ball game with three hits, two walks and two errors which netted them six tallies.
Notre Dame made two desperate attempts to even the count in the sixth and seventh innings. Fyfe was taken out at the beginning of the sixth, in favor of Kruft, who issued a pass to Denny O’Keefe. Lomasney doubled down the third base line, and Sullivan filled the bases when he walked on four pitched balls. Kolski flew out to center field and O’Keefe beat the throw to the plate. Mahoney reached first on pitcher Kruft’s error. The Northwestern hurler then bore down and whiffed Cummings and Romanin to nip the Fighting Irish rally.
The box score:
NORTHWESTERN	Ab	r	h
Dempsey, ss ................4	0	1
Schuett, 2b ................5	0	2
Hanley, cf .................5	0	1
Oliphant, lb ...............4	0	1
Seghi, 2b ..................3	X	0
Leach, If ..................4	1	2
Evans, rf .................1	2	0
Criz.ensky, c ..............4	1	0
Fyfe, p ....................3	1	1
Kruft, p ...................1	0	0
E 5 0 5 7 5 1 1 9 1 0
Totals ........................'...34	7	8	35
NOTRE DAME	ab r h e
Askew, 2b .................5	0	1	2
O’Connor, cf...............5	1	1	1
O'Keefe, 3b................2	1	1	6
Lomasney, If ..............4	1	1	1
Sullivan, lb ..............1	0	0	10
Kolsky, c .................5	0	0	6
Mahoney, ss ...............4	0	0	5
McGrath, rf ...............1	1	0	2
Cummings, rf ..............2	0	0	1
Palt, p ...................0	1	0	0
Romanin, p ................2	0	0	0
Mannix, p .................0	0	0	0
Totals ...................32	5	4	34
Russo batted for Romanin in eighth.
Score by innings:
Notre Dame ..........0 02 101 10 0—5
Northwestern ...;....001 600 00 x—7
Errors—Schuett, Fyfe, Kruft, O’Keefe (2). Two-base hit—O'Keefe. Bases on balls—off Fyfe, 2 in 5 innings; off Kruft, 6 in 4 innings, off Palt, 3 in 4 innings; off Romanin, 2 in 2 innings. Struck out—by Fyfe, 5 in 5 innings; by Kruft, 4 in 4 innings; by Paul, 3 in 4 innings; by Romanin, 3 in 2 innings. Hits—• off Fyfe, 2 in 5 innings ;off Kruft, 2 in 4 ■ innings; off Palt, 4 in 4 innings ; off Romanin, ’ 3 in 2 innings: off Mannix, 1 in 2 innings.
SCRIMMAGE TOMORROW TO END GRID DRILLS
Movie Company to Make Four “Shorts” and One Feature.
The “carry on” spirit, which has dominated the campus since the tragic death of Mr. Rockne, will be exemplified in a scrimmage tomorrow afternoon with the stars of last year’s championship squad foi-ming the opposition for the embryo 1931 squad. The game will be played in the new stadium and will be called promptly at 2:00 p. m., central standard time. Townspeople, as well as the student body, are invited to attend.
The old stars will be bolstered by the services of Tom Conley, Frank Carideo, Marty Brill, “Moon” Mullins, Al Howard, Art McManmon, Clarence Kaplan and others who helped to make the “Ramblers” of last year the greatest grid combination in the country.
Notre Dame’s 1931 squad reached the end of their spring training grind this week, while the last of the actual conditioning work is on tap fox* tomorrow afternoon. Aftex* that the gridiron activities will be limited to work on the movie films which are in the making at the present time. These pictures are being taken by the Universal Pictures corporation, which is filming a series of foux* football “shorts” and some stock shots fox' a feature picture. The former, featuring Coaches Anderson and Chevigny, are to be dedicated to the memory of Coach Knute K. Rockne, who had been slated for the principal role in the productions. Contracts fox' these were completed by Mr. Rockne just before his death.
Outstanding among the candidates in the practice sessions so far have been: Host, Kosky, Bice, and Mahoney, ends; Culver, Kurth, Kozak, and Krause, tackles; Terlaak, Greeney, Pierce, and Harris, guards; Captain Yarr, Butler, Agnew, Gorman, Rogers,
The Notre Dame Scholastic
799
and Alexander, centers; Jaskwich, Murphy, Cristman, and Foley, quarterbacks; Schwartz, Koken, and La-Borne, left halfbacks; Cronin, Shee-ketski, and Brancheau, right halfbacks ; Lukats, Banas, and Staab, fullbacks.
Punting—Acers (average 46% yds.) Passing—LaBome.
Pass Deceiving—Melinkovitch.
Offensive Line Charge—Harris.
Place Kicking—Gildea.
Pass Defense—McGuff.
Center Passing—Gorman.
Guards Pulling Out—Pierce. Ends Blocking Tackles—Host. Tackles Across the Line—Culver.
HERING MEDALS FOR GRIDMEN ARE AWARDED
Fine Performances Feature of Annual Presentation.
Winners in the 1931 competition for the Frank E. Hering medals for proficiency in the various branches of football play were decided yesterday afternoon in a series of contests on Cartier field. Ten of the thirteen events were completed and the remaining three were scheduled for this afternoon.
Keen competition marked all of the events and delayed the decisions in some of them considerably. Mike Melinkovitch, a freshman halfback, copped the pass receiving award after a long struggle with Al Shumaker. Both men caught a large number of throws to remain in the running but Shumaker failed on a long pass after Melinkovitch had made a sensational catch of his, and the Utah product was given the decision. Another thrilling duel came in the point after touchdown event. Herb Gildea, freshman end, scored ten successive points on perfect place kicks, and Dick Mahoney failed.to tie him only when his tenth attempt hit the crossbar and bounded back for his first failure.
In the line play, the closest battle was in the contest for tackles across the line of scrimmage. In this event, Al Culver finally outscored Kozak and Kurth, his two major rivals. Four other linemen also merited awards in the various departments. Harris and Pierce won the two medals offered for guard play. “Kitty” Gorman annexed the centei- passing title after a hard fight with Agnew and Alexander. Paul Host was the fourth membei- of the forward wall to gain recognition when he placed first in the contest for ends blocking tackles.
Other winners yesterday include Julian Acers who won the punting honors with an average of forty-six and a half yards. Al McGuff, a freshman quarterback, outscored the field in the pass defense contest, and Frank LaBorne rated first among the passers.
The complete list of winners:
TAILS - or a DINNER JACKET
It makes no difference to us—you’ll find a full line of both'at Spiro’s for that great event—the Ball of ’31. These are fine suits, every one; true aristocrats in tailoring and design, and featuring to the very inch those punctilious niceties of the metropolitan cut that ever characterize the well dressed man. Rich fabrics made even richer in appearance by satin facings of luxuriant softness and faultless texture. And, of course, the same moderate prices as usual.
Sami Spiro & Co.
Home of Hart Shaffner & Marx Clothes
SOO	The Notre Dame Scholastic
INTRODUCING—
a
Finding Denny O’Keefe was something of a job. We searched through all the senior hideouts that we knew of and finally found him tucked away in 337 Corby, apparently in conference with Al Kolski, catcher on the team that Cap O’Keefe leads.
We crashed the conference and laid down our customary barrage of stock questions and then relaxed. Talking to the third-sacker was an easy job, but talking to him about himself was a bit more difficult. We slid into interesting sidelines so often that the information we gained on his “cradle to captain” saga was rather meager.-
He did admit, on some urging from friend Al, that he was born in Standish, Michigan, on May 6, 1907, and has lived there ever since. He didn’t know if the w. k. Miles had had anything to do with the name or not, so the ever helpful Mr. Kolski suggested that probably the “old boy” had landed there in his boat. (Tsk, mind your geography, Mr. Kolski.)
Denny played baseball all through his career at Standish High school and was a mainstay on the football and basketball teams there too. He entered Notre Dame straight from those triumphs and launched an A.B. course and a college baseball career at the same time. He’ll finish both branches of endeavor in. June but will stay on at Notre Dame for two years to finish his work in the Law school.
When the baseball season ends in June, it will mark the close of the third year that Denny O’Keefe has held a place on the Notre Dame squad. In his sophomore year he received his “greatest” baseball thrill when Tommy Mills, then coach, inserted him into the varsity lineup for the first time.
He hasn’t many hobbies; in fact we couldn’t find a single one that he worked at really hard. He isn’t even superstitious. He thought that maybe he was a “bug” on decorations, but a careful survey of 337 led us to veto that idea, for aside from a few scratches and other marks of time, the walls were unblemished by anything of a decorative nature. He said that he liked the room that way, though, so maybe it was a perfect job.
He finally admitted having other
Captain “Denny” O’Keefe
diversions at Notre Dame than baseball. Though most of them are of an athletic nature, he is very fond of music. High on the list of the athletic ones, is bowling. The catching fellow came out of his comer here
Captain Dennis O’Keefe
to add that he once knew Denny to have a 265 for five games but he couldn’t remember if it was an average or a total. He plays handball, too, but thinks that he will avoid any challenges to the campus luminaries in that little square court in the gym as the game, to him, is only a pastime.
In addition to the activities here at school, he has played amateur baseball in the summers for a team in Flint, Michigan, where he spends his vacations working in an automobile factory. Last year this team, with O’Keefe in the lineup at third base, went to the finals of the national amateur championships at Cincinnati where they dropped a 4-3 heartbreaker to the champions.
When he gets his LL.B. two years from now, Cap plans to take the Michigan bar exams and start practicing his profession in his home
state. He didn’t quite think that it would be in Standish (though he didn’t deny an interest in the town) since it is hardly large enough. Besides, the interest might move. For the immediate future, he is not so sure. He is not definite on whether this summer will find him back at the auto factory and the amateur team or making a bid for recognition in organized baseball, possibly in the Three-Eye league.
The seven-thirty bell closed our stay in 337 Corby and after we had left Cap, we wondered if the people who scoff at the name “Irish” for Notre Dame athletes, ever heard of Dennis O’Keefe, a Notre Dame captain.
S. A. C. BOXING TOURNEY SCHEDULED FOR MAY 12 IN LOCAL GYM
With twenty entrants already signed up the plans for the Student Activity council boxing tournament are rapidly nearing completion. The tournament will be held in the gymnasium on Tuesday, May 12.
All of the competitors have been working out daily in preparation for the tournament, and should be in excellent condition by that date. Encouraged by the unusual success of the tournament held last year Promoter E. Madden sees no reason why the present tourney will not be bigger and better in every respect.
Tickets will go on sale May 4, and the advance sale will continue until May 9. Members of the Blue Circle will canvass the halls with tickets. Students purchasing tickets during the advance sale will be given preference in the choice of seats. Admission price will be twenty-five cents for students, and fifty cents for townspeople.
Beg Pardon, AI
The Scholastic wishes to correct a statement made in the issue of April 22. Al Howard, fullback for the past two seasons, has been appointed coach at the University of North Carolina, not South Carolina, as was erroneously stated last week.
Howard will serve as backfield coach of the squad in charge of Chuck Collins, ’25.
Th e Notre Dame Scholastic
801
Adler Brothers
SPRING A SENSATION
Entire Stock of New Spring Suits and Top Coats
Society Brand and others -- none reserved
This Big Sale Presents the Most Remarkable Opportunity For Real Saving That This City Has Known In Years.
« « « « « «
$25 SUITS $19.90
$30	$40	$50
SUITS	SUITS	SUITS
$22.50	$32.50	$42.50
« « « «
To $30	To $40	To $50
TOP COATS	TOP COATS	TOP COATS
$17.50	$27.50	$37.50
« « «
$65	$75
CAMEL HAIR	CAMEL HAIR
COATS	COATS
$37.50	$47.50
ADLER BROTHERS
802
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Now All can afford quality
There was a time when good clothes were limited to a few chosen men of means — now there is little excuse for any man being poorly dressed. Kuppenheimer, after fifty years of experience, now offers truly fine clothes at remarkably low prices.
Kuppenheimer Clothes for University Men
The eve of the Senior Ball, the campus shop will remain open for your convenience. Complete dress accesories sold here!
downtown and on the campus
208 N. Michigan Street
50c Pepsodent	O 7C
Tooth Paste........<
35c Palmolive Shaving Cream . . .
Listerine ........
Christy Razor and 1 blade
35c Gem Blades
19c
59c
8C
23c
CIGARETTES
Lucky Strikes Chesterfields
Old Golds .
Camels . .
Tin off 50
26<
Best Values
You can spend more Cthan 45c for Golf Balls but itisn’t necessary. Walgreen’s Certified Golf Balls are the equal of any 75c ball you’ve ever had.
They’re lively, well-balanced, and they’re practically cut-proof. They’re the greatest Golf Ball value we know of at 45c each. Three for $1.35. Peau-Doux Golf Balls.... 33* (3 for 90c)
Right reserved to limit quantiles
You’re Always Welcome at Walgreen’s
The Notre Dame Scholastic
80S
KAZOO NETMEN SCORE 4-3 WIN OVER LOCALS
Reaume, Kendall and O’Brien Star For Blue and Gold.
night life
The Blue and Gold Tennis team met their second defeat of the current season last Saturday when they were overpowered by the strong Western State Normal outfit by 4 to 3, in a hotly contested meet. At the conclu-
When Its Ball Time It’s time to visit
HART'S
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in American colleges are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALLBRAN, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaf-fee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.
To WIND UP the evening, drop into the restaurant for a bowl of Kellogg’s PEP Bran Flakes. Here’s the dish — full of the
famous flavor of PEP — brimming with whole wheat nourishment—and just enough extra bran to be mildly laxative.
You’ll like them from the first taste.
Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. In the famous red-and-green package.
pEp
BRAN FLAKES
Make her ball week-end forever unforgettable with one of our beautiful monogrammed compacts.
Notre Dame Jewelry of every variety and kind.
Hart’s Jewelry Shop
126 S. Michigan St.
sion of the single matches, Notre Dame held a one point lead by virtue of victories by Bill Reaume, Bob Kendall and Mike O’Brien. The Kazoo netmen scored a clean sweep in the doubles, however, to overcome this .lead and win the meet.
The Notre Dame racquet-wielders should have no feelings of regret about losing this match since they were up against one of the best teams in the middle west, and a veteran team which boasts of the 1930 C.I.C. championship as well as victories over many leading Western Conference squads. Flanked by such stars as “Skinny” Byrum, Michigan State and Intercollegiate champ, and Sorenson, Western State has two men who rank high with the leading intercollegiate players of the country. Both Byrum and Sorenson won the singles matches with comparative ease and formed a most important part of the two doubles combinations.
The present schedule calls for a lull in the tennis program for this weekend, although Manager Tom Ashe is at present negotiating for a match with Manchester- college to fill this open date. If the arrangements are satisfactory, the match
will be played on the local courts, and practically the same team that has represented Notre Dame so far this season will be out in an attempt to register their initial victory.
TACOMA LADY SENDS BOOK TO HONOR ROCKNE
Mrs. J. Heether of Tacoma, Washington, an admirer of the late Knute Rockne, sent recently to the University library a book entitled A Friend of Mine, by David P. McAstocker, S. J.
A notation which expresses Mrs. Heether’s sincere admiration for “Rock” accompanies the gift. “To the boys and for the Notre Dame Library. In memory of Knute Rockne, whom they loved so well.”
The story , an allegory, manifests a surprising parallel to the life of the great coach. The plot concerns a journeyman bound for the Master’s Inn, which is at the end of the road. The road is level and wide, and nature in its beauty makes his journey pleasant. Suddenly brightness vanishes; life, lights disappear and mists begin to arise; then utter darkness.
804
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FORDHAM UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW NEW YORK
Case System—Three-Year Course
CO-EDUCATIONAL
College Degree or Two Years of College Work with Good Grades Required
Transcript of Record Necessary in All Cases.
BLUE AND GOLD NINE PLAYS IMPROVED GAME TO TOP HILLSDALE, IOWA
Morning, Early Afternoon and Evening Classes.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar '233 Broadway, New York
PALT GIVES BUT 4 HITS
Keoganites Profit By lowans Errors to Win by 10-4 Score; Lisicki Receives Credit.
HELLO MEN!
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
Taking advantage of the University of Iowa’s misplays and hitting the ball in the tight places, Notre Dame breezed through their second conference victory in as many starts Monday afternoon on Cartier field. Three big innings for Coach George Keo-gan’s players gave them a 10-4 decision.	.
Notre Dame played heads-up ball throughout the nine innings, only one error being charged against them, that when Askew misjudged a high fly destined for McGrath’s glove, and the two men collided, the ball rolling free. Lacking the self-confidence that players must possess under fire, Iowa chalked up five errors, all of which proved costly. But for these mistakes, the contest would have been much more intresting, as Bush, the Hawkeye right-hander, was sending the old apple in with a well meaning “drop” on it.
Iowa started right off in the first frame, pushing a man around the bases by means of a sacrifice and a well placed single through the second station. Askew, coming to bat in Notre Dames’ turn at bat in the first, sent a smoking ground ball into right field. When the pitched tripped in an effort to field a bunt, O’Connor saw life on first, Askew advancing to second. Another bunt placed O’Keefe on first when Bush and Reedquist, the Iowa first sacker, argued over the fielding of the ball. With the bases full, Lomasney hit to Bush, and Askew was forced out at home.
Poling a long, high fly into deep right that was good for three bases, Sullivan forced Lomasney along the paths until the latter was caught out between third and home plate, Sullivan returning to second base. O’Connor and O’Keefe had scored on the play. Kolski filed out to end the inning.
Not to be outdone, the visitors staged a rally of their own in the third inning that netted three runs to regain the lead at 4-3. Notre Dame chased five runs across the plate in
❖ the fourth, however, to virtually cinch the contest.
Iowa substituted Porter for Prange at short in this inning that was replete with juggled balls as well as nicely placed hits by the Notre Dame batsmen. Sullivan, first up, slammed a fast one to Prange, but it was too hard to handle and went for a base hit. Kolski singled along the third base line to advanced Bill to third. Mahoney chose the same place for his hit, which scored Sullivan and left Kolski safe at third. Jim McGrath rapped the ball into open territory over second base, scoring Kolski, and pushing Mahoney up to third. On the throw to the second station McGrath slid in ahead and was safe. Lisicki took a rap at Bush’s offerings to drop one behind second and bring Mahoney and McGrath across the plate.
Continuing the lambasting, Askew sacrificed, to place Lisicki on second, and then O’Connor hit one between third and short, the ball rolling unmolested as Prange and Riegert pulled the “You first, my dear Alphonse” trick. Lisicki tallied the last run of the inning, after which Lomasney rolled to second for an easy out.
Hackneyed though it may be, Notre Dame added insult to injury in the seventh frame by running three more runs across to bring the score to its final standing.
In order to make up for his misfortune in the fifth inning, McGrath saw life at first base in this stanza when he popped a high one in front of the plate and Nelson, the Iowa catcher, failed to get his glove under the ball. Notre Dame’s right fielder was robbed ‘of a hit in the fifth when he scored a billiard off the pitcher’s foot, the ball bouncing to the first-sacker. McGrath’s blow had the zip behind it and was set for a clean hit but for the obstacle which the pitcher’s foot successfully offered.
Lisicki was granted excellent support and struck out three batters, while he allowed nine hits as compared to the 13 which his teammates garnered off Bush and Stemple. Six stolen bases were recorded by Notre Dame, the runners showing a surprising fleetness on the paths.
The box score and summary: NOTRE DAME AB R H PO a
4	0	14	5
4	12	2	1
4	2	14	1
4	0	0	2	0
4	2	3	8	0
5	2	2	3	0
3	12	2	2
4	1110
3	1112
Askew, 2b..............
O’Connor, cf ..........
O’Keefe, 3b............
Lomasney, If...........
Sullivan, lb...........
Kolski, c..............
Mahoney, ss McGrath, rf Lisicki, p ..
Totals ...............  35	10	13	27	12:
The Notre Dame Scholastic
805
IOWA	AB	It
Prange, ................5	1
Kenny, 2b ..............3	1
Koser, If ..............3	1
Mowry, cf...............3	1
Nelson, c ..............5	0
Reedquist, lb ..........4	0
Fiala, rf...............3	0
Riegert, 3b ............4	0
Bush, p ................2	0
Stemple, p..............1	0
H PO A 3 0 3 0	12
10	0
13	0
17	0
0	10	2
0	0	1
2	2	1
116
0	0	0
Totals .................S3	4	9	24	15
Errors—Askew, Koser, Nelson (2), Reedquist, Bush. Two-base hits—Sullivan, Kolski, Nelson, Riegert. Sacrifices—Askew, Lomasney, Kenny (2). Mowry. Stolen bases— Koisky (2), Sullivan, Kenny, Koser. Hits— Bush, 3; Lisicki, 3; Stemple, 1. Bases on balls—Lisicki, 5 ; Bush, 2.
NOTRE DAME 6; HILLSDALE 1 April 24, 1931
Piling up a five-run lead in the first inning against Smith, Hillsdale’s highly touted left-hander, Notre Dame maintained the margin under Palt’s splendid hurling last Friday to keep her record unmarred, the final score
reading Notre Dame 6, Hillsdale 1.
The local players were prepared for a hard day against the pitcher who came to Notre Dame with an enviable record behind him, but the bat-fest staged in the first inning was enough to cinch the game in spite of the nine strike-outs recorded by Smith. “Lefty” Palt, not to be outdone, whiffed eight batters who faced him and let the Hillsdale club down with four hits, one by Selby for three bases, while his mates garnered eight hits, Askew-banging out a double, and Palt himself connecting for a triple.
Askew started the works in the first inning by slamming the horsehide for two bases after the count had stood at 3-2 on him. O’Connor was granted a base on balls, and O’Keefe was hit by a wild throw, filling the bases. With a timely single to right field Lomasney sent Askew and O’Connor- across the plate, after which Sullivan tapped the ball to first for an easy out. Kolski then struck out, and following him, Mahoney stepped
into Smith’s offering to single, bringing O’Keefe and Lomasney across the plate.
But the killing did not stop there, for Harrison was then granted a walk and Palt took one of Smith’s hooks on the hip, after which Askew, in his second turn at bat, worked Smith for a free trip to first, forcing Mahoney in for the fifth run.
Hillsdale scored their lone tally in the fourth frame when Brooks was brought around the paths on a triple by J. Selby, second-baseman. Smith allowed Notre Dame only four hits during the rest of the contest, two of them being bunched in the eighth to bring the score to 6-1. Russo, pinch-hitting for Harrison, singled over second, and after Palt had sacrificed and Askew failed to come through, O’Connor drove a hot one into left field to score Russo.
Lomasney and Mahoney each recorded two hits in foui' official trips to the plate, as did J. Selby, of the opposition. Notre Dame displayed
GGLf GLTHT
Retail Store
only
$795
complete Chromium
Plated Irons Zipper pocket bag
Come out to the big factory store tomorrow and see this remarkable
value. Standard size, heavy canvas bag with metal bottom and leather bound steel reinforcement stays. Zipper pocket. Complete with four good quality clubs. Driver with finely polished Persimmon head and brass plate. Midiron, Mashie, and Putter with Forged Heads, balanced and weighted correctly for accurate play. Bright chromium plated. Non-tarnishing. All clubs with second growth hickory shafts and genuine leather grips. Metal capped for durability. Choice of man’s or woman’s clubs; either right-hand or left-hand. Complete outfit ready to play. While our supply lasts, only $7..95.
SKY-LINE GOLF BALLS in the new, large size. Mesh markings. True flight, fine distance—special to-morrow at only 35c.	3 far $1.00.
Speedee Golf Balls—25c each.
SOUTH BEND WATCH CO
1720 Mishawaka Ave.
806
The Notre Dame Scholastic
much better fielding than was evinced ❖ in previous contests, not an error being charged against them. Although Smith was credited with one more strike-out than was Palt, the diminutive Notre Dame flinger had a much better day than his opponent. The former allowed three bases on balls,
The Last Issue Is Run— There Will Never
Be Another
Originally designed to honor Knute Rockne and the stars of Notre Dame, the “Victory” Calendar noiv becomes a tribute to the high ideals for which his name shall ever stand. It represents his final and crowning “Victory”—is beautifully reproduced in colors and will be mailed to friends of Notre Dame at cost—35c each—as long as the present supply lasts.
ADDOMETER COMPANY
303 W. Monroe St., Chicago, Illinois
Palt but one; Smith hit two men and made one wild throw. Palt in this great showing served notice that he will have to be seriously considered throughout the remainder of the sea
son.
The box score and summary:
HILLSDALE	ab . R
Gruenske, rf...........4	0
J. Selby, 2b...........4	1
Davis, c ...............3	0
Brooks, lb ............4	0
Reynolds, 3b ...........2	0
Smith, p...............3	0
Bedvina, If ............3	0
B. Selby, of...........3	0
Restifo, ss ...........3	0
H PO 1	3
2	0
0	9
1	10
0	0
0	1
0	0
0	0
0	1
A 0 5 0 0 0 5 0 0 1
11
Totals .................29	1	4	24
NOTRE DAME ab
Askew, 2b ............4
O’Connor, cf..........4
O’Keefe, 3b...........4
Lomansey, If..........4
Sullivan, lb..........4
Kolsky, c.............4
Mahoney, ss...........4
Harrison, rf..........2
McGrath, rf ..........0
Palt, p ..............1
Russo, x..............1
Totals ..............32
R H PO A 1112 112 0 10 3 3 12 10 0 0 9 0 0 0 ’8 1 12 11 0 0 10 0 0 10 0 10 2 110 0
6 8 27 9
and Joseph Mendelis will be in charge of the gun.
BASEBALL
The weather last Sunday kept most of the ball players of the interhall league indoors and chased the officials away from the diamonds. The games that were not played Sunday were run off yesterday.
The only game' in Group I saw Sophomore crush the first team Lyons has brought to the games, by a score of 15 to 5. Bucky Halperin was again in the box and led his team to an easy victory.
Score by innings:
College Student
Hillsdale..............0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0—1
Notre Dame.............5 00 000 01 x—6
Ray C. Hann Sales Manager
Now I want 500 more college men to join me on the same basis.
Makes$99
First 11 Days
Helping Me
Summary: Errors—J. Selby, Davis (2) : two-base hits—Askew; three-base hits—Palt; stolen bases—O’Connor, Mahoney; base on balls—off Smith, 3 ; off Palt, 1; struck out— by Smith, 9; by Palt, 8; hit by pitcher—by Smith, 2 ; O’Keefe, Palt; wild pitch—Smith ; passed ball—Davis (2). Umpires—Daly and Cleary. Time of game—2:00.
Interhall Sports
Flowers
for all
Occasions
No Experience Needed I want ONE wide-awake College Man in every locality (500 in all) to introduce and demonstrate an amazing new Fyr-Fyter discovery. The work is easy and pleasant. You can handle it in full or spare time and make $9.00 or more a day the same as Harold Conklin, a college student of North Dakota, did.
$99 in 11 Days!
Conklin writes: “For the past few months, I have been working as salesman for your company. I have enjoyed the work very much, and I feel that the Fyr-Fyter line cannot be beat. On my last trip (II days) I made an average clear profit of $9 a day. I have enjoyed the work very much and I am buying a car of my own. I realize that I am a new man, but I am confident.’* Conklin is a new man without any previous selling experience.
If you are interested In a position with opportunities to earn $6,090 a year or more, I ean put you to work right away and prepare you for a big money-making summer season. Our new liquid actually ABSORBS fire like a sponge smothering vapor that is “sure death” even to the raging flames of high-test gasoline! You demonstrate to people in cities, small towns and en farms. WE DELIVER AND COLLECT AND SEND YOU COMMISSION CHECK EVERY SATURDAY. No experience necessary. We five you quick training and show you how to tet started without capital. WRITE NOW!
pet the facts. Just send letter or postcard to me personally. Ray C. Hahn. Sales Manager
THE FYR-FYTER COMPANY 11-41 Fyr-Fytwr Bldc^ Daytom, Ohio
SWIMMING
Tonight marks the third and last of the preliminary interhall swimming meets. In this meet the halls that have not as yet tried for the final, to be held the early part of this month, will compete. Mr. James T. Masterson, who is in charge, has announced that the officials will be the men who were in charge of the last two meets. This means that Daniel D. Halpin will be referee; John Grams, football manager for next year, will be clerk; Ray DeCook will keep the score; and Clarence Kaplan, J. J. Griffin, and Albert Romanin will select the winners. Frank Leahy, William Artman, and William Taylor will clock the swimmers, while D. Napolitano, John Kuhn, Bernard Bresson, and William Minardo are to watch for any one who strays from his lane. Tom ’ I Yarr will lend his voice as announcer ♦
at
BEYERS
Between Palace Theatre and Hotel Lasalle
The Notre Dame Scholastic
807
N.D. TRACKMEN MAKE FAIR SHOWING AT DRAKE
Mile Relay Beaten In Last 60 Yards By Michigan Team.
The colorful Drake Relay Carnival, held last Saturday at Des Moines, Iowa, drew one of the largest assemblies of stars to be gathered on a college track this season, and saw many old records erased from the books as well as providing several sensational upsets and brilliant per-
OLIVER
Barber Shop
A. M. MYERS, Prop.
Complete Courteous Service
205 W. Washington Avenue THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171
formances. Notre Dame’s showing »2 in the meet was rather disappointing, although the mile relay team finished second and three individuals gave a good account of themselves. Bill McCormick finished fourth in the 100-yard dash, which proved to be one of the closest races of the day, and which found the four leaders separated by inches at the finish line. Ralph Johnson proved his ability as a stellar pole-vaulter by gaining a tie for second in this event against some of the stiffest competition in the country, while “Nordy” Hoffman placed third in the discus to complete Notre Dame’s scoring for the afternoon.
The two greatest upsets of the day were in the “Century” and the hurdles, when Tolan of Michigan, and Sentman of Illinois, both thought unbeatable, met their conquerors in their respective events. The dash threatened to end in a blanket finish, the four men were so close to each other, but Glass, sensational 19-year-old Washington State sprinter, stretched away from the pack Just before the finish line to win the race. Sentman met his defeat at the hand of Hager of Iowa State, who is familiar to local track followers because of his “dead heat” finish with Captain Johnnie O’Brien in a dual meet here last winter.
To Rhea of Nebraska, goes the distinction of breaking a meet record twice in two days. The big Com-husker shot-putter hurled the sixteen pounder 49 feet, 7 inches in the preliminary tosses and then broke his own mark on Saturday with a heave of 50 feet, six inches.
Michigan was the victor in three of the relay events, although they were pressed to the limit by Notre Dame in the mile relay and barely managed to eke out a victory. Notre Dame led over almost the entire course and it wasn’t until the last sixty yards, when Russell, Wolverine anchor man, with a great burst of speed, passed Wilson and rode the Maize and Blue colors to victory by five yards.
Rather disappointed over his team’s showing at Drake, Coach Nicholson has been working his charges overtime priming them for the Ohio Relays which are to be held at Columbus Friday and Saturday. The feature race of the day is expected to be the mile relay when the Blue and Gold quartet of baton-passers will vie for honors against such teams as Pennsylvania, Michigan and Ohio State, all of whom boast of especially strong outfits.
Student Drinking
(Intercollegiate News Service)
President Ernest M. Hopkins of Dartmouth, in a recent address, had no objection to student drinking off campus. Dr. Hopkins said, “There is no reason why student should not be permitted to indulge in an occasional highball when off the campus. I do not think that fraternity homes should be raided for liquor when country clubs are not. It has been my experience that a drink can be procured in most any country club, and there should be no discrimination by the authorities.”
Don’t
Look
Because
« « «
You’ll never find a South Bend a u t o i s t disputing the Chicago highways with a perspiring truck driver. The South Bender prefers to use the hourly s e r v i c e of America’s fastest electric railway, with its downtown Chicago terminal.
« « «
sor
LINE
Every hour on-the-hour to Michigan City, Gary, Hammond, Chicago
808
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Splinters From the Press Box
❖ could then give the former the preference in teeing-off.
Traditional Notre Dame courtesy might just as well extend to Notre Dame’s own students while on the
GOLF
The University golf team is surely living up to all expectations this season. Three consecutive victories with the loss of but seven and one-half points out of 57 is the way their record stands at the present time. The season is still young but Notre Dame’s mashie-wielders seem to have just about reached mid-season form,
• and there is little reason to believe that they will not remain so until the present collegiate season ends next June with the national meet at Chicago.	.
Notre Dame should go far in this tourney. They made a good showing last year and the same team is back this year with an additional year of competitive play under their belts.
AND THE GOLF COURSE
golf course as well as to strangers on the campus and elsewhere.
PITCHER CHARLES PALT
Charley Palt, who, perhaps, has received more nicknames in his two years as a varsity baseball player than any other man in school, has just about cinched his place as the ace of Coach George Keogan’s pitching staff. The wee left-hander now
Corsages for
The Ball
Beautifully created of the freshest flowers by the most careful workmanship.
Williams
The Florist
219 W. Washington Ave.
Flowers telegraphed anywhere on short notice.
Workmen have been making rapid strides toward returning the Burke Memorial golf course to the condition it was in last fall. That golf is becoming the principal outdoor recreation of the students may be readily realized by walking past the course on any afternoon, and particularly on Saturdays and Sundays. We believe that play this spring must surely have broken all previous records for the local links.
And in this regard we have a suggestion we believe will help to keep up this interest, which seems bound to wane if present conditions of play are continued. We speak of the practice of some players of “cutting in” on any of the eighteen holes, regardless of those playing in front or in back of them. This flagrant disrespect for one of the first rules of golf etiquette is probably more prevalent here than on any other course in the country, and is bound to take its toll, particularly among those who take their golf somewhat seriously. It is quite disconcerting to start out from the first tee with no one in front of you and then suddenly find yourself held up by several four-somes on the fourth or fifth green.
Starting on the tenth hole is not objectionable in itself but even this can be carried too far. On Saturday afternoon and Sundays would it be more than fail' to give those who have completed the first nine the right-of-way off the tenth tee? Instead of placing a “checker” on number thirteen or fourteen to see that all players have tickets, why not let this man act in the capacity of a starter on number ten tee, and check tickets at the same time? He could very easily tell from the serial numbers of the tickets which players had already completed thie first nine and ♦ which men were just starting^ He
MOCCASIN TOE
WORK SHOES
As Shown.
Wearflex Soles. Rubber Heels. Storm
Welt.
MEN’S
WORK OXFORDS
Al! Sizes
Black Elk
Blucher Oxford.
RUBBER HEELS!
Moccasin Tip, Double Sole. Oak Middle Sole. Wearflex Out Sole.
$1.99 As Shown!
Men’s and Boys’ NEW OXFORDS
$1.99
Black Calf Uppers, Long Wearing Composition Soles. Leather Heels.
GIL-BRO’S
330 South Michigan Street
The Notre Dame Scholast
has two victories to his credit out of the three regularly scheduled games Notre Dame has played at this writing. The first was recorded as a relief hurler in the Wisconsin game and the second against Hillsdale.
In his fourteen innings on the mound, “Iggy” has allowed but six hits, two of them being recorded as such by a very liberal score-keeper, and one run. Thirteen batters have been set down by the strike-out route. Halt seems destined to have an excellent season this year.
BRILL MAY COACH AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
It has been rumored about the campus during the past few days that Marty Brill, All-American half-back last season, is about to accept a position as backfield coach at Columbia university, New York City. Lou Little, one of the best known coaches in the game and at present head coach at the eastern institution, has been talking to the Notre Dame star and it is believed that the 1931 season will find Marty at Columbia.
GOLFERS DEFEAT FROSH 15-9; CAPTAIN BEAUPRE LOSES TO O’BRIEN
The future of golf at Notre Dame looks very promising. Last Saturday and Sunday afternoons the freshman golf team played a very interesting match with the varsity; but the experience which the varsity men acquired during their previous matches stood them in good stead and they trimmed the freshmen by a score of 15-9. One point was awarded to the winner of the first nine holes, another marker went to the victor of the second nine, and an additional point was given the winner of the eighteen hole round. The biggest upset of the afternoon came in the first match when Al O’Brien came through for the freshmen to defeat Captain Fran Beaupre, 2-1. Russ Beaupre had little trouble in setting down Switzer, 3-1. Bill Redmond and Montedonico split their match, each man getting one and one-half points. The second loss for the varsity was registered when Bansback nosed out Bradley by a 2-1 score. Banks repeated for the freshmen by dropping .
i c	809
Bill Burke, 2-1. Brink of the varsity had a rather easy time with Louy, beating him, 3-0. Meyer followed his teammate’s example with another 3-0 victory over Cagney. Bukacek and Powell split the final match of the play, each man counting one and one-half points.
The showing which the freshmen made proves that golf is an established sport at Notre Dame. John Montedonico turned in an 78 for low score of the yearlings.
Moeller and O’Shey, two of the varsity’s mainstays, were unable to compete in the match.
CHARLEY RILEY SIGNS AT U. OF NEW MEXICO
Newspapers last Sunday carried the announcement of the appointment of Charles Riley, quarterback ■ of Notre Dame’s 1927 eleven, as head coach of the University of New Mexico team for 1931. Riley has been an assistant to Tom Lieb at Loyola college, Los Angeles, California.
Word of the appointment was given out by authorities of the New Mexico institution at Albuquerque.
-PALACE-i
STARTING SUNDAY
The Show of Shows
HARRY DELMAR
AND HIS
1931 Vaudeville Revue
50 minutes of extraordinary pleasure! A $3.30 I production—lavishly staged in spectacular dances, I songs, comedy, and an array of Broadway beauties. I
JTAKTING JATUDDAYS
OTHER BIG RKO ACTS
ON THE SCREEN The New Comedy Wow!
"MEET
THE
WIFE"
An Hilarious Scream Romance
Smart Tense Thrilling Gripping
LEW
It’s Saucy!
JOAN MARSH
LAURA LAPLANTE
HARRY MYERS
It’s Gay!
Modern Love Romance Drama
CONSTANCE BENNETT
y y	V	y y 1 i “Golf” with Johnny Farrell
ijOtTi tO 1^01)0 I Next Sat.—Wheeler & Woolsey
❖
810
The Notre Dame Scholastic
1
“BASEBALL WEEK” TO PRESENT FOUR GAMES BEGINNING WEDNESDAY
PURDUE OPENS SERIES
Hosei of Japan Plays Here on Thursday and Friday; NavyCloses Week on Saturday.
Next week has been designated as “Baseball Week” at Notre Dame by Coach George Keogan and University athletic authorities, with the scheduling of four games on the local lot for Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday afternoons. The week’s card presents a Big Ten opponent, a two-game series with a foe from the Far East, and another game with a traditional Notre Dame opponent in other sports but a comparatively new one on the diamond.
The Boilermakers of Purdue will open the week’s festivities on Wednesday. A strong line-up which has won three of their first five games will be presented to Blue and Gold
fans by the Lafayette institution. The Hosei aggregation, a group of Japanese baseball enthusiasts who have been traveling around the United States for the past several weeks with varied success against college teams, will play here on Thursday and Friday, and on Saturday afternoon the climax of the program will be presented in the Midshipmen of the United States Naval academy.
The Purdue coach was faced with a problem very similar to that of Coach Keogan when the call for candidates was issued this spring. A veteran infield but a highly inexperienced outfield, therefore, will be on the diamond when the Big Ten team takes the field. Palo and Schupp are the ranking moundsmen, and the former is expected to get the call against the Keoganites next Wednesday.
The novelty of the Japanese team should make this series one of the biggest drawing cards of the season. Notre Dame’s last experience with a team from across the Pacific two years ago almost proved fatal when Meiji university presented a flashy fielding but weak hitting team.
Notre Dame finally won out by two runs in a hard-fought battle.
Not much is known about the Navy balltossers, but they may be counted upon to put a well balanced nine on the field next Saturday.
BASKETBALL BANQUET TO BE HELD MONDAY
The annual basketball banquet in honor of the 1930-31 team will be held on Monday night at 7 o’clock in the lay faculty dining hall, according to an announcement by Senior Manager John M. Hughes.
Los Angeles Memorial
As a memorial to the late Coach Rockne, a scholarship fund is to be established by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Los Angeles. The scholarship will be used to enable worthy students of Los Angeles to attend Notre Dame.
Do you know that there are from sixty-five to seventy tons of coal used every day in the University plant? And on very cold days the average consumption is from eighty to eighty-five tons.
QtninitintiiiiiiiiinnntiinttniiiiiittttfiniiiitnttttiiiiiniiiiiniitiintttttttiiiiiiiiiitntiniiiiiiiiuQ
The Book Shop
130 Notrh Michigan Street
The South Bend Clearing House Banks Invite Your Patronage
Headquarters Unexcelled
For
Books, Periodicals and Class Room Requisites
AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY
UNION TRUST COMPANY
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS BANK
Pay Us a Visit
FIRST NATIONAL BANK
We have the Book you want.
INDIANA TRUST COMPANY
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS BANK
THE BOOK SHOP
130 Notrh Michigan Street
ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST COMPANY
The Notre Dame Scholastic
811
GOLF TEAM IS REVAMPED
Fran Beaupre Ranks No. 1 As Team Meets Loyola, Iowa.
The Notre Dame golf team will play their next two matches with several drastic changes in line-up. As the result of the weekly tournaments, held to determine the relative standing of team members, Captain Fran Beaupre supplants his brother as No. 1 in the single matches. Russ Beaupre will play No. 2, Bill Redmond, Indiana state champion, is No. 3, and Larry Moller, runner-up in the last National Intercollegiate tournament, is at No. 4.
Loyola university of Chicago plays host to the Notre Dame team today, and tomorrow the Blue and Gold outfit; journeys to Iowa City to meet the Iowa university team. Loyola will probably present the strongest team that Notre Dame has met thus far in the season. The teams will be well matched from a point of comparative scores. The Chicago team beat Valparaiso, 14-4, and the Notre Dame team took the measure of the downstaters, 17-1.
INTERHALL GOLFERS TO
BEGIN PLAY ON SUNDAY
Howard hall will begin the defense of its golf crown Sunday when the second annual interhall golf tournament opens. All candidates must turn in their scores by 5:30 p. m. Saturday. This welcome golf news was announced last Wednesday by Daniel D. Halpin, manager of interhall athletics.
Team personnel will consist of the four men who have turned in the lowest scores of their respective hall be-bfore the dead-line. The two scores must be for two eighteen-hole matches and properly attested. From the deposited scores the four lowest shall rank as captain, number two, three and four respectively.
All hall matches as well as the team personnel will be posted at the William Burke University clubhouse by Sunday morning, to allow for team practice.
Play will be over eighteen holes in foursomes which will consist of two single matches and one double match, best ball only. The Naussau system of scoring will be used in all matches. This system gives one point for each nine holes won and one point for the match, making three points possible.
TOM CONLEY TO MEET STUDENTS AT LASALLE
Tom Conley left the University yesterday on a hurried trip to Philadelphia where he will address the students of LaSalle college, of which institution he will become athletic director and head coach next fall. While in the city Tom expects to supervise spring football practice at LaSalle on Friday and Saturday. He will return to Notre Dame Monday.
JESSE HARPER IS MET BY COACHES, MANAGER
Coaches “Hunk” Anderson, Jack Chevigny, and George Keogan, and senior manager, Dan Halpin, composed an informal reception committee for Jesse Harper, Notre Dame’s newly appointed athletic director, when he arrived in South Bend this morning.
No formal reception was planned and Harper was brought directly to the University from the railroad station. His train from Chicago arrived at 10:22.
in...niiiiiiiiinHUiimimHHin^
Remember Mother
On Her Day, May 10th
With
The Famous
Artstyle Chocolates
Sold exclusively in South Bend at Meyers’ 1 and 2 pound silk boxes.
■a
Candy reserved for students^ on small deposit
g I	STORE
Corner Michigan and Colfax
Corsages
—for the Ball
Don't forget your MOTHER
on Mother's Day, May 10 th
South Bend Floral Co
114 South Michigan Street
812
The Notre Dame Scholastic
On Down the Line
WALE-CVER
. . . JOHN McGRAW is trying for his eleventh pennant this year, and it has been seven since he won ... a seven-eleven combination which he hopes is lucky . . . More than 30,000,000 golf balls are used in a year’s time . . . MYRIL HOAG, Giant recruit, has atrocious batting form, but like DICK PORTER of Cleveland, he can hit the ball . . . The Yale 150-pound varsity crew will travel west for the first time in its history when it will race against the University of Washington Huskies at Seattle, June 16 . . .
jncww above is the Bristol made from smooth Royalite Calf. A shoe of graceful lines that has very exceptional fitting qualities.
You will find this shoe an exceptional value.

. . . BILLY PETROLLE was paid $500 a second for his fight with KING TUT at St. Paul . . . BILLY was knocked out in 24 seconds . . . The Indiana basketball tournament in March to determine the state championship, netted the Indiana High School Athletic Association $178,725.23 . . . ANDY SCHUTTINGER, new trainer of WILLIS SHARPE KILMER’S thoroughbreds, was one of America’s leading jockeys for 16 years . . .
Dress Shoes ....
JJEFLECTLNG the change in customs which v places light-weight calf models very much in the running for all but the most formal occasions. This is the season when they become a real necessity.
WAI_________
SHO f S -FOR M -E N
A - O V f R
ONE - ONE - ONE SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
. . . ART “TINY” MANSFIELD, New York Giant rookie, eats a head of lettuce as you and I would eat an apple . . . JOCKEY LEWIS of Australia, began his riding career in 1893 and is still at it ... he rode in the first MELBOURNE Cup race in ' 1895 and in the MELBOURNE Cup race of 1929 . . . T. PHILIP PERKINS played consecutive rounds of 69, 70, 68, 68, 67 and 64 on the par 71 St. Augustine (Fla.) golf course . . . his round of 64 included nine birdies, three of which were twos . . .
... A San Mateo (Cal.) high school outfielder reached down for a grounder and came up with a 48-inch snake . . . the batter got a home run . . . DALE WARD, age 11, has a bowling average of 133 for the season ... he uses a regulation 14-pound ball and is a member of the A.B.C. . . . Presi- * dentJ LOWELL of Harvard, once held the Crimson record in the mile run and his predecessor President ELIOT, rowed on the Harvard crew back in 1853 ...