Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 6, 1883.	' NotYy.
Winter.
The air is filled with piercing cold.
And crystal snow-flakes ride the blast; .
The sun is dull, and seems grown old.
And summer-time, indeed, is past!
Where’s fled the bright, ethereal blue? The little clouds that floated there?
Ah! how I loved those clouds to vie<V, Disporting in the noon-day air!
Where are the flow’rets of the dale?
Those gems of Nature’s purest dye?
They’re dead. And, list! the passing gale Now mourns their absence with a sigh.
Where are the songsters of the grove?
Do.they still live? or have they flown
To regions fair and bright to rove, Till Winter’s death-like gloom has gone?
Their cadence filled the evening gale,
Their voice was heard the woodland through, When Phcebus lighted up the vale, All burnished o’er with morning dew.
The wavelets on St. Mary’s Lake
With icy vest are mantled o’er;
They now no longer race and break Against a verdant, smiling shore.
How bleak, how gloomy, all in sight From Notre’s lofty, tow’ring dome!
The cloudy day, the starless night, And leafless tree, say “ Winter’s come! ”
But spring will soon revive again
The tiny flow’rets of the vale,
And woodland songsters pour their strain Upon the fragrant evening gale.
J. McC.
Ingersoll’s Astronomy.
He would like to teach astronomy to Moses and the rest of us, would Ingersoll. Very kind of him. He asks: “ Did he £Moses] know of Jupiter making the tour of his orbit once only in fifty [50] years ? ” *	"
Probably not. It would be rather strange if
* Ingersollia, or Gems of Thought, pp. 215—216. “Gem” 387-	'	"
he did,'as the discovery is quite original with Ingersoll. The little Egyptian boys with whom Moses went to school were taught that Jupiter’s j periodic time was twelve (12) years. So Rawlinson tells us, and he appears to know all about the Egyptians. Strange to say, this superstition, error has even crept into our modem text-bookss and the priest-ridden youth of the present genera-tion.are still under the impression that twelve (12) years, in round numbers, is the time it takes Jupiter to “ make the tour of his orbit.” How glad we should all be to know that all astronomers, ancient and modern, have been laboring under a grievous error, and that the planet is entitled to thirty-eight (38) years more in which to display his agility!
Now, how did Ingersoll acquire,his knowledge of this surprising fact? Not by consulting authorities, we may be sure; for, in the first place, they are all against him; and secondly, to believe on authority is faith, not knowledge, and his worst enemies never suspected Ingersoll of such a weakness as faith. No; it must have been the result of personal observation. Fifty years of constant attention to the subject. Fifty years .is the lowest estimate, for he could not use the ordinary laws of celestial dynamics to help him, as his conclusion proves these laws to be utterly absurd. Yes, young as he doubtless was fifty years or .more ago, —at an age, perhaps, when his infant "compeers were still trifling away their time over the inanities of Mother Goose,—he began that glorious series of astronomical observations which is destined to render his name immortal. We may imagine that blessed babe in the dread hour of midnight, creeping out of his warm cradle, and climbing out upon the cold, cold shed roof, among the astonished cats, and there pulling out his little telescope to poke about amid the profundities of space for the periodic time of Jupiter!
We had heard before that Ingersoll was an original thinker. A gentleman in South Bend once told us so. This gentleman also kindly informed us that he himself was an “acrostic.” He was a. successful business-man and did not exhibit any other symptom of insanity, and so we contented ourselves by mildly remarking that he did not correspond to our preconceived notions of what an acrostic ought to be, but we were happy to be corrected. He then said that perhaps “ acrostic ’’ was not .the right word, butiit was what Herbert-Spen
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
cer and Darwin and Ingersoll and “ them other fellers” were. We suggested “ agnostic,” and he joyfully accepted the suggestion. He then proceded with his eulogies on the originality of Ingersoll. And now, at last, we believe ‘it. . Here is a thought which must be all Ingersoll’s own. No , one can calHt a plagiarism on Paine, Volney, or any other of the exploded fallacists of the last century. Yes, Robert, you are quite original. You « know more than all the ministers that ever lived”*—thirty-eight years more, at least. You lead the van of modern thought, you do. All you want, if you will pardon a little Spoopendykery, is a mortgage on your patrimony, and your horse tied to the gate post at the White House, to be a genuine Thomas Jefferson.
But lo! a miracle! Excuse superstition, but it really is a miracle, and I don’t, see how you can explain it away. Jupiter’s period is fifty years, of course. Nobody can doubt that, since you have said it. Nevertheless, that besotted and ridiculous monument of priestcraft, the Nautical .Almanac, publishes predictions for several ye.ars in advance concerning Jupiter, and notwithstanding that it allows less than one-fourth of the time he ought to have, yet still, you will always find him in the part of the sky that the almanac indicates. Nov/ this beats Joshua’s experience, with the sun all hollow. This miserable planet is so servile,— so lost to a sense of his innate dignity,—as to obey the dictates’ of Prof. Kendall and the clique of tyrannical astronomers that at present control the Nautical Almanac. Why, he even moves in accordance with Kepler's laivs! Ignorant old astrologer, Kepler! Very properly left to starve, while men of true science, like Ingersoll, fill their pockets from those of their open-mouthed, admiring votaries, who go. home chuckling and tickled to death, to think how much more astronomv they know than Moses.
Now we understand some phenomena which have lately interested astronomers. That purple spot on Jupiter,. for instance.' It must Have' been something in the nature of “prickly heat,” the result of copious perspiration, brought on by his being hustled around -on the double quick. This ought to be stopped before the consequences become serious. Col: Ingersoll ought, in justice to himself and the solar system, to communicate with the proper authorities, arid prevent all this unseemly hurry in future. If Jupiter is not stopped pretty soon in his mad career, the inroads on his constitution may result fatally. Besides, think ofthe Indecorum of allowing a. planet of the first rank to be'worried and abused at that rate by a' paltry cabal at Washington, when Ingersoll, in his wisdom has allotted him the liberal period of fifty (50) years /wherein- to “ make the tour of his orbit.”	- y .
■ Yes, Robert, snatch a moment frorii your engrossing occupations of-defending-star-route frauds
' ■_	'	jj: .. - -
: - -	' • i \	-
- * Ingersoll ia,-or.Gems of-Thought, p. 107. - “Gem” 180.	:
and leading the van of modern thought, to set this little matter straight. This is a star-route fraud which cannot be defended.
Jw Gimblette.
The Abbe Moigno’s Great Work.
The Dublin Review.
The fifth volume of M. l’Abbd Moigno’s great work, “Les Splendeurs de la Foi,” has just appeared, and we may take this opportunity of laying before our readers some account of a book which is certainly without a rival in Catholic literature. M. Moigno’s studies and knowledge are of that encyclopaedic nature which made his friend Arago break out into the playful threat to have him burned as a wizard. The only man of letters we can compare with our Abbe was the late Cardinal Wiseman. The Cardinal was, perhaps, his superior in languages, though M. Moigno can boast of having mastered twelve; but when we add that the Abbe is not only a first-class mathematician, but is intimately acquainted with astronomy, geology, physiology, and physics, we recognize at once that the author of the “ Lectures on Science and Revealed Religion ” is out-distanced.
Mr. Arthur Reade has lately elicited from M. Moigno certain statements about himself which would be received with incredulity were we not to present them in his own words:—
I have already published [he says] a hundred and lifty volumes, small and great. I scarcely ever leave my worktable; I never take walking exercise; yet I have not, so far, experienced any trace of headache or brain weakness, or constipation, etc., etc.
Never, in order to work, or to obtain my full clearness of mind, have I had occasion to take recourse to stimulants, coffee, alcohol, or tobacco, etc.; on the contrary,‘stimulants in my case excite abnormal vibrations of the brain, unfavorable to its prompt and steady action.
Such being’ the man, it will not be surprising to find that his work is a marvel of research, wide reading, and patient labor. Sketched out in 1831, the idea of reconciling Faith and Reason, Science and Revelation, was religiously cherished for over forty years. At times he seems almost to have despaired that health and strength would be vouchsafed him to accomplish his task; but, thanks to his wonderful constitution, and the gracious encouragement of the Sovereign Pontiffs, Pius IX and Leo XIII, the work has at length seen the light. We fear that we should be accused of speaking the language of exaggeration were we to at-tempt to treat of the stores and treasures of infor-j mation in which the work abounds. We can, however, safely, say that..the Catholic student .will find here almost every objection to Christian truth clearly and temperately put; he will find, in reply, a: perfect flood of counter-statement gathered from the labors of scientists from every part of Europe and America. It was possible for the Abb6, and for him -alone, to collect so valuable a mass of Christian evidence. For well-nigh thirty years he .‘has edited the scientific journal Les [Mondes, in which, as the great chemist Dumas has
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
259
observed, “ M. l’Abbe has been able to establish a sort of intellectual free-exchange between the ______________	-	• o
savants of France, England, Germany,.Italy, and America.” Nor is there any attempt to shirk the point in dispute, or to envelope a weak reply in sonorous phrases. With the exception of the trick of personifying abstract nouns, a turn of speech by no means unwelcome to his countrymen, his style has that direct, clear, and easy exposition which is the envy of us Englishmen.
Enthusiastic lovers of science, in their attempt to harmonize Science and Revelation, are apt to take broad, easy views of the traditions and teachings of the Church. M. Moigno, though perhaps one of the widest-read scientists of our day, and undertaking the difficult task of this reconciliation, can never be accused of a weakness of this nature. “ Without making any concession,” he says (“Avant Propos,” Vol, I), “without supporting myself by any hypothesis, without ever compounding with any human system, I have proved to evidence, that on their numberless points of contact, Revelation and Science, Faith and Reason, are perfectly in agreement.”
Scientific objections to the faith are often invested with an appearance of strength from the authority of the savant who propounds them. A Tyndal or a Clifford often throws over his attacks an air of invincibility, which is a snare to the unwary, and leads them to overlook the array of scientific opinion in opposition. We can conceive that “Les Splendeurs de la Foi” will prove of no little service in this respect. From the vast stores of knowledge at his disposal, M. Moigno is able to give to each objection the names of those who have backed it, and, at the same time, the array of worthier men who have rejected it. We will quote the shortest passage to this effect that we can find: it occurs undei the heading of the “Unity of Origin and Species of Man”:—
We call monogenists those savants who maintain the unity of the human species; polygenists those who advocate the multiplicity of the human species. By the acknowledgment even of its most violent advocates, MM. Broca and Pouchet, the polygenist doctrine is comparatively modern. Among the monogenists we may reckon the founders of anthropology, Blumenbach, their predecessors and immediate successors; Linmeus, Buffon, Cuvier, Stephens, Schubert, Rudolf and Andrew Magner, von Baer, von Meyer, Bardach, Wilbrand, Stephen and Isidore, Geoffroy St. Hilaire, de Blainville, Hugh Miller, Serres, Flourens, Quatrefages, Milne-Edwards, Lyell, Huxley, etc., etc. The list ot the heterogenists, on the contrary, is incomparably Idss numerous and imposing (Vol. II, p. 512).
The first volume of “Les Splendeurs” is entitled “ Faith and Reason.’’ M. Moigno here undertakes to establish 'the" disastrous results to the world from the loss of faith. In drawing attention to. the pagan spirit that is so prevalent, he touches on the decadence of the old classic studies, and incidentally gives us this curious piece of information :—“ I have often heard,” he says, “ at the public meetings in Paris, Latin speeches delivered by the best professors of the University. I declare, .without the fear of being contradicted, that the Latin of the best of these discourses was
not only inferior to the most negligent of the homilies of the Fathers of the Church, but it was barely that Latin which it ironically termed dog-Latin ” (Vol. I, p. 89). The abuses and corruptions of democracy furnish him with another chapter on the loss-of faith. It is sad to find the volume closing with the “Loss of faith in the family.” and that he is compelled to draw such marked attention to certain plague-spots of society; but the terrible evils that are ravaging; France leave him • no alternative but to raise his voice of warning and denunciation.	.	.	-
We should not be surprised to find that the second volume, “ Science and Revelation ” is the favorite of his readers. A most ingenious resume of Biblical science, nomenclature, and policy form the first part. Then he brings all his powers of reason, authority, and research to bear on the burning question of the origin of man. First, we have more than one hundred pages on -the anatomical and physiological proofs of the unity of -the human species. Next, the question of .its antiquity is discussed under the headings:—(i): Formations in which human - remains have been discovered. (2) The caves of pre-historic man. (3) Animals cotemporary with man. (4.) The fossil remains of man. These subjects are discussed with careful reference to each locality where traces of human remains and fossils have been found. We do not hesitate to say that this volume will prove a perfect storehouse of facts and references on the vexed question of the’ antiquity of man.
Volume III treats of the scientific objections raised upon different passages of Holy Scripture, and gives a very complete account of all-the controverted matters. Above three hundred pages are devoted to this object, which will form a most valuable addition to the Catholic Commentary on the Bible. The volume closes with a few historical sketches on certain knotty questions—as the massacres of St. Bartholomew, of Beziers, Pope Alexandei* VI, etc., etc., which will be found full of interesting and original information. .
In Vol. IV he returns to the question of the reconciliation of faith and reason. In this part-of his work he has chosen a very happy method of exposition. Following, as he maintains, the plan of our Blessed Lord’s teaching, he pushes aside all controversy, as a means ill calculated to convince the adversary. In its stead he has chosen some fifteen passages from the New Testament, and, to use his own words, he exposes, “in all simplicity, all its purity, all its soft and healing glow, the light of a certain number of words from the Gospels, which are at once prophecies, miracles, and important facts that have filled the world ” (Tom. IV, p. 219).
M. Renan has declared: “If miracles have any reality, my book is a tissue of errors.” M. Moigno in his fifth volume has accepted the challenge thus thrown down, and has entitled it“Le" Miracle au Tribunal de la Science.” It is a most . . original exposition of the miraculous. Discarding controversy according to his method, he simply points out the overwhelming evidence required .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
by the Holy See befqre accepting the truth of a miracle. For this purpose he has applied to Rome for permission to print in extenso the full discussion before the Sacred Congregation of certain miracles preparatory to a saint’s canonization. We believe the favor granted is unique; the public for the first time is made acquainted with all the pleadings, report’s, siftings, and discussion that are de rigueur in such cases. The miracles chosen are three from the process of St. B. J. Labre. We had always been taught to believe that the care bestowed on the investigation of the miracles of the saints was .most scrupulous; but we think no one could form any idea of the Idbor, criticism, the captiousness even, that is encouraged and required, until he has perused the last volume of M. Moigno’s work. But while these pages are a splendid monument to the devoted labor of the Church, we cannot but declare them the least readable of all the work. There is such a mass of detail to be gone through, such minute medical questions, such hypercriticisms, that we have found it rather heavy reading.
Such is a brief and imperfect sketch of a work which occupies five volumes of about four thousand pages in octavo. To say more than we have said would perhaps defeat the object we have in view—to urge the claims of the work upon our readers. We would gladly have given more extracts from the work, but it is almost impossible. Each subject is treated with a richness and completeness of detail which does not easily lend itself to an extract.
Scientific Notes.
—The youngest inventor on the records in Washington is Walter Nevegold, a lad 15 years of age, of Bristol, Pa., who has patented important ^improvements in rolling-mill machinery.
—Observations upon Russian railways have resulted in showing that, for the period of six months, 77 per cent, of the fractures of tires occurred when the temperature was below zero; 4-pei- cent, at zero, and only 19 per cent, at higher temperatures.
—According to the Revue Scientijiquc, a number of merchants of Bergen have purchased the right to cut large blocks of ice for shipment from the enormous glacier, Fonor-Svartisen, in Norway. Its distance from the sea is only about two miles. The glacier is 120 miles square.
—The, skeleton of a Dinbsaurian reptile, 35 feet long, has been unearthed in the Bad Lands of Dakota. The creature is supposed to have stood 25 'feet high. The weight of the skull is 694 pounds, and of the whole skeleton 1,900 pounds. The bones will be placed in the Academy of Natural ..Spience, at Philadelphia. '
.—An Italian statistician has just made a discovery that every human being at present living upon ,	of the globe has the undoubted right to
rclaim descent: frpm no fewer than one hundred and
thirty-nine thousand, two hundred and forty-fiv,e billions of ancestors, only as far back as the commencement of the Christian era.
—Dr. Virchow has shown at the Berlin Anthropological Society some ancient skulls found in the Caucasian district. They are believed to afford proof of the existence of the race called Makrokephli, described by Hippocrates. The heads are large and extremely long or high in form, an effect believed to be due to bandaging in early 00	J
infancy.	.
—A London dentist uses a small incandescent carbon lamp to illuminate the cavity of the mouth during dental operations. It is fitted into a vulcanite cup, and covered for safety with a glass shade. The lamp is stated by the inventor, who freely offers its advantages to his fellow-dentists, “to give a bright light just where it is needed, without producing undue heat.”
—In round numbers the following table represents the weight of a million dollars in the coins o named:—
Description of coin,	.	Tons.
Standard gold coin.............................. 1%
Standard Silver coin........................... 26^
Subsidiary silver coin......................... 25
Minor coin, five cent nickle...................100
' —A new branch of industry has sprung up in Sweden, lately—the fabrication of paper. from moss, not from the living plant, but from the bleached and blanched remains of mosses that lived centuries ago, and of which enormous masses have accumulated in most parts of Sweden. A manufactory of paper from this material has begun operations near Joenkaeping, and is turning out paper in all degrees of excellence, from tissue to sheets three-quarters of an inch in thickness. These latter are harder than wood.
—Every corpse that is taken to the Paris morgue is now quickly converted into a block almost as haid as stone. This result is obtained by Carry’s chemical refrigerator, which is capable of reducing the temperature of the conservatory, where each body is laid out on something closely resembling a camp bedstead in stone, to 150 below zero centigrade. At the back of this room is a row of o	e	-
stove-like compartments, in which the corpses are boxed up and frozen hard before being exposed to public view. As an illustration of :the.intense cold . thus artificially secured, a Paris journalist, in describing a recent visit to the morgue, says that in opening one of the compartments the attendant took the precaution to wear a glove, lest “ his hand should be burnt, by contact with the cold iron.” ' The corpse which was taken out of its receptacle had been there nine’ hours? The doctor who accompanied the visitor struck the dead man on tbe breast with a stick, and the sound was just as if he had struck a stone.
—Prof. Lockyer is of the opinion that there are many facts suggested by the spectra of solar and stellar physics which seem to show that the elements themselves, or, at all events, some of them, are compound bodies. Thus,-.ij: wpuld appear that .the hotter a star the jnore simple is its spectrum;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
261
for the brightest, and therefore, probably, the hottest stars, such as Sirius, furnish spectra showing only very thick hydrogen lines, and a few very thin metallic lines, characteristic of elements of low atomic weight. On the other hand, the cooler stars, such as., our sun, are shown by their spectra to contain a. much larger number of metallic elements than stars such as Sirius, but no non-metallic elements; and, again, the coolest stars furnish fluted band spectra, characteristic of compounds of metallic with non-metallic elements, and of non-metallic elements. These facts appear to meet with a simple explanation, if it be supposed that, as the temperature increases, the compounds are first broken up into their constituent elements, and that these elements then undergo decomposition into elements of lower atomic weight.
Books and Periodicals.
—“A Look into Hawthorne’s Workshop” is a most remarkable feature of the January Cenhtry, when we consider that the paper consists of the most interesting portions of Nathaniel Hawthorne’s own posthumous notes for a romance. Professor Wallace, the noted English scientist, and author of “Island Life,” contributes an estimate of “ The Debt of Science to Darwin,” which interprets the theories of Darwin, and says the only name with which his can be compared, in the whole domain of science, is that of Newton. ' The frontispiece of the number is a striking portrait of Darwin, engraved by Johnson, after a photograph taken by the scientist’s son; views of Darwin’s home and his study are also given. Another Englishman, Frederick W. H. Myers, writes briefly upon the personal and literary influence of the late Dean Stanlev. George W. Cable begins in this number his illustrated historical studies of Old New Orleans, by answering the much-asked question, “ Who are the Creoles?” Dr. Eggleston’s second paper on colonial history is well illustrated. “ The Planting of New England ” is the striking title, and the Puritans are treated with keen insight and sympathy. Two practical subjects, effectively treated and profusely illustrated in this number, are “Hydraulic Mining in California,” by Taliesin Evans, and “Farming for Feathers,” by E. B. Biggar, who has studied ostrich-farming in the Cape Colony. “ The Trip of the Mark Twain,” is a slight, humorously-illustrated and written paper on Mississippi River travel; and Frank R. .Stockton, who is now travellingJn Europe, describes the amusing expediences of “The Rudder . Grangers in England,” and how Pomona satisfied . her curiosity by calling upon an English lord. In another vein is John Burroughs’s charming studies in natural history, entitled “A Mole, a Lamprey, and a Fairy.’’ The January chapters of Mary Hallock Foote’s romance of the silver mines, “ The Led-Horse Claim,” introduce a tragedy underground, and develop a powerful interest. The story will be finished in two more parts. Another
of Mrs. Foote’s drawings adds to the vividness of the narrative. The third part of * Dr.Gl ad-den’s practical story of “ The Christian League of Connecticut” mentions the fact that the laws of many States virtually forbid the union of Christian churches. Mrs. Burnett’s “Through one Administration ” is continued. The poems of the number are by Paul H. Hayne, H. C. Bunner, Frances Hodgson Burnett, Edith M. Thomas, Henry Ames Blood, E. C. White, and Maria .W. Tones; and among the verses, of lighter’vein in Bric-a-brac, are two of Uncle Remus’s Christmas Dance Songs. “Topics of the Times” discusses “ The ‘ Revolution ’ in American Politics ” and cur- • rent subjects, and the other editorial departments are unusually full and interesting.
The History of Washington County .in the Vermont Historical Gazetteer,, etc. Collated and Published by Abby Maria Hemenway. Montpelier, Vermont: Vermont Watchman and State Journal Press. 1S82.	-
We cannot but concur with the many distin- . guished historiographers throughout the United States that Miss Hemenway’s is the best local history ever published in this or any other country. Eminent librarians, who had at hand all similar works wherewith to institute a comparison, have made unqualified statements that such is the case, and there can be no further room to doubt that it is as they represent.
The present volume, 932 pages 8vo, is taken up chiefly with the local histories of Montpelier, the State capital,—East Montpelier, Barre, Ber- ' lin, Cabot, Calais, Fayston, Marshfield, Middlesex, Moretown, Northfield, Plainfield, Roxbury, Waitsfield, Warren, Waterbury, Woodbury, and Worcester—each place being written up by native and resident historians. Among the leading writers is the Hon. E. P. Walton, one of the oldest newspaper (weekly and daily) editors in the State, the Vermont Register maker for 40 years or more, the editoi of the “ Governors and Council ” of Vermont,” 6 or 7 large octavo historical volumes of much ability, which can be seen in the Lemon-riier Library here. Mr. Walton had been at work on his History of Montpelier for twelve years when the towns of his county were reached in .alphabetical order, and before the work of printing was begun he had added one-third more to its o	o	,	•	-
pages, some dozen pens of the best writers at the capital being enlisted to aid him, among whom were the State Librarian, the State Historical Society Librarian, with the large Vermont State collection under his hands, the scholarly Curator of the State Cabinet, etc., the State Geologist, one of the former county writers of the Gazetteer, these, with the aid of the pens of the ablest of the clergy of all denominations, lawyers, editors, etc., have made a very complete and highly interesting history of the capital of the Green Mountain State, which, besides the separate publication, is embraced . in the Washington County edition before us of 932 double-column octavo pages, made up from the State edition of the Gazetteer. We have full sets of the Gazetteer,—-Vols, I, II, III, and IV, in the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
College Library, and we think it a work that should be in every college library in the United States. We understand it is already in the library of Harvard College, the Athenaeum Library, Boston, in the N. Y. Hist. Society’s Library, the Chicago Hist. Society’s Library, the Detroit Fiee Library, the Lansing (Mich.) State Library, the Philadelphia Hist. State Library, and others. These valuable historical volumes are, we regret to say, not stereotyped, and those desiring them should order without delay. The editor informs us that there is to be one more volume, which will soon be in press.
The present volume, like those preceding, is illustrated with splendid portraits of some of the most remarkable persons, for the last 100 years, of the locality chronicled. The plates are in.all cases donated to the work by the families represented, and it readily may be inferred that no inferior productions would be admitted. Some of. the biographical sketches are racy and unique. The birth-place ~ of the famous Orestes A. Brownson, LL. D., is to be written up in the coming volume, and will, we suppose, include a biographical sketch of one of the most remarkable men the world has ever seen.
Exchanges.
—We regret to learn that Mr. L. W. Reilly, late editor of The Catholic Mirror, of Baltimore, is, on account of ill health, about to- retire for a while from editorial duty. He intends to spend the winter at Fort Dade, Hernando Co., Florida, and hopes that in the spring he will be able to resume work. Mr. L.’s connection with the Catholic Mirror ceased on the ist of January.
—The College Mercury makes its Christmas call in a new and tasteful dress of type. The “ shear nonsense ” department is conspicuously absent—another improvement, for the limp verses that frequently adorned it were of no interest to anybody. “The Musical Man” is much better, .after its manner, and possesses the merit of being-a home production. We learn from the Mercury that Rev. A. Z. Gray, A. M., was. installed as' Warden of Racine College, on the 5th of December.	. ’	’
—We would be willing to bet a big apple 'that the exchange editor of the K. M. I. Ne~’is is-a fat, lazy fellow. If he isn’t fat he is lazy enough,.in all. conscience. As the weather cools he stirs himself, however, in order to enliven theycolumns of his papera little. He professes to beTgreatly in favor of the Exchange department iifcollege papers, and in this he is sensible, but he shoukltry to be on hand regularly with his own quota. • To his credit be it said he makes a fair show •.when he gets started. .
—-With its second number The Eordham College Monthly may be considered-fairly under way. The Monthly's “.funny man,” who ..is. very, anxious to ease himself of some of his stores of wit, but for lack of space has had to be repressed Tor the time
being, is promised ample space in future. The editors would like that hereafter Latin phrases be accompanied with translations—why not leave out the Latin when it can be done, and give only the translation? According to the canons, this is the better form. .
—Among our exchanges is The Maryland Republican, a paper that was established in 1S09 and has since been issued without interruption—duri'ng a period of 73 years. The Republican is published at Annapolis, Maryland, a beautiful and quiet town on the Severn River, just off the Chesapeake Bay, where the old State House, in which Washington delivered his sword to Congress, is still to be seen. Although of venerable age, the Republican is by no means old-fogyish, but up with the times. Mr. George Colton is its editor.
—The University Quarterly, of the University of New York, offers prizes of $10 and $5 for competitive articles for the Quarterly. No essay is to contain less than 1,200 nor more than 2,000 words; the articles are to be original, and no competitor shall submit more than one essay. The object of the prizes is to promote literary culture among the undergraduate students. One of the essays in the last number of the Quarterly, a description of a yacht trip “ Around Cape Cod,” is illustrated, but not in a superior manner. The articles on “Art Consciousness ” and “ Railroad Engineering ” arc readable and instructive. The editorial board labor under great difficulties, it would seem, through want of co-operation on the part of the college authorities.
—The pages of The 1 Varsity for December the 2d are enlivened by a letter from Cambridge University and a pretty warm discussion on the college gown. The Cambridge correspondent says that “ Cambridge,” emulating Oxford and Toronto among others [Harvard and Notre Dame Universities are the “ others,” we suppose, being the only other places that a Greek play has been given of late years, which in both cases was the “ CEdi-• pus”], “ is going to give a performance of the .‘Ajax’ of Sophocles this.term. Mr. Stanford, • organist" of Trinity College, superintends the ^musical part, and the thing bids fair to be a greatsuccess. Mr. T. K. Stephen (King’s) of History tripos and Union fame, takes the principal character. The chorus is reported to be exceedingly good.”
—The Hesperian Student possesses a true poetcontributor in R. L. Marsh, of ’84. The story of “Faith and Despair” is well told, in diction and metre that augurs favorably for the young aspirant for the poet’s laurel. The Exchange editor of the Student, says:	h. j	-
“Funny things arejiot frequent af Notre Dame, we take it, but once in a while the Scholastic perpetrates an astounding joke. ‘Our friend John got up-early one morning last week. He said he wanted to see the comet, blit lie couldn’t come-it.’ We hope the Scholastic will get this joke copyrighted.”	. -
Oh, no; never mind the copyright.. Besides, a writer in the Swarthmore Phccnix has already appropriated and expanded it. ■ Tie an Ex. to

THE NOTRE. DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of candy.- You can tell him you believe youself an embryo Daniel come to judgment, for you have been in the lions’den, and the- lions wouldj not harm you. .	-	.	.	.	' 5	.
—The University Monthly, from the University of New Brunswick, has been on our table for some weeks. . The Monthly,.seems to be a paper of some merit, and therefore deserving of a cordial welcome. The editors will pardon us, we J hope, for not greetingxthem sooner. . With the. . best of will, we cannot get a word with all our many visitors just when we, and perhaps-they, would wish. The N. B. University men rejoice greatly because a New Brunswicker, Mr. Tweedie, won the Gilchrist scholarship for 1882, although ' he did not belong to the University, but to Mt. Allison College. C. G. D. R.’s “ Ye Truie and Faithful Historic” is a readable production, and well calculated to call to mind many, such “trippes actu-all,” and camping out and fighting with those winged pests which the Indians so appropriately call the “ Bite-um-no-see-ums.” The poetry of the Monthly is real poetry, and some of it of a high order. If it be the work of under-graduates it is very creditable.' Some of the humor in the “ article ” on “ Homer ” shows a heavy strain in giving it birth, but it is not without merit, and especially so when we see the evident desire to please the reader without hurting old Homer’s or anybody, else’s feelings—a point which few of the would-be humorists seldom attain. Call again, Monthly; you. will always be welcome; whether we are “at . home ” or not, just pull the latch-string and walk in.
—E. K. S., in a contribution to Academica, of the University of Cincinnati, traces the habit, of punnin’g back to the earliest ages. He says Menander and Plautus and Terence were inveterate -punsters, and makes Sophocles responsible for a pun even upon the name of the hero of his “Ajax.” Euripides, in his famous .lines, 'Elene, 'Elenas, 'Elandras, 'Eleptolis, is guilty of a series of puns. Aristophanes also is caught in flagrante delicto in “The Frogs”—	‘	’
“Tis doiden. . . .	-	.
To pnein deipnein kai to katheudein. kodion.” Virgil also is guilty of a galloping pun in the famous line—	’	‘
“ Quadrupedante putrem sonitu quatit ungula campuni.” And, coming- down to modern times, the. peerless ■ Porson himself doesn’t disdain a pun. “After sundry tumblers of spirits and water, being asked whether he would again replenish his glass or have a bed-candle, he replied, 'Ou tode oude t'allo] -which, while it sounds ‘Neither toddy nor tallow,’ signifies,{Neither the one nor the .other.’ ” And we know that Cardinal Wiseman himself, a;church-man of the very .best character as well as the greatest scholar of his day, was a-clever punster, and did not- disdain the art even' in his essays. \ Who, after this, would hang a man for getting off a clever, pun would ’be unreasonable. We tender : E. K. S. biir acknowledgments .for his clever ar- . tide. But, creader, none of. your slip-shod ’ shoddy punsters, if you.-please; if weare to' have puns,. o-ive us the genuine article or none at all,...	.
the joke’s tail and let it go the rounds as usual. By the way, we said that the typos inserted the remark 1
— The Spectator, from St. Laurent College, Montreal, has donned a bright green cover that is refreshing to weak eyes and contrasts strikingly with the colored covers of a large pile of exchanges-that has accumulated during the holidays. Most of the other college papers have neutral colored covers, in keeping with their contents, which have nothing very definite in them. The Haverfordian gets a sharp rap over the knuckles from the Spectator's Exchange-editor, and is told to brush the cobwebs from his history. The 'Haverfordian has surely barked the wrong man’s shin; he has a foeman worthy of his steel, and if he doesn’t get penned up within his own lines he will have to show some clever work. Almost anybody can run into a scrape, but nearly everyone has to crazvl out of it.
—The Chronicle for December the 23d is exep-tionally good in its literary articles. “The Civil Service,” besides being well written, is eminently practical. “ The True Aim of a College Life ” is more than a little too “ fast ”; then, the writer sends out his wooden decoy ducks with the real Simon-pure ducks within easy gun-shot. If “ K’s ” complaint be well-founded, the Ann Arborites are to be pitied as obtaining an education under exceedingly unpleasant circumstances. Among other grievances, “K” mentions the following, which certainly is no credit to the College:
“This invidious practice of snubbing is not confined to out-door sports, but makes its way even.into the class-room. When I arise to recite, I am greeted with smiles of derision, which the consideration of our professors is unable to suppress. This demonstration is not limited to those of my own condition, but is shown to persons of another sort. Whenever I make a mistake, some giggling upstarts give full vent to their softness, and the sober class-room echoes with derisive laughter. Hoping that the result of this protest will be the disappearance of its occasion,” etc.	-	-
—The Ex.-editor of the Phcenixsnys his curiosity is satisfied; he has seen the Notre Dame Scholastic, and is now readv to sing his Nunc dimittis. He could never quite account, he says, for the fact that the Exchange-editors of so many papers “ should hasten to taffy the Scholastic,”—but he knows it now,—wonderful, bright little boy! to find out at the first glance what so many veteran Exchange-editors have been puzzling their brains over without any satisfactory result,—and . the wonderful discovery is this: The Scholastic “ has got a long-winded Exchange-editor, who devotes all his surplus energy to lengthy and tiresome tirades against any unfortunate who presumes to criticize adversely his paper”; adding, “ wonder whether we’ll catchit?” Oh, no,-‘little fellow; there’s no reason why your wonderful secret should die with you. We haven’t inaugurated a crusade against small boys: If we did want to cut down one swath more we would like to have something worth the trouble of cutting. Now, little boy in the brown jacket; give credit for that stolen pun in your grand article on “The Comet of 1882,” and go to the President for a stick-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MW WK
Notre Dame, January 6, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the ’University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it;, parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr .50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Darne, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending, us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for Binding; can have back numbers of the current' volume by applying for them., In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—Since our last issue, the old year has passed away, and we have already entered upon the new. No doubt if, at the close of the year just passed, we reflected upon all that we had done or omitted during its course, we found much to condemn; and certainly the thought must have brought with it good resolutions for the future. This year will bring its duties with it, just as the past—and duties which become the more obligatory upon us, as year after year glides by, and we become further advanced in knowledge and are enabled thereby to realize more perfectly our individual accountability. All our duties are summed up in those we owe to God, to ourselves and to our fellow-man. And as we look forward now in a general way to the fulfilment of these duties during the coming year, reason dictates that our resolutions must be such as to form for ourselves a line of conduct which will ensure an honest, upright, straightforward course, hot only during the present or succeeding years of college life, but such as may endure during the whole of the time allotted us upon earth, and enable us to hold, with merit to ourselves and honor to our Alma Mater, whatever position in society we mhy occupy.
Such resolutions, if faithfully adhered to, will secure a reallv happy new year, and will render each succeeding year still more happy. Though trials and tribulations may beset our pathway through life, though we may have dangers to encounter and difficulties to overcome, yet such sentiments will enable us to rise superior to temptation, to brave danger, and never be cast down bv trial or trouble; and we may ever go forward with courage in the performance of our duty, trusting in God, who will not be wanting in His assistance, but will ever support and sustain us through life and reward us hereafter.
—Nofrb Dame may web cohgratiilate itself on tfie bright prospects with which it enters upon the New Year. Everything betokens a happy and prosperous year. .The.unusually large attendance and the, many: improvements that have been . effected during the year just past give every indication of, a.,long-continued and happy future. See whaLhas been . done during ’82. 1st, The electric lightyvas introduced—and all know how much it has added., to their pleasure and convenience; 2d, the Academy of Music was completed and inaugurated; 3d, the Gymnasium was built; 4th, the Eastern Wing and Minims’ Hall were erected; 5th, the Library rooms were finished, arranged and decorated; 6th, the Reading-rooms were put in order;? and, last but by ho means least, work was begun upon tHe grand Dome. All this, and more that cannot be here recounted, was done, during the year, Jpst gone by; and, from .present signs; ’83 ^ill witness, not only the completion oi much that begun, but .other and needed-improve-. mente, ;which Realize the. original design of ^otfeDame’s. venerable Founder, and §how tq(.the. country a. model University. May success. attend these efforts I.
—No one who has proper regard for his reputation will ignore the requirements of politeness. Polite manners are said to be the best letters of recommendation. By politeness we do not mean etiquette; one may be well versed in the rules of etiquette, and yet be devoid of genuine politeness which must be inspired by kind-heartedness and charity. To be thoughtful and considerate, to do to others as you would wish to be done by is to be polite. Nothing is more contemptuous than formal civility, while nothing is more gratifying than sincere deference. The man that goes out of his way to point out yours, and then curses you for taking him so far from his, is obliging, but he can-not be called^polite.	. -
In .large communities there is-a.tcndency to disregard the amenities of social life, and what is considered indispensable in the family circle is apt to be forgotten in intercourse with casual acquaintances. . This is a mistake. The man. who is truly polite is so always and everywhere.
We have been.led into these reflections from the .fact that so man v. took “French leave’’when going- hpmeyfor - the; Chyistmas. holidays, yyitho'ut saying good-bye to their. Professors and others to.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
2^
whom they owe deference and respect. The same thing, it has been remarked, happens at Commencement. There are always some who go away with as little ceremony as if they were leaving a lecture-hall. Young gentlemen, who would not for the world think .of going avvay to college without bidding farewell to their acquaintances and friends, will leave college without paying their respects to those from whom they have received instruction, not to speak of privileges and other acts of kindness, and those who have been their associates for the past year. However, we like to believe that such conduct is exceptional, and perhaps those who are guilty of it arc not capable of anything better.	„
Obituary.
—The many friends of Prof. J. A. Lyons sympathize with him in the affliction which he has lately suffered in the death of his sister, Mrs. Ellen Talbot. The deceased lady was the mother of Peter Talbot, a former student of Notre Dame, and grandmother of J. J. Talbot, of the Preparatory department. For years she was a devoted and zealous worker in the cause of religion in this neighborhood. May she rest in peace!
William Montrose Graham.
It is our melancholy duty to announce the death of one of the brightest, most amiable and high-spirited boys of the Junior department, Master William Montrose Graham, of Washington, D. C. He departed this life Wednesday evening, Dec. 20th, fortified by the Sacraments of the Church, and in the most edifying dispositions. Master Graham will long be remembered by the Juniors of ’81—’82 as a laughing, merry, light-hearted youth, a general favorite with his teachers and playmates, and a pupil who was always sure of a leading place in all his classes when his health allowed him to apply himself regularly to his studies. After having spent the greater portion of the summer vacation at the College, he was summoned home towards the end of August, and did not return until the 8th of December. Of a naturally frail and delicate constitution, it soon became painfully evident that disease had taken too firm a hold of him to be shaken off. After the first joyous excitement of re-visiting the old familiar college • scenes and greeting again the old college friends was over, he found himself obliged to take a room in the Infirmary. Five days of sickness passed, and the end was at hand. Conscious to the very last, not racked by. suffering,.but apparently exhausted of vital energy, after receiving all the consolations of religion, he composed himself as if for a long sleep, and, with the “ Hail Mary” on his lips, peacefully expired. ’	.	■
The,death of a gentle,.affectionate, and interesting child like Montrose. Graham, must indeed be. a sad blow to his bereaved relatives, and the Scholastic takes this opportunity of assuring his,father, ■ Commander J. D. Graham, U. S. N., that he has
the heartfelt sympathy of all at Notre Dame who knew and loved his bright young son. in the great affliction with which Providence has visited o	.
him. May he rest in peace!
Personal.
—Wm. Hoynes, of ’68, has settled a most important railroad case in Chicago. 31	j
—Lewis C. Watson, of ’73, is Deputy County Clerk of Wayne County, Mich.
—Franklin Pierce (Com’l), of ’62, is a genial and gentlemanly conductor on the Lake. Shore and Michigan Southern R.R. ,	, ?
—Prof. John P. Lauth, .’67, Principal of Lauth’s Academy, Chicago, visited his Alma Mater and old friends during the holidays.
—Among the most welcome visitors, during Christmas week was Mrs. Ryan Devereux, of St.
* Louis, who came to see her two sons, students in the University.
—Rev. Father Berger, Professor in St. Francis’ Seminary, Milwaukee, was a welcome visitor to the College last week. He expressed himself highly pleased with all he saw.	.
—Rev. M. F. Campion, of ’62, now the popular and energetic pastor of St. Peter’s Church, Laporte, visited the College, during the holidays, and was warmly greeted by many old friends.
—A. T. Moran, of ’81, is connected with the • National Spice Mills, Detroit, Mich., and is doing well. The agent of Notre Dame’s publications is under special obligations to him for favors received.	.
—C.J. Lundy, M. D., of ’71, is practising in Detroit, and has earned a brilliant and wide-spread reputation in specialities of his profession. He. has now inkier consideration the acceptance of a Professorship in the University of Michigan. The Doctor’s many friends at Notre Dame are pleased to hear of his success.	.
—W. J. Ivers, A. M., ’65, formerly the popular and efficient Professor of Mathematics, at Nojtre . Dame, is now residing in Philadelphia. A letter written in his own well-known and inimitable style has been received, expressing Newy Year’s oreeting and remembrances to old friends.! All were pleased to hear from him.	’
—We learn from the Morning Star (New Orleans) that, on the 20th ult., Rev. T. McNamara, C. S. ,C., was ordained deacon, by Right Rev. Bishop Leray. Father McNamara; during his student life, was one of “ye editors of the.Scholastic,” and, naturally, we take'unusual pleasure in mentioning his promotion. All his bld friends here join with us in offering , congratulations, and hoping for. his speedy elevation to the priesthood.
—On the 24th inst, at St. Francis’_Seminary,in Mihvau-. kee, Rev;-A. Morrissey, jC. S- C., of tile Sacred Heart 061-lege; was ordained deacon by Archbishop Hei^ and he officiated at Solemn High Mass On 'Christmas Day asAs-sistant to Father Corby, at St Bernard’s Church. The
266
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
voting divine will soon be elevated to the priesthood. — H'aterto-zer Gazette.
Father Morrissey took his degree of A. B. with the Class of ’77, and for some years was a prominent and efficient member of the Faculty of Notre Dame. His many friends here rejoice to learn of his rapid and deserved promotion in his sacred calling. May he ere long attain the summit of his aspirations!
Local items. ■
—Hapi’y New Year!
—Are we all here?
—C$, or you will Bh.	'
—Now, to work again.
—“Them high-priced coat! ”
—Did you have a good time?
—Competitions next week—not.
—How did you spend the holidays?
—Did you bring those “Personals”?
—Frankie and Henry were at it again.
—“No, thank you, I have lots of cakes.”
—-“ The Shepherd ” wrote in short-hand.
—Leon is not a success as a letter-writer.
—Our poet spent the holidays in Chicago.
—Dick tried hard to get at that Slun^ullion.
—The stay-at-homes had a most enjoyable time.
—B. Tnomas set ’em up on Christmas morning.	•
—E. L. will studiously avoid the ice-boat in future.
—The burros have sought a more congenial clime.	.
—The -Scholastic Annual is selling like hot-cakes.
•—A Minim may be a pct, but a Junior is now a darling.	-
—“A little ancient?” “Yres.” “All right!” “Shake!”
—The Juniors have received a large number of accessions.	'
—AH weather-prophets now consult the Scholastic Annual.
—Prof. Edwards spent the holidays in Toledo and Indianapolis.
—Our friend John wishes to know if carpets are subject to taxation..
—He did not catch that rabbit. It was a rare bit, but it escaped.
—The St. Cecilians were disappointed as to their visit to Niles.	•
.	—B. Thomas Aquinas spent the early part of the
’ holidays in Chicago. -	.
- —Mr. J. Solon’s speech, New Year’s Day, was
. terse and appropriate.	■
.. —Look out for the “ Past, Present, Future and Aorist'of Colorado!” .	.	, .
—Where are the burros? “ Thil ” says he has their habits “ down fine.”
—The Scholastic is indebted to its Minim friends for favors received.
j —Where is Gawge? We hooe he will be back
I	O	X
in time for Commencement.
—Classes were resumed at half-past 7 o’clock sharp, last Tuesday morning.
—“Jake” was happily surprised on learning the contents of his Christmas “ box.”. '
—Skating by moonlight was one of the unique features of the holiday enjoyments.
—The Philodemics have revived and will astonish the natives early next session.
—The last request of the D. of St. C. to the C. of M. was to bring- back a voung lion.	■
—There is a report that the Philopatrians will soon burn the romantic city of Bertrand.
—A large and splendid collection of classical works will soon be added to the Library.
—Brothers Sumption and Wheelock, noted temperance advocates, visited the College last week.
—Pie came out with “ the boys,” he said, but he went back by himself. We don’t blame him, either.
—A new weather-prophet has come to light. He dwelleth not a thousand miles from the printingoffice.
—The Western-bound students are under obligations to the officials of the C. B. & Q. R.R. for favors.
—Prof. L , it is said, was a “ boss” conductor. The orotund voice was used in calling out the stations.
’ —Arranging the foot-lights is no easv task: at least so thought Tim. on- the evening of the last exhibition.
—The final ice-boat race came oil' last week— Mr. Sturla, the captain of the “ Breakneck,” winning by two lengths.
—Brother Charles is putting up a vestibule in the Minims’ Palace, and, like everything that he does, it is artistic and tasteful.
—The St. Cecilians who spent the holidays here enjoyed a grand excursion to South Bend, under the care of the genial B. Marcellinus.
— The proprietors of the ice-boats deserve much praise for their efforts in making the holidays pass pleasantly for the stay-at-home Preps.
.—Father General has the best thanks of the. Minims for some splendid oranges that he sent them on the Feast of St.John the Evangelist.
• —A new consignment-of magno-electric and electro-magnetic machines, will, it is expected, soon arrive and be placed'in the- Cabinet of Physics.
— The Professor of Physics was scaling the heights of. Pike’s Peak during the holidays. ("We . are not exactly7 sure about the scale—but, let it go.)
—George G. Miln,; now so widely known as the one who passed “ from the pulpit to the stage,” was a pleased visitor to the College-during the’ past week. .
J.
I I
THE NOTRE DANE SCHOLASTIC. -	.267
—To-day, the Feast of Epiphany, Alissa Regia will be sung. Vespers, p. 75. To-morrow, the Sunday within the octave, Missa de Angelis will be sung. Vespers as on the Feast.
—To say that Messrs. M. T. Burns, J. P. O’Neill, and J. B. O’Reilly engineered the performances for the Seniors during the holidays, is as much as to say they had a lively time.
—The Muggletonians, it is said, will soon appear in a grand tragedy, written expressly for their Society by an ex-member who now plays a prominent part in the world of letters.
• —A Boston paper sometime ago stated that some one caught a butterfly in the “South End.” If he had caught a bumble-bee in the same place there would have been some’humming.
—Somebody was urging a book on our friend John as being “ a very rare one.” “ Oh, yes,” said our friend, “ I see it is rare; it is anything but well done”; and he didn’t take the book.
—When making their New Year’s calls, the members of the Temperance Association refused fortified water, and joyfully contented themselves with copious doses of tally and spring water.
—We have heard it asserted that the ice-boat was a success, but from observations taken on the spot, ye “ local ” maintains that the propulsion of the boat was effected in the main bv the crew.
—The St. Cecilians are under obligations to Father Zahm, Profs. Stace and Edwards, Bros. Leander, Lawrence, Charles, Anselm and Thomas, for kind services on the occasion of their late entertainment.	.
—The Scholastic Annual for 18S3, by Prof. J. A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame, is just out, and, as usual, is full of interesting readingmatter—prose and poetry,—and also contains valuable astronomical tables.— Chicago Tribune.
—There is a young Junior named Frank, Not too big for his mammy to spank : He parts his hair in the middle, And sings by the fiddle.
This sillv voting masher called Frank.
—The professional punster is in a dilemma; he says he has'perpetrated all the allowable puns’at least three times. We differ from him a little on that point; we know a few that have not yet been thought of, but wouldn’t for the world tell them.
—The students who went home by the L. S. & M. S. R.R. passed a resolution tendering a vote of thanks to W. P. Johnson, General Pass. Agent, J. H. Parsons, Sup’t of West. Div., and J. Laughlin, Freight Agent at South Bend, for courtesies.
— The “ Ave Maria” of this week contains a charming sketch,by Charles Warren Stoddard, entitled “ The Record of Two-Score Years,” also the initial chapter of a bright new story, written expressly for its pages by Nugent Robinson. The “ Ave Maria ” numbers among its contributors some of the best writers in the English-speaking world.
—Lost,’Strayed or Stolen, during the holidays. A heart! the. property of G-—of the Junior department. At least the young gent, says
it is no longer in his possession. “Who steals my purse, steals trash,” says Shakespeare, and we add “ whosoever hath appropriated this heart, pos-sesseth something which doth enrich but mighty little.”	"	' ’ '
—On New Year’s Day, Mars is in trine with Saturn and Uranus, these planets occupying respectively the terrestrial signs of Capricornus, Taurus and Virgo. This is a . peculiarly unfortunate aspect, and the events that' accompany it will cast a gloom over the usual New Year felici- • tations.—Scholastic. Annual, 1883.
How singularly has the prediction of our astrologer been verified!
—The N s have found a new use for themselves; henceforth they will, if allowed, be present at all banquets, socials, etc., etc., and amuse the guests with a fund of Chinese jokes, translated expressly for their use. This is a step in the right direction, and we hope they will succeed in- their praiseworthy undertaking. “ Stale Jokes ” will soon be at a discount, and then who will furnish our waste-basket?	.
—Forty-one (41) happy, joyous Minims, accompanied by their teachers and prefects, took a grand excursion to the Farm on the goth ult. Greatly to the disappointment of all, the b-f-1 snow was non cst, and wagons were perforce pressed into service; but the ride was enjoyed, all the same. The usual concomitants of these trips, i. e., sports of all kinds, grand dinner, etc., were not wanting, and the day was made to pass pleasantly.
—Father General sang the Midnight Mass on Christmas. His rich, clear voice has lost nothing of its strength; on the contrary, those who have been accustomed for years’ to hear him, say that his singing of the Midnight Mass was the finest they ever heard. Father General seems to be growing younger and more active, notwithstanding advancing vears. Mav God continue the blessing of good health to him, and leave him to Notre Dame for many years!
—On Tuesday evening, Dec. 26th, the Juniors had a “ grand spread ” in their reading-room. Ice-cream, coffee, cakes, candies, xvicnerworst^ and-dainties innumerable graced the tables; but, ere long, they were not permitted to serve as mere ornaments. Many visitors were present, and, with the banquet and music kindly furnished by Prof. Paul, a very enjoyable evening was passed. The thanks of all are due to B. Lawrence, -who conducted the procedings.
—We have been permitted to examine a beautiful work of art—a magnificent floral album, the property and workmanship of Rev. Father L’-Etourneau. It is impossible to describe its varied beauties in detail; it needs to.be seen to-be appreciated. Floral pictures and designs, of all colors and forms, make up a panorama with which the eye can never tire. We imderstand' that the Rev. Father is at work upon a new album, and announces that all who contribute five (5) pictures will have, their names inscribed on its pages.
—Through the favor of Very Rev.' Father r Sorin, the denizens of the printing-office had? a very enjoyable luncheon, the day after New-Year’s,
j
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in the Junior refectory. The turkey, the cake, etc., etc., (including “ the cup that cheers but doth not inebriate”) were done ample justice. Everybody connected with the army of invasion felt thankful to Very Rev. Father General for his kind remembrance. The engagement was a brief but warm one, ending in the demolition of the Grand Pyramid and the possession of Turkey. The besiegers grave a vote of thanks to Mr. de Groot for his polite attention in the absence of the refectorian. ,
—The press of South Bend have been profuse in their acknowledgments of the kindly Christmas greetings preferred them by Father Sorin. The offerings consisted of pyramids of cake with Spanish oranges and Malaga grapes. Accompanying the present was the following card: -
SANTA CLAUS,	,
though intensely active, has limits to his power; and so numerous are the friends of Notre Dame, that when we ask him if he has visited them all, we are not surprised to hear him quote, from Ecclesiastes, vii, 29: “ One man among a thousand have I found.”
This is indeed about the proportion among our friends to whom we can send greetings; and we hope that each of the recipients will consider himself the best friend among a thousand.
A Merry Christmas !
—New Year’s Day, the students of the Senior ■ department assembled in the main parlor to pay their respects to the Rev. President of the University. Mr. James Solon was spokesman. In a few and well-chosen words, he congratulated Rev. President Walsh on the prosperity of the University, assuring him of the affection and esteem in which he was held by the students, and that it was their prayer he might be spared many, many years to assist them in obtaining knowledge, and teaching them all that is noble and good. Rev. President Walsh responded in his own pleasant way; he exhorted all to prove themselves men of honor and principle, and that they would always receive the support and encouragement of their Alma Mater. After interchanging the compliments of the season, the Rev. President retired, amid the applause of the students. ,
—On the evening of Friday, Dec. 29th, the Juniors’ hall presented a scene of unwonted splendor. It was the occasion of the regular “ Christmas tree,” and a goodly crowd had assembled to take part in the festivities. Over the doors of the hall various mottos were painted, in an artistic marinei, by B. Anselm. One of them read as follows:	.....
May joyous be the Christmas-tide!
And bright the New Year, too; _ May ne’er a pleasure be denied	!
The boys of eighty-two!	'	-
A fine large tree, loaded with gifts of all kinds and surrounded with beautiful vases of natural flowers, occupied the centre of the room. Space will not permit us to give the full list of the many and valuable presents; suffice it to say that there were cornucopias, fruit baskets, harmonicas, paintboxes, autograph albums, scrap-books^ fancy slip-jpers, compasses, electro-reflectors, cake, dominos, paintings, etc., etc.’ A feature of the occasion was
the “ raffle ” for a Fox of cigars between meinbers of the Faculty; the staid, dignified and withal good-natured professorial corps “ caught on ” to the proposal with all the zest and enthusiasm of little princes. Amid great applause, the Prof, of Vocal Music was declared the fortunate winner of the trophy. Altogether,'the reunion was oiie of the pleasantest held at Notre Dame for many a day. The thanks of the Juniors, as well as. invited guests, are due to the kind prefects, through whose efforts the entertainment had been prepared.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
senior department.
Messrs. Arnold, J. A. Burke, Bowers, Jos. Browne, Burns, Comerford, Castanedo, T. Clarke, G. Clarke, Conway, Clements, Crawford, Cole, M. Donohue, Dickerson, Ewing, Freeze, Gray, Grever, Garrett, Golonski, Kolars, Koehler, Kuhn, Keegan, W. J. McCarthy, W. H. McCarthy, Molloy, Morse, O’Dea, O’Neill, Otis, O’Reilly, H. Porter, Paquette, Pour, Parrott, A. Peery, Peifer, Ratter-man, Ryan, Solon, C. L. Smith, G. H. Smith, Twohig, Warner, Wheatly, Zahm, Delgado.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Brice, A. Browne, Bush, Brewster, Cassilly, Jos. Courtney, Jas. Courtney, L. Cain, Dupke, Dwenge’r, Duffin, Darling, A. Eisenhauer, M. Foote, Fehr, Fishel, Fogarty, Foster, Gibert, Grothaus, Gerlach; Hibbeler, Hess, Halligan, Hagenbarth, Kahman, Kelly, McCawley, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, Mulkern, Major, J. P. O’Donhell, S. Peery, Porter, Robb, Ruppe, Reach, Shannon, Talbot, Taggart, Terrazas, Waggoner, Wilkinson, Wright, Wallace Weaver.
• .MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adams, Bunker, Geo. Costigan,-E. Costigan, Chaves, Cummings, Coad, Cain, Colwell, Devereux, Dirksmeyer, W. Dyer, J. Dyer, Harris, Huestis, Keeffe, Kellner, Kelly, Luther, Landenwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Lare, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McNaughton, Morrison, Masi, McPhee, Moss, F. Otis, A. Otis, Papin, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Quinlin, Rebori, Roberts, Studebaker, Stange, Schmitz, Sommer, F. Stamm, Geo. Stamm, Stewart; Walsh; Whitney, Warner, Wright, Wallace, L. Young, C. Young, W. Welch, H. Doherty, Schmauss, Shicker, Hopkins, A. Devine, W. Devine.
For the Dome.
Rev. J. J. Shea, C. S. C...................$100.00
G- Wyman, South Bend....................... 100.00
Ishpenhing, Mich., per John McEnroe........ 127.60
A True Friend.....-......................... 60.00
Mrs. C. Hug, Indianapolis................... 25.00
St. Mary?s School, Austin, Texas............ 25.00
Cathedral School, Milwaukee, Wis............. 12.35
Fils de Marie.........;..................... 10.00
Mr. Thomas' Tormey; Madison, Wis............ 10.00
A Child of Mary............................. 10.00
A Child of Mary............................. 10.00
.Mrs.-Anne Lane, Mobile, Ala................ 10.00
A Cfiild of Mary.'.... . . .T.; 7“    7*..... -. „ 10.00 A Poor Schoolr........ ?.	. 7... 5.00
F. Kellner, Louisville, Ky..................  5.00
C.sE. Dubois, Annapolis, Md.................  5.00
A poor young man who loves, his Mother........	5.00
A Child of Mary.............................  5.00
Some, Little Children of Mary, Boston, Mass........ 5.00 St John’s School, Goshen, Ind.................. 5.00
St Angela’s School, Morris, Ill............   5.00
Joseph Dufty, Monroe, Mich.................   5.60
A Pious Soul...... .... A. .y-...............	7500
Donations from Various Sources.............  10.0b
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint TFlary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Danie University.
—The deepest,sympathy is felt by teachers and school-mates for Miss Jennie. Anderson in the sudden loss of her devoted mother.
—Miss L. O’Neill, Peoria, Ill., Class of ’78, Miss D. Gordon, Cairo, Ill., Class of ’81, and Miss J. Hansbury, .Coldwater, Mich., Class of ’82, spent Christmas at St. Mary’s.
—Among the New Year’s calls the most notable were those of Rev. President Walsh and Father Toohey, of the University, and Rev. Father Giles, of Brooklyn; also Judge Stanfield, and Mr. Wm. Miller and son, of-South Bend.
—The receipt of letters and numberless beautiful Christmas cards at St. Mary’s announced the safe arrival home and a loving remembrance of those who left us the morning of the 20th. A per sonal answer to each would be almost impossible; so, to all we sincerely wish a most Happy New Year.
—On New Year’s Day the compliments of the season were offered by Miss Clarke, on the part of-all the pupils, to the Prefect of Studies, immediately after breakfast in the refectory. Just, after the second Mass of the day, Miss Campbell read the “New Year’s Offering,” in the study-hall, as a congratulation to the ecclesiastical superiors.
—On Dec. the 27th, a graceful entertainment consisting of music, vocal and instrumental, by the Misses'J. Reilly, L. Wallace, and M. Campbell, with recitations and readings, was given in honor of .St.John the Evangelist to Father General. St. John is the patron of his ordination. The complimentary address was read by Miss M. Clarke; Misses L. Fox, C. Campbell, and C. Lancaster gave pleasing recitations. Father General was accompanied by Rev. Fathers Shortis and Saulnier.
-^-Midnight Mass at St. Mary’s was celebrated by Rev. Father Shortis, who said also two in the .morning. The Solemn High Mass on Christmas Day was sung by Rev. Father Saulnier, Rev. Father Shortis deacon and Rev. Mr. Irman, C. S. C., subdeacon. -The-music-wa^ that of the Church. Its solemn, prayerful strains assist devotion, and force on the mind-that we, Christians of 1882, are links in the golden chain who have kept the « Gloria in excelsis Deo” of the angels. The hymns before and after these Masses were well rendered.
—The decorations of the chapel are tasteful and, appropriate—all that rare flowers, sparkling lights and graceful garlands, arranged in such a manner as to represent the yirtu.es of Faith, Hope and Charity can make them. The representation of the Cave is simple, and.true to nature. The beautiful image of .the D.iyine Babe was fashioned by Mrs. Gre-gori and daughter, after the celebrated '“ Bambino ” at “Ara Coeli,” in Rome. It reposes in a crib madeiby Signor Gregori himself, and constitutes a .treasured:gift from the family. The most gracious .
thanks are due to the donors for this mark of friendship, and we may thank God that a Christ tian artist now, as in the earlier days, loves best to devote his brush and art to the service of religion” *	'	.'	’	© r- > t
—In the Art Department, for some weeks past, grand preparations have been going on in order to surprise parents and friends with elegant Christmas and New Year’s presents. The articles of every form and device, usefiil and ornamental, show skill in decorative art. Among these are fine paintings in oil and water colors, crayon portraits, panels and specimens of the new style of painting on velvet and rich silk, in imitation of embroidery, so perfect in execution, that one feels tempted to count the stitches and the number of shades. The fancyworkers were also busy, and everything imaginable took graceful forms under their nimble fin-gers. Table-covers, lamp-mats, slippers, satchels, pin-cushions, smoking-caps, collars, etc., etc., went to fill up these boxes so precious to parents; not alone for their beautiful contents, but the knowledge that the industry of theii* daughters produced these expressions of grateful affection. . .
The Pifferari.
[The following little sketch, written from memory, related by the late Rev. Father Neal-H. Gillespie, among the many interesting details of ' his sojourn in Rome, we feel sure will be read with pleasure by his many friends, who will thus be reminded of one whose virtues and example claim from them an everlasting remembrance. It is a matter of regret to the writer that these few, dry words are utterly incapable to give his mode, of description; for everybody knows manner and tone are more than half of the tale. . Beside, his cus tom while speaking was to give an instantaneous pencil-sketch of the surroundings—all these things together made palpable his pleasant and graphic descriptions of Rome, hei* churches, and the late glorious Pontiff, Pius IX. Christian Rome of to-day resembles more her life under .her early persecutors; even the poor- Pifferari are forbidden entrance in the city by the present'Italian Government. But her faith can -never be crushed from the.hearts of the descendants of the martyrs—the martyrs whose blood bedewed the sand of the Coliseum:]	- L
In Rome, Christmas is seen and heard;. you.feel ' , it in the hand you touch; you know it .by all .of / life around you; for everything is.set aside for-the -event of the Nativity.^ From the beginning .of Advent the Pifferari are about: and what .or who are they ? They are shepherds who come in from , -the Abruzzi, and are lodged, free ofcharge, at. the / hospital for pilgrims; the}- represent the shepherds r to whom the angels announced the birth .of our ■ Blessed Lord; for these Calabrian shepherds -claim a descent from those “ who watched .their flock by night ” at the time of the’ Nativity. We 'i are not going to say . that this is true or untrue,:but . f •there is-nd difficulty in.saying that there is no.im-'-r.
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
possibility in it. The Nativity is not so far oil as to make it improbable for the descendants of the shepherds to preserve their great tradition. Certainly the shepherds would, in the first instance, relate to their children anil grandchildren, and even their great grandchildren that they had heard the angels sing, had gone to the cave, and had there seen our Lord—all the circumstances of being His first worshippers.
The Divine Child, resting in His Immaculate Mother’s arms, was not an event to be passed over in silence or forgotten in traditonary lore. In Rome, images of the Virgin and Child are at every street corner, and generally before them a lamp is kept burning; here the PilFerari stop to play and sing. This is not a merry-making custom, like the “ Waits ” in England, but a real devotion. They begin early in the morning; then in the middle of the daj* there is a cessation of their wild but sweet music, and in the evening they begin again, standing generally three in number before a picture or image, fixing their eves on it with unwavering at-tention, while they sing their hymn. The three perfomers arc of very different ages: an old man, who is the singer, a young man, who plays a sort of bagpipe called a cornemouse, and a boy who plays a fife called the piffero—from it comes their name of Pifferari. The wind-bag of the cornemouse is made of goat-skin, with the hair remain-ing on. The Calabrian pipe is far more melodious in its lower tones than its Scotch companion, and always has the honor of playing the prelude to the hymn. The tunes and hymns played are ackowl-edged to be of unknown antiquity. They never alter; dreamy airs that haunt you with a few notes, which it is difficult according to any former experience to learn throughout. There was a saying that it could never be written down. The hymn describes the King of Heaven descending from the stars to be born of our Lady, in the cave of Bethlehem. Joseph exclaims: “ The Babe whom I see here shining!” Words observable; for the tradition is that the bars of the manger on which the Divine Child lay shone, and St. Joseph broke the bars away and kept them, giving them afterwards to our Lady, from whose hands they went into the safe custody of the blessed Apostles, and so have been preserved in the Church to this day.
The dress of the Pifferari is most picturesque— high, sugar-loaf shaped hats of a grey sort of felt, in the band of which they wear a small picture of our Lady; knee-breeches, buckled with very large buckles, and leather leggings, bound with straps that cross each other from ankle to knee; over the shoulder they wear a mantle of sky-blue. This dress shows hard wear; age and patches leave visible marks of long use. The Pifferari are not “gotten up” people at all. They carry even in the extreme picturesqueness of their costume every evidence of the true, long-descended shepherds of the Abruzzi. The relic of the Holy Manger is kept at the Basilica of St. Mary Major, and, before the-first Mass on Christmas, is brought in procession-from the Chapel of the Blessed Sacrament, ft is held high, as the procession moves slowly,
with every accompaniment of" grandeur. As it passes, the guards make their act of veneration, and the sound of grounded arms on the maiblc floor sends a strange thrill through one not accus-tomed to such impressions. The relic is contained in a very large sort of crystal vase, through which can be seen clearly the wood of the manger on which the Divine Infant had been laid by His Virgin Mother. One of the shorter pieces looking as if it had been torn from a nail, of which the mark and the split remain; evidently it had been a rough manger, rudely nailed together. The relic was placed on the altar, just where the tabernacle is, and above, where the crucifix might be, was not our Blessed Lord on the Cross of Calvary, but His figure as an Infant, in the act of blessing the people. The figure is dazzling with light, gold and precious stones. The back of the high altar rises to a great elevation, so high that the place for the exposition of the Blessed Sacrament has to be reached by steps from the back. On each side of the altar, to the top of the reredos, and above it. were long lines of white lilies.—nothing else. White lilies in their graceful height, one above another, side by side, towering up in silvery lines, reflecting brightness and glittering there’ in purity—the white lilies of great St. Joseph. The Basilica of St. Mary Major is where the Pope says his first Christmas Mass; his third being in the Vatican.
When Rome celebrates high festivals, every living soul suns itself in the blessed light of heaven, keeping Christian holiday; and, last but not least, are the Pifferari.
SCHOOL OF DRAWING AND PAINTING.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED. -
1ST Class—Misses M. English, Fox, Lancaster, Fen-drich. _	.	’	.
2D Class—Misses Van Patten, Rulison, Beal, Richardson.
2D Div.—Misses Harrigan, Ewing, Owens, Pease, Bar-low, M. H. Ryan, Williams, Gavin, M. Dillon.
3D Class—Mrs. G. Costigan; Misses Daily, Knott, Shickey, Anderson, E. Slattery, Pick, A.-English, Richmond, Unger, Walsh, Shephard, Madole, J. Duffield, A. Duffield, Johnson, E. Hawkins, ,M. Hawkins, Hoag, Dur-phy, T. Slattery, Otis, Fehr, Coyne, Giist, Stacker!, Dolan, Dickson.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
Misses • Shickey, E. Slattery, Anderson, Johnston, A. English, Pick, Unger, Dickson, Richmond.
OIL-PAINTING.
ist Class—Misses M. English, Fox, Lancaster, L. F endrich.
2D Class—Misses Van Patten, Rulison, Beal,|Donnelly.
2D Div.—Misses Harrigan, Ewing, Owens, Richardson.
3D Class—Miss.es Heneberry, M. H.^Ryan, Barlow, Clarke, Pease, Williams^Gavin, Wood.
GENERAL DRAWING. .
SENIOR department.
Misses Black, Johnson, Rettig, Danforth, Drover, Sawyer, Donahue, Hunter, Hunt, Gallagher,* Adams, Mooney Kolb, Donhersberger, O’Connell,.Munger, Heckard.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Nevius, Schmidt, Howlett, Morgan, Moshier, Rodgers, Brown, Otis, Fehr, Dignan, Gale,' Sullivan, Coyne, Chaves, Van Horn, Morrison.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
THE SUN.	The Minim -Department.
INEW YORK, 1S83.
• More people have read The Sun during the year jus now passing than ever before since it was first printed No other newspaper published on this side of the earth has been bought and read in any year by so many men and women.
We are credibly informed that people buy, read, and like The Sun for the following reasons, among others:
Because its news columns present, in attractive form and with the greatest possible accuracy, whatever has interest for humankind; the events, the deeds, and misdeeds, the wisdom, the philosophy, the notable folly, the solid sense, the improving nonsense—all the news of the busiest world at present revolving in space.
Because people have learned that in its remarks concerning persons and affairs The Sun makes a practice of telling them the exact truth to the best of its ability three hundred and sixty-five days in the year, before election as well as after, about the whales as well as about the small fish, in the face of dissent as plainly and fearlessly as when supported by general approval. The Sun has absolutely no purposes to serve, save the information of its readers and the furtherance of the common good.
Because it is everybody’s newspaper. No man is so humble that The Sun is indifferent to his welfare and his rights. No man is so rich that it can allow injustice to be done him. No man, no association of men, is powerful enough to be exempt from the strict application of its principles of right and wrong.
Because in politics it has fought for a dozen years without intermission and sometimes almost alone among newspapers, the fight that has resulted in the recent overwhelming popular verdict against Robesonism and for honest government. No matter what party is in power, The Sun stands and will continue to stand like a rock for the interests of the people against the ambition of bosses, the encroachments of monopolists and the dishonest schemes of public robbers.
All this is what we are told almost daily by our friends. One man holds that The Sun is the best religious newspaper ever published, because its Christianity is undiluted with cant. Another holds that it is the best Republican newspaper printed, because it has already whipped half of the rascals out of that party, and is proceeding against the other half with undiminished vigor. A third believes it to be the best magazine of general literature in existence, because its readers miss nothing worthy of notice that is current in the world of thought. So every friend of The Sun discovers one of its many sides that appeals with particular force to his individual liking.
It you already know The Sun, you will observe that in 1883 it is a little better than ever before. Ifyou do not already know The Sun, you will find it to be a mirror of all human activity, a storehouse of the choicest products of common sense and imagination, a mainstay for the cause of honest government, a sentinel, for genuine Jeffersonian Democracy, a scourge for wickedness of every species, and an uncommonly good investment for the coming year.
Terms to Mail Subscribers.
The several editions of The Sun are sent by mail postpaid, as follows'
DAILY—55 cents a month,	50 a year5 with Sun-
day edition, @7.70.
SUNDAY—Eight pages, g | ,20 a year.
WEEKLY—g f a year. Eight pages of the best matter of the daily issues; an Agricultural Department of unequalled merit, market reports, and literary, scientific, and domestic intelligence make The Weekly Sun the newspaper lor the farmer’s household. To clubs of ten with $10, an extra copy free.’
Address	I- W. ENGLAND, Publisher,
The Sun, N. Y. City.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys "under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	'
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five "Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame P. CK, Ind.


DENTIST.
'Office—101 Michigan, cor. of Washington St..
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
In order to prevent irregular dentition and premature decay of Children’s Teeth, frequent examinations are indispensable. The Doctor will make no charge to Parents who desire, to know the condition of their children’s teeth.
*
NOW READY.
Scholastic Annual
For 3883
-4
EIGHTH YEAR.
.1
- .'S
-.1
CONTENTS:
Predictions; Astronomical- Calculations
Astrological
A Little Bird (Poetry),—AI. E. AI.; Abstinence Davs; Abandoned at Sea (Poetry),—E. R.; An Undesired Prefix (Poetry),—Justin Thyme; Bryant Vindicated,—A. j. Stace, A. AI.; Calendars; Church Days and Cycles of Time; Convalescent (Poetry),— T. E~.Hoz-.iard, A. M.y

Denis Florence MacCarthy,—I. V. Green; Eclipses; The* Electric Lighting,—Electron; Fasting Days; Guido of jjf Arezzo,—H. IV. C.; Holydays of Obligation; Introduce /I tion; Now Beginneth the Hot Spell (Poetry),—CarryE& Aleout; Professorial Verbiage,—S.; Parting with RomeV .Jy (Poetry),—Rev. C. C. Pise, D.D.; Rates of Postage; Th^ * cel (Poetry).—Eleanor C. Donnelly; To St Cecilia (Poe-tf^X^ AI. A. Stace; The Voyage of Life,—Hon. S. S. Hayisy J: The Genuine Jean Valjean,—T. U.I.; With a Forgefe^te?.. 'X Not (Poetry),—E. AI.; Winged Words.
- yz,!
Price. certts. Posttag^e Fre&A?-
Address,

JOSEPH A. LYONS, -Notre Dame, Ind. jXj is?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Kimball Organs.
If: has become necessary for us to greatly enlarge our manufacturing facilities, and
O	O'
it is probable that during the coming year our factory will turn out over one-twelfth of the entire production of
PARLOR and CABINET ORGANS
on the American Continent, which demonstrates beyond a doubt the superiority of the Instruments manufactured by us.
We are sole agents for the W. W. Kimball Pianos, Hallet & Davis and W. P. Emerson Pianos.
Address,
W. W. KIMBALL,
CHICAGO, ILL.
Or,
S. D. ROBERSON,
General Agent,
SOUTH BEND,
St. Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC
AND SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE.
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
Tn the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic and Classical tn ades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular, course of academic studies
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a laige Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for gradua-tion in theory and practice.
' Esthetics and Composition —A laree Musical Library in French German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
ts modelled on the. great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and paint-ing from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English. French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with tlife School of Design Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold-Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.'
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
. Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mast's Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
L. 8 & M 8 Railway.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 7, 1881, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m,; Cleveland, 2.33 p.m. ; Buffalo, 8 05 p.m.	• - * -.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p m ; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m ; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.27 p m., Allamic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toh do, 2.45 a.m ; Cleveland. 7.05 a m.; Buffalo' 1.10 p.m'.
1238 p.m.. Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo; 4» m.	’ ' \
635 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 1.0.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 145 a.m.; Buffalo, 725 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
448 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
7 40 a.m.. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, 8.44 a.m. Chesterton, 9.40 a m.; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
117 p m, Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte 215 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m : Chicago, 500 p.m.
426 p.m. Special Clrcago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Ches’erton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT. Gen’l Sup’t., Cleveland
JOHN NEWELL, Gen'l Manager, Cleveland.