Coming:
The Christopther Columbus Follies: An Eco-Cabaret
A Production by the Underground Railway Theater
October 13, 1992
Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
University of Notre Dame
This energetic performance by an award-winning national touring company explores the legacy of Columbus from multiple viewpoints while examining issues of cultural encounter, racism, ecology, class division, Native American concerns, and more. The play combines music, puppetry, humor, magic and other theatrical media to challenge, inform, and encourage dialogue.
Tickets are available at:
LaFortune Information Desk $7 General Admission Center for Social Concerns $5 Students
Cosponsored by: Center for Social Concerns
Student Union Board
Student Government
Multicultural Executive Council
Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies
STUDENT UNION BOARD
Contents a ' -
C T O B E R 8 ,	1	9	9
SCHOLASTIC
E
Cover photo by Ken Osgood
E
S

4 E-Mail Creating Campus Connections
6 Tailgating The Irish Way
S

8 Bom Again
10 Take A Shot
15 Out Of Bounds
16 Peter Gabriel & 10,000 Maniacs
17 Ah, Wilderness!
MEN
2	Editor’s Notes
3	Campus Watch
18	On Other Campuses
19	Week In Distortion
20	Final Word



■VoL.134, Np.6 'Octbbhr,8,1^X
On the Cover

'pisce’Citiasi'Semp^r. Viciuiiis.
Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF > y PatriciaK.Doyle y < y;
MANAGING EDITOR
Margaret S. Kenny: .
In this week’s cover story, Campus Life Editor Mollie Mudd examines one of the features offered by the Office of University Computing, electronic mail. E-mail, as it is more commonly referred to by users, allows Notre Dame students, faculty and personnel to communicate with others — at Notre Dame or somewhere else (without spending the 29 cents on a stamp or paying longdistance bills!).
Dedman reviews the recently-released albums by Peter Gabriel and 10,000 Maniacs.
We also have our regular features: Week in Distortion, On Other Campuses, Coming Distractions, Final Word and Out of Bounds.
Welcome Aboard
EXECUTIVE EDITOR y David J: Holsinger:/
i
In This Issue
jGAMPUSLfFE SEdtorf^llietMudd V 7.
f'.:.v\'	;
:• >S!.:
$ Editors: Karen Lawrence y^ y y -y Mark Mitchell ■
ySPORTS
7 Editor; :Jim Kuser - : ' y ’ ’Assistant: Amanda Clinton
yENTCRlAINMENlk /Editor:^
departments:;:
•Editor; Kate Wiftrdut
PHOTOGRAPHY /
Editor:.^
:copyJ y-'
'Edtbfe.^
^SENIpR^pIAFEWRITERS ;
<gWhic^
•i^ahager;:kareh^Riley*;rs"J':'
gBOSlNE^y^;:;;!^
0MSijag^felew"Sfi^yW^




One of Notre Dame’s many traditions is tailgating, and Campus Life writer Peg Ward shows us several different types of tailgaters and enlightens us that football tailgating doesn’t end with the bowl games.
In Sports, assistant Amanda Clinton previews this week’s football game against the University of Pittsburgh. The Irish are coming off a disappointing loss against the Stanford Cardinal and will try to redeem themselves by increasing their winning streak against the Panthers to five straight. victories. Also, Jason Conte highlights the 1992 hockey team, which has recently rejoined Division I. Take a look at the key players and what Coach Ric Schafer has to say about his team.
Notre Dame’s production of Ah, Wilderness! opened this week at Washington Hall, and writer Lisa Mehl previews it in Entertainment. Also in Entertainment, writer Pete
Scholastic would also like to welcome some new staff members: Karen Lawrence and Mark Mitchell, our co-News Editors; Pat Skidmore, Charlie Kranze and Christie Gallo in the Graphic Arts Department; and Mark Mazzola, one of our back page cartoonists.
Scholastic’s New Look
As you may have noticed, Layout Editor Chin Wang has made some snazzy changes to the pages of the magazine. We are incorporating new design ideas through our Graphics Arts department, and some of our editors have been working with our computers to create more eye-catching and interesting headlines. We hope you are as pleased with our new look as we are!
Margaret s. Kenny Managing Editor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. Thesubscriptim rate is $25.Q0fyeaTxnd back issues are available at $125 [copy. The opinions expressed m Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic ar of the University of Noire Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Letters io Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty membersshould include their department. All letters must be sgned. Names will he withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholar ic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by / the laws of the United Slates. Scholastic also will alii for copy fitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholasi ic cannot print all leiters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
, Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC^

Campus Watch
S -OX/ T UT T7 r T D D E D
Greetings, disappointed football fans! The Gipp is back again this week, hoping to lighten your heavy hearts with tales of random goofiness from across the campus. Of course, he’s still not getting any mail, which would make this job much easier, but never fear—there’s enough silly stuff happening on this campus to keep anyone busy.
WIN A DATE WITH THE GIPP
It seems that SYR-date angst has hit the campus all at once. Yes, that’s right, kiddies, there are nine SYRs in women’s dorms this weekend, meaning that if you’re a guy and you’re not busy this weekend, you’re probably a loser. (Of course, the Gipp himself doesn’t have a date, so you unwanted guys are in good company.). Anyway, it seems that there is a wave of paranoia spreading among much of the female population of this campus that there just aren’t enough acceptable guys to go around. A Scholastic staff member has had so much difficulty finding a good man that she asked the Gipp to help her find a date for her dance this weekend. All those interested can call 239-7569 to inquire. Please state your height, your name (or pseudonym.) and relative dancing skill. The Gipp himself, as was previously stated, is also not doing much either night this weekend and would be willing to provide his services for interested women. That’s right, you can get a date with the Gipp. Call the number listed above: The Gipp is (obviously) male, 6 feet tall and not a very good dancer but he guarantees at least good conversation. He still is not at liberty to disclose his real identity, even if you should require his services. (And no, he can’t go out with the female Scholastic staff member because he will still have to work with her afterwards.)
BROKEN WATER	WHERE’S MY VALET?
The Gipp’s only question this week regards the fountain part of “Stonehenge.” A curious party asked the Gipp why the streams of water on both ends of the memorial seem to vary so much in height Indeed, the water pressure in the fountain seems to be quite erratic. As a friend of the Gipp’s stated, “One minute it’s blasting against the top of the thingy and the next minute it’s barely squirting at all.” The Gipp tried to contact maintenance services on campus for an answer but was unable to talk to anyone. He didn’t even get an answer at the number listed under “Emergency Maintenance Services” in the phone directory. (Apparently the university doesn’t plan on things breaking down after business hours.) After that failed attempt, the Gipp tried to get in touch with the Campus Druids, figuring that maybe the asymmetric flows had something to do with the position of the planets or something.
Again, no luck. In fact, there isn’t even a chapter of the College Druids here at Notre Dame. Bummer. So the question remains unanswered, but the Gipp hopes that someone out there knows and will be willing to share that knowledge with us.
Also on the topic of “Stonehenge:” The Gipp has heard a rather clever expression used to describe the activity of sitting near Stonehenge and doing nothing. The word is “henge” (henj) vt. [SLANG, from “Stonehenge”] to sit near S tonehenge and do nothing. Add it to your vocabulary.
After looking up the number for maintenance services this week, the Gipp flipped through the “Notre Dame Departments” section of the phone book and found a few interesting phone numbers. One especially caught the Gipp’s eye. It seems that there is an organization on this campus called “Parking Services.” Thrilled at the possibility of valet parking which he could charge to his student account, the Gipp called this little-known organization and asked how he could sign up. Alas, parking services has nothing to do with parking students’ cars. It seems that they’re just another part of campus Stasi
(I mean, security) and are responsible for controlling all parking areas on campus (a.k.a. giving out tickets).
As always, the Gipp loves your mail. He reallydoes. Honestly. He would be flattered to get more than one piece of mail a week (freshmen asking what , is in the radiation building are encouraged not to send letters). Hot tips for the Gipp can be addressed to: 303 LaFortune, campus mail. You can also call our 24-hour friendly answering machineat239-7569.
By Mollie Mudd
taring at a blank computer is just O about as disheartening as opening an empty mailbox,” said Steph Goldman, junior. “This e-mail thing, it is great, but still, just like real mail, you only get it after you send it.”
The electronic-mail network is connecting Notre Dame students, faculty and all other university-affiliated personnel with each other and millions of people around the world. Notre Dame is connected to both BITNET and the Internet, two international . communications networks linking education, industry and government
Notre Dame uses NUPOP, a public domain application created by the Northwestern University for any personal computers that use DOS. For the Macintosh, computer users can use Eudora, a public domain application created by the University of Illinois. Both were adapted by Notre Dame for use with its computer network.
E-mail, as electronic mail is more commonly known, is definitely here to stay. “A lot of people are using it. At the beginning of the year there were a lot of freshmen coming in who were excited about being able to communicate with their friends at other universities and with their parents,” said Denise Moser, coordinator of the In
formation Resource Center (IRC) located in the Computing Center andMathematics Building.
The university’s system is connected to many other colleges, universities, businesses and homes to which students can send mail. Brennan Murphy, a junior and a computer consultant in DeBartolo, frequently sends mail to his freshman brother at Arizona State and his friends studying at Mexico State. “I have a friend at Mexico State that is so funny. He lets me know what is going on during the week, the weekend, even the same afternoon.”
“I’ve been using e-mail for three weeks now and its very convenient It is a lot easier to send and receive mail on a computer than through the post office. It is nice to be able to sit down and type it out and send it rather than having to look for an address and a stamp under all of the mess on my desk,” Goldman said.
Erin Montgomery, a junior who has been faithfully communicating to her friend studying at Notre Dame-Australia this semester, said, “It’s great because you can write and get an immediate response. It is free and it is a lot easier to share day-to-day events right when they happen.”
“E-mail is fun,” said Dana Dillon, a senior and an IRC consultant. “I got into it sophomore year when I started working as a con
sultant in LaFortune. I just loved it; I could not get away from it.” Dillon has friends that live off campus that leave her messages on e-mail and at her job in the IRC. “There is no •such thing as a paper memo. They send everything to us by computer.”
“My dad has a CompuServe modem at home to access e-mail, so I write my parents all the time. You save your 29 cent stamp and it is right here on campus. Just sit down, type it in and send it. I don’t have to remember to get a stamp or go to the post office. Besides, it makes dad happy to know I’m having a good day or that I went to all of my classes,” Dillon said.
E-mail messages are not only convenient and efficient, but there are ways also to express your individuality in your own signature and in the way you punctuate the end of your letter. The punctuation sequences, called “smileys,” are readable when you tilt your head to die left and are placed at the end of your message to convey your attitude. There are many unique combinations to choose from or even to make up your own.
The e-mail phenomena is catching on with students and faculty. It is a great way to communicate because it is quicker, cheaper and more convenient than regular mail. Dillon said, "Everyone should use it. All Notre Dame students automatically have accounts; it’s one of the perks here at Notre
[IIholastic
Dame.”
“Some faculty are using e-mail to make corrections or get actual documents and communicate with their students. E-mail is definitely growing with this group,” Moser said.
Murphy said that he has worked with some students in the computer lab that are in the freshman writing program. Their professors are receiving students’ assignments through e-mail. Within the Eudora application, the user is given the opportunity to attach a document to their message. E-mail transfers the document right onto the disks of the recipient. The students are sending their rough drafts to other class
mates for peer advis
ing, proofreading and critiques. Then they electronically mail the final copy to their professor.
“I had to help a student access his syllabus from e-mail; the professor did noteven hand them out in class; he just sent them to his
students,” Dillon said. Some students are required to open an e-mail account for class in order to receive their weekly assignments.
Murphy is an enthusiastic user of e-mail. “It is such a neat thing. There isjust so much there to use. It is so user-friendly that is is easier to use than the phone.”
Murphy, who usually responds right away to his incoming mail, even turns on he mail search while he writes papers in the computer lab. The computer notifies him if he receives any mail during that time. “I put it on so I can write back immediately. It is easier to talk to the person when they are sitting right there at the computer too.” On some systems users can type in “talk,” a split screen is
set up and those logged on to the system can write messages to each other simultaneously.
The system offers other options besides just basic letter writing. There is a news network in the Telnet system that offers
Some Unique Examples of Smileys:*
:'( I’m crying :-& I’m tongue tied :-D I'm laughing B-) I'm cool 5:-) Tm Elvis 3:-o I'm a cow :=8) I'm a baboon +-(:-) I'm the Pope ;-) I'm a flirt =|:-)= I'm Uncle Sam ':-) I accidentally shaved off one eyebrow
*Tilt your head to the left :-)
many different articles, debates, news commentaries, editorials and sources, like other school’s newspapers, on just about any subject. It also gives you the address of the writer or source of the article so you can respond directly. “There is just so much information that there is no way you can ever read it all,” Murphy said. “You can get really distracted, and it can really get out of hand if you are always writing back and forth,” he said as he accessed the eight messages he had received that day.
“There is a lot of information that you can get on common interests or specific
news items. I even
belong to several mailing lists that I get mail from,” Murphy sad.
The system is international. Murphy wrote something one day about his aspiration to be a lawyer and received a sarcastic response from a London attorney one week.
“I wrote back and explained whatl really meant the first time I wrote, and he wrote back with an apology.”
The Office of University Computing has scheduled free classes for students to introduce them to the electronic mail opportunities on campus. They set up your account, give you hands-on practice in writing, sending and searching for e-mail letters and addresses. The class intends to leave the students with “the ability to send messages and documents to anyone on campus or around the world for whom they have a BITNET or Internet electronic address.” Classes are available for e-mail on the Macintosh and on the PC. Brochures with dates and times are available in the IRC. □
OCTOBER 8,1992
By Peg Ward
sophomore Katie Walter, planned a gala even prepared for cold weather; if ithad
Notre Dame football games are rich in tradition: thegolden helmets of the • football team, the marching band’s rousing | renditions of the Victory March, the lepre-> chaun and of course — TAILGATING!! i| ■ .	Just picture it: it’s 7:00 a.m. on the Saturday
* morning of a home football game, and your i	roommate has just shocked you awake by
blaring the Notre Dame Victory March in ■I	your ear.
L The game does not start until 12:30, but k-; you and your friends are out of the dorm by ']• . eighttobeginapre-gamecelebrationoffood and drink. As you approach the stadium, you see parking lots full of cars, vans and RVs. t	You walk up and down the rows of vehicles
- and see the varying manners in which people ! -;	have transformed the trunks of their cars into
< pre-game parties.
f-; There are tailgaters of all types, ranging
from the no-frills version of a bag of chips and a couple of six-packs to extravagant affairs complete with smoked salmon and champagne. Some tailgaters even continue well past kickoff time and continue long after the game ends. Die-hard Notre Dame fan Kirk Walter, whose niece is Notre Dame
affair for the Stanford game last week.
“Every year a few of my friends and I, who come from all parts of the country, get together and throw a huge tailgater. We have been to Notre Dame games at S tanford, Miami, and this year we are here at Notre Dame,” Walter said. While making plans for the weekend, Walter said,"We've rented a motor home and we will also be tailgating out of my van and my Blazer. There is going to be a big screen television set up, and, if it doesn 'train, one of the guys is going to bring a piano,” Walter said.
What about food and drink? “We’ll have a couple of kegs, and we don’t want to have
to worry about preparing food, so we’ve hired someone to cook everything for us. My friends and I haven’t decided yet whether we will even make it into the stadium for the game. We have tickets but we might be having so much fun we might just stay in the parking lot all day.” Kirk was
gotten too chilly, he was ready to set up a portable fireplace to keep everyone warm!
At this point you may be wondering how much planning and cost goes into a tailgater. While Kirk Walter’s tailgater may represent the ultimate effort in pre-game festivities, a more typical tailgater involves a lot less time, effort and money.
Senior Chet Ray said, “Usually some friends of ours who have already graduated will come into town and they will throw a tailgater. They’ll spend a couple of hundred dollars on beer and food — something easy like chicken or burgers. The tailgaters don’t get too big or out of control. Our friends will


show up and maybe some friends of friends. Nothing too crazy has happened yet this year, though.”
Tailgaters are a great way to have some fun with friends, and they are also great opportunities to get some delicious free food and drink (that is,for 21 year olds). If you do: not know anyone who is coming to the game and having a tailgater, don’t fret. Alumni and other fans who are tailgating are usually more than happy to get to know Notre Dame students, and you just might have some fun of your own getting to know, these people.
Sophomore Heather Arnold recalled a truly unique experience she had with some alumni before Notre Dame’s home opener against Michigan this year: “I was walking down by the stadium with five of my friends, and we were all singing the fight song when a couple of older men called us over to their tailgater. They asked us, ‘Hey girls, how are we going to beat Michigan? We’ve got to have a plan!’ They pulled out a couple of
homemade musical instruments that looked like a pogo stick and a washboard. Their wives rolled their eyes as the men began to play their instruments and chanted, ‘Kick ‘em in the right knee, kick 'em in the left knee! Kick ‘em in the weenie, weenie, we need a touchdown! ’ It was probably one of the funniest experiences I have ever had at a tailgater.”
Tailgating not only brings together young and old, but it also, as one sophomore discovered, unites students from rival schools. “A few of my friends and I were walking through the parking lot before the Northwestern game when we saw some Notre Dame students who we knew at a tailgater. . The funny thing was that it was a Northwest
ern tailgater. The Northwestern students didn’t seem to mind, though; in fact, they were inviting anybody who walked by to stop and have something to eat and drink. The Notre Dame and Northwestern students were getting along great! It’s a true sign of solidarity when you see a student from one college helping a student from a rival school do a kegstand.”
Notre Dame students even cany on the tradition of tailgating at away games. Be
fore this year’s game against Northwestern, the parking lots sunounding Soldier Field resembled a sea of blue and gold. It was as if Notre Dame had moved 90 miles west to Chicago. Notre Dame students, alumni and fans alike were joining in the pre-game celebration of tailgating. One conspicuous sight in the parking lot was a green and gold “Fighting Irish” bus—a tailgater on wheels that had travelled throughout the country following Irish football. Tailgating atUSC may not be in the plans of many ND students this season, but the proximity of schools such as Northwestern, Michigan State and Pitt has made road-tripping to these games possible for many Notre Dame students.
Besides home and away games, some
students even find ways to enjoy tailgaters in the off-season. Senior Russ Singer and his friends annually attend a huge tailgater before the Blue-Gold game, which takes place every spring and pits the Fighting Irish’s offensive squad against the defensive team.
“The guys throwing the tailgater always go all out for the Blue-Gold game. There will be a pick-up truck filled with cases of beer and everything is set up in Red Field. The closer we are to the stadium the better.
The guys who are organizing it will usually chip in betweeen 25 and 30 dollars, but everyone else who comes can eat and drink for free,” Singer said.
, Amajorcompo-nent of tailgating, it seems, is drinking, and with all the tailgating that takes place before games, you have to wonder what official university policy is regarding these pregame festivities. In Du Lac it is stated, “No student, student organization or university housing facility may orga
nize or sponsor ‘tailgaters’ on campus for the purpose of serving alcoholic beverages.” Students are subject to a $300 fine if found in violation of the rule.
So why is tailgating such a tradition at Notre Dame if Du Lac forbids students to have them? Well, students may be prohibited from having tailgaters, but they are not forbidden from attending ones organized by other people. As a result, the tailgaters that Notre Dame students attend are usually thrown by family, friends or even some alumni who are eager to hear about the latest campus news from cunent Domers.
So for the next few Saturdays, make the most of the Notre Dame football experience and take part in the tailgating tradition. □
By Jason Conte
8
SCHOLASTIC
Born Again
Having recently rejoined Division I, Notre Dame hockey now high steps into the elite CCHA.
The Notre Dame Fighting Irish hockey team is ready to take the ice and begin a new era as it debuts this season in the most ; prestigious hockey league in collegiate sports, the Central Collegiate Hockey Association.
The CCHA includes Kent State, Western Michigan, Miami (Ohio), Ohio State, Ferris State, Illinois-Chicago, Michigan, Bowling Green (1984 NCAA champions), Michigan State (1986 NCAA champions) and Lake Superior State (1988 and 1992 NCAA champions).
■’ According to Head Coach Ric Schafer, “We are already enjoying the benefits of the • CCHA. Interest in Notre Dame hockey has increased significantly, and people have taken notice that Notre Dame has made a ; • strong commitment to hockey.”.
Asa direct result of this stronger commitment to hockey, the quality of recruits has increased dramatically. This year, two of :; Notre Dame’s newcomers were selected in the NHL draft on June 20. Davide < Dalgrande was the sixth-round pick of New ; ■ York, and Wade Salzman was picked by St. 1 ■ Louis in the 11th round.
“We recruit across North America to find -; the kind of student athlete that can compete -; academically as well as compete in the top -: level of collegiate hockey,” says Schafer. ;“Our freshmen have the size, strength and ; skills to make an immediate impact. They : - will play a critical part in our success in the :; CCHA.”
~;	Schafer is very excited about the future of
-; Notre Dame hockey. “Within our commu-
nity and within our recruiting realm, people overcome the competition and rise to have taken notice that Notre Dame has re- prominence in the CCHA.
Notre Dame Sports Information
The Irish will face off against some of the nation's toughest college hockey teams, including Bowling Green (1984 NCAA champions), Michigan State (1986 NCAA champions) and Lake Superior State (1988 and 1992 NCAA champions).
committed itself to hockey. Our 1992 recruiting class is a good example. AU our recruits were attracted to Notre Dame because of its educational opportunities and tradition. Add to those qualities a commitment to having a strong hockey program, and their decision became easier.”
While this is an exciting time for the hockey program, it might take a while for Notre Dame to become a force in the CCHA. It is a difficult league loaded with superior competition, including the defending 1992 NCAA champions. However, Schafer is confident that Notre Dame will eventually
“We will make our way to the top eventually. The question is, how quickly can we ascend? Our success will be based on hard work, players and coaches alike. When we work hard, we will become the team that we are capable of becoming. The CCHA provides us with opponents who will make us play better than we think we can play.”
In addition to changing to the CCHA conference, the Irish have added a new assistant coach. Jim Johnson, a former Michigan State player and coach, joins returning coach Tom Carroll to assist Schafer. Coach Johnson should add to an already successful program. Schafer is in his sixth year with the Irish. His career record at
■
Notre Dame is 82-79-7 (.509), and he is closing in on his 200th career victory.
Despite the tough competition ahead, Notre Dame should remain fairly competitive this year. The tri-captains and the other 15 returning lettermen provide a solid foundation for Schafer. The junior captain, Matt Osiecki, is the top returning defenseman. Schafer agreed with his player’s choice of Osiecki for captain.
“Matt Osiecki was the team’s pick for captain, and I wholeheartedly agree with their selection. Since his freshman year, he has shown his discipline and composure, a quiet dignity as a sportsman and competitor, an insistent effort and devotion to an old fashioned work ethic. He is the type of player who tends to infect other members with his many virtues.”
Center David Bankoske is one of the two senior captains. His return after missing last season with a broken arm is a big boost to the team. In his first three seasons with the Irish, he compiled a total of 150 points (58 goals and 92 assists). He led the team all three years in points. He is already ninth in career assists and could move as high as third on the all-time list. He needs only 18 points to move into the top ten of all-time Irish scorers. With 17 or more goals this year, David would move into the top ten on the career goals list Schafer is thrilled about his return to the ice.
Notre Dame Sports Information
Goalie Greg Louder returns to mind the nets with a career save percentage of over 80 percent. Now a junior, Louder was voted team MVP following his freshman year when he played all but 30 minutes over the course of the season and still turned back 935 saves for a percentage of 87.4.

Notre Dame Sports Information
The return of senior tri-captain David Bankoske from a broken arm will intensify the Irish scoring threat. Bankoske has compiled 150 points (58 goals and 92 assists) In three seasons and is 18 points away from joining the top ten scorers in Irish hockey history. .
Head Coach Ric Schafer calls Bankoske a player "with a passion for the game."
“We are very happy to have Dave Bankoske back for another year. He is a talented player with a passion for the game. He can hardly wait to get to the rink. He wants to compete and be the best, and he provides the team with a savvy player and a composed personality.”
Center Curtis Janicke is the other senior captain. He lead the Irish last year in scoring with 50 points. Curtis has a total of 114 points through his first three seasons and is a force to be reckoned with in the rink.
“Curtis can have a huge impact on our hockey team. With his experience, he brings intelligent play and composure to a younger, more emotional team.”
With the captains leading the way, Notre Dame is about to embark on . one of its toughest seasons ever. Their home opener on Friday, October 30, is against the defending 1992 NCAA champions, Lake Superior State. Althoughthelrish’sscheduleagainsttheCCHA is very difficult, : Schafer and his team are eager to face the challenge.
“Every weekend will be a challenge. We have all waited for this opportunity. Now it is up to us to seize the opportunity. Webelieve that we have the nucleus of a good team and the Notre Dame spirit and pride to support it. We want to go for it with the best and the most that we have, and that attitude alone ensures that we are winners. We are very excited about joining the CCHA and the prospects for this year and years to come.”	.	□
						
	992	3"^					'3' 3-«
nn "1
Take
Shot
Panther Head Coach Paul Hackett hopes that Alex Van Pelt, the record-breaking quarterback, will pick apart the Irish secondary on Saturday. Last year, he completed 22 of 37 passes against Notre Dame for 207 yards.
Winless against Notre Dame for the past four years, Pitt is optimistic that it can upset the Irish in 1992.
By Amanda Clinton
Mike Ditka. Tony Dorsett. Dan Marino. Whatdothesethreefootball greats have in common? They all went to the University of Pittsburgh.
While Notre Dame pridesitself on football traditions, Pitt also has a legacy of football history. The Panthers are ranked sixth in the nation for national championships with nine. From 81 All-Americans to 16 College Football Hall of Famers, the Pittsburgh program is full of tradition.
Part of this tradition is the University of Pittsburgh vs. Notre Dame series. Since 1988 the Panthers have been unable to defeat the Irish. This year, Pitt is looking to break this string of losses and establish a new winning streak against Notre Dame.
Despite a frustrating 1991 season in which
the Panthers finished with a 6-5 record, Head Coach Paul Hackett sees possibilities for success in 1992.
“We have learned about ourselves, about the expectations that we have had and how to commit ourselves further. I think we’ve learned more about what it is going to take to become champions of the Big East We feel like we have begun to stabilize the program, that the foundation is beginning to take form. Certainly, a 6-5 season is not a success in our minds, but there were segments of last year that showed promise. The 5-0 start and the playof some of theyoungpeopleshowed that the future is bright,” he said.
The Panthers take comfort in the fact that the 5-0 record in the beginning of the season placed them in the top 25 for the first time in two years. And four of the losses last season were to winning bowl teams.
Despite this disappointing record, the Panthers boast one of the top quarterbacks in the country. Senior Alex Van Pelt broke Dan Marino’s career school passing yardage record of 8,962 on September 21 in Pitt’s; game against Rutgers. Van Pelt starts his fourth year at quarterback this season. He has not missed a game or even missed starting a game in 34 consecutive matchups. He also set a Panther record by throwing for more than 2,000 yards in three consecutive seasons. Last year he was named to the Big East second team AllConference squad and was also chosen for the Football News’ Almost All-American team.
“We are expecting Alex to have his best year. This is the year that everyone has waited for and this is the year for him to make his move to be the best in the country,”
W ■■ : -	;„, , SCftpTASTIG
explains Hackett.
Last year, running backs were hard to find at the University of Pittsburgh. But com
bine the talents of returning Panther sophomore Tim Colicchio, sophomore Curtis Martin and senior Jermaine Williams with freshman prospect Dion Alexander and junior college transfer Chad Dukes,
there is promise.
Martin provides the Panthers with impressive speed. With a time of 4.5 seconds in the 40 yards, Running Backs Coach Skip Peete is thrilled with his player. “Every time he steps onto the field, he only knows one speed, and that is full speed.”
Colicchio impressed Panther coaches last year with his unique running style allowing him to break tackles. Explains Peete, “Tim has a lot more quickness than he appears to have. He has the ability to make people miss, and I expect him to be a key individual in our offense this year.”
Williams is praised as a talented receiver with great hands. Boasts Peete, “Jermaine has a very deceiving running style. At times you wonder why he is waiting and then all of a
sudden he is gone. Because of his size, defenders underestimate his speed, but he
has the power to run over people. He has the
ability to be a tremendous weapon for us.”
The Panthers wide receiver squad not only boasts the talent of capable hands, but also has the ability to compete with the top secondaries in the conference. Chris Bouyer, a senior flanker, leads the receivers with his consistent, tough play. Last year, his first year as a starter, Bouyer earned second team All-Conference in the Big East.
Although Pittsburgh lost two of its best
receivers to graduation, Dave Moore and
Eric Seaman, senior Rob Coons, injured last year, is back and healthy after suffering a
broken wrist last season which kept him out of all but three games.
“Rob possesses all the ingredients you’re looking for in a tight end. He has the speed, strength, soft hands and ability to get open in
pass routes. If you wanted to draw a compari-	this team.”
Pitt Sports Information
Pitt returns a strong trio of running backs in Tim Colicchio (shown above), Curtis Martin and Jermaine Williams. Last year, the Panthers gained 327 yards rushing against the Irish.
son, he would be the combination of last year’s tight ends, Erie Seaman and Dave
Moore. If he has anything other than a great
season, I will be very disappointed, and I know Rob will be too,” explains Tight Ends Coach Jim Miceli.
Three year starting center Chris Sestili, a senior, anchors the Panther offensive along with senior left guard Mark Fely and senior right guard Gary Gorajewski, who has started in the past two seasons and is expected to be one of the best offensive linemen in the Big East Conference.
Despite the loss of six starters on the de
fense, Coach Hackett looks for the positive
in working with an inexperienced defense. “I’m very excited about our young defense,
especially its strength up the middle, with Tom Barndt at nose guard, Tom Tumulty, a sophomore, at a linebacker’s spot and Lex Perkins at free safety. There’s a lot of youthful enthusiasm, which I like a lot about
Even though Pitt lost over half of its defense, there are five returning starters. Tumulty, a sophomore and 1991 Big East Conference and ECAC Rookie of the Year and junior Charles Williams, Pittsburgh’s top tackler last season, will provide leadership for the new players. Despite the experience these two players have acquired, the Panthers will have to adjust to thelossofall six perimeter defenders from the 1991 unit
Hackett believes senior Jeff Esters and senior Mike Kelly will fill the voids left by Sean Gilbert and Keith Hamilton on the defensive line;
“Jeff Esters has waited a long time for this opportunity and so has Mike Kelly. They have paid their dues, they have played be
hind some great talents during their careers atPitL Now it is their time,” states Hackett.
Concludes Hackett, “We’re a better foot
ball team, we’re a better program, we’re more stabilized. I think more people now understand what to expect from me. There is a work ethic, on and off the field. And now it is the time for us to show where we can go, and that’s the way I look at this season. Let’s go, let’s take a shot.”
Hopefully, after last weekend’s stunning loss at home to Stanford, the Irish will have recovered sufficiently to silence this energized Panther squad.	□
OCTOBER 8,1992
Coming Distractions
Send information for your event to: Kate Wiltrout, Coming Distr actions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569.
Thursday
Friday
9
Saturday
10
Movie: "Wall Street," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m„ Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Performance: "Ah, Wilderness!" 8:10 p.m., Wahington Hall, $7.
Seminar: "Some Thoughts on New Demoncracies," 4:15 p.m., Auditorium, Hesburgh Center.
Multicultural Fall Festival:
12:15 p.m.-l:15p.m., "The Culture of East Africa," Notre Dame Room.
4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m., Entertainment on the Quad: Philippene Club, Fieldhouse Mall..
7:00 p.m.- 2:00 a.m., African Dance Troupe, LaFortune Ballroom.
Senior Class: Miss Saigon trip to Chicago, 3:30 p.m.
Movie: "The Hand That Rocks the Cradle," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Thunderheart," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Performance: "Ah, Wilderness!" 8:10 pm., Washington Hall, $7.
Multicultural Fall Festival:
12:00 pm.-1:00 p.m., "Homelessness: Song in a Strange Land," Notre Dame Room.
4:30p.m.-5:30p.m., Entertainmnet on the Quad: Ballet Foklorico, Fieldhouse MaH.
7:30 p.m.-12:00 a.m., "Taste Of
Nations," Stepan Center.
Soccer: Notre Dame Women vs.
Cincinnati, 7:30 p.m., Alumni Field.
Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. Florida State, 8:00 p.m., JACC.
Movie: "The Hand That Rocks the Cradle," 8:00 &-10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Thunderheart," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m.
Snite, $2.
Performance: "Ah, Wilderness!" 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall, $7.
Meeting: Alcoholics Anonymous, 9:30 a.m., Multipurpose Room, CSC.
Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh, 1:00 p.m.; Notre Dame vs. Long Beach State, 8:00 p.m., JACC.
s i p p
Fil Fil $2
StudentlThidnBoardH^

JuniorClass:239-5117 SniteFilm Series Hot Line:
;239-7361iyv <
Weekend Wheels Schedule: ' ■ L y. 283-FRED

'ToUchsFoiir
Dial 239-2500, thenpress:
? x 1211Tornews headlines ‘ ■ x 1212- for local news,?
x 1932fortoppopalbums
x 1911 for
fx 1906 for vid^a
x 1600 for local Weather ?
x 1603; for national weather v
x 1903 for inpyie reviews
x 1300 for;lopal sports info. ?.
x1301? for TV: sports events i
x 1^03 for national Sports report
x 1213 for world news;
H
Sunday t
esquicentennial Closing Ceremony
Tuesday
13
\CC, 3:00 p.m.
erformance: "Ah, Wilderness!
.m., Washington Hall, $7.
3:10
/ionday
12
Im: "Scarface," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Im: "2000 Maniacs," 9:00 p.m., Snite,
Film: "Peyton Place," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "China Town" 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Performance: "Christopher Columbus Follies," Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m., $5.
Seminar: "Bold Initiatives and Unintended Consequences: The Brazilian Motor Vehicle and Informatics industries," 12:30 p.m.,Room 103, Hesburgh Center.
Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. Bowling Green, 7:30 p.m., JACC.
TOUCH FOUR
Wednesday 14
Soccer: Notre Dame Women vs. Kentucky , 7:00 pm., Alumni Field.
Movie Theatres:
Ah, Wilderness! will be performed this weekend in. Washington Hall.
100 Center Cinema I&H 259-0414
Scottsdale Theatre:
29b4583	'
Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090	<'-■?
UniversityParkCinemaEast:
277-7336
UniversityParkCmemaWte 277-0441 ?	—
Forum I & II Cinema: V - 277-1522 ??

Sports
CLASSIC
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich
For ANY Size Appetite!!!
eZEE®
Light Appetites:
6 Inch Meatball Sub

Only $1.69!
From $37.95!
Big Appetites: 6 Foot Party Sub
\SUBUjnY^
• SR 23 At Ironwood
US 31 N (By North Village Mall)
Bl
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Bill Lanza: Lanza, a freshman from Dumfrie, VA, scored three of the four goals that the Notre Dame men's soccer team tallied against Dayton last Sunday. Irish sophomore Tont Richardson scored the other goal for Notre Dame. Lanza's hat trick was the firstfor the Irish this season, and it made him the team leader in points with a total of 11 on the year. •	•
Michelle Lodyga: Lodyga, a senior from Mission Viejo, CA, and goalie for the Irish, led the Notre Dame women's soccer team to a shutout over 16th-ranked Wisconsin. Despite an onslaught of attempts by the Badger offense in the second half, Lodyga successfully defended the goal, guiding Notre Dame to its 1-0 upset over Wisconsin last Friday.
iiliiliiriQ I
by J. Bradley Keck
T’ve got a proposition for my readers. For Ithe first person who gets a hold of me, J. Bradley Keck, at the Scholastic office (239-5029), and identifies himself as an avid reader of “Out of Bounds”, will receive top billing and special mention in next week’s
column.
MalcolmX update: Spike Lee’s case over the Rodney King beating video may be appealed to the United States Supreme Court after the Federal Court of Appeals failed to overturn the injunction placed on the film.
By the way, how would one pronounce “Ah, Wilderness!"! The possibilities seem endless.
Skinhead
It’s amazing how fast an entertainment guru can get sick of hype over a given performer. Sinead O’Connor is out of control, but so is the press and our very own student senate. Come on, guys! We all know that Sinead is a liberal nutcase.
In 1990, she refused to be on Saturday Night Live with Andrew Dice Clay due to his anti-feminist, anti-gay and pro-sex routines. The Diceman was against everything that Sinead stands for: bald-headed women, running around, ripping up pictures of the Pope. When Andrew Dice Clay hosted Saturday Night Live, NBC broadcast the show under a five-second tape delay because the network deemed some of Clay’s acts might be unsuitable for broadcast. The show went off without incident. Funny, that Sinead avoids the Diceman, NBC is afraid to show him live and then she comes on a few years later and shocks the world in a way Andrew Clay Silverstein couldn’t have dreamed. Hey, what can you expect from a neo-nazi lookin’, fightiri’ Irish woman?
Erotica, Sex, Madonna
Sinead O’Connor goes free to make a scathing political and religious attack and then what happens, the fun-loving Madonna gets censored. No, not by the student senate. Madonna’s Erotica video was
banned from NBC’s “Friday Night Videos” because executives found it too offensive. Rumor has it they might do the same thing to Fighting Irish football, on “Notre Dame Saturday”, if they give another gross and obscene live performance on October 24, like they did last week. (Take it easy. Real, real easy.)
The video was also banned on the big screen above Times Square. Her video must
really be bad if it can overshadow whores, pimps and sex shops found all around The Square. I wonder if any of those places are going to sell Madonna’s Sex book featuring photographs of Madonna with props ranging from dolls to whips to knives.

1.
2 3'
I feel loved by logve-grunge. Sugar
Soul;Asylum--- "Someone to Shove."'v f. ■ Y: Yummyloudmorsel. 4L^^bt^Gjrl^®fc^^	than a small solar systemi
Vmous^Artists?^
: Bobble and smooth — dirty.
2
8.
9.
10.

Up and Coming
Chicago International Film Festival, Friday at various theaters throughout the Chicagoland area. For more information call (312) 644-FILM ... George Carlton; Saturday at the Star Plaza Theater... Jethro
Tull, Saturday and Sunday at the Riviera Theater ... Ce Ce Peniston, Friday at thq China Club... Tickets are on sale now for Al Jareau ’ s November 22 show at the Chicago Theater... The Wiz has a run at the Shubert Theater featuring Stephanie Mills who was the original broadway star... 1992 Tour of Olympic Champion Gymnasts at the Rosemont Horizon on October 16. Feature ing a personal favorite of mine, Tatiana
“The Painted Bird” Gutso. If the name'frts ... At the movies: Storyville, an erotic thriller starring starring James Spader ... A River Runs Through It, directed by Robert Redford and starring Craig Sheffer and Brad Pitt... Breaking The Rules, starring C. Thomas Howell (anybody with a first initial has to be good) and Jason Bateman ... Under Siege, starring Steven Segal. “[He’s] just the cook” but, he saves the earth.

PETER GABRIEL AND 10,000 MANICAS
Four-thirty, Sunday afternoon. My parents have just taken off, and before they’ve even hit the toll toad, I’m falling back into my couch to listen to two long-awaited record releases. 10,000 Maniacs’ Our Time in Eden and Peter Gabriel’s Us were both released on September 29, after a four year hiatus for each of the two groups. Since 1989’s Blind Man’s Zoo andPassion, each of the two pop acts have released compilations, but really no new studio work. ■ Us comes with few surprises for Gabriel fans. The work is mostly a composite of the rich international rhythms featured on Passion and lyrics which are slightly more introspective than those offered on his 1989 smash success, So. From the opening drum and bass line layered with bagpipes on “Come Talk to Me,” Gabriel announces this new journey: “In search of you I feel my way, through the slowest heaving nighL”
The album progresses slowly through the first three tracks, yet these prove to be among the strongest of the entire composition. Gabriel’s usually healing voice reaches inward in this instance as he seeks some catharsis on “Love to be Loved”: “Don’t know who the hell I’m saving anymore.... Though it takes all the strength in me/ And all the world can see/I’m losing such a central part of me.”	_
Amidst this internal confusion we see Gabriel at his best, trying to sumes the role of a	partner in a highly charged rela-
; sort out his own very human problems.	tionship, necessarily re^un^ sympathy of the listener. At other
. Some resolution is found in love on “Blood of Eden,” as he speaks times, she speaks more di^j^to a wide audience; “Eden” mirrors of a need for comfort so strong that it rises above rational concepts “Blood of Eden” found o^^S^^re aspects than just the title. The ofmorality: “InthebloodofEden/So weendas webegan. ...Itwas human struggle is once agl|^^^ “To pick a rose you ask your all for the union.” With the help of David Rhodes on 12-string guitar.	~
and Sinead O’Connor’s backing vocals, he creates an intricate and emotional musical ground established to complement his own quiet turmoil.
Yet on some tracks the former Genesis leader is too obvious in his efforts to write songs which are more pop-ish. On “Steam” he music is simplified to a driving beat (much resembling that of “Sledgeham-	_
mer”),” and the lyrics likewise fall into near cliche mode: “Giveme nitely more refined. WhileneitherOurTz>n£zn£d^^
too easy formula for creating a insto-matic hit single nowadays. At the same time, Peter Gabriel is perhaps the only mega-star who can use such rich production without coming off as too purposeful! commercial.
And he does come out shining, ending the^l “Secret World,” which rushes through it%^ev^ empathy and awareness in the worldj no sorrow or blame/Whatever it is,^^re
fiS^hame, §afne. ...Ssh listen.
ce of a band refusing to wallow
istener, is not a solution to
er a soundtrack by which
...” What Us does succeed in either personal or social problem^® one can keep up his own s
ur Time in Eden is ano in their pop statu persisted in writing s spectives and does no^j
Maniacs’ Natalie Merchant has Muring the most unique social per-this album. In relation to Gabriel’s struggle, Our Time in EdertTi ore consistently presented and yet is at once both soothing and disturbing.
From the voice of a d^eiv§d lover on the opening track, “Noah’s Dove,” to the confes^Onhhtone of “Jezebel,” Merchant often as-
hands to bleed/What is the	roses when your blood
is shed carelessly?/It must be ro|^^®iing more than vanity.”
But Merchant does not negle^l^	Not the Man” is
a direct accusation of our justice	voice of a wrongly
convicted prisoner on death row, whfW||f$^^	of the
crime “rules a crowded nation inside his^nd^^^^
Overall, 10,000 Maniacs’ method has not lEB®!
steam/and how you feel can make me real.” The otherwise entranc- many heads in by surprising listeners (as Sinead O’Connor has just ing composition of “Digging in the Dirt,” the album’s first single, is done by releasing a big^band album), they do meetup to tremendous overshadowed with an overlaid hip-hop beat, which seems the all expectations.	‘	□
mental cris
Richard. Richard^Mi^ . tity, expresses himselfWi . poetry written for his girlfi
id.
bs his
parents, but it is not taken seriously until Richard toys
8128.
Mfiil—
fighting alcoholism for sev^S audience with a window to Ri
si. Perhaps even ^preference in
^ks by such id Bernard
i|y mopes and the
as Uncle ^l’s father, 'ho has been
things /ords of
provides the ossible future, an, displays the
Muriel’s father, a stri dangers of his co daughter’s
more disturbing to his famiW literature.
Richard spends his free time r controversial authors as Oscar
Shaw. When he is notreading, he
•is faced with the develop-bellipus” 17-year-old son, ^dWing to find his iden-sexually suggestive
^ningplay, set in the early 1900s in Con-ajqpnd the Miller family. This
tampering with his characters deepen the the cast colorfully enter-quirky antics.
around the house declaring the futili human race. This kind of behavior®
n t

by Lisa Mehl
FT1 he comedy, AhWilderness! by Eugene O’Neill, 1 embraces serious matters such as familial values, alcoholism and adolescence in an enjoyably light tone.
“It shows the parallel between 1906 and 1992 love courtship,” said Matt Price, stage manager.
cut al
with the dangers of alcoholism. , The play sends the message that “ult^ will be all right and nobody ’ s perfect,” fe Director Mark Pilkinton.
The play is enriched by such chS^ Sid, played by Michael Scarsella^g played by Thomas Williams. Ufele
ca§t the play with an energetic group of udents who hold varying backgrounds and experience. “They are truly committed to the art of acting and theater,” said Stan Sawicki of his fellow actors and actresses.
Mark White plays a vibrant and humorously dra

matic Richard Miller. His facial expressions are innocent and fresh. He perfectly reflects the attitudes of a 17-year-old young man with his use of heightened body language.
Nat Miller, Richard’s father, is played by Joe Wilson. He typifies the owner of a local newspaper with outgoing determination. His character, who is always sensible and intelligent, acts as the anchor in the family. Mr. Wilson does does a convincing job in exhibiting these qualities in his characterization.
The women and men of the cast and crew work diligently to perform Ah, Wilderness! The drive behind these people helps them perfect the art of theater. This play is recommended simply because it is relevant to everyone’s lives and undoubtedly, it is uplifting.
Performances will be held from Wednesday, October 7, to Saturday, October 10, at 8:10 p.m. and Sunday, October 11, at 3:10 p.m. Tickets are $7 for reserved seats and are available at the door or in advance at the Lafortune Student Center Box Office. Student and senior citizen discounts, available for the Wednesday, Thursday, and Sunday performances, are $5. For Mastercard and Visa orders, call (219) 239-

□
News of the bizarre from the nation's universities
i-	■
AND YOU THOUGHT N.D. PROFS WERE BAD
Okay, so maybe your English prof drones on and on about romanticism or you can’t quite get excited about chemical bonds. At least it’s not as bad as at Creighton University, where a physiology professor is offering a semester seminar on rats. Forget about AIDS or the ozone layer; to him, “Rats are still a very real threat to today’s population.” After he finishes his captivating seminar, he’s taking a sabbatical. He will be traveling to Tasmania to study rats who are adapting to Antarctica, the only continent without the nasty critters. We certainly wouldn’ t want any rats to bother the glaciers and snow.
KU’S VERSION OF THE ETHANOL STENCH
SO MUCH FOR GENEROUS ALUMS , •*
Notre Dame can be thankful for Edward DeBartolo. The Chronicle of Higher Education reports some of the more off-the-wall donations that other schools have received from their generous alumni. Weatherford College had to figure out what to do with 22 longhorn cattle and 238 tubes of longhorn semen. The University of Mississippi received a 19-foot-tall, one-ton King Tut mask. At Georgia Southern University, a former dean donated a collection of 50 kinds of barbed wire. Weatherford sold the cattle and attempted to use the semen for classroom instruction, and Mississippi simply stored the mask. GSU seemed to actually like the barbed wire. Said the director of their museum, “It’s very interesting to see how barbed-wire evolved over time. Some of the barbed-wire samples are pieces of art.” Thanks, but we’ll stick to cash.
TRY THIS AGAISNT S.U.D.S.
Next time a S.U.D.S. officer approaches you for ID at their next raid (Bridget’s, maybe?) think about this. A sophomore at the University of Kansas is attempting to file a petition that could end up helping lots of Notre Dame students who venture off campus for some suds. Angered by the way the Alcoholic Beverage Control Bureau officers approach customers they think might be underage, she is attempting to change the system. The injunction she is seeking would prohibit the ABC officers from asking students for identification unless the officers carry with them a statement informing students of their right to refuse to provide identification.
Her lawyer is hoping to win the case because current methods violate the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. Maybe it’s not too late for the students who were arrested in South Bend...
.. Although they might have named it the Sunflower Research Landfill, thesmell is anything butrosy. After being used for 28 years as a medical waste dump from KU’s med school, the landfill was finally closed in 1982. In it was animal carcasses, chemical solvents and low-levelradioactive waste. NowKU is requesting $2.6 million from the state to clean it up.
Edited by Kate Wiltrout
1
■ WaiiihA

The Way Things Really
< .
Are At Notre Dame
By Kate Wiltrout
Okay, now that all our parents have left for the weekend, we can get back to business as usual. Parents Weekend was a new experience for me — this was my parents’ first trip out for a game. After an 11 hour drive (and a speeding ticket for my mom), I had to be sure to make the weekend as good as I could for them. That meant showing them the way Things Really Are at Notre Dame, or at least the way they think Things Really Are at Notre Dame.
My father’s first comment when they finally arrived Friday afternoon was about the gorgeous weather. “What’s all this complaining about South Bend weather I hear from you all year? If this is what you’re complaining about, I don’t have much sympathy for you,” said my dad. Somehow, my parents always luck out with South Bend’s best. My parents weren’therefor the negative sixty degree Navy game last year. Why don’t they ever believe me?
Trying to convince my dad that South Bend isn’t the paradise he sees it to be, I pointed out the awful stench in the air. Hoping this would at least get some agreement from him, I gasped and said “ Yuck! Do you smell that disgusting ethanol?” He responded, “Oh? Is that what I smell? I think it smells good. It kind of reminds me of chocolate chip cookies.” I simply groaned, realizing every complaint I made
this weekend wopld be rebutted by him.
I thought I would at least get some sympathy when I had to log my parents in and out ofthedormonFridaynight. Itwasaverybig pain, in my opinion. My mother, of course, was happy that we are all so safe behind our security guards and detexed doors. My parents and I did not see eye-to-eye on the concept of parietals, either. It’s useless complaining that we are one of the only universities left in the nation with single-sex dorms and visiting hours. When I began to complain about what a martyr I was for coming to Notre Dame and subjecting myself to such rules, I got a story of How Things Were When My Parents Were In College. My mother informed me that in her dorm, boys were never allowed in the girls’ rooms. “You mean Dad never even saw what your room looked like?” I asked incredulously. “Well, maybe once or twice,” my mother admitted. She still had no sympathy for my plight
I was excited to have my parents at the game. Being from Pennsylvania, they used to be very big Penn State fans. Slowly but surely, they have gotten used to rooting for the Irish, at least for ten games of the season. Finally, my parents would get to see for themselves the power of Irish football. I couldn’t wait. They were very impressed at the pep rally. I thought of my dad when we scored in the first 10 seconds of the game and again when we increased our lead to 16-0.
At least he’s getting to see a great game, I thought Soon, I’d have him wearing plaid pants. Well, we all know what happened. . I won’t rehash it. Let’s just say I dreaded walking back to my dorm where I would meet my parents. Itwasn’tapretty moment
That awful moment over, I had to think about what was next on the agenda — dinner. “Let’s see,” I thought, “Chili’s? Macri’s, maybe? Nah, how about Jeremiah Sweeney’s?” My parents groaned at the thought of traffic and hours’ wait for a meal. It was only moments before one of them thought up The Dreaded Option — Candlelight Victory Dinner. Controlling my gag reflex, I thought quickly on my feet. “No,” I told them. “We can’tgo to the dining hall. That’s only for when we win. Victory dinner, get it?” My mom was disappointed. “What do you eat when you lose?” she wanted to know. “We don’t,” I said. “If we lose, we starve.” If it hadn’t have been for my dad’s quick mind, I think I would have gotten away with it. He spotted my lie, however, and we were soon on our way to the beautiful North Dining- Hall, reserva- • tions for four. My parents were very impressed with the accomodations — you know, the dining hall worker disguised in a tall white hat slicing London Broil, the desert table, the garnishes. “Is this what the dining hall is always like?” my mother asked. Realizing it was all in vain, I simply swallowed hard and nodded yes. □
i
■EiibIMm—
Make National Coming
Out Day Count | by Erik Floan
oewesis oo
Erik Floan is a : graduate
' v. student in music from Northfield, Minnesota.
ctober 11 is National Coming Out Day. For millions VZ of lesbian, gay and bisexual people, this is a day in which we tell our non-gay friends, family and co-workers the truth about who we are. We “come out of our closets” because homo-hatred continues: people—my friends and yours — face violence, discrimination and ridicule. We speak because we seek the recognition, safety, support, love and understanding we deserve.
Most peopleare shocked to discover that I’m gay. They expect a radical fairy, not ordinary me. I look like any thin, 5 ’ 11” hazel-eyed, sandy-haired white male. I dress like the typical Domer, keep my hair cut short and swing my wrists no more freely than the next person. I go to class, laugh, complain about the weather, think about fall break and speculate about by how many points the football team will pound this weekend’s opponent. I am utterly usual.
Butlamgay. I read gay-themed novels, pay attention to gay-related news and worry about a friend who was beaten up (“gay-bashed”) in Chicago. I tire of the administrative paranoia about things gay. I wince when I hear otherwise intelligent people hatefully crack queer jokes, make fun of effeminate stereotypes and make insinuative comments about my friends. And, yes, I occasionally notice a handsome catch as he saunters across the quad.
I always knew I was gay. Growing up was pretty usual, though. I was a model small-town Minnesota boy: the eldestof four, well-liked by teachers, apastor ’ s son. On the surface I seemed ordinary enough. Inside, though, a storm raged. I knew other boys were different from me, and I absolutely feared being found out. As a college undergraduate, I continued to keep silent about my feelings. Then one Christmas, two close friends told me that they were gay. I felt conspicuously silent. Eventually I admitted to myself and to others what I had known all along: I was gay.
Coming out to my family was difficult My parents taught me honesty, and I knew that I could not live an honest life hiding my gayness. Despite telling them what must have seemed like the worst news in the world, I quickly discovered that mom and dad still loved me! After years of hating myself and making life miserable for them, this was an amazing revelation. This was unconditional
love. Together my parents, siblings and I worked—and continue to work—through myriad questions and fears.
Letting go of my silence changed my life. Free from the greatest burden I ever knew, I am markedly more positive, emotionally stable and healthy. My friends and family are amazed and thrilled with my transformed attitude and outlook. So am I: I am out; I am free and no longer need fear the tomb-like darkness of the closet.
Being gay—here or anywhere—means many things. It means trying to live truthfully in a world that sometimes hates and fears you for being who you are. It means not always being able to share your sadness and joy. I can only imagine what would happen if I strolled around the lakes holding hands with another male. I know that my friends will not applaud me like they applaud others who announce engagements to the person they love most.
Being gay means dealing with internal and external fear and hatred. Many gays and lesbians are cynical, hurt people. It’s easy to hate yourself when everyone else seems to. A stable, loving family, supportive friends and pastors incontrovertibly led by the Gospel helped save me from a life of debilitating self-hate.
Being gay means learning patience. I do not expect life at Notre Dame to suddenly become accepting of lesbians and gays. Too many fears and misconceptions about homosexuality linger, preventing quick change. Signs of hope appear occasionally, though, like Father Warner’s statement that Campus Ministry is committed to being “a place where [lesbians and gays] can find assistance and understanding.” (The Observer, Oct. 1) Several dorms enacted “Safe-Haven” resolutions last fall, affirming publicly that lesbian and gay residents are valued and secure. DuLac’s anti-harassment policy covers sexual orientation. We can hope that someday the official attitude toward GLND/SMC will change.
Make this Coming Out Day count. Homosexuals are not a theory but real people. Get to know us, and show us that you are trying to understand: ask questions, pray for our safety, have us tell our stories, introduce us to your other gay and lesbian friends. Don’t rely on fear and myth: Give us a chance to show you who we really are.
At'fag B^>''ni/>2 <5'P-H'i£ year.. ■
Fr»M
+he- ToP of
Dome
*
$
\ O $	& e
»^ai
Arter dow -fees, partes, teil^tkrs^^
M HU lldr\^ t>^ Bol I	.


M -Pina/ly-
The(4- l^tsf +rip ■h’ St; Mjcyj.
|	25$ ikank
SMtB-
TASTE OF NATIONS
MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL
OCTOBER 9TH, 7:30pm-1:00am STEPAN CENTER
TASTE FOODS FROM AROUND THE WORLD
LIVE INTERNATIONAL MUSIC
DANCE CONTESTS
§
o 5" o .
O <
O CL A- 0) E
s
EVERYONE IS INVITED