Vol. XX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 26, 1887. No. 24.
A Translation.	j
I
BY MARION MUIR.
We sat beside the mountain, where a screen Of wild clematis wove its white and green, And there some verses you may understand She read me in the tongue of Fatherland.
MIDNIGHT.
To me in the midnight a watch had been given, While the village below me lay asleep, And over the dark blue expanses of heaven
I saw the stars in their loveliness sweep.
The horse and his driver are breathing in rest That morn will steal from their weariness soon;
The mountains that lie in the luminous West Dream under the brow of a pallid moon.
Then I think of the past, and the fierce old days When the red man rode on the lonely trail, And never a road nor a bridge had place
By streams that plunged to the desolate vale. ■
His mountains now shake with the roar of the train, Sound with the hammer, the blast and the drill, The smoke of the smelter rolls over the plain From furnaces fusing the stones of the hill.
From the sands of the desert, a wonderful spell, The grove and the city have sprung in their pride, And wave after wave, like a tide in its swell,
Come the hopeful who seek for the treasures they hide.
They shrink not from cold of eternal white snows, Nor the Burning.red glow of the sun in the waste, But the exile from Fatherland finds as he goes That Fortune flies faster the fonder she’s chased.
There are mountains of beauty and dawns that unclose As boundless as dreams of eternity,
And strange flowers bloom; but he finds that the rose ■ Is not without thorns in the land of the free.
And, saddened with failure, he sighs from his soul, “ My home, my dear land, still the fairest to me, Could I bridge over time, and the waters that roll
So darkly between us, how glad would I be! ”
The Hawaiian Islands.
VI.—(Conclusion.)	.
THE TREADED LEPROSY.
I come now to speak of a subject referred to before, which possesses for every one, more or less, a sad and melancholy interest. I almost shrink from writing about the matter, as it recalls so much of sorrow and of suffering; but as I have promised to do so, I must, perforce, keep my promise. I refer to the terrible plague of leprosy and the sufferers from this dread disease—the lepers.	.
It is now some fifty years, or more, since leprosy Was introduced into these islands. Exactly when it was brought here, and by whom, is not definitely known. The Chinese have been blamed for its introduction, but this cannot be said of them, with anything like certainty, although it seems to be accepted as a fact that the plague itself came directly from Asia, and most likely from China.
Shortly after its introduction the disease began to. spread with alarming rapidity, and the Government found it necessary to adopt stringent measures for suppressing-the plague. The only effectual means of accomplishing this was to entirely segregate those afflicted with the disease. Accordingly, a tract of about six thousand acres of fertile land, on the northern coast of the Island of Molokai, and known as Kalawao, was purchased and set apart for a leper settlement. In January, 1866, the settlement was duly opened for the reception of the plague-stricken. The number admitted the first year was ; 141; in 1873 it had increased to 487. During the last twelve years, however, the average number of lepers actually present in the settlement has rarely ever been below 700. On August 19,1884, according to the official report, the number of lepers at Kalawao was 841—j 12 of which were males, and 329 females. This is the largest number ever on the roll at one time. From January 6, 1866, until November 1, 1885, the total number of lepers taken to Kalawao was 3,101; of these, 2,178 died, and 145 were discharged. The others remained at Kalawao.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
HOMES OF THE PLAGUE-STRICKEN.
As I have stated, Kalawao is the name given to a tongue of land on the northern portion of Molokai. This peninsular, or tongue of land, is the seat of two communities, the inhabitants of both of which are mostly lepers. One of these communities is near the western end of the peninsula, and is named from the steamer-landing, Kaulapapa; the other is situated towards the eastern extremity, and has the same name as the district itself—Kalawao.
There are in Kalawao, using this name for the entire peninsular, about 400 houses, all told. Some of these are very neat, cosey structures of wood, and are surrounded by bright flower gardens and shaded by graceful, tropical trees. Most of the houses, both in Kaulapapa and Kalawao, belong to the Government, and are under the control of the Board of Health. There is, however, a number of dwellings, small holdings, which still belong to private individuals, although it is expected that, sooner or later, these will be purchased by the Government. In this event the entire district will be for the exclusive use of the lepers.
Besides the lepers there are at present - in Kalawao about five hundred and fifty persons who are not lepers. Some of these hold property; others are there to attend to their leprous friends, and still others are there as employes of the Board of Health.
THE NATION’S WARDS.
The lepers in Kalawao are treated as wards of the nation. They have no rent nor taxes to pay, and those who are able to work have small patches of land assigned them which they can cultivate for their own use. Many, who can afford to do so, build their own houses and live apart from the villages of Kalawao and Kaulapapa. The majority, however, are unable to work, and these live in houses belonging to the Government, in the villages named. All are liberally provided, at the expense of the Government, with clothing and medicine, and receive regularly a generous allowance of poi, rice, beef, mutton, salmon, milk, and other necessaries.
Kalawao and Kaulapapa, with their small, white frame houses, look not unlike ordinary country villages in the United States. Among the more conspicuous buildings in these places are the two churches, in charge of the pastor of the leper colony, Father Damien. I may here add, in passing, that he is not a Jesuit, as many of the papers have represented him to be, but a member of the missionary society that has charge of these islands— viz., the Congregation of the Sacred Heart, or, as it is more generally called, the Congregation of Piepus.
. The facts and figures, however, of the foregoing paragraphs give only an idea of the numbers afflicted with leprosy—and the number is, indeed, a
very large one, considering the limited population of the islands—and tell of the appalling death rate of those stricken with it; but they say nothing of the many attendant terrors of the awful scourge. Only an eye-witness can realize what these are; and such an one would prefer to bury in oblivion all recollections of so much misery.
AN INCURABLE DISEASE.
Leprosy is, without question, the most terrible malady with which poor humanity can be afflicted, and it has been so regarded in every age of the world.
In the first place, leprosy is incurable. Not a single well-authenticated instance can be cited of a case that has been successfully treated. The sufferer may be afforded temporary relief, but nothing more can be done for him. Science has made a long and exhaustive study of the subject in all its phases, but with the most unsatisfactory results. The scalpel and the microscope, and all the varied appliances that the pathologist has now at his com
LEPER SETTLEMENT.
mand, have been used in numerous and varied investigations, but without the slightest advance, apparently, towards anything like positive knowledge regarding the nature and cure of the dread disease. Even now, physicians are not agreed as to whether it is or is not contagious. Some assert positively that it is, and others will maintain just as strongly that it is not. Some will tell you that it is of parasitic origin, and claim to have discovered bacilli and microbes in the tissues of the leprous subject, which, they say, puts the question as to its character beyond doubt. Others discredit these discoveries, of refuse to acknowledge that their presence, even if proven, is conclusive evidence that such parasites are the cause of leprosy, or that the fact of their existence, even if granted, would afford any clue towards a successful treatment of the disorder. In a word, the leper of to-day is no better off than he was in the time of Moses. Nothing more can now be done for his malady, and now, as then, he must live and die an outcast from society, dreaded as the plague during life, and abandoned
tHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in death by all as an object of loathing and disgust.
In company with Father Sylvester, principal of St. Louis’ College, I visited the Branch Leper Hospital at Kakaato. This is located on the sea-shore, and is about a mile from the business part of Honolulu. Kakaato has been less written about than Kalawao; and for that reason less is known about it by the outside world. But, although less has been said of it, the former place is no less interesting to the visitor than the latter. Kakaato is not as extensive, it is true, as Kalawao, but otherwise there is no essential difference between the two places.
A LEPER HOSPITAL.
The Branch Hospital, as the place at Kakaato is called, is composed in all of about twenty buildings. These are frame structures, and include, besides the schools and buildings devoted to wards, the chapel, the convent of the Sisters and Kapio-lani Home. It is beautifully located on the beach, just inside of a shining white coral reef, and within hearing of the restful booming of the surf that is ever breaking on the shore. There is always a grateful sea-breeze to fan the inmates of the hospital, and enough of activity and life visible in the distance to prevent one from finding the place isolated—although it is so in fact—or monotonous.
Kakaato was established in iSS i, and was at first intended as a place of temporary lodging for those who were suspected of being infected with leprosy. In case the disease fully developed itself the patients were transferred to Molokai, otherwise they were discharged. Latterly, however, Kakaato has become as much of an asylum for lepers, as Kalawao, and one will find in the former place just as aggravated cases of leprosy as in the latter.
Kakaato is, however, much more fortunate, at least in one respect, than the settlement on Molokai: . It is under the care of the Sisters of Charity. No place in the world more needs the attention of such devoted souls, and in none other place could they do more good. The first of their number arrived here in November, 1S83, and came on the special invitation of the Government. It had been found impossible to procure elsewhere the sympathetic and skilful nurses so much needed here, and accordingly Father Levnor, Vice-Provincial, bearing letters from his Bishop, was specially commissioned by His Majesty the King to apply to some of the religious communities of the United States for Sisters who would be willing to undertake charge *of the lepers of Kakaato. The Sisters of Charity of St. Francis, of Syracuse, N. Y., nobly volunteered their services, and shortly afterwards were on their way to their mission of self-sacrifice and heroic charity.
THE SISTERS.
The number of Sisters at present in the Branch Hospital is seven. Besides having charge of the hospital for the lepers proper, they have also under their immediate supervision a“ home ” lately erected for young girls, who are the children of leper parents, but who themselves are yet free from the disease. This institution is within the enclosure
of Kakaato, and—in honor of Her Majesty, the Queen—is called Kapiolani Home. It is a fine; substantial; two-story structure; and provided with all the comforts and conveniences of a well-ordered dwelling-house.
o	.
At the time of my visit there were about a dozen children in the home. They; with the Sister in charge; were engaged in needle-work; and seemed quite happy. At the request of Father Sylvester; they sang a number of hymns and songs in Hawaiian and English, and their singing was really-good. They are taught the elementary branches of an education and instructed in plain sewing and other domestic arts. They seemed to be pleased to receive a visit from the outside world, as it is something rare for them. I may here add that one cannot visit either Kakaato or Molokai without a special permit from the President of the Board of Health; and this, for obvious reasons, is very difficult to obtain.
I was pleased to note the air of cleanliness that pervaded every part of the hospital. Everything was scrupulously clean, and in its place. But one who knows anything about the Sisters would be more surprised if such were not the case. Flowers and shrubs of all kinds are plentiful everywhere about the premises, and graceful algaroba trees afford a welcome shade to those of the inmates who prefer to remain out in the open air. Mr. Gibson, the Prime Minister, who takes a special interest in Kakaato, has thoughtfully provided the Sisters with a handsome conservatory in which one will find a choice variety of native and foreign Howers. Queen Kapiolani frequently visits the Sisters and gives them every assistance towards ameliorating the condition of her unfortunate subjects, who are here imprisoned, although through no fault of theirs. Indeed, I think it can safely be said that the Government of Hawaii, considering the means as its disposal, has made more and better provision for its leper subjects than any other country in the world where leprosy is still rife. It has done all that could be done to alleviate the misery of the leper, and for its noble efforts it deserves the commendation and the encouragement of all true philanthropists.	'
CHEERFUL AND CONTENTED.
Before visiting Kakaato, I expected to find the inmates gloomy and despondent. But in this I was most agreeably disappointed, as all, even those in the more advanced stages of leprosy, seemed to be quite cheerful and contented. They all had a most hopeful expression, and spoke in terms of unbounded praise of their good nurses—the Sisters. A good word, or an encouraging look from the Sister, is sufficient to make a leper happy; kindness here rules, and the Sister Superior told me that she finds the lepers, as a class, the most docile and submissive of people. She has only to make' known her wishes when they are at once cheerfully complied with.
A kindly aloha—the native word for welcome— greeted us wherever we went. Young and old expressed their pleasure that we had .called on
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
them, and tried, in their own simple way, to entertain us the best they could.
At the time of my visit there were forty-five females and fifty-five males in the hospital. Frequently the number is much greater. The number received here during the year 1883 ran up to 427. Many of these died, some were discharged, but the majority were transferred to Molokai.
I found nearly all the patients occupied in some way or other. Those who are able to work do so, and for this they receive due compensation. Many of those who are in the first stages of the disease can do certain kinds of work, such as taking care of the grounds and buildings and assisting the helpless, almost as well as those who are in health. Such being the case, it is found for many reasons, more desirable to keep them occupied than to allow them to remain idle.
Quite a number of the women were engaged in various kinds of needle-work; but their favorite
pastime seemed to be in making quilts. I was quite astonished to see thebeautiful and symmetrical patterns which they had designed, and the tasty way in which they had harmonized the various colored pieces which they employed. Again, some of the quilts, made apparently after no pattern at all, would compare most favorably with some of those much admired crazy-quilts that one hears so much of in the United States.
A PASSION FOR MUSIC.
Many of the lepers, particularly among the young men and boys, devote more or less time to music, both vocal and instrumental. The Hawaiians, as I have stated in a previous letter, are passionately fond of music. In Kakaato and in AIolok'ai, where they have a brass band,
they retain their love for it; and when they are playing or singing they seem to be utterly oblivious of their terrible lot. The boys sang for us several native and English songs, and seemed quite flattered that they had been requested to do so. They were not at all shy or diffident, and responded to our request unhesitatingly. Poor fellows! how fortunate for them that they could not see themselves as we saw them. The faces of many were horribly swollen, bloated and disfigured when in repose; but the muscular exertion required in singing rendered the expression of their countenances repulsive in the extreme.. But the poor boys were unconscious of all this, and it is well for them that they do not know the full measure of their disfigurement. • They would then be deprived of the pleasure, slight and-fleeting as that may be, which they :seem to- experience in their attempts to entertain the.casual visitor to their abode.	.	■
The little leper girls—there is .quite a number
I of them in Kakaato—we found busily engaged with their dolls. Some benevolent person had
I thoughtfully provided each with one, and the poor children were occupied in making clothes and or-! naments for them, and appeared to enjoy the work
—for such it was for them—as much as their more favored sisters in other parts of the world. Besides dolls, the little ones have various other kinds of toys, and I am convinced that in this respect everything possible is done for them to make them forget their miseries, and to enable them to enjoy, as much as may be, the short life that is before them.
I EPER TEACHERS.
Besides the school in Kapiolani Home, which is intended for uon-leprous girls of leper parents, there are in Kakaato, two other schools—one for the boys and one for the girls. These are taught by leper teachers—a young man teaching the boys and a young woman the girls. The teacher of
father damien’s church.
the boys took us into his school—a small frame building it was—and showed us everything that was to be seen. He seemed to be proud of, his position, and, judging from the manner in which his pupils flocked about him, he seemed to be quite popular with them. “ I make them mind,” said he, “ and they have to study while they are with me.” Some of the little lads seemed quite intelligent, and would, I doubt not, under more propitious circumstances, make pupils of whom any teacher might feel proud.
In addition to the lepers who are able to work and those who attend school, there are others who are in the last stages of their frightful malady, and who are more or less helpless. To see these once is more than enough to gratify, the curiosity of those who wish to see a.leper simply to know what leprosy is when it appears in its more malignant forms. Such sights one strives to efface from memory when" it is- too late; they haunt one for years after, and obtrude themselves on the mind’s
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	389
eye when one could wish them far away, and wish, too, that he had never seen or known anything of the reality they so vividly bring to remembrance.
In its prodromous, or incipient stage, the diagnosis of leprosy is a difficult matter. Only one who has had a long experience in treating the disease can recognize it in its earlier periods of development. Even the expert is often unable to decide with any degree of certainty. Unlike other diseases, which declare themselves in a few days, or weeks at most, the period of incubation of leprosy may embrace months, and even years. But when it is once fully developed, there is no mistaking its true character.
LEPROSY DESCRIBED.
At first, the face and the extremities become covered with whitish blotches, or with dark, livid tubercles. The former reveals the presence of spotted, and the latter of nodular or tuberculous leprosy. The tubercles, sooner or later, become large and shining, and more or less indurated. Eventually they break open and become noisome, suppurating ulcers. About the joints of the hands and feet the ulcerations deepen, and, at the same time, superinduce a kind of necrosis which causes a gradual dropping off of the fingers and toes. The stumps thus caused sometimes heal over, but frequently remain open and continue to excrete a greater or less amount of fetid matter. The eyelashes, eye-brows and hairs of the head fall out, and the eyes, ears, lips and nose are also affected. The mucous linings of the mouth, lungs and viscera are attacked until, finally, the poor leper becomes a living mass of foul, purulent sores.
And with all this the unfortunate sufferer still lives, and may live for months and years. Of him can one truly say that he dies by inches. Gangrene and necrosis gnaw away the ears, nose and extremities, and frequently leave scarcely anything more of the “human form divine” than an unformed, ulcerated trunk.	•
The leper, however, is granted one mercy. His pains are by no means as acute, or as long-continued, as his appearance would lead one to believe. One of the distinguishings characteristics of the disease is a peculiar species of anaesthesia that nearly always accompanies it. It is this state of insensibility that renders the condition of the unfortunate leper at all bearable. Only towards the last, when the fell disease is approaching the vitals, does leprosy bring with it any great degree of suffering. But then, the sufferings are often intense and the agony terrible.
CHARITY AND HEROISM.
It is in behalf of such unfortunates that the noble, devoted band of Sisters I have spoken of have abandoned home, kindred and friends, and are prepared, if need be, to sacrifice even life itself. They are always in the.-.midst of danger, and are fully conscious of its imminence. But, like true, valiant' soldiers of their Divine Master, as they are, they fear not, but, like unto ministering angels, they are ever at the bedside of the sick and the dj'ing, answering to their wants, and breathing words of
consolation and hope. Truly this is charity! this is heroism—something that soars above the cold philanthropy of earth, and something to which suitable recognition, and for which adequate reward can be given only in a higher and better world!
The Government hopes later on to secure the services of the Sisters for the afflicted colony on Molokai. As yet the poor lepers there are in the hands of secular nurses. These-may have the will to do all they can for the sufferers under their care, but they have not, and cannot have, the sympathetic natures and skill that comes only from long- train-y	©
ing possessed by the Sisters. There is, however, one exception to be made. This is the noble, self-a crificing priest of the lepers, that
MARTYR OF CHARITY, whose deeds have only recently become known.to the world—Father Damien.
For thirteen years has Father Damien been the guardian angel of the leper settlement of Molokai. During that time he has been untiring in his min-strations in behalf of the sick and dying-, and in Poking after the material and spiritual welfare of his afflicted colony. He has built two churches—one in Kalawao and one in Kaulapapa—of both of which he has charge. Besides this, he has established a school for leper children of the settlement, and contributed in many other ways to the amelioration of the condition of both young and old. Occupied as he is day and night, he knows not what it.is to have rest or. recreation. Besides officiating in his character of priest, he must also do the work of teacher, magistrate, gardener and carpenter, and attend to a thousand and one other duties, because there is no one else to whom he may delegate the work.
Since his advent to Kalawao, nearly two thousand of his unfortunate people have died, the death rate at times being particularly great. Of all, or nearly all of these, he had a care during life, and attended to their burial after death. Until last year he mingled among the lepers with impunity, and a x special Providence seemed to shield'him from the infection that everywhere surrounded him. But the ghoulish monster of leprosy has at last claimed him as a victim, and Father Damien’s days are now numbered. In a letter written to a friend some months ago, he says:	.
“ It is impossible for me to go any more to Honolulu, on account of the leprosy breaking out on me. Microbes have finally settled themselves in my left leg and my ear, and one eye brow begins to fall. I expect to have my face-soon disfigured. Having no doubt myself of the true character of my disease; I feel calm, resigned, and happier among my people. Almighty God knows what is best for my own sanctification, and with that conviction, I say daily a good fiat voluntas Tua! "	'
These words have the ring of the true soldier of the Cross, and betoken the Christian hero that he is. Father Damien is an honor to our race, and . stands forth as a shining exemplar of that charity of the Gospel that our selfish and pleasure-loving world is so prone to forget.
But although weak, and daily growing more fee
1
390	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ble, Father Damien has not yet ceased to work. He still continues to labor for his people as of yore, and is ever to be found where most good is to be done. All alone, as he is, he cannot give up. There is always so much to be done and there is no one in the field but himself. He must perforce, then, “tread the wine press alone,” and continue his noble work until he is called to receive the recompense he has so richly earned.
It is but just to add that Father Damien’s labors in behalf of the lepers are fully appreciated by every one in the islands. The authorities have unlimited confidence in his judgment in all matters pertaining to the administration of his ill-starred colonj7, and his counsel is frequently asked, and his suggestions are always acted upon. As a token of the estimation in which he is held, the kinsr has conferred on him the cross of a Knight Commander of the Order of Kalakaua I. In this connection I may also state that on the occasion of the opening of the “ Home for Leper Girls ” last November His Majesty was pleased to confer on the Mother Superior of the Branch Hospital a similar honor, and accordingly decorated her with the insignia of the Royal Order of Kapiolani.
A SERIOUS QUESTION.
Will leprosy ever be entirely eradicated from this sorely smitten little kingdom? Will the work of segregation that has been continued so long and so faithfully, and the great sacrifices made by the nation and by individuals, be effectual in the end and accomplish the object intended and so long and so ardently desired ? This is the question that every one asks. It is truly a “ consummation devoutly to be wished;” but just now the plague does not seem to show any signs of abatement.
There are those who would fain believe that the worst is over, and others, again, who will persist that one-half of the native population of the islands is affected, and that it is only a question of time until the disease will so develop itself in this half that those constituting it will be in the same miserable condition as the wretched creatures at Ka-kaato and Kalawao. The malady has, no doubt, taken a terrible hold of the unfortunate inhabitants; but notwithstanding all the gloom that prevails, and naturally must prevail, in view of the awful inroads the disease has made and is making in all ranks of society since its advent to these islands, there is still a ray of hope to brighten the prospect, dark as it now appears.
IN OTHER LANDS. .
Hawaii is not the only nation that has been similarly afflicted. Other countries are to-^day suffering from the same scourge, but not, probably, to the same, extent. But there was a time, in centuries gone by, when the condition of Europe was little, if any, better than is now that of poor, stricken Hawaii. Time was when every country of Europe could count its lepers by thousands, and when ever}7 town and burgh was compelled to have its lazar-hou'ie for the isolation of those who had been touched ’by the disease that knows no healing. What judi
cious provisions and enforced isolation then effected can be looked for again. The case is not hopeless, although, considering the very great drain it entails on the limited resources of the kingdom, it is at times felt to be discouraging. Still, the authorities are determined to continue their present policy of segregation, notwithstanding the enormous expense attending it, and every one who has watched the gallant fight they are making, no less than those who are more interested in the matter, sincerely trusts that their efforts will be finally crowned with success.
But in this terrible ordeal through which Hawaii is now passing, is there not sounded a note of warning to the people of the United States? It is only a few decades since the Hawaiians as a nation were rejoicing in health and strength-such as few other peoples possessed. To-day, and for twenty years past, the nation has been in the iron grasp of the most unrelenting of monsters—for such is the pest called leprosy.
ARE WE SAFE?
Only a few months ago, twelve lepers were taken from the Chinese quarter in San Francisco and quietly put on a steamer and shipped off to China. Two years ago, when on the Pacific coast, I was shown a house in “ Chinatown,” by one who knew whereof he was speaking, that gave shelter to a dozen or more lepers whose condition was so bad that the Chinese themselves, as a matter of selfprotection, made strenuous efforts to keep the matter quiet; and, as far as the general public was concerned, they were successful. Cases of leprosy have been found among the Chinese in Chicago, and, if reports be true, similar cases have been discovered in other cities farther East. Unless something is done soon to prevent these leprous Mongolians from promiscuously mingling with our people as they do now, the time will come when some of our communities will be in a condition that will render them specially susceptible of the disease, and then the few sporadic cases that we now pay no heed to will give rise to an inveterate and an exterminating epidemic. I do not wish to be considered as an augur of ill, but I do say that the facts in the case should receive more serious attention, and that without delay. Leprosy is yet rife in many places in the East and West Indies, and in Central and South America.
Leprosy prevails in China and Japan, and in other countries of the Orient. Europe is not yet free from its leper-houses, and it is only by constant watchfulness that the contagion can be prevented from spreading as in ages gone by. Is there then no reason for apprehension and dread in a land like ours, where the danger is ever imminent, and where nothing is.said or done to prevent our "people from contamination? We are constantly exposed, and yet, ostrich-like, ’we persist in shutting bur eyes to the danger. . The tocsin.cannot.be sounded too soon. It will be too late when we are obliged to establish a Kalawao in pur midst, for.on its dull portals will, be inscribed, in flaming characters: “Leave hope behind all ye who enter here.”
-	■	J.A.Z.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
391
Art, Music and Literature.
College Gossip.
—In Venice there is to be a very remarkable exhibition of fine arts from the 15th of April to the 25th of October.
—Lawrence Barrett, in his new presentation of Miss Mitford’s play, “ Rienzi, the Last of the Tribunes,” is meeting with unprecedented success.
— It is said that his Eminence Cardinal Gibbons has been at work on, and will shortly publish, a new book which will treat of one of the leading topics of the day, presumably the great labor question.
—The March number of The Popular Science Monthly will contain a portrait of the late Professor E.L. Youmans, engraved on steel by Schlecht. The likeness is considered remarkably vivid, while the execution of the work is much superior to ordinary book-plates.
—The Catholic Historical Society of New York has begun the publication of a periodical, under the title of “ The United States Catholic Historical Magazine.” It is not issued for profit, but in the interest of Catholic History—to diffuse a knowledge of the annals of the Church, and to excite and stimulate interest of such matters among Catholics generally. It is published quarterly, beginning with January.
—The admirers of the late Abb£ Liszt (who must have been numerous in America as in Europe) will find a plentiful, if not wholly, agreeable history of him in Raphael Ledos de Beaufort’s “ The Abbd Liszt; the Story of His Life.” There must be many sides to the life of a great musician; nor is it everyone—even of those who knew him well— who can succeed in harmonizing them all. This “ Life ” is, however, worth reading.— Catholic Book News.
—The approaching twelfth centenary of St. Cuthbert will be celebrated by the publication of a mass of literature bearing on the history of the apostle of the North of England. Archbishop Eyre, of Glasgow, is preparing a new edition of his exhaustive life of the Saint; and Mgr. Consitt, of Durham, is engaged on a shorter sketch. Of three or four other similar volumes in course of preparation, the most notable will be that by Father Stevenson, S. J.
—The manuscript already prepared for the “ Century Dictionary ” numbers over 25,000 sheets written on brown paper, 8 inches by 12 in size. It has to be kept in the printer’s office for frequent consultation in regard to cross-references, and the like, and as it would be impossible to replace some of the matter, should it be destroyed, the entire MS. has been photographed and reduced to sheets 1 by 2 inches, and. this reduction, which can be read only by help of .a magnifying glass, is .carefully-put-away. The negatives, too, are preserved, and the whole is kept in strong fire-proof vaults, so that the publishers are now easy in regard to the security of the much-prized “copy.”
—John W. Mackey has donated $2,500 to Mt. St. Mary’s Academy, Reno, Cal.
—The resolution authorizing Yale College to be hereafter named Yale University, was passed recently by the Senate at Hartford. . .
—The N. O. Morning Star says: “The semiannual entertainment given by the pupils of the well-known institution St. Isidore’s College, took place on Wednesday, the 16th inst., in their hall, where a neat stage, with all the accessories, was tastefully arranged. The programme for the occasion included vocal and instrumental music; essays and recitations; the presentation of an English drama in four acts—cThe Prodigal Law Student,’ and a French comedy in one act, entitled La Conspiration des Poudres. The place was .crowded with the parents and friends of the pupils. All seemed to be well pleased at the efforts made by the boys, and we must say that Rev. Father Scherer, C. S. C., and assistants can well be proud of their boys for the success scored.”	.
—English history is studied in all our best seminaries and schools. But in what school, from the-Atlantic to the Pacific, from the far North to the far South, has Irish history been taught? Stand up, ye Vassar and Wellesley maiden alumnze, who know so much about Knight and Macaulay, and ye Yale and Harvard graduates, who are supposed to be familiar with Hume and Hallam, and tell us what you know about the history of Ireland. You say, in reply, that St. Patrick drove the snakes out of Ireland. This is useful information; but the event to which you refer occurred in the last part of the fourth century or the early part of the fifth; for St. Patrick died just fourteen hundred and twenty-two years ago. Go on with your recitation, and tell us what happened before that time, and' what has happened since. The scholarly ,oracles make no response. Beautiful Vassar blushes at her ignorance, and proud Harvard bows his head in shame. They know nothing of these rich legends which tell of Lady Caesair reigning in Erin before the days of Noah. They, can tell about mvthical Romulus, the reputed son of the God of War, and the founder of Rome. But what can they tell of this fair Queen Meave, the daughter of a fairy, yet ruling the Emerald Isle as with a rod of iron? They can tell how ancient Phoenician mariners sent their ships far westward, even beyond the Pillars of Hercules to the western coasts of Africa. But what can they tell of the commerce Ireland had with ports in the Mediterranean before the Christian era? And what can they tell of the invasions of the country by the Danes and the Normans, and its condition under the reigns of the Richards and the Henrys and other English monarchs?. Many old people, as well as the young, and the educated as well as the uneducated, may profit by a perusal of Mr..Towle’s “History of Ireland” and its eloquent introduction by John Boyle O’Reilly.—Home Journal.	..
392
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, February 26, 1887.
The attention of the Alumni of the University'of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twentieth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.	*
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
claim as the leading philosopher and writer of our days. The memory of such a man should, indeed, never die. Our Alma Mater has already done something towaids that end. Here at Notre Dame, which is privileged to possess the remains of the illustrious dead, a chapel, known as the Brownson Memorial Chapel, has been for some time in process of construction, and will shortly be completed. But more than this should be done. As long as our glorious Republic maintains its prestige before the world, so long should there remain, in the very heart of the Nation’s wide domain, the fixed, material, and imperishable expression of her appreciation and remembrance of the worth and services of the most gifted of all her sons.
But the “address,” to which we invite attention, sets forth, better than any words of ours, the worth of the great American philosopher, and the motives which commend the erection of the monument to his memory. We may be permitted, to add that the honor of this happy thought—or, at least, of its first public expression—is due to the Rt. Rev. Dr. Gilmour, Bishop of Cleveland, who, many months ago, through the columns of the Catholic Universe, suggested to the public the idea of such a monument and was himself the first to contribute to the fund for its erection. Through the constant agitation of the Universe, the matter was effectively kept before the public, and many subscriptions were added, until it was taken in hand bj' the Catholic Young Men’s Union. Under the active and energetic auspices of this organization, aided by the generous response of an intelligent and appreciative public, we have no doubt that the much-desired consummation will be speedily realized, and that a fitting monument, commemorative of our own great statesman, philosopher and Christian writer, will occupy its prominent position in the centre of the great metropolis of the “ Western World.”
—We take pleasure in presenting to our readers, in another part of these pages, an address from Mr. M. J. Harson, of Providence, R. T., Chairman of the Brownson Memorial Committee of the Catholic Young Men’s National Union. The project of erecting a monument to the memory of an American who, in a special field of intellectual labor, had been a leader among men, must commend itself to every intelligent citizen of our Re-. public. Certainly, one who loves his country, and . takes pride in her glory and renown, must be prepared, not only to value, but to contribute, as far as* in'him lies, to render imperishable the memory of. those who, as warriors or writers, have served to make the Nation. honorable and distinguished in the eyes of the world. The late lamented Dr. Orestes A. Brownson was in his time the most prominent citizen of our Republic, commanding, by his words, the attention of both hemispheres;— a citizen who, in his many writings,-displayed the resources of a woiidrously gifted mind, .which he. employed in rendering invaluable services to religion, philosophy, literature and state polity—a man whom the American nation may well-be proud to
The Thespian Celebration.
Last Monday evening the auditorium of Washington Hall.was well filled with the Faculty, students, and a large number of friends from South Bend and other cities, assembled to witness the entertainment given.by the Thespian Association of the University in honor of Washington’s Birthday. A commendable patriotic sentiment has, from the very beginning of our College organizations, made the celebration of this day one ..of the great events of the scholastic year, and the entertainment usually given is always certain to be witnessed by a very large audience. It is expected, too, that the exhibition will be of a high order of; excellence, and in-.this respect we are informed that the. auditors, have been rarely .disappointed in the past. 'As regards-the. entertainment on .Monday, from our own knowledge we can- say that the- highest expectations of the best’ friends:of the Thespians were fully, realized, and the performance crowned with complete success,. . ... .	....	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
393
The exercises were opened promptly at four o’clock by a stirring “ medley of national airs,’’ well rendered by the University Band. This was followed by the
ORATION OF THE DAY
by Mr. John J. Kleiber, of the Class of ’87. His production was a well-conceived and aptly expressed tribute of praise to the memory of the “Father of his cou'ntry.” As introductory, he spoke in glowing terms of that spirit of patriotism which burns in the Ameiican heart, and which serves to keep alive the memory of “ one who will hold the first place in our hearts’ affections as long as the Union survives—as long as we shall retain that precious heritage of liberty and self-government which we owe to his energy and power.” He then eloquently depicted the striking periods in the illustrious career of our national hero, and concluded with an admirable resume of the qualities, by which he was enabled to achieve such grand results, and which have made his name imperishable in the love and memory of the American people. The oration was listened to with marked attention, and elicited great applause.
After a selection by the Orchestra, Rev. President Walsh introduced Signor Baldanza, a distinguished musician and vocalist, who was present on a visit to his friend, Signor Gregori, and who kindly consented to add to the pleasure of the evening by a rich vocal treat. Signor Baldanza has a clear, strong, ringing tenor voice, which has been carefully and artistically cultivated in the best European schools. His selection was received -with most deafening applause, which the Signor acknowledged by the singing of a beautiful Italian ballad, which excited great enthusiasm.
Then came the principal feature of the evening’s entertainment, the presentation of the drama of
“William Tell.”
The play is so well known that we need not stop to speak of it. It was presented by the Thespians in a manner to elicit the unqualified praise of the audience, and to reflect the greatest credit upon themselves and their worthy Director. It was well mounted, with every attention paid to scenery and appropriate costume, and ran smoothly from beginning to end. In the rendition of the various . parts each performer showed a particular fitness for the part assigned him, and presented a faithful: and spirited interpretation of his’roZe. In particu-’ lar, Mr. D. A. Latshaw as “ William Tell ” was a surprise to his.friends, and’ his acting was pronounced to be as excellent an amateur presentation :as one could desire to see. He has a good, strong voice, well at his command, which he used to the best advantage, accompanied with appropriate action, in the climaxes of passion with which the play abounds. Mr. B. T. Becker as “ Gesler ” depicted the crafty, cruel tyrant with fidelity. He was seen at his best’in the scenes with'.“ Tell,” ■wherein, he well protrayed the conflicting emotions caused by craven fear and the consciousness of power, Messrs, C, F, Stubbs as “ Sarnem,” S, T.
Murdock, as “ Melctal,” and E, Dwyer as “ Nicholas,” were very effective and showed a proper conception of their respective characters. Master C. Mooney, who filled the role of “Albert,” son of Tell, acted with ease and grace, showing, by voice and action, the results of good training. The other characters—“Verner,” G. Houck; “Erni,” J. Cusack; “ Furst,” M.Mulkern; “ Rodolph,” A. Gibbs; “Lu-told,”S. Dorsey; “ Gerard,” C. Combe; “ Michael,” T. McDermott; and “ Fierre,” A. Triplett—were well played and contributed towards the general excellence of the whole.	.
Between the acts, vocal selections were very creditably given by Messrs. Jewett and Paschel, who sang a pleasing duett, and Mr. G. O’Kane, who rendered an excellent bass solo.
The only defect in the exhibition was in the 'musical portion, which was not extended enough to present that variety which always pleases. However, this defect was, to a great extent, lost sight of in the general excellence of the drama. Indeed, the Thespians may well congratulate themselves on the success of their efforts to present an entertainment in honor of Washington’s Birthday, satisfactory and pleasing to an unusually large and critical audience.	X.
The Brownson Monument.
ADDRESS BY THE BROWNSON MEMORIAL COMMITTEE OF THE CATHOLIC YOUNG MEN’S NATIONAL UNION.
Since, the landing of Columbus, the Catholic, and the exploration of large tracts of country by De Soto, Cabot, C.artier, Champlain, and other hardy explorers and pioneers, up to the present time, Catholics may well feel proud of the part the Church has had in the nation’s progress. Among the first to tread the recesses of our forests were the sainted and zealous missionaries, who devoted their lives to teaching the savage the religion of Christ, and, in many instances, hallowing by their blood the scenes of their labors. Many of the illustrious sons of’ our noble Republic who have won the highest distinction as jurists, statesmen, soldiers, and authors, as well as in other vocations, have been proud to be known as members of holy Church’; prominent among these is the name of the profound scholar, publicist, and philosopher, Orestes A. Brownson,. LL. D.
From the time, when he-became a Catholic, in 18/] j, to his :death, he devoted his great learning and ability to the defense of the Church, in explanation of her doctrines, and in refutation of modern errors, and was a most prominent figure in the Catholic and Protestant world. The value and importance of his labors cannot be too highly estimated. He stood up in defense of the Church at a time when Her champions were few and im-potentj and when religious bigotry was at its height. His writings -will live as long as truth needs to be defended—as long as there are shams to be exposed
394	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
and errors to be refuted. He has been pronounced the first review writer of our country; and that he was among the first men of the age, few, we think, will venture to deny. His style, based on the best literary models, gives a charm to all he wrote, and in his masterly handling of the English language he stands unsurpassed.
’ He put aside the most tempting offers of public preferment and private gain for the sake of embracing the truth; and, after a life’s labors in the •cause of Catholicity, died poor. The memory of such a man should not be permitted to die. His great faith and unflinching courage, fervent piety and entire unselfishness, profound learning and tireless industry, go to make up one of the highest ideals of manhood for our youth to contemplate, ■study, and imitate.
On the death of Dr. Brownson, in 1876, it was proposed to erect a monument to his memory, and though the proposal met with general favor, nothing practical was done. Some months ago, the Right Rev. R. Gilmour, Bishop of Cleveland, suggested, in the columns of the Catholic Universe. that it was now time a suitable monument should be erected to the memory of this distinguished Catholic, and a considerable sum of money was quickly collected in Cleveland for this purpose.
At the Convention of the Catholic Young Men’s National Union, held in Philadelphia, May 19 and 20, .attention was called to the proposed movement, and a committee of five was appointed to take such action in the matter as they should deem to be best. After some correspondence, the movement was unreservedly placed in their hands, and they have assumed its management.
The design of the undertaking is to erect an appropriate monument at Central Park, New York. It is to be hoped that every Catholic in the land will contribute to the fund. A general treasurer has been appointed, namely—Rev. J. H. Mitchell, St. James’ Cathedral, Brooklyn, N. Y.—to whom all contributions should be sent. These will be regularly acknowledged in the Catholic press. All moneys received will be deposited subject to the order of a Board of Episcopal Trustees, namely: His Eminence Cardinal Gibbons; Most Rev. Archbishop Corrigan, of New York; Most Rev. Archbishop Williams, of Boston; Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland; Right, Rev. Bishop McQuaid, of Rochester; Right Rev. Mgr. Doane, of Newark.
The success of this movement, besides giving just honor to an illustrious layman, cannot fail to exert a far-reaching influence for good on our Catholic population. It will attract attention -to the writings of Dr. Brownson, and incite to a study which will result in a wider reading of Catholic literature. There is a great future in store for the Catholic young men of America, and we believe one of the steps towards preparing them.for.it would be to create an active interest in the writings of this distinguished controversialist. .	.... _
That many articles by him were written with this-end in view is without question. In 1855 he wrote: .	-
“ These Catholic young men who now feel that they have no place and find no outlet for their activity, are the future, the men who are to take our places and carry on the work committed to us. We must inspire them with faith in the future and encourage them to live for it. Instead of snubbing them for their inexperience, quizzing them for their zeal, dampening their hopes, pouring cold water on their enthusiasms, brushing the flower from their young hearts, or freezing up the well springs of their life, we must renew our own life and freshness in theirs, encourage them with our confidence and sympathy, raise them up if they fall, soothe them when they fail, and cheer them on always to new and nobler efforts. . . . Bear with them, tread iightly on their involuntary errors, forgive the ebullitions of a zeal not always according to knowledge, and they will not refuse to listen to the counsels of age and experience. They will take advice and will amply repay us by making themselves felt in the country, by elevating the standard of intelligence, raising the tone of moral feeling, and directing public and private activity to just and noble ends.”
In his preface to the American Republic he says:
“ I wish to exert an influence on the future of my country, for which I have made, or rather my family have made, some sacrifices, and which I tenderly love. Now, I believe'that he who can exert the most influence on our Catholic population, especially in giving tone and direction to our Catholic youth, will exert the most influence in forming the character and shaping the future destiny of the American Republic.”
While many monuments to the memory of illustrious citizens have been erected in various parts of the country through the generous assistance of Catholics, none of these perpetuate the memory of one distinguished for sterling Catholicity, as well as other virtues deserving honor. Dr. Brownson deserves a monument at the hands of the Catholics of America. Will you not be among the first to contribute to so laudable a cause? All contributions should be sent to the general treasurer, Rev. J. H. Mitchell, St. James’ Cathedral, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Another Weather Prophet Dephlogisticated.
The “Special Philosopher” of the New York Sunday Mercury published, on December 26th of last year, a complete and detailed prognosis of the weather for 1887, and, small as is the segment of the annual cycle already elapsed, it has afforded sufficient evidence to warrant us in pointing the finger of scorn at the prophet.
His method is kindly made manifest in the same article that contains his prophecies. He .clings to the “aspects” of antique astrology—trine, quadrature, sextile, and the like—adding a new feature to these by .taking into consideration the heliocentric conjunctions of the planets, which he has .calculated with much apparent patience. Like other astrologers, however, he leaves.Neptu.ne out of his programme; for, somewhat strangely,while Uranus .was welcomed by the. astrological , fraternity with open arms, Saturn being kicked out of fiis .“ diurnal house”, of Aquarius to' make room for .the new-comer,"Neptunehas failed .to. elicit the.slightest.. civility. -In fact, he has received .the “ cold shoulder ” ever since his discovery. Perhaps they thought astronomers might go oh. discovering planets still more remote,'and they must draw the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	395
line somewhere. But whatever the reason, Neptune is left out.
Now, our prophet’s theory is this: Any aspect, whether regarded as benefic or malefic by the old astrology, is for him an indication of “falling weather.” Periods void of aspect are pleasant and serene. But since the moon is seldom out of aspect with some one among the planets, her aspects are, in general, characterized as “ unimportant,” and no notice is taken of any except her oppositions, quadratures and conjunctions with the sun, and her passages of the equator.
And the outcome thereof is as follows:
“There are no aspects of importance on the first day of 1887; but those that follow on the ei, 3d and 4th are indicative of dull or foggy cold weather with downfall, which is rather more likely to be rain or sleet than snow.”
A little snow fell on Jan. 2d. . The 3d was clear and cold all day, with parhelia. The 4th was cloudy and somewhat warmer; but all three days formed part of the long, unbroken, cold snap extending from before Christmas until Jan. 19. No chance of rain or fog. o	-
“ Seasonably fine weather may be expected for the succeeding four or five days, owing to the absence of any potent configuration. Beginning with the Sth, another group of aspects is to be no*ed, and during this period heavy winds, considerable snow, and boisterous weather may be looked for in the West, perhaps attaining cyclonic force in some sections.”
Our notes for these days are: 5th, clear and cold; 6th, cloudy, with a little snow; 7th, clear; Sth, a little snow, with gleams of sunshine between showers; 9th, about 6 inches of snow falls before 11 a. m., afterwards clear; 10th, cloudy till 10 a. m., then clear. On all of these days the temperature was below freezing, and there was no marked change from the ordinary conditions of a cold snap.
“ Another spell of moderately enjoyable weather will follow and probably last up to the 16th of the month, when cold, stormy, changeable and severe weather, with more or less snow, is likely to be experienced.”
What constitutes “moderately enjoyable” weather is, of course, a matter of opinion. Good sleighing is enjoyable, and we had it right along through the three first weeks of January. The first rain in January fell on the 13th, freezing as it fell. On the 14th, we had sleet; on the 15th, snow; the j6th showed no marked change.
“ Changeable and by no means acceptable conditions are likely to prevail up to the end of the month, with decidedly stormy weather about the 26th and 29th and following day.”
The big change—the termination of the cold snap—began about 11 a. m. on the 19th. After this date the average temperature was above the freezing point till the end of the month. The January thaw was very complete, and, with the interruption of a few slight frosts, continued until the 30th, when a light snow fell. The 26th was clear and pleasant, and the 29th was a lovely spring-like day, the most genial of the whole month.
= •“ February is likely to enter with cold, dry, gusty weather, followed, shortly after, by snow.” '
It was really damp, cloudy and raw till the 4th, when the sun began to shine again.
“ Changeable, but, on the whole, better weather will likely characterize the period extending from the 4th to.the 10th,
or thereabouts, when ice-harvesting operations may be expected to be successfully pursued. Another group of configurations cover the period between the 12th and the 16th, when stormy, inclement wintry weather may be looked for.”
It is lucky our ice-harvesters did not wait for this period. Rain fell on the 6th, 7th and Sth. The 9th was fine and warm, with good, but risky skating. Warm rain, with thunder and lightning on the 10th. Soft snow on the 1 ith. The whole country flooded on the 12th, bursting the ice by pressure from below in many places. 13th, clear and pleasant; 14th, rain; 15th, cloudy and thawing; 16th, a remarkable clear, bright, spring-like day.
Woe unto them that put their trust in weather prophets, when matters so serious as the ice-harvest are in question I When ice-cutting was resumed on the 16th, after the remarkable interruption, which happened precisely at the period designated by our friend as particularly favorable, the ice was found to be “ honey-combed,” that is, to present a structure formed of loose vertical fibres, the effect of water percolating through it, which rendered it unfit for summer use.
“ A spell of fine, bracing, clear weather may be expected after this, while Jupiter is nearly stationary in the early degrees of Scorpio This pleasant weather may last up to, and probably include, the 20th, when a changeable, inclement and sometimes stormy period may be calculated upon to see the month pretty well out.”
Scorpio, however, proved restive in Jupiter’s society. On the 17th it rained, on the 18th it rained, snowed and sleeted. On the 19th it was cloudy and raw. Our prophet concludes his February predictions with that delightful vagueness which lends such an artless charm to predictions in general.
“There may be two or three fairly seasonable and pleasant days during this period, but they are difficult to place.”
But, dear readers, let us not scoff too haughtily at the discomfiture of this wretched man. We are all frail, and the subject of future weather exercises a strange and weird fascination over the human mind. When the weather-prophecy habit has once been indulged, difficult, indeed, it is to shake oneself free from its debasing trammels—to breathe again the glorious atmosphere of uncertainty and doubt. Let us say with the poet:
“ This man’s but a picture of what I might be.”
Many a valuable member of society, the dignified father of a family, perhaps, or the erudite instructor of youth, without excepting some who have devoted themselves to the keeping of the evangelical counsels in a religious life,—many an otherwise'worthy person has been beguiled by the arch-enemy of mankind into making forecasts of the weather, and has indulged in the habit until all hope of reformation has ceased. Perhaps lie began simply with a mild speculation on the kind of weather we should probably have to-morrow. He imprudently gave utterance to his thought in words, and, unhappily for him, perhaps his words came true. From that moment his fate was sealed. He went about asking people: “Well! didn’t I say so? ” He became a bore,—a .nuisance,—a confirmed weather prophet. Friends, resist temptation while there is yet time.
Boyle Dowell.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—Festina lentic').
—Keep off the grass!	.
—Fence in the fencers!
—The play was the thing!
—“ A man! I swear, a man! ”
—The Thespians take the cake.
- —When is the bomb to explode?
—-Charley’s souvenir was the best.
—The Band was out. Stay there! •
—The walking delegate is still walking.
—“William Tell ” was a pronounced success.
—“ Class-slippers ” are a prospective wrinkle of the Class.
—The short trip west was greatly enjoyed by the Class.
—It’s amusing to watch the capers of our Will-with-a-wisp.
—“That came directly from France; see the plaster of Paris.” •	.
—Our “box” has been somewhat neglected of late. Why is this thus?
—It’s not only the U. S. Senators who are payins' attention to the coast defenses.
o
—Whatever may be your position in life, “keep vour place ” is good advice to remember.
—Wading through mud without snow-shoes has been a popular recreation around here of late.
—The “tiles” of ’87 are unique and quite dis-iingue. In fact, “ they are too sweet for anything.”
—The society reports have been crowded out this week, but they will receive full justice in our next.
—Mr. James A. Burns has been selected by the Columbians as the orator for the St. Patrick’s Day celebration.
—Nobody in this quiet retreat is talking war personally, but more than one is keeping up a heap ■of thinking.	-	.
—The Minims are indebted to Mr. H. Heller, of South Bend, for a valuable donation to their reading-rooms.
—Let it be remembered that we.'shall be glad to receive items of local or personal interest,from anybody and everybody. '	. _
—Now, that the Band has “ broken'.the ice,” we ’/hope to have the pleasure-of hearing it frequently ; during the rest of the year.	’	:■
; —The programmes ofc the Thespian entertainment were considered good specimens of the tasteful and ornamental printing done at our Office.
!—Next in order is the celebration of St. Patrick’s Day. The Columbians have that,in charge, and, we are sure^ they will do justice td'the occasion.
—The; article which appears in another page, ,in regard to the fate of a modern weather prophet, will.be read with interest;by many in;this vicinity.
—Speaking about the “racks ” of olden times
as having been suc.h terrible instruments of torture, what’s the matter with the music-rack of to-day?
—New appliances for the “gyms” have been received during the week. The halls are now well furnished, and great enthusiasm prevails among those following the various classes.
—Our friend John was at the play. But he went away wondering how “forty-third annual celebration” and the mystic legend—1861-1887— could be reconciled together.
—The “Grads” paid a pleasant visit to the Academy last Tuesday afternoon, and were very hospitably entertained. We regret that we have not received a detailed report of the visit.
—The efficiency of the Thespian stage managers was displayed to advantage at the entertainment on Monday evening. The scenic effects were admired by every one present, and added greatly to the interest of the drama.
—As Spring is fast approaching, we would respectfully call attention to the great need of cement walks between the College and Presbytery, connecting the various buildings around the western wing of the main building.
—A welcome visitor to the College during the week was Rev. Thomas O’Leary, ’73, of the Cathedral, Ft. Wayne, Ind. Father O’Leary has hosts of friends at Notre Dame, who are always pleased to meet and greet him..
—The semi-weekly meetings of the “roomers” have for their object the cultivation of conversation as a fine art. The exchange of light, common-place and small-talk is interdicted in them and higher intellectual enjoyments are substituted.
—The increasing demands for uniforms for the members of the military companies keep the genial Director of the Tailor-shop and his numerous assistants constantly busy. But all orders are filled as speedily as can be expected, and perfect satisfaction given.
—Can it be possible that the scholastic year will be permitted to pass without some signs of life from the Philodemic and Scientific Associations? Their present-somnolency is in striking contrast with the brilliant records of the past, as may be seen from the “minutes” now in possession of the forlorn secretaries. •	•	- -	. .
—With the opening of Spring, work will be resumed on the Brownson Memorial Chapel and the extension to the church; It Is true that-the carpenters have' not been idle during the winter, but the stucco-work can now be hastened so as to place the walls and. ceilings in readiness for the paintings by Gregori. = ’	.	.........
—Last Wednesday—Ash Wednesdays—the solemn ceremony 6f the blessing'arid distribution of ashes took place in the College church. Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Rev. Father Spillard, with Rev. Fathers Walsh and Robinson as deacon and subdeacon. An appropriate instruction was given by Rev. Father Kirsch.
.—Companies “ A” and “B,” of the’ Hoynes’ Light Guards, gave an excellent dress parade and
THE wotEE dame scholastic.
397
battalion drill on the campus last Tuesday afternoon. Their various evolutions were executed with precision, and merited the encomiums lavished by the large array of delighted visitors. The drill was one of the most pleasant features of the celebration of Washington’s Birthday at Notre Dame.
—Our excellent Orchestra was altogether too stingy with its music last Monday evening. After the rendition of one piece there was a general exodus of the players. Now, we think it should not be so. The organization is in first-class condition, with an extensive repertoires and certainly there can be no complaint of a lack of appreciation on the part of the audience. So that we do not think it too much to expect them to contribute more to the variety and pleasure of our public entertainments.
—Among the visitors during the week were: Miss Sophia Rothert,Huntingburg,“Ind.; M. Marx, John J. Howard, Mrs. J. E. Brabrook, Mr. and Mrs. C. Backrack, L. Backrack, Mrs. M. A. Miner, A. J. Weckler, J. Hermann, Dr. H. Redlich, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Wile, Laporte, Ind.; S. D. Silver, Miss Edith Silver, Denver, Col.; J. Rix, Ft. Madison, la.; Mr. and Mrs. H. Backrack, Decatur,III.; Mrs.James Meehan,Covington, Ky.; M. Clifford, Stevens Point, Wis.; J. Weimer, Lemont, Ill.; W. Walsh, Des Moines, Iowa. '
—At the annual celebration of Washington’s Birthday by the Thespians, on Monday evening, the 21st inst., the exercises were conducted according to the following o	o
PROGRAMME:
Music—“National Airs”.............N. D. U. Band
Oration of the Day..................John	Kleiber
Overture to the Operetta: “ Franz Schubert”.Suffe University Orchestra.
“WILLIAM TELL.” '
A Drama in Three Acts.
Dramatis Personce.
Gesler..............................Bernard	T. Becker
Sarnem...............................Charles F. Stubbs
William Tell......................Donald A. Latshaw
Albert (his Son)..................Christopher Mooney
Nicholas (his Brother)..................Edward	Dwyer
Melctal...........................Samuel T. Murdock
Verner )	’	( George F. Houck
Erni C Swiss Patriots. j John P. Cusack Furst )	(Michael B. Mulkern
Rodolph )	f A. Gibbs
Lutold (• Austrian Officers. J S. W. Dorsey Gerard )	( C. Combe
Michael..............................T. S. McDermott
Pierre (Swiss Peasant)......................A.	Triplett
Savoyard........... :.................. A. McFarland
■	. Soldiers, Citizens, etc.
Between Acts i and ii:
“ Guarda che Bianca Luna”.;.................Camfana
' F. Jewett, P. Paschel. Between Acts ii and hi :	,
“ The Bugler” (Bass Solo)....-................Pinsuti
„ .	George F. O’Kane.	_ .
Grand March for Retiring.... ............ N. D. U. Band
—^Accessions to the-Bishops’ Memorial Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.:—Archbishop Eccleson’s gold pectoral cross and chain, given to him,.on the oc casion of his consecrationj by the day-scholars of St. Mary’s College, Baltimore—this-precious. cross was also worn by Archbishop Elder when he was
consecrated third Bishop of Natchez, and it contains relics of the Apostles SS. Peter and Paul, St. Cecilia, Virgin and Martyr, St. Agnes and St. Lucia; antique Roman chasuble, stole, maniple, etc., profusely decorated with quaint, hand-made; needlework embroidery in tinted silks representing birds,-flowers, foliage,butterflies, etc.,and encrusted with tiny spangles of gold, and many gems of various colors — these vestments were owned by Rt. Rev. Mgr. Fenwick, first incumbent of the diocese of Cincinnati, and were used by him and his successors; pontifical gloves of purple silk embroidered with gold thread, used by Bishop Fenwick—the foregoing were received from Most Rev. Archbishop Elder. Full-length, standing portrait of Archbishop Perche, received from Rev. Mother Rosalie. Two letters written by Bishop Hendricken, of Providence; five by Bishop Grace; sixteen by Mgr. Ryan, received from Rev. T. Fitzgerald. Curious old crozier with silver staff' and gold plated crook, given by All Hallow’s College, Ireland, to the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Flaviop-olis on the occasion of his consecration; mitre of silver cloth, chastely embroidered with gold and set with precious stones, given at the same time by the late Cardinal Cullen; gold plated, metal crozier given to the first Bishop of Grass Valley, by his Grace Archbishop Allemany, presented by Rt. Rev. Mgr. O’Connell. Three letters written by Mgr. de la Hailandiere, presented by Rev. Mother Ascension. English translation of a large number of F rench documents written by Cardinal de Cheverus, at one time first Bishop of Boston, received from a friend.
—The Thespians.—The Thespian Association of Notre Dame University observed the birthday of Washington in the usual manner f>v a grand entertainment in the Academy of Music at the College last evening. A large audience was present, which included the Faculty and students,and a great many visitors from the city and elsewhere. The exercises began at four o’clock, and lasted for two hours, and formed a very pleasing and varied entertainment. The opening number on the programme was a nicely rendered overture by the University. Orchestra,- which is continually , improving, and was never better than this season. Then came the oration of the day, by Mr. John Kleiber, on the life and character of the immortal “Father of his country.” The young gentleman did the subject full justice, and his effort was well received. The favorite play of Notre Dame students, the sterling, drama, of “William Tell,” was then presented. The play was nicely mounted, with several new sets of scenery, and richly costumed. The characters were well taken and the play ran smoothly to the end. Mr. Latshaw as Pell was particularly good. He is a talented young man, and improves with each public appearance. All of his work denotes careful and painstakingstudy. .Master.Mooney in the character. of--Albert^ the young son of Tell, was?also good, especially in the clearness and distinctness of his speech. Mr. Becker as the tyrant, Gesler^ did . some admirable acting, and looked the. character-,well. The other parts in the play were well pre
398	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sented.and the efforts of the youngf gentlemen were received with favor by the large audience.
During the evening, in addition to the fine music of the Orchestra, some choice vocal selections were presented, including a duett, “ Guarda che Bianca Luna,” by F. Jewett and P. Paschel, and a baritone solo, “The Bugler,” by George F. O’Kane, and a solo by a former member of the Mapleson Italian Opera Company, Signor Baldanza, who is stopping in the city temporarily, and went out to the College to attend the entertainment and visit with his countryman and old-time friend, Signor Gregori, the artist. At the close of the entertainment l he students and many of the visitors repaired to the ix fectory for supper, and the pleasant exercises attending the 43d celebration of Washington’s birthday by the Notre Dame Thespians were over.—South Bend Tribttne.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satislaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Archambeault, M. Akin, Ashton, Aubrey, J. Burke, Becerra, Britt, Bingham, Brownson, P. Burke, Baca, Barnes, Bush, Barrett, Bernhart, Beaupre, Burns, Beckwith, Crane, Craig, J. Crowley, W. Crowley, Cusack, Cartier, F. Combe, Coady, Cooper, Craft, W. Dorsey, S. Dorsey, Dore, Dreever, Dierdorff, Dempsev, Eyanson, Egan, Finckh, Ford, Fehr, Fry, Gallardo, Galarneau, Gordon, Gibbs, Griffin, Houck, Hiner, Hummer, Henry, Judie, Kramer, Kendall, Kreutzer, J. Kelly, Kingsworth, Lally, Langan, Leonard, Luhn, Luther, J. McDermott, T. McDermott, Marx,McErlain, Martineau, McAlister, Mallay, Moffatt, Mulkern, V. Morrison, J. Meagher, L. Meagher, Myers, Murnan, Maier, McNally, Noonan, Newton, Andrew Nic-holl, Alfred Nicholl, O’Rourke, O'Regan, O’Kane, L. O’Malley, J- O’Malley, Orr, J. Nester, Padilla, P. P. Prudhomme, Paschel, Prichard, Pender, Quill, Ryan, Rheinber-ger, Rothert, Rodriguez, Regan, Rochford, A. Rudd, Suing, O. Sullivan, Shields, Stubbs, Shannon, Strasser, Triplett, Velasco, W. Williams, Whalen, Waixel, West, Woodman, Wilson, M. White, W. White, Weber, Wagoner, Kleiber, Colina, O’Donnell.*
,	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Austin, Adams, Anderson, R. Bronson, H. Bronson, Blessington, Bodley, Badger, Bunker, W. Boland, Baca, H. Boland, Burns, Bruce, Butts, Cleveland, Cavanagh, Clifford, Cobbs, Cooney, L. Chute, F. Chute, G. Cooke, Duffield, Decker, Devine, J. Doss, E. Doss, Draper, Dempsey, E. Darragh, T. Darragh, Dunford, Ewing, Fitzharris, Falter, Flynn, Flood, Fisher, Freeman, Galarneau, Goebel, Girten, Hoffman, Houlihan, Hart, T. Hake, Hampton, Handly, Heineman, Howard, Joyce, Jacobs, Julian, Kerlin, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Kern, Kellner, Keating, King, Kinsella, Landenwich, Long, Lane, McKendry, Monarch, McKenzie, McCart, Mathewson, McMahon, McGurk, McIntosh, Macatee, McPhee, Mulberger, Moncada, McNulty, Morrison, Meehan, Mitchell, McGuire, McDonald-, McCambridge, McCabe, Nations, Noud, Nussbaum, O’Hearn, O’Connor, Ormond, O’Brien, O’Shea, Pfau, L. Paquette, C. Paquette, Preston, Quealey, Roper, Reynolds, Rosenthal, Riedinger, Rea, Sweet, B. Stephens, M. Smith, Schloss, Sullivan, Taliaferro, Tarrant, Tedeus, Vhay, Wilbanks, L. White, H. White, Welch, Walsh, Wade, Wageman, Wilkin, Weimer, Wile, D. Stephens, Mallay, A. Hake.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
- Masters Boyd, Bloomhuft' Blumenthal, Boettcher, Black, A. Backrack, H. Backrack, S. Backrack, Clendenin, Cohn, Crotty, W. Connor, C. Connor, Cooke, J. Conners, E. Conners, Doss, Davidson, Jas. Dungan, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, Dahler, Foote, T. FalveyJ E. Falvey, F. Falvey, G.
♦ Omitted by mistake last week. ’	.
Franche, C. Franche, Gale, Grant, Garber, Griffin, Goldmann, H. Huiskamp, J- Huiskamp, Haney, Hillas, Jewett, Kutsche, Keefe, Koester, Kane, Klaner, Kerwin, Kraber, Kinsella, McIntosh, McDonnell, Martin C. Mooney, H. Mooney, Mahon, L. Mayer, Munro, A. Mayer. G. Mayer, McPhee, Mason, A. Morgenweck, Mainzer, McGuire, Nester, O'Mara, O’Neill, O’Donnell, Paul. Priestly, Quill, Riordan, Rowsev, Savage, Sweet, Stone, Silver, A. Sullivan, J. Sullivan, F. Sullivan, F. Toolen, F. Toolen, Tompkins, Triplett, Taft, Witkowsky, A. Williamson, W. Williamson, Weckler.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.] ’
PREPARATORY COURSE.
P. Sweet, E. Campbell,' H. Houston, A. Cleveland, R. Nations, S. Campbell, F- Wilbmks, J. Ormond, F Carney, H. Bronson, H Jewett, P. Houlihan, G. Hustis, F. Duffield, A. Fitzharris, H.» Roper, J. O’Connor, A. Galarneau T. Noud, E. Decker, J. Hart, A. Schloss, J. O’Shea, C. Cavanagh, M. McCart, C. Badger, J. McGurk, F. Flood, H. Walker, F. Chute, G. Brabrook, J. Cooney, J Hampton, J. Keating, J. Bull, T. Taliaferro, A. Kutsche,, F. Smith, J. McMahon, C Ramsay, J. Doss, E. Doss, F. Kellner, E. Burns, F. Baca, F. Flynn, R. Sullivan, C. Inderrieden, G. Bruce, R. Oxnard, J. Moncada, C. Mitchell, J. McNulty, H. Boland, M. O’Kane, B. O’Kane, W. Julian, J. Black, G. Tarrant, J. Dickenson, E. Glenn, H. Wageman, F. Wile, R. /Ynderson, T. Darragh, E. Weimar, M. Gerten, T. Wade, F. Howard, L. Reidinger, J. McCambridge, F. Freeman, A. Buits, W. Rea, P. O’Hearn, J. Langan, P. Martineau, B. McAlister, T. O’Regan. J. Prudhomme, A. Triplett, E. Zeitler. J. McDermott W. Murphy, M. Cassidy, G Mallay, A. Leonard, J. Gallardo, H. Burns. C. Shields, A. Gibbs, L. Meagher, J. Cullen, W. Jeffs, T. Griffin, L. O’Malley, L. Greever, T. Dierdorff, D. Barret, J. Whalen, M. White, E. Egan, D. Strasser, F. Ashton, H. Smith, F. Nester, F. Kramer, J. McNally, W. Aubrey, J. Wilson, M. Luther, A. Maier, J. Burke.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. Martin, F. Crotty, J. McIntosh, R. Graham, E. Jewett, A. Sullivan, L. Riordan, R. Munro, J. Connors, R. Boyd, F. Rogers, C. Boettcher, I. Tompkins, H. Huiskamp, C. Priestly, W. Williamson, W. McDonnell, A. Nester, G. Sweet, L. Doss, L. Paul, A. Backrack, G. Gale, L. Black, C. Dahler, J. Huiskamp, Lowenstein, C. Franche, J. Dempsey, J. Dungan, F. Mainzer, E. Garber, R. Lane, C. Conner, H. Mooney, G. Franche, S. Backrack, G. Mayer, C. Taft, J. O’Neill, W. Connor, C. Grant, C. McPhee, L. Mayer, M. McGuire, W. Corbett, S. Witkowskey.
List Of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Latin—C. Cavanagh, A. Larkin, W Morrison; Algebra —W. Moffatt, L. Meagher, W. Aubrey, G. Cooke, M. Dore, H. Jewett, E. Prudhomme; Arithmetic—A. Leonard, J. Hampton, L. Macatee, F. Chute, J. McMahon, W. Kern, A. Burts, J. O’Connor, F. Wile; Giammar—J. Gal-laido, F. Kramer, J. McCambridge, L. Hoffman, J. Kellner, A. Burts, F. Wile, J. Hampton, L. Paquette, J. Burr, H. Houston, P. Sweet, J. O’Shea; Reading—J. Burke. H. Mallay, W. Rea, F. Duffield, E. Glenn, J. McMahon; P. O’Hearn, A. Kutsche; Orthography—J. Burke, J. Duffield, J. McMahon, J. Hampton, W. Rea, T. Wilbanks, A. Kutsche; Geography—E. Glenn, F. Carney; United States History—J. Cooke, E. Glenn, F. Carney; Catechism—T. Darragh, G. Landenwich, W. Walsh, L. Macatee, P. Sweet, F. Coad, N. Jacobs, B. O’Kane, H. Houston, J. Moncada, I. Casey, J. McNulty, W. Boland, J. McCambridge, J. McMahon, J. Quealey, J. Stephens, F. Chute, J. Doss.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC:
399
Saint Jftaty's Academy.
One Mile IKest oj Notre Danie University.
—By mistake, the name of Miss E. Coll was omitted from the list in the report of the Art Department last week.
—Recreation and a “taffy pull” was granted to the Juniors, on Saturday, in honor of their greatly augmented number, which exceeds that of several previous years.
—In the Minim department, the badge for politeness was won by Jessie Wallace. Ida Becker, Charlotte Caddagan, Anna O’Mara,Hazel Pugsley, and Eva Qualey drew with her.
—Loving sympathy is extended to Miss Mary Campbell—Graduate in the Conservatory of Music 1883—and Miss Catharine Campbell, a former pupil of the Academy, in their late bereavement, the death of their little sister Eugenie, at St. Paul, Minn.
—Affectionate condolence is tendered to Mrs. M. M. Phelan, and the wide circle of bereaved friends and relatives, on the sad occasion of the death of Mr. James Myers, of Lancaster, Ohio, the youngest brother of Mrs. Phelan. The remains were brought to Notre Dame for interment, from Detroit, Mich., where Mr. Myers, while on a visit to his sister, Mrs. Dr. Bigelow, died suddenly of apoplexy. May he rest in peace!
—The following drew for the Roman mosaic cross: The Misses E. Balch, T. Balch, Blaine, Boyer, Bragdon, Bruns, Bridgeman, Campeau, Campbell, M. Coll, Crane, E. Dempsey, J. Fisher, K. Fisher, Fritz, G. Garrity, L. Griffith, Geer, Hake, Hinz, Hughes, Hull, Huntting, Heyman, M. Kennedy, Kendall, Knauer, Koester, Leonard, Lindsey, Mason, McDonnell, McEwen, G. Meehan, N.Morse, Mercer, Prudhomme, Quill, Rhodes, Rogers, Schmauss, Stapleton, Stiefel and Wiesenbach. It was won by Miss Crane.	.
—Visitors to the Academy during the week were: Rev. H. J. McDevitt, Mr. Charles J. Williams, Day ton, Ohio; Mr. E. A. Blakeslee, Galien, Mich.; Mr. T. J. Kearney, Detroit, Mich.; Mr. V. E. Greene, Boise City, Iowa; Mr. and Mrs. T. F. Beaulac, Rutland, Vermont; Mrs. R. C. Thompson, Miss Bliss, Mishawaka, Ind.; Miss A. E. Herrington, Logansport, Ind.; Mr. D. Wile, Laporte, Ind.; Mrs. B. J. Desenberg, Lawton, Mich.; Mrs. E. Crane, Mrs. G. P. Booth, Muskegon, Mich.; Mrs. S. P. Murdock, Michigan City, Ind.; Mr. A. Dunkin, London, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Balch, Omaha, Neb.; Prof. M. H. Holmes, Mr. W. Wiesenbach, Miss F. Baker, Miss M. A. Murphy, Mrs. W. Rend, Mrs. P. L. Garrity, Mr. T. Hagerty, Mr. L. Faxon, Mrs. M. Ryerson, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. D. Silver, Denver, Col.; Miss A. Connors, Ft. Wayne,'Ind.; Mr. L. C. Hanlon, Wadena, Iowa; Mr. D. Murphy, Niles, Mich.; Mr. F. Ewing, Miss R. Myers, Lancaster, Ohio; Mrs, E. Johnson, Memphis, Tenn.; Mrs. Kingsbury and daughter., Cassopolis, Mich. .
—The monthly lecture to the St. Cecilia Society, on Saturday evening, Feb. 12, treated of the career of the great composer, George Frederick Handel. We present the following extract: “Of all the compositions of Handel, his oratorios have best stood the test of time. Before describing this great form, perhaps some of you would wish me to tell you what is meant by an oratorio. Like all great successes, its origin was simple: St. Philip Neri, who was born in Florence, Italy, in 1515, and who died at Rome in 1595, was the founder of the Religious Order known as the Oratorians. Fie was a good musician, and was devoted to the instruction of the youth of Florence, whom he was in the habit of collecting together for catechetical instructions and spiritual retreats. Finding that many were drawn away from piety by the licentious operas, he devised a means to afford them amusement, and, at the same time, to keep their souls untainted. For this purpose he introduced a species of musical drama, consisting of airs, recitations, duets, trios and choruses, the subject taken from the Holy Scriptures. These little pieces took their name from the oratory, or place of prayer, in St. Philip’s abode, wherein he was accustomed to give his spiritual exercises. The verb orare means to pray.
Oratorios soon assumed greater dimensions and became elaborate compositions under the hands of composers in different countries. About the middle of the seventeenth century they took a more dramatic form, and of late years have been introduced into this country by large associations of musicians, and have been the means of leading the taste of the people in a better direction, calling forth a more vigorous exercise of the ideal faculty. The impassioned recitatives the melody, in which sentiment finds utterance, and the descriptive choruses, have all had their influence, affording sketches of pictorial beauty, which every listener fills up with his own coloring. The first oratorios in England were brought out by Handel under the double difficulty of want of appreciation, and jealousy on the part of native artists, who as yet knew very little of German music; but he conquered, and to-day his music reigns supreme in all their monster festivals and grand concerts.” The lecture closed with a noble analysis and description of Handel’s great oratorio^ “ The Messiah.”
Benignity.
Benignity, one of the gracious.fruits of the Holy Ghost, is a shade of kindness, perhaps more rare than any other. Penetrating the heart upon which it is exercised, it carries with it none of the oppressive sense of return to be exacted, which often detracts from the dignity of benefits conferred. Benignity is the grace of the cheerful giver—the charity which finds it “more blessed to give than to receive,” and which looks for no como	*	e
pensation; it may be exercised in numberless ways, and no one is so destitute as not to be able to diffuse the rich odor of this virtue.	- -
4od
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Father Faber, in speaking of our obligations to our Divine Benefactor, says something to the effect—that alms given to the poor, especially to the very poor, are far more their right than are any, even the least, of God’s mercies a right to us. Yet how often do we see persons rehearsing and counting out their contributions to the poor, or to works which are of advantage to the public, as if they were so much stock taken in immunity from evil; as if the obligation could never be cancelled by the recipients! This disposition i-' not one of benignity. Far from it.
The gifts of Heaven are manifold. To one it may be wealth; to another talent; to another influence, and so on through the long li-.t of qualities, or possessions desirable in the esteem of men. In extending the advantages of these gifts to others as far as lies in our power, we may prove ourselves benignant, or quite the reverse. If I bestow a favor and “let not my left hand know what my right hand has done,” I am truly benign. If superior talents be mine, and I exert them to lighten the burden that dullness has laid upon, the mind of another, and, at the same time, cause him to be unconscious of his inferiority I impart to him a double assistance.
As the warmth of a cosy fire-side in the depths of winter, or as sunshine breaking through storm clouds and dispelling the tempest, so is this beautiful phase of kindness in the afflictions or reverses of life. It is to the benign of heart that the sweet surprise will come at the last day, as of our Divine Lord the}' shall ask: When sazv me Thee hungry and gave Thee to eat? To ease the sufferings and to comfort the sorrows of those who mourn should be the delight of every loving heart; for, not joy, but sadness, is the universal lot.
But if it be our good fortune to alleviate distress, let us not mar the holy deed by grudging, or by blame of the unhappy objects of our kindness. In the traditions of the saints nothing is so common as the apparition of Our Lord in the disguise of a beggar. It was He who took the little silver cup from St. Gregory the Great, and, long after, revealed Himself to the Saint; it was He who came as a leper to St. Elizabeth of Hungary. In truth, the shining history of God’s chosen, ones is full of proofs that whatever is done to the least of His, is done to Him. It is not necessary that He should make Himself manifest. The more hidden His identity with the object of our charity, the more acceptable is our good deed.
What a delightful phase of society it would be, could we find to-day among our wealthy citizens men like the venerable Gilbert Boromeo, father of St. Charles, who never broke his fast on any day in the year until he had fed twelve poor men in honor of Our Lord and the twelve apostles!
Catharine Scully ( Class ’jy).
Let us learn the great lesson taught us by the consideration of our destiny, and begin our heaven here upon earth; and, being ourselves "tempted, let us be pitiful and considerate and generous in judging others.	..	•	-
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF ACADEMIC RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Brady, Blaine, Blair, Bub, Bates, Beschamang, Birdsell, Clendenen, Clifford, E. Coll, Coglin,-E. Claggett, B. Claggett, A. Duffield, M. Duffield, C. Dempsey, H. Dempsey, Dart, Dunkin, Egan, Ewing, Fuller, Foin, Flannery, Fitzpatrick, Griffith, Gavan, B. Garrity, Horn, Hummer, Heckard, Harlem, Henke, L. Hutchinson, M. Hutchinson, Johnson, Kearsey, Kearney, Kearns, Kingsbury, McHale, Miner, L. Meehan, M. Meehan, Morse, M. McNamara, C. McNamara, M. McCormick, Marsh, Moore, McCarthy, Moran, O’Conner, Negley, Neff, Patrick, Pierson, Proby, G. Regan, E. Regan, Riedinger, Rend, Rose, Reed, Scully, Shephard, Snowhook, Stadtler, Shields, Sterns, R. Smith, M. Smith, Stafford, Stocksdale, Sullivan, Sweet, Trask, Triplett, Tomlins, Van Horn, Williams, Wehr, Wimmer, Weishart, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence— Misses E. Balch, T. Balch, Blaine, Boyer, Bragdon, Bruns, Bridgeman, Campbeau, M. Campbell, M. Coll, Crane, E. Dempsey, J. Fisher, K. Fisher, Fritz, G. Garrity, L. Griffith, Geer, Hake, Hinz, Hughes, Hull, Huntting, Heyman,M. Kennedy, Kendall, Knauer, Koester, Leonard, Lindsey, Mason, McDonnell, McEwen, G. Meehan, Morse, Mercer, Prudhomme, Quill, Rhodes, Rogers, Schmauss, Stapleton, Stiefel, Wiesenbach.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses I. Becker, Caddagan, O’Mara, Pugsley, Quealey, Wallace.
Class Honors.	-
ELOCUTION.
ist Class—Misses Fuller,Williams, Wolvin, Clendenen, Carmien.	-
2D Div.—Misses G. Stadtler, L. Meehan, F. Hertzog. A. Schmauss.
2D Class—Misses Steele, Griffith, Caddagan. R. Smith, . Allnoch, E. Blaine. E. Claggett, Prudhomme, Van Horn, Clifford.
2D Div.—Misses Proby, Hummer, Riedinger, Mason, H. Nester, L. Nester, C. Griffin.
3d Class—Misses C. McNamara, Stapleton, O’Donnell, Sterns, Bub, Campbell.
2D Div.—Misses Heyman, Hinz, Knauer.
Language Course.
Latin.
Misses Clendenen, Trask.
-	. French.
2D Class—Misses Vau Horn, Clendenen, Snowhook, Beschameng.
3d Class—Misses Kearsy, Gavan, Hertzog, McEwen, Faxon.	.
4TH Class—Misses T. Balch, Pierson, Barry, Prudhomme, Proby, Birdsell, Morse, Kendall.
German.
ist Class—Miss E. Horn.
2D Class—Misses Kearney, Bub, Clendenen, Trask, Henke. Beschameng.	.
3d Class—Misses Hummer, Morse, Carmien, Hinz, Knauer, Bruus.	.
4TH Class—Misses Wehr, Dart, Stearns, Rose, Allnoch, E. Balch, Schmauss, M. Smith, Huntting, Hake, Wimmer, Stocksdale, Quill, Thompson, Neff, M. Clifford,Quealey, Caddagan, Birdsell, Fritz. 4	:
5th Class—Misses Reed, Sweet, Bridgeman, Leonard, Fravel, Geer.
? TYPE-WRITING AND CALIGRAPH.	’
Misses C. Griffith, Blacklock, M. Morse, Sweet, Kearney, Kearsey,McHale, M<CoB. _ . . .	-