Vol. 81, No. 12
June 9, 1944
Pray For Our Invasion Forces
Father O'Donnell Addresses St. Mary’s
Private Lynch Wins Cavanaugh-Goodrich Prize


i
The Notre Dame Campus pays honor to her gallant war dead in the Memorial Day Military Mass.
_s


THE U. S. NAVY
Get More Quality for Less in These
NAVY OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
created by the U. S. Navy
$40
RAINCOATS
with removable All W)ol Linings
$3750
5
A
I
We are set up to equip you with great speed if necessary.
8 BLOCKS SOUTH on Michigan Street!
JJ^NUSUAL distinction, excellent tailoring, inherent smartness! You’ll find them all in. these durable uniforms, featured in our One Stop Naval Shop! Produced under the supervision of the Navy Department, these uniforms fit flawlessly, are fashioned to perfection. Our master tailors and expert clothing salesmen are your assurance of courteous, unexcelled fitting service.


TAXI FREE!
—in South Bend Hail any cab— we pay on arrival.
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
OPEN HOUSE
Saturday afternoon and Evening — and Sunday, 9 to 4
In South Bend TAXI FREE to The Modern Gilbert’s
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL, 81
JUNE 9, 1944
NO. 12
Father O'Donnell Gives St. Mary's Baccalaureate
University President Reviews Traditions at Centenary Commencement.
A present-day tendency to “over-emphasis on the career1 woman” in her desire to “imitate man and do the things that man by nature can do better,” thus losing the dignity and character of womanhood, was excoriated, last Friday morning by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, as he addressed the senior class of St. Mary’s College, in annual baccalaureate services. His sermon followed a Solemn Mass in the Chapel of the Holy Ghost at the college.
In this, the Centenary Year of St. Mary’s, Father O’Donnell touched upon the traditions of culture, faith in God, and self-sacrifice which created Saint Mary’s out of the pioneer wilderness of Indiana. He told the story of the first members of the little Community, taking their vows in France, and offering their lives for the new missions in Indiana, their trip to the new world, and their arrival at Notre Dame. Then came the first foundation at Bertrand, and later the establishment of St. Mary’s on the banks of the St. Joseph river that not so very long before had carried the canoes of LaSalle, Hennepin, and the intrepid Allouez.
Touching upon the fact that Saint Mary’s has never deviated from the ideals of her founders in favor of “fads,” he lauded the school for its impervious attitude toward the changing educational scene, holding fast to the Christian concept that has made and kept St. Mary’s a “Citadel of Western Culture,” and yet no stranger to sound progress.
“Here is a school,” Father O’Donnell asserted, “which has striven to carry out the great Newman’s injunction that the proper cultivation of the mind is effected by the study of the liberal arts.. Here is found the Christian concept of education, which is also the American—a fact to remember when so many of our sacred ideals and institutions are being attacked by enemies from within as well as from without.... Years ago those in administration saw the beginnings of the
The Rev. Hugh O'Donnell. C.S.C.
philosophy of secularism which would debase the children of God by making them glorified animals, and which has since had such a pernicious effect on American education. They would have none of it. When electivism appeared, it too was shunted aside; because it destroys the substance of education. Came later progressivism with its pedagogical doubletalk, emphasizing the hoiv in education instead of the what; but short shrift was made of it. There was no place in the curriculum of the Citadel for credit in tap-dancing and millinery prowess. Nor was there room for percentile quotients, sublimation theories, and long-division of the personality....”
First Home Front is the Home
“Be wary of those who would have you believe that changing times should bring changing standards. Be wary of the schizophrenic American who is roaming the country today. Under the guise
(Continued on page 18)
Seaman Trained at
Notre Dame Missing
Lieut, (j.g.) James Robert Maloney, who graduated from the naval reserve midshipmen’s school at Notre Dame, on Jan. 28, 1943, is listed as missing since May 21, the day of an explosion of an unidentified ship in Pearl Harbor, T. H. His home is in Mechanicville, N. Y., where his mother, Mrs. Veronica L. Maloney, lives at 610 Grant street.
Invasion Novena On!
Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:00 p.m., special invasion prayers were held with Father Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University, conducting the opening services. The services consisted of the recitation of the rosary, benediction, and special prayers.
Yesterday, June 8, Feast of Corpus Christi, a nine-day novena for the same intention began. This will close on the feast >of the Sacred Heart, June 16. Also, during the novena period there will be daily adoration of the Blessed. Sacrament.
Aero Meeting Held
A regional meeting of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences was held on Monday, May 29, at Purdue University. Members from three other MidWestern schools, namely Case School of Applied Science, Illinois Institute of Technology, and Notre Dame University assembled for the meeting.
Our Notre Dame student branch was very well represented at the meeting. Thirteen students made the trip while Mr. Eikenberry represented the faculty at the meeting. Phil Myers delivered a lecture on the work done here in the smoke tunnels. Accompanying his talk he showed the film “Smoke Streams,” a movie of experiments run in the two-dimensional tunnel, and showed slides of the tunnels themselves.
3
^he ^Notre Qame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
RALPH ABELL
Associate Editor, Marines
EDWARD MADDEN
Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
HAROLD BERLINER BILL WADDINGTON DICK MURPHY -BOB O'TOOLE
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
- Circulation
Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -	-	- Observations
LIEUT. (J.G.) J. J. COLLINS	- Know Your-Navy
JIM CASEY -	-	-	The Green Banner
JIM REGAN -	-	-.	- Introducing
BILL CARNAHAN -	-	The College Parade
ROBERT RIORDAN	-	Man About the Campus
LEO OUILLETTE -	-	- Pressbox Splinters
HARRY LE BIEN -	- ‘	-	■ The Periscope
NEWS STAFF
THOMAS PAYNE
ARTHUR WAGNER CHUCK RUSS
STEVE LOYACANO BILL THOMPSON JOHN O'HARA
JOHN KNUDSON BOB STEVENSON DON FORGAYS
. PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD JOE HALLER
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York Gity—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except'during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
EDITORIAL
Fifth War Loan
This coming week will witness the opening of the Fifth War Loan Drive. The vital contribution which the War Bond program is making to the gigantic task of financing the war is well known, but what may not be so well known is the collateral value of the bonds themselves.
Worry has long been known to be one of the chief contributing causes of sickness. Fear of future insecurity has long been recognized by individual authorities as one of the chief causes of worry. The systematic purchase of War bonds through navy pay-roll reservation and allotment plan is enabling several million of our navy personnel, civilian and military, to build up for themselves a financial fortress as protection against future insecurity. In so doing one of the great causes for worry, with its resultant lowering of physical and mental standards, is being eliminated.
Checks Inflation
Then there is the contribution which the War Bond program makes toward placing a tight check-rein on inflation. Unbridled inflation would not only bring disaster to the nation, it would also bring disaster to the individual. Inflation is a thief which robs every pay envelope every pay day.
If it were possible to check inflation by legislation and regulation alone, it would present no serious problem. This is not the case. Inflation can only be checked with the wholehearted cooperation of everyone. Money invested in war bonds is money enlisted in the relentless fight against a thieving inflation. Do your bit by buying an extra war bond.
—Al Lesmez
' Commerce Forum Meets
.- The Commerce Forum this week held ' its election of officers for the coming semester. The election results were: Copresidents Tony Bristol of New York City and Dick Murphy of Oak Park, Ill.;
k vice president, Emmet Hassett; program director, Michael Garry, and publicity
K director, Tom McCoy.
On Tuesday evening, June 6, the Commerce Forum held its last regular meeting for the current semester. Final plans for the banquet were announced.
4 This year the banquet is being held in the LaSalle Hotel. Mr. Edward Condon,
*	assistant to Mr. Barrows, president of Sears, Roebuck & Co., will address the members on the subject concerning social obligations of large corporations ' to the general public.
, The Forum was honored at the gathering by the presence of Pvt. Tom
*	O’Reilly of the U.S. Army. Tom was president of the Forum in 1943 before his induction.
Bookmen Elect Officers
’ At Their Final Meeting
V At a party held Monday night in the home of Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell, professor of history at the University, Richard Ames, junior Arts and Letters student from St. Paul, Minn., was elected president of Bookmen, to succeed Farre Pequigney, Galveston, Texas.
> This semester Ames served as club librarian. He has been a member of
*	Bookmen since the summer of 1943. Pvt. Arnold Sklare, USMCR, was chosen secretary, and Francis Fitzgibbons, Politics major, as librarian.
Bookmen will be open for membership
•	* at the beginning of next semester. Anyone interested in current literature is ' qualified to make application for membership, and is invited to contact any of the present members of the organization for further details. Notice of membership drives will appear in Scho- ■
v lastic soon after vacation.	-
Dave Wood is Campus' Most Popular Barber; Commander's Coming Brings More Business
BY JOHN O'HARA
y
V-7 Specialists Arrive
Over 220 specialists arrived on campus this week, 150 of them coming from the Asbury Park, New Jersey, PreMidshipmen center. They will remain here two months and will graduate on August 4.
July 6 will see the arrival of the new midshipmen class on campus when 1200 “generals” come for their training.
❖ IMPORTANT MEETING ❖
❖	Knights of Columbus
❖	7:45 p.m. Monday, June 16	❖
❖	Law Auditorium	❖
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
The coming of the new commander brought with it such a demand for anything which in any way resembled a haircut, that Dave Wood, student prefect of the fourth floor of St. Edward’s hall, took up his shears darly in the morning last Saturday, and was still “hacking” away up to just before the review. Members of all branches on earn
Crew cuts especially popular with Civies; famous snappy-inbetween-muster clips with Marines	—Photo by Renaud
pus hurried in hopeful haste to Dave’s room to see whether conditions there were better than they were at the local cut shop. They found sympathy and efficiency in Dave’s Shop. Many were the demerits which the deft strokes of scissors and shears avoided.
Do not make any mistake; Dave is not of the soup-bowl school of barbering, but a real tonsorial artist. His prices indicate that. His work proves it!
When he was a small boy, Dave’s father began to teach him to cut hair, and as time passed, and he grew more skillful, he began to barber professionally. Now he has a regular following which flocks to. his fourth floor room in quest of a peaceful “hair-do,” without politics, and at reasonable prices.
Among Dave’s customers can be found servicemen, civilians, and faculty members. Dave offers anything from a light trim to a brush cut, and he has recently added massages and shampoo to his already complete price-list. Dave finds it amusing in some of his student custom
ers who give him most trouble not in cutting the hair, but in finding it. But Dave says things are tough everywhere.
The Scholastic reporter-was able to get a few remarks from some of the fellows at Dave’s Den last week:
Bill Eggbee, Marine, Franklin, Pa.: “For a quick scalping job, no one can
do it like Dave Wood.”
Charles Lugton, NROTC, Denver, Colo.: “Wood’s clip joint always insures a good trimming.”
Chub Limont, Civilian, Hyannis, Mass.: “Don’t fear haircuts from Dave Wood as long as you haven’t any mirror in your room.”
George Desloge, V-12 Navy, St. Louis, Mo.: “I come to Dave because he always cuts more for less.”
Another interesting job which Dave holds is working as land surveyor and plotter in assisting the city engineer in South Bend. He feels that this work helps him since it fits right in with his civil engineering studies.
Wood was born in Norwich, Conn., but now his home is in Franklin, Conn. He went to New London Junior college before transferring here in the fall of 1942. Although he is now a second semester junior, he does not expect to graduate until after the war. The reason: he’s 1-A now!
5
Notre Dame's War Ace Still Making News
Acknowledged as one of the outstanding bomber pilots of this war, Lt. Col. John P. Henebry, Notre Dame graduate
o f 1940, is still making news-tickers work overtime with his brave exploits and daring missions. General
ly recognized king of southwest Pacific attack bomber pilots, “Jack” Henebry says that Japanese pilots are losing their
courage.
At an air base in New Guinea, Henebry, of Plainfield, Ill. recently was awarded three decorations: the Silver Star, the Purple Heart, and the Air Medal. The awards were presented by Major General Whitehead. The 25-year old flier already holds the Distinguished Flying Cross and other decorations. Many times in recent months, word of his daring attacks on the Japanese have reached the United States.
Lt. Col. Henebry is now commanding officer of his attack unit. To make the decoration ceremonies even more memorable for the Plainfield ace was the fact that his brother, Warrant Officer Joseph A. Henebry, Jr. was able to be present. Celebrations were in order when the two brothers had their first reunion in almost two years. First they celebrated their get-together, then the lieutenant’s new decorations, and last, but not least, the arrival of a new daughter at the home of Joseph Jr. Joseph also has one son, Joseph the Third, 20 months old. The new baby girl has been named Kathleen. Joseph Jr.’s wife and babies live in Springfield.
John Henebry entered the University in September, 1936, and received his bachelor of science degree July 30, 1940. He had attended Campion Prep school at Prairie du Chien, Wis., before coming to Notre Dame.
According to dispatches, Henebry has accumulated nearly 500 hours of combat time while carrying out more than 120 combat missions from somewhere in New Guinea. He has made two crash landings, one when his plane was hit by anti-aircraft and aircraft fire over Rabaul, and another time when the tank of his plane was shot “to pieces” over Wewak. The first time he landed in the water off Karawina. He made the second crashlanding in the Ramu valley.
Col. Henebry is leader of a group which has, among other things, destroyed more than 450 Japanese planes, sunk
John Henebry. '40
over 104,000 tons of shipping, and probably sank or damaged an additional 150,000 tons.
His group the colonel claims, was the first to hit Buna, Lae, Salamaua, Finsh-hafen, Wewak, Hollandia, and many other' places.'
Col. Henebry’s group, flying medium bombers, specializes in masthead bomb
Lt. Col. John Henebry, King of Southwest Pacific Bomber Pilots, Second from Right
ings, “different from skip bombing,” which is usually done by heavier bombers and at night. “In masthead bombing,” Henebry says, “the ship’s counter-fire is silenced and then a bomb is hurled against her side.” He said that one of the most important combat discoveries of this theater was made at the time of the Bismarck sea battle.
“At that time,” he said, “it was discovered that the fire power of wing- and nose guns on a bomber could neutralize a ship’s fire while the crew put bombs against her sides.” At the time of the Bismarck seabattle, Col Henebry’s outfit led by Major Ed Lamer, of San Francisco, destroyed 11 Japanese ships.
The 30 interceptions in which Japanese planes have attempted to destroy Henebry’s plane, gave cause to the colonel’s utterance that the Japanese pilots are losing their courage and that they are afraid of medium bombers. Other pilots, though, have praised Henebry and said that he can do most things with a speedy A-20 bomber that fighter pilots can do with a fightei- plane.
At Notre Dame, Henebry first enrolled in the College of Commerce, but later entered the College of Science. While here, he was a member of the Glee Club, and was a well liked, popular figure on campus.—A. V. L.
Marine John Lynch Takes Oratorical Honors
Pvt. John F. Lynch, USMCR, winner of the Breen Oratorical Contest held in February, chalked up another oratorical victory Monday evening in Washington Hall. His speech on “The Negro’s Rehabilitation” won the Cavanaugh-Goodrich cash prize of $100.00.
Pvt. Lynch delivered his speech before a group of V-12 trainees, seminarians, and civilians. One marked characteristic of his style Wfis his absolute sincerity. The negro situation was reviewed in a manner that made each listener conscious of his part in this problem.
In his speech Pvt. Lynch said: “Spiritually, the negro citizen feels quite clearly that this new rehabilitation effort will be successful if, and only if, society frees itself from the encroachment of human self interests. Democracy itself must become free of the blind and narrow dread of moral and spiritual values. This true Americanism must not be a base of racial hatred, religious discrimination, and power. But it must be an organ of love. We Americans must learn to love one another and to be fair to one another regardless of
Note: You Better Cleon Under the Bed Too!
By BILL FRIDAY
Now you won’t have to worry about what to do with your Saturday mornings (as I know you have-been in that cozy little ritual known as field-day. (Don’t worry about getting ready to go ashore, because that should take only a few minutes at the most, and besides, you ain’t goin’ nowhere ’til 1700, Bub.)
Perhaps you would appreciate a word or two of advice concerning the correct procedure: planning, method of attack, problems (major and minor), and stuff like that; I will tell you these things, so that you can be sure to have everything ship-shape when the “man who comes around,” does.
First, you have to have a reason. I mean, after all, there’s no sense having a field-day if you’re not going to have it for something. Well, a reason we already have, so we better get started.
At this point, it is prudent to get your roommate all stirred up and cooperative, so you don’t have to do it by yourself. This is best done by tact and diplomacy, so if your roommate is a bull, don’t grab him by the horns. Instead, show him the benefits to be gained, and the feeling of self-pride he
race or creed, and then our education will be an education for life and not for moral chaos.”
Marine Lynch ended on a forceful note: “Now as never before the negro looks to us as his guiding light in this, his hour of darkness. Our lamp of true Americanism must illuminate his path. Our hand must be linked with his; a trans-American promise that we have met the challenge and have accepted it!”
Pvt. Lynch came to Notre Dame in July, 1943, with the first Marine detachment assigned here. His home is in Green Bay, Wis. He has this to say in answer to questions about how the $100 prize money shall be spent: “I don’t know—I haven’t gotten it yet.”
Winner of the second prize was Richard W. Timm, C.S.C., from Michigan City, Ind., and third place was taken by John Wolvlear, C.S.C., from Grand Rapids, Mich.
The judges were Mr. Vitus Jones, Mr. A. Harold Weber, and Rev. Bernard Pegearski, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame Mission Band.
will feel upon looking about a spic-and-span room which he will have helped clean up; touch his pride lightly by asking him ain’t he tired livin’ in a hogpen all his life?
Once the spirit of battle has entered into the project, it more or less gets done by itself; for one thing just leads right into another, and before long you are so absorbed in your work you don’t notice the time go by; you know what I mean: you dust everything good, then a good sweep-down, which makes it necessary to dust again; then you decide the screens need cleaning, so you take them out, and this scatters just enough dust and dirt in just the right places, so you have to sweep and dust both. Now the lockers. Get all the junk out of them that you don’t absolutely need. (Now let’s see, what’ll we do with all these bottles? And hey, look, here’s my yo-yo I lost two semesters ago!) Better have your arctics out and standing under the bunk. Anybody who knows Indiana weather knows that they won’t look out of place. I would also suggest you stuff your blues into the bottom drawer, because you won’t need them till about two months after cold weather sets in again.
Well, after you clean out the medicine (that’s a laugh, ain’t it) chest, and then a final sweep down and dustingjob, you will be ready for inspection.
► Know Your Navy 4
NAVAL PHRASEOLOGY—5
Heave aivay—An order to haul away or to heave a capstan.
Heave round—To revolve the drum of a capstan, winch, or windlass.
Heave short—To heave in until the vessel is riding nearly over her anchor.
Heave the lead—The act of taking a sounding with the hand lead.
Heave to—To bring a ship’s head into the wind or sea and hold her there by the use of engines and rudder.
Heaving line—A small line secured to a hawser and thrown to an approaching vessel, or to a dock.
Holiday—A space unintentionally missed while painting or cleaning.
Holystone—A flat stone used to clean a vessel’s deck.	.
House — To stow or secure in a safe place.	■
Hug—To keep close to.
Idlers—Members of the ship’s company with no night watches.
Inboard — Toward the keel line of the ship.	.
Inland rules—The rules of the road by Congress governing the navigation of inland waters of the United States.
Inshore—Toward the shore.	•
International rules— The rules of the road established by agreement between maritime nations governing the navigation of the high seas.
Irish pennant—An untidy loose end on a rope or article.	'
Jack-—Flag similar to the union of the national flag. Flown at jackstaff when at anchor. .
Jack-O'-The-Dust — The petty officer charged with the care.of the provisions storeroom. The “jack” in charge of the flour or “dust.”
Jacob’s ladder—A ladder of rope with rungs used over the side and aloft.
Java—Jamoke—(Slang )—Coffee.
Jump ship—To leave a ship without authority.	.
Jury anchor — A heavy weight used as an anchor.
Keel—A center-line strength member running fore and aft along the bottom of a ship and often referred to as the backbone.
(Continued on page 16)
7
g llllttlHtllllllllllllltlltlllKlIilltllllllllllllllttlliltlliitlillitlllllllQ
। Marine Murmurs |
Biminnnum*I■■■■<■IIt■■I1I■■fIS
WE HEAR
—that a couple of eager beavers from “B” company, trying to get the jump on the rest of the boys, spent Saturday night practicing fox-hole construction with a technique all their own. It seems that transportation back to the base was lacking, and since staying with their dates all night was out of the question, they decided to rough it, like the rugged marines that they are. A handy sandpile, a ready hand, and an heritage of ingenuity solved the problem for the erstwhile- gyrenes as they shacked up for the night in a fox-hole that would have ’ put a Guadalcanal ve'.eran to shame.
—from the vicinity of Deck 2 that a certain Red Head was “Locked out of me own home,” because a certain Sergeant considered those quarters uninhabitable, particularly before an exec’s inspection. The marines have a word for it—need we elaborate?
—that a couple of our boys had a little trouble catching a certain 4:30 special out of South Bend, having finally to flag it down somewhere in the wilderness between here and Michigan City.
CONGRATS
To “B” Company for upholding the tradition of complete victory for the corps, as they crashed through for a decisive 7-1 verdict over a highly touted Navy ten. It wasn’t the jersey which lost the game. Keep trying, Navy, and cheer up—the worst is yet to come.
❖
WE'RE WONDERING
What the new exec thought of the Review Saturday—even the Navy looked good, and only 17 sailors passed out this time instead of the usual 33!
How the Navy will manage to buckle down under a “tight ship” ruling, after going under a light tether for almost a year?
Why they pay janitors? .	.
WE REGRET TO INFORM YOU—
that two former N.D. marines got into the ■wrong channels as they couldn’t quite see their way clear through a rough navigation course at the Columbia Midshipmen’s School. The gentlemen in question are our own “Ziggy” Czarobski and Johnny Archer, better known as the “Arkansas Traveler.” Keep pitching, boys: you’ll make out all right.
8
BOUQUET OF THE WEEK
to the commander for that timely order making it “right” to wear civvies to classes. It literally saved our necks. Orchids to you.
HEAD-LINERS
We stand in line to get a pass
We stand in line to wash
We stand in line to find a place
To stand in line, by gosh!
We stand in line to draw our pay
We stand in line to spend it
But fellowmen, we never have *
To stand in line to lend it.
A Marine was running the obstacle course, puffing and groaning, when finally he fell down.
“Well, what’s the matter,” demanded the chief.
“I think I’ve broken my leg, sir,” he moaned.
“Well, don’t just lie there wasting time,” shouted the chief. “Start doing push-ups.”	.
DAFFY-NITIONS
Date-at-the-Ball: “You remind me of the ocean.”
Sailor: “You mean wild, romantic, and restless?”
Date-at-the-Ball: “NO, you make me sick!”
❖
BOO-QUET OF THE WEEK
to the perpetual gripers who hated staying until 5 Saturday afternoon but didn’t shove off until 7 anyway. To you—BOO!
The west had its Billy the Kid, the fight game had its Kid Choloclate, but it took a marine company to issue forth with a “Kid Krowbar” all its own. The details are not for publication but if you desire further information consult a certain ex-company commander—now a dash champ as of Saturday night.
SCUTTLEBUTT OF THE WEEK
Engineers with an average of over 85% go straight to Quantico.	.
Father O'Brien Lectures
By PAUL WOOD
Rev. John O’Brien, Ph.D., rekindled thoughts of Notre Dame in Butte, Montana, where he gave a Novena for Rev. Norbert C. Hoff, Ph.D., former associate professor of philosophy at the University for ten years, before leaving to become pastor of the Immaculate Conception Church in Butte, two years ago.
While there, Father O’Brien was able to see the great work which Father Hoff has been doing. “The Immaculate Conception church is one of the most beautiful churches in Montana,” Father O’Brien stated after his return. It is located on the side of a mountain and its beautiful architecture rendered in white is like a great monument overlooking the city.
Butte, as a city, has sent a great number of students to Notre Dame. Professor John M. Walsh, of the department of mathematics here, is one of them. Father O’Brien said that he was pleased with the great number of alumni who came to the novena.
Father O’Brien also gave a lecture to the prissts of Deanery on “Convert Making,” in which he pointed out how the number of converts coming into the Church could be doubled. This lecture was given at the invitation of Bishop Joseph M. Gilmore, D.D., Bishop of Helena, Mont.
Still another feature was given in. Butte, by Father O’Brien on “The Pope’s Way to Peace.” After this, he gave a commencement address at the girls’ Catholic Central High school of Butte.
Fathei’ Hoff expressed his liking for the Notre Dame Scholastic, and had high praise for the daily Religious Biit-letin, and told how he makes constant use of them by quoting certain articles in his own weekly publication, and in this manner keeps Notre Dame before the eyes of the people of Montana.

A i
r

❖ Next week SCHOLASTIC will pre- ❖
❖ sent a pictorial review of "Week-End ❖ Maneuvers." Extra copies will be ❖ available at the Bookstore.	❖
♦	THE EDITORS ❖
❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖


j
i
AU REVOIR
As is customary we, who leave the shadow of the Golden Dome and exchange the comforts and leisurely life of old Sorin for the Vim, Vigor and Vitality (it says here) of the man of service, attempt to express our feelings concerning those things which are left behind . . . the football season with the pep rally roving from Cavanaugh to Dillon, and the Homecoming with Red Lonergan selling everything, . . . the summer of ’42 when the students left the dining hall rather suddenly one day after objecting to lamb chops twice in a row.
Yes, we’ve griped in the past; we gripe now and we probably will always gripe about some little thing or other in our traditional way. I guess that’s one of the things we’re fighting for, the privilege to voice our opinion on any subject. It’s the American way and that’s the Notre Dame way. . . .
THE BREEZE IS BLOWING
Running after women never hurt anyone— it’s after catching them that the headaches begin.
HEADLINE OF THE WEEK
From the Purdue Exponent the following appeared last week: “Synthetic Rubbei- Men Will Hold Conference May 15.”
WHAT'LL THEY DO NEXT?
They have a very simple test for stenographers in Washington now. The candidate for the job is ushered into a room which has in it a washing machine, a typewriter, and a machine gun. If the girl reognizes the typewriter, she’s hired.
HERE WE GO AGAIN ’
Little Willie lit a rocket
Which his Pa had in his pocket.
Next day he told Cousin- Dan, “Papa is a traveling man.”
IT HAPPENS EVERY TIME
Patriotic citizen during the war addressing a coio hand:
“See here, young man, why aren’t you at the front?”
“Wal, I reckon it’s mostly because this cow ain’t any different from any other cow.”
WELL, ALL REET
Record authorities, Steve Jack and Mewl Wood at Purdue observed that the war-born shortage of new records has forced many casual collectors into the discovery that there is another side to that “certain record.” They cite as examples the Mills Brothers “Paper Doll” which was worn out before the record was turned over and “I’ll Be Around” began to be played. Duke Ellington’s classic “I’ll Take the A Train,” played and played while “I’ve Got It Bad” on the reverse suffers comparative obscurity, and Bradley’s “Celery Stalks at Midnight,” which is almost unknown in comparison with “Down the Road Apiece.” “This could go on forever” write Woody and Jack and we don’t doubt it, but next time you play “that record” turn it over and get a new treat.
, Editor's Note: Scholastic lost a good man in Bill Camahan, who left right after writing this, his last column, for service zoith Uncle Sam.
Lieut. Bradford Lamson
is Ass't. Course Officer
Lieut, (jg) Bradford Lamson has recently been attached to the Notre Dame V-12 administration office; he aids the Course Officer, Lieutenant Beatty, in the capacity of Assistant Course Officer.
Lieut. Lamson enlisted in the Navy in August, 1942, whereupon he was sent to Norfolk as a CSP(A). His second and only other assignment prior to his present post was at Navy Pier. He was transferred there from Norfolk in November, 1942.
Born in Beverly, Mass., Lieut Lamson received his secondary education there and later continued his education in the following universities: Mercer University, was graduated in 1932 with B.S. degree; Boston University, was graduated in 1936 with an M.A. degree. His major was social studies, particularly economics. According to Lieut. Lamson, social studies are requisite for the well rounded training of the prospective officers in the V-12 units. Liberal education, he maintains, is the basis of this program.
Following his formal education, Lieut. Lamson became Dean of Boys and head
of the history department at Cushing Academy in Ashburnham, Mass. Cushing is a private preparatory school.
In the sports domain at Cushing, he was coach of ice hockey, backfield coach, and assistant baseball coach. Lieut. Lamson believes that athletics are valuable in promulgating friendship as well as tolerance and understanding on the part of the participants. He claims that activities in sportsdom build up an “unofficial relationship.”—Edward H. Madden
Just Another Month
'Till Payday. O'Boy!
By SEAMAN BILL BYINGTON
Well, here it is—just twenty-six days until payday. Yes, I know, needn’t tell me that we just got paid. That’s what hurts.
Take a look at what happened to ine Wednesday:
“Let’s see . . - better figure out my finances . . . laundry—$4.03 ... I guess it must be that extra pair of socks. Well —heh, heh—that’s not much from fifty bucks. $4.03 from $50 leaves me $25.97. Hm! Oh yes . . . cleaning—$2.60 . . . not bad, even if they did press the thing wrong. $2.60 from $25.79—that’s $13.37. And I’d better figure in my train ticket home—no, better not. I’ve gotta write the folks this month anyway. Well, thirteen bucks isn’t bad for two week-ends. Oh-oh, forgot the five I owe Bob, and the two I owe Jack, and the six—no, no —it can’t be that much!”
With thirty-sevencents in my pocket, I walked away from Jack’s room. When I arrived in cabin 206 I found several friends waiting to tell me of the wonderful week-end in Chicago that we were going to have. I had to tell them gently. “Oh yes, fellows, going to Chicago? Well, I just got word from Aunt Jemi-mah. I’m going to New Caledonia to meet her and little Henry. Sorry I can’t be with you.” Silently they filed out, glancing back over their shoulders in time to see me nonchalantly place my left foot on my top bunk and the other in the waste basket as I endeavored to keep up appearances. To settle my shattered nerves, I took several puffs on a bent cigarette stub (which I had .found behind my locker just before last week’s inspection) and picked up my copy of Good Night, Sweet Prince! Flipping casually through the volume, I suddenly came upon a statement made by Barrymore. “Where is all my money? What have they done with it?”
The book was recovered the next morning by the janitor. It has been said that I may recover some time next week. Maybe so!
9
Track Squad in Finale at NCAA Meet;
Capture Third Place in Central Collegiates
BY JACK McGRANE
"Scholastic" Track Writer
Before a crowd of 8,000 Bluejackets at Great Lakes Naval Training Center, the Notre Dame track team captured third place honors in the 19th renewal of the Central Collegiate Conference outdoor meet last Saturday.
Outdistancing the Irish in the point totals were Illinois and Great Lakes, the latter having previously defeated the Golden Domers in a dual meet on Cartier Field during the course of the dual schedule.
Table of Points
Illinois 57}4	Michigan ...........—9
Great Lakes 46	Minnesota __________6
Notre Dame________25	Illinois Tech ______3
Northwestern _____20 Indiana _____________:...2
Purdue ___________14	Chicago ____________1
Marquette ________1314	Central Mich________1
Lawrence _________11	St. Thomas _________1
The Illini took almost everything in sight, including the Knute Rockne Memorial trophy as team victor and the John P. Nicholson Memorial trophy which was
Every Fraction of an Inch Counts
unanimously awarded to Claude “Buddy” Young.'The negro speedster copped both sprints, the century and 220, and the broad jump as well as running a leg on the triumphant mile relay to merit the award. Buddy, just eighteen years old, ran as though his draft board chairman was literally breathing down his neck.
Joe Kelly won the discus throw with a heave of 137 feet while Phil Anderson accounted for the only other Irish title in tying with Illinois’ Phelps for top honors in the pole vault. Frank Martin scratched from the mile run to better en-. hance his, bid for double-mile encounter, but his nemesis, Jerry Thompson, held him safe in this event to win by two yards. Thompson, a University of Texas runner ' arid ’ winner : of last year’s NCAA two-mile event, will be remem
bered as the lad who turned the tables on Martin twice in one afternoon as he whipped the Irish distance star in the mile and two-mile chores of a dual meet with Great Lakes last month. They will probably meet again tomorrow at the NCAA games in Milwaukee.
George Sullivan, who also plays a lot of tackle for the Irish, won second place in the shot put behind Nelson Klaus of Purdue. In the same event, Joe Kelly picked up another point for the Notre Dame cause. The remainder of the squad found the top-flight competition too difficult and consequently did their, best at mustering up 6% points among themselves. The mile relay quartet made up of Fred Jones, Don Lundergan, Dale Wares who replaced Frank MacCauley, and Bob Purcell, placed fourth. Purcell repeated this performance in the 440. O’Neill likewise placed fourth in the 220 yard low hurdles. Roger . DeWolf was beaten by former teammate John Lyons, competing for Great Lakes, for fourth place in the mile run won by Michigan’s Hume twins.
The track season will be concluded tomorrow in Milwaukee at the NCAA championships. Martin will run the two- . mile with his eye on his first national diadem. In the middle distances, it will be Purcell, Lundergan, and Wares wearing the Irish colors while weightmen Sullivan, Kelly, and Quasey will also compete. Anderson and Scheider will vault for the Blue and Gold and in the sprints, it will be Bennett and Burke.
Clearing the Top . . . .
* SPG
Marine Company Breen-Phillips a
BY JIM r
Jim “Moose” Nelligan pitched Marine A _
Company B right into the service soft-ball championship last Monday night, 7-1, allowing Navy Company D but a meager three hits while successfully whiffing them ten times out of a possible 21 outs. Nelligan spoiled his own shutout by walking three of the sailors in the opening of the fifth inning, struck one out, and then walked home the gobs only run.
The Leathernecks, who now possess the service title on campus, have gained the right to meet the civilian champs, Breen-Phillips Blues, in a best two out of three series which was to be staged late this week but not available for this edition.
In the service inter-company finale, Marine B collected a total of 11 hits in scoring seven runs while the conquered Navy D’s were unable to muster up enough hits, let alone bunch them, to aid their own cause. The Marines failed to make any miscues afield but the sailors abetted the former’s cause with four errors. Nedwidek and Leipheit each got two hits for the winners while three-baggers were registered by Nelligan, who scored the initial run of the game, and Murphy.
The service tournament was run off all within a week, having originally started with 18 different companies on campus representing the NROTC, V-12 Navy, and Marines, but only one emerging as final victor, the leathernecks from Company B of Cavanaugh Hall.
Marine line-up: Pederson, rf; McGaughlin, 3b ; McKinnon, cf-; Opela, lb; Nelligan, p ; Nedwidek, . c; Maggioli, 2b; Murphy, If; Leipheit, ss; and Melek, sf.
Navy line-up: Earley, ss; O’Brien, 2b: Birtch, sf; Mera, c; Miller, If; Medows, rf; Rellas, cf; McBride, lb; Reece, 3b; Majors, p. ■
'	RHE
Marines ___________0 00 201 4 — 7 11 0
Navy ....__________0 00 001 0 — 1 3 4
Batteries: Nelligan and Nedwidek; Majors and Mera.
. Civilian Finals
Scoring in every inning except the fifth the Breen-Phillips Blues ran up 15 runs in defeating the St. Ed’s Mustangs
10
Klinemen Win Pair in Week-End Home Stay;
At Northwestern, Great Lakes This Week
BY HANK SLAMIN “Scholastic" Baseball Writer
"Ims Service Tourney;
s E es Annex Civilian Title
UM IAN
A. _ A 15 to 2 in the finals of the civilian soft-t- ball league. Gene Long limited the Must, * tangs to five scattered blows.
a j Leading the Blues attack was Charlie
' Derrico with four hits. Among the other [c
£ / * heavy hitters on the B-P team are Lou Cappucci, Gorski and Ruggiero. The e *■ team batting average of the Blues is e .	. listed at .370 while their fielding is above
V * < 4	•
' the average of that exhibited by the
teams in the league this season. McDer-s w mott had trouble in retiring the Blues d heavy batters, and poor support by his 5, I teammates aided in his downfall. The t *~r' score:
d I
4 I 6 Breen-Phillips lineup: Cappucci, 2b ; Angsman, S lb ; Ruggiero, 3b ; Derrico, ss ; Gorski. If; Long, p ; Marshall, c; Walsh, cf: Ganey, scf: Molidor, rf; Schmid, Kedel, and Shea, substitutes.
Mustangs: McCarty, scf; J. Masterson, 3b : Li,	mont, lb ; McDermott, P ; O’Brien, ss: Flaherty.
*	2b : O’Neil, cf ; Lackey, If; Reilly, rf; McGuire, c;
1	Terry, Keough, and Trump substitutes.
RHE
J Breen-Phillips Blues ...215 031 3 —15 15	1
.4 Mustangs ____________0 00 011 0 — 2	5	5
Batteries: Long and Marshall; McDermott and , McGuire.
Semi-Final Civilian Games
The Breen-Phillips Blues gained the final round of the civilian softball league 1 by pounding out a 21 to 2 victory over the Aero-Engineers. Errors of omission and commission proved very costly to the Engineers cause. Those errors of the outfield variety particularly hurt the Josers. The score:
R
^Breen-Phillips Blues ....2 2 2 0 02 13—21
Aero Engineers ________2 0 0 0 0 0 0— 2
H
19
5
E 2 6
I Batteries: Long and Marshall; Lesmez and Dunne.
« * The Mustangs gained the finals,by de. feating the highly-regarded Brownson ’?zteam 13 to 11 by scoring 11 runs in the

^last inning. The Mustangs, who also ’ reached the finals in the basketball league last winter, showed real fight by coming from behind to gain the right to . meet the Blues for the championship. ^The score:	.
Brownson ‘'Mustangs
R H
.3 2 2 030 1—11. 13 .0 0 1 0 10 11—13 15
E
3
2
. Batteries: McDermott and McGuire; Marino and
I Margowski. -
With the production of 17 runs last week-end, Notre Dame’s baseball nine collected two wins against one loss in splitting -with Michigan and winning a single encounter from Freeman Field.
Last Friday’s game opened a two game series with the tenacious Michigan Wolverines. Behind Bill Martin’s five hit pitching, the Irish smashed out 12 hits, three of them triples, to batter the boys from Ann Arbor 10-1. The game could only be called a game for two and one-half innings; for in the last of the third, Notre Dame jumped all over Bob Bowman, smashing out five hits for a total of five runs. The highlight of the fruitful inning was shortstop Bob Klien’s double with the bases choked.
After this spree, the teams merely went through the motions, so effective was Martin’s pitching that the frustrated Wolverines didn’t collect a hit until the seventh, when the outcome was already apparent. The next two’ innings found them amassing four hits to give them their five. Notre Dame in the meanwhile was pounding out seven more hits, two triples by Tom Carlin amongst them; and five additional runs, two in the fourth, two in the fifth, and one in the seventh. The 12 hit total showed at least one hit for every Irish batsman except Len Scarpelli, who went hitless in three attempts.
Saturday’s nine inning show was quite a different story from the previous day’s rout. Michigan threw Elroy Hirsch against the home town outfit, and Mr.
It Only Takes One
Hirsch won his seventh ’game of the season, 6-3. Although Notre Dame collected nine hits, they could not concentrate more than three in any one inning. The contest was hardly underway when Bruce Blanchard got a hefty chunk of Bob Barrett’s slants, and drove the ball past Jack Mayo into deep left center for a home run. The Irish tied the count in the fifth when Barrett’s second hit of the afternoon sent Johnny Lujack home, but Bud Gregor’s double in the sixth with men on second and third gave Michigan a two run lead. ‘
The Wolverines added another marker in the seventh to take a commanding 4-1 advantage. Pinch hitter Bob Klien put the Irish back in the ball game with a single down the third base zone driving in two runs. Barrett got himself into a hole in the eighth. Blanchard’s third hit of the afternoon, a base on balls, a sac. rifice by Lund, and a pass to Swanson loaded the bases. An infield out and a single by Stevenson produced Michigan’s final tallies. Notre Dame put two men on base in the eighth and ninth but were unable to drive them across.
Beat Soldiers
Notre Dame played host to the Freeman Field’s assemblage Sunday, and bested the soldiers 4-3 in 14 innings. Paul Lammers, on the mound for the Irish, won his first game of the year in his first home start as he outlasted two enemy hiirlers to score his win.
Both teams tallied a run in the first ’	(Continued on page 18)	■
11
Langfordmen Victorious in Bronco Match;
Win Eight Straight; Finish Tomorrow
His brother, John “Freddie” Earley who carries on the family tradition with the number one numeral on his jersey as well putting his time on backfield maneuvers, is presently a V-12 trainee on the campus.
All
Eight up and one to go is the present record of the Notre Dame tennis team as they handily annexed their most recent victory over Western Michigan at Kalamazoo last Saturday, 6-3.
In winning their eighth straight while failing to drop an encounter yet this season, the Langfordmen retained their usual style with the top four on the Irish billing coming through with the necessary racketeering to garner triumphs in the singles matches. Chuck Samson, Jerry Evert, Bill Tully, and Jim Griffin won the individual honors while Joe Wood and Darrell Black met with defeat. In the doubles matches, the pairing of Samson and Evert gave the needed fifth point and the margin of victory. Tully and O’Brien won in a photo-finish in their first set but easily copped the number two frame to win their match, giving the Irish their sixth and last tally. Wood and Black were conquered in their doubles attempt.
DePauw Tomorrow
DePauw University from Greencastle will invade the campus tomorrow afternoon to take on the Irish in the second of a series of two matches, the first hav-
Bill Earley Commissioned Bombardier-Navigator
Another Notre Dame grid great now bears the wings and officer’s insignia of the Army Air Corps, William J. Earley having been the recipient late last month at Victorville Army Air Field at Victorville, Calif.
Bill, Irish backfield man for the span of years from 1940-’42, has joined the ranks of aerial fighters after completing an 18 week advanced training course in which he was schooled in the duties of a combination dead - reckoning navigator and bombardier. Besides being eligible to unload tons of bombs on enemy targets, he is further equipped to assist in directing his ship to and from the objectives. The bombardier-navigator is a fully utilized member of the crew in bombing missions.
Col. Robbins presented the individual members of the class with their wings and letters of appointment as officers in the Army Air Forces. He was assisted
12
ing been chalked up on the debit side of the DePauw ledger, 6-3.
Led by Erwin Schulze, the opposition is considered to be the second best contingent that the locals have had to face duding their present schedule, Michigan having rated the number one spot. If DePauw is up to par and the Blue and Gold gets a little too confident, Coach Walter Langford says that this could easily be the upset that hasn’t occurred this season, but for the most part, a good steady game on the part of his own boys, with the regulars ringing the bell, should make it number nine and an undefeated season, clearing the thoroughfare for an undisputed title of Western champions.
Summaries:
Singles: Sampson (ND), defeated Soukup (WM), 6-2, 7-5; Evert (ND), defeated Hoekje (WM), 6-4, 6-4. Tully (ND), defeated Carman (WM), 6-1, 6-2; Griffin (ND), defeated Loomis (WM), 6-2, 6-3; Wyngaarden (WM), defeated Wood (ND), 6-3, 6-1; Preuss (WM), defeated Black (ND), 6-4, 6-4.
Doubles: Samson and Evert (ND), defeated Soukup and Hoekje (WM), 6-2,-6-3 ; Tully and O’Brien (ND), defeated Carman and "Wyngaarden (WM), 8-6, 6-2; Loomis and Preuss (WM), defeated Wood and Black (ND), 8-6, 6-3.
by Major' Harold M. Skaggs, Jr., commanding officer of students.
Bill, who wore the familiar number one on the football field, is the son of Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Earley of Parkersburg, W. Va. Second Lieut. Earley is a graduate of Parkersburg High school and left Notre Dame in December of ’42.
Elusive Bill Earley
Tennis Second Team
Victor Over Culver
Following the example of the varsity, Notre Dame’s junior varsity tennis team annexed a 5-2 win over Culver Military Academy last Saturday afternoon on the latter’s courts.
After being received in true Southern hospitality, the team was shown around the beautiful campus of the Academy " and was served a special meal. The “racketeers” then got down to business. Jackson, number-one man on the team, and Murphy, of the Marines, handily won the first and fourth singles; Phil Martin, number-two man, and Phil Lyons had a little more trouble in winning second and third singles. They then made sure of the victory by winning a long drawn-out first doubles match. Culver’s competition made this match one of the hardest fought victories of the afternoon.
After' the match, all had a refreshing swim in the campus lake, and another special meal before coming back to Notre Dame.	"
Summaries:
Singles
1)	Jackson (ND) defeated Albrecht, 6-1. 6-3.
2)	Martin (ND) defeated Austin, 9-7, 6-3.
3)	Lyons (ND) defeated Klatt, 4-6, 6-1, 6-3.
4)	Murphy (ND) defeated Thomas, 6-1, 2-6, 6-3.
5)	Streider defeated St. Germain (ND), 6-0, 6-1.
.	Doubles	.
1)	Lyons & Martin (ND) defeated Oustin & Klatt, 8-6, 1-6, 7-5.
2)	Albrecht & Thomas defeated Murphy & Jackson (ND), 6-2, 6-0.
NROTC Defeats Moreau.
4-1 in Semester Finale
The Naval ROTC baseball squad de- . feated a Moreau Seminary nine on June 1st in an abbreviated six-inning contest by a 4-1 count. This was the third victory of the season for the Walsh Hall Navy team which winds up the semester with a game at Cartier Field tonight with a campus outfit.
In. the fifth inning of the tilt with Moreau, the NROTC slammed across four runs on a double, a single, two walks and . two errors. Pat Lynn’s smashing single drove in two of the tallies.
Pressbox Splinters
BY LEO OUILLETTE
Frank Leahy must have felt pretty good when he read of the deeds of Capt. Hank Mazur and his Thunderbolt in the European war theater. . . . Mazur was a freshman under Leahy at Boston College before he transferred to West Point. ...
It is generally agreed that the two best-behaved ball clubs in the majors are the Yanks and Cards. . . . Perhaps that’s the reason they are leading their respective leagues. . . .
Pat Filley, previously reported in this column to be on his way home from Parris Island and then later reported as remaining on duty at that base, is back at home in South Bend. . . . He has been given a medical discharge from the Marine Corps because of a knee injury and has not as yet made up his mind whether to play football next season or not. . . . He has received an offer to play pro-ball but has not as yet accepted. . . . He has another year of
eligibility here at Notre Dame and this corner for one would like to see him take advantage of it. . . .
Last year, the Braves beat only the Cardinals three times in 32 attempts. . . . Already this season, they have taken the Redbirds measure once more than that number. . . . Here’s wishing them luck for the remainder of the schedule.
A rather startling example of draft board inconsistency has taken place right here on the campus. . . . Ed McKeever was placed in 2-A while he was assistant to Frank Leahy just as practically every other athletic instructor was in the various V-12 schools throughout the country. . . . But, at the same time that McKeever was placed in 2-A by the South Bend selective service board, his boss, athletic director Frank Leahy was classified 1-A by his home board in Massachusetts. . . . Perhaps our selective service officials ought to get together and talk things over, if only for the sake of consistency. . . .
Golfers Finish Season
Winning Sixth Straight
Notre Dame’s golf team annexed their sixth successive triumph in concluding their dual schedule for the 1944 spring season, 15-0, over the Illinois Institute of Technology.
The Blue and Gold linksmen pitted a five-man singles team against the South Chicago opposition and poured on a relentless attack that made them seem anything but hospitable. The schedule, which included seven dual matches, gave the Irish victories over Northwestern, Michigan, Minnesota, Detroit, Lawrence College, and Illinois Tech. The only setback was suffered in the opening encounter -of the season with Purdue’s Boilermakers, a 9%-8% decision.
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., golf coach, no longer will have to contend with any ideas concerning the winning of week-end matches, but can concentrate on getting the boys up to their best form for the National Intercollegiate Meet which commences at Toledo, June 26.	.
Summaries:
Wilke (ND) beat Fitchey (IT), 3-0.
Fitzpatrick (ND) defeated Archinson (IT), 3-0. Bessenfelder (ND) beat Larson (IT), 3-0-Terry (ND) defeated Boand (IT), 3-0.
Seidel (ND) defeated Milbradt (IT) ,3-0.
SiiiiittiMintiiiiiiitiiiciiiiiiiiiiiiiiitaiiisiiiiuoiiiUiiaaittiatiiittiVQ I INTRODUCING j I	By IM BEGAN	|
Pliiiiinnmuiiiiniiinmiiiliiiiiiiiiinimimlluiiuiniiilulinlllilll
WILLIAM MARTIN
William Martin, of Detroit, Mich., is one of Notre Dame’s leading pitchers this season, having accounted for three of the Irish wins. Bill has dropped a few tilts, some of which were due to lack of support at the plate by his teammates.	■
Bill is a Navy V-12 trainee, residing in Dillon hall. He is in his fifth semester here, two of which were spent as a civilian. Bill is a pre-med student in the College of Science. Bill expects this to be his last semester here and hopes that he will be assigned to a hospital or service school of some sort. He aspires to become-a doctor.
Bill was bom on the 18th day in the month of great men — February — in 1925. He attended St. Philip High school where he played halfback in football and pitched on the baseball team. After graduating from high school, Bill enrolled at Notre Dame. He was a member of last season’s informal baseball team and pitched in a few games. This year he has been one of Coach Kline’s first
13
string hurlers. In the Bengal Bouts of 1943 Bill was winner of the 175-pound class. He didn’t compete this year, however, due to a heavy class schedule and early baseball practice.
Bill’s hobby is reading — any kind of good books. He has one “pet peeve” at Notre Dame, and that is those exboatswains mates, who are at present company commanders, who are always moaning about “Indiana weather” and boasting about the weather on the east coast — particularly that of Philly!
JULES RYKOVICH ’
Julie Rykovich is another member of Notre Dame’s 1943 national football champions who has shown his versatility. Jules is now appearing with the baseball team. Not content with playing one position — Julie has been performing at first base as well as in the outfield.
Jules is a native of Gary, Indiana. He attended Lew Wallace High school where he gained letters in three sports. Besides captaining the football team, he was a member of the basketball and track teams. Julie played both guard and center in basketball, while in track he competed in the dashes, broad jump, and shot put.
Jules’ favorite hobby is fishing but his favorite meal does not contain fish at all — he goes rather for a juicy steak. Jules says that he has been keenly disappointed this summer in not seeing one of his favorite athletes, Notre Dame’s .veteran catcher, hit that long ball that Jules has heard about.
This may be Jules’ last semester at Notre Dame, but if the war comes to a close in a fairly short time, he hopes to return to school and obtain his degree. He hopes to play professional football for a few seasons and then enter the coaching profession.
[■JllIlllttlltllllllllltilUIllIlllltlililtllllliitltlllllllUllilHIIIIIKIIItliJi]
1 Campus Centenary I
I Publications |
= Notre Dame—100 Years------------------S4.00 :
= Collected Poems of	E
;	' Charles L. O'Donnell____________$2.50 =
| ... at the Bookstore i
xxxxxxxxxxxxxzxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxs
JOSIE and JIM'S
JINNY ITALY
CAFE
h M M M M M N M X H M M M M N M M M M M
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE
PLACE
DAME
>4 M
M M M M M H M M H M M M k h M N M M M M
M M
M M k
M M M M N
N
M
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxS
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
A
4
Sports from the Cockpit
Continuing their interest and participation in the sports circles on campus, the Aeros have again proved successful. The boys went ahead to finish first in the Engineering Bowling League and reached the semi-final round of the allcampus softball league before being eliminated.
Even though outlasting all other Engineering teams, the boys just’ missed that final round. Although unorganized before the first game, the team quickly took form later to show plenty of talent. The pitching chores were ably handled by Al Lesmez, who threw in plenty of third strikes to the opponents. Included in the line-up were: Dunn, Gass, Valva, Todd, Kochman, Abraham, Roberts, Brickson, Haggar, and John Parchem who acted as manager for the club.
14
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. -Hourly service from, Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
50U[UH°RE
gxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY
>4
^XXXXXXXXXXZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXIXXXXXXXXX
M M M
FACTS IN THE CASE
With the semester drawing to a close, the campus Lochinvars and playboys have begun to seek the scholarly cloaks they cast aside at the conclusion of the mid-term tests. This, plus the fact that St. Mary’s has concluded another local engagement until fall, leaves us with little or no gossip. Of course, we can always take a dig at the dining hall, food or personnel, or even cast aspersions at the infirmary (remedies, treatment, personnel), but we just haven’t too many complaints to offer on either score. As a matter of fact, we’re mad at no one at all. And furthermore, many of you readers could do a much “nastier” job than we. But the characters on the local scene are what we are interested in; they are still here, and even with activities somewhat curtailed, manage to do a bit of operating. For example:
“Tex” Pequigney has been elected president of the Wranglers for the next semester, and through this medium he’s informing all of Notre Dame’s loud-lungers in formal attire, that he intends to rule with an iron hand. The mystery to us is how anyone even heard him talking above the din that usually prevails at this particular bull-throwers gathering.
In a ping-pong match last night, the famous Gilhooley and Johnny Lujack (budding athlete on the local scene) took on Jack McGrath and John Cushing, and won four straight matches and a steak dinner.
Attention, all N.D. students: automobile federal excess stamps must be purchased before July 1. Hurry, Hurry, Hurry!
Ever since Murnane discovered that he was to be class valedictorian, he has been wearing a coat and tie, trying to get used to a dignified atmosphere.
We saw Coleman lately, and he has his hair cut. He didn’t get it at the local clip joint. But don’t tell us that there is really another joint in the nation where the tonsorial artists would swallow their pride to the extent of allowing a customer to walk out of their establishment looking like Herb looks these days. .
The Co-hop had a big . time last Saturday night, and so did we. That’s the way we like to dance, plenty of elbow
room, and no locked doors, even though the local militia was on hand. Only sour- note of the evening came when Reynolds and Walker discovered that there was another concessionaire on the grounds besides themselves, and so competition at the pop stands ran high, especially when the band took its place next to their competitor. But the dance was free, and hence the popularity of the enterprise. We hope that they repeat the idea soon.
The La Raza Club is debating a very important question these days. We are interested, and shall be ready to accompany the officers to any meeting to plead our cause. And we know of several excellent spots for the outing, too.
“Buzz” Hassett’s idea of a perfect week-end is anywhere in Northern Indiana. . . . Does his buddy, Tom Halligan, wear that straw hat during his classes, too?
HERE AND THERE
Visitors of the week included Al Somers, and Jack Herlihy, the naval officer. . . . Well, believe it or not, thanks to Candy Hart, we received the spring issue of Chimes, just off the press, and not a minute before editor Weetie Pfaff walked up on the stage to get her degree. . . . The issue is replete with gems of intellectual magnitude as only St. Mary’s intellectuals can provide. . . . We didn’t get over to the graduation ceremonies at St. Mary’s, but we understand that they were held even in our absence; in fact, we weren’t even missed ostensibly, anyway. . . . Every time we go into the golf shop, we are amazed at the capacity of a Wave for ice cream cones —never fewer than four or five per individual. They must have terrific appetites. . . . Well, the office forces here are gradually improving, according to our humble opinion. Present tendency seems to be towards blondes. We get this information from the Sorin Hall commit-tee-on-the-passing paraded (The committee numbers 120). They. can’t all be wrong. ... Dick Murphy, confirmed campus bachelor, was off to Chicago last week, and therefore missed one or two important meetings at George’s (the poor man’s Stork Club) soda emporium. We would not mention this fact, save that it has a slight bearing on the recent commerce forum elections. In fact,
we believe the whole thing was hatched in that place. Members of the club are determined to make the best of the election results, regardless of the officers chosen.
We sat around and heard Chuck Russ talk about ’’those at home like him” but we didn’t think anything like Chuck could have anything like what came up here to visit him last week. Have you seen Marjorie?
And now off to Rosie’s. We just can’t get used to the quiet prevailing' down there, but perhaps the local scene .will offer some surprise for us. After all, Central High is a big institution, and we may have an interesting evening.
OFFICER'S ■ PAK
Navy or Khaki Weight under 6 Pounds $2130 (Tax included)
Carries necessary uniforms and accessories.
NAME IN GOLD FREE
Michigan and Colfax At a Notre Dame Bus Stop
Han
Rintzscn
Also available at J. B. SIMPSON, Inc.
205 N. Main St
15
!■! »■ ■ ।««««««< ■ ।«* 111 •«> 111 > > 111 ■ 1«1 > । > । (i 11111 * । > 11111111111 > > । ■ 11 * 11 * 11 ■ । ■ 1111 £3
1 BUY WITH CONFIDENCE j
£	at	!
= South Bend’s Leading Jeweler |
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan. =
KNOW YOUR NAVY ■ (Continued from page 7) Keelhauling — Today, means a verbal reprimand.
Ki Yi—A scrubbing brush.
Knock off—To stop; to stop work.
Knot—One nautical mile (6080 ft.) per hour.
Ladder—A metal, wooden, or rope stairway.
Land fall—The first sighting of land at the end of a sea voyage.
Land ho! — The hail from the lookout when land is sighted.
Lanyard—A line made fast to an article to secure it, such as a knife lanyard.
Larboard—A term used in earlier days to denote the present day port side.
Lay—Preliminary order, such as lay below, lay aloft.
League—Three nautical miles.
Leeward (Lou ard—accent on first syllable)—The direction away from the wind.
Leeway-—The drift of a vessel to leeward caused by the wind or tide.
Lend a hand—Request for assistance.
Lie-to—Said of a vessel when underway with no way upon her.
Lie-off—The practice of having a boat stand by, under control, but not made fast to anything.
List—The athwartships inclination of a vessel.
Lighter—A boat used in harbors for transporting merchandise.
Lime Jzticer (Limey)—Yins expression refers only to British seamen. (Slang)
Log—A book containing the official record of a ship’s activities together with observations of weather conditions.
Make colors'— Hoisting the ensign at 0800.	. .
Officially appointed Ship’s Tailor for U. S. N. R.
Midshipmen School, Notre Dame.
Room 148
Morrissey Hall
Shop
Custom Tailored Officers' Uniforms
There is no substitute for fine custom tailored uniforms—they fit and look better.
Custom tailored uniforms are a tradition which has held through the decades with Naval Officers.
The Service knows the importance
of impeccable appearance. All uniforms — blue, white and greys — are measured, cut and tailored to your individual proportions
Ye Jolly Little Tailor
by expert craftsmen in our own work rooms.
117 West LaSalle Ave.
Phone 4-0220
Across from Hoffman and LaSalle Hotels
16
CLIP JOINT
Went over to get a haircut last Saturday, silly optimists that we -were. Something seemed wrong when we met that fellow out in front selling sleeping reservations, but we surely never expected what really happened. The first thing we saw when we opened the Barber shop door was five sailors who popped out like gas from a coke bottle. “Drat you,” says one, “now we’ll have to be jammed in again.” We finally did make it as far as the cash register though. Here, sitting in front of a pup tent was Paul Friedman, washing his face. “Been here all night,” says he, “my number’s coming due in about an hour now.”
A small subsidiary had opened up under the washbowl. I Worked In A Barbershop said the sign. Inside Jim Murtaugh w a s reading Hamarack Funk’s barber classic: Convict Cutter, and clipping hair at the same time. In an exclusive interview Jim outlined his experience. “I used to shine shoes,” he confessed.
We didn’t have to wait long though. Alton Broton was scalping barber chair numbers and we managed to get one.
“Want any off the side,” asked the barber?
“Well, I . . .” Holding the electric clippers at one temple, the chair was whirled, thus cutting off all the side hair. The’ thing worked on the general principle of a lathe. “Wan’t any off the top?”
“Well, I . . Doing an admirable imitation of a victorious Indian, the top was removed.
“Wet or dry?”
“Wet.” Holding his hand under the faucet he finished up by smoothing out the remaining two hairs.
“Next.”
Moral: There’s always Dave Wood over in St. Ed’s.
WHAT THEY'RE DOING NOW
Every now and then we get a little note from some former V-12 who spent a semester or two here among us at N.D. We know many of you will be interested to know just what these former buddies are doing.
Louis Iddleschwip, ’42, was recently
elected by his classmates at Norfolk University as the Sailor Least Likely to become a Second Class Seaman. While at Notre Dame, Louie was president of the Saturday Afternoon Marching Club.
Dunlap Foole, ’43, beloved, former squad leader of the fourth squad, Company Q, is now proudly holding down the position of assistant squad leader, 15th squad, Company P, Funa-funa, South Pacific. This position was gained mainly because of his previous experience at Notre Dame. Reports Dunlap: “Dey needs men wit experience out here.”
Diego Schnapplop, ’43, has just been advanced to foreman in charge of sledge hammers, Mare Island, California. Diego will be remembered as Poetry Editor of the “Green Banner” from 1923 to 1926.
Sonny Dribbleglomp, ’82, was the guest of honor at a dinner given in celebration of his leaving by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. K. K. Dribbleglomp. Attending was Emmie Barnhizer, Sonny’s, girl friend, whom many of you will remember as the girl who tried to go swimming in the punch at the first V-12 Ball.
CAFETERIA LAMENT
There is a little question
Which still an answer begs:
Why do they ruin bacon
By mixing it with eggs?
And why can’t cafeteria girls
Us hungry sailors spare?
Do they have to hit the food
Whenever they comb their hair?
WEEK'S FEAT
Making the 4:30 South Shore last Saturday.
When I.D. Cards were released last Saturday afternoon at 1610, about fifty Chicago-bound hopefuls tried to catch the 4:30 train, with only twenty-five finally making it. Involved in the process was a slow heartbreaking ride on the bus, a race for five blocks- to catch the train at the yards and then to watch it pull out with two blocks yet to run. Those, who- finally did make it were aided by a few kind people of South Bend who drove the trainees ahead to catch the train. One driver went almost five miles out of his way to do this for several; trainees.. -
is today's reality!
□TEEL RAILS connecting coast with coast 1 That was Abraham Lincoln’s vision, realized by the Driving of the Golden Spike. This historic event, in 1869, united the first transcontinentaltracks, and initiated the nation-wide, delivery by Express of commercial goods and personal packages at passenger train speed.
Today, Railway .Express operates on 230,000 miles of track. Over them daily, 10,000 trains speed shipments of every kind to and from 23,000 offices. Included in this nation-wide network is almost every college town in America. Generations of students first learned, about Express Service when they left home for college, then grew to depend upon it during their years on the campus/
When you do have packages to send, you can help us do our war . job better by. aiding in three ways: . Pack your shipments securely—address them clearly—start them early. Our century of experience proves that “a shipment .started right is half-way there!”
ST. MARY'S BACCALAUREATE (Continued from page 3) of patriotism, he shouts from the housetops about winning the war, about preserving the Atlantic charter, and fostering the four freedoms. But his private life belies his public pronouncements. He is the modern Jekyll-Hyde, a type of dual personality characteristic of modern paganism. He appears, as the Master said, in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly he is a ravening wolf. While our sons and brothers are fighting a global war, he is busy at home, destroying the heritage that we hold dear. He would change the form and substance of our government, and in the name of progress give us a regimentation like that of the totalitarian states. He is already fast corrupting certain professions by the subtle manner in which he would de-humanize both men and women, by placing them on a plane only slightly higher than the animal. He is the trickster who in defying God and the moral law would undermine the nation by planned parenthood and easy divorce, thereby weakening family and home life, and bringing about a vanishing America.
A Challenge to Graduates
“Accept this last challenge. Accept any challenge from the new-pagan world as you assume in time the career that God has destined for you. Next to the religious life, the career of motherhood is the noblest and greatest on earth. To be God’s agent in bringing a child into the world; to be the instrument for making possible the continuation of the Christian heritage; to be the handmaid, as it were, for permitting others to enjoy the Beatific Vision with the blessed in heaven—what a vocation, oh noble mother! And it is yours by the grace of God. Treasure it, love it, as have the other alumnae of this school. And if you do, you too will be keeping faith with yesteryear, and yesteryear- will be keeping faith with the Citadel.
“There is no reason for you to. be discouraged as you contemplate the present world scene. There is no reason for you to despair, although the outlook is dark and gloomy. Above all, do not be victimized by the catch phrase that you are part of a lost generation. That expression is defeatist; it is pagan. As a matter of fact, it is nonsense. No generation has been lost since Christ redeemed man on Calvary, unless its members by their own free will elected to be lost. Look, therefore, beyond the things of this earth, through the medium of Calvary’s heights, to your own true home in heaven. And with the eyes of faith see standing there through the long three hours’ agony, a woman, our Mother, the media
18
trix between God and man. She is our hope and strength, your hope and strength, midst the trials that life presents. She is our inspiration, your inspiration, for achievement and success, as you walk with her along the narrow, rocky streets of this modern via cruds. She is our helpmate, your helpmate, in the continuous struggle against the world, the flesh, and the devil, for in the words of St. Bernard, she will never fail us if we but have recourse to her. Yes, she is Mary, Queen of the Immaculate Conception, patroness of this old school, who like a tender mother watches over her daughters who have a rendezvous with her Son. She is the Morning Star, the Refuge of Sinners, the Cause of All Our Joy. She is, in very truth, our life, our sweetness, and our hope. Through the years she has kept faith with the Citadel, and, thank God, the Citadel has kept faith with her.”
KLINEMEN WIN PAIR
(Continued from page 11)
inning, and Freeman field captured a 2-1 lead in the sixth when Crimmins singled Al Swartz home, the latter a former catcher for the St. Paul club of the American Association. The Irish tied the score in the seventh on singles by Lammers, Bob Cianchetti and Len Scarpelli. Phil Reither’s long home run to left-center gave Notre Dame a 3-2 lead in the eighth, but the soldiers knotted the score with a tally in the ninth. Although both teams had scoring chances in the next four innings, it wasn’t until the 14th that the Irish collected the winning run. Reither scampered across on an infield out to end the overtime encounter.
Notre Dame travels to Evanston, Ill. tomorrow for a double header with the Northwestern Wildcats. Sunday, Great Lakes Naval Training. Center plays host to the South Bender’s in a single game.
Specialising in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
U Prompt Lens or Frame Repair
V service in our own laboratory. V
212 S. Michigan St. a
0	Phone 4-8251	J
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-S661 702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS 503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D. D. S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D. D.s. PETER J. ROSE, D. D. S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST . FOOT AILMENTS	'
406-406 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2574
'•G. 1" NIX ym! VITAMINS
FOR ADULTS OR CHILDREN
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-B^Bo (G)-C-Bg
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Nine-Vitamin Tablet Contains— AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk AS MUCH “D” as 1 lb. of Butter AS MUCH “C” as 2 ozs. Orange Juice AS MUCH “Bi” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage AS MUCH “B5” as 40 ozs. Raw Green Be
AS MUCH “Be” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as % lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS B^3.50
QaaaaaaaaaaiiaiiaaiiiiaaiiaaaiiiiaaiaaiaiitiiiiiiaitiiiuiitiiiiitiiiimiiiaiJzl I HOLD THAT HAIRLINEd
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. .. TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS S1.OO.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
[S^aaaaaaaaaaaiiaaaaiiaaaiaaaaaaaaaBiaiaaniaaaaiaaaaaaaaiaaiiiimnaaiiiitmaTnl
Naval O^ice^i. (J | f O R	dtaAodea
— CUSTOM TAILORED —
Thousands of Naval Officers from coast to coast and on every fighting front wear Simpson Uniforms. Our aim is to give every officer such splendid value and service, he will remember Simpson Clothes for his civilian needs after glorious victory has been won!
Blues — Whites — Greys
Caps — Accessories
Branch Shops from shore to shore assure you of prompt, efficient service, on your Simpson Uniforms, regardless of where you may be stationed.
YOUR SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
J. B.	inc.
205 North Main Street	South Bend, Indiana
"Located just across the street from 'SWEENEY'S SHAMROCK' "
19
BONDS
s
There is no mystery why more and more smokers are changing to Chesterfields... for the answer is both simple and to the point... Right Combination—World's Best Tobaccos... there you have Chesterfield’s 5-Key words for more smoking pleasure.
Change to Milder Better-Tasting Chesterfields for all the satisfying pleasure a good cigarette can give you

Co^-rijht 1944. Deem & Mm* Tobacco Co.