
.·SCHOLASTIC 
September 26, 1975 ,, 
. . . . . . ~ . 

The Inaugural J-fomily -Women and -Liberation. 
'!\ -­
?;_.,_' 
'lt<· 
?',~~),. ;.>;i:.\, . . . .. 
-


·.:·.·-..:..-:.• 
r------------.._,
I $33,500,000 I 1 UNCLAIMED·-SCHOLARSHIPS I 
I Over $33,500,000 unclaimed scholarships, grants, aids, and I fellowships ranging from $50 to $10,000. Current list of these I sources researched and compiled as of September 5, 1975. I 
UNCLAIMED SCHOLARSHIPS ·· , 369 Allen Avenue, Portland, Maine 04103 
I

I D 
I am enclosing $12.95 plus $1.00 for postage and handling. (Check or money ·order -no cash, please.) · 
I

IIf you wish to use your charce card, please fUI out appropriate boxes below: 
..-l&Y•Wl-1. PLEASE RUSH YOUR

I 
CURRENT LIST OF. 

I Expiration Date I I UNCLAIMED SCHO.LARSHIPS 
Monlh/Ynr . . Maater Charge I I SOURCES TO: · Interbank No. . .
I CreditCard No . .__________, 
I :;::ss ..................................................................................---·· .. ·, 
.... ______________ I
I City ...............M;i~;··~~i·c1;~i;..j;j~;; !~i:'l{,··;;i;··;~··· Zip ................ 
Main Bout approximately 9:30 pin · Tickets now on sale atAuditorium Box Office $12.50 Advance-$15.00 Day of Fight . · · Morris Civic Auditorium . · · 


Illustrations: Midge May 7 / R. Stanton 5·FTom Paulius 6, 15, 24. Photographs: Bm Martini, C.S.C. _22 (2), 23 (2) / T. D. Paulius 13, 26, 30 / Bill Delaney 26, 27, 29 (3) / E. Brower 4, 8 (3), 9, 11, 16, 17, 26, 29 (2). Cover aerograph ·by T. David Pauli us. 


Scholastic 
Volume 117, No. 2, September 26, 1975 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES  
10  A Sermon  Rev. J. T. Burtchaell  
14  Commentary  J. R. Baker and Bill Gonzenbach  
15  Valued Impracticality:.  
The Art of Juggling  Richard G. Landry  
22  Sports & Mythic Heroes  . Bill Gonzenbach  
27  Football Pictorial  · • Bill Delaney  
REGULARS  
4  Perspective  Rev. Robert Griffin  
6  Fiction  Bob Griffin  
8  People At ND  Susan Grace  
9  People Behind ND  Mike Hastings  
18  Week In Distortion  , 'Dan Lombardi  
20  Gallery  -Beth Combs  
26  Sport Shorts  Bill Delaney  
30  The Last Word  , Sally Stanton  

Editor 
Sally Stanton 
Art Director 
Tom Paulius Production Manager 
Annemarie Sullivan 
Managing Editor 
John Phelan · News Editor Bill Gonzenbach Culture Editor 
Robert Baker ·· 
Assistant Art Director Kathy McElroy . 
Sports Editor Bill Delaney Business Manager 
Kathy Salzer. 
Circulation Manager Kevin Murphy 
Photography Editor . 
Ed Brower · 
Advisory Board Ronald Weber, Carl Magel; Ed Sanna; 
Madonna Kolbenschlag, Bro. Chades 
McBride, C.S.C., Richard Conklin 
Staff Steve Slater, Thomas J. Waldoch, Dave Beno, Ron Rundstedt, John Kenward, Dave 
Dreyer, Leo J. Mulcahey, Mike Sarahan, Chris Meehan, Mike Feord, Mark Hopkins, Bob Gilroy, Rich Nugent, Dan Adler, Richard G. Landry, Paul Starkey, Susan Grace, Dan 
Lombardi, Rhonda Kornfeld, Barb Frey, Mark Luppino, Gary Harden. 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. 
Second-clas~ postage paid at Notre· Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10017; ·· Published fortnightly during the school ·year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from Scholastic. Please address all· m_anuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. _465_56. 
All unsolicited material becomes the property of -Scholastic.· 
copyright© 1975 Scholastic/ all rights reserved/ none of.the contents may.be repro­duced without permission. 

A Child That Played With. Unico~rns 

. There used to be a unicorn that ca.me' to play with my sister in the small orchard that grew in the back of our house. Unicorns were quite common in the neighborhood where I grew up. You could see them at daybreak. on April mornings, nib­bling at the apple. blossoms. You could see them at noonday in sum­mer, looking for the shade under ancient oak trees or waiting for the August rain to refresh them. In autumn a whole little flock of uni­corns used to come to dance with the leaves that were swirled by the wind. In winter it was hard to spot them, because then they only came to·the orchard.when it snowed, and their color matched the color of the storm as easily as milk matches the whiteness of a snowdrift. But even in winter, you'd catch a glimpse of gold or silver· flashing on the landscape, and you'd know it was the· prancing hoof of ·a frolicking unicorn. 
My sister was the only child in the neighborhood that ever got to play with a unicorn. We didn't think 

it was unusual for her to have such a playmate' because my mother aiso used to be favored by ·visits from the unicorns when she was· young: .. Some of the neighbor' ladies called to complain of our family's . allowing the apple .orchard .. to be used as a sanctuary by an un­. licensed pack of totally mythical 
animals. 
"It was such a. small herd," my mother said, "and·•they .were such gentle, innocent creatures, what harm could they possibly do?" 
"When your children turn strange," the neighbor ladies sniffed, "you'll wish you'd settled for a.rab­bit hutch, like everyone else." 
Once, the minister came by to pro­test on s"trictly theological grounds. "Unicorns do not exist," he said. "Unicorns are .the aberrations of a medieval imagination." 
"But they must· be real," my mother. said. ''My little girl plays with them. All of us in the family catch glimpses. every now and again of the orchard unicorns." 
"Where?" asked the minister. 
. . 

by Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
My mother . pointed out the win­dow, through the trees: into the orchard where you see."a patch ·of moving colors on an oak limb, as though there were birds and butter­flies bivouacking together. 
"Unicorns do not exist," repeated the minister..His .tone implied that 

. families who . glimpse unicorns should not exist either; at least they should not exist in his parish. 
"I have never seen a unicorn,'! the minister said. "Nobody .else has ever . seen a unicorn. Therefore, unicorns do not exist," and he offered her a text from II Corinthians to prove his, point. · 
"Nobody has . ever seen God, either," said my mother in a bril­liant flash of theological wit. 
"If we are good enough, madam, we shall surely_ see Godt the min­ister said. 
-
."If we were innocent enough,. we , would surely see unicorns," said my mother. "I have a _child who has seen many unicorns." 
My mother never told us· about the complaint of the neighbor ladies. She never mentioned the minister's visit until .many years later, when the unicorns had lorig.. since left the orchard. Our family knew there were unicorns in -the world; but .we children never knew what it was like to pat one,· because we. had never gotten that close. 
"What are unicorns really like?" we would ask my sister. · · 
"Oh," she said, "they're · simply beautiful." There was.a look in her eyes as though she were ·a· saint talking about heaven. ''I only know one unicorn really well," she said. "He's smaller than the others. He's perfectly . white, like · milk, except 
L 

for .the markings on his tail and hooves and mane where he's touched with silver. Only sometimes, on Sunday, the silver seems to turn to gold, and his horn seems made en­tirely of diamonds." . 
"What do you say to a unicorn?" we asked. "What do you -talk about?" 
"Sometimes I talk to him,". she said. "Sometimes I sing to him. Sometimes I ride on his back. Some­times I tell him stories." 
"What . kind . of stories do you tell a unicorn?" :we asked. 
"It depends ··on .. whether -·he's a young unicorn ·ur an old unicorn,'.' she said. "Som·e. old unicorns. knew Merlin, and ·King Arthur..:.when he was a boy; that's how.old they.are. They . could . tell you . stories about dragons and griffins· and knights who had adventures .with ladies: But with the, young unicorns, you 
try to' teach them things.'' . . ... 
"Does it depend, too, on ·whether they are girl unicorns or· boy ·.uni­corns?"· I asked. I wasn't sure'how well prepared my sister w_as to help burgeoning .unicorns• make· the_.rites of passage into ad.ulthood. 
"I don't think there are any girl unicorns," 'she saidI I found out later, from reading: unicorn : books, that she'was right. "They·reproduce themselves asexually," the book said, "and their gender is always m'ale.'' .. 
In the normal course of childhood, a boy is not always apt to notice what his sister is doing. A boy· has his own' growingiup· to do. I knew that she played ·with• her unicorn because ' she • sometimes spoke of their ·games with' the shy creatures that · would come in from · the meadow. I aiso·· knew:that that uni­corn didn't want' much to do with me. He would show -himself to me sometimes, and':lift his tail so it seemed. to ride on the wind; as if to say:. "See what_·a· handsome · animal I really am.'' But I never got very close to him. I think he just wanted to convince me he really existed. He didn't want me to think my sister was crazy or imaginative when she said she played with unicorns. If she grew to be a strange child, as the neighbor ladies said · she would, I never noticed it. 
So the summers of childliood 

passed, and the autumns, and the 
SEPTEMBER 26, 1975 
wintertimes. Then one day in April, I saw her come into the house, clutching something that was wrapped. in her apron. I thought to myself: she's a very beautiful girl. Then I noticed she was crying. 
"What's the matter?" I asked. "What happened?" 
"Some boys came," she ·said. "They said they were hunters.'' She sat down on the floor and unfolded her apron. "Look what happened," she said. 
There, in the folds of the apron, there was a crystal-clear shaft of diamond with facets that flashed into rainbows. 
"They broke his horn," she said. 


_ "They· said they .were hunters. ·I said 'leave him alone; 'he's a unicorn;' They said they didn't believe in uni­corns, and they broke his horn." .. 
Both ,of us stared. at the horn of diamond, broken ;off, apparently, right. at the base· where it . w~s· grooved Hke a cross. Even as we watched, the .diamond began· to melt as though it were made of ice. . . . "Put it in the· refrigerator," .I cried;. though God knows I ain not an expert on the. preservation_. of relics.> __·_ ·. ·· · .--· · 
"It. wouldn't do any . good," she 

said. "Its· made . . . it's ·made of 
poetry." 
"Where is he now?" I asked. 
"He's run off," she said. "He's 

wounded and broken. All the others 
have gone with him.'' 
We sat there, helpless, not know­

ing what to do, watching a diamond 
melt into crystal drops that could 
have been the tears of a weeping, 
defeated god. 
For three days my sister waited 

for the unicorn's return, hoping and 
believing he would come, back, yet 
fearing he wouldn't. "I once heard 
of a unicorn who was wounded," she 
said. "His horn was broken, and he 
was wounded so bad he had to go 
back to the country where his father 
lived.'' 
· "I've heard that story,"· I said. "His friends waited for him': for three days. One morning, they found he had returned to .the·· garden· at . daybreak. · The wounds· had O been healed by his father's· love, and the 
scars made him more beautiful-than 
ever. -His ·horn was the color of 
blood.'' 
"His biggest hurt," she said, "was 

because they couldn't see the beauty. 
He stood .there in: beauty · before 
them, wanting their faith; and they 
said he wasn't real."·. 
0 
• 
"Do . you think• the . unicorn·, will 

come back to our garden?" I said. · 
"Maybe,'.' . she said, "if we know 

strongly enough that he's real.'' 
All of these events belong some­

where inJhe past., For me, at least, 
the unicorn has never come back. 
Sometimes,_ when,I'm:home and I'Iri 
feeling· innocent :enough, and. child­
like enough, to . believe in unicorns, 
I go. to the .orchard and look for a 
lost beauty, ·but. _I• never, find it. _For 
mysister, I th~nk it is. different.. ,! 
think she is still visited by unicorns, 
though . rive never seen the later 
ones.. The neighbor ladies continue 
to . say she acts : and thinks very 
strangely. That is why,. fora mim­
ber· o(years now, she has had to 
live in' a hospital.:. She glimpses a 
different . kind .. of truth than ·_ the 
rest of us. Whether her unicoms 
have scars that have been healed by 
love, or whether they are the broken 
creatures she wept over in child­
,hood, I have no way of knowing. 
But I suspect for all of us, nothing, 
either of good or bad, is still the 
same as it was when the world was 
young. 

A Child's Portrait 
Mr. Levine ain't too sma~t 'k ' 

Y now-don't make too much sense neither. He just sets up there all day long, his head a bobbin up and down like my yo-yo does, with his. finger stuck clear into his cheek Time was when he used to yell ~d scream·at us when we was passin by. Not no more though. Everybody knows right well that Mr. Levine could do most things .for himself but he just sets there havin his ' Mrs. wait round him all day. She don't seem to mind much but it still just don't seem right som~how. Yeah, he's a one that Mr. Levine, so we stay clear of him now. But sometimes we used to hide behind the bushes! waitin to see just what he'd do. Darn it if he didn't do the funniest things. He'd just be settin 
there pokin his· finger all round his cheek, sayin all kinds of things out 
loud that never made much sense. 
Mrs. Levine, sometimes she'd set up 
there with him, watchin her face 
. ' 

never movin·or nothin. She just set· ~here and watched him, ·1ookin down mto her hands, her head always shakin slowly. · 
Well, like I was sayin, we'd just set there, waitin till Mrs. Levine went backinside, laughin at all them funny things he said. Sometimes Joey would throw somethin in the yard, and old Mr. Levine would up and run down the steps, .checkin 

to see who was there. He'd stand there, laughin real funny, lookin all round. After a bit he'd stop and wait, look round real quickagain, laugh, and then move back toward the porch. Just when he was a gettin near his seat again, Joey.would up and scream somethin at him and take off. Old Mr. Levine, he'd up and start laughin all over again. Weren't never much harm meant --=-at least we never did see none. He seemed to kinda like it all -just kep settin there, waitin. • . 
Well, one day Mrs. Levine asked us, if we had nothin better to-do to
' 

come on over and help her by cleanin up the yard. We didn't see why Mr. Levine couldn't do it himself, but we said sure, seein how she said :she'd pay us. So I was there, weedin, mindin my own .business when all 
. . ' . 
a sudden Mr. Levine, he conies a 
yellin and screamin, just about fallin do\Vll the steps, _aft~r Joey; 
by Bo~ Griffin 

Joey, he was just a standin· there, shakin, not knowiri what to do. · · · Jeeesus, Joey was sure nough in for it this time; Mr. Levine had no·' · reason either; he just upped and went after him. Joey took off tryin to git behind sonie•of the other · · fellas, but they weren't gonna have, 
· none of that. Nobody wanted Old Mr.·Levine near_ em .. They just stood there shakin too, tryin to, git Joey away from em. So Joeyjust took · · · off, runnin to wherever he could git behind, pullin up the back of his -• · britches all the way. He_·aiways · wears baggy pants,· that Joey. Any­ways, he tricked him or somethin. 
. ' -. ,· .. cause he just stood there in the . middle of the yard, his head bobbin . up and down, droolin. · · · · Finally, Mrs. Levine, she came'a tE:arin and yellin out the screen . door, calling for Mr. Levine to leave ~ Joey. alone: She grabbed him and· pulled him aside--:-. he just kinda . standing there lookin dumb and all. When she'd a finished wavin her finger in frorit of him, she took him by the.hand across the yard, past . the dogs, back up to his seat again. · . He'd be o.k. for a while but ~e just coul~n•t keep fromsta~in up • ther at him. First he'd yell and wave his arms about, laughin; then he'd--, stop all a sudden like and set still, his headrollin all round, with his tongµe stuck out the side. I just 

knelt there, tryin to weed, my nose all.crinkly from not knowin · what to do. Mrs. Levine, she came otit to look at him, wipin his mouth with the corner of her apron. If she don't come out, he'll just let roll out the side of his motith, clear down his shirt. Then he plays with it. 
But she was there then, so he didn't get no chance. She just stood there Iookin down on him for a long time, shakin lier head slowly from side to side, wipin her hands in her apron. Then she turned~ciear round and caught us, mosUy me, starin up at em both. Well we just froze, not knowin what to do an all. But she stood there, cryin, with her apron up to her eyes, tellin us to hush up and mind otir own busiriess __: that it wasn't funny at all. Joey' just· stood there; kickin the ground, turnin all kinds of red: You could just tell thafMrs; Levine was a thinkin 'of him; and that made me ·. real mad. Mr. Levine, he was always a startin ifall, but she never much 
blamed. him. . 
Joey told his mom what happened 

that .night: That was a pretty stu.: · pid thing to·do; cause his niom: just set there at the ·table, not sayin 
riothin for an<awful longtime. Then she told him, quite calmly really, not to ever ever go by the Levine place again. She told h.im that he_ had .no business to mind over at that place .. I went' foi:-joey aft~r di_nner that _ night, and. she stood me up against the wall, asking me if my folks knew I was mindin business at the Leviries'. I told her "no ma'am!" She told us both riot to leave the house, that she was goin off to take care of this on~e and for all. . . . . _ 
We just)tood back, clear <:>Ut of 

her way, and watched her go off. '.'You had to tell her, didn't ya-:-­ya just had to." You could just tell Joey knowed he shouldn'ta done that, but he did. There weren't nothin we could do now. We waited there a bit, and then upped and followed after her, stickin behind bushes most the way. When we got near nough to the Levines all a body could hear was Joey's mom yellin at Mrs. Levine. Mr. Levine, he just set there still, not carin about a thing. 
Well, we didn't go over there much after that, cause Mr. Levine, he just kept gettin all excited whenever we did. Mrs. Levine told us it -_ would probably be·best that way. I told her it weren't us that was causin all the fuss, but she kep on· sayin it was all for the best. We. listened real good to what she said, but we still saw Mr. Levine a settin ­there on the porch, seein how we · was always goin by that way any-· way. He'd set there, and then get all excited when we went by. But we , didn't stop to play no more. 
ui fl,I 

And after awhile, he didn't get .. excited or nothin either, even when we did walk by. We'd still say _ hey to hiin, but.he must've not ever heard us :--he just kept on starin~ . Every once and a while, though, he'd still up and run -around the _ yard, Iookin, checkin. But he knoW,~ right well we wasn't there -he­was a standin right there with his Mrs. when she told us to clear off. 
Sometimes Mrs. Levine still sets out there with him. I still say hey to em both when I walk by. She smiles a bit and asks me what mis-• chief I'm upto now.•"No mischief, ma'am, just stopped to say hey." But she just rocks there, kinda · smilin at me. Mr. Levine, he still • just sets there like he's· always done, lookin at her, holdin on to · the end of her dress, his head bobbin up and down, like my yo-yo does. 

Bill Higgins 

To many Notre Dame_ students eagerly seeking any and every type. of employment on campus this year, senior Bill Higgins may be a subject of envy. Not only does Bill have a job, but he can boast of having one of .the most nover jobs . on. campus. He runs a nuclear "tandem Van de Graaff accelerator," an elaborate and expensive·• piece of · equipment situated iri the ominous Nuclear Re­search building~ Bill is one of the few undergraduate students at ND to operate the accelerator; arid his work helps· save. time for many re­searchers · and 'grad students • using the ·. machine for various experi­merits.·,·· 
Bill's major in physics was a determining factor in his finding the position with the Physics Depart­ment. He is the · president of the Physics Club, has been active with the Science Quarterly, in the . de­velopment of the Grace Hall TV sta­tion and is the founder. of T ALOS, The Ardent Lovers of Science. Fic­tion. In addition to his :obvious in­terest in·.the realm of science, Bill has musical inerests -he is an accomplished ukulele player. 
Bill is quite pleased with his op­portunity to·work with the acceler­ator and the advantages it offers. He finds it "considerably more stimulating'' than his previous source of income, working in th·e dining halls. 
Steven Paspek, perhaps better known as "Steve from Cleve" (from 
StevePG.S'J)ek 

Cleveland, Ohio, of course), ranks as one of the most outstanding and · talented people at ND today. He is a senior chemical engineering ma­jor, now on American College Schol­arship by merit of his academic achievement. Steve .· teaches· the weekly . freshman .chemistry 'review sessions, is participating in his sec~ ond year. of catalysis rese3:rch with Dr. J; J; Carberry; he has helped in the proofing of Dr. Hofman.'s chemis­try text, participated in the writing of Dr. Dan Pasto's text on organic chemistry and is currently working on a. textbook . of chemical reactor engineering with'• Dr. Carberry. This· past summer ·he was employed by the Standard Oil Company 'of Ohio to work on the evaluation of experi­mental heterogeneous catalysts, a.nd with · Bares 210, • and acrylonitrile plastic with a possible use as-a beer 
can liner. 
Steve's talents .are not confined to chemistry.· He has also ·been a·pro­fessiorial piano player . for. four years at Cedar · Point, Ohio,' has tuned nearly every piano· · on ·cam­pus and even · builds pianos.· One of them is situated in his current place of residence, Sorin Hall. 
In virtue of · all his enterprising musical and scientific abilities, it is easy to forget that Steve is classified as· a student here. However, he says that having to do homework like everyone else always reminds him of his status.: 
Bob Griffin, the author of the 
BolJ Griffin 
. . ~ . -, .~.: 

short story.featured in this issue, is· 
one of three· Nb students. to receive the honor oLhaving their literary works published in. a special edition of Atlantic Monthly ·last year, as winners: in .·the magazine's 54th an­nual· literary contest..·Entries from all over the U.S. were submitted and reviewed by a panel of judges bef~re the winners were· chosen and .pre~ sented with a merit award for "hav~ ing achieved distinction of a stipe­.rior kind." The other ND students to attain this.honorwere Dave Rust, a senior English· . major, and Gary Shippey, _who has. since graduated and is now.. studying Eriglisli ' at 
Bowling Greeri: . ' . ' .. :. . .. 
Bob, . an:· .English major frmri 

Emerson/N.J;, had dabbled lnpoet­
ry .for a few years •and . writteri 
stories; but his. talent for writing 
short. stories was . especially. stimu­
lated by Mrs:· Dolores Frese's short 
fiction' writing class last year, and 
it wa.s· Mrs. Frese who encouraged 
him to submit his entry. . .· . 
The activities : that occupy Bob's 

time are many, including his work 
as ·· cci:chairman of the Dance and ~ 
Drama Series Cultural Arts Commis­
sion and his position on the edito­
rial staff of the Juggler. He also 
holds two jobs.'Currentlyhe is work­
ing on a project consisting of twelve· 
short stories and .intends to take the 
risks of. pursuing awriting career. 
In view of his work, though, it may · 
not be such a risk after all. 
. . SCHOLASTIC 



Behind Every President • • 
• 

Mention the President's Office of the University of Notre Dame and most students will think of Father Theodore Hesburgh. But room 301 in the Administration Building is much more a home fo , secretary Helen Rosinski than it is to our , University President. During fall and spril)g, Father Hesburgh's face is rarely seen within the perimeters , of our campus; -Bur:to his diligent secretary, , t~cise; times when he is out of town'. at educational confer­ences or attending hunger coalition meetings are the times when she can catch --up on: the backlog of, cor­respondences ':and notices-to-be-is­sued ·that have. been impossible to attend to during Father's, on­campus presence. It is amazing that only one ·person -manages· to handle assiduously . , the :, overabundance of work in· Father Hesburgh's office. 
Helen Rosinski,· a speed queen on a manual typewriter, -_ is a·middle­aged woman whom Fred Freeman of the Personnel Department describes as kind,·efficient·and wholly devoted to her work; She has been employed at the University of ,Notre Dame since January of 1943 in secretarial capacities, and has been Father Hes­burgh's blessing since 1952 · when he became University President Before that time, .she-had: worked in. the office similar·,to today's Registrar's office; :later· she worked in Business Affairs._ Finally she was secretary· to Father Cavanaugh during his last two years as University President. 
Though hesitant at first to divulge her age;-Helen, admitted .that· she was nearly fifty.'-_She is a native of South ·:Bend '.'andhattended high school in town before coming to work at Notre Dame. When asked about her relationship with Father Hesburgh, , she .smiled affably and commented that .they were. close friends having.. known each other for twenty-five . years. Her brother, she relates, was a classmate with Hesburgh at ND and the two were ordained into the priesthood in· the same year. Referring to the Presi-
SEPTEMBER 26, 1975 
dent, Helen warmly said, "He hasn't changed .. since I first met.him.'' The note of pride and affection in her voice spoke clearly for the fact that she and Father Hesburgh not only have a profluent ·. working relation­ship but are good friends as well.. 
To understand what a remarkable feat it has been for Helen Rosinski to manage· the President's Office single-handedly, one · must · realize that she suffers from severe arthri­tis-a condition that prevents her from _using •an electric · office ma­chine. But whatever discomfort the 
·malady has caused her, Helen has. more · than compensated for it f' 
l 

through a prodigious . spirit . and dedication to her· duties.• She takes all dictation from President:' Hes­burgh, types his correspondences, handles mailing ,lists, makes all traveling arrangements and relays telephone messages.' . She is, . to use a religious .analogy, a miracle in the: secretarial world, · arid her perform­. ance bears . witness · to the fact. If devotion had. a monetary equivalent, Helen Rosinski would· be a wealthy 
lady indeed. 
Holding· her slim .file, Fred Free­

man: of the . Personnel ·Department 
on campus spoke of Helen in a very 
complimentary fashion. The two 
have been friends for as long as 


by Michael Hastings 

Helen has worked at Notre Dame; 
however, Freeman objectively con­
cludes, "She's an ideal secretary and 
very dedicated to her work." Helen 
is not the type of person to expect 
or even waiit recognition for her 
services,-, Mr. Freeman indicated, 
but "it's a good thing that she's 
getting some acknowledgement." 
. Helen· speaks , humbly of herself 

and her,. position at: Notre -Dam·e. 
One can imagine the intrigue and 
excitement of. handling letters from 
all corners of the globe and typing 
out returns to figures of, intenia­
tional · repute.· -But Helen refers 
modestly to her,employment as if it 
were mundane or . simply. quotidian. 
When asked· if there is' less work 

when Father Hesburgh is away than 
when· he is at Notre Dame, Helen 
jokingly replied; -"The only time I 
don't. have any work to do is when 
I'm on vacation." 
Many times we forget that people 

such as Helen· Rosinski are the 
backbone of Notre Dame. Sometimes 
we regard them as fixtures around 
campus rather than dedicated people 
without whom ,the : institution 
would cease to function .. We would 
be much· better.to·step back every 
now and theri from. our rather·self­
centered worlds and see them as the 
real individuals they are, and not 
something put behind a desk for 
our benefit. · 
-Tomorrow. at 7:20 a.m., Helen ·Rosinski will arrive on campus for 
still another . day of. unheralded 
service in the University President's 
office. Calls will be answered, travel 
arrangements • ·will be made _-, for 
Father Hesburgh and· 'return cor~ 
respondences will be mailed out. But, 
even though Helen may receive no 
praise for her work, she will con-· 
tinue to. perform her secretarial 
duties in the same selfless manner 
as she has since 1943. And yet, 
despite this .lack of recognition,-she always has the spiritual emolument that goes hand in hand with devo­tion • to valuable, however unsung, contribution. 
•'9 
J


Sermon 

This sermon was delivered by Rev. James .T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., on September 14, 1975, at the Inaugural Mass of the University. 
Fellow Scholars of the University, September 14 is also a special can shores as early as 1665. Her Brothers and Sisters in Christ: anniversary date for us at Notre father was Dr•. :n.ichard Bayley, a 
Dame. On this day in 1841-...,.... 134 physician much, involved in public . Today, September :14, in the year years ago -Father· Edward Sorin health work.. An. early researcher 1975, resonates with many mys­and six brothers of; St. Joseph dis­into the causes and cure of yellow teries. It is the· feast of the Exal­embarked from the passenger ship fever, he served as the physician for tation oLthe Holy Cross: the off­Iowa in New. York harbor and the Port of· New York.· In 1801 he season day, so to speak, on which started overland to . the adventure was himself infected with yellow the. Church. ponders the painful way that awaited them in Indiana . fever by arriving Irish immigrants in which the Lord's love reached out . Also, this is the, first University · and perished. to rescue us. gathering here since· August 15, the Eliza was 20 years · old when 
100th anniversary of the celebration she married a merchant· of. comfort~­His state was divine, of the· first· Mass in this· church. The able circumstances, William Seton. yet he did not cling celebrant of the Mass was Father In the: next years ~he bore. him five to his equality with God . Alexis Granger, Provincial.. Superior children: three girls .and two· boys. but emptied himself . of the Holy Cross Religious in the In 1803 William took his wife and to assume the condition of a slave, United States, and the sermon· was Anna, . their eight-year-old, . on a and became. as nien are;, . preached by the Superior General of voyage ·to Italy. which was partly and being as all men are, the Holy Cross Community, Notre in aid of · his import · business and he was humbler yet, Dame's founder, Edward Sor~n. partly. intended to restore his frail. · .even to accepting. death, September 14 · is given a· fresh health. They landed at Livorno in · death on a cross. meaning for us, however, by events late autumn, and since William ar­But God raised him high taking place in Rome this very . day . rived · ill and · they. had embarked .and gave him the name Elizabeth Bayley Seton is today be­from a city where:yellow fever was which is above all other names ing declared a saint, the first native­epidemic, all three were .held at the · so that all beings born citizen of the United States docks for a month's quarantine with­· in the heavens,, on earth and in to be so honored. Mother Cabrini, a out: heat, decent nourishment or the underworld, naturalized -.· American citizen, was medical attention. At the end of the should bend. the knee at the name canonized some years ago, but she quarantine Mr. Seton was found not of Jesus. was · an ·· immigrant, and somehow to have ·yello~ fever, but , the 
. and that every tongue should ac­the Roman, authorities have tradi­month's-exposure.to winter weather claim . · tionally discerned . sanctity in their had destroyed.: his . health, and he_ Jesus Christ as Lord, compatriots more readily than in died a ,week after their·release. · to the . glory of God' the Father. the virtuous offspring of other na­Alone in Italy with her eight-year­
. (Philippians 2, 6-11) · tions. Mother Seton, in fact, coming old girl, the widow. Seton spent six as she did from white, Anglo-Saxon Protestant stock, may give evidence of an affirmative action plan for the Church's calendar of saints., · 
Elizabeth . Bayley was .··born in New York City in 1774, descended 
i I 
I from g~od English and Huguenot stock that had first come to Ameri-· 
1,1
I 
' SCHOLASTIC 

months with the. Filicchi family in Livorno, · old friends· and merchants with· whom her husband intended to do business. The gentle hospitality 
of this family and indeed of the en­tire Italian city won Mrs .. Seton's heart. Her religious faith, already very devout and much tested by her recent sorrow, began to take a curi­ous and positive interest· in the Catholicism of· her hosts, she being a member of the Protestant Epis­copal. Church. .Eventually she re­turned to New York, drew her chil­dren about her once more, and be­gan a very tortured· nine·~month per­iod · during which she debated the possibility of. entering the Catholic Church. As an Episcopalian she had already developed habits of prayer that were mystical and, ·with her sisters-in-law, used to look after the poor so . assiduously that she. was calle~ "the Protestant sister of char­ity." _'After agonizing long over her decision, Eliza finally entered · the Roman Catholic Church in 1805. As might be expected .in -.those times, this was very ill-received by her Protestant relatives, particularly her· ·Seton in-laws. ·Since, , • as a widow · she was particularly depen­dent upon ·them for. her main­tenance, . being ostracized .· by the family caused economic as. well as social distress, but it also offered her the occasion to ratify her decision at the cost of some suffering. 
After struggling three years to make · ends meet, she decided to move her household to Baltimore, where she could' both support her­self and do some constructive good by operating a boarding school for young ladies. In a very short time her generous dedication and devout purposefulness · brought other wom­en to join her, and in 1809 they banded together..to forni a religious sisterhood. 
· They called themselves the Sisters of Charity after the .model of the religious community founded by Saint Vincent de Paul, the first com­munity of ,women in the history of the Church which was founded for service rather than seclusion. 
The new·group settled in Emmits­burg in the Blue Mountains fifty miles northwest of Baltimore. Their circumstances were of the poorest. When they · first arrived there were 16 .. of them . living in a single log cabin, including Mother Seton, her five children and two sisters-in­law (who had followed her into the Catholic· Church and had been simi­larly penalized by their family), and a number of women who woul~ join her in founding Saint Joseph's School. 
In Emmitsburg· Mother Seton's group was able to found a school for the poor in addition to their regular academy, and then branched out to Philadelphia and to New York. The early growth of this, the first com­munity of sisters founded . in the United States, was presided over by the foundress until she died .at the age of 47 in 1821. 
There were at this time only three other orders of sisters in the coun­try: the Ursulines in New Orleans, the Carmelites in rural Charles ters-in-law, Harriet and Cecelia and go forth to work they saw that County, Maryland, and the. Visi-Seton. In the first years ofthe sis-there. were three types of persons in tation Nuns in Georgetown. terhood there was always one sister society who were particularly ne-. 

What they declare in Rome today dying of illness. Every one of these glected: the sick; the.aged and the is that Elizabeth Bayley Seton was unhappy people she tended. as gra-children of the poor. So they found­an . extraordinarily holy woman and ciously as she had her own husband ed hospitals, homes for the elderly that she sitsiat the .banquet of the years earlier. and schools. In our time they are Just where we all desire one day to . The Church today then celebrates turning : themselves with ever sup; Her biographers show a num-a holy and a capable and a dedicated greater training and .proficiency to her of consistent strains of goodness woman and· honors the six religious an even wider spectrum of. human in her life. For one thing she was an congregations which have descended misery and need. extraordinarily . faithful • widowed from .. that original foundation . in · The style. of .the religious· sister­mother, as she had been :a devoted 1809. , We have the particular· plea~ hood has changed, as signified by wife, during her.nine years with Wil-sure of having several of these sis-the passing of the colonial widow's liam. No, matter how .widely. the ters at Notre Dame as students, fa-bonnet which Elizabeth·· Seton·. ·had circle ofher·commitments expanded, culty. members and· administrators. worn since the death ofher husband she honored her primary obligation But today we might note a fur-and which her • sisters adopted·. as to raise her'young sons and daugh-ther significance in this celebration. their distinctive and identifying reli: ters, even· · while presiding over her This first American sisterhood gious habit.· Yet,· those who· sing!~· religious community.. Furthermore, founded by Mother Seton joined mindedly dedicate themselves to the she was an extraordinarily religious other . religious communities which, service of their neighbor find that woman, first as a Protestant .and since the day of Saint Vincent de nothing but a self-denying simplici~ then as a Catholic. Her correspon-. Paul, provided one of the very few ty of life will fit. So there is a riew dence and:journals covering both of· regular avenues for women to direct and maturereturnto a kind of sober these periods.show a constant deter-· their talents, energies and gener-austerity among women who have mination to· consider all her human. osity to public service. Indeed, for decided. that they will spend them­experiences in the larger light of the ·· centuries where lay women were selves on others rather than ori their Father's love. As a woman who liad secluded from both the challenges own comfort; Also in these days• of been brought . up. in · considerable arid ·the recognition of public life, fresh inquiry and reunderstandirig; affluence she bore herself with dig-sisters were. · understood to have women religious: appear to be redis­nity and simplicity when sharp pov-taken their place beside men iri some covering .. their communities as the erty befell her. When the sisters of the most important professional support they·need, the family which first settled in their log cabin at areas, notably medicine, . education provides them with the affection and Emmitsburg they. existed on a diet and social work. The women who example to give all of their energies composed largely of carrot coffee; chose to live this sort of life were, to an intense and devoted career., ,It salt pork arid buttermilk. · ·special as · Mother Seton, acquainted with is appropriate at a time when worn­meals to mark the large feasts in-poverty and soi-row, but they also en have become_ abruptly more con­cluded some smoked herring, and had ·the gratification of leaving in scious of their rightful equality in perhaps a spoonful of molasses for the wake cif their lives institutional society that the Holy See chose to each sister. Later on, one. of the . accomplishments and influence over honor a religious foundress, one of communities of sisters existed many personal lives. .•. · . · those who long ago began to invite throughout the course of the year , ,'. Religious women today are estab~ other womento assume, a profes­on little more _than· potatoes. Lack-· . _ lishing themselves in . new prof es-sional role for the welfare of society, ing funds, they had to make their sional fields. They are to be found and invited -thein: to .do so ·not for religious garb out of garments that ···working among juvenile delinquents, their . own satisfaction,· but for the they had brought along with them. . in prisons, as accomplished · artists, service of those less fortunate. , Also.the gentle woman, Eliza Seton, in the administration of government -It. would not be alien to.the :spirit was stricken by continual misfor-and independent · social programs of this · occasion to note. that the tune. One after another she buried ..·and·as social ana political advocates opportunity for public life. and ser­four young women who were closest. in urban society. Some years ago . vice whicli..society had; hitherto to her, after nursing each one of ··. Cardinal Suenens, the Archbishop of denied to all but a. few women is them through long and feverish ill-: Brussels, noted that when in the now being thrown open to all women nesses: her two daughters, Ariria and 17th century women religious had who wish to take advantage·of it. Rebecca, arid her two convert sis-. first determined to leave the cloister · This, ,is , a just. opportunity ·Jong 
; ,,.,, .. 

denied to females. To the extent riage tradition, a very talented hus­able them to forfeit some measure that any of us has shared personally band would betake himself with of competitive advantage in the ag­or institutionally, wittingly or un-virtually all of his energies to com­gressive field of their career, to give wittingly, in the denial of equal pete in the public arena, supported less of themselves there because opportunities to women, we should by a wife who assumed the main­they are needed at home, so that be stirred in these better days more tenance of the home and rearing of their wives can have a life outside vigorously to open up new oppor-their children as her full task. Man the home as they do? tunities for them in the present. and wife divided their theaters of What we shall see -and as edu­
The pattern of intellectual and life-activity: · she a.t home, · he. cators at this time we must have a career interests of female students abroad." There is no way that she hand in it -is liberation for wom­on our own campus, which was· can now venture out of the home en and liberation for men. Frus­expected to differ substantially from without his having to come back trated women have grieved over the traditional_interest~configuration ··home. The trade-off for the liber­their withered opportunities to be of their male classmates, but does ation of women must be the domes­artists or political officials or pro­not,: in fact, much. differ, is close ti cation . of .men, not the abandon­. fessors or physicians or bankers ­evidence that women will be going 
while also being, devoted mothers. where their wishes take them, and Discrimination has made them less as far as t~lent and merit allow. human..· But the men might have 
Married· and single women are no seen in · themselves a counterpart longer barred from most enterprises, . frustration. Many of them have had and society will be much the. better . their humanity, drained by a total for. it. · The place, the occasion and absorption in their work, and have the subject all provoke us to observe <·l ..been absentee fathers. Homes -with that one depiorabie. exception to this · too little father and too much general enfranchisement is .the un­mother have often housed marriages timely and obstinate refusal of most of quiet desperation, and reared mis-Christian churches to ordain quali­begotten children. . . . . . fied women. to their leadership and ·In .the offing, for those. who . can fullest ministry. But here, too, in­.. and those .who will, is th·e prospect appropriate . sexuai discrimination .. of a new marriage compact: hus­must give way. . . . . bands and wives will mutually relish 
This liberation of women is ellc-· and assume the work of the market­iting another. social transformation :, place and the shelter of the home. of, possibly larger and.more drastic For. both it will be more trying than proporUons: the renegotiation of . before, but it will also. be more roles. within: the family. It is the . · liberating. ·,, case that many capable and lively­All this can be fitly said on the minded women desire no · public or ment of : children. Women's libera~ feast of the newly sainted Mother professional life beyond that of wife tion. may very well entail more of a Seton. She was wife, mother, widow and' mother: It is also true that . transformation ·. for · husbands than and celibate; homemaker and _edu­other women pursuing an active .for . wives.. It has been pointed ouf . cator; compliant spouse and indom-· career will prefer to forego children to us 'an that prejudice· arid patron-itable superior. May we, who·. pro~ and will marry husbands who share . izing manners and other . disdainful fess to. educate every gift in our this preference. But many marriages forms of discrimination must be laid students. tha.t is there .to grow, be are going to be created by husbands . aside. But I doubt that men realize blessed by thisimmensely capable and wives both .of. whom welcome with sober enough clarity how radi-· and saintly woman, ·and be given· children as their greatest joy, re­cally they must change to. allow some similar array of gifts in our­sponsibility, and lifework, and both women to change. The· most capa­selves. And may her ·story remind 
of whom wish. to dedicate their lives ble men rise. to influence . and domi~ us all'that we neither grow nor give energetically to challenging jobs or nance in their job or profession by growth without forfeiting much professions. It is in these house­virtue of total dedication. Some of comfort and preference .. holds that patterns of family pre­them are serviced by their homes as Mother Seton, pray for us. viously unfamiliar to us are going at a pit stop. Will their sense of fidel­to be designed. In our classic mar-ity to their sworn life-partners en­

Commentary 
While Fr. Burtchaell's sermon represents a worthy exercise in the catechization of the faithful, it certain­ly hurries over the substantive human and religious questions of our day. No issue may be taken with the sermon's delineation of Mother Seton's life which the Roman Church recently, in a move tinged with political overtones, recognized as worthy of canonization. How­ever, the analogies which are drawn between Mother Seton and our own day suffer conspicuously from in­attention. 
Intent on the minutia of the life of Mother Seton, Fr. Burtchaell mentions the pressing issues in pass­ing, cloaking them in verbal ambiguity. He notes that opportunities once closed are now opening to women, and urges that those of us who have been guilty of sexual discriminations must "be. stirred in these better days more vigorously to open up new opportunities for them in the present." Such support for the women's movement is laudatory and commendable. Yet it re­mains essentially verbal in character since Notre Dame's most numerically conspicuous women are the maids. At present only two women hold tenure among the faculty. The University lacks active response to its own speechi­
~~ . . 
The student body itself is in large measure to blame for the sterility of human relationships. Blind to the actuality and potentiality of others, we insist on cate-:­gorizing our colleagues instead of meeting individuals. ­The o~_eremphasis on traditional dating games presup­poses the importance of a: warm body for social securi­ty and not the true fruition of ourselves. 
· Still, Fr. Burtchaell points in the right direction when he doubts "that men realize with sober enough clarity how radically they must change to.allow women _ 
by Bill Gonzenbach and J. Robert Baker 
to change." All of us must become aware of the unique humanness and the fullness of persoµhood of other indi­viduals. The time is here when we can no longer afford to wallow in our shallow fictions and cement ourselves and others into narrow roles. 
Although Fr. Burtchaell does admit the liberation of women will open new_ roles for both sexes, he insists on using the traditional roles as examples. Referring to the liberated household, he states·that "the trade off for the liberation of women must be the domestication of men, not the abandonment of children." Yet the liber­ation of women does not necessitate the·domestication of men. The ensnaring of one sex to free another never constitutes liberation, only stagnation. Ours should more and more be a society of vast alternate life styles'. Children might develop more fully in an environment with other children while both parents are freed to pur-. sue their careers. 
Fr. Burtchaell notes that most Christian churches have refused to "ordain qualified women to their lead­ership and fullest ministry." WJlile it seems apparent that the ordination of women priests is advocated, some ambiguity appears upon closer ·study. The·lack of or­dained women in . the highest , ministries is justly, lamented. Yet only "inappropriate" discrimination is deplored. Certainly, no scriptural basis can be'found to prohibit the ordination of women to the priesthood_.:. only· centuries of custom and habit. Is this not also in­appropriate? · , · . 
It is a sad state of affairs when the basic dignities and rights of persons cannot but be shrouded in vagaries even in a homily given during a Catholic Mass. · ' 
Mother Seton, pray for us. 
14 
_SCHOLASTIC 

l 
l 
Valued Impracticality: The Art of Juggling 
The juggler wandered · France from fair to fair and whenever he saw a chance to earn a few pennies he unroUed his rug, lay .on his back, and juggled his paraphernalia with his hands and feet. U was all· he knew how to do, h'fJ did it well, and he was happy in the doing. ; 
As he grew older, however, mis­fortunes crowded him. One winter's day, ill and tired, he took refuge in a monastery and by the time he had recovered he decided to remain there. It was a pleasant monastery dedicated to the Virgin and each of the monks and brothers set him­self a special task in her honor. One illuminated manuscripts to.offer her, another decorated her altar, another raised flowers. Only the juggler had no productive art, only he produced nothing that could be set in place be/ ore her . and stay tangibly in place. 
Finally, in despair, the juggler took to stealing into the chapel when no one else was about. There he would unroll his rug and juggle· be­fore the Virgin's statue. It was all he had to offer, the. one thing that he could do well. 
One day a passing brother dis­covered the juggler at work be/ore the statue and summoned the other monks in horror to witness the pro­f a nation of the, chapel. Soon all the window-sills were lined·, with the heads of outraged monks ·come to verify the horribw report. They were just about to rush, in and put an end to the sacrilege, when before their eyes the Virgin descended smiling from her pedestal and wiped the sweat from the juggler's brow. The offering .was acceptable.-John Ciardi, How Does a Poem Mean? 
SEPTEMBER 26, 1975 
When the poet John Ciardi wrote this rendering of a short story by Anatole France, his intention was to illustrate that process of word­play which distinguishes the poem from other art forms and which, indeed, gives poetry. its special value. When, in April of 1947 editor J. H. Johnston revived the long-dormant literary journal, Scrip, redubbing it The Juggler of Notre Dame, after the title of this same story, and included as the frontispiece of the first issue an ornately lettered pas­sage from the work, his reasons were in part religious and, no doubt, in part political. He wished to set from the start a tone of seriousness and permanence. "The new Juggier will not be a funny paper," he declared. 
For there had been an old Juggler, and it had indeed been a funny paper, one of the scores of comic magazines that had sprung up on college campuses all over the country in a wave of post-World War I frivolity that was soon fo end with the onset of the Depression and a new world war. The magazine finally folded when the University was turned into · a quasi-army base in the late 30's. When the older, more mature .GI-Bill students flocked to Notre Dame after the war, it was decided that they needed an outlet for their own serious artistic expres­sion; and thus, the Juggler. 
Since 1947, the Juggler. has sur­vived numerous changes in editorial staffs and various threats on its "life," for the most part maintaining a standard of excellence worthy of its namesake, the one whose "offer­ing was acceptable." Throughout, many persons whose names are now in some capacity . associated with 

by Richard G. Landry 

Notre Dame have played an integral part in keeping the journal alive and well: James E. Armstrong, John · Logan, Julian Pleasants, · Frank O'Malley, John Matthias, Michael Ryan; this list is by no means de­finitive. Student ·editors especially contributed to the growth (?f the Juggler; one of the most influential · of that group was Michael Patrick · O'Connor (1969-71), Who was re­sponsible for the first entirely new change in format that the magazine had witnessed since '47. The design was intended ·to reflect· the new, "experimental" work which students had then begun generating. It was also during his term as editor that the. Juggler suffered perhaps its most severe crisis when, during the summer of 1969, Fr. Hesburgh, in conjunction with ·. the Vice-Presi­dent's Council decided to suspend monetary support of the journal because the University was facing budgetary problems and because, in Hesburgh's words, "there was not an actual return commensurate with the money spent." The Student Life Council, in concern over the effects 1iUCh a move would have on the lit­erary community at Notre Dame, issued in September of that year a declaration .. recommending to the president that "the publication. of the Juggler be assured of continued sponsorship by the University.'' The recommendation was taken; indeed, in 1974; under the editorship of Joe O'Brien and during Fr. Dave Schla­ver's tenure as Director of Student Activities, the budget was increased so that each student on campus would be assured of receiving a copy of the journal free of charge. The move was designed to broaden the 
1


r===~~~====~~~~~=~~==~~====~~:• : 

· · 
"'·:• .. 
base . of · the ·Juggler's ·readership, thereby producing, it:,was hoped;,·a heightened·.· interest· ·: in .. · literature among the student body and faculty. · · · This· year/the .magazine is. under­going . another . series .of changes, though not in format, nor in circula;, tion practices, but rather on a more fundamental level: the· staff. of· the Juggler intends to try to capture:the imaginations . of the ·1arge bloc of students and faculty who have been; 
in.the past, uninterested in the jour-. nal's comings; and goings; by resort.;; Ing to a · procedure both ; respected arid honored.. by politicians and ad­vertising agents alike · -· simply, 
· 
• : : . . 
·~-~ 

bringing one's case 'to the people! 
: · According . to: editor Gary. Zebrun, for the ·Juggler this plan does not entail rallies, nor slogans, nor even the kissing of babies. ·Instead, the focus-. will primarily be. on getting· the maximum number of people in~ 
volved in· the actual production of·· his writing· '[that • characteriza­
interested members of the staff will 
meet on an irregular schedule t.~ read and discuss their own poetry; 'fiction, and critical work; and simply 
l
to· niake~ contact iri an ·atnioSphere 
free from the ~restrictions imposed, 
l
by "the business at hand." 
· This reorganization of the editor­

ial board has, .of course, far-reach­
ing implications for· those who sub­
mit manuscripts to the Juggler. Says 
editor Zebrun, "[the writer's] work 
will be judged more fairly because 
there'll be so· many different judge-. 
ments tlirown· into it. There wo_n't 
be just one editor,• or a few editors. 
There'll be a. group of people criti:. 
cizing his work; he· will receive ·a 

wider interpretation, ·which is· im­
portant. -I don't think any of ·us can 

be absolute judges', because· we. don't 
know ·. enough ·about poetry yet. 

Even •·to · call ourselves judges is 
wrong~ . This ·is·a ·mock· court; per­
haps.·.·· . ··.. · · . >, · 
· ''Aside. from· the-actual consider~ 
ation of manuscripts," he continues, 
"the larger board ·will al\ow us to 
instill more enthusiasm, arouse-more 
imaginations· :on campus/ so: -that 
more peopie will be-writing'. There's 
a big group working on the Juggler; 
interested.: in ··merature • in ··. general 
and in writing, and they· can reach 

.their friends . ; . ; ··People will take 
some . writing.·. courses; they'll, read 
poems 011 their own, and will begin 
to write. We hope·that's where the 
change will come. this _year." , , 
· · Of the informal readings, Zebrun 
comments; ''We want to have so­
cial . gatherings ·, where we: can· 
read others' poetry and once · in a 
while · read our own,• where we· can 
have this. interchange that's impor­
fant for-· a writer. A writer has al­
ways been stereotyped 'as someone .. 

who lives alone, a very private and I 
recluse • person, and · when he . does­

l 
each issue, in ·the hopes• that their enthusiasm will spread to· friends and classmates. To :accomplish this end, ·the editorial board will be eri­larged to:include all interested stu­dents; at· weekly 1:ioard meetings, each: person will participate· in the process , of selecting suitable manu­scripts· and· photographs; Further, tion]Js. very -true for most., If is• a solitary• 1:iusiness. · But on the flip side; though .:_the . actual writing may: be ·solitary, he' needs response, he needs·affl.ririations once·in a while from his. peers/ his friends. ' And that's what-the·Juggler wants to do, to provide that-sense -of• friendly coalition:. ' ··. 
· · <-SCHOI.ASTIC 

"Notre Dame is a funny. place for me because, like most college cam­puses in the U.S., ,, it is becoming more career-oriented, more and more isolated, not only from the outside world and affairs in the country, but even within the cam­pus, from one another. T think it's the trend which technology and our money-oriented culture have stirred 
.· up for us. But the writers on cam­pus, those people interested in lit­erature and in writing literature sometimell,_feel frustrated with this, and that's why one purpose of these meetings is to get together as infer­. mally as poss.~ble, just to enjoy our­selves." Other Juggler projects include 
· plans, not fully resolved, for a week­ly, fifteen-minute radio program on WSND, to be aired twice during the broadcast day. Members of the edi­torial board and other interested persons· will read pieces from their favorite· authors and' poets.< Zebrun expressed the hope that, through the program, many people will perhaps discover · and take an active interest in the · works of writers previously unknown to· them. 
Despite the planning and enthu­siasm displayed on the part of the Juggler staff, there is still a· valid question of · whether the "experi­ment" will succeed in attracting new readers and; · indeed, new writers. For in ~ the past, the magazine has drawn sharp criticism from various quarters, and worse, it has often met with a disturbing amount of apathy within the Notre Dame com­munity. ·. In · examining • this trend, and especially the apparent · reluc-tance with which "new"writers sub­·mit manuscripts,• Zebrun·:: suggests that "they haven't written :out of fear. If writing takes all·this quick knowledge of metrics: and things, which takes a poet years and years to learn, why start? .It's· that kind of fear, not just the fear of rejec­tion, the. fear · of learning the ·craft, 

too. . · "None of us think that the poetry in the Juggler is. supposed to'. be 
. 'great' poetry. Hopefully it·will be an honest poetry, ··one, that works more than just choice · sentimental purgations, a poetry ,thaf. mingles honesty and a sense of the· craft, ·of the tradition." 
· In reply ·to the criticism that the poetry and .fiction featuredcin the Juggler exhibit· an obtuseness -and a · generally poor .quality, he·• says. "Maybe if people aren't· turning themselves on to.· this poetry, then maybe it's that they don't want to leave that sense of piety in art and go into the unknown and let them­selves experience the poem as a pro­cess, as something not totally under­standable. . . . It's not the task of the Juggler to cater to a majority. The task of the Juggler is to instill an enthusiasm for literature in · · -general and; for an honest attempt .. at distilling one's imagination into some type of •written art or pho­tography." · This year the Juggler's invitation to the Notre Dame community is summed· up ·clearly . and succinctly in the poem chosen for the frontis­piece of each issue, by W.-H. Auden: 
Come to our jolly desert .· where even dol'ls go whoring · where cigarette-ends 
beconie •intimate. friends. · And where it's .always three-in-· ·the-morning. 

A long way from J. H. Johnston's solemn rhetoric? Light-years, per-' haps, but indeed much closer to Ciardi's vision of the juggler, surely much closer to tliat acceptable offer-' ing of the best, the only poem: the one that delights us in its playful­ness. 

A short time ago a small group of campus in full view of innocent stu­to sit through a two-hour lecture by inebriated students got together in dents and respected faculty. alike, Father Hesburgh entitled '.'Contem­the basement of . LaFortune and causing lascivious thoughts and porary Christian . Attitudes Toward created the Committee on On-cam­arousing the anger of many half­Sex and the Single Student." ' pus Living, .COOL: The . purpose of witted yet moral persons. The rea­ALCOHOL REGULATIONS this group was to objectively view sons that brought this revolutionary There are very few ·students left student life here and if still awake, idea into being are not readily ap­at Notre Dame \\'.ho can remember 
make suggestions and. proposals on parent; now that· it is ·established, the preprohibition days on campus. ways to improve the quality of life however, it appears that most, if not These students· tell tales of giant at ND. The committee sent its re­all, universities will follow in experi­hall parties· and beer blasts at which port to Dean Macheca's · office last menting with sexual promiscuity on it wasn't an unfamiliar sight to. see May where it was unexplainably lost campus. your rector dance across a line of in his wastebasket; This,. the first of This reason alone would be a poor tables and. pass out ori · the · floor. a one-part. series, is a replication of foundation for a well-respected Their eyes gleam when they men~ the COOL report investigating the upper-middle-class . university such tion dozens of kegs lined up against issues of parietals, co-ed housing as Notre Dame to adopt plans for a the dining hall walls. and alcohol regulations. co-ed dorm. However, in 1972 when Nowadays, hordes of underclass­PARIETALS· the first women . were allowed to men can be seen migrating north on 
In the early 20th century, -when roam the halls of ivy, a new era .of weekend nights in order to make coeducation. was becoming popular liberalism was instituted here. Those friends and escape from the.. pres­at most. American universities, the of the female gender were allowed sures of college life. administrators of the time thought to ramble in places where no woman~ Most students~ are aware that the it only fitting and proper to· set dare trod in days of -old, for in­University. has its· back up against limits on the visitation of males in stance the dining halls, Rockne the wall as far as alcohol on cam­female· dorms and vice versa. , For locker rooms or between Zahm and pus goes. At the present time the this reason <'parietals" were con­Keenan halls. In view of this new University is liable for any ·acci­trived and sneaking in and out of liberated attitude, we'd like to pro~ •· dents involving students according dorm windows became a· popular · pose our plans for a. co-ed dorm on · to the Indiana state laws. It would late night sport among the college campus, fully aware that it could be unfair for the students to blame crowd. The . risks involved . were ignite a sexual. revolution.· the University ·for ruies that are numerous; however, the . final re­Any attempt at co-ed housing at forced upon us by the teetotalers in wards were usually well worth the ND should follow a basic scheme: Indianapolis; gamble. As the years went by, promoting healthy social attitudes We at COOL have a suggestion though,. most universities killed the in the niale and female students that will bring alcohol back· on cam­excitement by abolishing parietals, with as little contact between the pus and rid the University of any and that once popular sport died. sexes as possible. With this idea in . legal· responsibility whatsoever. The 
When Notre Dame began admit­mind, the ideal spot for a co-ed plan . answer is :so simple t_hat it's amaz­ting females, the administrators is the Keenan-Stanford complex. ing that no one before us has saw the need of keeping male dorms These two halls are ideal because thought of it. All the University has all male and. female dorms all fe­with a minimal amount of altera~ -to dq_is secede from the Union and male. Sleep-in guests, could. not be tions they can be converted into a declare itself null and void of the tolerated; so parietals. were revived maximum security prison. At pres­statutes and bylaws of the state of from the grave. Soon football be~ ent only the lobby, chapel and base-· Indiana and the U.S.A. . came the number-two sport on cam­ment food sales areas are common. After""all, here at Notre Dame, we pus. By. constructing barbed wire fences have o·ur own efficient fire depart-
And so it stands today. in these areas, almost complete iso­. ment, . a top0notch security force . 
We of COOL feel that parietals lation can be achieved. To dis­equipped with Dick Tracy detective are a healthy and integral part of courage parietal violations, surveil­kits and ·a five-day in-town postal Notre Dame. Abolition .of parietals lance cameras could be installed in service. What·do we need with the would be comparable to painting the each hallway. United -States? · We can become a ~ Golden Dome hot pink. It just can't Admission to the co-ed dorm will -truly intellectual commonwealth in be done. Besides, we wouldn't want b_e subject to intense screening. Only . the mi_dst of the Indiana wastelands, our nightly excitement and exercise the most mature, well-behaved and an oasis in the desert, -a solitary to fade away. · studious students ·will be accepted. beer keg among cases ·and cases of CO-ED HOUSING Part one of the screening procedure Coke. 
The national college scene has re~ will·be a 150-question morality test · These are our recommendadons. cently descended the ladder of dig-·· and a 25-minute interrogation by we· realize that the changes de­nity by establishing a number · of Dean Roemer and four ROTC of­scribed here will not come about co-ed dormitories on campus...These . ficers ... Th<>~e surviving part one of quickly. · However, we're quite will­houses of sin are usually placed on admission proceedings will be forced ing to wait;a few weeks. · 
SCHOLASTIC 

....to me, beauty is simplicity; often I find myself taking a section of an object and simplifying it so that section becomes an important issue in itself ... 
-Beth Combs · 


I 
I 
I I 
20 SCHOLASTIC
I 
I. 





Sports & Mythic HerOes 
. by Bill Gonzenbach 

In a lecture given last November place reeks with sports. ·University of Notre Dame to add at Notre Dame, Dr. Michael Novak, Sports are not limited to student to an extensive collection already who is a professor, an author and a games. The sports world invades all housed in the Memorial Library;" Notre Dame graduate, spoke of the · aspects of Notre Dame culture. Two More than a million rare and irre­correlation of American civil religion excellent examples are found in the placeable items were purchased with and sports. In his address Dr. Novak architecture of the South Dining the funds made available specificaUy: stated that "apart from sports, it is Hall and the Memorial Library. .. .for that purpose from an anonymous hard to understand the best ideas Located about the walls of the source ~ 2,300 cartons and wooden· of American culture." This statement South Dining Hall are little carved crates weighing 56 tons -35,000 can also be applied to one's . under­statues -grotesque little · beasts. hardcover books on more than 100 standing of Notre Dame's semi­masquerading· as football players, different games and sports -100,000 unique culture. baseball players and a number of football programs -a 1908 World 
When one thinks of sports at other athletic creatures. Their shoul-Series Program -baseball guides Notre Dame, there is a tendency to ders are humped and· their faces from 1867 and 1878 -an 1892 post-. recall the great feats of Austin Carr are contorted and out of proportion. fight Corbett-Fitzsimmons .. program and John Shumate. The mind cen­In all, they look like a rare combina-(complete with a blow~by-blow ac­ters on Terry Hanratty and Knute tion of a troll, Alfred E. Newman count) -a complete set of the 
. Rockne. Though individuals such as and Mr. Natural. At first glance they· Sporting News to·1877 -and a com­these have built the Notre Dame appear to be comic figures in an plete set of the, Police Gazetter to sports mystique and · n'iyth, there is article in National Lampoon'which is 1890. Imagine of you can ...:,-it's another side to Notre Dame sports satirizing the sports world. At second . enough to boggle the minds of How­which must be examined to· truly glance, one is forced to ask if the ard Cosell and Dandy Don. Students understand the culture of this little designer of these stone imps is truly of American culture (such as myself) utopian world. This other side is the mocking sports at this sacred bastion· realize that these items can be useful interhall program and the non­of "jockdom." One is forced to ask, in -understanding America's social organized sports world -(i.e., quad "Do sports really make an athlete heritage. However, one is also forced football and bookstore basketball). . this grotesque?" . to question whethera collection such 
If one walks about the campus in The Notre Dame library, as well as this and an institution that would any season and at most any time of as Notre Dame's architecture, is in-··buy it ai::e bordering on the absurd. day, there is usually some form of fused with ·the sports world. In a To understand if sports forces one sports activity occurring, be it a news release September 12, · it was into the grotesque and if it forces touch football game at noon or a reported that "the world's largest Notre Dame's ·culture into the ab­basketball game behind the book­collection of sports and games publi-· surd, it is valuable to examine the store at 3:00 a.m. Let's face it-this cations has been acquired by the nonvarsity football and · basketball 
-, ' 

., ' 


programs at Notre Dame. In his lec­ture, Dr. Novak stated that football is a symbol of the immigrants' strug­gle against the brutal society they faced in America. "The eleven rnen who prevent you from gaining your goal are symbols of the struggle im­migrants faced," Novak said. At Notre Dame, football takes on this symbol as well as others. Without doubt, Notre Dame is an extremely competitive academic and social 
area. Individuals fight for · grades .(and sometimes for dates). People­are struggling for achievement and identity.· The football game acts as a symbol and· as a means to 'personal identity arid accomplishment. 
The football game also symbolizes (and acts as) a dream world in which individuals attempt to live out myths and dreams. Many of the male students who· attend Notre Dame played high school · football, and, in many cases, they were the better players on the team. They were the "high school heroes." .However, at Notre Dame there is no heroism for these athletes :_:_ except in interhall. 
The interhall game offers them the .chance to play the hero role. Again, they can wear the uniform -hel­met; pads and all. Again, they can shout obscene things as they exercise in the dirt. Again, they can be men. Again, their minds can be a TV cam~ era showing. them in slow motion their game-winning feats.· Again, they fulfill the myth of being a foot­ball hero. 
An excellent example of this is an individual· who lived in Holy Cross. 
Let · us call him Dreamer. for· pri­vacy's sake. Dreamer's tales dealt with how his high school almost took the city football title. When Dreamer would drink, he would re­tell his tale of pain and glory -how they lost the big game. All he wished for was another chance at the title. When he. came to Notre Dame his only wish was to make the team; his attempts were futile. However, Dreamer got his second chance in interhalL During his senior year the Hogs of Holy Cross won the North Quad title. Dreamer was alive again'. He had another chance at the impos­
sible dream. · · , His hopes .were. partially quieted 
...,~~ ...~....?--.......~,: 
~~ 
.~ 

SEPTEMBER 26, 1975 

too, is the · case in many other spheres of Notre Dame life. The students force --themselves into the roles of the American dream of success·_:_ the doctor, the lawyer, th.e accountant -,--at any price. The role playing forces the individuals away from a --personal understanding ­desires and natural· urges are sup­pressed_ in deference to the rol~ and success; The creative imagination is ignored· for methods and rules. . · · The competitive hero~role of the athlete also has a tendency to de­velop the macho beer-drinking lover. The·-• athletes view-. themselves as rugged primates who_ can guzzle li­bations to the gods ()f sex. This image permeates the campus arid -it seriously affects the social customs 
and treatment of women at Notre Dame. Our culture thus becomes in­fused -with competitive role-playing drunks (out for some action). 
Oh, this all' sounds so negative; 
· but much of our_ culture at Notre Dame is negative. We live by dreams and myths · so often. Hopefully through the use of a little exaggera­tion, satire_ and symbol _the under­lying myths and mistakes of Notre Dame wiU be abit more apparent. 
. For once one sees the myths and re­alizes they ·are myths, the_ whole thing is pretty damn funny. _. 



.Rich 0'Leary Jim· Culveyhouse The Skating Irish 
Year after year, interest in Irish lacrosse has grown; it is now regarded as a top club sport. This season, Coach Rich O'Leary welcomes back a strong group ready to take on the likes of Indiana, Purdue _and. the Chicago Lacrosse Club in the upcoming weeks. 
Key individuals in the Irish attack include club president Bob Thibodeau; co-captains John Fatti and Don Trabert; goalie Jim· Scarola and midfielder Jay Williams. Thad Naquin, Pat Klein and Bobby Driscoll are also crucial in Notre. Dame's hopes. Games are played behind Stepan Center, and the October 4 alumni game marks the start of the season for one of the key Notre Dame clubs. 
The Notre Dame Open, the qualifying test for the Notre Danie golf team, was recently played on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Senior Jim Culveyhouse, a three-year starter for the Irish, handily walked away the· victor with a 72-hole total of· 274, ten-under-par: Sub-par rounds of 69, 66, 69 and 70 enabled Culvey­house to break the old Open record of 277, set some 31 years ago. One of the more powerful long hitters for Coach Noel O'Sullivan, Jim will be joined by Paul Koprowski, John Delaney and Rich Knee to make Irish golf a strong contingent in the Midwest. 
. Russ Kornman; a senior running back for Dan Devine's Irish football team, has announced that he is leaving the football program to pursue his academic studies. A two-year monogram winner, Russ gained 118 minutes of game time for -. the Irish, scoring four touchdowns within that span. Listed as the starting halfback in Notre Dame's debut versus Boston College, Kornman rushed for six yards in his only carry. It was a hard decision-for him to leave the program, and we wish him the best. 
With the departure of assistant coaches Kevin Hoene and -Tim McNeil to-bigger .and better things, Irish hockey coach Lefty Smith was faced with the situation of having to run the hockey program by hims self. However, Smith and the University have found quite a replacement with the appointment of Ric Schafer as the -new assistant hockey coach. Schafer, a 1974 graduate of Notre Dame,. was one .of Smith's captains of the 1973-74 team, and one of the most skilled ath~ letes ever atNotre Dame. Drafted by the Minnesota Fighting·Saints-of the WHA, Ric has turned down the chance to play pro hockey· for the responsibilities of coaching. "We're very glad to have· a man of Ric's character here at Notre Dame," adrriits coach Smith. "Ric is blessed with a tho~ough knowledge and under­standing of the game; and his maturity should mean a 
· great deal to our program-." Schafer faces a tough re­building job with Smith in the upcoming season, but knowing Ric's past accoll!plishments, the job will be done. 
Ross Browner's selection as the o_utstanding defen­sive player of the_ ND-BC contest marks the eighth occasion a Notre Dame player has won the Chevrolet 
. Award. Since,1971, the first year for the award, Irish stars Bill Etter, Eric-Penick, Art Best, Jim Stock, Tom~ Clements (three times) and riow Browner have brought $1000 grants to' the University based on their game accomplishments. With Southern Cal still to face on national television, the ranks of the award winners may be increased once again. 

. . . 
You can throw away your FRESH START WITH BART and DUMP · DEVINE bumper stickers, Devine has proven-t 
-""'f~t 
he can win at/ scores of 17-0/~ best ones to 11•[~ , 

. off two wi~s 1rw: 
record-sett1ng19ro. days of•eacfrotij'. If only oiie \VO 
describe the;fif~ ' Devine·Age, it;:'~py, . .,.. •... defense. A solid te~S~ ens 

. carried Notre DaniJJviiHP' 
· has been learning to.pia There have been too man:y;· calls in the two ga~es, necf tating the defense to co And each-time they have the call. Names such as B Fry, Niehaus, Bradley and ·· have consistently amazed fa ,
. . . ..}~~ .,,:: ~­
the1r play, while Slager, Burgm Hughes and Pohleri are trying to get it all together . 
.But Devine is two-for-two. And th ·countdown toNew Year's night in' Miami is nine and counting. . 

I 
I-. . 
I 




·I. tried to get into the library the other . day, but the door wouldn't open. I yanked on it once or twice before I ·saw the sign: Please. Out of Order. Do not Use. 
It took a while for the message to sink in; I hadn't been expecting a recalcitrant door. ·I'd been thinking of·where·I'd been and where I was going: the sudden. confrontation with the present startled me. 
I was momentarily nonplussed. Doors are meant to be opened; doors which can't be opened are no longer doors in my mind, but ob­stacles .. They create blockages. They frustrate simple-minded students like myself, causing us to collide too abruptly with the Real. . · First of all, I couldn't figure out how a door could. possibly be "out of or~er.''.-. Doors are fairly simple things which can be locked or broken,.:.but . which cannot be ."out ·of order." What order do they have to· be out of? No, only candy ma­chines· and .oth_er• mysterious·, boxes ·cari be out of· order: between the time_they eat one's money and.the be­ginning of their digestive processes, in their odd hummings and whir­.rings, much havoc can be wrought!. · Perhaps it's just a matter of sup:. ply and · ·demand; perhaps General Accounting or some other . office under _Our Lady yearly allocates . order on campus and this particular door had used its portion up. · I think my mind is also on the balance'. sheets -and. I'm already' · showing a deficit. . · We are creatures of habit and to destroy our habits is to destroy our order. All-nighters or class-cutting marathons, for example, always 
by Sally Stanton 

take me into a space ~part from the . the chaos which we suspect'lurks in life around me. It is at these points the darkness for us. Our patterns in my life that I can seriously ' . serve as night-lights to keep away 
imagine turning my back to the Golden Dome and walking off si­lently into the sunset. 
And minds can be even more fun­damentally, more subtly, .out of order. We pick up odd orderings when we're small from our parents and our friends, from our culture, 

· which become engrained in the inner gears of our· thinking. We operate on assumptions we never question. 
Because people must be practical, I will be an accountancy major. Be­cause I checked English on some obscure card freshman year, I will be a teacher of English. Because my father is a doctor, I will be a doctor. Because I am an F, I will be a mother. {If I were an M, r would of Course be afather.) . . .. 
And the clincher is the old saw: If God had wanted men to.fly, He 
. h .· .
1

;?u d ave ~~d · them bor~ . ';1th ·; Livi~g should b~ a_graceful dance, mgs. • To w ch .the reply is·. If .. a movmg to· music, a harmony of God had wanted men to go about .. individual riotes _and gestures in 
our snakes· and dragons. _ 

, Order is the way we see the world; to be out of order is to .be out of · sense, to be incomprehensible. Yet an order which does not conform to reality, to each individual's inner patterns, to his feelings and desires, does ·. not control the chaotic, . but increases it, bringing it inside, alien­ating persons from themselves, ~putting locked doors in their minds, obstacles they continually bump up against. It is non-sense: it constricts our possibilities and so our creativ­ity. Categories and stereotypes, while making life simpler at times, ac­tually make life uglier. They knock off all the interesting edges · of ·people;.Let us be a race ~f androids. . By labeling me English major, you _ -may never discover that I once kept · · 
turtles. 
naked, _He would have ha?. ·them 
born without clothes. In which case 
I suggest we either take . off our .
• 
clothes or b__ .oard the nearest plane. Or · concede . that· God probablydoesn't'. take so . immediate an in-: 
terest in maintaining the status quo. . Our order-or disorder-is largely man-made. We put the blinders on 
which even. the discordant can oc­
cur without. scattering the dancers; 
If we're going to allow a _multitude
f rt·t· d 1 eked· d t
o pa i 10ns -an o • oors o clutter our. dance floor, I fear· our 

performance will be more . a stray· collection of bumps'and thumps. Perhaps it would be best to take · ~he sign off the library door and 
our own eyes: we may need help in . hang iton the appropriate segments removing them. Often there is ·a of our minds as a warning to our­great deal of fear inextricably.bound . selves .and others:·. Please. Out of 
up in our assumptions. We don't 
pigeonhole people and · things to fill; 
our spare. moments between coffee and tea, but, rather, to stave off the 
unknown, to co·ntrol, to regulate · 

Order:·no Not Use. 
Or, then again, perhaps by now 

.the order's been replenished and we're really only pushing where it says pull. 
SCHOLASTIC 
WECARRY


MAIL 
THEMOST EXTENSIVE





Rlllf'ol ORDER 
INVENTORY.

CAMERA 
CAMPUS SPECIALS 

R.tcoh 
RICOHTLS 
w/f:2 lens. 1/1000 Shutler speed. 
self-timer COPAL shutter. SLR 
camera . • . . , 119.95 
Everreadv case • • , 9.95 Orig. Ricoh 135mm f:2.8 or 
28mm 1:2.8 lens • . • 46.0D

Lowest Prices In CountryIt 
SRT 101 w/1,7 Rokkor X 207.95 101 Body only • , . 159.95· SRT 102 w/1.7 Rokkor X 238.95 102 Body only , . . 179.95 


Honeywell

For 1.4 Lens add 28.00 

Pentax 

Speci~II • 135mm 1:3.5 Rokkor lens 69.95 
SP-1000 w/1:2 SMCT 159.95

NEW MINOLTA/CELTIC Auto MC LENSES 
28mm/3.5 MC • 73.00 35mm/2.B MC , 58.00 135mm/2.8 MC , 74.50 
•

FUJICA

135mm/3.5 MC , 58.00 200mm/4.0 MC • • • 84.95 100-200 Zoom/5,6 MC·. 139.95 
NEW Improved ST•701/f:1.8 with 50mmMACRO . . 114.00 

hotshoe, split image • • 149.95 

ROKKOR-X LENSES 
24mm 1:2.8 144,50 
28mm 1:2.5 • 144.5D 
. . -~• 
1o5 95

2ammi:3.s · . :1-~~ ·_ _FUJICHROME R100

_

35mm 1:2.8 • 88.50 ,-Ji,,., 
BSmmf:1.7 • 160.00 . •,~~-ColorSlideFilm 135mm 1:2.8 123.00 •· \ /rlt!!!. 35mm, 36 Exp,, Std. Lab. or . 200mm 1:4.5 115,00 . \ Home Proc. E4 Chem. . , 1.79 
_so_m_m_M_a_c_'°_____1_5s_._oo__.____. ~ 
COLLEGE PHOTO-PHONE SERVICE FOR ORDERS & ADDI• TIONAL. PRICE INFO. CALL TOLL;FREE 1-(800)-421-6518. REGULAR MAIL ORDER LINE (213) 394-3222 
All merchandise is brand new with manufacturer's warranty. All prices subject to change without notice. 



u. •· l"OSTA1,, 11,.v,ce STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP. MANAGEMENT AND CIRCULATION tAd_,A....., "· U70: ......... , .... ,..,... .,,. v.uwa...-.c..... 
1, TITLE Of' P'U ¦ LICATION 2. DAT¦ O• FILING
1
SCboluUc 09-26'-7S 

a. FREQUENCY o• ••ulE .· . l'M.ANUIL-.-.::JlrJ10Nl'fllCII 
BiveeklY exceot dur-illc TIC&tions and ualdnations so:.oo 
4, LOCATIONO,KNOWNOFFICEOFP'U¦ LICATl0Nf8-4fll,,,-,,,•,_lrlt_,fZJl ...llN_,,,..._, 
LaP'ortune Student Center • Notre Dame St. Joseoh COl.lntY Indiana 1&6.;i;'.6 
I. LOCsJJ:"':.; Tii:mA~UAFITEAI 0111 QINUIAL ¦ USINIII o,,1cnoF THIE l'Ull,ISHIAS fN•r ,r111...., 
.. NAMfSAND ADDRESSES OF .,_.USHER,, EOfTDR,.AND MANAGING EDm>R 
PUIIU5HEft~.....,,._, 
University or Notre Dalll8 -Notre Da11111 8 D L6S56 
OITORIN-....w-1 
Sally Stanton • 131 Farley Hall • Notre Dame, DI 46SS6 

7. OWNER Ill_...., b•---~..... ill _ _,,.u,.._1 .. 1•W_.,MOM...,_At1y,,..,......,_,_,.. _ _.,...,_., 
~

..................,~,---.,....._.,.,....._,,_,........_...._ ..._..,_,._.,..,
......,_,._.i_, .. ....,._,,__,.;.._,_..... __ ....,.............,,.__,.. _ _,....., __._...,.,... 
......................... 

... 'S',6 --------1 
10. FOA COWLETIDN 8Y NONPROflTORGANIZATIONS AUTHORIZED TO IIAILAT•EC1ALRATES ,._•-11&JH,._.,....,_
......,fCl!ftt,_, ._ . 
::u;S 352l(l'lse I) /Sttltuntl/OIIIOfl~Jv.• 






JUGGLER 
. -. . 
-Notre· :Dame's Journal of­

,the-:Arts 

Mail submissions along with a self-addressed, stamped envelope to: Juggler, LaFortune . Center, University. of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Send manuscripts. as often as you'd like. The staff promises-a quick reply to everyone submitting to the magazine. · 


. . . We've always operated on the assumption that bigger is better. But is it? . . . .. •Lik~;the dinosaurs, societies and economies can grow too big for ..·, . ,..,...~....,,,.,,=""'"-,;,/\ their own· good. ·Anierica · is fast · . approaching· that point. The' . natural resources we ·need'tc(' · live -clean air, water, land· -----. fuels, .. metals .:... are getting .. scarcer. Soµie·are/on the .. . . . . -~.-~_IIQleit:42:ll(JUli~ verge of.extinction. Others are pecoming ·· 
_ prohibitively expensive. ·" · . . . . ·... · ·.. At the same time we're .wasting tremendous amounts.of these precious . resources. And our wastes pollute our communities, our nation, our world . . "\Ve need t0 learn to use our resources efficiently and economically and to.share them·better so that everyone gets a piece of the pie .. · . · · . ·-,, We need to conserve the raw materials··thatjobs dependon, because if we:deplete our resources now, things will be that much tougher later>, · · .. · · .· We need'to put people to work doing things instead of just making things. The things wedo make have to save resources instead of wasting.them. We can 
build mass· transit instead of freeways/rebuild our cities instead ofspawning new suburban sprawl, put people to work cleaning up· our environment instead of·· despoiling ito'Harsh prescriptions? Maybe. 'But .. ·o··C~N'fEm·R;FOR.h.··. 
ones that will assure a inore prosperous future. . · · rO . . · . · Fora better tomorrow, . . . . ..Alterna lVCS let's ~top using resources like .. '.:X/.\ii/i.-':"> -~7. ·s, 1785 Massachusetts Avenue NW 
there s ~o tomorrow. · ·'..~ ,d<;¥i*:;\tt;;,~~~~i.t ,Washing<•1,iiJ;Jg~gg 
. ·. . .-........ • ... ~/J:;;.~•..: .• · ... ~;'""'"~--·-:~ • 
.~ir~~\;;~ff;~!;~1~;::·:2:~tlllt~ij;·--~~-·.~·_.,;a_ 

'!·(#'/. 

A television/radio public service ad~ertising ca~paign is available on growth and resource consumption. __To order,'write Public.Media Center, 2751Hyde Street, San Francisco, CA 941,09,)Jr call 415/885-0200. 

,. ­




