The Notre Dame Scholastic
291 •
< < HHI M
Last night, rather late, we were out walking; snow on the ground, a round platter of solidly frozen snow hanging in the sky,—we were told it was the Moon—crazy, fantastically flung vines of snow-grapes (that someone said were trees!), and some solitary, lone stars far above, for us to check things around us by!
Anyway it was a fine night and a fine walk, a walk complete in every way save one (sometime we may tell you of the deficiency!).
And, as we swung along we thought of the many crowded, feverish art galleries and salons in the world; everything in them a copy, at best, of some part of nature, of the external world; and here we were with a great part of Nature parading before us in clothes so simply white that we scarce knew the power and the glory of it all!
In short: we were taking things so much as they came, that we forgot we were looking upon “first things”; “things” that are easy to take for granted, and yet, to anyone with his wits about him, must come in the nature of a great white shock.
An Irish writer (who has, in his time, said some things that have cut away the entangling veils of appearances with the red knives of intuition) once wrote: “There is in the life of every man some one scene, some one adventure, some one picture that is the image of his secret life.” ,.	“. . . And if he would but brood
over this image his whole life long, it would lead his soul, untangled from unmeaning circumstance and the ebb 4 and flow of the world, into that far heaven where the undying gods await all whose souls have become simple > as flame and whose bodies have become quiet as an agate lamp.”
Well: the quotation,- long as it is, has, we believe, something to say. And that is the final test of anything!
William Butler Yeats is the author of the passage. And incidentally, he is responsible for an image that we intend to “brood over” for some time; a long, newly sewn strip of cloth, said by someone to be a road, a platter of frozen snow in the sky commonly called the Moon, some vines of graped snow often referred to as trees, and a few quiet, much amused, far stars!
GKe
No^re Dame Scholar io
Disc.?- Q.uasi-Semper-VictUFuS’-Vlve-Quasi-CTas-MorituTiis
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire Emil L. Telfel...... Thomas A. Cannon.. J. Archer Hurley. ... Walter Langford..... Joel Egerer......... Ramon G. Smith......
........Managing.Editor .Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor ........The	Week ........The College Parade ........Music and Drama ........Campus Clubs ........Script Editor
Features
Editor
Alfred E.
Paul J.
L Gall.... Hallinan
NEWS STAFF
James J. Kearney
James Collins Howard Webster
John Bergan, News Editor
Richard J. O’Donnell Neil Hurley Joseph Reedy Edward Brennan
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor
Harry A. Syu ester, Jr.
William J. Magarral, Interhall Sports Editor
Henry B. Asman
James McFeeley
BUSINESS STAFF
Harrington J. Noon
Local Circulation Manager
Chester M. Ashman. .Foreign Circulation Frederick N. Davis.....Local Advertising James L. Rizer.........Foreign Advertising
____Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager
George Allan John Motz Leslie Raddatz Edward Connors
Manager
Manager
Manager
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
VOL. LXIII.
NOVEMBER 22, 1929.
No. 10.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Frontispiece _______________________________ Coming Events_______________________________ A Man About the Campus—Joe Reedy____________ Music and Drama—Joel Egerer_________________ A Man You Know—Emil L. Telfel_______________ Campus Clubs—Ramon Smith____________________ College Parade—Walter Langford _____________ The Week—Archer Hurley______________________ Editor’s Page_______________________________ Our Athletic Clearing House—Alfred E. Gall__ Notre Dame Ekes Out 13-12 Victory—John A. Kiener. Wildcats Next! _____________________________
292
293
295
296
299
300
301
302
303
304
307
308
All-Interhall Selections
310
On Down the Line--------------------------
Splinters From the Press Box—H. A. S., Jr.
316
318
'PH bi SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing • at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men
—r-... ..
292	The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic	293
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Il Coming Events 11 ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
FRIDAY, November 22—Scholastic Editorial Staff meeting, Publica-» tions Office, Main building, 7:00 p.
m.—Lecture, Richard Weppner addressing the A. S. S. T. on “The Manufacture of Steel Wire,” 8:00 p. m., Room 116, Chemistry Hall.
SATURDAY, November 23—Football, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern University, Dysche Stadium, Evanston, 2:00 p. m.—Gridgraph, Gymnasium, 2:00 p. m.—Movies, “The ' ■ Terror,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, November 24 — Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00; High Mass at 9:00 a. m.; Benediction, 7:30 p. m.—Utica Club meeting, South Room of the Library, 10:00 a. m.
MONDAY, November 25—Metropoli-tan Club meeting, Law building, first floor Court Room, 7:45 p. m. —K. of C. meeting, Walsh Hall, 8:00 p. m.	•
TUESDAY, November 26—Youngs-* town Club meeting, Law building, second floor, 7:45 p. m.—Louisiana-Mississippi Club meeting, first floor, 7:45 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Journalism Room, 7:45 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, November 27—West Virginia. Club meeting, first floor Law building, 7:45 p. m.—Grand Rapids Club meeting, Law building, second floor, 7:45 p. m.—Departure •’' of Special Trains for Notre DameArmy game.—Movies, “The Flying Fleet,” Washington	Hall, 6:40	and
i	8:15 p. m.
THURSDAY, November 28—Specta-।	tors’ meeting, 7:45	p. m.—Thanks-
'	giving Day, classes	excused.
FRIDAY, November 29—Scholastic Editorial Staff meeting, Publications Office, Main building, 7 p. m.
MANY HERE IN QUEST OF ARMY TICKETS
During the past week many visitors have been besieging the athletic offices in quest of tickets for the Notre Dame-Army game, which will be played November 30, at the Yan-ke Stadium, in New York City. The reply to the seekers is: “We are very sorry, sir, but the ticket sale for the Army game was closed October 3, and at the present time we have no tickets and do not expect to have any.”
“But I have made a special trip here from Cleveland; I must have tickets Can’t Mr. Rockne help me?”
“I am sorry, but we can do nothing to help you; Mr. Rockne is ill and has no tickets.”
Thus ends the interview.
DRAINING BASIN IS BEING INSTALLED
Notre Dame’s “artificial lakes” interspersed about the campus are about to disappear. These “miniature seas” which have in the past been a source of much unwanted wading and splashing to the students on their way to and from the dining hall, will eventually be a thing of the past when the new system of drainage now under way is completed.
For the past month workmen have been engaged in laying concrete tile about ten feet deep in the earth. Meanwhile the steam-shovel, while it has been excavating and refilling the ditch, has been a source of much in-, terest to everybody on the campus.
This drainage is in conjunction with the erection of the new stadium. This will carry away all the water from the stadium as well as take care of all the drains of the various buildings along the way. The water will drain into St. Mary’s lake.
> BULLETINS OUT DECEM-
BER FIRST
Mid-semester grades will be sent home about the first of December, according to Reverend Emiel DeWulf, C.S.C., Director of Studies. . The > grades for all students are being compiled now in the office, and will be sent to the rectors of the various halls within the next two weeks.
CHICAGO CLUB BANQUET IS BRILLIANT AFFAIR
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Chicago was host at a victory banquet held in the main ballroom of the Stevens Hotel last Saturday evening after the Southern California game. Approximately 3,000 guests, including many notables, attended the function.
John W. Costello, president of the Chicago alumni club, presided as toastmaster. He introduced the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, as the first speaker on the
program. Reverend O’Donnell spoke of the cordial relations existing between the University of Southern California and Notre Dame, and he rebuked those whom he termed the ill-informed, as having sought to “give football a bad name.”
The Honorable James J. Walker, mayor of the City of New York, was the next speaker, and he was loud in his praise of the fine sportsmanship displayed in the game, and of the fine playing of the Notre Dame team.
Then Howard Jones, coach of the Southern California team, was introduced. He complimented the Notre Dame team highly for its fine playing, and said that “Notre Dame’s backfield was the finest I ever saw in action.
Coach Rockne, being ill, could not be present, but sent his regrets, and a cheering message from him was delivered by Tom Lieb, assistant coach.
Others at the speakers’ table were: the Right Reverend Bernard J. Sheil, bishop of Chicago; Judge John W. Eggeman, president of the Alumni Association; John Law, captain of the Notre Dame team; and Warren Brown, sports writer of the Chicago Herald and Examiner.
Music for the affair was furnished by the Stevens Hotel orchestra, and, together with the other excellent arrangements, made the banquet one of the most enjoyable functions ever given by the Chicago alumni.
UNIVERSITY JUGGLERS ENJOY A BUSY SEASON
The University Jugglers are greatly in demand at this time of the year because of their popularity as a dance orchestra. Last Tuesday and Wednesday, they furnished the music for two of St. Mary’s Formal affairs. Last Thursday they played for the Progress Club. Next Saturday, after the Notre Dame-Northwestern Game, they will provide harmony for the members and guests of the Birchwood Country Club, at Evanston. Next Monday they will play for the Lay Faculty Dance, here, again.
Thre of the young men comprising the Jugglers, John Folks, John Bel-jon, and Pat Mangan are very much in demand wherever Club smokers and entertainments are held. Their popularity is only exceeded by that . of the Jugglers, for their engagements, like those of the Jugglers, extend for months ahead.
294
The Notre Dame Scholastic
MANY NOTABLES PRESENT AT SOUTHERN CAL. GAME
Among the prominent guests at the Notre Dame - Southern California game last. Saturday were a number of clergymen, educators, office holders, prominent captains of industry, professional men, and alumni.
The Right Reverend George Finnigan, C.S.C., bishop of the Helena, Montana, diocese, and former vicepresident of the University; the Right Reverend John Francis Noll, bishop of the diocese of Fort Wayne, and editor of Our Sunday Visitor; the Right Reverend Bernard Shiel, bishop of the diocese of Chicago; and the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, were among those present.
The field of education was represented by Warren Bradley Bouard, Ph.D., vice-president of the University of Southern California; John Bogan, superintendent of schools in the City of Chicago; the Reverend Charles Hoff, D.D., president of Mount Saint Charles College; the Reverend James Gallagan, C.S.C., director of studies at Saint Thomas College, St. Paul, Minnesota.
Among the office holders were: Mayor James Walker of New York City, Mayor William Thompson of Chicago, Edward Kelly, president of the South Park board; U. S. Representative Andrew Hickey of Indiana; U. S. Senator Charles Dineen of Illinois, and a number of men prominent throughout the Middle West.
The field of industry was representr ed by Albert Russell Erskine, president of the Studebaker Corporation; Vincent Bendix, of the Bendix Brake Company; Edward Hurley, of the Hurley Machine Company; A. R. Wallace, secretary of the Majestic Radio Company.
Other notables present included Jack Dempsey, former world’s heavyweight champion; Morley Drury, allAmerican captain in 1927 of Southern California; Fritz Leiber, foremost Shakesperean actor; Anita Page, movie actress, and Louis Bromfield, prominent novelist.
GLEE CLUB CONCERT IS WELL RECEIVED
Nearly 400 telegrams of congratulation, commendation, and praise, were received by the University glee club following its concert over the National Broadcasting Companychain during the Armour Hour, last Friday evening. The concert whs
given in connection with the observance of the Notre Dame-Southern California football game in Chicago.
The club members were guests Friday evening at a special dinner at “Coffee Dan’s,” famous Chicago restaurant, where they sang several songs. “Fight On,” and “Cardinal and Gold,” songs of the University of Southern California; and “Down The Line,” and “The Victory March,” Notre Dame songs, were featured over the radio, by the club. A short concert at the Oriental Theatre followed the radio program.
Professor Joseph Casasanta, director of the club, deserves much praise for the way in which the men performed in their first concerts of the year. Thirty men, all veteran members of the club, made the trip to Chicago.
ADE WILL SPEAK AT GRID BANQUET
George Ade, eminent Hoosier humorist, will be among the distinguished guests at the annual St. Joseph Alumni Association testimonial banquet which will be given for the Fighting Irish football team early in December. Ade, although an alumnus of Purdue University, has always been a very good friend of Notre Dame and a staunch admirer of her teams. It is promised that many choice bits of wit and humor will be featured in his talk.
BAND GOES TO ARMY GAME FOR FIRST TIME
Eighty-three members of the University Band will be on hand in the Yankee Stadium in New York City, next Saturday, when the unbeaten and untied Fighting Irish football team trots on the field to play the Army in the final game of the current season.
This is the first time in the''history of the University that the band has made such a long trip . to a game, and it was made possible this year by the Athletic Association of the University and the South Bend Chamber of Commerce.
The bandmen will leave Thursday noon on the Chamber of Commerce Special, and will arrive at the Grand Central Terminal in New York, Friday morning. A parade is scheduled for Friday afternoon, and Friday evening radio fans will be privileged to hear them play over the National Broadcasting Company Chain. This concert will be given at 11:00 p. m., Eastern Standard Time. While in
New York, they will make their headquarters at the McAlpin Hotel.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, Director of the Band, will be in charge of the trip, and will personally direct the members in all their concerts. Henry S. Tholen, bandmaster, will lead the band in its marches and parades.
UNIVERSITY THEATRE WILL SPONSOR SHAKES-PERIAN PLAY
Preparations are being made, under the direction of Professor Frank Kelly, to produce Shakespeare’s, “Taming of the Shrew.” The date has been set as December 16. Of all Shakespeare’s plays, none is more fitted for modern dress than “The Taming of the Shrew.” It is light and diverting, and should make excellent entertainment. The cast is to be announced sometime next week.
A. I. E. E. AND ENGINEERS CLUB MEET
The Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held a joint meeting with the Engineers Club in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall last Monday evening.
An important activity of the institute is the preparation and presentation of papers before meetings held regularly twice each month. The paper, “The Life of Professor Michael Pupin,” presented by Clarence Klein of the Sophomore class, was exceptionally good.
The feature of the entertainment for the evening was an illustrated talk by Mr. John Ransom, chief transmission engineer of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company of Detroit, Michigan. Mr. Ransom spoke on “The National Broadcast Chains,” and by the use of a projection lantern interesting slides were used to emphasize his lecture.
Mr. Barkson, director of personnel work, Cleveland, Ohio, introduced the various engineering officials of the American Telephone and Telegraph Co., present at the meeting. Mr. Terry, chief district engineer, of Detroit, Mich., and Mr. Scheck, manager of the South Bend division of the A. T. and T., responded with short talks.
Among 200 engineers present, 76 of whom are electrical engineers, were the Reverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Engineering; Dr. Caparo, head of the Department of Electrical Engineering; and Dr. Mahin of the Chemistry Department.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
295

A Man About the Campus
For the second time a man about the campus (and elsewhere) is found in Walsh Hall, just east of Badin Chain o’ Lakes. There, in room 203, a Southern Gentleman may be found who studies and sleeps between two ends, Mr. Collins and Mr. Vezie. The Gentleman in question is well known
Jack Elder
as “Colonel” to the Kentuckians at Notre Dame, but to the citizens of South Bend, Niles, Mishawaka, Chicago, and other places, he is known as Jack Elder.	’
Jack’s home is in Louisville, Kentucky. He is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, and an unusual member of the varsity track and football squads. He has received medals for breaking more track records in one year than—. Well you should see them!
The opening chapter of his history begins at Notre Dame, for it is here that he first sprinted into the lime light. His first attempt in athletics was on the Freshman fotball team. In vain he tried for a month, and then the coach—well Jack was removed v from the squad. From there he went ' to track. (It is true that Elder never before had on a pair of running shoes.) He defeated the varsity men in that year in both the sixty and hundred yard dash. From then on the Kentuckian was known.
But it was not until his Sophomore year that Jack won his spurs. He ran the sixty and hundred yard dash for the-varsity and was a member of the *
Intercollegiate Championship relay team that held the world’s record for the quarter-mile relay. His running mates were Jack Reilly, Joe Della Maria, and Charley Riley. He also made several trips with the football reserves that year.
In his Junior year Jack became secretary of the Students Activities Council, and a member of the Junior Prom committee. (Insufficient space prevents details as to his social functions.) That year he continued his previous brilliant performances on the track and was awarded the world’s record for the sixty-yard dash at 6:5. He also became coholder of the seventy-five yard sprint record with Hank Russell of Cornell.
Last year Jack was a member of the Blue Circle and a prominent speaker in Professor Kelly’s speech class, M. W. F. 10. It was also in this year that he received his first football monogram. His track habits were carried to the Kansas and Drake Relays, where he cleaned up in the hundred-yard dash; and to New York where he defeated Percy Williams in the sixty yard dash at the New York Athletic Club Games. He was given fifth place in the National Intercollegiate meet in Chicago in the hundred yard dash.
Jack has travelled extensively (we mean besides getting to and from track meets and football games) and last summer had an enviable position as a tutor. He says that he also carried ice—but we won’t say, much about that because we never liked “Red” Grange. He likes English, and is taking three courses in it. Mr. Phillips, Mr. Smithberger, and Mr. Brennan are his favorite instructors. They are the instructors in the English courses that he is taking. Enough said. .
Peculiarly enough, a very dear friend of Jack’s childhood days is now attending school at Saint Mary’s. You know, right across the road.
K. OF C. TO MEET MONDAY
The regular bi-monthly meeting of Knights of Columbus will be held Monday evening in the Council Chambers, Walsh Hall. Final plans for the first initiation ceremony will be discussed at this time. Lecturer Frank McGreal has promised that there will be a good speaker and excellent entertainment offered. All members should endeavor to be present, as well as to do their utmost to support the officers throughout the year.
PROFESSOR PHILLIPS GIVES TALKS
On Friday evening, November 15, Professor Charles Phillips, of the English department, gave a lecture at St. Mary’s of the Woods. The subject of his lecture was “God and His Poets,” and the lecture was accompanied by several readings from A Rime of the Rood, by the Very Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Again on Thursday evening, November 21, Professor Phillips spoke before the Woman’s Club of Mishawaka, at the Public Library. The subject of his talk was “The Insides of the Book.” The talk was given in connection ■with the observance of “book week.”
NOTRE DAME REPRESENTED AT HUTCHINS
INAUGURAL
Reverend Francis L. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the Science Department, officially represented the University of Notre Dame, at the inauguration last Tuesday of Chicago University’s youthful president, Robert M. Hutchins. Father Wenninger had formerly received his Ph. D. from the latter school. Representatives of the world’s foremost universities were among the 2500 educators and prominent citizens who took part in the day-long exercises as the progressive Yale graduate’s “era of youth” began.
FRESHMAN CLASS ELECTS OFFICERS
The Freshman class held its elections last Thursday afternoon in the gymnasium. William Hanifan, who hails from Peoria, Hlinois, and now’ rooms in Brownson Hall, was elected class president. A unanimous ballot wras cast for Frederick Curran of Carroll Hall for vice-president. Thomas Griffin of Carroll Hall was chosen for secretary, and John Quinn, also of Carroll Hall, was elected as treasurer.
“JUGGLER” WANTS SMALL TOWN PAPERS
Daily or weekly newspapers of small towns represented in the school enrollment are desired by the Juggler, in preparation for the “Home Town” number, w-hich will be one of the special issues of the Juggler. .
Copies of such papers may be given to any staff member, left for the Editor in the Publications Office, or brought to his room, 130 Sorin Hall.
296
The Notre Dame Scholastic
V V V *♦* V V *♦* V V V V *♦* V
11 Music and Drama 11
♦J*	«£♦
The Studebaker Theatre, Chicago, was the scene of a superb concert last Sunday afternoon. Reinaid Wer-renrath, the finest baritone soloist in the country, thrilled an excellent house. His first number, Vier Ernste Gesange, by Brahms, was exceptionally well rendered, but Mr. Werrenrath reached the peak when he sang The Other Garden, a piece written especially for him by Valbert Coffey. He was of course, encored until he sang Duna and The Road to Mandalay.
The Friday afternoon concert at Orchestra Hall was rather a disappointment. Rudolf Ganz was as usual fine in his technique and tone coloring but the program was not up to expectations. Max Reger’s Concerto in the Old Style was possibly the best number of the afternoon and the first movement was not even applauded. The Tone Poem from Macbeth had a splendid finale but the rest of the program almost falls under the category of mediocrity.
The very amusing and delightful opera Falstaff was sung very beautifully by the Chicago Civic-Opera on Thursday evening, November the fourteenth. Mary Garden sang last Wednesday evening in The Love of Three Kings and she will appear tomorrow afternoon in Louise.
Julius Caesar is this week’s attraction at the Cine Theater and the schedule through the season will be as follows:
Week of November 25—Merchant of Venice.
Week of December- 2—Macbeth.
Week of December 9—Othello.
Week of December 16—Repetoire.
Monday evening and Saturday matinee, Hamlet; Tuesday and Thursday evenings, Macbeth; Wednesday matinee and Friday evening, Merchant of Venice; Wednesday and Saturday evenings, Julius Caesar.
Week of December 23—Taming of the Shrew.
Week of December 30 — Twelfth Night.
Week of January 6—Richard III.
Week . of January 13 — As You Like' It.
Week of January 20—King Lear.
Week of January 27—Repetoire.
Monday evening, Taming of the Shrew; Tuesday evening, Hamlet; Wednesday matinee, Richard III; Wednesday evening—Julius Caesar;
Thursday evening, Merchant of Venice; Friday evening, Macbeth; Saturday matinee, King Lear; Saturday evening, Hamlet.
Fritz Leiber takes the lead in all of these productions and we must congratulate the Chicago Civic Shakespeare Society on its choice of an exceptionally fine actor; possibly the greatest Shakespearean actor on the American stage.
Fritz Kreisler is giving a concert at Orchestra Hall Sunday afternoon, December 1, and La Argentina is performing at the Studebaker on identically the same day. What to do? What to do?
BROWN TO BE TOASTMASTER AT FOOTBALL TESTIMONIAL
Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald-Examiner, has been chosen toast-master for the third annual football testimonial banquet, given under the auspices of the Notre Dame Club of the Saint Joseph Valley, to Coach Rockne and his 1929 varsity. Many prominent coaches and newspaper men will be present
The affair is to be an unusual innovation in the history of' Notre Dame banquets due to the extensive programs which is being arranged by Paul Castner, president of the club, Bernard Voll, Michael Donahue, and Dudley Shively, committee chairmen.
Among the prominent coaches to be present are Jimmy Phelan, of Purdue, Big Ten Champions; Pat Page, of Indiana; William Ingram, of the Navy; Ossie Solem, of Drake; and “Biff” Jones, of the Army. This will mark the first banquet in which such a galaxy of coaches will be present.
A special invitation has also been extended to Mayor Walker, of New York, principal speaker of the testimonial banquet of last year, and Grantland Rice, noted sports writer and football authority. Mayor Walker while in Chicago stated that he would be present at the banquet this year if conditions permitted. Mr. Rice will endeavor to be present also.
Joseph Casasanta is arranging a special musical program which involves the glee club of 30 pieces, the band, and the varsity trio of McAleer, Salmon, and Roach for the affair, and a number of new musical selections will be introduced at the banquet.
Those attending are urged to obtain their tickets early from Mr. Michael Donahue.
WORK OF BOY GUIDANCE DEPT. INCREASING
The Law School at Notre Dame trains men to be lawyers; the Boy Guidance Department trains students to become learned in the fields of boy psychology and boy activities. Many students at Notre Dame have only a hazy idea of the meaning of the term “Boy Guidance.” To state this meaning briefly, it is that leadership which a boy needs during his eight or more hours of play time each day, if he is to put into effective practice the precepts and principles taught him by the home and the school.
During the past six years, the Knights of Columbus have performed a great service for the boys of America, in providing some eighty scholarships for the training of professional leaders in the two years postgraduate course at Notre Dame. It would be well to note that Notre Dame is the only college in America to have a chair of Boy Guidance. The Knights chose Notre Dame as the Catholic university best suited for tlie course. There are now about twenty-five students enrolled in the course. Since it is a post-graduate course the students who graduate from it receive the degree of Master of Arts in Boy Guidance. At present the demand f or properly trained men in the field of Boy Guidance exceeds the supply, and the compensation for the .work is equal to that received in other professions. Graduates from the Boy Guidance Department at Notre Dame have been successful in securing responsible and important positions in the field of Boys’ Work. With the increasing emphasis that the country is now placing upon work with boys and the demand that is being made for thoroughly trained men, the course offered at Notre Dame appeals every year to a greater number of college men.
STUDENT DIRECTORY SELLING WELL
The new Student Directory, placed well, according to the Reverend William H. Molony, C.S.C., Registrar. The book contains the names and addresses of all the members of the faculty, as , well as the home and school addresses of all the students. Copies of the new edition may be bought at the Cafeteria and at the Registrar’s office in the Main Building. The price is 25 cents.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
297
11 College of Law Notes 11
Mr. Ray Miller, LL. B., ’19, visited the law school of the University on November 7, as the guest of Professor Clarence Manion. Mr. Miller delivered a very fine, practical lecture to the members of the law school the day of the visit. At the present time Ray is a county prosecuting attorney in Cleveland, Ohio.
Robert E. Glascott, LL. B., ’24, was elected as city judge in Michigan ' City, Indiana. In addition to announcing Bob’s success, it is well to state that he received the highest * 1 plurality on the Republican ticket.
Al Doyle, LL. B., ’27, was elected as city judge in Mishawaka on the Democratic ticket.
Dean T. F. Konop, College of Law, addressed the Wisconsin Club on Wednesday, November 13, at a dinner which was held at the Morningside Hotel in South Bend.
Announcement has been received that Tom Jones, LL. B., ’29, of Boise, Idaho, is practicing law in that city. His office is in the Yates Building.
The Law Bulletin and the Alumni directory will be published as one bulletin in December.
4 PROMINENT WRITERS CONTRIBUTE TO FOOTBALL
\ REVIEW
New and interesting features, with old ones enlarged and improved, will mark the forthcoming issue of Notre Dame’s annual Football Review, edited by Joseph S. Petritz. Still and action photos, with accounts of all the games and of the team, by staff J, members and nationally known sports writers, will perpetuate the 1929 Fighting Irish after the football season closes. Grantland Rice, Warren Brown, Irving Vaughn, and “Rock” himself, will contribute articles. Attempts are being made to secure write-ups from the cynical Mr. Pegler, of the Chicago Tribune, and Notre Dame’s own J. P. McEvoy and Jimmy Corcoran, besides others.
The abundantly illustrated Review will include snapshots of Rockne coaching from his car, the pep meetings, and the big bonfire for the Southern Cal rally. Besides those announced last week, a feature many await eagerly is a cartoon of our own “Moon” Mullins by Frank Willard, creator of the famous comic strip character.
Progress on the publication is matched by the number of orders coming in, according to the editors. Because of the low price this year, many have decided to acquire this permanent record of Notre Dame’s current grid season.
INTERHALL DEBATING NOW UNDER WAY
The interhall debate season is now well under way. The proposition to be debated this year has been announced as, “Resolved: That the United States should adopt a policy of complete disarmament, except for a sufficient force for police protection.” During the week several meetings of the candidates have been held in the various freshman halls. The coaches, as has been previously stated in the Scholastic, are members of the Wranglers and they have reported good prospects. Some of them have demanded speeches during this week and it is expected that the contests between the halls will take place during the week of November 18-23. The Library is especially rich in magazine articles covering all phases of the question. It will be recalled that the trophy was won in 1927 and 1928 by the Brownson team, but that it passed into the hands of Freshman Hall last year. The fact that the trophy becomes a permanent possession when it is won three times, has served to awaken enthusiasm.
VARSITY DEBATING PLANS IN FULL SWING
Varsity debating plans began to materialize last Monday noon in the South Room of the Library where some sixty-five candidates for the team gathered at the first meeting. The subject for the year, as announced by the Reverend Francis Boland, C.S.C., in charge of the team, will be concerned with naval disarmament.
Meets are to be arranged with Princeton, Western Reserve, Northwestern, New York University, College of the City of Detroit, and other
prominent colleges and universities.
Notre Dame has always been represented by excellent debating teams, and, judging by the number of men that are trying out for this year’s squad, the year of 1929-30 should bring several victories to the school.
There are several of last year’s men left to form a nucleus for this year’s team, although some gooddebaters were lost through graduation.
Preliminary try-outs will be held in about a week. Candidates will be allowed to speak on either side of the question in these first endeavors. No ability in rebuttal will be necessary in order to get by the preliminaries successfully.
Other candidates who desire to attain a position on the debating team, but who were not present at the meeting. should hand their names in to the Reverend Francis Boland, C.S.C., immediately.	.
WALSH MAKES. BID FOR CAMPUS HALL OF FAME
Since the days when Walsh was still the “Gold Coast,” it has harbored many well known personages, and this year is certainly no exception.-
A large part of the football squad resides there this year, as one may see by glancing over the directory. There one will find the names of Cap- ■ tain John Law as well as that of our fleet backfield star, Jack Elder, and those of his roommates, Manny Vezie and Eddie Collins. A few doors away are Gebert and Schwartz. And then we come to O’Brien, Kenneally, Murphy, Leahy, McManmon and Conley.
Does anyone remember Jack Chevig-ny, backfield flash of last year? He too, has turned to Walsh and we feel sure that he is perfectly at home among the twelve or more varsity men in the hall this year.
Not only is the football squad well represented, but we find there presidents of the following organizations: the Senior Class, the A. I. E. E., the Academy of Science, the Commerce Forum, as well as the chairman of the new campus literary publication and the Grand Knight of the K. of C.
Walsh has a good representation on the staffs of the campus publications as well as in the S. A. C. and Blue Circle.
Here one may meet varsity basketball and track men, chairmen of the state and sectional clubs and holders of lesser offices. It is truly a hall of fame.

298	The Notre Dame. Scholastic
“DOME” CONTEST NOW UNDER WAY
The Dome contest for a free trip to Europe is now well under way, and is attracting considerable attention among the students of the University, and especially among the members of the Junior- class.
Inasmuch as the Dome, the yearbook of the University, is sponsored by, and is the publication of, the Junior class, the contest is open only to the members of that class.
It has been announced that the number of subscriptions to be obtained is 2,800, and the student who secures the most subscriptions will be awarded a trip to Europe. There are to be three prizes awarded, as announced by the supervisors of the contest, and the winner of the second prize will be awarded S75.00 in cash, while the third prize winner will receive §25.00 in cash.
A trip to Europe has been one of the dreams of many students; and now since it will be granted to the Junior who procures the most subscriptions, the possibility of making such a trip becomes greater- to some member of that class. This trip as a prize is indeed worth working for, and on account of its uniqueness it constitutes the most singular contest ever instituted on the campus.
A canvass of the- halls is being made this week in an attempt to acquire new subscriptions, and it is intended that the canvass be continued through the following week. The off-campus students will also be canvassed for subscriptions.
Since a popular alibi of the students for not purchasing, is to the effect that their finances are low, the managers of the contest have taken care of this handicap by granting the subscriber the permission to have the price of the Dome charged to his account with the University.
CHEMISTRY STUDENTS HEAR LECTURE
Last Wednesday afternoon and evening, Messrs. Rascher and Betzold, of the Rascher and Betzold Chemicals and Chemical Apparatus Supply Company of Chicago were guests of the Department of Chemistry.
In the afternoon in Chemistry Hall, they addressed the undergraduate students in a lecture on “The Principles and Methods of Glass Blowing.” While Mr. Rascher gave the lecture, Mr. Betzold, an expert glass blower, gave practical demonstrations, in
cluding the actual making of a thermometer, to illustrate the lecture.
In the evening, they were the guests of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society, and after the usual dinner in. the University Dining Hall, they repeated their lecture in Chemistry Hall before the members of the Society.
Messrs. Rascher and Betzold maintain a large glass blowing establishment, and due to their long experience in the field, are quite familiar with all kinds of special apparatus, and skilled in making precision apparatus. The lectures were genuinely appreciated by all who attended.
NOVEMBER ISSUE OF THE’ “ALUMNUS” OUT
The November issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus has been released from the press; and this issue, known as the Football Number, is indeed outstanding.
The cover page bears a sketch of a football player in action. The drawing is of a more or less modernistic design and its uniqueness is displayed in such a manner as to attract the attention of the casual observer.
The frontispiece is a full page, excellent photograph of Knute K. Rockne. The portrait is of such excellence that it has been praised by all who have seen it. It appeared recently in the Scholastic.
Inasmuch as the edition is the Football Number, there is an extended resume of the football season to date with the exception of the Drake and Southern California games. In the article, the various games are discussed and comment is given concerning the members of the squad who played no small part in making the games victories for Notre Dame. In addition to the eulogistic comment, there are numerous photographs of the members of the team and a few snaps taken from different games.
Another meritorious contribution to the issue is that of Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science. This article is the third of a series which have been presented to the Alumnus as suggested reading for alumni. In the course of the article, the writer gives attention to those books on the subject of biology which would prove to be of interest to the college man who has had instruction in that subject. He takes a number of the more important books concerning biology and informs
the readei- as to the author’s purpose in the writing of such a book, the nature of the subject matter contained therein, and the type of student to which that particular book would appeal. In addition to the criticism of the several books, Father Wenninger 4 gives his readers a bibliography of books under .the headings of general biology, genetics, microscopy, entomology, evolution, and history.
The feature article is entitled “Cartier Field—The Old and the New” by Alfred E. Gall. This article is a 1 reprint of the article published in the Scholastic of November 1, under the same title.
*
On the editorial page of .the Alumnus we have the article, “The Fighting Irish,” by T. Vincent McIntire, as it appeared in the Scholastic of ' October 25. Another feature of the editor’s page is a comment on the Carnegie report which was issued recently. The writer of the editorial brings out the fact that the report was not as sensational as was expected or hoped for by many, and that the charges laid against the University are of hardly any consequence.
STUDENT TRIP IS SUCCESS
Approximately 2600 of the 3000 students enrolled at the University, enjoyed the student trip to Chicago and the game at Soldiers’ Field, Saturday. Tire S. A. C. handled every detail of the trip very well.
The general exodus to Chicago began Wednesday when students residing within the vicinity of Chicago departed to spend the week-end at home. Although classes were held on Friday, many took advantage of their cuts and departed. Saturday trains to Chicago were crowded, carrying-large numbers of students to the contest.
The various playhouses of Chicago were virtually filled to capacity over the week-end, and in all of the hotels, alumni reunions and meetings were held. The great gathering of alumni in Chicago for the game surpassed the June reunion held at graduation.
The dance held at the Stevens Hotel, sponsored by the Chicago Club, was crowded with Notre Dame men, and various night clubs were filled. The return trip began late Saturday evening and continued throughout Sunday.
It may be said that the City of Chicago was indeed a gracious host to the men of Notre Dame.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
299
|| A Man You Know ||
Professor David A. Weir has been at Notre Dame for nine years, teaching Money, Banking, Credit, Foreign Exchange, and Public Finance. Stu-
Professor David A. Weir
dents who have studied under him are unanimous in the opinion that he is an excellent teacher, which is not at ' all surprising, since Professor Weir’s knowledge of Money, Banking, Credit, Foreign Exchange, and Public Finance comes from practical experience, as well as academic training. His ability is well recognized in the world of business for he is secretary of the Wholesale Credit Men’s Association.
Born in Ohio, Professor Weir received his elementary and high school education in that state. For three I years he attended Wooster College, transferring to Ohio State University for his senior year. After receiving his A.B. degree from Ohio State he . taught there while taking graduate work. He received his M.A. in 1917. The war interrupted and Mr. Weir promptly enlisted, serving seven and t a half months in England and France. 5 He modestly says that he did not see I ■ action. After the war he taught at A Ohio Northern University for one year. In 1920 he came to Notre Dame, where he has been ever since as one of the most capable faculty members of the Department of Finance.
Professor Weir is well liked, both J as a teacher and as a man. He has a keen sense of humor, as his classes ■ will testify. But, his humor is not of |	the satirical, sarcastic variety. He
laughs with one, not at one.
{Since coming to Notre Dame he has been a very busy man. Besides tak; * ing care of his classes and the work entailed in the secretaryship of the Credit Men’s Association, he speaks before various business men’s or-
ganizations. His services as a speaker are very much in demand.
On being asked about his hobbies, Professor Weir said, “Well, I cannot say. There are so many things I like to do. I’ve played basketball, and as far as partaking in sports is concerned, I like that best. From the standpoint of a spectator, football is my favorite game, but I enjoy any sport almost equally well. I like to read—well, to tell you the truth, my hobbies are rather diversified.”
After the interview with him, we are inclined to think that Mr. Weir rather enjoys all the things that he does; in short, he enjoys living.
| Boy Gitidance Notes |
Students in the Boy Guidance Course at the University were addressed last Monday and Tuesday by Cyril A. Costello, of last year’s graduating class. Mr. Costello is at present field secretary in the New Haven division of the Knights of Columbus Boys’ Life Bureau. He stressed the importance of the careful training necessary for boys and young men, and pointed out the need for college graduates in that field.
Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance Department, was the principal speaker at the banquet tendered each year to the fathers and sons of the First Presbyterian Church of South Bend. On the subject of “Playing the Game Together,” Mr. Hoyer outlined the ideal relationship between father and son, placing particular emphasis on the value of companionship.
NO BID FOR ROSE BOWL
GAME RECEIVED BY
NOTRE DAME
The Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., president of the faculty athletic board, is authority for the statement • that Notre Dame has received no bid to participate in the annual football game held on New Year’s Day to climax the colorful tournament of roses at Pasadena, California. If the offer is made, Notre Dame will consider it when the time comes, declared Reverend Mulcaire. He knew nothing of the “feelers” reported by certain newspapers to have been sent out to Notre Dame by West Coast authorities, and stated that Notre Dame is making no attempt to invite herself to the game.
Gleanings
“Buck” Shaw, football tackle extraordinary in ’19, ’20, and ’21, and “Clipper Smith, All-American guard in 1927, are now coaching at Santa Clara, replacing Adam Walsh, who is now at Yale. Their team defeated Stanford last Saturday by the score of 13 to 7, featuring the upsets of the day.
Joseph Griffin, former track star at Notre Dame, is now attending the DePaul Law School.
Adam Walsh, center on the famous Notre Dame team of 1924, is still getting the big write-ups as a boost to Yale football since Yale’s sensational victories over Army and Dartmouth.
The Creighton eleven, coached by Chet Wynne, of the class of ’25, defeated Marquette 13-6, on Nov. 8.
James Stack, Urban Gebhard, Edward Kearns, and Gerald Hayes of the class of ’26, are now attending the Northwestern Medical School.
Joseph Morrissey, of the class of. ’28, is coaching at Pontiac High, Pontiac, Michigan.
Jim Crowley’s Michigan State team won its first game away from home in several years when it defeated the Mississippi Aggies, November 9.
Morris Starrett, ’21, of Ft. Thompson, Washington, who has been visiting on the campus for the past three weks, will leave for home following the Northwestern game Saturday. He is one of the leading alumni on Pacific coast.	•
David Saxon, ’28, former managing editor of the Scholastic, is now employed on the staff of the South Bend Tribune.
Bud Markey, Bob Newbold, and David Fields, of the class of ’28, are now enrolled in the Law School at the University of Georgetown.
Among the alumni present at the Southern California game were: Ambrose O’Connell, of New York City, William P. Breen, of Fort Wayne, and Cal Jewett, of Detroit. The number of alumni present from various towns, was the largest ever to attend a Notre Dame football game.
300	The Notre Dame Scholastic
f CAMPUS CLUBS j
>
SPECTATORS’ CLUB
Last night the Spectators’ Club held its first meeting since the recent election of new members. It was the initial appearance “under fire” for John Hickey, Edward D. Connor, and Thad. Xelowski. Reports were presented by Cyril J. Mullen and Edward Conroy, the former giving some of the modern points of view in metaphysics, and the latter discussing the recent investigation of public utility companies by the government at Washington.
METROPOLITAN CLUB
The Metropolitan Club will hold an important meeting in the Law Building next Monday night, November 25, to discuss plans for the Testimonial Banquet to be given in honoi- of John B. Law on December 12. Members of the committee will canvass the halls next week. Everyone wishing to attend this banquet is urged to see one of the members of the committee sometime this next week.
James E. Friel, chairman of the Christmas Formal, will announce all the arrangements he has made for the dance. It is to be held at the Roosevelt on December 26. Efforts are being made to secure Guy Lombardo and his orchestra for the music.
The near approach of the Army game prompts a warning to all those who are expecting to go via the Metropolitan Club Special, that tickets are on sale, and they may be purchased at 213 Sorin Hall. Reservations are being filled rapidly, and it is imperative that some action be taken by those who have not as yet purchased their tickets.
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI CLUB
The next meeting of the Louisiana-Mississippi Club will be held next Tuesday night at 7:45 in the Law Building. Plans for various important events are to be discussed, and it is asked that all members attend. There will probably be a banquet held the week of the Christmas Dance. It is necessary that the details concerning these events be worked out. Other arrangements, such as continuing an attempt to secure a special train south this Christmas,, will be put before the club.
WEST VIRGINIA CLUB
The next meeting of the West Virginia Club will be held Wednesday evening in the Law Building. Plans for the Christmas dance have been continuing very well, and reports from all the men under Chairman James Coram are expected.
Further plans for the banquet to be held the latter part of this month will be decided upon and all details will be arranged at this meeting.
WABASH VALLEY CLUB
The members of the Wabash Valley Club discussed plans for theii* Christmas dance at the last meeting of the club held November 11, in the Law Building.
It is imperative that all members attend the next meeting, to be held within the next two weeks, to discuss arrangements for this dance.
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB
The Smoker held by the Connecticut Valley Club in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall a week ago last Wednesday night was a complete success. Carroll Murphy of Badin Hall was the general chairman for the evening. After the usual business discussions Mr. Murphy took complete charge of the proceedings. The Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., gave a humorous yet sincere address concerning the organization. Mr. Murphy’s band of entertainers then proceeded to amuse the New Englanders with song, dance and humor. Dan Cannon, Ronald Zudeck, Andy Hayes and a banjo-and-piano team completed the entertainment. Refreshments and cigarettes were provided throughout the evening. As the final announcement, President Tim Toomey stated that the next meeting will be held November 26.	■
PITTSBURGH CLUB
During the past week James Dodson, general chairman of the Christmas dance, has met with his committee chairmen and plans for the dance have been completed in every detail. Anthony Wise, Jr., chairman of the music committee, reports that a capable and well known orchestra has been secured. Richard O’Toole, who is in charge of tickets, reports that they will be off the press soon. A meeting will soon be called for the express purpose of distributing these tickets.
Thomas Murphy, president of the club, is planning great things for the organization and the co-operation of every member must be secured to promise their success.
Don’t forget, Pittsburghers—a meeting in the near future. Watch the Scholastic for the date!
THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN CLUB
Last Wednesday evening in the Law Building, the Rocky Mountain Club continued its plans for- re-organization. At the time this page went to press the outcome of the election was not known, but it was well contested and very interesting while it continued.
The Reverend Patrick F. McVeigh, of Helena, Montana, spoke to the club upon the importance of a club’s officers, of the position they held upon the campus and how the success of the club depended upon their ability. Future plans for the Rocky Mountain Club will be announced in next week’s Scholastic.
i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
301
Perseverance, patience, faith, and all that sort of thing lias again been rewarded. Indiana’s surprise victory over Northwestern last week was the occasion for a tremendous celebration in Bloomington, because it brought the existence of the famous No-Shave Club to a successful if somewhat delayed termination. This almost ill-fated club was formed several weeks in a burst of loyalty and enthusiasm on the part of certain Indiana students. The fever spread rapidly and a great number of students signed up with gusto, (also with fountain pens). Perhaps some of them never realized just what they were letting themselves in for, perhaps others too young to shave anyway. After Indiana’s moral victory in the scoreless tie with Ohio State the members of the club went into a huddle and agreed on half a shave, but then for weeks the team gave them no opportunity to finish the job. Recently many of the members lost faith and fell by the wayside, but still the faithful carried on until finally last Saturday’s triumph brought success to them and happiness to all Bloomington, and especially to the long idle barbers. It is understood that Harry and Harrier, two bearded brethren of Benton Harbor who journeyed to Bloomington in an effort to recruit some new members for their famous tribe, returned home foiled and dejected when they saw all the prospective candidates ruthlessly applying shears and other like instruments.
*	* * *
And at Loyola University of Chicago they have a No Cut Club, in which each member is fined 25 cents for every class he cuts. The treasurer collected $15 the first week, and several of the members are already approaching a state of bankruptcy.
*	* * *
The Ring-tum-Phi of Washington and Lee University says: “Songsters to be Weeded Out.” If they are anything like a lot of songsters it would rather be a blessing if some of them were turned out.
*	* * *
Strange things must happen up in Minnesota. The Minnesota Daily says: “Mercury Speeds Upward as Icy Wind Hits Campus ” Maybe it snows in July up there too, and maybe Santa Claus comes at Easter.
*	* * *
The Columbia Spectator says that Notre Dame was destined to beat the Navy because “an Irishman can always lick a sailor.”
* * * *
Stanford annually conducts a “Hell Week,” during which ‘ we suppose strong and emphatic opinions on this and that are in order. It seems to be successful, which automatically precludes any possibility of its being- related to our “Hello Week.”
* * * *
No longer can the students of Texas University munch apples, during the games at their Memorial Stadium, because it appears that the act of munching was too often followed by some intensive and extensive target practice.
The freshmen, who sit in the lower sections, served nobly as targets, but too many of the cores sailed blithely on to make contact -with the various members of the band, which organization sits down in front of the freshmen. The band protested vigorously, if not vociferously, and as a result all apple vendors have been barred from the stadium.
*
Rules laid down by the Sophs at the University of Pennsylvania require that all first-year girls must constantly have at least three nickles on hand (or in pocket) to pay fines for breaking freshmen rules.	■
* * * *
Lehigh University seniors are making an effort to establish a tradition at their school by carrying canes as a mark of distinction and of superiority over the other classes.
* * * *
Halfback Diedrich of Penn State pulled a Frank Merri-well or the like recently. Lafayette punted to Penn State with but a second or two to play and the score 3 to 0 in favor of Lafayette. While the ball was still in the air the final whistle blew, but the play had already started and the game would not be over until the ball was dead. Quarterback French caught the ball for Penn State on his 40 yard line and promptly tossed a lateral pass to Diedrich, who followed interference for 60 yards to score a touchdown and win the game.
* *
At Washington and Lee they call them cold checks instead of hot checks, and any student who passes three of them is dismissed from the university. The cold check committee has been forced to meet three times a week lately besides its regular executive meeting to take care of the great flood of bad checks.
*	* * *
Our yo-yo champ is dethroned, not permanently, we hope, but at least temporarily. A student of Washington and Lee declares hat he saw a guest at a party in Washington yo-yo 3,862 times before missing. This-feat would automatically eclipse our champ’s little record of 30 minutes of consecutive yo-yoing, for our Bureau of Vital Statistics inform us that, according to their super-scientific calculations, it would take something like an hour and a half to yo-yo as many as 3,862 times. When confronted last night with the proofs of this new record, our recent champion issued this statement for the readers (both of them) of The College Parade: “Aw shucks, that ain’t much. I’ll break that any time if some guys will keep track of them for me. We ain’t got far enough in Accounting, class to count that high.” So bring on the adding machines, and rally all behind our ex-champ, who by next week may again be the new champ.
*	* * * '
The Penn State Collegian reminds us that right now (at the very moment you read this) there are only 24 shopping days until Christmas.
302
The Notre Dame Scholastic
| OUR weeks hence will see us leaving the campus for another Christmas vacation. For the freshmen that will he the biggest thing that has happened to them since registration, for no glory exceeds that of the first year man home on his first long vacation. Sophomores and juniors will renew friendships with half-forgotten girls, and radiate that nonchalance that comes of world-weariness. Seniors, knowing this to be their last vacation, will stand about moodily with hands in their pockets, and wonder just how many years it will be before they are called on to play Santa. And such a reflection is almost enough to ruin any man’s vacation.
/^^S late as the middle of the 18th century breakfast at Harvard was still two sizings of bread and a cue—half pint—of beer, and evening Commons were a Pye. It was still necessary for the student to carry his knife and fork to the dining room, and when he had dined he wiped them on the tablecloth. At Yale as late as 1815, students drank cider out of a common pewter pitcher, since the university could not afford tumblers. And from a journal of 1895 we read: “On several occasions Notre Dame was on the point of being sold for debt. One day the fann horses were taken out of the stables and sold by a creditor. Another time there was not a morsel of food in the house. The unexpected arrival of a gift of money from a stranger prevented the students from going to bed supperless.” Shades of our fathers! And here I’ve been thinking it a great nuisance to get up in time for breakfast.
HEEPSKINS, gloves, and galoshes can’t be long off
now, with the weather what it is, and Thanksgiving next week. Our Puritan ancestors, the Irish-Puritans, of course, used to think that a successful year deserved some show of appreciation, and so they invited all the Indians from the neighboring tepees over for dinner one day and stuffed them with turkey and real estate bargains. Turkey was as free as the air then, and real estate chatter always has been cheap. After a few of these annual dinners things reached a crisis, just like a Scribbler’s short story, until now we find that wild turkey is no longer listed in the stock market report, and the Indians are not troubled with having real • estate. Talk, however, is still inexpensive, and we retain Thanksgiving Day as an excuse for over-eating, and a great deal of small talk. College men, especially those who have been reared to believe in society and their own superiority,
find Thanksgiving a convenient day on which to take college girls out for dinner. It is one way to return one’s obligations without offering the ever-so-desirable bid to the class dance. As a suggestion, in case you find her conversational talents rather limited, one of the local hotel dining rooms is decorated in almost nursery-like simplicity, being topped off with a mural border of scenes from Don Quixote. You can tell her what these silhouettes mean, with the assurance that the entire dinner will be filled with her wonderings as to what college Don attended.
UPPOSE that the Blue Circle offered a dozen pale green
neckties to the student who attends the most tea dances during the year. Or imagine that the dean of your college promised a pearl-handled buttonhook to the man in his department who could grow the bushiest mustache in a week. Again, fancy that I grant the privilege of wearing a laurel wreath to the underclassman who whistles “Annie Laurie” every noon in the refectory. Supposing one or all of these things, and we should both agree that something was a trifle unusual. And when a student has spent three years steeped in the advantages of South Bend’s cosmopolitanism, and then sells Domes to get-to Europe—well, something is wrong here, too.
^^T times like the recent xSouthern California-Notre Dame game we read about the “great, fine, inspiring things to be found in the American collegiate tradition.” We feel proud to be carrying on those traditions, and justly so. And a little later we read an account of a federal raid at some university, such as the recent affair at Illinois. We begin to wonder if, after all, the collegiate traditions are essentially American or essentially traditional. Not that any sane or sanitary man believes in enforcing Prohibition, rather that sanity and sanitation are alien to some of the collegiate traditions. Barracks and dormitories, lacking the administrative and administering hand of women, must have some sort of authority. Fraternities fail in that they are their own authority. When a group of young men are thrown together and told to make their own laws, set up their own class distinctions, and even to take care of themselves, they are quite apt to be very drunk or very much in need of direction before long. The obvious difficulty with fraternities is that they are more frantic than fraternal, more socialistic than social, and more honorary than honorable.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
303
AT THE SEASON ADVANCE/
An alumnus from the University of Wisconsin made the remark last Saturday that Notre Dame teams are the most colorful fighting machines in the country. Perhaps the statement was exaggerated and doubtless many think so. With hysterical radio announcers and sports editors to flaunt our name before the public, there is unquestionably a certain glamour and romance in the very name of our University.	'
So far our athletic record for the season has been clean. Opponents worthy of our mettle have been met and defeated. With two games still to be played before the season closes, it would hardly be proper to assume a complacent attitude toward the National Championship which we are eligible to receive. Although it is the first time since the “Four Horsemen” that we have approached the honor so closely, still we must remember that our team is only human. The terrific strain of our schedule alone justifies at least one defeat this year. The added difficulty of playing away from home without the active participation of our coach is enough to ruin the best team in the country.
In case Notre Dame should come through the season undefeated the glory would be reflected on the more important department of Notre Dame life. It would make for a more sympathetic understanding between our school and the public. The noble sacrifices of our priests would be better understood and / appreciated; the dedication of their lives for our welfare and their success in embodying the spirit of Catholic manhood in our crusaders would be a signal triumph for the faith. So used have the people become to seeing winning teams from Notre Dame that they, expect the same conquering spirit from Catholic men seeking positions in the world.
The importance of a National Championship to us is naturally great, but it is not essential to the success of the University or to the added prestige of our athletic teams. The honor would serve to amplify and bring to light certain features of our life which are not published in newspapers.
So popular have we become to sports fans that the University is forced to erect a new stadium for future home games. The public’s admiration is not devoted exclusively to our efficient and destructive football teams. It comes as respect for that which they for the most part are unable to understand, namely, Notre Dame spirit. Nor is this admiration generated solely among the humble. Notables in all walks of life make it a point to see at least one of our games annually. Even when we are not the favorites to win, they expect and in many cases demand victory. In some cases they always get what they ask for. For this reason Notre Dame has become one of the most popular teams in the country.	.
Every member of one of our football teams finds his gridiron training a distinct asset when he graduates. Used to winning, and acknowledging defeat only after heart-breaking struggle, he adopts the same attitude towards the world. Hence we find him in most cases successful in whatever he may undertake. Business men gladly accept a man from one of our athletic teams because they, too, know that the fighting spirit does not die with graduation; it is a useful trait developed on the field in a clean sport.
In the short space of a week or more the decision will be made. Whether or not we win the National Championship, the country will accept our team as truly representative of Notre Dame. The spirit of fighting sons of Notre Dame will never die. Neither will the respect of outsiders for us diminish or be whisked into oblivion. Their regard will increase as the season progresses. And all this is more important than so-called National Championships.	—T. v. m
Fl 111111 > 11111 a»111111 til II11111111 (1111111111 ii 111111111 i 111111 > 1111111 ■ t111 ■ 11 c 11111 i i 11I11»111»I»»11 □
I Western ^Basketball 1 j	bhampions	I
EI ................................................  [g
Our Athletic
By ALFR
The First University Gymnasium
MILITARY structure, defiantly stretching its castellated towers towards the bleak heavens of an Indiana sky, its stark and grim archi
tecture veritably challenging the annual army of basketball and track invaders who attempt to garnish victory at the hands of Notre Dame; a treasure house of hard-won trophies; reeking of liniment, arnica, athletic odors; ringing with the cries of varsity and interhall athletes; housing a colorful galaxy of students at basketball games and chrysanthemum-bedecked St. Mary’s girls at occasional gridgraph games; walls lined with faded photographs, daguerrotypes, dust-covered pennants and old deflated footballs proclaiming a Notre Dame triumph—thus might an embryo writer partially epitomize Notre Dame’s gymnasium, the clearing house and moulding center of all Notre Dame athletes.-
Athletics at Notre Dame comes as does a “second nature” to the student body. It is tantamount to their intensity in studies and to their perennial interest in their Alma Mater’s welfare. The faculty and the students at the University have always been united in their determination to bind the pursuit of knowledge and the practice of athletics together as much as the old Grecian patriarchs were in the days when Pindar and his strophes and his antistrophes were be
ing shouted from proverbial roof-tops. This same Pindar once said:
“Strength its might by action shows ;
The mind by thought and sane ’ sagacity.”
That is why, perhaps, studies and athletics go hand in hand here. What a shame that sport writers of today have not a little of Pindar’s blood in their veins! Perhaps then, modern athletic heroes would be forevei' immortalized in something more than mere Sunday editions! All of which has nothing to do with our little story.
The fall term of 1898 witnessed the opening of Notre Dame’s first gymnasium. To encourage physical culture and robust development was the underlying purpose of the University officials in erecting this military structure. In planning the first gymnasium, careful attention was given to all forms of outdoor sports with the object of individual development rather than athletic prestige.
When completed, it was one of the largest college gymnasia at that time in America, measuring 110 by 225 feet. The intention of the engineers was to plan a building suitable for all kinds of sport—basketball, track, baseball, handball, and bicycle racing. The building was divided into two sections, the first
consisting of two stories. On the first floor were to be found the offices, dressing rooms, training rooms, and showers. Above, there was a gymnasium run-> ning the entire width of the building, similar to what is there today. The remainder of the building was occupied by a track, 13 laps to the mile. It is inter; esting to record heye an excerpt from a University regulation of 1898: “No student is' eligible to compete in varsity athletics unless his general class aver-; age is 75% or better.” And those were the days when they had no probation lists!
The formal dedication of the gymnasium took place on March 11, 1899. Heading the list of events was a triangular track meet with the -University of Chicago, the University of Illinois,-1 and Notre Dame. Athletes representing
The Burning •
The Notre Dame'Scholastic—Page 304
E. GALL
ne Fighting Irish chalked up 6 points to their nearest ompetitor's 28 to win the ic'et. At the opening exer-ises, four flags waved on the swers of the structure, two ational emblems and the wo college colors. They were onated by the four O’Brien rothers of South Bend— dmuel, William, George and ’rank.
Evidently the gods that indar praised were some-hat ired, for on Friday, lovember 9, 1900, the gym-asium burned down in one the most disastrous fires l the history of our institu-on. Never since the great re of 1899, when all the col-ge buildings were destroy-1, had the University suf-
red so great a loss.
From some unknown
mse the gymnasium caught fire and ithin an hour and a half it was a emory of the past—a martyr offered ; a holocaust on the sacrificial altar of Pieties. Students returning from ass at three o’clock saw smoke pour-
J
e Gymnasium
Rebuilt After the Fire
ing from the front door and windows and raised the cry of “Fire!” The Notre Dame firemen (we had them in those days) were soon on the site and made herculean efforts to get the flames under control. An alarm was also sent in to South Bend, but it was fifteen minutes before the first town company reached the campus. One must remember that Notre Dame avenue probably was not paved at the time. A second alarm was soon sent in and a second and third company came out. Large Worthington pumps, which had been set up a week before the fire, were given a thorough test and soon four steady streams of water were turned on the sizzling, crackling, and scorching flames. The fire, however, had gained too good a start. When the first students reached the scene the training rooms on the north side and the balcony in the large track room above were in flames. The interior of this part was finished in pine and oiled, and the fire burned its way rapidly to the physical education room above. The roof above the balcony ignited and by the time the South Bend firemen had their couplings attached the flames were breaking through the sheet iron roof. The middle section of the roof fell first, carrying with it a portion of the south wall.
Setting aside the actual pecuniary loss,
the destruction of the gymnasium was keenly felt by the track men at the time, who were on their way for the Western track championship. It also deprived the general student body from participating in manly forms of recreation. Golf and bridge were not in vogue at the time.
Like a Rock of Ages it remained intact, challenging the world, and withstanding the ravages of time, until this fire. But the faculty realized that the student must develop himself physically as well as mentally, and they were not slow in taking action on the loss.
“Lo! the victor’s virtues rise
And strike the mansions of the gods above.
In fortune’s region lies
Glory’s bright summit, where the Muses love
Proud games and champions to record.”
(With more apologies to the bearded Pindar.) Before the roof had fallen in, the Reverend Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., president of the University, and the Reverend John Zahm, C.S.C., president of the Board of Trastees, called a meeting to take steps for the erection of a new building, to surpass the old one in both size and equipment. By the following Thursday men were already at
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 305
306
The Notre Dame Scholastic
work clearing away the debris and the work of rebuilding progressed rapidly. At a meeting of the lay faculty and students, a committee was appointed to send letters to the alumni and friends of Notre Dame, explaining to them the feeling prevailing at the University. John W. Eggeman, now the Honorable John W. Eggeman of Fort Wayne, was the chairman of the student committee.
The Formal Opening, 1899
a shy boy is when he opens his first love’s Valentine. Sacrifice after sacrifice, a bit here and a bit there, allowances, spare cash—everything was turned in. It was near Christmas time and everyone seemed to be prosperous. Possibly it was not so much prosperity as sacrifice. What a sacrifice it must have been to the students to curtail their social pleasures at Yuletide in order to aid
and wrestling roonis and the office of the managers. There is also a room for the trainers, and a small office used by the officials.
Dual, triangular and Central Intercollegiate track meets are also held in the gymnasium. During the past three years, a few records have either <> been equalled, bettered or established by Notre Dame men or competitors from opposing schools. It is here that Jack Elder, Flying Kentucky Colonel, has equalled the world’s record for the 60-yard dash at least 10 times.
Not much remains today of the old gymnasium, except hushed memories of the past. A visitor on the campus, upon entering the gymnasium, is flanked on both sides by glass cases along the vestibule wall. Here individual pictures, group pictures and action pictures of the “grand old men” of athletics may be viewed; numerous and various colored banners attest to many a hard-won championship; statements of various records established in the gymnasium. It is perhaps these that spur on present Notre Dame men to try harder. Maybe the ghosts of past athletes hover over them, carefully guiding their strides, their dribbles, or their long basketball shots to set Notre Dame just a notch higher on the pinnacle of athletic prestige.
LIBRARY ANNOUNCES TWO
NEW BOOKS
His personal reminiscences of the fire are highly interesting. He was manager of athletics and played on the football team at that time. The team was playing Wisconsin at Madison, and the telegram “Big John” received telling of the loss cast a gloom over the different members of the team. One of the stories around the University concerned a goat, christianed “Perry,” which had been presented to Mr. Eggeman by Chick Stahl, an old, Boston American baseball player and varsity coach in the gymnasium during the winter. The goat rushed into the fire and a student by the name of Kirby, the varsity shot putter, rushed into the burning building and saved the goat.
Letters and checks, unsolicited as yet, were one of the prime motives inducing Notre Dame authorities to make their appeal. Everyone was approached. The students were as fussed about their new gymnasium as
their Alma Mater in her time of need!
Nothing was spared in order to in-sure.the speedy reconstruction of their gymnasium. Their answer to her appeal was an exemplification of theii-democracy and their omnipresent generosity.	.
And so we come down through the years and find, that with the institution of basketball at the University, teams representing the school have been recording innumerable victories. A Western championship was something which was almost expected every season since George Keogan assumed the coaching reins. Realizing that a large number of people turned out to ’ watch the basketball team in action, the University, again, in 1926, built an addition to the gym. This addition encloses one of the greatest basketball floors in the country, and has stands seating 3,000. Under the stands are to be found dressing rooms, lockers, two handball courts, the boxing
Dime Novels, by Edmund L. Pearson has been placed in the University library. Mr. Pearson relates the history of the novels so popular in the past. He remarks: “According to a beloved tradition, the stories opened: ‘Bang! Bang! Bang! —Three shots rang out on the midnight air, and another redskin bit the dust.’ ” The book is a humorous account of the Nick Carters, Deadwood Dicks, and Captain Colliers who held the American boy enthralled long, long ago. '
You Can Escape, by E. R. Smith, a book obtained by the Library a few weeks ago, gives the history of escapes from Ossining, Auburn, Dannemora, Fort Leavenworth, and other prisons. Mr. Smith tells about the various tricks the convicts use in order to effect their escapes. He also tells us about convicts who voluntarily return to the prison from which they have escaped. The book is well worth reading.

Fighting Irish Eke Out 13-12 Victory
Trojans Are Underdogs for Third Time in Four-Game Series
YES Siree! Those Fighting Irish got their “dutch” up in just the nick of time and the Southern California Trojans were sent hack home bearing the message that they had just presented Notre Dame with their seventh straight victory .of the season. Those Trojans were certainly a blue-looking crowd, for hadn’t they just seen their hopes of spilling the Notre Dame warriors give way, and then only by the slim margin of 13 to 12?
The tremendous crowd of 122,500 fans enjoyed the struggle from beginning to finish and well they might have, for it was one of the most hotly contested intersectional games ever played by Notre Dame. Those two teams, well-schooled in the fundamentals, presented a very formidable argument, and it was a most thrilling spectacle all the way through.
Notre Dame Evens Score
After a bad start wherein Southern California scored its first touchdown in the first few minutes of play, Notre
Tom “Peeped” into the Hall of Fame Saturday
Tom Conley
Giving the Regulars a Run For Their Jobs
I, .
Bernard Leahy
Dame’s eleven came tearing and smashing their way down the field, mixing a few deceptive passes, and finally ending up across the enemy’s goal line to even the score.
The game went on that way for the first half with neither" team able to gain anything materially. But after that they were men inspired. What Coach Knute Rockne, who had been brought in on a wheel-cot looking wan and tired, said to his loyal band of warriors we do not know, but he must have inspired them with just a few words which sprung from his heart and his soul.
But before we go on to tell you how those boys came back in the second half let’s see what went on in the second quarter, the one in which
Notre Dame tied the score. After one touchdown which was ruled out, an exchange of punts followed, Carideo carrying the ball to his own 46-yard line.
Elder to Conley—53 Yards
On the first play Jack Elder cut around to the right side of the line, stepped in back of his interference, aimed to toss a pass but stopped and watched his men take out the California ends coming in, then, with perfect ease let loose a beautiful 53-yard pass which Tom Conley took on the 15-yard line just a step in back of a Trojan who had been following him down the field. From then on, Conley had no difficulty in crossing the goal, but Carideo missed the kick for the extra point, and the half ended with the score knotted at six all.
This play in which Elder had at least twenty seconds to “scan” his field was perhaps the most perfectly executed one of the day. The only
*--------------------------------❖
A Second-String Man Shoiving Great Promise
$--------------------------------$
George Vik
308
The Notre Dame Scholastic
I	STATISTICS OF	THE	1
I	GAME	I
e First Downs:	e
E	Notre Dame, 12.	e
E	Southern California,	6.	E
e Penalties:	e
E	Notre Dame, six times for 72	E
E	yards.	E
E	Southern California,	once for	=
=	5 yards.	E
i Yards From Scrimmage:	' e
S Notre Dame, 140 yards. E E Southern California, 76 yards. E E Forward Passes:	e
E Notre Dame, five of thirteen e =	for 157 yards.	E
E Southern California, three of E E	nine for 65 yards.	=
e Average Length of Punts:	1
E Notre Dame, 36.8 yards.	=
= Southern California, 34.7 yds. e i Yards Returned on Punts: = E Notre Dame, 102 yards. E E Southern California, 38 yards. :
[•hitriiitiiututttitttitiitttnHiittitiitHitniiiuiiiiittiiiiimiiuT*]
Southern California man left on his feet was the one tracking Conley. All the rest were taken out in fine shape; the last two rushed towards Elder, only to be thrown abruptly to the ground, enabling him to wait until Conley got into the clear.
In the second half the boys came back with a zip and a flash which began when Savoldi ran Anthony’s kick-off 35 yards. On an exchange of punts Carideo sprinted with the ball 25 yards, finally being forced out of bounds on Southern Cal’s 13-yard line. Elder then ran around right end along the sideline for a touchdown but the referee claimed he had stepped outside on the three-yard line. Two high dives by Savoldi over center netted the score. Carideo then place-kicked for the extra point, which proved to be the winning tally.
Saunders Runs 95 Yards
As an aftermath of the touchdown Russ Saunders the sensational quarterback took the kick-off close to the sidelines on about the five-yard line and gathering speed as he traveled along, sped through the whole mass of tacklers, getting clear at midfield, and sprinting the balance of the 95 yards unmolested. After a brief delay in which the crowd was in a frenzied state of excitement, Musick missed the place-kick for the tying point.
It was all over then, for Notre Dame held the upper hand the rest of
the way and although the Trojans were able to make several marked gains these were made only after the first string lineup had been removed from the fray.
Plays Executed Perfectly
What we liked best in the game was the perfect execution of the plays; every man on either team performed his duty well and it kept the game moving at a fast pace. The first half was an exhibition of the most spectacular playing evei’ seen on Soldiers’ Field.
The seventh victory of the season was the third of four played with the far western school and it marked the second one in the series that ended 13-12, also the third which finished with a point difference determining the winner. ■
Again we can’t see where the Fighting Irish were really pushed to make the victory secure at any time. We are still wondering if Knute Rockne had some more things under cover that his boys didn’t use last week. All we saw was about four or five plays that had the essence of something apparently done over or improved upon. There remain only two more games in which to test the-mettle of the Notre Dame warriors and those two are going to be the hardest because of the fact that they are the last two.	'
The lineup:		
U. S. C.		Notre Dame
Tappaan	LE	Colrick
Anthony	LT	Twomey
Galloway	LG	Cannon
Dye	C	Moynihan
Barragar (c)	RG	(c) Law
Hall	RT	F. Leahy
Arbelbide	RE	Conley
Duffield	QB	Gebert
Aspit	LH	Schwartz
Pinckert	RH	O’Connor
Moses	FB	Savoldi
Score by periods:		
Notre Dame				0	6	7	0—13
U. S. C.			6	0	6	0—12
Touchdowns — Saunders, Aspit, Savoldi, Conley.
Point after touchdown—Carideo.
Substitutions: Notre Dame — Brill for O’Connor, Collins for Colrick, Carideo for Gebert, Elder for Schwartz, Mullins for Savoldi, Donoghue for F. Leahy, Colrick for Collins, Kaplan for Brill, Vik for Conley, Nash for Moynihan, Culver for Twomey, Metzger for Law, Kassis for Cannon, Moynihanfor Nash, Collins for Colrick, Conley for Vik, Savoldi for Mullins, Law for Metzger, Cannon for Kassis, Twomey for Culver, Brill for Kaplan, Mullins for Savoldi, Kaplan for Brill, Colrick for Collins, Vik for Conley, Kassis for Cannon, Schwartz for Elder.
Southern California—Hill for Moses, Baker for Barragar, ’Hoff for Hall, Musick for Hill, Saunders for Duffield, Hall for Hoff, Shaw for Galloway, Shaver for Aspit, Gowder for Shaw, Mortenson for Pinckert, Jurich for Arbelbide, Duffield for Shaver.
Referee—Frank Birch (Earlham). Umpire —Ralph McCord (Illinois). Head linesman— ‘ Jay Wyatt (Missouri). Field judge—Arthur
Badenoch (Chicago).	’
NOW IT’S THE WILDCATS THAT N. D. MUST TAME
One by one—the Hoosiers, the Midshipmen, the Badgers, the Skibos, the Golden Tornado, the Bulldogs, the Trojans, have all been swept aside. Tomorrow at Dyche stadium in Evanston, Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish take on another well-prepared and well-set eleven in the Northwestern Wildcats.
The Purple season may be classed as a very successful one for they have lost only two games out of eight played so far. The only games lost have been to Minnesota and the one to Indiana last week.
Don’t think that because Northwestern lost to Indiana, a team that had not won a Big Ten game up to that time, that they are going to be easy pickings. Nonetheless the Wildcats are a strong and hefty squad. In the game with the Hoosiers last week, they rolled up a total of 16 first downs against their opponents’ nine.
Strong Passing Attack
A puzzling aerial attack had Indiana completely fooled, for Northwestern completed eight passes out of thirteen for a gain of 143 yards, as much as they were able to make by line plunges and runs. To be sure they will uncork a few of these passes again tomorrow and they will be enough intimidation to set the Fight- ' ing Irish up on their toes.
Northwestern had some very tough luck this season in the loss of Hans Bruder, who suffered a broken leg several weeks ago. Bruder was injured most of the time last year and was looked upon to be the Wildcats’ real star in the backfield this current season.
. Northwestern has a wealth of ends in Baker, Oliphant, Egbert, Eylar, Kurft, Gonya, and Witzell. Woodworth, an end last season, has been shifted to a guard position. Captain Henry Anderson fills the other guard post in stellar proportions. The reserves for guard are Sullivan, Evans, Smith, Spivey, Sherberg, and Schoet-tie. The center is Clark, a newcomer, who has replaced Erickson, a two year man.
Backfield is Well Fortified
The backfield is composed of Hanley, quarter, Griffin and Baxter, halves, and Calderwood and Berg-henn alternating at fullback. Others include Roland, Ha.as, Hails, O’Mara, and Bernstein. 1
Northwestern’s lineup appears to
The Notre Dame Scholastic
309
be very formidable but we doubt if they possess the reserve strength that is necessary to down Notre Dame and keep in the running consistently. The . Wildcats may spring a few surprises but whatever they are the Fighting Irish will be prepared to meet them.
Notre Dame Chances Good
Any way one looks at the game, it strikes us pretty good, because Notre Dame beat Indiana, 14 to 0, and last week Indiana turned around and defeated Northwestern, 19 to 14. That is merely working on paper, but just think of how much our team has improved since the first game of the season. We look for the Fighting Irish to chalk up their eighth victory of the season with more ease than their seventh against Southern Cal last week.
KEOGAN DRILLING CAGE-MEN FOR OPENING GAME
With the opening game of the season but a matter of several weeks distant, Coach George Keogan is rapidly rounding his eagers into form for the contest with Albion College, here on December 7.
Daily practices have revealed the
fact that there is much promising material which combined with last year’s veterans should make up a very formidable outfit.
The first string line-up, as it ap-
Coach George E. Keogan
pears to be at present, will be composed of Joe Gavin and John McCarthy at the forwards, Bud Busch at center, and Captain “Coney” Donovan and Ed. Smith at the guards. This team has been scrimmaging daily against other quintets and looks as if it will develop into a fast, high-caliber outfit.
Several members of the football squad at present will be able to report in a few weeks, and they should offer the needed strength to the cage team this season. The 18-game schedule, comprising some of the strongest outfits in the country, will force the varsity to go at a fast clip throughout the year.
OFF-CAMPUS FOOTBALL TEAM HONORED AT DANCE
The members of the Off-Campus football team, Interhall champions, were guests of honor at a dance given last evening under the auspices of the St. Joseph’s Y. M. A. in St. Joseph’s School, South Bend.. Music for the occasion was furnished by the Indianans. Charles Howard arranged the dance.
PEPPER
The situation was tense. Conditions had been bad, and everyone knew they would be. It was inevitable—nothing could have been plainer. But “great 'lawd’ Sadie,” no one on earth could have possibly believed or even faintly imagined that the thing would come to a head and boil over as boisterously as this. It looked just too bad, that was all. The big bubble was about to burst, and if it did . . . socko I Soft, sweet music would be played slowly : tender tears would trickle sadly; ■ there would be a short, stilted and hushed hub-bub and from then on, no more shining sun.
But Pepper came. There had been some talk about this coming, but only with an attitude of a highly improbable possibility, and even then only the few super-optimistic and boundlessly courageous had dared to hope for it. Nevertheless it was fantastically true. Fiction proved fact and boy believe the Sibyl when she predicts the need of strength to stand up under the rest of this story. Get yourself set for anything, and believe me buddy, don't go on unless you are plenty well set!
The location was changed. An old cellar flung itself wide open. Up came ample sized glass containers with slender necks. Z-Z-Z-Z-Z-zipper-pop! Out came the life of the party; then down it flowed under neat but obscure little sears . where tonseis once had been.’ Frail
flappers flopped themselves comfortably, but oh how luringly and luciously, deep into long, soft cushioned sofas. They laid ’em on the window sills, on the mantle, and under the chairs—bottles, bottles, bottles until the place looked like a well-littered filling station—of course the right
kind of filling station. It took more than maternal affection to put the old restraint on the boys that night. It took an absolute lack of something, and that something was orange juice! The orange juice gave out, and_ as there were no others in the party with “cellared” apartments offering a change of location, the party broke up.
Now you take a case like that, if there hadn’t been somebody in the first location with enough of the old Pepper to suggest a change and enough of that essential zip and pep to get things going, an unusually dead time would have been had by all. But in a live world things don’t go like that. Pepper came and from then on it was “until morning doth bid us disperse.”
All the zip. Pepper, and snap available is crowded and jammed into the complete retail jewelry, novelty and gift shop of the South Bend Watch Company.
Don’t you be singletracked ! Change your direction at Jefferson Boulevard and Hill Street and bring yourself to a new location out on Mishawaka Avenue where you will find the biggest retail purchasesaving party in all the surrounding country.
It will do your soul good to get out there. The location isn’t so far out after all. Come out to see what you can really do in buying excellent and distinctive merchandise, at prices surprisingly reasonable.
310
The Notre Dame Scholastic
QtiintititinmutnMiiiiiiiimiiittmiimiiimiiinittttmnittatmtinitfiuiiimiiHiiiimmiiitimimttiiiiiiMiiiimtMtimmiiiiitiimttmuiiiimimi iiiitaititiiiainiiiitatHamiHtmtiiniiiiiimamiiiiiiiiiiiii
I ALL-INTERHALL FOOTBALL SELECTIONS
£	FIRST TEAM	SECOND TEAM	THIRD TEAM	£
£ Citro (St. Edward’s)___________LE Crosby (Off-Campus)______________LE McDonald (Corby)------------:___LE =
=	Reidy (Morrissey)______________LT	Steepler (Corby)------------- —LT	Woods (Lyons).------------------LT	=
=	Polito (Freshman) _____________LG	Ullrich (Howard) _______________LG	Hamilton (Sophomore) ____________LG	5
I	McCarthy, F. (Sophomore)________C	Swanke (Morrissey) -------------C	McManus (Walsh)-------------------C	£
E	Bender (Sophomore) ____________RG	Melchione (Morrissey)___________RG	Van Allen (Carroll)_____________RG	£
£	Walsh (Off-Campus) ____________RT	Friel (Off-Campus)	-------------RT	Rigney (Walsh)-------------------RT	£
1	Beesley (Off-Campus) __________RE	Marek (Brownson)----------------RE	Nona (Off-Campus) --------------RE	£
I	Conti (Sophomore) ______________Q	Rahaim (Corby)-----'-------------Q	Smurthwaite (Sophomore)__________Q	|
E	Kozak (Off-Campus) ____________LH	Malone (Carroll) ---------------LH	Largura (Sophomore)______________LH	e
E	Chevallier (Morrissey) ________RH	McCarthy, W. (Freshman)---------RH	Jane (Walsh) -------------------RH	£
£	Capter (Sophomore)______________F	O’Connor (Walsh)----------------F	Mortenson (Morrissey)____________F	£
THREE HONOR TEAMS
CHOSEN BY STAFF
The Scholastic herewith presents the annual All-Interhall football selections. Never before in the history of interhall sports has it been so difficult to choose the outstanding players from the various hall teams.
As a matter of fact, practically every team had a wealth of formidable material and it was only after long and due consideration that the
men chosen for the various teams were selected.
The way he played consistently through the season, was the major point in looking at each man’s record. We think that every player selected for the first three teams, is the one who did the best work at that particular position.
The first team selections are without a doubt the cream of the interhall teams, whereas the second and
third teams are those who rivalled them very closely.
Perhaps the easiest positions to fill were the ones taken by Kozak, Off-Campus, half-back; Walsh, Off-Campus, tackle; Capter, Sophomore, fullback; McCarthy, Sophomore, center; and Chevallier, Morrissey, half-back. These men were the most outstanding in the season’s performances and easily deserve their places on the first team.
-“happiest step we've ever made, Dad
-“and we're putting our best feet forward...in Beacon Shoes
-“you'll admit it’s a tong step in the right direc-
tion.”
The HITCH
ClaMie	MW
114 W. Washington Ave.
| Royal | | Portables |
j Are The Best i
I	THE	I
I OFFICE ENGINEERS I
I	126-128 S. Main St.	I

The Notre Dame Scholastic
311
School Days at the Colfax
The lighter side of school life—all the fun—all the gayety, is shown in “Sweetie.”
College Revels !
Paramount Presents
"Sweetie"
NANCY CARROLL
Jack Oakie and Helen Kane
ALL-TALKING, SINGING and DANCING
COLLEGIATE MUSICAL COMEDY
Rah! Rah! Rah! Join in the fun! Youth . . . rollicking on the royal road to romance!
SATURDAY—TUESDAY
N. B. “The Return of Sherlock Holmes” tvith Clive Brook plays Wednesday thru Friday.
fOLFAY THEATREyw
Home of Paramount Pictures
[•JitiiuHtiiiiiitiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiinitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiniigJ
[	R.K.O.	I
| SUNDAY - MONDAY - TUESDAY |
i Hear and see America’s Turf	I
|	Classic!	I
| The Kentucky Derby I 1	~ in -	|
I “A Song of I I Kentucky” |
1	A musical movietone, a	|
|	riot of music, mirth, and	I
=	melody with a big cast of	-=
j	stars including Lois	|
I	Moran, Joseph Walstaff,	I
I	Dorothy Burgess, and	j
1	many others.	I
|	5—Big Acts of Vaudeville—5	|
|	4 Days Commencing Wednesday	|
1	The year’s best football picture	I
|	“The Forward	|
| Pass” |
I	With Doug. Fairbanks, Jr., and	I
I	Loretta Young	I
| and a big bill of I I	vaudeville	|
QaiiiinmimiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiimiiimiitiiiniiiiiiiQ
312
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PHELAN, ’17, LEADS PURDUE TO BIG TEN TITLE
Jimmy Phelan, ’17, another of Knute Rockne’s progenies, added further laurels to his Western Conference coaching career by guiding the Purdue Boilermakers to their first Big Ten championship. Phelan was a member of the 1916 Notre Dame football team before his graduation in 1917.
Inasmuch as Purdue has not been defeated at all this season, Rockne will have to argue it out with his former pupil as to which team in Indiana is the best.
FROSH CAGERS CUT TO 25 THIS WEEK
Cutting the squad of 55 candidates for freshman basketball to 25 took place last Monday evening when the men worked out in the gym. Coach George Keogan, with the assistance of Joe Jachym, who has been in charge of the freshmen, undertook the task of culling the roster in an effort to spend more time developing the more valuable men.
When the call for freshmen cage
men was issued, about 125 yearlings reported for practice and two weeks after that time the outfit was cut to 55.
There is a great amount of valuable basketball material present, according to Jachym. Men who have been honored in their, respective states and in the nation have shown pleasing form to the coaches during the fall practices.
An effort will be made' to secure several games for the first year* men if present plans carry through, it is understood.	•
ADAM WALSH IS HAVING GREAT SUCCESS WITH
YALE LINE
In a recent edition of the Bridgeport, Conn., Herald, Adam Walsh, ’25, and a member of the 1924 National Championship football team, received very commendable notice for his work with the Yale line.
The article says in part, “Adam Walsh, Notre Dame, is the football coach of the hour. Under his direction the Yale forwards have improved fully 50 percent over last year.
“Knute Rockne’s all-American lines
man has worked wonders with the Yale wall men. Some critics say that the Blue forwards have no superiors. Their present efficiency is due largely to Walsh’s genius. This former Notre Dame man has an inspiring personality. Powerful in physique and of magnetic personality, he perks up the eleven with his fiery talks.”
Walsh became a member* of the Yale coaching staff this year, giving up a.very successful coaching job at Santa Clara University in California. So far this season his efforts at Yale have been most successful and we look for- even greater success in that endeavor.
RESERVES END SEASON IN GAME AT KAZOO
The Notre Dame reserves conclude their season tomorrow when they take on Kalamazoo College at Kalamazoo, Michigan. Of the nine games already played the reserves have won seven and lost two.
Coach Jones, as usual, will be in charge of the reserve team tomorrow and will encourage the boys to conclude the season with another* victory.
GRANADA Radio-Keith- Orpheum
Starts Saturday -- 4 Glorious Days
‘‘THE KISS” J
Greta Garbo — Conrad Nagel
A Woman Loved -- Not Wisely - Nor Too Well -- But Too Much!
The Notre Dame Scholastic
313
DAY-DOGS ARE INTERHALL CHAMPIONS
Hail to the “Day-Dogs,” Interhall football champions of 1929! To these worthy monarchs we extend hearty congratulations.
In truly great championship style, Off-Campus emerged the winner of the Interhall league last Thursday afternoon by virtue of its 6-0 defeat of Sophomore Hall. This set-to was one of the most spectacular and most viciously contested in Intramural history.
A bad break occurred in the hitherto scoreless deadlock, each team turned back every dangerous assault, repulsed all threatened scores, and completely fought the other to a standstill through more than three bitter and exciting periods. Then came a nerve-tingling pass which turned an imminent dead-heat to splendid victory.
Pass, Crosby to Beesley, Wins
With darkness threatening, and haphazard football coming after such perfect play, and with a few minutes remaining, Coach Fitzgerald inserted right end Beesley to strateg
ically lift his Off-Campus to victory.
In the absence of Kozak’s unerring arm, Crosby was called upon to do the passing, and he did very capably. With the ball midfield and the dusk a perfect screen for a pass, the “fiction” play was called. Crosby received the ball from center, shielded it while racing behind the line, then flipped a lofty forty-yard toss to Beesley who stole the pass from the clutching arms of two secondary defensive backs and scampered across for a touchdown. Crook’s perfect drop kick was not allowed, but Beesley’s marker- was sufficient for victory. The game ended with Sophomore stubbornly battling to offset defeat.
Kozak was Star
To conclude with a detail of even this sparkling play would be doing an injustice to one who is deserving of much acclaim. We refer to Kozak, Off-Campus left half-back, whose indomitable courage carried him until physical resistance balked. When his brilliant fifty-five yard run for an almost certain score was erased through official decision, this intrepid warrior continued to strive with re
newed effort until the rigors of the fray forced him to the side-lines late in the final quarter.
CAPTAIN BARRAGER PAYS HIGH TRIBUTE TO NOTRE
DAME ELEVEN
A telegram from Captain Nate Barrager, the plucky captain of the Southern California Trojans, was received too late last week for publication but inasmuch as it shows the great regard and respect the team holds for Notre Dame, the Scholastic wishes to repeat the message.
Barrager’s telegram which was sent while the team was enroute to Chicago reads: “The University of Southern California football team is enroute for our fourth intersectional contest with Notre Dame. Notre Dame represents the best that there is in football. If we win, we will consider it a great accomplishment and if we lose we will know that we have lost to one of the greatest, if not the greatest football team in the country.”
(Signed) Nate Bari-ager, Captain.
THE
I CHINA INN
I AMERICAN and CHINESE Restaurant
I	Private Booths and Club Room
i	65c Dinners
I 50c Noonday Lunches
i	11 to 2	i
i	210 N. Main St.	f
I	South Bend, Indiana	|
THE SOUTH BEND	I
CLEARING HOUSE BANKS . j
American Trust Company
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
—o—
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
314
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Corner Michigan and Colfax
Pipes and
Novelties
at Low Cut Prices
$2.50 Ben Wade Pipe
Special at 98c
FIiihihiiihimi tun nut tin mm iiitiiiiiiiiiiu tit n in iHiititMiiiiiiiiiHctiiiiiiiiiiittHttiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^
TOWERS	j
Fishbrand Guaranteed SLICKERS— I
Olive Green or Black, $7.00 value	I
I

GILBRO’S	|
FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE	j
330 South Michigan Street	i
thriller. With only a minute left to play our big right half broke loose and ran thirty yards for the touchdown that won the game.”
“Son, that must have been great. I can almost see it, you make it so realistic. I do enjoy your telephone calls.”
There is no need to lose intimate touch with folks at home while you are away. They are interested in everything you do, so telephone home every week. The rates are low and charges may be reversed.
Begin today— make telephoning home a major sport
INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY
The Notre Dame Scholastic
315
NICHOLSON ATTENDS A. A.
U. MEET IN ST. LOUIS
John P. Nicholson, coach of the Notre Dame track teams, was in St. Louis last week where he attended the annual convention of the National Amateur Athletic Union.
Nicholson played a major part in this year’s convention inasmuch as the chief discussion was the meeting of the record committee as to whether Jack Simpson’s mark of 9 4-10 seconds was to be accepted or not, pending the approval of starting blocks which Nicholson invented for use.
Notre Dame
—at— Northwestern November 23
Will find football fans making their headquarters at
HOTEL LORRAINE
Wabash Avenue at Van Buren
CHICAGO
250 rooms with bath at fixed prices.
$2.00—$2.50 per day. Extra Person $1.00
Garage in Connection
HOTEL WOOLJTOCE
127 West 43rd Street—Just East of Broadway NEW YORK CITY
In the Midst of Theatres and All Activities
DAILY DATES—NCNE DIGUED
/ For One-Si.QO- 2.50— 3.00
Rooms with Running Water For Two~	3.50— 4.00
/ For One—	3.50— 4.00
Rooms with Private Bath For Two_ 5 oq_ 5.5O_ 6 OO A Short Walk West of Grand Central Terminal
CHEWING GUM
With an exclusive flavor that’s refreshing and lasting. Save the wrappers. See inside for list of premiums.
VAL BLATZ BREWING CO. .MILWAUKEE, WIS.
SAWYER'S Rainwear FROG BRAND SLICKERS
SAWYER'S Frog Brand Slicker* hav c ealab-Ifehcda tasting reputation on thecampu* among w ell-dressed college men and women uhcrc rain garments of good appearance a* Mell as long life are essential.
Sawyer slicker* are all good-looking, roomy* well-cut garments, guaranteed to keep you ab->oluleb dry and warm and are to lie bad lined or uniined. buttons or elaspe a* you prefer, in a wide *arietj of styles for every purpose. Your choice of colors. Shops every-. where carry them.
H.M. SAWYER, & SON
EAST CAMBRIDGE. -------------------MASS.
Offutt' Nr«\o*k.N.Y Chtcv««.<n. Su LoimkM* taa
Demand, a mirror ... don’t hesitate!
CHOOSE your pipes as you do your hats—try- ’em on. See how they look.
How a pipe feels is your worry—but how a pipe looks is a matter of community concern. A bulldog pipe in a greyhound face would sear the souls of one’s remotest associates. One owes one’s duty ...
The tobacco, now, is your personal business entirely. Take no man’s preference—find your own.
Here’s Edgeworth, a good old burley graduated with the Class of ’04. Like to meet Edgeworth at our expense? See the coupon? Fill it out, and soon thereafter the postman will bring you—these magic mails!—a neat little glad-to-meet-you packet of the real, the genuine, the good, the unchanging Edgeworth . . . Don’t mention it! The trick is you’ll be buying Edgeworth later!
EDGEWORTH


Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos—selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavor never change. W Buy it anywhere—“Ready y Rubbed” or “Plug Slice”— f 15£ pocket package to pound humidor tin. .
। Larus & Bro. Co., Richmond, Va.
!I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try it in a good pipe.
I ____________________________________________
•	(Witness my seal)
I ____________________________________________
j	(and my seat of learning)
I
I	(and my postoffice and state)
! Now let the Edgeworth come!	V ।
316
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ej» <$»	<%>
| On Down the Line	|
. . . Ohio University’s powerful team has scored 227 points to its foes’ seven in eight games . . . they haven’t lost a single contest either . . . B. F. Brogden, playing for Blytheville (Ark.) High, dropkicked nine consecutive points after touchdown . . . His team won 76 to 0 . . . The Prince of Wales received a §300 set of golf clubs from Walter Hagen . . . But he has never used them . . . Perhaps it is because of an absent-minded clerk enclosed a bill . . .
Northwestern !
. . . Whenever Missouri and Nebraska play football, an old bell is at stake . . . this trophy was taken from a Negro church in 1898 ... in Seward, Nebraska, at that . . . Elder’s 53-yard pass recalls memories of “Brick” Muller’s 70-yard heave in 1920 . . . Muller threw this pass in the “Tournament of Roses” battle that year . . . Art Shires, the slugging (either way you want to take it) first baseman, is now training to enter the ring . . .
Army!
. . . An old cemetery in Vera Cruz, Mexico, used as a burial-place since 1864, is to be made into a baseball park . . . just a case of the “bawl” park turned into a “ball” park . . . Iowa is not worrying about its suspension from the Big Ten ... it has completed negotiations for games with Southern Cal., Pittsburgh, Notre Dame and New York University . . . the “ha ha” is on the Big Ten . . .
National Champions!
The most "popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.
MM*
PEP
. . . Toby Uansa, Pitt’s flashy back, was born in Germany . . . Football fans of the U. S. spend upwards of $4,000,000 to see gridiron battles each Saturday . . . The banderilleros and the picadors, who play minor roles in bull fights, have formed a union in Mexico . . . the object is to keep out foreign competition . . . They can “band” together and “pick” all they want_____it’s too dangerous for us ...
BRAN FLAKES
Daniel Hays Gloves
Here it is in BETTER BRAN FLAKES
TRY Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes tomorrow. Each crisp, delicious spoonful gives you the concentrated nourishment of health-building wheat— energy to keep you wide awake in classes, pep to keep you on your toes throughout the afternoon’s athletics.
Just enough bran to be mildly laxative.
Ask that Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes be served at your fraternity house or favorite campus restaurant. They’re great with fruit or honey added.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
317
For school supplies	i
and	]
i	appropriate reading material	I
i	patronize	I
|	The Book Shop	|
i	119 North. Michigan St.	|
Qatiitttiitttiiiiiiiiaitiiiiiiiiiaatittiiiitiiliiiiliiiiiiiiinninaitittiiiliiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiilt ilia timiiiiai in Q
| FAST SERVICE |
[ To Chicago	|
i	Trains Leave South Bend	I
|	Every Hour on the Hour	I
|	Talk to Charlie Wood	|
|	in the Book Store about	a
i	De Luxe Service	=
iaiiiait)iiiniiaiiiiiitaitiuaitiiiaiiiiitaiiiaiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiii>iiiiiiiiiiiiatttitiiittniaiitiiiaaiitiaiitma]a]
Notre Dame	j
vs.	I
Northwestern	j
If you cannot attend the game you i can get a play by play report in the e News-Times “Pink” Football Extra, i containing final scores of all games; on | the street Saturday night at 7 o’clock. I
i	THE	j
| NEWS - TIMES |
Quast ttataiiiiiiiiiitiittiiiiiiiitiiitatiiiiiitttiuiiiiniiiiaiHiiiiiniiiiittiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiaiiimaiaaianaaQ
QiaitiiiiiHitiiiiittiitiiiiittiiisiiiiiitittitiiiiitiiiintiiii.tiiiiinniiitiiiiitiinttiiiuiiHuniiiiumffl
j	HELLO MEN!	j
) SMITH’S CAFETERIA |
=	111 East Jefferson Boulevard	=
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
i CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE i
I	& SOUTH BEND	I
j	RAILROAD	I
I»liiitaii»iiia»»ianiiiiiiiiiiti»uiiiinitiiiiii»iiiiiiiiiniiiiuiiiiii»iiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii»iiiiiiiiiii|fl
| WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
I	West Washington Ave.
QiuiaiiiiiiaamuiiiiiuamiinuiuimmiimiiHiiimtmmtiiatiiimimiiHiiuMiiuuiaattuiiUHUMH]
318
The Notre Dame Scholastic
[Seating the bell H is easy when breakfast is SHREDDED wheat. Digests without a murmur even when you bolt it. But you’ll enjoy it so much, you won’t want to hustle it-down.
Splinters from the Press Box
Shredded
Wheat
Make it a da i I y habit
Nunri-Bush cAnfde-FashionedOjcfords
Better looking because better fitting — trim around the ankle, snug at the heel — the result of the ANKLE-FASHIONED feature, exclusive with Nunri-Bush.. You can SEE and FEEL the difference.
KLINGEL’S MEN’S SHOE SHOP 112 North Main Street South Bend, Ind.
Patronize the SCHOLASTIC advertisers
Last Saturday’s game was one in which Notre Dame could not be accused of having all the breaks. I have never seen so many breaks go against a team and still see that team win. The officiating may have looked faulty at times, but one must consider that the officials are in a better position to notice details that are lost to the spectators. But there is small doubt in my mind that the officials-leaned over backwards several times in an endeavor to avoid a repetition of an unfortunate incident such as occurred’ in the game two years ago. One section of the country always looks askance at the officials of another section.
“Know when not to pass” has always been one of the two primary rules for quarterbacks, and a violation of it may well bring disaster, as was proven last Saturday in the Cornell-Dartmouth game. Leading 14-12, with five minutes or thereabouts to play, the Cornell quarterback called for a pass which was intercepted and started the Big Green on its march to the winning touchdown.
In all sports consistency is the true mark of greatness, but I do not think that this holds true in any of them as much as it does in football. Chance, the “breaks,” and changing conditions influence football more than any other sport; hence any team which can go through a tough season undefeated and untied is really a great team. And so it is that we think that Notre Dame and Pittsburgh deserve to be ranked as great. Either or both may be defeated before the season is over, but already they both have played as many games as does the ordinary team in a season and won them all; and hence they deserve ranking as two of the best teams that ever played the game.
Speaking of great backs of the season; McEvers of Tennessee deserves to be ranked with the very best. He has done just about eyery-thing a back could do this season, and he has done it well. His name has not become as well known as some of the back’s have, because the Volunteers do not play a schedule as comprehensive as those of most of the good teams, but at that the opposition in
The Notre Dame Scholastic
319
the South is not exactly what might be termed soft. In fact, on general strength, we would rate the South second to the Middle West with the far West and East trailing.
WE NOMINATE FOR THE HALL OF FAME:
John Thomas Colrick, a senior at the University of Notre Dame, whose letter in football this season will
make him one of those few athletes who have won three letters in three sports at a major institution; who is one of the greatest all-around athletes in the country; whose mask of nonchalance and indifference hides an unusual determination and a keenness of mind which few athletes have; whose coolness in the most trying situation never leaves him; who is one of the most graceful athletes we have ever* seen. And finally, who is
-------------------------------------
endowed with that rare gift of being able to make hard things look easy.
Northwestern will be anything but easy tomorrow. The Wildcats have a group of potentially great sophomores playing with them, and in addition they are in-and-outers and pointing for Notre Dame. We repeat, gentlemen, this will not be an easy or even an ordinary game.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES
Charter > cruse
Suits •40, *45, *50 Overcoats
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT OUR STORE IS THE	.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	:
;	The character of the suits and	:
•	overcoats tailored by Charter House	£
will earn your most sincere liking.	"
?	MAX ADLER	3
a	4
“	Inc.	m
- . On the Corner Michigan and Washington —
QituiiiiittiiiiiiiiiittiniiiiittittiiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiittiiimiiititiitiiiiiiiimiititiiiiiiiiiititiiiiiitiitiiittiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiQ
s	,	Phone 3-1254	|
I	Drs. Singler & Probst	i
I	DENTISTS	]
|	,	261 Associates Bldg.	I
Experiment.
At the Best Mens’ Shops
Pretty lucky last Saturday with everyone winning, which gives us 12 victories and a tie out of 18 picked this season. Tomorrow we pick Stanford to upset California, Iowa to beat Michigan, and Yale to beat Harvard providing Albie Booth plays for old Eli; if Booth does not play we pick Harvard to win.
C. I. C. MEET TURNS OUT
TO BE “DUAL” CONTEST
In what was supposed to be the Central Intercollegiate Conference Championship, but which turned out to be hardly more than a dual meet between Michigan State and Notre Dame, the Spartans kept their perfect record unblemished last Saturday when they scored but nineteen points to Notre Dame’s thirty-six. Western State Normal, the only other team entered, was not represented by a full team so could not be counted in the scoring.
Lauren Brown, of Michigan State, led the harriers to the tape and was followed by Chamberlain, a teammate. Brown’s time was 26 minutes and 51 seconds, breaking the course record by nearly a minute. Alex .Wilson crossed the line first for Notre Dame in third place. Howery finished sixth, Biggins, eighth,; Cavanaugh, ninth; and Captain Quigley, who ran despite his recent injury, was tenth.
This meet closed the season for the Notre Dame team, and the squad was disbanded until the call for’ indoor track is given in December. Most of the harriers will be candidates for positions on the track team this winter and should make up a good part of the men for the distance and relay • events.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
321
OVERCOATS
Fashion Park
$45
Charter House
Hickey-Freeman
is only at Max Adler’s that you can obtain overcoats from such famous makers. Here you will find the newest in the Camel Hair, Montanacs, Fleeces, Bouchs in dressy models, Raglans, Ulsters, Chesterfields. The patterns you’ll like—and you’ll find they will give you exceptional wear.
$50
Camel Pile Overcoats
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER
MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON
322	The Notre Dame Scholastic
about
society brand clothes thomas craig clothes dobbs hats manhattan shirts florsheim shoes
a charge account
a charge account is a convenience—and we want our notre dame customers to fully avail themselves of the credit facilities that are open to them at this store, may we explain how you can establish a charge account here.
adler brothers