$29.50
Warm pure wool lined jacket for blustery weather wear.
Pure wool ccllarless jacket for casual wear.
Unlined outdoor jacket for mild weather wear.
For every reason in every season—it’s McGregor’s patented Triple Threat Convertible Jacket. Wear the complete jacket for the brisk, blustery days. Flip off the outer jacket and you’re wearing a fashionable pure wool collarless jacket for indoor or outdoor use. Or wear the outer jacket alone for the in-between days. Make all the changes with the sensational "quick-change” "Quick-Exit” zippers that flip you out with a lift of a finger! .......	. • . .
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
2
The Scholastic
Letters
Dear Editor:
Mr. Young writes a provocative and highly entertaining letter.
Since his questions are sincere and since his opinions of the Blue Circle are shared by numerous students, he deserves an adequate answer; especially when the Scholastic story was not concerned with the aura of synthetic mysticism which surrounds the circle.
The Circle is not the Notre Dame branch of the Black Dragon society and its meetings and activities are hardly clandestine rendezvous held in hollow trees. It meets every Monday evening in the rather prosaic Room 100 of the Law Building at 6:30. Drop in and see us, Mr. Young.
If the Blue Circle is anything, it is, to use the high dictum of official Notre Dame, “The operating unit of the Student Council.” Translated this means that the Circle is a group of honorary flunkies (there is no better word) who run the errands and sweep the floors after the Council hands down one of its monumental decisions. The Circle aids in elections, runs pep rallies, send-offs, victory dances, takes up collections and in general, all the pick and shovel work no one else will take on.
The boys on the circle are just ordinary, hard-working “Joes.” Their picture wasn’t in the Scholastic, not because of the cloak-and-dagger routine, but simply because there were too many of them to make good copy. You can find them, Mr. Young, on page 333 of the 1948 Dome.
The circle goes about its work without blowing its own horn too loudly; it was, as the poet put it, “. . . born to blush unseen.”
J. P. Walker,
Publicity Chairman, Blue Circle Dillon Hall
Dear Editor:
The WND staff is glad that the Messrs. Marshall, Hickman, Breslin, and Acey have expressed their dissatisfaction with our presentation of classical music on the Collegium Musicum show ... we welcome constructive criticism of our efforts.
Collegium Musicum is produced by Father Gallagher of the Department of Music and his assistants, who handle the writing of scripts, selection of music, and manner of presentation. The
Rasmussen Men's Shop
South Bend’s Best
Slacks for the smart college wardrobe
o
ALL WOOL
$12.95 up
Warm Up and Brighten Up Your Fall with . ..
•	Gabardines	*	Doeskins
•	Dog Tooth	Checks	*	Flannels
*	Worsteds	*	Corduroys
*	Coverts	*	Glen Plaids
Monday Store Hours: Noon ’til 8:30
Rasmussen
MEN'S SHOP
106-108 So. Main St.	130-132 W. Washington
Oct. 29, 1948
3
announcing and engineering is done by WND staff members.
With the expansion of broadcast hours this year, it has been necessary to enlarge our staff in order to handle the additional work. It was not possible for us to give the new announcers and engineers the amount of preliminary training that we would like to have given them. However, the performances to date have been, in general, satisfactory, and we are sure that the future will bring even better results.
At present we are actually devoting more time to the broadcast of classical music than is warranted by the results of the audience survey we conducted last spring.
On Friday, October 8, it was necessary to rearrange our program scheduling because of failure of our broadcasting equipment. We hope to avert such failures in the future by the installation of a new control panel and an auxiliary transmitter.
Lawrence D. Gilling, Business Manager Badin
Dear Mr. Roberts and Mr. Browser:
Thank you for your letter of constructive criticism in last week’s Scholastic. During each moment the Notre Dame Band is in the marching field an announcer is in the public address booth to describe the frolics of the men in blue and gold.
The half-time show for the game with Michigan State was so arranged that the musical continuity would present a short snappy program. In every show for the past four years we have tried to give adequate PA announcements,
but we also try to avoid being verbose because, from the technical angle, long announcements stop the tempo of the program. In the case of last week’s program, we did everything in our power to save time since we were the second band to appear on the field, and had the short end of the time allotment. If you will remember, we were just preparing to leave the field when the Michigan State team entered.
Again, we are sorry that you did not see our complete show, and we shall do everything in our power in the future to provide an interesting show and to describe it fully.
Chase Black Off-Campus
Dear Editor:
May I remind the Scholastic’s political writers that an objective analysis of a party is never realized in the absence of a penetrating analysis as well . . .
To brand the American Press as unfair in its treatment of Wallace and his Moscow vaudeville troupe, does in no way excuse your manifested gullibility.
You stated “He (Wallace) does not believe in appeasement.” In Philadelphia this same clown cried for the cessation of aid “to the Chiang Kai-shek dictatorship”— ignoring the obvious fact that Chiang is waging his war against the Communist army . . .
There is much apparent truth in Henry’s words and some of his aims are noble ones. But do these ends justify their realization by just any means? We don’t live in an idealistic society, but Henry and his gang of
petty crooks and Marxists are not going to give us a better one, despite his agitating pilgrimages through the south and his promises of a Utopian existence. As evidenced by his New York rally, Henry Agard Wallace is an island surrounded by people who don’t know what they want. But behind him stand men (Continued on Page 37)
For the One and Only
Flowers^? Williams
ORCHIDS & GARDENIAS
Specializing in Corsages
V
Williams, The Florist
219 West Washington
“Just West of the Oliver”
MAKE EXTRA MONEY
Excellent opportunity for live wire student interested in representing established Orchestra and Entertainment s e rv i c e. Generous commissions offered.
ZAINEY BROTHERS ENTERPRISES
304 Inland Building Indianapolis, Indiana
HERE’S THE ONLY SHOE
OF ITS KIND IN THE WORLD!
No other shoe has the hand-built, hand-pegged arch that can’t and won’t break down. It retains its original shape indefinitely! This is the same footwear with the famous “made-to-order feel” that has been manufactured since 1868 by the old guild of master shoemakers of The Copeland & Ryder Co., Jefferson, Wisconsin, now a division of The Scholl Mfg. Co., Inc. You’ll like the restful, firm, close fit it gives you under the arch . . . the energetic, well balanced footing it provides. Come in today for a new experience in walking pleasure!
FEET HURT? Take advantage of our Foot Relief Facilities: Dr. Scholl's Shoes, Foot Remedies, Arch Supports, Appliances, Surgical Hosiery. Trained Attendants. Private Fitting Rooms.
D?Scholl FOOT COMFORT SHOP
TELEPHONE 4-7471	215 WEST WASHINGTON
C. A. Heavington, prop.
4
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Bob Vierhile
Top of the Week
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” Light drama about ole South New York.
"And If I'm Elected, I'll...”
The march to the polls begins within five days. For the bean-fed students who have read the Chicago Tribune, the election campaign has been as one-sided as a Notre Dame-Nebraska game. And for the few Notre Dame men who have indulged in the trappings of the Chicago Daily News, those trunks that have been leaving the White House, for the last three weeks have been filled with nothing but Wheaties box-tops.
Unhappily there is no unbiased guide for the voters at Notre Dame. Choosing a president requires more knowledge, interpretation, and cool-headedness than squeezing an extended week end from a regulation-perplexed rector. However, in order that students everywhere may have a better understanding of what our cracker jacks of bombastic oratory are promising the American balloter, The Week hereby catalogues the nub of each candidate’s platform:
HARRY TRUMAN. Promises the man-in-the-street an even break—at the elbow. Can’t figure out why he’s in the street in the first place. Advocates old jobs back for government employees no longer government employees. Sticks to his record of having brought the U.S. out of “the most horrifying conflagration among the peoples of the world in the history of mankind.” Blames failure of U.S. foreign policy, sparseness of houses, and poor showing of the Navy football team on a bungling Republican congress. Claims, if re-elected, he will send Taft to China, Stassen to Siberia, Pegler to Hades.
THOMAS DEWEY. No mean shakes as a speaker. Got around the country plenty in his campaign. Claims Wisconsin cheese is better on the American table than Russian toapitski on the American table. No argument. Advocates the milking of Hereford and Jersey cows at least three times daily. Talks about what he’ll do about Russia in a mumbling, stuttering tone that reminds you of a Third Vice-Commissar asking-in at Oak Ridge. Assures citizens he’s picked up a lot of political
know-how as well as weight in the last four years.
HENRY WALLACE. Is sure of only one thing: that Roosevelt passed on during the wrong term. Agrees with Bertie McCormick that the Marshall Plan is a long-range plan to shortchange “the downtrodden American taxpayer.” Ducks flying eggs with the ease of a Coney Island vaudeviller. Denies that he’s a Red; says he’s a White; turns blue whenever that particular part of the alphabet, F-D-R, is repeated. Got his education at the Petrograd Plow - Every - Other - Row - Under-and-Give-the-Rest-to-Joe School. Not long for this world.
J. STROM THURMOND. Against the industrial North and Imperialist East. Against the President’s civil rights bill. Against freight rate discrimination. Against fascists. Against Russia. Against Republicans. FOR the South.
(Editor’s note: The Dixiecrat party was born last July of a meeting between a Biloxi mimeograph paper maker and a Tallahassee tobacco treater.. “Yes, sir, seventeen boys,” said the mimeograph paper maker introducing his family to the tobacco treater, “and all of them Democrats but, John, the little rascal; he got to readin’.” John was the Mississippi delegate at the Democratic convention.)	~❖ •
Once Over Lightly
It is rumored that the Office of Student Welfare is taking the students on the trip to Washington with them. . . . That steak (and I use the word loosely) we had the other night was so tough it knocked Ziggy down twice before he could set it on the counter. . . .
Probably Vince O'Reilly
Two Notre Dame students were out duck hunting at Barron lake last week when they saw some ducks overhead. One student, an engineering major, raised his gun, fired, and a duck fell to the ground. The commerce major (his gun still cold) said: “Why did you waste the lead? The fall alone would have killed him.”
Bottom of the Week
The Notre Dame student who thinks a crib is something babies sleep in.
Oct. 29, 1948
5
CALENDAR
OCTOBER 29
BALTIMORE, BEWARE—The sleepy-time NYC shoves off the St. Mary’s tracks at 5:30 sharp. All studes without passports (ID cards) will be unceremoniously let out at the Lake Erie siding thereby depriving themselves of seeing the Sisters of Melonius wave the Irish on, twenty miles outside Gunderson’s Gulch.
PALACE—Life With Father. William Powell and Irene Dunne do a pretty fair job on the stage-play adaptation of the red-haired family whose father doesn’t want to get baptized. Father relented when threatened with sitting through an entire performance of the companion feature, Checkered Coat.
OCTOBER 30
NOTRE DAME vs. NAVY—The Irish and the Middies resume their tete-a-tete which is probably one of the fiercest intersectional classics in football. John Harrington, Chicago newscaster, is hereby cordially invited to narrate the intramural chess matches in sub-Sorin after his horrible rendition of the Iowa tussle. In the words of the immortal bard . . . ‘Drop out, Harrington!’
ULINE ARENA—Downtown Washington plays host to 4,000 couples as the Wash., Md., Va. Club tosses the biggest social shebang of the season. Better borrow an anchor from the middies and hold tight; this is going to be a long, hard week end.
OCTOBER 31
GRANADA—For the South Bend faithful, Four Faces West makes its initial appearance. A show which has captured the sentiment of the ole Southwest, it looks like the best bet in a month of maneaters. Stars Joel McCrea, Francis Dee, and Charles Bickford. I Became a Criminal. Undoubtedly the words of the idiot who produced this farce.
NOVEMBER 1
ALL SAINTS DAY—Holy Day of Obligation. The Victory Special will start its weary way home.
NOVEMBER 2
ELECTION DAY—Classes start at ND. All the radios will resume activity without the gravel-hacking voice of Julius X. Schmellshaffer, Incumbent for Reelection as Subsectional Dogcatcher.
NOVEMBER 4
PALACE—Frankie Carle and orchestra will probably bring another terrible stage show. For those who would rather hear Frankie’s neat third notes instead of watching the painted faces of Claire and Voyant, the Sensational Clavicle Artists, here’s a hope. For the others, why not send them with C & V back to Ceylon with the next tea shipment? The picture is called I Surrender Dear.
COLFAX—Rope. Alfred Hitchcock tries a new camera technique with conflicting opinions of merit. Hitchcock catches two hours of straight dialogue without a change of scenery, something certainly new in screen ventures. James Stewart along with newcomers Farley Granger and John Dall turn in a good job about a ‘murder, just for the thrill of it!’
Stratigon Grill
The finest in foods . . .
SEA FOODS STEAKS CHOPS
Noon Lunches
“Art” Buchtel and “Harry” Reed Proprietors
"WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN MEET"
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
: W E L E P
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
BUSINESS SYSTEMS
Order Your
CHRISTMAS CARDS
Now!
Large Selections
Desk Lamps - Slide Rules Ring Binders - Notebooks
126 S. MAIN across from the courthouse
6
The Scholastic
^ohe. Shame
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 October 29, 1948 No. 6
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
&L Jofjn’g Wibersiitp
School of lato
Approved by the American Bar Association. Member of the Association of American Law Schools.
Three-year day and four-year evening courses leading to de- ' gree LL.B. (Summer Sessions conducted)
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
The Staff JOSEPH A. DOYLE, Editor Associate Editors
ROBERT T. STOCK JOSEPH HERRINGTON
KENNETH A. THOREN.________________News
VICTOR DORR______________Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN.____________Features
HARRY MONAHAN___________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT_________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER_____________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN_______________Librarian
L. A. KYSER________________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE_________Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK._____________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL_________Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN._____Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: If all signs are right, Tom Dewey is on his way to the Capitol Building in Washington for a real, old-fashioned Republican inaugural speech the first week in January. Notre Darners making the student trip will beat him there by about two months when they roar into town after the Navy game tomorrow evening, there to raise
more fuss than the whole of the Grand
Old Party on election night.
—Photo by J. W. Stinchcomb
Students are admitted to the School of Law in September and February.
>
Candidates for the February 1949 Class are required to register for the Law School Admission Test prior to November 6, 1948.
REGISTRAR:	.	96 Schermerhorn St.
Brooklyn 2, New York
Corsages
~ FOR THAT DANCE
Flowers for All Occasions
Flowers Wired to Every City and Town in the World
South Bend Floral Co.
114 So. Michigan	Phone 3-8227
SURPLUS PORTABLE MICROSCOPES
We offer a limited quantity of surplus portable microscopes for sale. These are all new, in original cartons and cost many times the price for which they are now being offered.
Specifications: Overall height 8 inches, turret with three different powers. Will accept auxiliary eyepiece for higher powers desired. Fully adjustable on tiltback base. Optical system: Pitch-polished lenses.
These portable microscopes are offered subject to prior sale on the following terms: Price $9.00, includes shipping and packing charges. Check or money order should be sent with your order or §2.50 deposit, the microscope to be sent C.O.D. for balance. Any check received after the quantity has been sold will be returned promptly.	.
Gibson Page Company, Inc.
DEALERS IN WAR SURPLUS
Box 1130	Rochester 2,* New York
Oct. 29, 1948
7
Here’s how YOU can win the Gold Bars off an Army Officer
TWO NEW WAYS TO JOIN THE RANKS OF AMERICA’S YOUNG LEADERS
DIRECT COMMISSION
A commission as second lieutenant in the Officers’ Reserve Corps with a 2-year initial tour of active duty is ready for you if you meet these requirements: one year of honorable service in any of the Armed Forces between 7 December 1941 and 30 June 1947; have completed two years at an accredited college or university; U. S. citizenship; AGCT score of
110 or better; not more than 32 years old; physically fit. Once commissioned, you’ll be assigned to a 3-month officers’ training school, and, on successful completion, you’ll be free to compete for a Regular Army Commission if you meet the competitive tour age requirements. Go to your nearest U. S. Army and U. S. Air Force Recruiting Station for complete details at once.
OCS FOR HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATES
If you’ve graduated from high school or can pass an equivalent examination, are between 19 and 28 years old, are a U. S. citizen, and have necessary physical qualifications, apply now for enlistment for Army OCS. After your application is approved, you’ll be enlisted as a Sergeant and given basic training if you have not had it already, then sent direct to Officer Candidate School, subject to
quotas, of course. Upon graduation, you’ll be commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Reserve, and placed on two years of active duty. Top OCS graduates are commissioned in the Regular Army—all others may compete for a Regular Army Commission. Get all the facts about applying for OCS entrance at your nearest U. S. Army and U. S. Air Force Recruiting Station without delay!
NEW ACTIVE-DUTY OPPORTUNITIES FOR OFFICERS See Reserve or National Guard Instructor, or local recruiting station.
For further information
RECRUITING HEADQUARTERS 106 Monroe Street	South Bend, Indiana
The Scholastic

SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 6 r OCTOBER 29, 1948
Navy Special Rolls for All Points East
Elliott Lawrence Tops Sophomore Cotillion
The greatest collegiate band favorite in the nation, Elliott Lawrence and his orchestra, has been signed to appear here for the 1948 Sophomore Cotillion, November 26 in South Bend’s Palais Royale ballroom, it was announced today by the co-chairmen of the dance, Tom Logan and Ray Miller.
As the Cotillion looms but a few weeks away, the committee chairmen have been conducting an intensive program of preparation for- this, the greatest of the fall dances on the campus. The announcement that Lawrence’s famous orchestra “the band that’s sweet with a beat,” will be on hand, is expected to send bid sales soaring to the limit when it opens next week. Of the several “name” bands that have appeared for class dances at Notre Dame in recent years, Lawrence’s orchestra can claim a top position for all-round popularity.
BABE RUTH STADIUM — Scene of the Battle
The first dance bids will be set for sale beginning Monday, the first of November, with Bob Klingenberger and George Lawson in charge of the bid committee. For the first week the sales will be open to sophomores only from a booth in Morrissey Hall. Beginning the second week, and continuing thereafter, the sales will be conducted in the basement of the dining hall. The price for the dance bids, of which there are an estimated 600, has been tentatively set at $5.40.
Date tickets for the Washington game may be purchased with the bids for an additional $3.60, but according to the present set-up, it includes only a single ticket, and students must continue to use their celluoid pass unless they buy two game tickets. Promoting the Football ticket sales are Jack Coryn and Paul Bush.
Walt McGovern, chairman of the hotel committee has announced that there are (Continued on Page 24)
Dance, D. C. Tours Top Trip Highlights
Leaving studies and worries behind, some students are leaving this afternoon on the annual student football trip week end. The 1948 objective is Baltimore, Washington and points east.
The scheduled time for supper has been pushed back, with the dining hall now scheduled to open at 4:30. Since the wise train engineer wants to beat No. 10 onto the main track, he has listed 5:15 sharp as the starting time of the Navy Special.
While most of the cars will settle down to comparative silence, the band car will be whooping it up in traditional student trip style. All the band’s newcomers will be formerly initiated into Mr. Hope’s contingent of cain-raisers until the early hours in the morning.
Game in Babe Ruth Stadium
Baltimore will be reached at 11:30 tomorrow morning, barring flats. Kickoff time is at two with the week-enders sitting in the best seats in the mammoth, newly renamed Babe Ruth Stadium.
The fun-seekers will be corralled back to the Clifton Park Station where they will board the train for the final lap of the trip to Washington.
Busses are to be waiting to take the baggage-laden students to the Annapolis Hotel, smack in the center of the downtown D. C. area. Reservations will be passed about on the train, facilitating the mob at the sign-in desk. -
Victory Dance in Uline Arena
The Washington, Maryland, Virginia Club will unveil their weeks of preparation victory dance at 9 o’clock at the Uline Arena. Larry Clinton and his “new look” orchestra will play for the 4,000 couples. The entire proceeds will be directed toward the Foreign Student Relief drive.
Sunday will find the Irish rooters dis-(Continued on Page 34)
Oct. 29, 1948
9
It's the GOP by a Mie as Campus*Wide Straw Vote Rolls Up 8-5 Margin for Dewey
It’s back to the haberdashery for Harry next January, according to Notre Dame student opinion on the ’48 presidential elections. In a poll conducted among nearly 750 students, the Irish voters predicted a sweeping victory for the elephant herds next Tuesday with Rajah Tom Dewey leading the charge, from his howdah, right up the front steps of the White House.
With the men who claim to know politics best, it’s Dewey, 8 to 5, a total of 403 students answered the question: “Whom do you intend to (or would you) vote for?” by naming Dewey. President Truman could garner only 274 supporters in the grand-scale straw vote.
’ Besides gaining a large over-all margin, Governor Dewey managed to carry every hall on the campus individually, with the exception of St. Ed’s, where Truman scored a 23-16 victory. In rockbound Republican Cavanaugh, the Deweyites rolled up better than a two to one score for their man, as helpless Harry went down, crushed, under a 35-14 avalanche.
Apparently, the red-hot enthusiasm of the Rebel States-Righters had been chilled somewhat by the brisk Indiana weather. J. Strom Thurmond, Dixiecrat governor of South Carolina, could muster only 18 votes to stagger in, a tired third.
Tinges of pink showed here and there on the Notre Dame campus, as egg-pelted but undaunted Henry Wallace got the nod from 14 students. Norman Thomas, who never seems to get tired of running for president on the Socialist ticket, eked out 10 ballets.
Maybe they’re just a couple of proud Wisconsinites, or a pair of never-say-die Hearst backers, but two students in Badin insisted that Douglas MacArthur should be the “Man of the Hour.”
Radicals and Progressives (or else just plain jokesters) seemed to be the order of the day over in Breen-Phillips Hall. Of the 62 B.P. men polled, only 50 strung along with the “Big Two.” Thurmond won three votes, H. Agar Wallace snared four; and perennial Norman Thomas got exactly half of his total number of votes there, five!
One of the Dillon men had a sentimental reason for voting Socialist. . “It’s civic pride,” he insisted. “Thomas comes from my home town!”
Although the cross section of the entire campus is probably more accurate, the most thorough canvass of any one
residence hall showed Dewey’s margin to be a little more slim. In Farley Hall, where Scholastic reporter Lou Meece questioned almost 160 students, Tom Dewey finished with an 80-69 advantage.
DEWEY — Or Do We Not?
In every poll, it seems, there are a few members of the more conservative element who fill up that last column, marked “Undecided.” Eleven Notre Dame men kept up tradition by declining to give any public opinion whatsoever. Well, it’s a free country, ain’t it?
	Dewey	Truman	Wallace Thurmond	
Badin ... 			 22	14		
Lyons 			 23	14	1	• >
Howard 			 2b	14		
Sorin 		....... 29	10	1	
Caf 			 21	lb		2
Farley 			 80	69	1	5
Huddle ...	..	24	15		1
Zahm 			 22	13	2	1
Cavanaugh .		 25	14		1
Dillon			 18	14	3	
Walsh 			19	16		
Momssev 			 23	14		1
B .p			11	4	3
St td s			 lb	23	1	
Alumni			 19	14	1	
	— -	- . .	——	
Totals	403	274	14	18
Twenty-three votes		were scattered		bringing the
final total to	732 men	polled.		
Boys Town Choir to Sing In Navy Drill Hall on Nov. 9
The famed Boys Town Choir of 50 voices will appear in Notre Dame Navy - Drill Hall on Nov. 9, it was announced this week. The choir, which was founded by the late Rt. Rev. Msgr. Edward J. Flanagan, is now under the direction of Rev. Francis P. Schmitt.
Under Father Schmitt’s leadership
tne choir has grown from 35 voices to a present total of 100 voices, 50 of whom are selected annually to make up the traveling concert choir. Also under Father Schmitt’s direction at Boys Town are a 40-voice liturgical choir and a 30-voice chancel choir.
The Mishawaka Kiwanis club, sponsors of the event, also announced that the concert will consist of a medley of ■ Viennese numbers, and favorites by Victor Herbert, Johann Strauss, Jerome Kern, and Rudolph Friml.
Tickets are on sale in most business establishments in Mishawaka and at Copp’s Music store in South Bend. Mail orders may be sent to P. O. Box No. 202, Mishawaka.
WND to Start Wake-up Show At 6:30 Next Tuesday Morn
That spot, 630 on your radio dial, is really becoming the big-time station you’ve waited for so long. Beginning on Tuesday, November 2, WND will join the alarm-clock and rooster parade at the break of each day. At 6:30 in the ay-em from that morning on, it will be “The Six-Thirty Club.” You’ll have no trouble finding that number on your dial, just remember that name, the time, and you’re in.
The wake-up show will feature added innovations besides the music it will present from 6:30 until 8:00 a.m. The time will be given every five minutes or so, just in case you’re a snoozer in the early hours and like to lay there half awake until five minutes before that all-important Mass-check. Another convenient service will be the weather report at regular intervals, just so you won’t have to crawl out of the sack to have a look-see yourself.
Frank Venner, your moonlight ser-enader each evening, will be “The Voice.” Remember, beginning the morning after the Navy weekend has become history, WND will begin a new chapter in its own log — The Six-Thirty Club, at 6:30 a.m., 630 on your dial.
South Benders Reorganize
At a reorganizational meeting last week the Villagers’ Club awakened from its long-time lethargy. New officers were elected and promised to make the current year the greatest in history. Flans include the annual Christmas dance, a search for a between-classes lounge, a study of the parking problem and a membership drive. Other officers are Tom Hynes, president; Dan Bren- • nan, vice-president; John Armstrong, recording secretary, and Tom Flock, corresponding secretary. Bill Van Scoik was elected treasurer and Carl Streb-inger was elected sergeant-at-arms.
10
The Scholastic
If You Don't Like the Saturday Night Show In Washington Hall, Blame the Warner Bros.
Blue Circle Picks Fourteen; Serve Three Semesters
Students of this honored and esteemed institution have been heard to wonder aloud concerning the quality of the motion pictures shown every week at Washington Hall. In an attempt to find out just what the score is on these pictures, Scholastic sent a reporter to interview the first in command, Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., who is in charge of lining up movies for Notre Dame.
Father Burke explained the situation. The pictures shown here are distributed by the Warner Brothers Circuit, a Chicago agency which selects the pictures to be shown in all the Warner theaters throughout Illinois and Wisconsin. Understandably, this agency must protect the commercial theaters; they are given priority over all institutions. There is an arrangement with the theaters in South Bend which governs the pictures to be shown at Notre Dame. According to this set-up no picture may be shown in Washington Hall until it has had three runs in South Bend. Each of these runs must be no less than one month after the previous showing. Thus, no picture may be shown in Washington Hall until at least three months after its first appearance in a South Bend theater.
There are still further complications. After leaving South Bend, a picture may go to Chicago or elsewhere, leaving no prints available for Notre Dame-
Each month Father Burke submits a list of pictures which he believes will be enjoyed by the students. The agency also has a list of pictures released for distribution to institutions. If Father Burke’s pictures are among those released, the students see them during the month. If, on the other hand, they have not been released, the agency sends pictures of its own choosing. It is in the latter situation that poor movies turn up. Hence the comments by the students.
Pictures shown here are made by nearly all the top studios except United Artists. Productions of some of the rising new independent studios are also included in the number.
For the remainder of October and the month of November the pictures seem to be pretty good, much better than some of the mediocre class B shows which have appeared in Washington Hall to date. This time Father Burke was able to get most of the pictures he wanted. The schedule from tomorrow till November 24: •
October 30—The Bishop's Wife, a Walt Disney Cartoon and News Reel.
October 31—Magic Town, a Disney Cartoon and News.
November 6—The Miracle of the Bells, Disney cartoon and News Reel.
November 13—The Fiiller Brush Man, a Sports Reel and News.
November 20 — I Remember Mama, another Disney cartoon, and News Reel.
November 24—Tycoon, a Disney cartoon and a News Reel. —Lou Mecce
Hungarian Instructor Stricken In Chicago
Doctor Zoltan Baranyai, 63, instructor in the Department of Political Science at Notre Dame, collapsed and died of a heart attack in Chicago Sunday night.
Dr. Baranyai, former Hungarian consul in Chicago before the war, had been on a two-week visit with Dr. Frederick Hiller of Northwestern University. He was leaving a gathering in an Elm avenue apartment hotel when stricken.
After the outbreak of hostilities in World War II, Dr. Baranyai relinquished his consulship and was returned to his native land. After the war he received his appointment to Notre Dame and joined the faculty here in September.
The Glee Club took time off last week for a picnic at the home of its director, Daniel Pedtke. Above, some of the club members group around a log fire and prepare to cut loose with a little harmonizing. Over a hundred singers gathered for the picnic, which was arranged by Al Gavan and John Commerford. The Glee Club is using a two-team system this year, so the party helped the old group get acquainted with the new.
After much deliberation, the membership committee of the Blue Circle elected on Monday evening fourteen new members to the select organization. From a large number of applicants, the prospects were carefully considered and as a result of a systematic narrowing down process the following men were selected: Robert Malloy, Alumni; John Maarhead, Dillon; Don Ratchford, Alumni; Phil Aquino, Cavanaugh; Frank Novak, Alumni; George DeKime, Alumni; Peter Sheehan, Alumni; Charles Mauch, Cavanaugh; Tom Kennedy, Lyons; John Thornton, Cavanaugh; Tom Ninneman, Cavanaugh; William Powers, Cavanaugh; James McLaughlin, Cavanaugh, and William Van Scoik, off-campus.
Chairman Bernie Powers announced that fourteen men had been chosen instead of the customary twelve in order to fill two vacant positions in the club. The new members of the circle will serve for three semesters and after completing their term of membership, the organization will select a few from this group to serve on the Stay Council as permanent members. There are ten men on the Stay Council.
Oct. 29, 1948
11
Knights of Columbus Plan Annual Formal November 12
“A friendly formal is our aim,” says John Tuite, chairman of the Knights of Columbus Dance Committee, in reference to the affair that is to be held at the Erskine Country Club on November 12. Gene Hull, victory dance maestro, will provide the music from nine to one.
In order to avoid a large crowd, only 100 tickets at §3.60 a couple are on sale for K-C members. However, several tickets may be released to non-members if the ticket sale slows down.
Usually, the Knights’ annual dances have been held in the spring, but the change was made to avoid conflicts with the numerous other' social activities held at that time of the year.
Natural Law Institute Holds 2-Day Program
A two-day program for the second annual Natural Law Institute to be held on Friday and Saturday, December 10 and 11, has been announced by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. The program will be devoted to the historic development of the natural law and to an exposition of the current conditions of the natural law philosophy in American jurisprudence. Eminent scholars will present the natural law in the Greek, Roman, Mediaeval and Renaissance periods, while a distinguished member of the Federal bench will describe the natural law philosophy under present conditions and will discuss its prospects in the future.
This year’s institute, which will be open to the public, is being sponsored by Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati, O., businessman. In explaining the purpose of the Natural Law Institute, Dr. Clarence E. Manion, dean of the College of Law, said that “the Institute will provide an opportunity for educators and jurists to discuss issues which are vital to the safety, freedom and happiness of every man, woman and child, especially in today’s conflict of ideologies.”
Some of the questions the institute will attempt to answer are: “Does the individual man have rights? If so, where do these rights come from? If they come from constitutions and bills of rights what is to prevent someone from changing these constitutions and taking these rights away?” Stating the purpose of the Institute, Dean Manion declared: “The purpose of the Natural Law Institute at Notre Dame, then, is to discuss such questions, and I think the answers will be interesting and important.”
"Milky Way" Cast Begins Rehearsals
“The play’s the thing,...” so the poet said. And that very thought seemed foremost to the members of the newly-selected cast of the University Theater’s Milky Way, as they wound up the first of six weeks gruelling rehearsal today, still determined to make the first of this year’s dramatic productions the best to hit the boards of Washington Hall.
Scheduled to run for five nights beginning November 28, The Milky Way is the inaugural production of three stage plays planned for the student body under the auspices of the University Theater. Boasting a talented cast of nine, and under the capable direction of Leonard F. Sommer, this comedy-farce by Lynn Root and Harry Clork shapes up as one of the most attractive performances to be presented on the campus in recent years.
The cast was chosen last week after a series of competitive tryouts had been
Harlan
The Cast at Rehearsal
held among a large number of students. In the leading role is Pat McAteer, who portrays Burleigh Sullivan, a meek, inoffensive milkman, who attains notoriety by accidentally knocking out the world’s middle-weight champion and thereby setting the hilarious plot in action. Pat, an Arts and Letters sophomore from Pittsburgh, is one of the two second year men in the freshman-dominated cast. His previous dramatic experience includes high school and Catholic Theater Guild work. As his female counterpart in the play is Agnes Anthony of South Bend, better known as “Father Kehoe’s redhaired secretary.” She plays Jane Sullivan, the love interest in the story.
Speed McFarland, the middle-weight champion of the world, is honored by having his role assigned to two members of the cast, Jack Powell of Kansas City, Kansas, and Dan Caulfield, of Long Beach, Calif. According to Mr. Sommer, their tryout talents registered so much alike that the role is to be divided between them with three performances each.
Gabby Sloan, the champion’s explosive manager goes to Edward Goerner, of Brooklyn, N. Y., and Zahm Hall. Spider, McFarland’s attentive trainer, is played by Lou Garripo, commerce freshman from Chicago. Jack Keane, from Fort Wayne, Ind., also a commerce freshman, does his part as Willard, the inevitable sports writer. The two remaining roles, those of Anne Westley and Wilbur Austin are played by Marth Jo Harper of Niles, Mich., and Dudley Birder, of South Bend, respectively. Dudley, an Arts and Letters Junior, has appeared in several previous campus productions, as well as in the CYO Theater in South Bend.
The rehearsal process is now devoted to “blocking the play,” that is, learning what positions to take, where and when on the stage. The group will continue to practice four times each week up until the opening night, November 28.
Concert Orchestra Ready; Biondo Sets Nov. 23 Date
The Notre Dame Concert Orchestra has passed the sight-reading stage now and has begun practice in earnest on the numbers they will play at their* first concert, to be given in Washington Hall Tuesday evening, Nov. 23. Professor Charles Biondo thinks the group is progressing rapidly and looks forward to a good showing. The pieces being worked on now are Shubert’s Unfinished Symphony, the Euryanthe Overture by C. M. Von Weber*, and Fingal’s Cave, by Mendelssohn. This last contains brilliant woodwind and brass passages which convey the atmosphere of the rolling and echoing sea.
The 51 members now include:
Violins: Bill Cullen, Oick Eykholt. Bill Gibbons, Ralph Gossard, Ernie McCullough, Robert Shafer, Ed Sulivan, Dr. Parnell, Dave Folkoff, Brother Roberto Muller, Brother Joseph Clark, J. Trembonius, Carl Cunningham, Rudy di Trampanico, Bob Kis-kowski, Dr. Braunsdorf, Ed Kapsa, Henry Malinowski, Bob Lundquist and John Flentz.
Timpany: Bill MacMillan and Fred Link.
Violas: Wayne Chandler, Ed Fichtner, John Lambert and Paul Shlichta.
Cellos: Bill Owen. Ward McCabe, Charles Kopp, Mr. Nuner, James Barnett and Joseph Genisse.
Bass Viol: Ed Vlaun and Gene Craus.
Flutes: Jim Carrig, John Reynolds and Ray Mun-zelle.
Piano: Charles Leinhart.
Oboe: Hugh Baker.
Clarinets: Ronald Myrter and Gene Hull.
Bassoons: Andy Fairlee and Dick Hof.
Trumpets: Bob Olcese, Charles McCabe and Bill Frawley.
Horns: Hank Ketterer, Dick Glass and Joe Daniel.
Trombones: Steve Bolger and Ed Conroy.
12
The Scholastic
Si. Mary's and Notre Dame Glee Clubs Present "The Annunciation"
Musical Season Opens With Mediaeval Play
With an adaptation of a mediaeval liturgical play, this year’s musical season opened in Washington Hall last Monday. For an audience that filled the hall, the glee clubs of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame, directed by Father William McAuliffe, presented The Annunciation.
Musically, the mediaeval mystery was more modern than would be expected from its title. Simple melodies replaced the original chants and a hymn arranged in full choral harmony set off each of the play’s three divisions. Fathei-Gallagher, the composer and piano accompanist of the play, stated, “We did not try to reconstruct The Annunciation exactly as it was played in mediaeval times, but to arrange it in a musical form which would more easily reach the modem listener, that of a cantata.”
The soprano, contralto, and baritone leads, respectively those of Dorothy Biro, Evelyn Sabol, and John Broderick added to the performance. Carl Mathes’ organ accompaniment and the clean attack of the chorus also deserve attention. However, if one individual performance is taken as noteworthy, it would be that of Joseph Sarka in the role of the Angel Gabriel.
A rather lengthy piano and organ introduction representing the procession to the market place opened the mediaeval mystery. The play itself began with
the section entitled “The Prophecies.” Chanted or sung by the chorus, the predictions dealt with the coming of the Saviour. John Broderick, a king of Juda, answered the chorus. “The Prophecies” ended with the hymn “Hail Thou Star of the Sea.”
Opening the second section, “The Action,” the Angel Gabriel appeared to Mary, played by Dorothy Biro, to announce that she is blessed for “the holy which shall come of thee shall be called the Son of God.”
Telling of the Visitation, the narrator began the final portion of the play, “The Magnificat.” Evelyn Sabol as Elizabeth, sang her salutation to Mary, ending, “all things shall be accomplished that were spoken to thee by the Lord.” Climaxing the third section, the Virgin Mary replied to Elizabeth over a choral background with the joyful Magnificat. A short instrumental interlude together with the hymn, “Oh Holy Virgin Mary,” concluded The Annunciation.—Joe Lang
Midwestern Industrialists Speak at Commerce Seminar
Two prominent midwestern industrialists delivered the second in a series of nine Bishop O’Hara Seminar Lectures last Monday and Tuesday. Mr. Walter Mitchell, director of engineering at the Independent Pneumatic Tool Company in Chicago, spoke on “Research Engineering” and Mr. James Hamilton, vice-president of the Dumore
Company in Racine, Wis. (ND grad, Class of ’35), talked on the “Four M’s of Industry: Management, Machinery,. Materials and Men.”
These lectures honor the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., former president of Notre Dame and now Bishop of Buffalo, and are being held to correlate theoretical classroom instruction in industrial management and practical experience in the field. All seniors in the College of Commerce are required to attend the lectures.
Jim Cassidy Elected Student Council Prexy
Election of officers highlighted the Student Council meeting held Monday night. Jim Cassidy, Stay Council chairman, was unanimously chosen president. Other new officers are vice-president Kevin Harrigan, secretary John Walker, treasurer Jack Kennedy, and Executive council members Bob Campbell, senior; Jim Conway, junior; also elected by acclamation; and Bill Kirshner, sophomore.
First in importance was the decision, after lengthy discussion and passage of a motion and a counter-motion, to set the Northwestern game weekend as the date for hall decorations. In connection with this event, Blue Circle President Bill Duggan asked the Council to define the activities of his organization. Accordingly, John O’Donnell moved that hall decorations should be the responsibility of the new hall councils, and that the Blue Circle should supervise the decorating and appoint a committee of judges. The motion was carried.
Choice of the Northwestern game weekend for hall decorations came only after a passed motion for the Washington game weekend by Kevin Harrigan had been reconsidered through another motion by Pete Brown. Lou Burns at length moved that the date be changed to the Northwestern weekend, and the measure was passed.
After the balloting President Cassidy announced that from November 28 to December 4 any student who wishes to be X-rayed for tuberculosis will have the opportunity. The charge will be 15 cents.
John O’Donnell then recommended that the standing committees be appointed, and moved that the Council resolve to empower a special committee to confer with Father Kehoe on a uniform system of approving student activities, with the object of creating as little duplication of approval as possible. The motion was carried. The meeting was adjourned after some discussion on the possibility of directing the Blue Circle to decorate the Drill Hall for one of the Victory Dances.
Oct 29, 1948
13

Washington..
Once Burned By British, Now:
I
, On to Washington! The British used | that as their battle cry when they attacked and burned the gem of the Po-I tomac on August 14, 1814. This after-i noon a horde of Notre Dame men are re-echoing the same chant as they prepare to descend upon the nation’s capitol for a weekend of slightly uninhibited fun. By way of following through on the British analogy, it can be added that there will again be a hot time in the old town when the Irish arrive.
The Navy game in Baltimore tomorrow afternoon is the main reason for going for some, while for others it is merely an excuse. Mr. Ford’s minions will ladle out the Friday night special at 4:30 this afternoon and then the march down the lane will begin. With grips in hand, upwards of five hundred men will head for the St. Mary’s siding to board the American equivalent of
By KEN THOREN
the infamous 40 and 8’s which will chug out at 5:15 sharp.
Tired, scraggly, but expectant, the weekenders will come to a screeching halt at the Clifton Park Station in Baltimore, whose whereabouts few from the Maryland city seem to know. If there is such a thing as a platform at the station there -will be scores of wel-comers, including parents and dates, awaiting the fun-seeking NDers.
Since the station is far from the downtown area they will have to rely on nearby cafes and bean-wagons for lunch. The only point of interest within proximity to the apparently fictional station is the City College. The Stadium is but a few blocks from that
point so all shined shoes will undoubtedly start for it.
Midshipmen to Parade
The spit and polish sailors are scheduled to hip-hup-trep-four onto the field at 1:15. Our- band will march on amid hectic shouts of approval and then the starting whistle will blow and the game will be underway. Most prognosticators predict our twenty-fourth victory. Some secret salvoes might be in store for the Blue and Gold mastodons, but more likely than not the Victory Dance that night for the Irish won’t be mis-labeled.
If enough telephone poles have notches marked in them, the student trippers should not have too much difficulty in finding their way back to the parked luxury coaches. A comparatively short trip will carry them south and then the conductor will shout, “Washington, all out.”
THE SUPREME COURT BUILDING — Equal Justice Under Law
Bulging With Bureaucrats
The Annapolis Hotel, deep in the midtown section, has been primed for the Irish deluge. After clean showers, close shaves and new white shirts, the joy-boys will next be interested in applying that brand new coat of red paint to the capital city.
Chow Hounds' Paradise
Although it cannot be said that the night life of Washington equals that of either New York or Chicago, there is still more than enough there to keep the most rambunctious gay blade busy. Those who still remember what good food tastes like will not go wrong if they try one of the following eateries: For connoisseurs of sea food it would be hard to beat O’Donnell’s in the business district, or either Hogates’ or the Stables down on the waterfront.
Harvey’s is good and the Iron Gate Inn is also highly recommended. The Occidental and Ebbett’s are two more top restaurants. All restaurants have their own special dishes, drinks, and what-have-you. Duncan Hines says there are several places worth his approval and he expects a lot.
Once the belts have been unhooked a peg, all roads will lead to the gigantic Victory Dance that the Washington, Maryland, Virginia club has planned at the Uline Arena. Larry Clinton on the podium, guest stars, blind dates and several liquid stalls should add up to a memorable shindig.
Night-Spots Blister Town
For those whose wallets are bursting at the seams, and who might like to take in a few of the brighter spots before hitting the dance, the following are the best bets. The Shoreham’s Blue Boom, the Statler, the Carlton or the Willard are all great, especially since they boast neither a cover nor a minimum. The 823 Club, an intimate German Rathskeller, is a well known Georgetown gathering place and also high on the preferred list. A warning, however,
VIEW PHOTOS FOR THIS FEATURE By I- W. Stinchcomb, Washington RIGHT: The National Gallery of Art
should be warranted before stepping into this particular bistro; during the course of the evening college songs and cheers generally rattle the beams. Unless you can sing the Victory March louder than the Georgetown contingent can say Hoya-Hoya-Saxa-Saxa (whatever that means) then it is perhaps best not to enter.
Compared to other world capitals where all art forms flourish, Washington’s stage is in a deplorable state. The legitimate theaters had been reduced to
a lone entry until even that was erased last August because of its refusal to accept an Equity ultimatum concerning anti-discrimination. The only productions that are now presented are those of the local college units.
Catholic University’s speech and drama department is regarded as one of the top groups in the country. They present five plays during the winter season with runs of several weeks each. If one is now on then it is worth an attempt to get tickets for it. Sunday
Oct. 29, 1948
Dancing at the Uline .. .
evening performances are scheduled in the new and large university theater with tickets scaled at a moderate rate.
Two blocks from the Annapolis is F Street, which is recognized as the main drag in town. Movie palaces line the street with films that should not, by all odds, reach South Bend until some time next Easter. The Capitol Theater boasts a stage show, along with a current flicker, but they are generally poor facsimiles of those that are presented in either New York or Chicago.
Cinderella’s clock strikes at twelve, turning Washington as dry as a martini. (It stays that way all day Sunday, too.) The late celebraters might ba interested in the printers’ Mass which is said at 2 a.m. in the Immaculate Conception Church at 1315 Eighth St. N.W. For those who hit the sack early, there are regular Sunday morning Masses at nearby St. Patrick’s. To combine worthwhile sightseeing with Mass, one can go out to the magnificent Shrine of the Immaculate Conception at Catholic University or else the picturesque Franciscan Monastery. Both can be reached by taking either the Brookland street car or else the crosstown busses labeled either Blandensburg-North Dakota or Catholic University.
Good Weather Awaits Crowd
The large number of elderly people lounging in the more than six hundred, statue-studded parks can be considered as ample proof of the salubrity of Washington’s climate. During the summer months the soggy humidity from the mud-hued Potomac is discomfiting, to be sure, but at this time of the year the visitors will probably find stimulating fall weather, unless an unforeseen tempest should twist up from the Dixie-crat South.
Sunday will be marked down for sightseeing by most. Tours can be arranged by local companies in the Annapolis lobby. For those who choose to take off on their own we offer the following. Like most historic spots it would take weeks, if not months, to see all of Washington. But few will want to miss the Capitol, the Jefferson Memorial, the Supreme Court, the Washington Monument, or the Lincoln Memorial, which many consider to be the most inspiring structure in Washington, especially when it is lighted at night.
Trinity Tea Dance
An invitation from the hospitable girls of Trinity College has been made to all Notre Dame men for a tea dance (can t get away from them) on Sunday afternoon, it will be held exclusively for the Irish, so chances of catching a dilly should be high.
Other spots of unequalled interest include the gigantic National Gallery of Art and the curio-packed Smithsonian Institute. The Library of Congress, with its 5,000,000 books and 2,500,000 maps and charts and musical compositions, is not only worth seeing but also undoubtedly contains most of the departmental books which some lunatics might want to catch up on.
The Folger Shakespearean Library, directly behind the Library of Congress, is another point of lasting interest, as is also the Ford Theater, which houses the Lincoln Museum. All of these buildings are open for tourists on Sunday.
The White House, whose occupant’s lease is up for either renewal or refusal next Tuesday, can be admired only from without the imposing iron gates, except for a few of the ground floors. More strings than it takes to manipulate a marionette have to ba pulled in order to get a pass with which to inspect the entire bungalow.
Washington’s home at Mount Vernon is another beautiful sight on most tourists’ must-see lists. The only disadvantage, however, is the fact that it takes several hours to reach the shrine, and will logically chop off time in D.C.
GUY PERENICH
18
The Scholastic
FBI Open for Inspection
For those who have always had a secret ambition of being a bang-bang G-Man, there is the FBI tour in the Department of Justice Building at Ninth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue. Although closed on Sunday the tours leave regularly from Room 5636 on Monday morning.
The beautiful Grecian and modern form city, which is the product of Major Charles L’Enfant’s imaginative and structurally clean brain, is a surprisingly easy city in which to get around. Although the insides of many of the buildings lack universal interest, theii-exteriors are always useful for the taking of snapshots which will be eventually sent home with the added inscription — the spot is your doting son, blank, on his educational, at least during the daytime, trip to Washington.
At night the entire city becomes a flame of color. The scenic-swept Mall is awe-inspiring with its reflected pools and bordered masterpieces of architectural art.
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS — Missourians Do Outside Reading
Week End Ends Monday Noon
Monday morning will start off with Mass for all and then some hectic sightseeing that was missed on Sunday. At twelve noon sharp the Union Station’s gates will close and the long journey home will have begun. The hospitality of the North and South, of which Washington is an apex, will be left behind.
The bumpy sweep west will be occupied by rehashes of the week end, cards, summaries of the blind dates and general bull sessions. At best the weekend can only be remembered, never repeated. But it is more than likely that the unanimous agreement will be that the “attack” on Washington was great.
CHARLES CARTER
Capitol Sales Soar For Post-Game Dance
Ticket sales for the Notre Dame-Navy Victory Dance in Washington tomorrow night are booming among colleges in the Baltimore-Washington area, according to co-chairmen Charles Carter-and Charles Hellmuth. Dance big-wigs believe that the 4000-couple. capacity of the huge Uline Arena may be reached. Music will be supplied by Larry Clinton and his “new look” orchestra.
Grantland Rice, dean of American sports writers, has been added to the list of nationally known celebrities expected to attend the Ball, sponsored by the Washington, Maryland and Virginia Club of N.D. Others include Harry Wismer, Arthur Godfrey, Secretary of the Navy John L. Sullivan, and several Hollywood stars and starlets.
Two trophies, donated by R. Harriss and Co., prominent D. C. jewelers, will be awarded to the outstanding Notre Dame and Navy players in the afternoon’s game. Selection will be made by a board of prominent sports columnists and announcers; and presentation will be by Secretary Sullivan. Announcement of the choices will be made over the stadium loud speaker immediately after the game.
All arrangements for the dance have been made by members of the Washington, Maryland and Virginia Club as an individual gesture of aid to the nationwide Student Relief Drive. Entire proceeds will ba given to the fund.
Although one of the smallest and youngest of campus groups, the club from the Chesapeake Bay region has already established a reputation for doing things in a big way. Organized in the fall of 1945, the membership of the club has sprouted from ten to 53. Despite its tiny size, the club snagged second place among all the geographical groups of the University at last year’s Mardi Gras Carnival in per capita contributions.
The mammoth Student Trip Dance is believed to be the largest social affair ever sponsored by a single ND club for the sole benefit of charity. Students from more than a dozen colleges from the vicinity -will be in attendance.
CHARLES HELLMUTH
Oct. 29, 1948
19
MARGERY ANN HUNTER
This Guest of Honor is the date of Guy Perenich. A New Yorker, and a graduate of New Rochelle College, she pursued advanced studies in speech at the Catholic University. This fall she successfully produced "Love's Labor Lost" at New Rochelle as part of the work toward her Master's degree. She is also an accomplished singer, dancer, and actress.
BETTY JANE WISE
Charlie Carter's date, Betty comes from Washington, D. C. She's a Junior at Dunbarton College and a graduate of Sacred Heart Convent, Class of 1946. With Miss Muschlitz, she shares the honor of being Queen of the Dance. Carter is co-chairman of the Victory Dance which is part of the Foreign Student Relief Campaign.
HELEN MUSCHLITZ
A Maryland girl, Helen is a student at the University of Maryland, where she majors in psychology. She graduated from Calvin Coolidge High School, Washington, D. C., and from Montgomery Junior College in her home town. Silver Springs. She has worked in the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory studying guided missiles.
Tickets fcr the dance will be sold on the special Student Trip train and also at the door. Bids are §3.00 per couple.
With the aid of the ingenious date bureau system engineered by Tai Powell, ND men without “connections” in the nation’s capital have been supplied with dates for the occasion in the person of girls from Dunbarton, Trinity and Georgetown Visitation College. Members of the Irish varsity grid squad, since they will be lodged in Baltimore, will have the use of another date bureau, listing girls in Baltimore colleges. All together, almost a thousand girls responded to the club’s request for prospective dates for the dance.
Trinity College has planned a special dance honoring the ND Student Trippers on Sunday afternoon. All Notre Dame men are invited to attend, and full details will be supplied the night of the Victory Ball.
Student Welfare ...
That isn’t the official motto of the Student Relief Drive, but it certainly is the guiding principle behind it. Demonstrating in tremendous scope the initiative, self-sacrifice and leadership qualities of the Catholic students of to
day, some 200 Catholic colleges and universities banded together- last year to contribute more than §200,000 to their fellow-students overseas.
The mammoth project had its beginnings in April, 1947, at the Congress of the National Federation of Catholic College Students in Toledo. It was well-known that the students of war-devastated countries were in a sad plight, struggling against terrific odds. It was equally clear that left-wing forces were ready to make their bid for tomorrow’s intelligentsia. Marty McLaughlin, a student of the University of Notre Dame, proposed a plan of definite action.
Delegates to the Congress, representing 151 U. S. colleges, were enthusiastic. A resolution was passed unanimously to set up the mechanics of a working program.
Student response was generous even beyond the highest expectations. Other Catholic colleges, not belonging to the NFCCS, gave their assistance to the campaign. Dances, lectures, fashion shows, raffles, radio and movie premieres were held for the benefit of the relief fund. §150,000 in cash and 38,351 pounds of goods-in-kind poured into the fund headquarters.
Nor did the students forget the spiritual side of the program. On May Day,
while the forces of Communism were massed to gloat over theii- conquests, 30,000 Catholic students gathered in the Hollywood Bowl to pray for the victory of Christ over the legions of evil in the war-torn countries of the world. Masses and prayers were offered up frequently for the success of the Relief Drive.
Notre Dame led all contributors with a phenomenal §32,600. Members of the University faculty hailed the campus campaign as “unquestionably the greatest ever undertaken by Notre Dame students.” Masterminding the drive was Louis J. Burns, Jr., a Commerce student from Washington, D. C., who was named this year to succeed Kenneth O’Connor, of St. Peter’s College, Jersey City, as national chairman.
Notre Dame Victory Dance proceeds were turned over to the drive. An autographed football was raffled at the Tulane game, and the campus drive was climaxed with a Mardi Gras Carnival, attended by 14,000 people. Highlighting the year’s activities had been a raffle of two automobiles and a personal contribution of one dollar from each Notre Dame student.
This year the goal of the Foreign Student Relief Campaign has been set at $500,000. Chairman Burns will be assisted by Miss Ethel Dignan, executive
20
The Scholastic
director, and Joseph A. Connerty, another Notre Dame student, in charge of national publicity.
Archbishop Richard J. Cushing, of Boston, is honorary chairman of the drive. Rev. Joseph E. Schieder, Youth Director of the National Catholic Welfare Committee, is generally supervising youth activities in the campaign.
Specifically, the purposes of this year’s campaign have been enumerated by Chairman Burns: the physical, intellectual and spiritual assistance of student victims of war; the strengthening of Catholic student organizations at home and abroad; the vital demonstrations of Christian principles in the modern world; and the fostering among American Catholic college students of a sense of responsibility within the Mystical Body of Christ.
It is easy to mouth good intentions and rave on in generalities, but the direct path of positive action is far more difficult. Catholic college students have
MOUNT VERNON — Martha and George
chosen that path but their determination
Halloween Night Witch Hunt at Uline for 8,00C
LINCOLN MEMORIAL —Abe and the People
and wholehearted cooperation will make sure that their work will bear fruit now, and even more importantly, in the world of tomorrow.
Stay At Homes Dance At Vetville Rec Hall
’ Vetville is all a-buzz with plans for its coming Halloween dance. Actually there will be two dances held in the Vet Rec Hall on this weekend of spooks. The first dance will be held tomorrow night, for the married students only, and the second will be following close behind on Sunday night for all the students on the campus.
Highlighting the main attraction bill are • plenty of free cider and doughnuts for everyone, and the music will be under way from 8:30 until midnight with tickets at 75 cents. The dances will be held under the auspices of the Married Students Welfare Council.
Profs Take The Stump
Four Dangerous GOP Attitudes
The strong possibility of a Republican victory should serve to focus attention on the philosophies of government which will then be the dominant themes of that hour. An inspection of the political tenets of the Republican party in power would satisfy few, and should send alarming chills up the spine of most.
Predicting future political behavior on the part of the Republican party after the election can best be done by reappraising their conduct before their day of dubious victory. It is this writer’s opinion that four dangerous atttudes are masqueraded behind Governor Dewey’s pious cackle of unity.
Alfred L. Scanlan
Alfred Long Scanlan, assistant professor of law, is a comparative newcomer to the ND faculty, but anyone who heard his cheering section at the YCS Town Meeting last week knows Scanlan has already made a strong impression. He graduated from Columbia in 1941, got his LL.B, from George Washington University in 1946, and took his LL.M. from the same in 1947. He served 42 months in Naval Intelligence
during the war and was later an attorney for the Federal Power Commission. He came to Notre Dame last year.
It seems unmistakably evident that a Republican election victory will give added momentum to the destruction of America’s human and natural resources; will exacerbate the reluctance to restrain the inflationary forces, which they helped release, and which are carrying us head onward to a severe deflationary period (sometimes euphemistically referred to as a “bust”); will witness the further concentration of economic power in the hands of fewer and larger corporations, with the concomitant betrayal of small business and the American consumer; finally, very probably will result in the sabotage of the affirmative American foreign policy symbolized, up to now, by our participation in the United Nations, and by our devotion to the Marshall Plan.
Under sixteen years of Democratic rule many long overdue measures were taken to protect both the human and natural resources of our country. Social security, unemployment compensation, minimum wages and maximum hours, federal aid to education and health, and the recognition of the principle of collective bargaining are some of the concrete manifestations of the concern of the Democratic party for human values. The record of the Republican Congress reads in bitter contrast. They have refused to extend social security (as they had pledged in their platform) to domestics, agricultural workers and others. Moreover, they have decried attempts to protect the health of the American people through a plan of medical insurance. They have departed from the principle of a free labor movement operating under the rule of law, the rule of collective bargaining, and have substituted instead the rule of the injunction, the rule of (Continued on Page 30)
Stop Inflation; a Must or a Bust
Voting in next Tuesday’s national elections is a most serious problem and duty this year because the decisions confronting our public officials are as great as any previously faced in our history. Consequently it does matter who is elected to serve.
After November- 2, what are the chief problems facing our government?
The core problem seems to be economic domestic policy regarding the continuing inflationary trend, which has persisted since mid-1946 with attendant maladjustments, inequities and dangers.
Bound up with this central difficulty are many important domestic issues: housing, natural resources, taxation, credit control, prices and income relationships; and also important issues of foreign policy: atomic energy, international trade, European and Asiatic difficulties.
But the key problem is our thirty-one-month period of uncontrolled, dangerous inflation.
Available data shows that a fairly reasonable balance among wages, profits and prices prevailed during World War II, through use of reasonable controls and restrictions. Positive governmental policies helped guide us through the war without unreasonable inequities developing among economic groups. But serious mistakes followed quickly after the war’s ■end. The paramount mistake was, in my opinion, removal of price and scarce materials controls in 1946, long before this should have been done.
Serious maldistributions of incomes and dislocations of industry have resulted. By the end of 1947, urban cost of living for a family of four had reached $3,200 annually, as a reasonably satisfactory minimum. Yet approximately 50% of all families have had incomes below that. Thirty per cent
John H. Sheehan
Associate Professor John H. Sheehan started as a public relations expert here and wound up as head of the Department of Economics. Before graduating from Notre Dame in 1937 he did publicity work for the University and for the South Bend Lathe Works, wrote for the late South Bend News-Times, and was advertising manager for the Association of Catholic Newspapers. He got his master's degree
in 1938 and has taught at ND ever since — named head of his department in 1942. He also serves as an industrial dispute arbitrator.
of all families in 1948 are receiving annual incomes of less than $2,000.
One important danger signal during 1947-48 has beefi the alarming- decrease of liquid holdings, i.e., savings of consumers. Federal Reserve reports for 1948 show that 27%% of all consumer spending units had no liquid assets; another 15% had less than $200. In addition, (Continued on Page 30)
22
The Scholastic
Four N. D. Professors Tell What They Think Wilt Happen To America After The Elections
Why Don't They Say Something?
To an Englishman, knowing something of the history of previous presidential election campaigns, the present one is not only dull and flat but also disturbing. Besides the lack of the usual fiery, rip-snorting charges and counter-charges — which is a good thing — there is in addition a disquieting reluctance to come to grips with the hard, vital issues which are at stake. Mr. Dewey is so certain of victory that he has carefully and designedly avoided committing himself except in a vague and rather general manner. In large measure his strategy is due to the temper of the American people; and the temper of the American people in this election, as regards home affairs at least, seems to be largely regulated by an undeniable desire for a change in the White House. To this star Mr. Dewey has hitched his bandwagon, and all Mr. Truman’s efforts, wise and otherwise, to make him come to earth and fight it out have been of no avail.
There must, I feel sure, be some uneasiness in minds sympathetic to Labor, at the failure of the Republican party to clarify their over-all policy with regard to social and economic problems at home. But men and women the world over must wonder what lies behind the silence with regard to foreign affairs. It will be urged that there is no need to be fearful, that the bipartisan agreement on the foreign policy of the U. S. A. does in fact crystallize the majority will of the American people to stand firm in the face of the U. S. S. R. But I cannot help wishing that Mr. Dewey was as certain of full Republican support for his declared foreign policy as he is of his election to the presidency. In fine, I do not think that this complete silence on foreign affairs is a good thing. If the American people are really determined to halt the U. S. S. R. — and I believe they are — a clear and unhedging announcement from both the major parties to this effect would have
Father James P. Smythe
The Rev. James P. Smythe, instructor in religion, gives an Englishman's views of the American political scene. New at ND, Father Smythe comes from Liverpool, England, where he was active in social and youth-movement work. During the war he was a chaplain in the Royal Navy, later a senior chaplain in the East Indies. Father Smythe was ordained in 1936. He received advanced degrees from Oxford and from the University of Lille and
studied Catholic social services in France, Belgium, and Holland.
done much to still the questioning restlessness of anxious people. While it is comforting to see the decline of isolationism, it would be foolish to conclude that isolationism is dead and buried.
America is a land of plenty, desiring peace. Yet if the lesson of history is to be taken to heart, we must realize that peace, true peace, is only to be enjoyed in a world at peace. Thus it is that though America is (Continued on Page 31)
To Maintain Vigorous Opposition
In spite of the quietude of the current campaign and the seemingly foreordained result, the coming election is important. All elections are important. The difference is simply one of degree. Two of the points on which the election of 1948 is dependent for its importance are first, continuity in office, and, second, foreign relations.
In 1933 the Democratic, or “New Deal” party came to power, and has been there ever since. If we are to have any concern for a vigorous two-party system, the return of the Republican pai-ty to power should be given most serious consideration. A party cannot live while remaining indefinitely
Paul C. Bartholomew
Paul C. Bartholomew, professor of political science, sponsors the student trips ♦o Washington every Easter and directs the quadrennial mock political conventions. He has written several political science textbooks and served as a commentator over WSBT. A revised version of his “American Government Under the Constitution" will be released in Januc Bartholomew graduated from ND in 1929,
received his A.M. here in 1931, and his Ph.D. from the University of Kentucky in 1938. He has taught here since 1930.
out of power. It may exist, but it will not be a vigorous opposition. That a party in office needs such opposition has become a truism of practical politics, as Britain has recognized by providing a subsidy for “His Majesty’s loyal opposition.” The pending constitutional amendment limiting presidential tenure, desirable as it is, will not care for the whole situation. The amendment deals with individuals, and not with parties. The people will still have a responsibility to see that no party remains in control of the apex of our government pyramid so long as to become too firmly attached to it.
Also, a change is needed periodically in order to provide an additional check on internal governmental affairs. At intervals the records of administration should be opened to critical scrutiny, new blood injected into political spots. As president, Dewey may not find the need for the application of his skills as prosecutor, and there may not be, as some predict, an exodus of unsavory elements approaching the magnitude of Hamelin town, but it will be reassuring to have a not-too-friendly light brought to bear on government records and personnel for the first time in sixteen years.
Both from the point of view of maintaining a vigorous opposition and that of conducting a “post audit,” of “checking,” it is simply not good government to maintain one man or one party too long in office, and particularly the highest office in the land.
In the field of foreign affairs, the importance of Mr. Dewey’s election is now apparent to even the most casual observer. The latest instance of Mr. Truman’s ineptitude — the “Vinson to Moscow” fiasco — is (Continued on Page 31)
Oct. 29, 1948
23
Cotillion
(Continued from Page 9) hotels, the LaSalle and the Hoffmann. The price is estimated to run between $5 and $6 per night and reservations must be made for two nights. Three is optional. The reservations should be filled by November 10, and any Cotilliongoer desiring hotel rooms for his date should contact either Walt McGovern or Leo Call in Morrissey Hall before that date.
As usual with campus formals, provisions will be made locally for tuxedo rentals, also beginning the first week in November. A representative of a South Bend firm will appear on campus to take measurements. Prices run from §7 with a shirt to $5 without. An announcement of date and time will be forthcoming.
Elliott Lawrence’s appearance for the Sophomore Cotillion brings to a Notre Dame formal one of the most promising young musicians in the nation today. Since he took his orchestra out of the studios of WCAU in Philadelphia and began a series of nationwide tours, the young man at the piano (he is but 23) has been awarded more honors than any other band leader in the United States. Even before his orchestra was fully organized, Look magazine tabbed it “The Band of the Year” in 1947.
Much of Lawrence’s popularity has been as a result of his consistent playing at college dances where he makes the music they like best. A graduate of the
MILLER AND LOGAN
University of Pennsylvania himself, he began his rise to fame while still a college student. Billboard, Downbeat, both publications of the entertainment world, place Lawrence high in their annual poll ratings, even while he is still a
relative youngster in the field. A big hit also on Columbia records, Lawrence has been termed one of the greatest new additions to the popular music field in many years.
Featured with the smooth Lawrence band are two ex-Marine vocalists, Jack Hunter and Rosalind Patton. Hunter enlisted prior to Pearl Harbor while Miss Patton was one of the first women in that branch of the service. Like their leader, they are young people who began their climb to fame over Station AVCAU., and both singers have continually placed high on the Downbeat and Metronome magazine popularity polls.
Of particular note is the fact that many members of Lawrence’s band have been with him since he was a 12-year old pianist playing with a kid band called the “Band Busters.” Now they could be better- known as the “recordbusters.”
Cotillion ticket sales for sophomores will be open Nov. 3, 4, and 5 in the lobby of Morrissey Hall, and for other upper classmen beginning Nov. 8 in the basement of the dining hall.
Irish Debaters Ready; Meet Purdue First
Notre Dame debaters have arranged to engage in a series of tournaments throughout the first semester, which will include visits all over the midwest.
The first contest during November will take place at Purdue. All of the talks in this debate will be given before the students studying speech, and the audience will participate by asking questions. Ten major universities will be represented, among which are Army, Navy, Holy Cross and Oxford of England.
Next on the agenda is the first of ten exhibition debates before the Progress Club of South Bend, to be held on November 12. Two seniors and two juniors will comprise the Notre Dame teams.
Going up to Detroit, the debaters will hold discussions with the University of Detroit, Wayne, Western Michigan, Michigan State and Kalamazoo. On a trip to Chicago, they will contend with Loyola, Mundelein, the University of Chicago and Bradley. December 2 and 3 will see them in Iowa City, Iowa, where they will meet with forty to fifty other schools.
In the second semester, plans have been formulated for an eastern invasion. The debate will take place in Boston, and approximately fifty schools along the Eastern coast will be present.
This year Frank Finn, national champion for two years, will prevail as president, while Bill Carey was elected vice-president. Tom Ninneman is manager.
Third Degree
By VINCE GIESE
With this issue of the Scholastic, a new column for news of the Graduate School begins. Since 1918 the Graduate School of Notre Dame has been a growing and integral part of the university. Over 300 students presently are pursuing courses for their Ph.D., M.A., M.S., or M.S. in Educ. degrees.
Despite the fact that most of the graduate students are known mostly for their note-taking complex, neatly pressed suits, conservative ties, and “pursuit of knowledge” look, they really are very human people who can be “caught at football games.”
Only recently, the Graduate Student Association, official organization for graduate students, sponsored an informal beer party-business meeting at the LaSalle Hotel, where new officers for the year- were elected and movies of the Pitt-Notre Dame game were shown.
Energetic Paul Hopper, Chemistry major, was re-elected president at the meeting. Other new officers chosen were the Rev. Basil Mattingly, O.S.B., secretary, and Ralph E. Weber, alternate, from the Humanities division, and Ralph Thorson, treasurer, and Eugene Voiland, alternate, from the science division.
Already Paul has his committees busy planning activities for the near future. A Halloween social gathering will be held in the Veterans’ recreation hall Oct. 30, where refreshments, dancing, community singing, and card playing will be provided. Chairman of the Social Committee, which is also planning another social for mid-November, is Paul Kirk.
Committee chairman John Meany is at work scheduling lectures and travel talks for the season. The Rev. Francis Nealy, O.P., is making arrangements for a community dialogue Mass to be celebrated monthly for graduate students in Dillon Chapel. The Rev. Philip Hanly, O.P., and his committee are trying to lo7 cate a graduate student lounge on campus. A special meeting called to discuss possible amendment of the bylaws was held Oct. 21, at which the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School spoke.
24
The Scholastic
scholastic spoltt
Gallant Navy Team To Be Torpedoed
Feistel
HAWKEYE FISHER TALLIES FOR IOWA
ND Sailing Team Finishes
Second at Michigan Regatta
Notre Dame’s sailing team placed second in a field of twelve schools at the first annual Michigan State Invitational Regatta held at the University of Mich7 igan, October 23 and 24. The team, composed of members of the sailing club, was edged out by a powerful Michigan team. Ohio State University was third.
The races were sailed at Wittmore Lake, in boats belonging to the University of Michigan. The Irish team was composed of Ray Bushey (team coach and commodore of the Sailing Club), Charles Burke, Jim Crowe, Jim Martin, George Pfaff and Bob Edmondson. This was Notre Dame’s fourth appearance in a major intercollegiate sailing meet.
The ND team for the Michigan State
Invitational was picked from showings made in an elimination series raced in Chicago in boats borrowed from members of the Chicago Yacht Club on October 16 and 17. Fourteen members of the Sailing Club competed in the elimination series.
Skippers Charles Burke and Jim Crowe displayed consistency considering the light, variable winds encountered on Wittmore Lake during the meet. Beating Michigan on their own lake in their own boats is a trick that hasn’t been accomplished by any team in the Midwestern Collegiate Sailing Association.
One meet remains in the current season. It ■will be held at the Chicago Yacht Club on October 26, 27 and 28, under- the sponsorship of Northwestern University. Many of the top Eastern schools will send teams to compete in this meet.
Middies Still Looking For First Season Win
By TOM ADAMS
Notre Dame’s 1948 powerhouse rolls east tomorrow to tackle what the press has termed “a scrappy Navy eleven.” The event will take place in Baltimore’s Babe Ruth stadium. Coach George Sauer’s Middies have not exactly had the best of it so far this season. They lost quite decisively to California, Cornell, Duke, and Missouri. But last week they put an awful scare into the Pennsylvanians, yet were unable to take home anything better than a 14 to 20 defeat.
Of course, Navy has brought a lot of this on itself. It booked Pennsylvania, Notre Dame, and Michigan on succeeding Saturdays. And, not satisfied with bringing in what the profession calls a breather, it finishes up the fall doings with a scuffle with the Army.
200-Lb. Middie Line Faces Irish
Coach Sauer, who replaced Captain Tom Hamilton as head coach at the academy this fall, takes some pride in his line. It is built of hard humans who, when their w-eight is totalled and averaged, scale 200 pounds. One of the larger of these is Harrison Frazier. He plays left end. Phil Ryan, a veteran who, it seems, has played all his life with Navy, is the right end. Should these gentlemen become tired, Ted Carson and (Continued on Page 28)
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UPS		
NOTRE DAME		NAVY
Martin		E		Frasier
McGehee		„.T			 Emerson
Fischer 		„G			Weir
Walsh		C...		 Lawrence
Wendell	,—	_G			Hunt
Fallon 		„.T			Beeler
Hart 		...E			Ryan
Tripucka		-Q			Baysinger
Brennan 		H		 Williams
Sitko		H		Green
Panelli		...F			 McCully
25
Oct. 29, 1948
Harriers Face Tars After Beating Hawks
By JIM HOWARD
A Notre Dame cross country team which recovered its winning ways by conquering Iowa 27 to 28 last Saturday will step into difficult eastern school competition tomorrow when Navy and Villanova are encountered in a five-mile contest at Annapolis.
The Irish, who had a difficult fight in whipping the Hawkeyes over a three-mile distance, will be running the more strenuous five-mile tour for the first time tomorrow. Navy is noted for the well balanced teams they produce in the harrier sport, and Notre Dame will be pressed to win. Villanova is also rated as one of the better eastern schools in the cross country field.
After the severe long distance test in the east, the Irish will return home the following week to battle for retention of the Indiana State harrier crown they took so decisively last year. On a comparative basis, the Notre Dame squad will have top flight competition from Purdue, ■which defeated the Iowa team by a 21 to 34 margin two weeks ago. Indiana, winner in 1947 will again be trying for the title they surrendered to Notre Dame by a 33 to 60 score last year.
The close contest at Iowa City last week was heartening to Coach Handy because of the brilliant time of 15:11.4 turned in by Jim Murphy the individual victor. The other Irish scorers were Bill Leonard, fourth; Jim Kittell, fifth; Lou Tracy, seventh; and Tony DaDamio, tenth. Lou Lepry was the othei* Irish runner competing in the run.
CLASHMORE MIKE H
After the State contest on November 5, Notre Dame will run in the Central Collegiates here on November 13, and in the Nationals in East Lansing on Nov. 22. In both of the latter contests, Michigan State is expected to make the strongest bid for the title.
RUSHING
Times Net Yds.
Carried Gained Avg.
Spaniel .......... 6	67	11.1
Panelli ......... 48	437	9.1
Coutre .......... 17	111	6.5
Brennan.......... 29	184	6.3
Sitko............ 80	415	5.2
Landry .......... 28	140	5.0
Gay ............. 23	100	4.3
Swistowicz ...... 26	113	4.4
Will you just listen to that sea-going hat rack!! Sure, and you’d think these fellows Baysinger and Williams were the gridiron version of the atom bomb. It’ll be back to Bikini for the whole lot of ya when my shock troops get through with their mopping-up operations tomorrow afternoon.
Don’t get the idea, Bill, that me boys are coming to Baltimore full of cockiness and over-confidence. This fellow Frank Leahy, who helps me with the team, isn’t called the Pessimistic Irishman for nothin’. He keeps the boys with both feat on the ground. The Navy linemen will find out just how firmly those feet are planted when they try to move Marty, Bill, Moose and Leon — you’ll do better movin’ one of your battleships with a rowboat.
The best news I’ve had since Lieutenants Blanchard and Davis left West Point was that you Middies made the mistake of giving Dick Scott his commission. He was worse than a bad case • of fleas last year: I thought you had slipped a destroyer in there for picket duty. Frank and I got word that this fellow Bob Hunt is your submarine threat in the line this year, so we’re sending the Irish cruiser, Bill Fischer, in to scuttle him.
My boys and I don’t go on past performances. I haven’t got the least bit of sympathy for your victory-starved eleven. You guys would like nothing better than to get fat on Irish stew. No, thanks, Bill, you ain’t having us for* dinner — do you look good with an apple stuffed in your mouth?
PANEUI UNDER THE PILE
LOOKING FOR SOMETHING?
26
The Scholastic
. . . eJlvul
NAVY BILL XI
As told to Frank P. Schlosser. Sports Editor, the LOG
Navy hears that Clashmore Mike II is howling for more victories. I can hear him all the way from South Bend crying that Purdue, Pittsburgh, Michigan State, Nebraska, and Iowa were not enough. Navy is the big morsel for the Fighting Irish. What with the Army Mule shirking away from further combat with you Notre Dame people, the 1948 bill of fare headlines none other than goat meat.
“Oh, what a delicious meal the Navy team will make!”
I can just hear old Clashmore licking his chops. He’s thinking that what California, Cornell, and Duke can do to the Navy eleven certainly can be repeated by the undefeated national champions. The Frank Tripucka, Bill Fischer, Jim Martin, Leon Hart, Johnny Panelli aggregation will bounce into Baltimore highly confident of continuing a victory string over the midshipmen.
Listen Clashmore! Right now I’ll let you in on the know. No one’s giving in to the wild ballyhoo that Notre Dame can’t be beat. There’s lots of talk going around old Bancroft Hall that a Navy team isn’t going to lose forever. The tide’s about to turn. Plunging Bill Hawkins, swift Al McCully, “Pistol Pete” Williams, and field general Reaves Baysinger are just not the kind that exist on defeats.
Those midshipmen of 1948 are not lying down. Coach George Sauer is driving his charges hard for he knows hard work is the key to good football. The ranks of the Brigade are bursting with cheers for the gridiron warriors. The day of celebration is not far off, and watch out — I am just itching to start the big doings when Navy rears up and slaps down one of its tough rivals.
Editorial Whipping Post
Drag out the soapbox, boss, we’ve got some bricks to throw this week and we might as well be able to see who tosses them back.
Just like harvest time and bock beer season there is a special season devoted to editorializing on the sins of college football. The Saturday Evening Post fired the opening gun recently and hurled those trite terms “commercialism” and “professionalism,” all over its editorial page. Of course this is only the first link in a chain which ends up with everyone pointing the finger at somebody else.
Well, we’re going to get in a few licks before they get around to any fingerpointing routine. Against the charge of commercialism, Mr. Post Editor, we use your own argument for advertising in your magazine. The income from football finances the minor sports program of most colleges. Without it, the physical education program would be curtailed. You insist that we must tolerate the ads if we want to enjoy the fiction and articles. Very well, we have to tolerate football’s commercialism if we want basketball, baseball and minor and intramural athletics. If scholarships and financial aid are to be called “professionalism,” then colleges are guilty of it in many ways, not just in football. There is professionalism in college newspapers, libraries, dining halls, laboratories and military reserve units — any place students are given financial help for services rendered. But we don’t hear you blasting these practices. You even “contaminate” the noble amateur by paying for anecdote and poetry contributions to your magazine, don’t you Mr. Editor? Down with professionalism on the Post’s joke page!!
And then we come to the old bromide about coaches being fired for having disastrous seasons and not on their character-building ability. Do you keep an editor who turns out a slipshod magazine? Is the final decision made on whether he is building the character of your staff or whether he can make the magazine pay? Since we have given a valid reason for football to pay, surely
SPLINTERS from the Press Box By Harry Monahan
you can’t object if we take steps to see that it does. We wonder about these character-builders who can’t win. It*s possible to get a coach who can both build character and win ball games — or haven’t you heard of Rockne, Jones, Stagg, and Warner?
In closing you shake your head in disbelief at the scene of an educational institution permitting itself to be used in such a nefarious manner. We are going to steal the answer to that one from Sport magazine. The universities are giving those football players an opportunity for an education. Whether they take advantage of it is the player’s decision. Just because a student pays his own way is no guarantee he is going to be better educated than the one who gets a “ride.” It is always up to the man himself. With the education the football player has an ace up his sleeve if his pro ball ambitions don’t turn out right. What has the minor league baseball player got for instance, if he can’t make the grade in the majors? But your sensibilities aren’t shocked by the baseball situation. At least give the universities credit for providing an opportunity which might not be offered any other way.
To us this football reform movement is a whole barrel of red herring. Football is no worse than any other so-called amateur sport; it’s just a bigger and more exciting angle for editors to exploit. Magazines commercialize on editorials condemning commercialism. Confusing, isn’t it?
Musings at Halftime
Someone made a horrible mistake! There isn’t a single home basketball game scheduled for a vacation period. Our thanks to someone for considering the students when the schedule was arranged. . . .
Prediction of the Week
Lo! Lo the poor sailor on a day like tomorrow! At least Navy has the courage to pick their opposition big and tough even if they haven’t the punch to heat them. Another big afternoon for the Irish reserves. Notre Dame 42, Navy 12.
Oct. 29, 1948
27
Sink the Navy
(Continued from Page 25)
Bill Wilson will no doubt get a taste of the going.
Navy is weak in reserves. The first team, however, is a good one. It is composed of such meaty individuals as Cocaptain Scott Emerson, 215 pounds, and Jim “Bimbo” Beeler — both are tackles. Don Weir, Bob Hunt, Ed Golding, and Pat Schwieck will share the guard chares.
Tex Lawrence is capably filling the gap vacated by All-American Dick Scott at the pivot post. Tom Parsons and Walt Schutz are his alternates.
In the backfield Eeaves Baysinger, the Syracuse Slingshot, will share signalcalling duties with Bob Horne. Both Baysinger and Horne are the sparkplugs of Navy’s potent aerial attack.
Pistol Pete Williams, the Middies’ cocaptain and triple-threat left halfback, has recovered from a knee injury that kept him on the sidelines the greater part of the 1947 season. Williams is one of the trickiest change-of-pace runners in collegiate football and the Annapolis eleven’s most dangerous running back. His alternate is seatback Billy Earl, who has also recovered from a knee injury that kept him under wraps last season. Jim Green, Bill Powers, and Arnold Duff will see action at the right halfback position.
Al McCully, who is filling in at the fullback post for the injured Bill Hawkins, possesses both speed and power. He was a key figure in Navy’s nearupset of Army in 1946. Dave Bannerman and Jim Kennedy round out the Navy backfield.
In a series which has been uninter-
BOB HUNT Game . . .
rupted since 1927 the Irish have defeated the Middies 16 times, have dropped four games, and fought to a 6-6 tie in 1945.
More Panelli, Not Enough DiMarco
The scrappy Hawkeyes of Iowa provided the Irish with a multitude of worries last week at Iowa City, before going down to defeat, 27-12. Following a recovery of an Iowa fumble on the opening kickoff, Jarrin’ John Panelli raced 34 yards for the first touchdown of the game to give the Irish a momentary 6-0 lead. The Hawks retaliated with lightning-like speed, as “Accurate Al” DiMarco’s passes carried the lowans to the Irish 8-yard line. Two plays later Jerry Faske scored to tie the game at 6-all.
In the second quarter a 60-yard Notre Dame march was halted on the Hawkeyes’ 8-yard line, but several plays later
REAVES BAYSINGER . . . and Dangerous
big Leon Hart recovered DiMarco’s fumble on the Iowa 9-yard line. Emil Sitko picked up 5 yards in two attempts, and Bill Gay skirted right end for a touchdown. Steve Oracko’s place-kick gave Notre Dame a 13-6 lead at halftime.
The Hawks threatened again early in the third quarter, following the recovery of an Irish fumble on the 27-yard line. With a first down and only two yards away from the Notre Dame goal line, the lowans were thwarted by a stubborn Irish line and two incompleted passes.
Several minutes later the presence of Pep Panelli in the Notre Dame lineup was again felt by the Hawkeyes. After Gay had returned an Iowa punt 27 yards to the Notre Dame 48, and Jack Landry and Sitko had netted 13 yards, Panelli raced 39 yards to score behind the terrific blocking of Capt. Moose Fischer. Oracko’s place-kick raised the score to 20-6.
The opening play of the final stanza saw Larry Coutre giving the Irish their fourth touchdown on a beautifully executed 35-yard run. Again Oracko converted, and Leahy’s lads held a comfortable 27-6 margin.
Iowa’s second tally was set up when Dick Meyer’s pass interception gave the Hawks possession of the ball on Notre Dame’s 23-yard line. Jim Haliburton’s 15-yard run and DiMarco’s pass to Bob McKenzie put the Hawkeyes on the Irish two-yard line. Several plays later DiMarco went one foot for the touchdown. Ralph McGehee blocked Ron Headington’s try for extra point to end the scoring.
Irish Ground Game Improving
It was Notre Dame’s effectual rushing offense coupled with its sparkling downfield blocking which spelled the big difference between the two teams. The Irish rolled up 372 yards by rushing, compared with Iowa’s 41. On the other hand, the green-clads displayed a shaky aerial offense and were often unable to cope with the precision passing of Iowa’s Al DiMarco. However, Irish followers may rest assured that many of the kinks in Notre Dame’s aerial game will have been ironed out on Cartier Field this week.
The return of Capt. Bill Fischer and Mike Swistowicz to action, and the 1948 debut of the South Bend speedster, Ernie Zalejski, shows that trainer Hughie Burns’ injury list is dwindling rapidly. Although Fischer played only on offense, his blocking paved the way for several long runs. Marty Wendell was again singled out for his stellar line play, as was sophomore Jerry Groom, the Des Moines Rocket, whose capable defensive play evoked the respect of his home state.
JIM BEEHLER . . . but Outmanned
28
The Scholastic
Radio
By VERNE KELLEY
Thera is an uncle of ours who has a standing bet amounting to $1,000 in prizes if anyone can catch him laughing at Jack Benny.
So far no one has even challenged him. You probably have pictured him as a bitter old man who tortures his children with Zippo cigarette lighters and puts mercurochrome in catsup bottles.
That is not the case. He just doesn’t like Jack Benny. He also doesn’t like Phil Harris and Don Wilson. In fact almost anyone on a Benny program has the odds against him.
He Does Like Some
In comparison with this he admits he roars at Groucho Marx or Fred Allen. He explains it by saying Benny isn’t funny while the other two are. Simple? He is not.
When you get right down to it, Jack Benny isn’t a comedian. He hasn’t said a funny line in years but that doesn’t mean his program isn’t good.
His writers see to it that laughs are supplied at Benny’s expense and that is always a good formula. You can always make people laugh at you but it’s hard making them laugh at someone else.
Writers Make the Comedian
On almost any comedy show the writers are better than the star. You could say “hmmm” or “what?” like Jack Benny does and get laughs. It’s the situations that count.
Fred Allen has a witty program. He doesn’t stick to a routine about himself every week. He likes to take current affairs and put witticisms in the mouths of everybody on his payroll including himself.
When comedy takes to television, it should be interesting which method will be better. But with sight added the Danny Kaye type of personality may become the fad.
By the way, our uncle doesn’t like Danny Kaye either.
Turn That Dial
Charlie McCarthy and Edgar Bergen at 7:00 on Sunday. . . . Vaughn Monroe at 6:30 on Saturday . . . and “Theatre Guild on the Air” (ABC) 8:30, Sundays.
601 North Niles Avenue
— for—
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
HOURS: 10 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. Re-open: 4:30 p. m. to 10 p. m. SATURDAYS: 10 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. Re-open: 4:30 p. m. to 11:30 p. m.
Call 3-0978	James and Josephine Bamber, Proprietors
Town Club
LUNCHEONS — STEAKS — CHOPS — SEA FOOD
A famous steak and chop house with Notre Dame men for many years.
CLUB PARTIES
115 West Center
‘ N A B I CH T ’ S — S O U TH BEND'S OLDEST CATERING FAMILY"
Ride to Bloomington in Comfort!
See the Notre Dame-INDIANA Game! Rent a Car
Coupes, Coaches, Convertibles, & Station Wagons. Gas and Oil furnished — Adequate Insurance.
Phone 4-1606 or 2-2941
The U-DRIVE-IT Co.
223 West Washington Street
Next to Oliver Hotel
Estimates Gladly Given
Oct. 29, 1948
29
Scanlan
(Continued from Page 22) an inefficient, omnibus Taft-Hartley Act, conceived in an atmosphere of anti-labor bias. But nowhere was their callous, anti-christian disregard for the human feelings and aspirations more blatantly manifested than in the passage of the Displaced Persons Act, in which the forces of religious bigotry managed to triumph by their insertion of a clause which brazenly discriminates against Polish Catholics and Jews.
The Democratic Party has always been one which believed in conserving America’s resources for her people. Corroborating this, let us refer to the great Tennessee Valley experiment, the Public Utility Holding Company Act, the Federal Power Act and the Natural Gas Act, rural electrification, soil erosion, and reclamation projects, the Bonneville Power Authority, and a host of other measures protecting and equitably distributing America’s great, but not unlimited resources. On the other hand, the special interest myopia which seems always to afflict the Republican hierarchy, has led to attempts on their part to amend the Natural Gas and Federal Power Acts, with a danger of a great waste of both fuels and a tremendous jump in consumer costs. The reclamation and rural electrification program have been harmfully slashed. The TVA has been denied a steam generator-needed to keep up the continuous flow during the slack season; and, the great civil servant, David Lilienthal, former head of the TVA and a firm believer in de-centralized government, has been viciously abused by a Republican party which has refused to confinn him for more than two years as head of the Atomic Energy Commission. Moreover, Governor Dewey’s recent Freudian slip of the tongue makes it clear that even the atomic pie is going to be passed around among the boys as soon as possible.
In regard to the view of the Republican Party toward inflation, we can say, “they simply love it.” Witness their removal of price controls; their sabotage of rent controls; their emasculation of veterans, low cost and slum clearing house proposals; their unrestrained delight as corporate profits disappear into the stratosphere. In short, far from taking any positive measures to restrain inflation, past Republican behavior leads only to the conclusions that they will take affirmative action to aid and abet it through more “rich man’s” tax reductions. They won’t really be happy until we return to a later day version of “normalcy.”
In their short two years in power, the Republican party has managed to get in several good licks on small business. Their apostacies of the theory of free competition and anti-trust enforcement include: exemption of the railroads from the operation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act through the Bullwinkle Act; exemption again of the insurance business in the McCarran amendment; the drastic reduction of the small business section of the Department of Justice; and an unsuccessful attempt to exempt press services from the anti-trust policy led by the political psychopath of the Tribune Tower, Col. McCormick. A beautiful record on the part of those who like to dress in the robes of the defenders of business competition and ejaculate “free enterprise, free enterprise, I love you
AFTER HIM. WHAT?
so,” when pressed in argument. I assure you, it is only the beginning of further Republican betrayals of our basic article of economic faith and free competition.
Moreover, Republican control of the government will see the ascendancy of the “penny wise pound foolish” Martin, Taber, Halleck tribe, who would like nothing better than to emasculate the European Recovery Program by slashing it to the bone much in the same way they almost murdered Cordell Hull’s life work, the Reciprocal Trade Agreements program. The great majority of Republican congressmen are late in the day converts to our policy of active participation in international affairs. There is every indication that, having achieved political control, the thin veneer will wear off and their ostrich-mind isolationist mentality will sweep before it all the constructive work that has gone before.
These, then are just a few of the dangers that loom before the country if the Republican party wins on November 2.
The next time Mr. Dewey rolls those big eyes heavenward and sonorously sighs, “unity,” ask him if he has reference to the unity of the economic and political graveyard. However, “we shall see, what we shall see.”
Sheehan
(Continued from Page 22) consumer indebtedness is at an all-time high. The trend is towards drying-up of consumer savings.
This has gone on under the let-things-alone policy which the majority in the last Congress pursued — despite the valiant efforts of some statesmen in both major parties. For example, our country needs at least ten years of the 1948 volume of home construction. But positive legislation seems mandatory if moderately-priced housing is to be made available.
If nothing continues to be done, the relatively thin market for high-priced housing can collapse shortly. What is urgently needed is passage of some such positive legislation as the Taft-Ellender-Wagnei- housing bill, which has been gathering dust in Congress.
The key job facing our public officials after November 2 will be action to curb inflation and to attempt to bring about a workable balance between productive capacity and consumer purchasing potver. Such a balance will not come about automatically. Significantly, real national output has not increased appreciably since middle 1946, when controls were removed, although real national output increased phenomenally during wartime when controls existed.
Significantly, real income for average wage earners, according to the Federal Reserve Board, has declined 10% since June, 1946. For clerical and professional workers, real income has declined 15%. Obviously, millions of low income and fixed income receivers are suffering from the tightening squeeze.
To sum up, the inflation is working serious hardships upon millions of families. It is creating price, income, and production maladjustments of increasing size. And it is jeopardizing our whole program of aid to free countries elsewhere — and is giving comfort and propaganda aid to the Communists. If unchecked, the inflation will lead to disastrous economic collapse, with frightening social and political consequences.
In judging men available to meet this crisis, their past performance and present commitments must be given consideration. Unacceptable, in my opinion, are politicians who have demonstrated by past action and inaction that they wish to emasculate such things as fair
30
The Scholastic
trade and anti-trust enforcement; the Federal Housing Authority and the Securities Exchange Commission; the United States Employment Service; the reciprocal trade agreements; and the European Recovery Program.
Required are public servants with vision and courage to set up needed temporary selective price controls, wage controls, scarce materials controls. Needed also are: a serious housing program; a more equitable taxation and debt reduction program, including a sensible surplus profits tax; a positive and intelligent reclamation and conservation program; and sincere aid for small business and disproportionately smallincome receivers.
Courageous action is needed now, just as it was in wartime. Not only do we have a “cold war” on our hands internationally, but we are faced by the smoldering, hot fire of inflation at home. This fire will not put itself out. It calls for fire-fighting leadership of high order.
Father Smythe
(Continued from Page 23) self-sufficient in the economic order, in the political sphere she is as dependent as any other nation upon the rest of the world if she is to live in the rich enjoyment of peace. But this peace, like every other desirable blessing, falls upon those who are ready to make the necessary sacrifices.
There is, I think, a widespread and unfounded belief that the whole cost of containing the Soviet threat to world peace is being borne and will be borne by the American people alone. It is true that the major quantitative contribution is being made, and must be made, by the people of this warm, generous republic. Yet it would be tragically unfair and dishonest to think that other freedom loving nations are not doing all in their circumscribed power — making sacrifices that pinch, and pinch severely — to inaugurate the age when the lamb shall sit with the lion.
Our attention must not be so focused on the crisis in Berlin that we miss the equally dangerous and explosive threats in the Middle and the Far East. Korea, China and Palestine are certain to prove testing grounds of the wisdom and the foresight of American foreign policy.
For these reasons, while the issue as regards the election of the President is merely a matter of counting votes, there lies still to be settled a vitally important question, not merely for America but for the whole anxious, nerve-taut world.
This is the question, “Will Mr. Dewey have the necessary support in Congress to enable him to implement, boldly and courageously, the advice which will be offered him by Senator Vandenberg and John Foster Dulles?” That question has to my mind been all too carefully kept in the background in the present election campaign. But whatever the answer there is no doubt as to the line which American foreign policy must hew to itself. America must be unwavering in her determination, wise in her councils, unbeatable in her power and might, ready-handed with her help, if peace is to be restored not merely to Europe, but to the peoples of the earth. Then, and then only, will the people of this bounteous land enjoy their rightful heritage and “the lineaments of gratified desire.”
Bartholomew
(Continued from Page 23) simply the most dramatic in the foreign field will be with us. The Second World War and attendant circumstances, developments, and “deals” cannot be repealed. We have conjured up a “Frankenstein” that farsighted statesmanship could have avoided, and the problem must be faced. However, Dewey 'will bring to foreign affairs the same efficiency and machine-like precision that has characterized his administration at Albany, that won him the nomination at Philadelphia, and that he will bring to the field of domestic affairs as president. At long last, as Edward once said, we shall have a foreign policy. Things will be thought through. We shall know where we are going and why.
Aid for Europe will be continued under Dewey, possibly even to the extent of some form of “lend lease” of arms. However, there will probably be insistence on Mr. Dewey’s part of real cooperation by the benefitted countries. This will be a condition of continued aid. Very probably also Mr. Dewey will seek an increase of assistance to China.
Under a Republican administration the greatest changes in the field of foreign affairs will be in the greater efficiency of conduct and general order’ in such matters. Dewey “teamwork” will function in foreign as well as in domestic matters. One can feel sure that no rugs will be pulled out from under Mr. Dewey’s Secretary of State. Perhaps Russia will be easier to deal with because of the fresh popular mandate, among other reasons, but, regardless, coordination and a united front within the administration will be ever-present in our government.
Jersey Men Hold Busy Meet
At the regular meeting of the New Jersey club, members were greeted with the welcome news that a $25.00 check had been received from the New Jersey alumni association. The gift will be used for refreshments at the annual fall smoker to take place in the near future. Letters were received from the various hotels concerning the Christmas dance and the committee announced that a special club meeting would be held in a week to decide on the site and price.
fin
Does the collar of your outercoat fit you? It does if e your outercoat’s a Mt. Rock... • because a Mt. Rock coat has • • increased depth in back from • • your ninth vertebra to your • • collar top... that means the • • collar never funnels out behind. *
Try on a Mt. Rock coat today and see for yourself.
•	$50 to $80	.
15% discount to all Notre Dame men through October and November on all readymade and tailor-made suits and coats. Use our charge account.
Campus representatives:
Pete Francken, Tom Tierney, Mike Ivers, Jack Clynes, Tom McGuire, Gus Cifelli, and Max Gabreski.
Parker-Winterrowd
115/2-117/2 North Main South Bend, Indiana
Oct. 29, 1948
31
AT LAST!
Family Group Hospital
Insurance for
Married College Students
Hospital expenses, Surgeon’s fees, Full Maternity benefits (10 days). For full information, write—World Life and Accident Ass’n., Dept. P, Richmond, Indiana.
		
	Put the best LEATHER around your MONEY	
Billfolds by * Prince Gardners * Buxton * Rolfe * Rump . $3 up — plus tax Nome engraved without charge HansARintzSCH cx^zyyzzy^ Shop 138 N. Michigan St.		
jFirst Ot^en
by RICHARD SULLIVAN
Meet Kingsley Bond, the political powerhouse with a low head of steam. Get your copy today.
Zahm Snaps Back; Downs Farley
After suffering a disheartening 7-6 defeat at the hands of Walsh last week, an inspired Zahm team came from behind to whip a hard-fighting but outclassed Farley Hall team. Played in an annoying drizzle the final score was 19-6.
Farley scored first and it looked as if they might make a game of it but Zahm caught and passed them in the second quarter. Zahm was charged with interfering with a Farley pass receiver in the end zone and this set up the only Farley score. They scored a minute later on a plunge from the one-yard line.
Zahm crossed the goal line in each of the last three quarters. In the second quarter Whitey O’Neil scored on a pass from the ten-yard line. After the first attempt at the extra point was foiled because of a penalty they made it on a short pass. A 60-yard drive was climaxed by a one-yard plunge by Tom King. King and Bob Hunter were cocaptains for the Zahm team for that game.
Bob King, the outstanding player in the game, scored in the last second of play by snaring a pass in the end zone. —Bill Delaney.
Dillon Buries Alumni, 13-0
Sparked by a tricky and versatile single-wing attack and a hard-rushing line, Dillon kept Alumni in check to win the mythical Gold Coast championship, 13-0.
Soon after the third quarter had begun, Dillon exploded. First Doni Colleti scored from his right halfback slot and minutes later teammate “Zeke” Lane made the second tally.
Dillon had a deceptive single-wing formation and continually sent their fleet breakaway halfbacks through and around the Alumni line. Colleti and Lane are continuing to burn up the interhall play as they did when they played for Lyons Hall.—Don Padgett
Howard Slips by Morrissey, 7-0
Mighty Morrissey opened their interhall season with a hard fought loss against the hefties of Howard. Howard
inched out a squeaking 7-0 victory over their neighboring hall.
The only score of the game was made by Jim Presley after a concerted land attack in the first period. The drive was assisted by a rash of Morrissey penalties. Presley’s attempt at the extra point was good.
The rest of the game was marked by see-saw action with both teams turning in good performances on defensive
oenyczko
CHAMBERLAND AND "LADS"
as well as offensive play. The teams showed evidence of possessing kinetic energy that might burst in future games, shattering their opponents to smithereens.
Presley and Bernie Powers on the Howard squad were the otp ranking pistons in the backfield while Bob Murray stood out in the line. Morrissey’s Joe Harmon and Gus Flick were their team’s stellar stars.
Touch Football, Volleyball Playoffs Start
Arriving on the campus with the first frost are two more interhall sports, volleyball and touch football.
In touch football, Sorin, Dillon, Alumni, Breen-Phillips and Badin will battle it out for the campus crown.
32
The Scholastic
Competition in the double elimination playoff started Monday. Two losses drop a team from the tournament.
Volleyball teams representing Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Farley, Sorin and the New England and Rhode Island clubs are engaging in a round robin competition. Each team will play every other team twice. The New England
Harlan
LANE ROMPS FOR DILLON
Club has jumped away to an early lead, posting wins over Farley and Breen-Phillips by the identical score of 2 to 0. —Jack Meaney
La Raza Tops Soccer Competition
While plans for varsity soccer competition with the University of Chicago and Purdue are being considered, a spirited round-robin practice tourney is being held by the upperclass and frosh physical education majors and the La Raza club.
The La Raza Club, composed of students from the Latin-American countries, is the leading squad. They have defeated the upperclassmen twice, 1-0 and 3-0, and the freshmen fell by a score of 1-0.
On November 1 Mr. Maxwell, of the physical education department, will take a selected team to Chicago to invade the athletically dormant University of Chicago. At the same time a home-and-home series with Purdue is being prepared.—Jack Meaney ■
Chicago Frosh Captures Tennis Crown
Matt Tuite, freshman from Chicago, defeated Pat Tonti of Columbus, Ohio,
in the finals of the windswept interhall tennis tournament, 6-3, 6-0, 8-6.
Tuite whittled down his share of the record 76 entrants with little trouble. He went through the entire tournament without the loss of a set. First seeded Bob Hensler, last year’s runner-up, was defeated in the semi-finals by Tonti, while second-seeded Herb Hoene bowed to Tuite. Tuite was seeded third.
“He shows promise of being a great help to the varsity when he becomes eligible in his sophomore year,” said Coach Langford, tennis coach. — Don Padgett
Gorman
The Winner and Runner-Up
1OO percent pnre wool
GREY FLANNEL SLACKS ...
7.95
No college man should be without at least one pair of grey flannel slacks. Good looking, practical and, at this price, an excellent buy for everyday wear. Pleated,
zipper closing, 100 percent wool, and well tailored . . . see them tomorrow!
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER CARD WINNER:
R. J. HOCKER
304 St. Edward’s
Oct. 29, 1948
33
Dillonites Develop Bad Case of Shingles
Men of Dillon Hall are proving that you don’t have to practice law or medicine to hang out a shingle. Increasing competition for originality in name cards ■on the room doors has brought forth most every type and style of name card.
Some are plainly printed names while others are written in old English script; some are signatures while others are etched with about every trick known to the engraving trade.
Others have little figures running all over the cards. Down one corridor you are greeted by a family of “schmoos” while around the corner there are “kilroys” peeping over the names. On one there is even the picture of a bull fight. Needless to add the resident of that room is from South America.
The competition soon fostered the idea •of hanging a sign or shingle from the transom. First was the sign “Stagger Inn” in front of the room of Vince DeCrane, of Cleveland, and Jim Hagedorn, of Chicago. Then another one appeared less than four doors away. This one, the ■“Wag On Inn.” On the second there was attached a wagon wheel by Bob Probst, of Kansas City, Mo., and Len Kaczmarski, of Chicago.	•
According to Rev. Robert Lochner, C.S.C., who has been watching the developments on the “shingle front,” rivalry increased between these two until now the “Wag On Inn” has the additions ■“Please check brass knuckles,” “Capacity—5 Gals,” “Tables for Ladies et al,” and “You must be 21.”
“Stagger Inn” has added “We reserve the right to seat our guests.” And now they have put up a lamp resembling a porch light above the sign.
NAME CARDS . . .
One of the more conservative and professional looking shingles is “Gans and Resting, Consulting Engineers” on the door of James Resting, of Toledo, Ohio, and Ray Gans, of Danville, California. Then there is royalty. On the door of Bob Hassenauer and Bob Murphy, both of Wilmette, Ill., there is the golden seal of the House of Seagram. Beneath this
. . . RUN WILD
there is the name of “Alcoholics Anonymous.” Never wishing to miss any visitors they have installed a doorbell also.
Many other sorts of signs appear from portraits of the roomers to the maps of their home states. On the first floor there is even a door knocker. Who knows what the increased competition will bring? By next week they may even be using neon lights and flashing billboards.
Student Trip
(Continued from Page 9) persed throughout the beautiful Capital city, gaping and gawking at the main points of sightseeing interest. A special tea dance is scheduled at Trinity College that afternoon.
Last minute tours will end the weekend on Monday morning. The homebound train will leave Union Station at 12 noon sharp.
The train will stop in South Bend to allow all South Benders, and all others who might want to get off, time in which to de-train. The special will then pull out to the St. Mary’s siding for the other campusites. The weekend will be over and classes will start, election day or no election day at 8 as usual.
BRIDGE TOURNAMENT
The Knights of Columbus are sponsoring a bridge tournament open to all students. The tournament, conducted on the duplicate bridge plan, starts next Wednesday night at 6:45 in the Walsh Hall council chambers.
Rock's Sophs Shine In Gay Cotillion Air
Over one hundred and fifty clipped, combed, and washed males crowded into Le Mans at 8:30 P.M., Friday last, to meet their be-ruffled and be-frilled hostesses for the annual St. Mary’s Sophomore Cotillion. To the music of Gene Hull, these gay couples glided across the waxed and polished floor of the Louis XIV Ballroom. As the theme of the dance was “Midnight Masquerade,” each girl held a black mask, and the room was decorated in fuchia, black, and silver.
The climax of the evening was the grand march led by Barbara Hepting, general chairman of the dance committee, and her date Dean Stuhymueller. For a few minutes the incoherent mass of dancing couples straightened out into orderly columns promenading to the tune of the “Victory March” and the “Bells of St. Mary’s.”
Another high light of the evening, of course, was the serving of refreshments in the hall. Gallons of punch were dispensed and trays of cookies disappeared down Notre Dame and St. Mary’s gullets before the evening was over.
Despot Named Chairman Of Rebels' '49 Mardi Gras
Greg Despot, Commerce senior from Shreveport, Louisiana, was elected chairman of the 1949 Rebels Mardi Gras dance at a meeting of the officers of the Rebels Monday night. The dance will probably come off the Friday prior to Ash Wednesday, February 25, at the Palais Royale.
Bill Slavick, co-chairman of the dance last year, and president of the Rebels, also announced this week the election of two interim term officers. They are: Ray Streb, Commerce sophomore from Raleigh, North Carolina, who will serve as treasurer, and who defeated Ian Landry of New Orleans by a margin of only one vote; and Joe Beck, Engineering senior of Little Rock, Arkansas, who was unopposed for the office of corresponding secretary.
Despot, secretary of the club, served in sub-committee chairman capacities for the first two Mardi Gras dances.
34
The Scholastic
Music
By VERNE KELLEY
This space is for adults only! A child could catch a bad case of hysteria from the picture below.
But the owner of the face is really quite harmless. His name is Chubby Jackson. He plays bass. For Woody Herman.
He clowns; he sings; he plays; he crawls on his . . . oops! But only his bass-plucking is in the sensational class as his'many awards from Down Beat,
Senyczko
Metronome and Esquire polls show.
When we grabbed him coming off the Palace Theater stage last week, we noticed his diminished waistline and cleanshaven face. The goatee had fled!
After telling us of his (pardon the expression) sextet which recently returned from Denmark and Sweden, he calmly stated that the present Herman orchestra is the best in the country. (Note: Previously Stan Kenton claimed his was best.)
“Tell me,” the Cherub beseeched, straightening his string bow tie, “where can you find four saxes, two trombones and three trumpets all playing solos?”
Like a good fall guy, we muttered: “Where?” We always mutter when confused.
“In this band, that’s where,” he said. “This is the cleanest bop band in the country.” (Note: They did seem clean.)
Herd Comes On
On stage, Serge Chaloff, Bill Harris, Stan Getz and Ernie Royal paced the Herman crew on head arrangements like “Keeper of the Flame.” Vocals weren’t.
Two things every college man should know I
I
Fhis is a baby. Fussy about clothes.
Demands frequent change of wardrobe.
Hits bottle daily. But finds life incomplete. Is just waiting for day when he can wear smart "Manhattan” shirt.
Your day has come to enjoy one.
Very smart. Widespread collar points, and stays to keep ’em flat.
Fabric residual shrinkage 1% or less.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Copr. 1948, The Manhattan Shirt Co.
Oct. 29, 1948
35
Names Make News
Speaking at a meeting of the Serra Club of South Bend last week, the Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president of the University, urged that Catholics help find a practical solution to the problem of double taxation. He also suggested that Catholics “awaken” other religious denominations conducting or wishing to conduct their own schools, to work for the abolition of the present system of double taxation. He asked that some equitable and workable method be devised to relieve Catho-
FATHER CAVANAUGH
lies, Protestants and Jews conducting such schools and to use tax money contributed by them for the support of their own schools.
“All education in this country is tending to be public,” stated Father Cavanaugh. “Public education tends to become non-religious. As a result, the United States tends to become secularized or non-religious.” He went on to point out that secularism paves the way for totalitarianism as proved by the rise of communism in Soviet Russia, fascism in the Italy of Mussolini, and nazism in Hitler’s Germany. Father Cavanaugh ended by making a plea for a united front against this evil and saying that a chance for religious schools will present such a front. . . .
Professor WALTER L. SHILTS and his department of Civil Engineering are observing the 75th anniversary of the founding of the department this year. Professor ARTHUR J. STACE was the first professor of civil engineering at Notre Dame in 1873. Today’s enrollment of 120 students is a far cry from
the one-man graduating class of 1875, the first of the young department. . . .
At a luncheon of the Association of Commerce last Monday, Dr. MILTON BURTON, professor of chemistry here and a specialist in atomic energy, gave a talk on the development and implications of atomic energy. . . .
Professor ALDEN DAVIS, of the department of Business Administration at Notre Dame, attended the northern Ohio personnel and executive conference which closed today in Cleveland, Ohio. At the same time, Dr. LEO KUNTZ was attending a meeting of the philosophy of education society a few miles south in Cincinnati. Dr. Kuntz is head of the department of education here....
FRANK J. STARZEL, who attended Notre Dame in 1921 and 1922, was named general manager of the Associated Press this week. Starzel succeeds Kent Cooper who has been both executive director and general manager for several years. Cooper will remain as executive director. Starzel played freshman football when he was here in a pre-law course.
The Baltimore Alumni club has suddenly come up with plans for this week’s game in the Maryland hub. A gigantic pep rally will be held tonight while the Irish of Baltimore are set for a cocktail party after the Navy trouncing tomorrow afternoon. BOB WILLIAMS’ brother, HAL, is in charge of the publicity for the activity-filled weekend. GIL PRENDERGAST is chairman.
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in
Bowlers!
Be Sure to Start Your League Bowling Right! Get a Custom-Fitted MANHATTAN Bowling Ball Today
We carry a complete line of bowling shoes and bags. We will gladly give estimates on team bowling shirts.
SONNEBORN'S
SPORT SHOP
121 West Colfax Avenue
Phone 3-3702
Look to
Gilbert’s for Van Heusen
^gIlbTrFs
813-817 S. Michigan Street
36
The Scholastic
It’s Adler’s
for
Van Heusen
ON THE CORNER —MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
New ivide-spread Van Bold with Comfort Contour” collar.
for the BOLD LOOK
You’ll find college men’s collar favorites in
0
Van Heusen
shirts
the world’s smartest
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
“VAN HEUSEN” IS A TRADE MARK REGISTERED IN THE U. S. PATENT OFFICE
Bold is the word: for the low-setting, wide-spread soft collar with stays to keep it lying flat. . . for the half-inch stitching on the collar ... on the extra wide center pleat . . - on the cuffs. Lab-tested, Sanforized broadcloth, in white and smart new solid colors §3.95.
Other Van Heusen shirts §3.50, §3.95, §4.95.
Letters
(Continued from Page 4) like Pressman, Marcantonio, Hugh Bryson, John Abt and Albert Fitzgerald who do know what they want . . .
The Scholastic’s analysis was a broad one, but like a similar puddle of water on Michigan Street after an April shower, a very, very shallow one.
James J. Carberry Sorin
Dear Editor:
When you and the members of your staff finish reading my letter, there will undoubtedly be at least one retort that it certainly sounds like some gallant wife defending her husband — you know, the usual run of the mill stuff. That assumption will be absolutely correct; so now that you have a sneak preview of what is to come, here goes. Before I blow my gasket, I do wish to make it clear that nothing I say is meant, in any way, to reflect on the Scholastic; I think it is great, and I enjoy reading each issue and will continue to do so in the future.
If I were to keep in line with my breeding, I would allow this matter to pass and consider the source from whence it came; however, after completing the page of columns entitled “The Week,” I thought this might be a good time to compete with the arrogance of the writer and let him in on a little secret: his whole page can only be entered into his own department, “It ain’t worth so much.” I may be too presumptuous in thinking the caricature placed to the right of the page is one of the writer himself; in any case, it certainly authentically .depicts the dissipated personality of this great columnist.
I do agree that some of the comic strips today are absurd, disgusting, and moronic in theme; however, there are ouite a few whose themes are amusing. I enjoy reading them, and I know I am not alone . . .
With our columnists’ stilted outlook on life, I should hate to think of his nossibly influencing other people. He has impressed me as the type who might be noticed, but very seldom included in warm friendship. He must certainly be an all too perfect one sided masterpiece of creation; however, I do not take great joy in looking ahead to the day he may possibly graduate and be an example of the “spirit” of Notre Dame.
All this does not mean that Eager is not open to constructive criticism and ideas to better the strip.
To the other member of the staff, Al Laporte: thanks loads for the super collossal write-up you gave Eager. .
Mrs. Eager
Oct. 29, 1948
37
Browser’s Column
Here is a sad tale, the reading of which should be accompanied by much weeping and gnashing of teeth. It is the tale of the freshman, newly entered into this little community of Notre Dame. If he is an average American (and we can reasonably expect he is), he has been subjected during the callow years of his youth to the great American culture factors of pulp fiction and the movies. From them he has learned what a typical college should be like. He has seen the frats, the hazing, the traditions, the weird customs of college men. He has expected them at Notre Dame, as he looked Notre Dame up in the “Information Please Almanac” and found out Notre Dame was a duly registered American college. Picture his bitter disappointment. Can we ever know, as he must have, the deep, stabbing sense of loss when he found out Notre Dame has NO frats, NO hazing, NO student traditions and NO customs? No, his great loss is a personal thing. But for all of us — what does it mean?
As to the first two, we think it means very little. After all, Frats are on their way out everywhere and were, at their best, nice chummy little social agencies and, at their worst, a great drawback to their schools. And hazing is really a high school activity reserved for Yale men and sorority sisters so we can consider ourselves superior without them. But traditions and customs?
We say Notre Dame has no student traditions, she has NO customs worth speaking about. We hear the cry and hue, the deafening roar of reproach. To silence same mob let us shout, above the din, one question. How many worth while traditions or customs can you name still prevalent at Notre Dame? Try hard. Think. How many? One? Sorry but we can’t admit the restriction on undergraduates walking up the steps of the Main Building because it is too small a thing, much too petty; little cared about by the average student. The other entrance beneath the stairs is a lot easier anyway. Smoking in the quadrangle? A farce. Just take a look next time you walk through it. Going to the Grotto? A highly regarded activity certainly, but a Notre Dame
custom? Hardly, rather it is a CATHOLIC custom, a tradition of faith. The Notre Dame spirit? A myth and how we all know it! The tradition that the Notre Dame student body is always active, always doing something constructive? The student body is rather dead, certainly no more active than any other university. The spirit of co-operation among students on campus? Happily admitted, but hardly unique to this University. It is an expression of the law of self-preservation you’ll find on campuses all over the country. Where does all this leave us?	•
In the first place it leaves us in a pretty strange situation. Here is an American university, bursting with red-blooded American boys and yet without a decent tradition or custom to its name. A silent and dead “espirit de corps.” Almost a blasphemous condition when you consider the way those on the outside think things are at Notre Dame.
But maybe all this is for the best. What are traditions anyway? Aren’t they just a lot of old stuffy nonsense that makes everyone look a little silly at times, soi*t of a regimentation to convention? Maybe.
But tradition, dear souls, is what makes a school distinctive and great. It is the great tradition of Catholic learning and education that makes Notre Dame stand out in many ways. But
RUBIN CLEANERS
EXPERT REPAIRS
217 E. Jefferson	2 Blocks East of Kresges
there must be a further tradition at Notre Dame to make it stand out in all ways. There must be a real, active tradition and a set of customs among the Notre Dame students. But this is a hard thing to acquire. Traditions arc not made, they are, in a sense, born. They are usually started with a high degree of unconsciousness, fostered by direct emotional appeal and carried on for the sake of ritual or something even more basic.
A tradition unites the student not only to his fellow student but also to all the students of his University in the past. We speak now of the “Notre Dame family.” How much closer would relations be if we had a few traditions to cling to?
ICMA Offers Scholarships In Circulation Management
Once again the International Circulation Manager’s Association will award two $750 scholarships to students who will take a year of graduate work leading to an M.A. degree in the field of circulation management.
The purpose of these awards is to interest college men in this field of newspaper work and to establish professional standards in the field. The students selected will be allowed to attend the university of their choice, provided there are adequate facilities for graduate studies in this specialized field.
Applications for the scholarship may be made by writing H. Phelps Bates, Circulation Manager of the Christian Science Monitor, Boston, Mass., or to Arthur Daniel, circulation manager of the Atlanta Journal, Atlanta, Georgia. Applications will be received until May 10, 1949, and the awards will be announced at the Annual Convention of I.C.M.A. in June.
20% Discount to Notre Dame Students on regular service.
AND ALTERATIONS
38
The Scholastic
OFFICIAL
NOTRE DAME
BADGES
REMINGTON
TYPEWRITERS
Special Student Discounts
Notre Dame
BOOKSTORE
IRISH BOOSTER SHIRTS, $1.25
GIVE YOUR WIFE OR SWEETHEART THE MINIATURE NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY RING
RCA PORTABLE RADIOS, $22 up
The Notre Dame miniature is the perfect gift for the sweetheart. It's an exact duplicate of the official Notre Dame ring, 2/3 size. It will knock the little girl's eyes out. It's available in black or green onyx, ruby, amethyst, aquamarine, blue spinel, or tourmaline.
At most universities, tradition calls for "pinning" the sweetheart At Notre Dame, it's "ringing." The miniature shows the tower and dome of the Administration building modelled on one side. The raised letters "University of Notre Dame" frame the stone, set in the top. Select one for the sweetheart today.
RECORD
ALBUMS
All School Sungs
GREEN ONYX, sardonyx.........................................$16.00
TOURMALINE, buff top, faceted back........................... 18.00
RUBY, faceted top, faceted back............................. 17.50
BLUE SPINEL, buff top, faceted back......................... 17.50
{Prices do nof include fax.)
MONOGRAM
STATIONERY
UNDERWOOD
TYPEWRITERS
Special Student Price
OFFICIAL
NOTRE DAME
JACKETS
NOTRE DAME SCAPULAR MEDALS
PERSONALIZED CHRISTMAS CARDS
SEND FOR OUR SOUVENIR AND GIFT. CATALOG
MAIL ORDERS ACCEPTED
Write:	NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame, Indiana
Oct. 29, 1948
39
• i, * r • 1
I enjoy Chesterfields because theyre really Milder
STARR ING IN
"JOHNNY BELINDA" A WARNER BROS. PRODUCTION
WHY...! smoke Chesterfield
(FROM A SERIES OF STATEMENTS BY PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS)
I have done business with Liggett & Mgers for over 40 years. They buy the best crops in the house at the auctions.
I am exclusively a Chesterfield smoker. I think they are the best cigarette made.
TOBACCO FARMER, NICHOLASVILLE, NY.
COOLER SMOKING
ALWAYS MILDER
A..'AMJhestebfieli)
BIGHT COMBINATION
WORLDS BEST TOBACCOS
194% LiGcm & M™ Tobacco Co.