the
Published Weekly — Founded 1867
Notre Dame
VOLUME 75
NUMBER 17 MARCH 6, 1942
Panel Discussion Group
Latin American students form panel discussion group to help American students understand the Southern side of the Inter-American question.
From left to right, standing: Louis Flores, Peru; Francisco Cabrera, Mexico City; Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., faculty moderator; Eduardo Alcayaga, Chile; Ramon Araujo, Colombia.
Seated: Clarence Finlayson, Chile; Mark McGrath, Panama; Peter Robles, Mexico City; Rafael Alducin, Mexico City.
(See CAMPUS, p. 13)
Top Of The Week:
Announcing the Mid-Semester.
"Death. What is that Stink?"
A Playlet.
.Scene: A room in Howard Hall.
Time: One hour before Scholastic deadline.
(Curtain rises on shifty-eyed creature hunched over desk, busily assembling a dummy page with ddds and ends fished out of waste basket. Knock at door.)
Shifty-eyed Creature: Come in!
(Door opens cautiously and in lumbers a medium sized Joke, obviously much the worse for tvear, with great, big, moth-eaten ears flapping wearily, and a palsied trunk stringing listlessly from side to side.)
Joke: Is this.... is this the home of the “College Parade,” otherwise known as the “Dying Gag’s Grave-yard?”
S.E.C.: Yes, yes, old fellow. Come right in. I’ve been rather expecting you.
Joke: They told me—my mother always told me—this was where I should go when I got that certain feeling—in short, I’ve come herd to....
S.E.C.: Ah, old friend, you’ve come to the right place, indeed. This is where they all come to.... You see, I myself know how it feels to be cast aside by a fickle public, when one has worn out one’s usefulness, and I’ve done my best to develop an end that’s as quick and painless as possible. I’m sure you won’t feel a ripple, after all you’ve been through. Just step over there to the desk and we’ll get on -with it.
(Joke lumbers over to desk and sits down on dummy page; then leans back with a grateful sigh.)
S.E.C.: That’s right, lean way back and close your eyes; before you can say “chestnut,” it will be all over.
Joke: (Opening eyes) Will I see mama?
S.E.C.: You know, I wouldn’t be a bit surprised. Why, she went through here only last week* Easy now, here we go._
CURTAIN
❖
Apologia
We wasted so much space on an insignificant subject because the early part of March is a period of journalistic doldrums, known to the trade as “Investigation Time.” When we became aware of the historical precedent, we wanted to investigate something, too, in keeping
2
with the general custom, and at first that big Bengal Bouts preview, put on down the hall a couple of days ago, looked like just the thing—three stalwarts involved in a bloody battle, -with furniture upset, glasses broken, and black eyes being handed out with machine-like regularity.
Ah, ha, we cried, there’s a beautiful woman at the bottom of this, or maybe even some money involved! But it turned out that two of them were fighting to decide whether honesty was a better virtue than loyalty, or vice versa, and the third man was slugging away just to keep his hand in.
The cafe was equally fruitless.... no butter or sugar scandal, no nothing, not even a new magazine on the rack. We decided, finally, to sit back and wait until election time came around, before going any further in our investigations. During elections our fee for silence will naturally be higher than usual, and we advise the politicians to come up and discuss terms now, before the rush starts.
Triumphs of the Week
Under the rules laid down in “Bench Chatter,” governing athletic news, the following items may be outside our province, but perhaps the “B” boys haven’t heard them.
The best that Andy Chlebeck could do against feminine competition at the Bowlmor last Saturday was a piddling .500, and some of the scouts who watched . say he was lucky, at that.
Then there’s the story about Paul Patten, who wanted to go to sleep early last Sunday evening. It seems a lot of noise was coming from one particular room on the fourth floor of Walsh, so Paul crept up and expertly cast a glass of water over the transom. As things turned out, the only person he doused was Father Russell, who had been sitting in on the session.
❖
Confidential:
To Messrs. Tearney and Flynn: if my blanket, which you borrowed four months ago, is not returned immediately, I shall place the case in the hands of some big, tough lawyer.
❖
Bottom Of The Week
Friends advise us to omit the BOTW for an issue or so, until things quiet down.
Disco Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Thomas V. Powers, Editor
Don Heltzel...........Managing Editor
William Scanlan.............Promotion
John DiNGES.....................Sports	Editor
William Baader.....................Art	Editor
Tom Clemens......Administration Editor Dan Downey.......Campus	Editor
Ed Drinkard.........Sta# Photographer
Leo Lee.............:.....Advertising
Frank Kiener..............Advertising
John Lynch................Photo	Editor
Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate P'ress, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago-Boston—-Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 228 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms. Old Ave Maria Buillding: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
NEWS ADMINISTRATION
PAGE
Law School Speed Up  ............ 5
3-Term Schedules Announced-------- 8
CAMPUS
K. of C. Carnival Nets $1,900 ....I I
St. Ed's-Dillon Feud Raging .....15
SPORTS
Leahy Has Gridders Out for "T"----18
Badin's Battlers Prep for Bouts---17
FEATURES
The Week __________________. 2
College Parade _______________C...10
Man About the Campus.............14
Introducing ___________:.........19
Scoop'n Splinters ............   21
What About Sports? ..............21
Bench-Chatter _______________....28
Classical Platters ____________  30
Disc-cussion _____________________31
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	.	' . -
at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	.
Volume 75
MARCH 6, 1942
Number 17
NOTRE DAME NAVAL TRAINING PLANS ANNOUNCED;
LAUNDRY, KITCHEN FACILITIES TO BE EXPANDED
JOSEPH CONERTY
of kitchen facilities will be necessary, but by serving the midshipmen’s meals and the University meals in the one wing in relays three-quarters of an hour to an hour apart, the one hall will accom- , modate both groups.
The Rev. Hugh ' O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced last Sunday the Navy’s appointment of Captain H. P. Burnett, U.S.N., as gen’ eral commandant of the combined Notre Dame naval program. This includes Notre Dame’s unit of the Naval R.O.T.C. and the unit of 1,000 enlisted midshipmen who will report on the campus early in April for a month’s indoctrination course.
Under the new program, Notre Dame’s R.O.T.C. will continue unaffected by the indoctrination course offered under the V-7 program, and has only its commanding officer in common with the new midshipmen.
Father O’Donnell announced also the arrival at Notre Dame of LieutenantCommander John D. Shaw, U.S.N., formerly of the ordnance department of the Navy’s training school at Abbott Hall in Chicago. Accompanying LieutenantCommander Shaw, who will be executive officer of the new Notre Dame unit, is Lieutenant-Commander Max Schwitzner, S.C. V(G), U.S.N.R., who will be supply officer for the new trainees. Captain Burnett expects from 15 to 20 naval officers to report for duty in April to command the various phases of training for the new recruits.
The thousand men arriving here will be college graduates from all over the United States, enlisted under the V-7 classification of naval, reserve midshipmen. The course at Notre Dame will select those who will go from their month’s training here to the three schools which offer the three - month training course leading to ensign’s commissions, such as at Abbott Hall, Chicago.
The course at Notre Dame will be ■ basic in teaching the fundamentals in becoming Navy officer material, and will aid the naval officers in selecting personnel of satisfactory caliber for entering the advanced training courses. The other men, under the terms of their enlistment, will remain in the Navy as . mid
shipmen. In conjunction with three advanced training schools, Notre Dame, under the new program, is being asked to produce some 12,000 candidates annually for the commission of ensign.
The three halls on the west quadrangle, Lyons, Morrissey, and Howard, will be completely evacuated by the University and taken over and furnished by the Navy for housing the naval reserve midshipmen. The hall regulations will be under naval officers.
The Navy program will not intrude upon the regular academic work of Notre Dame, and Notre Dame students, particularly in the face of anticipated loss of enrollment from selective service and enlistments, can be accommodated by a more intensive use of the eleven remaining residence halls on the campus.
Present plans call for the feeding of the midshipmen in one wing of the great University Dining Halls, the capacity of which coincides with the entire number of men in the naval unit. Some expansion
Notre Dame’s laundry will also be expanded to meet the increased demands of laundry work arising from the housing of the additional men on the campus.
In connection with the Navy program at Notre Dame, Captain Burnett announces that candidates for the regular Notre Dame unit of the Naval R.O.T.C. will be accepted only in the September semester hereafter, and must remain eight consecutive semesters, which, under Notre Dame’s accelerated program, would mean completing their college and R.O.T.C. work in two and two-thirds years instead of the customary four.
Physical Exams for V-5
On Monday and Tuesday of next week, March 9 and 10, physical examinations for V-5 candidates will be held in the University field house. Ensign Robert Childs and his medical examining group from the Chicago board for Naval Aviation Cadet Selection, V-5, will be on the campus these two days to conduct the examinations.
9
’’The Crucifixion''
[See story on page 8)
sew
AaminUi>icdlO4'i Aea«4
<*>»■■ ■■■^■— -■

Requirements Condensed
For Getting Law Degree
Notre Dame’s law degree, with prelaw requirements reduced to four semesters, can be obtained in three and one-third calendar years by a high school graduate, the University Council announced Tuesday, in another move by the University to cooperate in the acceleration of education asked by the government.
Dean Clarence E. Manion
Dean Clarence E. Manion points out that the new requirements do not affect the content of the law school training itself, but reduce the requirement for entrance into the College of Law from 90 semester hours to 60 semester hours, or two ordinary years, of acceptable college credits.
The new requirement is in keeping with the requirements of the majority of American colleges of law, and is also part of a general trend to shorten the time involved in securing a law degree. The principal gain in time at Notre Dame is made possible by the general acceleration of the University’s program.
Recent emphasis on the necessity for recognition of religion in education, and for the return to a spiritual basis for American jurisprudence has played a part in the decision to cooperate with the speed-up trend in the Notre Dame law school, oldest Catholic college of law in the United States.
Combination courses, permitting a degree in Arts and Letters or in Commerce with the receiving of a degree in law a year later, will still require 12 semesters, with the first degree being awarded at the end of ten semesters.
The new program, adopted officially only for the duration of the war, also permits a young high school graduate, by continuing acceptable work, to complete his work for a degree in law approximately at the age when, under present law, he becomes eligible for military service.
Father Murray Goes West
Another chapter in the book of tradition, “Badin Diary,” was closed last night when the Rev. Edmund J. Murray, C.S.C., checked his third floor charges into bed for the last time.
Just six months ago Father Murray came to Badin as prefect of the third floor, and now he has left to join the Army. Father left this morning for Texas, to be a chaplain at Camp Barkley, near Abilene.
In 1934 Father graduated from Notre Dame with his A.B. degree. Four years later he was ordained to the priesthood and installed at Holy Cross Seminary as an instructor in Latin and religion. Through the school years 1939-41 he was pastor at the St. Joseph’s Farm, teaching religion at Notre Dame the while.
The greatest sporting achievement of his career, as was attested by other faculty members, was his playing into the semi-finals of the priests’ hand-ball tournament of this year. He is also adept at bowling and was a popular figure at the alleys in Walsh Hall.
New Sunday Missal Is Work of Father Hoever
Recently put on the market is a new religious publication of special interest to Notre Dame men. It is a missal of Sunday and feast day masses, entitled I Pray the Mass, arranged by Rev. Hugo Hoever, O.Cist., Ph.D., a member of the department of philosophy of the University.
The new missal is published, by the Catholic Book Publishing Co., New York, and appears in 11 different bindings
ranging from 35 cents to S3.-50. It contains masses for every Sunday of the year and holydays of obligation. In addition, special prayers for private devotions are included and are written in a simple, highly inspiring manner. It is of . special interest that Father Hoever composed many of these prayers, including the Stations of the Cross.
Along with masses and prayers, the missal contains a special thought for each mass and a thought for each week. Many inspiring religious cuts decorate its pages.
| NEXT WEEK |
Roy James Grumbine
FRIDAY, MARCH 6:	‘
4:15 p.m., W’SBT. 960 on your dial.
Question Parade.	.
7:30 p.m., Law Auditorium, Interhall -debate finals, Pro and Con on Labor Unions. Cavanaugh vs. Morrissey.
SATURDAY, MARCH 7:
6:40 and 8:20 pun., Washington Hall, Academy Award winner, Gary Cooper in “Meet John Doe” with Edward Arnold and Barbara Stanwyck. Sentimental . but solid. Also, “Truant Officer Donald” and News. -
MONDAY, MARCH 9:
Physical exams for V-5 candidates.
Mid-semester Exams—Sale of cigarettes shows increase.	.
4:15 p.m., WSBT. News of Campus and Town. Vail Pischke and Chuck Pat-• terson.	.	• '
TUESDAY, MARCH 10:
Mid-semester Exams hdd over another day.
7:45 p.m., WSBT, Catholic Action Broadcast. Joe Murnane directed by Al Sommers.	;
THURSDAY, MARCH 12:
8:00 p.m., Washington Hall. The Chekhov Players in Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night.”
Father O'Brien Authors
Booklet On Character
William B. Guyol
Reverend John A. O’Brien, Ph. D., professor of apologetics and politics at this university recently authored a booklet titled Character Formation, published by the Paulist Press of New York City.
Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph.D.
Prepared for use by study clubs throughout the country, the booklet has been widely acclaimed as one of the finest of its kind ever to appear. A distinctive feature is the use made of the findings of modern psychology that throw light upon the formation of habit and the building of character.
The booklet consists of eight chapters with appropriate sets of questions ■worked out for the thorough discussion of each chapter. Numerous anecdotes are sprinkled throughout the text that illustrate perfectly the principle points of the treatment.
This booklet is extremely well-written, interesting throughout; and by all means should be read by all in view of the chaotic state of affairs today.
Fr. O’Brien diagnoses the situationtoday perfectly when he says, “What the -world needs, if it is to be saved, is not more guns, dreadnaughts, or bombing planes—but more character in its citizens. If humanity is to be saved from a second deluge, the deluge of world wide war, it will be saved only by a spiritual redemption, only by putting into practice Christ’s all embracing law of love.”	.
Money talks! United States Defense Savings Bonds and Stamps shout “Victory!”
Metropolitan Barrister
Defends Christian U. S.
Raoul E. Desvernines, New York City jurist, author and lecturer in a speech in the Law auditorium Feb. 24, branded as fifth columnists all those persons who reject the Christian concept of man and society.
Said speaker Desvernines: “The world is facing one of the greatest and swiftest breakdowns in the history of civilization. This war will be won or lost—that is to say from the point of view of what kind of civilization results from it, regardless of the military results—only if the right ideas prevail and survive.”
The speaker said the American form of government was postulated on the Christian way of life, based upon five tenets. The tenets developed by Mr. Desvernines were:
1.	“Our founding fathers acknowledged the existence and efficacy of the laws of nature and of nature’s God.”
2.	“Man is a creature of God endowed by God with certain inalienable rights.”
3.	“Authority in the states comes ultimately from God through the people.”
4.	“All men are created equal. This means not equality of capacity, but equality of opportunity, equality before the law, equality of political rights.”
5.	“Life, liberty and the pursuit of' happiness was a definite pattern of life of our founding fathers. I submit they made the American by definition a supernatural personality and tried to politically implement and safeguard him as such.”
Outdoor Advertising
Unit Receives Books
The Outdoor Advertising Foundation of Notre Dame last week received 25 . volumes on business law, a gift from Mrs. Eugene Payton, -wife of the former professor of business administration at the College of Commerce. Professor Payton was a member of the. faculty from 1926 until his death in March, 1941. The books provide background material relating to business law, real property, partnerships, and general law.
Guest speaker at a special meeting of the Outdoor Advertising Foundation last week at the University library seminar room was Edward J. Meehan, national advertising manager of the South Bend Tribune. He spoke on general trends of newspaper advertising, as a major competitor to Outdoor Advertising.
Prof. Nutting, Agrarianist, Expounds Ideas on Family
Mark G. McGrath
“This man has a goat. This man has a wife. This man has built a fence around his farm. This man obviously lives an honest and simple life.”
So ran the introduction to Professor Willis D. Nutting, guest at the fourth in the series of student-professor meetings being held every Monday evening in the Rockne Memorial lounge. To those who know Mr. Nutting the introduction that he received will have a peculiarly nostalgic ring; to the students gathered at the “Rock” to meet and to hear him, they were soon explained.
Mr. Nutting is well known as one of Notre Dame’s strongest advocators of a social movement that is constantly gaining more recognition and attention among Catholics, i.e., The Catholic Rural Life Movement, aimed at simplifying, slowing down, and making more substantial the social and family lives of Americans. Monday night he chose for his speech a topic that was a logical jumping-off point for an explanation and discussion of this movement, namely, “Bonds for the Making of a Christian Family.”
“Christian theology and sociology, agree in telling us,” he began, “that -the family is the basic unit of society, upon which the social life of a nation depends. But the family, as such, is very rare in America today. In the first place there are circles of husbands and wives sporadically swapping mates. If the cornerstones of the family are so impermanent can you expect the children, if there are any, to receive any real home life or training? Furthermore, even in the families where the parents remain united there is little real family life.”
Elaborating on this last point Mr. Nutting blamed it on the modern economic setup more than upon such evils as artificial birth control. “Today most families are bound only by the ties of physical love and physical dependence. The other bonds of family life have been disrupted by a citified, proletarian economy.” He listed these bonds as a common permanent home, common work, common play, common teaching and learning and common prayer.
“The necessity of these bonds and their effectiveness in uniting humans is evident. The trouble is that today, and increasingly so for the past 150 years, families divide into age groups and inr terests, and according to these divisions pursue their relations with members of other families either at work or in leisure time. That means that the bonds of
comradeship are uniting people of different families rather than those within each family. But since no social unit can have the physical love and dependence present in any family, no other social unit can substitute for the family as the basis of society.
Asked how to apply these bonds within a family Mr. Nutting replied, “You have to change the present setup so that it will be based upon these principles. For example, common work: the father should try to do as much of his work as possible at home, letting all of the family share in his troubles and his responsibilities.
“To really achieve this end of the Christian family the husband and father must realize that his -life is a vocation as much as is the religious or the priestly life. His ambition must be directed towards the care of the five or six souls entrusted to him. His own personal success in business, or whatever his avoca-iton may be, must always receive only secondary consideration.”
The last 45 minutes of the meeting Mr. Nutting spent in answering questions, mainly upon the actual practice of these theories. Having explained how they have worked out in his own family, which has found a small two-acre farm an excellent medium for “a common home and common work,” he promptly invited everyone up to the “farm” and on this note of geniality the meeting came to a close.
This Monday Professor Frank Flynn, head of the department of Social Work and member of the faculty of the University of Chicago, will be Student-Professor meeting guest.
Student Oratorical
Contest Due In April
Students interested in forensic activi
ties will have an opportunity to display
their talent in the Goodrich-Cavanaugh
P. BARTHOLOMEW
contest to be held beginning Monday, April 6. According to authorities, three cash prizes of $100, $35, and $15 will be awarded to the three students who, in the eyes of judges appointed by the president, give the best orations on any subject
dealing with the fundamentals of American Government, particularly the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States.
Any student who has not -yet completed eight semesters of his undergradu
ate work is eligible for the contest and, if he wishes to enter, should submit his name to any one of the teachers of speech or to Professor Paul Bartholomew, of the department of politics. Each contestant must also submit three typewritten copies of his oration, doublespaced on standard-sized bond paper, to Speech Professor Frank Kelly, 319 Main Building, not later than noon of Saturday, March 28, 1942. The manuscript of any oration submitted in the contest must consist of not less than 1,000 words nor more than 1,200 and must not take more than 12 minutes in delivery. All orations, of course, have to be original and must not contain more than 25 per cent quoted matter.
Contestants will be judged on a basis of 200 per cent: 100 per cent for the thought and expression in the manuscript, and 100 per cent on the delivery of the oration. All wishing to enter the contest should consult, for faculty advice and further information, Professor Paul Bartholomew of the department of politics, ■who will serve as director in the matter of assistance.
New Type History Course Is Popular
J. H. Johnston
Direct result of the present interest revolving around warfare and armies is a new-type history class for juniors and seniors, some sophomores. “The Development of European Armies, 1500-1941” is the title of the three-hour, one-semester course begun at the semester, and taught by Professor Shanahan, A.M.
The course is designed to study the form and structure of armies during various periods of history from the Renaissance to the present. It includes the relation of wars to contemporary politics, considers naval warfare, and touches some of the technical aspects of conflict. The student gets a historical perspective on warfare so he can better understand present occurrences.
Principal work of the new class is the reading of military literature, including library periodicals. There is no text-book. The class is about evenly divided among engineering, commerce, and arts and letters students.
“This type of history course is becoming increasingly popular in American colleges, and is likely to become a permanent fixture in many of them,” says Mr. Shanahan, who came here in September from a teaching position at Columbia University. “The last third of the semester we •will study the first and the second World Wars,” he added.
Prospective students of military his
tory will be interested to know that the elective course is planned to be continued during the coming summer and winter semesters.
Sophomores and Would-Be
Sociologists—Please Copy!
Present A.B. Sophomores who are •planning on making sociology their major subject at the time of the March pre-registratiion are asked to consult the Sociology Bulletin Board at the lower
Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C.
entrance to the Administriation Building for particulars. Provisions have been made for consultation with Fathers Raymond W. Murray, Francis P. Cavanaugh and Charles I. McCarragher and with Mr. Frank T. Flynn, in case the student wishes to interview members of the department before pre-registering.
Since the Graduate Department of Social Work is to be dropped for the duration of the war, Mr. Flynn henceforth will divide his teaching time between the University of Chicago School of Social Service Administration and the department of sociology at Notre Dame. Mr. Flynn will be in charge of the crime sequence of courses in the department of sociology; Father Murray will direct the general sociology sequence.
Father O'Donnell Given Further War Duties
Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., has received oificial notice of his appointment to the 18-man board of visitors for the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md.
Father O’Donnell received the notice of his appointment from Secretary of the -Navy Frank Knox. He was one of seven university presidents appointed to the ' 1942 board. Also on the board are five United States senators and six United States representatives.
The duties of a board member have not yet been enumerated, Father said. When notified, however, he will go to Annapolis, and meet with the other members of the board.
- ?
DIRECTOR OF STUDIES RELEASES SPRING, SUMMER.
AND FALL SCHEDULES; ONE MAJOR VACATION LEFT
Probably everyone has heard something or other about the Notre Dame Summer Semester. And it’s 10 to one That rhe student that hasn’t, has been studying too hard.
First of all, the “Summer Vacation” will be lengthened to 22 days by the new examination schedule and this vacation officially ends with the registration of students with the Registrar, Secretary, and the respective deans on May 27 and 28.
There will be only two days without classes- during this semester and these are the Feast of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin on August 15 and the national holiday and birthday of the United States, Independence Day. And as luck would have it, both of these days fall on Saturday which is both an advantage and a disadvantage to the students. For although we only lose a total of one day of class, they provide some perfect opportunities for extended week-ends.
Mid-semester exams will be on Monday and Tuesday, July 13 and 14, and the examinations will follow the same procedure that has been introduced this semester.
May 5 and 6—Tuesday and Wednesday: Semester examinations for all students.
May 9—Saturday: Class day exercises.
May 10—Sunday: Commencement Mass and baccalaureate sermon. Conferring of degrees, at 4 :00 p.m.
Summer Semester of 1942
May 27 and 28—Wednesday and Thursday: Registration with registrar and secretary.
May 28—Thursday: Registration for courses in the summer semester.
May 29—Friday: Classes begin at 8:00 a.m.
June 1—Monday: Latest date for changes in registration.
June 8—Monday: Latest date for registration in courses.
Julj" 4—Saturday: Independence Day.
July 13 and 14—Monday and Tuesday: Midsemester examinations for all students.
July 20—Monday: Latest date for report of deficient students.
July 20 to 25—Monday to Saturday: Preregistration in courses for the fall semester.
July 27—Monday: Latest date for submitting dissertations by candidates for graduation on Sept 6.
August 15—Saturday: Feast of Assumption.
Sept. 3 and 4—Thursday and Friday: Semester examinations for all students.
Sept. 6—Sunday: Convocation of faculty and conferring of degrees, at 4:00 p.m.
Fall Semester of 1942
Sept. 8 and 9—Tuesday and Wednesday: Registration with registrar and secretary.
Sept. 9—Wednesday: Registration for courses in fall semester.
Sept. 10—Thursday: Classes begin at 8:00 a.m.
Sept. 12—Saturday: Latest date for change in registration.
Sept. 16—Wednesday: Latest date for registration in courses.
Oct. 19 and 20—Monday and Tuesday: Midsemester examinations for all students.
Oct. 21 to 27—Wednesday to Tuesday: Preregistration for courses in spring semester of 1943.
Oct. 26—Monday: Latest date for report of deficient students.
Nov. 2 to 7—Monday to Saturday: Preregistration with secretary and reservation of rooms for the spring and the summer semester of 1943.
Nov. 16—Monday: Latest date for comprehensive examinations and for dissertations of undergraduates in final form.
Dec. 8—Tuesday: Feast of the Immaculate Conception.
Dec. 19 and 21—Saturday and Monday: Semester examinations for all students.
Dec. 22—Tuesday: Class day exercises.
Dec. 23—Wednesday: Commencement Mass and baccalaureate sermon. Conferring of degrees, at 4 :00 p.m.
No "Scholastic" Next Week
Due to the mid-semester exams, Monday and Tuesday there will be no issue of the Scholastic, next Friday, March 13.
The final examinations will be on Thursday and Friday, Sept. 3 and 4 and this will allow all undergraduates a vacation of four days including Labor Day before beginning the Fall semester.
There will be another conferring of degrees at the end of the Summer semester and this will be on Sept. 6. At that time all those who have completed the work leading to degrees since May 10 will receive their degrees.
Spring Semester of 1942
Jan. 24 and 26—Saturday and Monday: Registration with registrar and secretary.
Jan. 27—Tuesday: Classes begin at 8:00 a.m.
Jan. 30—Friday: Latest date for change in registration.
Feb. 2—Monday: Latest date for registration in courses.
March 9 and 10—Monday and Tuesday: Midsemester examinations for all students.
March 11 to 17—Wednesday to Tuesday: Preregistration for courses in the summer semester.
March 16—Monday: Latest date for midsemester report of deficient students.
March 23 to 28—Monday to Saturday: Preregistration with secretary and reservation of rooms for tiie summer and the fall semester of 1942.
April 2—Thursday: Easter recess begins at noon.
April 7—Tuesday: Classes resumed at 8:00 a.m.
April 7—Tuesday: Latest date for comprehensive examinations, for dissertations of undergraduates in final form, and for entries in contests for medals and other prizes.
VAN DYCK'S ORIGINAL "THE CRUCIFIXION"—
AN $80,000 NOTRE DAME ART TREASURE
ROY GRUMBINE
There is no priority on canvas, yet there is a piece in the Art Gallery with an estimated worth of $80,000. Many years ago this treasure, caked with grime, was found in a dusty corner of the attic of the Main Building. After some cleaning and research it was found to be an original Van Dyck—The Crucifixion.
This painting by the famous Flemish artist is considered to be among the finest representations of our Saviour’s sacrifice. Van Dyck is noted for the elegance of his composition, delicate expression, and true and pure colors. These qualities are all evident in this presentation of the last minutes of Christ’s life on earth. The Redeemer is hanging on a high cross, surrounded by many Angels, two of whom are holding chalices to catch the drops of blood as they fall from His tortured Hands.
There seems to be a controversy among artists as to which side of the Savior’s body was pierced by the lance. It is pictured here on the right. but many
brushes have placed it on the left. As this is the third hour we notice that the sun is in a state of total eclipse. Another point of interest is in the woman who is kneeling at the foot of the cross. Although she has no special connection with the portrayal she is his patroness. Van Dyck, even though he was wealthy himself and did not need outside help, gave his patroness the insignificant part that is given to all good patronesses.
Van Dyck was born in Antwerp, on March 22, 1599 and died in London, on Dec. 9, 1641. At the age of 16, already renowned, he entered the studio of Rubens, through whom he procured the commissions for many of his famous portraits. In later years one of his subjects, King Charles I of England, made him a knight and appointed him court painter. In this period he painted his most famous works.
(This is the first of a series of articles to be published during the Lenten period, which feature famous religious paintings from the University Art Gallery. See cut of painting on page	.
8
AN OPEN LETTER
FROM FRED WARING
Dear Students:
I am taking1 this open letter as a way of asking each student of Notre Dame to consider the ideas involved in the Pleasure Time National Glee Club Competition which your own Glee Club has entered along with clubs from all but one state of the Union.
This particular project—which differs in its aims from intercollegiate competitions of the past—has been on my mind for several years. In order that you may understand my keen interest I must tell you—because you are all too young to remember—that our glee club was the first “pro” group to overcome the many prejudices toward glee club singing in the world of popular entertainment. Don’t forget that word “popular” because it has a lot to do with my thoughts on the promotion of college glee club work.
Years ago, when the Pennsylvanians were starting out, there wasn’t a theater manager in the country who believed— until he was shown—that we would appeal to audiences who came to see a movie and “stage show” by singing “Ave Maria.” The history of our organization is a succession of resistances to efforts on the part of seasoned showmen to make us stick to playing dance music, and give up the Glee Club. When we were auditioning for a radio job in the early ’30’s, we were turned down by sponsor after sponsor because we insisted on including glee club singing on our program. We finally found a sponsor who saw it our way, and since then, during years of steady broadcasting, our Glee Club has proved to be our most popular feature.
I have followed college glee club performances for many years. Their aims in
entertainment are close to our own, although their efforts to appeal to wide audiences have not been comparable. Singing is our living and we have learned a good many practical things about it. In my many conversations with college glee club men in the past, I have been told that the glee club is often the step-child of campus activities. Students who would groan about a mediocre football team take no pains to spur on their glee club. Phrases like, “Say, have you heard the Glee Club sing—‘Stardust’ ” are practically non-existent, whereas a touchdown is always a case for campus chatter. A football team will not deny that the students go to great lengths of showmanship to add color and relish to a game, but the glee club languishes for similar attentions. It’s sometimes hard to warm up in an atmosphere .of white ties and concert programs alone!
I am going to digress a moment and pass on to you something which Marshall Bartholomew of the Yale Glee Club told me in a recent conference with him. Of late, he has been very active in organizing singing units in army camps and the importance of group singing came home to him when he was told that the landing of the second A.E.F. in Ireland •was a bit of a let-down to our friends on the other side. It was a let-down for this reason—the Yanks didn’t seem to have any songs. They didn’t sing as they were known for singing 25 years ago. The Irish waited in vain for unison singing, for whistling. Yankee spirit, expressed in singing, contributes no small part to the fighting morale. Of course, I contend that “anybody can sing”—sure, for a glee club he requires certain technical ability, but real singing comes from the heart and that’s where the soldiers
are at work. I never “made” the Penn State Glee Club but I thought I could sing because I loved it—and people who love to sing help others who wish they could. That’s where college spirit comes in.
The members of the college glee clubs today will be soldiers—because of our unfortunate emergency — tomorrow. An ex-glee clubber’s ability to make others sing, the songs they can teach to others, •will be a very important contribution to the attitude of the American soldier. That is an additional reason for the stimulation of glee club work—and for its appreciation by individual students for their particular glee club. Let’s “Keep ’em Singing!”
By launching this competition, I have hoped to challenge the college glee, club— to become a more aggressive organization both on the campus and with the public at large. The Glee Clubs will be judged on the basis of three recorded songs submitted to me. Thus, by using microphones, they must qualify as showmen in our current most popular medium. The semi-final winners—and the national champions—may be given some very interesting radio assignments.
My suggestion for “how you can promote your glee club” must necessarily be vague, because I am not familiar with the habits and traditions of Notre Dame. I dont know how you like to do things. I do suggest that you form committees to arrange to rally your Notre Dame glee club and make them feel their importance in this effort. '
How about it?
Sincerely,
Fred Waring
Notre Dame's Glee Club can become National Champions too!	. -.....
COLLEGE PARADE
The semi-spring slush season seldom has failed to produce an oversupply of snifSy noses. Which means, “trans-allit-erated,” that many N.D. men are sufferers from the common cold. The Parader found something slightly humorous in the moans and groans of the various nasal toned sufferers until he found himself a walking ad for a well-known tissue handkerchief company. No, pal, they hung the S.R.O. sign out at the infirmary long ago.
There are many pet cures for the common cold. There are those who say that you should go to bed early after shutting the window and the transom and opening the heat wide. We know one fellow who tried that and he dried up so much that he was forced to get a job in a carnival side-show as a living mummy. Some extremists give the opposite advice and say that the heat should be turned off and the window and transom opened wide. This last mentioned method will usually rid you of the cold but, of course, if you don’t want pneumonia. . . . The Parader thought he had something in the old “starve a cold and feed a fever” saying, but decided that the saying -was the other way around by supper time. We once knew a fellowr who said he had a sure cure medicine he always took . . . for colds. However, he left by official request some time ago. There’s only one thing to do—be brave—“sprig has cub.”
The Lyons Hall member of the debate squad was involved in one of those ‘once in a million’ affairs at the Manchester tournament. Seems that the fellows had just finished, their evening round of debates and were leaving the college. This fellow saw a gentleman ahead whom he thought he recognized as Carl, driver of the University station wagon. He rushed up behind the man and clapped him on the back saying, “Did you have a busy day, Carl?”
“Why,- yes, I did,” said the man, turning around. But it wasn’t the right Carl. This man’s name was Carl, but he happened to be the president of Manchester College. But a debater can talk his way out of anything.
♦
Blow Me Down
What if he does make seventy-five dollars a week. He can’t hold a candle to what I make.
What do you make?
Gunpowder!
By ROBERT LeMENSE
Squibs
A clever girl is one who makes you think she is taking dinner with you and not from you.
Sweethearts get great kicks out of horror pictures because they love each shudder.	—Queen’s Journal
Another Scotch Job
A man entered a restaurant in Scotland and ate three portions of the fixed-rate dinner. When he refused to pay for more than one dinner the proprietor came over to his table, and pointing an old Highland tobacco pipe at him, hissed in a furious voice:
“Mon, ye’ll ha’ to pay for three dinners or I’ll no let ye get by wi’ it.”
The customer* promptly fainted away. When he recovered himself a waiter was fanning him with a napkin.
“Lord, mon, what was it he pointed at me?” he quavered.
“His auld pipe.”
“Only a pipe. Hoots, and I thought it was a stomach pump.”
— Say, ya know! I forgot to sign out for a midnight!
"Bargain Degrees"
The dean of the College of Letters and Science, George C. Sellery, of the University of Wisconsin, attacked the University of Chicago’s new two-year A.B. degree in no uncertain terms. The Daily Cardinal carried the story last Friday. Said the paper: “Dean Sellery called it ‘Chicago’s bargain counter’ degree; Chicago has become because of it a ‘bargain counter school’ where the student shops around for degrees and not for an education. There is a tremendous lesson for Wisconsin in all of this.”
The article concluded that Wisconsin would revise its curriculum in accordance with the times but would never become ‘the scene of a fly-by-night education.”
Overheard at Rosie's
What’s the trouble, Gertie?
Aw, de sphaghetty’s too stringy.
Why doncher try it wid yer veil off?
’	—Log
Another Squib
Then there was the sculptor who fell into the mud puddle—the dirty chizeller.
10
WAR CHARITY CARNIVAL NETS $ 1900; RED CROSS GETS $1000; REST GOES TO LOCAL AND NATIONAL FUNDS
Grad Falls Out of Plane;
Instinct Pulls Rip-Cord
Last Tuesday the financial report of the recent Notre Dame War Charities Carnival was made public. According to the report the Carnival netted. almost $1,900, of this, $1,000 was given to the Red Cross, $100 to Army and Navy Relief, $100 to the Infantile Paralysis Fund and the remainder to Notre Dame charities. A statement from the Carnival committee follows.
“The recent War Charities Carnival was so thoroughly a part of student activity and of student interest that we think they will want to know something of the financial returns and the distribution of the profits, both of which they made possible. In some phases, the Carnival fell below our expectations. In other phases, we enjoyed success beyond our hopes. As for the entire project, however, we think it was very much worthwhile. There are fruits accruing from such a venture that are over and above financial returns. That knowledge and conviction that we have helped the less fortunate of our fellowmen bring their own degrees of achievement, and a sense of having done something worthwhile for others.
“Again, let us repeat that the cooperation we received from our students was nothing short of amazing. It was their affair in every sense of the word. And because of this enthusiasm, we see no reason why we should not have a much better carnival sometime next year.
“The Red Cross is undoubtedly the largest and most widespread of War Charity organizations. Accordingly, we have given to it $1000, a sum which’represents the largest share of the proceeds. The remaining $960 has been apportioned among several other charities; the Army and Navy War Relief, (to which Notre Dame has already contributed the proceeds of two basketball games, $100; the Infantile Paralysis Fund, $100; to Father Lynch’s war work among Notre Dame men in the service, $400; to the Gibault Home, $200; and to the Notre Dame chaplains’ fund, $160.
“We trust that those interested will be pleased with this distribution which has the approval of the University Administration.”
K. of C. Ball Plans
Are Now Under Way
Paul Kashmer, senior law student from Alumni Hall and LaPorte, Ind., has been named general chairman of the Knights of Columbus Ball, scheduled for Friday, April 10, Grand Knight Edward P. Reidy announced this week. .
Plans are under way for the K.-C. so-paul Kashmer a^air> the first formal dance after the Lenten season and an event open to students of all classes of the University, including the Freshmen. The dance will be held at the Palais Royale in South Bend.
General Chairman Paul Kashmer has named the following knights to head committees: Tickets—Edward Hickey of Dillon and James Danaher, Morrissey; music — Ed Roney, Dillon; programs— Donald Heltzel, Dillon; publicity — Bill Scanlan, Sorin.
Patrons—John Fogarty, St. Edward’s; arrangements—Ray Flynn, Dillon; reservations— Robert Lonergan, Howard; decorations — Elmer Chaput, Morrissey.
The time of the Ball has been arranged to coincide with the Knights of Columbus week to be held on a grand scale with activities in many different lines from April 5 to 11.
Debate Finals Tonight
Climaxing a struggle of several months between affirmative and negative views on whether or not the Federal government should regulate labor unions, the two top interhall debate teams will clash tonight in the Law Auditorium. Time set is 7:30. Cavanaugh, proponents of Federal regulation, coached by James O’Dea, will meet a negative arguing Morrissey team, coached by Roger Young.
William Coyne, varsity debate coach, will judge the Wrangler-sponsored con-•test.
John Lynch
Not every day does a Notre Dame man step out for a short jaunt at 4,000 feet and live to tell about it. But Thomas P. Carroll, ’41, flying over the Naval Air Station at Jacksonville, Fla., stepped out on a cloud and found his plane hurrying on without him. It all happened so quickly, like the grand finale of an air ballet, that friend Thomas was floating beneath his silk mushroom long before he realized what had happened. Pilots, it seems, are trained to such an acute degree that instinct tells them when they are in danger. In this case, instinct pulled the i-ip-cord.
"I remember exclaiming to myself. .. .
First light of this sad story of a sad lad came from the Walsh wash-room of “Boine & Boike,” notorious campus castaways. In an already copyrighted letter to aforementioned B. and B., acrobat Carroll wrote, “My safety belt came undone when I was doing some acrobatics with my instructor. The next time I put the plane on its back we parted company, and I remember exclaiming to myself that I was no longer in the plane.”
Tom stated that his unexpected fling topped all the thrills he has ever had, even to spending a day at Coney Island. He added in closing that taps were sounding and the Sarge would be around any minute to make the check. Shades of the friars.
Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt recently was initiated as an honorary member of Phi Beta Kappa at Radcliffe college.
11
NINE N. D. MEN ROOST ON ST. MARY'S CAMPUS;
DISPENSE SODAS, COOK, WATCH A CHURCH, STUDY
TOM CLEMENS
Ask most St. Mary’s girls to define “The Roost” and the chances are two to one they won’t know what you’re talking about. Ask most Notre Dame men the same thing—still no answer. In fact, even the most perennial habitues of Holy Cross have yet to hear about the unique institution.
Not that The Roost is ah innovation, for this private dwelling of Notre Dame students who work at “The Rock” has stood for many years on yonder campus. However, it was not always used for the same purpose. There was a time when the two-story building served as quarters for Holy Cross Brothers.
But the inside presents quite a different aspect. The seven rooms contain probably more signs and pictures than any other equal area in St. Joseph county. Squeamish visitors might object to the odor of kerosene which pervades the place, and to the antiquity of the surroundings. The stairs to the second floor, for instance, are illuminated by a naked carbon-filament bulb which might have been among the first batch Edison turned out.
There are nine “Roosters”: Jack Desmond, Jack Dillman, Charlie Kelly, Sunny Randolph, Leo Ritter, Jim Sugnet, Jack Sullivan, “Indian” Vernon Pello-choud, and Jack Johnson.
Of the nine fellows now living in The Roost, five work in the college kitchen, two in the “Oriole” (campus soda dispensary) , one in the church as a caretaker, and one around the grounds as a general handy man. Other activties of the “Rock-bound” group include playing basketball. “The Rockettes” say they are unbeaten so far in seven games.
“The worst inconvenience of living here,” says Leo (The Lion) Ritter, longtime (3 years) resident of the quarters, “is getting up early in winter and getting to classes. We have bicycles for that purpose, though,” he added. Rockette Ritter maintains, however, that all residents are well satisfied with life in their retreat. Perhaps one reason is the fact that there are two roomy bath tubs—yes, tubs. Since there are only nine persons to use them, the two tubs are often used to full advantage: both tubs for one bath, one for washing, the other for rinsing. ’
Despite the distractions offered by community life in a domicile unhampered by iron-clad regulations, good scholastic averages have been the rule for Roost occupants. Witness, for example, pre-med
Bill Fish, just graduated with a 96 average, who undoubtedly became an inspiration to his room-mates. At any rate his absence leaves substantial doubt as to the future of The Roost’s scholastic escutcheon according to informant Ritter.
One of the most curious of the aforementioned signs decorating the walls is one .reading “This House Open on Sundays,” which might be inferred as an invitation to visit the boys. How to find The Roost? Well, go straight toward the Academy Building, turn right before you reach it, find the laundry, turn left, arrive at the student infirmary, walk a hundred yards, then—well, then you’d better start sending smoke signals or firing shots into the air. You’re in the land of the Rockettes, and they’re accustomed to seeing members only.
Senior Song-Writing Contest
If you’re a Senior and you have written, or think you can write a song, now is the time for you to enter the “Senior Ball Song-Writing Contest” which has just opened, but which will close April 4.
A faculty student committee will choose the best three songs entered and will send them to the band leader whose orchestra will play for the Ball. This gentleman will select what he believes to be the best of the three songs and will arrange the winning number for his band to present at the Senior Ball as the “Musical Feature” of the evening.
The rules of the contest are: 1) Only Seniors may enter it. 2) One Senior may enter as many songs as he desires. 3) The song or songs must consist of both the music and the lyrics and must be placed in proper form. 4) Songs must be submitted to Tom Powers, 228 Walsh Hall, before April 4.
Other prizes, to be presented by the “Senior Ball Song-Writing Contest Committee” will be announced soon.
Senior songsters! Don’t allow this opportunity to have that “private”. song of yours played by the Ball orchestra, as the feature of the evening, dedicated to your guest, danced to by all Seniors and their guests. Start now. Enter at once!
Varsity Debate Squad
Take Honors at Contest
The Notre Dame debate squad chalked up the creditable record of .681 at the Manchester College debate tournament last Friday and Saturday. The combined wins of the “A” and “B” teams added up to 1-5 as against 7 losses. Last year the Irish squad turned in a .831 average in the same tourney. The tournament which is rated as one of the largest in the world had about 50 entries this year representing over 150 teams.
Prof. William J. Coyne
The affirmative team of James ODea and Robert LeMense. won four out of five debates in the “A” division and won their one debate in the “B” division. The negative “A” team of William Meier and Mark Lies split even, winning three out of six. John Utz and Joseph Tracy won three out of four contests in the “B” division and then moved into the “A” division to win another. Robert Galvin and William Lawless on the negative “B” team won three out of five debates.
The first affirmative team defeated Whitewater Teachers, Manchester, Alma, the University of Cincinnati, and Hope; they lost to Calvin. The first negative pair beat Wabash, Muskingum, and Northern Michigan and lost to Illinois Normal, Florida, and Alma. The second affirmative vanquished Indiana, Alma, Denison, and Otterbein and were taken by Manchester. The second negative out-talked Calvin, Manchester, and Indiana State and were set back by Denison and Alma. The question was “Resolved, That the Federal Government should regulate by law all labor unions in the United States.”
No complete results of the tourney were available at press time. However, there is never an official winner declared. William J. Coyne, debate coach, and Jerry O’Dowd, senior law student, judged “A” division debates at the tournament.
The debate scheduled for yesterday
12
with William and Mary College was cancelled by that school due to unforeseen circumstances. The next scheduled meet for the varsity squad is the University of Wisconsin tournament at Madison on March 27 and 28.
Ball of 1910 Was Unusual;
It Was Almost Senior-less
Bill Scanlan
The year 1910 became an important milestone in the social life of Notre Dame. It meant the introduction of the rule that only seniors could attend the Senioi- Ball. Like all innovations in a social way, the ruling met with immediate condemnations—but with the waning of years, the prestige of the event surpassed all earlier threats and criticisms.
On the. night of April 24, the 1942 version of the Senior Ball, similarly open only to seniors, becomes the 32nd annual Senior-only ball. Previous to 1910, the Dome of that year reports, all classes were permitted to attend.
Five Seniors Attend
One of the reasons, perhaps, why the senior-only rule was adopted is that previous to 1910, the event was overrun by students of all classes—and Seniors were a pronounced oddity at the affair. In 1908, only five turned up for their own dance. Let the dog-eared, battle-scarred Dome of 1908 give the adequate report:
“As a dancing party, the Senior Prom was a remarkaably glorious success and everyone present pronounced it the most elaborate of Notre Dame’s social attempts; but as a Senior function, it was a flat failure. It is hard to realize a Senior hop with only five Seniors present to represent the class. To account for the scarcity of members, only one reason can be offered—that is the absence of real class spirit.”
Ball Chairman Larry Kelley of Alum-- ni Hall, and his capable corps of assistants, are presently making plans to accommodate one of the largest crowds in the history of the ball—one that will make the 1908 turnout of five Seniors shriek with amazement when the final roll call is attempted. •
Bids For Ball
Bids to the Ball this year will be sold on three days in mid-April—following a precedent establishd in 1934. Previous to that time, various methods of selling bids were attempted. Stories of the Scholastic of 1927 plead with Seniors to “make deposits on tickets before going home for the Easter vacation.” The deposits usually amounted to 85.00.
NOTRE DAME SPANISH AMERICANS SWING OUT ON GOOD NEIGHBOR POLICY; PLAN TOUR OF MIDWEST
PHIL KEEN
Notre Dame’s Spanish-American clubs are currently putting forth an extensive program of lectures and discussions with the purpose of clearly defining our “Good Neighbor” policy and pointing out the urgent need for increasing this relationship. The La Raza club and the InterAmerican Affairs club are well on their way toward the fulfillment of this purpose.
Last week six Notre Dame men held their first tryout before the Inter-American Affairs club in an audience open forum. Mark McGrath received the highest rating with his talk on “What are the origins and elements of the Good Neighbor Policy.” Bob Nenno’s discussion on “What should be proposed for a long-range program?” gave him the second highest rating. The other participants were: Joseph Ryan, Rafael Aldu-cin, Lee Raymond, and Jack Morrison. Bob Millet, an alternate, acted as chairman. These six representatives will participate in the coming Extempore Discussion Contest sponsored by the Office of Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs. This club is also considering the proposition of sending a delegate to the first conference on Spiritual Inter-Americanism of the Inter-American Federation of Catholic Seminars, March 4, at the Immaculata College in Philadelphia. The theme of the conference will be “The Catholic Student’s Place in Inter-American Relations” and it will place a definite spiritual significance on the good will program.
The members of the La Raza club, encouraged by the success of their recent short-wave broadcast to Latin America,
IAA Club, I. to r.: Alducin, Raymond, Morrison, McGrath, Ryan, Millett, Nenno.
!3 ’7
made their fifth appearance last Wednesday, when they traveled to Loyola to present a panel discussion on InterAmerican Relations. The following program was given: The Two Americas in a World at War, Mark McGrath (Ancon, Panama); Hispanica America and Hispanidad, Francisco Cabrera (Mexico City); Making the Americas One, Ramon Araujo (Cartegena, Colombia); A United America — Fulfillment, Clarence Finlayson (Santiago, Chile); The Relation of Church and State in Latin-America, Peter Robles (Mexico City); The Mexican Oil Controversy, Rafael Alducin (Mexico City). ;
Rev. W. F. Cunningham, C.S.C., announced that the La Raza club has received an invitation to participate in the Midwest International Relations Club Conference sponsored by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace to be held at Ball State Teachers College in Muncie, Ind., on March 27 and 28.
SENIORS! TIME TO GET YOUR COMMENCEMENT INVITATIONS
Seniors who were unable to buy their Commencement invitations while the room-to-room sale was in progress last week will have additional opportunity to do so before March 21. Four seniors have been appointed to care for the additional requirements of the three senior halls. They are Larry Kelley, 334 Alumni; Frank Pollnow, 135 Alumni; Jess DeLois, 411 Walsh; James O’Neal, 411 Walsh.
Matthew A. Byrne
I think if you said that, “Eddie Sullivan is carrying on where his brother Joe left off” you couldn’t say anything that would please Eddie more, and at the same time, carry more truth in it. For just about everyone at Notre Dame knows of Joe Sullivan, captain-elect of
Eddie has been a hard-luck kid. . . .
the 1935 football team, who together with “Rock,” led the team from the bench of the elect. He’s one man that even the most cynical of us have had to take at face value. Well, Eddie is somewhat of a smaller edition. Let’s just say that the perfection is properly analogous, only it resides primarily in Joe, mainly because he had chronology in his favor.
Eddie has been a hard-luck kid ever since he hit Notre Dame. This represents the sole reason why he wasn’t a forerunner on Elmer's last team, or Frank Leahy’s first team. Ever since he came here, injuries have cropped up just at that point when Eddie was going ahead under full steam. In his second year it was a badly wrenched knee, in his third year, a few broken ribs; and this September his hopes of playing first string faded with a smashed knee, that still needs the support of a brace to walk and to present a fairly normal knee.
However, “The Ape” (he scrapes his knuckles on the ground when he walks, it seems) has not been slowed down completely by his unfortunate injuries. As a shot-putter he won his monogram in both his sophomore and junior years. Personally, I think he threw a hollow shot, but “The Ape” claims that everything was
up to snuff, including the “untouchable managers” who wouldn’t add a few inches toward a world’s record.
“The Ape” is possessed of a fine sense of humor. Just ask anyone who sat in on the Walsh Hall pre-Christmas party and witnessed his take off on various “famous campus personalities.” Humor must be a part of the educational curricula of St. John’s Prep in Brooklyn, when we consider that numbered among Eddie’s graduating class was “The Magnificent Brute,” Francis “Buddy” Concannon, and the inimitable sage of Belle - Harbor, “Chief” Geraghty, the only life-guard in Rockaway Beach who couldn’t swim a stroke. The “Chief” says no-one ever came to his beach anyway. Perhaps they knew too.
But this is deviating from the main character. A confirmed jokester, Eddie is the self-appointed thorn in the side of Dr. Francis E. McMahon, the noted interventionist buster of the America-First ranks. Eddie sums up the Doc’s trouble as fundamental. Says Ed, “he just doesn’t have a proper conception of potency and act.”
Probably none of the Monogram men is liked and appreciated more than Eddie, who was elected secretary-treasurer of the Monogram Club last fall. Eddie’s only objection is directed at the club’s empty treasury. (President Bereolos, please take note. An investigation into whether the treasury has always been empty or has become so since Eddie took over* would be interesting.)
“The Ape’s” plans after graduation are rather vague. Uncle Sam probably won’t want him until his knee heals unless Bud Concannon will volunteer to carry Eddie from trench to trench on his broad shoulders. Personally I’d guess that he’ll be wearing the blue of “New York’s Finest” and carry on a tradition started by his father a few years back.
There’s another Sullivan coming to Notre Dame next year. Bigger than Eddie physically, we only hope he’s as big in other ways. Let’s hope that he’ll carry on where his two brothers before him left off. If he does, he’ll be carving quite a niche for himself. •
War Brings An End To
Two Hour Semester Exams
The era of long, dreary, two-hour semester exams are over. No more will a student have to write page after page until his fingers are numb. No more will he have to live on Malted Milks for a week. For from the office of the Director .
. of Studies came a momentous declaration
this week. Although the more select of the rumor-gatherers had had hints of it before, Father Carrico finally announced officially to the professors that the se-mestei* examinations will be divided into two parts hereafter. Each course will have a compulsory mid-semester exam during its regular class period on either Monday or Tuesday, March 9 and 10. Those classes meeting later in the week will have their exams during their first class period.
The second part will be during the regular class periods on Tuesday and Wednesday, May 5 and 6. This, of course, means that students will leave for their “Summer vacation” four days earlier than originally planned. Together the exams shall count no more than 50% or less than 25% of semester grades.
The only catch in the new plans seems to be that it is up to the discretion of the professor just how much of the semester exam each part shall count. Theoretically, a professor could count the May exams as 99% and the March exams as only 1% of the semester exams. Then also, the professor chooses whether he will include the work of the entire semester in the May exams or just the material covered since the March exams.
Ensign F. X. Clark, '39
Pictured above is.Ensign Francis X. Clark, '39, of Chicago, III. who was killed Feb. 26, when the Naval supply ship "Pollux," on which he was stationed, went aground on the Newfoundland coast during a terrific gale.
14
ST. ED'S A. C. OUT FOR BLOOD—PREFERABLY DILLON'S;
JILTED JUNIORS TO GET REVENGE IN BENGAL BOUTS
“Our pride has been wounded, and we are not of the type that stands idly by. Common decency demands that we challenge the offenders, and they include all of Dillon Hall.” So stormed Bill Earley, the voice of St. Edward’s A.C., as he lunged through the Scholastic office doors, and begged for an attentive ear. His whole attitude was the result of selections made by Dome editors for the annual Dome Awards.
The Committee, through no fault of the men in charge, chose a group made up almost entirely of Dillon Hall men. Dillon Hall is only one of three Junior Halls on the campus. St. Edward’s was entirely ignored in the choice. And there was the beginning of a feud which has become a raging conflagration of conflicting and violent retorts.
The efforts of Scholastic editors to present an impartial view of the verbal inferno have met with little, if any, success. Indeed, it is doubtful if the contestants themselves are quite sure of the issues at stake. However, Mr. Earley is not hadicapped by a loss of words:
A Dillonite has little time for St. Ed's., because of previous commitments.
A Love of Sport Brings St. Ed's Out
“We readily admit that we are from a hall rich in rumors and traditions; and that we took a hard verbal blow on the jaw last week from the lounging set in Dillon. However, we reached for the smelling salts, and are now ready for the next round. We are not the type that gets abroad very much; and we readily admit that. In fact, we have limited our social functions to training periods at the Rockne Memorial. Instead of joining the English majors, and that social set in Dillon in their daily dash to the Oliver Coffee Shop; instead of fighting our way through the Cafe smoke, or struggling with a double milk shake at Walgreen’s, we have been staying home, and getting our diversion by running around the lakes. Dillon will take this as very strange, and will know little about it, as we are up at the crack of dawn, with little if any of an audience; in fact, we’re not interested in an audience. It is the love of sport that brings us out, and keeps us going. That has been the story of all St. Edward’s A.C. activities from the very beginning. It is not in our power to go soft.
We Are Not the Kind that Goes Around
“Now,” Mr. Earley continued, with more enthusiasm than logic, “anyone who has read his Scrip knows that it is very hard to be a BMOC, if you spend the little time of leisure that remains to you over and above your study hours, with a punching bag, such as we have been doing. We are not the kind that goes around slapping people on the back, shaking hands, waving at everyone, and making a spectacle of ourselves- And for that reason we are neglected and ignored by the Gold Coast crowd. A pretty kettle of fish, if I must say so myself.
But the Bengals Will Vindicate Us
“But we are itching for the Bengal Bouts to vindicate us. And we hope that Dillon will be able to talk someone over there into making a show for that haven of the erudite. They’re big leaguers when it comes to conversation, and should be
able to persuade someone to represent them in the ring. And you can quote me as saying that the St. Ed’s ,A-C. hereby challenges Dillon in any weight, any di-. vision, any rules—just so that we can reach them, even though the officials tie one of our hands behind our back. One will be enough, we think, where Dillon is concerned. And you will recognize St. Ed’s A.C. as soon as we appear, too. We have even gone into the matter of colors for our representatives, and special equipment." And don’t ever think, that we are not trim and ready to go. George McQuiston, ■ Sammy Meyer, and a number of other well-known and worthy representatives will see to that.” With that he headed for the Rockne.
The Scholastic editors take this occasion to reiterate that the choice of the committee on'Dome “Awards” was not based on hall representation, as St. Edwards interpreted it to" be. The place of residence of each man selected never for a moment influenced Dome Editor Hille-brand’s choice. And for that very good reason he is completely innocent of whatever. accusations -St.- Edward’s Hall has leveled at him. But now that so many quips have been hurled at Dillon by the “slighted set,” no other course of. action remains, save that Dillon Hall refute Mr. Earley’s charges, and with whatever weapons the Dillonites see fit to choose-
15
AMES WINS FROSH PRESIDENCY AS WIDE-SPREAD DISCONTENT PREVAILS OVER RUSHING ELECTIONS
DAVE CONDON
In one of the lightest votes ever tallied at Notre Dame, 136 Freshmen went to the polls, Wednesday to elect their class officers. The official tabulation revealed that Richard Ames won the presidency with 73 votes over Dave Armstrong, 44, and Roy Grumbine, 12.
Charles Brown with 66 tallies copped the vice-presidency, while James Kelley ran second with 48, and Robert Huer-kamp—third with eight.
Into the secretary’s office went Thomas Dowdle with 46 votes, beating out James Thomas’s 44. Frank Cusick, who tallied the greatest number of individual votes went into the treasurer’s office with 83. James Bums ran second with 34, and Marty Brutz third with 14.
Eugene Schumaker, Student Council head, announced that upperclass primaries will be held Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, March 23, 24, 25. The finals will be held April 13, 14, 15.
Nominations must be in before noon on Wednesday, March 18. The nominations will be accepted by Schumaker in 315 Sorin or Herb Melton, 130 Howard.
Lack of interest in the Frosh election was attributed to the little amount of publicity* given the event. In Freshmen circles it was generally considered that the time for nomination was far too short and that there was not sufficient time for the publication of candidates’ names. Freshmen were considerably perplexed, too, as to the reason for leaving one party’s candidates off the ballots. It was pointed out that while three tickets were in the race, only two were listed on the ballot. The third party placed notices around the voting center in the basement of the dining hall, but were not listed on the ballot. A Fourth party put in a belated and nnauthoritative appearance Wednesday, but garnered a total of only nine votes.
The Student Council president, Eugene Schumaker admitted that the elections were rushed. He explained that a 2-day notice for registering candidates and the subsequent rush election were necessitated by the shortened semester and the fact that Dome editors had requested the Student Council to get the elections within one of the yearbook’s deadlines.
In endeavoring to determine student opinion as regards the election, the Scholastic conducted a pool among the students from the various freshmen halls on the campus. Several stated that they did not vote. These opinions, presented
before the results of the balloting were known, were based on the question, “What did you think of the manner in which the freshmen election was conducted, as regards candidates, publicity, balloting, etc.?”
Joseph C. Ryan, freshman quartered in Carroll Hall: “It could hardly be called a consensus of student desire. It was decidedly unfair.”
Bob Sarris, Zahm: “Definitely inefficient. It should have been publicized by the Student Council far in advance. The nominating time was too short, and all candidates should have had their names on the ballots.”
John Craddock, Breen-Phillips: “The
ROCKNE ADMIRALS MAKING PLANS FOR A SPRING HOP
TED WEBER
Cadets of the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. have a tough problem on their hands, and the solution has more than one Rockne admiral perplexed. It isn’t a navigation situation, an identification puzzle, or a gunnery problem, for all of these have been solved before. The prob- , lem facing the Irish cadets is this: “How, when, and where should the R.O.T.C. Hop be scheduled?”
Progress toward a solution has resulted in a list of suggestions that cadet leaders are weighing and accepting or discarding. The two most definite suggestions are 1) the Hop will be formal, and 2) will probably be held .shortly after Easter.
The Hop will probably be held in the Rockne Memorial, either in the lounge or gym. The setting according to R.O.T. C. traditions, will be nautical, with flags, pennants and other equipment highlighting the decorations. The Blue and Gold of Notre Dame and the Navy will of course be the predominant color.
If the dance can be held the evening of the final review and color presentation, this will be the feature of the evening.
election was handled badly. It wasn’t built up enough and I didn’t know any of the candidates.”
Bill Dineen, Zahm: “I don’t think it was given enough publicity. Most of the fellows didn’t know what was coming off.”
Jack Collins, Brownson: “There wasn’t enough time to submit names for nomination to the office. There wasn’t enough publicity given to the election. It was run off too quickly.”
Tom Lunneen, Cavanaugh: “I believe that the election would have been more successful if it had been given more publicity. A great number of students knew nothing about the election. There was no excuse for the error made in printing the ballots.”
Warren Kane, Brownson: “We were given too short a notice to give any thought to the matter.”
(Continued on page 23)
Other possible attractions include the possible selection of some girl as queen of the unit, or as an honorary officer.
All of these are only suggestions, and final plans will be made by a cadet committee to be selected in the near future.
Despite the problems of the Hop, cadets haven’t lost sight of the inter-company competitions and the -work of the unit’s rifle team.
The ten competing rifle-men have sunk New Mexico, Pennsylvania, Oklahoma, and North Carolina squads while dropping decisions to Minnesota, West Virginia, and Michigan. Five more matches will be fired before the end of the semester, two of these being trophy competitions. .On March 14 firing must be completed in the William Randolph Hearst Trophy Match and on March 25 all scores in the Naval R.O.T.C. Trophy Matcth will be compiled. The ten cadets holding the best practice records compete in the matches, and the scores of the five highest are totaled for the Unit’s score.
The inter-platoon, and inter-company athletics and drills will be the basis of determining the winners in the color company competition. The inter-platoon athletics will include handball, volleyball, rifle, tug o’war, rope climbing, softball, and rowing, and sailing. The inter-company competition includes basketball, swimming, tennis, and golf. The first company, has already put away the basketball title, defeating the second company team, two out of three games.
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
BADIN'S BATTLERS LEAD IN BENGAL BOUT ENTRIES; • ITS BOG, GALENTO MAKE IT MOST COLORFUL HALL
Maybe it’s the bog that makes them tougher, perhaps it’s because Angelo Bertelli, the nation’s top sophomore pass thrower lives there, or it may be the
ships March 21, for Father John Dupuis’ Morrissey gang.
Last-minute entries will be accepted in a few weights. Any persons still desiring to compete should report to Coach Napolitano at the Rockne Memorial any afternoon between 3 and 6 p.m.
Tom Nolan, the best campus example of Tony Galento in the roly-poly type, is Badin’s only defending champion—at 165 pounds. Others from the Badin “House of Activity,” which also houses the bookstore, barber shop and laundry headquarters, are: Kermit Rousseve and Walt Romito, 145 pounds; Farrell Quinlan, 160; Frank Kiely, 175; Bill McNamara, 170; Arnold Nunnink, 134; Frank Finn, 172; Paul FitzGerald, 160; and Ted Haley, 155.
Brother Justin’s Carroll roll call includes: Phil Harbert, 154; Ed Coyne, 173; John Schaefer, 155; Larry Pardee, 145; Bob Sprafka, 165; Joe Reilly, 130; Frank Spiegel, 145; and Harry Moran, 155.
The Morrissey men already lined up are: Louis Schmitz, 139; Joe Farrell,
135; Tom Kerrigan, i70; John Kuhn, 145; Gene Yoklavich, 160; Quirico St. George, 134; and Guido Alexander, 135.
With the entry of Ed Dehner, 165-pound husky from Fort Wayne, Ind., Lyons hall completed the list of all halls on campus being represented in the 1942 Bengal Bouts.
At the latest counting, a total' of 70 fighters had been signed up. Every hall entered at least one fighter. Halls and their current totals include: Breen-Phillips, 4; Brownson, 5; Alumni, 1; Cavanaugh, 5; Dillon, 5; Howard 3; St.
ENTER BENGAL BOUTS
AD-WRITING CONTEST
Members of Mr. Gerald A. Cosgrove’s advertising class in the Journalism school have entered the Bengal Bouts Ad-writing Contest. Deadline for entries is March 6.
The prize-winning advertisement will appear in the March 13 issue of the Scholastic. The winner also receives a reserved seat for the championships, Sat., March 21. Three honorable mention prizes of one ticket to a preliminary show go to the next best ads.
Father McAvoy's boys are tough. . . .
tradition that Rod Maguire, all-time greatest of the great Bengal Bouts bat-lers, once lived here—whatever the reason, Father Bernard McAvoy’s battling Badinites lead the pack in the entry list of Boxing Coach Dominick Napolitano for the 11th annual Bengal Bouts, to be held March 17-18-19-21 at the Fieldhouse.
Maguire won the 145-pound crowns in 1939-40-41, and Harry McLaughlin of Badin was runnerup to Walt Johnson for the 165-pound title in 1939. A year later, Jess DeLois of Badin (he now lives . in Walsh), was runnerup to Bill McGrath, currently of Alumni, for the 165-pound title. And Frank Leahy, current “Coach of Last Year,” was tutor of Badin’s interhall football forces a decade ago.
Carroll Ranks Second
Badin, long tops in the sports horizon at' Notre Dame, assumes a similar role in the 1942 Bengal Bouts competition with nine entries, one more than the total signed up for Brother Justin’s Carroll bouncers and the seven aggregate who -will don the mitts the nights of March 17-18-19, and at the champion-
But the Bog and sailboating make the battling Badinites tougher.
-17
SPARKLING MATERIAL FITTED TO A "T" PROMISE MUCH FOR N. D. GRIDDERS IN '42
BILL BOSS
Some wild rumors rumbled through the nation last week as jumbled reports told everyone that the old Rockne system that has served so well during past years would be shelved to make way for this gridiron colossus. But early this week, coach of the year, Frank Leahy, ■denied these reports to a certain extent. He said the Irish were merely giving the new system a trial, and because of the ability of the current squad he was seriously contemplating its advantages. The old Rockne fundamentals will still play a large part in the Irish performance next fall according to present plans.
After all the “T” is nothing more than the old Rockne system with the shift discarded. Two years ago Clark .Shaughnessy, lost in the fall of Chicago U. and relayed to Stanford, ripped pages from an old football album and pushed a renovated “T” formation into our laps. He merely enhanced the old Rockne formation with a spread of the line and •eliminated the box shift.
George Halas, a cohort of Shaughnessy, gave the “T” its real baptism in the Chicago Bear’s lot and with an explosive running backfield combined with an over industrious line he proved its undeniable worth. Out on the Pacific Coast in its inaugural year at Stanford the “T” split the whole conference open as the Indians whipped through their term undefeated and flattened Nebraska in the Rose Bowl. *
Great Possibilities in New Attack
The “T” attack is not some deceptive wonder conceived by a wild gridiron ringmaster but a perfectly balanced offensive with a balanced line as its root. The secondary must be aggressive and speedy, inlaid with power. Its chief weapons are moth-eaten plays, old-fashioned •dive-tackle plays, numerous passes, and booming cross bucks. The quarterback squats directly behind the center when the team parades from the huddle and leans almost directly over the pivot man. The ball is passed hand to hand to the quarterback who is in a position to whirl, sneak back and pass, lateral, or hand the ball to any other back. The fullback is planted several yards directly behind the signal barker with the halfbacks on each side of him. When a team possesses a precision passer and a fine group of run
ning backs, little short of an earthquake can stop the “T.”
Bertelli Will Be Spark Plug
When Coach Leahy glanced over his roster to find out who the lads are that will soon turn out for Spring practice the first name he spied was that of agile Angelo Bertelli, the back-bay sharpshooter. With Bertelli flinging the passes
Frank and Mike will miss Liliis (left).
and a fine power combination completing the backfield the “T” looked to Mr. Leahy like a good appetizer for a great grid feast this fall. Great passing backs like Albert of Stanford and Luckman of the Bears have made the “T” a miracle system.
Another item that makes the legions of Leahy a likely unit to snag the “T” is the man-in-motion and fllanker movements the Notre Dame attack evolved last year. Other colleges that have tried to emulate the “T” have found these series an extremely profitable prologue to the attack.
To arrange for this probable innovation Bertelli has been temporarily converted into a quarterback to give the Irish passing strength in that slot. To lead the charge familiar to the “T” the coaches will seek to develop a hefty, fleet backfield and a strong, fast blocking line.
Adequate Replacements for Senior Stars
To fill the bulging gaps left vacant by the retirement of Tackles Brutz and Lillis, and Guards Crimmins and Maddock, Leahy plucked All-American Bob Dove from his end post and is working him at guard. Bob is one of these high-powered lads. that steam through to harass a
passer or smother a ball-carrier and should have little trouble orientating himself in his new home. Coach Leahy watched Bernie Crimmins skitter from the backfield into a guard position last year to make All-American, so now Harry Wright is hopefully being switched from the secondary to plaster the other side of the line. The “Horse” may prove to be the bulwark of a leakproof line before September. In case either of these lads fail Will Riordan and “Bucky” O’Connor are ready to put their cleats in. Also intact and ready to blot out opposing linemen will be the mighty leviathan, Lou Rymkus, at left tackle. Luke Higgins, a massive Frosh dreadnaught, will probably be in the right tackle hole. Old reliable Walt Ziemba, the Hammond battle-wagon, will be snapping the leather again this campaign with Tom Brock and Frank Syzmanski, a husky Freshman, ready to back him up. Captain George Murphy, an unyielding defensive picket, will patrol right end ground closely followed by Paul Limont, a New Orleans Freshman with “Danger” printed on his battle gear.
Stickum-fingered John Yonakar is the logical choice to plug his six feet five inches of heavy tonnage on the left side of the front wall should Jack Barry be shifted to guard. The left end post seems . to be the weakest fork of the line with little experience material available.
From the preview of the new Notre Dame secondary it looks to be the most powerful unit ever assembled on Cartier Field and the type of backfield that could be perfectly adapted, should Mr. Leahy choose, to the “T” attack. Led by the wonder flinging of Bertelli the secondary crew will cause many foreign lines to loop and slide in order to stop their battle force. Jerry Cowhig’s compact 210 pounds will be revolving at fullback and scrambling through the line on numerous bucks and slashes. He is not too fast but is as hard to stop as a rolling boulder. Driving for the best back in the nation spot will be the South Bend holocaust, Dippy Evans, back at his old left half station. Right halfing will undoubtedly be Creighton Miller, the ever consistent ram. Substitute backfield material will be plentiful with such stalwarts as Dick Creevy, Eddie Taiboom, Bill Earley, Tom Miller, and a whole battalion of Frosh and reserve varsity candiates ready to battle.
The Clemson college mess hall contains 278 tables and seats for 2,224 students. Four tables are available for ■ guests.
Seven members of last fall’s University of Texas football squade are married.
18
INTRODUCING
by JOE PALMER
You could take the three guests of today and examine them all closely, but when you finished, you would find that they have little in common besides the fact that they are all members of the fencing team at Notre Dame. However, we’ll use that as a starter and move on:
Frank Veit, otherwise known as “the killer,” is captain of the varsity fencing team. A strapping type of fellow, he stands six feet, two inches, tips the beam at a measly 210. Ranks in our estimation as a really fine lad, and, from what we have found, the lassies in Grand Rapids, Mich., his home town, don’t find him very hard to look at.
Scholastically, he is a Connnerce man, will graduate this May 10 as an accounting major, carrying with him a record of having a slightly-better-than 90% average. With an average like that, he doesn’t have to take a back seat to many fellow seniors, including his companions in “Cafe Society” each night at nine. He is usually seen there with Louie Majerus, Dubuque, Iowa, and Jim “Doc” Leising, of Buffalo, New York. This particular friendship began when the three were freshmen in Cavanaugh Hall.
Outside of class, Frank has quite a passion for sailboats, has his own which he calls Ranger. He used to do quite a bit of hunting, but of late has been pretty busy in his vacation days, working in his father’s lithographing shop. From what can be gleaned from others of Grand Rapids, he really works hard at that job. When the bluebirds once more find those White Cliffs of Dover, he hopes to make lithographing his permanent occupation, but it looks as if there will be another job before that. He registered for the draft last week. Wherever he goes, we’ll put our money on him to make good.
Angel Gonzalez is from Santander, Spain, strategic city in the recent civil war of that nation. He came to this country in 1936, spent several years at schools in Texas and Oklahoma, then headed for the Golden Dome. He has now completed three-and-a-half years of elec--trical .engineering, will tell you that it really keeps him busy. Outside of that, he finds time for his fencing, a sport that he never took part in before coming to this school. (One of his “pals” told us in confidence that he plans to use his skill in bull-fighting later on. Is it true,
Angel?). He made the varsity for the first time in his Junior year.
In other fields, the Spaniard (though he’ll be a full fledged American citizen in a few years) has a stamp collection numbering about 6,000, and he is very interested in aeroplanes. This interest seems to run in the family, for several of his brothers are in the Spanish Air Force. Whether it’s engineering or some
The Killer—The Angel
other kind of work, though, it will be in this country. Be assured of that. Angel likes it here very much and thinks he’ll stay a long while. He has nothing against social life now and then, but says the girl must be beautiful. He is a lover of semi-classical music, has a special dislike for jitterbugging. But for the best thing of all—Ah, there he has no doubt. He’d rather sleep, just plain old S-L-E-E-P, than eat. Come to think of it, we could think of worse ways to spend spare time.
Next December will find him graduating, as it will his close friend, “Big Ernie” Zimmer, another engineer. Right now, Angel is registered for the draft and has also signed up as an alien. But not for long on that last one. In just a few years, Citizen Gonzalez will be a full fledged American, and we’ll be mighty proud to welcome him.
From the Golden State, California, comes Mike Humphreys, a real Westerner if there ever was one. He hails from Los Angeles, but spent most of his early school years at St. Michael’s High school, Santa Fe, New Mexico. In fact, he went there from the second grade till his graduation from high school. Now, he is rounding out his senior year on this campus, will graduate (in ten weeks and two days) with an A.B. in criminology. June will find him in the Naval Air Corps. Future plans center around law school.
Mike will tell you that he never did any fencing at St. Michael’s but that
doesn’t mean that all his skill in that sport has been spent at Notre Dame. Oh no! For the first semester of last year he taught the girls of St. Mary’s how to wield those swords (and if that’s an unpleasant job, give us one just as tough, please). He barely missed his monogram in his Sophomore year, but made it in his Junior stay, and he is already set for another one this time.
The Californian is always ready to listen to Kay Kyser and Tommy Dorsey, but gets his biggest kick out of Freddy-Martin’s recent adaptation of the Concerto in B Flat. Around the campus, he is known as the president of the Spanish Club and the vice-president of the California Club. Has played a little interhall football, and, in his senior year in high school, played end on the St. Michael’s team that won the state championship.
Last summer, he worked for the United States Electrical Motors Co., Los Angeles. His job was in the machine shop. At present, he does his work in his quarters in Sorin Hall. Yes, he’s a real nice fellow to know, but, confidentially, don’t listen to all of that Chamber-of-Commerce talk that he’s liable to give you. Being of an unprejudiced point of view, I can tell you that it isn’t half as good as Arizona.
One way or the- other, though, lots of luck, Mike.
Anyone Care To Challenge Howard's Ping Pong Boast?
If you’ve passed by Howard hall lately you must have heard that rhythmic “ping—pong—ping” echoing from the confines of Father Forrestal’s domain. If you haven’t heard this, you don’t know where the table tennis champs of Notre Dame reside. The Howard hall boarders of all ping-pong honors have issued a challenge to any hall wishing to meet them. They have already-trounced Alumni and Dillon. Their third opponent, Cavanaugh, put up a much, stiffer battle before being subdued.
Members of the Howard team include Captain Tom Sweeney, singles champion; Gene Fehlig, runner-up in the singles competition; Bob Rensberger, popular net star; Ken Gempel, Nick Villarosa, and John Kersten.
A doubles competition is now in progress with the team of Sweeney and Fehlig conceded an outside chance of winning.
It is currently rumored that the Cavanaugh’s are taking early morning trips to the “Rock” to get in condition for a return match with the Howard aces. The only comment from the lair of the champs was “We’re waitin’.”
19
"CONDITION" IS WATCHWORD UNDER NAPOLITANO
One of the busiest spots on the campus these days is the boxing room in the Rockne Memorial. This is where some 65 aspiring and perspiring Bengalists
Five minutes at the pulley weights. . . .
report to Mr. Napolitano each afternoon from 3:30 to 5:30 for their daily workouts. Not all their work is done inside however; even amateur fighters need to build up their wind and road work is the best means of doing this. Thus three afternoons each week are spent inside exercising and boxing, the other three days are spent on the cinder paths around the lakes.
Training Schedule: Feb. 18-25
Monday: Pulley weights, 5 min.; skip rope, 8 min.; Mat exercises, 15 min. Heavy bag punching, 15 min.; Box 3 two minute rounds, 6 min.; calisthenics, 5 min.; shower.
Tuesday: Road work around the lake; dress warmly; run with hands high; sprint for two minutes and then walk one minute; repeat this five or six times. Then jog the rest of the way; shower.
Wednesday: limbering up exercises, 5 min.; skip rope, 8 min.; mat exercises, 15 min.; heavy bag punching, 15 min.; box 3 two min.; rounds, 6 min.; shadow box 3 rounds, 10 min.; shower.
Thursday: Follow the same schedule as Tuesday.
Friday: Pulley weights, 5 min.; skip rope, 8 min.; heavy bag punching, 15 min.; box 3 two min. rounds, 6 min.; shadow box 3 rounds, 10 min.; calisthenics, 5 min. Shower. '
Saturday: Road work. Same procedure as Tuesday.
Note: After the road work on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturdays, it might be well to report to the boxing room and loosen up with some stretching and mat exercises before taking a shower.
Besides the regular training grind in the afternoons there are beginners’ classes held each" Tuesday and Thursday night. These beginner’s classes are to instruct the inexperienced fighters in fundamentals. The first three weeks of the course are spent in learning footwork, offense, defense, and ring tactics, and then the men put on the gloves and try to employ what they have learned.
“Nappy” outlined the beginners boxing lessons as follows:
Beginner's Boxing Lessons
1.	Footwork: a, stance; b, advance; c, retreat; d, shift right; e, shift left.
2.	Offense: a, left jab; b, straight left (to the body—to the head); c, straight right (to the body—to the head); d, left hook (to the body—to the jaw); e, right cross (to the body—to the head); f, left uppercut (to the body—to the head); g, right uppercut, (to the body—to the head).
3.	Defense: a, taking blows; b, blocking blows; c, slipping blows; d, parrying blows; e, side-stepping blows; f, clinching.
4.	Ring tactics.
Paul Patton and Jim Rice are assisting “Nappy” with the beginners.
Irish Frosh Trackmen Win
At Indiana A. A. U. Meet
Notre Dame Freshmen journeyed to Lafayette, Ind. where they competed in the Indiana State A.A.U. indoor track and field meet Feb. 21. The Irish frosh,
... plus twenty punching the bag equals "k.o.'s."
competing unattached, succeeded in copping seven out of 12 individual events and won the unofficial team title. Other entrants in the A.A.U. meet, which was open to all athletes in Indiana, were the Indiana and Purdue freshmen and the Purdue varsity.
Smith and Murphy Double Winners
Outstanding in the meet was the performance .of Notre Dame’s John Smith. Smith ran the 60 yard high hurdles in :7.4, and took the 60 yard lows in :7.3. Murphy of the Irish freshmen was also a double winner, winning the 60 yard dash in :6.4 and leaping 22 ft., 3 in. to victory in the broad jump.
Other Notre Dame point getters included Don Currie, who won the half-mile in the nice time of 1:59. Don Lund-ergan finished in front of the field for the 440 in :52 flat, with Bob Purcell finishing second, while Tom Clifford ran second in the 60 yard dash. John Yon-aker, frosh footballer, tied for first place in the high jump at six feet, and also came out with a second in the shot put. White won this event for the young Irish with a heave of 44 ft., 5 inches.
Sports Quiz
1.	What man scored for the greatest number of consecutive games in college?
2.	What are the nicknames of these famous colored pro basketball teams: a. New York? b. Harlem?
3.	For whom was the game of ping-pong first intended?
4.	Can you locate the two most famous bob sled runs?
5.	When and where was the first ski club organized in this country?
6.	When did women first enter the Olympics?
(Answers on page 27)
20

JCCOP’N flllNTII J
H2OM THE PKEJT EOX 2.^BY BILL SCANLAN
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS?
"Red" Lonergan

AWARDS FOR ALL BENGAL BOUTERS
Every entrant in the 1942 Bengal Bouts boxing competition will receive a memento of his fist-cuffing. ... To the champions and runners-up go traditional monogrammed sweaters. ... All battlers will receive neat certificates of award, similar to diplomas of high school recognition. . . . Jim Newland, promotor of the 1941 Bengal Bouts, currently writes for the Indianapolis News. ... Ed Krause, new assistant football coach from Holy Cross, and John Druze, a newly-wed from New Jersey, returned to the campus over the weekend. . . . And Miss Selma Goebel of Mishawaka, veteran and efficient secretary in the Athletic Association, will resign at the end of March. . . . She is to be married soon. . . . Her many friends of the Athletic Association offer congratulations.
TOM TEARNEY—THE HUMAN DYNAMO
Terrible Tom Tearney, Chicago’s gift to the fencing team, must be a human dynamo. . . . After competing in the 11-6 Irish fencing victory at Cincinnati one recent Saturday, he dashed aboard a train to sing tenor with the Glee club at Rosary college, Chicago. . . . During the past two seasons he was the man behind the scenes at 14 Notre Dame football games, being a “spotter” for such nationally known sports announcers as Bill Stern, NBC; Guy Savage, WGN; Fort Pearson, NBC; and Dick Bray, WLW. . . . Last April he won the Inidana state epee title at Indianapolis. . . . He also assumes the combined post of director-producer of the K-C vaudeville show carded for April 13-14-15.
INTERHALL TRACK-FOOTBALL OLYMPICS
Interhall track competition the other night took on the appearance of a Football Olympics when such proteges of Coach Frank Leahy as Creighton Miller, Jerry Cowhig, John Yonakor, Bob Dove, John Zilly and Luke Higgins went to work. . . . Miller, the galloping Lyons whiz, won the 60-yard dash in :6.5, while varsity men who have been working out since December have a hard time duplicating the feat. . . . Zilly, a frosh left end candidate, barely missed 12 feet in the pole vault, and settled for 11:6. . . . Imagine him going up for a pass. . . . His chief cheer leader was Yonakor, who engineered his 6 feet, 5-inch, 225-pound frame over the bar at an even six feet, an accomplishment shared by Cowhig, 215-pound frosh football fullback. . . . Dove looked like a deer running the relay while Higgins showed the form of Jim Delaney in elbowing the shot near 44 feet.
JACK WIGGINS ELECTED HEAD MANAGER
According to a recent election of out-going managers, Jack-Wiggins, Chicago, takes the reins for the Centennial year, as senior manager of football. . . . His aids are Jim Murray of Bronx, N. Y., stadium, and Art Keating, Aspinwall, Pa., equipment. . . . Others named to managerial posts include: John Cullen, Rutherford, N. J., basketball; Frank Ebner, Grosse Pointe, Mich., track; Joe Callahan, Niagara Falls, N. Y., baseball; George E. Thompson,.Geneseo, N. Y., fencing and tennis; and Ed Burns, Waterbury, Conn., golf. . . . All are pending approval by the Athletic Board of the University.
birder high jump sensation
Biggest surprise of the Interhall track meet was Jim Birder, son of the University speech professor. . . . Jim, who as a freshman leaped only 5 feet, 8 inches, turned in the outstanding performance of his career in clearing 6 feet, 2 inches— and with an inch or two to spare. . . . He retired at that height after eliminating all competition. . . . Coach Bill Mahoney welcomed him out for the varsity. . . . Imagine, 6:2, with virtually no practice. ... No wonder Jim Crowley, sophomore manager from Badin hall who stretches a mere 5 feet, 3 inches, nearly lost his voice yelling at the feat. . . . Unsung hero of the meet, though, was Jim (Red) Kennedy, the .carrot-thatched Brownson freshman. . . . Red tripped and leveled a half a row of hurdles, then fell on the first lap of the relay—and smashed the baton to bits. . . . He picked up the splinters (the baton, not this column), and.handed them to Lowell Ward. . . . Larry Carr and Tom Molloy finished up for Brother Pat’s boys, a good bit to the rear, but gaining steadily.
Is there anyone who hasn’t heard that basketball is the private concession of the state of Indiana? One of these days someone is going to put a tax on it (basketball) because almost everyone in Indiana plays the game. Hoosiers are so well known in this game that undefeated teams in the top rank are usually credited with having at least two men from the Hoosier state in their starting teams by the average fan. The peculiar thing is that many top teams do have men from the hoop state on their starting squads. There is, however, one man we know of who has weathered the storm long enough to lay claim to the title of a successful basketball team that is home grown.
This team has undergone no effects of Indiana superiority and is pure Long Island stuff. Clair Bee has made a science of perfecting teams of the Eastexm material in his own way. His experimental station is at Long Island, New York. Coach Bee hails from Parkersburg, W. Va., where he learned the three R’s. He left high school at the end of his sophomore year in 1917 to get into the World war (the other one), but returned to his high schooling when it was over. After that he attended four different colleges, Davis and Elkins, Waynesburg, Rutgers, and Ohio State, and collected enough degrees to scare anyone. Along with attending regular sessions of class he has taken summer courses galore.
Here is one coach who is really educated. His hard work in studying has . been repaid, for besides coaching he teaches commerce students at Long Island U. Coaching baseball is another - sideline. He is most proud of his undefeated basketball teams but Yankee Marius Russo is-one of his pets. He was ace pitcher for Long Island when he was there under Coach Bee who has also tackled baseball. Perhaps you didn’t know that Long Island sends its basketball teams out by air sometimes, something unusual in college sports. This saves time, and Clair Bee gets in a little more time for his classy golf game. At home he has a fine business library, and his mathematical bent shows itself in his carefully detailed planning. He has published several articles and books on sports and is at present writing a series of books for the Barnes Company to be* known as the Clair Bee Basketball Library.
Here’s another man who said it could be done and then proceeded to do it.
Interhall Cage Finals Slated For March 12,13
Jack Denniston
Breen-Phillips might have won the Interhall Track Meet last week in fine style hut apparently Lyons Hall didn’t know it. For this week Lyons staged a track meet on the Rockne Memorial court routing Breen-Phillips Interhall basketball entry in Heavy League 1, 80-27. Lyons in running up the highest total this year, used two complete teams, which divided the scoring evenly. St. Mary’s remained undefeated by dropping Off-Campus 52 to 32. Ralph and Pellou-choud split 36 points between them while pacing the St. Mary’s lads to their sixth straight triumph. Cummings garnered
17 points while leading the Dillon heavyweights to a win over Zahm. Livingston’s 13 tallies kept Zahm close, but the freshmen succumbed 58 to 43.
Cavanaugh stood right up there and matched point for point and jab for jab in' giving the St. Ed’s A.C. a scare. Plucky Cavanaugh used but five men and had they a few reserves they might have pushed the “Saints” to the limit instead of losing 44-30. Brother Pat’s huskies stopped Walsh 37 to 31. Brownson has at last unveiled a steady combination in defense standout Bohn and the cagey Egan and McKay. Meyer was in form again, so the Law Club stopped Sorin 29 to 18.
Light League II saw St. Ed’s and Badin pounding out important wins over Cavanaugh and Breen-Phillips. Berg and
Nickson led Badin to a 60-36 triumph over Breen-Phillips. Green and Hock pushed St. Ed’s “juniors” to half a hundred while smothering Cavanaugh 50-29.
On Monday, March 9, the “must win” game of Heavy League I between the St. Mary’s lads and Lyons Hall will decide the winner in that league and conclude the Interhall Schedule for this year. On March 12 and 13 the finals between' Light League I and II and Heavy League I and II will be staged for the title. The heavy final on Thursday night will see either Lyons or St. Mary’s representing Heavy League I, while St. .Ed’s are already League II agents. For the Light finals on Friday evening Morrissey will represent League I and either St. Ed’s, Lyons, or Badin will play for League II.
ONE FOR THE BOOK
Today's speed-up at school and tomorrow's great pervading question-mark entitle you to an "all-out", completely relaxing, unforgettable spring vacation this year. And that is the kind we have in store for you at the South's largest oceanfront resort-estate. It is a grand "houseparty" in Florida's golden sunshine, planned by college people for college students—the
INTER-COLLEGE SPRING PARTY
WHENEVER YOU CAN COME
FROM MARCH 16 TO MAY 1
There'll be swimming, golf (no green fees), tennis, surf fishing, other sports . . . dancing, parties, floor shows, moonlight boat rides, beach dinners and "side trips". Your own sort of crowd will be there helping things along. The special rate of $10 per day per person includes everything — room, meals and all the romance and fun you can pack into a few long-to-be-remembered days in a sun-blessed tropic paradise beside the Gulf Stream.
Talk it over with Dad and Mother, and your friends. See your travel agent — or write today for details.
HOLLYWOOD BEACH HOTEL
ON THE OCEAN
AT HOLLYWOOD
“GREATER MIAMI'S GREATEST SHOWPLACE"
Sorin hall’s lightweight team continued its winning streak by downing Howard 27-17. Joe Rorick’s tantalizing righthand push shots accounted for 20 of the Sorin scores. Sweeney, elongated center, was outstanding for the losers.
Last Week’s Results
Heavy League I: Howard 15, Off-Campus 13; St. Mary’s 52, Off-Campus 32; Navy ROTC 44, Zahm 29; Lyons 80, Breen-Phillips 27; Carroll, default from Howard; Dillon 58, Zahm 43.
Heavy League H: St. Ed’s 44, Cavanaugh 30: Brownson 37, Walsh 31; Morrissey 35, Badin 27; Law Club 29, Sorin 18.
Light League I: Brownson, default from Alumni ; . Carroll 43, Dillon 41; Morrissey, default from Walsh.	.
. Light League H: Sorin 27, Howard 17; St. Ed’s 50, Cavanaugh 29; Badin 60, Breen-Phillips 36; Sorin 27, Howard 17.
. - ‘ Schedule for Week of March 9
Monday, March 9: Heavy League I—7:30, Dillon vs. Alumni; 7:30, Carroll vs. Navy KOTO; 8:30, Lyons vs. St. Mary’s; 8:30, Law Club vs. Walsh (Heavy League I).	_
Thursday, March 12: Heavy League tournament.
Friday, March 13: Light League tournament.
.	. Standings -	~
' Heavy League I			■Heavy League II		
	. W	L		W	L
Lyons 		.....7	0	St. Ed’s 			6	0
St. Mary’s		.—6	0	‘ .Morrissey 			5 .	1
Dillon 		—	—.4	2	. Brownson 			3	3
Carroll			4	3	. Cavanaugh _...		2	3
Alumni 		—.3	3	Walsh 			2	3
Navy ROTC —	.....3	'4	Law Club 			2	3
Breen-Phillips	....3	5	• Badin 		......2	4
Howard 		__2	. 5	Sorin 			0	6
Off-Campus ....	.....2	7			
Zahm 		- 9 '	7			
Light League I			. Light League II		
	w	L	: •	W	L
Morrissey —	—.5	0	St. Ed’s 		......5	1
Brownson 		—4	1	Lyons 			.4	1
Carroll 		.....3	2	Badin 				4	1
Dillon —			—3	3	Sorin 			3	3
Zahm 		-. 9	3	Breen-Phillips	—2	3
Walsh 		.....1	4	-Howard 			1	5
Alumni .;		.....0.	5	Cavanaugh ....		0	5
Klinemen Begin Light Drills;
May Play Summer Term Card
Bill Boss
There was a call to arms along the Irish baseball front Monday as Coach Jake Kline blew the bugle for the first
Indiana mazdas shone over Jake. . . .
installment of Spring practice. It wasn’t the radiant warmth of a Florida sun that beamed overhead but a crew of Indiana mazdas that lit the dust of the Fieldhouse floor as cramped arms were uncorked following a winter’s hibernation.
With the shortening of the second semester it appeared that collegiate base-balb would slump greatly throughout the nation. But following the message and advice of President Roosevelt the school mentors are doing their utmost to enliven the diamond term and they seem
Like the first robin . . .
— sure sign of Spring, is our new shipment of ADLER-ROCHESTER tweeds, Shetlands and flannels. Many patterns from which to choose. '
The three-button, single-breasted Brooks coat is still in high favor with college men ... we have it in any cloth you select . . . also slacks to match or contrast.
Authorized representatives for Naval Cadet uniforms through D. Klein & Brothers.
PARKER-WINTERROWD 115% - 117^ North Main Street (Upstairs)
Visit our upstairs shop or see our campus representatives:
CAPTAIN PAUL LILLIS	LARRY KELLEY	NEIL J. McGARTHY
321 Alumni Hall	334 Alumni Hall	116 Sorin Hall
to have contrived a plan for doing so. Although the Spring session will be terminated early in May it is possible that a Summer schedule might be worked out. Various athletic councils are considering the summer plan. Student recreation will certainly be lacking during the torrid months and Notre Dame is backing the idea for a continuation of baseball if other universities see fit to adopt the plan. Extra competition could be afforded by the innumerable service squads that will be in action in this district.
A rule has been invoked curtailing athletic competition between the Spring and Summer semesters. Coach Kline has, however, been able to arrange a formidable 12 or 14 game schedule which will
Full Line
DR. GRABOW PIPES
110-IWfc IHain
SOUTH BIHU, INDIANA
THE
HUDDLt
A Variety of Pipes — A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ______________,.$1.50
Yeflo-Bole Regular_____ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial____ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ____...	3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor________ 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran______ 5.00
Hollycourt ________________ 3.50
Comoy _____________..  6,00
Corncobs________10c and 25c
PIPE
Dr.GRABOW fl
Sent^enta
WITH TOMMY DORSEY
Over DR.Grabow.. The One and Only
THE Pieintu! Pi PE
' The only correct way to break in a pipe is to smoke it. .Linkman’s mechanical smoking machine Pre-smokes every Dr. GRABOW with fine tobacco.
MADE BY M. LINKMAN A Cl.
NO SITE
NO BREAKING
NO 3ITTES TAS’E
25
be announced shortly in the Scholastic. This thrusts a great handicap on Notre Dame nines as they always hit their stride early in May for it is the first month inclement weather stops bombing the Irish harbor.
Graduation Took Veterans
A preview of the current diamond squad is not possible this early as candidates have seen no strenuous workouts. But the force of last year’s graduation plus the snatching fingers of Uncle Sam make prospects uncertain and slightly on the dull side. The material for this campaign seems to be below the quota of previous years. Success or failure will depend on what brews in the Sophomore camp and how well these lads shape up.
Competent men will have to be found in the ranks of second year men to fill a great gulf of vacancies. Ray Pinelli, the hard hitting shortstop, graduated, rode to Binghamton, N. Y. to play minor league ball and then signed a draft card. Ray’s contract with the Newark Bears, power of the International League, had to be set on a shelf. “Chuck” Farrell and Don Hengel, first basemen, also ended their four year service. Joe Campagna, a swallow-swift third baseman chose to chase the Japs instead of grounders and joined the Army Air Corps. So with a damaging loss of veterans Coach Kline, will have to start an' enormous reconstruction progranv
Mound Prospects Encouraging
The pitching staff , is the only section of the team that hasn’t been rapped hard by some nemesis. Bob Metzger, who chucked and won a brilliant over-time battle against California last commencement week-end, will be ready for active duty. Following him will be a string of competent moundsmen, “Bobo” Fischer, Bud Dudley, and a pair of effective Sophomores, Harold Smullen and Nib Trimborn. It isn’t likely that Sebastian Nowicki who fought a few mound duels last year will. be.pitching this term. A summer arm injury will probably forced the South Bend lad to the outfield. Eddie Hanyzewski, a Frosh standout -with, an accelerated fast ball, was plucked by the Chicago .Cubs last summer and is now stomping on the training hill at Avalon, Calif. Eddie has a fine chance of sticking with the Gallagher Gang and may see action at Wrigley Field this season.	,
Captain Bernie Crimmins will flip signals this year from behind the plate.’A gallant, parade of. reserve backstoppers are returning. Kelly, Bowers, and Mac-Namara plus basketbailer Hiller will form the remaining rear guard. .
When first base is mentioned a- sad r lump pops in the throat. “Chuck” Farrell
•24
and alternate, Hengel, have left the yard and the burden must be .shouldered by Jack Tallet, the elongated-lad who covered the initial hassock little last year because of constant illness.- Sophomore Hickey and Moore will be battling for reserve honors at that post.
George Sobek will'guard the keystone with his usual efficacy. Barney Pyne is a likely-looking lad at that station and will keep George hopping. Jack Clifford, a senior, may gain power and ride the -sack frequently.
One of the best ball players in Notre Dame history trotted off Cartier Field last year when Ray Pinelli became an alumnus. Ray was . an exceptional fielder and packed a cannon in his bat. It will be hard to plug Ray’s shortstop post. Fred Gore is the logical contender to ramble over that area with smooth-fielding Dan Downey and ball-pummeler Frank Vignola, Soph recruits, fighting all the way.
Campagna’s Air Corps jaunt leaves third base unpatrolled. The first string
HELP WHACK THE AXIS
For the first time in history, you spectators at the llth ANNUAL BENGAL BOUTS, at the FIELDHOUSE on MARCH 17-18-19-21, will pay an amusement tax—a penny or more—depending on your choice of location. You'll pay it gladly, when considering it may help build a bomber to whack the Axis. -
Bengal Bouts
SEE YOUR HALL REPRESENTATIVE FOR TICKETS
Preliminaries —15 cents ? • Championship —- $1.10 - 55c-40c
Why worry?
hot-corner rifler will be either Jim Carlin, Chuck Kralovec, or Dick Grant, all promising Sophomores.
The outer orchard will be blooming with material as hard-hitting Andy Chle-beck, last year’s captain, and crop of other experienced men returning to the long grass. The No. 1 shift in the outfield will probably consist of Chlebeck, Boston’s Bill Stewart and Frank Sanfilippo, a peppery kid from Poughkeepsie, N. Y. with a booming bat and an extra strong right arm. John Milliman, Bob Madden, Omer Sturm, and Bob Casey will also roam garden ground.
Shortly the Klinemen should be able to scamper outside and practice on Cartier Field but up until that time their exercise will consist of daily limbering up and light infield and batting practice.
The University of Kentucky has the fourth largest graduate school east of the Mississippi river and south of the
Ohio river.
"TWELFTH NIGHT" IS SET FOR THURSDAY NIGHT;
SHAKESPEAREAN PLAY TO BE GIVEN CHEKHOV STYLE
J. C. CLARK
On the Thursday evening of March 12, the students and faculty of Notre Dame will have the opportunity of seeing in performance one of the most distinctive theater groups now touring colleges and Universities in the United States: the Chekhov Theatre Players in Twelfth Night.
It is Shakespeare’s great farcical romance which displays two major themes, romantic love and the joy of life twisted in the tale of twins, Sebastian and Viola, who are shipwrecked on the coast of Illyria and thenceforth involved in a series of romances and mistaken identities for which Shakespeare is famous. Viola becomes Orsino’s page boy who is sent to Olivia whom Orsino loves;’ Olivia falls in love with the disguised Viola; Olivia finally meets Sebastian, Viola’s twin who can’t be told from her, and Olivia marries Sebastian, thinking he is Viola, whom she thinks is Cessario—the person Viola assumes in disguise upon being shipwrecked and separated from her brother Sebastian.
EASTER GIFTS
of Leather
Personalized with her own initials, embossed in gold.
Gift wrapped and wrapped for mailing.
HansARi ntzsch e)hop
138 N. Michigan St.
SH^MEDKO FILTERED |
M ABSORBENT FILTERS!
I GffllfflE nuas FOt MEOKO MS I I	I PMXH) OHLY B THIS BEDS BUCK BOX
66 Baffle Filter whirl-cools smoke; traps juices, flakes and nicotine in pipes, cigarette and cigar holders. FINEST BRIAR MONEY CAM BUY


Michael Chekhov does not believe in the “star system” and consequently, no one of his players receives billing above any other; no one of his stars is given greater dramatic opportunity than the version demands;, and to further this system, Mr. Chekhov’s players'are capable of taking any one of a number of parts in the production, so well familiar with each that they can fit into the play as easily in one characterization as in several others. Mr. Chekhov’s most novel innovation to the staging of Twelfth Night is perhaps his technical treatment of the play; there is only one lowering of the curtain from the first to the last scene and that for intermission. The transition between. scenes becomes an integral part of the movement of the play rather than “a transition of mood.” The moving of the scenery and props is done by the actors, woven skillfully into the motion of the players so as to be hardly noticeable by the audience. Light, realistic shrubbery is used, light trees that are mysteriously, whisked from the stage, banners on long poles represent first a street scene and upon a slight, unnoticed movement of one of the actors, is changed to an interior scene. Three trees give way before the eye to three thrones. .	.
The Chekhov players carry their own lighting equipment and all of the staging is cared for personally by them. They are prepared to perform upon a platform as small as 30 by 20 or upon the largest stage built. In addition to these innovations, the Chekhov players have their own composer, arranger, conductor, Joseph Wood, who composed and arranged the original music heard with the Chekhov production, one of his more intricate tasks being to arrange the music to facilitate the movement of scenery and props—to blend this action with the motion of the play itself.


(Concerto No. 5, in E Flat)
“Emperor” Concerto Album —-Rudolf Serkin—with Bruno Walter and Philharmonic Orchestra—$5.78
This Beethoven Concerto is to piano music what Beethoven’s Fifth is to the symphony.
“Cradle Song”—Brahms—sung by Lotte Lehmann-—“first lady of song” — 10 inch___________79c
; “In Old Vienna”—Marek Weber —on each, of four records this album contains Strauss, Lehar and Waldteufel waltzes in medley. A collectors item —.... $2.63
NEW foIumHa
MASTERWORKS
Metronome All Star Band Recording — “Royal Flush” — “I Got Rhythm.”
“Deep in the Heart of Texas” and “Loretta” — Horace Heidt — Goodman chorus.	.
OKEH RECORDS
“The Marines Hymn” and “The Caissons Go Rolling Along” — Gene Krupa — Desmond chorus.
“JERSEY BOUNCE,” by Benny Goodman and his band — together with “A String of Pearls,” another smash coupling for which Goodman is famous.
RODIRS
Open Tuesday, Thursday and ■ Saturday Evenings
25
Modern Bengal Bouts Rooted In Ring Teams of Early 20's
The oncoming Bengal Bouts, which most students take as a matter of. course, initiated by the Scholastic in 1932, are the result of an ingenious idea by the editors to make the annual University boxing matches pay dividends to a worthy charitable organization.
remainder of boxing on the campus has been confined to University championship matches.
It was in 1932 that the Scholastic decided to sponsor these championship bouts and use the proceeds to aid the Bengal Missions in India. Contrary to present day practice, the preliminary bouts were conducted in the boxing room of the Gym, and were not open to the public, with only the one night of finals open for general admission.
The fact that great progress has been made in the eleven years of promoting the Bengal Bouts can be shown by comparing the attendance records of the various bouts. In 1932, the first year of promotion, 2,000 people clicked through the turnstiles to net approximately $450 to the mission, while in 1933 about 1,350 fans fattened the funds by about $330. The 1936 bouts broke all records up to that time when 3,000 persons purchased ducats and $550 proceeds went to help Holy Cross in India. The bouts of last year, however, broke all existing records
when over 4,000 students and townfolk witnessed the matches.
This year’s bouts, with fighters in all classes rapidly getting into top shape, promises to be one of the best in the history of the fights, what with champions from four divisions back to defend their crowns against a likely - looking crop of newcomers. Tickets for the bouts will be placed on sale shortly, and may be purchased from student council members and at the gate on the nights of the fights..	.
Swimming Prelims Tuesday
The annual Interhall Swimming Meet will start next Tuesday evening, March 10, with the preliminaries at 8:00 o’clock. Wednesday evening the finals will be held. All halls are expected to enter the meet which includes the following events: 150-yd. medley, 200-yd. free style, 50yd. free style, diving (low board), 100yd. free style, 50-yd. backstroke, 50-yd. breast stroke, 200-yd. (four-man team).
.. . . 1932 .. . came ingenious ideas. . . .
Boxing at Notre Dame, contrary to the belief of many, originated in an organized form in 1923, when Athletic Director Knute K. Rockne made provisions for organized boxing on the campus. Not long after these provisions were made the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics sanctioned this movement to the extent of providing minor monograms to boxers who demonstrated sufficient ability.
An official full-time coach could not be obtained when the movement first originated, and in 1926 the coachless squad dropped all six intercollegiate matches in which they participated. In 1927, however, experienced and well-trained Tommy Mills directed the boxers, and it was in this year that intercollegiate boxing at Notre Dame reached its peak with a record of four wins and one loss. With the exception of a brief spurt in 1934, when-Bengal Champ Max Marek led a Notre Dame team to -the Chicago Golden Gloves tourney, the
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
THANKS, FELLOWS!
. for your help on our GALLUS POLL. Everyone who fills out a GALLUS POLL has an equal chance at the following prizes, which will.be awarded	•
in a few weeks. •
,	I st Prize_______$7.50 Knox Hat
2nd Prize_$5 Merchandise Certificate 3rd Prize._._$2.50 Merchandise Certificate
. Ten.......$1	Merchandise Certificates
Get Tour GALLUS POLL from Our Campus Representative — or Stop in at the Store
JIM O’NEAL	TOM CLEMENS
411 Walsh Hall	244 Morrissey Hall
. JIM O’LAUGHLIN	JAMES CARROLL ,
407 Walsh Hall	. 241 Breen-Phillips Hall '
MAX ADLER
.. "ON THE CORNER" . . . Michigan at Washington
26
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER”	Michigan at Washington
Leads A Double Life!
A “Two-Timer” you’ll like . . . new Arrow combination sport and dress shirt. A campus favorite. See it at Adler’s.
Remember . . . It's ADLER'S for ARROWS!
It’s the same shirt—Arrow’s Doubler
TTERE’S a shirt that knows how to relax!
x It’s convertible—you can wear it all day with a tie and it’s perfectly smart; take the tie off when you get home and you can have a handsome, expensive-looking sport shirt!
Aitow Doubler comes in a variety of fine fabrics labeled Sanforized (shrinkage less than 1%), - has two pockets and has Arrow’s famed “Mitoga” figure-fit. Get Doubler today!
Bill Brown, Cavanaugh Hall freshman, should shave a few seconds off his AllCampus Swim Meet time of :30.5 in the 50-yd. back stroke. The 100-yd. free style and the 200-yd. relay records will be endangered also when the splashers knife the water this coming Tuesday and Wednesday evenings.
Cleary, Rosser Win Handball Title; Plan Singles Tourney
Cleary and Rosser teamed together to annex the Students’ Doubles Handball title last week on the Rockne Memorial handball courts. This smooth functioningduo downed the plucky Ford-Kempf pair for the championship in three gruelling games.
In the priests’ handball doubles tournament Father Fitzpatrick, Bengal mis- ' sionary, and Father Kehoe, third floor Dillon hall prefect, defeated Father Meagher, assistant pastor of Holy Cross parish, South Bend, and Father Frank Murray, Badin hall prefect, soon to be an Army chaplain.
A singles handball tournament for the students as well as one for the priests has been arranged and will be held sometime within the next two weeks. .
Answers to Sports Quiz
1.	George Ireland of Notre Dame (a . guard) scored in 47 consecutive games. He was benched for the 48th.
2.	a. Renaissance, b. Globe Trotters.
3.	Ping-pong was devised for children who aspired to be Tildens and Moodys.	.
4.	One run is on Mount van Hovenberg at Lake Placid, N. Y. The other is the Cresta Run at St. Moritz, Switz-. erland, Europe.
5.	At Red Wing, Minn., in 1886.
6.	Women entered the Olympics in 1920 for the first time.
Don’t Miss This ...
LES BROWN The new band sensation at the
PALAIS RO YALE
SUNDAY, MARCH 8th 9 to 1
Adm. $1.10 per person (tax ind.)
27
BENCH CHATTER
Jim Brutz and Herky Bereolos
I—TOO
With the I—TOO theory of determination, MATTY BYRNE became a subscriber to Charles Atlas’ Body Building . Magazine.
OUR "MAMA" KIN TAKE IT
One snowy afternoon, John (Mama) Clark, with every ounce of his excess 50 pounds, entered the doors of the Rock. Ma sacrificed three hours of sound sleep to fulfill a nerve-wracking handball engagement with two stalwarts in the persons of Milt Piepul and Bob Maddock. Knowing that both these boys show sympathy toward others, “Ma” displayed his quota of psychological tricks as a major step towards victory. Earlier he had paid a visit to Scrap’s training headquarters and placed upon his enormous physique many patches of gauze and tape, saturated with iodine.
Forty-five minutes later a super and final shot was scored. The game came to an end and not a sound was heard. “Ma’s” 15 hilarious rooters from Walsh Hall became very serene and silent, for their hero and loved one had been defeated. The throat lump dilated as “Ma” with his battered fingers grasped the red ladder and commenced to leave his den. With one foot on the last ladder step and the other in the corridor, he raised his chin, looked in the eyes of his boys and broken-heartedly said, “Boys, I tried my best and have no alibis. I shall pass out three compliments in return for one favor.” “Ma” stopped for a second, . closed the den door and resumed his talk!
“1. Piepul was the hardest blocker I ever played against.
“2. Bob Maddock has all the potentialities of becoming a heavyweight boxei-with his hay makers.
- Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr.E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
“3. Bill Kennedy, my partner, is improving.
“4. Have any of you boys a cafe book I can borrow?”
Editors’ note: We are still awaiting the list of exercises designed by the azithors of this column, promised for weeks, but as yet not presented.
C.A.S. Members Attend
Chicago Convention
On February 22, seven prominent members of the Catholic Action Society of Notre Dame journeyed to Chicago. Their purpose was to attend the Annual Day of Motivation sponsored by the CISCA (Chicago Inter-School Catholic Action). The meeting was presided over by Rev. Daniel Lord, S. J. The topic for discussion was: “What can students do as students to help win this war?”
The following men attended: Martin McLaughlin, president, Farrell Quinlan, Al Somner, Paul Streicher, Vincent P. Hogan, Jim Sullivan, and Father John Haley, C. S. C., Assistant Prefect of Religion. These men took an active but anonymous part in the discussion. The discussion centered around two points: situation of students as members of the Mystical Body; and an attempt to ascertain actual student attitudes toward the war with a view toward transforming them into the correct ones.
In the course of his talks Father Lord singled out Catholic Action at Notre Dame for his specific commendation. Father- Lord wound up the discussions by presenting-his own plan to be followed by college students.
WYMAN'S
Men's Shop
for the
IDEAL CAMPUS COAT
FROSH "ELECTIONS" (Continued from page 16)
Thomas V. Dougherty, Cavanaugh: “The frosh election -was conducted as efficiently as possible. However, all parties in the race should have been given equal consideration on the ballots. Those candidates whose names did not appear in printed form on the ballot proper were at a considerable disadvantage.”
Bill Everett, Zahm: “More people should have known that there was going to be an election.”
Bob Davies, a freshman quartered in Carroll: “I definitely did not like the way it was run. Those in the know controlled the election to their advantage, whereas the vast majority of the freshmen were not fully aware of the fact that there was an election going on.”
G. L. Pucci, Brownson: “If it wasn’t by accident that the names of some candidates were left off the ballots, it was very inefficient on the part of the authorities in charge of the election.”
John Cashman, Breen - Phillips: “It was okay.’
Latest models of
LOAFER Coats
$ 10.50
Jacquard knit fronts in soft tones of brown and grey •— Whale bone corduroys built for comfort and lasting wear. See our selection of the newest fashions in woolen sportswear. Built for campus wear and spectator sportsmen.
Ask for Mr. fames O’Neill
28
SAM'L SPIRO & CO.
"■ jt Feature
Manhattan
Shirks, Pajamas, Handkerchiefs . . . Mansco Underwear

Your SHIRT COLLAR can do things for or against your face. Every collar doesn't look as well on everybody. So Manhattan designed shirts with individual collar styles for special types. Whether you’re a pumpkin or a stringbean, Manhattan has your style planned and cut for you—for your face, your neck. Ask your dealer for Manhattan shirts with collars styled for a man like you.
Manhattan Shirts are Size-Fixt (average fabric shrinkage 1% or less) and Man-Formed to body lines
WITH COLLARS STYLED FOR A MAN LIKE YOU
Defeated N. D. Fencers Win Praise from Buckeye Captain
Phil Keene
In one of the hardest fought battles of the season, the Irish fencers were subdued by Ohio State, last Saturday night, by the score of 14% to 12% before the largest crowd of the season. A surprisingly strong epee team clinched the meet for the visitors.
The Blue and Gold started in the right direction with a 5-3 victory by Johnny Flynn. Five of the next seven bouts were extended to the final touch and both teams broke even. In the ninth and final foil bout, Angel Gonzalez lost a close 5-4 battle and the Buckeyes jumped ahead by one point.
The sabre bouts proved to be the most exciting and hard fought. Humphreys, Melton, and Leising set the Irish back in the lead with three consecutive victories. Herb Melton returned and trounced Bill Hunt 5-0. The Ohio boys, Massar and Burtt, returned the compliment with two decisive wins. Tom Tear-ney came from behind to take Hunt with a well-fought 5-4 victory. Mike Humphreys came up from a 3-0 deficit but fell one point short of his goal. The last sabre bout of the evening brought Herb Melton and Ben Burtt together in what proved to be one of the finest bouts of the meet. The Irish ace got off to a 2-1 lead but Burtt came back with two fast touches. Herb scored twice again before his opponent scored his fourth point. The fifth point presented a long barrage of “lunges” and “parries” before Melton scored on the chest of Burtt.
Epee Loss a Decisive Surprise
This victory gave the Blue and Gold a 10-8 lead and the obvious advantage of having their undefeated epee team ready to clinch the meet. What happened in the next half-hour was foreseen possibly by only the Ohio State team. Fighting under tremendous pressure, the visitors “blitzkrieged” the Irish fencers with four straight victories before Jim Madigan stopped the onslaught with a 3-0 win over Tom Streb. The Ohio State captain, Ben Burtt came back with a 3-2 victory over Captain Veit and put the visitors within one bout of victory.
Jim Madigan faced Ernie McLoughlin in the deciding bout. Both men scored once on the shoulder before McLoughlin touched Madigan under the arm. Madigan retaliated on the wrist of his opponent. The Ohioan then attacked Madigan with a quick thrust and the judges rushed to find the tell-tale mark. On the inside of the Irish fencer’s elbow there was a
29
scant trace of red ink. The Ohio Staters had really pulled a match “out of the fire.” The Irish won 1% of the next two points but the damage was done. Ohio State 14%, Notre Dame 12%.
Upon completion of the meet Captain Ben Burtt of Ohio State said, without hesitation, “Notre Dame is easily the best team we have met this season. I think their sabre team ranks with the best in the country.”
CLASSICAL PLATTERS
Ed Roney
This column will appear hereafter in every issue of the Scholastic and its object will be to acquaint the students of Notre Dame with a new release and an old favorite of classical music each week.
With so much current interest in the piano concerto what would be more appropriate than to begin with Sergei Rachmaninoff’s First Piano Concerto in F Sharp Minor. A beautiful and inspiring recording of the composition has just been recorded by Eugene Ormandy and the Philadelphia Orchestra with the composer himself at the piano.
This is the composition with which he
won his first fame at the age of 18 but the title “Opus 1” is apt to be misleading, for the work in its present scoring is a complete revision of the music as created in 1890-91. In this revision, which took place in 1917, hardly a note was left in place and therefore the work may. . no longer be classed with his early works but must be placed between his Third and Fourth Piano Concertos, somewhere in the fourth dozen of his compositions.
The First Concerto—which has about it an air of novelty and yet one of friendly warmth—abounds with dramatic contrasts and the composer has never performed so well in the recording studios before.
A single record that can hardly be beaten for sheer beauty and pleasantness is a new recording of the “Rosenkavalier Waltzes” by Eugene Ormand and the Philadelphia Orchestra. These waltzes, as you probably linow, are from the Richard Strauss Opera “Der Rosenkavalier” and may be found on a single 12-inch record. Those of the upperclassmen who saw Mr. Ormandy and the Philadelphia Orchestra at his performance on campus last year during Music Week can testify to the excellence of his conducting and the beauty of the orchestra’s music. •
In all probability the most beautiful
Symphonic Suite that I have ever heard is “Scheherazade” by Rimsky-Korsakow. As may be recognized from the title, this is a musical narration of the Arabian Nights’ story of the same name. Everyone remembers Scheherazade, the wife of the Sultan, who told an endless tale in order to save her life.
In the Suite the music portrays the voice of the Sultan warning the Sultana that if she stops, she loses her life. Then follows the beautiful voice of Scheherazade telling her story. In all, this is divided into four parts and the fourth part into three subdivisions. These are (1) The sea and the vessel of Sinbad; (2) The tale of the Prince Kalender; (3) The young Prince and the young Princess; (4) The festival at Bagdad, The Sea, The Vessel is wrecked and the Conclusion.
Throughout the entire suite one can hear the voices of the Sultan and Scheherazade and the story she tells. Sometimes she falters and the ominous voice of the Sultan roars out but finally he is pleased and his voice becomes gentle and amorous.
All of this is made possible through the genius of Rimsky-Korsakow’s composing and the great Leopold Stokowski’s direction of the Philadelphia Orchestra.
The taste-good, feel-good refreshment of ice-cold Coca-Cola is everything your thirst could ask for. If s all you want and you want it all. Nothing ever equals the quality and goodness of the real thing.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND v * *	...
1107 Beyer Avenue .	You trust its quality
30
DISC-CUSSION
Ed Roney
The president ■ of the United States, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, in all probability didn’t know it, but when he asked Congress for a declaration of a state of war with Japan, he was also making a recording of his voice for all the future
“He always comes out this way when he’s got a train to catch!”
Poor Mr. Pinchbottom, we keep telling him and telling him:
THERE'S A TRAIN
EVERY HOUR
Guess he thinks it’s too good to be true. But it is true. South Shore trains leave South Bend. for Chicago every hour all day long — speedy trains that whisk you right into the “Loop.” . . . Hourly service back from Chicago, too!
For information call
C. W. VEACH
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
Plus Tax
ONE WAY FROM
TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
generations of Americans to hear. It covers both sides of a ten inch record and sells at the regular price. This undoubtedly will become a collectors’ item some day.
What are probably the longest two titles ever on one record are presented this week by Sammy Kaye and they’re as good as they are long. The first, “Seeing You Again Did Me No Good,” begins at the edge, is slow, sad, and sentimental, and Tommy Ryan does an excellent job on the vocals. Backing it up is “Somebody Else Is Taking My Place” and this has just a little faster tempo although still in a melancholy mood. Allyn Foster takes care of the lyrics.
The Metronome All Star Band comes across with one or two records a year and now we have their first for ’42. On the A side is “Royal Flush” with Benny Goodman, Toots Mondello, Vido Musso, Tex Beneke, Harry James, Cootie Williams, Count Basie, Roy Eldridge, J. C. Higginbotham, and Gene Krupa. And if that isn’t enough there still remains “I Got Rhythm” with Goodman, Krupa, Basie, John Kirby, Alvino Rey, Williams, Higginbotham,, and Charlie Barnet on the B side. After those names, and they arent all, there’s no use in trying to describe the music.
Tommy Dorsey’s newest features those two vocalists that have been climbing even higher in record. fame this year. Who are they? None other than Frank Sinatra and Joe Stafford, of course. This time Frank handles a swingy number called “How Do You Do Without Me?” while Jo takes to a slower mood on “It Isn’t A Dream Any More.” Both are as good as they usually are and the tunes are equally so, although the second side will be played oftener.
Decca has a speical release with that Crosby man, Bing, giving out with “I Don’t Want To Walk Without You” and “Moonlight Cocktail.” The first is a bit on the jump side while the second is as mellow as it can be. Bing can still sing for a lot of people’s money including mine anytime.
That part of the day that most orchestras use for resting Glenn Miller’s crew must spend in the recording studio for no other orchestra can come even close to their record number of releases the past few months. Therefore, once again I review a couple of their latest good ones. The first record contains two jump tunes while the second has an equal number of mellow slow ones. On the first is “Chip Off The Old Block” and “Let’s Have Another Cup Of Coffee.” This latter number features both English and Spanish lyrics. The second record is a smooth one with “We’re The Couple In The Castle” coupled with “The White
Cliffs of Dover.” Both of these last two vocals are by Ray Eberle.
“The Man On The Bottom Of The Totem Pole” is often neglected but not by Glen Gray and the Casa Loma Orchestra who give, it six solid minutes of their undivided attention. They have really produced a nifty number in this one. Try it and see.
KEEP ’EM FLYING.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. bldg.	South Beno. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. building Telephone 4-3601
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON.
M.D.	M.D.
PHONE 3-2805	RESIDENCE 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J.M.S. BUILDING HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND. IND.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2574 31
Qzver 90,000,000 is Basketball’s yearly attendance... tops for any American sport...and this year marks the celebration of its Golden Jubilee. The game was founded by Dr. James Naismith and had its modest start in 1891 in Springfield, Mass. Such popularity must be deserved
Copyright 1942, Liggett & Mms Tobacco Co. -
for Cooler Smoking
That’s what millions of Chesterfield smokers get every time they light up...and that’s why these millions are saying Chesterfield gives me more pleasure than any other cigarette I ever smoked.
Make your next pack Chesterfield and you too will enjoy everything you want in a cigarette...made to your taste ivith the Right Combination of the tvorld’s best cigarette tobaccos.
Every time ...