TEE NOTRE CAME
NEWS
Nineteen Vie for Oratorical Honors . . . Name Dr. Abell Laetare Medalist . . . Plans Laid for Universal Notre Dame Night . . . The Week . . . College Parade ... Man About.
SPORTS
Layden Conducts Spring Grid Drills ... Clifford, Francis Shine at Chicago Relays . . . Crown Eight Bengal Champs ... Introducing ... Splinters . .. Brushing Up.
LAETARE MEDALIST, DR. IRVIN W. ABELL
For Eminent Contributions in Psychiatry, More Honors.
April 1. 1938

gl OA. RADIO DIRECTOR TAKES DOWN HIS HLwV» HAIR! In “One Minute to Go” Kenneth L. Watt tells what happens when Big Business decides to go on the air . . . NEW RUMBIN STORY BY BOOTH TARKINGTON ... PLUS short-stories by Karl Detzer and Naomi Lane Babson, serials, editorials, cartoons and Post Scripts.

The exciting story of one of the world’s riskiest jobs—and how it changed the
"ANYTHING can happen on a job like this!" said one of the linemen who went out to electrify the railroad. "Men’ll be hired and fired and killed and burned and crippled and promoted. Some women will get their hearts broken—and same'll wind up with good men. All told, a lot of people’s luck will be changed considerable"___This is the drama of those men, and of the three people in particularwhose lives were changed most.
Banning!**
HIGH TENSION
WILLIAM WISTER HAINES author of “Slim
FORAEATHEk
Norman Hicks, ’09, wanted to be helpful, to word here, a hint
drop a-----
there in his son s behalf. It took a crucial hockey game to show how easy it is. in well-intentioned ways, to ruin a sensitive boy’s school career.
Son and Heir
J. G. COZZENS
A NATIONAL LEAGUER TELLS
WHY THE AMERICAH LEAGUE WIMS
Here's the inside story, by a pitcher who spent thirteen years in the American League and the last six seasons in the National. He tells also why hitting —not pitching—is the most difficult of the baseball arts, and how John McGraw, Connie Mack and Miller Huggins rate as managers to the only man who played for all three
by WAITE HOYT
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z188
Vol. 71
April I, 1938
No. 21
ANNOUNCE CHANGE IN SENIOR BANQUET
•
The Class of 1938 will be guest at its alumni banquet on Monday, May 16. And thus a new policy is born, dictated by the mutual interests of the Seniors and the annual alumni banquet.
Heretofore, the Seniors have been guests of the University, together with returned alumni, on the Saturday night of Commencement weekend.
This policy has seriously interfered with the many obligations of Seniors to parents and friends. The custom grew of excusing the graduating Class immediately following the meal service. But this, in turn, embarrassed the remaining group and the speakers, as it left a void in the hall and created a most unflattering stampede preceding the opening address.
Two other assemblies of the Seniors, once held during Commencement week, have been abandoned through the increased program and the resulting pressure on Seniors and faculty alike. One was the Friday noon meeting of the Seniors, addressed by the President of the University. The other was the Sunday afternoon meeting of the Alumni Association, with the induction of the Seniors as a part of the proceedings. New circumstances of the rapid development of Notre Dame reduced both these impressive ceremonies to annoying and mutually ineffective parts of an overcrowded routine.
So the Alumni Office, through James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, consulted with the administration of the University, the board of directors of the Alumni Association, and the officers of the Senior Class. The result was the unanimous endorsement of a separate banquet for the Seniors.
This will result in their complete freedom during the weekend of Commencement. They will receive all of the information essential to their new status as alumni. The program of the alumni banquet can be devoted entirely and in more detail to those developments in campus and personnel which are of peculiar interest to alumni who have been away from the campus. And the members of the administration are left free for those growing demands that larger num-
WRANGLER ORATORICAL CONTEST ATTRACTS LARGEST REPRESENTATION IN HISTORY
Nineteen high schools, representing two states and thirteen cities, will participate in the Wrangler-sponsored Notre Dame Catholic Oratorical Contest over this weekend. Frank Parks, junior of Dillon Hall, is the chairman of the event. This is the largest number ever to take part in the contest, last ______________________________________ year there being only seven schools
** with representatives. The increased
Wrangler Frank Parks
Arranges largest contest.
Set April 9 Date For Prize Competition
•
The Committee on Scholarships has announced that April 9 is the latest date for submitting essays and architectural drawings in competition for which the essay is submitted. All manuscripts should be typewritten, double spaced, and the pages should be properly numbered.
All essays should be addressed to the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes and be turned in at the office of the Director of Studies.
Complete details concerning eligibility for contests and the-conditions prescribed for the prizes will be found in the current University Bulletin.
bers of visitors and distinguished participants in the Commencement program have created.
William E. Cotter, ’13, New York attorney, president of the Alumni Association, is expected to be the Association’s speaker at the Senior banquet. Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., ’ll, president of the University, will present the University address. John C. O’Connor, president of the Senior Class, will represent the Seniors.
size of the contest has forced a series of eliminations to be held on Saturday afternoon, with the finals taking place on Sunday afternoon.
The winning school will be awarded a large trophy, the gift of Mr. Joseph P. McNamara, an alumnus of Notre Dame and a former Wrangler, who is now deputy attorney-general of the state of Indiana. A trophy will also be given to the Indiana school whose representative finishes highest in the contest. Medals will be awarded the winners of the first three places.
The program for the week is .as follows: eliminations in the auditoriums of both the Law Building and the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering to be run off simultaneously at 2:00 p.m. Banquet, honoring the visitors in the Lay. Faculty Dining room at 7:00 p.m. Finals of the contest in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering Sunday at 2:00 p.m.
The judges for the contests will be: from the Wranglers, William Bowes, William Mahoney, Robert Heywood, Pierre de la Vergne. Others will be Professor William Coyne, varsity debate coach; Reverend John P. Lynch, C.S.C., and Robert Schmelzle. Several others have not been announced.
Chairmen for the elimination trials will be Frank Parks and Al Funk. From each of the eliminations three speakers will be chosen to take part in the finals on Sunday afternoon. Frank Parks will serve as chairman of this event also. -
Professor Frank. Moran of the English department will be the guest speaker at the banquet Saturday night. The visiting speakers, members of the Wranglers, Rev. Norbert C. Hoff, moderator of the dub, and the judges will attend the banquet.
Schools participating in the contest are:
St. Mary’s, Anderson, - Ind.; St. Joseph, Elwood, Ind.; Reitz Memorial, Evansville, Ind.; Central Catholic, Fort Wayne, Ind.; St. Mary’s, Fort
(Continued on Page 22)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DR. ABELL. AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION PRESIDENT, AWARDED LAETARE MEDAL
By Graham Starr
Dr. Irvin Abell, Louisville, Ky., president-elect of the American Medical Association, will receive the 1938 Laetare Medal, the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, announced last Sunday. The medal has been bestowed annually since 1883 by the University of Notre Dame upon an
outstanding member of the Catholic # laity.
This is the highest honor a Catholic layman can receive in the United States. The name of the recipient is announced on Laetare Sunday, the Fourth Sunday of Lent.
In announcing the name of this year’s medalist Father O’Hara, chairman of the Laetare Medal committee, stated:
“The merit of Dr. Abell in his profession has been signally recognized in his election to the presidency of the American Medical association, and his varied service to city and state and nation, as surgeon, citizen, soldier, and Christian gentleman, has endeared him in the esteem of a numerous and extensive public bene-fitted by his years of devotion to the complete welfare of his fellow men.
“Most significant perhaps among the achievements of this eminent man of medicine is his contribution to the difficult science of psychiatry and his efficient effort toward the cure and prevention of mental disorder. Hence, it is anticipated that the selection of Dr. Irvin William Abell as the one most worthy of being added this year to the distinguished company of Laetare medalists will have the hearty approval from a large public already aware of his merit.”
Dr. Abell has had a long and distinguished career in surgery. Chosen as the A.M.A.’s new president, he will take office at the 1938 meeting of the association in San Francisco.
Bom on September 13, 1876 in Lebanon, Ky., Dr. Abell comes from a family who originally settled in Kentucky in 1788. He was graduated from St. Mary’s College, St Mary’s, Ky., in 1892 and five years later obtained his degree in medicine from the University of Louisville Medical School where he has served as a professor of clinical surgery since 1904. Dr. Abell studied in Europe both at the University of Marburg and the University of Berlin. He is married and is the father of three children.
The Comprehensive Examination in Philosophy will be held April 25th-29th. The candidates will be advised concerning the time and place of the examination.
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. Announces Laetare Medalist.
Breen Freshman Medal Contest Date Set
•
The preliminaries of the annual Breen Medal Contest of Oratory will be held in the auditorium of the Law Building on the afternoons and evenings of Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, April 25, 26, and 27. The final will be held in Washington Hall at 8:00 p.m. on Sunday, May 1.
This contest is open to any student in the University working for an undergraduate degree. Orations must be original and should not exceed 1200 words in length.
Those desiring to enter should give their names to some member of the Department of Speech on or before April 11.
The preliminaries of the annual Freshman Oratorical Contest will be held in the auditorium of the Law Building on the afternoons and evenings of Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, April 27, 28, and 29. The final will be held in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering on May 2.
This contest is open to any Freshman in the University. Orations must be original and should not exceed 1200 words in length.
HOYNES BANQUET TO BE APRIL 7
•
Hon. Joseph B. Keenan, assistant United States Attorney General, of Washington, D. C., will be the principal speaker at the annual Colonel Hoynes memorial banquet to be held Thursday night, April 7th, in the Bronzewood room of Hotel LaSalle.
The banquet is sponsored each year by the Notre Dame Law Club as a tribute to Col. Hoynes, founder of the University Law school, who died in 1933. Colonel Hoynes founded school in 1893 and was its dean until 1918.
Members of the St. Joseph Valley Bar Association and other prominent jurists will be guests at the dinner.
Prof. Clarence “Pat” Manion, professor of Constitutional Law, will deliver the eulogy of Colonel Hoynes. Maurice F. Quinn, member of the law club will give a brief tribute to the late Judge William Cain, Notre Dame law professor who died in February of this year.
Thomas G. Proctor is chairman of the banquet. Members of the various committees are: tickets, Joseph Shapero, Jack Daley, John Murphy, Joseph Canale, George Morris, Frank Breen; arrangements, Francis Kelly, Robert LeMere, Prial Curran, Harry Weakley, Joseph McMahon; publicity, William Langley, John Lechner, Luke Tiernan, John DeMots, John McGlynn; reception, Clifford Brown, James R. Burke, Edward J. Hummer, Rex E. Weaver, Lee Moorman; decorations, William R. Bowes, Samuel Minella, Frank Smith, and Alfred Sniadowski.
Louis Vettel is president of the club.
Canon Lemaitre Speaks
Canon Georges Lemaitre, distinguished Belgian scientist, delivered a lecture on his theory of the expanding universe before a small audience in Washington Hall, Wednesday, March 30.
Canon Lemaitre briefly sketched the comparison of Euclidean geometry and the newer, expanded mathematics. After giving the limitations of the older form, he explained the extent of the latest form. Next the speaker considered the question of the universe in general, its makeup, its limits, whether it is finite or infinite.
In concluding his talk, Canon Lemaitre spoke on his own theory of a constantly expanding universe. The entire lecture was given in non-scien-tific terminology, making it easy for all present to follow the ideas expressed.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
WIN FIVE OUT OF SIX IN DEBATE TOURNEY
•
Victory seems to be pretty much the by-word with Professor William J. Coyne’s debating team as the Notre Dame orators come down the home stretch of a successful season. Both the affirmative and the negative teams have seen their opponents topple on numerous occasions this year.
On Thursday evening, March 24, the negative team of Charles Colgan and Thomas Mulligan met the team representing the University of Vermont, here at Washington Hall. It was a non-decision debate.
One of the most important collegiate debating events of the year drew Professor Coyne and his boys to Madison, Wis., on last Thursday and Friday to participate in the annual University of Wisconsin tournament. The negative team, composed of Charles Osborn and Thomas Mulligan, met and defeated in this tournament teams from Western Reserve University, Detroit University, and Ripon College. Not quite so fortunate was the Irish affirmative team of Albert Funk and Frank Fitch, which nevertheless gave a very creditable performance in defeating the University of Minnesota and Wayne University, of Detroit, while losing to the University of Wisconsin.
Last Monday evening the Irish came back to their home grounds in Washington Hall, as the affirmative team entertained a team from Northwestern university in a non-decision affair.
Next week the negative team meets Princeton on the evening of April 7 before the student body of St. Mary’s College.
Holy Cross college, of Worcester, Massachusetts, will provide the opposition for the Irish debaters in the closing meet of the season, here in Washington Hall, April 20. It will be a non-decision affair.
Club's Roster Grows
At a recent meeting of the Louisiana - Mississippi Club students from Arkansas enrolled at the University were allowed admission to the club.
Since there is no Arkansas club on the campus these students will have the opportunity of belonging to the club without the burden of running one of their own.
It was also announced that the election of officers will take place in the early part of May. The club had its annual picture taken for the Dome.
FATHER O'HARA. JOHN McCORMACK FEATURE UNIVERSAL N. D. NIGHT RADIO SHOW
By William C. Fay
Enn takes to the air in the half-hour coast-to-coast broadcast of the fifteenth annual Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday evening, April 25. The major portion of the broadcast will originate from the local campus studio beginning at 9:15 o’clock o’clock, C.S.T., and will be carried over the red net_________________________________________work of the National Broadcasting Company to alumni gathered at more
Alumni Secretary Armstrong “From coast to coast”
400 Attend Villagers Basketball Fete
That Paul Nowak is the greatest college basketball center and Johnny Moir the best all-round player in the past season’s competition was proclaimed by Coach George Keogan last week at the annual basketball testimonial banquet held at the Columbia club in South Bend.
The 1937-38 squad and Coach Keogan were feted by a host of speakers headed by Timothy Galvin, prominent alunmus of Hammond, Ind., acting as toastmaster.
Douglas Mills, head basketball coach of the University of Illinois, recalled past games with Notre Dame and concluded by reading a letter of congratulations commending the success and sportsmanship of the Notre Dame basketball team this year, and signed by the coaches and members of the Illinois varsity squad.
Addressing the group of more than 400, largest number to attend a Notre Dame basketball banquet to the present time, were Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., representing the University of Notre Dame; Paul Hinkle, basketball coach and director of athletics, Butler University; Elmer Layden; Rev. Wendell P. Corcoran, pastor of St. Joseph’s parish in South Bend; Louis P. Chapleau, president of the Notre Dame St. Joseph Valley club; and Paul Howard, president of the Villagers club which according to a four-year-old custom was in complete charge of the fete.
than 100 Notre Dame Clubs meeting throughout the country. James Armstrong, alumni secretary, is in charge of the program.
John McCormack, famed Irish tenor, will open the program from Hollywood, California. At the request of our own shower - room tenors, Mr. McCormack will sing the program to an appropriate beginning with “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling.” Later, the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will join the broadcast from Washington, D. C., to extend greetings to alumni and friends of Notre Dame.
From the campus Professor Joseph Casasanta with his combined band and glee club will swing-out with a medley of campus. songs — and perhaps “Tiger Rag” — before relinquishing the microphone to Mr. Elmer Layden, who will address the alumni on the state of the ’38 “Fighting Irish.” Rumor is that Mr. Layden plans one of the recently popular “fireside chats.” If so, you can expect to hear that the current recession in guards and ends means little, that the structure of the team is fundamentally sound, and that a couple of tackles could still be loaned to Ball State Teachers or Armour Tech without materially reducing our chances for an undefeated season.
Members of the local St. Joseph Valley Alumni Association will hold their annual banquet immediately prior to the broadcast. According to tentative plans the broadcast will resemble the Varsity Show hour of last winter and will take place in the University gymnasium. If plans carry through members of the alumni association and students will take active part in the broadcast and remain for an added entertainment feature.
Ninety-six stations in thirty-seven states will carry the program. The local outlet will be WSBT-WFAM, South Bend. Other nearby Illinois and Indiana stations scheduled to carry the broadcast include: WJJD, Chicago; WHBT, Rockford; WTAZ, Springfield; WIND, Gary; WFBM, Indianapolis; and WLBC, Muncie. Very likely additional stations will join the network before April. 25. The Alumni Association requests all members to watch their daily newspapers for further details.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PRESS CLUB BANQUET HONORS DR. COONEY AS DEPARTMENT CELEBRATES 25th YEAR
Future newshawks of the Journalism department of Notre Dame feted Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department for a quarter of a century, on the occasion of his Silver Jubilee and the Twenty-fifth anniversary of the University’s Journalism school, at the annual Press Club Testimonial Banquet
held Tuesday evening in the Lay Faculty dining hall. Friends, faculty members, and students joined in the impressive ceremonies of the evening to honor Dr. Cooney, who together with Dr. Max Pam of Chicago and the late Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., founded the Journalism department in 1912.
The address of welcome was given by John I. Freedy, president of the Press club. He introduced Reverend Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., head of the undergraduate philosophy department, as toastmaster of the evening. Robert J. Shea, journalism senior, reviewed 25 years of journalism at Notre Dame in seven minutes and paid a stately tribute to his tutor, declaring that Dr. Cooney’s former students can be found in all parts of the United States occupying important newspaper positions.
' In his rebuttal to the introductory remarks made by Mr. Shea, Dr. Cooney delineated a brief sketch of his teaching career at Notre Dame which he termed the happiest years of his life. Particularly did he praise the administration, faculty, and students for their cooperation extended to the department of journalism.
Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, presented the Most Reverend John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of the Fort Wayne Diocese and editor of Our Sunday Visitor. His Excellency spoke on the present campaign being conducted by Catholic papers against bad morals, pornographic literature, and all forms of foreign “isms” detrimental to American democracy.
The guest speaker of the evening was Mr. Merrill C. Meigs, general manager of the Hearst Magazines, a veteran of 30 years in the newspaper and magazine fields. Speaking directly to the journalism class, Mr. Meigs explained some of the fundamentals necessary to the good newspaperman. Besides imparting advice to the young men present, Mr. Meigs explained ingenious means of developing mnemonic aids, the imagination, concentration, observation, and resourcefulness.
Two vocal solos, “Thine Alone,” - and “Gianina Mia” were sung by Miss Madelon Burcham of St Mary’s college. The piano accompaniment was given by Miss Peggy Cowan.
Co-chairmen Phil Kirch and Nick Lamberto were in charge of the banquet committee. Graham Starr handled the publicity, Bob Shea the program, and John Freedy, tickets.
Dr. John M. Cooney
Celebrates twenty-fifth anniversary.
Third "Catalyzer" is Well Received
•
The ill effects of noxious gases and vapors upon industrial workers are described in the March issue of the Catalyzer, monthly publication of the Notre Dame College of Science, by Robert J. Thomas, graduate student studying at present for his doctorate. The name of the article is “Occupational Diseases and Industrial Toxicology.” In speaking of precautions against such industrial ailments Thomas emphasizes the worker’s being “educated to his job.”
Also included in the third number of the Catalyzer to be brought out this year by J. William Mehring, editor, was an article, “The Manufacture of Greases,” contributed by Charles E. Slyngstad, a senior in chemical engineering. The article, devoted to the discussion of various lubricants and the way in which they must be made to conform to new requirements of machinery, is particularly interesting because of the author’s experience in this work. He defines grease so far as it applies to manufacturing as a “substance used for lubrication of those points in machines which tend to develop high temperatures or pressure due to ex-
FATHER CAREY TELLS KNIGHTS OF START
•
At the Communion breakfast given by the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, Sunday, March 27, Reverend Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., chaplain, addressed the’ members of the Council on the religion of the founders of this international organization.
He told of how Catholic laymen, desirous of a fraternal society and a means of providing for the families of deceased members, were bound together by the common bond of Catholicism. Father Carey revealed these men in their eagerness and how they, under the guidance of their founder, Father McGiveny, pushed their program to the universal standing which it has at the present time.
Grand Knight James L. Quinn introduced the speaker and gave a short talk on the present activity of the Notre Dame Council. Donald F. Currier, junior in the College of Commerce, was general chairman of the breakfast.
C. Richard Jenney, chairman of the membership committee, announced that the Council had successfully attained the goal for the latest drive. At the exemplification of the first degree given by the officers of the Council last Tuesday evening there were 46 candidates present. There will be several more first degree initiations followed by a second and third initiation in the near future.
Robert Leonard, chairman of the golf tournament, announced that the contest is to begin in a few weeks, and all those desirous of playing should register at the office in Walsh Hall. A trophy is to be given to the winner with prizes for the runnersup.
Several new men were elected to offices made vacant during the past few weeks. C. Richard Jenney was elected to a position on the nominating committee and William Costello was selected to be the warden for the remainder of the year. Costello has also formulated plans for tte softball tournament to be run off by the members of the council.
The date for the annual Knights of Columbus Formal Ball has been definitely set for May 20, and the picnic is to be held on May 14.
cessive friction.”
The editorial for the month, “Another Stepping Stone,” was written by George Schlaudecker who discusses the recent formation of the student chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers.
Chairmen of spring activities of the Chemistry Club were named, and the completed program calls for pingpong and bridge tournaments, soft ball, and the group’s annual picnic.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	7
VINCENTIANS TO SELL PLANE TICKETS
•
The experienced and rapidly developing Vincentian’s travel agency has announced special rates for students utilizing the TWA planes during the Easter holidays. Francis Itzin, executive secretary of the local conference, has already begun his work preparatory to making the Easter sales as successful as those in the past.
The Vincentian’s agency was announced immediately preceding the Christmas vacation and sales at that time were gratifying. Encouraged by this success, the conference decided to continue the work. They did, repeating with another substantial profit in their “Washington Birthday weekend” sales.
We decided to interview Mr. Itzin in order that we might gain further and more specific knowledge of the new Easter rates. We knocked timidly on his office door and were bidden “come in.” Immediately upon entering Mr. Itzin’s quarters we heard a mumbling sound issuing from a dark corner of the room. We approached the mysterious sound and were able to distinguish a few phrases such as: “Breakfast in bed . . . happy days at sea . . . England, France, Holland and Belgium . . . happy youthful companions ... all expenses . . . Big-Ten Beauty Queen going. . . .”
' In answer to our anxious queries as to his health, Mr. Itzin explained that he was rehearsing a new sales talk. He noted the interrogative look in our eyes and explained further, “We have added trips to Europe as part of our stock in trade.” As that still seemed somewhat vague he obligingly continued, “American Tours, Inc., have made us their campus agent. They are offering an ‘AllAmerican College Tour’ this year that really sounds good.”
The “All-American College Tours” means briefly, traveling through Europe with students, in a college atmosphere. Mr. Itzin assured us that “the zestful tempo of Campus life off-Campus moves with the ‘All-Americans.’” This was the punch line in his new sales talk.
The Tour price, we found, includes all steamship, rail and motor coach transportation from New York to New York, accommodations at desirable hotels with three meals a day, baggage transportation and transfers, guides, lectures and entrance fees to museums as indicated in itineraries. We also found that Mr. Itzin was prepared to continue on the subject at great length and decided that a hasty retreat was in order.
Art Students to Preserve Old Traditions of University in Zahm, Cavanaugh Murals
By F. G. Barreda
Humorous legends of early student days at Notre Dame will be preserved in pigment with the completion of a series of murals now being painted on the walls of the new recreation room in Cavanaugh Hall. Sophomore design students, under the direction of Mr. Francis J. Hanley, associate professor of art, have completed two of the murals, “The Anti-Cigarette League of 1912,” and “Rockne’s Bench Warmer.” Murals of a more serious nature are being planned for Zahm Hall as the second feature of the two-year student project.
The late Knute Rockne relates in his Autobiography the tale of the bench-warming football player who never got into a game. Rock kept stalling him off with the same story: “I’m saving you.” Came the last game in the player’s career and he pleaded for the coach to send him in. Rock refused. After the game was over the player asked the coach what was the thing he was saving him for. “The Junior Prom,” replied Rock as he walked off the field. This incident is depicted on the north wall of Cavanaugh Rec.
On the opposite wall appears Don Driscoll’s sketch entitled “The AntiCigarette League of 1912.” Legend has it that a branch of the law class in that year was caught smoking in a downtown hotel by the prefect of discipline. As the use of tobacco was
The Anti-Cigarette League becomes immortal.
strictly prohibited in those days, they were dubbed the “Anti - Cigarette League” and carried that name for several years.
The project was inspired by Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, in an effort to preserve in oil sketches the great traditions of the University which would otherwise be quickly forgotten. As a practical problem in Design, according to Mr. Hanley, the project is one of the few examples in the country of collegiate decoration being done by the art students rather than by professional decorators.
Elaborate preparations consisting of sketches, scale models, and actual size cartoon drawings were made during the first part of the year. A contest was conducted, and all of the material was assembled in sketch form by the art students of the Freshman and Sophomore classes in Design. Don Driscoll, sophomore in Fine Arts, became chairman of the mural group upon winning this competition.
Ed Reilly and Joseph Redd were responsible for transferring the two last sets of cartoons to the walls, and together with Elmer Kamm and Edward Drobney blocked in much of the ground work. Dick Metzger furnished the technical details for the football panel.
(Continued on Page 19)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PAY ANNUAL TRIBUTE TO KNUTE ROCKNE
One of the largest student gatherings paid tribute to the memory of Knute K. Rockne last Sunday night at the third annual memorial service conducted by the Kansas-Oklahoma club.
Rockne was killed March 31, 1931 in an airplane crash at Bazaar, Kans., and memorial services are conducted every year on the University campus and at the scene of the tragedy in Kansas.
A large picture of the beloved coach was flashed on the screen as the audience stood for one minute of silence at the start of the program. A concert of campus songs, including “Notre Dame, Our Mother,’.’ “Victory March,” “Hike, Notre Dame,” and “When Irish Backs go Marching By,” was presented by the Glee Club.
Athletic Director Elmer Layden, who learned football under “Rock,” reviewed the life of the great coach and W. Howard (Cap) Edwards, who was a team mate of Rockne, told about incidents in the career of the beloved football coach.
Newsreel pictures and movies of some of Rockne’s greatest teams were shown.
Earlier Sunday morning more than 100 alumni belonging to the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph Valley held their annual Rockne Memorial Mass at 8:00 a.m. in the Rockne Memorial chapel in Dillon Hall. Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., said the Mass and Elmer Layden served. Breakfast followed in the campus dining hall.
After breakfast the Monogram club joined the alumni group and made a pilgrimage to Rockne’s grave in Highland cemetery where they placed a wreath on the grave.
Turley Presents Paper
The regular meeting of the Philological society for March was an unusual success by reason of the excellent paper presented by Professor John P. Turley and the fine attendance. The program for the present semester drawn up by the program committee is one that calls for general topics of Philology. The Classical, Romance, and Germanic groups, therefore, will present papers of a universal scope.
During the next year problems and questions merely hinted at will be taken up more specifically and exhaustively. Each paper, is mimeographed and presented to the members of the society, is limited to 30 minutes in order to allow time for adequate discussion. In the last meeting the secretary, Rev. Maurice Rigley, pointed out the necessity of pubfishing a yearly volume of all papers read before the Society.
/----------------------------\
Man About the Campus
From way down south in New Orleans hails this week’s man about the campus: Pierre Rinaud Terme de la Vergne—better known among pertinacious Yankee circles as “Pete the Rebel.” He entered Notre Dame four years ago with the intention of fighting the Civil War over again, but so far all he has been able to stir up is an occasional rather warm argument on the righteousness of slavery. . . . As president of the Wranglers, president of the Louisiana-Mississippi-Ar-
kansas Club, chairman of the Indiana Oratorical Contest—he takes a prominent part in campus activities.
In his freshman year he debated for Dillon Hall. The next two years he coached his own interhall debating team, winning first place both times. (And incidentally, he had the same team each year, if that means anything.)
However, his accomplishments do not stop here. For the past season he has been Coach de Landero’s right-hand man at foils. According to him this Jean La Fitte person was not so good after all—but more or less a case of ignorance on the part of the general public in failing to recognize the “Rebel’s” own ability.
Instead of having pennants and the usual other, — well! to decorate his room, he has guns, swords, and maybe a dagger or two. Every new maid he gets must be persuaded that he is quite harmless. She, nevertheless, is dubious about entering “that arsenal.”
As for girls he has remote possibilities. There wTas one over across the way who gave him a tumble for a while—her name was Lindsay. (No, not Margaret.) But now he seems to have given her the tumble. And then there was the one he was supposed to look up, but could only remember the first three letters of her last name. According to the St. Mary’s directory there was no such person.
POPE HONORS SMITH LAETARE MEDALIST
•
Pope Pius XI., has recently conferred the dignity of Papal Chamberlain, upon former Governor Alfred E. Smith, of New York. Notre Dame has special reason to rejoice in this honor.
Mr. Smith received the Laetare Medal in 1929 and acted as chairman of the golden jubilee anniversary of the establishment of the honor in June 1932 when John McCormack was the recipient.
Among other Americans honored by the Pope were J. Pierpont Morgan and Thomas W. Lamont, upon whom were conferred the Grand Medal of the Order of St. Gregory the Great. Both are non-Catholics and are distinguished for their philanthropies. Mr. Morgan has contributed generously to Catholic works, especially the restoration of churches in the war devastated areas of France.
He presented to the Vatican Library the first photostatic copy of the famous Coptic Manuscripts found in the Egyptian desert in 1910. Some of these manuscripts, there are 56 in all, are dated of the tenth century, others are of earlier date. Ten of them contain portions of the Sacred Scriptures, others lives of the saints, homilies, etc. The discovery was of vast importance to Biblical and historical studies.
Mr. Morgan, at the suggestion of Dr. Hyvemat, professor of Semitic languages and literature at the Catholic University of America, purchased the collection from a merchant in Paris. The volumes were brought to Rome where they were repaired and restored. Pop Pius XI, who was then Monsignor Ratti and prefect of the Ambrosian Library at Milan, was among those who aided in the work of identification and restoration.
Patricians Issue Call
All members and those interested in becoming members of the Patricians Club are urgently requested to be present at an important meeting of the club Monday evening, April 4, at 7:45 in the Law Building.
A question of great importance will be presented by Professors John Turley and Devere Plunkett for the club’s consideration and decision.
Easter Trip Payments
Students planning to make the biannual tour of Washington, D. C., are requested to make their payments for the tour to the representative of the Pennsylvania railroad, who will be in room 104, Commerce Building, at 4:15 p.m., Monday, April 11.
Juniors and seniors who wish to make the tour should do so this year since the next sponsored trip will not be made until 1940.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
DR. GURIAN TALKS ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS
THE WEEK
By Harold A. Williams
One of the most interesting and informative lectures of the year was given in Washington hall Wednesday night, March 23, by Dr. Waldemar Gurian of the department of politics. Dr. Gurian spoke on the political and spiritual significance of the current changes taking place in Europe.
Dr. Gurian divided his lecture into three distinct sections. He first traced the historical development of the present European situation. He then discussed European conditions as they are today and as they are apt to be in the future.
In developing the history of the
Dr. Waldemar Gurian “What it really means.”
question, Dr. Gurian cited France as Europe’s dominant power in the 1920’s. This power, he said, was maintained by the Treaty of Versailles and her control of the League of Nations.
On account of the failure of these two weapons in the past few years Germany has now supplanted France as the dominant power in Europe. .The ascendancy of Germany is due entirely to Hitler who has successfully bluffed western Europe into giving him what he wants. According to Dr. Gurian Europe is now in a state of unlimited and unchecked nationalism. Hitler cannot stop the fury he has unleashed and though a major war is not imminent, because of the rapid change of events it is not impossible.
(Continned on Page 21)
Crack of the week
“Under the bed”
Remedy
Mr. Adam Metz, dining hall cook, got quite a blow in the local papers recently. The blow was in a patent medicine advertisement, but it was a blow nevertheless. Picture and everything. According to the advertisement, Mr. Metz had all sorts of trouble including gas, heartbum, shortness of breath, bad nerves, dizzy spells, and indigestion, until he tried this patent medicine. “Now,” as he says in the advertisement, “I’m eating just whatever and as much as I want without any sort of suffering afterwards.”
Maybe we’d all feel better if we tried some of this stuff Mr. Metz had such luck with.
•
Moon
It was during the week of the romantic full moon that a Notre Dame Senior and a St. Mary’s Freshman were strolling around the campus across the way on a Sunday afternoon date. The conversation turned to the beautiful moon of the night before, and the girl coyly asked the boy if it had any effect on him. The fellow said that it didn’t. He asked the girl if it had any effect on her. She replied, “Well, last night I opened my window, looked at the moon, gazed towards Notre Dame, sighed, and said to myself, ‘And to think that you’re only young once.’ ”
•
Letter
The other day a fellow in Alumni received this letter from Jamaica, New York.
“Dear Friend:
“No doubt you have heard of me and my great work in the cause of temperance. For several years I have been appearing on the lecture platform. Perhaps you are familiar •with some of my better known talks, such as ‘Down with the Drink Evil,’ ‘Rum and Rebellion,’ and ‘There is no Booze in Christianity.’
“For the last three years I have had as my constant companion a tried and inseparable friend, one Herman Fortescue, who used to sit with me on the platform. I would point him out to the audience as a horrible example of the ravages of drink.
“Herman originally had a splendid background and was a man of fine education and family connections. During the years when he should have given thought to the moulding
of his character he developed an insatiable appetite for rum, whiskey, and other strong drink.
“There were times when Herman’s condition was pitiful. Here was a brilliant man who became a wreck of his former self. He would sit on a platform with me, holding his head in his hands and staring at the audience with bloodshot eyes.
“Unfortunately, last summer Herman passed away. A mutual friend has given me your name, and I wonder if you would consent to accompany me bn a Spring tour. Hoping to hear from you in the near future, I remain, Expectantly yours,
Paul Hallock.”
Bet you haven’t heard this
Starting Sunday the dining hall will add waffles and toast to the Sunday breakfast menu. •
Early in May the University will sponsor a Student Day. Students, picked at random, will fill University positions for twenty-four hours. The positions will include administrative offices, faculty posts, rectorships, and nightwatchmen jobs.
Vaudeville will be added to the entertainment fare of Washington Hall every other week starting May 7th.
The dining hall will inaugurate an entirely new menu next year. Mystery balls, breakfast ham, string beans, N. D. fish, and several other traditional dishes, will be eliminated because of rising food costs.
Students will no longer be required to present laundry cards nor affidavits to get their laundry. Starting today the laundry will be given to them cheerfully merely on their word.
April Fool, boys, April Fool.
Toast
The thing that has puzzled us no end this week is the sudden and unexpected appearance of toast at practically every meal in the west dining hall (the east dining hall gets none and you ought to be able to guess why).
We are wondering if the toast is given as a peace offering or an antidote.
More next week if we’re still living.
Scholar
We just found out that there’s a fellow in one of the Freshman halls who flunked six courses out of six the first semester and has the lowest campus average: 11.66.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
College Parade |
By John A. Callaghan ’Tic Spring
Fishes flying through the air Horses dancing dozvn the square, Ears with words of love do ring— In the Spring.
Kangaroos swim in the trees, Dresses come above the knees, Males try so hard to sing— In the Spring.
Flozvers waft their fragrant air— But heck, our profs don't even care, Homework’s still the same old thing— In the Spring.
The above was clipped from the Walrus column of the Boston University News and is our contribution to the Spring flood of purtry as she is spoke. We would like to add our favorite bit of spring poesy. We have always felt sort of self-consious about it but it typifies the height of something or other and so here goes. The author escapes us but it is of no matter.
Chug chug, puwee too witta woo, too zvitta woo,
Spring szceet spring!
Jottings
The Trojan gives us a classification by which coeds may be judged: Social Registers; Cash Registers; or Nothing Registers. . . Adolph Hitler says that there have been times when starvation was staring him in the face. It couldn’t have been very pleasant for either of-them. . . The Duquesne Duke has a student who wanted to be a river so that he could always stay in bed, own a bank and follow •his own course. From the Index: Breathes there a student with soul so dead who never to himself has said, to heck with studies, I’m going to bed?. . . Eighty-seven percent of the graduates of Stephens College are married five years after graduation. . . Who said, Spouse Trap?. . . The charter of Purdue University provides that one farmer, one woman and one person of good moral character should be on the board of regents. . . New courses: The University of California has instituted a new course called “Public Opinon and Propaganda,” and Colgate offers one in the study of foreign dictatorships. . . . The only time some co-eds keep a stiff upper lip is when they are applying make-up. . .
Revolt
The poor male college student has finally revolted—at least the Franklin college variety has. Picketing the girls dormitory with requests for equality of sexes and “share the wealth,” they demanded the third Friday of every month be Independ-(Continued on Page 20)
EXCELLENT FICTION FEATURES "SCRIP”
Scrip, University literary quarterly, made its third appearance of the current schoolyear on the campus last Friday afternoon. This spring issue includes some excellent fiction, several noteworthy critical essays, and in addition several contributions of poetry and verse.
“A Postlude for Eddie,” by John A. Scott, is an interesting and entertaining story depicting the emotional struggles of a fourth grader guilty of cheating in a history examination.
James K. Nerney Orator turns author.
Another story with a boyhood background is “The Fighters” by Coleman Ferrel Hails in which he describes the plans and fears of a youth preparing for a fight.
“Of Such Small Things” by William A. Donnelly is the longest story appearing in this issue. This work cleverly depicts the differences in the life of country and city dwellers. The actions of a litter of five kittens furnish several amusing incidents in the story.
A vivid sketch of death in a poor Mexican adobe in the Southwest is “Thread of Pain” written by John William Meaney. Another impressionistic sketch is “Deep Dark” by George E. Miles.
Several clean-cut miniatures are also included in this issue. These include: “The Room” by Noel Mac-Carry; “Experiment” by Richard Ev-erroad; and “George Henry” by James Joseph Meaney.
The three critical essays are enlightening and comprehensive. “Saint Thomas and the Modern Mind” by J. K. Nerney is a portion of a paper delivered at the recent philosophy disputation. “Chaucer and the Catholic Novelist” is from the pen of Daniel Jeffrey. The third essay, an article on the works of Alice Meynell, outstanding English poet of the last century, was written by Charles T. Stevens.
Music Notes
By Paul R. Locher
Each season introduces new composers and new works to orchestral programs, but how is one to determine who are the composers and which are the works displaced? In a very remarkable article from a recent New York Times, the following tastes may be gleaned from a survey of performances by American orchestras over a period of sixty years.
These industrious critics have found six preeminent composers contributing over a third of all the music played — Bach, Beethoven, Brahms, Mozart, Tchaikovsky, and Wagner. Among these six giants, the one great musical genius who has never had his supremacy seriously threatened is Beethoven. Mozart gained the initial lead until the newer and freer forms of Beethoven received popular attention, but Mozart has long since been relegated to a lower but stable level.
And yet, today, even Beethoven is slowly giving ground, with Brahms rising to second place. Bach’s music is likewise increasing in public favor. Strangely enough, in spite of the tremendous popularity of Wagner in radio and open air concerts, he has been declining continuously from “the regular subscription series, from the more sophisticated audiences, who, together with the critics and the conductors, are most influential in forming the musical tastes of tomorrow.” This is not true of Wagner’s operas, for over a third of the entire repertoire of the Metropolitan Opera consists of his musical dramas.
Another great surprise is the spectacular rise and decline of Tchaikovsky, the present trend indicating that in the next decade his works will fall to an insignificant place in orchestral music. Dvorak, Grieg, Saint-Saens, Goldmark, D’lndy, and Smetana have likewise come and gone, with but an occasional item from their music.
Of the early Romanticists, one feels the passing 'of old friends to learn that since 1875 Schumann, Schubert, Liszt, Mendelssohn, Chopin, and Berlioz have had their program quotas reduced by half, Liszt especially having had a most precipitous drop. However, since Chopin wrote so exclusively for the piano, a study of piano programs undoubtedly will show that he is played as often as ever. Gluck,' Weber, Handel, and Haydn, on the other hand, exhibit astonishing permanence.
It is difficult to prejudge the careers of the moderns, but it is interesting to note that the early moderns contributed thirteen per cent of the 1936 repertoire, their leaders being Strauss, Sibelius, Debussy, Rimsky-Korsakoff, and Franck, in that order.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
II
4 IN THE JUGGLER VEIN »
Observations
“Scrapiron” Young singing “Sweet as a Song” over and over again as he tapes hairy ankles and yanks sprained shoulders into place . . . Jack Gorman and a few of his pals (all seniors) playing hop-scotch with the girls at St. Mary’s ... A freshly painted bam in “Happy Hollow,” better known as Dogtown, bearing the sign “Stadium View Egg Farm, Vita-Fresh Eggs.” A spirit that will attempt to revolutionize the egg industry can’t be kept down . . . Two seniors waiting in line to see “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs” complaining about a thesis and a comprehensive and being gruffly told by the chief usher to stay in line and keep two abreast. Youngsters all around them talking about “Grumpy,” “Sleepy,” and “Dopey.” Incidentally “Dopey” is getting the biggest play on the campus . . . The Week escorting The Shakespearean Society of Niles around the campus and looking a little bewildered—probably from the shock of learning that they do read the bard up there. . . .
Let Us Eat Cake
To settle arguments once and for all as to the question of “Whose home - town belles make the best cakes?” this department will sponsor a cake contest. The possible results of such a contest are fascinating, no. end. Visions of pillars of mouthwatering angel- and devil’s-food are rearing up already. The conventional methods of judging, however, will not be followed. The cakes will be judged, not on lightness, taste, or appearance, but on the degree of hardness each represents. You are beginning to suspect an ulterior motive. Right you are!
We’ve decided that each class in the University should leave a lasting memorial here that for generations to come will be pointed to with prideful finger as being unique on the campi of the country.
Picking a judge for this particular contest wasn’t hard. There was only one man in the running for the job— John “Splinters” Clifford. Around New Haven way there is a saying, “If you can find a cake that Timothy- Clifford’s boy, John, can’t gnaw through then that cake ain’t fitten for nothin’ but a boat anchor.”
We want cakes, though, that even this ace of cake munchers can’t burrow through. John will be tried on each cake. If he can’t nick through the icing with his molars he will then attempt it with a set of steel “store” jobs that were borrowed from a local
museum. That will be the supreme test. If these dentures can’t pulverize a cake it must be made of steel-cased concrete.
The surviving entries will then be grouped for size, shape, and color. White square ones will be cemented together into pillars and these will be used as cornerstones for the Rockne Memorial. A bronze plaque will be attached to each, one for each class. The Angels’ Food, with the hole in the center, will have a pipe put through them and be erected as a fountain in the center of the main quadrangle. The ever-flowing water down its sides will signify the long-suffering of the lads who have to write sweet, grateful letters for grub received and dutifully swallowed. So get your entries in early! Drop us a note and cake-eating John will be sent out immediately to do his worst. The prizes?—Oh, yes—profusely il
“But did you get a maxima.cum laude?”
lustrated cookbooks to be sent to the lucky girls.
Scoop*!
Seniors will be given unlimited two o’clock permissions from now until June!
The dining halls will shortly be done away with. They will be renovated and made into giant ballrooms. Rosie’s will build a huge spaghetti palace on the campus, open only on Fridays!
Automobiles will no longer be forbidden to students. However, each student will be limited to one car.
Attendance at classes will be optional. Students will be required to report to their professors at least twice per quarter in order to check with parents as to their whereabouts.
(We forgot to remind you today is April 1).
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C_______________Faculty Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT________________________Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PR A.............................Managing	Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams The Wee^
John Callaghan_______________________________College Parade
John F. Clifford_________________Splinters from the Press Box
Thomas Healy_____________________________In the Juggler Vein
Neros Staff
Vincent DeCoursey_____________________________News	Editor
George Haithcock_______________________Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk______________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard Vernon	Sneider
Joseph Miller_______________________________Thomas	Marker
James Dempsey_________________________________John	Kohn
William C. Fay___________________________Fructuoso	Barreda
James Gorman_____________________________Richard Anton
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli_____________________________Sports Editor
Frederick Digby________________________Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto--------------------------Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe______________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson_________________________Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan_____________________________Ed Brennan
Eddie Huff
Art Staff
George Elmore___________________________________A rt Editor
Tom Powers Ed Kort
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
meet the expenses of the athletics-for-all-program which uses 12% of the annual income. From other sources the University obtains 16% of its annual income.
Most students are unaware that 45% of the annual expenditures used for boarding, housing, laundry and infirmary demands; that 21% is required for instructional costs; 16% for administration and maintenance; 12% for the athletics-for-all program; and 2% for libraries alone.
It is well for the student to know what it costs to educate him for when he becomes a member of the alumni he will be more appreciable of the needs of Notre Dame and will be more desirous of aiding the University through whatever media possible so that his school shall be able to expand and grow in comparison with her needs.
A New One
SWISH. . . . and another record is swept by the boards.
Another year, another Bengal Bouts, and, almost as a matter of course, another new high in Bengal history. A new high in attendance, class of bouts, and money received.
Final returns are still coming in and we cannot be sure as to how* much money the bouts have grossed, we know it will be over a thousand dollars, an increase of approximately two hundred dollars over last year’s show. We know that the money eventually presented to the Bengal missiions will be the largest ever received from the Scholastic.
Justifiably we are proud. Proud, because we can make this presentation to the Bengal Missions and proud that all the people connected with the show, “Nappy,” Mr. Lloyd, Phil Walker, Father Quinn, Ed Broscoe, Charlie Callahan presented the greatest Bengal tournament ever seen at Notre Dame. Our sincerest thanks to them.
Vol. 71	April I. 1938	No. 21
Cold Facts
ONE OF THE outstanding features of The Notre Dame
Alumnus, official publication of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, is the “President’s Page.” It is conducted this year by William E. Cotter, T3, president of the association. In the March-April issue of The Alumnus Mr. Cotter, in an earnest plea for alumni financial support in the Greater Notre Dame, explodes many popular fallacies entertained by some students in regard to the financial standing of the University.
It is interesting to note that the entire student body only contributes 64% of the amount required for their education, while from the total income of the University from all sources 12% is returned to the student body in student aid and in scholarships and prizes. Nor does this 12% include $45,000 in NYA funds which were distributed among the students.
It is indeed a surprise to most students accustomed to think that all private schools are richly endowed to learn that only 2% of the University’s income is derived from its permanent income. The rest of the annual income is derived from fluctuating sources such as enrollment, gifts, bequests, and athletics.
Athletics, from which most people believe an astounding revenue is obtained, contributes only 18% of the annual income, but from this must come the funds to
All's Well
WAR IN CHINA, and Spain. Rumors of war in Central Europe. A threatened scandal in the T.V.A.
The much opposed “dictatorship bill” passed by the Senate. That’s the news that fills the front pages of newspapers every day. But do you think that fills the conversations of the American people? Not these rumors of war or governmental dissension. No sir, not by a long shot.
The chief topic of conversation today is seven little men with bald heads and long beards and their beautiful princess made of pen and vari-colored inks. We speak of “Snow-white and the Seven Dwarfs” the product of the Hollywood genius, Walt Disney. Through the length and breadth of this land people talk first of the beautiful princess, and Dopey, Bashful, Sneezy, Doc, Grumpy, Sleepy, and Happy. Then if the spirit moves them, they may turn to the rather uninteresting talk of world unrest.
Others may call this attitude typically American indifference. We think it is a healthy sign that all is right with the United States and her people and those ugly war clouds over Europe will be blown away by the “Hi-ho” of the seven little men as they trudge off to their diamond mine. As long as Dopey is discussed over the family dinner tables then this country has .nothing to worry about. We hope that the little men will live long in the memories of the people of this country.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
And so an Education
The American College may be said to be a place where young people spend four years in pleasant surroundings among agreeable companions.
AMERICAN BULLETIN OF EDUCATION.
INITIATE
“Bull session” is the name given to an assembly of two or more males for the purpose of uncontrolled parlance on no particular subject. You see, the field is almost unlimited. A full-fledged bull session cannot be compared with any similar activity in the feminine world. At least they have no descriptive term as we. Another very important condition for a true session is that no other activity such as—playing cards, studying, reading a newspaper, shining shoes, or moving furniture, may be carried on at the same time. Drinking, smoking, and informal eating, according to bylaw number 13749, is permissible.
In my definition I stated that the members could talk on “no particular subject.” I mean just that. The conversation may range all the way from sports to literature, from women to deep sea diving, from peace to war, or from domestic to international situations. Again, I stated that the conversation should be “uncontrolled.” By that I mean that there is no chairman or official toastmaster. If a member has an idea that he wishes to voice and if he can break into the conversation at some convenient point, he may talk until his theories are exhausted or until a second participant discovers another point that must be vocalized. This necessitates a lack of unity and at times even a lack of coherence. But unity and coherence are not required. A certain topic is not necessarily examined until all possible comments have been made. On the contrary, one topic may be but a stepping stone or bridge to a completely foreign idea. I should like to take down the number of subjects covered in a single full session. Rather picturesquely, I like to imagine the conversation as the path of a man walking through a maze. In each passage he finds that he can branch off into an indefinite number of other passages. And so he makes his way, with no plan or design, from one passage to another.
Some condemn this pastime as a gregarious fantasy of weak wills and strong imaginations. They say that it is a waste of time, a useless discussion by persons who have little or no authoritative information on the topics. I am inclined to disagree with them. I believe that it offers a fine opportunity to look deeply into
the characters and personalities of the fellow participants, that it gives a chance to unload our. own private feelings, and that it brings under general discussion any number of interesting topics that are of more or less value.
Remember old Dr. Sam Johnson and his club? Couldn’t the term “bull session” be applied to these meetings with his contemporaneous literary and artistic geniuses? Weren’t the ale houses and the tea shops of old England or the general store and the barber shops of young America meeting places where many famous men indulged in this recreational and educational pastime? Haven’t men congregated from the dawn of history to engage in general discussions? Should I be the one to change such an historical precedent?
Hubert Schlafly
ROTARIAN
“Hello, Frank, mind if I sit down?”
“Not at all, Bill. Pull up a chair. —Why look who’s here! Hello Ed.; hi ya, John. Sit down won’t you.”
“Thanks, Frank, we sure will. Say did you fellows get your papers done? Ed. and I thought that we had better come over and see what really goes on here.”
“No, John, we haven’t done ours yet. We came over for the same reason that you fellows did.”
(Period of silence as everyone looks around.)
“Gosh, fellows, I haven’t seen anything yet that I can write about. Nothing seems to be any different tonight from any other night. I see the same faces at the same tables, the same girls behind the same counters, and the same fellows “jerking” sodas and “shakes.” Have any of you fellows any ideas?”
“No, Ed., I haven’t. As you say one' sees the same crowd doing the same things every day. I don’t know what to write about; do you, Bill?”
“Well, no I don’t, John. It seems to me that that crowd fighting to get a “shake” or a “coke” might make an interesting subject, but I’ll be darned if I can see anything interesting in it. As a matter of fact, the more I come over to this place the less I can see in it. Say, Frank, you don’t come over here very often, you
ought to see a lot of interesting things that we could capitalize on. What do you say to making some suggestions?”
“Sure, fellows, I’ll be glad to do that little thing for you. Since we usually know ourselves best why don’t you fellows write about how you act when you come over here. That would give you an interesting topic and would also furnish you with a good laugh when you realize what humorous specimens you really are. As for me, I’ll write about you.”
“Write about us?”
“Sure, you typify the average loungers. You’re always hanging around, but you never wake up to see what is going on. Well, so long, fellows. Thanks for the story.”
Francis J. Detscher.
NONCONFORMIST
Some people call me a hermit; others think I am struggling to make both ends meet. Actually I long to mingle with other fellows, but I can’t. I must eat all my meals in my room and see few other students. I am not an introvert, nor am I in financial distress. I made a mistake by which I forfeited caste. My error was in believing that one always ate in a cafeteria. I found to my sorrow that this is not true of the Notre Dame cafeteria; one never eats in the Notre Dame cafeteria.
It happened one day last fall. I had completed the journey down the shiny pipe-rail acquiring in the process from various attractive young ladies: item, one ham sandwich, item, two stuffed olives, item, one orange. These I duly paid for. I took my change and stared down the aisle in search of a vacant table. Around the first table were four men, three smoking cigars and one a cigarette. They were arguing heatedly over the relative merits of the soft dress shirt and the old-fashioned stiff type. At the next were two fellows reading a letter over the shoulder of a third. The third table was occupied by a professor; beside him was a brief-case. He was thoroughly absorbed in a red-bound book. A newspaper covered the next table; two large men were reading the funnies, and giggling. Not another eater was in evidence.
(Continued on Page 19)
14	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Week in Sports
IRISH GRID SQUAD COMPLETES SECOND WEEK OF SPRING DRILLS. REPLACEMENTS DEVELOP
By Andrew F. Wilson
The Irish football squad ended its second official week of spring practice with a long scrimmage Saturday afternoon. Approximately nine different pairs of teams were on the field at one time or another, and every man on the squad played 20 hard minutes. The only important absentees were the slightly injured varsity fullback, Joe Thesing, and _________________________________ the rather badly damaged first string
quarterback, Bill Hofer. Thesing resumed practice at the beginning of this week, but Hofer, with his right knee in a cast, will be unfit for football till September.
As usual at this time of year, the blocking and general offensive play were ragged, but some “soft” tackling by the defense balanced things up and allowed the backs to break away for several long runs. The freshman backfield combination of O’Meara, Saggau, Marquardt and Piepol worked very well against a “B” squad outfit, shaking loose Left Halfback Saggau for a 40-yard touchdown run—which was called back— then working into position for a field goal.
It seems now that Coach Elmer Layden should have little to worry about next year as far as the right halfback and fullback positions are concerned. At fullback he has the fast-starting, hard-plunging Joe Thesing, Big Ed Simonich who is the best line-bucker on the squad, Mario Tonelli who works best on the fullback-off-tackle plays, Ben Binkowski who is the shiftiest of the fullbacks, Hal Gottsacker who runs best on wide plays, and several freshmen. At right halfback he has three men who would rate first string on any team in the country—Mike Corgan, Paul Morrison, and Max Burnell—and any number of others, as the recently switched Lou Zontini, who has been playing left halfback till now, and Marquardt. Morrison is the best blocker, Burnell the best broken-field runner, Corgan the best passer. All three run hard, tackle hard, block hard, and all three pass well. At present Corgan has been playing with the constantly changing first-string lineup, which can only be positively identified from one day to the next by the presence of Captain Jim McGoldrick at left guard.
At quarterback Coach Layden really has a problem. His most experienced man, Bill Hofer, is out for the rest of the spring, and his next in line, junior Emmett Crowe and sophomore Steve Sitko have had very little game experience.
Guard Earl Brown
To lead 1938-39 eagers.
BROWN TO LEAD NEXT YEAR'S CAGE TEAM
•
A left guard, a fighting, shifty, fleet left guard will be the head man of George Keogan’s 1939 Irish bas-keteers, it was disclosed last week at the annual testimonial banquet given the Notre Dame basketball team by the Villagers’ Club. And his name is Earl Melvin Brown, junior, from Benton Harbor, Michigan. The choice was a wise one, for Brown, game after game, has proved himself one of the smartest and most rugged individuals ever to step on the polished floor of the Notre Dame fieldhouse. He started his court career here in (Continued on Page 16)
EIGHT BENGALEERS
ARE CROWNED
• ■
Three thousand four hundred who jammed every nook and cranny of the Notre Dame Field House two weeks ago to witness the Seventh Annual Bengal Bouts smashed all previous box office records of the past six years. The entire proceeds will be delegated to the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal, India.
Although final returns have not been officially tabulated, the latest figures compiled early in the week revealed that the total gross receipts,-despite the nominal expenses incurred, indicated the largest gate returns ever to be sent to the Bengal Mission headquarters in Washington, D. C. An official statement of the entire proceeds will be released in a future issue of the Scholastic.
Eight boxing crowns and eight corresponding monogrammed sweaters, a sportsmanship trophy, and a mythical wrestling throne were won on Friday evening, March 18, the night of the bouts. The appearance of Max Marek of Chicago as honorary referee for the heavyweight division highlighted the evening. Marek, who fought Ed Broscoe in the 1935 Bengal Bouts, and who later turned to professional boxing, is known for his victory over Joe Louis in the Brown Bomber’s amateur days.
Contrary to all persisting rumors (mostly from feminine sources), Joe “One Horse” Race was not injured when bashed on the mat by the new grappling champion, Paul “Killer-Dil-ler” Kell. Doctor McMeel received more than 25 phone calls from persons asking about the condition of Race, who at present is apparently still promenading around on two good healthy limbs.
Despite the appearance of a few black eyes, flattened noses, and slightly swollen ears, no fighter in the tournament was reported to be seriously injured. Knockouts and. technical K.O.’s were common in the preliminaries, but the medical staff announced in its final bulletin that no casualties had been suffered.
A new high in ticket sales was reported on the first night of the preliminaries when more than one hundred dollars were received at the gate. The succeeding two nights saw a decline in the receipts, but the evening of the final bouts brought forth (Continued on Page 18)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IS
NAME TOM SHEEHAN GOLF CAPTAIN
•
Thomas Sheehan, junior from the south side of Chicago has been appointed captain of the Notre Dame golf team for 1938 by Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., coach of the varsity squad. The appointment was approved by Elmer Layden, director of athletics. Sheehan replaces Gene Milbourn who did not return to school.
The “A” squad with Sheehan as nucleus is to be composed of eight meh, five of whom will be new to varsity competition. George Nolan and Charles Bennett with Tom Sheehan constitute those with varsity experience from last year. Nolan and Bennett participated in several matches while Sheehan was a regular member of the first team.
Sunday the first match was held and seven turned in cards below 80. Father Holderith stated, however, that he expected a considerable drop in all scores within the next two weeks.
Phil Donahue proved to be the most eligible sophomore prospect by carding a 74. His ability had previously been displayed by his prowess as a freshman golfer last year.
Although last week’s competition gave evidence of individual ability the team will not be definitely selected until after the 36 hole medal play to be held April 10. After this match Father Holderith will select his “A” and “B” squads on the basis of previous experience, ability, temperament and qualifying scores.
This group will move against the University of Detroit in the first match on Monday April 18. Competition this season is predicted by Father Holderith to be stronger than that encountered by last year’s team. He also stated that the site of the state meet, temporarily set for Evansville may be changed to Purdue university at Lafayette, in order to obtain a central location.
According to present plans about 50 will enter the faculty golf tournament to be held in May. Qualifying rounds may be turned in until April 30, when pairings will be made, and one match per week will follow.
The schedule of the University golf team includes:
April 18—Detroit at Detroit.
April 22—Chicago at Chicago.
April 25—Ohio State at Notre Dame?J April 30—Purdue at Notre Dame.
May 2—Wisconsin at Madison. May 6—Northwestern at N. D. May 14—Minnesota at Notre Dame. May 16—Michigan at Ann Arbor. May 21—Michigan State at Lansing. May 27-28 (tentative) Indiana State
Meet at Evansville.
June—National Intercollegiate Tournament at Louisville.
IRISH THINLIES SCORE STRONGLY IN CHICAGO MEET; CUFFORD AND FRANCIS WIN
Five Notre Dame trackmen faced a “murderers row” last Saturday night. Competing in the annual Chicago relays, Coach Nicholson’s men faced probably the stiffest opposition they’ll see indoors this season. Yet against such a galaxy of stars including Glenn Cunningham, Don Lash and Earl Meadows, the Irish
Reverend George Holderith, C.S.C.
Ready for golf season.
WINTER'S TOURNEYS DRAW TO FINISH
With the arrival of spring the winter tournaments are rapidly being brought to a close and the new champs crowned. The bowling tourney which led all the way was the first completed. After the rollings of 70 qualifiers Ted Trefzer emerged singles champion with Paul Frericks runner-up. The doubles competition has also been completed. The winners were Ted Trefzer and Al DeHayes, thus giving Ted all possible alley honors. The team of Schorr and Gueirn was runner-up. The committee in charge of this highly successful tourney, headed by Jim Mulhern, wishes to thank the K. of C., Marty O’Connell and Bob Converse for their invaluable assistance in running, the contest.-
In the ping-pong play the doubles are finished and the singles are nearly over. Garab and Sommeren, the doubles finalist from the Carroll Rec group, conquered the Brownson Rec finalist in three straight games, 21-17, 21-16, 24-22. The singles play is in the finals round with Zoss, Daley, Garab, Heckler, and Scott among the remaining “battlers.”
Over in the gym four wall courts
brought home two firsts, one second * and two thirds. Bill Clifford, Ted Leonas, Greg Rice, John Francis and Dan Gibbs formed the Notre Dame team.
To Clifford goes major credit for most of Notre Dame’s points. He ran his best race of the year in defeating an old rival, Maynard Black of Marquette, in the 50 yard dash (Open). Incidentally this marked the third time this year that Clifford has shown his superiority over the colored star. Clifford also placed third in the 50 yard dash (sprint series) and the 60 yard dash (sprint series). Clifford defeated Eulace Peacock in these races. In these two events Perrin Walker, who runs for the New York Athletic Club, captured first and Ben Johnson of Columbia finished second. Francis won the other first for Notre Dame, winning the 1,000 yard run in 2:15.4.
Gibbs gave Notre Dame its only second, placing second to Earl Meadows in the pole vault. The Southern California star holds the world outdoor record in this event.
Greg Rice, Notre Dame’s- ace two-miler, scheduled to run in this event, suffered a pain in his side when the race was comparatively young, and was forced to drop out. Don Lash, Indiana’s “durable iron man” and holder of the world record, sprinted on the 22nd and last lap beating Joe McCluskey, perennial star from the N.Y.A.C. and Norman Bright of the San Francisco Olympic Club. Lash won by five yards. His time was 9 minutes 10 7-10 seconds.
Charles Fenske of the University of Wisconsin, gave Glenn Cunningham the race of his life in the Bankers’ mile. Nevertheless the Kansan, holding his slim margin of inches from the stretch drive to the finish won his specialty in 4:09.9. Gene Venske of the New York Athletic Club ran third and Jimmy Smith of Indiana fourth.
Allan Tolmich of Wayne Uni-sity, Detroit, gave probably the best individual performance of the meet. He swept the high hurdle series with three victories, setting a new world’s indoor record at 60 and 65 yard distances.
a field of more than 70 has been pared down to the four best players, and by next week the champ of the handball game should be decided. At present Bunny McCormick, Adrian * Race, and Bill Metrailer lead.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By Mark J. Mitchell
Success stories have been told and retold until a very definite formula has been established. As a result most heroes have lost their individuality. Being merely classified as a type, their personality is never allowed to shine forth. Yet the Notre Dame track team has a fellow named Harold Langton whose greatest asset, aside from his ability at pole vaulting, is his personality.
Langton came to Notre Dame with a reputation as a successful track man. A sprinter at Bradley High school in Locust Gap, Pennsylvania, he had set a conference record of ten seconds flat for the 100 which still stands. And yet he came to Notre Dame not to add to track laurels, but, if possible, to collect a few in football. However, he took a liking to Nick, and came out for track his freshman year. He was still aJ sprinter—until one day he saw Edwards, the varsity pole vaulter, practicing. Langton had never seen anybody vault before. It didn’t look very difficult, and he thought he might like to try it. So after Edwards had finished his workout, Langton picked up the new aluminum pole—the first one Notre Dame had ever had—and jogged down the runway. He ended up in the pit with the twisted remains of a once sturdy aluminum vaulting pole in his lap. Nick was so mad about his new pole that he chased Langton off the tracks and told him to stay off.
The freshman from Locust Gap was not so easily discouraged, however, and he kept coming out for track—
watching the pole vault out of the corner of his eye—waiting for a chance to
try it again. One day someone told him Nick was away, but just as he was preparing for his second attempt, Mr. Nicholson walked in the door. In no uncertain terms, the track coach told Mr. Langton that he wasn’t wanted on the squad. Then catching the look of disappointment, Nicholson said, “You’re
the darnedest determined Dutchman I ever saw. Come here and I’ll show you
how to hold that thing.”
That was the beginning of the Langton career as a pole vaulter. In the fall meet of his sophomore year, Langton beat the varsity man with a vault of 12 feet 3 inches, and added three more inches before the year was over.
Last year against Illinois, he soared to new heights at 13 feet 3 inches. At the same time he began to brush up on his javelin throwing. In the outdoor C.C.C. meet last year in Milwaukee he hurled the Greek spear 187 feet for second place.
This year the vaulting team of Gibbs and Langton has solved many of Nick’s worries about points. As a matter of fact Langton would rather beat Gibbs than eat. But then Langton has never been at a loss for inspiration, a fact which was especially noticeable at the C.C.C. meet here a few weeks ago.
The Langton-Gibbs combination may be split this spring when the Drake and Penn Belays come up at the same time. Nick told Langton the other day that he was planning on sending him to Penn and Gibbs to Drake. Said the coach, “Gibbs can take care of the farmers at Drake, and you have such a great line that you may talk yourself into a first at Penn.”
The Langton plans for the future are vague, and not so vague. Japan in 1940 looks pretty good, but pretty far away too. Nearer and more probable is a chance to coach track at the University of Maryland. Either would satisfy to some extent the hopes of this ambitious lad. Only both would completely satisfy him. So it looks as if Langton will go right on without being completely satisfied for a while. For that is the secret of the guy who hopes to vault 14 feet before this year is out—and who may do it.
TRACKMEN WIN FIFTH PLACE AT BUTLER
•
Notre Dame placed fifth in the annual Butler university relays held at Indianapolis, March 19, with a total of 18 points. For the fifth consecutive time the University of Michigan won the team championship with 40% points.
The Irish took first place in only one event, the pole vault, which Danny Gibbs won with a jump of 13 feet 6 inches. Hal Langton then tied Habrle of Michigan State for second place. Gibbs showed superb style in his jumps, gaining the respect of all 14 teams entered in the meet.
“Beef” Beinor was good enough to place third in the shot put, but he couldn’t out-toss Watson of Michigan who threw the shot 51 feet 2% inches to beat his own record of 50 feet 5 inches set in 1937. Clifford did not live up to expectations in the 60 yard dash, for he came in fourth. Greer of Michigan State won this event with a run timed at :06.3. Albritton of Ohio State won the high jump, but Leonas of Notre Dame managed to tie Oren of Miami for fourth place. Leonas lacks the experience necessary to run against stiff competition. We’ll probably see more of this boy as the season rolls on.
In the university two mile relay Notre Dame placed fourth, and Michigan won the event with a time of 7:46.4. The Irish runners could not match the fast pace set by the Michigan boys, although Rice and Francis showed good form. In the medley relay, Indiana won as was expected, with Michigan finishing second and Notre Dame third. The Hoosier lads set a new record for the meet, reporting a time of 10:16.8, which was just too much for the Irish.
Indiana broke another relay record in the four mile relay. The time was 17:36.8. Notre Dame placed fourth.
On the whole, the Notre Dame relay teams ran hard and smoothly, but the record-smashing Indiana combination is probably the finest outfit in competition this year and proved to be the toughest opponent the Irish could find anywhere.
CAGE CAPTAIN
(Continued from Page 14)
1936 when he paired with Tommy Wukovits; to form the rear* line of defense of one of Coach Keogan’s greatest teams. This pair returned to hold down the guard posts this year. Brown is also a monogram man in football, and is being heavily counted on by Elmer Layden to hold down the left end position on the varsity eleven next fall.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
Brushing Up
VETERAN BALL TEAM AWAITS OPENING DATE KLINEMEN FACE STRONGEST SCHEDULE
By Nick Lamberto
April Fool Predictions: Harry Thomas will knock Champion Joe Louis out in the first round tonight. . . . The Chicago Blackhawks will win the Stanley Cup hockey play-offs. . . . The New York Giants, under the able guidance of “Sweet William” Terry, will cop the National League Pennant and then beat the Yanks four straight in the World Series.
* * *
Courageous or foolhardy?: Some ambitious plebes from the environs of Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls put a notice on the Walsh Hall bulletin board in which they challenged “the Walsh Hall softball Chumps” to a game of diamond ball. It’s a good thing for their sake that the Messrs. Kelly, Clifford, Nowak, etc., can’t or won’t read (the Bulletin Board notices, of course) . . . Then again maybe the Walshites would be too busy Ramblin’ in to do battle on the Badin Bog.
* * *
Odds and ends: Stan Corbett, star rookie pitcher with the Detroit Tigers, was a three-sport athlete at the University of Dayton and a summa cum laude graduate ... as a pitcher in college he didn’t lose a single game. Michigan won its fifth consecutive National Collegiate swimming title by edging out Ohio State, 46-45. Lehigh University, winners of the Eastern Collegiate Wrestling championship, are favorites to cop the national title at the Penn State meet this week.
* * *
Squibs and such: In the early history of baseball the team which scored 21 runs first won the game . . . a batter could ask for and get a low or high ball (thrown by the pitcher). Paul Nowak, All-American basketball center for the past three years, has been offered a job in the movies, . . . Hank Luisetti of Sanford signed a Hollywood contract for ten G’s. The first five games for the Northwestern baseball team will be played in the deep south (where men are men, etc.). Northwestern’s Freshman-Varsity game next fall featuring De Cor-revont is rumored to be a sell-out at this early date (tie that one, Mr. Haley). Washington High school (Iowa) recently lost its 40th straight basketball game. Frankie Parker,' 22-year-old tennis star, took the matrimonial plunge with 42-year-old Mrs. Mercer Beasley. . . . (life begins at forty).
By Clarence T. Sheehan
Coach “Jake” Kline has taken advantage of the warm weather which has prevailed during the past two weeks and has been carefully conditioning his squad of some 50 men for the season’s opener with Western State Teachers at Kalamazoo April 14. This year’s card, which consists of 19 games is the stiffest _______________________________________A that has ever confronted any Irish ? nine. Thirteen games are to be played
Baseball Coach Kline To play hardest schedule.
IRISH NETMEN HOPE FOR GREAT YEAR
•
With a nucleus of six letter men, Notre Dame’s tennis forces look forward to their greatest season in recent years. Only two men, Captain Bill Fallon and Jim Waldron were graduated last June.
Returning monogram winners include Captain Eddie Kilrain, Bill Arnold, Whitney Gregory, Tex Simon, Frank Reppenhaggen, and John Wolf. Kilrain and Arnold are the only seniors. They will form one doubles team. Captain Eddie is the only man on the squad who already has earned two letters, having been a regular as a sophomore also.
Gregory and Simon should make up another one of the doubles combinations. Both are experienced and used to working together. A third doubles combine which has looked well in practice is Bill Fay and Charlie Rogers. The former won the University Fall tournament last Autumn, and as a freshman captured the tourney for first year men. He or Kilrain will play number one in singles competition. Rogers has returned to school after a year’s absence. Both he and Fay are sophomores.
against Big Ten competition and two each with Michigan State and Western State Teachers, the strongest clubs in the Middle West. The University of California team, which has won four Pacific Coast Conference titles in the last five years, will be here May 28 and 29.
The pitching staff is a question mark. Arboit and Goncher, returning lettermen, have lame arms and there is but little possibility that they will even be able to see an inning’s service. Thus the burden is placed on the following sophomores: Hunthausen, Mandjiack, Ellis, Thompson, Cel-la, Pinelli, and Lambert.
The abundance of infield material is a source of cheer to any coach. Many combinations have been tried out and when the first team is selected hitting will be the determining factor. Either Doyle or Carson, both monogram winners, will be on first. Braddock, regular second sacker last year, is being pushed hard by Brennan, Crane, and Wagner. The departure of Joe O’Neil has left the hot corner wide open and Wukovits, who saw some service there last year, is contesting with three sophomores — Scovic, Sullivan, and Oberbrunner—' for the post. Andy Puplis will have to be at his best to keep his shortstop position from. falling into the hands of Corcoran, a stellar member of the ’36 squad who was forced to drop out of school last year due to illness.
The battle for the position behind the plate has narrowed down to three men — Kovzelove, a monogram man, Verhoestra and McHale.
Captain Borowski and Nardone are the only letter men returning in the outer garden. Gaglione and three infield candidates who are very strong at the bat, namely, Scovic, Wagner , and Oberbrunner, will probably make up the rest of the outfield. If Scovic can continue to hit as he is now doing he will probably become a fixture there.
Coach Kline expects to have a much better team than he had last year but he is faced with many difficulties. The sophomore hurlers must come through and they are an unknown quantity; diamond facilities are limited, thus cramping the practice sessions; and a southern trip, the highlight of most collegiate schedules is missing from the Irish card.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX )
_______________________________________________/
By John F. Clifford
SPRIG DIBE
Another malicious rumor has been floating about the campus for the past few weeks leaving in its wake a phlegmatism unparalleled at Notre Dame. At first sight there appeared to be no substantial basis as to its authenticity; but the contention has steadily grown among official circles that there is something to it after all.
V
No one, it seems, is able to inform the proper authorities who started the nefarious information on its cowardly journey, undermining all human respect for pedagogical discipline and academic erudition. No one has taken upon himself the obligation to step forward and admit that he knows the source of the rumor... Should one take such a step, (and there is strong reason to believe that one of the Men of Sorin will do so) he will immediately incur the scathing denunciations of Messrs. Kline, Nicholson, de Landero, and Layden; and Father Holderith will see to it that the guilty person is sufficiently punished. For if the reports are verified it means that their woes are just beginning. The story at this writing goes something like this: Spring is not only on its way—it’s here!
V
We all have our own favorite harbingers of Springtime. Col. Jake Ruppert has his Bock beer and Yankee hold-outs. The kid next door has his “migsies” all polished up for the Spring marble season. Joe “Ima-Senior” Coilitch has his thesis and comprehensive to remind him that his fancies have no time to turn. And the Walsh Hall Wizards have their afternoon softball game to remind all those within a radius of five miles that baseball is still noisy.
V	-
SULPHUR AND MOLASSES
But Spring has its unpleasant aspects too. Coach Jake Kline has a baseball nine to get on the diamond two weeks hence and is still up in the air as to what infield combination or what bunch of out-fielders are to peg the apple for the Irish this season. Jake has a veteran team back this Spring, but that doesn’t mean that his worries are over. His boys are facing a tough 19-game schedule against the best nines in the West.
V
The golf team has a precarious season ahead. Besides having to await the completion of remodeling work on several green and fairways on their home course, the Irish golfers are without the services of Gene Milbourne, one of the better men on last year's team. Ol’ John P. has the Quadrangular Relays to start off the out-door track season. This meet will bring together the four best track teams east of the Rockies. Michigan, Notre Dame, Indiana, and Ohio State are without qualification the strongest clubs in the West today. The Illinois and Butler Relays showed that Notre Dame and Michigan have yet to prove which is the better outfit. With this trio to face him right at the beginning it’s no wonder Nick finds “Aw nuts!” the best thing to say.
V
Coach de Landero’s tennis team rounds out the Spring headaches. The team has a schedule, but as far as naming the racqueteers at this date everything is all quiet. Not so quiet, however, is that unnatural harbinger of balmy days— . football. Things are popping fast and furiously among Elmer Layden’s backfield candidates during their weekly scrimmages. With the material on hand Elmer has no reason to scowl. But that brings up another story.
V
HECKLE
The camera men were out on the field a few weeks ago getting their annual shots of the Spring football sessions. They were preparing for the close-up on Coach Layden and his remarks on the 1938 season. He was thinking fast for something original and yet diplomatic to say for the theatre-goers of America. It came to him like a flash. The cameras started turning and Elmer turned on his personality. “Our 1938 football situation is comparable to the presentday definition of an ocean. An ocean, they say, is a large body of water completely surrounded by trouble.” To which came a muffled heckle from the back of the crowd: “So long as you keep it liquid, Elmeh, it’s okeh!”
WASHINGTON FALLS TO FENCERS
The Irish fencing team chalked up their sixth successive victory of the year against Washington University at St. Louis. The final tally was 13-6 for Notre Dame.
Mercado began the demonstration of Irish superiority by taking Captain Abrams of Washington U. 5-3. De la Vergne then swept into a 5-0 victory over Willman. Harris and Mercado kept up the string of victories by 5-3 wins over Shottliff and Willman. De la Vergne and Harris maintained the pace by 5-2 wins over their opponents, Shottliff and Abrams. Notre Dame finally dropped one when Mercado lost to Shottliff, 5-4. Colgan triumphed over Abrams and Huffstot, and ran the total to eight for Notre Dame and one for Washington. All of these victories took place in the foils, our strongest position.
In the sabre, Captain Zerbst started out well by gaining a 5-4 victory over Shottliff. Notre Dame then dropped two in succession Scarlata lost to Abrams 5-3, and Gavan was out-maneuvered by Shottliff to the tune of 5-2. In a bout between the two captains, Zerbst won his final match of the year, 5-3. Scarlata, on an off day, lost to Shottliff 5-3. The sabre bouts were ended by Gavan’s victory over Abrams 5-2.
Graham opened the epee bouts with a loss to Willman, 2-1. Huffstot evened it up for the Bears by beating Mahoney 2-0. Colgan won 2-1, but Huffstot again defeated Mahoney, this time 2-1. This made the final count 13 for Notre Dame and 6 for Washington.
Charlie Colgan led the Notre Dame scoring with victories in both foil and epee. Captain Jack Zerbst won both of his matches and brought his total for the year to 17 matches out of a total of 20.
BENGAL BOUT CROWNS
(Continued from Page H)
the S.R.O. sign when all the seats in the Field House had been sold short-.ly before nine o’clock.
The Scholastic wishes to thank its staff members, the South Bend merchants, and other persons who helped sell the tickets for the bouts. Appreciation is also extended to the promoters, judges, referees, timers, trainers, seconds, ushers, and all others who participated in the administrative activities of the bouts. And, of course, to the patrons and students who attended are extended a thankful hand an early invitation for the bigger and better 1939 BENGAL BOUTS.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
AND SO AN EDUCATION (Continued from Page 13)
Finally I spotted a vacant place in the far corner of the room. I felt like an interloper as I hurried down between chairs.
Heads looked up from newspapers and magazines. I went by and faces turned—glances burned me. I tried to hide my tray behind me, but the stuffed olives rolled off onto the floor. I picked them up. Someone laughed openly. When I reached the vacant seat my face was the color of a cold September sunset. Electricity crackled through the silence of the room. I tried to eat but the clatter of my solitary plate sounded like a riveting machine. Finally four fellows came up, each with a glass of water. They silently surrounded the table; one of them put his coat on the seat beside me. They stood icy-eyed. Hastily I wrapped the remains of my ham sandwich in a napkin, and pocketed the orange. I got up, “I’m sorry to have kept you gentlemen waiting,” I stammered. Ignoring me, they dove for
the seats. The one on the right knocked my hat on the floor. I picked it up and walked out. Eyes followed me, frowning, ridiculing eyes. Perspiration formed on my forehead and I broke into a run.
Now as I walk about the campus I must pretend not to hear the whispering of huddled groups; sophomores point me out to freshmen as the man who tried to eat in the cafeteria. I have lost face.
Jack Hynes
ZAHM, CAVANAUGH MURALS
(Continued from Page 7)
Another mural showing Rockne as a youth engaged in a mythical marble championship dispute will soon be completed by a group of art students under the chairmanship of John Webster, illustrator of the daily Religious Bulletin.
A legend recording the events surrounding each mural panel will be placed finally above the figures by the lettering committee consisting of Thurston Milligan and James Mur
____________________________________19
phy. This will tell the story for visitors and students alike in years to come when much of the lore would otherwise be forgotten.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN OPTOMETRIST SueeMaor To Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8211
Presenting for the first time in a store in this city, the famous John Ward Men’s Shoes, brought to you straight from Fifth Avenue, New York_______The same superior leather tannages, the same distinguished designs as are favored by John Ward patrons from the leading Eastern universities ... Your inspection is cordially invited.

EFFICIENCY Series
0^00
EXECUTIVE Series
at
108 S. Michigan St., near E. Washington
FIFTH AVENUE • NEW YORK---------------------------
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
TRAVEL BARGAINS
• There’s no fooling about South Shore Line economy — its bargain fares are in effect every day of the year. You get a big package of speed, dependability and SAFETY with every South Shore Line ticket — and duck all traffic and highway worries.
The Safest,
Most Dependable Way to Chicago
Chicago, South Shore and South Bend Railroad
SOUthnsehore.
CARBURETOR
U. S. Pat. No. 2,082,106
YELKkBOLE
UPDRAFT
New way of burning tobacco — better, cooler, cleaner. Carburetor-Action cools smoke. Keeps bottom of bowl absolutely dry. Treated with honey. Get the genuine.
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from Page 10)
ence Day with the girls making the dates and paying expenses.
Theii' proclamation reads, “In order to remedy the matriarchal economic system, women are to be hereafter on this date obliged to make all dates, arrange all entertainment, pay all the expenses, recognizes the national sensitivities of the long suffering male and treat him with at least the semblance of consideration and respect.
“And further, that any third date with the same male is a Dutch date and subject to the same rules save that the male may, if he so desires, pay for drinks and one movie admission.”
Miss Franklin College had nothing to say.
Postpone Concerts
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the Notre Dame Glee club and Notre Dame band has announced that the Glee club and band concerts which were to be held next week, have been postponed until May. Both concerts will then be presented in Washington Hall. A definite date has not yet been set, but it is presumed that the presentations will take place during Music Week.
TOBIN
T O B
I N*s
says:
IRISH MIXTURE
CORKTOWN
COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
110 North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
RECORD REVIEW
DECCA
VICTOR	BRUNSWICK
BLUEBIRD	VOCALION
DECCA: Headlining recent releases under the Decca label is Jimmy Dorsey’s: “On the Sentimental Side.” Muted brass, Jimmy’s clarinet and Bob Eberle’s vocal all lend much to make this a unique arrangement of the season’s hit tune. Incidentally, Decca has a back issue of J. Dorsey’s theme, “Sandman” by the original Dorsey Brothers’ band that sounds every bit as good as Jimmy’s present interpretation of the tune. Best among Bing Crosby’s latest waxings are his “Moon .of Manakoora,” and “My Heart is Taking Lessons.” Two sure bets for the Crosby fans.
“Memories of You” features some beautiful trumpet by the versatile Sonny Dunham of Glen Gray and Casa Loma, while the inimitable “Pee Wee” Hunt does a swellegant vocal in “The Old Apple Tree.” For the killer-diller of the month we elect Chick Webb’s “Harlem Congo.” Some unbelievable drumming by the crippled genius makes it easy to understand why he has so often been called “the greatest hide-hitter in the land.”
VICTOR: “Martha” continues as the outstanding swing-sation, and the latest version by Larry Clinton is to our way of thinking one of the best. Bea Wain’s vocal is particularly luscious. Other current Clinton hits worthy of mention are: “At a Perfume Counter,” “Romance in the Dark,” and “I Dreamt I Dwelt in Marble Halls.”
For all the Tommy Dorsey fans, Victor has just issued his version of “Bewildered;” a great tune, with a great vocal by a great guy, Jack Leonard. Tommy’s “Annie Laurie” should be exhibit number A-l for the defense in the famous suit of Fitzpatrick versus “swingers of the classics.”
Blue Barron’s music in the “Kaye-Kyser” manner is catching on. His best attempts to date are, “Who Are We to Know,” and “At A Perfume Counter.”
BRUNSWICK: Don’t miss Dorothy Lamour’s vocal on “Moon of Manakoora.” The reverse, “True Confession,” by Mrs. Herbie Kaye is equally refreshing. Also recommended on Brunswick are Russ Morgan’s “Did An Angel Kiss You;” Ella Logan (a “wee bit of scotch”) in “I Was Doin’ All Right;” and Raymond Scott’s “War Dance for Wooden Indians.”
Dolly Dawn and Billie Holiday round out the top notch Vocalion discs for the month, Dolly doin’ her usually fine warbling on “I Simply Adore You,” and Miss Holiday, (incidentally Art Shaw’s new canary) singing “On the Sentimental Side.”
"THE BIG TEN"
Annie Laurie, by Tommy Dorsey (Victor) Old Apple Tree, by Casa Loma (Decca) Beck and Call, by Hudson-DeLange (Bruns.)' Stormy Weather, by Dean Hudson (Bluebird) Martha, by Connie Boswell (Decca) Two Bouquets, by Guy Lombardo (Victor) Right or Wrong, by Mildred Bailey (Vocalion)' Please Be Kind, by Bob Crosby (Decca) Heigh Ho!, by Horace Heidt (Brunswick) Romance in the Dark, by Jerry Blaine (Blue.)' rAdvA	T.P. Sheils
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Frosh Fencing Tourney
For the past week the annual Freshmen fencing tournament has been underway. This tournament is expected to produce the men who will be the mainstays of the varsity for the next three years.
The freshmen who are engaged in the tournament are the remains of a field of 67 which came out early last fall. The 67 freshmen were soon reduced to 28 by Coach de Landero. Two more cuts in the squad have been made in the interim, and only 12 men remain.
Instead of the usual single elimination tournament, this tournament consists of a series of round-robins. The fencer winning the largest number of matches during the week will be declared the winner.
The competition will take place in epee, foil, and sabre. The men taking part in the tournament are: Boss, Corbett, Gaither, Garrity, McNamee, Merdsinski, Michelson, O ’ Donnell, Reynolds, Ronder, Schlafly, and Schoo.
The science of the "new dentistry" is still in its infancy. It is a most promising field for constructive thought and work. It calls for the best minds interested in health service careers.
. Because of advancing standards, enrollment in Dental ; ' Schools in the United States
has been reduced during the past thirteen years. Today there is one practicing ' dentist to approximately each 2,400 of population. v
' Marquette University Dental ' ' School is given the highest ■	rating—A—by the Dental
Educational Council of ; .. America. Its diplomas to ■. :	graduates are recognized in
■? , all states. The close relation’ ship of dental-medical study •• ' proves an advantage to ' students.	'
Entrance requirements: Two v years in a recognized College -	■
if of Liberal Arts with satis- ..
' factory credits- in biology, organic chemistry, and ,
> physics.	-Sf %
For complete information concerning opportunities in dentistry, write to the Secre-« ', tary, Marquette University £'. Dental School, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
? MARQUETTE
DR. GURIAN TALKS ON EUROPE
(Continued from Page 9)
In regarad to current changes in Europe Dr. Gurian stated that Italy permitted the anschluss of Austria and Germany in order to obtain power on the Mediterranean. He also advanced the opinion that Italy’s activities in Spain were due to a desire to exert pressure on France for colonies in Africa.
As for the religious side Dr. Gur-
“Greyhound” is always the right answer to any travel question a ride in the new Super-Coach proves it. Drop in or phone for free tutoring on the economic problem of traveling at 1/3 the cost of driving.
ROUND TRIP FARES
NEW YORK______$22.05
CHICAGO ....... 2.25
BOSTON ______  24.75
CLEVELAND _____ 7.50
WASHINGTON. D. C— 20.55
UNION BUS DEPOT
.	133 S. LaFayette Blvd., Sooth Bend, Ind. Phone: 3-8283
Rev. Fr. John KeUey, Campus Agent, St. Vincent de Paul Society
ian said that exaggerated totalitarian nationalism is essentially unchristian. The nationalist looks on Christianity as a monument of the past. The nation is now the ultimate end of all men. Consequently the Church is now and will continue to be eliminated as moral power in public life.
The technique of Hitler in his rise: his use of propaganda on the German people, their reaction to this propaganda, constituted the final portion of the lecture.
PITTSBURGH_____ 11.10
BUFFALO _________ 12.90
CINCINNATI______ 8.10
ST. LOUIS_______ 8.30
PHILADELPHIA ____ 21.00
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
420 Associates Bldg.
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
SMOOTHEST SMOKE YOU EVER ENJOYED
■EWSMPES&FIIIISHES
^o^MEDICO has only Pat'd filter combining moisture-
proof Cellophane exterior and 66 Baffle absorbent mesh screen interior; resulting in greatest scientific pipe smoking invention ever known. Keeps juices in filter,out of mouth.
WRANGLER'S CONTEST ATTRACTS
(Continued from, Page J) Wayne, Ind.; Cathedral High, Indianapolis, Ind.; St. Paul’s, Marion, Ind.; St. Mary’s, Michigan City, Ind.; Central Catholic, South Bend, Ind.; St. Hedwige, South Bend, Ind.; Central Catholic, Hammond, Ind.
Holy Trinity, Chicago, Ill.; St. Pattrick’s, Chicago, Ill.; St. Philip’s, Chicago, Ill.; St. Rita, Chicago, Ill.; Aquin High, Freeport, Ill.; Joliet Catholic, Joliet, Ill.; Fenwick, Oak Park, Ill.; Mount Carmel, Chicago, Ill.
Jitney Players Present Sheridan's "Rivals"
•
Playing before a capacity house, the Jitney Players, a theatrical group touring the middle west for the past few weeks, presented Richard Brinsley Sheridan’s play, “The Rivals,” in Washington Hall, Saturday, March 19.
The drama, a social satire of the eighteenth century, deals with the problem of a young lady who, while she is in love with one gentleman, is commanded by her stern, (if confused), mother, (the character now famous, Mrs. Malaprop), to marry another man. What the audience knows, however, and what the heroine doesn’t know, is that her lover, who has permitted himself the privilege of two names, is really her proposed husband. The confusion resulting from the heroine’s, and other characters’, ignorance of this important fact leads to several perplexing and hilarious situations before the play’s happy, conclusion is reached.
Particularly effective among the characters were Virginia Keller as the maid, Lucy; Douglas Rowland as Bob Acres, and Pen Harrison as Sir Anthony Absolute.
In a range of rich fabrics from rough weave boucle to luxuriant silks, you will find Arrow s large assortment of neckties replete with a colorful variety of exclusive patterns. Superbly tailored<—t resilient construction. Made by the makers of Arrow Shirts. $1 and $1.50
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BUFFALO BOYS PLAN SKATING PARTY
By Martin Donovan
No! This is not an April Fool’s joke—and what is more we have no desire to become entangled in a libel suit with campus skeptics, or become the target of screeching guffaws from more or less credulous readers. Mind you we are making no rash statements; we are merely, in our own humane way, presenting the bloody issue to Mr. John T. P. (tax-punchy) Public. We make no secret of the fact that we hate bloodshed and human misery; we hate to see our fellow man fallen, bruised, discouraged, and beaten.
We are afraid the end is near; we can carry on no longer; we’ve seen too much blood in our day. We have only enough strength to relate our fearful predilections of what will occur at Playland Park on Monday night, April 4, and then we shall wither away.
Several other disasters we could mention were bad enough, but when we learned that Notre Dame’s Buffalo Club is to inaugurate the first skating party in University history at Playland on Monday, we knew the end was inevitable.
Yes, it’s true: the second battle of the Marne will be re-enacted tooth by tooth on Monday evening in South Bend. The proper authorities have been notified, but despite their appeal to the League of Nations, it is doubtful whether or not the League is sufficiently strong enough to stop the impending disaster.
When we questioned the militant Joe Ryan of the Buffalo Club to discover why he was allowing such Bolshevistic havoc to take place, he said: “I do not wish to be quoted on this. Shucks, Boston had a massacre; what’s the matter with South Bend?”
Yep, a swarming, zooming, toppling and oomping crowd of Irishers
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
Intelligent service
Reliability
34 years' experience are our endorsements.
Optometrists . Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
will do the “big apple” on roller skates at Playland Park on Monday. Gene Kiefer, in charge of the sanguine affair, assures us that ample stretchers, first-aid dressing rooms, pillows, stimulants, surgical apparatus, ambulances, and National Guard divisions will be provided for. As yet Mr. Kiefer has been unable to obtain the services of “Scrap Iron” Young, but in the event of any wholesale contingency, W.P.A. relief parties will enter the scene of action at once.
Richard Ball, George Frerick and Bernard Feeney are on the obituary committee; all persons desirous of severing connections with their present surroundings may receive oneway tickets from them.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.


Mild ripe tobaccos..and
pure cigarettepaper
... .these Chesterfield ingredients are the best a cigarette can have
Copyright 1938, Liggett &Myeks Tobacco Co.
. the reason they give so many smokers more pleasure... is the full flavor and aroma of mild ripe home-grown and aromatic Turkish tobaccos, blended like no other cigarette.
The Champagne cigarette paper used in making Chesterfields is pure.. .it bums without taste or odor... it*s the best cigarette paper money can buy.
^^45

..you’llfind MOVE PLEASURE in Chesteifields milder better taste