SORORITY OF SERVICE
The girls who belong are calm, competent, considerate. Their job is to get your call through quickly and accurately, wherever you want to go —day or night, any day of the week. And courtesy is their creed. They are the 220,000 telephone operators of the Bell System.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
' I
The Scholastic $
I

Quantity Wins
It is gratifying to read your understanding editorial in the Scholastic. I had hoped that others would recognize and then appreciate the dilemma in which the University Theatre finds itself. As you put it, it is a battle cry between artistry and popularity. In a sense, it’s the old straggle between quality and quantity. We try to measure up to a level of good college theatre but at the same time the problem of winning an audience confronts us.
We are happy that you interpreted our position as you did. This is not the season for us to aim exclusively at educating local taste. It is still a season which must be devoted to quantity—to increasing attendance.
By the way, the last production to draw a full house was “Shadow and Substance” on May 13, 1949, which counted 50 “standees.” It is always heartwarming to hand out the “S.R.O.” ,5 sign; but in the future our goal cannot include only that objective.
William J. Eisen
Director, University Theater
Stanford Elected Chairman Of Science Advisory Council
Mr. Leland Stanford, vice-president cf the Standard Oil Company, was elected chairman of the advisory council for science and engineering at the fall meeting held Oct. 6 and 7. The ground-breakingceremonies for the new $2,098,000 science building were held in conjunction with this meeting.
Plans for research and for administering academic programs at Notre Dame in the event of total mobilization were discussed. The agenda also included a discussion on the advisability of including more English in programs for sci-
You new around here?
CONCESSION BIDS
The Student Council is accepting bids for the flower and also the photography concessions for all University dances for this year. Further information may be obtained at the Student Council office on the first floor of the Main Building.
•ence and engineering, business administration and economics.
Dr. William S. Calcott of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Comp_ny was elected vice chairman. Dr. Calcott has been visiting Notre Dame since 1925 as a result of an old friendship with the Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., whose basic researches led to the development of neoprene by the Du Pont Company.
Other members of the advisory council include Richard E. Daugherty, retired vice-president of the New York Central Railroad, New York City: Marvin E. Coyle, executive vice- president of General Motors Corporation, Detroit, Mich.; James C. Daley, president, Jefferson Electric Company, Bellwood, Ill.; and Francis J. Curtiss, vice-president, Monsanto Chemical Company, St. Louis, Mo.
GRANADA
Ask the Upperclassmen
Ask any old timer, “Where’s Gilbert’s?”
They’ll tell you where we are . . .
THE BEST CLOTHING STORE IN TOWN

STREET
\STATE
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St. Open every evening till 9
AVON.
s
B E R
Oct. 20, 1950
We'll loan you a Camera ...
Send Your School Pictures to the Folks at Home . . .
Here's What You Get -
2 Rolls Film, Eastman or Ansco. We will develop and finish the 16 pictures.	.
Loan you a Camera
ALL $4% FOR
Your I. D. Card is all you need.
See us for all your Photographic needs.
Ault
CAMERA SHOP. Inc.
122 So. Main St.	Ph. 3-5041
Your Eastman Kodak Store
Comfort at its smartest!
ROLL COLLAR BUTTON-DOWN
OXFORD CLOTH SHIRTS
3.93
Here's a new high in comfort! . . . the roll-spread button down collar with a low-slope neckband. It offers you the style and smoothness of the dress collar with the comfort of a sport shirt.
The secret is the neckband which is regular height at the back and slopes to practically no band at all in front. See it tomorrow, in fine oxford cloth. In white or colors.
CORSAGES
FLOWERS for
All Occasions
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
VO* MIN WOMM AN» cmuan
209 West Colfax Avenue
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
MICHIGAN AT W ASHINGTON
4
The Scholastic

Top of the Week
Leaves turning red and yellow . . .
Trip Topics
From all reports the annual Student Trip more than lived up to its advance billing. Notre Dame men who went down to New Orleans returned to an almost Dixie-like climate at the University minus a desire to “hit the books” and assorted amounts of spending money.
The sojourn wasn’t very expensive for anybody who gave up eating, drinking and sightseeing, but the run-of-the-mill student tripper was alive enough in the beginning to do all these things to the twentieth degree.
entries so far include two bass, eight sunfish, six perch, 17 bluegills, and a turtle. The latter entry is being entered in a special division of the contest devoted to turtles, octopi, baracuda, and sea horses.
We haven’t been down to the lake’s edge yet because our worm supply has diminished to practically nothing and the price of crickets is currently far above parity. This is encouraging price wars among campus cricket salesmen and we feel certain that the other live • bait men will soon feel the pinch, or should we say get “the hook.”
Bust Trouble
The University Library has just about everything: books, paintings, pamphlets, books, friendly girls, periodicals, and books. A student can stop beating his brains out over studies and just go over to the Library and pick out a good book to read in his spare time.
We went over the other day, after hearing that Charles Addams’ Monster Rally was put into circulation, and nearly lost our noon-day meal at the sight of a bust labeled “CERVANTES”
This bust is located above the main entrance on the mezzanine ledge facing West. It is, believe it or not, GREEN. It is positively disgusting and esthetic-ally revolting.
Anybody interested in doing us a big favor can slyly push this monstrosity off the ledge and feel no remorse. In fact, we might do it ourselves, if we ever go to the Library again.
Bottom of the Week
. . . what do you want, polka-dots?
' The WEEK trip correspondent reports that the ND Band put on a halftime exhibition to be remembered by Southerners almost as long as Appomattox. After the game a few of the horn-tooters and drum-beaters hopped aboard a fish cart and played a Dixieland version of the Victory March. The fish-peddler sold all his fish and wanted to hire the sextet, but a slush-pump player who shall remain nameless talked the group out of accepting, mentioning something about a Michigan State game ..y	and that indefinable something called
-	“The Notre Dame Spirit.”
At last count, the student trippers and anyone else who went out-of-town for the week-end, and that was just about everybody, have settled down to a diet of falling leaves (see cover) and chow hall “mystery balls” instead of Spanish rice and avocados.
Learn To Dance
Junior Izaak Waltons
? The unprecedented and unparalleled J	“Fish Derby” now in	progress on	the
f	University lakes has	proven that	ND
I	men can do more than	play football	and
I	de-germ rodents. They	can catch fish.
The race to decide the champion campus angler is still in the spawning stages, but already a number of scaly creatures have been turned in to contest headquarters in Corby Hall.
"2 for 1"
RATES
NOW IN EFFECT
. . . Two can learn to dance for the cost of one the GEORGE DAVIS way and save 50 %.
Every Thursday—9 P. M. George Davis “Speed Method” has turned out thousands of Smooth Dancers. . . The kind you see dancing continuously and having a world of fun! Put yourself in the hands of one of our talented experts. You’ll soon be dancing the Fox Trot, Jitterbug/ Waltz, Rumba or any Other Dance in just a few interesting enjoyable hours.
Phone 3-8229 for a FREE interesting analysis lesson.
DANCE FIESTA
All Notre Dame students invited to attend our friendly socials. NO CHARGE
NORTHERN INDIANA’S LARGEST DANCE STUDIOS
Father Baldwin, who is registering S each fish aS it is turned in, says the
DANCE
STUDIOS
106 W. MONROE CORNER MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND	DIAL 38229
Oct. 20, 1950
OCTOBER 20
i i
i
I
COLFAX (through Oct. 25)—Everyone seems to be getting into the Western act. In Copper Canyon (Legion of Decency Rating A-2) such incongruous cowboy-and-Indian pic stars as Ray Milland and Hedy i Lamarr get top billing. It’s too bad their choice of horse operas	i
couldn’t have been better. Canyon is fair-to-middlin’, but nothing ex-	I
ceptional.	j
PALACE (through Oct. 27)—One of the most talked about films in years finally hits South Bend. It is Sunset Boulevard (A-2), a scathing commentary on the mores of Hollywood. Gloria Swanson turns in some wonderful scene-chewing emoting and William Holden is excellent in a very difficult role. As with any good picture, you have to get in at the beginning of Boulevard to appreciate it completely.
AVON (through Oct. 24)—The stars of A Midnight Kiss have been reunited to star in MGM’s latest confection of froth, color and music, called Toast of New Orleans (A-l). Kathryn Grayson and Marie Lanza, two of filmdom’s best singers, join with J. Carroll Naish and David Niven to make this a happy piece of entertainment. It is light, but enjoyable.
OCTOBER 21
BLOOMINGTON—Our team travels South to face Indiana. They’ll have another tough battle on their hands but if we can show we are behind them they’ll do their utmost to give us another victory.
WASHINGTON HALL—Bob Hope and Rhonda Fleming co-star in one.of Hope’s poorer products ... a thing called The Great Lover (A-2). Roberto is funny, as usual, but the pic sort of fizzles.
PALAIS ROYALE—This week the dance is called Hoosier Holiday. The band is the same, which is good; the hours are the same, which is also pretty good; and the dates are the same. Period.
OCTOBER 25
AVON (indefinite)—June Allyson puts aside her dancing shoes in order to emote in a straight drama — a piece called Right Cross (A-l). Ricardo Montalbon and Dick Powell assist her in this prize fighting film. The story is rather weak, especially in comparison to such fighting milestones as Body and Soul and The Champion of a year or so ago.
OCTOBER 26
COLFAX (through Nov. 1)—Remember A Miracle on 34th Street? Well, here’s a happy comedy that has been evoking many comparisons. The name of it is Mister 880 (A-l), and although Burt Lancaster and Dorothy McGuire will have their names on the marquee, it is really Edmund Gwenn’s picture. Cast as a kindly counterfeiter, Gwenn gives the FBI a merry chase. This type film leaves you with mellow feeling. i Nothing profound, mind you, but a, pleasant glow. You’ll like Mister 880.
Vol. 92 October 20. 1950 No. 6
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
i
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors WALTON R. COLLINS '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52 News
CHARLES B. DULLEA '52_____Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51__________Features JOHN F. MEANEY '52________Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52________Assistant Sports • JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN '51....Photography LEON GARDNER, '52_________ .Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER______________Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51____________Advertising k. ROBERT WILDEMAN '52_________________Circulation $ JAMES ROGERS '51..................._Circulation DALE FRANCIS___________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: This is the time of year when the deciduous members of the local flora begin to shed their leaves and gird them- 1 selves for the hibernating season. While many of these leaves are turned to industrial uses, such as the making of soup mixes, the great majority are assigned to oblivion. This week finds the rake squad on active duty combatting the red and yellow menace.
—Photo by Jim McLaughlin ^43
The Scholastic

Two Await Us
Most of us are looking forward to that not too distant day when we’ll be married and shall be the heads of Catholic families. Although not too much thought is given to it as yet, we do pray we shall be granted a blessed family: one that lives under the guidance of God and is enriched by the protection of Our Blessed Mother.
And one of the best ways to achieve this Christian goal, we know, is to follow the slogan—the family that prays together stays together. This is an age of slogans. They are pelleted at us from every facet of life. It’s an advertiser’s dream world—but here’s a slogan that really has meaning to it.
What better way can we strengthen the bond between ourselves and God than through prayer? It will be the same when we have a family. But then we will not only be putting ourselves closer to God—we will be drawing our families closer together, also.
Right now a mass crusade is being conducted to invoke the intercession of Our Mother to win lasting peace in the world and to bring God’s blessings on us and our families, o	o
This Sunday the Crusade comes to our campus. We are being offered the opportunity to join with 40,000 others in beseeching Our Beloved Mediatrix to rid the world of its troubles.
. Catholics from the Indiana, Louisville, and Covington dioceses will be here to seek Our Lady of the Rosary’s intercession. Some of them will come from great distances. We have to walk just a few yards. Every student should attend the rally.
For if there is any one group in these three dioceses who should be militant in their allegiance to Our Lady then it is the student body of Notre Dame. Our lives are pledged to the Blessed Mother and we should be in the vanguard of the Crusade which is crying for Her help.
Furthermore, if we demonstrate our devotion now, then we shall demonstrate it later. And with this devotion will come gifts of happiness to our families. Gifts of grace which our homes will need. Gifts of grace which our world will need.
When the church bells ring early Sunday afternoon head for the stadium. Two will be waiting for us.
Thanks Unlimited
This is no stock bread-and-butter piece. After a social visit it is proper protocol to write a thank-you note to the hostess. But the Scholastic isn’t writing this because it has to; rather, because it wants to.
It is hard, however, to find an adequate way to thank the Gem of the South and show appreciation for such won
Oct. 20, 1950	.
derful hospitality. Those who made the student trip were swamped with friendliness—by the townspeople, by fellow visitors, by the student body at Tulane, by practically everyone thev met.
These annual jaunts are fine for more than just purposes of fun. They help a lot in breaking down prejudices and building up understanding of different parts of the country. Right now New Orleans and its friendly folk undoubtedly rate high on Notre Dame’s poll of favorite cities.
There are many reasons for this high rating. Among them are the hospitality showered upon the trippers by Father Peyton and his assistants at Sacred Heart Church, by the staff out at the Naval barracks, by the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, which held an open house after the game, and by Mr. and Mrs. Joseph David, who entertained nearly 500 at their gracious home on Saturday night.
When a city has people and organizations like these it has little need for a Chamber of Commerce. Getting back to those bread-and-butter notes—they usually end with a sentence about how much the visit was enjoyed and offer an insincere wish that the writer may return again some day. Well, there’s nothing vapid or insincere about Notre Dame’s feelings—our visit to New Orleans was enjoyed to the hilt and we certainly do wish we may return again, and soon.
Toots of Praise
Every' student tripper will long remember the hegira to New Orleans for many reasons. One reason, however, why many New Orleans natives will remember the deluge is because of the superlative show put on by the band during half-time at the game. O	'
Some of us have been watching the Notre Dame band prancing and playing on many a football field for the past three years, but it is hard to remember when they put on a better performance. It was a polished show that went off without a single hitch. The tremendous applause the band received from the stands 'proved the crowd was as pleased as the loyal Notre Dame rooters.
Too often the band escapes much praise. They march and march on any vacant lot available, practicing for the football games. They run through their routine dozens of times. Such work bears fruit of excellence on Saturday afternoons.
Every tripper in the Sugar Bowl felt like saying: That’s our band. They’re really great. When such sincere praise comes from within you know the organization receiving it must be deserving. If the band continues to shine like it did last Saturday afternoon then this will be a bright and membrable year for the musical ambassadors of Notre Dame.
7
THROW AWAY
10 for 10»
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY FINE QUALITY) Pipes of specially selected imported briar.?/) Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... L Also Frank Medico "Standard"...
America's Outstanding Dollar ($1) Pipe Frank Medico Cigarette Holders ?] & ?2 MEDICO
FILTER PIPES
When the Filter'in Medico Pipes or Cigarette Holders turns brown, throw it away with the nicotine, tars, juices and flakes it has trapped. Insert a fresh Filter to get cooler, cleaner, dryer, purer smoking!
Real Filters .. not mere hollow tubes
It’s easy to quick-change with the
"Doubler.” For lounging, for sports
.. wear the collar open. Close it, add
tie . . . and you’re set for class or
date. Try it!
$3.95
ARROW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Make GILBERTS
Your ARROW headquarters
We carry a large showing cf fine Watches and Jewelry . . .
We maintain a complete Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.

111 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
X
GILBERTS
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Choose your ARROW SHIRTS
from the complete selection . in the Men’s Shop at
First Floor mmsm
SPoutit diend
8
The Scholastic
VOLUME 92, NUMBER 6
OCTOBER 20, 1950
Tenth Air Force Head Sunday Stadium Rally Sparks Rosary Drive; Inspects ROTC Unit Bishop Noll, Father Peyton Slated to Speak
Maj. Gen. Harry A. Johnson, commander of the Tenth Air Force, was here at Notre Dame Thursday of last week on an inspection tour of the ND Air ROTC unit.
With Gen. Johnson’s party were his aide, Capt. Melvin Spaur; Lt. Col. Jame ;
Maj. Gen. Johnson confers with Fr. John Cavanaugh about ND AROTC unit.
T. Sheridan, public information officer of the Tenth Air Force; and Major Sylvester Burke, officer in charge of the Air ROTC units in the Tenth Air Force.
Air Force regulations require periodic check-ups to be made on all Air ROTC units, and Gen. Johnson assumes personal responsibility for these inspections, even though there are approximately 35 units within his numbered air force. The Tenth Air Force is composed of units in the north central states.
During his all-day stay here Thursday Gen. Johnson attended the various classes in air science at the Social Science Building, the drill of cadets east of the stadium that afternoon, as well as visiting the unit personnel and several of the administrative faculty of the University. Gen. Johnson’s group was feted to a luncheon in the faculty dining room.
By TOM GODFREY, 54
Over 40,000 Catholics, including students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, are expected to attend Sunday’s mass assemblage in the stadium beginning the Family Rosary Crusade in the South Bend and Michigan City .area.
Starting at 2 p.m., the gathering will hear speeches by Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., national director of the Crusade, and the Most Rev. John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., president of the University, will deliver the introduction and greeting.
Father Peyton, a Notre Dame graduate, is also founder of the Family Theatre, a nationwide radio program which has enlisted the services of many Hollywood stars. He initiated the Family Rosary Crusade eight years ago and since then has traveled the North American continent preaching the rosary to millions.
Bishop Noll, whose diocese includes South Bend, is one of six Kentucky and Indiana prelates who have put their support behind the Crusade. He has expressed a desire to have every Catholic in his diocese participating in it.
Although the rally proper will not begin until 2:30, the Notre Dame Glee Club, directed by Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, will sing hymns for those already assembled starting at 2 p.m.
At approximately 2:30 a procession will start from Cartier’ Field to the stadium. Among the marchers will be numerous Boy Scouts and nurses from South Bend, representatives of the Legions of Mary, and members of the Third Orders of Mount Carmel, St. Benedict, St. Dominic, and St. Francis.
The honor guard for Bishop Noll will be formed by fourth degree Knights of Columbus. After Father Cavanaugh’s greeting, the Blessed Sacrament will be brought in by Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s Prefect of Religion.
Rt. Rev. Msgr. John Sabo, V.F., of South Bend will then recite the Pope’s prayer for peace. Monsignor Sabo is in charge of arrangements for the rally
and the house-to-house canvass of the area to follow.
Led by the Marian Groups, composed of Catholic women, the entire assembly will recite the rosary just prior to Father Peyton’s address. The Crusade’s national director and Bishop Noll will then speak.
Benediction by Rt. Rev. Msgr. E. H. Vurpillat, v.f., of Michigan City, will close the rally. He will be assisted by Pt. Rev. Msgr. Ignatius Gapczynski of South Bend as deacon and Rt. Rev. Msgr. Julian Doktor of Michigan City as subdeacon. Masters of ceremonies will be Rev. Ralph Hoffman and Rev. Bernard Shank.
Starting Monday and continuing all through next week, the Knights of Columbus will make a room-to-room canvass of the campus. Their purpose will be to obtain from each student a signed pledge to say the daily rosary. YCS, handling poster publicity, NFCCS, Liturgical Life, and various other campus groups are taking part in the campaign. Station WND will publicize the drive over the air waves.
Card Sharks to Congregate At Recreation Hall Sunday
A duplicate bridge session will be held in the Vet Recreation hall at 1 p.m. next Sunday afternoon.
The session, sponsored by the local chapter of the American Contract Bridge League, is open to all interested in the game regardless of ability or experience.
Cash prizes will be awarded for first, second and third places and percentages of master points earned may be registered with the League in New York. Admission is 25 cents.
CORRECTION
In the story appearing on page 10 about the “Coro Hispanic©,” which will sing tonight in Washington Hall, there should not be an admission charge listed.
The concert is free to everyone.
Oct. 20, 1950
9
Choral Group to Sing Spanish Music Tonight
Lovers of Spanish music will be treated tonight to the renditions of the Coro Hispanico, renowned choral group, 'which will be the second presentation of
the Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series.
The event will take place at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall, tickets having been on sale this week at 50 cents for ND students and one dollar for adults.
To be directed tonight by its founder, Juan Maria Thomas, the Coro Hispani-
Washington Hall takes on a Latin flavor this evening as the Coro Hispanico bring the music and dances of their native Spain to Notre Dame. Curtain time is 8 p.m.
co, composed of six men and six women,	m
is on tour of the United States from	;
October until January, 1951. This tour is the result of successful runs through- J out Europe and the Iberian peninsula.
Forming the chorus in 1932 of working people in the city of Palma, Majorca, off the southeastern tip of Spain, Maestro Thomas has seen the prestige of his group enhanced by the praise of such authorities as the piano virtuoso, Artur Rubenstein, and critics in Barcelona, Madrid, and on the continent.
Their selections, as well as their striking costumes of native Spain, will offer variety to the program. Thomas has compiled a repertoire of early Hispanic liturgical music, works of classical, romantic, and modern composers, and folk music of Majorca, Catalonia, Andalusia, and Castile. Many are choral arrangements especially adapted by the director for his songsters. Also the chorus will introduce several dance motifs with the accompaniment of guitars to add to the color of the folksongs.
The program is divided into four parts with two -intermissions r.nd will be as follows:
I
Seguidillas en Eco ......Spanish Anon.
(from 17th Cen.) The Nightingale (Catalan
popular song) ...............Marera
Sardona (Catalan popular song) ................  Marera
Bells on the Sea
(Sung without words) ...........Thomas Malaguena (Andalusian
popular song) .........Massoti-Littel
II	*■’
Popular Song from Galicia.....Almandez The Tailless Devil (Popular
song from Catalonia) ....Cumellas Ribo The Naples Prison (Popular
song from Majorca) ...............Massot The Mosquito...................Thomas
Scherzo .......................Martini
(Intermission) ,	’
III
Catalan Christmas Carol........Lambert Ave Maria......................Schubert-Thomas	_
The Bull Fight (Three
popular songs) ...............Thomas
1.	The Bull’s Enclosure
2.	Fear of the Bull
3.	The Picador and. the Torero Andalusian Cradle Song ....Falla-Thomas Jota —....................Falla-Thomas
(Intermission)
IV
Majorcan popular dances with typical bagpipe or hornpipe (Majorcan instrument), guitar, and folk percussion accompaniment.	z
10
The Scholastic

Three C.S.C. Priests Assigned to Posts At U. of Portland and St. Edward's College
Three Priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross have been assigned to new positions at the University of Portland, Ore., St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas, according to an announcement by the Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., Provincial of the Indiana Province of the Priests of Holy Cross.
Father Mehling, whose headquarters are at the University of Notre Dame, announced the appointment of the Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., for the past year vice-president of the University of Portland, as president of the same institution. The Rev. William S. Scand-lon, c.s.c., former vice-president of King’s College, Wilkes Barre, Pa., has been named vice-president of the University of Portland. The third change announced by Father Mehling sends the Rev. Laurence G. Broestl, C.S.C., Instructor in Modern Languages at Notre Dame, to St. Edward’s University as Prefect of Religion.
Father Sweeney, who until last year served as executive assistant to the president at Notre Dame, succeeds Father Mehling as President of the University of Portland. Father Mehling was elected Provincial of the Indiana Province of the Priests of Holy Cross this Summer at the General Chapter of the Congregation in Rome.
degree from Notre Dame in 1939, Father Scandlon returned to the University of Portland from 1939 to 1946 as Dean of the university’s School of Nursing. He later served as vice-president of King’s College until he returned to Notre Dame in 1949 for special duties.
Father Broestl, a native of Cleveland, Ohio, was ordained to the priesthood in 1937, after receiving a Bachelor of Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1933. He received a Master of Arts degree from the Catholic University of America in 1938, and for the next six years taught at the Columbia Preparatory School in Portland, Oregon. The new Prefect of Religion at St. Edward’s University taught at St. Edward’s from 1944 to 1948, when he was appointed to the Notre Dame faculty.
Thespians to Present Famous Farce Nov, 24
The Man Who Came to Dinner is ready to come to Notre Dame. ‘
Casting has been completed, and rehearsals have already begun on this famous comedy, which the University Theater will present for a four-night
stand in Washington Hall, Nov. 27 through 30.
Professor Leonard Sommer, the play’s director, has announced that all 29 parts were filled at last week’s tryout sessions. The lead role of Sheridan Whiteside was awarded to Skipper Swift, a Freshman in the College of Engineering from Springfield, Mo.
Among the other student thespians chosen to handle the supporting roles will be Larry McDermott, Douglas Robertson, John Schneller, Bill Fagan, Dick Wolfgram, John Giambruno, Jack Roberts, Michael Murray, Phil Bolin, Bob Williams, Marty O’Connor, Dick Cotter, Pat Shanahan, Phillip Finnegan, Bill Hank, John Jarnot, Tony Kennedy, Frank Jackman, Fred Vernvnic and Francis Ferro.	’
In addition, eight girls were recruited from the Catholic Theatre Guild, the Presbyterian Players and St. Mary’s College to fill the comedy’s feminine roles. Those selected were Pat Shanda, Juanita Hardy, Denni Egry, Leitha Wermuth, Geraldine Vergil, Pat McCaughan, Margaret McCowan and Alice Weiss.
This was the farce which first brought Montey Woolley to prominence for his portrayal of the blustering writer who broke his leg while leaving a house where he had been invited for dinner, and then used his accident as an excuse to stay on as an unwelcome guest for six weeks. During this time he turns his host’s home into a bedlam of actors, writers and wild animals.
The new president of Portland University, a native of Tacoma, Wash., was ordained to the Catholic priesthood in 1934 after receiving a Bachelor of Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1930 and pursuing further studies at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C., and the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome. Father Sweeney received a JCD degree from the latter university.
He taught moral theology and canon law at Holy Cross College for eight years after his ordination, then received a Bachelor of Law degree from the Catholic University of America in Washington, D. C., in 1945, and was admitted to the bar of the Federal Dis- trict Court in Washington. Father Sweeney served as executive vice-president at Notre Dame from 1946 until he •	was	appointed vice-president	of Port-
।	land	University in 1949.
I Father Scandlon, a native of Frank-|	lin, Pa., received a Bachelor of	Arts de-
|	gree	from Notre Dame in 1930	and was
| ordained a Catholic priest in 1934. He served as Dean of Studies at Portland
I University from 1935 to 1937, and for I the next two years was Superintendent of Schools for the Archdiocese of Port— land. After receiving a Master- of Arts
—Sheehan
Under director Leonard Sommer's watchful gaze, Tom Kramer and Bill Carnell emote during tryouts for the forthcoming production of "The Man Who Came to Dinner."
Oct. 20, 1950
n
New Program Sees Sems Settlers in St, Edward's
A new program for the training of candidates for the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross has been inaugurated at the University of Notre Dame. Twenty-six young men of college age from all parts of the United States, pioneers in this plan, have taken over one floor of St. Edward’s Hall, which has been set up as a “branch” of Holy Cross Seminary. Holy Cross Seminary now is reserved exclusively for high school seminarians.
While living outwardly as regular Notre Dame students, the 26 are attending Seminary classes and are preparing for entry into Sacred Heart Novitiate in South Bend next August. Although their activities are restricted to some extent in most ways these seminarians are indistinguishable from their companions who are studying to be lawyers, doctors and business men.
The Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., a member of the faculty in the College of Commerce, is in charge of the seminarian students in St. Ed’s and acts as their counsellor. Father Wilson, a Notre Dame graduate in the class of 1932, entered Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame ten years after receiving his degree and was ordained in 1949.
The 'Flying Irish'
South Bend Tribune
Up in the air for the first time in history, the grid squad foreshadows its air-borne victory over Tulane by 13-9 score last Saturday afternoon in sunny old New Orleans.
Included in the 26 seminarian students in St. Edward’s are three graduate students, one from Gannon College, Erie, Pa., one from St. Francis College, Loretto, Pa., and the third from Notre Dame.
Remaining Cotillion Tickets Available to Upperclassmen
For the next two weeks, upperclassmen may order bids for the Sophomore Cotillion, to be held Nov. 10 at the Palais Royale. Tickets for the dance are now on sale in the Dining Hall lobby, as well as in the Sophomore halls. However, unless an extension is granted, tickets for’ the Pittsburgh game on Nov. 11 will no longer be available.
Those who have not yet ordered tuxes may still take advantage of the discount offered by making an appointment at Logan’s tuxedo shop, just north of the Oliver Hotel on Main St. in South Bend. A tux alone can be rented for $5.50, while shirt, tie, and other accessories can be had for one dollar more.
Some hotel rooms are still available in the LaSallq, Hoffmann and Oliver hotels for the Cotillion dates from out-of-town. Most of the rooms are doubles at $5 per person for each night: all rooms are equipped with baths. Reservations can be made on campus while the supply lasts.
Bio Greenhouse Finished; Experiments Start at Once
Rev. Robert J. Sheehan, C.S.C., Head of the Department of Biology, announced the completion of a new greenhouse for the furthering of botanical
New greenhouse gets finishing touches.
research at the University. The greenhouse is located directly behind the Biology Building.
The construction of the greenhouse was begun last year and, although all the equipment has not been installed, experimentation will begin immediately. Several sections in the basement will be ready in several weeks.
Vetville Census Under Way; Plan Directory of Residents
In order to tabulate the inhabitants of Vetville, the Vetville Council is now taking a census that will appear in a directory form in about three weeks. The directory will be distributed among the residents of Vetville and also among the halls on campus.
“Not only to count noses,” as Mayor Charles Perrin said, “but also to find out what state and city each family is from, is the census’s purpose.” With the aid of the directory ’next-door neighbors might discover that they are both from the same town and thus get to know one another better.
The council is also sponsoring a paper drive among the families of Vetville on Friday. The purpose of this drive is to raise funds for the Halloween and Christmas parties.planned by the council' for the children of Vetville. •
12
The Scholastic
NFCCS Concentrates
On Rosary Crusade
Sollitt Superintendent Scratches Surface; Harry Nelson Directs Work on Science Site
Meeting this week for the third time since its creation two weeks ago, the new apostolic wing of the campus NFCCS council concentrated on plans for the gigantic rosary rally at the stadium this Sunday.
Notre Dame’s part in the Rosary Crusade is being directed by the campus Knights of Columbus. Through the NFCCS council, the othei- student religious organizations — YCS, Liturgy Club, and Third Order of St. Francis— are aiding in promotion of the Crusade.
Tentative plans decided upon at the meeting include a parade by the band, launched by ringing of the church bells at 1:45 Sunday afternoon. The parade will start at the quadrangle and tour the campus, being joined by students along the way. Then everyone will march to the stadium, where hymns will be sung until the solemn procession enters at 2:30 p.m.
Other plans call for distribution of mimeographed copies of various hymns, the Notre Dame alma mater, and the Pope’s Holy Year prayer. Posters advertising the rally have been placed about the campus by YCS.	_
An invitation has been extended to students of St. Mary’s College to participate in the ceremonies, which will, be attended by thousands of lay men • and women of the diocese, as well as Notre Dame men.	’
Rt. Rev. Msgr. John S. Sabo, v.F., who has charge of the rally, outlined its program at the council meeting
To review what progress has been made toward fulfillment of their plans,, the council members were to meet briefly this afternoon.
Next week the K. of C.’s will canvass the halls to obtain pledges by the students to say the rosary. Off-campus students will be contacted by diocesan laymen. Those not reached can obtain pledge cards on campus.
Sociology Club Sponsors Two Movies on Courtship
The Sociology Club will sponsor two films on courtship and its problems at 8 p.m. Oct. 30 in room 255 of the Main Building. The movies are entitled This Charming Couple and Choosing for Happiness.
A discussion, led by Professor John J. Kane of the Department of Sociology, will follow the presentation of the films. The Club has expanded its facilities for showing pictures of this type. Students and faculty will be welcome at such meetings. There is no admission charge.
By PAT CARRICO, ’54
Harry Nelson doesn’t quite move mountains, but his day’s work amounts to just about the same thing.
The first day that he was on the job a 60,000 square foot lot was cleared, two trees over 60 years old were felled, two dry wells were unearthed, an old sewer system was disrupted, and the basement for a two million dollar ND Science Building was dug.	_
Of course, there are tricks to all trades, and even our dark, slender veteran of New Carlisle, Ind., has a few. You see, he is superintendent of a construction crew of 100 men for the Sollitt Construction Company, builder of the new University of Notre Dame Science Building.
But being boss doesn’t sound as difficult as it really is. Nightmares take the place of night prayers in his business. They range from falling skyscrapers to beds of six-inch spikes. But he still loves it!
His success may lie in the fact that he makes his job a family affair. Mr. Nelson admits that his pretty wife, Ethel, does help out on a lot of book work and recording and figuring specifications. Then, too, he has a son, Richard, who works for him as a carpenter.
Richard is starting out in the same manner- in which his father started 30
Engineer Francis Biron and superintendent Harry Nelson, of the Sollitt Construction Company of South Bend, study plans as construction of Science Building progresses.
years ago. Mr. Nelson had no schooling whatsoever. He learned his trade the hard way. His start as a carpenter was followed by an appointment as carpenter foreman of a job in Mishawaka where he recently finished St. Francis Convent. This was still a larger job than the Science Building is to be. He super-vised the erection of five buildings there.
Although the Sollitt Construction Company has constructed nearly all the buildings on the campus, including the Dining halls, the Stadium, and the Rockne Memorial, Mr. Nelson has only worked on the newer halls: Alumni, Dillon and Zahm Halls.
All of his jobs have been in either the South Bend-Mishawaka district or in Elkhart, Ind. It was there that he was a carpenter for the American Coating Mills building.
Mr. Nelson also has another son, Charles, who teaches high school in Lafayette, Ind. However, this does not exempt him from his share of work for his father in the mathematical field.
We’ll know where to look if the sudden collapse of a skyscrapei- is found to be contributed by a high school freshman’s failure to carry a digit in some simple addition problem.
Oct. 20, 1950
13
Grad Student Came to America From Greece To Escape Communist Perils in Native Land
By RUDY UNGER, ’52
It is a long way from the land of the Parthenon to the tower of Morrissey Hall. But there lives in Morrissey Hall’s tower this year a graduate student who has come that long distance. He is Panos Bardis and his home is in Greece.
Panos left Greece in 1947, after three separate internments by the Communists in that country. He is in the United States on a scholarship provided by the Anglo-American Hellenic Bureau of Education. Before coming to Notre Dame for graduate work, Panos took an AB degree from Bethany College in West Virginia. He is doing his graduate work in Sociology and is aiming for a Ph.D.
Panos comes from a family of - six. His father is a businessman in Greece. The Bardis family, says Panos, frequently receives Red callers. The Communists are usually armed with a rifle and state “Your son Panos has fled to America. He is a fool. He will be sorry!”
Panos escaped from the Greek Communists in 1947 after suffering three imprisonments by them. The Communists want Panos because he is an intelligent young man and the Communist theory is that by getting such potential leaders into their- own service they can most easily turn Greece into a satellite nation. Greece is a strategic pawn in Russia’s game of conquest for it is situated between the two ideological worlds of Communism a.nd Democracy. Which ever camp controls Greece thereby holds the upper hand in Southeastern Europe.
Panos Flees Greece
Because of this situation, Panos decided to flee his native land. He made good his flight to freedom after a month of attempted “conditioning” at the hands of the Reds.
“I was captured,” Panos says, “for the third time by the Communists in 1947. During this period I witnessed the most horrible, unimaginable spectacle of crime and brutality. For 30 days I was made to ‘live’ in a blackened cave, subsisting on watermelon seeds and fruits. I honestly believed that I was experiencing a dream. I had to pinch myself to prove I was awake.
“The only way to understand would be to experience it yourself. Can you imagine human heads crushed and
bodies smashed? ...” He checked himself a moment. “No, I will not tell you. You would not believe me.”
After his escape, Panos sought out the Anglo-American Hellenic Bureau of Education. From this source he obtained his scholarship to Bethany College.
Asked why he chose America as his refuge, Panos said: “I always admired American progress and civilization. I always dreamed of coming to this coun-
try to study. I was happy to come to this country after I underwent so many sufferings. Unexpectedly I found myself in an ideal land, characterized by freedom, happiness, prosperity and welfare.
“Especially, I was glad to realize that, although European Communists assert that America, because of mechanization, industrialization and urbanization, is materialistic; the pepole of this nation
CONTRIBUTOR
Panos Bardis will be a contributor to the SCHOLASTIC during the coming months. He will submit articles dealing with Communism, Europe’s internal affairs, and his observations of American higher education. -
are realistic and not materialistic, being also characterized by noble ideals.”
Panos ran into some difficulty in his quest for a scholarship in America. In order to be eligible for the scholarship, one had to be able to speak English. “Unfortunately,” Panos smiled, “I could not speak a word of English. It was a tragedy. I was so disappointed.”
Masters Language
Without the benefit of a tutor, Panos set out to master the language. Working only with the aid of a textbook, he mastered English sufficiently to satisfy the scholarship authorities in three months. “It wasn’t due to any superhuman ability on my part, but was due to the fact that many English words have their origin in Classical Greek.”
For those who think the English language the most difficult in the world to learn, Bardos’ next statement may be a revelation. “I think that there is no grammar in English; every rule is an exception and every exception appears to be a rule. Most irregular verbs in English have only three or four different forms. Why, in Greek, even the regular verbs have 780 variations!”
Panos graciously agreed to answer any question put to him on Greece or Communism. Asked about Communism and Democracy and their influence in Europe, he answered:
“I do not believe that America is being imperialistic when it participates in Greek affairs. Communistic methods are so Satanic and Machiavelian that no skepticism should be displayed by Democratic nations, the nations which must oppose the expansion of Communism.
“Besides, Russia has been participating in Greek affairs ever since Lenin established the Third International in Moscow in 1919. America did not enter upon the scene until two or three years ago.
“The end of Russia’s participation in Greece is to conquer Greece and subject her to the Communist Ideology. Russia’s part in Greece’s interest has brought revolution and civil war to my country. But America’s interest has been characterized by a tendency to reconstruct the country and to raise the standards of living. However, before this can be accomplished the Reds must be defeated and their effect neutralized.”
In answer to the question “Of what mind are the Greek people?” Bardos said: “The Democratic ideal of America is in accord with the belief of the people of Greece, and as this is so, there is a display of admiration and friendliness for Americans on the part of my people.
14
The Scholastic
There is hope, and there is a small Communist minority now existing in the
country.”
Irrationalistic Commies
Concerning Communist thinking, Panos said: “Communists irrationally disapprove of anything American, while they unquestioningly and wholeheartedly approve of Stalin’s dictatorship. Communists are intoxicated with Communism, they are so blind that they can’t rationalize.”
Asked how he would account for Russia’s remarkable success in taking over Eastern Europe, Bardos commented: “There are two factors. First, Russia’s Machiavellian policies in cooperation with local Red cells make possible the infiltration into a country’s political parties. Secondly, western Democracy .being faithful to its liberal ideals, did not attempt to neutralize the spread of Communism in its early days.
“However, I think that this success of Russia is not essential, for I am sure that human beings cannot and will not tolerate a regime of such brutality for a long period. Sooner or later a struggle will result between Stalin and Tito, and in the meanwhile other Russian satellites will make a successful bid for individual independence.”
Panos’ closing remarks were about American education. After graduating Magna Cum Laude from Bethany, he obtained a scholarship to Notre Dame. “I am particularly overjoyed in obtaining a scholarship here. I am extremely enthusiastic about this educational institution, where I find myself in a religious and intellectual paradise. I am not familiar with many American schools, but if they are anything like Bethany and Notre Dame, then I would like to be a perpetual student.”
Job Placement1 Director Announces Ford Program
Mr. William R. Dooley, director of the Job Placement Bureau, has announced that the Ford Motoi’ Company is currently inviting qualified students to apply for its 18-month Field Training Program.
Any student, graduate or undergraduate, in any college of the University, who is interested in the automotive industry and is willing to work in Detroit, is eligible for the Program. Other qualifications include good health, age from 20 to 26, an average of 85 percent or more, and availability by February, 1951.
Applications and instructions, as well as further information on the Ford Training Program, may be obtained at the Placement office, Main Building, Ground Floor, West Wing.
Expanded Format Set
For Campus Station
“Radio Station WND plans to present an even more varied and entertaining schedule of programs in the near future,” states Jack Maher, the new station manager. Maher, a Senior majoring in political sicence, calls Sorin Hall a home away from Brooklyn, and is a transfer student from St. Peter’s College of Jersey City, N. J. Jack also had previous experience with Fordham University’s radio station, WFUV.
Jack Maher
Two of the latest additions “for your listening pleasure” are a post-game roundup of football scores, and a show featuring barbershop quartette music. Occupying a high spot in WND’s plans, Maher says, is a roundtable discussion in which many of the University’s ■ discussion groups will participate. He also foretells an increase in the station’s news coverage and plans for the return of “Rcquestfully Yours.” Interviews with interesting personalities, from both Notre Dame and elsewhere, will be tape-recorded and broadcast.
An example of WND’s wide program coverage is the full hour after football games, devoted to a run-down of scores throughout the country. The barbershop singing, each Tuesday night, is meant to provide a little variety to the music schedule, and to satisfy those who yearn for the good old days.
The roundtable discussion came cn the air last Wednesday night and can be heard regularly on that day. It incorporates the Commerce Forum, Wranglers, Economic Roundtable, members of
the faculty, and, possibly, the debate team.
Free use of hall phones will be greatly appreciated when “Requestfully Yours” hits the air waves in another month. The news staff will soon begin broadcasting A.P. dispatches.
Director Biondc Relates Orchestra Concert Plans
Mr. Charles A. Biondo, Director of Musical Education at Notre Dame, has announced that the Notre Dame Orchestra will present a musical program in Washington Hall in the latter part of November. No specific dates have been released.
Rosalee Schmewind, of LaPorte, Ind., the winner of the South Bend Symphony Award, will highlight the program with ’ a violin solo of Lalo’s Spanish. Symphony.
William MacMillan, a student at Notre Dame, will play The Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2 by Liszt. The orchestra’s selections will be Bizet’s Symphony No. 1 and Von Weber’s Overland Overture.
Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, Glee Club director, announced that plans are being made for the presentation of choral works for next semester.
Members of Engineering Faculty Attend Conference
Dr. Karl E. Schoenherr and Mr. Adolph G. Strandhagen represented the University of Notre Dame at the Ninth Annual American Towing Tank Conference in Ottawa, Canada.
Dr. Schoenherr is Dean of the Engineering Department and Mr. Strandhagen is an Associate Professor of Engineering.
The National Research Council of Canada -with headquarters in Ottawa, was host to the conference which was held Sept. 11-12. The meeting was composed of representatives of organizations interested in and pursuing work in the field of fluid mechanics, ship resistance, and ship propulsion.
Among the representatives were the Stevens Institute of Technology, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Northwestern University, Pennsylvania State College, the University of Michigan and the California Institute of Technology.
The University of Notre Dame was invited to attend this conference because of its recent .extensive research in this field. Engineering officials at the university soon hope to have testing facilities . to carry on this research.
15
Oct. 20, 1950
Munich-Born Maintenance Man Likes U. S.; Fixing Vending Machines Is Pleasant Job
By HUGH SCHADLE, ’52
Jake stuck a quarter into a residence hall cigarette machine and watched while nothing happened. Kicking and slamming the “thief” gained him nothing. Sensibly he followed the fine print directions on the small sign in front of him and called Extension 248. Joe answered.
“Joe” is a 26-year-old German-born immigrant, Joseph Wagenhofer who, with his partner, A. C. Smith, of South Bend, keeps all campus vending machines in working order. Since he has been in this country nine months, Notre Dame is somewhat new to Joe, but machines aren’t. He has worked -with machines all his life and is glad of the opportunity to carry on his work in this country.
Joe was born in Munich, Germany, where he spent his early life and received elementary schooling. After graduating from the public school he attended the Munich School of Machine Building for four years and then went to work for 2% years for the government. Though his government job was a vital one, Germany, by 1942, was badly in need of fighting men and Joe received his “Gegrueszen” from the Fuehrer in October of that year. He -was sent to the Russian front where he fought near Smolensk for one year before being transferred to Alsace - Lorraine in France. In Alsace-Lorraine, Joe was five miles behind the lines, waiting to move up to the front, when he was hit in the foot by bomb fragments.
“I’m still not sure where the explosion came from,” Joe explained. “But I think it was • a dive-bomber. The next thing I knew I was lying on the ground. They took me to a hospital south of Munich. I stayed there for nine months and had twelve operations on my foot. They let me out two months after the war was over.
Conies to America
“After that I worked in Munich selling machines till my father wrote me from here, where he works as carpenterin the Dining Hall, asking me to come to America. It was quite a surprise. I hadn’t heard from him since 1938.”
Joe immediately made plans to come but it was some time before he was able to obtain an exit-permit from the American consulate. He explained that the prospective emigrant to America must present a paper giving such infor- • mation - as to the income and property holdings of his relative in America and go through a “screening” process to see if he has had any Nazi or Commun
ist party affiliations. Then he must wait.
Joe waited for two years. Finally he was called for his physical examination and given an exit permit. On the fifteenth of December last year he sailed from Le Havre.
Joe said he was “surprised” when he arrived in America at the geniality of the people.
“I find the American people to be very friendly and helpful. It is very much different from the old country. There, things are too much dominated by a military attitude. There is much more of a feeling of naturalness in America.
Joseph Wagenhofer
“In New York there was some confusion about my train ticket to South Bend. One of the ship’s company helped me make the necessary arrangements.”
When asked about the post-war condition of Germany, Joe explained that vast improvements were being made. He estimated that almost sixty per cent of Munich had been destroyed in the course of the war and that twenty per cent of that demolished area had now been rebuilt. He felt that the Marshall Plan had helped greatly in Germany’s postwar reconstruction effort.
Cold War
With regard to the probable outcome and effects in Germany of the cold war Joe made comments favorable to the free nations.
“There is a great deal of fear among the German people,” he said. “Naturally they do not want war, but I do not
think the Russians will start a war. The United States is too powerful. I can only guess at these thing's but I believe that when the Russians’ present store of military equipment runs out they will have nothing. As far as the Germans are concerned they do not like Communism and the Russians have lost much prestige though they think they have gained it. The American army in Germany is a good thing to stop the Russians.”
Joe made some very interesting observations concerning the state of the Russian people as he had seen them during the Avar.
“They are simply not civilized. Their homes are crude and their life extremely hard. Of course, they are kept in ignorance behind the iron curtain but I think that if the Russian people could get help from the outside they would switch their allegiance quickly. They have no real life. In Russia, the Communist dictatorship is complete.”
Comparing university life in Germany with that of America as shown at Notre Dame, he felt that the absence of the strict disciplinary attitude characteristic of the German schools and the greater financial advantages of American students made the lot of their academic life far superior. -
Likes ND
“Notre Dame is very beautiful and well-organized—a little town in itself,” Joe said. “It is much better when the student lives on campus. German schools are overcrowded and prices are very high. Most of the students live faraway from the university. Some have to come twenty miles to classes every morning. The students here should be very happy.”
Joe made a satisfying comparison of the relative superiority of European and American students.
“I suppose the standards are higher in some ways in Europe but the learning depends on the student, there as well as in America. European students do not seem to be superior in any way to American students.”
Asked about his plans for the future Joe expressed complete satisfaction with his present life.	.
“In Germany it was only a dream to come to America. Many people there would like to come. I suppose there are about two million but, of course, only 14,000 are allowed to come each year, and 7,000 of these are displaced persons. If one is not a DP or has no relative in America there is practically no chance of his being able to come over. So, I think I am very lucky. It is a nice country, a nice place to live. I will be satisfied with my share of it. I thank God. and my parents for my opportunity to come to America’.”
16
The Scholastic
Atom Scientists Talk At Seminar Tomorrow
Professor Enrico Fermi and Dr. Arthur H. Snell, two scientists who have made great contributions to the progress of atomic research in the United States, will be guest speakers at an inter-university seminar tomorrow in the auditorium of the Biology Building.
Professor Fermi, who helped make the atomic bomb a reality by developing the first sustained chain-reaction, will discuss “Statistical Theory of Meson Production.” Dr. Snell, chief physicist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tenn., will describe “Recent Work on the Decay of the Neutron.” Scientists from a dozen universities are expected to attend.
An added feature of the day’s program will be a tour- of Notre Dame laboratories devoted to physics research. Visitors will inspect electronics equipment, apparatus now being used to investigate the basic properties of rubber and plastics, and the University’s two “atom-smashers.”
Date Given for Fourth Natural Law Institute
Fourth in an annual series, the Natural Law Institute will be held Dec. 8 and 9 in the College of Law, according
to an announcement by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., president of Notre Dame University.
The two-day program, which is expected to attract legal experts from all parts of the United States, will be devoted to an exposition of current conditions of natural law philosophy in American jurisprudence. Aims of the Institute also include a better and more general public understanding, appreciation and observance of the natural law, along with recognition and acceptance of the natural law by nations of the world.
The Institute will be sponsored for the third consecutive year by Alvin A. Gould, prominent Cincinnati, Ohio, businessman. The first annual Natural Law Institute held in the Notre Dame College of Law in 1947, was sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of New York.
'Hoosier Holiday' Theme Of Student Council Stomp
Notre Dame invades the Palais Royale again tomorrow night with “Hoosier Holiday” the theme of the weekly Student Council dance. Admission is the usual 51-50 per couple.
Gen Hull and his Lettermen will play and the dance will run from 8:30 p. m. to 11:30 p. m. Buses will leave for St. Mary’s after the affair. Twelve-thirty permissions are extended to all campus residents.
Notre Dame Students Attend Press Meeting
Five Notre Dame students and Rev. Joseph Kehoe, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of Student Affairs, will leave early tomorrow for a two-day “workshop,” sponsored by the NFCCS National Press Commission, at St. Joseph’s College, Collegeville, Ind.
The ND delegation includes Scholastic Editor Ken Thoren and NFCCS councilmen John O’Connell and Don Carbone, a Scholastic news writer and member of the local NFCCS chapter.
Rev. Robert C. Hartnett, S.J., editor of America and the Catholic Mind, will serve as the main speaker at the Journalistic Workshop. Supporting him will be six noted Catholic journalists who comprise the Gabriel Guild of Chicago. These men and women will discuss their particular fields in relation to the workshop theme: “The Lay Apostolate in the Field of Communications.”
Beginning Saturday afternoon and closing early Sunday afternoon, the workshop will consist of several panel and general discussions, as well as personal interviews with the principal speakers who will attend the National Press Commission “workshop.”
Other events of the conference include a dance Saturday night and Sunday Mass.
Highlights on the Student Trip
Several student-trippers stage an impromptu pep rally aboard the southbound special. Heading home, the boys were quieter.
Lights of the business and shopping district brighten up the wide expanse of Canal Street, New Orleans' main thoroughfare.
Oct. 20, 1950
17
Murals and Meals
Two freshmen sat quietly alone in the 9 o’clock hustle of the Caf. They neither spoke nor moved as the clock moved on and their coffee cooled. Numbed by the shattering blow of a Departmental Religion exam, almost on the verge of IBM produced- shellshock, they stared ahead.
“Mac.”
“Yeah.”
“Wassat?”
“Whas what?”
“That thing, that picture.”
“This is a fine time to be lookin’ at pitchurs. How should I know?”
“I dunno. Look at the feet on ’em. Wow!”
“Oh, them. Some ad for U. S. Rubber, I think. Ask Fred over there. He’s been here a couple of years. He’ll know.”
“OK. Fred, what are those?”
“Those? Pictures. Paintings. Can’t you see? I don’t know who they are. Maybe Rockne as a boy. Who cares?”
“You’re a big help. Hey, John, you ought to know.”
“Know what? Don’t bother me. I’m studying for a comprehensive.”
“All I want to know is what are those pictures? You been here almost four years. Didn’t you have a course in Local History or something-?”
“That elective was all filled up when I registered. Nah, I dunno. Could be Father Sorin plotting the bus route down Hill Street. Go ’way.”
• “Educated snob! Miss, oh Miss, could
you tell me what those pictures are? No, that’s LIFE. The ones up there. On that wall.”
“Whassa matter, you a wiseguy or something? I only work here. Lift up your cup!”
“Thanks. Mac, Mac, wake up. Nobody knows.”
“I told ya so. Only graduate students know these things. Did ya ever think they might be trying to cover up a dirty wall? Or maybe the thing’s a page out of a comic book. Let’s go back to the hall.”
“I still want to know. What kind of a place is this, anyway? You’d think we were snooping on family secrets. OK, let’s go.”
“Pardon me, are you really interested in those paintings?”
“Where’d that voice come from. Oh, sorry, didn’t you see down there. Who the blazes are you and yes, I am interested in those paintings. Gonna write my thesis on them.”
“I know what they are. I know all about them.”
“Hey Mac, this guy knows! OK pal, what are they? No funny business now. The straight scoop.”
“Straight scoop? I don’t know about that, but I do know that those paintings were done in 1942. They were painted by Augustine G. Pall, a Parisian artist, commissioned by the University to do a
series of commemorative murals for Notre Dame’s centenary.”
“Yeah? How about that? What do they mean, or is that asking a personal question?”
“Oh no, oh my no. That one, on the East wall, is a South American scene depicting John A. Zahm and Theodore Roosevelt in their expedition along the Amazon rubber plantations. Father Zahm, you know, was a great scientist.”
“Yeah? What’s the little picture over there in the corner?”
“That’s Father Julius Nieuwland in his laboratory working on the synthetic rubber formula. The two scenes represent the contributions of Notre Dame and the Congregation of the Holy Cross to the culture and science of America.”
“What’s the other thing over there?”
“That is just a series of pictures showing the panorama of campus life. At the left is the Coquillard family erecting the Log Chapel; in the center is the commencement flag raising; on the right is the growth of the University, new buildings about the old Main Building and Washington Hall.”
“Whadda ya know. Thanks, buddy. Hey, how’d you find out all this? No one around here knows anything about those pictures, much less cares.”
“Me? Oh, I’m taking a course in Local History. This is part of our outside reading.”
“Outside reading? Mac, he’s nuts. No one ever does any outside reading.”
“Don’t I know. Don’t I know ...”
Undisturbed by the bustle below, Father Zahm and "T. R." trek up the Amazon as Father Nieuwland tests his synthetic rubber.
A history of Notre Dame in capsule form appears in the Caf's little-noticed mural panorama painted by A. G. Pall in 1942.
18
The Scholastic
The Church, the State and Mr. Blanshard-lll
The problem of the Church and State can be resolved fairly definitely on a high abstract plane. The theory says there are two perfect societies; one which is temporal, the other spiritual. The civil society legislates and orders for the temporal ends of man. The spir-■ itual society, whose ends are spiritual and therefore outside of the world, nevertheless must legislate in the temporal crder, but not through the channels of civil law.
Spiritual Society
However, if the civil society in its activity and lawmaking encroaches on or opposes the aims and rights of the spiritual society, then the only medium available to the spiritual society for the restoration of proper order is civil legisla-"" tion. But if there has been no usurpation • or neglect on the part of the civil society, then the spiritual authority could have no valid reason for interfering in the - proper activity of the former.
However, in the contingent and concrete order, in the existential order of everyday life, the problem becomes infinitely complex and incapable of total solution. The form of the state is constantly changing, and it is up to the Church to adjust herself to this change, but not at the expense of her aims or constitution. Hei' dogma and her authoritarian organization must remain sancro-sanct. In the past the Church has experienced many different kinds of states, imperial Rome, the mediaeval Christian feudal state, the French anti-clerical nation state, and others. In each, the problem has been answered by the Church without any sacrifice of her principles.
Nowadays the Church has for her companion the modern secular state. With the social and ideological changes going T' on at a dynamic and baffling pace, this problem comes to the fore with great intensity and urgency. The Soviet Union has met it head on and has resolved it by an outspoken determination to liquidate the Church. In most of the democratic states of the west the problem exists but has been distorted, confused and often avoided. Recently, in the United States, it has become an open issue of debate, with the secular participants finding the subject extremely elusive.
, These people often mean what they do
Oct. 20, 1950
not say and say what they do not mean. More often than not they are like Belloc’s uneducated man who mixes his categories and is even ignorant of a few of them. This is especially true of Blan-shard who, for example, is constantly accusing the Church of totalitarian and dictatorial practices, not realizing that he is using political terms, which signify political realities, to describe the religious functions of a religious organization. But so be it.
Heinrich Rommen defined rather well this secularist position towards the Church in a recent study. He said:
“A secularist outlook, indeed, may slur over the reality and intensity of the true problem. For the secularized outlook the Church in her essence —and even more so the churches and the sects— is not different in genere from other numerous private organizations for the furtherance of more or less rational aims and longings in a constitutionally pluralist society. The secularist will, therefore, recognize only one pragmatic rule: tolerance unless the public order and the competency of the police power is directly concerned. Public order includes all too often for the secularist his reform ideas and his social ideals based on a relativist pragmatism in ethics and thus makes him highly sensitive to the criticism by a Church which bases ethics on revelation and in competencies which the secularist can only consider as unfounded and arrogant. Only if the Church remains in the private sphere of private individuals and stays in this ‘free’ sohere where the secularist will tolerate any mass-idiosyncracies, only thus will he condescendingly tolerate the Church.”—{The Re-viezu of Politico, Church and State, Julv. 1950. p. 321.)	‘
Confronted by a mentality such as this, any truly intelligent discussion of the problem becomes impossible. The essence of the Church is theological and
Oh, I'm AWFULLY sorry, Dr. Baker!
absolute, but for the positivist, the “relativistic pragmatist,” there is no absolute and theology is merely opinion and more likely superstition. To discuss the temporal activity of the Church one must do so within the context of the tehologi-cal and the absolute. It is, at least, to the intellectual credit of the atheistic communist to have recognized the problem as essentially theological and metaphysical. The pool- Blanshards of the world have never had the benefit of this vision; they must content themselves with the superficial. No doubt these are akin to the good people of the world, who in the age of the apocalypse, are to be deceived.
Pertinent Importance.	.
All this, it would seem, should have a most pertinent importance for the Catholic student. He has been educated to believe in an absolute norm of morality, in a Divine Church, and in the satanic potencies of the world. His secularized brethren, for the most part, have been brought up to hold that morality is merely the intelligence of the majority operating on human experience, that no church is divine and that men are dependent, but only upon one another. In their beliefs there is a practical exclusion of the Divinity, and Satan has become a bogey man of the mediaeval mind. Mr. Blanshard rejoices in the fact that his book was “the number two best selling book in college bookstores throughout the country”; and further that the “new movement against Catholic aggression in the field of politics is rising not on the fringes, the lunatic fringes of religion arid fanaticism, but right in the hearts of American university leaders.”
No doubt these students 'will be our* business, legal, or political associates in the years to come. They will also come to bear- an influence upon our lives. For that reason it had better be the Catholic student’s work to understand that mentality as fully as possible; not, primarily, because it is a threat to the Church —which it is—but because once he has departed from the protective environment of a Catholic university it might well dissipate or possibly destroy his own individual Catholicism.
—Frank Brophy, ’51
19
g
The Elephant Hunt |
I sat with my two uncles and my aunts oh the front porch of the house on Van Buren Street. I was eight years old, and I was watching a beetle climb a twig.
My uncle Jim was lying on the grass with a cigarette in his mouth looking at the sky. He was kind of quiet. I knew he was thinking of something. He kind of grumbled in his throat every once in a while. I watched the beetle climbing the twig and finally he made it to the top. I knocked him off.
My uncle Jim nudged my uncle Vince who was lying next to him, and Vince sort of jumped and then he sat up and looked at him. Jim glanced quickly at my aunts, but they were talking away fast and loud, so he whispered to Vince. I heard him say Vanderheyden. I could see Vince nod his head and then he smiled and whispered, “O.K.”
They got up and began sauntering around the yard very casually, and yawning. I noticed my two aunts stop talking and start watching them. Then Kathleen whispered to Mary and Mary looked mad and shook her head hard.
“You know,” Jim said very loudly, “you know . . . it’s a beautiful day. I hate to see a beautiful day go wasted like this, just lying in the grass like a dandelion.” He smiled at my aunts, but they didn’t smile back. They just looked at him. But he went on talking. “You know,” he said, “it’s just the sort of day to go fishing. How about going fishing, Vinnie?” Vince stuck his finger up in the air and felt the wind and looked at the sky and sort of wrinkled up his face like he was thinking and then he nodded his head slowly. “Seems right,” he said.
“Fine, fine,” said Jim, “just the thing on a beautiful day like this.” He began rubbing his hands together and smiling broad and happy. Then my aunt Mary said to my aunt Kathleen, “You know, it’s a very nice sort of thing, this Prohibition. I hate to see such a beautiful thing as Prohibition wasted. I hear too, Kathleen, that Virgil Vanderheyden has just mixed up a new bathtubful last night!” Then she looked sort of slow and steady at my uncle Jim. He sat down and stopped smiling.
“Can I go fishing too?” I asked.
My two uncles flopped back onto the grass. “We’re not going fishing,” said my uncle Jim.
20
^y Snyels, ’52
“No, we’re not,” said my uncle Vince.
“Oh,” I said.
After a while my two aunts got up and went in the house. “Vince,” said Jim, “I really hate to see a nice day like this go to waste.”
“I know,” said Vince, “I know how you feel. Virgil mixes a fine brew.”
Jim said, “I hesitate to suggest this, and I wouldn’t expect that I feel it’s very sinful to let nature go to waste like this. And the car motor is very quiet since I got it fixed.”
“Can I go?” I said.
Vince said, “No.”
“Jim,” he said, “I can hardly believe that you mean it. Are you suggesting ... ?”
Jim said, “Yes.”
“I’m willing to bet,” said Vince, “that
that old car makes more noise than the explosions of your brew jugs.”
“Taken,” said Jim, “let’s go.”
“I want to go,” I said.
Jim said, “No!”
“You better take me,” I said, “or I’ll tell aunt Mary where you’re going.”
INCE sat down again. “Come here,” he said, “come here and sit on your old uncle Vinnie’s knee.” I went over and sat on his- knee. He said, “Now what would you want to do a thing like that for? Your uncle Jim and I are going to test the car. It’s dangerous riding around in a car you don’t know anything about.”
“You take me, or I’ll tell aunt Mary
you’re going to Red Vanderheyden’s and drink beer,” I said.
Vince sighed and looked at Jim. “Well, Jim, I guess we’ll have to tell him.” He looked at me again. “I didn't want to tell you this,” he said, “because it’s very secret. But if you promise to keep still, I’ll tell you where we’re going.”
“Tell me,” I said.
“First promise.” I promised. Then he looked around twice and leaned over close to my ear. “We’re going on an elephant hunt,” he whispered.
“ELEPHANT HUNT,” I yelled. “I didn’t know there were elephants in Wisconsin.”
Vince stood up quickly. “Not so loud,” he said, “and don’t be scared. The elephants all live out in the country.”
“I’m not scared of elephants,” I said. “I want to go. I want to see the elephants. Maybe we’ll catch a baby one and I can have it for a pet.”
“No,” he said, “no, it’s a long trip and you’d get tired and cry.”
“Take me,” I said, “I promise not to cry.”
Vince said, “No.”
I began to cry. I cried loudly, “TAKE ME ON THE ELEPHANT HUNT.”
“All right,” he said, “All right. Only stop that yelping. They’ll hear you all over town.”
I CLIMBED into the car. Jim backed carefully down the driveway, coasting the last thirty feet. “I told you the motor was quiet,” he said to Vince.
He turned out into the street and made the cai- go fast until he had turned the corner. Then he slowed down.
“Will we see many elephants, Uncle Vince?” I asked.
My uncle Vince was quiet for a minute. “We might,” he said, “and then again we might not see any. You never can tell.”
“You’re right,” said Jim, “you never can tell.”
After that nobody said much for a long time. We had been driving for about an hour when it began to rain: The rain fell misty and it made the black top look like it was greased.
All the time I was watching out the window for elephants. I couldn’t see anything but the flat marshes that bordered the road and stretched ten miles to the bay.
The Scholastic
Pretty soon Jim swung off the main highway onto a sandy rutted road. I knew the road.
“You’re going to Virgil Vanderhey-den’s,” I said.
“Yes,” said my uncle Vince, “Virgil knows all about elephants. We’re just going to stop for a second and ask him where to look for the elephants.”
I said, “Are you sure there’s elephants in Wisconsin?”
“Of course,” said Vince.
“Maybe there are,” I said, “but I never heard of any. Just then the car stopped in front of a small, unpainted shanty and my uncles got out. “You wait here,” said Vince, “we’ll be right out.”
I sat in the car and listened to the rain spatter on the canvas top of the car. It didn’t make much noise. In about an half hour my uncles came out. Vince was carrying a package.
“What’s in the package?” I asked. Vince didn’t answer, and Jim said, “Just elephant bullets. It takes bullets to kill an elephant.”
I BELIEVED him. The package looked like it held big bullets. “Where’s the gun to shoot the bullets?” I asked.
“You don’t need a gun,” said Vince, “you just put a bullet in your mouth and spit it at the elephant.”
“Oh,” I said.
We drove slowly along the highway. Once I heard paper rustling in the front seat. Suddenly Jim yelled. “Look,” he shouted, “look quick at the elephants!”
“Where,” I gabbled, “where?” I tried to look out all four windows at once. “Too bad,” said Vince, “you must have missed them.” He wiped the back of his hand across his mouth and sighed. “Take your time, Jim,” he said.
We drove along for quite a long time without stopping and every once in a while Jim yould yell to look at the elephants. But they always vanished into the woods before I saw them. Those elephants sure moved fast.
Once I turned away from the window sort of fast and uncle Vince was drinking something from a bottle.
“Can I have some, please?” I asked.
Vince put the bottle down between his knees quickly. “Some what?” he asked.
“Some of what’s in the bottle,” I said.
He seemed puzzled. “Bottle,” he said, “bottle ...” Suddenly he broke out laughing. “Jim,” he said, “you know what he thought was a bottle?”
“No,” said Jim, “what?” Vince said, “He thought that elephant bullet I was testing was a bottle. You see,” he said turning to face me in the back seat, “you have to test those bullets to make sure they’re not duds. You have to see
if they fit your mouth just right. If they don’t they’re no good.”
“Oh,” I said. Vince turned around again. “Do the bullets fit all right?” I asked. My uncle Vince burped slightly behind his hand. “They fit fine,” he said.
After that they didn’t see any more elephants, but they kept testing the bullets every few minutes anyway.
I GUESS they wanted to be prepared.
After a while they began to sing, and uncle Jim sang a song about a lumberjack who went to town with his first pay check in two years, and then Vince started to sing.
“Won’t the elephants be scared?” I said. “They might hear you and run away.” Uncle Vince turned around and smiled widely, resting his chin on the back of the seat.
“Not when they hear your old uncle Vinnie sing,” he said. “When they hear your old uncle Vinnie sing those ele-
MASS SCHEDULE
*Saturday, Oct. 21—white—Mass of Our Lady on Saturday. 2nd or. of St. Hilarion, 3rd or. of St. Ursula, 4th or. of the Rosary, 5th or. for Peace. Preface of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Sunday, Oct. 22—green—21st Sunday after Pent. 2nd or. “Defend us,” 3rd or. for the Propagation of the Faith, 4th or. of the Rosary. Credo and Preface of the Trinity.
'Monday, Oct. 23 — green — Same Mass as yesterday without Gloria and Credo. Omit or. for the Prop, of the Faith, and substitute or. for the Faithful Departed (from the daily Mass for the Dead). Common preface.
Tuesday, Oct. 24—white—St. Raphael, Archangel. 2nd or. of the Rosary. Credo, common Preface.
^Wednesday, Oct. 25 — red—Sts. Chrysanthus and Darius, Martyrs. 2nd or. “Defend us,” 3rd or. of the Rosary.
'Thursday, Oct. 26—red—St. Eva-ristus, pope and martyr. Common Mass for popes. 2nd or. “Defend us,” 3rd or. of the Rosary. Preface of the Apostles.
Friday, Oct. 27—violet—Vigil of Sts. Simon .and Jude. Mass of the vigil.
2nd or. of Our Lady (“Grant, we beseech Thee”), 3rd or. for the Church, 4th or. of the Rosary, 5th or. for Peace.
* A Requiem Mass or a Votive Mass is permitted.
phants will come running.” He started to sing again:
“Oh, they’ll come running, they’ll come running;
When those elephants hear your uncle sing
They’ll really come a^funning”
I didn’t say anything because I figured that the elephants weren’t likely to be out on a rainy day like this one, anyway.
“I don’t think we’ll see any elephants today,” I said.
“Who cares?” Vince said. Uncle Jim started to sing about the lumberjack again. I leaned back against the seat and closed my eyes. Through a sleepy fog I distinctly heard the clink of elephant bullets over and over again.
I woke up when the car stopped and it was dark. “Come on,” said Vince, “let’s go.” He held the front seat back while I climbed out. The three of us walked slowly up the back steps of the house, and Vince kept his hand on my shoulder as he climbed- Jim held onto' the railing, and once he kicked the steps loudly.
“Shut up,” said Vince, “you want to wake them up? It was very late and I felt very much the man.
tTUST then the back door opened and aunt Mary stood looking at us. “Hello,” she said, “hello boys.” She spoke very quietly. “How was the fishing trip?”
“We didn’t go fishing,” I said, “we went on an elephant hunt. We had lots of fun, but we didn’t see any elephants.”
After I got in bed I heard aunt Mary talking in the kitchen. She was talking pretty loud, and once in a while I heard uncle Vince say something. He didn’t talk much, though.
But I was pretty tired, so it didn’t keep me awake long.
Graduate Exam to Be Held
The Graduate Record exam will be held on Oct. 27 and 28 in Room 101 of the Law Building.
Graduate students taking the test are to report at 1:4-5 p.m. Friday and 8:4-5 a.m. Saturday. An advanced exam is also scheduled for 1:45 p.m. Saturday, but not all graduates will have to take this exam.
Notre Dame is serving as a testing center for the administration of the exam. Since many men who are not students here will also participate in the program, it is impossible to contact them with reference to any change in the schedule. For this reason, the office of the Educational Testing Service, Princeton, N. J., has prohibited any modification in the hours for the examination, already set up on a nation-wide scale.
Oct. 20, 1950
21
You can dance your way to health says...
ARTHUR MURRAY
Instead of prescribing pills when you’re sick, your physician is likely to suggest you take a partner —and dance! In this month's American Magazine. our most
famous teacher of dancing reports that doctors now help the shy and anxiety-ridden, even the blind and disabled, through dancing.
Don't miss this stimulating article. After all, what medicine could be easier to take than to hold
a girl in your arms, and dance your troubles away?
SOCT. ISSUE-Now on Sole
mcrican
MAGAZINE
120 E. Wayne St.
Air Cadet Club Completes Smoker, Breakfast Plans
A smoker and a communion breakfast have been planned for members of the Air Cadet Club in the immediate future, President Bill Whiteside announced at the first meeting of the cadets last week.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., will celebrate Mass in one of the hall chapels for the communion breakfast on Nov. 1, and speak afterward at the breakfast.
Also discussed at the meeting last week were the two dances planned by the club this year. The hop scheduled for Nov. 25 has been called off permanently, but the Military Ball—which is to include not only Air ROTC men, but also the NROTC students—will be sometime next Spring.
Officers for the Air Cadet Club, which is open to all Air ROTC students, this year are president Whiteside, vice-president John Moore, secretary Jerry Kelley, and treasurer Lou Basso.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildrool Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
WHEN Sheedy tried to hook
a gal, he was sunk because his
hair was out of line, poor fish! Everybody panned him so much he wanted to get fried! Then he hooked onto Wildroot Cream-Oil and passed the Finger-Nail Test. Now he s having a whale «f a time! Wildroot Cream-Oil relieves annoying dryness and removes loose, ugly dandruff. It’s non-alcoholic... contains soothing Lanolin. So water ya waitin’ for? Get a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic at your drug counter today. Ask your barber for professional applications, and keep a bottle perched onyour roommate’s dresser, too, so he’ll know how to stay’ in the swim! For generous trial supply, free, send this ad with your name and address to Dept. F, Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11,-N.Y.
* of327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, IncM Buffalo 11, N. Y.
ooaMniMM
The Third Degree
By E. C. MERTZ
THE THIRD DEGREE—E. C. Mertz
With the nation in the throes of Red Feather drives, the Third Degree wishes to get into the act in community service with some hot tips for the grads who shortly will come cheek to jowl with the language exams. So, if all such will stop their incoherent multi-lingual muttering, and give a small listen, we will elucidate.
First, the exams are to be given Oct. 23 and 24, French on Monday and German, (Western Zone, of course, comrade), on Tuesday.
Second, a dictionary is not only permitted, but it is a most essential part of your kit. A specialized dictionary for your field is very useful. Speed in looking up words you don’t know, (i.e., all of them barring a stray und or vous), is at a premium, although sandpapered fingers a la Raffles to increase digital dexterity in flipping p:ges is of dubious value.
Third, the Dept, of Modern Languages has copies of the old exams on file, which are available for loan, if you care to try your skill.
Fourth, in taking these little brain-twizlers, the best way to beat the rap is to know the language. Painful but true
The column wishes to apologize for its rather premature announcement of the Oct. 6 dance. Seems there is a considerable problem in locating a roof to keep the rain and snow off said party, and we flapped our dentures a wee bit too soon. Ralph Weber is currently investigating possibilities of time and place. Will pass the word when we get it, so keep those golden slippers polished.
A word seems in order regarding the poor attendance at the last meeting of the Graduate Association. The transaction of business may be a pretty dull operation, but it is highly necessary to the success of the group. The Association is the spokesman for graduate students in obtaining definition of our status, and in clearing up the areas of misunderstanding which inevitably crop up in student-faculty relations. Thus every grad should be vitally interested in the proceedings since the decisions arrived at in these meetings may affect each of you. And, our crystal ball being clouded these days, we cannot speak for you, unless you let us know your ideas and opinions. Let’s see everybody out for the November meeting.
22
The Scholastic

Compiled by KEN STEAD. ’53
Rev. PHILIP HANLEY, O.P., and Rev. FRANCIS D. NEALY, O.P., of the Notre Dame faculty, were named instructors in the recently organized school of theology for laity. The school will be conducted in the Knights of Columbus hall, 122 North Main Street in South Bend.
Organized by a group of Catholic laymen, the school grew out of a theology course held on a trial basis last spring.
Based upon teachings of the Catholic church, the classes, nevertheless, will be open to persons of all faiths.
JOHN J. HOOKER, assistant professor of History at the University of Notre Dame, addressed the Mishawaka Exchange Club on Oct. 12. The subject of Professor Hooker’s talk was England’s present day Socialist government.
partment of Sociology, addressed the general assembly of the Annual Congress of Correction in St. Louis, Mo., on Oct. 12. Dr. O’Brien discussed current trends in correctional treatment with particular emphasis on “Social Group Approaches” and “Psycho-Therapy.” The Congress was attended by members of the Japanese Prison Association and the Correctional System of India along with delegates from Canada and the United States.
DAVID R. DRISCOLL, former Notre Dame student and member of the Scholastic news staff, has been appointed chairman of a planning committee for a Kentucky state-wide International Relations convention to be held shortly at the University of Louisville. Driscoll is presently attending classes at the University of Louisville.
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bld?.
Aquinas Library
and
Bookstore
YOUR CATHOLIC SHOPPING
CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
110 E LaSalle
DANIEL H. PEDTKE, head of the Department of Music here, has been named to direct the Michiana Brotherhood chorus in the 1951 Brotherhood week presentation of Haydn’s oratorio, Creation. Pedtke is director of the Notre Dame glee club and of the choir of St. Patrick’s church.
Dr. HUGH P. O’BRIEN, of the De-
Graduate School Reaches Record Enrollment of 450
This year sees the largest enrollmen': in the history of the Graduate School, with 450 studying under its direction. These students are divided among four divisions: arts and letters, social science, science, and engineering, and among 20 departments. Chemistry, with 82, has the largest departmental enrollment.
Old and new students are divided equally in the student body. Among them are 40 priests, four Sisters, and four Brothers. Forty-one foreign students from 13 different countries are in attendance. The Mediaeval Institue claims four full-time scholars.
Lots of
. A
partier ahead
THANKSGIVING

Get set now for the best time ever!
Mountaineers Hold Picnic
Tomorrow is picnic club for- members of the Rocky Mountain Club. Plans for the affair were discussed at the club’s regular business meeting last Monday. The picnic is the group’s first social affair of the semester and all members are urged to attend. Those interested may contact the chairman, John Moran, in 232 Howard Hall.
• Wintertime can be such a gay time if you’re a good dancer. And, anyone can be a sought-after partner the Arthur Murray Way. You see Arthur Murray has an exclusive method that makes learning to dance as easy as A-B-C. The whole secret is in his “Magic Step To Popularity”. This is the key step to all dances and is simple to learn. So come in now and prepare for the gayest winter season you’ve ever had in your life.
ARTHUR MURRAY
2 FOR 1 RATES NOW Dances Thursday. 9 p. m. You are welcome.
Notre Dame Students Invited
Phone 2-3339 for FREE LESSON
NO CHARGE 120 East Wayne St.
Oct. 20, 1950
23
WEDARE them AU!
Philip Morhis l«'"ng ‘.ugsXLsT <”‘”r this test
I HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!

1 Light up a PHILIP MORRIS. Just take a puff— DON’T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?

x-


2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip MORRIS invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER
SMOKING p1H” t

Sb/
‘PHILIP MORRIS

^he Scholastic
I

Irish Gun For No. 3 At Bloomington
Air Battle Forecast for Memorial Stadium
By FRAN MEANEY, ’54
Poised and ready, Coach Clyde Smith’s ■ Hurryin’ Hoosiers are set to launch an all out attack in hopes of defeating Notre Dame for the first time since 1906. A throng of close to 34,000 is expected to witness the twenty-third meeting of the two schools tomorrow at 1:30 in Bloomington’s Memorial Stadium.
Indiana has a veteran squad eager to avenge last fall’s 49-6 trouncing, the worst defeat suffered by either team in | the history of the series. Notre Dame !	- led at the half by a 16-6 margin, but
injuries to key men and Hoosier inexperience ruined any chance for a comeback. Now it is Frank Leahy’s charges who are somewhat the worse for wear-after three grueling encounters. The Tulane victory was a hard fought one, eked out in the sweltering 80 degree heat of New Orleans. Indiana is hoping.
The aerial-minded Hoosiers have been clogging the air lanes with passes thus far this season, and tomorrow’s game ! should follow the same pattern. In their • r three contests to date, Indiana has piled i up more total yardage than the com-1 bined offense of their opponents. After
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS
Notre Danie	Indiana
Mutscheller ....E....... Anderson Toneff .................T. Kovatch
Alessandrini ...G....... Georgakis Groom ..................C. Dolan
Wallner .......G...........Thomas
Flynn ..........T.......... Bosak
Ostrowski .....E............ Luft
Williams ......Q........ D’Achille Paolone ................H............... Robertson Gay ....................H. Gedman
Landry .........F......... Bowman
KICKOFF: 1:30 C.S.T.
Clifton Anderson
Nebraska held them to a 20-20 stalemate, they stunned Iowa, 20-7, blasting any Hawkeye hopes for an undefeated season that might have arisen after the upset of Southern Cal. Before the great running of Ohio State’s Janowicz & Co., the Cream and Crimson bowed, 26-14.
Passing Main Threat
The Hoosier forte so far this season has been a formidable passing attack that has averaged 200 yards per game. In this year’s Iowa tilt, Indiana set a new Big Ten record for the longest scoring pass play when Lou D’Achille’s toss to Bob Robertson carried for 91 yards and a touchdown. With brilliant passing and swift receivers, Indiana is a constant scoring threat. On the other hand, the ground offense is decidedly not on a par with the passing. Only 384 yards have been gained by lushing in 1950, and against the Buckeyes they collected a meagre 81. It appears as if Indiana will direct its energies skyward and pin its hopes on the pitching of Sophomore Lou D’Achille.
The 5’8” 165-pound quarterback has been Indiana’s outstanding player to date. His accurate pin-point passing is largely responsible for the Hoosiers strong showing after a dismal ’49 season in which they won but a single game in nine outings. Tabbed by sportswriters as the “Left-handed Johnny Lu-j'ack,” the Beaver Falls, Pa., resident has exhibited remarkable poise and confidence in his passing, and expert field generalship. The excellent protection afforded the pint-sized passer does a great deal to increase the efficiency of the
Hoosier overhead offense. D’Achille will need this protection to defend against his erstwhile high school teammate, Jim Mutscheller, who will be trying hard to break up his throws.
Against Ohio State, D’Achille put his name in the Big Ten record books. He completed 20 out of 38 passes to set a new mark for pass attempts and tie Otto Graham’s record for successful completions. He has a pitching percentage of .542.
Robertson Best Ground Gainer
South Bend’s Bobby Robertson is the team’s leading ground gainer- and the Western Conference’s best punter. The 190-pound Junior has rushed a bit more than four yards per try this year and his kicks are averaging 40 yards. Because of his speed, he has been frequently on the receiving end of D’Achille’s heaves.
On the wings are Clifton (Doc) Anderson, holder of the Big Ten record for passes caught in a Western Conference season, and either Hugh Craton—regular right end who was inj'ured in the Iowa game — or Don Luft, starter against the Buckeyes.
Ernie Kovatch and Ed Bosak, a 218-pound Junior, will draw the tackle assignments. Kovatch, a product of South Bend’s Riley High, weighs only 185
Bobby Robertson
25
Oct. 20, 1950
pounds, but is rated by Coach Smith as one of his hardest-charging linemen. •
Steve Georgakis, a tackle in '48 and ’49, has been moved to guard to bolster the center of the line. Georgakis and reserve guard Bill Smith played the most minutes for Indiana last fall. Ex-Marine Danny Thomas, 185 pounds, 5’ 8”, is an extremely fast and hardy ball player who will probably start tomorrow.
The pivotman is “Irishman” Jack Dolan, a rugged tackler who specializes in backing up the line. Very promising in 49’, Dolan caught the eye of Coach Smith and has been used quite regularly this fall. Bob Stebbins, a sure-fire blocker and a capable offensive center, will also see a great deal of action.
Gene Gedman and Jim Gomory will share the right half position. Gomory is a hold-over from last year’s squad and Gedman is rated one of the best hard-running sophs to be seen at Bloomington in several years.
The Hoosiers have a doubtful starter in fullback Jerry Van Ooyen, sidelined with an injury. If he is unable to play tomorrow, Arnold Bowman, a 190-pound Junior will take over.
Irish Start New Streak
Again it was the passing of Bob Williams that brought victory to Notre Dame, this time over Tulane, 13-9. It was the sixth Irish win without a loss in the series which ended Saturday.
Over 73,000 fans jammed the Sugar Bowl and saw Tulane go 63 yards in five plays the first time it got its hands on the ball, and lead, 7-0, at the end of two minutes. But Notre Dame bounced right back with a 54 yard pass play from Williams to John Petitbon, playing
in his home town, to score. Joe Caprara added the point and it was 7-7 at the period.
Mixing his plays beautifully, Williams led the team on a 67 yard march in the second quarter with Del Gander going over standing up from ten yards out.
What started out to be a high scoring game slowed to a shuffle as the only points registered in the second half were on a safety by Tulane. Time and again the Green Wave drove toward the Irish goal line, only to be stopped by a bad break or a stubborn defense. The great defensive play of Captain Jerry Groom was a major factor in stalling the Southerners’ attack.
Once more the Irish are on a winning streak.
Harriers to Madison; Run Against Badgers
Notre Dame’s Cross Country team will take to the road for the first time tomorrow when they travel to Madison, Wis., to take on the ever-powerful Badgers. The Irish will be underdogs against Wisconsin since they beat Marquette, 26-30, and the Hilltoppers beat Notre Dame on the home course last Saturday.
Wisconsin will be led by veterans Captain Jim Urqhart, Randolph, Firchow and Ward, all of whom collaborated to hand the Irish their worst dual defeat last year.
Although they lost to Marquette by a 23-32 score, the Irish harriers ran much better than the score indicates, for every man on the Irish team improved over their previous week’s time. The times will have to continue to drop, however, if the team expects to beat Wisconsin.
Sophomore John Stearns led the pack to the wire in the terrific time of 20:09. just ten seconds short of the course record set last year by Don Gehrman of Wisconsin. ND’s Benny Almaguer finished second with Robbins and Wilson of Marquette taking third and fourth respectively.
Jim Kittell, Irish captain, barely grabbed fifth from teammate George Helfenstein, a sophomore. Back of Hel-fenstein were Glaser and Bears of Marquette, who just beat out the Irish’s Bob Feiler. Sophomore John O’Connor finished out Notre Dame’s scoring. Con Tetrault and Tony DaDamio finished sixth and seventh for the Irish, Tetrault
Irish and Marquette harriers start off on their four-mile run. Ben Almaguer, second from right, was first ND man to finish.
John Stearns, the Hilltoppers' sophomore sensation, breaks the tape to win by 60 yards over Almaguer. His time: 20:09.
26
The Scholastic
improving his best previous tim? by 30 seconds. Harry Snyder competed as an independent against Marquette and although his points did not count, he finished strong, beating out Tetrault.
Picking the team to make the trip to Wisconsin will furnish Irish Coach Alex Wilson with a problem, having eight men and being able to run only seven. The team this year- seems to be much stronger than last year’s outfit. Sophomores George Helfenstein, John O’Connor and Harry Snyder have worked into the team of three juniors—Ben Almaguer, Bob Feiler, and Con Tetrault. The only man that won’t be back next year is Captain Jim Kittell.
Michigan State Wins; Only Victorious Foe
Last Saturday was another bad afternoon for five of the six remaining Notre Dame opponents. Only Michigan State was able to squeeze through a week-end that saw Indiana, Navy, Pitt, Iowa, and Southern California all go down in defeat.
Indiana, tomorrow’s opponent, was beaten, 26-14, by Ohio State’s defending Big Ten champions. Hoosier Lou D’Achille tied the Big Ten passing record set by Otto Graham in 1942 by completing 20 in 39 tries, but even this stellar performance had little effect on the Buck
eyes who just can’t seem to forget last January’s roses.
Michigan State bounced back from a Maryland defeat with a 33-14 win over William and Mary. A 90-yard punt return by halfback Jesse Thomas overcame an early 7-6 lead, and the Spartans were masters the rest of the way.
Navy enjoyed a 14-7 half-time lead, but a strong Princeton eleven came back in' the second half to scuttle the Middies by a 20-14 count. The Sailors are still looking for their first victory.
Pittsburgh’s hopes for a return to the gridiron heights were further jolted last Saturday. The Panthers made it a fight, but it was Rice, 14-7.
Two pass interceptions by Wisconsin’s Ed Withers gave the Badgers a 14-0 win over Iowa’s slipping Hawkeyes.
Southern California almost upset California last week for their first victory of the year. The Trojans scored early in the fourth period to take a 7-6 lead, but the Golden Bears came roaring back to a 13-7 victory that kept them among the ranks of the nation’s unbeaten.
The Irish will attempt to stretch their new victory string against Indiana tomorrow at Bloomington.
At the same time, Michigan State will be host to Marquette, winless Southern Cal travels East to meet winless Navy, Pitt goes against North west era at Evanston and Iowa is home to Purdue in a Big Ten contest.
Williams Leads Offense; Mutscheller Top Scorer
Playing under very warm weather conditions which, combined with injuries, nullified the Notre Dame running attack, Bob Williams, Notre Dame quarterback, switched to passing, took to the air. 3-5 times and completed 16 passes to lead his team to victory over Tulane. Williams’ passing gains — 225 yards — comprised almost 95% of the total Irish yardage. Saturday’s contest also saw Bob’s total passing yardage for his three-year college career go over the mile mark.
Williams, who has been the most important factor in Notre Dame victories thus far, also boosted his punting average against the Green Wave. Among his kicks Saturday, were two over 50 yards from scrimmage—one -55, and the other 53. Williams now has a season punting average .of 41.9 yards. Again Saturday a Williams pass was the margin of victory. Thus far, four of the six Irish scores have gone through the air.
On the running side, good Tulane line play, heat and injuries combined to stop the Irish with a yards-gained-on-the-ground total of 34 yards. Billy Barrett, who was injured in the first quarter, still leads the Notre Darners in average-per-try with 6.1. Bill Gay and Jack Landry are the only Irish ball carriers
(Continued on Page 32)
Dick Cotter (48) and Jack Bush (26) team up to stop Tulane back. Moving up to lend a hand are Byron Boji (60), Captain Jerry Groom (50), and Gene Smith (15).
ND-TULANE IN SUGAR BOWL
Mutscheller fights Green Wave for ball.
27
Oct. 20, 1950
Knocking Around the Halls
Farley Cops Opener
Playing its first game, Farley Hall turned back St. Edward’s in a loosely-played encounter, 21-13. The game was marred by the to-be-expected early season lack of smoothness, but Farley in particular- showed definite signs of rounding into a well-organized unit. St. Ed’s was first to score on Bill Scott’s 17 yard dash on the opening play of the second period. Farley had a piece of luck when Jack Laughlin crashed over from the one yard stripe only two seconds before the half ended. A budding Steve Oracko, Skip Craine, added the first of his three successful conversions to make the intermission score 7-6 in favor of Farley.
Farley took over possession of the ball midway through the third quarter and, on the most spectacular play of the contest, Pat O’Malley tore through a gaping hole in the center of the St. Ed’s line and raced 64 yards to tally. The final Farley score came early in the fourth frame on a 28 yard pass from Pete Chase to Pat O’Halloran. Fighting gamely, St. Ed’s countered on a nice one-hand catch by End Ray Tierney in the end zone. The PAT split the uprights to make the final score: Farley—21, St. Edward’s—13.
Morrissey-Off-Campus in 0-0 Deadlock
Keeping with the spirit of the day, Morrissey and Off-Campus battled to a scorless tie in the season’s opener for both teams.
Even though they had the weight advantage, Coach Turco’s downtowners couldn’t push the Sophomores around enough to get a touchdown. Several times they drove inside the Morrissey 20 but each time the defense rose up and halted them before any damage could be done. Late in the fourth period, Off-Campus got all the way to the 10 and a score seemed certain. But the Sophs held on fourth down, and took over possession of the ball till the game ended.
There were fumbles and long passing done by both sides, giving an indication that the teams still need more work if they hope to fashion an offense. With their big line, Off-Campus should be a definite threat if they can get their T formation to operate.
Alumni, Lyons in Stalemate
Alumni and Lyons clashed in the opening of the 1950 interhall football season and the result was a 0-0 tie.
Alumni, quarterbacked by Johnny Dalman, operated from the T formation and showed a strong passing attack in the waning minutes of the game. For the most part, however, ragged play by both sides dominated the contest.
Lyons also depended on its passing and drove inside the Alumni ten on a succession of aerials. But Alumni held and took over on downs.
A near riot marked play in the final quarter when the referee called a 15
yard penalty but somehow lost track of where to begin marking it off. He called off the penalty altogether which would have pushed Alumni deep in their own territory and give Lyons another crack at the goal.
Both teams showed a serious lack of • offensive power, but defensive play was good and the tackling was sharp.
B-P and Cavanaugh Battle to Scoreless Tie
Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugh battled up and down the Interhall football field to a scoreless tie last week in their first game of the season.
Alternating between the T and single wing, Cavanaugh rolled up more yardage than did their freshman opponents. B-P used the T exclusively and though they were not consistent at grinding out yardage, they were strong enough to work the ball deep into Cavanaugh territory several times. But they didn’t have the power to go all the way.
On the other hand, Cavanaugh was knocking at B-P’s goal line twice, but both times they failed to score. One time the Frosh held for downs and the other time a pass interception choked off the Soph threat.
There were fumbles galore throughout the game' as both teams showed first game raggedness. The breaks were even but neither side was strong enough to capitalize on them and turn them into a score.
Interhall Footballers in Action
Cavanaugh back Jerry Adler cuts up the sideline as Frosh of	Cavanaugh has -the ball again as halfback Paul Abt, escorted
B-P converge to bring him down. Game ended in scoreless tie.	by lineman George Kirchner, cuts inside would-be B-P tackler. "
28
The Scholastic
MH

en. Maybe he was wishing the score had been 200-0 that day instead of 49-6.
What do you think-the reaction of Bill Fischer, Elmer Angsman, Frank Tripucka and any other Notre Dame men on the Cardinal squad would be when they heard that classic remark? And how about Head Coach Curly Lam-beau, another ND grad?
What’s the Future of College Football?
Life magazine carried an article on college football in last Friday’s issue entitled “Football is Pricing Itself Out of Business.” The article stated in precise terms what has generally been acknowledged since the rise of football after the war.
Football’s biggest problem is that it’s getting too big. “The tendency,” says North Carolina’s Carl Snavely, “is to dip into gate receipts to go out and get more players to build bigger and better teams, then build bigger stadiums to get bigger crowds to get more money to spend on more players to build bigger and better teams.”
For the result, take a look at the rankings of the ten top football teams in the country. What do you find? Seven or eight are tax-supported institutions, the others are heavily endowed. The lone exception — Notre Dame. Moral: if you’ve got dough, you can get yourself a football team.
Notre Dame didn’t lose to Purdue two weeks ago. It lost to Purdue in the spring of ’49 when this year’s Sophomore Class was being formed. From this class were to come the ballplayers that would have to take up the slack left by such players as Hart, Martin, Sitko and the rest. Notre Dame just couldn’t get good enough men.
Here’s an example. In the Spring of ’49, a highly rated high school back in a Western state openly signified his intention of entering Notre Dame in the Fall. With this announcement, football scouts redoubled their efforts to land him for their school. He never arrived at Notre Dame.
He’s now at a state university in the West and is his team’s outstanding player, even though only a Sophomore. In the three game’s he’s played so far this season, he has averaged almost nine yards per carry in pretty tough competition. His coach calls him the best back he’s ever had in his coaching career, and that coach has been around for quite a number of years.
This is just one instance but it’s happened many times in the past and will happen many more times in the future.
If this general trend keeps up, the time may not be too far away when great Notre Dame teams will be a thing
of the past. The honor of playing for Notre Dame and a chance for a degree won’t be enough to attract the football players Notre Dame needs to stay in the big time.
Purdue Aftermath
Chicago Cardinal assistant coach Cecil Isbell made a statement last week that cannot be surpassed by a man in his position for stupidity and poor sportsmanship.
Speaking before the Chicago Quarterback Club after the Notre Dame loss to Purdue, Isbell said that he was sorry to see Notre Dame lose. But the reason he was sorry was that Notre Dame didn’t lose 100-0.
Johnny Lujack followed Isbell to the speaker’s platform and it’s a credit to Johnny’s good taste and intelligence that he made no reference to the remark. Maybe he thought back to a day in ’46 when he quarterbacked the Irish to a win over the Isbell-coached Purdue elev-
Ralph Paolone is stopped after a short gain as two Tulane defenders rush up to help haul him down. Irish are Perry (66), Williams (9), and Fred Wallner (63).
Monday Morning Quarterback
Saturday’s win over Tulane.was essentially a team victory, but even so, Bob Williams and Jerry Groom must be given credit for the brilliant way'they performed. Williams isn’t the clean pants quarterback this year that he was last, but in getting the seat of his pants dirty, he’s showing what a real AllAmerican he is. Bob played a tremendous game, both offensively and defensively, and took plenty of punishment on pass plays from those monsters in the Tulane line.
Jerry Groom played his heart out for 59 minutes, a fantastic length of time when you realize the game was played in 80 degree heat.
Prediction of the Week
Indiana won’t be the pushover it’s been for the past few years. The Irish will be below par with all their injuries from last week, but Bob Williams should pull them through again.
Notre Dame, 21; Indiana, 14.
Oct. 20, 1950
29
BROOKS BROTHERS a famous name in men's clothing COMES TO THE MIDWEST
On September 6th, Brooks Brothers, oldest and most distinguished name in men’s clothing and furnishings, opened a fine new store in Chicago.
The response of the Midwest was immediate and enthusiastic...proving once again that Good Taste is national... that the distinctiveness and individuality so characteristic of Brooks Brothers’ clothes is favored alike by young and old, by undergraduates and men-about-town.
We believe you will like the comprehensive selection of clothing...the colorful furnishings, .the carefully selected . items for campus wear you will find at Brooks Brothers...and we cordially invite you to visit our fine store at Madison Street and Michigan Avenue.
ESTABLISHED ISIS
(3^©L©THIN©gO Hms Furnishings Uats $ Sb o es
74 EAST MADISON STREET, CHICAGO 2, ILL.
NEW YORK • BOSTON - LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
YEARS AGO
By BOB FINNEY, ’53------
Fifty Years Ago:
From the Oct. 20, 1900 Scholastic: The University band, one of the oldest college bands in the country, celebrated its forty-fifth birthday. Very few other universities had bands. ... It was rec-comended that cheerleaders be chosen for the football games. “Though we have enthusiasm enough, we lack an organization for united effort in cheering.” . . . The Inter-Collegiate Association framed strict rules governing college sport, including regulations against playing anywhere but on university grounds, and disqualifying any player who received any kind of financial aid. . . . The Irish defeated Howard Park, a South Bend team, 64-0 at Cartier Field.
Twenty-five Years Ago:
From the Oct. 23, 1925 Scholastic: The Irish lost to Army, 27-0, for the * first time in nine years, and 1500 students got up at 5:00 a. m. to meet the team at the train when they came home. . . . Campus prophet: “Too bad the Cadets couldn’t have seen Army win Saturday. They’ll all be brigadier generals before their team wins again.” . . . The road in front of Howard was repaired to make it possible to go from Howard to the cafeteria without wading through mud and water. . . . The library introduced a new method of dealing with delinquent borrowers. If a book was long-overdue, the Director of Studies was informed, and he refused the student admission to any classes till the book was returned.
Ten Years Ago:
From the Oct. 18, 1940, Scholastic: The year-old University board of health reported that since its inception the dining halls had acquired a dietician, drinking water and dining hall food had been tested regularly, and all Sophomores were required to take elementary hygiene. . . . Tickets for the Sophomore Cotillion went on sale for $6.25, which included the bid and two tickets to the Iowa game the next day. . . . The Irish went into the Carnegie Tech game with an enviable all-time record of 308 wins, 68 losses, and 24 ties in 51 years of football. . . . The “Music Box” reported that a young bandleader named Johnny Long, who had just recorded “In a Shanty in Old Shanty Town,” was definitely on his way up.
30
The Scholastic
By JERRY MORRIS, ’52
The Main Building bulletin boards and other spots of student attention have recently been sprouting news about a certain gentleman who is thinking of coming to dinner. I find that this gentleman is quite definite about it too, and that even the venerable Faust will be paying the University a visit. I try not to think about these two men because their behavior on campus will depend on too many people and their abilities. There have been theatrical gentlemen who have visited us in the past, and I think they left a bit more threadbare than when they arrived.
However, another bit of news struck home via various grapevines, and it seemed to carry a glimmer of hope. It seems that some industrious group has decided to put on a student musical. Despite the title (still tentative) of Faith, Hope, and Hilanty, it looks like a step in the right direction.
I have been doing a bit of scouting to find out exactly what kind of theatrical efforts have been the most successful. For what seem to be obvious reasons, they have been musicals and good, established, recognized musicals. Certainly, things by Gilbert and Sullivan are made for a male school and, in the past, popularity and financial successes have been shows of this type. I chose Gilbert and Sullivan as examples because their shows have been big successes at Notre Dame, and also because their catchy lyrics are perfect for men’s voices. There are female parts and I’m sure the St. Mary’s belles would enjoy taking part in a good production as much as we could use them to give a good show that gentle touch.
There must be some reason why musical shows of accepted values are not put on at Notre Dame. If it is because it would involve more financial aid, certainly the returns on a good musical would be double those of a mediocre drama. I keep referring to good or established musicals because I feel that although we have the talent, an accredited musical would need less direction, which in my estimation is essential to the “coming off” of a show. The actors may know what to do, but they desperately need someone who can help them produce as a group, as well as individually.
What the University Theatre obviously needs is a shot in the arm, and I think the shot is a good lively musical.
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
Rich colleSe „ both gam Wh >e and w° b
<■ .Cie-.where" >h by . when y°“ the b«*,,n9
You'll find the answers to these and many other sport facts in the new 1950-51 Sports Show Book.
Send for your copy today —
IT'S FREE!
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
kno'
in
of h's
a
r thr®*'"* of roll"* °r
A. G. Spalding & Bros., Dept. NC 161 Sixth Avenue New York 13, N. Y.
Please send me a free copy of the 1950-51 Spalding Sports Show Book by return mail.
Name--------------------------------------------
Address_________________________________________

Oct. 20, 1950
31
Bill Gay Specializes In Saving ND Games
"Bill Gay can't run that.fast; he was Tunning faster than he knows how.” Notre Dame Coach Frank Leahy was commenting on Gay’s game-saving play in last week's Irish-Tulane game. George Kinek of Tulane had exploded through the center of the Irish line, headed for the sideline, and was away and gone.
Gay picked up about 10 yards in 50, got the angle on the Green Wave back, and knocked him out of bounds on the Notre Dame eleven-yard line. An orthodox tackle would have missed the goalbound Tulane back. Instead, Gay kept at full speed, reached out and shoved Kinek on the shoulder. The push was just enough to force the Tulaner off balance, and edge him outside the side-line mark.
Saving games has become a specialty with the stubby Chicago senior. Rapidly becoming famous is Gay’s remark to the
Don't be a "benchwarmer at dances this winter!
ENROLL AT AimiR MURRAYS
HOW!
Become a good dancer overnight. Think of it! One lesson at Arthur Murray’s is all you need to become a good dancer. His amazing discovery, “The Magic Step To Popularity,” gives you the key to all dances. It’s easy and so much fun. Yet you pay as little as $3.50 a week.
So make sure of your popularity this winter by enrolling at Arthur Murray’s now!
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 EAST WAYNE ST.
Above the Copp Music Shop
Phone 2-3339 for Free Trial Lesson
official during the 1948 Notre Dame-Southern California game in Los Angeles. It was late in the fourth quarter, the Trojans had just broken the tie and were leading 14-7. Gay walked over to the referee and said: “How much time left, Ref.?” The referee said: “Two minutes, 35 seconds.” Gay shrugged, “That’s enough.”
The rest, as they say, is history. Gay returned a Trojan kick-off some 80-odd yards, and a couple of plays later the Irish had tied the ball game, and the undefeated streak was safe.
Statistics
(Continued from Page 27) who after three games still maintain a better than four-yards-per-carry average. Gay has averaged 4.4 yards and Landry 4.3.
The emphasis on passing, Jim Muts-cheller, junior end, has come to the front in the statistics race. Mutscheller has received 12 passes for 130 yards and
2 FOR 1 RATES NOW
three touchdowns. This gives him the lead in scoring". He has also gained more yards on pass reception than any of ths running backs has on the ground.
RUSHING
Player	Times	Yard-	Acer-
	Carried	age	age
Barrett 		..... 20	121	6.1
Gay 		.... 9	40	4.4
Landry 		.... 29	124	4.3
Petitbon ...	.... 12	46	3.8
Gander .....	.... 10	30	3.0
Marchand .	.... 4	11	2.8
Williams ...	.... 12	26	2.2
	PASSING		
	Ait. Completed		Pct.
Williams ..	....... 82	34	.465
Mazur 			 1	0	.000
Barrett			 1	0	.000
	SCORING		
Player	TD	Pat	Points
Mutscheller		 3	0	18
Petitbon		2	0	12
Gander 				 1	0	6
Caprara ....			  0	5	5
PASS RECEIVING			
Player	Number	Yard-	TDs
	Caught	age	
Mutscheller		 12	130	3
Petitbon 			 6	113	1
Ostrowski .		 6	45	0
Landry 			 5	37	0
Barrett			2	35	0
Gay 			2	17	0
Paolone			 1	11	0
A DOUBLE PORTION OF SHAVIAN WIT!
George Bernard Shaw's
“PYGMALION”
Starring
WENDY LESLIE HILLER	HOWARD
And
"MAJOR BARBARA"
—Featuring—
WENDY HILLER REX HARRISON DEBORAH KERR Robert Morley — Robert Newton
WEDNESDAY & THURSDAY OCT., 25th — 26th riRANADA THEATER
32
The Scholastic
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Sophomore Cotillion
Law Ball
November 10, 1950
Students who were not fitted on the campus may still rent tuxedos at Logans in South Bend, 107 N. Main St. Over 500 suits to choose from; shorts, stouts, regulars, longs and extra longs. Sizes Boys’ 3 to Men’s 56.
on the new
Van Chick
shirts
F not a stitch in sight

the shirt with the secret stitches
It’s what you don’t see that’s the sensation. Not a stitch to be seen on the wide-spread collar, cuffs . .. or down the clean-cut button front. In white, colors, and novelty weaves . . . guaranteed not to shrink out of size. §3.95
Van Hensen
"the world’s smartest
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
PRICES:
Tuxedos — $5.50
Accessories — $ 1.00 (Shirt, Bow Tie, Jewelry, and Suspenders)
Full Dress. $7.50
NO DEPOSITS
Due to the large demands place orders early.
107 No. Main, So. Bend, Ind.
Ifs ADLER’S
for VAN HEUSEN
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
Oct. 20, 1950
33
Family Rosary
This Sunday, the Notre Dame Stadium will be the scene of a rally to promote the Family Rosary Crusade, currently being carried on in the States of Indiana and Kentucky. We strongly urge all Notre Dame men to attend this rally.
Why? For a number of good reasons.
First of all because there is a war on. Some people call it a “cold war.” The whole thing looks hotter than the fourth floor of Badin in Summer to us. Shooting doesn’t make a war “hot,” nor the lack of it “cold.” A war’s a war and we’ve got it.
And you, Mac, are in it. Think the
thing’s gonna stop in Korea? Ha! Just keep smilin’, kiddo.
Reason number two: the United States is not a Christian country. Not right now.
No, not right now, because most of the people in the United States right now are more interested in “me” than in
“you.” And more fundamentally, they are, or we are, more interested in “me” than in God.
Reason number three: because no one is bothering to do anything about it.
So, what can you do? What can “I” do? Not very much, we admit. Nobody can do very much.
But everybody can do one insignificant little thing. Everybody can pray. Everybody can spend ten minutes a day saying the rosary. Everybody and every family. It’s not much to do. Alone, it is a little thing. But if everybody did it. It gets bigger. Pretty soon it’s a great big thing and now it means a lot. It means salvation—personal and national and global.
It means this: it means that Our Lady has made a promise to save the world if families will pray the Rosary for that intention. Our Lady’s promise is enough for us. We’ll take hei' at her word.
So this is why we strongly urge all Notre Dame men to attend the rally in the Stadium this Sunday. Because it’s the only hope for a world that looks to us like it’s going under for the third time. We’re not trying to give you the old bogey man stuff. We just don’t see any other way out. Just for once, why not try the Rosary? Why not give Our Lady a chance to make good her word?
Why not attend the rally, sign the Family Rosary pledge, and pray the Rosary for the solution of this mess?
Wanna give it a try, oi' shall we let the “other guy” worry about it?
The Trip
Consensus of opinion seems to be that the New Orleans jaunt last week was the best student trip in some time. Trippers returned very early Monday morning, a tired out but satisfied crew.
We regret to say that some of the tales told reflect rather poorly on the conduct of a few of the men who made the trip. There are always the few who never learn.
On the whole, however, the trippers acted like Notre Dame men. To those who did, congratulations. You have done much for yourself and for Notre Dame. As for the rest, we won’t waste time oi' breath.
The Last Word
One of the most encouraging demonstrations of spirit we have witnessed in a long time was the spontaneous welcome given the team upon their return to campus last Sunday night.
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
SPAGBETTItHO(JtSE
A FAVORITE WITH NOTRE DAME MEN
415 North Michigan
Special T-bone Steak every Thursday — $1.25
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaw^ Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
So. Beno By appointment Pit. 4-5661
Flowers by Williams
ORCHIDS and GARDENIAS
Specializing in
Corsages
WILLIAMS, The Florist
219 W. Washington
Phone 3-5149 “Just West of the Oliver”
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
Phone 3-0903
34
The Scholastic


YOU CAN READ TWICE AS MUCH IN THE SAME TIME
This instrument measures the acuity of your eyes for reading without handicap
Cover your assignments more thoroughly in less time. No matter how fast your present reading rate, you can more than double it and have higher comprehension too.
You can actually cover twice as much study reading in the same time you are now spending. The greatest amount of your study time is spent in reading—why not get the maximum benefit from it?
Learn how your reading skills compare with recommended standards.
Stop in for a free copy of the booklet “You Can Read Better.” It tells you how you can master this amazing study skill in only 20 fascinating hours of practice. *
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E. LaSalle Avenue
Phone 3-0077
Oct. 20,.1950
I
9
9

____IS
the MILDER cigarette''
Starring in "BORN YESTERDAY"
‘ A Columbia Picture based on the famous stage p/ay

Let R.O. Mc CORMICK tell you how to-
BE YOUR OWN CIGARETTE EXPERT
JV YOU bay a pack of Chesterfields and you open it up.
B) YOU smell that milder C YOU smoke Chesterfields
tobacco aroma. No other cigarette has it.
and prove what every tobacco man knows ..
tobaccos that SMELL MILDER-SMOKE MILDER
PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMER-JAVA, VA.
I' ' hi