

Flex points run out already? 
Get a job now. 

is now hiring: Business/ Advertising Manager 
Call 1-5029 or stop by the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall for more information. 

·."M~1tC\--,. 
,. ;} '\~··.. 
;-c 
'ao· ! e~ 
;\(? 
0 l., 
'.] i .• J ~\~t
)~ l • :i , ,· ..'..._.;_:._::.f.·,f~,~-'f.·. 
·tr;,,


· --~~. im1 
Cover: Tales beyond the Crypt 
Just in time for Halloween, Scholastic has searched far and wide 

for legends and lore from Notre Dame's past. You may never / 
walk past the cemetery again. by Meredith W. Salisbury "'-'-"'Lc....~~'--'-"--"-'-'-..,_;,~_.c..=.c.-"-'-'--'-'-'--'-'-~~~.;..J 
Blessed are the Poor 12 
A CSC seminar, which sends students into cities to help impov­erished children, has enjoyed great success. The students in­volved feel the experience has been as valuable for them as it has for the children. by Kimberly Blackwell 
Community Grant 24 
Recently selected as one of only 11 Division 1-A players to be a member of the 1999 Good Works Team, Grant Irons proves that there's more to life than football. by Joe Loscudo 
Blurring the Silver Screen 28 
Many Christian groups are speaking out against a new film, Dogma, which they see as sacrilegious. Director Kevin Smith maintains that the movie is actually pro-faith. 
by Matt Cremer 
Restructuring Competition by Brendan Harris  7  
Sweet Dreams Are Made of This  by Seth Fabian  8  
We Gather Together by Mary Beth Fay  10  
Ghoulish Fun by lac Kulsrud  15  
Personal Comeback by Lies/ Marx  23  
Hot Topic by Caroline Wolf  27  
Departments  

From the Editor  2  
Letters  3  
Listening In  4  
ND Notebook  5  
Campus Watch  14  
Splinters from the Pressbox  21  
Out of Bounds  26  
Week in Distortion  30  
Calendar  31  
Final Word  32  




Kids at Heart 

Nothing is more exciting than watching a child at Halloween. Fortu~atel~, even though I have moved away from the streets where I used to tnck-01­treat, I still get to enjoy children's reaction to the day of ghouls, witches and Reese's Peanut Butter Cups. Every Sunday morning I teach a third-grade CCD class at a local parish, and about two weeks before Halloween the kids begin to glow with excitement about their costumes and who is going to get the most candy. This year the class's costumes include a vampire, a butterfly, a witch and "Dr. Frankenseuss," which is a Frankenstein monster wearing a Dr. Seuss hat. Thekids have no problems discussing what their costumes will look like, what their favorite candies are or whom their trick-or-treat partners will be. Strangely, the children have little understanding ofwhere their traditions came from or the significance behind them. Even though we are 12 years older than these kids, we also blindly participate in the same types of rituals without having any idea of their meaning. We throw marshmallows during half­time at the football game with little knowledge of how or when the tradition got started. Most of us know that Notre Dame students are the "Fighting Irish," butfew of 


~~:;~;,:~:7~;;:,c:~:E;::: 
j'i;\
0 
every person you ask. t::>.. Because these traditions develop ?:(:t\ •··. over time and their origin is long /{: 
;:''j .'.~:,(:;, ,>
forgotten, people often tell stories to help explain them. This hap­pens everywhere. Ifyou ask any resident ofmy hometown in York County, Penn., which community has the second highest number ofgolf courses per capita, they will say that we do-even though the local paper has proven that we are far down the list. 
. Meredith Salisbury looked into the legends and lore of our Notre Dame community to see which stories are true and which are myth. She also uncovered a few stories that have been lost with the passage oftime. Her findings appear on page 16. It was her turn to write this column this week, but she couldn't write it because of her close association with the cover story. 
Also Inside 
Fortunately, service is one of those Notre Dame traditions in which meaning hasn't been lost with time. On page 12, Kim Blackwell takes a look at a popular service project that just finished during this October break. Also, Joe Loscudo talked with Grant Irons, one of the stars of the footbal~ team who recently was awarded for his dedication to service. That story appears on page 24. 
~· 
Editor in Chief 
2Scholastic From the Editor 


Scholastic 
Vol. 141, No. 5 • October 28, 1999 
Disce Quas{Se111pq Victurus Vive Quasi Crm=r.Moriturus 
Editors in Chief 
Brian Christ Meredith W. Salisbury 

Managing Editor Associate Editor 
Zachary W. Kulsrud James J. Pastore, Jr. 
News Jared P. Marx, editor 
Staci L. Pangle, assistant Campus Life Kate L. Jacques, editor 
Kimberly A. Blackwell, assistant Sports Christopher E. Hamilton, editor 
Gerard J. Meskill, assistant Entertainment Kara S. Zuaro, editor 
Kathleen M. Corte, assistant  
Departments  Kara S. Zuaro, editor  
Matthew J. Cremer, assistant  
Layout  Michael P. Griffin, editor  
Heather J. Hogan, assistant  
Rebecca Frazier  
Agatha Noble  

Photography Michael J. McNary, editor Benjamin K. Wojcikiewicz, assistant Graphic Arts David B. Leeney, editor 
Caroline M. Wolf, assistant · Copy Sarah E. Childress, editor Distribution Michael J. McNary, manager Web Design Michael J. Gonzales, editor 

http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ...scholast 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic is copyright ©1999. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine; either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material..· All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space; The subscription rate, including the literary special, is $20 per year. Available back issues are $1.50 per copy; please specify. volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football · review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
Cover photo by Michael McNary Cover design by Michael Griffin­


lhtTIERS 

OUTreach ND advertising necessary
OUT reach ND' s ad in Common Sense was good and necessary. OUTreach wants to support and educate people, but for that to happen, it has to be recognized. History has shown that it is only through student activism that the administration has begun to include gay, lesbian and bisexual students as equals. The '90s have seen a massive upsurge of gay rights activism at Notre Dame. Hundreds of students protested in the spring of 1995 after GLND/ SMC was told to get off campus. So the administration formed what is now the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs and created a non-student-run group. Four hundred people rallied in April 1997 for inclusion of sexual orientation in the nondiscrimina­tion clause and we got the Spirit of Inclusion. Two hundred and seventy-five people rallied to support Father Garrick's decision to 

resign in protest of the university's intolerant policies, and last year students worked for nondiscrimination again. While we might lose on the surface, student activism has transformed campus. All the Scholastic and Observer articles educate people and get them talking with their friends. Gays, lesbians, bisexuals and their straight supporters have a hard enough time facing an administra­tion that refuses to hear our voice. Our activism should be encour­aged, not condemned. When most ND students actually know that we have a nondiscrimination clause and some of the arguments for including sexual orientation in it-that's progress! 
Aaron Kreider Graduate Student, founder, Progressive Student Alliance 

Something gotyou steamed? 

Let it out. 
Send letters to: 
Scholastic 
31 5 laFortune Student Center 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 scholast@nd.edu 





Write. 
Letters Scholastic 3 


-
"Now we' re going to play a S<,)ng about one of Notre Dame's oldest traditions ­alcoholism." 
-one student's introduction to her group's next song at Acoustic Cafe 
"Friendly People, Short Homily" -part of a sign inviting people to attend Mass at Morrissey Manor 
"[The] administration won't be satisfied until the Fighting Irish win the Super Bowl and the offensive coordinator is awarded the Nobel Prize for Medicine." 
-attributed to Bob Davie by humor magazine Sceala Grinn 
"I'm ready to deliver, are you ready to receive?" -pizza deliveryman calling ahead 
"Typical Troian Defense: Only 87% Effective" ·­
Dillon Hall banner 

DEVILISH RESPONSE. One Arizona State fan anonymously sent this postcard to Notre Dame campus media after the Sun Devils lost to the Irish 48-17. 
CAL246 CALIFORNIA, JUST HATE ro LF.A\'E IT DEHIND. G:}'j,~T_ -·. 
Q~ \\I .i~~ )~":\:,,_;,:,
12~\-\ov-: <, f-OSTCARDS" ''' '' ''' \"M_~.?I' 
'-..:i~ ""'°'~ ~"c.. "'-...c:\ -\-\..J.._
$"'------tsT ~ilo-\\Qo.\\ -\-Q.~\v\ t,-\/1. -\-w. T'~\d $<>.--h.-vdo.'-\) lo....-\. 
'-':fl u. °!)\:>\Me.V-5 '$~\ \ V-0.\l~ ~ 
\\\Je.. i"' $t\,.--:\-k '6e."'ci. 'S\.\"-4\\.-\tV'\ 
A'Sul,\ ~"n fo-V'l 
°?¼{)~l,l\)L 
© CALffORNIA SCENE -A.\ SO \ 0-. '--';:,.e_ C\ \/""
~i':~:-_:_2:1cm V-Ou\A~ A,r,-z.ov.o... 

EA;.\-,;iy--, ~!~+ 
,. 
\-l~\.:l,5 t"-~y-­

}'i,:,~ ~W.L \)~\t', . 
5c'-l.i-\,.. °?,!l..v..~ \ 
"L\,\.~ '°'~°'-­

~C.~\AE.. • 
4 Scholastic Listening In 

before the USC game 

"Notre Dame is a real strict Catholic school. 
... At most other schools, you get to party." -Cooper Rego, a former Notre Dame football player who was kicked of the team for a dorm infraction 
"None of Notre Dame's problems involve violence, nor have any Notre Dame players been charged with a crime." , -find/aw.com, a legal website, 
explaining that Notre Dame's No. 2 ranking in its top 2.0 scandalous football _programs list isn't as bad as it might seem · 
FROM THE UNDERGROUND 
Irish Eyes Are Grinning 
The newest publication isn't right or left -it's 
straight humor 
Guide to the Upcoming Millennium," 
reads the page. "Inside this issue: an 
exclusive interview with Bob Davie. Love at the NMR: a tale of two star-crossed biochem lovers. A look at classes still open for this fall semester. A new novel by Cormac McCarthy." Ifthese articles sound interest­ing, don't look for the magazine in the bookstore or at the airport. Instead, check the bins in Lafortune and O'Shag for the Sceala Grinn, a new humor magazine pub­lished by Notre Dame students. 
Scott Blaszak, a junior English major and editor-in-chiefofthe magazine, got the idea from one of the oldest humor magazines in the country, which is published at Harvard. When Blaszak and two of his frierids went east for fall break last year, they stopped at Harvard for a day to get a firsthand look at the magazine. "We just kind of pounded on their door and asked if we could have a copy," Blaszak recalls. 

Although the Sceala Grinn was inspired by Harvard's magazine, Blaszak and his partners have marked the project with their own brand of humor. The magazine, which is prose-centered, looks to artists like James Thurber, Woody Allen and Steve Martin for inspiration. "I've been reading a lot of hu­mor literature in the past year and basically soaked up influence," Blaszak says. The Sceala Grinn gives an appropriate nod to these influences in its first issue, stating, "We ask that you not recycle the Sceala Grinn. Precarious funding has restricted our 
A 
circulation. Besides, the material within has been recycled enough already." 
The first issue contains a wide span of pieces, from a short story entitled "Nerdlove," about a lovelorn bio major whose parents want him to pursue a liberal arts education, to an insightful "interview" with Bob Davie. Another piece entitled "From the Registrar" suggests possible courses to spice up Notre Dame's curricu­lum, including Fundamentals of Plussing and Minussing ("Calculators are allowed, but only to play Tetris on"). 
Blaszak and the other writers collaborate on all of the pieces, which explains why none of the articles is attributed to a specific writer. "A guy might come up with a story he outlined, but normally we'll all sit around and talk about it together," Blaszak says. "It's really a group effort." 
The Sceala Grinn, which is published with private funding from alumni, will be published four times a year. The next issue is scheduled to come out not long after fall break. 
Until then, interested readers can still find the inaugural issue around campus. And those who are really interested can fill out the application on the back ofthe magazine. Make sure to note the waiver: "Involvement with The Sceala Grinn could result in dizzi­ness, nausea, a loss of respect, projectile vomiting, a tendency to end all sentences with 'man' ... " And the list goes on. 
-Kathleen Corte 

U.DGMENTCALLS • HALLOWEEN COSTUME EDITION i_ony··.·. D__rive_r· -: '._ li_._..· . ]u~frcrrj,e~ber th~t tricle,-or-treating in the women's dorms 
. .. ends at midnigh~. . . . . . ._-.. , __ ._.·-.·_...'__ ,..;_._::" ____ ·_ .. _ •-__ ._···· _: __ .---~-·.; ________ -~·-:...-~-..,:·-~----· ---.. --__:, ._· ...:~·--.. 
'Dining Hall ._. Your charge: make sure tricle-or-treaters don't talee more than one piece ofcandy.
•Lady _ 
J , ·· 
K. · .. ·. ·-tess7;opuiar since't'iiechesterA-rt1iurcosiu:;;;i: was released .anies . . t . . h d li'h d d . . ll . . P?~~ •a.,.·'. , . , _ ;;;:•/t~!eid.;: ,orsecan i _atfof184~ isst( afa:orite, _ 
.~-Always a crowd-pleasing costume, but you'll have to wait
:Hillary 
~ ·for the people dressed as Monica Lewinskg to finish before
'Clinton 
lfO'LI, c.t1:ri ge_t_u~.u~_ht1:nds_ ~n ~he candy ~o~J: _.. ____ .. __ _ God 
·t·.·. ·. ·Omnipresent and eternal.Nat to' be c01ifused with the Sean' 
.· Vinck costume. 
Q&A 




10uestions with 


Tony Vargo 
Irish Guard Officer Tony Vargo grew up in the South Bend area and has worked security with the NDSPfor IO years. His wife works in regis­tration, entering all ofour grades, but Tony says she can't be bought. During the days, Tony can be found walking the beat or manning Main Gate. Don't worry, he never gets the urge to lower the gate on people's heads, even ifthey are obnoxious. 
Who do you like in the Series? I've always been a Cub fan, but they'll never go anywhere. IfI was gonna pick someone, I guess I'd have to go with the Yankees, even though I'm a National League fan. I was rooting for Boston and for the Mets. 
What do you do during game days? 
Direct traffic; I do dorm checks. We make sure the exterior of the dorms are secure, and go up and down the hallways to make sure everything's secure. It's a 12-hour day, typically. Do you get a gun? We are a full-fledged police department. Everyone does not have a gun because not everyone has gone to the Academy. There is the security and then there is the police . The security does not get a gun. What do you do in that booth all day? Do you get a TV? Oh, no, no TVs. There is a restroom, heat and air conditioning, though . What's the most wildly implausible ex­cuse you've ever heard to get a car on campus? Well, these two boys, they were very polite, but they were denied in trying to get on campus. So they came back half an hour later, had gotten a couple ofsub sandwiches 
continued on next page -. 
Notebook Scholastic 5 

Q&A 
continued from previous page 
and handed one to the driver to say they were delivery drivers. It was sort of cute. Did you have to deny Wayne Gretzky access to campus? No, but I gotto meet him. Heflew in with his own plane, actually. He wanted to sit in the student section during the game, but had to attend to business in Toronto. He should have left at about 3 :00, but he got so wrapped up that he left campus at 4: 15 or so. 
Have you ever had to escort Regis? 
Yes. He's calmed down a lot since his heart 
trouble. 
What's your favorite cop show? 
I would have to say that my favorite one that I watched was NYPD Blue. I watched in the early stages because one of the young men graduated from one of the local high schools and then started at UCLA. Won a couple of national titles. His name was Mike Warren. I don't know what character he played on screen. What's your favorite thing about cam­
pus? 
The students. I really enjoy the students. 
When I worked nights, I would have to 
say the most beautiful place to be would 
be the Grotto. 
NDSP started off with cars, then trucks, bikes and now four-wheelers. Will we ever be seeing NDSP with jetpacks or 
helicopters or anything? Maybe NDSP action figures in the Bookstore? (laughing) Not to my knowledge. I don't think so, no. 
-Jeremiah Conway and Jason Hammontree 



HISTQJRtlfe side 
When Notre Dame was very young, security was ·more often a matter of dealing with student discipline problems on campus than ofacting as a police force. 
Willie Ord ... had not been brought up to 
knuckle down. After he had attempted, on 
four separate occasions, to strike his pre­
ceptor, the council decided to [expel him]. 
Father Sorin overruled the decisfon. The 
fact that Willie's bills were not paid could 
have been a factor .... 
In a few days ... he slugged Mr. St. Mar, 
who said that unless something was_ done 
about Willie Ord, the university could find 
itself another drawing teacher...._In the 
meanwhile Willie's father had ma<:le the 
mistake of paying his bill. So ended the 
Notre Dame saga of Willie Ord. 
-Notre Dame: Its People and Its Legends 
6Scholastic Notebook 

THE GREAT SMOKE OUT 

The Untouchable, Part II 
ND professor preparesfor pivotal anti-tobacco lawsuit 
he man who brought down the Mafia in multi-billion-dollar settlements. RICO 
has aimed his guns at the tobacco in-was created to target organized crime, but 
dustry.G.RobertBlakey,aNotreDame has been effectively extended to include law professor, is helping to prepare the drug dealers and corrupt businesses and federal government's lawsuit against seven groups. The government believes RICO also major tobacco companies -figuratively applies to the alleged deceptive conspiracy 
equating the Marlboro Man to BUSTED. The tactics that Professor Blakey's used in his Michael Corleone -and is anti-Mafia work will likely prove influential in lawsuits 
T
seeking billions of dollars in compensation for Medicaid payments to smokers. The suit alleges that the to­bacco industry conspired for more than 40 years to defraud the public by covering up evi­dence that cigarettes are harm­ful and addictive, and that it targeted marketing deceptively at children. The government claims this conduct violates the federal Racketeering Influ-~ 
c( 
enced and Corrupt Organiza-ts tions Act of 1970 (RICO), a ~ law originally drafted by Blakey :i ~ to prosecute organized crime and businesses involved in crime. Successful prosecution of the case would essentially classify major tobacco executives as racketeers and would threaten to derail the industry. 
Blakey's RICO statute has been used to bring down John Gotti, dismantle Gotti's New York Mafia and target La Cos a Nostra, a powerful drug syndicate. A law professor at Notre Dame for 20 years, Blakey also has played a key role in numerous congres­sional crime committees, including investi­gations into the assassinations of John F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King, Jr. He drafted 22 state RICO laws and worked to convince President Clinton to initiate the tobacco lawsuit. 
Blakey prepared and argued similar RICO cases for the states of Texas and Florida against the tobacco industry, which resulted of the tobacco companies. "If RICO was, among other things, designed to infiltrate drug organizations, this fits the paradigm," Blakey says in USA Today. "The tobacco industry morphs from dealing in tobacco to dealing in highly addictive nicotine. They developed among themselves an industry­


.__ wide conspiracy to continue the use ofdrugs and targeted children .... No family of the mob even remotely approaches this." Many experts believe the government has a strong case, citing substantial evidence that major tobacco executives have worked since 1953 to hide the dangers of nicotine. Blakey is confident that this is not a difficult case to prove and believes that the risk could be too great for the companies to go to trial, although the tobacco companies seem to have no intention of settling soon. -Daniel Birk 
DOMELIGHTS 


Percentage of students on the Flex 14 plan 
Average value left in students' flex accounts at fall break 


Restructuring .. Compet1t1or1 
Brownson Halls new sport center aims to bring old-fashioned sports,nanship back into the game 

kind in the United States. According to its brochure, "[The center] was formed in re­sponse to the widely-shared concern that sport's character-building potential is being undermined by a 'win at all costs' mentality and a lack ofrespect for officials, opponents and coaches." The center wishes to ~eplace that attitude with a view of athletics as a vehicle to bring out the best in each partici­pant, both physically and emotionally. 
The co-directors of the center cite the recent home-run battles between Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa as models of what competition should be, as the two men strove with each other to push the records of athletic achievement to new heights. Each slugger provided motivation for the other to bring out his best, yet there was no animos­ity between the two home-run kings. "The McGwire-Sosa rivalry was competition in the true sense of the word," said Shields, "and this is a concept we would like to apply to all athletic endeavors." 
Bredemeier and Shields were introduced to Notre Dame by F. Clark Power, the chair­man of the University's Program of Liberal Studies and a youth sports coach who proposed the idea for the center. Previ­ously, they coauthored the book Charac­ter Development and Physical Activity, a 
study of the relationship between youth sports and moral development. This work established them as the leaders of a new area of study. 
Bredemeier and Shields soon signed on to the Notre Dame project because the 
·-· university seemed to provide the right environment for their work. "The mis­sion of the university -integration of mind, body and spirit -is exactly what we are trying to do with the center," states Bredemeier. She adds, "We also admired the coaches' commitment to a value-based experience for their athletes, and the im­mense faculty interest and involvement in the athletic program here at Notre Dame." 
BY BRENDAN P. HARRIS ost members of the university com­
M
munity would agree that we live on 

a campus that thrives on competi­tion. From the weekly gridiron battles of the football team to the job application process for seniors -even down to the "curve­busters" in your math class -competition pervades our daily lives. But how many of us actually know what the word "e:ompeti­tion" means? Here's a hint: it doesn't have anything to do with bashing an opponent's skull or engaging in a death match with an enemy. In fact, competition is the exact opposite of the quest to defeat another per­son; it's about doing better by measuring oneself against someone else. 
That definition is the impetus of the university's newest venture, the Center for Sport, Character and Culture. Located in Brownson Hall, the center is dedicated to the promotion of this definition ofcompeti­tion. Headed by the husband-and-wife team ofBrenda Light Bredemeier and David Light Shields, the new institute is the first of its 
Bredemeier and Shields hope to use their 
new positions to facilitate exchange be­
tween the often-dichotomous fields of aca­
demic study and athletic endeavor. They 
have already started a series of discussion 
forums between professors and coaches 
during which the two groups analyze the 
similarities and differences between their 
roles in the lives of student-athletes. 
Bredemeier says, "I'm particularly elated at 
the successful atmosphere of mutual learn­
ing which is being created at these forums." 
Shields adds, "Professors and coaches 
alike have been fascinated to see how the 
other half lives. Coaches have taken some 
educational psychology back to their 
huddles, and professors have taken some 
motivational techniques back to the class­
room." 
Another role of the center in university 
life will be the addition ofacademic courses 
to the curriculum. Bredemeier and Shields 
hope to implement an undergraduate course 
that combines the fields of sociology, psy­
chology and education in the study ofsport, 
ethics and moral development. This course 
would examine current ethical issues such 
as drug use, cheating and medical confiden­
tiality, using university athletic and aca­
demic personnel as live resources. 
The couple also hopes that the center will 
provide a focus for the American study of 
sport and society. To achieve this, 
Bredemeier and Shields have coordinated a 
series offorums with Stanford University to 
attract representatives from business, me­
dia, athletics and academia to discuss the 
moral and ethical responsibilities ofsport in 
America. The first forum in this series will 
be held on Stanford's campus ·in March and 
will feature Los Angeles Lakers Head Coach 
Phil Jackson as the keynote speaker. 
Another national effort attempted by the 
new center will be the coordination ofgrass­
roots organizations around the country dedi­
cated to the re-establishment of moral val­
ues in youth sports. According to 
Bredemeier, "We hope to use Notre Dame's 
resources to allow the leaders of these local 
organizations to share ideas for the effective 
pursuit of their common goals." 
The motto for the new university initia­
tive is "Celebrating the Quest for Excel­
lence." It is clear that with this dynamic 

team at the helm, the Center for Sport, Character and Culture will push to be a . force that raises the bar higher in its field. 
This, according to Bredemeier and Shields, 
is the kirid of competition that makes hu­
manity great. D 
News Scholastic 7 


Anthropology Professor Janies McKenna spioneering sleep research indicates the 
federal governnient is wrong to condenin co-sleeping 
BY STACI pANGLELook outside the office door and see a colorful advertisement for an el­evated baby crib that enables a par­ent and baby to sleep side-by-side. Step inside the office and you'll meet the man the New York Times, The Washington Post, the L.A. Times and Glamour have been calling recently to discuss that very issue. After the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) released a statement that condemned the practice ofparents sleep­ing with their babies (commonly called co­sleeping), Professor James McKenna, the man behind the door, has found himself in the center of controversy. McKenna, a pro­fessor of anthropology and the director of the Mother-Baby Behavioral Sleep Labora­tory at Notre Dame, has conducted nearly 20 years of research on the behavior of · mothers and infants during bed-sharing and is a passionate supporter of co-sleeping. Several ofhis essays have been published in 
Pediatrics, Early Human Development, Sleep and the magazine ofthe World Health Organization. "I suppose I'm a pioneer in this field," he acknowledges. 

Pioneer or not, McKenna' s findings con­tradict the recommendation of the CPSC. The report, published in the October issue of the Archives of Pediatrics and Adoles­cent Medicine, maintains that the practice ofco-sleeping can result in the adult rolling on top ofor next to the baby, smothering the infant. To arrive at this finding, the CPSC reviewed the death certificates of 515 in­fants and found they could categorize the fatalities into two scenarios: entrapment or co-sleeping. Of the 515 certificates re­viewed, 394 deaths resulted from suffoca-· tion or from strangulation caused by entrap­ment of the child's head in various struc­tures of the bed, such as between the mat­tress and the wall, bed frame, headboard, footboard, bed railings or adjacent furni­ture. The remaining 121 deaths were re­ported to be due to a parent, caregiver or sibling rolling on top of or against the baby while sleeping, causing suffocation. 
"Don't sleep with your baby or put the baby down to sleep in an adult bed," CPSC Commissioner Ann Brown states. "The only safe place for babies is in a crib that meets current safety standards and has a firm, tight-fit­ting mattress." 
This type of generaliza­tion, McKenna argues, is unacceptable. He asserts that the report was based not on scientific study but on what he calls anecdotal evidence. He notes that the death certificates do not specify the condition ofthe parents, infant sleep posi­tion, whether the bed sharers smoked, took drugs, suffered from de­pression, bottle-fed or were even aware the baby was present in bed-all of which are critical factors that significantly increase the chances of an overlay or Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS). McKenna suggests that the equivalent would be the absurd suggestion that be­cause some babies die when inadequately re­strained in automobiles, babies should never ride in automobiles. "Their study simply doesn't prove 
anything," he says. 
"The commissioner and her co-workers are flat-out wrong when they imply that sleeping mothers or fathers are like wooden rolling pins, no more responsive to the sounds, touches, cries and needs of their co­sleeping infants than are the mattresses on which they sleep," McKenna says. "More­over, by equating mothers' and fathers' bodies with material 'products' or 'hazards' over which she has responsibility, the com­

,',", , .. , .· ­
····:·.·:_.-.:.'._·~.:.::i··...:'' : •. .)J. ·1 
(}:•'·.,,, .,I 
r
.•·..  
. .  
..; .~  
·•\..  

8Scholastic News 
missioner commits to a morally and scien­tifically indefensible position, and steps far outside the responsibilities and expertise of her office." 
"What is also not known," he adds, "is the number of infants sleeping in adult beds who did not die. In other words, before making statements of relative risk, it is necessary to know both the numerator, deaths, and the denominator, infants who did not die." 
McKenna acknowledges that the CPSC report is beneficial to the extent that it identifies hazardous components of the bed structure itself. The report distinguishes the sleeping environment in which each fatality occurred by charting adult bed, waterbed, daybed and portable bed rail deaths. Ac­cording to the report, the majority of the deaths recorded occurred on adult beds. 
McKenna' s work in this field has been an ongoing project that predates the CPSC report by quite some time. His motives, too, are more general. In the interest of an an­thropologist, McKenna is attempting to de­termine exactly what is the physiological "normal" sleeping condition for infants. "Sleeping arrangements are about defining and building relationships," he says. "This is about a parent's decision on how he can best protect a child and show affection." McKenna and his colleagues have docu­mented this affection by using infrared video cameras that can capture the spontaneous touches, caresses and whispers parents give to their baby during the night. His studies show that even in the deepest stages of sleep, mothers respond within seconds to a strange noise, sudden movement, grunt or cough of their co-sleeping infant. The mother's proximity thus helps to regulate the infant's breathing, sleep state, arousal patterns, heart rates and body temperature. The baby is also stimulated to breast-feed more easily, and so receives more antibod­ies to fight disease. 
McKenna emphasizes that people all over the world sleep with their children, and while bed-sharing hasn't been proven to reduce SIDS, in places where co-sleeping is the norm, such as Japan, the SIDS rate is significantly lower than it is in the United States. He says, "The CPSC seems to be catering to [the Western world's] preferred social ideology instead of scientific data." 
Since transferring from Pomona College in California to Notre Dame two years ago, McKenna has conducted his research at the Mother-Baby Behavioral Sleep Laboratory, which has been funded for the past decade by the National Institute ofChild Health and Development. This semester, 21 under­graduates are conducting their own studies under McKenna's supervision to explore the social, emotional and medical effects of co-sleeping. 

"Their st11tly shnply tloesn't prove anytl1ing." 
-Ja111es ~fcKe11Da 

"Human infants need constant attention and contact with other hu­man beings because they are unable to look .after themselves," McKenna continues. "Unlike other mam­mals, they cannot keep themselves warm, move about or feed themselves until· rela­tively late in life. It is their extreme neuro­logical immaturity at birth and slow matura­tion that make the mother-infant relation­ship so important." 
In light of these find­ings, it may seem strange that Western culture believes co­sleeping to be espe­cially dangerous. Par­ents are often convinced that sleeping with their child will make the child too dependent on them or increase the chances of their infant dying from SIDS. 
Meghan Lynch, a senior anthropology major, stayed overnight at the lab to observe the interaction between two parents and their baby. "I think that the idea of gender dynamics during sleep is very interesting," she says. "For instance, what is the role of the father during the night? What is 'a good night's sleep' anyway?" 
Junior John Friske! enjoys studying at the sleep lab and believes that parent-infant co­sleeping "just seems more natural." He adds, "Professor McKennareally knows what he's doing and it's awesome to work with some­one at the forefront of this issue." 
Mc Kenna, while at the forefront, isn't the sole objector to the CPSC recommendation. He notes that several other experts and mem­bers of the media agree that the CPSC judg­ment is too simplistic and are protesting it vehemently. He believes that the commis­sion will most likely be forced to retract its position. 
In the meantime, McKenna continues to answer the calls that seem to be coming in from all over the nation. In newspaper col­umns, he mentions an excerpt of Maya Angelou's/Know Why the Caged Bird Sings. After Angelou realizes that she won't crush her newborn son by sleeping with him, she is told, "See, you don't have to think about doing the right thing. If you're for the right thing, then you do it without thinking." D 
News Scholastic 9 




We 




GATHER 


Together 

Students eniphasize conununity through donn Masses 
BY MARY BETH FAY 
ommunity. One deceptively simple 
word ingrained in the hearts and
C
minds ofNotre Dame students from 
the moment they open their first-year appli­
cation. Broadly, the Notre Dame commu­
nity is one of social growth -growth in 
knowledge and understanding, and growth 
together in shared faith. Here at Notre Dame, 
our faith communities often take their stron­
gest form in dorm Masses. 
The consensus as to the purpose of dorm 
Mass, among both students and rectors, is 
that it provides an opportunity to come 
together and grow in faith with one another 
while building up the community and and traditional to relatively modem chapels built only a few years ago. No matter what the style of their dorm's chapel, rectors point to specific elements in the worship space itself that serve to enrich the liturgy and build community. 
Most of the older dorms on campus still retain some or most of the traditional, pre­Vatican II features they with which they were originally constructed. For example, both Dillon Hall and Alumni Hall still have altars built for the purpose of preaching the Mass in Latin with the presider's back to the congregation. Although these chapels have been modified since Vatican II and these features are no longer in use, the rectors of Edward's Hall," he says. "The chapel itself does make it a distinctive experience of worship, because there is a strong sense that we are joined by all the men who have lived in the dorm before us." 

Although old chapels rich in tradition create a spirit of reverence and unity, the same effect is by no means lost in newer chapels or overcome by changes that serve to modernize older chapels. Far from taking away from the experience of the Mass, many argue that modem touches and reno­vations serve to enrich the liturgy and strengthen the community. The main change that has been taking place in chapels on the campus since Vatican II is the removal of 
fostering a sense of unity. Sue 

"The dorni Mass is one ofthe 1nost effective ways of
Hinderlider, rector of Howard Hall, 

says, "The purpose of a liturgy is to fostering a sense ofresidence hall identity." 
gather together the believing commu­nity.... Here at Notre Dame, our ­believing communities take the form of those who live together, who study to­gether, who play together." 
Father David Scheidler, rector of St. Edward's Hall, adds, "The dorm Mass is one of the most effective ways of fostering a sense of residence hall identity." 
Father Tom Doyle, rector ofKeough Hall, says, "What we do on Sunday night at 10 o'clock is the most important thing we do in the hall." He adds that our lives in our dorm communities are more than simply sharing a building, and that through the dorm Mass we are brought together to share in all our weekly experiences. 
Students also agree that the dorm Mass is an integral component of fostering unity in the dorm. Molly Morin, a sophomore from Welsh Family Hall, feels that dorm Masses are a good way of "promoting fellowship within the dorm." · · 
One of the elements that makes each individual hall's Mass unique is the chapel itself and how each dorm chooses to effec­tively utilize its worship space. The chapels on campus vary in age and style, from old 
1 0 Scholastic Campus Life 

Father David Scheidler, St. Edwards Hall rector 
these dorms feel that the continuing pres­. ence of these elements serves to foster an 
atmosphere of reverence and prayer. 
Father George Rozum, rector of Alumni 
Hall, and Father Paul Doyle, rector ofDillon 
Hall, both point out that their chapels are 
very different from anywhere else a student 
might visit during the day -a difference 
that, due to their traditional appearance, is 
apparent as soon as you enter. Paul Doyle 
feels that Dillon is "blessed to have something 
that says 'sacred space"' and that the change in 
atmosphere when one enters the chapel is one 
that both invites and supports prayer. 
Scheidler points out the value of a chapel 
steeped in rich tradition and calls St. 
Edward's chapel "one of the oldest and 
most historically significant on campus." 
He believes that the history of such an old 
chapel is important, offering' the facts that 
Father Sorin often said Mass there and that 
Knute Rockne and his son received their 
first communion there as examples. "[These] 
help to foster a sense of appreciation for the 
rich tradition of the home of the men of St. 

pews from chapels and the use of chairs .or even floor space as a seating area for the congregation. Though many chapels switched to chairs as early as the '60s and '70s, there are exceptions. Cavanaugh Hall is in the process ofremoving its pews while Alumni plans on keeping its original pews. Newer dorms such as Keough and McGlinn were constructed with the intention of using chairs. With a few exceptions, people agree that the use of chairs or floor space works to create an environment of unity. For Hinderlider, "Pews do present a banier in worship. Chairs allow more freedom ofmove­ment, as does our arrangement of floor seat­ing. This naturally contributes to a greater sense of being together without barriers." 
According to Paul Doyle, mwngement within the chapel is also important. He ex­plains that the chairs in Dillon's chapel are set in a ring about two-thirds of the way around the altar to suggest the atmosphere of a meal in which the congregation gathers around the aftar table. 
However, still other people fosist that the debate ofwhether pews, chairs or floor 
seating is better is a moot point. Tom 
Doyle, for example, does not think anyone can generalize and say that one is better than the other because the 
arrangement ofthe chapel is subjective to the community's specific needs. 
Scheidler maintains that the Mass it­self is the focus, not the building. He notes that despite initial wariness and 
even resentment, students have quickly gotten over furniture changes made in 
the chapel in the past. Besides the worship space itself, rec­tors point to the high attendance and 
sense that the Masses are dorm-spe­
cific -that is, geared toward each residential community's specific needs -astwo additional elements that make dorm Masses a special way to worship. Sister Sue Bruno, rector of Pasquerilla West, notes that although a small group might go together to a pep rally or a game, the dorm Mass is the one activity at which more than half the dorm's residents consistently come together. 0 Tom Doyle also counts the consistent ~: high attenda~ct:: rate as one of the ele-ffi: ments that en­riches the Mass, noting that upper-· classmen often en­courage under­classmen to come to the dorm Masses. Hinder-f~~ -· " 
lider says the fact ~"Xl J.: that the liturgy is l·· geared toward the congregation's . ,,, specific needs as a >,· · 
residential com­munity is also an important element that serves to pr When asked what she feels distin­guishes Mass at Howard Hall from the Masses of other dorms, she simply 

GATHER US IN. Whether the people sit in pews or on chairs, crowds at Sunday evening 
responds, "The fact that it is our com­
Mass in the dorms create a sense of community.

munity celebration, the time wheri we come together with all ourdifferences, with provided music; Bruno feels that in the tantthan even the homily. Ittouches the soul all our needs, with all our gifts, as the years that she has been rector ofPasquerilla the way no words can." women of Howard Hall." West the musical group has been strong, Dorm Masses are an integral part of both 
Rozum and Paul Doyle also point to the consisting of varying numbers of singers religiousandcommunitylifeatNotreDame. dorm-specific announcements thattake place and musicians from both the dorm and off They help to foster a sense of unity in the at the end ofthe liturgy as one ofthe elements campus. Rozum agrees that Alumni Hall's dorm and allow for intimate opportunities that truly make the dorm Mass their own and choir and musicians are a great blessing for the community of the faithful to grow help to build a sense of community. which enrich the Mass. Scheidler sums up -together in their beliefs. The dorm Mass is 
A final element that many rectors feel the dimension that music adds to the Mass: certainly a prime example ofthe experience makes dorm Masses special is the student-"I do believe that music can be more impor-of Notre Dame community. D 
Campus Life Scholastic 11 



esse 

the 


are Poor 

Fall service seniinar ainis to help inner-city children living in poverty 

BY KIMBERLY BLACKWELL hey are tragic but accurate statistics: one in every five children in this coun­try lives in poverty, and one in 11 
lives below half the poverty level. With its 
Children and Poverty seminar, the Center 
for Social Concerns is trying to make stu­
dents aware of these discouraging facts and 
encouraging the111 to make a difference. Dming fall break of last year, the CSC offered a new pilot program called Children and Poverty, a week-long seminar that sent students to New York City and Boston to volunteer with children and to meet with orga­nizations that deal with differ­ent aspects of poverty. The one-credit semi­nar met with such a positive response -70 applications for 24 spots -that it was continued forthisyear, with about20 students being accepted. The seminar was inspired and de­veloped by stu­dents in the class "Children arid Poverty: Devel­opmental Impli­cations," a 400­level psychology class taught by Dr.Jay Branden­berger. "Poverty has 
many repercus-
T
12 Scholastic Campus Life 
~ • J \ 
sions-welfare, abuse, [difficult] access to health care and education," Brandenberg explains. Through experiential learning, stu­dents learn about these issues and may be inspired to take action themselves. After completing the seminar, they gather in fol­low-up discussion groups and write reflec­tion papers about their experiences. 
During their week in the inner city, stu­dents are hosted by churches, service orga­nizations and, on occasion, alumni. "We stay with whoever will host us," Brandenberg says. "We're not a sports team, and we don't really have the money to put 
• -,.7 

everyone up." This year, the students in New York stayed in a Lutheran church, while the students in Boston were with the diocesan Office of Youth Ministry. The students seem comfortable with the arrange­ments. As senior Jen Ptacin notes, "We ended up helping serve food to the homeless in our church's soup kitchen." 
Ptacin, who participated in the seminar last year, coordinated the New York pro­gram for last week. The participants kept a busy schedule during the week. In the morn­ing, they met with two different organiza­tions, such as UNICEF or the famous Hale 
, • ' 

• 
House, to learn about the politics and poli­cies being used to help children. Later, they worked with children around the city, for instance, by tutoring in East Harlem. In contrast to the first year, says Ptacin, "There was a larger service component. I thought the time we spent with kids and the organi­zations was really balanced." 

and middle-schoolers who had been ex­pelled from the public school system for a year. Carbonetti enjoyed working with the students at this school. "One day we were split up into different classes. My class went down to the gym and we just starting play­ing basketball," she says. "It was one of my favorite things because it wasn't helping 
"It's not like they 're destitute. Their standards ofliving aren't the same as ours, but they still do 
fine." 
Senior Angie Carbonetti was the coordi­
nator for the Boston program. She notes that 
several changes were made for this year, the 
most important of which was the increased 
one-on-one time that participants spent with 
the children. "They really thrive on indi­
vidualized attention, since most of them 
don't get it at home," says Carbonetti. "It 
was good that this year we had more contact 
with the kids." 
The Boston group helped with after-school 
programs and took children to the zoo. They 
also volunteered at a program for truants 


-Jen Ptacin 

with homework or tutoring-it was an even playing field." 
Ptacin liked helping at Fresh Youth Ini­tiative, an organization that encourages chil­dren to get involved with service to others even less fortunate. On the day her group was there, kids were making sleeping bags to donate to the homeless. If it sounds sur­prising that children in poverty do service themselves, it shouldn't. After all, as Ptacin says, "It's not like they're destitute. Their standards of living aren't the same as ours, but they still do fine." 
Ptacin and Carbonetti agree that the children with whom they worked, far from being hopeless or uninspired as one might think, had generally positive attitudes. "They're incredibly articulate," Carbonetti says. "They can state their problems, say why the public schools weren't working for them. And they' re all optimistic about going back to school." Adds Ptacin, "In tutoring, there were kids who stepped up to leadership roles within those groups." 
The seminar seems to have been a posi­tive experience for all the participants, who now have been introduced both to the prob­lems facing children in poverty and to the solutions that are being offered. "We had a great group -the students really. came together," Ptacin says about the New York program participants. She hopes that some of them have been inspired to want to go back someday and continue to work for change. Brandenberg thinks that is likely, and he is pleased with the direction the seminar has taken this year. 
"We can all agree policy change directed for children is important," he says. "And I'm excited that Notre Dame students can play a role in that." 0 



Only $20 a year -13 regular biweekly issues plus the Literature Special 
. 
You'11 find: 
• 
the latest campus news and sports 

• 
national and campus entertainment coverage 

• 
controversial campus issues 

• 
what's happening on weekends • off-the-wall humor 


l 

I Please put me on your subscription list for 1999-2000. 
I I Name: I 

Address: ______;__________
l 
I I 
1. 
I 

• Please send this form, with payment, to: 1' 
Advertising Manager, Scholastic Magazine I LaForftme Student Center . · Notre Dame, IN 46556 
1. 

...l _--·---------------_,_________.....__________.. 
Campus Life Scholastic 13 


about the pallor, chest hair or estimated bra 
TIP THE 0 IP P. OIPPER. l@ND.EDU 

size of the Lacrosse Streaker. After all, 


Midterms are over, the evil Trojans of USC have been defeated in a heart­stopping victory and a weekend of tricks and treats is on its way. The Gipp can't complain ... well, too much, anyway. The Gipp wants to know, what's up with this Tommy Hilfiger deal? Two logos on one item of clothing is too much for the Gipp. Tommy shoes are one thing, but can Notre Dame get any more elitist when the bookstore is ready to stock up on the signa­ture ND Tommy golf polo? Wait a second, the Gipp hears something. Oh, that's just Our Lady from her perch on the dome crying, "Sellout." 
Furru Friends at NDH 
The Gipp has been notified that four Ecolab trucks were spotted near the loading dock at North Dining Hall. Emblazoned on the sides of the trucks were the fateful words, "Guaranteed Pest Elimination." The tipper, who also provided the photographic evi­dence featured 
on this page, commented, "Makes me wonder what's in the stir fry." Indeed. 
Hit Me With Your Best Shot 
Those darn lacrosse play­ers are at it again. A few 
14 Scholastic Campus Watch 
weeks ago they had a little party to celebrate "brotherhood" and "introduce" new mem­bers to the team. (Note: The Gipp omitted the words "fraternity" and "initiate" as to avoid getting the lacrosse team in trouble with du Lac and thereby to avoid getting himself in trouble with the lacrosse team.) It's tradition that that the boys convince a freshman to put on a helmet while the up­perclassmen proceed to beat him over the head with pots, pans and other kitchen sup­plies. The tipper adds, "I distinctly remem­ber a cookie sheet." 
As ifthat were not enough ofa tip to make the Gipp's day, the tipper goes on to men­tion that "the most abusive pot handler was the same lacrosse player who streaked through Reeker's last year!" Avid Gipp readers will remember this character from last year's column. There was no report of full frontal nudity at this lacrosse party, but the team members did remove their shirts. The Gipp won't repeat what the tipper said those in Reeker's last year already know. 


Gipplettes 

A On the night before the Oklahoma V game, a bunch of kids were walking back to campus from Turtle Creek. As they approached the stadium, somebody noticed that the gates were open. The group decided to take advantage of this rare opportunity for a free, unguided tour. Soon the hooli­gans were running around the field and through the stands. Unfortunately, their fun ended when campus security arrived on the scene and busted up the party. The security guards thought they had caught all the tres­passers when they left the stadium and locked the gates behind them, but they were mis­taken. One young man had been hiding and was left behind to sleep in the stadium, Rudy-style. The Gipp is sure that the con­crete floor was less than cozy, but oh, what a great story to tell the grandkids someday. 
A Well, it wouldn't be a complete edi­V tion of the Gipp if we didn't include a little urination, now would it? A certain Morrissey man celebrated his 20th birthday with 20 shots. In the wee hours of the morning, some friends woke up to find him peeing on their radiator. According to the tipper, he now owes these friends "a new carpet, one pair of shoes, assorted business books, a healthy dose of counseling and some air fresheners." The Gipp would like to let these Manorites know that although uri_ne stained accounting books may not be fun, it could have been worse. One Dillon man was also caught relieving himself in his dorm room. The Gipp won't say how he was relieving himself but will mention that there is a reason this is Gipplette number two. 
4Atfirst, nobody really suspected any­Vthing when one particular Keenan lad started taking his portable phone into the computer room to talk. After all, maybe he just liked his privacy while he talked with his folks. Or maybe not. The more time he spent in the computer room, the more his sectionmates began to think that the little guy was actually chatting with an operator ofanother kind. They proved their theory by intruding on his conversation at the, um, shall we say, "moment of truth"? Hopefully this youth soon will discover the cheaper method to satisfy his needs in the computer room (let's just hope he's quiet about it). D 

BY ZAc KuLSRUD 
Friday, 10:15 p.m. Central Time, somewhere in the environs of Niles, Mich. 
We arrive. Visibility is low. Fog curls over the dirt road. Doug, riding shotgun, spins a ghostly yarn that would boil the blood of Lucifer himself. In the backseat, Katie shrieks -a portent that in minutes we will enter the Den of Serpents. The car rumbles over craggy potholes until suddenly a sign appears in the mist: Niles Haunted House Scream Park, next right. 
My foot, burdened with fear, squeezes the throttle. We roar forward, a gate appears and toward it I sharply turn. Then the sound ofa scratch on the car's hood like fingernails on a chalkboard. I slam on the brakes. Inches from the windshield lies a steel cable. A sign appears above the cable. Then the curses come: "Zac, you#@$%!" Damn. Park closed at 11 :00 -Michigan time. 
Saturday, 10:15 p.m.. Eastern Standard Time, Niles Scream Park parking lot 
Enter hell proper and find a parking spot. Exit car. Ignore friends' jeers about the eagle-wingspan-length scratch that was engraved on my hood the night before. Proceed toward the entrance of the Scream Park. Read warning. Among other things: "No weapons, no vulgar speech, no fire, no pregnant women." Interesting. Security is tight. A man with a "Florida Kick Boxing" hat brandishes a metal detector and seizes a lighter from a dumfounded woman in front of me. Explanation: "We had some people try to rip down some things in the house last night-got to be careful now." My friends and I pass inspection and then go through a gate bearing an inscription in somber colors: "ABANDON ALL HOPE, ALL YOU WHO ENTER." I turn to my fellow souls and say, "Friends, these words I see are cruel. But be strong, and let all your cowardice die on this spot!" 
10:30 p.m. The first circle 
The aroma of burning souls surrounds us. We pass through a vestibule of nine port-o-lets. A woman cries and bangs on one of the doors: "Incontinent am I, let me in!" The horror-surely we have begun our descent into eternal damnation! 
:aefore we can muse upon our fate, we hear a macabre howl and sizzle. We turn and see the listless demon-keeper of the "Fry Freddie" game hand a child a ball, which the child hurls toward the lever of a dismembered dunktank. A direct hit and a bright light: A mannequin convulses in an electric chair while smoke envelops him. For 20 seconds the mannequin's deathly voice projects from two industrial amplifiers. The child seems a regular in this circle and, to our astonish­ment, disregards the screams. He takes his prize, a Niles Scream Park water bottle, and is whisked away in the swirling winds of the inferno. 

10:40 p.m. The haunted house 
We sell our souls for six dollars and al'e admitted into the haunted house. "Over a hundred rooms -you can see them all in seven trips!" proclaims Beetlejuice, who in a fit of avarice seizes our money and stamps our hands. Beetlejuice divides our group so that I am paired with Katie, an image of Francesca herself, who clutches my arm as we enter into the darkness. 
For five minutes we wind through tunnels in blackness. An occasional dim light reveals scabbards and ancient bowling trophies on the wall. Then jazzy Addams Family music plays and we enter a room of mirrors and paintings hanging on the walls. We get two good scares from hands reaching out from behind the frames and proceed to the next room. A mounted T­Rex head hangs from the ceiling and a serpent hisses in the corner. To pass we must edge in front of the twitching snake and, distracted, the dinosaur's mammoth maw lurches toward us. It knocks Katie on the head, who in her fright screams, "Hey, can I sue for that?" 
After a few more rooms, in which the ratio ofattempted frights to actual scares approximates a 3: l ratio, we enter the Psychedelic 
· Tunnel. A plain-clothed demon warns us not to touch the rails of the bridge as someone recently puked on them. We are not disappointed. We pass through a rotating pipe bearing neon Jackson Pollock designs and almost lose our stomachs before exiting. 
10:55 p.m. Somewhere in lower hell 
Katie and I compare notes with our friends. We reach a consen­sus and give the house a collective one thumb up. We then decide to test our fate at the Nightmare in 3-D. A three-dollar fee yields us access to a neon painted labyrinth and a pair of 3-D glasses. 
We quickly learn that we have descended much further, for the Nightmare fo 3-D affords frights that pale those of the haunted house. Iri the maze all role-playing game gurus find refuge, for the walls bear scenes that can only be compared to images appearing in the imaginations ofthose playing marathon rounds ofDungeons and Dragons. Creatures such as the "World's Fattest Man," "The World's Beard Woman" and "Alligator Man" make us jump in the surreal, postmodern-art inspired, spatially corrupt world. In this place our souls are well sold: the entire crew gives the Nightmare in 3-D two enthusiastic thumbs up. 
We think our souls are condemned to the Scream Park forever, but by grace we are saved: A man in a Chuckie mask accosts us and kicks us out because one of us had lit a_ cigarette. Indeed, strict are the rules in Hades. So beware, my fellow Dantes who venture to Niles, you who play with fire in this hell will surely be expelled. 
Campus life Scholastic 15 

. 



··.···e·
s 
. . 
r 


by Meredith Salisbury photos by Mike McNary 


·•. · least, you thought you knew that. The··. Jt .t~~Wfl jt would be hard to escape some of : L ·'gold from the Dome never goes any-~J~:\:~C\\1:\~:i8j"'';::.;i: these legends. Sorin; who. sent· 
Ifyou've ever taken (he Notre Dame ·campus tour, you probably know that whenever the Dome is regilded, the oldgoldissavedupand later added, particles at a time, to the paint used 


~~f::f~:~a~:~~~ 

r · · ·· · · · -, .. · · · -~t:;~:,rr::::_~:-~t-:~.;.;=.­
where near the football helmets -f::::)?i:1.;f?f\ ··-... _it'sjust another part of the university :t%-!%\1:}f~t}1 lore that?s so pervasive here. I:i?''\' ., -. , .--., Notre Dc:rrne .has; more 
. than its sh~e of leg­ends and lore~ The Irish mystique, yori mightsay,isbasedon 

this very rich oral history, these tra.:: ' ditions, no matter how far from the truth they stray. And it's understand­.:: '"'"·,, able..With a larger­
~ .=.:.~~f)~~

:f,.::./trf tha:n-life founder like 
~;~~,~---,~!!;;~4~ ~:::~~:e~== 
• · _ • 
pnest~ asfortune-hunters_tptheCali~ ..,.... 
forniagoldrush to see aboutfinanc­ing the school. Sorin, -wb.o··.sent rnore priests as van­dals to··destroy ~ neighbor's dam be­cause he thoughtthe swampy· ground 
-16 Scholastic Cover Story 


around it was the cause ofthe outbreaks ofmalaria, cholera and typhoid on campus. Sorin, who stood strong when the Main Building burned to the ground, and demanded not only that the community rebuild it, but that they seek funding to cover the new dome in pure gold. Sorin, who when the new bell for Sacred Heart cracked, decided on the only solution: buying an even larger bell, the biggest ever made, as well as 
-
an entire carillon that still has more bells than any other carillon in the country.
r Some might say all this background has made Irish students a little superstitious. When a violent storm knocked down the statue ofJesus in front ofSorin College four or five years ago -during Holy Week, no less-the senior class feared it was a bad omen. They petitioned Father Malloy to expedite repairs to prevent whatever terrible things might be foreshadowed by the collapse ofthe statue. In what some see as an ironic resurrection parallel, the Sacred Heart statue was restored to its glory close to Easter of that year. In the spirit ofHalloween, when all legends-founded in truth or not -receive their proper due, Scholastic takes a look at some of the hauntings, myths and lore that shape Notre Dame. Some of these are well known even among subway alums; some will surprise even the most avid of Notre Dame fans and historians. Enjoy. 



Waving-Tomf,sfone -­
some of the less-known legends seem to have been perpetuated among certain classes. The class of'21, Charles Davis remembers, had a few of these. One was what he calls the "Waving Tqmbstone." Students who walked back to campus late at night (after the trolley had shut down for the evening) went past the cemetery on Notre Dame A venue. According to Davis, "Several midnight returnees claimed they noticed the marker as it slowly listed about 14 degrees windward, holding such an instant or so, then returning to its normal position." 

nriver,ess Aorse and Buqqy 
The Class of '21 enjoyed another legend: that ofthe "Driverless Horse and Buggy." Davis records, "It was a simple folktake of a heartbroken animal known to make nocturnal visits to the grave of -his master, who had supposedly lost his life mysteriously with the 
. horse as the only witness." This tale, as well· as the moving headmarker story, seem to be localized to the students in that class. But more than 50 years after the graduation, class members were ·still talking about those legends. 

S.orin's Great Adventures 

_• -Unlike the immobile FatheI": Sorin statue. ~n God Quad, the three-foot bronze replica of the Sorin statue ' located on the first floor of ·sorin Hall has seen its share of the world.· In December of 1952, senior 
Camillus Witzlebeirfound the statue by the post office, clearly a minor prank that would be easily -forgiven. Instead ofreturning it, however, Witzleben and his friend August Manier absconded with the ,~ ·_statue.and buried itin· one <:>f the sand. pits on the-golf course. They pianned to dig it up in the spring. . 
However; so:ilieori-e else took advantage of their work, and as the theft was publicized, the administration 
started receiving postcards a_nd telegrams from Father Sorin, who said he was having a great time -.-at 
Eisenhower's inaugural ball, with the Pope and in Tokye>, among other places around the world. When the 
ground finally thawed in the spring, Witzleben remembers, he and Manier retrieved the statue (who, 
apparently, had not been at the inaugural ball) from the golfcourse and spirited it offto Chicago, where they 
store,d it at a friend's house, 

· That May, Wi tzlebenand Manier printed handbills announcing the imminent return ofFather Sorin, telling 
people to gather at Main Circle to greet the wandering president. Fortunately for the pranksters, everyone's 
attention was on the recently arrived statue which haci somehow ''.appeared" at the circle, and the guilty 
parties scurried away unnoticed. Witzleben finally admitted to his role in the statue's adventures in a 1987 
essay for a: book publis~ed by the Notre Dame Club ofPhialdelphia. 

Since Witzleben and Manier' s escapades in the early '50s, Father Sorin has gone traveling many other 
times. A 1_ 991 Notre Dame Magazine article recalls that Sorin was found in a rowboat on Saint Mary's Lake 
and another_ time was spotted enjoying an aerial view· of campus while hanging out of a helicopter. 


T'1e Haun fin sr of. · · Was,,inifon Haff 
Nearly everyone knows about the ghost -or ghosts -of Washington Hall. The oldest one is supposed to be the spirit of a steeplejackJvli9;JelLio his death in the theatei: iri 1886. H1s ghost cannot leave the buil~i'itg; it is said, until someone else dies theisame way to take his place. 
The far more famous ghost in Washing­tonHaltis supposedly that of George Gipp, whcicoritracted the strep infection that killed himby sleeping on the steps of the theater whenhe came back after a night on the town toOlate fo getinto his dorm. Toward the end ofl9~0, \VhenWashingtonHall still housed several professors and some students, resi­disembodied moans echoed through the clear, and not a soul ( or maybe just one soul, halls. They felt things, too, describing it as they thought) was nearthe cabinets full of the feeling ofa cold hand on their back. And instruments. Convinced of the ghost, the finally, orie of the residents said he saw the crowd dispersed. Davis, who had been liv­ghost -and that it was none other than ing in Washington Hall at the time, was George Gipp, who had recently died. To this never found out. Apparently, there was a day, employees and visitors alike will tell removable knot in one of his walls -the you of their supernatural encounters in wall that served as the back of the instru­Washington Hall. ment cabinet. Davis had removed the knot, 

There's another part of the legend that slipped a hose through the wall and into one isn't carried on. Charles Davis, class of '21, of the horns, and had inserted his trumpet confessed in a 1978 article that he had been mouthpiece into his end of the hose. When the culprit for at least one of the ghostly everyone was waiting expectantly for the effects in the building. One night lot_s of ghost to perform, it was instead Davis who people were gathered in Washington Hall to performed; by blowing through the tube, he see if there were . , > . .....· . " . . . . _ 1 could make the any truth to the rampant talk of 
It {\ ¢5,iih~~~~i&d; i ~~:iF.:~f;~ghosts in the build­ing -and they got 
Iridiana'State Police, Sergea11t Tirri )i prank, but Davis 

dents of the building began hearing things: their evidence. A ( Ivlcrarthystarteclnuiki.nghissafe~riyiqg \; seems· to have 

doors slammed shut when they were al­horn blare was 

.. ar1nouncementpunsiii 15160,.accbrd~ngto fooled everyone readylocked, a nonexistent trumpet blared, heard loud and 
aJ991 footbahprqg;ahi,: \ . ·.. else. 
[. I !·.·_-_: __ . ·--·--··~·-.·.;_. ·..,.-_, -~-__ ·.. _.. __·_-.....~---·--~---,--' --,._-___ ·,j 

ATree Possessed 
Behind Corby Hall, close to the G1:ouo, there is a tree popular among students as a place to curl up and study. But they don't study under the tree, they study in it -the tree's unusual shape comes from five main branches that curl out from the trunk, eerily resem­bling an outstretched hand. According to a legend described in the 1926 Dome yearbook, this particular sycamore is haunted by the spirit of a ruthlessly murdered native American. This excerpt from the Dome relates the story allegedly told by a native American chief to explain the tree: 
"One white man, who had lost a cherished friend in [an Indian] raid, was heart0 broken, and vowed eternal enmity against every Indian. So it happened one day that my friend was fishing in [Saint Mary's Lake], and was found here by the white man. My friend was unarmed and unsuspecting; he had no quarrel with either white man or Indian, being a man of peace. But when the white man who had lost his friend saw the fisherman, he remembered his vow and did not think. He crept upon my friend from behind, and drove a knife into his back. Mortally wounded, the unhappy Indian sprang up and ran t1ntil he reached this spot, where the sycamore tree now grCJws. Here he sank exhausted, and the revengeful white, in spite of his pleas, attacked him again. . . . · 
"The Indian, then on the pointofdeath, exclaimed, ' ... l appeal to God for vengeance.' Then my friend died, and there I found him._... 
"And shortly there sprang up a little tree where my friend's blood had trickled into the earth. As the tree grew, it took on a peculiar shape, and now you can see -it is the hand of my friend lifted to heaven in supplication." 
• 
Manna from f'1e Aeavens 
Some people have come up with interesting ways of taking 
advantage of the Notre Dame mystique. One was 23-year-old local 
businessman William Busse, manager of a town bakery, who 
wanted to introduce the townsfolk to a new type of bread he sold. 
In 1931, Busse could think of no better way to publicize than during 
a Notre Dame football game, where nationwide attention would be 
riveted. In a letter written more than 60 years later, Busse recalls his 
strategy: "I thought up the idea of dropping miniature loaves of 
bread from an airplane at one of the Notre Dame football games 
which had national radio coverage." 
Busse bought miniature loaf pans and 6,000 miniature para­
chutes. He loaded up numerous half-size suit boxes with about 24 
of the little loaves each, and took off the door of a four-passenger 

plane so he could easily distribute the bread. With a friend flying the plane, Busse prepared to execute his plan. "We had to test the air· . currents first to see where the boxes of parachutes would float down. The first box floated down about two blocks east of the stadium. The next box came down in the east stands where the 
viewers were sitting. We circled the stadium again and dropped our 
entire load so it would float down on the playing field." . 
Busse continues, "The officials had to stop the game and remove 
the parachutes and bread.... The folkiwing Monday some Notre 
Dame executives came to see me and complained that their football 
game was interfered with. I promised I would never do it again, and 
I never have." 
Never, that is, over the stadium. Busse' s ploy proved so success­
ful that he had more drops all over northern Indiana and southern 
Michigan. What Busse calls a "sensation" . was a boon to the 
business, and went down in Notre Dame history as well. 



Rain Man 

When Notre Dame defeated USC two weeks ago, several stu­
dents noted that whenever the Trojans got the ball in the fourth 
quarter, it started to rain harder. When the Irish had possession, 
however, the rain lightened or stopped altogether. Clearly, the 
rationale goes, such divine intervention proves God's looking out ·· for his favorite team. 
This is just a variation on atheme in Irish folklore. According to 
the Notre Dame football program from September 7, 1991, "Dur­
ing the '66 season on a rainy Saturday the Irish students chanted, 
'Ara, make it stop.' He turned to the crowd, raised his hands and it 
actually stopped raining. 


\Vhenth6 ~ituatiott den1ands, history says NotreDa~ecan ... actually build things quickly. iWhen Knute Rockne grew , • adamant that his tearn needed a realst~diuminstead ofa field ..·..·.·.surrouriqecl.···by. bleachers,.Rockne's be.loved staditimwas·. ! constr~ctedin four months.ata costof$750,000.Ai1d every~. 
one knows·. the story abourM:ainBuilding -whenitburned . dowr; Sodnhired community workers who 1p.ade their own.· . bricks out of inadJromthefakes and. had the.entir~ building . > 
j! 

. c9mpleted"in fotir~~nth~,just ill time for the startof fall _J ·. semester. 



Fi q'1fin' Terri er? 
One of the stone carvings on Alumni Hall commemorates the Irish mascot -but not the Iep­rech aun. As the nickname "Fighting Irish" became .n10re popular than previous names ("Ramblers," "Papists"}; the team took the Irish ten-ieras its new mascot. The first one in 1930 was a gift to Knute Rockne, who couldn't reniember the dog's full name: Brick Top . Shuan_-Rhu. They called him Mike, and for a period ofalmost 40 years a series of dogs called Clashmore Mike roamed the Irish sidelines. After the last Clashmore Mike, the team adopted the leprechaun 
new mascot. 
Cover Story Scholastic 19. 


If you ask members of the dnui:J. line of the Notre Dame Marching Band, they'll tell you they're the most maligned section in the band. If you ask people in any other section, they'll say the drummers deserve it. Almost a decade ago, this sectional rivalry gave rise to what has become legend in the band.Apparently,· some mischievous band members were fed up with cadences and, in. response, stole the drummers' rolling tympani. But a large kettledrum isn't something you can hide in your dorm room, so it was delivered to the next best 
--•--------.. ------··· .... ·-·· -. place: the depths of Saint Joseph's River. It was never salvaged.
lJnd er wafer Treasures 
,------,...-.•-,-. -,--~•---,-~----•-•--~ •-•••--•-•---v-,-"•~"'•­


[ /< <, /····· 

Another treasure in the Tun·r,er N.effqrk......-... --.. _..
1 

lake is a crown, worth in \i ·,, Most every!Jody_has heard rumors its day a small fortune; it ' aboul.thetunnels; butfowbelievethey, would have been price-,. reallye~isrinfact,.1'{otrel)an1e. ~as_an .l 
-less today, had the fates not worked against it. 
f·--·;JJf:t:~t~.t:rT:bili17I;;11r:.::;u~1-: 

The crown, a gift to the -, Focyears, students have ell]oyed the_ ; university in the late 
· 1800s from Empress 
i.·_~i~i:t~~~ir~t~{:1i::~~::::l~r·_~.:d•--·l 

Eugenie, wife of Napo­r exploring the lengths of underground.. I 
leon III, was displayed 
on a statue in the Sacred 
Heart church. Itwas sup­
posed to have been made of pure gold and precious gems. In 1886, thieves broke into the church -they missed the small crown, but the event was enough to scare university officials into taking it offdisplay. It was sentto nuns at the campus laundry to be hidden. However, no one remembered to take it out of hiding, and when_ someone found the crown there years later, he assumed it to be a piece of costume jewelr/ Over the years, the crown was used as a prop in plays at Notre Dame and in South Bend. Eventually, someone bumped it from its perch on a peg in the Holy Cross boiler room, and it shattered. An employee ofNotre Dame picked up the gems as baubles and tossed the rest of the crown into the incinerator.Long after, the gems were recognized by a more trained eye to be far more valuable than the employee had ever dreamed. Meanwhile, back at Notre Dame, the remnants of the crown were most likely emptied with the rest of the incinerator trash -into Saint Mary's Lake. 
1:·c.o.rddors·.. Th-~ tumiels•·Jouse_•.the_-. i • university's heat, electric;ity _and phone 
1linis. i .-. · •· : .·.·•·····-· ·. _. > . · 
I\ According to .a'J991 article in «otre [)iz,il? ·Nlagazine~ ?L-9re 'i11 the_ '40s ...i had it that thetubnels were the scene. of i;priest:Cnlin_-loveJrysts 6r_.__derfcalqrink~ ' ing orgies: l,ater generatio~~ibr<?oded. ab6µfthe/serial kHl;rs'•• whosuppos~·• i~dly Imkediri·the._tu~nels,biciing their ·ii1ne'.-andfooki11°fo~ victims.'' -. > 

; '. •. •··. .c,·. •·':.'-'-O,:c_• ,_., ,•.· .,:.,,; .. • .. i 
i Today,thetunn_elsa:reJabledmorefor_ j 
. ·.-.·· ·•. -· ;· :·• . '"'·" -·-... ,.. · ....• I 
,·:·thej~ ov.ersi,:?:ed •r~ts)pd.csfiiqers'.·still{ j .• stud.ents, brave·._ the_ dark;hu111idunder~ · 
[,fjI;~b~{gr~J~~sKht(riel~ i 
Fi erd ,iouse Mar, 
You know it because you've run the through the Stonehenge fountain there, but in the mid-1900s the Fieldhouse was a build­ing occupying that location. Known prima­rily as a sports center -particularly for basketball -the building was also a gen­eral convocation center before the JACC existed. In the tradition of a school that cherishes its lore, two pieces of _the Fieldhouse were saved from destruction when _the building was razed. One was a cornerstone, which still stands in its origi­nal location as a memorial of the old build­ing. The second souvenir was ... thet1oor. This foq~otten legend was carved into pieces and given to varsity athletes as commemoratives. Odd? Not if you remem­ber that the floor was purchased with money won in the 1925 Rose Bowl, thelast game in ·which the Four Horsemen'-. Crowley; Layden, Miller and Stuhldreher ~ played togethei·. 0 



I 
I 
~ 
I r 
This 6-2, 225-pound senior defenseman was named alternate captain of the men's hockey team for the 1999-2000 season. In 1997-98, he skated with the United States junior national team. My favorite opponent to defeat is: anyone we play I first took up hockey when I was: seven years old My greatest individual moment was: winning the Canadian National championships with the United States junior hockey team My greatest team moment at Notre Dame was: in sophomore year, 
· when we beat Michigan in the first ganie of the playoffs c,, The worst hockey-related injury I sustained was: tearing my MCL 
. I .
CD twice .L.. My most memorable Notre Dame moment off of the ice was: the c,j rookie party when I was a sophomore 
1 
My favorite professional hockey player is: the Dev­ils' Scott Stevens If I could play another sport at Notre Dame, it would be: women's lacrosse 
While playing hockey, I have lost: seven teeth My favorite 
hockey movie is: Slapshot I think the NHL's 
four play in over­time: creates more ex­citement by reducing 
the number of ties 
The toughest class 
I've taken at Notre Dame is: freshman chemistry 
~
•-1 


Navy, coming off a tough loss to Akron last week, puts up a val­iant effort against the Irish inthe first half, keeping the score quite close at intermission. But Notre Dame eventually overpowers the Midshipmen to win 41-20, giv­ing the Irish even more momen­tum heading into their biggest game of the year next week at 
Tennessee Chris HOlmUton 
Notre Dame has won 35 con­secutive matches against Navy. Number 36 will be one of the uglier ones. The Irish crush the Midshipmen Satur­
day, 48-7' Ger[llrd MeskiH 
Too worried about next week's game against Tennessee, the Irish lose focus against Navy this week. Fortunately, they pull off a tough victory in the end, winning their second game in a row by one point. 
Brion Christ 
Sports Scholastic 21 



: -----.. , oils can measure talent, experience and even coaching. However, ' ··· / one thing they can't measure is desire. The women's basketball team willed their way into Irish Jore by earning the only Final Four berth 
't"'·"·•...\;f. in the team's history 

Enterin~ the prese~son, expectations for the Iri~h were h~gh. Notre Dame 'f.l:b returned vutually all of the athletes from the previous year s NCAA squad, · . including All-Americans Katryna Gaither and Beth Morgan. Even though 
;;;'.~ the Lady hish were dealt a 25th ranking in the preseason poll, coach Muffet ••• i McGraw never doubted the capabilities of her squad. 
•=-==,.....,,V'.11 "Coming into the season, I told them that this is our best team ever. We
1 

tltWJ\~?};it~&) ' ::';r!::::~~~:i~e:~·::;:nt~~l!~~~~ after Notre Dame 66 
McGraw's intuition proved correct. Notre Dame y 80 
finished the season at 25-5 and finished second to uefilleSSe® :;,C::: Conn_ecticut in the Big East Tournam~nt, earning them~ disappointing s!x~1 ;~~ : seed 111 the NC_AA_Tournan:e_nt. Und1sco_uraged, the Insh met Memphis 111 Wiid., round one, dehvenng a dec1s1ve 93-62 victory. 
,.,.-, • Notre Dame then headed to Austin to play Texas on their home comt for )JWfi•.-... a chance to reach the round of 16. In a hard-fought, gutsy game, the Irish j pulled out an 88-83 win to advance. Guided by a second-half sc01ing frenzy 
ofremarkable shooting, Notre Dame crushed Alabama in the Sweet 16 and ; • proceeded to play George Washington for the Final Four berth. i Much like the Irish, George Washington was having a Cinderella season, 
' 

~ highlighted by an upset over top-seeded North Carolina. But the clock struck midnight on George Washington when Morgan and Gaither stepped up their game to produce a 62-52 win and a t1ip to Cincinnati. 
Waiting for Notre Dame was Tennessee, the defending champion and a team with a rich history. After a slow stmt, the Lady Vols had closed the season powe1fully, finishing 13-4 in their last 17 games. Under the guidance of coach Pat Summit, Tennessee had reached every NCAA tournament
C since the team's inception in 1982 and had won four national titles. · As usual, the Irish ignored the intimidating odds and went to work on the C Lady Vols. Boosted by strong defensive efforts from Rosanne Bohman and . ! Mollie Pei1ick, Notre Dame took an early lead. Gaither contributed to the 
Q attack by netting 14 points. ; At halftime, the Irish were faced with a one-point deficit. More impor­i tantly, however, Notre Dame was concerned with a lopsided Lady Vols 1 rebounding advantage and.shooting woes for team stm· Morgan, who went 
~ one-for-nine from three-point range. 

, In the second half, the Irish collapsed. By the time three minutes had elapsed, Notre Dame had turned over the basketball six times. Tennessee capitalized on hish chmity, posting a seven-point lead in that span. In the meantime, the Lady Vols continued to dominate the boards, compiling 20 offensive rebounds, while the Irish total lingered at slightly half that figure. "Coming into the game, we had two keys," reflected McGraw. "One was rebounding and the other was controlling the ball. We didn't do either one." 
Despite their many mishaps, the Irish rallied to pull within two of Tennessee with 10:51 to play. From there, the Lady Vols took over for good. Sophomore Dominique Holdsclaw led the Lady Vols attack, accumulating 19 second-half points to finish with 31 on the night. 
The Lady Vols went on to repeat as national champions while the Irish returned home to reflect on the season. Coach McGraw spoke on behalf of the Irish, stating, "We just finished the most outstanding run in the history ofNotre Dame women's basketball. We are disappointed about the way we played tonight, but I am very proud of this team." 
What was not to be proud of? Ranked 25th in preseason and seeded sixth in their bracket, Notre Dame rallied to finish fourth in the nation, placing ahead ofBig Eastri val Connecticut. The 1997 squad had redefined women's basketball at Notre Dame, turning a relatively obscure program into a national contender. -Gerard Meskill 
....._ ------------· .. 
22 Scholastic Sports 

·g+fm·~l 
f@@f~(O]~~ (4-3) Key Stat: Notre Dame rallied from two 21-point deficits to defeat the Trojans, 25­24. Prime Time Performer: Jarious Jackson spearheaded the offense again. He Jed the team in rushing with 57 yards and also threw for 257 yards and a touchdown. Next Game: This Saturday the Irish host the Midshipmen at I :30 p.m. 
W@Wtrn®r{§ §~[[®r (13-3) 
Key Stat: The Irish are a perfect 7-0 against Big East opponents this year. Prime Time Performer: Senior Jenny Streiffer scored three goals, becoming the fourth player in NCAA history to notch 60 goals and 60 assists in a collegiate career. Next Game: Notre Dame takes on Indiana in Bloomington on Sunday at 
3:00 p.m. · 
Hod{ey (l-5) 
Key Stat: The Irish have been outscored 
19-7 by CCHA opponents this year. Prime Time Performer: Sophomore David Inman, the only Irish player to score multiple goals this year, netted his fourth goal of the season in a 4-2 loss to Ferris State last Sunday. Next Game: The Irish host Miami (Ohio) tonight at 7:05 p.m. 

Key Stat: Notre Dame has won six straight conference matches. Prime Time Performer: Sophomore Kristy Kreher tallied 15 kills and 11 digs in ·a 3-0 sweep of Connecticut last Sunday. Next Game: Notre Dame heads east to battle Boston College on Saturday at 2:00 p.mET. 


BY LIESL MARX s captain and goalie of the men's
A
varsity soccer team, this is Gerick 
Short's year to shine. After playing in only six games in four years, partially due to two shoulder injuries, Short says to play now comes as a relief. 
"As a freshman, you'd come here and you were everything in your high school and hometown, and it's hard to come here and not play," says Short. "Itfeels really good to get out on the field." 
The first injury came during Short's jun­ior year. He hadn't been playing in the games because he and his head coach, Mike Berticelli, had been discussing the possibil­ity of his staying on an extra season. But after injuring his shoulder and undergoing surgery Short was red-shirted for medical reasons. Thus, he was eligible for another season of play. 
Short says that his second injury, which sidelined him his entire senior season, made him realize that he really wanted to be a part of this soccer program. 
"It meant a lot more to me than I was giving it credit for," notes Short. It was with this attitude that Short made a commitment to get healthy and play this year. 
So far, Short has had four shutouts and has been named BigEastPlayerofthe Week twice. The first time it was for two 1-0 wins over Northwestern and Boston College; the second time was for wins over Eastern Michi­gan (5-2) and Syracuse (2-0). Short has started in every game this season and has a .796 save percentage. 
"I would be lying if I said I wasn't ec­static," Short says of his pe1formance this year. He also credits his team for playing extremely well and not putting him under too much pressure to save the game. 
Short, elected as the lone team captain, says, "Ienjoy being looked at as a leader and being put in that position by my teammates, but it's hard." He adds, "There are six other seniors on the team who are respected lead­ers. This helps take the pressure off ofme." 
Short's positive attitude, strong work ethic and dominance on the field earn him the respect he deserves from his teammates. 
According to junior Steve Maio, Short is hard-working, tough, committed and deter­mined to play. "Gerick is a good leader and very approachable. He'll be there for you if you need him." He adds that Short's confi­dence allows the whole team to be confi­
s:: 
:,; 
m s: 
0 
z 
)> :D 
-< 

dent. "If anything breaks down he'll come up big and make some phenomenal saves. He'll keep us in the game." 
Freshman Alan Lyskawa agrees. "Gerick's great. He has more experience than anybody else on the field and is good at directing from the backfield." From his per­spective as a freshman, Lyskawa says that Short keeps the upperclassmen from has­sling the younger players too much and is really good about helping them and "show­ing them the ropes." 
Short's personal goals and team goals are one and the same -to succeed. He wants the team to win the Big East title and to participate in the NCAA Tournament. With Notre Dame ranked fifth, it is in a good position to do just that, and Short is optimis­tic about the team's chances. "We have fewer games to play than anyone else in the Big East right now. We are in a good spot." 
Short says he does not plan to continue playing after college. Physically, he has had about as much as he can take, but he does see himself coaching some time down the road. "Soccer is a game and a sport that I will always love. Once someone gets into it, they will become addicted to the sport. I will always stay involved in soccer." 0 
Sports Scholastic 23 



BY JOE Loscuoo otreDamedefensiveendGrantlrons 
may be known for his big hits on the 
football field, but what he does off the field may have an even greater impact. When he is not playing football for the Irish, Irons devotes much of his free time to com-· munity service. 
Recently, Irons was selected by the Ameri­can Football Coaches Association as one of 11 Division I-A players to be on the 1999 Good Works Team. The team recognizes those college athletes who show excep­tional dedication to community service. Candidates were chosen based on sincere concern, reliability and ability to make a favorable impression on the organizations with which they were involved. Irons said that he had no idea he was being considered for the award, and that he only heard about it after someone mentioned it to him. He is more proud of his work with local commu­nities than of the honors bestowed on him. 
Irons is a community speaker for Athletes 
Against Drugs. "That is just something I 
have always believed in, not mixing drugs 
and athletics," he says. This is one of the 
issues Irons speaks about when he goes 
home to Texas. "Back in my hometown I 
N 
24 Scholastic Sports 

have the opportunity to speak at local high schools," says Irons. "And one of the points I try to get across to the students is to surround themselves with positive people." 
He adds that talking to people from his home is one of the things he enjoys most about being a role model. Itis important for him to make a positive impression on the young people there. 
Irons is also involved in the Captain's Council Christmas Party for children from a local pediatric oncology unit. This was an opportunity for Irons and some other team­mates to visit with South Bend children who have been diagnosed with leukemia. "We wanted to recognize them, because we as athletes have to deal with challenges, but these kids are facing real challenges ... they are dealing with life," says Irons. He adds thathe and his teammates try to give the kids encouragement and to let them know that people do care about them. "You can just see the difference it makes in their faces and in their smiles." 
Irons also serves his fellow athletes as the vice president of Notre Dame's Student Advisory Council. He is the representative for the football team on the council. They serve as "the voice of the student-athlete," Irons explains. "We help develop various 
phases of the student-athlete, such as aca­demics or community service." He stresses that the council is dedicated to preparing ath­letes for life beyond athletics with such things as resume workshops and interviewing skills. He also has been involved in such things as Habitat for Humanity and the delivery of _meals to_ the poor during Thanksgiving and 
·Clrristmas. 
When asked why he does all of this ser­vice, Irons remarks, "I have been blessed with so much, and this is just my way of 
·giving back and to be ofservice." It is a great feeling for him to see less fortunate people benefit from community service and the little things he can do to help them. How does he fit all this into his busy life? "Itis a busy schedule, but it is also a rewarding schedule," he says. Irons says doing service is encouraged by the athletic departmentatNotre Dame, which wants players to be involved in the community here and beyond. 
According to those who know him, be­sides being an intimidating factor on the football field, Grant Irons is one ofthe more generous people you will ever meet. Irons is driven by his dedication to serving those around him; it is this humble dedication to those less fortunate for which he recently has been recognized. D 


If you can't live w.ith regret, 


Don't Miss.This 
ONLY ONE MONTH REMAINS TO SUBMIT PIECES FOR SCHOLASTIC'S FIRST-EVER ISSUE DEVOTED ENTIRELY TO FICTION 
AND VISUAL ART. 
THE DEADLINE FOR YOUR SHORT 

STORY, POETRY, ESSAY, AND VISUAL ART SUBMISSIONS IS DECEMBER 1. 
DROP OFF YOUR WORKS IN THE BOX 
OUTSIDE THE SCHOLASTIC OFFICE IN THE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL OR SUBMIT THOUGH THE INTERNET AT HTTP://ww~.ND.EDU/~scHOLAST 
QUESTIONS? CONTACT ZAC KULSRUD· AT ZKULSRUD@ND,EDU 
Advertisement Scholastic 25 



;1 
:l 
I 
I 
. MUST SKIP T.V. 
Once and Never Again 

New series from the makers ofMy So-Called Life doesn't merit a second viewing 
We.mustbevery bad people," Rickmunnurs into his girlfriend's always either sucking on a cigarette or slugging down a beer. ear. And somewhere, in the A.V. room or maybe at a meeting of the "No," replies Lily, laughing like a naughty schoolgirl. physics club, would sit Brian Krakow, that angel-nerd, complete "We're just very bad parents." with a halo of unruly blond curls. And he would pine away for Meanwhile,· back at the ex-wife's house, Rick's son, Eli, poor, mixed-up Angela, who was oblivious to his affection. Man, realizes that he left his World Cultures book on his father's bed I loved that show. and tells his mother that he's going to run over and pick it up. Unfortunately, Once and Again consists mainly of the kind of Unfortunately for Eli, he arrives at his father's house just in time scenes Iprefer to fast-forward through in my marathon replays of to stumble over some clothes which have been thrown about the My So-Called Life. I'm talking about the scenes where the parents foyer and hear strange noises coming from his father's room. start making out. It was bad enough watching Angela's parents Is this a dramatic portrait of the breakdown of the American with their handcuffs and costumes and what have you, but at least family? Oris it a story about a love that goes against all odds -they shared these moments with one another. In Once andAgain, the kind of love that doesn't even let children of previous Lily's kids go to school with Rick's kids, all the kids seem to marriages get in its way? I'll let you decide. know what's going on, and it's not cute like it is in The Brady Rick Sammler, played by Bill Campbell (a.k.a. the Rocketeer), Bunch. In fact, I find it to be quite icky and creepy. I was and Lily Manning, played by Sela Ward, are a couple of 40-discussing this issue with a friend from home and she said it best: somethings coping with life after divorce on ABC's Once and "Give me Married: With Children any day. At least they stayed Again. The only reason I watched this show was that it was married. And their kids turned out perfectly fine -one ofthem' s produced by Marshall Herskovitz and Edward Zwick, the same even got her own show now." We're not sure what happened to people who made My So-Called Life.·· the boy, but one out of two isn't bad at all. And hey, even if Let us stop, for a moment, and reflect on the glory that was My parents can't manage to ·stay,marrfecl.,.the least thing they can do. So-Called Life: is to stay away from other parents in their kids' school district. Or Re~ember Angela? Remember those days, long before the atthe very least, have enough courtesy to f?nsure that their kids are name "Claire Danes" even rang a bell? Angela was sweet and sad, · outofthe way before they start sharing a romantic moment. Sadly a bony and lonely soul, forever clad in dreary plaids and sweaters enough, Eli wasn't the first kid to walk in on Lily and Rick. Tsk, thatdicln't quite fit. The only bright beam ~flight in the dim high tsk. school hallway would pick up a glint in Angela's Crimson Glow The other thing that really bugged me about Once and Again hair~color as she would stare at Jordan Catalano, flooding his was the repetition of these black a~d white "confessional" glassy blue eyes with Visine, as he would lean against a wall like scenes. First of all, it's a total rip~off of The Real World. And no other boy could lean.My mom and I would look forward to that second ofall, nobody seems sorry about any ofthe acts for which show all week, chatting eagerly about the next installment of the they are confessing. I mean, whatever happened to guilt? Perhaps saga and preparing elaborate snacks of pretzels and vegetable these people should go visit a priest instead of explaining them­sticks as the hour ofthe program drew near. We'd chomp away on selves to the eyes of a scandal-savoring audience. Or perhaps I health-food as we immersed ourselves in Angela's world. Soon should quit moralizing before I score myself an editorial position we, too, were hiding out between the cold, tiled walls ofthe girls' on Right Reason. bathroom as Rickie applied his eyeliner and Angela's old best So ifyou're looking for some wholesome television program­friend, the clarinet-toting Sharon Cherski, sat on the dusty radia­ming, stay far away from Once and Again. Instead, find some tor. Sharon would adjust her hair and get all the gossip she could quality TV on Nick-at-Nite or tune in for my all-time favorite handle from Angela's new best friend, Rayanne Graff, who was Halloween special, It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown. . 




by Kara Zuaro 
26 Scholastic Out of Bounds 


r\\.· ,_ : ·,';, ~: :_ ,_ _t·:!-) ...:(,.~':· ·:., _,. ' -'. 
~ --. . 



graphic essay by Caroline M. Wolf 
Is the latest onslaught of J. Crew fashion on campus getting you down? Are you fostering the eerie suspicion that ND students are actually part of an elaborate Abercrombie & Fitch marketing ploy? Fear not! The latest counter-culture shop in the University Park Mall, Hot Topic, aims to quiet the qualms of convention. Where else can you find Straw­berry Shortcake paraphernalia, dog collars (for humans, of course) and dominatrix gear all located on the same shelf? Studded leather brassieres and questionable toys -not 
• 
even Meijer offers such variety. Though the sales clerks 

• 
may make _the un-tattooed feel a bit inadequate, they are quite helpful. And there are always plenty of friendly, frumpy moms around the store, buying trinkets and black 


~ pleailier ;,~7' for thefr reb:I'.'.ous tee~~2:;t 
\l/z  ,  /,J  .,.'._\)i  ~  
r,;~·  f"'1. ~-­ 
~~  
0  

T 
t. 
? ~ 
···t 
~-
..,-T 
l 0
·---·@-8
WCAA/ 
r 
L-p You..: p
7 
I 
-··( 




Entertainment Scholastic 27 



by Matt Cremer 

Despite the controversy he has stirred, the Notre Dame Film Society is trying to bring Kevin Smith and his film Dogma to campus 
"All along I've thought, how seriously can you take amovie that has arubber poop monster in it?" 
-Kevin Smith, director of Dogma
Indeed. But people are taking the film distribution. seriously, and that movie .remains "I almost feel like it is a recrmtmg awash in controversy. The scene is the film," Smith says. "It's pro-faith. I 
same at Dogma screenings and film 
festivals  nationwide.  - ~S U\1"'  
Prayerful protesters  -·  11~0'{\\\\~~i1&.\W'tilii  
ranging from  ;:-~\ .  11f~ \\~\\  

hand fu Is to ~\ stM\\U\\11 s cores wait ;~ ~~1. 1\\\\!tll,l~ulue outside carrying ·""~:-·:~ · GtO\\S signs and shout-·~, . . oo\\'t~ «tO\\\" 

want to grab the people attacking the film and tell them, 'Hey, dude, I'm doing your job while you sit here and politicize. I don't hear 
you out there tub-thumping for Christ.' And I don't remem­ber reading anything in the Bible about where Christ was like, 'Go out amongst men, 
ing slogans. Smith 1~ ·' ·,_;:, ·:" \\\\ runts ·. and make sure they don't 
~ ~ ··. · · ~s K~)-" -t~1.~;i1es . 

has received hate ~\';\',t::. say anything bad about mail for the soon-'; C me.'" 
to-be-released film. Some Christian groups and individu­als are very insistent that this film should not be widely released. 
Despite the national controversy, Kelly McGann, head ofthe Notre Dame Film Society, has re­ceived the okay from the powers that be to try to bring Smith to campus to give an advance screening of Dogma, followed by an informal lecture and discussion. This information is still unconfirmed, but. ifthe screening takes place, it will be open to all students. If he comes, Smith will have much to say not only about the mak­ing of the film, but also about the many setbacks during the film's production and 
28 Scholastic Entertainment 

Perhaps Smith seems 
slightly agitated, but his 
annoyance may not be 
completely 
unwarranted. Dogma, 
which was written 
around the same 
time as Clerks, was 
she! ved first by 
Smith himself be­
cause he didn't feel 
ready to take on pure fantasy. "Per­sonally, I don't think I was mature enough to take it on until now," Smith said. "Not that the subject matter is so mature ­because it's really a flick that's as goofy as it is thoughtful -but I think taking it on earlier would have led to a far more adolescent film." Also, Smith's earlier films like Clerks, Mallrats and Chasing Amy were produced with relatively small budgets. To make the fantasy world of Dogma more visual, Smith would need more money. 
However, once Smith felt ready to take on Dogma on his own terms, a new type of trouble began. Smith now had enough money, a mature mindset for creating the film and a wealthy distributor, but his blessings ended there. First, Dogma was produced by Miramax, a division of Disney. Disney then decided that it did not want the film anymore because of the potential storm brewing with Christian groups. Miramax proceeded to purchase the film independently from Disney for 12 million dollars. Then, Miramax sold the film to Lion's Gate sometime in April. Lion's Gate Entertain~ ment Corpora­tion is known for giving dis­tribution to in-i dependent/ 
films. Lion's i-:i-.:•..--·.. Gate Films 
Monsters and Af­fliction. 
some distri­bution diffi­


-
culties, Dogma had finally situated itself with Lion's Gate. Still, there are religious groups determined to stop the picture from wide release. Smith jokes, "Maybe it's not the Catholic Church that should be up­set, but every other \ 
religion. Other reli­gions should be like, 'Hey, dude, wait a sec-\ ond! The world is go­ing to end because of Catholic dogma? What about Judaism, Bud­dhism, the Methodists?'" 
Clearly people are up­set about this film, but why? Other movies such as Stigmata have been re­leased this year and have taken on similar subjects without as much bad noise. Dogma, unlike Stigmata, which is a serious piece, is a comic fantasy where good and evil wage war in New Jersey. The movie stars Matt Damon and Ben Affleck as fallen angels sent to exile in Wisconsin. All they want is to return to Heaven. They discover that there is a loophole in Catholic doctrine that will a 1 1 o w them to re-enter Paradise if 
they pass under the blessed arch of a New Jersey cathe­dral. 
Affleck, who has starred in Smith's past movies, says this about the two characters:"... two guys that just want to go home. They have been in Wisconsin for thou­sands of years and they're ready to go back to heaven. And they're not about to let anything stop them." One prob­lem emerges. If Loki and Bartle­by, Affleck and Damon's char­acters, succeed in their plan, the world will 
end. Hence the plot. Kevin Smith hasn't forgotten the usual characters for his movies. Jay, played 

by Jason Mews, a longtime friend ofSmith, and Silent Bob, played by Jeff Anderson, star in the movie too. Mews says this about his part: "Basically, Jay and Silent Bob are on their way to New Jersey when this chick, Bethany, wants to come along and Jay's thinking, 'Yeah, cool,' because he thinks he's going to get laid and instead he ends up discovering angels and devils and stuff like that." 
In all ofthis fantasy and comedy, where are these religious groups finding objec­tionable material? There are two possi­bilities. One is the liberal use of the F­word, and the other is that Alanis Morissette plays God. However, the total screen time Alanis is featured is less than five seconds. The problem is that most of the groups so adamantly opposed to this movie have not yet seen it, so they do not know that Alanis is only on screen for a short time. 
Most of the protest is because of rumor. And it is this rumor that is making Kevin Smith's life just a little more stressful these days. If Smith does come to Notre Dame, perhaps a discussion of the movie can exorcise the demons of producing a film that would be so controversial. D 



oas 
Hey, we're over herel 
Entertainment Scholastic 29


The Day I Found "Paradise" 
No matter what the khakis and JanSports say, Notre Dame students yearn for the good old days: Molly Ringwald and songs that don't start with "Mmmbop" 

BY DANIEL BIRKIslumped low in my chair, trying to shield my eyes from the honible sunlight. I wasn't feeling so well. I'd had it rough the night before. Total strangers kept coming up to me with idiotic grins, saying, "How ya feeling, bro? Man, you were housed last night!" It was 7:30 a.m. -drinking time for the strong of heart. The tailgater was just getting started, but something wasn't right. Everything seemed normal. No tomfoolery here, just the usual assortment of drunks getting ready to pass out during the second quarter of a football game. One guy throwing metal folding chairs at cars, another pouring Osco Drug rum directly from the bottle into people's mouths and over their heads and soak­ing the barbecue with Old Mil­waukee Light. But there was something out ofsync. I looked around. A rogue sprinkler shot 20 feet into the air, watering the sidewalk. Nothing out of the ordinary here. Rows of cars, trucks and buses, filled with thousands of adults, children and domestic animals drinking obscene amounts of liquor be­fore sunrise. Yes, there would definitely be drunk driving go­ing on today. So what was new? From the car stereo came Guns 'n' Roses' "Paradise City." Guns 'n' Roses?Ihaven't heard them since middle school, I thought. The song before was by AC/DC. Bon Jovi was being blasted from at least 40 auto­mobiles. Every band rejected by the masses in high school had suddenly become unbeliev­ably popular. Sweet, merciful Christ, I thought. What happened? This isn't right. Matchbox 20 should be playing somewhere. Oh, Lord. I drank all night and woke up in 1987. I have come to realize that Notre Dame exists in some sort of musical time warp, where itis safe again to listen to classic rock and '80s music, where mp3 junkies download every song ever written by the endearing classic artist .Sir Mix-A-Lot. At any given time, Appetite for Destruction is playing somewhere in my dorm. I have found my people. Even during the recent craze over the masterpieces of modern music, I have always preferred classic rock 

to almost anything out there today. Once I assured myself that I had not in fact traveled back in time to the '80s and stopped waiting for John Cusack and Molly Ringwald to show up in headbands and red leather jackets with the collars turned up, I was happy in this musical time warp. The twisted Beatlemania that greeted Puff Daddy, the Goo Goo Dolls and the Backstreet Boys forced my musical tastes, which run from Led Zeppelin to Smashing Pump­kins to Miles Davis, underground. Classic rock and even early '90s grunge rock were forgotten to embrace the kitsch culture that descended upon America in the guise of New Kids on the Block incarnates, Britney Spears dolls and small backpacks. I felt I had 
finally found a place where good music, regardless of its age, was appreciated. 
However, I'm starting to won­der. Kitsch is not by any means a new phenomenon, nor are one-hit wonders· and pop music giants. They come in cycles, from the Monkees to the Partridge Family to the Bee Gees to Bananarama, broken only by occasional forms of pure music. Such ear candy, disposable music, which is almost impossible not to enjoy, is a ne­cessity in our culture. Dissatisfied withourreality, webuythischeap, imported version of real life, re­newed every few .years, to keep our society functioning. 
I began to fear that the spirit ~ fueling this return to older music ~ is exactly the kitsch I so despised. .I{ Often, bands such as Guns-'n' Roses are seen more as novelties than as serious musicians, and Led Zeppelin is appreciated equally 

•: ,"i! with the Bangles. But who am I to· decide what music is quality and 
1

e
. ·. ,:·, _ / whatiscategoricallygarbage?The 
" reality created by the '60s seems to have failed and most of the artists of the '80s are seen as jokes with bad hair and worse makeup. Many of my favorite musicians, such as Jimi Hendrix and Jim Morrison, were consumed by the excesses of their music and lifestyle. Many people would consider my musical taste questionable at best-and that is the beauty ofthe musical time warp. There is no difference between what was great in 1987 and what is great now, except maybe tight, rolled pants. People can listen to whatever they enjoy without worrying about getting beatings for wearing a Winger T-shirt. If you like Foreigner or 'N Sync, then flaunt it. Just don't make me listen to it. . 
30 Scholastic Week In Distortion · 
G 
• Lecture: "Urban Space/Urban Culn1re: The Body in t~e City and, the City in thy Soul: City Talk and ICatherine ':of. Siena," Karen Scott, 
3:30 PM, Hesburgi/ce'nt~r. for Intefoational Studies, Room (514/ / O · ·,\ _ 
• 
Hockey: ND vs. Miami, 7:05 PM,Joyce Center 

• 
Concert:·Nofre Dame Glee Club, 8:00 PM, Washingt~n Hall, free admi;sfoi1 ­

•Acoustic 
Cafe, 9:00 PM, Lafortune 

• 
South Park: The Movie,· 10:30 PM, Cushing 


THURSDAY 
• Booksigning: jvfonk's Reflections, A View from the Don;_eJ_g~v. Edwa~JMaUoy, 4:00­6:00PM, Hammes Bbok~t6r_e-~ · 
• 
Hockey: NP-,v{Miarrtl}Olib) (7:05 PM,Joy7eCenter 

• 
Soccer:. ND men.,vs. ,Geo·rgetow9( 7:30. PM, Alumni Field // / ..\_ ···---i/ . 


. / / . _.....___-;I' / 
• Sixth Sense,l7:30&9:45, Sqite/ ~· Concert: 1Notr~ Dam~ Gl_ee' ,Club, 8:00 PM, 
. . / ' . / . 
Washingtou-Hall;-free·admission . . . , • South Park: The Movie, 8:00 & 10:30 PM, ! Cushing. 
· FRIDAY 
L--·--,-:---c~-­
• 
Football: Notre Dame vs. Navy, 1:30 PM, Notre Dame Stadium 

• 
Concert: Folk Choir Concert for Missions, 


7:30 PM, Basilica~ ·-. . 
. • Hockey: NI> vs. Mfa/ni_ ~Ohio), 8:0.? ~M Joyce Center, ___ ) ·/ . \ . 
l h Bl , kl. • . SOOP"''wi h' g
• Ta entS ow: ac m~ges, : ln,\ was Ill ­ton Hall '\ \ · , 
• south Pcu'k:TheMovle, 8:00 &10:30'PM, Cushing 
• Alcoholici f~ony~o~s: Close'J'Meeting, 9:30 AM, Center for Social Concerns, Room 124 
SATURDAY 

DISTRACTIONS 
• Celebration: "Df; de Los M~1ertos," in conjunction with.\veekly Sparyish mass, 
1:30 PM, Keenan-Strinford Hall Chapel 
SUNDAY 
. ;·--· 
I 
·---, 
I . l ' 
• Lecture: "GlobalizatiJn,:Nationalism and the Nation State;'' Willi4m:Pfaff, 4:30 PM, 129 DeBartolo Hall j i · 
Lt 
MONDAY 
• Free flu shots: ND identification cards and short sleeves required, 9:00 At'\-1 ­
4:00 PM, Hesburgld.ibrary,Concourse and Lafortune, Dooley-R6om ' 
• Soccer: ND women vs. Miami, Big East Quarterfinals, 7:30 PM, Alumni Field . 
• Fiction reading: Irini Spanidou, author of . Fear and God's Snake,·S:00 PM, Hesburgh · Library Lounge 
TUESDAY 
•Ft:eeflu 
shots: ND identification cards and/ sho1t sleeves are required, 9:00 AM:_ 4:00 / PM, Hesburgh Libr:.~L'}'-Con~ourse and /' Lafortune, Doole/Room, ", i 

• 
Breast Cancer .A.\v~renes) VbIIeyhaII Ii Match: ND vs. lIIinois Stai~ ·$2 I· . . 


tl I . ·b...· .·. ; ' ,, conat10nat I 
· , le C00~ enefits the Catherine Peachey j Foundat10n, 7:oq~P¥, Joye~ C~nter · / · • Lect~1re: "Europe~1?:.Arnfric'an ·Relittions in / thePost_ Cold WarEn~··-william Pfaff, 7:00 / PM, I:lesbnrgh Library Auditorium / 
_ WEDNESDAY ! 
......______________·--·----·----------:.________ _.,:_J 
·­


. . '. 
·University Park·West 
(277-7336 

All Shows in Stereo·· ; Three Kings I:45, 4: 15, 6:45; 9:20* I Random Hearts 1:15, 4:10, 7:00, 9:40*ISuperstar . 1:30, 3:45, 7:05, 9:00* 
f. *FridaJ, and Saturday only
f -_ . > 
·University Park East 

C217-7336 , All Shows in Stereo 
!Sto1y ofUs · 
1. Fight Club 
1 
, Best Man . · IPetCemetmy 1 American Beau~, l Bats .·.·. · · 16th Sense •.•. ·. ··.
IShows after 11:00 PM shown Fri. & Sat. on61 .· . ' 
j-. _. . . . , ,· 
t" 
. C 254-9685 
!All Shows ill Stereo . Blue Streak· .• . • 12:55, 3:10, 5:25;7:40,10:05 BringingouttheDead ..·.1:20, 4:15,7:00, 9:40. 
Crazy inAlabama . 1:40,4:20 ..... l DoubleJeoparadt . 1:05, 2:10, 4:10, 5:00,7:10 
I'n11,;eMcGCn~rhl/d··.·.·.... · fi~i:{!t,'!f~J~7:~J, 1o:?o·•··
1 10 30 07090

Emo in roucan .:, , :>: , ).J , .J , ,J !F<ir.thel.oveoftheGaine 12:50, 3:50,7:00, 9:55. • •·.lHouse on Haunted Hill*):15, 2:05, 4:00, 4:45 
i . ... i ••. <.. 7:10, 7:45,10:00, 10:25 IMusic of the Heart 12:45, 3:45, 7:05, 9:55• [ MystetyAlaska ·. ·1:45, 4:30,):20,10:20 Stigmata · .. . 1:10,_3:35, 7:05, 9:35 
Stir ofEchoes 7:35, 10:10 • .Three to tango ·2:2Q, 5:00,7:25, 9:50 • 
.._-.• ,',', ; . .__ -' 

L ~Stadit1111 S~atino Avat!abld ..
1··. ' .•. · 0
:· . .-_.-_' . ·-. . . ',.:. 

Calendar Scholastic 31 
2:00, 4:20,7:10, 9:25 2:15, 6:15, 9:10 1:00, 3:45, 7:00, 9:30 ··. 12:.00 (midnight) 
il:30, 4:10, 6:50, 9:20 . 1:45, 4:15,7:15, 9:15, 11:20 1:15, 4:oo, 6:45, 9:00, U:15 
by Shannon O'Keefe

Starting Over, Again 
Not too long ago I sat in your classrooms and played frisbee on the quads. I prayed at dorm Mass and ate at the next table 
over in the dining hall. Now I have a kontrol kard that opens every gate on campus. I have a parking pass that makes it so much easier to weave my way through campus, without needing to simultaneously weave a ridiculous tale in order to get on. I have an office. And business cards. Yes, I am now part of the administration. 
What's funny for me is how surprised people are to hear this. To hear that as a former student I took the big step, made the giant leap, left to find myself in the real world ... only to find myself back here, once again under the protection of the golden dome. And it's also funny to see how this has changed me. And to see how this has changed you. I have one friend whom I see out every once in a while. We're always excited to see each other and to talk about 
In many ways I've been forced to what our other 
construct an entirely new experi­friends who have graduated are up to 
ence here. One that, for the most 
at their respective 
part, disregards those relationships law schools. And when a new person
that I spent years building. 
Shannon O'Keefe, an English major ofthe class of '99, is an assistant director in the development office. 
comes over to where we are, my friend Andy always introduces me as follows: "This is Crazy" (a nickname, given oh so long ago), to which people smile and extend their hand, "she's an administrator." At this point, at this mention of the dreaded A word, people recoil just a bit. I wouldn't notice at all, if it were not for the sharp movement in the hand that's holding the beer, the beer that seems wrong all of a sudden, even though they're legal. 
I can't even explain how strange that is for me. To move from one of you to one of them. An interesting transition. And one that has proven worthwhile in so many ways. My dream was always to be here, at Notre Dame, without the stress of midterms and papers. And now I have that. My hope was to surround myself with people who are as excited to be here as I am. And now I work with a group of people who are as thrilled to be working here as my old group offriends were to be studying here. 

As I start to realize where I am and what I do, it suddenly becomes clear that what I've done is to reinvent a life for myself. Something that is harder, at times, than starting anew in a big city with no contacts. Originally my dream was to go to New York City. To have an exciting job for which I would be terribly underpaid. To go to museums and plays. To walk through Central Park. To spend Friday evenings at a great pub in the heart of the city. But then I found this job. This job that was open at my very own alma mater. This job that I interviewed for just prior to attending my first wedding at the Basilica. This job that I prayed about at the Grotto. This job that makes me happy to be 22 in South Bend, even though South Bend seems a million miles from New York City, regardless of what the maps say. 
And while my personal life seems very static, as I frequent the same places that I was once known to haunt, it is simultaneously one of the biggest chal­lenges I've faced thus far. A great majority of the people that made this place Notre Dame for me are now gone. Offto New York and Phoenix. To St. Louis and San D_iego. Do I miss them? Sure. Does it change things? Without a doubt. Am I thriving? Absolutely. These people -my old roommates and classmates and friends -well, they come back for football weekends, which is nice. But in many ways I've been forced to construct an entirely new experience here. One that, for the most part, disregards those relation­ships that I spent years building. 
And next semester, when I begin to take classes again, what will my experience be then, I wonder. When I move away from the security of Grace Hall and leave behind my comfy blue chair that rocks back and forth only to sit once again in a cold, hard, wooden desk crammed into a room in O'Shag. I-suspect that it will be fine. That I'll adapt. ThatI'11 be a staff member first, and a student second. And that will be okay. I won't be losing anything or missing anything. 
I guess the ·point is that you can always feel safe somewhere. You can always adapt. You can always move up and out and around. And you don't have to leave in order to accomplish that. It's just a matter of whether you have a kontrol kard while making the trm~tioo. 
32 Scholastic Final Word 

From the Crow's Nest bu Brian Christ 







