Votre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victiims; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JULY i, 1882.	No. 41.
St. Thomas and. Our Day.
Delivered at the 38th Annual Commencement of the University of Notre Dame,
BY RIGHT REV. FRANCIS SILAS CHAT ARD, D. D., Bishop of Vincennes.
The epoch in which we live, to an intelligent and attentive observer, cannot but be a study of the deepest and most exciting interest. It certainly is remarkable as an age of the greatest activity. The energy and talent bestowed on all matters of science; surpassing all of former days in their amount, the vastly increased number of those who investigate, as also the advantages at hand for thorough research,—of themselves are enough to make this age pre-eminent. But brilliant as most undoubtedly are the results of the indefatigable and praiseworthy work of scientists; useful as are the applications of science to daily intercourse; salutary as are the lessons which positivists have taught us in the matter of hasty conclusions and of unverified facts, much as we feel grateful for all such favors, whether intended or not, the interest in all this pales before the moral aspect of the world. Truth and rectitude are both tempest-tossed; at times they seem lost amid the waves of popular feeling which threaten to en-gulph them. Anon they are on the crest of the swell, bouyant as life-boats destined not to perish in the flood. Never was the question Pilate addressed to the Son of God; “ What is truth ? ” never was this question more earnestly asked than now. Men feel the social importance of truth; they feel it not only as those who are impressed with the need of religion for society, but as those whose immediate worldly welfare is in jeopardy, their life, their liberty, their pursuit of happiness. They appreciate the need of some sure guide which may aid them in the solution of weighty social problems which are thrust on their notice; which, like the ghost of Banquo, will not “ down,” and which must be solved. They see a chaotic confusion of ideas. They do not see those come forward, among the champions of modern progress, who can draw from this confusion order and permanence. The positivist who verifies can bring no aid, for he can bring no proof of his theories, if he be so illogical as to theorize. We are evidently in a stage of transition. Old systems and landmarks are disappearing.
The diffusion of the press and the education of the masses have well nigh annihilated personal influence. The influence to rule hereafter is that of ideas; and, where the right ideas are to be found, thence is to be expected the influence of the future, when men are disposed .to receive them.
In this state of things I see a great element of hope, of certainty for the welfare of mankind. If we can once get rid of prejudice, and so gain the ear of the thoughtful, the work will in great part be done.
•For men are not as perverse as we are sometimes told they are. There are certainly to be found persons who are phenomenally perverse, and wh'o seem to act through downright perversity; but this is happily the exception. There is a certain natural rectitude left in man, after original sin, which leads him to admire and love truth and fair dealing, and to this we may safely appeal; and, it seems to me, nowhere more safely than in this our country. All systems have had full scope here. The American people, in their desire to be fair to all, have not only granted liberty to ideas and their practical results, but even license. Systems have run riot; and to such an extent as to have menaced the stability of things, and to’have required the strong arm of the law and the aid of force to counteract their influence. Hitherto the strong common sense of our people, their noble and manly regard for law, have, though sometimes tardily, finally, at least to a great extent, brought . the remedy called for. It is to this common sense, to this regard for law, to their spirit of fairness and of love of truth, I propose to appeal to-day, for the welfare of our common country. One man can do but little; but each one must do his part, and where circumstances obtain for him so favorable an opportunity of being heard, as this one, with which the Superiors of this widely-known and most useful Institution have honored me, it is -a duty to put before the public those ideas which may aid in advancing the well-being of our fellowcitizens. Perhaps the near approach of the day we all, in juvenile enthusiasm, to the not unfounded terror of our good mothers, loved to celebrate, may have something to do with expressions of patriotic devotion, less noisy than the fire-cracker, but far more substantial and enduring. Be this as it may, it is certain that love of country is bom of charity, which loves all men, and among men those nearest us, those who are of that great family which constitutes a people. The noble sentiment of love of country is fostered by the Christian religionand'
630	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	<
though the efforts of that religion, which came to give “ peace to meh of good will,” have been to prevent wars and especially civil strife, still, when these could not be avoided, her blessings were on ‘ those who, in the cause of justice, with manly bravery faced danger, overcame their adversaries, or even laid down life. There is only one figure nobler than the Christian soldier; and that is the Christian martyr.	:
In contributing, my dear friends, my mite to the . general good, I am not so overweening as to ex- ‘ pect to draw on my own little capacity. No! I go to others to obtain what I need for you. My merit will only be that I have placed before you solid ideas from a great mind of the past, which, if kept as guides, will be of immense service in strengthening the social fabric, in supplying the common sense of our electors and lawgivers with the principles which, like a compass and chart, will serve to navigate the ship of state. The great light to whom I invite you to go with me is that miracle of knowledge and sound reason, St. Thomas of Aquin, of whom the great Pope Gregory X said that his articles or works were each a miracle in itself. Those who know of St. Thomas only from the Ingoldsby legends, or from the writings of those who, ridiculing the schoolmen, put him in their front rank, will not be prepared to heai' that he is one who, though having lived over six hundred years ago, still solves most satisfactorily and thoroughly the social questions of the XIXth century. With him as master, I propose briefly to treat of some of the more important points on which is concentrated the attention of men of mind at this period. . .
It is well to state, at the outset, that, in the writ- , ings of St. Thomas there is thorough systematic ; treatment of philosophical questions, with reason : as the guide, illumined, too, by the light of Rev-; elation. It is this which makes the study of his : writings so delightful and wholesome. The rejec- I tion of the schoolmen and of their systems of i -teaching has led to the modern style of study of ‘ philosophy, which discards system, reads in a i desultory manner, and then expects a man to con- ! struct a system for himself out of the debris of all, ! —certainly not an agreeable task, nor a profitable i one, nor beneficial to society. When Canon i Liddell was asked by the Committee of the House ' of Lords to what.he attributed the growth of infidelity in the University of Oxford, to such an extent that it had become fashionable among the young men to discard Christianity, his answer was: “ I attribute it to the change in the philosophical studies, and to the introduction of the philosophy of -Germany.” Our non-Catholic friends are beginning to appreciate this. Not long ago, the Conference of the Methodist Communion held at Cincinnati insisted that the greatest care should be taken lest, at Asbury University and elsewhere, philosophical systems opposed to Christianity should be taught, with the result of undermining the faith of the young men; a decision which does the Conference great honor.	t •
St. Thomas was possessed bf the judicial -faculty
to the very highest degree, and of this he gives evidence in an expression he makes .use of in	i
one of his works ^Opusculum x, alias xxxi).	I
“ It is most hurtful to assert or to deny, as pertain-	I
ing to sacred doctrine or faith, what does not re-	I
gard the doctrine of piety or religious tenets;”	|
and he quotes 'St. Augustine, saying the same thing. We can safely trust such judicious guides. J
One of the great questions of the day is the or- j igin of rights. What is a right, and whence does it come?	j
The answer to this results from the doctrine of , St. Thomas with regard to the nature of God, of	- j
which, despite Mr. Huxley’s recent affirmation to the contrary, we can, by our reason, know something. His reason has taught him to recognize that there is a God, though he professes to know nothing about Him. An adequate knowledge of God, both St.' Thomas and all others will acknowledge, is not possible; but just as Mr. Huxley comes to recognize the existence of God ,as the Author and Designer of the’ visible universe, so, by the use of that same reason, St. Thomas comes to understand that God is the source of all things, and especially- of the intellectual order. In the Divine Mind, viewed, as it were, materially, are contained the ideas or forms of all things, and these ideas, or forms, or essences of things, contain, as in । a germ, that whence the idea of right comes.
These ideas are in God from eternity, and hence । there is an eternal fitness of things, independent of the varying moods of men. The study of the essences of created beings, which are made according to the ideas, the archetypes in the Divine mind, makes us understand what is fit and suitable to them. This fitness and suitableness is the origin ' and source of right; so that, in general, right has its origin and source in the Divine Mind. Con- ' sequently we are correct in saying, there are certain inalienable rights: because these lights,springing from the very nature of things, cannot be taken away or ignored without trampling on the very nature of the things themselves, and so contradicting the act of the Creator. Such rights are undoubtedly life, personal liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. A right, therefore, is a moral power which has its foundation in nature. It is a moral power, because no one can impede or destroy it without sinning against the God who made nature.
Therefore God, mediately through nature, is the 1 source of that moral power; it is God’s power shared by man. What a noble position does not such teaching give the poorest man! Once convince yourself that by the side of that unprotected man you are looking on, stands the mighty power of God, and he becomes, as he should be, an object eminently respectable, never to be treated with disregard, much less to be trampled in the dust.
When Christianity comes to the aid of reason with its light, and tells us man was made to the image and likeness of God, readily understand how	•
St. Thomas could speak so magnificently-of man’s rights, and so boldly in the face of the great ones of the earth at his day. He taught that man lias ho power over the life of his fellow,’but that the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	631
State only has this; and only to protect the menaced right to life of others. “ It is not lawful for a' private person to kill a criminal; that can be done by public authority for the common safety.” He further teaches, that “ no one can kill himself, because to do so is against the law of nature, against charity, against the State, and against God.” ■2a 2<e, Quast. Ixiv. No one, therefore, has a right or moral power to kill another or himself, because this is opposed to the eternal fitness of things. Public authority only can take life, and I	public authority has such right, or moral power,
I	because it is the will of the Creator that no one
; should disturb the order He has established by destroying the lives of his fellow-men, or by rendering social life impossible; which is, as far as in him lies, what a great public criminal does. In one instance only does St. Thomas admit as just the killing of another, that is in self-defence: where a man is fully persuaded his own life can be saved only by his taking the life of his aggressor; his action in this case being modified by the cir-[ cumstance of blameless self-defence, there being-no chance of escape.
Thus is life safe-guarded by the prudent teaching- of the Angelic Doctor, which is in agree-i ment with the Scripture and the common consent ; of mankind.
Liberty, too, finds in him a most valiant protector; it breathes in all his writings; the tyrant finds no friend in him. The fact that man is a person, that he has been made to the image and likeness of God, that he has power over his actions and is responsible for them before God, I	this necessarily implies freedom on the part of
;	man. In this all men are equal, and no man can
> give up the personal direction of his actions to an!	other and not be responsible for what he does; for
:	this direction is an inalienable right which it is
his duty to exercise, and which, correlatively, it is the duty of every man to respect. Mens qui-deni est suijuris (2a 2ce, Qucest. civ, Art.	“ The
mind,” which means the intellect and will, “ is its own master.” “ Therefore,” he continues, “ in what regards the interior movement of the will, man is not bound to obey man, but only God; for all men are by nature equal,” in those things, for instance, which regard the preservation of himself and of his offspring, and he ennumerates examples *	to illustrate this truth. But it is to be here care;	fully borne in mind that St. Thomas introduces
i	this , teaching in his article on obedience, to show
[	where obedience to man ceases; for the above
I	words follow the categoric assertion of the Angelic
1	Doctor, “ a man is bound to obey his fellow-man
!	in his actions, externally, in which he makes use of
■	the powers of his body ”; that is, as a member of soci-
'	ety, coming in relation with his fellow-man, he is
■	bound to obey law; “ the subject is bound to obey
■	his superior according the manner of superiority ”
(ibid.), as the son his father, a soldier his officer, etc. !	Here, begins that inequality which from the nature
'.	of things must exist among men. Duties and rights
r	constitute this difference between man and man;
while equal by nature or in nature, they differ in
j condition, and often facts come to be the basis and ; source of such duties and rights. The fact of a I man being the father of a family is the foundation i of his rights and of his duties as such, and this { comes from the essence or idea of fatherhood, as it J exists primarily in the Divine Mind, and actually in ; nature. So, too, with a son; it is his father’s duty ; to provide him with sustenance and protection and • sound education, and to these there exists in the | son a correlative right. Again a person is bom ' into the world with right of inheritance; by the ! will of his parents he inherits land or possessions. 1 Now, this fact of his birth is the foundation of’ his I rights, and this right not all have; so that here is J again - another source of inequality among men. ; Or a man by his genius, by his inventive faculty, by his own industry, acquires wealth and purchases property; this fact is a source of right which ev-
■ ery one is bound in conscience to respect. Everything primarily belongs to God, but he has given the earth to the children of men, first in common, ' and then as a necessary consequence to individuals, 1 according to their powers of just acquisition. And as these powers of just acquisition depend in great
! part on physical inequalities, so even physical inequalities come to be ultimately the source of social
■ and moral inequality,—of inequality, that is, of rights. Thus, for example, one man is robust and
’■ active, another weak and negligent; in the race of life, the former will outdistance the latter; the first will have acquired possessions and position, ; with their corresponding rights; the second will be without any acquired rights whatsoever. The only equality that socially exists or can exist, and ought to exist among men, is that of justice, natural and divine; as God is not an acceptor fer-
: sonartim, an acceptor of persons, so neither should ; those be who represent Him.
; Speaking of this right of dominion over prop' erty, St. Thomas lays down with great clearness the tree doctrine concerning it. I beg to call your
’ attention to his teaching, because from want of ! making the proper due distinction St. Thomas makes, some estimable persons have been led to
■ broach doctrines which clearly favor the socialistic ; and communistic views so prevalent nowadays, es-; pecially among the working classes. These persons have reached the conclusion St. Thomas comes
. to; that exterior things, such as land and possessions, are by nature common to all, all things primarily belonging to the Maker of all, who gave them to man in common for his use, so that man has a natural dominion over them. Such was the primal condition of man with reference to things around him. Our friends stop here, and claim for those without property the possessions of the landholder. St. Thomas, with sterling sound sense, uses his reason, and shows that it is not against nature that a man should have what he can call his own, in contradistinction to what is in common.
; In his (2a 242 Qucest. Ixvi, Art, 2,) he thus formulates his doctrine: “Community of goods is ascribed to natural law, not because the law of na-
: ture dictates that all things shall be held in com: mon, and that nothing is to be possessed as one’s
632	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
own, but because by natural law there is no distinction of possessions, this being rather by human agreement.” In the body of this article he says that man has power to procure (what he wants), and dispose*of it; and with regard to this, it is lawful for him to hold things as his own. He supports his view with solid and obvious reason: —the greater interest a man takes in working for himself than for the community; the necessity of order in procuring and using things; finally, peace among men requires it. He says, however, that a man ought not to hold property as (exclusively) his own, but as common to all, in this sense: that he easily share it with others in their need. How sound and how Christian this teaching is, there is no need of words from me- to show. Had men lived up to it, we should not have the uprising of class against class.
Another source of inequality is the necessity which leads one to hire his labor to another, who thereby acquires rights over him he had'not before, while correspondingly the former assumes new duties towards the latter. Thus we have the relation of master and of servant, of employer and of employed. The necessity that brings this state of things about we justly regard as the consequence of original sin, which condemned manto gain his bread by the sweat of his brow. This is the Christian idea of enforced labor. Those who reject Christianity find themselves obliged to fall back on a natural state of things and they must regard such enforced labor as natural, and the relation of master and servant consequently as a primaiily natural one. They are therefore all the more illogical in striving to do away with it. Here, too, with his accustomary' clearness, St. Thomas distinguishes between subjection and servitude. He says that even in the natural order there would have been men superior in position and authority to others. This he deduces from e the very nature of things, as man is made for society, and society is not possible without order and authority. He says, even in the state of nature man would have been unequal. He enumerates the sources of inequality, the conditions of father and of son, of sex, of greater or less physical power, of greater or less talent, of different natural gifts, which all serve to determine the state of a man in society, and consequently his lights and his duties. He says that this obtains not only in the natural order, but also in the order of spirits, who, as we know from Revelation, are unequal in gifts, position, and authority. Having thus made plain the order which nature has established, he gives' us his distinction between freedom and servitude; a man is free when those who are over him in position and authority use their power, not for their own benefit, but solely for the benefit of the one who is subject to them; a man is not free, when those over him -use their power for their own welfare, not for his well-being. This latter state of things constitutes servitude in its various grades, from slavery up to the necessity of working for another; and this is the result of original sin, though not against nature, except in the case
where the natural and. inalienable rights of a man, his personal rights to life, to liberty, and to happiness, which may be generally summed up as those of the family life, are trampled under foot.
This brings us to the correct idea of authority, which is the power necessary for- the good order of social life, exercised by him who has the right to rule or govern society, not for his own benefit, but for the common good,—the good of all the members of the society, whether it be perfect, like that of a people, or imperfect, as in the case of a municipality. That power executes the law, which it may make either independently, as in the case of absolute monarchy, or conjointly with others, as in the case of liberal governments. What determines the law is right reason, which is a participation of the eternal law, the reason or intellect of God. A law, therefore, has its force to bind from the fact that it is in such accord; if a law is unreasonable it has no binding force. St. Thomas gives his definition of what a law is, and tells us this in so many words. Reason, he says, must direct men, and therefore a law which is to direct them must come from reason. A law is a dictate *of practical reason made for the common good by the multitude or community, or by the person acting in the place of the multitude, and having care of them; such only can make law. (2« ^u<Est. xc, Art. 3.) For, St. Thomas says, it belongs to the one who has an end in view he must attain to, to regulate the means of attaining- to it. And as the common good is the end _ of the whole people, so it belongs to the whole people, or to the one having care of them, to make laws. The promulgation and consequent obligation of law come from the executive power, which adopts it as the rule of action and commands its enf orcemen tand observance. Law, therefore, derives its binding force on the conscience from its imposition on the public by authority. This authority, St. Thomas (la 2^, Shewst. xc, Art. 4) says is “ from God,” who created society, and therefore this essential feature of it. Authority is not given by the people, who may, however, in certain instances designate who is to exercise it, the one designated thus becoming clothed with power immediately from God. It is from the essence of society that authority or power comes, and therefore it comes directly from God who made society, from whom that essence is, and not from the people. Were this not so, we should have men binding each other in conscience, a thing St. Thomas does not admit; for his teaching, as we have seen (2a 2<s, Nicest, civ, Art. 5), is, that God alone can bind man’s conscience. Power cannot come even mediately from the people, because what comes from the essence of anything comes directly or immediately from it, and from Him who made it.	’
It may be interesting to know what were this great theologian’s views with regard to the best form of government to be entrusted with power to rule. Though living at a time when there was but little to make men favor anything in their writings except the strong monarchies of the day,

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	633
influenced by the Christian idea of liberty which so thoroughly possessed him, he gives us a plan of a liberal government such as to surprise us. The history of the republics of antiquity was too full of evil traits to win his undivided admiration. He decides in favor of a limited monarchy; but so little chance does he leave to the monarch to abuse his power and position, so much does he grant to the people, that we seem to be reading more a description of our own Government, than even of one like that of England. He says: “ Regarding the good establishment of Princes in a State or nation, two things are to be looked to: one is, that all should have some part in the princedom or government, for in this way peace among the people is preserved, and all are pleased with such a disposition of things, and maintain it. The best arrangement of princes in a state or kingdom is, where one is placed over all on account of his virtue; and under him some rule by reason of their excellence; while the government pertains to all, both because the rulers can be elected from among all, and because they can be elected by all. Such is every political regimen well-tempered by the kingly form, whereby one presides; by aristocracy, inasmuch as many carry on the government on account of their virtue or fitness; and by democracy, that is, by the power of the people, in so far as princes or rulers can be elected from among those who are of the people, and their election belongs to the people.” (ia 2«, Nicest. cv, Art. I.) Had St. Thomas lived in this day of ours, it is not at all improbable that he would have regarded with favor the form of Government which exists in our midst. He would have looked on our President as the ruler selected by the people on account of his, fitness for the position; on our Representatives in the Legislatures and in Congress, and our officers, as those chosen from among the people to carry on the Government; while he would have found the ’ people choosing their own representatives, thus fulfilling, in part at least, the idea he had of a model republic.
I have given you here briefly, my dear friends, the teachings of the great theologian of the Catholic Church, on the questions of the day. I leave it to you to say whether they are not such as to claim your admiration, and gain your respectful acceptance as doctrines most beneficial to society. On the question of rights, or that of liberty, on the point of equality and inequality among men, on the subject of property, on that of labor, with regard to authority, and on the question of the best form of government, St. Thomas is not only clear and precise; he propounds principles which are the bulwarks of society, which guard and foster the common good. In admiring him it would be ungrateful not to look to the source whence he obtained his teaching, and to the mother who gave him birth. To the study of his master Aristotle he undoubtedly owed in great part the direction of his mind to questions of social life; but it is to the supernatural wisdom of the Catholic Church of Godj to her Revelation, that he owes the sureness with which he directs his footsteps, and avoids
the errors into which the “ Philosopher;” his master, fell. He was a product of the Middle Ages, when her influence was strongest; of that epoch which it has pleased the enemies of the Church to call dark—as if any age, in whose firmament two such lights as St. Thomas Aquinas and Dante shone, could ever have been dark! Both these were true children of God’s Church. Let us recognize in that Church what we should expect from a Church founded and built by the Hand of God,—every element to elevate and perfect man, safeguard his liberty, and render society pure, prosperous, and happy. Let us be thankful as citizens of this beloved .country of ours, that the Catholic Church is here in our midst, spreading on all sides her benign influence, bringing peace to the troubled heart, concord to the people, security .to the rights of all, and stability to the State.
Valedictory.
BY W. B. MCGORRISK, OF DES MOINES, IOWA.
Unheeded the moments have flown. . The recollection of our joyful reunion in September has scarcely died away, -when the .time for parting is at hand. Another year of useful labor and pleasant memories has drawn to its close. Notre Dame, the gloved Alma Mater of a numerous throng, is about to send forth her quota of young men to enter upon the actual duties of life, fortified, let us hope, by the principles which she has endeavored to inculcate. Soon she will have said farewell to those happy youths who for ten months have filled her halls with the low murmur of the recitation, and her fields with joyous, gladsome shouts. But why should a tinge of sadness enter our hearts? This is the goal which we have been striving to reach. The labor of the year is over, and each one is about to receive his merited reward. The triumph of this day has been the beacon light which has guided the patient student onward. Day after day, laboring unceasingly, he has pressed forward, keeping this day before his eyes as the era from which to reckon his past joys and future.triumphs. Why should a time so full of joy and hope be fraught with sadness? It is easy to understand. Until now we have been anticipating bright pleasures for the future, with no other thoughts than those which happy expectation brings. Eager to be free, and longing for the reunion among dear parents and friends, we have given no thought to that sad parting which is about to take place! Unmindful, in our prospective happiness, that there is no joy without its sorrow, we have forgotten that the students of ’82 will soon exist only in the memories of the past. Some of us have walked for the last time these fair grounds with the companions of our college days. In a short time we will be scattered over this broad land, never again to be united.-The sweet ties of friendship formed here will soon be broken, and we, dear comrades, who.have
634	the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
spent so many happy, joyful days together, must separate; each to walk a different path through life. Many and diversified will be our callings. Some of us have already chosen, others have still to choose, the occupations which we are to follow. Our future depends upon the step we are about to take. We stand upon the verge of an unknown and untried future.
Others have gone before us. Others have walked life’s devious way, stamped their individuality upon the character of the age in which they lived and passed away. We, who are about to enter upon the actual duties of life, can do no better than copy their example. If we strive to become useful citizens in the daily walks of life; or, if ambition leads us farther, and we wish to rise to fame, or if we aim above ambition and devote the life which God has given us to good works, renouncing all pleasures, making this life but a pilgrimage to the next, we still have great men to guide us; men who have risen to distinction in every sphere of life; men who have gained renown at the Bar and in the Senate; men who have devoted their lives to labors of love—love for God and their fellow-men.
Whatever our calling in life may be, let us endeavor to prove true to the principles taught us here. Coming, recently, from the pious teaching of devoted men, we may imagine ourselves secure, and scoff at the dangers which will beset our paths; but let us not be deceived. “ It is far easier to find soldiers to hold a forlorn hope, like the Spartans at Thermopylae or Horatius at the bridge, than heroes who can sit down for years before the walls of Troy and remain heroes still.” It is the continual resistance to temptation that tries the souls of men, and temptations many and oft we will meet. Our college days are gone, and before us are the struggles and trials of life. Are we prepared? If not, we are the losers, and must bear the burden of our loss. We have enjoyed advantages which to others have been denied. Notre Dame has ever endeavored to instil into our minds that knowledge which will secure our material prosperity, and into our souls those principles of virtue and truth which will insure to us a happy life and afford us consolation in oui" declining years. We have much for which to be thankful. We owe to Notre Dame an eternal debt of gratitude. She held forth a guiding hand when first we entered these halls, fostered us in our growth in intellect and morals, pointed out the path to virtue and success, and now stands ready to bid us farewell and God-speed as we leave her protecting arms. Her work is done. With maternal care she has watched over us, and now with a parent’s prayer for our success does she send us forth. She will watch with anxiety the progress of each and every one of us, and as the reports of our varied success are wafted to her ears, she will rejoice at our prosperity or condole with us in our misfortunes. We should endeavor, it should be our intention and aim, to prove worthy of her. Would to God she could take as much pride in her sons as they must in her! What student can point with greater pride to his
Alma Mater than can the sons of Notre Dame to her? Here we see a number of men banded together in the common cause of faith and education, devoting their lives to the instruction of youth. They seek no recompense, ask no reward, but desire to see the principles which they advo, cate take root and mould the lives of those placed under their charge.
Fellow-students, it has been our fortune to be placed under the care of men noted for their self-sacrificing devotion to religion and education, and we must ever feel grateful for the benefits which they have conferred upon us.
Very Rev. Father General, as we are about to leave this dear old place, fashioned by your hand, we can but raise our hearts in thanksgiving to God and beg of Him to grant you many years in which to complete the erection of an educational institution which will remain as a monument to your memory and devotion.
Esteemed and beloved President, ever kind, ever courteous Father Walsh, it is with feelings of heartfelt gratitude that we sever our pleasant relations with you. Long may you remain at the head of this college to continue your effective management and to accomplish what is yet to be done!
Very Rev. Father Granger, to you has been allotted the spiritual direction of your children. You have labored constantly to infuse into their hearts a spirit of piety and devotion which, when they are removed from your fatherly counsel, will enable them to triumph over the temptations which beset their paths. We earnestly hope that God will grant you many years in which to continue your good work, and that after that work is ended, He will call you to His blessed abode.
To you, Rev. Father Toohey, and your faithful assistants, our kind prefects, farewell!
Farewell, honored Professors, you have labored with untiring zeal for our welfare. May God grant you the reward due to your devoted exertions for our advancement!
And now, dear comrades, to you I turn. We have toiled together, have shared the joys and sorrows of our college days, but now we must part. Our college days are gone, and before us are the duties belonging to our stations in life. The time for preparation has passed. Prepared or unprepared, we must go forth to perform them now. We part, not in tears, but in anticipation of many happy reunions, when we shall meet again the dear companions we leave to-day. We are about to leave the sheltering care of dear old Notre Dame, but,	.
“ Where’er we roam, whatever realms to see, Our hearts untrammeled fondly turn to thee.”
-it
“ My son,” said a Christian father, “ when you were born everyone around smiled to welcome you; you alone were in tears Try to lead such a life that when you die you may be filled with joy and peace, and all those who knew you may sincerely lament your depature from this world.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	635
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degrees conferred this year were as follows:
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on Colonel Donn Piatt, of Mac-a-Cheek, Ohio.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on Rev. Wm. J. Hayes, Columbus, Ohio; Prof. T. A. Dailey, Goliad, Texas; C. J. Lundy, Esq., M. D., Detroit, Mich.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred onRev.Jas. J. Quinn,Tolono, Ill.; FrancisBoerres, Notre Dame, Ind.; Jas. Ernster, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on Wm. B. McGorrisk, Des Moines, Iowa; Eugene C. Orrick, Canton, Miss.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on Michael F. Healy, Fort Dodge, Iowa.
DIPLOMAS.
Diplomas, admitting to the Freshman Class were awarded to Harry P. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis.; Charles F. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis.; John W. Guthrie, Carroll, Iowa; Edward McGorrisk, Des Moines, Iowa; Thomas Flynn, Des Moines, Iowa; Jos. Farrell, Lorain, O.; Thos. Kavanagh, Des Moines, Iowa; George Tracey, Burlington, Iowa.	,	.
A Medical Certificate was awarded to Wm. B. McGorrisk, Des Moines, Iowa.
A Certificate for Telegraphy was awarded to John W. Guthrie, Carroll City, Iowa.
COMMERCIAL GRADUATES.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to E. J. Bryant, Dallas, Texas; W. Barron, Shannon, Ill.; J. F. Concannon, Tolono, Ill.; E. T. Cullen, Ottumwa, Iowa; E. Eager, Wauseon, Ohio; C. Echlin,'Los Angeles, Cal.; C. Fishbum, Webb City,Mo.; M. Falvey, Winamac, Ind.; E. Gall, Indianapolis, Ind.; F. Kinsella, Dubuque, Iowa; G. Kerndt, Lansing, Iowa; J. Millet, Hastings, Minn.; C. Murdock, Michigan City; G. McErlain, South Bend, Ind.; P. McGinnis, Ottawa, Ill.; J. Nash, West Liberty, Ohio; C. Pierson, Sullivan, Ind.; E. Ryan, De Witt, Iowa; G. Rhodius, Indianapolis, Ind.; W. E. Smith, Watertown, Wis.; D. Saviers, Chicago, Ill.; H. Sells, Indianapolis, Ind.; J. B. Zettler, Columbus, Ohio; J. R. Marlett, Vicksburg, Miss.; A.Schiml, Dayton,Ohio; W. Thompson, Elgin, Ill.; W. Connor, Wasepi, Mich.; M. Eaton, South Bend, Ind.; E. Yrisarri, Bernalillo, New Mexico; J. L. Heffernan, Louisville, Ky.; J. Fendrick, Evansville, Ind.; J. Grever, Cincinnati, Ohio; C. Kolars, Le Sueur, Minn.; T. Hurley, Mears, Mich.; F. X. McPhillips, Dexter,: Mich.; Jos. Ruppe, Hancock,- Mich.; C. Rose, Evansville, Ind.; W. Johnson, New Lexington, Ohio; Jos. Kindel, Fremont, Ohio; J. F. Martin, St. Joseph, Mich.
FIRST HONORS.
[The “ First Honor,” is a Gold Medal awarded to students who have followed the courses of the
University at least four sessions, and whose deportment dining the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	*
R. M. Anderson, Circleville, Ohio.; F. M. Bell, Lima, Ohio; F. H. Grever, Cincinnati, Ohio; R. E. Fleming, Henderson, Ky.; Wm. Johnson, New Lexington, Ohio; H. Steis, Winamac, Ind.;H. Morse, Frisco, U. T.; W. Scholfield, Marshall, Ill.; J. Solon, Ivesdale, Ill.; C. J. McDermott, Stockport, Ohio; Elmer A. Otis, U. S. Army; W. J. McCarthy, Booneville, Mo.; J. Falvey, Winamac, Ind.'; J. A. McIntyre, Milwaukee, Wis.; E. C. Orrick, Canton, Miss.; F. Kinsella, Dubuque, Iowa; J. O’Reilly, Chicago, Ill.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Albert A. Browne, Brownsville, Texas; C. C. Echlin, Los Angeles, California; Neal H. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; Edward Fishel, Nashville, Tenn.; M. L. Foote, Burlington, Iowa; C. C. Kolars, Le Dueur, Minnesota; H. Kitz, Indianapolis, Ind.; F. X. McPhillips, Dexter, Mich.; Geo. Schaefer, Riverdale, Ill.; Thomas Hurley, Mears, Mich.
SECOND HONORS.
[The “ Second Honor ” is a Silver Medal awarded to those students who have followed the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose deportment has been generally satisfactory.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. W. Gray, Graysville, Ill.; J. R. Marlett, Vicksburg, Miss.; T. F. Flynn, Des Moines, Iowa; George Tracy, Burlington, Iowa; F. E. Kuhn, Nashville, Tenn.; Albert F. Zahm, Huntington, Ind.; Patrick Rasche, Oakland, Md.; *Jos. P. O’Neill, U. S. Army.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
William H. Barron, Shannon, Illinois; Alexis Campau, Frederick, Dakota; Frederick Fishel, Nashville, Tenn.; John H. Fendrick, Evansville, Ind.; Albert Gall, Indianapolis, Ind.; P. G. Hoffman, Wheeling, W. Va.; Charles Murdock, Michigan City, Ind.; Frank R. Johnson, Memphis, Tenn.; D. G. Taylor, St. Louis, Mo.
CERTIFICATES.
[Certificates are awarded to those students who have followed the courses of the University at least two sessions, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Golonski, Chicago, Ill.; M. B. Eaton, Notre Dame, Ind.; E. Yrisarri, Albuquerque, N. M.; John Nash, West Liberty, O.; J. C. Larkin, Pottsville, Pa.; C. L. Fishburn, Webb City, Mo.; W. J. O’Connor, Manchester, N. H.; Jas. Conway, Ottawa, Ill.; W. H. Bailey, Sommerville, Mass.; Geo. McErlain, Notre Dame, Ind.; F. Paquette, Mt.Clemens, Mich.; P.McGinnis, Ottawa,Ill.; F. O’Rourke, Coldwater, Mich.; Jas.Drury,Francisville, Ind.; E. Bryant, Dallas, Texas; F. Barron, Shannon, Ill.; E. Smith, Circleville, Ohio; Jos.
6^6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Farrell, Lorain, Ohio; S. G. Clements, Uniontown, Ky.; W. J. Carroll, Richwood, Wis.; Delano Saviers, Chicago, Ill.; J. C. Armijo, Albuquerque, N. M.; W. McEniry, Osborne, Ill.; C. L. Pierson, Sullivan, Ind.; Jas. A. White, South Amana, Iowa.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. Archer, Summit, Ill.; W. E. Jeannot, Muskegon, Mich.; W. F. Bacon, Chicago, Ill.; Jos. Rahman, Washington, Mo.; G. L. Deschamps, Nashville, Tenn.; S. Katz, Clinton, Ill.; M. Dolan, Clinton, Iowa; J. Livingston, South Bend, Ind.; L. Florman, Rapid City, D. T.; J. Mc-Gordon, Muskegon, Mich.; J. Friedman, Chicago, Ill.; H. P. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis.; E. B. Gerlach, Portsmouth, Ohio; C. F. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis.; H. N. Hess, Wheeling, W. Va.; V. L. Rivaud, Louisville, Ky.; H. D. Hibbeler, Washington, Mo.; L. F. Rivaud, Louisville, Ky.; J. Halligan, Washington, Mo.; E. J. Schmitt, Chicago, Ill.; J. E. Zaehnle, Notre Dame, Ind.; A. T. Taggart, Columbus, Ohio; Chas. Zeigler, Milwaukee, Wis.; H. L. Foote, Burlington, Iowa.
HONORABLE MENTIONS.
I The following students were not long enough at Notre Dame to be entitled to Certificates, but are deserving of honorable mention for their Exemplary conduct.]
. SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
G. A. Smith, G. Kerndt, W. McDevitt, J. Donegan, T. Fenlon, E. Ryan, T. Cullen, W. Minnis, T. Noonan, A. Peery, R. Fitzgerrell.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
S. Peery, C. Droste, F. Lewis, D. G. Quill, E.
J. Wile.	'
Personal.
—Of all the visitors at Commencement, none was more welcome than Very Rev. William Corby, C. S. C., for many years President of the University, and now the popular pastor of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis.
—In the midst of life we are in death. Mr. Samuel H. Bell, a student of Notre Dame in early days, departed this life at his home in Cass Co., Ind., during Commencement week. He was personally unknown to us, but the city papers speak of him as a gentleman of culture and refinement, and one whose death is deeply regretted by numerous friends throughout the State. The deceased was in his 49th year, and leaves a family of three chil-•dren.
■—We were glad to see among those who attended Commencement, the Rev. Father Clarke, ■of the Catholic Columbian, who is always a welcome guest at Notre Dame. The South-Bend Tribune says of him:
Rev. D. ‘A. Clarke, editor of the Catholic Columbian, of Columbus, Ohio, attended the graduating exercises at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. He was most warmly welcomed at both places, and also here in the city, where he
has many friends. Prof. Clarke is a graduate of Notre Dame, and was afterwards a member of the Facuity. As a journalist, he is achieving a great success.
—The Bay City Tribune of Wednesday, June 21st, gives an account of the marriage of Captain J. D. Graham, U. S. N., and Miss Ella V. Roosevelt, of Flint, Mich. “ The lady,” says the Tribune, “is a daughter of the late Cornelius Roosevelt of Flint, and a sister of Mrs. W. H. Tousey, of Bay City. The gallant Captain is a son of the late Col. J. D. Graham, of the United States Engineer Corps, for many years in charge of the harbor works on the Western Lakes, with headquarters at Chicago. He is also a nephew of Gen. George H. Meade, the hero of Gettysburg.” We heartily wish the new couple much happiness. Capt. Graham, whose first wife died some time ago, has two sons—Lawrence and Montrose—attending class at the University of Notre Dame, one -in the Preparatory and one in the Minim department.
—An unusually large concourse of visitors attended the Commencement Exercises this year. It would be next to impossible to obtain all the names, but we think the greater number are contained in the following lists:	‘
The occasion was honored by the presence of Rt. Rev. Bishops Dwenger, Chatard and Waterson, Very Rev. Father Sorin, C. S. C., and a large number of the Rev. Clergy, including the Rev. D. A. Clarke, editor of The Catholic Columbian, Columbus, Ohio; Rev. M. J. Gleason, St. Louis, Mo.; Rev. P. B. Murray, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Rev. W. Kroeger, Elkhart, Ind.; Rev. James J. Quinn, Peoria, Ill.; Rev. D. A. Tighe, Hyde Park, Ill.; Rev. A. B’. Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind.; Rev. Fathers Bath, Leyden, and Carroll, of Chicago, Ill.;. Rev. P. F. Roche, ■ C. S. C., St. Vincent’s, Ind.; Rev. M. Fallize, C. S. C., South Bend, Ind.; and Very Rev. William Corby, C. S. C.,. Watertown,- Wis.
Among the old students we noticed: William Hoynes, of the Chicago Bar, ’68; Caspar Kuhn, ’70, City Auditor, Nashville, Tenn.; George H. Kahman, Washington, Mo., ’69; W. J. Clarke, of the Columbus Bar, ’72; John H. Gillespie, Burlington, Iowa, ’72; Charles E. Cavanagh, Philadelphia, ’79; C. C. Campau, Detroit, ’75; John G. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio, ’77; Charles Brinkman, Terre Haute, ’80; C. H. and H. D. Faxon, Chicago, ’77; John T. Mug, Lafayette, Ind., ’79; M. D. Falvey, Winamac, Ind., ’79; J. H. Burns, Columbus, ’81; John Steis, Winamac, Ind., ’79; P. J. Doherty, Mason City, Iowa, ’79; J. A. Taylor, Chicago, ’70; Dr. C. J. Lundy, Detroit, ’67; W. E. Ruger, Lafayette, ’79; E. Jacobs, Chicago, ’80; A. A. Gerlach, Columbus, ’78; J. E. Hagerty, St. Louis, ’79; John English, Columbus, Ohio, ’78; C. A. Lewis, Chicago, ’74; Jas. Malone, ’81, Bertrand, Mich.; Albert Rock, Lincoln, Ill., ’80; Frank Nester, Saginaw, Mich., ’81; Thomas Dillon, Chicago, ’70; Fred Williams, Lafayette, ’64; M. Gooley, South Bend, ’81; V. and M. Butler, Chicago, ’80; P. L. Garrity, Chi-■cago, ’59; J. Homan, ’80, Cincinnati; S. Murdock,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	637
Lafayette, Ind., ’82; Edward Sugg, ’81, George Sugg, ’81, Eugene Sugg, ’79, Chicago; John Lambin, ’77; A. J. Brice, Des Moines, ’80; J. C. O’Connor, Des Moines, ’80; J. Murphy, Columbus, ’72; H. McGrath, Chicago, ’78; G. Hagan, St. Augustine, Ill., ’81; G. Nester, Saginaw, Mich.,’81; H. Deehan, South Bend, ’79; J. Buchanan, Huntington, Ind., ’74; Don Mariana S. Otero, Bernalillo, N. M., ’75, and S. S. Baca, Albuquerque, N. M., ’73.
Many visitors from various sections of the country were also in attendance, among whom were Col. Donn Piatt, Mac-a-Cheek, O.; John G. Priest, Esq., of St. Louis; Hon. P. T. Barry, Chicago; Hon. Judge Noyes, Laporte; Mr. Jacob Wile, Laporte, Ind.; Capt. and Mrs. Graham, U. S. N; Col. and Mrs. E. Otis, U. S. A.; Dr. McGorrisk, Des •Moines; Hon, Thos. Hoynes, ex-Mayor of Chicago; ■ Mr. M. J. Russell, of the Chicago Times; Gregory Vigeant, Chicago, Ill; A. Beal, and E. Malloy, of the Laporte Herald- Chronicle^ Mrs. A. Beal; Mrs. Thomas Ryan and son, Topeka, Kan.; Hon. D. G. Smith, of the S. S. and D. V. R.R.; Hon. W. J. Hynes, of Chicago,- Ill.; Mrs. W. J. Clarke, Columbus, Ohio; Mrs. A. D. Hatt, Goshen; Frank Lederer, Mrs.E. Byerly, George Bakerand Moses Adler, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. and Miss Devine, Chicago; F. A. Palmer, Wabash and St. Louis R.R.; Mrs. C. H. Lybrand, and Mrs. M. B. Peters, Chicago; Mrs. M. E. and Miss Myler, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. S. E. Fox, Chicago; Miss Grace Taylor, St. Louis, Mo.; Mrs. M. Rhodius, Indianapolis; E. A. Mitchell, Chicago; Mrs. H. Fen-drick, Evansville, Ind.; T. A. Fleming, Henderson, Ky.; B. Kondman, Ludlow, Ky.; Mrs. Henry Hurley, Niles, Mich.; Misses and John A. Hess, Wheeling, Va.; Mrs. H. and Willie Bertrand, Mrs. and the Misses Smith, Watertown, Wis.; Miss Mary Nash, Manchester, Ohio; J. K. Riley, Savannah, Ga.; Mrs. George Saviers, Miss C. Saviers, Mr. and Mrs. H. and Miss A. Friedman, and Catharine Kelly, Chicago; Don Felipe Chaves and Don J. Castillo, New Mexico; R. T. Semmes, Atlanta; F. S. Williams, Lafayette, Ind.; S. T. Rogers, New Castle, Ind.; L. Witwer, South Bend, Mrs. P. Devereux, St. Louis; George J. Schott, Fort Wayne; J. H. and Mrs. J. Kengel, Detroit; Miss Mary Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. W. Connor, Miss W. O’Connor, Miss I. W. O’Connor, Miss Jennie Terry, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. P. O’Donnell, Miss Welles, Chicago; Misses Nash, St. Mary’s, Kansas; J. C. Fiske, F. Comjan, and Miss H. Buck, Chicago; William Coyne, Kansas City; Mrs. M. H. Kah-man, Miss Cora Hopkins, St. Louis; Miss Annie Kahman, Washington, Mo.; Mr. and Mrs. Charles Warner, Mr. and Mrs. G. Warner, Mrs. M. Fishel and Jacob Fishel, Nashville; C. A. Palmer, South Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. E. Roper, Hobart, Ind.; Mrs. R. L. Vaccaro, Memphis.; Miss Carrie Ruger, Lafayette, Ind.; J. O’Callaghan, Chicago; Mrs. W. J. Hynes, Chicago; W. J. Murphy, Chicago; Mr. P Ruppe, Hancock, Mich.; Mr. C. Schaefer, Riverdale, Ill.; Miss Agnes A. Sells, Indianapolis; Hon. and Mrs. W. C, McMichael, Mish
awaka, Ind.; W. Feldman, Chicago; Mr. and Master S. Livingston., South Bend; Miss Carrie Johnson, Dalton, Ill.; Mrs. W. Stange, Chicago; John Wardion, Middletown, Ohio; Charles Brodesser, Milwaukee; Mrs. N. A. Treat, Mrs. R.Davidson, Mrs. Jacob Wile and Master F. Wile, Laporte, Ind.; L. Rogers, Muskegon, Mich.; D. E. McGrath,. Kankakee, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. C. Fisher, Three Rivers, Mich.; A. Dorsey, Columbus; Miss Katie Hayes, Miss Anna Murray, C. D. Saviers, Mr., and Mrs. A. Schmitt, Miss Katie Walsh, Mrs. E. Miller and Mrs. B. Loman, Chicago; E. A. McNally, Huntington; Miss Agnes Brown, Dubuque; Mrs. J. Brown, Council Bluffs; John Hughes, Des Moines; M. Cavanagh, Chicago; Paul F. Craniger, Milwaukee; Misses Katie K. Wall and Kate Fehr, Louisville, Ky.; E. O’Connor, Chicago; Lydia Heneberry, Peoria, Bl.; Hugh O’Donnell, Maysville, Ky.; W. H. Welch, Des Moines; Misses Harrigan and Heneberry, Peoria, Ill.; George Williams, Lafayette, Ind.; Mrs. J. Wagner and Frank McErlain, South Bend; Mrs. Berthelet, Milwaukee, Wis.; J. M. Cummings and Mr. and Mrs. Toepp, South Bend; Mrs. Chaves, Belen,New Mexico; Mr. J. Wagner,South Bend; Mrs. Windsor, Indianapolis; E. G. Johnson, Chicago; Mrs. Masi, Cheyenne, W. T.; Mrs. and Miss Roberts, Kansas City; Mrs. J. Sullivan, South Bend; Chas. McGrath, Chicago; E. Summers, South Bend; Mrs. Tong, Mrs. S. Stanfield, South Bend; E. F.and Miss L. Kelly, Chicago; Mrs. and Miss Marlette, Vicksburg, Miss.; Frank Lederer, South Bend; Mrs. H. B. and Miss Lizzie Bruser, Vicksburg; the Misses Clarke, Columbus, Ohio; Miss K. Campbell, St. Mary’s, Ky.; Joseph Hagerty, South Bend; L. Dougherty, Lancaster, O.; Mrs. Lizzie Shirley, Eagleville; Mrs. G. C. Staley, ' South Bend; Eleanor E. Dennehy, and Patrick O’Brien, Chicago; Susannah Osborn, Tiffin; Mrs. J. Gallagher, South Bend; John Casey and P. Devitt, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. J. B. McGorrisk, Mr., Mrs. and Miss Flynn, Des Moines, Iowa; J. O’Donnell, Chicago; Mrs. I. English, Columbus; Mr. and Mrs. S. Zaehnle, Notre Dame, Ind.; Mr. J. Murdock, Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. T. E. and Miss M. Howard, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. M. Humphrey, East Townsend, Ohio; Miss Z. Papin, St. Louis, Mo.; Mrs. C. Pick and Miss Pick, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. S. Schmidt, Chicago; Mr., Mrs. and Master Hibbeler, Washington,Mo.; Mr. J. Warren, Jr., Nashville, Tenn.; Miss L. Hardinay, Leavenworth, Kansas; Miss O’Brien, Mr. and Mrs. Tolpp, Mrs. J. Sullivan and Mr. A. Consentin, South Bend, Ind.; E. J. Johnson, Chicago; Mrs. Miller, Chicago; Mr. Monaghan, Chicago; R. Milligan, Huntington, Ind.; Mrs. J. Crotty, Seneca, Ill.; Mrs. A. Mattes, Des Moines; Mrs. G. H. Wessel, Nashville, Tenn.; E. G. McGorrisk, Des Moines; J. Walsh, Des Moines, la.; Mr. Reilly, Tenn.; Messrs. Connolly and Conlan, Chicago; H. Kitz and M. Rathsam, Indianapolis; W. Conway, Ottawa, Ill.; J. O’Connell, Des Moines, Iowa; T. Bowers, Wheeling, West Va.; Messrs. Firstrate and Vanderpoele, and P. O’Connor, Chicago; the Mrs. Ryan and Sheedy,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Leavenworth, Kansas; Mrs. P. Bayer, Detroit; J. Orsinger, La Salle, Ill.; Miss N. McGordon, and J. Erwin, Muskegon; Mrs. F. Ryan, Topeka, Kan.; Messrs. E. and S. Buchanan, Huntington; Mrs. E. McNally, Milwaukee; W. Feldman, Chicago; J. F. Coad, Cheyenne; W. Wendell, Lincoln, Ill.; Mrs. Kennedy, and Mr. and Mrs. Metz, Chicago; the Misses Quill, Oak Park, Ill.; J. E. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis.; Mrs. M. A. Stace, Mishawaka, Ind., and many others whose names we did not learn.
Local Items.
—How do you do?
—Modicum lege, etc.
—Home, sweet home!
—A pleasant vacation!
—Let us hear from you.
—Only a few students remain.
—“ Scattered like flakes of snow.”
—We know all about it now, Peter.
—What time do you get up mornings?
—Prof. Edwards left for Toledo Monday morning.
—Send some personals, and give an account of yourself.
—Every vestige of the old boat-house has disappeared.
—The Professor of Philosophy is sojourning at the Farm.
—You needn’t look for those names in the list of visitors.
—The College closed this year with 335 students actually present.
—Rev. Father Stoffel will spend the vacation at Logansport, Ind.
—The catalogue will be mailed, we think, in aboutjtwo weeks.
—Thanks to Master McPhillips and others, for lists of personals.
—The Oliver House, South Bend, was crowded to overflowing last week.
—The edition of the present number of the Scholastic is 2,000 copies.
—A fishing pole, a straw hat, a duster and a cigar. Man wants but little here below.
—The Rev. Prefect of Discipline has directed his footsteps toward the great Northwest.
—Prof. Gregori is about to begin work on an-" other mural painting in the main corridor.
—There will probably be another issue of the Scholastic towards the end of the month.
—Who will procure the largest list of subscribers to the Scholastic during vacation?
—Prof. Lyons intends to pass a good part of the vacation—he says so himself—at Utica, N; Y.
—Col. Otis has returned to his post in Dakota. His leave of absence expired on the 8th inst. Sorry to part with him.
—-Joseph Zaehnle has returned home from Notre Dame. Joe looks as if college life agreed with him.—South-Bend Daily Times.
—The South Bend papers speak of this year’s Commencement as the most successful ever had at Notre Dame, and we believe it was, at least in many respects.
—The Rev. Professor of Natural Sciences took his departure for Colorado, on Monday morning. He will visit other parts, too, in the interest of the Scientific department.
—The admirable discourse of Rt. Rev. Bishop Chatard, which appears in this issue of the Scholastic, will be published in pamphlet form, some time during the summer.
—The decorations in the Rotunda for the Eu-gldssian exercises, etc., were superintended by B. William, whose good taste and good nature have so . frequently been called into requisition during the year.
—Rev. J. J. Quinn, of ’79, lately ordained in Baltimore, and who was among the most welcome guests at Commencement, sang High Mass on Sunday last. He is attached to the diocese of Peoria.
—The students southward bound are under many obligations to Mr. F. A. Palmer, General Ticket Agent at Indianapolis, of the Wabash & St. Louis R.R., for special rates, and visitors, for many kind attentions.
—The electric light turned out to be a great success, thanks to the energetic efforts of Rev. Fa-ther Zahm. The College buildings and grounds were brilliantly illuminated every evening, from Saturday to Thursday.
—By mistake no mention was made in our report of the Cecilian banquet, of Mr. Clarke’s response to one of the toasts, though his speech was among the best delivered on the occasion. Mistakes will happen, you know.
—A complete list of the Premiums in the Minim department will have place in the Catalogue. The averages are given elsewhere. There were none below 60, consequently every Minim was entitled to at least one Premium.
—There was just a leetle too much tramping in the corridors and stair-ways of the Exhibition Hall, during the oration. The absence of matting in aisles, etc., was a great oversight. It must be said, however, that the general order during Commencement week was never better.
—The new Music Hall at Notre Dame was formally opened with a literary and dramatic entertainment by the St. Cecilian Association. It has all,the modern improvements, with a seating capacity of 1,200, and its exterior is a fine piece of architecture.—South-Bend Tribune. .
—The many friends .of Notre Dame who visited the College last week were more than pleased to find its venerable founder, Very Rev. Father Sorin, in such excellent health and spirits. It was remarked by many, that he looks quite as vigorous as he did a decade of years ago.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The manuscript of the personals—about the width of a sheet of commercial note, coarse writing, and on one side—measured over 18 feet. And what a job it was, with all the repetitions etc., to copy, abbreviate, and get it into shape! May those names be written in the Book of Life!
- —Notwithstanding the fact that a great many of the students stopped over in South Bend to attend the great Forepaugh Show, it has been remarked that not a single one was seen under the influence of liquor. Drunkenness, so common elsewhere, is one of the unpardonable sins at Notre Dame.
—The Seniors who are remaining here for the vacation say they are having a very good time, and desire to express their thanks to B. William for his efforts to make the time pass pleasantly. B. Aquinas is doing all he can for the entertainment of the Juniors. The Minims are still under the kindly eye of B. Francis.
—We find the following item in the SouthBend Register of June 21st:
“ George Witwer got in reach of the light heels of his Shetland pony, this morning, and the consequence is a bruised leg and hand.”	’
George’s friends among the old students will be glad to learn that he escaped without serious harm.	-
—The Elephant Jumbo is so enormous—14 feet high—that the Smithsonian naturalists have had a grave discussion as to the probability of his being a mastadon, or something’ that comes near Mageura-thian, but have finally decided that Jumbo is a genuine elephant, and the largest of his kind. See Jumbo, and you can truly say you have seen the elephant.
—Next comes the familiar face of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is one of our most regular exchanges, and would be sadly missed. Its articles are, almost without exception, bright and well-written, and especially is “Art, Music, and Literature,” to be commended, containing as it does, many items which do not otherwise come under the notice of the casual observer. We consider ourselves fortunate, in having such an exchange.—High School Bulletin, Lawrence, Mass.
• —Among the visitors at Commencement exercises was Mr. Gregory Vigeant, of Chicago, one of the most celebrated architects in the West. Mr. Vigeant thinks our new Music Hall a gem of architecture, and says a better plan for such a building could hardly have been adopted. Such testimony from a rival architect is a very high compliment to Mr. Edbrooke and his work. Mr. Vigeant has lately erected in Fort Wayne a splendid Catholic Library Building at a cost of $40,000, which, the daily papers say, is the best and handsomest structure in the city.
—The following paragraph is clipped from an editorial in the Sotcth-Bend Tribune:
“The crowds''of visitors at Notre Dame this year exceeded those of any previous year. The new University
building is so much larger than the old, and its corridors and Rotunda so spacious, that a brigade could encamp in them without being crowded. Besides this there are the new Music Hall and a half dozen other magnificent buildings, so, all in all, there is no lack of accommodations, no odds how large the influx of visitors may be. Every modern improvement to be had is to be found at Notre Dame. Visitors find so many changes and improvements about the place that they are lost in wonder and admiration at what can be done in one short year. Gregori, the great Roman artist is making Notre Dame famous as a centre of art. His own work not only wins the most enthusiastic encomiums from those who see it, but he has found there, and restored for public inspection, one of the most valuable paintings in America, a Van Dyke. Under President Walsh, the University has been most successful. The attendance was larger this collegeyear than any preceeding one, and the students speak in the highest terms of the President and Faculty, and the great advantages at the University for prosecuting studies.”
—For hard common sense, clever writing, and careful editing, commend us to the New York Sun every time. We find the following paragraph, . which is as timely as it is practical, in a recent issue of this admirable newspaper:
“ The colleges in these days are turning out hundreds ot young men, who come for the first time to a turning point in the path of life, to take up the serious work of earning a living. This is often difficult to young men fresh from college, for it is hard for an upper classman, with his parchment diploma, to unbend sufficiently to enter the primary department of the school of experience. It yet remains true that the first task of a a collegian, in entering into business life, is to unlearn much that he has learned, and those who throw off the cap and gown of university to put on the garb of industry and honest effort, without any scruples of conscience about the gentility of hard labor, will find themselves well started in life before their fellows have done looking for a soft place in the world, and learning that one must first sweat at toil to get the full enjoyment of ease. If the young graduates will paste a few homely, maxims in their hats, and at once plunge into their chosen work with firmness, life will prove easier far than if they attempt to work their way by trickery or to avoid labor. One may pony through college, but not through the curriculum of the world.”
—The grand mural painting in the principal corridor of the college, which is the admiration of every beholder, and which attracted universal attention during Commencement, is considered by many one of Prof. Gregori’s chtfs-d? oeuvres. To our eyes it has an unfinished look, and seems to bear the marks of haste. Doubtless it is the Professor’s intention to retouch it, and of him it may be truly said: Nihiltetigit quod non ornavit. The painting represents Columbus after hisfirst return from America in audience with Queen Isabella and King Ferdinand in presence of the court, giving an account of his voyage, and presenting a number of Indians and specimens of certain American products. It is 20x10, and contains as many as forty-six' figures. This picture is a gift to the College by Prof. James F. Edwards, of Toledo, Ohio, an old student and for some years past a valued member of the Faculty. Notre Dame counts no more generous and self-sacrificing friend than Prof. Edwards, who, during his long connection with the college, and especially since the disastrous fire, three years ago, has spared no trouble, nor his purse, in extraordinary efforts to replace the treasures of art destroyed at that time, and to establish at Notre Dame a library befitting a Catholic University,
640	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
HVotre Dame, July 1, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as .well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, . 50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he •will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for bind- ' ing, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
Commencement Week.
The exercises of Commencement week at Notre Dame were exceptionally pleasant and interesting—a fitting conclusion to a year profitably spent by the great majority of the students, and to the graduates a happy termination of their college career.
The weather was auspicious. Although Vennor and the Scholastic astrologer have been doing their best for sometime to flood the West, to make the summer disagreeably cold and wet, the students and concourse of visitors at the Notre Dame Commencement seem to have been befriended, and to have had things just as they wished,—and they, of course, enjoyed themselves accordingly. Perhaps the Scholastic astrologer had something to do with this; if so, we are all under deep obligations to him, and hope he will always act with the same consideration for the comfort and happiness of others.	'
The examination of classes in the various departments—Classical, Scientific, Commercial, Fine Arts, and Special Branches—were not concluded till late on Tuesday; but the ever-active St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, which this year is unusu
ally strong in numbers and in talent, made an agreeble diversion by their Entertainment—being the twenty-fourth of their annual summer exercises —in the new Exhibition Hall on Saturday evening. The programme has already appeared in the Scholastic.	.
Even on Saturday many visitors had arrived for the Commencement Exercises, and-with those from the neighborhood the hall was nearly filled. The music by the University Cornet Band, song and chorus by F. Kuhn, G. Tracy, L. Florman, C. Echlin, and others, and a choice selection from “The Bohemian Girl” by the University Orchestra were excellently rendered. Geo. J. Rhodius apostrophized Old Washington Hall, now among the things that were, and called attention to its more magnificent successor, in metrical numbers. Next followed an address in French by J. V. O’Donnell. The St. Cecilians then presented their new drama, “The Outcast,” translated and arranged from the French by President Walsh. The Cecilians of ’82 have developed no little elocutionary and histrionic talent under the careful tuition of Prof. Lyons, and the programme was very creditably carried out. .	'
V
On Monday the examinations went on all day; but in the evening the Rotunda was brilliantly illuminated and handsomely decorated in preparation for the Oratorical contest, or closing exercises for the Graduates and Euglossians.' The programme was as follows:
Music......................................Orchestra
SL. Florman, C. Echlin, A. Schiml, F. Kuhn, G. Tracy, Henry Foote, and others Scientific Address.......................E. C. Orrick
Address from the Law Class...............M. F. Healy
Catholicism in the United States............J- Solon
Music......................................Quartette
Our Duties.............................Geo.	E. Clarke
Patriotism.............................W.J.	McCarthy
Speech—(Personation).....................A. F. Zahm
Bernardo and Alfonzo.....................J. P. O’Neill
Duties of American Citizens.................Ed Fishel
Tribute to Longfellow....................W. S. Cleary
Christian Heroism........................C. A. Tinley
Music.......................................Orchestra
We regret that space prevents a lengthened notice of the essays, all of which were as good as could be expected. It is just to say that the Eu-glossians never acquitted themselves more creditably than on this occasion. Rev. President Walsh made the closing remarks, and expressed himself greatly pleased with the different performances. In lieu of anything of our own, we give a special telegram to the Chicago Daily Times.
South Bend, Ind., June 20.—The closing exercises of the Graduates and Euglossians, introductory to the thirty- • eighth annual commencement of Notre Dame University, took place last evening in the Rotunda in the presence perhaps, of the largest concourse of visitors ever gathered there. The Rotunda and halls were brilliant with electric lights. The exercises opened with a comic chorus, and then followed the speeches of the contestants for the oratorical prize. The first was a Scientific address, by E. C. Orrick; M. Healy followed with an address on Law. J. Solon declaimed N. P. Willis’s “Absolom,” and George* Clarke spoke on “ Our Duties.” Each of the four contest
THE NOTLE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	641
ants acquitted himself so creditably that it will be difficult for the judges to decide who was best
Examination still continued on Tuesday up to 3.30 o’clock. At 5 the notes and averages were read, taking up the time till supper. In the evening, Sophocles’ “CEdipus Tyrannus,” which had been in preparation for some weeks, was brought out in the Academy of Music with a degree of success quite unexpected even by the most sanguine. To avoid what might be considered egotism on our part, we will let the daily papers criticise the performance and adjuncts. The special correspondent deputed by the Chicago daily Times, writes.
Notre Dame, Ind., June 21.—The commencement exercises at the institution of Notre Dame have drawn, as usual, a large number of visitors from all parts of the Union. They have received the genial welcome of the President, Rev. Thos. E. Walsh, taken part in exercises of unusual interest and are the recipients of a graceful and cordial hospitality for which the University is noted. The local Hellenists have had the courage to present “The CEdipus Tyrannus,” judiciously framed, it is true, so as to hide its horrible story. With this they opened the hall on Tuesday.
SOPHOCLES BY THE ELECTRIC LIGHT.
seems an anachronism, but the costumes had historic verity. The choruses were given with surprisingly good effect, many of ,the voices having large compass and great sweetness, and the shortened dialogue, it is said, was spoken with good accent, as certainly it was rendered with force and spirit. What might easily have proven a ludicrous failure, was presented with good histrionic effect. Difficult and ambitious as was the undertaking, it carried the interest of the auditors to the closing chorus, and won from Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne, some cordial words of commendation, though the portly dignitary has the appearance of a man who could never do aught than speak kindly.
From an editorial in the South Bend daily Time we take the following extract:
o
“ The new college hall at Notre Dame was opened by the production of “ CEdipus Tyrannus ” by the Hellenists of Notre Dame, complimentary to Right Rev. Joseph Dwenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne; Right Rev. Francis S. Chatard, Bishop of Vincennes; Right Rev. John A. Watterson, Bishop of Columbus, Ohio. A large and intellectual audience was present. Distinguished people from all sections of the country, both clergy and laity, greeted the Hellenists, and the applause that was given testified the appreciation of the audience. This is the first time that a Greek play ever was produced west of the Alleghanies. The costumes were designed by Signor Gregori, the renowned artist. The music was composed expressly for the occasion by Mr. Nobles, one of the Professors of Music at Notre Dame. The professors were ably seconded by the Hellenists in their efforts to make the drama a success.
As the tale of CEdipus has already been told in the Scholastic, we need not allude to the plot of the play which was carefully adapted for the occasion. The Times continues:
The entertainment commenced at .eight o’clock, and occupied an hour and a half in its presentation. During this time, not one word of English was spoken (the play being in Greek), but the audience was so interested that not the least impatience or fatigue was shown.
The singing was the finest ever heard at Notre Dame, especially the duets by Masters Florman and Schaefer. The play was a success in every particular, owing to the indefatigable efforts of the Rev. Father Stoffel, well known in the West as a Greek scholar of the first order. He will ever be remembered by the students and friends of Notre Dame as a scholar, a gentleman, a good priest and true friend.
The following excerpt is from an editorial in the South Bend Daily Tribune of the 21st:
“ The new Music Hall at Notre Dame was formally dedicated last night with one of the most novel and interesting entertainments ever witnessed in the West—a Greek play, “ CEdipus Tyrannus.” The hall was brilliantly illuminated with electric lights and filled with a large and cultured audience. The Hall, though not yet completed, presented a fine' appearance. It contains the very best of acoustic proportions, the faintest speech on the stage being distinctly audible in the remotest part of the auditorum. The original play being too long, Father Stoffel re-wrote it entire for the occasion, by no means a small task. The mu-■ sic with which the play abounds was adapted to the words by Mr. Nobles, a talented Professor at the University. This was the most interesting part of the performance to a native-born Yankee, whose early Greek education had been neglected. The costumes were very fine, being faithful imitations of the Grecian attire of the ancient period represented in the play. The parts were well committed and there was no perceptible hitch in the performance. All of the characters did admirably, and the music, both solo and chorus, was finely rendered. This was - frequently applauded. The entertainment may be considered a grand success, when taken into consideration that no other college in the country except classic old Harvard has attempted CEdipus"
Notices from The Chicago Tribune and Morning News, which also had special correspondents at the University, are not at hand. The following were the dramatis fersonce of the Greek play:
Dedicatory Address.......................Geo.	E. Clarke
CEdipus, King of Thebes....................A. F. Zahm
Jocasta, his Wife........................W.	J. O’Connor
Creon, her Brother.........................W.	H. Bailey
Priest of Zeus.............................W.	S- Cleary
Teiresias, the Blind Prophet...............W.	H. Arnold
Messenger from Corinth.....................T.	F. Clarke
Messenger fi-om Within the Palace..........N. H. Ewing
Servant of Laius......................’....	J. E. Walsh
Choreutes..................................M.	T. Burns
Attendants on CEdipus..................
Attendants on Jocasta..................
Attendants on Creon.................-.
Boy, Attendant on Teiresias............
Antigone,) Youthful Daughters
Ismene, y	of CEdipus,
( C. C. Echlin / H. L. Foote (E. Gerlach ( F. Johnson JLeon. Gibert J. A. Devine .Jos. Courtney
( Harry Snee ( A. Campau
PROCESSION OF SUPPLIANTS,
Consisting of a priest of Jupiter, certain aged companions, a few chosen Youths, and several children, all wearing woolen fillets, with olive branches.
W. S. Cleary, Priest; H. Snee, L. Gibert, E. Fenlon, W. Connor, J. Zettler, A. Campau, J. Devine, T. Fenlon, W. Grout, F. Kuhn.
CHORUS OF THEBAN OLD MEN.
M. T. Burns, Choreutes; L.Florman, D. Saviers, E. Fenlon, W. Connor, J. McIntyre, W. Cleary,.B. Zettler, Jas. Marlette, G. Schaefer, Geo. Tracey, T. Fenlon, W. Grout, A. Schiml, H. Noble, F. Kuhn, F. Devoto.
Of the Hall in which the play was given, the South-Bend Evening Register says:
Our readers must take an early opportunity to see the Music Hall at Notre Dame. It is certainly one of the most attractive rooms in which to give public entertainments to be seen anywhere. It is octagonal in form and the acoustic properties are unusually good. Large, tastefully-designed windows on the east and west afford ample light for day performances, and at night three electric lamps make a noonday radiance in every part of the auditorium, .stage and gallery. The gallery, which is reserved for students of the University, has a seating capacity of 500, and the body of the hall, the tiers of seats in which are arranged in horse-shoe shape, and slope down from the rear to the stage, will accommodate about seven hundred people.
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The stage is well provided with scenery, and altogether Notre Dame has a public hall of which it may well feel proud. The interior is still to be frescoed, and further painting is to be done, but sufficient progress has been made to admit of the use of the hall, and to afford an intelligent idea of what it will be when fully clothed with its further adornments.	'
Wednesday’s Exercises opened with a solemn High Mass for the associated Alumni, which was celebrated at 8 o’clock, by Rev. President Walsh, assisted by Rev. D. A. Clarke as deacon, and Rev. D. Tighe as subdeacon. A large number of the Rev. clergy were present in the sanctuary. The usual sermon was preached by the Right Rev. Bishop Watterson, of Columbus, who is a cousin of the well-known journalist, Henry Watterson. It was an excellent discourse, admirably suited to the audience and the occasion. At the conclusion of High Mass, the Te Deum was sung, and never, we believe, with more grateful hearts. Formerly the Alumni Mass used to be celebrated at an earlier hour, before breakfast, but the change this year was found to be a great convenience. The attendance, too, was larger than on former occasions. The boat-race came off at io o’clock, after which there was a meeting of the Alumni.
Of the boat race the Chicago Times says:
The beautiful lake, embowered almost in the forest primeval, consisting here of a stately growth of hickory, oak, ash, and linden, was the scene of this trial of strength. The contestants rowing oared boats were to make the length of the lake thrice. The whites, with R. Anderson for coxswain, and the blues, coached by J. McIntyre, bent lustily to their work,- but as they neared the shore for the first turn, the whites broke an oar-lock, disabling them, and victory crowned the blues. They were evenly matched, and the whites were the favorites, as they won last year.
The Alumni Association had a large and interesting meeting as usual, and elected as officers for the following year: President, Rev. T. E. Walsh; Vice-Presidents, Rev. D. A. Clarke, of Columbus, and Dennis Hogan, of Chicago; Secretary, Rev. N. Stoffel; Treasurer, J. A. Lyons; Orator, W. J. Clarke, of Columbus; Alternate, John G. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio; Poet, Rev. M. B. Brown, of Wellsville, Ohio; Alternate, Arthur J. Stace, of South Bend, who was also chosen Historian.
The Alumni dinner came off at 1.30 o’clock, in the Junior dining-hall, and was numerously attended, of course. After the inner man had been refreshed, speeches grave and gay were made, in response to appropriate toasts, by Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, Donn Piatt, Rev. Father Stoffel, Mr. W. J. Hoynes of the Chicago Bar, Prof. Devoto, and Prof. Stace, who also acted as toast-master.
In the afternoon there was a baseball match on the Seniors’ Campus between two nines composed chiefly of those who had rowed in the boat-race, and the result will show how closely they are matched in athletic sports. We give the South Bend Times's account of the game:
At the time for the game to commence the respective nines appeared on the field ready for the fray. The - Notre Dame nine wore uniforms of gray, with caps of the same color and blue stockings. The Star of the West wore white uniforms and caps, with red stockings. The . Stars won the toss and sent their opponents to the bat.
The first five innings were marked on both sides by heavy batting and loose fielding, most of the runs of the game . being made before the sixth inning. During the last four innings both nines got down to work in earnest, and at the end of the seventh the score stood 15 to 14 in favor of the Unions. In the eighth the Unions were presented with a goose egg, and the Stars scored one run, making the score a tie. In the ninth, each nine gave the other a blank, and a tenth inning was necessary to decide the game. The Unions went to the bat and were re-tied in one, two, three order. The Stars succeeded in getting a man to third base and one at second, after one man was out, when, by a splendid double play, the side was put out, leaving the game still a tie. It being late it was decided to postpone the playing off of the tie, and the players left the field. Mr. John Lambin, a former student of the college, acted as umpire, giving excellent satisfaction.
At 6.30 o’clock, on the evening of Wednesday, a large and distinguished audience was gathered in the new Hall to witness the exercises of the Thespian Society, and listen to a speech by Col. Piatt. After some excellent music by the Band and Orchestra, and a chorus by the Choral Union, President Walsh, in a few graceful words, introduced the orator. Mr. Piatt’s discourse, it hardly need be remarked was a characteristic one, and was particularly pleasing, it is said, to the lady portion of the audience. Next followed Pizarro^ a drama in five acts, which the members of the Thespian Society rendered so well as to sustain the high reputation for histrionic talent which the organization has alway enjoyed. The closing remarks were made by the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne, in his usual felicitous manner.
The following was the programme for the evening’s entertainment:
Grand opening march.......................N. D. U. C. B.
Overture, Lustspiel...........................Orchestra
Chorus, Petit Oratorio, Gounod..............Choral	Union
Oration.......................................Donn	Piatt
PIZARRO.
Remodelled for the N. D. Thespians.
CAST OF CHARACTERS.
Ataliba, King of Quito....................G. E. Clarke
Rolla )	, c , .	(E.C. Orrick
Alonzo } • • • -Commanders of his army.... j c A.Tinley Pizarro, Leader of the Spaniards............M. Healy
Elviro, Chief attendant........’......W. J. McCarthy
Las Casas, a Spanish ecclesiastic.............J.	Solon
Valverde, Pizarro’s secretary...............W. Cleary
Minister of State.........................E. McGorrisk
Ahnagro..................................F. Grever
Gonzales.:.............................W.	Scholfield
Davilla)
Gomez’ j
Pizarro’s associates
Orazembo, An old Cacique
( F. Bell
( F. Gallagher ......E. Otis
An Old Blind Man..........................J. P. O’Neill
Topac...............'..................  Master	E. Wile
Orano, Rolla’s attendant...................J.	O’Reilly
Sentinel.......................................H.	Morse
Officers ..
Major-Domo Courier..... Sergeant.... Cora’s Child.
Attendants, Warriors, etc.
'’M. Bolton
Thos. Flynn ’ T. C. Healy
W. W. Gray ... J. C. Larkin .J. R. Marlette .....H. Noble Master B. Otis
TABLEAU.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ,	643
Epilogue..............................W.	J. McCarthy
Music..'..................Orchestra	and N. D. U. C. B.
Thursday morning the sun rose clear and bright, giving promise of a beautiful day. At an early hour everyone was moving, and here and there and everywhere, groups of vivacious friends were gathered together engaged in pleasant converse. Shortly after breakfast the mammoth bell announced the closing exercises of Commencement. All having repaired to the Hall, the Band played a stirring march, after which Mr. W. B. McGorrisk delivered the customary valedictory which was heartily applauded, as it deserved to be. We have yet to read a more appropriate valedictory. It was graceful, without being too flowery, and feeling, without being too pathetic; full, and yet not diffuse. It will be found entire in the present issue of the Scholastic. The Oration of the day, by the Right Rev. Dr. Chatard, Bishop of Vincennes, was an able and scholarly discourse and was listened to with close attention. We reproduce it elsewhere from the Prelate’s own MS. Later on, it will be republished in a more permanent form.
As soon as the oration was concluded, came the distribution of premiums, awarding of class honors and diplomas, conferring of degrees, etc. It was a pretty long ceremony, and we are of opinion that many will be glad to hear that President Walsh intends to curtail it next year by shortening the exercises of the previous day, and having the distribution of premiums in the Minim department and in the Preparatory and Commercial courses, at some other time.
When the last diploma had been borne away by the smiling recipient, Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger made a short address to the assembly in which he took occasion to congratulate the students on their peaceful triumphs, remaiking that he considered the Commencement of ’82 by far the most successful ever held at Notre Dame. When the Bishop had ceased speaking, the Band struck up the tender strains of “Home, Sweet Home.”
The list of Degrees, Honors, Premiums, etc., being published elsewhere in the Scholastic, our task as chronicler of the Commencement Exercises of ’82 is done. We cannot lay aside our pencil, however, without expessing regret at our inability for want of space to report the evening entertainments at greater length—at not having been able to bestow a more generous meed of praise on all who merited it, and to make particular mention of all who distinguished themselves. Of course, everyone is ready to admit that the Greek play was the feature, and we have allotted space to it accordingly.
It was our intention, had not illness intervened, to publish a daily issue of the Scholastic on Tuesday and Wednesday of last week in order to keep up with the course of events and clear the way for a more prompt delivery of the present number. This may be done by an other next year.
Premiums.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Anderson, R. M.—2d Accessit in 4th Latin; Accessit in Calculus; 2d Accessit in Astronomy; 1st Accessit in Ancient History.
Armijo, J. C.—4th Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Berry, j. B.—2d Accessit in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Ball, F. M.—2d Accessit in Practice, Book-Keeping.
Bailey, W. H.—1st Premium in 2d Latin; 2d Accessit in 3d Greek; 2d Premium in 1st Geometry; 3d Accessit in 1 st Course Christian Doctrine.
Barron, F. M.—1st Accessit in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in United States History; 3d Premium in Practice, Book-Keeping.	•
Blackman, E.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 6th Premium in Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Course Christian Doctrine.
Bryant, E. J.—1st Accessit in Theory, Book-Keeping.
Browne, J. F.—2d Accessit in 6th Latin; Premium ir» Elocution, 1st Accessit in 2d Course Christian Doctrine.
Bell, F. M.—2d Accessit in 1 st Algebra; 1 st Accessit in 2d French; 2d Accessitin Surveying; 1st Accessitin Elocution ; Accessit in Machine Drawing.
Bolton, W. S.—2d Premium in 2d French; 1st Accessit in Mineralogy; 2d Accessit in 2d Course Christian Doctrine.
Becerra, R.—Accessit for Flute.
Burns, M. T.—2d Accessitin 3d Latin; Premium in Elocution.
Cullen, T.—2d Accessitin 1 st Orthography; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 1st United States History; 1st Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Premium in Practice, Book-Keeping.
Clements, G.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Carroll, M. T.—2d Accessit in 2d Geography.
Chelini, E. V.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Accessit in United States History.	.
Christian, A. B.—3d Accessitin 1st Grammar; 3d Premium in Phonography.
Conway,J. C.—1stAccessitin 1st Geography; 2d Accessit in 1st United States History f* 1st Accessit in Trigonometry; 1st Accessit in English Composition; 1st Accessit in 2d Course Christian Doctrine.
Clarke, T. F.—1st Accessit in 5th Greek; Accessit in Criticism.
Connor, W. A.—4th Accessit in 1st Orthography; 3d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 2d Accessit in 1st Geography; 2d Accessit in 1st United States History; 2d Accessit in Elocution ; 3d Premium in Phonography; 1st Premium for Piano.
Cleary, W. S.—1st Premium in 5th Greek; 1st Premium in Rhetoric 3d Accessit in 1st Geometry; Premium in Elocution; 1 st Premium in 2d Course Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Ancient History.
Concannon, J. T.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 1st United States History.	•
Dorsey, A.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Donegan, J.—4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; Accessit for Violin; 3d Premium in 3d Course Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Theory Book-Keeping.
Drury, J.—6th Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Donahoe, M. E.—2d Accessit in Chemistiy and Physics.
Eager, E. G.—3d Accessit in 1st Orthography; 1st Accessit in 1st Grammar; 2d Accessit in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in Elocution; Premium in German.
Eaton, B.—1st Premium in 2d Geometry; Premium in Elocution; 2d Accessit in Modern History.
Fitzgerell, R.—1st Accessit in United States History.
Fenlon, T. P.—4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Algebra; 3d Accessit in English Composition; Premium in Elocution.
Fenlon, E. J.—Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution; 3d Accessitin 3d Course Christian Doctrine.
Farrell, J.—1st Accessit in 7th Latin; 2d Accessit in
644	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Rhetoric; 2d Accessit in 2d Course Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in English History.
Fleming, R. E.—ist Premium in ist Algebra; ist Premium in 6th Latin; ist Accessit in Literature; 2d Premium in Physiology; 2d Premium in Surveying; 2d Premium in ist Course Christian Doctrine; 2d' Premium’ in Modern History.
Flynn, T. F.—Premium in Elocution.
Falvey, J.—2d Accessit in 7th Latin,
Falvey, M.—ist Premium in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Practice Book-Keeping.
Fishburn, C.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Geography; ist Premiumin ist United States History; istPremium in English Composition; istPremium in Theory, Book-Keeping.
Garrett, J. C.—ist. Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Geography; ist Premium in United States History; 2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Grout, W. E.—6th Accessit in ist Orthography; 2d Accessit in ist Grammar; ist Premium in ist Reading; Premium in 3d Course Christian Doctrine.
Gallagher, F.—2d Accessit in 3d Latin.
Golonski, A. J.—ist Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Geography.
Gray, W.—ist Accessit in 4th Latin; 2d Accessit in ist French; Accessit in Elocution.
Grever, F. H.—ist Premium in Violin; Premium in Elocution; Accessit in Phonography.
Healy, M. T.—2d Premium in ist German; ist Accessit in English History; Preminm in Ancient History.
Healy ,T. D.—ist Accessit in 6th Latin; 2d -Premium in Calculus; 2d Accessit in Zoology; ist Accessit, in Botany.	’
Henoch, M.—Accessit for Violin.
. Jones, A.—4th Accessit in ist Arithmetic; ist Accessit in 4th Algebra.	'
Johnson, W.—ist Premium in 2d Algebra; ist Premium for Surveying; Premium in Elocution.
Kinsella, F. C.—5th Accessit in ist Orthography; 5th Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Kuhn, F. E.—ist Premium in Chemistry and Physics; 2d Premium in Surveying; Premium for Surveying Kuntzman, A.—ist Premium in 2d Orthography.
Kerndt, G.—2d Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Grammar; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic;' 2d Premium in Penmanship; 4th Premium in ist Geography; ist Accessit in ist United States History; 3d Premium in 3d Course Christian Doctrine.
Lannon, H. M.—5th Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in Elocution.	.
Lippman, S.—4th Accessit in 2d Grammar; ist Accessit in 2d Orthography; 4th Accessit in Theory, Book-Keeping-
Murphy, J. M.—ist Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Course Christian Doctrine.
McErlain, G. E.—ist Accessit in ist Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Accessit in Theory, BookKeeping.
Minnis, W.—5th Accessit in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist United States History.
Marlett, J. R.—5th Premium in ist Arithmetic; Premium in Elocution; ist Accessit in 2d Course Christian Doctrine.
Meyer, A.—2d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Orthography.
McCarthy, W. J.—2d Accessit in ist German; Accessit in Geology; 3d Accessit in Astronomy.
McGinnis, P.—5th Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in Penmanship; ist Premium in ist Reading; 4th Accessit in 3d Course Christian Doctrine. .
Millett, J.—5th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Algebra; 3d Premium in Phonography; ist Premium in 3d Course Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in Theory Book-Keeping.
McDermott, C-J.—Accessit in Calculus; ist Premium in Mineralogy; -2d Premium in Astronomy; 2d Premium in Botany; ist Accessit in Chemistry and Physics; ist Accessit in ist Course Christian Doctrine.
McIntyre, J.—ist Premium in Literature; ist Accessit in Zoology; ist Accessit in Surveying; Premium in Linear Drawing; 2d Accessit in ist Course Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in Modern History.
McDevitt, W.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 6th Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in Theory Book-Keeping.	.
Morse, H.—ist Accessit in 2d Geometry; ist Accessit in Elocution.	-
McGorrisk, W.—Accessit in General Physics; ist Accessit in Astronomy; 2d Premium in Modern History.
McGorrisk, E.—Premium in Elocution.
McEniry, W.—3d Accessit in 2d Algebra; ist Premium in ist Geometry; ist Premium in Trigonometry; 2d Premium in English Composition; 2d Accessit in Botany; Premium in Elocution.
Nash, J.—2d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in 3d Course Christian Doctrine.
Noble, H.—Accessit in Ancient History.
Noonan, T.—ist Accessit in 3d Grammar.
O’Reilly, J.—ist Premium in 7th Latin; 2d Accessit in 2d French; 2d Accessit in Mineralogy; 2d Premium in 2d Course Christian Doctrine; Premium in English History.
O’Connor, W.—2d Accessit in 2d Latin; 2d Accessit in 3d Greek; 2d Accessit in Physiology.
O’Rourke, F.—3d Premium in ist Orthography; 6th Accessit in ist Geography.
Orrick, E.—ist Accessit in 3d Latin; 2d Premium in ist French; ist Premium in Geology; ist Premium in General Physics; ist Premium in Astronomy; ist Premium in ist Course Christian Doctrine.
Otis, E. A.—ist Premium in 4th Latin; ist Accessit in ist German; ist Premium in Zoology; Premium in Elocution; 2d Accessit in Modern History; Premium in Machine Drawing.
Peery,"A. J.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Accessit in 1 st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium in ist United States History; ist Premium in Theory, Book-Keeping.
Paquette, F.—2d Premium in ist Reading; ist Accessit in Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in 3d Course Christian Doctrine.
Pierson, C. L.—3d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in 2d Course Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Theory, Book-Keeping.
Ryan, E. J.—ist Accessit in ist Grammar; ist Accessit in Penmanship; 2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in ist Geography; 3d Accessit in ist United States History; 2d Accessit in 3d Course Christian Doctrine.
Rasche, P.—3d Accessit in 1 st Arithmetic.
Saviers, D.—Premium for Flute; 3d Accessit in Penmanship; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Steiger, J.—3d Accessit in_3d German.
Scholfield, W.—ist Accessit in 2d German.
Scholfield, B.—2d Accessit in Elocution.
O’Neill, J.—ist Premium in Criticism; ist Accessit in ist Course Christian Doctrine.
Solon J.—2d Accessit in Literature; 2d Accessit in Trigonometry; 3d Accessit in Botany; 3d Premium in ist Course Christian Doctrine; ist Accessit in Modem " History.
Smith, C.—2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d.Geography; Accessit in Telegraphy.	’
Schiml, A.—Premium in Elocution; Premium for Vocal Music.
Steis, H.—3d Accessit in. 3d Algebra; 3d Accessit in Rhetoric; Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in 2d Course Christian Doctrine.
Tinley, C.—2d Premium in 2d Course Christian Doctrine.	•
Tracey, G.—Premium in Elocution; Premium for Vocal Music.	.
Treon, I.—6th Accessit in ist Orthography; ist Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in Book-Keeping.
Vander Haden, W.—6th Premium in ist Arithmetic;
1	st Accesit in Phonography; 3d Accessit in Theory BookKeeping.
West, A.—ist Premium in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in Elocution.
White, J.—2d Accessit in Elocution; 4th Accessit in 3d Course Christian Doctrine.
the Notre dame scholastic.
Walsh, J.—ist Accessit in Physiology.
- Yrisarri, E.—I st Accessit in i st Orthography; ist Accessit in Penmanship; 5th Premium in 1 st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1 st Geography; 3d Premium in ist United States History.
Zettler, J. B.—ist Premium in 2d Course Christian ’ Doctrine; 2d Premium in Practice Book-Keeping.
Zahm, A. F.—1 st Accessit in 2d Latin; 1 st Premium in 3d Greek; ist Premium in Botany; ist Premium in Chemistry and Physics; Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in 1 st Course Christian Doctrine.	. •
Wheatley, F.—3d Accessit in Elocution; Accessit in '	Telegraphy.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Archer, P.—1st Accessit in 1st Orthography; 2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 5th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in ist Geography.
Browne, A.—2d Accessit in 3d Algebra; Accessit in Elocution; 3d Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine.
Bacon, W.—3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; rst Accessit in Practice, Book-Keeping.
Bailey, Ed.—3d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Barron> W.—2d Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in ist Grammar; ist Premium in United States History; ist Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 2d Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine.	■
Brewster, A.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Buchanan, G.—2d Premium in ist Orthography; Premium in ist Reading; ist Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Baca, B.—ist Accessit in Penmanship; ist Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography.
_	Castanedo, G.—2d Accessit in ist Orthography; ist Pre-
mium in French; 2d Accessit in Elocution; ist Accessit in Practice, Book-Keeping.
Courtney, J. M.—6th Accessit in ist Aritmetic; 3d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Courtney, Jos.—2d Premium in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d German; ist Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Coghlin, A. M.—Premium in Elocution; Accessit in Public Reading.
Coghlin, W.—3d Premium in Penmanship.
Castillo, J.—4th Accessitin 3d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine. *
Devine, J.—ist Accessit in ist Orthography; Premium in ist Reading.
Dolan, M.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Accessit in ist Grammar; 3d Accessitin ist Arithmetic; ist Accessit in ist Geography; ist Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine; 3d Accessit in Theory, Book-Keeping;
•	Devitt, H.—2d Accessit in 4th German.
Devoto, C.—ist Premium in ist Geography.
Danielson, F.—ist Accessit in 4th Arithmetic; ist Premium in 4th Grammar.
Droste, C.—4th Premium in ist Orthography; 4th Accessit in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
F	Drendel, J.—4th Accessit in ist Orthography; 3d Acces-
sit in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Geography; ist Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in 2d German.
Echlin, C.—2d Premium in ist Grammar; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in United States History; 2d Premium in Public Reading; Premium in Spanish; ist' Accessit in ist Geography; 2d Accessit in Penmanship; 3d Premium in Public Course Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Book-Keeping; Premium for Vocal Music.
Ewing, N.—ist Premium in 3d Latin; ist Accessit in 3d Greek; 2d Premium in Literature; ist Premium in Physiology ; 2d Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine.
Fishel, Ed.—ist Premium in Penmanship; ist Accessit in Rhetoric; ist Premium in 2d French; 2d Accessit in ist Geometry; Premium in Elocution; ist Premium in Public Reading; Premium in 2d German.
Fishel, Fred.—3d Accessit in ist Orthography; 2d Pre'	mium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in Penmanship; ist
Accessit in 3d German; Accessit for Flute. ’
Freyermuth, W.—4th Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Fendrick, J. H.—ist .Accessit in ist Orthography; ist Premium in Penmanship; 3d Accessit in 3d German; 4th , Premium in Public Course Christian Doctrine.
French, R.—3d Accessit in ist Arithmetic.
Farrelly, F.—ist Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine; 5th Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Florman, L.—Accessit for Piano; ist Premium for
Vocal Music; Accessit in Reading and Orthography. '
Foote, H.—4th Accessit in ist Orthography; Premium in ist Reading; 3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in ist Geography; Premium for Violin; ist Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine; Premium for Vocal Music.
Foote, M.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in Practice, BookKeeping.	»
Friedman, J.—ist Premium for Piano.
Gibert, L.—2d Premium in Penmanship; ist Accessit in ist French; 2d Accessit in Elocution.
Graham, M.—2d Accessit in ist Orthography; 4th Pre- . mium in 3d Grammar; 6th Accessit in 2d Geography; 4th Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine.
Grever, J.—4th Premium in ist Orthography; 4th Ac-cessit in ist Arithmetic; Accessit for Piano; 2d Premium in Public Reading; 3d Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine.
Gerlach, E.—3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in 2d Geography; ist Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in ist German; ist Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine.
Gall, E.—Premium in German; 3d Accessit in BookKeeping.
Gall, A.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Guthrie, J.—2d Accessit in Elocution; 3d Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in Telegraphy; 2d Premium in Phonography.
Gallagher, J.—2d Accessitin 3d Geography; 2d Accessit in ist Course Christian Doctrine; 3d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Heffernan, J.—2d Premium in 7th Latin.
Hoffman, P.—4th Accessit in 2d Grammar; 7th Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Public Course Christian Doctrine.
Hess, H.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; 1st Premium in 2d Geography: 5th Premium in Public Course ■Christian Doctrine.
Hibbeler, H.—4th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Accessit in 2d Geography; 4th Accessit in 2d German; 3d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Hurley, T.—3 Accessit in ist Orthography; 2d Accessit in ist Grammar; 4th Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine.
Howard, E.—3d Accessit in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Deschamps, G.—4th Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Acces-sit in ist Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 2d German; ist Ac-cessit in Elocution; 3d Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine; 3d Accessit in Book-Keeping.
Hanavin, W.—6th Accessit in 3d Grammar; 4th Ac-cessit in 2d Arithmetic.	''
Halligan, J.—3d Accessit in ist Orthography; ist Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Accessit in U. S. History; 2d Premium in ist Geography; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 7th Latin.
Jeannot, W.—3d Premium in ist Orthography; 6thAccessit in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in Public Course of Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Practice, Book-Keeping.
Johnston, W.—2d Premium in Rhetoric; ist Accessit in ist Geometry; ist Premium in 7th Latin; Premium in Architectural Drawing.
Johnson, F.—2d Accessit in Penmanship; Accessit for
Violin; 4th Accessit in Practice, Book-Keeping; Premium ‘ for Vocal Music.
Jones, W. J.—5th Accessit in 3d Grammar; ist Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Pre- ‘ mium in Telegraphy.
Kelly, J. M.—2d Accessit in Elocution; ist Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine^	-	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Rhodius, G. J.—3d Accessit in ist Orthography; Premium in Elocution; 4th Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in Public Reading.
Ruppe, Jos. C.—ist Premium in 3d German; 3d Premium in Phonography.
Ruppe, J. A.—4th Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine.
Rivaud, V. L.—4th Accessit in ist Grammar; 6th Accessit in ist Arithmetic; Accessit for Piano.
Rivaud, L. F.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Ryan, Fred.—2d Accessit in 3d Geography; 4th Accessit in Elocution.
Smith, D. C.—3d Accessit in 2d Grarrtmar; Premium for Guitar.	-
Snee, H.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 6th Accessit in ist Arithmetic; ist Preminm in 4th German.
Shaefer, G.—ist Accessit for Piano; Premium for Vocal Music.	.
Sells, H.—3d Accessit in ist Orthography; 4th Accessit ! in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Telegraphy.
Taylor, D.—Premium in ist Reading; 3d Accessit in ist Orthography 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 4th Premium in Public Course Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in Public Reading.
Tourtillotte, G.—6th Accessit in 3d Grammar;
Taggart, A.—3d Accessit in 4th Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1 st Christian Doctrine.
Williams,T.— ist Accessit, in 1st Orthography.
Warner, C.—4th Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Wendell, A.—-6th Accessit in 3d Grammar; 6th Accessit in 2d Geography.
Whelan, J.— 3d Accessit in 4th Algebra,
Wilbur, M. 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Grammar.
Warren, W.—ist Accessit in 3d Grammar; 7th Accessit in 1 st Arithmetic.
Wile, E.—4th Premium in*2d Geography; 2d Accessit in Elocution.
Yrisarri, P. J.—3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; ist Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; ist Accessit in ist Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Zeigler, C.—3d Premium in 1 st Orthography; 3d Accessit in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in 4th Algebra.
Zaehnle, J.—2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accesssit in 2d Geography; 1 st Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in Public Course Christian Doctrine; 4th Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Note.—Students of the Preparatory Course whose Examination average exceeds 85 per cent, are awarded Premiums for Examination.
Kolars, C. C.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; ist Ac-cessit in United States History; ist Accessit in ist Geography; ist Accessit in Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Algebra; ist Premium in Public Course Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in Phonography.
Kahman, J.—Premium in ist Reading; ist Premium in ’ 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d German; 4th Accessit in ist Geography; ist Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine.
Kengel, F.—2d Premium, ex xequo^ ist German; Premium in Machine Drawing.	'
Kitz, H.—2d Premium In 3d Grammar; ist Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Katz, S.—4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 3d German; Accessit for Piano.
Lund, F.—2d Premium in ist Orthography; 5 th Accessit in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d German; 2d Premium in Telegraphy.
Laumann, H.—ist Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Penmanship.	!
Lewis, F.—4th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
McGordon,j.—2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Geography; 4th Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine.
Metz, H.—ist Accessit in 3d Geography; 3d Accessit in Elocution.
Muhlke, W.—3d Accessit in Phonography.
McGrath, J.—3d Accessit in ist Orthography; 3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 5th Accessit in 2d Geography; Accessit in Telegraphy.
McGrath, Thos.—Accessitin Telegraphy; 5th Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography.
McPhillips, F. X.—ist Accessit in 3d Algebra; 2d Accessit in 2d Geometry.
Murdock, C.—ist Premium in 3d Algebra; Accessit for Piano; 2d Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine; 4th Accessit in Practice, Book-Keeping; Premium in Linear Drawing;
McCarthy, W.—6th Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Public Course Christian Doctrine.
Murphy, M.—3d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography.	.
Mahon, W. P.—ist Accessit in ist Grammar, 5th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Meyer, J. H.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; ist Accessit in 4th German; 2d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Neeson, J. T.—ist Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Orchard, J. E.—5th Accessit in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in 4th Algebra.
Osborn, B___2d Accessit in 4th Grammar.
O’Donnell, J. P.—3d Accessit in ist Orthography.
O’Donnell, J. V.—2d Accessit in ist Orthography; Premium in ist Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist Accessit in 2d Geography.
Orsinger, F.—4th Accessit in 2d Geography.
Powell, J. M.—ist Premium in 3d Geography.
Porter, H. P.—ist Accessit in ist Algebra; ist Premium in ist Geometry; 2d Accessit in English Composition; Premium for Text-writing; 5th Premium in Public Course Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Public Reading; ist Accessit in Ancient History.
Porter, C. F.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Accessit in 2d Algebra; 2d Premium in 2d Geometry; Accessit in Public Reading.
Peery, S. L.—2d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Pick, A.—2d Accessit in 4th Arithmetic,
Quill, D. G.—ist Accessit in 4th Arithmetic; ist Accessit in 4th Grammar.
Ryan, T. C.—6th Accessit in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Rosenheim, S.—2d Accessit in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Richmond, A.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Accessit in Elocution; Accessit in Telegraphy.
Rose, C.—Premium in Elocution; 3d Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Public Reading; 2d Accessit in Book-Keeping.
June Examination.
GENERAL AVERAGES. SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	’
R. M. Anderson, 90; W. H. Arnold, 92; J. C. Armijo, 77; J. B. Berry, 65; W. Berry, 72; F. Ball, 85; W. Bailey, 100; F. Barron, 74; E. Blackman 89; E. Bryant, 94; J. Browne, 92; F. Bell, 97; W. Bolton, 98; M. Burns, 80; T. Cullen, 95; G. Clements, 87; M. Carroll, 71; E. Chelini, 76; A. Christian, 84; J. Conway, 89; G. E. Clarke, 90; T. F. Clarke, 87; W. Connor, 94; C. Cough-‘ anowr, 74; W. S. Cleary, 95; J. Concannon, 93; J. Delaney, 71; A. Dorsey, 69; J. Donegan, 86; J. Drury, 79; E. Eager, 95; F. Ewing, 74; B. Eaton, 93; R. Fitzgerrell, 71; T. Ferilon, 95; E. Fenlon, 94; Jos. Farrell, 96; R. Fleming, 100; T. Flynn, 91; M. Falvey, 95; C. Fishbum, 97; C. A. Garrett, 88; W. Grout, 87; F. Gallagher, 91; J. Golonski, 80; W. Gray, 95; F. H. Grever, 82; M. F. Healy, 98; T. Healy, 99; M. Henoch, 76; A. Jones, 80; W. Johnson, 99; F. Kinsella, 93; F. E. Kuhn, 99; G. Kerndt, 94; T. Kavan-
the Notre name scholastic. 647
I
i;4
£	. augh, 84; M. Livingston, 80; H. Lannon, 87; S.
Lipmann, 74; J. Murphy, 87; G. McErlaine, 81;
;; W. Minnis, 89; J. Marlett, 85; F. Monaghan, 73; a A. Meyer, 70; W. J. McCarthy, 98; P. McGin-= nis, 83; Jno. Millett, 93; C. McDermott, 95; J. £ McIntyre, 98; W. McDevitt, 84; W. B. McGor-risk, 98; E. McGorrisk, —; W. McEniry, 100; S E. B. Mason, 97; J. Nash, —; H. Noble, 80; J. » Noonan, 85; J. O’Reilly, 90; W. O’Connor, 98; g' F. O’Rourke, 81; E. Orrick, 100; E. Otis, 100; A. Peery, 89; F. Paquette, 77; C. Pierson, 86;
| L. Rodgers, 62; E. Ryan, 89; F. Rettig, 79; P. ’ Rasche, 85; D. Saviers, 92; J. Steiger, 68; W. j Scholfield, 91; J. O’Neill, 88; B. Scholfield, 79; i J. Solon, 93; W. E. Smith, 88; E. E. Smith, 80; [	C. Smith, 75; A. Schiml, 95; H. Steis, 92; J.
[	Sturla, 79; C. Tinley, 88; M. Thompson, 64; G.
Tracy, —; I. Treon, 88; W. Vander Haden, 88; A. West, 88; J. White, 88; J. Walsh, 85; E. Yrisarri, 95; A. Zahm, 99; j. B. Zettler, 99; M. Donahue, 98; S. Pillars, 61.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
i	P. Archer, 86; W. Ayers, 71; A. Browne, 96;
;	W. Bacon, 88; E. Bailey, 85; W. H. Barron, 95; A.
Brewster, 90; G. Buchanan, 91; B. Baca, 86; F. Barnard, 62; F. Boone, 77 > G- Castanedo, 90; A. Campau, 74; J. M. Courtney, 92; A. Colyar, 61; J. S. Courtney, 85; A. M. Coghlin, 61; J. L. Castillo, r 81; G. Deschamps, 86; J. Devine, 72; M. Dolan, 88; H. Devitt, 77; C. Devoto, 81; J. E. Drendel, 93; F. Danielson, 82; C. Droste, 81; C. C. Echlin, 96; N. H. Ewing, 97; Ed Fishel, 97; Fred Fishel, 94; W. E. Freyermuth, 86; J. H. Fendrick, 95; R. French, 86; J. M. Flynn, 70; H. Fisher, 74; ' F. Farrelly, 78; L. Florman, 85; M. Foote, 91; H. Foote, 87; J. Friedman, 88; L. Gibert, 89; H. Gilbert, 81; W. M. Graham, 86; J. Grever, 92; E. Gerlach, 95; E. Gall, 92; A. Gall, 85; J. Gallagher, 83; P. Hoffman, 89; H. Hess, 91; H. Hibbeler, 85; T. Hurley, 89; E. Howard, 85; W. Hanayin, 84; J. Halligan, 87; AV. E. Jeannot, 90; W. Johnston, 98; F.R. Johnson, 80; W. Jones, 94; J. M. Kelly, 82; C. Kolars, 96; J. Kahman, 87; F. Kengel, 90; H. Kitz, 87; S. Katz, 89; J. Livingston, 82; F. Lund, 87; A.'Laumann, 77;, F. Lewis, 75; J. McGordon, 81; H. Metz, 91; W. Muhlke, 79; J. McGrath, 79; T. McGrath, 78; F.
' McPhillips, 91; C. Murdock, 93; W. McCarthy, 81; M. E. Murphy, 80; W. P. Mahon, 93; J. H. Meyer, 86; J. Neeson, 89; J. E. Orchard, 88; B. Osborn, 85; J. P. O’Donnell, 82; J. V. O’Donnell, 90; F. Orsinger, 82; J. M. Powell, —; H. P. Porter, 91; C. F. Porter, 99; S. L. Peery, 90; A. Pick, 68; D. G. Quill, 84; S. Rosenheim, 87; A. Richmond, 84; C. Rose, 95; G. Rhodius, 92; J. C. Ruppe, 87; J. A. Ruppe, 77; V. L. Rivaud, 87; L. Rivaud, 80; T. F. Ryan, 85; D. C. Smith, 82; E. Schmitt, 82; H. Snee, 83; G. Schaefer, 91; H. Sells, 90; E. Tappan, 77; D. Taylor, 91; G. Tourtillotte, 85; A. Taggart, 85; A. Vernier, 87; T. Williams, 86; C. Warner, 88; J. Warner, 76; A. Wendell, 86; J. Whelan, 85; M. Wilbur, 84; Wile, 91; W. Warren, 80; P. Yrisarri, 84; J. Zaehnle, 94; C. Zeigler, 90; A. Zekind, 85; T. Ryan, 84.
Minim Department.
SPECIAL MEDALS.	•
The Gold Medal, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, to the Elocution Class was awarded to John Ryan Devereux, St. Louis, Mo.
The Campau Gold Medal, presented to the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, was awarded to John J. McGrath, Jr., Chicago, Ill.
FIRST HONORS.
William T. Berthelet, Milwaukee, Wis.; Dennis A. O’Connor, Chicago, Ill.; William Mueller, Chicago, Ill.; Philip Campau, Frederick, Dakota; Joseph A. Kelly, Washington, D. C.; John A. Kelly, Washington, D. C.; Michael E. Devitt, Chicago, Ill.; Joseph H. Dwenger, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Charles Metz, Chicago, Ill.; Jos. S.Chaves, Belen, N. M.; William P. Devine, Chicago, Ill.
Second Honors were not awarded in the Minim Department.
CERTIFICATES.
J. R. Devereux, St. Louis, Mo.; D. A. Piatt, West Liberty, Ohio; W. J. Walsh, Memphis, Tenn.; W. A. Welch, Des Moines, Iowa; D. A. McCawley, Clay City, Ill.; C. A. McGordon, Muskegon,Mich.; Louis E. Young, Laporte,Ind.; E. P. Nash, West Liberty, Ohio, R. V. Papin, St. Louis, Mo.; J. J. McGrath, Jr.,.Chicago, Ill.; Thomas B. Norfolk, Charleston, Ill.; F. I. Otis, U. S. Army; F. T. Nester, Saginaw, Mich.; V. Rebori, Chicago, Ill.; F. A. Coad, Cheyenne, W. T.; J. T. Kelly, Joliet, Ill.; J. McGrath, Chicago, Ill.; E. Thomas; Chicago, Ill.; C. Campau, Frederick, Dakota; L. P. Graham, Washington, D. C.; A. Roberts, Chicago, Ill.; G. G. Gibson, Chicago, Ill.; H. Dirksmeyer, Chicago, Ill.; J. F. Nester, Saginaw, Mich.
'	AVERAGES.
H. Ackerman, 82; E. Adams, 90; W. T. Berthelet, 99; J. Beall, 92; C. Brandom, 90; M. Cummings, 92; P. Campau, 95; C. Campau, 90; J. Chaves, 92; F. Coad, 90; T. Curran, 82; E. Chir-hart, 85; J. R. Devereux, 99; J. P. Devereux, 85; J. W. Devine, 93; A. Devine, 80; J. H. Dwenger, 99; M. E. Devitt, 90; H. Dirksmeyer, 92; C. O. Davison, 92; J. A. Frain, 95; F. Fehr, 85; L. Graham, 85; J. H. Garrity, 90; F. J. Garrity, 92; H. Hynes, 85; J. A. Hopkins, 93; A. Hewitt, 87; E. Howard, 90; P. P. Johnson, 98; J. T. Kelly, 93; J. A. Kelly, 95; A. J. Kelly, 97; F. Kellner, 8°; J. J. McGrath, 96; J. McGrath, 90; E. McGrath, 86; C. McGordon, 89; D. L. McCawley, 90; C. Metz, 85; W. Masi 89; W. Miller, 90; J. Nester, 86; F. Nester, 92; E. P. Nash, 86; T. Norfolk, 99; F. I. Otis, 95; A. J. Otis, 82; D. O’Connor, 97; Donn Piatt, 94; T. Pick, 90; C. Pick, 85; C. Peters, 80; G. Price, 75; E. Price, 70; W. Prindiville, 90; D. Prindiville, 82; C. Quinlin, 75; J. Rose, 85; V. Rebori, 90; J. Roper, 89; A. Roberts, 90; H. Schmitz, 75; W. Stange, 90; J. M. Studebaker, 80; Otto Sommers, 75; Ed. Thomas, 90; D. Vosburgh, 69; W. Welch, 97; W. Walsh, 99; A. Windsor, 80; F. Whitney, 82; L. Young, 76; C. Young, 67.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^tarfemg.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Never was greater satisfaction manifested on the part of parents and pupils, though it is hard to please all.
—The Gold Prize Medal in French, the gift of Father General, was bestowed upon Miss Ellen Galen, of Helena, Montana.
—The appreciative and genial face of Mrs. Howard Stanfield was gladly recognized in the select audience at the concert on Wednesday.
—The Gold Prize Medal in History, presented by Prof. J. F. Edwards, of Notre Dame University, was won by Miss Catharine Claffey, of Bertrand, Mich.
—Miss Nellie Thompson’s crayon portrait from a photograph of her mother is a striking likeness, as is also that by Miss Alida Rulison, of her sister.
—The “ Toner Silver Art Medal,” in General Drawing, was won by Miss' Edith Call. In this Hass, Miss Maude Richardson deserves commendation.	*
—In the Art Department, china adorned with flowers, from nature, by the Misses Lillie and Catharine Lancaster,, exhibit no common talent in the young artists.
—The “ Gold Prize Medal ” in Christian Doctrine,'presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, SuperiorGeneral, C. S. C., was awarded to Miss Sarah Walsh, of Rochester, Minn.
—Tn the class of modelling in wax and clay, Miss Laura Fendrick has excelled. The Misses Veronica Reilly, Anna Rasche, and Ella Vander-Haden, were also very successful.
—The Right Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne, who has for so many years distributed the premiums and prizes to the young ladies at St. Mary’s, performed the same graceful duty on Thursday.
—The accomplished and elegant Bishop Watterson, of Columbus, Ohio, showed much interest in the exercises of the two days, and gracefully crowned the young ladies on Commencement Day. .
—Col. Donn Piatt, the famous Journalist and retired editor of The Capital^ published at Washington, D. C., was present on Wednesday at the reading of the essays, and also at the closing exercises on Thursday.	'
—A beautiful table-spread, gift of Mrs. Gavan, of Lafayette, adorns the parlor table. The painting on the plush is the handiwork of her daughter, in the Art Department. Will the kind lady accept grateful acknowledgments?
‘ —A beautiful white velvet Missal-stand cover, fringed in gold and faced with gold-colored silk, was on exhibition. The painting was in delicate
wild roses. It is the work of Miss Rulison. It is intended as a gift to the pastor of Seneca, Ill.
—Dr. J. Toner, Washington, D. C., the kind donor of the Art Medals, paid St. Mary’s a visit last week. After examination of the work on exhibition in the Studio, he expressed himself well satisfied with the allotment of the medals by the F acuity.	-
—A laudable pride in the unmarred and distinguished success of the day, was clearly reflected on the happy countenance of'him to whom, under God, St. Mary’s owes all that she has been, all that she now is, and all that the future will find in her, Very Rev. Father General.
. —Among the pupils-of former years welcomed on Commencement Day were the Misses Kate Spenser, Minnie Walsh, Florence Gregier, Ethna O’Connor, Elizabeth Bruser, Agnes Brown, Lizzie Tighe, Catharine Kelly, and many others who are warmly cherished by their former teachers.
—After the reading of the “Valedictory,” the scholarly Bishop of Vincennes ascended the platform and addressed the audience in his own erra-cious and happy manner, taking for his theme the importance of early Christian training. In his remarks to the young ladies he bade them “ be mindful of those things which they had learned, and of those from whom they had learned them.”
—A scene, and crayons from casts and life, by Miss Linda Fox, elicited much admiration, as did also studies from life, by the Misses Harriet Van Patten, Carrie Gavan, and Sophia Papin. A mir-roij and a black panel of tea-roses, painted by the last-named young lady, received many compliments. Paintings on plush, and velvet, a style so popular at present, by the Misses Gavan and Beale, called forth unanimous praise.
—Among notable pieces in the studio must be named designs from nature, and crayons, by Miss Ella Vander Haden; painting on china, by the Misses Nellie Thompson, Anna Rasche, and Catharine Wall; a Snow Scene, by Miss Maude Wiley; a scene and flowers from Nature, by Miss Catharine Campbell; a scene and flowers, from Nature, by Miss Bertha Legnard; and china painting by Miss Nora McGordon.
—A touching expression of that which is even ' more praiseworthy than artistic skill, is embodied in a finely executed crayon portrait which was on exhibition. It was enlarged from a photograph by Miss Lancaster. To her family, this work of art will prove a souvenir far more precious than pearls, since it is intended as a gift of affection, the loving labor of her own hands, from the devoted, fatherless daughter to the beloved, widowed mother.
—The following Post-Graduates were present at the Commencement Exercises: The Misses A. T. Clark and Eleanor Dennehey, Class of ’76; the Misses Maria Brady, Anna O’Connor and Ada Walsh, Class of ’77; the Misses A. Hene-berry and Blanche Spenser, Class of’78; Miss Ida Fisk, Class of’79; the Misses Nellie McGrath and Rebecca Nettler, Class of ’80, and the Misses Cath-
' THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
649
arine Hacket, Mary Sullivan and Harriet Buck, of ’81.	-
—In St. Luke’s Studio, the display was brilliant and extensive. The pictures which secured for Miss Mary English the “ Toner Gold Art Medal ” were, by right, prominent among the numerous charming studies. They were as follows: A mir-roi- adorned with original designs; a tea-rose in a glass of water; fishes suspended by the gills; a mountain scene, and a scene from Santa Clara Valley, Cal., also two crayon portraits of her younger sisters.
—On the last Sunday of the scholastic year the young ladies extended an invitation to Very Rev. Father General, and his guest Dr. Toner, to take supper with them. The invitation was graciously accepted. Dr. Toner afterward thanked the young ladies, and expressed Iris admiration of their deportment. He commended them as having stood the most trying test of elegant manners. He would say with Lord Chesterfield, “ Let us go to dinner, and I will soon tell you whether you are well-bred or not.”
—A rich and vailed exhibition of ornamental needlework attested that taste and skill in this department which have long been distinguishing ■ features at St. Mary’s. Among the many articles deserving of praise were some remarkably beautiful burses, foot-rests, tidies, cushions, table and piano spreads, also some superb raised.work on velvet. A unique altar ruffle for Requiem Masses, done in black silk on white net, with the invocation Pity, Jesu, as the centre-piece, attracted much attention, as did also a beautiful surplice in the same style, wrought in white silk on very „ fine Mechlin net.
—The Rev. clergy present on Commencement Day were, Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, D. D., of Fort Wayne; Rt. Rev. Bishop Chatard, D. D., of Vincennes; Rt. Rev. Bishop Watterson, D. D., of Columbus; Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General C. S. C.; Rev. President Walsh, C. S. C., of Notre Dame University; Rev. Father L’Etour-neau, C. S. C., Rev. Father Franciscus, C. S. C., Rev. Father Corby, C. S. C., Rev. Father Shor-tis, C. S. C., Rev. Father Saulnier, C. S. C., Rev. Father Roche, C. S. C., Rev. Father Zahm, C. S.vC., Rev. Father Fallize, C. S. C., Rev. Father Steil, C. S. C., Rev. Father Clarke, of The Catholic Columbian-, Rev. Father Oechtering, Mishawaka; Rev. Father Tighe, and Rev. Father Leyden, Chicago; Rev. Father Gleason, St. Louis; Rev. Father- Quinlan, Rev. Father Kroeger, and many others
Slander crosses oceans, scales mountains, and traverses deserts with greater ease than Scythian Abaris, and, like him, rides upon a poisoned ar-. row.— Colton.	-
“ Sir, you have broken your promise.” “ Oh, never mind, I can make another, just as good.”
People wIiq are behind the time should be fed on ketchup.
Commencement Day at St. Mary’s.
‘	WEDNESDAY, JUNE 21 ST.	•
The Essays were all read with clearness and grace. Each young lady seemed to feel all she said. Miss S. Hanbury yery logically proved her position as to the importance of giving the mind pure, healthful food. “The Wonders of the Starry Vault” afforded Miss Claffey a grand theme, which she handled with great simplicity, yet in a truly Christian like manner. The French essay on “ Laurels,” by Miss Galen, was graceful, and reflected much credit on the young essayist. The German Essay entitled “ These United States, a Cosmopolitan Nation,” was much admired by those who are familiar with the German language. The subject was well handled, and in quite a facetious manner, by Miss Claffey. Her arguments were well sustained; and the conclusion admirable for the kind sentiments it contained. The poem, “ Rest and Unrest,” by Miss S. Walsh, was beautifully- read by Miss A. Cavenor. The tone of the essay was deeply philosophical, and showed the author to be a deep thinker as well as a good writer.
THURSDAY, 2 2D.
The musical performances of the Graduating and Senior Classes were interrupted by an amusing recitation given by the Juniors and Minims, entitled “ Dame Nature and Her Children.” The flowers were represented by S. Campau, Agnes English, E. Burtis, Margaret Otis, L. Robinson, M. English, D. Best, L. Ducey, and C. Ginz; the vegetables by A. Sawyer, M. Barry, B. Semmes, P. Ewing, M. Coyne, Mary Otis, M. Dillon, Mary Ducey; Dame Nature was represented by Ada Clarke; the Prologue reader was Marian Morgan. There was an excellent moral hidden under the playful allegory, and while some of the parts were very grotesque, others were exceedingly gracefid. All did well, and elicited much applause.
The Valedictory, by Miss A. Cavenor, was a gem of its kind, and showed a very refined and affectionate appreciation of the care bestowed on heart and mind by the devoted superiors and teachers at St. Mary’s.	.	.
Instrumental and. Vocal Music.
’ Wednesday afternoon a highly distinguished and critical audience assembled to witness the crowning efforts made by the Graduates in the Academic course and Conservatoiy of Music. The choice numbers given on the programmes for both days excited expectation that St. Mary’s would sustain her name and place among the highest educational institutions of the country.
Nothing could have been more appropriate than the opening vocal Trio, by Garcia, the simple concords suggesting so delicately the full, compli-'cated harmonies of the closing chorus of the day. Written in Canon form, this Trio gave ample scope to the fresh, young voices of Misses Wallace,
650	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Reilly and H. Hackett, repeating the same theme one after the other, and finally blending together in the sweet jinale.
Interspersed between the musical numbers were the Essays, so fine, that my poor pen must leave to another better qualified to discriminate individual merit. Miss Wallace sang Farewcll, ye Shores of Tagus.” Her notes are clear, and give promise of great brilliancy, as we hear she has been under tuition but a short time at St. Mary’s.
“ Lucia di Lammermoor,” one of Liszt’s highly dramatic arrangements, was truthfully played by Miss Laura Fendrick; her technical skill and thorough appreciation, shown in the difficult selection entrusted to her, joined to her intelligent accompaniment to nearly all the vocal numbers, gave evidence that she deserved to receive the Gold Medal. Miss J. Reilly, in her selection from the “Sicilian Vespers” also showed careful culture. Her voice is very sweet, especially in the upper register. Miss Galen rendered the difficult Fan-tasie by Wilmers from “Robert” in a masterly manner. The strength of touch required throughout showed immense power seldom attained by amateur performers. Many of the ALotives, based oil some of the wildest scenes in the opera, fairly thrilled the listeners. Miss Galen graduated in the first course in 1880, and will now finish in the advanced course.	’	.
Mendelssohn’s grand chorus “ Thanks be to God,” by the full vocal class, closed the elaborate entertainment, which in reality was a public examination of both musical departments in the Conservatory.
We were pleased to see the Reed pianos, from Reed’s Temple of Music in Chicago, used at the Commencement. Good pianos add much to a fine performance.
THURSDAY MORNING.
The exercises of the second day is of more interest to parents, on account of the progress made by their daughters in the various classes, known by the distribution of Premiums for the respective branches of. study; also their degree of culture in the “ art of arts,” a refined and lady-like deportment, so carefully rewarded with crowns and and honors.
At the hour designated, the pupils entered and bowed in graceful salutation to the distinguished guests who crowded every nook of the hall. The stirring tones of Opus 66, one of F. Schubert’s heroic marches, poured from four pianos, played ' bjr Misses Fendrick, J. Reilly, M. Campbell, L.’ Coryell, M. Wiley, J. Heneberry, H. Hackett and M. Beal, while Misses Galen and M. Dillon presided at the harps. This splendid performance stamped at once the excellence of this day’s programme. When all were seated, the Vocal Class took position on the platform for the Quartette and Chorus from the “ Bohemian Girl” by Balfe. Misses Wallace, J. Reilly, H. Hackett, and M. Reutlinger sustained equally the Quartette, and the precision of the Chorus was admirable. Distribution of Premiums followed.
The Cavatina from Santa Lucia, by Braga,
: harp and piano accompaniment by Misses Galen ! and Campbell, added much to the beauty of the : song.
! Miss Julius charmed the audience by the rich . tones of her voice, so even throughout. She possesses a facile execution, and should try to obtain another year, the Gold Medal of the Vocal Depart: ment.
j Miss Galen’s harp solo was the famous La ; Danse des Sylphes, by Godfroid. Her brilliant • performance of all the difficulties attendant on artistic harp playing proved that she well deserved the first Gold Medal ever given for this classic instrument at St. Mary’s. '
Premiums distributed again to Senior department, after which a vocal Quartette, “ Where are thy Bowers?” from Semiramide (Rossini), sung by Misses Reilly, Hackett, Reutlinger, and Wallace, was a perfect success.
An original drama, by the Juveniles, was a sprightly change, and aided much to vary the exercises. But all lovers of instrumental music were on the qui vive to hear Mendelssohn’s well, known “ Concerto,” played on two pianos, by Misses L. Fendrick and E. Galen, the competitors for the Conservatory Medal. As soon as the two ladies started off on the allegro con fuoco, all doubt of exactness in tempo vanished. The unity which is doubly difficult in unison performance , on separate instruments, was absolute. The coni test between the heavy, rolling base, and crisp cut of the treble was conspicuous in this movement. The andante, terminating in a long -pianissimo cadenza, held the audience almost breathless, when out rushed the Presto, like a -mighty flood, bearing all before it. The appreciative applause showed the lovers of music were satisfied.
Following this, master-piece came the grand chorus, by Moderati, the beauty of which was not lessened by close comparison. It began Largh-etto ben Sostenuto, common time, the three low parts hummed in triplets an accompaniment for the sweet-flowing melody of the 1st Soprano, which rose and fell in Diminuendos and Crescendos, sung , with exquisite taste; then a short staccato passage, and the time suddenly changes Tempo di Valse. . Now, quick staccato, then gliding and swaying, ; followed by a choral, perfect in harmony. The whole showed diligent study and careful, gracc-ful training.	,
After the conferring of Gold Medals, Crowns and Honors, J. Raff’s Grand Fest March, played by Misses Ryan, Barlow, Chrischellis, Donnelly, Maude Price, 'L. Wallace, M. English, and C. Bland on the pianos, and Misses Coryell and M. Price at the harps, gave the signal for the pupils to leave, in the order of entrance. . This joyous ending to the excellent programme closed the Commencement of 1882.
“ Thy will be done,” is the best prayer for me to utter, or God to answer.	' ’
A codfish breakfast and an India-rubber coat will keep one dry all day.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	651
> St. Mary’s Academy,
i	----
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
।	aS® school of
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE.
(Notre Dame P. O., Indiana,)
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic. and Classical grades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, and twenty-eight, separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition —A large Musical Library in French. German, English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.	,
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design. Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department. ■
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
- Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Marv’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
The Great Short Route South, Southwest and West
		-		
'	Nay 15,1881.		Local and Through Time Table. No. 22.		
|	Going	North.	STATIONS.	Going South.	
%	1.40 p m. 3	I.00	“ S	1235	“ #	12.14	a.m. f	11.42	“ z	10-49	“ .	0.12	“ J	9.50	“ f	9.28	“ 8.50 “ 8.09 “ 7.25 “ 6.35 p.m.	4.20 p.m. 335 “ 3.14 “ 2.53 “ 2.33 “ 1.30 " 1351 “ 1380pm. 11.50 “ 11.18 “ 10.41 “ 9.57 u 8.50 a.m.	Abbtve	Leave - - Michigan City, - - - - - - La Porte, - - -	• - Stillwell, - - -- - - - Walkerton, - - - -	- - Plymouth, - - -- - - - Rochester, - - - -	- - - Denver, - - -- - -	- Pern, .... -	- Bunker Hill, - - - - - - Kokomo, - - - - - - - - - Tipton, - -- - - Noblesville, - - -Lv. - Indianapolis, - Ab.	9.35 a.m. 10.23 “ 10.41 “ 11.00 “ 1135 “ 12.27 p.m. 1.06 “ 1.45 “ 2.05 •* 2.40 “ 3.16 *• 4.00 “ 5.00 “	8.05 p.m 8 55 “ 9.30 “ 942 “ 10.21 “ 11.20 p.m' 11.57 “ 12 25 a.m. 12.48 “ 1.30 “ 2.07 “ 2.48 “ 3.45 "
THE ONLY LINE Running a noon Train out of jndianapolis for CHICAGO, Toledo, Detroit, Buffalo, Niagara Falls, NEW YORK CITY, and all Principal Points in the EAST. '
Elegant Sleepng and Parlor Coaches run between INDIANAPOLIS and CHICAGO, and INDIANAPOLIS and MICHIGAN CITY.
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H. Rockwell,
Gen'l. Manager,TndianopollB.	Gen’l. Pus. and Ticket Agent.
Class of 1862.
JAMES M. HO WARD, Attorney at Law,
Valparaiso, Indiana.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table—Nov. LtJ, 1879.
	•Mail	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNlght Express.
Lv. Chicago - - • “ Mich. City-“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo-“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 18 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 80 “	4 00 p.m 6 85 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 1028 “ 1250 S.m 885 “	910 pm 1180 “ 13 48 am 3 38 “ 500 “ 8 00 “
	•Mail	•Day Express.	•Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ .Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo -• “ Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago - - -	7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 80 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55 p. m 4 50a.m 6 50 •• 8 08 “ 10 35 '*	950 pm. 1345 a.m. 243 “ 415 “ 530 “ 8 00 “	8 10 p.m 115 “ 138 a-m 880 “ 4 55 “ 780 ••
Niles and Soutti Bend Bi vision.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 70 p.m. “ N. Dame—8 52 “	6 15 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	455 •*
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted.
O. W. Ruggles,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill.	Gen'l Manager, Detroit. Mich.
G. L. Eiuorr. Agent, South Bend, Ind.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 7, 1881, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.30 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.05 p.m.	.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10p.m ; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
' 9.27 p m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m ; Cleveland, 7.05 am.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
: 1238 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10p.m.; Buffalo, 4 am.
6 35 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 1.0.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 725 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.48 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8-20 a.m.
, 7.40 a.m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, 8.44 a.m. Chesterton, 9.40 am.; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.17 p m, Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte 215 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m ; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
426 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
; J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
;	J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
;	P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup’L, Cleveland.
652-	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WHO 13 UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUN-
TRY WILUSEE BY EXAMINING 1 HIS MAP TH ATTHE
CHICAGO, ROCKISLAND&PAGIFICR’T Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the Bast and the west by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, Newport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, Nashville, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express -Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address R. R. CABLE,	E. ST. JOHN,
Vice-Pre., & Gen'l M'g'r,	Gen’l TkU & Pais. Agt,
CHICAGO.	*
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, AND JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Doi«
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAUBICE EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
.Price, SI, postpaid.
A HHrfiRR
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R:
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cara, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Gars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for teals in theJtneet Reclining Chair Palace Care in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KAN SAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS
' and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA.
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tiie (StioTt Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion, Route between the .North and, South, and, to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office In the United States and Canada, or to
James Charlton,	J. C. McMullin, ,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, GenTManagerl
20 Dearborn st., near cor. of Adams, Chicago. *