1
THE SCHOLASTIC
NEW THREE-LAYER
UNING IS WARMER THAN EVER BEFORE!
THE McGREGOR
NORDIC VIKING
$39.95
Slip into a rugged Nordic Viking, and you’re ready for all kinds of winter weather. The outer side is a rugged blend of Dacron polyester and cotton. The new lining warms you better because it’s 3-layer: quilted nylon, on winter-proof Curon insulation, on nylon fill. Yet it’s still as light as a snowflake — perfect for milder winter days too! Machine washable, too!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
No Carrying Charge
Whether you need a handsome new Nordic Viking, a raincoat, a suit, sport coat, topcoat, or haberdashery, you can get it now . . . when you need it . . . and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in January, one-third in February, and one-third in March. Use this convenient charge account for all of your clothing needs . . . never an interest or carrying charge!
The Notre
No. 6
Vol. 102
NOVEMBER 4, 1960 ,
A FRAT TO REMEMBER
Founded 1867
© 1960 Max Schulman
*
4
On Camps
Max2hulman
{Author of “I IFfls a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
wu
associateeditor ROY RUBEL!
executiveassistant
WILLIAM VEEDER
art editor
DENNIS LUCZAK
sports editor
JAMES KILROY
editor-in-chief
CHARLES RIECK
photographer.-
WALTER DALY, Jr
newrcditor
THOMAS WEISS
copy ettitor
THOMASMARCINIAK
Every year, as we all know, the Benevolent and Protective Order of Collegiate Fraternities awards a highly coveted prize to the fraternity house which, in its judgment, has done the most to promote and enhance the fraternity way of life. The prize this year—eight hundred pounds of white putty—goes to the Signa Phi Nothing chapter of the South Dakota College of Dentistry and Renaissance Art.
The award this year is exceptionally richly deserved, for the Signa Phi Nothing house is the very model of all a fraternity should be. It is, first of all, a most attractive house physically. The outside walls are tastefully covered with sequins. Running along the upper story is a widow’s walk, with a widow stationed every three feet. Moored to the chimney pot is the Graf Zeppelin.
Indoors, the house gives an impression of simple, casual charm. The chapter room is furnished in homey maple and chintz, with a dash of verve provided by a carp pool three hundred feet in diameter. A waterspout rises from the center of the pool with the housemother bouncing on the top.
Members’ rooms are gracious and airy and are provided with beds which disappear into the wall—permanently. Each room also has a desk, a comfortable chair, a good reading lamp, and a catapult for skeetshooting. Kidney-shaped desks are available for kidney-shaped members.
Perhaps the most fetching feature of the house are the packs of Marlboros stacked in heaps wherever one goes. If one wishes to settle back and enjoy a full-flavored smoke, one needs only to reach out one’s hand in any direction and pick a pack of Marlboros—soft pack or flip-top box—and make one’s self comfortable with a filtered cigarette with an unfiltered taste—that triumph of the to

bacconist’s art, that paragon of smokes, that acme of cigarettes, that employer of mine—Marlboro 1
The decor, the grace, the Marlboros, all combine to make Signa Phi Nothing a real gas of a fraternity. But a fraternity is more than things; it is also people. And it is in the people department that Signa Phi Nothing really shines.
Signa Phi Nothing has among its members the biggest BMOCs on the entire campus of the South Dakota College of Dentistry and Renaissance Art. There is, for instance, William Makepeace Siga-foos, charcoal and bun chairman of the annual Stamp Club outing. Then there is Dan Rovin, winner of last year’s AllSouth Dakota State Monopoly Championship, 135 Pound Class. Then there is Rock Schwartz, who can sleep standing up. Then there is Tremblant Placebo, who can crack pecans in his armpits. Then there is Ralph Tungsten, who went bald

features editor v;
THOMAS SULLIVAN
at eight.
But why go on? You can see what a splendid bunch of chaps there is in Signa Phi Nothing, and when one sees them at the house in the cool of the evening, all busy with their tasks—some picking locks, some playing Jacks-or-Better, some clipping Playboy—one’s heart fills up and one’s eyes grow misty, and one cannot but give three cheers and a tiger for Signa Phi Nothing, fraternity of the year!

busnessmanager , JOSEPHFINNIGAN
drculationmanager
JAMES HICKEY
And while you’re cheering, how about a huzzah for the newest member of the Marlboro family of fine cigarettes—unfiltered, mild, delightful Philip Morris king-size Commander! Have a Commander—welcome aboard!

INTELLECTUAL SHOW
Editor:
Congratulations are in order for Student Government’s Distinguished Lecture Series Symposium “Power and Democracy in America.” While not claiming to be a critic of such events, I was very favorably impressed with (#the evening panel discussion. The different background of each man added , a vitality which kept the interest of the audience for almost two and one half hours, a feat hard to duplicate by the ablest entertainers.
Only unfavorable comment is in the technical field: Who was responsible for the polar conditions in the law auditorium, and why the inadequacy of audio equipment?
: •	Paul Meert
SILENT BACKERS
Editor:
; In recent weeks the residence halls on campus have been flooded by a deluge of pro-Kennedy propaganda in the form of printed sheets which quote, among others, the clairvoyant editors of the New Republic and the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
♦ I presume that all of these sheets have a common source, as all of the stencils were cut uniformly bad. I would think, however, that the students have a right to know what this source is. I do not believe in annoymous propaganda. Unless, of course, the responsible parties are ashamed to admit that they are
: for Kennedy.
!	A. G. Hermida
i
•
CONTRIBUTORS WELCOME
Editor:
On the whole, it is apparent that this year’s Escape column has not been regularly ascending to the heights of humor that it has attained in the past. (I personally would make an exception for Mr. Hanley’s effort of last week.)
If it is the policy of the Scholastic (Continued on page 32)
VIA BANK OF AMERICA TRAVELERS CHEQUES money only you can spend
Play it safe this winter! Carry your travel funds in blue and gold Bank of America Travelers Cheques, known and accepted throughout the world. Low-cost B of A Cheques are sold by banks everywhere—here and abroad.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC _ is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, _ Box 185, _ Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
November 4, I960
Telephone engineer Bill Pigott, left, and helicopter pilot plan aerial exploration for microwave tower sites.
ON MY FIRST ASSIGNMENT"
“I ENGINEERED MICROWAVE TOWER LOCATIONS
When Bill Pigott knocked on the door of Pacific Telephone, he had two big assets. One was an electrical engineering degree from Seattle University. The other was a craving to jump right into vital engineering problems.
It was not long before Bill was exploring Washington’s rugged Cascade Range in a helicopter to find sites for microwave relay towers —part of a multimillion dollar telephone construction job. Today, it’s considerable satisfaction to him to see these towers spanning the mountains, knowing that his planning helped put them there.
Other important assignments followed: engineering maritime radio systems, SAGE systems —figuring engineering costs for Air Force Titan missile bases.
“Our people respect a man’s engineering training—you really get a chance to show what you’ve got on the ball,” Bill says. “I was up to my neck in tough engineering problems right from the start.”
If you want a fob where you put your training to work from the day you hang up your hat—you’ll want to visit your Placement Office for literature and additional information.
“Our number one aim is to have in
all
management jobs the most vital, intelligent, positive and imaginative men we can possibly find”
Yv^niCTLR.'KJ&VEL, President	— —. . —, — - ,
American Telephone & Telegraph Co. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
6
The Scholastic
fairy tales can come true
— Once upon a time, nearly a fortnight " ago, as I lay in bed enjoying the deep and satisfying slumber of the just man at peace with the world and all its creatures, a truly wondrous and incredible event took place. Very quiet it was within the ancient walls of traditionrich Badin Hall, as most all the residents had fled to Chicago for a football match between our school and Northwestern. Indeed I was the only witness to this happening, for on this day Fate 9 had set its all-seeing eyes on my acned face.
STRANGE INTERLUDE
In brief, my repose on that October morning was shattered by a colossal rumbling of the heavens accompanied by fierce gales and a shower of sparks that flew in my window and left the £ room filled with a cloudy white haze and a flowery fragrance that nearly overcame the more pungent odor of the dirty clothes lying in the corner.
Sensing that something was amiss, I looked up from my pillow and saw, enveloped in a shimmering golden fluorescence, a fair maiden of about 18 years, garbed in flowing white silk and brandishing a slender metallic rod.
* I was somewhat embarrassed, as I still had my cold cream and curlers on, but regained my composure quickly enough to ask, “You the new maid?”
In a positively angelic voice she whispered “Naw.”
“Whatta ya want then,” I asked, rather anxious to get back to sleep.
“I’m your fairy godmother,” she cooed, and instantly flashed an I.D. to prove the fact. “I have come today to grant you one wish, whatever you may _ choose.”
• When I immediately began pondering several possible wishes in my mind she stared into my eyes several moments and said, “Let’s not be crude, now.”
I agreed, but was still hesitant to make my wish, lest I later think of something more desirable. Then it came to me. How foolish I had been not to think of it first!
“I want a stirring triumph for the Fighting Irish today,” I said. “By sev-_ eral touchdowns, please.”
November 4, I960
“Very well,” she said, “but you must do exactly what I tell you.”
“Sure,” said I, “you’re the fairy godmother around here.”
With that she flourished her magic wand and produced from thin air a huge glass bottle of a bubbling pink liquid. Amazed, I sat up in bed.
“The fortunes of your team will rise as you drink from this bottle,” she admonished me. You will be able to win the game from that very bed.”
Anxious to test the magic potion, I turned on my bedside radio. Alas, I had slept longer than I had thought and it was halftime. The Irish were faring miserably. I was disheartened, and doubted that even the magic potion could save the day.
“I better start now,” I said, “so we can get a fast start in the second half.” With that I took a large drag on the bottle of magic potion.
“Aaaagh,” I stammered, “this is pretty strong stuff!”
“Northwestern’s got a good team,” the fairy godmother reminded me. “It’ll take a strong brew to pull this one out.”
In the second half it became apparent that I was actually controlling the game. I would take a big swig, and Dabierio would whip around end for 15. If I failed to take any, the Irish ball-carrier would be dumped in his tracks. It was fascinating, but I was weakening fast. Finally, with a superhuman effort I downed about a quart in one gulp and ND completed a 25 yard pass for a touchdown. By now I was feeling the ravages of my efforts and demanded: “Fairy godmother, we gotta go for the two point conversion. My intestines is going fast.”
“Nope,” she said, “we oughta kick.” “Look,” I countered, “this stuff is too much for me.”
As cruel fate would have it they missed the point while we were arguing. My spirits sank. But I was game, and like a real trooper I kept plugging away. Bottle after bottle was produced out of thin air, and I grimly kept chug-, ging away.
The burden, however, was too much. With 3:58 remaining, I passed out, still gripping the bottle which could bring victory.
It was quite late when I awoke, this time to be greeted by a not so exquisite fairly godmother. Her gown was splotched with dirt and ripped in several places, her hair all askew, and her face flushed.
“You sure finked out on me, buster,” she said. “Ya can’t expect to win in major college football by passing out in the last quarter.”	•
“We lost, huh? How’d you get yourself messed up like that?”
“I was doing a little flyin’ while you were conked out and I crashed into that Dome you got over there. Hey look, sorry about the game, but I gotta go.”
“Wait,” I said, “how about producing a couple of bottles of that magic potion stuff before you go. I was beginning to like it.”
Just as she waved her wand and produced the magic potion a bell rang three times. “What’s that?” she asked.
“Night check,” I replied, “Come on, lets have a little toast.”
We had just begun a charming little conversation about the fairy godmother business when my beloved prefect came to the door to take check. Naturally, I invited him in.
YOUNG AT HEART
I started to explain the whole story to him, but I don’t actually think he believed me. Poor faii-y godmother, her dress all ripped and everything, didn’t know what to think. She started to talk real nasty to my prefect, which didn’t really help things too much, “Ya want me to make ya disappear? Huh? I’ll make ya disappear nobody’ll ever see ya again if ya don’t lay off my fairy godson here,” she said, but I tried to quiet her as I thought my prefect was getting irritated.
My prefect just stood, there shaking his head and I just lay in bed trying to explain and get fairy godmother to quit cursing. “You had better leave, young lady,” the prefect said, “this thing is bad enough as is.”
Well, she left then and I haven’t seen her since, but you can bet that I’m going to get campused or something before I can explain the whole deal to all these priests around here.
7
This is the giant B-52. Advanced as it may be, this airplane has one thing in common with the first war-galleys of ancient Egypt____and with the air and space vehicles of the future. Someone must chart its course. Someone must navigate it.
For certain young men this presents a career of real executive opportunity. Here, perhaps you will have the chance to master a profession full of meaning, excitement and rewards... as a Navigator in the U. S. Air Force.
To qualify for Navigator training as an Aviation Cadet you must be an American citizen between 19 and 26J4—single, healthy and intelligent. A high school diploma is required, but some college is highly desirable. Successsful completion of the training program leads to a commission as a Second Lieutenant ... and the coveted Navigator wings.
If you think you have what it takes to measure up to the Aviation Cadet Program for Navigator training, see your local Air Force Recruiter. Or clip
NAIL THIS COUPON TODAY
Aviation Cadet Information, Dept.
Box 7608, Washington 4, D. C.
I am between 19 and 26J4, a citizen of the U. S. and a high school graduate with______years of college. Please send me detailed information on the Air Force Aviation Cadet program.
Nam.
Stmt
City.
Couity.
State.
H

r-%
and mail this coupon.
There's a place for tomorrow's leaders on the Aerospace Team,
U.S. Air Force
'J
rss
The Scholastic',
Sum
FESTIVAL OF THE ARTS TO COMMENCE SUNDAY
Event to Put Stress *On Romanesque Style
by JOHN McCABE
Commencing this Sunday and continuing through Dec. 2, the Festival of Arts for 1960 will be presented by the various departments of the College of Arts and Letters. This year Romanesque art is being featured with many examples in metal, enamel and stone dating primarily ~from the eleventh, twelfth and thir-^teenth centuries. In addition to these pieces, slides, photographs and canvases have been borrowed to complement the numerous lectures and symposiums scheduled for the four-week exhibition.
Since 1954 the liberal arts college has produced the festival, and each year a different topic or field has been represented. In the past early Church, ancient Greek and nineteenth century French art have been exhibited. The ^Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., head of Notre Dame’s art department and director of this year’s festival, is an avid admirer- of the Romanesque style and believes it to be one of the finest expressions of medieval thought. Father Lauck states, that “inasmuch as Notre Dame is a renowned center of Christian culture, it is only fitting that Romanesque style, the best example of this culture available to us today, should be high-flighted.”
Originally the festival was established to allow all the various branches of the
DIRECTOR REEVES, FATHER LAUCK Launching a Romanesque month.
college to contribute some aspect of the display. Thus, for example, not only the art, but also the architecture, music and history departments are taking part. To honor the man who helped formulate this idea, Hugh D. Rank, ’54, has been appointed temporary chairman of the exposition. First director of the affair, he returns to see a greatly expanded festival conducted on the principles he and others set down.
This Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Notre Dame Art Gallery, an informal introduction to the events will be held for the students, faculty and guests of the University. In connection with this the gallery will extend its present hours for a special one week period so that a maximum of people will visit the displays. After Nov. 11 the gallery will continue usual service except at other-hours by appointment for groups of ten or more. Monday the principal lecture will be given by Prof. Charles P. Parkhurst of Oberlin College on Romanesque art and history at 8 p.m. in 104 O’Shaughnessy Hall. Wednesday at the same time and in the same room, the Rev. Astrik Gabriel, O.Praenr., director of the Notre Dame Medieval Institute, will present an illustrated lecture on “Romanesque Illuminated Manuscripts from France.”
The University’s drama department will produce Philip Barry’s play, “Holiday” on November 10, 11, 12, 17, 18 and 19 in connection with the general program of events.
At 3 p.m. Nov. 11, the architecture department will present a talk by
Ernest Bandl in 104 O’Shaughnessy. This will inaugurate a one-week series of lectures to be held under its auspices. Later the same day, 8 p.m., Lawrence B. Perkins will talk on “Environment for Learning.” A color film entitled Images Medievales depicting the medieval world as seen in French illuminated manuscrips is to be offered daily from 3:30 to 5 p.m. in the Student Center Amphiteater from Nov. 14 to 17.
A gallery tour by Notre Dame’s curator, James Reeves, will be conducted Nov. 16 at 8 p.m. to acquaint the students with the over-all Romanesque methods and style.
One of the final activities of the Festival, and perhaps one of the most rewarding is slated for Nov. 30 when Everett McNear, an artist from the University of Chicago, shows his prodigious collection of slides, photographs, and sketches. Concentrating on art and architecture, he will speak in 104 O’Shaughnessy at 8 p.m. To conclude the events of the 1960 festival, the music department has arranged a concert of medieval music at Washington Hall, Friday, Dec. 2, by the Collegium Musicum of the University of Illinois.
Theater Group Picks 'Holiday' Presentation
Final rehearsals are in progress for the University Theater’s opening production of the year, Philip Bany’s Holiday, which will be presented Nov. 10, 11, 12, 17, 18 and 19 at 8:30 pan. in Washington Hall. The box office will be open daily from 4:00 to 6:00 p.m. beginning Nov. 7. Prices for tickets are $1.50 in the orchestra and center balcony and $1.00 in the side balcony. Special reduced rates for students, faculty, and University personnel are $1.00 and $.75.
Appearing in the cast of Holiday will be Joe Harrington as Johnny Case, Diane Crowley as Linda Seton, Dick Kavanaugh as the father, Edward Seton, Chris Gladis as Julia Seton and Larry Finneran as Ned Seton. Others in the cast are Bob Oberkoetter and Marilyn Woltei- as Nick and Susan Potter, and Jerry Oertling and Pat Gallagher as Seton and Laura Cram. The Servants, Henry and Delia, are played by Greg Weismantel and Jane Sazama.
The Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., is directing, and Mr. A. Owen Klein is the technical director. Barry Maher and Hans Grauert are the stage managers. Technical crew members are: Dan Omi-lianowski, Hans Hermans, William Ca-shore, Tony Kozole, Robert McLaughlin, David Swire, Bruce Fuggiti, Frank Kenny, Jim Monaghan, Joe Spieler, Robert Tanzola and Jack Schober.
November 4, 1960
9
MISS KATHY SHARP Week-end whirl on “Carousel.”
Pick 'Carousel' Queen To Reign Over Dance
“Carousel,” this year’s Homecoming Dance, has finally received a Queen in the shapely form of Kathy Sharp of Kansas City, Mo. Art Barille, a Sorin Hall senior from New York City, entered the sophomore co-ed from St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods in Terre Haute, Ind. into the competition as part of a newly developed selection system.
Tom O’Donald, chairman of the selection and arrangements committee, has outlined the three-day reign in detail. As a result of her award, Miss Sharp will receive from the Homecoming Committee free transportation to and from Terre Haute, a free bid to “Carousel” and the Saturday night Victory Dance, use of a car complete with chauffeur, a 50-yard line seat to the Pittsburgh-Notre Dame game, an expense-free week end, and the customary honors at the crowning both Friday and Saturday nights.
Lee Castle and the Jimmy Dorsey Band will entertain the 550 couples in the LaFortune Student Center Friday from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Purchase of the $4.75 bids allow the acquisition of the usual 2 a.m. and car permissions. Special housing has been secured in South Bend to accomodate the out of town guests. Naturally, the “Carousel” Queen has received the best available room for her three-day reign.
Over 1700 students entered their cards into the drawing in the hope of being one of the lucky few who were allowed to purchase tickets. However, practically the entire list of applicants was exhausted before the full complement of bids was allotted. Dan Baldino, general chairman of the Homecoming Dance, attributed the slow movement of bids to the proximity of so many other events in the university calendar.
10
Nominee Kennedy Wins Campus Straw Vote; Democrat Tops Nixon by 16 Per Cent Margin
If the results of the mock election on Oct. 25 have any significance, Senator John Kennedy will be in the White House in January. Final Blue Circle tabulation of the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s popular vote revealed 2,673 ballots cast for Kennedy. A total of 1,926 votes were registered favoring Vicepresident Richard Nixon.
These figures, however, do not suggest the overwhelming lead in the decisive electoral votes given Kennedy. He carried 38 states compared with Nixon’s eight; there were four ties. As a result he received 453 electoral votes to the Republican presidential hopeful’s 84. An estimated 85 per cent of the students at St. Mary’s cast ballots while the figure at Notre Dame was said to have been 65 per cent.
Terry Mosser, president of the Academy of Political Science, said he felt the election represented a reasonable cross section of the national picture. He pointed out the results were not indicative of the Catholic vote.
GOP election campaign chairman Dick Meece cited the small number of students voting from some states which put them in the Kennedy column. Tom Stoll, president of the Young Republicans, was inclined to think the myth of the Catholic vote may not be a myth. He also thought a look at the returns state by state provided no index on which to predict the Nov. 8 outcome.
Study of the returns bore out predic-
Faculty Elects Kennedy By Overwhelming Vote
Concurring with the results of the student’s Mock Election, a faculty poll conducted by the Scholastic also gave Sen. Kennedy a decisive edge.
The junior Senator from Massachusetts received a total of 182 faculty votes to Nixon’s 68, which works out to 66 2/3 percent and 25 percent respectively. Twenty-two faculty members checked the “undecided” box on the ballot.
Strongest sentiment for Kennedy was registered in the Law School where 83 percent of those polled indicated the Democratic candidate. The closest contest occurred in the College of Engineering as the vote was evenly divided between the two men. Other colleges more or less conclusively showed the trend. In the Science College 58 percent casted their ballot for Kennedy while 33 percent were for Nixon with 9 percent undecided. In Commerce 71 percent as opposed to 25 percent liked the 43-year-old Senator. In the Liberal Arts College 72 percent favored Kennedy, 18 percent Nixon, and 10 percent were independent.
These figures were compiled from the 272 returned ballots that were sent to 480 faculty members.
tions for certain states, though unusual ~ results developed in others. Kennedy . carried most of the South. Nixon, however, carried Texas 41 to 38 and Vir- = ginia 15 to 14. Unexpectedly, North 1 Carolina was evenly split 9-9 as was( Arkansas 7-7.
In a surprise move, California went over to the Democratic camp 78 to 56 along with Indiana 211-170. New York, Pennsylvania, and Illinois, states with the most electoral votes, also went \ Democratic. Kennedy showed strong in- ’ fluence as he carried all of New England. Nixon’s other successes were j Alaska, Idaho, Minnesota, Nebraska, j Oregon, and Wyoming.	j
In 1956, the Mock Election poll gavel Eisenhower a 3-1 margin over Adlai : Stevenson, the respective totals being -754 and 208. Eisenhower also took the • laurels in 1952’s vote with 61% of 3500 votes. In fact, the Republican string of N.D. victories had extended back to 1948, when a Scholastic straw vote gar- v nered 403 votes for Thomas Dewey to 274 for Hany Truman.	,
------------------------- | Architects to Present Historical Talk Friday
In connection with the annual Festi-.'j val of the Arts, the Architecture De- / partment is conducing a simultaneous -complementary program.	‘
Ernest H. Brandl, professor of His- : tory of Architecture at Notre Dame will speak on the architectural aspects । of the exhibit Friday, Nov. 11 at 3:00’ p.m. in 104 O’Shaugnessy. Mr. Brandl will discuss the ideology of the Roman- , esque Age, and will emphasize the spirit i of religiousity underlying its forms. ;
Conicidentally, the Indiana Society of ; Architects has selected this week end to ■ award its annual prizes for student, competitions. Friday afternoon the jury w of architects will review sketches of a U high school problem done by the Junior B Class and at dinner Friday evening will | award $100.00 in prizes for the win- I ning designs. Simultaneously, a state- g wide competition for seniors will be | judged.	I
A lecture entitled “Environment for I Learning” will be presented by Mr. Lawrence Perkins as a vital feature of the week-end program. Mr. Perkins is one of contemporary architecture’s most prolific practitioners and articulate exponents. The firm of Perkins and Will^J in Chicago has built some 300 school and university buildings. In his latest book, Work Place for Learning, Mr. Perkins explores the psychological impact of school buildings on the student. This will be the second lecture in the new Distinguished Speakers’ Program for the Architecture Department. As before, the public is most cordially invited to the Law Auditorium, 8 p.m. Friday, Nov. 11.
The Scholastic 1
Bishop Defends Policy In Puerto Rican Race
Archbishop Janies P. Davis of San Juan, Puerto Rico, speaking at the consecration of Bishop Alfred F. Mendez at Notre Dame, defended the recent pastoral letter signed by him forbidding Puerto Rico Catholics to support the Popular Democratic Party of Gov. Luis Munoz Marin. The letter has since be
come an issue in the Puerto Rican presidential campaign.
The archbishop asserted that the Church is “no longer on the defensive” on such issues as birth control, the basic issue which precipitated the present crisis. He said the Church is fighting “the rising tide of paganism” and “creeping tide of secularism.”
Gov. Munoz has called the letter an “incredible and unjust intervention in the political liberties of Puerto Rican citizens.”
“The birth controllers and the social scientists with an itch to remake a culture and a whole people have beset Puerto Rico with not a little help from federal and insular government over the years,” was the refutation of the archbishop.
He said Bishop Mendez will arrive at his new diocese at a “promising and most interesting time.” Bishop Mendez, a former faculty member, was consecrated by Cardinal Spellman last Friday.
In a press conference after the ceremony, Archbishop Davis told reporters the letter was issued because he and
two other bishops “felt we could no longer keep quiet.” The letter was prompted, he said, by “20 years of con-^stant disregard for moral principles as
such and Catholic tradition.”
“If democracy in Puerto Rico had achieved the maturity of democracy in the United States, the letter would not have been necessary,” he concluded.
BISHOP MENDEZ AND CARDINAL SPELLMAN Prelates young and old.
Patriot of Year Vote Slated for November 10; Group to Pick Suggested Candidates for BaRot
In 1954 the senior class of Notre Dame instituted the “Patriot of the Year” award as a part of the Washington Day Exercises to commemorate the war dead of the University. The exercises consist of a Memorial Mass honoring those sons of Our Lady who served the country, the presentation of the flag by the senior- class president to the University, and the election by the seniorclass of a prominent citizen as a patriot.
The election of the Patriot of the Year is one of the most important functions of the senior class, and one in which every member of the class can significantly contribute. In fact, the success of the award depends entirely on the mature and responsible attitude
of the seniors. It is significant to note that both of the presidential candidates for 1960 have been past recipients of the award.
This year’s election is to be held on Thursday, Nov. 10, it was announced by John McNamara, the general chairman of the Washington Day Exercises. The chairman is appointed by the senior class officers. At the same time he announced that, in accordance with the precedent of last year’s successful election, a suggestive list of nominees for the award would be drawn up by a committee of five men under the direction of Gene Troni, who was appointed assistant general chairman by the senior officers. In addition to personal qualifications, the committee members were selected with a view toward their geographical location in the country, the college in which they are enrolled and their academic standing. The members are Jay Whit
ney, Charles Satcher, Don Ralph, Jack Cahalan and Dave McDonald.
At their first meeting the committee clarified several misconceptions concerning the award. The first is in reference to the title of the award, the Patriot of the Year. It is not the same as the “Man of the Year Award.” According to the committee’s interpretation of the title, the seniors are not to attempt to choose the most patriotic citizen for the past year; rather, they are to choose an individual with the idea that this year the senior class recognizes this person as being a patriot. In so interpreting the award, the commitee feels that it will encourage a larger field of candidates, a more valid election and an elec
tion in which patriotism will not be defined in terms of a year’s publicity in the newspapers.
The second point stressed by the committee is the very meaning of the word “patriot.” In attempting to select the best qualified nominees, the committee used the following definition as a criterion : A patriot is one who loves and loyally supports his country. He best exemplifies the American ideals of justice, personal integrity, courage of conviction and service to country. Furthermore, the committee stated that patriotism, while it does not exclude humanitarianism, should be distinguished from it. Patriotism must be nationalistic. It is the love of, contribution to, and service for a particular country.
Chairman McNamara calls for all seniors to actively participate in the election. It is a call for thought and action (Continued on page 12)
November 4, I960
11
Channel II Head Announces Policy Changes; Shifts to Emphasize Quality in Programming
Channel II, after a hesitant start, moved into high gear lately with the announcement of several major policy changes effective immediately. A temporary time cut went into effect along with a man power reduction to two-thirds the original staff. Tom Musial, program director of this WSND station, has initiated these revisions for more quality in programming with an eye toward a possible FM outlet.” The new air time hours are from 5 to 11 p.m. Monday through Friday, 4 to 12 p.m. on Saturday, and 1 to 11 p.m. on Sunday. In two weeks auditions for announcers and discussion leaders will be held by Musial to augment the present staff.
Jean Marie Gressin, a French exchange student teaching in the Modern Language Department, is part of the new policy of program excellence. As of Nov. 13 he will offer a one hour show on French folk music from 7 to 8 p.m. Sunday evening. Beginning Nov. 14, graduate student Phil O’Mara will
Father O'Brien Praises Vernacular Use Decree
Rev. John A. O’Brien, C.S.C., hailed a recently disclosed action of Pope John XXIII reaffirming the right of Byzantine Rite priests to celebrate Mass in the language of the people, including English.
According to Father O’Brien, research professor at the University, the Holy Father nullified an earlier decree of the Supreme Sacred Congregation of the Holy Office prohibiting the use of English, in whole or in part, in Masses of the Byzantine rite. He explained that priests of the Eastern Church have long had the prerogative of offering Mass in the language of the people and that Byzantine rite priests have celebrated the Mass in English in the United States for years.
“By his signal action Pope John showed his intention to defend the ancient rights and prerogatives of the Eastern Catholic Churches and gave added impetus to the movement to have more of the liturgy in the language the faithful can understand,” Father O’Brien declared. “It is generally recognized,” the noted author said, “that the greatest obstacle to the intelligent and fruitful participation of the laity in the Mass and other liturgical actions is the barrier of Latin, used by the celebrant but unintelligible to the vast majority of the congregation.”
In a recent article in America, Father O’Brien termed a greater use of the vernacular languages in the Mass, the administration of the sacraments and in all the liturgy as “the most urgent need of the Church in all the countries of the world today.”
12
conduct a Monday night literary discussion series at 7 p.m. Fellow graduate student Bill Casey and Prof. Stephen Ronay of the English Department will debate the first topic, Shakespeare’s villains.
Channel II as a public service will cover the events of the Festival of the Arts with critical commentary on the lectures and musical performances. Extensive information on the Romanesque period will be supplemented by appropriate musical selections during the month.
One department of the Channel II staff, headed by Tony DeHaro, is making preparations to institute a tape exchange program with Fordham University. Under the terms of this arrangement, Fordham, recognized as outstanding in its drama department, and Notre Dame would produce tapes of classical and student-authored plays, with students reading the parts. The plays would be aired weekly, with tapes from Notre Dame and Fordham broadcast on alternate weeks. Auditions for student actors to tape the productions will be held in the near future.
ALTRUISM PLUS
Any student interested in a tutoring position for the present academic year should inquire in the YCS office below the Huddle in the Student Center from 2 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tutors will be paid $1.50 an hour for their efforts.
A Dean’s List average or a 5 in the subject tutored is required of all applicants. At this time there is an urgent need for qualified students.
Patriot of the Year (Continued from page 11) on what the committee has formulated, and not for passive agreement to it. He calls for a vote from the senior class completely divested of all prejudices. It is a vote for an American, and not for an American of a particular faith or political belief.
The week of the election mimeographed material will be distributed to the senior halls with an explanatory paragraph about each nominee, and also a summary of the purpose of the award.
The balloting will be held on Nov. 10. A blank space will be provided on the ballots for write-in candidates, in the event someone will desire an individual other than the ten nominated by the committee. The election will be conducted by the preferential system now used in all campus elections. The polls will be open in the senior halls during the lunch and dinner hours on Thursday, with the Rathskeller facilities serving the off-campus seniors.
Opponents to Gain Regional
James Casey and John Hoffer argued successfully and won first and second place cash prizes of $250 and $150 at the Moot Court trial last Saturday night. They also received the Dean’s award.
The cash awards were contributed by ’ Mr. Harold Weber of South Bend and the Notre Dame Law Association.
Arguing the petitioner’s case, the two law students will enter regional competition against a Valparaiso Law School team in Chicago on November 17. If Casey and Hoffer defeat their opponents, they will travel to the National Moot Court Finals in New York City.
Judges for the trial here at Notre| Dame were the Honorable Stanley F.' Reed, Supreme Court of the United States; Hon. Edward J. Devitt, U.S. District Court for the District of Min- i nesota; Hon. F. Ryan Duffy, U.S. Sev- ! enth Circuit Court of Appeals; Hon. i Henry J. Friendly, Second Circuit Court; and Hon. Clifford O’Sullivan, Sixth Circuit Court. Judging was based on the quality of the contestants’ written briefs and on their oral arguments.	.

Casey received his A.B. from Western Michigan University in ’57. Hoffer earned his B.S. cum laude from St. Edward’s College (Texas) in ’55.
Accept Summer Session I Applicants for Mexico U. 1
Application and enrollment of American students and teachers to the 1961 Summer Session Program of the National University of Mexico, Mexico City, was announced recently by Dr. Hilton Bell, Director of the University Study Tour to Mexico.
Summer Session at the 500-acre campus, offers students and teachers a six-J week summer of foreign travel, study* and enjoyable living. The University of Mexico offers a wide variety of unusual and standard courses in Spanish and English for teacher requirements and undergraduate credits.
Program members will also enjoy six weeks of planned travel and leisure events. Included are week-end sightseeing trips, social functions, bullfights, pyramid history, art and culture — a total of more than 15 functions. _
Special Program rates for students ' and teachers residing in modern apartment hotels, begin as low as $474 and include air transportation, living accommodations and the full schedule of activities.
Complete information for the Summer Session Program may be obtained by writing to: Dr. Hilton Bell, Director, University Study Tour to Mexico, 3305 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 5, Cal.
The Scholastic
<
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 38 YEARS. Gifts Wrapped and Mailed To AH Parts of the World BLOCK BROS.
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
McDonald Studios ★ “The Finest in Portraits”
129 N. MAIN Temporary location HAVE YOUR CHRISTMAS PORTRAIT TAKEN NOW*
Fr. Underwood to Speak Of Lay Missionary Need
Rev. Fred Underwood, C.S.C., a cofounder of the Volunteer Teachers Mission Service, will deliver a talk entitled “One Year for Christ in the Missions”
Thursday, Nov. 10. The lecture will be held in the Law Auditorium at 8 p.m.
The talk will be focused upon the need for young laymen in active aposto-late works and the opportunities open to them in this field. Father Underwood is now supervising the Volunteer Teachers Mission Service in Texas and Alaska.
All students and faculty members are invited to attend the lecture, especially those who have had any interest in the role of laymen in the apostolate works. An informal question and answer period will follow the lecture.
ON THE COVER: Because today’s cover is a purely decorative one, no explanation of it is required. Instead, I would like to clear up a few vague notions being entertained pertaining to the illustration of “Power and
Democracy” which has appeared on a previous cover and is appearing again in this issue. The gears illustrate the power aspect only, and the idea of democracy is expressed by the way in which gears operate, namely, three unequal components functioning together. Now, are there still any “intellectuals” such as Dick Gemperle who insist that this insinuates that our democracy is a machine? A little thought goes a long way, Dick.
—Andy Luczak
i
3E = 0R
Mister... you’re going to wear that shave all day!
START WITH THIS NEW FORMULA BEFORESHAVE LOTION, stop 4 o'clock stubble trouble! You can shave blade-close, all-day clean, without "tenderizing" your face, when you use Pro-Electric Before-Shave lotion. It contains ISOPHYL® to give your shaver extra glide-power —refreshes you with that brisk, bracing Old Spice scent. 1.00 no federal tax.
^Selectric
Shave lotion
( /// c
PRO A ^ELECTRIC
GUARANTEES
A FASTER. CLOSER. longer-lasting
ELECTRIC SHAVE
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
November '4, 1960	13
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
•
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
Tried Regular Filter Cigarettes?
Loan Fund in Operation For Emergency Needs
Established to service students’ emergency needs, the John A. Morrissey Student Loan Fund is again in operation.
To obtain a loan from one to $50 for a period of one month, a student merely has to visit manager Dick Ballot in room 3 of the LaFortune Student Center. Office hours are Monday through Friday.
Money is loaned with an interest charge of only 1%. A questionnaire of pertinent information must be filled out and a promissory note signed.
The loan is strictly a confidential matter, and transacted here on campus with no references made to the student’s home.
RUBIN CLEANERS
Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card
217 E. JEFFERSON
Downtown—on the Bus Line
★
Complete Laundry Service
FIVE SHIRTS LAUNDERED FOR $1.10
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
NOW! Come Up...AU The Way Up
to the MENTHOL MAGIC of KOOL!
When your taste tells you it's time for a change, remember: Only Kool— no regular filter cigarette, no other menthol cigarette-gives you real Menthol Magic!


O19S0. BROWN * WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION
THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS
ALSO
AVAILABLE
WITHOUT
FILTER
*HOV£NTHaL
14
The Scholastic
*
AD SALESMEN?
THE SCHOLASTIC has openings for students interested in becoming ad salesmen. Applicants for this partly interesting and mostly lucrative position should address themselves to Joe Finnigan in 220 Alumni, business manager of THE SCHOLASTIC
Touch system or hunt-and-peck— Results are perfect with
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
. Typewriter Paper
Whatever your typing talents, you can turn out neat, clean-looking work the first time, with Eaton’s Corrasable Bond Paper. Reason why: Corrasable has a special surface—it erases without a trace. Just the flick of an ordinary pencil eraser and typographical errors disappear. No smears, no smudges. Saves time, temper and money!
Corrasable is available in several weights—from onionskin to heavy bond. In handy 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. A fine quality paper for all your typed assignments. Only Eaton makes erasable Corrasable.
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
Catholic Positions Noted In Church-State Relation
Catholics in religiously pluralistic nations such as the United States have a “moral duty” to observe civil, political, and religious tolerance for all, according to an article in the University of Notre Dame’s quarterly Review of Politics.
No less a figure than the late Pope Pius XII is the authority for this forthright view of religious freedom and Church-state relations, as attested to by Rev. Raymond Cour, C.S.C. Father Cour points out the late Pope’s “positive friendliness” toward the democratic form of government and recalls his staunch support of the UN at its founding and through the years.
BEST BUYS IN
PAPERBACKS
•
DELL
Abraham Lincoln
Carl Sandburg
Our Friend the Atom Walt Disney
Turn of the Screw
Henry James $ •
VINTAGE
The Stranger Albert Camus
Death in Venice Thomas Mann
Rendezvous With Destiny Eric Goldman
God’s Country and Mine Jacques Banan
Where Angels Fear To Tread E. M. Forster
The Virgin Land Henry Nash Smith
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students • .
Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.)
•
Special Price $5.50 ____________________
Notre Dame Bookstore
on - the - campus
15
November 4, 1960
What every college man should know about diamonds
ACO1
Lucky man—you’ve won the girl. Next question— what of the diamond ring? How big? How much? What style? What quality? Artcarved gives the answers.
With an Artcarved engagement ring you can be sure you are getting your full diamond’s worth. Every ring is guaranteed in writing for cut, color, clarity and carat weight. And only Artcarved.'’s ® Permanent Value Plangives you nationwide proof of value.
As for design—you’ll find the newest, brightest diamond ideas in town.
RINGS ENLARGED TO SHOW DETAIL. COPR. I960, J. R. WOOD A SONS, INC.
So make a date today. Get the girl
—then write to
J. R. Wood & Sons, Inc., Dept. CP-60, 216 E. 45th St., N. Y. 17, N. Y-for your free guide to wedding etiquette and valuable tips on ring buying.
name_________________________________________________
ADDRESS______________________________________________
CITY______________________ZONE_______STATE
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
your HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
i
IAMOND RINGS
Bachelors!
Surrender NOW!
JOIN OUR Artcarved8 CHRISTMAS DIAMOND _ CLUB —
Why go on struggling to stay single? Instead, make your lovely lady radiantly happy this Christmas with the gift of gifts — an Artcarved Evening Star* You can do it — join our Christmas Diamond Club now. Convenient payments arranged. Her happiest Christmas guaranteed.
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $75. All fully guaranteed for diamond Quality and Permanent Value.
CREDIT (with no interest) AND LAY-A-WAY AVAILABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311


Beloved by brides for more than one hundred years {1850-1960)
Authorized ~^rtC a FVG d Jeweler
16
• The Scholastic
$
Around 60 original works from the Romanesque period will go on exhibition in the University Art Gallery from November 6 through December 4. This outstanding exhibition, loaned to Notre Dame from leading museums all over the country, is the main feature of Notre Dame’s eighth annual Festival of the Arts.
The first festival was begun in 1953 by Hugh D. Rank, then a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. An interesting feature of this year’s festival is the return to Notre Dame of Mr. Rank as instructor in the Department of English. He has been named honorary chairman of the Faculty Festival Com-mitte, and active chairman of the Student Committee. Other members of the Student Committee include Thomas A. Sullivan, vice-chairman; Jerry Kriegs-hauser, Ray Gaio, Richard W. Quinn, Michael H. McCarthy, Edward Emmer. Charles Dunphy and Anthony Bill.
Very few works in this year’s exhibition are for sale. They are all very old and rare; museums and collectors prize them highly. They are from the earliest age of specifically Christian art.
The earliest Christian art is Byzantine, a fusion of Christian themes with the highly developed art centering around Constantinople. But the earliest period of specifically Western Christian art is the Romanesque, stretching from the barbarian invasions to the dawn of the great Gothic period in the West.
For many years scholars and art connoisseurs thought this a crude and bar-
barous tury a
period. But during the last cen-reappraisal has been made. Ro
manesque architecture first claimed attention, those older, smaller churches and monasteries which came before the great Gothic buildings. Especially in the sculpture which fills the arches and doorways a splendid originality was found.
Early Romanesque seemed to grope its way slowly to maturity, beset by the political and social unrest of the times. But in the eleventh and twelfth centuries some vigorous new skill took hold of the craftsmen-artists of southern Europe and developed sculpture, architecture, illuminated manuscripts, and ivory and metal work which holds its own besides that of any period. Many contemporary connoisseurs, such as Andre Malraux, Minister of Fine Arts for the French Republic, believe that the best of the Romanesque has a special meaning for our times; for modern forms and decoration are more like Romanesque than Gothic or Renaissance.
The festival exhibition has examples of all the aspects of Romanesque. Perhaps the most interesting for students is the collection of illuminated manuscripts, over 700 years old, loaned by the National Gallery of Art in Washington, the Pierpont Morgan Library and the Metropolitan Museum of New York, and the Walters Gallery of Baltimore. These manuscripts, copied painstakingly by monks, preserved the Holy Scripture and the contemporary commentary on it for the later mediaeval scholars to collect in the great synthesis of theology.
What is astonishing is the great art I often found in these drawings and deco- ■ rations, intricate in design, delicate in I color, enchanting in their symbolism and E outlook.
A number of carved pieces in ivory, metal and wood rival these in interest. Mostly crucifixes, they show an extraordinary command of the medium. In particular the delicate tracery of the metal carving is impressive. These have been loaned by a variety of museums and collectors, among them the Cleveland Ait Museum, and the Chicago Art Institute, as well as from the private _ collection of Mr. Piero Tozzi and Mr. Raphael Stora, both of New York. |
When most people think of Roman- | esque they think of stone carving. Because of the weight and rarity of these, separated from the buildings of which they were originally part, museums are reluctant to lend. Nevertheless the University Gallery has obtained some excellent examples of stone capitals of pillars, and some small statues. These have been loaned by the Fogg Museum a of Harvard University, the Chicago Art Institute and the Metropolitan Museum of New York.
Other examples include enamel work and intricately carved appurtenances of the Church, among them censers, a paten, a silver filigree missal cover and an enameled casket for relics.
Virtually all the artists are anonymous, obscure workmen lost in antiquity, but nonetheless great artists.
The Scholastic J
18
1

The festival committee has announced two lectures on the exhibition. The first, on November 7, will be by Mr. Charles Parkhurst, chairman of the Division of Fine Arts at Oberlin College, which has W one of the finest college galleries in the country. The second lecture will be given by Everett McNear, the Chicago artist and Romanesque expert, who has prepared superb photographic blowups of Romanesque architecture which will be a prominent part of the exhibition. Mr. McNear’s lecture is scheduled for November 30.
Music of the Romanesque period will 4} be featured in a concert by the Collegium Musicum of the University of Illinois, scheduled for Washington Hall on December 2 at 8:15. An admission of $1.00 will be charged for the concert. The lectures and the exhibition are free.
Other gallery tours and talks will be held by various departments and teachers. The exhibition will be part of the agenda for the meeting of the local branch of the American Institute of Architects on November 10 and 11, and the student branch will hold a special lecture for architecture students on Nov. 11. Class tours and assignments will be announced by teachers involved.
The exhibition has been assembled by Rev. Anthony Lauck, c.s.c., head of the Art Department, and will be arranged in the gallery by Mr. James Key Reeve, curator of the University Art Gallery. They, with Professor Thomas J. Stritch, constitute the Faculty Festival Committee.
November 4, 1960
I JOHN OLIVER CRITIC at large
On the evening of October 23, the South Bend Symphony Orchestra initiated its twenty-eighth season and marked the official dedication of the Morris Civic Auditorium in which they will now present their programs. The concert was prefaced by the usual dedication ceremonies (presentation of the colors, etc.) and Mrs. Ernest M. Morris delighted a fairly sizeable audience with her comments on the happy event. Indeed, this addition to the South Bend city plant was badly needed and opens many doors to the cultural growth of the community.
The changes in a symphony orchestra from season to season often show up only after the group has worked together for a period of time (about the third or fourth concert in a five concert series), but in this first concert several new characteristics were quite obvious to anyone who has previously heard the symphony over a period of time. The violas showed an especially pleasing roundness of tone and combined beautifully with the cellos (who have maintained their excellent tone and unity over the summer) throughout the program, producing a fullness in the middle of the orchestra’s total sound which contributes greatly to its total effectiveness.
The woodwinds, too, exhibited a decided change in their collective output. They seem to be more unified in their efforts as a section and in their contribution to the orchestra as a whole. Another point in their favor is the mellow clarity they achieve through their precise attacks and sense of balance.
The Morris acoustics improve the brass considerably and for that matter focus the sound of the individual sections into a unity unattainable in O’Laughlin (especially in the balconies where the sound is much improved in the new hall). As a result one can approach the orchestra without being hampered by the mechanical problems which can so interfere with the enjoyment of a musical performance.
The opening program was well planned, ranging from Mendelssohn’s
20
Italian Symphony (No. 4 in A major), through the two Russian composers, Kabalevsky and Borodin, to Beethoven’s Concerto No. 4 in G major for piano, Op. 58, with Glenn Gould as soloist.
The Mendelssohn presented Mr. Hames (who returns again this season to the symphony’s podium) with a problem in style and he was more at ease in the Kabalevsky which was to follow (Suite from the opera “Colas Breugnon”).
The Russian composer, Dimitri Kabalevsky, found his way into music only a year after the 1917 revolution and was caught up in the ideological exploitation of the arts which has become a part of the Russian-Communist culture. His works (like those of most twentieth century Russian composers) have been utilized to reflect and glorify the aims and ideals of the Russian-Communist state. This particular opera (the composer’s first) deals with a sixteenth century Burgundian craftsman, and under the pen of Kabalevsky and his librettist the piece becomes in effect, a social criticism of the sixteenth century. This might work, were it a burning passion within the composer himself, but judging from the rather limp emotions found in much of the music and the general shallowness of style, one would tend to believe that the composer himself is not quite convinced of what he is saying (much less passionately convinced). I find this lukewarm conviction (“Yes, I believe it but so what?”) and much less (no conviction at all) in a good portion of the late Russian school, beginning only as a tendency in some of the weaker moments of Pro-kovieff (which I admit are far from the majority) and carrying through Shostakovitch to Kabalevsky.
Much of this music is charming; almost all of it contains its share of rum turn. But too much of it is unconvincing.
The Borodin selection was the ever popular Polovetzian Dances from Prince Igor. Though several of the tempo choices were questionable, the dances were as agreeable as ever and ended the first section nicely.
Glenn Gould at the age of twentyeight perplexes me. His position at his piano is such that he must reach upward in order to play; this, moreover, is intentional — he uses his own chair. To say that he plays is inaccurate; Gould performs. His positions on his chair range from a typical high school slouch to an almost demoniac stance from which he attacks the piano from directly above,
in order, I assume, to enable himself to M play bravura passages more powerfully. ■ This is not all.	■
During those times when his right H hand plays alone, Gould conducts it with I his left hand. When the pianist is re- ■ quired by the composer to maintain si-^B lence, Gould sits either with his head j in his hands or on the edge of his chair, ■ in the latter case conducting the or- I chestra (or merely shaking his head ■ from side to side in approval or disap- ■ proval). Add to all these antics the fact ■ that Gould keeps a glass of milk on the ■ piano for on-stage nourishment and you ■ could quite easily come to the conclusion ■ that the man simply does not have time ■ to play the piano (or merely that he’s insane). Neither of these is in any way' true.
This is a serious artist. How does one tell these things? Listen to him play. If you can divert your attention from the circus on the stage and merely listen, you begin to realize that this is Beethoven of indescribable beauty. Your surprise becomes greater as you realize further that the clarity with which it is being played, a clarity completely foreign to your mental picture, which* has grown out of the confusion in front of the piano, destroys any prejudice you may have had that told you that Beethoven forgot form for the sake of emotion. Gould’s Beethoven is delineated as if it were Bach; it is so intensely lyrical that it might be Schumann; it is so perfect that it approaches Mozart; it is completely Beethoven.
Certainly an artist of this caliber could stand on his head and still be accepted by his audience if he were still able to put across what Gould puts across: that this is music; that his love for it inspires him to put his whole talent into every note and rest; and that nothing can keep him from giving this greatness to his audience.
Within the next few weeks several things of primary interest will take place on either campus. Both the University of Notre Dame Drama Depart-a ment and the Saint Mary’s Drama De-^ partment open their first productions shortly. The annual Festival of the Arts begins on November seventh. And the Goldovsky Opera Company brings Mozart’s masterpiece, Don Giovanni to Saint Mary’s soon thereafter. All of these events are well worth the time and money (usually very little) involved and should not be missed by anyone even slightly interested.
The Scholastic^
a matter of opinion
The “Power and Democracy Symposium” opened Tuesday morning, October 25th, with a brief welcome given by SBP John Keegan. Professor William V. D’Antonio keynoted the session with 0 a presentation of what he considered was the main problem facing the symposium as well as the central problem of our times.
Can “political democracy as we have come to know it survive in the face of pressures both internal and external? . . . we know little about how big business and big labor are related to big government. Are the • mechanisms of our democratic system sufficiently flexible to accommodate this new ‘bigness’? Is there a legitimate relationship between power and decision-making at the local and the national levels?”
Professor Miller, from the Department of Sociology at Indiana University, spoke first on “Democracy and De-Acision Making in the Community Power
Structure.” Out of American tradition, he began, comes the concept of the community as the natural center of democratic ideals; a government of limited power is desired. The American dream of the city bountiful and beautiful, cut off from the hustle and bustle of the metropolis, with recreational areas and adequate educational facilities, can, he believes, become more than a dream. To obtain Miller’s utopic state the need to decentralize power back to the community is evident. But in our age the dream has been lost; the citizens have in effect, given up. There are five main reasons why this dream has been forgotten and why the power has shifted to a central focal point.
First, the community has lost its solidarity. We have seen the individual proprietor with his close, personal ties to the townspeople, swallowed-up in the giant and impersonal chain store movement The complexity of the industrial and corporate system has eliminated the community bonds that used to exist. Also, Miller adds, the community has lost its identity as a physical reality.
In his third point the professor brings
out the lack of devoted and capable leadership that the small, urban group* once had. Suburbia’s gain has been the city’s loss. Because the educated and informed executive must devote so much of his time and energy to his job, Miller suggests that perhaps to a large extent the political leaders of tomorrow may come from minority groups. Unfortunately, the community will tolerate weak political leaders and institutions. Miller argues that a mayor who is also the corner grocer is in a weak position to control decision-making against the powers of bankers, corporations, and the like.
In his major charge against the community, Professor Miller focuses upon decision-making. This power, he says, rests with small, inner circles of leaders who operate, in fact, outside the control of recognized governing bodies. Fear, pessimism, and silence are necessarily inherent in the modern community. Ho asserts that businessmen dominate community power structures and influence policy-making by acting in concert through cliques. He substantiates his findings with data gathered from
a comparative study of Seattle, Washington and Bristol, England.
In criticizing Miller we would say only that what he is attacking seems to be capitalism in its natural, evolutionary process. A wish to return to the “good old days” is acceptable if the dreamer is also willing to give up the advantages of our industrialized society. Very few people are. To reach the atopic state we should go forward and correct abuses, not backwards to an impossible situation in which the advantages of the industrialization are realized with none of the disadvantages.
The Chairman of the Department of Political Science at Yale University, Professor Robert A. Dahl, was the first speaker Tuesday afternoon. In his speech on “Equality, Consent, and Power in American Society,” he shows many sharp disagreements with Professor Miller.
He begins by challenging Miller’s assertions concerning “social solidarity” in the community of yesterday. He mentions New Haven and states that years ago this was a narrow-minded community made up of social, ethnic, and religious cliques, all in opposition to each •other — an opposition accentuated by established family ancestorship.
The idea that the community has lost its leadership, says Dahl, is outrageous. In opposition to Miller’s “Money, status, and intellect in one place and political control in another,” Professor Dahl holds that important factors like ingenuity, imagination, and courageous political action have been overlooked. To say that we have lost much of our devoted leadership is to say that political talent and strength and wisdom are the sole possessions of a distinct social class.
Dahl continued along this line by saying that it is wrong to assert that power rests in an inner circle of power leaders who formulate subjective policy. It is wrong to assert that we have a monolithic political structure when our system is in fact essentially pluralistic.
There is no predominant feeling of “fear, pessimism, and silence.” Businessmen do not dominate political policymaking. In short, said Dahl, businessmen are particularly inept in politics.
Political equality as the subject of discussion is now introduced. Political equality arises out of the fact that the distribution of power hinges upon a number of variables such as political inducements and resources, time available, wealth, respectability, personality, political skill in organization, accumulation of numbers and groups, public opinion as expressed by voters, and various combinations of these. Political success can be guided by confidence and organization. Equality of opportunity to gain influence does not mean that there exist equalities of influence. Inequalities and handicaps are inevitable but no one resource dominates all the others; all groups have access to some resources. Certain inequalities can be removed in education and in class and ethnic group distinction and discrimination. “If equality and justice are rarely attained, harsh and persistent oppression is almost always avoided.” Dahl interprets our own system as a democratic oligarchy with the power of decision-making in the hands of a few but the power to decide who will make the decisions ultimately resting with the people.
Professor Dahl refers to consent as the belief in and an acceptance of a way of life and a political system. As Americans we not only accept our system but, for the most part, think it best. Consent in American society ranges from either a passive reaction to that which is oblique and vague or as an active and immediate reaction to that which directly involves us personally. American consent has been based, he says, mainly on minimum participation and maximum passivity. The great problem here lies in the fact that policies are formulated toward narrow group goals and not toward long-range goals beneficial to society as a whole.
The way is paved through Dahl’s | speech foi" Professor Drucker’s “Individual Freedom and Effective Government in a Society of Super-Powers.” Peter F. Drucker is the Chairman of the Management Division of New York University’s Graduate Business School.
Drucker began:
The greatest, most significant and yet least noticed or understood of all ? the great changes in our century, is the change in the power-potential, power structure and power-dynamics of society.
In the last sixty years we have witnessed a dynamic transformation of power. The financial monsters of a yester-year, like Rockefeller’s Standard Oil Trust and the House of Morgan, compared with the corporations of this * second half of the century, were about as harmless as grandpa’s pet, white mouse. Internationally there was only one real power center, the Concert of Europe. Japan and the United States were also slowly emerging as important power centers. Power was in those days centralized but strictly limited.
Today every single government has grown completely out of proportion, and yet this tremendous growth has gone on unchecked by non-governmental institutions. The social scene of the 1900’s resembled the “kansas prairie” with one, small, but looming hillock, the power of government. Today is more analogous to the Himalayas with such treacherous peaks as the American Medical Association, nationally united labor unions, and big business; ranging just a bit higher is Mount Everest — the Federal Government. The danger 4 though, and there is a danger, is not inherent in the centralization of power itself. Rather, it is the ability of this power center to divide itself into smaller but more quickly growing systems which in turn divide, grow, and so ad infinitum.
The Scholastic
The modern army is complicated with its size, technology, and fire power that is for practical purposes uncontrollable. It is, whether even its own leaders admit this or not, a central power in itself. This same holds true for the awkward bureaucracy of the civil services. The Foreign Service, Drucker says, is another example of the growth of the octopus. The professor sums up his out-^line of the super-powers with what he -calls the “extra-constitutional branch of government: the administrative establishment, civilian and military.” This, he warns, is the most potentially powerful group and therefore the most dangerous.
। The advancement internationally, explains Professor Drucker, has paral-
! leled our problem at home. The single power center has given way to the pluralistic power structure which now. ena compasses the globe. Under present ' conditions,
Even the Republic of Togo — a small, under - populated, desperately poor African state, only recently a French colony — could, within a few years manufacture and possess enough atomic bombs to make the earth uninhabitable.
Three main tasks face us today as a result of the evolution that Drucker has noted. We must first restore the international and domestic effectiveness of government. We must prevent usurpation of the functions of government by sectional or class interest-groups. And third, we must “strengthen the freedom of the person.”
The professor examined each of these # suggestions in turn and came up with some extraordinarily refreshing advice. Effective government means government that is trimmed of excess and obsolete activities that no longer (or perhaps never- did), serve the nation’s welfare “There is too much fat in government and not enough muscle . . . gov
ernment needs to think more and to decide more — but do less.”
While we must have the small, sectional power centers to do the jobs for which they are intended, we must see that they tend to their- own businesses. The Federal Government should and must, Drucker asserts, control money and credit, control the dispensation of justice, and have the exclusive right to “levy armies.” Only the first of these, he says, is completely free from outside pressure groups today.
The individual is sacred and for this reason he must be preserved. Skepticism is the best policy as regards those restraints of law that limit individual freedom for some vague, collective good. The world is too full of examples of benevolent aims which ruthlessly enslave mankind for the good of the state. The individual can remain free in this society of super-powers only if he creates his own area of personal freedom.
Drucker concluded:
. . . we, of all countries, are the ones that have lived a life of pluralism, have accepted, have affirmed and made constructive a pluralist society, have believed that power should be decentralized and have lived that belief. This world of the super-power is a threat to everyone alive today anyplace. But to us in this country it is also an opportunity and a challenge for leadership.
And to this we say only, Amen.
Tuesday evening the symposium met for the fourth and last time. Professor D’Antonio brought those members of the audience, who had missed one or more of the sessions, up to date by reading resumes of each of the speeches presented earlier that day. He then introduced Doctor Ehrlich who acted as discussant for the panel.
Professor Ehrlich brought out eight points which he felt had been raised in his appraisal of the previous papers.
The speakers had obviously disagreed on many basic points and Ehrlich explained that he intended to question the professors on these particular points.
There was first, he stated, a problem common to all three papers—that of conceptualizing power. Although power as used during the formum was political, Ehrlich said that there are other types of power. He also stated that power brings with it a challenge. Because of the high premium presently placed on conformity there is the tendency on the part of power groups to too often remain neutral. His statement on this later point, while apparently obvious, is definitely debatable. It could as well be said that power groups too often take positions on issues and exert their power to influence opinion in areas in which they have no business and no right. Unfortunately, Miller and Dahl got involved with each other in what could have been an endless argument over how to find the power groups. Professor Drucker nicely put an end to the whole thing by stating that The Influentials are a non-existent class. Different groups and individuals will wield sometimes completely unpre- , dictable powers in given situations. As for the power group as a definable class or segment of society, “There aint’s no such animal,” as he put it.
Doctor Ehrlich next mentioned what he called “alienation.” As Miller phrased the problem in his comments, “Is the cement falling out of society, especially the small, local communities?” He be- . lieves that the answer is a definite “yes.” The tendency today is to follow the “good job” and this has both the moral and social sanction of the people in general. If, professor Miller says, influential power groups are an important and necessary sector of the community, then the tendency toward the rootless community is a bad thing. You must have roots to have power. The most stable segments of any community are the educators, the religious, civil
(Continued on page 24)

November 4, 1960
A Matter of Opinion (Continued from page 23) servants, and the welfare workers. However, Miller says, as these groups are so poorly paid they cannot be influential; and in the higher salaried fields, there is not time to take care of power responsibilities.
Drucker’s answer is that the problem, if indeed a problem exists, is existential and spiritual to a great degree. He emphasizes that today you make your relationships, you are not born into them. “The small, grass-roots community of years ago was far from utopia.”
Dahl, instead of discussing the pros and cons of “rootlessness,” asks if this is, indeed, a tendency. He says that it began in the Middle Ages and has slowed down in the first half of this century. We have little identification with our communities but this lack of identification is, he believes, no worse than ever before.
Can we have a strong central and a strong local government in the same society? The question, Ehrlich pointed out, indicates the current difficulty in defining the realms of government control. Professor Drucker recognizes a societal change that has shifted the power' to the central government.
Money has become the measure of success and money has become the important means of measuring all types of values — in other words, our society has tended to become almost completely monetized. Because we have lost the value of property, government has become capable of taking what it was never before capable of taking (“the total resources of the society for the collective use of the society”). Drucker advocated radical governmental experimentation and a realization of the well-known (but apparently forgotten), axiom that government is an instrument of the governed and not the other way around.
Miller commented briefly on the two, majoi- power systems in our society: labor and management. “It is,” he said, “one of the great things about our society that we have opposed power systems.” Dahl, deviating from the point at hand, unreservedly stated that when we spend our powers or recources on individuals rather than on society as a whole we waste oui- powers or recourses. Implicit in his stand is the assumption that you will accept the theory that the individual has no right to the powers and recourses that he accumulates—that these belong, regardless of who earns them or who produces them, to society collectively. The absurdity of this stand is obvious. But this wasn’t enough, he went on to say that “There is hardly a better way to spend money than on public work!”
What public works? Drucker asks the question. About fifty cents of every dollar already go for public purposes — we are unlikely to do better. Drucker continues with his idea of the tendency toward consolidation of various power and influence groups. The fields of la-
(Continued on page 33)
24
At the Theaters
If television keeps coming up with programs of the caliber of An Hour With Danny Kaye and the Art Carney specials, the moving picture industry has every reason to fear for its life. This week they shouldn’t worry, for a change, but it could happen next week.
D. H. Lawrence’s main claim to fame is, unfortunately enough, Lady Chatterley's Lover, but he did write something better: namely Sons and Lovers. The movie version of this powerful novel is being shown at the Avon this week, if they don’t do a double take similar to last week’s. This week, the results would be worse, since this movie is too far above Career Girl. It stars Trevor Howard, Wendy Hiller and Dean Stockwell. All three of them, even young Mr. Stockwell, have proven beyond a doubt their < capacity as dramatic actors, and the pleasure of watching them should alone be enough box office incentive.
The Colfax is offering simpler and lighter fare for moviegoers this week. The movie is Surprise Package, and it stars Yul Brynner in another comedy role, Mitzi Gaynor playing her usual delectable and sometimes funny self, and Noel Coward in too simple a role. Funny, but a little tiring at times. They have enlisted Mr. Coward to sing the title tune by Sammy Cahn and Jimmy Van Heusen, and it’s just too bad.
<
Doris Day seems to be persecuted by all kinds of thugs. Two times already, she has been desperately fleeing, and we might well wonder whether she’ll get away this time. First, she was the victim of her movie husband, Louis Jourdan, in Julie, then she was a pawn to Alfred Hitchcock’s horrible imaginative mind. Now, she’s dressed in Midnight Lace and once more her life is in peril. It might prove to be too much. Rex Harrison co-stars as her husband, with John Gavin, Myrna Loy and Roddy McDowall. Herbert Marshall and John Williams also make theii' impression on the screen.
4
The story is very simple, as complicated whodunits go. Miss Day is threatened with death by a mysterious (naturally) voice on the phone and is the intended victim of several freak street “accidents,” which greatly unsettles her, to say the least. Her husband brings Scotland Yard into the picture (naturally), and the plot thickens. John Gavin plays a young architect who befriends Miss Day (naturally) in her hour of distress. By now, the plot resembles frozen molasses. Then, finally, in a chilling climax, the would-be murderer turns out to be none else than — Can’t tell you, because I don’t know myself. However, I think it might be worthwhile to go and find out. Personally, I can’t stand the suspense.
«
All The Fine Young Cannibals have arrived at the State Theater, and they seem like a lot of fun. This is the first time Robert Wagner and Natalie Wood (Mrs. Wagner) have been starring together, and this contributes to more professionallooking love scenes between them. Also in the cast are George Hamilton and Susan Kohner as rich and spoiled brother and sister. Pearl Bailey contributes more to the movie when the character she’s playing dies than when she’s alive and kicking the world in the pants. Miss Wood and Wagner have some sort of encounter, out of which exits Miss Wood after having gained weight in a spare tire. She meets Hamilton, (Continued on page 33) .
. The Scholastic
-.. visiting workshops
The living room of the apartment is furnished modestly but in good taste. Two overstuffed easy chairs, a new sec-q tional sofa, a high-fi speaker cabinet, and a low maple coffee table are the principal pieces of furniture in the room. Light yellow drapes across the front windows and thick wall-to-wall carpeting lend an atmosphere of softness and warmth. A stroller in one corner and a Raggedy Ann doll under the sofa give evidence that a child is around somewhere, but a woman’s hand has obviously kept the apartment in good order despite the child’s attempts to mess it • up.
The reddish-yellow glow from the fireplace illuminates the nine earnest faces in animated discussion and heightens the impression that something unusual and important is going on here. The extraordinary nature of this seemingly commonplace scene becomes apparent when it is noticed that two of the people, the husband and wife who live in the apartment, are Negro, and the seven £ students in their home are white.
This is a typical example of a program begun in Chicago by Friendship House under the name of “Visiting Workshops.” It represents an imaginative response to the fact that prejudice, whether it be racial, religious, or anything else, is largely due to ignorance. It is another fact that most white people have never had the opportunity to meet Negroes of their own educational and £ economic backgrounds on a social and personal basis. This means that even a person with a true Christian conscience on the matter of racial equality may have an inadequate understanding of Negroes as individuals and of the problems that beset their race.
Thus, the goal of the visiting workshop program is primarily educative. It attempts to enlighten the person who, p often through no fault of his own, has developed feelings of prejudice against the Negro. It attempts to educate the unprejudiced person about the life of Negroes. And, for those interested in contributing to the advancement of ra-
CONTRIBUTORS
. . . the features section of the SCHOLASTIC invites contributions of articles, essays, fiction and general prose works. Articles should be no shorter than one page, should be typed and submitted to the SCHOLASTIC office or 143 Dillon Hall by Friday before publication.
> --------------------------------
November 4, 1960
cial equality, it attempts to provide a stimulating discussion of some aspect of the race problem.
One important result of the program in Chicago has been to destroy in many people’s minds the stereotype of the Negro as a lazy status-seeker, living in a dilapidated building with trash strewn all over the yard and a bright red, chrome bedecked automobile out in front. This stereotype has been replaced by the realization that the life of a Negro does not differ in any significant fashion from the life of a white in a similar economic position. The exception to this generalization is that often a Negro will be forced to live in substandard housing even though he can afford better only because whites will not allow him to purchase housing in a decent white neighborhood.
The visiting workshop program has proved so successful in Chicago that the YCS is planning to initiate a similar program in South Bend for the benefit of Notre Dame students. The program will consist of groups of from five to ten students spending an hour or two during the evening in the home of a Negro family in South Bend. Generally the conversation will be directed to some topic of interracial significance, such as housing, education, or voting. The host and hostess will welcome questions of both a general and a personal nature, and also hope to gain a broader perspective of the problem from the insights and experiences of the visiting students. The students will have the op
To:	SENIORS AND GRADS
From: THE STATE OF NEW YORK, DEPT. OF CIVIL SERVICE Subject: CAREERS
Did you ever wonder how “Good Government" gets that way? It doesn’t just happen. It takes the concerted efforts of hard-working, conscientious people — just like any other business.
New York State needs top-notch college grads to fill career opportunities in almost every field, including yours.
June might seem far off, but to insure consideration you must take our short, free, non-technical aptitude test. We plan to hold it on campus Saturday morning, December 3rd. The short time involved can be an investment in a challenging government career.
Your Placement Office has complete details and application cards. Drop in today and fill one out. Apply by November 7lh.
Recruitment Office	Donold C. Hoyt
Albany, New York	Recruitment Representative
portunity to observe the life of a Negro family first hand and will meet interesting and intelligent citizens of South Bend. Several YCS groups have already participated in trial visits, and have found them to be thoroughly enjoyable, as well as educative.
This project is receiving the enthusiastic support and assistance of Alan Pinado, who attended Notre Dame's Graduate School several years ago and is now working with the William Morris Real Estate Agency, the only agency in South Bend that has concerned itself with obtaining good housing for Negroes and has dedicated itself to “Democracy in Housing.”
The only requirement for participation in this program is that you have some interest in the problem of racial discrimination. Although the program is designed for all students of the University, we would like to suggest that various clubs and organizations might want to participate as a group by replacing or supplementing one of their regular meetings with a visit. We ask that students who would like to participate in one of the evening visits leave their names with any of the following people: Mike Corcoran, 251 Alumni; Andy Griffin, 110 Morrissey; Joe Keyer-leber, 435. Walsh, or the representative in the YCS office, under the Huddle, any afternoon from two to five. The visits will then be organized according to the number interested and the time preferences.
— Joseph Keyerleber
OUR STANDARDS ARE
Mr. W. F. Wahl, Branch Manager, IBM Corporation, 618-620 North Michigan St., South Bend 1, Ind., CE 2-8251
You naturally hare a better chance to grow T WJWJF MTA ra0CESS|NG D1V|S|ON with a growth company. ■ MWM
HIGH, TOO
... and our opportunities and rewards are great. Because data processing applications have been growing rapidly, we have a number of different kinds of openings in Data Processing Marketing for outstanding men with exceptional ability and ambition.
The rewards are excellent and the work challenging. Men who qualify will be trained to introduce the most modem data processing techniques to top executives in business and industry, and to act as consultants to present users.
We would like to talk to you if you will be receiving a bachelor’s or advanced degree in engineering, science, mathematics, economics, or business administration. IBM will interview on your campus soon. See your Placement Director for additional information and to arrange an appointment. Or, if you prefer, please write:

Pittsburgh’s Panthers invade Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 CST. Pitt has a powerful team this year, increasing its prestige last week when it dumped the defending national champions and previously undefeated Syracuse Orangemen, 10-0.
Notre Dame was a different team last Saturday as they lost a hard-fought ^battle with Navy’s Middies, 14-7. The Irish outplayed Navy throughout much । of the game and should make tomorI row’s game a close one.
The letter “C” is a very important one to Panther Coach Johnny Michelosen as Bob Clemens, Fred Cox and Jim Cunningham form the bruising running attack on which the Panthers must rely for victory. Other standouts on the squad are quarterback Jim Traficant and All-American candidate and team •Captain Mike Ditka. The biggest losses Pitt suffered from last year’s team were passing wizard Ivan Toncic, fullback Fred Riddle, tackles Ken Montanari and Bill Linder and center Serafino Fazio.
Although the Panthers were picked to be one of the top two teams in the East before the season, they started their 1960 schedule rather slowly, losing 8-7 to UCLA, tying Michigan State, 7-7, and losing 15-14 to Oklahoma. Michelosen’s ^Panthers rebounded with a 17-6 defeat of Miami’s Hurricanes and a subsequent 42-0 romp over West Virginia. Pitt couldn’t break their tie jinx as they broke even 7-7 with Texas Christian. October 29 was the day the Panthers found themselves when they defeated the highly-touted Syracuse Orangemen, 10-0, with a touchdown by Traficant and a 38-yard field goal by Cox.
Solid end. Ditka was named to four 9 All-Opponent Teams last year, including Notre Dame’s. Ron Delfine is a regular at the other end, and a two-letter winner. Steve Jastrzembski, John Kuprok and Heywood Baser provide support for the two starters. Jastrzembski and Kuprok are both juniors and Heywood Baser is a senior. Baser and “Jastro” both lettered last season.
Bob Budavich and Dick Mills have •been the regular tackles for Pitt. Mills is a senior letterman and Budavich is a greatly-improved junior. Elmer Mer-vosky, Bob Guzik, Charlie Marranca and Gary Kaltenbach provide depth at the tackle slot. Guzik is the sophomore brother of 1958 Pitt All-American John Guzik who is now with the Los Angeles Rams.
Guard is a strong position for the Panthers with junior lettermen Regis Coustillac and Larry Vignali holding A down the starting positions. Vignali has been called one of the best guards to appear at Pitt in 20 years. Coustillac started the last three games in 1959, and lias been outstandingly aggressive in Pitt’s first seven games this season. Paul Bodge, Ralph Conrad and Ed Adamchik are alternate guards that have proven dependable throughout the season.
The pivot position for Pitt is held down by Andy Kuzneski, a junior letterman from Indiana, Pennsylvania.
November 4, 1960
COACH JOHN MICHELOSEN Panther mentor
MIKE DITKA Rugged Pitt captain
PANTHERS INVADE STADIUM
Dick Matyus and Johnny Bolzbach are Kuzneski’s replacements at center. Matyus is a junior and Bolzbach is a sophomore.
Pitt field general. Jim Traficant has been the surprise of the year at the quarterback post. Traficant is a sophomore from Youngstown, Ohio and was not even listed on- the top three teams at the end of Pitt’s 1960 spring practice. But thus far this season, he has passed for four touchdowns. Juniors Dave Kraus and Ed Sharockman are top-flight quarterbacks who have been relegated to substitute roles by Traficant. Kraus was the stai-ting field general at the end of spring practice. Sharockman lettered on the Panther team of 1958 but was not in school last year. Be was one of the main reasons for Pitt’s 17-6 victory over Miami this year as he made beautiful broken-field i-uns throughout the game setting up a touchdown and field goal for the Panthers.
Cunningham, Cox and Clemens have lived up to everybody’s expectations this year and need no publicity build-up at all.
Irish nemesis. All Notre Dame fans will remember Cunningham from last year’s 28-13 Irish loss in Pittsburgh. He was the prime cause of Notre Dame’s 1959 defeat as he repeatedly crashed the Irish line for decisive gains. Cunningham has been equally effective during the I960 season. After seven games
Cunningham has averaged 3.4 yards on 42 carries. However, Clemens has been the outstanding ballcarrier for Pitt this . . season with a five-yard average for 55	.
carries after seven games. Cox is an equally effective halfback with a 4.5 average for 53 carrying trips. Cox is . also an outstanding punter, having aver- . aged 43.1 yards per punt up to date. ' . These three backs have carried the brunt . . of running chores this year. Chuck Reinhold is a two-year letterman at left halfback and has been quite efficient when- : ever called on to replace Clemens. Junior	?
letterman John Yaccino backs up Cox	.
in the right halfback slot. Mike Frasca : • and Lou Slaby support Cunningham at ; ' the deep position. Slaby is an excellent ' \ linebacker and is used primarily on defense.	. . . :
Coach Michelosen has been the head ; j mentor at Pittsburgh for the last four < ■ years. In his first two seasons as head _ .	;
coach, Michelosen guided the Panthers to two bowls and one Eastern champion-ship. His four-year record is 23 wins* 17 losses and two ties. It must be remembered, however, that nine of these.,= defeats were to teams that went on to, finish in the top ten while another two of the defeats were in bowl games./ Again this year, Coach Michelosen must i f face one of the most rugged schediries in the nation but he can be expected to; ' win more than his share because of uncontested coaching ability. ' •
—Tom
-	- ’ /2TB/W
Irish Win Statistical Battles;
Opposition Leads In Scoring
Halfbacks Bob Scarpitto and George Sefcik continue to dominate Irish football statistics after six games. Sefcik sports a 5.2 yards per carry average into tomorrow’s game with Pittsburgh while Scarpitto has an impressive 4.7 yards per-carry average. Sefcik leads the squad in yards gained with 236 while Scarpitto is again second with 185 yards chalked up.
Scarpitto leads the team in scoring with four touchdowns for 24 points to his credit. Scarpitto is also second in punting and pass receiving.
Sophomore Daryle Lamonica paces the Irish hooters with 10 punts for a 36.4 yard average. Scarpitto has punted 11 times for a 35.7 yard average. Sefcik is third with a 26.6 yard average on nine punts.
George Haffner paces the passers with 21 completions in 68 attempts for 396 yards. He completed 7 of 14 passes last week against Navy for 165 yards. Sophomores Norm Rascher and Lamonica have also had some impressive streaks with Rascher having completed nine of 24 pass attempts and Lamonica six of 14 attempts.
The leading receiver on the squad is Les Traver who has caught eight passes for 99 yards. Scarpitto has been on the receiving end five times for 103 yards including last week’s 60-yarder against Navy. First-year man Jim Sherlock has also caught five passes for 59 yards.
Standouts in the defensive departments for the Irish this season are Nick Buoniconti. Myron Pottios, Norb Roy and Nick DePola. Buoniconti and Pottios have led the team in the tackle department while DePola has scored the lone touchdown for the defensive unit.
In team statistics Notre Dame has a much more impressive record than their one win, five defeats mark would indicate. The Irish have gained 970 yards on the ground while their opponents have amassed 928 yards. In first downs the team has 79 against the opposition’s 85. The big difference has been passing where the Irish have completed only 36 out of 110 attempts while the opposition has completed 40 out of 76. It must be remembered, that the Irish have faced some of the best passers in the nation in Randy Gold, Bernie Allen, Maury Guttman, Ray Farris, Tommy Wilson, Dick Thornton, Hal Spooner and Harry Dietz.
In the all important department of scoring, Notre Dame’s weakness is shown. The Irish have scored 60 points for a weak ten point per game average while their opponents have scored 112 points.
The most noticeable improvement in Notre Dame’s over-all performance cannot be recorded in the statistics. It is the more aggressive attitude and effort which the team now has. Last week against Navy, this aggressiveness was apparent.
28
PREDICTION FROM NAVY:
HAFFNER IS READY
by BILL CARY
Ever since the day George Halas was invited to Notre Dame to install the T-formation for Frank Leahy’s squad, the quarterback has been the key operator in the Notre Dame system of attack. The first great T-formation quarterback at Notre Dame was passing virtuoso Angelo Bertelli. Aftei- Bertelli came a succession of All-American performers, namely Lujack, Tripucka, Williams, Guglielmi, Hornung and Izo. The AllAmerican quarterback and Notre Dame became synonymous terms.
Top-flight performance. The 1960 Notre Dame-Navy game played last Saturday in Philadelphia’s Municipal Stadium was the setting for an All-American performance by Irish signal caller George Joseph Haffner. George completed 7 of 14 passes for 165 yards. He adroitly picked apart the Navy defense with trap plays featuring Angelo Da-biero and end sweeps with George Sefcik in the starring role. His passing was deadly. This brilliant performance by the rugged Chicago junioi- gave new hope to Irish partisans in this dismal football campaign.
Haffner came to Notre Dame with none of the fanfare that preceded other great Irish quarterbacks. In fact on the freshman team he was rated no better than third man behind Tom Jorling and Tom Bonofiglio. However, when both Jorling and Bonofiglio were injured in early practice sessions in the fall of
GEORGE HAFFNER Leads Irish against Pitt
1959, Haffner found himself the number three quarterback behind seniors George Izo and Don White. When Izo was forced out with a knee ailment, Haffner became the chief relief man for White.
George played 77 minutes last fall. He completed 8 of 22 tosses for 117 yards and one touchdown. His defensive record showed 12 tackles.
Irish hopes for 1960 were high and one of the big hopes was that Haffner would be able to fill the shoes of Izo. The 21-7 opening game win over California saw George give an acceptable performance. But the Purdue disaster was impending, a disaster which started the Irish on their current five-game losing streak. Haffner brought some ray of sunshine to this gloomy picture with good showings against North Carolina and Northwestern. Then came the Navy game in which the Haffner-led Notre Dame eleven was tops in every depart- 4 ment except the final score.	'
It is true that one good performance does not make a player great. The mark of greatness in football, as in any game, is consistency. This lack of consistency is the reason why the Irish sport a 1-5 record instead of the opposite. But each week the team has been putting more consistency into their play. The offense, with Haffner at the controls, piled up 340 yards in the Navy skirmish, 175 4 rushing and 165 passing. A definite nearness to the proper offensive ratio prescribed by Joe Kuharich was realized in this 14-7 heartbreaker.
His prep career. George prepped at Mount Carmel in Chicago where he was tutored by former Irish quarterback Tom Carey. On the same Mount Carmel team was Jim Sherlock, the fine sophomore end who caught the touchdown pass from = George in the Northwestern game. A key play in the lone Irish touchdown drive last Saturday was a 16-yard Haffner-to-Sherlock aerial which set up the three-yard scoring dash of Dabiero.
Haffner can throw long and accurately in a similar mannei- to Izo. But Haffner is also a good runner as he showed last Saturday when he ran several times for sizeable gains when seemingly trapped by a host of Middies. He also is one of g the top defensive performers, ranking among the leaders in tackles and passes intercepted and broken up.
This is the story on George Haffner. Only time will tell if he will be the answer to the quarterback problem. His fine play in the second half of the Northwestern game and the stellar job he turned in against Navy indicate that George is the man to lead Notre Dame back to gridiron success.
9
The Scholastic
“JET 14"
John Zusi skippers
Foul Costs Irish Sailors Victory In Price Regatta
Due to a splendid team effort the •Notre Dame Sailing Team finished a strong second at the Cary Price Memorial Regatta, hosted by the University of Michigan at Base Line Lake, near Ann Arbor, last week end. The difference between first and second place was an Irish foul in the first race.
Starting slowly in light winds on Saturday the Ramblers gradually worked up to consistent finishes within the top three. Becoming experienced Owith new boats, they continued to do well in the stronger airs on Sunday. In fact the regatta was touch and go from the first to the last race. Chuck Finnigan, J. Michael Zusi and Art Lange skippered; J. Weenie Kuras, Lange and Zusi crewed. Reserve crews were Marty Meyer and Hank Chamberlin. Ed Bukowski was team captain.
Final scores were: Michigan, 97; WNotre Dame, 93; Wayne 84; Purdue, 81; Detroit Institute of Technicology, 76; Beloit, 73; Michigan State, 68; Detroit, 40.
The Sailing Club still has free open sailing on St. Joseph’s Lake every afternoon after two o’clock. Meetings for interested sailors and nonsailors are held at 7:30 p.m. in 209 Engineering Building.
This Sunday starting at 9:45 a.m. the •club is holding an interclub regatta on St. Joseph’s Lake. The winner will be given a chance to skipper in an intercollegiate regatta next spring.
Anyone interested in skippering or crewing in this regatta should be at the lake by 9:30. Only members are eligible to skipper, but club membership can be procured Sunday morning. Crews may be composed of nonmembers.
—Ed Bukowski
November 4, I960
TIME OUT
“The Fighting Irish: Yesterday’s Heroes—Today’s Bums”—The preceding was a headline in the sports section of a Nebraska newspaper, sent to me by a Notre Dame alumnus in that area. The story following these emphatic headlines stated, in essence, that Notre Dame football was on the down-swing because of several reasons: a tough schedule, the difficult academic program and, primarily, a gradual de-emphasis of football at the University. The article went on to say that “The alumni are a strange breed. They were bred on championship teams and raised on All-American players. They consider victory their natural right. When victory escapes them, they howl. And they’re howling right now, every day from Sunday through Saturday — but mostly on Saturday afternoons.”
Enclosed with the clipping was a letter from the alumnus, a letter which questioned if there was anyone on the Notre Dame campus who gave a “hoot” whether we had a good football team or not. I’ll answer that question right now. There are those of us who care — players, coaches,' students and administrators alike. Advocates of good football at the University realize, and rightfully so, that football has always been outstanding here. There is no reason to change now. This year, more so than at any other time in Notre Dame’s outstanding athletic histoiy, Irish football fans have had to answer the controversial question, “Should Notre Dame de-emphasize football?” I say absolutely not!
NO BASIS FOR ARGUMENT
Just what is the basis for this subject of football de-emphasis? Really, there is none. Those persons ridiculing Notre Dame football and the fame accompanying it have concluded, somehow, that good football and good scholastic achievement are at opposite poles — if you take one, you sacrifice the other. This is just a mistaken guess. The example of Notre Dame itself proves such speculation to be wrong. Scholastic achievement and football success have been combined here in such an effective manner that Notre Dame has achieved an outstanding name in both spheres. At no period in Notre Dame’s histoiy has the football program ever interfered with the academic progress of the school.
Perhaps the issue is more prevalent now than in the past due to the unsuccessful season. Examining the won and lost record, the de-emphasizers think that they have made headway, that football is on its way out as a big college sport at Notre Dame. But I say that football has not been deemphasized. It’s too much a part of the University, it’s too much a part of the student and it’s too much a part of the alumni. Such a spirit cannot be held down.
A CHAMPIONSHIP PERFORMANCE
There is no doubt in anyone’s mind that Notre Dame’s performance against high ranking Navy last Saturday was the squad’s supreme effort of the season. For the first time this season, the Irish jelled as a unit and from start to finish, it was eleven heads instead of one. The Kuharichmen demonstrated their desire early in the game; in fact, right after the Joe Bellino-led Middies had electrified the crowd with their opening touchdown drive. From there on, it was a different ball game and the Irish were in the driver’s seat. They had not given up — instead, they played harder. It didn’t pay off on the scoreboard but it will pay off in the remaining contests for the Irish this season. If this Notre Dame team can continue to improve as it has done in the past two weeks, future Notre Dame opponents can expect only one thing — trouble!
The “bad-luck junx” played a big part in last Saturday’s game. Notre Dame was moving the ball very well when the most debatable call of’ the afternoon resulted. On a George Haffner to Les Traver pass, it was ruled that Traver had trapped the ball instead of catching it, thus eliminating a long gain. The Irish offense was thwarted again when, moving the ball toward the Middie goal, an offensive interference call on a Haffner pass gave the ball to the Middies.
A STRONG DEFENSE AGAIN
For the second week in a row, the Notre Dame defensive line and backs played exceptional football. So charging was the defensive front wall that Navy’s outstanding passer, Hal Spooner, experienced his worst game of the season. Seldom was Spooner able to find his receivers clear and, when forced to run, he could go nowhere. All-American Bellino was the only Middie back who ran well and most of his total of 113 yards was amassed in Navy’s first touchdown drive.	—J. Ki
29
VERSATILE!
THE RUGGED DOUBLE REVERSE
COAT
his
SPORTSWEAR
Dashing full-length coat of 20 oz. Virgin Wool authentic plaid blanket; reverses to a deep-pile 12 oz. Corduroy. Bulky-knit collar, slash pockets, dropped shoulders, side vents, leather buttons. In brilliant blanket colors backed up by Corduroy in choice of striking shades. At college shops...$35.
ODDS and ENDS
Last Saturday’s contest between Xavier and Cincinnati ended up with Xavier winning the game by the unusual score of 5-0. The victors put together a field goal and a safety in the first half to clinch the victory.
If Ohio State is hurting at the fullback position due to the loss of All-American Bob White, it certainly wasn’t apparent last Saturday. The Buckeye coaching staff
ROCCO'S
537 NO. ST. LOUIS BLVD.
Sirloin Steak Spec. Tues. $1.50
CarryOuts - CE 3-0976
In the same time-honored tradition
ROCCO'S NEW RESTAURANT Just a forward pass away from Notre Dame Stadium
CARRYOUTS - OPEN SUNDAY
Private Dining Rooms for Clubs and Parties—for Reservations Call:
CE 4-7224
18142 SOUTH BEND AVE.
COLERIDGE
from The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, part VII
once again proved it could come up witl the men when needed as this year’s fullback Bob Ferguson has been truly outstanding in the Ohio State games to date. Ferguson was outstanding in the Buckeye’s victory over the Spartans.
“The Violent World of Sam Huff" made its first appearance on television last Sunday. Sam was wired in his shoulder pads so that his audible expressions during the game could be heard by the TV fans. Mr. Huff carried on a very engaging conversation and fortunately kept his temper down to a minimum during the game.
The Boston Celtics are off and running again in the National Basketball Association this year as they took their first two games of the current campaign with startling comebacks. With Bill Sharman’s great one-hand shooting, the Celtics should go a long, way again this year.
Previous to the Ohio State-Michigan State game last Saturday, the Buckeye halfbacks had carried the ball from scrimmage only ten times all season. Woody Hayes, the Ohio mentor, obviously realized that the Spartans would concentrate on stopping the “double duo” of Tom Matte and Bob Ferguson. So Woody turned loose a 24-year-old service veteran by the name of Bob^ Klein who was a thorn in the Spartan’s-side all afternoon in addition to scoring on a 46-yard burst off tackle for the initial score of the afternoon for the men from Columbus. . . .
For colorful 17',x22', Varsity Poster— send 25c to HIS, Dept CC, 230 Fifth Ave., N.Y. 1. For set of 6 posters (6 different sports)
30
The Scholastic
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
• EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
BIG DEAL I
$
PAPERQMATE CAPRI MARK III
WAS12K
NOW
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on - the - campus
L
FOOTBALL REVIEW SEEKERS
The 1960 Notre Dame FOOTBALL REVIEW will come out on December 2. As a regular issue of the SCHOLASTIC, the Review will be distributed to all students with SCHOLASTIC subscriptions.
Those not subscribing to the SCHOLASTIC but wishing to purchase the REVIEW should contact University Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. The price is 50 cents.
CAKY CALLS ’EM
Tonight	■
Miami (Fla.) over Florida State Detroit over Marquette
Tomorrow
Syracuse over Army Auburn over Mississippi State Southern California over Washington Missouri over Colorado Illinois over Michigan Arkansas over Rice Florida over Georgia Ohio State over Indiana Yale over Penn
Kansas over Nebraska Tennessee over Georgia Tech Navy over Duke UCLA over California Princeton over Harvard Oklahoma over Iowa State New Mexico over Brigham Young LSU over South Carolina Michigan State over Purdue Northwestern over Wisconsin Pittsburgh over Notre Dame
Game of the Week
Texas over Baylor
Upset of the Week Minnesota over Iowa
Last Week’s Results 17 right, seven wrong, one tie 70.8 per cent
Totals To Date 91 right, 31 wrong, four ties 74.6 per cent
Garvin Gets Triplicate In Kegler Competition
Last Sunday the Notre Dame Bowling Team swallowed a six-pin defeat in the first game and went on to humiliate a surprized DePaul squad, 9-2. Led by Sophomore Bill Lieber’s 200-210-182-225236 — 1053, the Irish alleymen were never seriously challenged, sweeping 4 of 5 games and series total. The scores were:
Notre Dame— 856, 973, 945, 945, 993 — 4712
DePaul U.—
862, 870, 888, 829, 944 — 4393
In the Classic League, The Bowler’s Shop is tied with Don Dvorak’s squad at 13-3. High averages are Dan Halloran at 195, and Frosh Tim Kelley at 180. Highlights in the Kogler’s last week were the 133 triplicate rolled by Ed Garvin in the late Thursday league, and a 197-225-210 — 632 rolled by Herb Moeller in the same league.
The bowling scores have continued to be outstanding and the number of bowlers competing is also an encouraging factor.
—Dan Halloran
31
November 4, 1960
Letters to the Editor
(Continued from page 5) to subject the students to an Escape column week after week without fail despite lack of worthy material, I have two suggestions to make.
First, change the name of the column to something that does not imply that which the present title conveys. Second, it seems to me that in the past issues of the Scholastic (Ones that are 4 or more years old now) there should be many good Escape columns that are universal enough to be printed today.
Bill Lehr
WE GET LETTERS
All letters to the editor should be mailed to the editor at room 320, Walsh Hall. Letters must be received by Tuesday morning to insure printing in the Friday issue. Readers are requested to type their letters.
NAMCHT CAFETERIA
1415 Lincolnway West Savory Food Since 1897
FREE PARKING
ENGINEERS * MATHEMATICIANS * PHYSICAL SCIENTISTS
BUILD YOUR CAREER TO SUIT YOUR TALENTS AT
BENDIX REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE ON CAMPUS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14
TO INTERVIEW GRADUATES AND GRADUATING SENIORS WITH THESE DEGREES:
B.S. • M.S. • Ph.D.
E.E. • M.E. • A.E. • PHYSICS • MATH
FOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS IN:
bectromcs COMPUTES MSTRUMENTATION COMMUNKAT1ONS
HECTROMECHAMCS
AUTOMATION AND CONTROLS
SOLID STATE PHYSICS PROPULSION CONTROLS
- ULTRASOMCS NUCUONKS COMBUSTION RADAR ‘ ■ ■
SYSTEMS ANALYSIS HYDRAULICS METALLURGY STRUCTURES
See your Placement Director about a Bendix interview. If you an unable to arrange this, write for fol detoils on
Bendix career opportunities. Address: Mr. GO. Cleveland, The Bendix Corporation RdiorBuMing, Detroit 2, Mich.	<
The Scholastic
32
A Matter of Opinion (Continued from page 24) bor and management, he contends, will consolidate to form the Producing Power. Rounding out his conception of future groups are Public Administrators on the State and Local Level, The Edu
cators (for these latter’ two we but hope), and, uniquely enough, .Armed Forces.
f Chairman D’Antonio brought the cussion to a close because of the
can
The
dislate
hour. Many thanks are due D’Antonio, the four visiting professors, SBP Keegan, and all those unsung coordinators who are so necessary for any successful undertaking of the symposium’s size. Meager student participation was, as usual, the case. Perhaps cancelled cuts are in part the answer. We can think of few projects more worthy of .this consideration.
—Frank Smith
At the Theaters
(Continued from page 24) who promptly marries her while knowing nothing of her previous adventures and unaware that their baby is somewhat premature. Wagner in the meantime has met Miss Kohner, and they promptly marry. This situation would .be very confusing if the baby ever tries ’to trace his ancestry. Miss Bailey plays a singer determined to develop Wagner’s talent as a trumpet player. When she dies at the end of the film, we are treated to what is now standard fare in the
HAMILTON STANDARD DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
WILL INTERVIEW ON
NOVEMBER 9 and 10
concerning scientific positions in
tron Beam Technology and our Research Laboratory.
burial of a Negro, with plenty of singing a capella, even if the music is provided by a modest jazz band. Very touching indeed. Both married couples find out they really love each other, and so nobody is too upset over the revelation of whose child Miss Wood was carrying all the time. And they live happily ever after, without the child ever discerning the difference between uncle, father, aunt and mother. Very cute.
But it isn’t alone, because all these cannibals are invited to introduce One Foot in Hell. The results are disastrous. The worst liability of the movie is its “star,” Alan Ladd. In this gem, he plays some sort of itchy trigger-finger maniac who sets out to murder a whole town. Don Murray stars as an alcoholic veteran of the Civil War, Dolores Michaels plays a not-so-nice girl with a very long past, Barry Coe plays a fast gun and nothing more and Dan O’Herlihy plays
Positions with Potential
ENGINEERS • CHEMISTS • PHYSICISTS
Ceramic • Chemical • Civil Electrical • Industrial • Mechanical Metallurgical
National Carbon Company, America’s leading manufacturer of carbon and graphite products, offers positions to qualified B.S. and M.S. graduates in the fields listed above.
Our products include graphite anodes, electrodes, motor and generator brushes, arc carbons, special graphite shapes used in nuclear, missile, and a wide variety of industrial applications.
We serve such key industries as aircraft, aluminum, automotive, chemical, mining, motion pictures, nuclear, steel, transportation, and the electrical manufacturers.
Positions are available at 12 plants and laboratories located in Ohio, New York, West Virginia and Tennessee and also in our Marketing organization which covers the 48 states from nine key cities. -
Interesting, rewarding careers in research, process and product development, production and methods engineering, product and process control, machine development, plant engineering, marketing, technical sales and technical service.
ANationalCarbonrepresentativewillbeoncampus.
Monday, November 7
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY
a man with little else than a golda^ oratory. The funny twist is that Ladd? is the sheriff of the town he plans to victimize. This is funny. In the end, everybody meets face to face and a thrilling climax is in the making: whew,; Ladd murders Coe and O’Herlihy, his former accomplices, and Mimi Mi«tbariy in turn proceeds to drill him as he ia about to dispose of Murray. ' :	'
Before that, Ladd had managed to relieve the local banker of $100,000, but the money is returned by Murray and. Miss Michaels, in an effort to. go straight. They are given a chance to vamoose, but to go really straight they have to spend about ten years in jail before they can live happily ever after.: But ten years is an awful long time. And this is all the result of 90 minutes of film — generally poor film, at that. Miss it. If you go see the other <me^ get out before this one starts.
—Tony Wong

w

November 4, 1960
9
a closer look-at the bengals
Perennially the question of whether the Bengal Mission Bouts are moral or immoral is raised; it is usually quickly answered that they must be moral because every reasonable precaution is taken to prevent serious injury to the boxers, and the attitudes of the boxers are not incompatible with Christian charity. But the recurrence of the question, and the fact that the glib appeal to safety and sportsmanship never satisfies everyone, necessitates an analysis of the position: “The Bengal Mission Bouts are immoral and are totally out of place on the Notre Dame campus.”
SAFETY IN THE RING
Certainly the standards of safety and sportsmanship set up by Mr. Napolitano are the highest possible. But the claim that the precautions taken are a reasonable preventive of serious injury is not entirely true. These precautions probably do prevent permanent injuries; but a very common occurence in boxing matches is the partial loss of consciousness when a particularly sharp blow is struck to the head of a boxer. Often spectators who have never been in the ring fail to appreciate a boxer’s powerlessness when his senses have been dulled. You will see a courageous boxer retreating from his opponent, not fighting back but only trying to defend himself while his brain clears. A hard jab sustained on the side of the head or on the jaw probably will deprive a boxer of his clear idea of how to attack his opponent, and it will make his actions uncoordinated, at least in comparison to his powers of coordination at the time he stepped into the ring. It is in these times of partial consciousness that many fights are won or lost. In the Bengal Bouts the referees often stop fights because boxers are dazed and at the mercy of their opponents, and the bouts are declared technical knock-outs.
34
Both sides in this question agree that the bouts would be immoral if there were a chance of serious injuries being incurred. But in fact those defending the bouts merely mean they would be immoral if there was a chance of permanent injury. The Church has defined the voluntary putting of oneself in a condition of partial consciousness as a sin against the fifth commandment. Therefore we must consider a technical knockout a serious injury, even though it is not permanent. Interpretation of any one case may be unclear because there are degrees of sinfulness just as there are degrees of consciousness; for example, intoxication becomes a sin before complete unconsciousness is reached. The frequency of technical knock-outs in the Bengal Bouts casts a shadow over the morality of the bouts.
Yet more important than the immorality of a man’s unnecessarily putting himself in a position where he may be deprived of full consciousness is the psychological effect of boxing upon a man’s spiritual life.
The Church fully realizes the organic psychological structure of man; how his bodily, rational and spiritual faculties interact with one another. Good or bad actions necessarily lead to good or bad intentions, and vice versa; and all these affect man’s spiritual life. This is why Christ instituted the Sacraments — outward signs that give grace. A man’s salvation or damnation is intimately bound up with outward signs, whether we call them symbols, environment, or bodily actions.
A man boxes primarily for the pleasure he derives from the sport of boxing — this is licit intention. But because his boxing will affect his rational and spiritual life he must consider whether the effects on these two higher levels of his being will be good or bad for him as a Christian. Will his boxing accord with the spirit of the fifth commandment, as set forth in the Catechism of
the Council of Trent: “The fifth commandment bids us to cherish sentiments of charity, concord, and friendship toward our enemies, to have peace with all men, and finally to endure with patience every inconvenience.”? Can a’ sport in which a man’s competence is judged by the number of times he hits his opponent with powerful, clean blows be said to encourage the spirit defined above?
Boxing is civilized combat or fighting. There would be no question of its sinfulness if a boxer’s intention was to inflict bodily harm on his opponent. We have kept the fighting but have replaced the unchristian intentions with a solici-? tude for the safety of the fighters. So now we boast that our Bengal Bouts are conducted in the Christian spirit.
BOXING OR IMAGE
This attitude is as unreal as that of Luther, who thought that a man could by and large do what he pleased because^ his actions had no effect on his salvation (“justification by faith alone.”) But we must take our picture of man from the deposit of Catholic troth. We must realize that man cannot believe one thing and do another: a man cannot fight other men and still cherish sentiments of charity, concord, and friendship toward his enemies, have peace with all men, and endure with patience every inconvenience.
The Image of God in man must be£ revered, and boxing insults It. The continued support given to boxing in any form in a Christian community cannot but be regarded as totally contrary to the- apostolic spirit, the spreading of love. Boxing, in opposition to the Notre Dame ideal, is a scandal. We can no longer support the annual Bengal Mission Bouts. We must put our own house in order before we preach Christian excellence to a secular America.
.	ft
The Scholastic
the traditional look in broadcloth sport shirts
The fabric, the fashion, the feeling ... all lend the look of classic authenticity to these favored sport shirts. Distinctively printed on broadcloth in handsome, muted colorings . . . styled with buttondown collar and back pleat. Tailored in exact sleeve length.
$5.00
cum laude collection by
-ARROW*
classics...
in casual fashion
Sport shirts with authentic flair ... naturally favored by the man of defined tastes. Rich, subtle prints on fine broadcloth ... well-turned out in the traditional buttondown collar. You’ll be proud to wear these sport shirts from our Arrow Cum Laude collection.	$5.00
GILBERT'
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
The big difference is IFILTER-BLEND
and only Winston has it!
Wsfon
K I N G
.'3
Z3
Also available in crush-proof box.
For
mlMMAXSX J ZiM> (HXM
•CM QUARTET


—
R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N.C.
A lot is being said these days about flavor in filter cigarettes. But remember Winston was the one that put flavor into filter smoking by developing exclusive FILTER-BLENDl -rich, golden tobaccos not only specially selected, but also specially processed for filter smoking.
So try Winston! It’s America’s bestselling filter cigarette, because it’s America’s best-tasting filter cigarette.
I
> I
" -X3 ■ •
<1


Winston tastes good-like a cigarette should!