
·Is Liberal Education Falling Short? 



&. NEJ~~, (! 

&~~ J(S~ 
Fresh and Salt Water Fish Live Aquarium Plants Aquariums and Supplies 
10% off Fish and dry-goods ­(excluding feeder goldfish) with ND/SMC Student I.D. 
415 Dixieway North Hours: 11 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. (Across from Wendy's) Mon.-Sat. 277-4862 
_Now WitL



s,, R· 
II (frorr, I /chard's 
eft to right) 
Soel\1 Loura ;tthews Soe p Osore ti Poot orPort orn,er1y ofC.a Jones (Which ison,n,llhdPerti out of bus· orn,ance
1,-.. mess)
• b. qey Jo. , •. 
11"-'ch c ,,,

• So 0 dde277-0734 e Dickers:~~ 
~ir 1Rirhar s 
NEW HOURS: Monday thru Frida .. for me!" and w~_men Saturday a./ 9•8 V1s1~ Our Location at 417 D1x1eway North 1n Roseland across from Wendy's 
Special
savings! 
STUDENTS ONLY! 
(Thru November 30th. Must have valid I.D.) 



-½ OFF­
ALL PHOTO-DEVELOPING 

Reg. Student 12-color prints + developing C-126 $4.40 $2.20 24-color prints + developing C-110 $8.12 $4.06 36-color prints + developing C-135 $12.32 $6.16 
QUALITY PHOTO-TECH DEVELOPING IN MATTE OR GLOSSY FINISH 
Z "'Pu.itt1wof Stuiu tJ. C--,tlili.Dt PULU" ­

o10501ueW ¦ yNonh(US Jl)Aouland 272-6060 



1€~;:;1 


All Your Flower Needs 
• 
Corsages • Plants 

• 
Gift I terns • Wire Service 


Mon. thru Fri. -9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Sat. -9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
272-6363 409 Dixie Way N. 


( 'h Mi. N. of Campus) leleflora 

SCHOLASTIC 
Vol. 124, No. 3, October 1982 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
FEATURES 4 General Humanities Are Not Necessarily 
Liberal Prof. Kenneth Featherstone 5 The Liberating Arts Prof. James Carberry 6 The Thomas More Society 
An interview with its founder ... Scholastic 
8 Why Shakespeare? 
Why not? Julie Wodarcyk 
10 In Search of the Bard A visit to Shakespeare's hometown ... Tim Vercellotti 


12 Max Lerner: We Have a Lot to Learn 
Views on education ... Michelle Dietz 
18 The Program of Liberal Studies: Two Views 
Point-Counterpoint . . .  Alice Douglas, Jeff Monaghan  
22  Molding the "Renaissance Man" A Student for All Seasons ...  Tom Allen, Sue Schuller  
23  Comedy A serious look ...  Prof. Robert Lordi  
RE GULARS  
15  Fiction/In the Sun  Katharine Stalter  
16 Gallery/Figurative Works  Jeff Ripple  
20  Poetry  
28  Last Word  Beth Healy  


The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame,· Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. copyright © 1982 Scholastic / all rights reserved i none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. 


page 8 
page 12 


Up Front 



0 DVD 
.
DD 

Edge-Equate-Id 

We're all here at Notre Dame as­piring to become educated in our own way. In examining all the differ­ent essences of education, I've found some fun ones, namely phonetics and art. As the latest innovations in edu­cation they refresh my ideas, help me to become well-rounded · and edge-equate-id. 
What's this all about? Well, start with the basics, the edges. The first thing I learned was that I was a child-DOT, and I had parents­DOT. In connecting the dots, a di­mension formed. More self-revela­tions drew in more lines: I am a sister, a friend, a student.... Thus. a rugged. outline of self took form, and I was left to ease the edges and paint my seli-portrait. 
So, I have my portrait, but what do I equate it with? (Certainly not DaVinci!) Well, using it like my magic mirror (remember Romper Room?), I could look at myself be­fore sizing others up. I try to under­stand the differences which I note between myself and others. It's just 
. === =>=,::,.,=-=-=,.-,,~~ 
by Anne Marie Jehle 
another step in self-evaiuation 

comparison with others. The equa­tion "ME -SOMEONE OTHER THAN ME" arises. I know the sig­nificance of >, <, '.::::'., = signs, and realize their implications. Though I . aspire to the optimal = stance, my insecurities often lead to a < view­point. Relating myself to others helps me paint in the background of 
my portrait. 
But where does the id come into 
the picture? Is it that shady side of 
myself: instincts, drives, aggressions, 
which I mask to prevent the darken­
ing of my self-image? No, I cannot 
rid myself of this id by simply ignor­
ing it. There is a place for it, but I 
must not put it in its place. I must 
instead transform it into something 
beautiful. It adds a tint to my por­
trait, not to be mistaken for a taint. 
Thus I become edge-equate-id and 
I frame my portrait. 
Maybe someday I'll try my hand 
at a skull-tour. D 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

1982-1983 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Beth Healy 

· GENERAL MANAGER ' Pat Pitz 
Culture/Fiction Editor 
Sheila Beatty 
News/Sports Editor 
Dan McGrath 
Photo Editor 
Mike Delany 
St. Mary's Editor 
Tara Jones 
Copy Editors 
Tom Wrobel 
Julie Wodarcyk 
Advertising Manager 
Brian Graham 
Distribution Manager 
Michael Meeks 
Business Manager 
Jim Dever 
Layout Editor 
Charles van Ravenswaay 
Art Editor 
Tamera Mams 
Advisor: 
Fr. Mario Pedi, O.S.B. 

CREDITS Cover: 

•MarcDeJong 
Letters to the Editor 
Dear Editor: 
This past weekend, my wife and I visited the Notre Dame campus to cover the Notre Dame-Michigan game and ran into a copy of your Scholastic Magazine. I was very much impressed by the article "Dis­cipline and Desire" by Ms. Baille and Brian Couch. They did an outstand­ing job writing a most informative piece. It was professionally done and I would like to compliment both of them for their work. 
The fact that their prognosis was a good one is indicated by the way Notre Dame performed against Michigan. I may add that the entire magazine was most readable and I enjoyed reading every article while waiting to see the game. 
Sincerely, 
Roger Stanton 
Publisher, Football News­
Basketball Weekly 
Illustrations: 
Dale Marner, Poetry; Delia Thomas, Fie~ tion; Laura Stover, Shakespeare 

. Photographs: Mike Delany, p. 9, 10, 11, 12, 18, 19, 28; Mike Leary, p. 4, 5, 25; Darlene Armstrong, p. 22 



Scholastic Notables 
Higher Ed? Give 'em an A. 

Americans feel that the overall quality of education in this country -both public and private -is good or excellent, according to a nation­wide public opinion survey. These findings are from a comprehensive study by representatives of 11 higher education associations and released by J. W. Pellason, president of the American Council on Education and by Father Hesburgh. 
Group Attitudes Corporation of New York, the wholly owned sub­sidiary of Hill and Knowlton, Inc., the international public relations firm, conducted the study. In rating the overall quality of a college edu­cation in the United States, 72.5 per­cent of all respondents gave academe a better than passing grade, with 
16.9 percent rating higher education in this country as "excellent" and 
55.6 percent rating it as "good." 23.1 percent categorize higher education as "fair," and only 3.6 percent view it as "poor." 
The poll reveals that Americans are very supportive of higher educa­tion, but the poll also shows that they have a number of concerns about higher education that need to be addressed. Americans are ex­tremely concerned about the rising costs of higher education, and are worried about their own ability to pay for a college education for their children. They would also like to see more federal aid for needy stu­dents. Also, Americans tend to view higher education as a means of ob­taining good-paying jobs rather than as a means of creating better-in­formed citizenry. 
Academe Nix Nukes 

Father Hesburgh joined 35 aca­demic leaders, representing 25 col­leges and universities from through­out the country, in calling upon President Reagan to "seek seriously and vigorously" alternatives to nu­clear war. 
On Sept. 17, a letter was signed by active and retired presidents and 
OCTOBER, 1982 
board chairmen of private and state colleges and universities. The Presi­dent was asked to make a "major in­vestment in planning, negotiating, and cooperating to establish civilized, effective, and morally acceptable al­ternatives to nuclear war ..." 
While supporting the President's proposals to reduce nuclear arsenals, the academicians did not propose un­balanced trust of the Soviet Union. The letter called for a balanced re­duction of nuclear weapons, moving toward ultimate elimination. 
According to Father Hesburgh, the letter was motivated by the increas­ing concern of those who are the "custodians of the knowledge and wisdom on which civilizations are based" about the "catastrophe that major nuclear war would represent to the American people and to all civilizations." 
In addition to Father Hesburgh, signators to the letter include aca­demic leaders of universities such as Harvard, Radcliffe, MIT, Johns Hop­kins, and Stanford. 
... And ND Means Business 

More business leaders took their undergraduate degrees at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame than at any other American Catholic college or university, according to a survey done by Standard & Poor's Corpora­tion. 
The fourth study of the educa­tional backgrounds of more than 50,000 top executives and directors included about 500 institutions of higher learning in the United States. Of the executives surveyed, 553 busi­ness leaders hold Notre Dame under­graduate degrees. Fordham Univer­sity came in second with a total of 312. 
Notre Dame was 11th among the nation's private universities, and when compared with all the colleges and universities, Notre Dame ranked 
23. This is definitely a pat on the back for Notre Dame and an inter­esting statistic in light of Notre Dame's commitment to liberal edu­cation. May it be noted that Yale University, where liberal arts require­ments for technical majors such as business and engineering are the highest, was first in undergraduate degrees with a total of 1,697. 

Calpurnia in Juniper 
The student-owned and -operated 

Juniper Press begins a seventh year 
of book publishing this semester. 
Members of Dr. Elizabeth Christ­
man's book publishing course have 
selected as this year's manuscript, 
The Frozen Maiden of Galpurnia, by 
Dr. Ralph Mclnerny, director of 
Notre Dame's Medieval Institute. Re­
lease of the book is expected in late 
October. 
The new Mclnerny manuscript, the 

third to be selected by Juniper Press, 
is described as a "witty, whimsical 
modern-day myth." Students in the 
class select one manuscript from sev­
eral submitted by University staff 
members or students and guide it 
through a number of publication and 
promotional steps. Two books pub­
lished by Juniper Press which have 
been termed outstanding successes 
are Michael Molinelli's cartoons on 
campus life, On the Road to Selling 
Out and Don't Make a Right. 

Coming Up.... 
On Nov. 22 and 23, Notre Dame's 

Center for the Study of Man in Con­temporary Society will sponsor a conference entitled "The Responsi­bilities of Journalism" in the Uni­versity's Center for Continuing Edu­. cation. The conference will explore what responsibility in journalism means to the news person, to the government official, to the business person, to the ethicist, and to the citizen. The keynote speaker will be Edwin Newman, new correspondent for NBC and author of Strictly 
Speaking and A Civil Tongue. 

Liberal Education 
Who is really an educated person? 

General Humanities Are Not Necessarily Liberal 
by Professor Kenneth Featherstone 
Liberal 1.· s often used t.o de­scribe education when gen­eral would be much more ac­curate. This is probably because lib­eral education sounds so much better than general education. These days anything to do with liberal is almost automatically considered conse­crated. Similarly if you are talking of liberal education it is presumed that in some way you are likely dis­cussing the humanities. I am not sure that the presumptuous human­ities have the lock on all of the pos­sible ways to study humanity and humaneness. There is something rather fishy about our almost reflex adoration of the use of general hu­manities as the core of a liberal edu­
cation. 
I say this because I understand the meaning of liberal to have much to do with its ancient Latin root, LI­BER, and therefore with the idea of freedom. Liberal education, to mefor one, is that kind of training which in­creases the possibility of freedom. Freedom, in all dimensions, has been the central thrust of human ambi­tions during much of history, and I think that liberal education should be conceived as something likely to further that thrust. 
What exactly is it that we want to be free from? Could it be that we want to be free from all of those things which seem to stand in our way as we strive to become as human as possible, to work towards the unique potential humanism that our Maker has so clearly offered us? Allow me to outline just four of these freedoms. · 
a. 
Freedom to resist genetically produced behavior, to overcome reflex actions, preconceptions, bi­ases and general bigotries. 

b. 
Freedom from constrain ts and repressions upon the capacity of imagination, that most marvelous of human gifts. 

c. 
Freedom to transcend the in­vidiousness of discursive com­munication, by use of the rich symbolic world of abstractions which exists just below the level of consciousness. 

d. 
Freedom to bring into existence things that were never there be­fore. This is to be almost divine, that is, to create. 


These are the kinds of objectives which liberality is all about. Is lib­eral education alive and well on North American campuses today? An inspection of university cata­logues is an overwhelming experi­ence. Such vast course offerings, literally I suppose in the millions. Such vast coverage of all wisdoms known or imagined to mankind. But I submit that all of this offers un­limited opportunity. for general, but not liberal, education. There is not much which suggests that it is con­cerned with helping people to es­cape from the grip of dc!_rkness. 
However, bearing in mind my de­scription of 'the sense and purpose of liberaf education, it might well be that it does exist in areas of study that we least expect, areas which we have been culturally trained to dis­miss as the antithesis of liberality. 
Consider, for example, an engi­neering or scientific course; it could be metallurgy or biology. Could it be that it contains significant ele­ments of liberality that, for instance, a humanities course does not? Ear­lier I outlined four freedoms; let us match four aspects of an engineering course to them, in the same sequence. 

a. 
Clear thinking, the drive to pen­etrate to the essence of a phenom­enon. 

b. 
Imagination, the expectation that the use of imagination will rearrange facts into new concepts. 

c. 
The use of symbolic systems of logic and mathematics to search deep into the complexities, and beauty, of natural law. The de­velopment of communicational means which transcend cultural and political barriers. 

d. 
Creation. Engineering in the ac­tual application of knowledge to solve practical problems. Solution by creation is, simply, engineering. 



So, there seems to me, ample evi­dence that liberal education is tak­ing place, where those who cannot remove their cultural blinkers least expect it to be. I suspect that trying to know a great deal about some­thing generates a great desire to comprehend complexities and to per­severe in a drive to reduce them to the simplicity and stark awesome­ness of nature's laws. There is as much joy, much more realization of human potential, happening in our laboratories than in our classes on Shakespeare, despite what our "hu­manists" would like us to believe. 
As we approach the second millen-• nium, now so startlingly close at hand, it becomes imperative that we come to grips with postindustrialism. Everybody, even Walter Cronkite, knows that we bungled the industrial revolution, and that we are now ap­parently insisting upon repetitions of the same kind. War, pestilence and famine reign rampant as always, only the dimensions interchange in various ratios. Do people become more human, that is to say more free? Not really. 
At Notre Dame, we can do a great deal about all this. Indeed we must, and we will. But it will not be by proliferations of centers or programs dedicated to social concerns and jus-. tice, or of more course offerings, or of requiring a few more hours of open electives for everybody. 
Rather, it should be by amending our institutional organization indi­rectly inherited from medieval Eu­rope, to a new.one. Even the array of our professions does not seem to be appropriate, and the array of our five colleges less so. Society urgently needs newcomers who can get into the postindustrial world with great competence, and with fresh "out­sights" of what must be done ·10 ad-
OCTOBER, 1982 
vance the liberty of the human spir­it. One without the other is simply pointless. 
Therefore, there would appear to be a case for a reexamination of our existing college system, and the tra­ditional subject concentrations. To do this may require new kinds of ai:1­ministrators, ones whose strengths have less to do with the idea of con-

The 


Liberating Arts 
by Professor James Carberry 
Conventional wisdom teaches 
that the Liberal Arts are ir­

relevant in modern times. Surely, it is argued, modern techno­logical society_ can carry on quite nicely sans knowledge of Aristotle or Dante. Or Shakespeare (as a Harvard dean recently declared). 
While those well educated in the disciplines of immediacy will suc­ceed, we may well ask, "To what end?" as did the British major when an American corporal observed that all of England could be put into one corner of Texas. Is the technocrat aware of ends? Practical conse­quences? At the risk of embarrassing our Theology Department, I defer to St. Thomas Aquinas who noted that the principle dictates the end. What solidation and preservation of aca­demic territory. One fundamental part of this process would be to con­ceive of ways to achieve the liberal spirit. The results could be aston­
i~~~ . 
Kenneth Featherstone is Professor of Architecture at Notre Dame. 
principle shall best guide us? That of the technocrat or the liberally edu­
cated? 
It is my contention that the Lib­eral Arts are of practical merit. This is obvious insofar as one must be able to read, write and speak with modest sophistication in order to study physics or philosophy. Thus, medieval education commenced with study of subjects (The Trtvium­grammar, dialectic and rhetoric) deemed indispensable to the study of advanced topics. Given the appalling inarticulateness of most American college students, perhaps the trivium ought to be restored. Alas, given the occupation of our public schools by the Attilas of the mind, the National Education Association, there is scant prospect of recreating such ele­mentary rigor. 
But what practical virtues mark literature and allied disciplines? 
The study of great literature promises to liberate one from the crass, mundane; from the grunts of· animality. Political Science may lib­erate you and your issue from tyr­anny. A command of history might liberate you from cultural amnesia; the arts from the crudities of modern caveman. And theological and philo­sophical studies may well liberate you from the worship of false gods. Hence the liberating arts. Note that I do not declare "will liberate" ­there is no guarantee, any more than a degree in Chemical Engineering as­sures one of achievement in that field. 
If, then, freedom from the crass 

and mundane, tyranny, cultural am­
nesia, bad taste and hollow worship 
is a practical end, then the Liberal Arts are indispensable whether one practices physics or poetry. 
What, then, is the status of the Liberal Arts content in engineering education? The Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) which dictates the content of engineering curricula requires a Humanities/Social Science content of a mere 12.5% of the total four­year program. A scant 16 credit hours for the average curriculum. At Notre Dame we are modestly blessed with a 24-hour requirement. Engineering students at Princeton and Yale are required to take 36 hours of liberal arts; a datum which surely accounts for the superior ar­ticulateness of those students. 
Of the 24 hours required at Notre Dame, 18 are designated -6 hours each of Theology and Philosophy, and 3 credits of Composition and Literature and 3 of a premature Freshman Seminar. Thus the en­gineering students in this bastion of liberal education actually are offered a trivial 6 credits with which to "lib­erate" themselves. And if, as often happens, they slip into some Social Science sequence in the freshman year, there remains no choice. (Since Engineering is heavily endowed with diverse sciences, it seems somewhat redundarrt that these students elect Social Sciences in lieu of Humani­ties.) 
For those who manage to rescue the meager 6 credits, there exists absolutely no structure in the choice. They walk to an academic buffet, a cafeteria of the mind, and are free to select intellectual baloney or cav­iar. Many of the best offerings in the Arts and Letters College are closed to College of Engineering students or require permission of the instructor who, understandably, must give pref­erence to AL majors. 
I'm obliged to contrast this shabby state of liberal education of engi­neering students at Notre Dame to­day with its status in the 1960s. Then every engineering student was re­quired to take 6 credits of the Collegiate Seminar -a Great Books discussion course eventually replaced by the Co_re Seminar. Our engin~r­ing majors were the envy of many at other campuses. In its infinite wis­dom the Notre Dame College of En­gineering Council eventually saw fit to relegate Collegiate Seminar from a requirement to an elective status. That benighted decision ended a unique experiment in the liberal edu­cation of engineers. 
Contrast our situation today with that at Yale. Last year a young woman was graduated from Yale 
with two majors: Chemical Engi­
neering and English, scarcely pos­
sible at Notre Dame with 6 elective 
hours of Humanities available in a 
four-year engineering curriculum. 
The lesson is clear: ABET and en­
gineering faculties are as unqualified 
to specify the substance of liberal 
education as are poets in dictating a 
physics syllabus. That is a generali­


''Engineering f acuities are as unqualified to specify the substance of liberal education as are poets in dictating a physics syllabus. '' 
~ 
zation, hardly a universal. But the 
fact is that poets evidence a respect 
for physics while engineers all too 
often exhibit an atavistic contempt 
or at best a patronizing attitude to­
ward the liberal arts. In the large, 
they are victims of Descartes, 
Rousseau and Dewey. The imperial­
ism of a logical positivism: a thesis 
neatly buried in the foundation of 
modern engineering education and 
one unrelieved by transcendental 
concerns. Rousseau's chains were 
forged in the Industrial Revolution. 
Technocrats have since been willing 
captives who surely seek not the lib­
eration of the arts. The Cartesian 
world is much neater than that of 
Dante ... and yet :_ yet an imper­
ialism of the self-styled "humanists" 
prevails to crystallize the intran­
sigence of the technocrat. A cavalier 
attitude toward science and tech­
nology is too often evidenced by at­
titudenizers more specialized (Res­
toration Poetry -1670, between 
June and August) than any physi­
cist known to me. 
The net result is the Balkanization ·of the academy. To each his own 
and to hell with the liberal education 
of our most precious species -the 
student. 
At root is the issue of the two cul­
tures -science and the humanities. 
The classic Leavis-Snow contro­
versy; an issue admirably addressed 
by Professor Otto Bird in .his book 
Cultures in Conflict (University of 
Notre Dame Press).· That· book is 
more widely adopted at· Yale .and 
Vassar than at Notre Dame. Pro­
fessor Bird taught at Notre Dame 
for many fruitful years before his 
recent retirement. Sic transit gloria mundi! Bird's treatise should be re­quired reading in the Behaviorist Sciences -a dark calling best prac­ticed in privacy between consenting adults. 
Michael Novak aptly describes the American republic as a complex, synergistic confluence of political, economic and cultural-moral ele­ments. It would seem·to follow that whatever be one's professional ·call­ing, a profound awareness of disci­plines which transcend one's profes­sion is not simply desirable but indis­pensable to intelligent citizenship. 




·,-,:_. "?!'a--·,. •• 
·.· \'.;.
-,.... ·'·-r-·:-. .,:; . ·. ;:-. '\ 
·.,D_t.__.,..;..·­
Bernard of Chartres in the twelfth century wisely observed that we sit upon a mountain built by others and thus view the terrain more clearly by rea!ion of those builders, our men­tors of the past. To our peril do we ignore them, as Santayana warned. 
And what university is obliged by its nature to go forth into history armed with a profound memory of the past? Surely one rooted in the Judea-Christian tradition. Notre Dame? Yes, if we eschew the deca­dent nonsense of logical positivism, abandon trendy concerns and restore a heritage which has s11stained civili­zation -that of the Liberal Arts. 
The Judeo-Christian university must remind, refresh and advance its students in those disciplines which promise to sustain a civilized vale of tears. The burden is great, given the egalitarian idiocies which plague our primary and secondary educational systems. An elitism of mind and spirit must be fostered: one which rejects trendy slogans, unexamined though noble goals, philosophically barren nostrums, and an inarticulateness which mirrors in­tellectual chaos. 
-To recognize that we are finite be­ings in an imperfect world is :the be­ginning of a wisdom transmitted with some signal eloquence by our liberating mentors of happy mem­ory. D 
James Carberry is Professor of Chemical Engineering at Notre Dame and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts in London, England. 


well as faculty and administrati~n. Paul Ir's major writings are ana1yzea I suspect the membership will in­each semester. crease substantially this year. 
Scholastic: What relevance does Scholastic: Hovv· do_ you understand Thomas More have today? a liberal arts education? . 
W egemer: Although More lived 450 W egemer: Here also More is helpful years ago, he has rightly been called in making useful distinctions.:· educa­the 20th-century saint par excellence. tion in the liberal arts is quite dif­The Church Herself suggests his im­ferent from a liberal education. The portance by canonizing him in 1935, seven liberal arts are simply pre­less than 30 years before Vatican II. paratory intellectual skills or tools This Council, of course, stressed the
i. 
needed to pursue serious intellectual layman's role in the Church; andIth work. Liberal education, however, is _ More, exceptional lawyer and famHy ( the product of many years of reflec­man that he was, clearly illustrates 
tion on the fundamental issues of the Catholic's role in serving society ! t life, reflection which frees the indi­through his personal and profes­
1. 
viduaUrom the current opinfons, the sional talents. o:rthodoxy, of his day. The core of
!mer, pre~ide,:wt education, as at­
any liberal More Scholastic: What are some of theI ---tests, is_ philosophy and theology; parallels between More's life and those subjects most closely identified modern life?
I 
:with wisdom. Traditionally they are
I 
Scholastic: ·When and why did you

).' .the core because they address most W egemer: Most of us are guilty of
i found the .Thomas More Society of directly and most cogently those picturing More as the great Englishr Notre'Dame? How many people are fundamental issues which each man statesman and chancellor who d.ra­
presently involved? 

must answer for himself: the pur­. matically resigned from the King's pose of life and the way he will live service, faithful to his conscience,·
W egemer: In September 1981 -the ­

that life. Philosophy arid theology glorious champion of ·the Church.
Society began .under More's patron­are best supplemented with the hu­But like the decisions which most ofage, largely because More epitomizes manities and social sciences, but the us make, there was little drama in! the liberally educated man who, like

'. extent to which that is possible what More did: he stepped down
most of us, had neither the leisure widely_ differs from person to person. quietly, for,.reasons of health," withnor the·fortune to have the "perfect virtually no support from family or curriculum" most educators like to Scholastic: Please give a brief de­friends. We are also guilty of over-.

talk about.As you maykriow, More's scription of the goals, purpose and emphasizing the picture of More as -professional _studies began at 16 outlook of the Society at Notre. 
one of England's greatest humoristswhen his father insisted that he do Dame. 
(which he was) and as the lovingsomething., useful! Complying with Wegemer: The· More Society is pri­husband and father who doted on hishis father's wishes, More supple-marily a study group which ad­wife and children (which he did).
mented his technical courses by seek-d:resses those perennial and contem­But at no point did More have aing the·guidance of carefully· chosen porary issues which each person charmed and easy life. More suffered teachers, teachers faithful to the must decide in his own personal, pro­to a greater extent than most of usChurch and genuinely cultured men. · fessional and family life. These is­will · ever suffer. His mother diedI would hope the More Society could sues are studied in light of the un­when he was young, and two of hisfacilitate a· similar type of -supple-changing principles of the Catholic subsequent stepmothers also died. He
menta:ry education. Faith, principles valued so _highly was a who thor­
brilliant .. studentAt the end of. last year, over 125 by More that he sacrificed family, . oughly loved _the "new learning," the

dues-paying .members had enrolled . position and life for therri. Like in the Society. This membership rep-More, the Society has great respect 
( continued on page 25)

resent:d_ ~U schools on campus as for the Pope, and a selection of J_ohn 
OCTOBER, 1982 
7 



Why Shakespeare? 
by Julie Wodarcyk 

Now with the drops of this most balmy time My love looks fresh, and Death to me subscribes, Since, spite of him, I'll live in this poor rhyme, While he insults o'er dull and speechless tribes; 
And thou in this shalt find thy monument, When tyrants' crests and tombs of brass are spent. 
(W. Shakespeare, ''Sonnet 107, '' L. 9-14) 
Shakespeare has, as he predicted in many of his sonnets, won the war with Time. His characters live in his words, and he him­self is regarded as one of the greatest poets and dra­matists of all time. And, although his works have been studied for centuries, interest in Shakespeare shows no signs of flagging. New enthusiasts of his work continue to view it with fresh perspectives, thus extending its lon­gevity. 

Notre Dame has a history of uncommon interest in Shakespearean st u d i e s. While oth·er schools have not been touched by the growth of Shakespeare's popularity and complain about a lack of "elective in­terest,'' Notre Dame has ex­perienced the opposite-too many students and not enough space in Shake­speare courses to accommodate them. Also evidence of a strong interest in the bard and his works are: the pop­ularity of such films as Roman Polanski's Macbeth, Franco Zeffirelli's Romeo and Juliet, and Sir Laurence Olivier's Henry V; the ND-SMC Theatre's innovative production of· The Taming of the Shre.w; and the for­mation of a Shakespeare Club "open to all the world." Tom Koegel, a senior English major and "Lord High Chqmberlain" of the club, feels that there is enough in­terest at Notre Dame to make the club successful. He states that the purpose of a club devoted to the study of Shakespeare's art is to provide a way for those inter­ested to learn more about Shakespeare on a personal level, outside of a classroom setting. Koegel and Pro­fessor James Robinson -the self-proclaimed "King" of the club -hope that the activiti'es. planned for the year, which include -informal discussions, film screen­ings, and a sonnet contest, will encourage the public to discover more about Shakespeare. 

Why would the public want to learn more about Shakespeare? One reason for the popularity of Shake­speare today is the time­lessness of his works, com­bined with their broad scope. His plays are as rel­evant to 20th-century America as they were to Elizabethan England. Pro­fessor Paul Rathburn, who has taught Shakespeare to over 1,000 Notre Dame stu­dents since 1968, finds that Shakespeare's plays, be they comedies, tragedies, or histories, offer a lasting message to their viewer. "Shakespeare's · comedies may seem frivolous on the surface but they never really are. The comedies explore very deeply the male-female relationship, the whole world of court­ship. They are reflections of the audience." He con­tinues, "The tragedies are 

portraits of people in pain. They [the tragedies] are full of questions about suffering, God, our families, the brevity-indeed the very meaning--our lives.'' The histories, finally, provoke an intense reaction. Prof. Rathburn believes that the history plays mirror today's attitudes toward the savagery of war and th'e deception that masquerades under the name of patriotism, despite the fact that Shakespeare writes about a period of time extending from the 12th century to the 16th. It is very easy for the reader or viewer of one of Shakespeare's plays to find himself identifying with one or more char­acters, so perceptive is Shakespeare's view of human nature. 
Not only the scope of his work but also his skill with language makes Shakespeare the object of so much serious study. Although it is not always easy to under­stand Shakespeare's heavily rhetorical . language, this same language is a large part of the magical quality of his work. "The metamorphosis .through language [found in Shakespeare] is unparalleled," says Pro­fessor Robinson. "He was blessed (or cursed) with a great gift of language." (Shakespeare had a working vocabulary of approximately 30,000 words -five times more than that of the average person in our more literate society.) The language has a mesmerizing effect in many of the plays; it flows smoothly, with every word in just the right place. For example, when the ghost of Hamlet's father speaks in Act I, Scene V of Hmmlet, his words cause a chill in the audience as well as in Hamlet: "But that I am forbid to tell the secrets of my prison-house, I could a tale unfold whose lightest word Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood, Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres, Thy knotted and combined locks to part, and each particular hair to stand an end...." In A Midsummer Night,s Dream, Shakespeare moves us to the world of his imagination through his use of lan­guage. The fairies' speeches are as light and airy as their movements; as they whirl about we are able to believe that such fairy creatures really exist. "Over hill, over dale,/ Through brush, through brier,/ Over park, over pale,/ Through flood, through fire,/ I do wander every where,/ Swifter than the moon's sphere;/ And I serve the Fairy Queen,/ To dew her orbs upon the green./ The cowslips tall her pensioners be./ In their gold coats spots you see;/ Those be rubies, fairy favors,/ In those freckles live their savors." 
Closely connected with Shakespeare's language is his flair for the theatrical. Shakespeare's works are meant to be performed, and therefore appeal to a larger audience. Of special interest to the theatrical world is the fact that the plays lend themselves easily to inter­pretation. Producers were adapting and changing the plays in the 17th century and the practice continues. Notable examples in recent times, according to Prof. Rathburn, are: Peter Brooks' successful staging of A Midsummer Night,s Dream in an auditorium setting, with the white walls of a gymnasium and other con­temporary touches; the Joseph Papp production of Much Ado About Nothing, set in 19th-century America which opened on a Central Park stage, moved to Broad­way and from there to television; and a production of Hamlet set amidst the espionage and counterespionage of Nazi Germany. Rathburn views the tendency to adapt Shakespeare as a· natural one. "Where in the world of the late 20th century are we to find the 'proper' perspective from which to view Shakespeare?" he asks. Although he feels that "the challenge to adapt and re­shape Shakespeare's plays remains irresistible,'' Rath­burn prefers the more traditional productions. "Time and again it turns out that if. you trust Shakespeare and the audience you can 'play it straight,' present what he wrote with great success.'' The emphasis on per­formance in the plays is evident. Note the comical troupe performance of "Pyramus and Thysbe" in A Midsummer Night's Dream, the dramatic soliloquies in Macbeth and. Richard III and, especially, Hamlet's in­structions on the art of acting: "Suit the action to the word, the word to the action, with this special ob­servance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of nature. For anything so o'erdone is from the purpose of play­ing, whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as't were, the mirror up to nature, to show virtue her feature, scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his form and pressure." 
The essence of Shakespeare's success is that he was able "to hold the mirror up to nature." How he did this remains a mystery, especially when one considers that he did not spend all of his time writing, and that he was not especially well-educated. He was, however, able to remember what he had read and seen, and in­corporated his perceptions into his work. He took the world of reality, mixed it with the world Of his imagina­tion, and created art of lasting importance. Shakespeare observed man and used his observations in the creation of the mirrors we call drama and poetry. Maybe he did not really believe that .his work would survive him, yet, as we look at it today, that does not seem possible. I, for one, would rather believe that he knew his contribu­tion to literature would be a lasting one, a victor over Time. 
Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth 
And delves the parallels in beauty's brow, 
Feeds on the rarities of nature's truth, 
And nothing stands but for this scythe to mow. 
And yet to times in hope my verse shall stand, 
Praising thy worth, despite his cruel hand. 
("Sonnet 60" L. 9-14) D 


Julie Wodarcyk is a senior English/ German major from Grove City, Ohio. She is presently copy-editing for Scholastic. This is her first con­tribution. 
In Search of the Bard 

As with inost students, my interest in Shakespeare began after a high school survey of his "greatest hits." I was awed by his genius as a play­wright, and touched by his percep­tion of the basic truths about some very complex men and women. I de­cided to learn more about thE:! man. 
Aside from. the dates marking Shakespeare's baptism, marriage and death, however, there was little to learn. I thought my search was over until last semester when, · while studying in London, I had the chance to visit Shakespeare's home, Strat­ford-upon-Avon. On a beautiful 

,; 
morning in mid-May, I set out upon 

1: my pilgrimage. The sun was shining,
,I 
Ir and the tall grass and goldenrod
I 
waved in the breeze as the train car­

Ii 
ried me the 92 miles from London to Stratford.

I~ I had hoped to find a simple, Eliza­
bethan village nestled in the War­\; wickshire hills, untouched by the I progress of the centuries. The bubble burst as I saw a bustling town, complete with department stores, Wimpy's (the British version of Mc­Donald's and a true sign of progress) and the ever-present souvenir shops. Not exactly the Tudor hamlet that I had imagined, but I'd deal with that later. My first destination was Shot­tery, a small village about a mile outside of Stratford and the home of 
10 
Anne Hathaway, Shakespeare's wife. 
I scorned the tour coaches as I hiked out to Shottery. To trace the footsteps of Shakespeare from a tour bus would be sacrilege! As I neared the house, I questioned the use of the word "cottage" to describe the Hath­away residence. The 12-room Tudor 


home was evidence that the Hatha­
ways had been a family of means. 
The sparkling, whitewashed walls, 
the thatched roof and the timber­framed windows at odd angles ­this is what I had hoped to see. The 
cottage, maintained by the Shake­
speare Birthplace Trust, had been spared the ravages of modernization. The interior was also historically 
preserved, from the copper kettles 
hanging in the kitchen's fireplace to the Elizabethan period four-poster bed upstairs. I was quickly brought back into 1982, however, when I walked into one of the back rooms of 
the cottage, now used as a souvenir 
shop. Cringing, I hurriedly walked 
past the Shakespeare tea towels and 
coffee mugs, and out the back door. I was told that the money from the sales would be used to keep the cot­tage from showing the wear and tear of thousands of visitors, but I was still disappointed to see the Sha.Ke­speare Birthplace Trust give in to commercialism. 
I forgot about the souvenirs when I came upon the Hathaway garden, filled with bright yellow crocuses, orange an"d red tulips and other col­orful flora. Now this was more like it. I could picture a quiet moonlit night, and could hear the soft crunch of gravel underfoot along the paths as a young Will courted Anne. Per­haps it was here that the romantic entreaties of Orlando, Lysander and Romeo came to Shakespeare's mind? 
My trek continued as I headed back to Stratford. Dodging the other tourists along Henley Street, one of the main streets in town, I made my way to what I considered to be "the shrine," Shakespeare's birthplace and family home. The house was actually two buildings, the second annexed to the first as John Shakespeare im­proved his fortunes as a leatherer and town bailiff, or mayor. 
While the three-storey shingle­roofed, timber-framed house was large, it was also simple and orderly, a rarity in a period when structures were built upward and outward. In­side, the furnishings were sparse. The most prominent piece in the front room was a desk said to have 
SCHOLASTIC 

been used by Shakespeare in gram­mar school, possibly where he learned his "little Latin and less Greek." The next room was a minimuseum, with display cases filled with play­bills and drawings from 18th-and 19th-century Shakespeare produc­tions. 
Located upstairs was the focal 

point of the home, the birth room. 
Here was the bed where Shakespeare 
was born, as well as a small cradle 
used by Mary Shakespeare to rock 
her young son to sleep at night. The 
room, as well as Shakespeare's bed­
room down the hall, was simply 
furnished, which struck me as ap­
propriate for the beginnings of a 
man who occasionally showed the 
beauty of the simple life in his 
writing. 
Unfortunately, the spell was once again broken on my way out of the house, when I encountered the cus­tomary souvenir shop. I told myself I could do without the Bard book­marks and the plastic Globe Thea­tres as I exited. 
From Henley Street I set my sights upon the Shakespeare Memorial The­atre, a large brick auditorium set on the bank of the Avon River. En route I passed the home of Shake­speare's daughter, Judith. Judith's home, sad to say, has lost much of its charm now that it is used as Stratford's Tourist Information of­fice. 
The Shakespeare Memorial Thea­tre is the Stratford home of the Royal Shakespeare Company. Mac­beth was being performed that day, and I was disappointed to discover that the performance had been sold out. (I had seen three RSC produc­tions in London, though, which tem­pered my disappointment.) The building itself, built in the 1930s, was fairly plain, but the realization that many of theatre's greats had per­formed there made the auditorium very impressive. I would imagine an earlier production of Macbeth, with Laurence Olivier, as Macbeth, sor­rowfully intoning "Out, out, brief candle! Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player, that struts and frets his hour upon the stage, then is heard no more." As I left this veri­table temple of acting, I resisted the temptations of. the RSC sweat shirts and posters that were being hawken. at the door. 
At this point I decided that I needed a break from the noisy sight­seers that crowded the town, so I crossed the Avon and walked along the bank along which I found a shady spot across the river. from Holy Trinity Church, Shakespeare's burial site. I lay down in the grass, 
OCTOBER, 1982 
closed my eyes, and tried to pictW'e a Warwickshire country lad doing the same thing. A spot like this could easily spark flights of imagination. Maybe it was here, on a similar afternoon, that Shakespeare envi­sioned the courageous Richmond do­ing battle with Richard III at Bos­worth Field, or the thrilling play of rapier and dagger between Hamlet and Laertes, or the pastoral esca­pades of Orlando and Rosalind in the Forest of Arden. (The Forest of Arden is just north of Stratford. On that perfect spring day I could have sworn I heard Orlando as he nailed one of his love sonnets to a nearby tree.) 
Now this was what I had come for, to see Shakespeare's surround­ings, and to imagine what it must have been like in his day. I was ·pleased to see, as I walked back along the Avon, that there were no souvenir shops around to sell "I slept on the bank of the Avon" T-shirts. 
The final stop in my pilgrimage was the most important of all, a visit to Holy Trinity Church, where Shakespeare was baptized and bur­ied. The 15th-century church had weathered the passage of the cen­turies well. As I entered the spacious, cool church, I gratefully noticed a surprising lack of tourists. Sunlight shone through the tall stained-glass windows, creating a collage of or­anges and reds, blues and greens on the church floor. 
Standing at the back of the chW'ch, 

I saw that the chapel behind the 
altar curved to the right, breaking 
the straight line of the nave. The 
attendant there, an elderly woman, 
said that the foundation of the 
church had been laid that way in 
imitation of Christ's tilted head as 
he hung on the cross. It was in that 
chapel that Shakespeare was buried. 
I walked back to the chapel ex­pecting to find a grand memorial to Stratford's favorite son. Instead, all I saw was a simple plaque marking the place where Shakespeare is bur­ied. I should not have been surprised, for throughout my visit I had been able to see past the 20th-century hustle and bustle to the simple sur­roundings of the man. I thought it fitting that Shakespeare, who gleaned basic truths from the complexities of man, should spring from such simple roots. 
While standing at Shakespeare's grave, I felt that I ought to do something in honor of the play­wright, poet, man. It would have been fitting to recite a soliloquy or a sonnet, but my memory failed me there. What could I do to honor a simple but brilliant man, whose work had evoked laughter, sorrow and most of all, a better understanding of the maze of human nature? I simply said "Thank you." My pil­grimage was complete. D 

a senior Govern­
ment major from Pittsburgh, Penn­sylvania. This is his first contribu­tion to Scholastic. 
11 
Tim Vercellotti is 




-~ -r 
Max Lerner: We Have a Lot to Lea1r 
-
After 50 years of teaching across the United States and abroad, Max Lerner knows the ropes of education. Now he teaches in the American Studies department at Notre Dame, and tells his students that American civilization and education have a long way to go. 
Recipient of an endowed professor­ship, the W. Harold and Martha Welch chair in American Studies, Lerner lectures on the past, present, and future of American civilization, its changes, crises and commitments. He is regarded as one of the founders of the academic discipline of Ameri­can Studies. 
With a wealth of experience, Lerner's perspective is not just that of a professor. Born in Russia, he emigrated to the U.S. in 1907 and now lives in New York. He is nearly 80 years old, sharp, witty, funny, personable, and extremely intelligent. He has participated in numerous journalistic endeavors. Currently a syndicated columnist for the Los Angeles Times and the New York Post, Lerner has been the managing editor of the Encyclopedia of Social Sciences, editor of The Nation, edi­torial director of PM, columnist of The New York Star, and the author of 15 books, the most celebrated be­ing Values in Education and America as a Civilization, from which he teaches his Notre Dame class. 
In a recent interview, Max Lerner shared some of his views on Notre Dame, liberal education, American Studies, the future of America, and 
life in general, offering experienced 
views and candid advice. 
Lerner likes to look at things· as 
organisms. Civilizations, families, in­
dividuals, universities, and even 
classes -are not machines, he says, 
but living, growing organisms that 
should each be a unified whole. · 
Classes are organisms with a com­
mon purpose, according to Lerner, 
"to bring about a meeting of minds 
and personalities between young peo­
ple who are getting ready for their 
life experience and older people who 
bring to the confrontation experi­
ences they've had. 
"The purpose (of education) is not 
only to help_ young students to de­
velop potential, but also to help 
teachers to examine and test the 
meaning of their experience," he con­
tinued. · 
Lerner also views the classroom as an arena for "a confrontation of values between teacher and student, and student and student." He added, "I find in the history of Notre Dame that there has been a good deal of this -I find it's been true in my classes. There is a greater sense of peace here than I find in the turbu­lent world outside. 
.''I think Notre Dame -because it is a private University, because it is specialized, because it has a history as a Catholic University -is differ­ent from big public, secular universi­ties," Lerner added. "I welcome that difference very much. I find that the concern here for values is greater. 
"There are very few colleges I 


12 


haven't at some point touched in the last 50 to 55 years," he continued. "I am very impressed with the mood of the students and their sensitivity to values; also with their self-disci­pline." 
When asked how universities par­allel to civilization, Lerner said, "It is hard to say Notre Dame reflects civilization. No one university can reflect the whole society. Various universities reflect different seg­ments of the society." 
Professor Lerner tries in his classes to give an overview of American civilization revisited a quarter-cen­tury after his book was published. "It is a good thing for students and teachers alike to become civilization watchers," Lerner suggests. · 
In his Welch chair inaugural ad­dress, he said that the past two dec­ades have been in rapid flux -with Vietnam, assassinations, and Water­gate -and that the 80s are still in a stormy present, with political leaders who fail to command confidence, a struggling economy, and the piling up of lethal nuclear weapons. With conflict abundant today and no ready answers in sight, Lerner urges stu­dents to take on the responsibility of . finding the cure for the "spells of sickness" America has suffered and 
suffers now. 
The proliferation of American 

Studies programs and departments in 
the 60s and 70s has made a start in 
finding a cure, he said in his speech, 
"yet we have still a long way to go 
before we find a true connective pat­tern.;' Anthropologists have tried, psychologists have tried -yet Ler­ner maintains that no discipline has "been able to supply the overarching frame that American Studies re­quires." 
Presenting America as a "system of interlinked systems" of knowledge and education, incentive and achieve­ment, class and ethnicity, power and authority, arts and play, values and beliefs, Lerner strives toward a holis­tic view. This wholeness in American civilization, he argues, has not yet been found. 
His advice for students in affecting American civilization is twofold. First, students must try to under­stand what is happening in civiliza­tion, in the world outside, and within themselves. Second, Lerner urges stu­dents to develop their will and intelli­gence so that it can become pari: of the collective will and intellige~ce. 
He also thinks students should 

take part in the passions and actions 
of our time, not just as "partisans," 
but as actors in an effort to find a 
consensus, to find what holds us to­
gether. 
"The question we ask should not 

be 'how can I be better than you?' 
but 'how am I like you, how are you 
like me, how can we think together 
and act together toward common 
e:ials and methods?' " Lerner said. 
The American Studies professor 

claims we have a lot to learn from 
the 60s -in a parallel, not an identi­
cal sense. He believes "the time has 
come to have the same sense of being 
by Michele Dietz 

part of each other, not for frag­mentary purposes (such as Vietnam or the draft or ethnic morality, as in the 60s), but for the nation as a whole." 
Max Lerner is not down on so­ciety; he is much the opposite. He does not fail to see and admit the problems American civilization faces, but he feels far from hopeless. It just takes cooperation, will and intelli­gence. Education, according to Ler­ner, should be a primary concern in making the future better -in making civilization more whole. 
Liberal education, in particular, should be a means to finding the answers. Liberal education itself must also be unified as a whole, Lerner claims. "The essence of lib­eral education is to try to find, in the whole tradition, what is best of what's been thought and written and felt," he said. "We must take a bit of that and bring together what is helpful for our own personal de­velopment and collective effort." 
Illustrating the significance of a liberal education, he said: "If we are dealing only with a vocational or professional or technical educatibn, we are not dealing with something deeply human. If we are dealing with liberal education, then we are deal­ing with universals." This is what is needed for the effort of learning from experience and applying it to present development, Lerner empha­sizes. 
Yet he also stresses that we must include in this effort a lot of young 

-' ~-----~--------­
Americans who have not had a lib­eral education. "We can't exclude their energies because that's where abilities lie," Lerner says. "I hope we won't define liberal education sonar­rowly as to exclude the vast ma­jority of young Americans. But for those who will lead this movement, a liberal education is crucial." 
Here again he advises to "go with the organism" -and if computer technology and science technology are part of the knowledge revolution -then we should include them with­in liberal arts -not exclude them. "I have no contempt for technology -it simply-carries out society's pur­poses," Lerner said. "It is the means, and we better know that means very well." 
The learned scholar offered con­crete suggestions to accompany his ideas. First, he would like to see liberal education expanded. "Basi­cally in America, we have failed to break the past (European) tradition of liberal education, which has con­centrated so much on humanities and social sciences," he said. "We need to break down the division be­tween the various disciplines. We are too involved with independent disciplines, such as history, litera­ture, psychology, sociology-I would like to include everything that gears on the strength and bearability of civilization -which includes life sciences and hard sciences as well as humanities." 


Jatt'g CBoultque 
bOll 'dhe c..AfatullaQ Cut 

Open six days a week with five operators to serve you. 
Call Corinne, Executive Hair Designer 
Shampoo, Cut & Style-$12.00 

Evening appointments, if desired. 


How should this be done·! "l would like to see teachers not just working in solitary in their own classes ­not justresearching together, but in teams, panels -actually teaching their views together. This is still uncultivated," he remarked. 
Lerner got down to specifics: "I would like to see a continuing teach­ing group from various disciplines teach a group of students from vari­ous disciplines to get at a total mean­ing-of liberal education." 

"The purpose (of educa­tion) is not only to help young students develop potential, but also to help 
.teachers to examine and test the meaning of their experience. '' 
He would also like to see Ameri­can Studies and American civiliza­tion become more a part of liberal education. He defined American Studies, in his inaugural, as "one a,ea of studies which is not stale or exhausted -a happy member of the human sciences -interdisci­plinary, best carried on in sustained dialogues of a group of teachers and students, with the laboratory of an unfinished civilization all around them." 
He adds, nowever, that "up to now there has not really been a unity in American Studies, and growth still lies ahead." He explains that Ameri­can Studies is mostly several courses on literature, history, and politics, and he thinks we should .expand our view of what holds them together. 
He also suggests teaching teams in American Studies. Lerner will be on the panel for the "Responsibilities of Journalism" conference, among other notable speakers, on November 22-23. 
Before seeing the American Stud­ies program at Notre Dame, the Welch chair professor had never come across the idea of including the media as a part of American Studies. "I like this linkage that they (at Notre Dame) have established," Lerner said of this concept. "I think it's a good idea -as good as the one linking Iiterature, history and politics -if anything, it's better. It's a linkage which is true of civiliza­tion right now. We have to study America in action." · 
Whatever discipline· a . student chooses, "getting a job" should not be the primary learning objective, according to Lerner. He sees this as another disease, also not incurable. 

He attributes the problem to a long economic series of ups and downs resulting in everyone feeling their first objective is to get a job. "Once we get over the insecurities of the job, we can focus on the work itself," he said. 
"Love and work" are the two centers of life to Lerner. "Love your work and work for the love of it," is one of his mottos. 
Lerner likes college students. He t' even likes college football games, as witnessed by his enthusiasm at the Notre Dame-Michigan game, his first football game since about 15 years ago. Bundled up next to Father Hes­burgh (who filled him in on the rules of the game), Max Lerner was soon jumping up and down for his new loyalty. 
Students are the next generation of heroes; they are heroes now. Foot­ball players "may someday become . football professionals and dun their team owners for a share in the big money game," Lerner reflected. "But right now they are still boys train­ing for engineering or business posts and their thing is team loyalty and glory. The rest will come all too soon. Meanwhile they strike me as closer to the elemental strength and skill of the warriors of the Iliad, and a good counterweight to the anti-hero strain in American life." 
Notre Dame students have a long 
road ahead -just like the rest of 
American civilization. But for now, 
"there can be heroism in the college 
classroom and library, wrestling with 
ideas and values," Lerner says, work­
ing within a system of systems and 
trying to find a tolerable common set 
of values to hold them -to hold us 
-together. D 


;•r·•.·.·, •.. 
-


Michele Dietz is a senior American Studies major from Baltimore, Mary­land. This is her first·contribution to 
Scholastic. 
SCHOLASTIC 







letl()fl 

In the Sun 
The four o'clock sun cast a large reflected streak 
onto the'Gulf of Mexico. The streak was at an angle to 
the left of the people on the beach, so that if they 
wanted to watch the sailboats and sea gulls without 
squinting, they had to look to the right. A few people, 
mostly children, were actually in the water, but it was 
December and too cold for most of the tourists to swim. 
The girl on the Budweiser beach towel shifted 
her weight from· one elbow to the other. She was lying 
on her stomach, reading Seventeen, her left hand 
resting on her forehead to block out the sun. The 
December issue of Seventeen featured Christmas 
stories, fashions, and a nine-page fun-at-the-Christmas­
parties-with-your-friends section. She closed the maga­
zine and rolled over on her side. 
"It's not Christmas without snow." The girl's mother was applying more sunscreen to her nose. Her nose burned easily. "I know. I don't .have much Christmas spirit here either." 
The girl flipped through the pages of her magazine 
again, then tossed it aside. "I missed Amy O'Brien's 
party last night." She scowled towards the ~ulf. 
Her mother wasn't listening. Her attent10n was 
fixed on the ten-year-old boy riding a styrofoam float 
over miniature waves. "Tim!" she called. "Don't go out 
any farther than that!" She turned to the girl. "I'm a 
little worried about him." 
"The water's not deep. Did you hear what I said? I 
missed Amy O'Brien's party last night. Everyone was 
there except me." 
"There'll be other parties. Tim! Come in closer to 
the shore!" 
The girl sat up straight. "Yeah, but not like this 
one. I mean, absolutely everyone was there. Other 
families don't go to Florida for Christmas; they have a 
nice Christmas party at home...." . . 
"Don't complain so much! The other girls would kill 
for the chance to go to Florida and get a tan in 
December." , 
"Then let the other girls come instead of me. I don t 
care if I get a tan." A few yards dow~ the beach, . 
three boys around her age were listemng to a Rolling 
Stones Emotional Rescue tape and drinking Miller 
High Life. The girl frowned at the boys. The boys 
stared at two girls in bikinis walking past. 
"Mom, it's just so boring here. There's nothing to 
do." 
~s she spoke, an old man slowly rose from his lawn 
chair a short distance away. His faded green swim­
suit was too big. for him. He fiddled with the elastic 
around the waist, then made his way to the water. 
The girl was absentmindedly digging a hole in the 
sand. "Why did my grandparents have to move to 
Florida? And why do we have to visit over Christmas? 
Why not in the summer?" . 
A hermit crab scuttled across the sand In front ofthe .girl. The three boys began tossing a Frisbee. 

"Mom, are we all going out for dinner tonight?" 
"Yes, and I want you to get dressed up." 
"Damn!" The girl picked up Seventeen and threw 
it into the sand. "I've been dressed up every night this week and you know it!" 
"I didn't say you weren't." 
"No well you acted like ... .'' But she had momentarily' lost interest in arguing with her mother. She was watching the old man wade into the water. He stopped when the water reached his waist, and made large circles in the waves with his arms. He looked up at the sky and smiled. 
The girl sighed and looked at her mother again. "Well, where are we going?" "Nana was talking about the Spring House. It's supposed to be very good." 
"Yeah, okay. I'll wear my brown dress.'' She rolled over onto her back and put suntan lotjon on her shoulders. "I want to be back in time for that movie on TV, though." 
"What time is it on?" 
"Eight.'' 

"No, I don't think we'll be back that early.'' 
"Okay. Fine. I'll have to miss it, then. Same as I'm missing all the parties at home.'' 
"If you were home, you'd be shovelling the drive­way right now instead of sitting on the beach. Be glad you're here." As she spoke, the girl's mother rubbed lotion on her thighs. 
"I'd rather be shovelling the driveway," the girl mumbled. Her mother looked around for the little boy. "Do you see Tim?" 
"He's right there. Building a sand castle.'' 
The girl's mother closed her eyes. The girl realized that there was nothing else to say, not for the moment. She got up and started walking towards her brother. As she walked, she noticed the old man swimming parallel to the shoreline. He stopped, stood up, re­adjusted the elastic on his swimsuit, and began the slow walk up the beach. The girl crouched down to examine her brother's sand castle. As the old man passed the girl, he smiled at her. D 
M. Kather!ne Stalter is a former Saga employee. TMs is her first c~n­tribution to Scholastic . 

Gallery 


Figure I Pencil 8 in. x 18 In. 1982 
16 

Figurative Works 
by Jeff Ripple 

In my drawing at this point, I am interested in producing a strong accurate image of the figure. Line quality, value, and gesture are the aspects of drawing that I find most important. I have always had a strong respect for drawing and see it as fundamental to most other artistic activities, as well as an important form of expression. · 
My early experiences in drawing led me towards a reaiistic, traditional approach. I have stuck with realism because I enjoy the subject matter and the discipline in strong draughtsmanship. 
The figure has always been important. Historically, the visual arts have explored the figure as a universal and personal subject. I am drawn to both the ambiguity of some of the poses and the obvious emotion of others.· 
Jeff Ripple 



Figure Ill Pencil 24 in. x 14 in. 1982 

Figure IV Pencil 20 in. x 12 in. 1982 
Studies avoids the randomness of the 
required liberal arts classes for other 
majors. Any other major is bound to

Perspective some degree by its concentration on one particular subject and conse­
by Alice Douglas 

Liberal education is the freeing ot the student .from the prejudices and assumptions of his age and the blind­ers of specialized study. It should enlarge his knowledge to include a personal encounter with his Western tradition. The university student who graduates unaware of the history that has shaped his present situation is powerless in his ignorance to . ac­curately interpret current events. For instance, learning about biology in a systematic way may train the mind to think critically, make clear distinctions and true syntheses, but such a specialized education neglects 
Pro 
the major component of liberal edu­cation -learning one's cultural heri­tage. 
Training in a particular science does not equip one to practice that science in a truly informed manner. This may sound paradoxical, but con­sider the well-trained biologist who sees no wrong in performing in vitro fertilizations: that person has failed to study the nature of man and his functions. He may know the mechanics of man, but he is ignorant of the humanity of man. If he had studied his cultural heritage, which includes morality, our biologist would have a personal knowledge of man's nature that would direct the morality of his scientific practice. 
We need to know our tradition and its teachings about man, his place in the world, and his relationship to God to interpret our situation and direct our actions. I think that no other major offers such an extensive, thor­ough and structured approach to the wisdom of the world as the Program of Liberal Studies. Students encoun­ter the best that has been thought in the history of man's consideration of himself, the world and God. By reading almost exclusively original works, students pursue knowledge remarkably free from the usual prej­udices and biases of textbook writers who are often under the influence of ideologies. One might fear that read­ing original sources would be .very difficult and that one would need the help of later commentators. But in 
the Program, as students gain some quently neglects other important ap­historical perspective and ability to proaches to knowledge. Only an read challenging texts, they more architectonic approach will be free easily discern the prevailing themes enough to afford a view of all learn­and each author's special contribu-ing and thus facilitate the proper tion. ordering of knowledge. ---Not only are Program students Because there is so much to know, schooled in great thinkers' ideas, but and so few people are gifted and more importantly, they share their dedicated enough to become Renais­responses to the world's great books sance men, the Program is some­ahd discuss their views in seminars. times accused of producing dilet­This is pure liberal education -the tantes. But a view and appreciation disciplined study of the components of the whole of knowledge is prefer­of our cultural heritage, and the dis-able to a narrow vocational training. cussion of these ideas. In the semi-One can always deepen one's under­nar, the student practices and de-standing of particular areas of our velops his powers of understanding, culture, but the first step is to be elucidation and persuasion. He learns aware that there is indeed a cultural 
The Program 



Studies: 
to listen carefully to others' views, tradition that orders and directs all analyze them, compare them to his endeavors. own, and synthesize all views with One of the most exciting features the author's towards the truth of the of the Program is the fact that it is matter. No other classroom situation common for the students and faculty develops communication skills as to continue their discussions past the well as the seminar does. Whereas in classroom; needless to say, the bell the seminar, students read works of often rings before any definitive de­every genre, in the tutorials they cisions have been made about the study specific disciplines. One learns issues under consideration, but the not only the history, but the guiding process is well begun. This sincere principles of art, literature, philoso­interest in ideas and unaffected dis­phy, natural science, theology, gov­cussion outside of class is perplexing ernment and history. Knowledge of to many students whose studies and 
the history and essential concepts of extracurricular lives are fragmented, these disciplines is crucial to an edu-· but such dialogue is natural and es-­cated view of the world. sential to truly liberal education. The structured and connected This love of learning leads to contact 
study of the Program of Liberal outside the classroom between fac­
~ ulty and students in the most pleas­II ant and fruitful manner. Seldom ii! ~ does genuine friendship develop in 
other majors as it does in the Pro­
ffi 
gram's atmosphere of mutual search for truth. Students-:.·t:ome to know each other better and more easily than do those in other majors, thanks to the constant dialogue and open­ness in and out of class: 
This common pursuit of knowledge involves each student in a personal odyssey through a critical evaluation of our heritage towards the meaning of life. This voyage is at once the most difficult and personally agoniz­ing of the Program's studies, but the most fruitful. Only when a student moves from understanding co.ncepts 
( continued on page 21) 
SCHOLASTIC 


by Jeffrey L. Monaghan 
I find it appropriate that a discus­sion of liberal education at this Uni­versity includes some thoughts on the Program of Liberal Studies, which by virtue of its title seems to suggest the premier embodiment of what liberal education is about. In my short tenure as a sophomore in the then General Program of Lib­eral Studies, however, I found this assertion to be unfounded. For sure, the doggone thing ought to be re­named because it falls well short of a proper program in liberal studies, most especially within a Catholic university context. 
Theoretically, Notre Dame's PLS seeks to expose and to broaden a student's mind with classical under­standing. As with this essay, how­ever, in practice it amounts to no bet-

of Liberal 
Two Views 
ter than a· noble attempt. Among other things, the pity of its curricula is the cloistering of the students. In their requiring four departmental courses each semester, the PLS pro­grammers for some reason feel they can be their own political scientists, philosophers, theologians, and econ­omists. Empirically, I found them quite conservative in these disciplines and, hence, hardly liberal. 
Indeed, the emphasis in PLS can­not be placed on Liberal, since this is not a department in which liber­ally minded people would be inclined to study. Rather, the emphasis is on Studies, since liberalism is an inter­pretation frequently critiqued and castigated. Often, it is a criticism as shallow as my use of the term "liberal" so far in this essay. 
The fact is that the most distin­guishing characteristic of the Pro­gram is its conservative homoge­neity. The possibility that education broadens the mind through exposure and discussion of varying interpreta­tions is eradicated in PLS. Such color is simply not there. I think the problem with the craft of liberal education in PLS lies not with the possibility that the tools are not there, but with the probability that they are not being used wisely. 
Perhaps the greatest tragedy with PLS lies. beyond its "sameness" and in its scholarly attempt at being a study in the simple Humanities. The Program seeks to educate its stu­dents in the power and potential of 
OCTOBER, 1982 
humankind by looking toward those civilizations and classical thinkers who are said to scale the heights of human ability. The humanism PLS teaches, however, is one which is ro­manticized. Exposure to the fine arts and natural sciences, for example, leaves the PLS student in a sense of awe at the wisdom of the Great ·Books. And rightly so, since if there is one motif in the great thinkers it is that human nature is exclusive in its awesome potential. That awe­someness, however, is not in any di­rection away from God. As a matter of emphasis, I think, a proper study in the Humanities recognizes this and guards against human pride. Pride is born out of an attempt for humankind to be its own god: we think we know so much, yet ironi­cally our greatest wisdom is that we must admit there are things which 
we do not and cannot know. Wise men like Socrates realized this, and his message has survived the test of time. This is what makes a Classic. 
It is my feeling that Jesus of Nazareth best captured the classical sentiment of liberal education when he said, "I tell you solemnly: un­less you change and become like little children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven" (Mt 18: 2). Reinhold Niebuhr punctuated this notion by saying, "Every child is a born theologian" (p. 146, Beyond Tragedy). It is because children con­front life with a basic and sincere curiosity that they make this im­pression to the wise, sometimes em­barrassingly so. Children are prone 
---=~-..,._..\'!S,Y~-· \\ ,. __ .
I;•·;_;~.,. ·"':'".:;ti•,..;.:,:,;, ',: ··.-,_,
¥~:i~.... t ~ :"t~ \ ~:;~ ~ 
:-i-~~N7~ ,\l.:;,i
N ... ~~"'­
ie;,,, . i~;'iS ._\ ,. -·~~-,,~~\ ,--~ ir -• \ . ·<\°\',,\\ " %~;-· 
r . ' \ &I. I" -:.•• 

-\ ·. \ :.f..:..··­
.~ \ \. J· '\ ·.. 
. [i ,\ ·\\~. \ .~-' 

)),·!,

~{l 
to say what is on their minds, when 
it is on their minds. This is their 
sanctity. If, then, we are to identify 
with the classical mind-set, we see 
that humankind will enter the king­
dom asking, "What's that? And 
that? And that?" Like Cub Scouts in 
the Smithsonian, humankind will be 
dwarfed by what we thought was 
"the real world." 
I regret to say that because PLS 

fails, in its sophistication, it cannot 
boast of being a microcosm of liberal 
education, much less liberal studies. 
The subtle ideological close-minded­
ness of the Program is steadily dis­
quieting, and quickly led to my own 
frustration with the Program. I do 
not regret the change, for I feel the 
greater College of Arts and Letters 
can boast of a much wider ideo­
logical spectrum. My guess is, how­
ever, that PLS will only continue to 
Con 
enjoy its exclusivity simply because it would topple under any ideological "aggiornamento.)) But I bet the Clas­sics would still stand. And that's my point: the PLS programmers have sought out a strain of interpretation, namely conservatism, and veiled it behind the Classics. In this way, a PLS education is simply conserva­tive conformity rather than an invi­tation to think things through on one's own. The Classics are not used with the greatest of liberal foresight. 
Possilify-PLS is only symptomatic of how through life our education leads us away from our ignorance and innocence merely by demanding that we simply accept knowledge as true rather than emphasizing our ra­tional approach in coming to know of it ourselves. Knowledge, I think, is not simply saying, "O.K., I accept that," but rather, "I see, and I want to see more." Education, then, might be said to be God's action as well as our own. Rev. Michael L. Cook, S.J., once said: 
God's action makes possible our response but it is only in actually responding to the divine initiative that we can "know'' in the experi­ential sense the divine activity at the very center of our being. 
(p. 62, The Jesus of Faith) 

Life is so full of joy when we are fully alive to want to pursue knowl­
( continued on page 26) 





Poetry 



. . 

-?"':S:S.:: .. -. 
-~--~=----===-~~:-':-c:-: . 
-------.:_~ 
' ____,..,.,:::....:_. 
~ 1_,,~(--~~: L 

---:.:,~-::::::::~ 
~: 

by Teri Schindler
tfhetce ig u\foCWa[tlf 
At the country club, 
on Mondays, 
women discuss diets 
between meals, 
bob their bodies 
in the tepid pool, 

clusters of bouncing bathing caps­
orange and red 
and blue-flowered­
a tropical fruit basket 
bobbing to work up an appetite. 
Their children belie the belief that all of America is overweight. They move continuously, knobby knees and rib by. chests, absorb the sun so naturally that suddenly in July you see how tan they are. They don't care. 

! ______.,,...,____.._ 
---~----. --::.:.......---•,..:,';"'~-­
-
: .::c~~ ...,..__-:r, -­

-. 
,,· ;'. 
:•., 

But the women do. 
In the ultraviolet regions 
of 10 to 2 
they wonder at 
the ripe, skinny children 
as they thumb their paperback romances 
held to avoid shadows 
but still 
block out the summer shrieks of children. 
They shimmer in the heat 
and they sweat with the effort . 
of filling the hours before dinner, 
in the irritated, 
painted toenail, 
gossip-hungry 
art of being beautifully . bored. 
. ,. . . -. ~__...._--~~~~;..4-2~~~~=~~~=::....:-~~~~ 
. ... -·~-:---------:-:-.. _, 
20 
SCHOLASTIC 


. . . 
-


I Her highness with the half-dead permanent smiles, enjoying self-consciousness. Her loose, blue sweater runs sloppily down the shoulder she rests her cheek on, affecting the casual air of magazine abandon. Stirring random curls idly with tentative nails her fingers extend and mingle with the grace of dangling, summer-slim bare legs. 
With eyes too· practiced to squint she swallows the room with delicate deliberateness. The hand drops abruptly and confident nails tap a victory march on the hardwood tabletop. 
II He sits beside her, clean-cut young man with a scrubbed face shine, includes her in his personal jokes with direct glances He grins in response to her smirk and rubs with pleasure the smooth rubber of new duck shoes. His brimmed hat and matching umbrella are carefully placed beside his books, and he arranges his face as well-smiling, not eagerly, not easily, but with the careful precision of balanced glass. 
III Less sure than the girl he leans on her through the air-
cr,_e Co''"'etct 
exclusive smiles exchanged-U Vl l' l V They rise and hover overhead as obviously as insects-
humming-by Kathy McGaivey a constant drone of derision. 
Tight lips, a leathered canvas Stretched across .velvet black; A mouthed silence, Amidst two rows of pearly niblets. You capped your smile in. 
Brown hands, languid lost Summer's Final handshake, sun-sealed; Your sandbox now an hourglass, To house a twilight castle; Your kingdom made of clay. 
Old eyes, sea-green oceans Shed a salty tear Upon a weathered beach;· And strain a dusk's horizoned Shore you walk alone." 
Bent head, braced against a wind That blows inside; Whispered drafts that kiss A weary conscience Good night, good-bye. 

~ -------------­



Molding thee 
''Renaissance Man'' by Tom Allen and Sue Schuller 
Traditional education sought the development of the student who fit the "Renaissance man" ideal. Acqui­sition of vast amounts of literary in­formation and skills constituted real education in the past. Such knowl­edge was applicable in a business­and free-lance-oriented society. In today's technologically advanced so­ciety, however, practicality dictates more of a technically oriented mind. As the demands of society change, so, too, must educational strategies and subjects. In this fashion have American institutions of higher learning altered their course concen­trations and emphases. As a result of this detour, universities have in­
creasingly graduated technical train­
ees such as engineers and business­
disciplined individuals. This is not to 
say that students are not afforded a choice of educational paths, but in­fluences such as future income and 
overall marketability make the tech­
nical aspect more of a feasible 
choice. 
The value and practicality of a 
modern-day liberal arts education are 
an issue currently under extensive 
study. Education has essentially 
transformed its focus from thought 
and communication development to 

statistical and methodical practice. Questions concerning the merit of this shift have created a separate school of thought; one which urges · the need for a commingling of the · 
two educational spheres. But before 
such a synthesis can be popularly ac­
ceptable, the value of the liberal arts 
education must be emphasized to re­
gain its credibility and practicality in 
the modern world. 
The term "education" itself is the 
principal agent with which to work. 
The distinction of the· scholar was 
assumed, before as well as now, by 
those who benefitted from develop­
ment of their human skills of thought 
22. 
and communication. These charac­teristics constituted the very essence of university education. Formal edu­cation is the starting point from which perennial education emanates. Depravation of such an invaluable fixture can only serve to starve an individual from continuous growth. Undertakings such as the study of history enable one to evaluate gov­ernmental and world situations and venture effective suggestions. Addi­tionally it promotes foresight of de­veloping patterns and trends, which can prove drastically important to a 
"The most meritorious education is one which fuses vital Arts and Letters instruction with practical technical knowl­edge." 
society. Familiarity with literature aids the scholar in formulating ser­viceable opinions on any given is­sue. Conceptual development and ideas generated by thought are pre­cious fruits of education. 
As members of asociety, we have certain responsibilities with which to concern ourselves. The existence of social problems acts as an exemplary issue. In order to establish a more ·cohesive and functional society, we, as educated individuals, must con­tribute practical ideas. Political is­sues also concern our world greatly, thereby requiring attention. We bear an obligation to seek improvements in government, avoiding compla­cency af all cost. 
More pertinent to the role which the University of Notre Dame plays is the religious issue. The value of being reflective in a religious sense becomes apparent when taken in the context of the overall meaning of life. Active reflection on the peren­nial concerns of man highlights the Notre Dame educational intent. In particular, the Arts and Letters Core Course inspires contemplation on this and other matters. This course aims to stimulate the student by pre­senting a wide range of material relative to larger questions and con­
cerns. 
Pr9fessor Donald Sniegowski, for­mer Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, recognizes a decline in the presentation of liberal arts material in modern-day education. It has been 
pointed out that faculty members 
have become more specialized of late. Because of this the likelihood of more integrated course themes has 
decreased. Sniegowski sees liberal 
arts education as the factor neces­
sary in understanding the basics. "A 
liberal education gives one the abil­ity to think analytically and to ar­ticulate one's thoughts; doing so in 
an effective manner," he maintains. 
At the Panel Forum on Liberal 
Education sponsored by the Thomas 
More Society of Notre Dame, Walter Nicgorski, chairman of the Program of Liberal Studies, held that skills of communication are both necessary and practical in today's professional world. Such a belief is supported by a current rise in the employment sta­tus of Bachelor of Arts graduates. These graduates are said to be mov­
ing more swiftly than technically 
oriented graduates into higher man­.agement positions. Thus, the em­ployment outlook for liberal arts ma­
jors today is one of great opportu­
nity. 
(continued on page 26) 
:......=:.:,,..-:.~ft ;.f_ . \ 
Tom Allen is a junior English, major from, New City, New York. Sue Schuller is a junior English/Mechani­cal Engineer double major from Seattle, Washington. This is their first. contribution to Scholastic. 
SCHOLASTIC 


Comedy 
by Professor Robert Lordi 

Man has often been defined, too easily perhaps, as a laughing animal. What makes man laugh is not so easily defined. Partly this is so be­cause of popular misconceptions about what makes us laugh-is it comedy? or is it what is funny, comic, or humorous? Though these terms are popularly conceived to be synonymous, they are not. We re­spond with laughter to what is per­ceived by the mind to be funny, comic or humorous, but we may or may not be expected to respond with laughter to a comedy. A comedy is a structure (i.e., a means of organiz­ing experience) and as such may be funny or serious, as it often is in countless novels, plays, or movies that have happy endings. Dante's Oommedia is not funny except in iso­lated episodes in the Inferno), but it is, as its title suggests, a comedy, i.e., a structure which begins in hell with personal unhappiness, despair, and sense of loss and ends in heaven with supreme happiness, joy, and eternal union. 
Comedy, then, as distinct from the comic, funny or humorous, is a struc­ture for organizing human experi­ence in a literary or nonliterary form. Com_edy, as Susanne Langer informs us, is one of many ways man has of projecting his feelings about life in a permanent artistic form. Man is. the only animal whose "se­mantically enlarged horizons" make him conscious of life as a process, proceeding through phases from birth, to maturation, decline, and death. The first part of that process man projects in various art forms (most prominently in dramatic com­edy) as the vital principle, incar­nated generally as a youth struggling to overcome life-impeding obstacles in the path of his happiness, who by adaptation, flexibility and wit even­tually succeeds in bringing to birth a new and better social unit (usually symbolized by marriage, reunion, recognition, and reconciliation). 
The flexibility, adaptability, ;:ind wit of the comic hero are an expres­sion of the elan vital in the human organism, and these and such asso­ciated capacities as his ability to change or to compromise make it possible for him to overcome what­ever impedes his progress toward happiness, or threatens his well-be­ing. Conversely, the tragic hero (since tragedy as a structure projects the second part of the life process leading to decline and death) is by nature unwilling to change: he is absolute in his determination never to compromise his ideals, never to yield in the face of the obstacles, internal and external, that inevitably must destroy him. 
Let us look now at what makes us laugh. A "humour" character ( de­rived from medieval and Renaissance psychology of the four humours) is one who is so fixed, so inflexible in his habits or conduct that he will respond automatically to a given stimulus. For example, when the thief threatens the "humour" char­acter Jack Benny-as-miser with the choice c-f "your money or your life!" we begin laughing before Benny an­swers. Why? Because we know his 

Robert Lordi is p1·ofesso1· of English at Notre Dame. 
answer will not be free, but will in­stead be preconditioned by the stereotypic miserly character he por­trays. Any time a person acts auto­matically, i.e., not freely or as a machine (implying as it does non­life), we laugh in our mental percep­tion of that person's variance from the human norm. In Don Quixote, when Sancho Panza is tossed in a blanket, we laugh (as Bergson in­forms us) because a human being is reduced to an object ( a ball), and in this nonhuman aspect we laugh at him. So too with Charlie Chaplin in Modern Times when Chaplin's mo­notonous and rhythmic repetition of 
''Comedy is a structure and as such may be funny 
. '' 


or serious . .. 
tightening a series of bolts passing along on an assembly line makes us perceive him as part of the .ma­chinery. 
But the inflexible, nonhuman as­pects of life are only one source of laughter. Strangely enough we also laugh at the opposite, at anything that reminds us that we are essen­tially human. Thus, in Henry IV we laugh at Falstaff in his "humour" aspect as a braggart soldier when he feigns death in order to save himself from death at the hands of Hotspur. We laugh at Falstaff's mechanical, automatic response here. But we also laugh at something else in this com­plex character. As the incarnation of the comic spirit, Falstaff never al­lows life to get him down. When cornered or endangered, he adapts, yields, compromises to maintain his self-image, or to survive; and we laugh with him for that. When Fal­staff remarks that "the better part of valor is discretion," we recognize the wisdom of what he says,. but we also recognize that he is calling at­tention to man's physical nature, as opposed to his spiritual ideals. Our spiritual side tells us that honor and valor are good and necessary ideals, and that cowardice is neither. So when Falstaff plays dead, he calls at­tention to the self-preservative in­stincts we share with him, but we 
laugh at his failure to live up to the ideal of honor we also approve. Any time anyone's behavior calls atten­tion to his (and our) common hu­manity (whether in a crude sexual joke or in a witty dialogue of Shaw), we tend to laugh when we perceive the distance between the behavior and the ideal. When Hjalmer in Isben's Wild Duck strikes a pose and declares his heroic determination to adhere to Werle's "demand of the ideal" by leaving his wife and child immediately, and then delays before leaving to accept his wife's offer of coffee and toast, we laugh at how easily his heroic stance is deflated, at how easily he yields to the "hu­man demand," to the necessity of eating. 
Thus, oddly, we laugh at the comic hero when he is nonhuman or in­flexible, and also when oppositely he bends, yields, or compromises an ideal on his way to embracing the so­cially acceptable norm that pertains at the end of a pure comedy (I say "pure" because satire and modern tragicomedy, or "dark" comedy are different from pure comedy and be­yond my scope here). But even more oddly, we pity and fear the comic hero's tragic counterpart whose in­flexibility, resolute and unbending will, and inability or refusal to com­promise an ideal drive him relent­lessly to destruction and death. How come such antithetic responses ­laughter at the inflexibility of the comic hero, and pity and even ad­miration for the unchanging resolve of the tragic hero? We can laugh when pained (as in "dark" comedy) and cry when happy. But physio­logically we ordinarily cannot laugh and cry at the same time. We can alternately, but usually not at the same time (although occasionally we do when we watch a comic genius 
like Charlie Chaplin) because the re­
spective-sources of laughter and 
pathos ?re different, antithetical. 
Laughter is a product of our mind's perception: what is comic appeals to our intellect. Pathos is a product of our emotions: what is tragic appeals to our heart. The comic, as primarily intellectual and hence unfeeling, is often unfair, even cruel, as when a character is satirized or ridiculed. The answer seems to be that our laughter or sympathy depends on whether we are emotionally detached or involved. When a character is presented not as an individual but as a stereotype, we see him only from ·the outside, allowing us to remain emotionally detached from him so that we can laugh at what we per­ceive in him as varying from the social norm or ideal. Although the tragic hero similarly varies from the norm, we do not laugh at him (un­less we are like Meiina Mercouri in Never on Sunday) because he is highly individualized; we get inside him (either by means of soliloquy or of private intimate scenes with loved ones) and so become emotionally in­volved with him. Our detachment from the comic hero permits us to laugh free of guilt at his variations from the norm. Our involvement with the tragic hero prevents our laughing at his variations from the norm, and instead arouses our pity (and fear) for him as we see them leading him to inevitable destruction. Comic structure is almost as se­vere with those who cannot· or will not change as is tragic structure. At the end of a comedy, any unregener­ate comic character (such as Shy­lock or Malvolio) is rejected from the comic harmony. Only those comic characters who change, who recog­nize their false identities, who re­pent, in short, only those who yield 
and return to the social norm are welcomedinto the renewed society at the E;?_nd. 
The harshness with which comedy often treats such complex comic characters as Shylock and Falstaff ( as well as Don Quixote and a host of others) will suggest perhaps that comedy has a serious side. As ob­served earlier, comedy is a projec­tion of life understood as a biologi­cal and social process by means of which society is renewed. But it is more. Comedy, as an imitator of life, reflects how vitally necessary com­edy, in its festive aspect, is for the psychological health of the individual and society. In the center of pure comedy, we generally arrive at a festive state where the normal world of law, reason, and responsibility is turned upside down. In Midsummer Night's Dream, the gross ass-headed Bottom is made love to against all reason by the ethereal Fairy Queen; and in Henry IV the licentious lord of misrule Falstaff is enthroned as king in the tavern world. Such in­versions from the norm, or topsy­turvydom, we find in ·life on holi­days, or vacations (i.e., when the normal time and activities of the workaday world are vacated or sus­pended), which are society's means of allowing its members to renew them­selves by indulging freely in modes of behavior completely at odds with normal everyday behavior. Thus it is that during New Year's and Mardi ,Gras festivities, sober adults dress · themselves for masquerade balls to play roles contrary to their true selves. Thus it is that at spring break students like lemmings head for the antithetical world of Florida beaches, and· when they return en­gage in An Tostal festivities. On such "festive" occasions, normality is turned on its head, social and 


moral norms are abrogated and often mocked, license or freedom from re­straint prevails, while the partici­pants engage in a frenzy of ab­normal, irrational behavior. The height of fun is reached at the point 
furthest from the norm. 
The aim of such seemingly aimless holiday activities is recr"eation, really re-creation, of the human psyche as a result of the participant's release of the pent-up energies restrained in his normal society, thus ensuring his social and mental health. But, al­though comedy's therapeutic effect is necessary for life, that does not mean comedy is a substitute for life. For, as Shakespeare reminds us, in the words of that temporary truant from the world of care and responsi­bility Prince Hal, "If all the year were playing holidays, To sport would be as tedious as to work." That is to say, holiday and work have a com­plementary relationship. Each is im­portant for setting the limits of and for defining the other. One without the other would be tedious, destruc­tive. It is fun to leave the normal world to partake of the license and freedom from restraint that prevails on festive occasions, but if the comic hero is to achieve happiness in the end, he must give over his abnormal behavior and return to the responsi­bilities of the normal world. When Hal rejects Falstaff, the incarnation of the holiday spirit in life, he is rejecting the holiday spirit in himself in order to become a successful king. And depending on how we respond to the relationship between work and play, Hal's rejection may be viewed as comic or tragic. . 
( continued from page 7) 

beginnings of the Renaissance in England, but at 16 after only two years at Oxford. his father brought him home to study law. He went through a 4-year crisis of faith in his late teens, his dearly beloved wife died after only six years of marriage, and he was constantly pressed by the many demands of his professional, spiritual, and fa~!lY life. 
in short, More faced as many per­sonal, family and social problems as any of us will; he faced the same problems of faith and loyalty to the Church that any of us will face. More ran the same race each of us runs, and he won with style: with good humor, with loyalty to his commit­ments, and with the ability to create an environment both attractive and sound. 
Scholastic: Do you think that his type of association is a valuable one to promote student enthusiasm? 
Wegemer: The enthusiasm definitely exists here at Notre Dame, and given the demands of professional life and the complexity of contemporary is­sues, I am convinced that the popu­larity -and necessity -of .such groups will definitely grow. · Every generation needs saints: examples of incarnate virtue, proof that heroism is not dead, encouragement that the 
battle ­ no  matter how hard - can  
be won.  
Scholastic:  Personally,  what  have  

your interest and involvement in the Thomas More Society been? 
Wegemer: Having worked in Wash­ington for six years, I am anxious to 
Wqe QTnlnnial f ancake 11inune 
Featuring: Oven-baked omelettes and apple pancakes. All bauers hand-made in our kitchen with fresh ingredients. 
Banquet facilities for 60. 

U.S. 31 North in Roseland (Across from the Holiday Inn) 272-7433 Open 7 days a week at 6:30 a.m. 
spend my short time at Notre Dame rethinking major problems and is­sues before entering the "arena" once again. The problems of this country, of the individual profes­sions, of the inner city, of schools and families can most adequately be addressed in light of the Church's social and moral teaching. And think More is an outstanding ex­ample of one who was both faithful and effective in manifesting that tradition. 
Scholastic: What future do you see for the Thomas More Society at Notre Dame? 
Wegemer: That is hard to say. Its direction will depend upon the inter­ests and initiatives of the individual members; the officers simply facili­tate those efforts. We will, however, continue the Wednesday night lec­ture series and the periodic mailings this year; through the Society's ef­forts, a new philosophy course will be offered next semester, "Natural Law and Professional Ethics." We will also conduct an extensive survey this fall on student views on educa­tion, with subsequent panel discus­sions in the spring. D 

Circle Camera Announces the Fall 

Schedule of Courses for the photographer: 
Camera I Advanced Camera Techniques Available Light Photography Light and Composition Photographic Modeling Glamour Photography For Women Only Photo Cosmetics Darkroom Techniques 

The Camera I session is Free with pmchase of any SLR 35 -Classes are held at Illusions, U.S. 31 South­
ll.22 Scottsdale Mall South Bend 
For more Information, call Circle Camera at 291-6814. 
ART 
. at the Snite Museum of Art 
Until Dec. 26 -The Golden Age of Dutch Ari: The Dreesmann Collectian­Print, Drawing and Photogra­phy Gallery. 
Oct. 24-Dec. 19-Traditional African Art in the Britt Family Collection­O'Shaughnessy Galleries. 
Oct. 31-Dec. 12-William Kremer: One Man Exhibition-O'Shaughnessy Galleries. 
Nov. 7-Dec. 19-Hedrich-Blessing: Architec­tural Phatogrophy 1930­1980-O'Shaughnessy Gal­leries. 




eulture-l{pdate-
LECTURES 
Nov. 3 -"Sculpture: The Space Connection" -Glenn Zweygardt, Asst. Profes­sor of Sculpture, NY State College of Ceramics, Alfred Univ. -8 :00 
p.m. -Annenberg Auditorium. 
Nov. 9 -"Nigerian Naturalism: The Art of lie" -Douglas Bradley, Curator, Snite Museum of Ari -12:10 p.m. -Annen berg Auditorium. 
Nov. 14 -"Fiber Art"-Magdalena Abakon­witz -2:30 p.m. -Annenberg Auditorium. (Gallery hours: T-F, 10 o.m.-4 p.m.; S-S, 
1-4 p.m.; Closed M) 
. . . at Saint Mary's College 
Nov. 8-11 -Portfolio Review -All galleries. (Gallery hours: M-F, 9:30 a.m;-12 p.m., 1 p.m.-3 p.m.; Sun., 1-3 p.m.; Closed Sat.) 
MUSIC 
at Notre Dame 
Nov. 4 -Noon concert: Notre Dome Jazz Bond -Directed by Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. -12:15 p.m. -Annenberg Auditorium. 
.. at Saint Mary's 
Nov. 4 -Guest Voice Recital -Little Theatre -8 p.m. 
• Nov. 10-Rhythmic Union -O'Loughlin Au­ditorium -8 p.m. 
Nov. 11 -Area Composers Concert -Roger Briggs, coordiriator -Utile Theatre -8 p.m . 
Nov. 14 -SMC Wind Ensemble Concert ­Roger Briggs, coordinator -Little Theatre -8 p.m. 
(continued from page 22) 
The suggestion of an integrated education, however, is still held in highest regard, both for reasons of practicality and value. The Arts and Letters/Engineering double major is of increasing popularity here at Notre Dame since its inception in 1952. Currently there are seventy students, sophomore through fifth year, in this category. 
Kathleen Maas Weigert, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, be­lieves that liberal arts students need to develop a familiarity with the technological direction of our age. Recognizing the value of the Arts and Letters/Engineering double ma­jor, she projects computer literacy courses for wholly liberal arts ma­jors. "In the next ten years I foresee a computer course for liberal arts majors, required in the same sense as is mathematics today." A need for familiarity with the technical as­pects of our society has necessitated these requirements. 
Historically, math and science have always been a part of the lib­eral arts. Jerry Marley, Dean of En­gineering, stated that this is often forgotten by those who criticize four years of engineering study as being too technical. Dean Marley agreed upon the value of the additional de­gree in liberal arts. "The benefits gained from the extra year cannot necessarily be measured in terms of salary or job position. Rather, the personal rewards justify the time spent in the program." Neither col­lege allows anythingto be eliminated. It is a rigorous program, asserted Marley, but highly beneficial. 
In conclusion, the most merito­rious education is one which fuses vital arts and letters instruction with practical technical knowledge. The benefits of such a well-rounded study remind one of the enduring ideal of the Renaissance man. D 
(continued from page 19) 
edge with the understanding that with each new thing we learn we are a different person, blessed not with more knowledge, as acceptance but knowledge as perseverance. 
Perhaps our problem with liberal education on the whole, then, is that we do not yet know its means be­cause we fall short in our perception of what it is. Liberal education, like people, should be treated as an end and not a means only. That end, I think, is a chiidlike curiosity with this world so as to prepare us for the next. Reinhold Niebuhr said another thing worth remembering: 
childlikeness . . . lies on the other side of sophistication. It is not the childlikeness of a primitive igno­rance but the childlikeness of a wisdom which has learned the lim­its of human knowledge. It is there­fore an approach to life with awe, hope, and fear. With awe because it knows the mystery of life is something more than an unknown region not yet explored by an ad­vancing science; with hope be­cause "it doth not yet appear what we shall be" and no record of past history gives us an ade­quate clue of what creative om­nipotence may bring forth out of the infinite possibilities of exis­tence; with fear because it knows the possibilities of evil, which ap­pear at each new turn of history, are never adequately anticipated by an analysis of the past. The wisdom of such childlikeness will prefer its hopes to its fears, know­ing that good is more primary than evil, that the world could not 
exist at all if it were not good.... (pp. 148-149, Beyond Tragedy) Liberal education can be a wonder­ful approach to life because it is so actively an approach to God. We become less haughty and more toler­ant of our fello',l{__human beings. We value our gift to -see a deeper mean­ing in life and to act in such a way as to help others know life's good­ness through our words and by our· deeds. Liberal education leaves that much of a responsibility to those who -are a product of its curricula, and it is a responsibility which rises above ideology. PLS can neither claim to do this, nor to be a liberal approach to the Classics. The color is simply not there. D 
Jeffrey Monaghan is a senior The­ology major from Superior, Wiscon­. sin. This is his first contribution to 

Scholastic. 
SCHOLASTIC 
-

_________. 
THEATRE 

•Nov. 
3 -Mark Twain in Person -O'Laugh­lin Auditorium -SMC -8 p.m. 

•Nov. 
12, 13, 18, 19, 20-The Maids by Jean Genet-Di­rected by ·Leonard 


Powlick -Wash­ington Hall, ND -8 p.m. 
DANCE 

Nov. 13, 14 -Abiogenesis -Lafortune Ball­room, ND-8 p.m. (13); 1:30 
p.m. (14) -Donations ac­cepted. Call 283-7976 for in­formation. 

( 'Tickets required; for reservations, information coll (219) 284-4626.) 

(continued from page -18) 

to personal acceptance or rejection of their claims is he truly "liberally educated." While he spends three years learning what man has made of the world, the student is con­stantly comparing the ideas of our culture's great minds to his own con­cepts. One deals not with "dead ques­tions," but with urgent issues faced in daily life. The concepts and values studied are often ancient in their origin, but have immediate modern relevance. The knowledge gained through the Program will never be­come obsolete, indeed, the study of the classic ideas has the most far­reaching and long-term application of any pursuit. Hence students are confident upon graduation that they have received an eminently valuable education and are well prepared for any pursuit. A graduate of the Pro­gram is not trained for any particu­lar career, rather, he is trained for life -trained to live and think as a conscious, knowledgeable heir of his Western cultural tradition. I think this personal growth in wisdom is the ultimate aim of any education, and is best afforded at Notre Dame in the Program of Liberal Studies. D 
Alice Douglas is a senior Program of Liberal Arts major from Memphis, Tennessee. 



Patty Norrbom Beauty Consultant 1758 Crestwood Blvd. South Bend. Indiana 
I offer FREE complimen­tary facials which I will do at your home or you may come to mine. The facial takes from 1 ½-2 hours. When the facial is com­pleted you are ready to face the world with a fresh-new-lovely look . 
For A Free · Complimentary Facial Call: (219) 232-6220. 




SHARE 
THE COST OF LIVING. 
! 
GIVE TO THE AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY. 
This space contributed as apublic service. 
Announcing ... 
Scholastic's premier FICTION CONTEST. Open to all ND/SMC students. 
First-, second• , and third• place cash prizes. 
All entries due to Scholastic of• fice (third-floor LaFortune) by Dec. 4. 
Limit: 2000 words. 




-Tl1e Last Word------­
by Beth Healy 
/I,.;;,! : f ~ . ::,ui·! 
•'•/ d I ' l . ,.J ''
t/1;1 i-' :: \ : ; :.,;:j\:··1
i/ It,•,, j' , . ; , . /'' ' 
lI\fi('.:\ '/., ..' /, .\{:;
1 
, i /J :• I~ ! • ,: ,:' '.!_:;:;\(
:
1
di ' ' '• I / ·, ,, • t fl',· '~1V:1,·1( :,:i, 
I /f f , j;,'/1 ' 
,Af r, •l ,· ., ... · 

St. Thomas Aquinas wrote, "The discovery of truth is the fruit of studious enquiry." Notre Dame is most definitely a place of studious enquiry. Therefore, it should also foster the discovery of truth, the Truth. 
Historically, the liberal arts have been the avenues to the discovery of truth. In that the liberal arts influence reality, they search for truth beyond ob­servation and experimentation, beyond what man can know through the senses. Education as a means of seeking the end must seek the proper end which for every man is participation in eternal life with God. 
The liberal arts are designed to help man discover his end. We view history as a discussion of man in society; theology as a study to acquaint man with his final end, God; philosophy as an exploration of man's intellectual and spiritual being; and language and art as an avenue for man's·expressive and creative soul. The premises of these disciplines cannot be proven by scientific methods. They surpass the boundaries of man's experimentation. 
Education addresses both the material and nonma­terial realms of reality. To ground education in the material is to condemn man to a finite end. To limit education to the nonmaterial is to ignore man's re­sponsibility as a member of society, to provide for him­self and others. Neither is mutually exclusive. 
If modern education seeks to develop the whole man, it must seek to integrate both the material and non­material realities. The real danger surfaces when students seek the material end before, or instead of; the nonmaterial. 
Educators often cry that learning is threatened by technology. However, this cannot be of grave concern if the proper end of ·education, the discovery of truth, is kept in focus. The question of the validity of the liberal arts has only arisen in light of scientific advancement. The sciences only threaten the discovery of truth if bound by the senses, the material end. However, it .is possible, indeed necessary, to couple man's material talents with his discovery of the truth. 
The value of the liberal arts revolves around the concept that there is something beyond the sensory, beyond collected data. Whether the chicken or the egg came first is of little importance compared to the fact that they exist, that they were created. Ideally, educa­tion must liberate man to look beyond what he sees. Man is not merely a biological mass of flesh and bones. The liberal arts free man to discover his soul, the creativity of man modeled after the Creator. 
Moreover, man's responsibility to material reality, to his fellow man, stems from the mystery of creation. In creation, man experiences the gift of existence. In that God, in his unlimited love, takes responsibility for man's existence, it follows that man must take responsibility to advance, improve, and develop that existence. 
Man does not live by bread alone. His soul must also be fed. It appears that education in the discovery of truth feeds both hungers. In fact, it is Jesus Christ, God became man, the "non-material" became "ma­terial," who best illustrates this dual responsibility. Christ fed men's souls and bodies. He brought the Word of God, the ultimate truth, to the people. He also multiplied loaves and fishes and changed water to wine. 
Man has the responsibility to pursue the liberal arts, the discovery of truth, if for no other reason than that God exists and the end is nonmaterial. Secondly, be­cause God does exist, he has the responsibility to carry his commitment to material reality to completion. Believing this, he must also surrender to God's will, for life does not end with the material and God will provide. 
And that, my friends, is the truth. D 




• OFFSET PRINTING • PHOTOCOPYING 
RESUME' • LETTERHEADS • ENVELOPES BUSINESS FORMS • NCR FORMS FOLDING• CUTTING• COLLATING• PADDING • PLASTIC RING BINDING • COMPUTER PHOTOTYPESETTING SERVICE 
• QUALITY • SERVICE • ECONOMY 
277-3355 

247 DIXIE WAY (U.S. 31) NORTH 
.. 
NON-PROFIT ORG. 
U.S. POSTAGE 


PA ID 
Notre Dame, Indiana Permit No. 7 

I 
' 
' \ 
l 
-

I ) ·' 
' 
) 
! 
r. 
' 

---{ 1 ' 
.. 
' 
.' 
., 








