FIRESIDE CHATS
MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL
OCTOBER 5TH-9TH, 12:00-1:00pm
MONDAY
Aging in America
TUESDAY
Prof. Ava Collins
WEDNESDAY
Prof. Khalil Matta
THURSDAY
The Cultures of East Africa
Fr. Tom McDermott
FRIDAY
Ms. Rosemary Haughton
FREE LUNCH INCLUDED
The Middle East Peace Process
Homelessness: Song in a Strange Land
Multiculturalism and the Media
Mr. Paul Reese, AARP Ms. Molly Toole
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
NEWS
3	Habitat for Humanity CAMPUS LIFE
7	In Search of a Career
10	Cultural Awareness SPORTS
14 Bound for Atlanta, 1996
16	Old Coach, New Look ENTERTAINMENT
o O
19
20
21
22
23
24
Out Of Bounds The Last of the Mohicans Alternative Tentacles and the Mr. T Experience
DEPARTMENTS
2
Editor’s Notes CampusWatch On Other Campuses Week In Distortion Final Word
Cover photo by Ken Osgood
OCTOBER 1, 1992
SCHOLASTIC
o
______EDITOR'S NOTES
On The Cover
Vo!'134, No.5$ October 1,1992
Disc&Quasi Semper! Victurus ^Viye QuisiCras Morittirus
Founded1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF Patricia K. Doyle;
MANAGING EDITOR : MargaretS; Kenny <7
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
David jj/Holsinger.^ .
CAMPUSLIFE Editor: Mollie Mudd
;/7SPORTS^^
7: Editor:^
JyEN'M Edit^
-departments;’^ /^;Editpr::^ate.W0tt;Sbt/7?:
•.photography^^: '>:Editdcken'bsgb'6d I
::- -
ff-^d^r^Ch^s^pforid'
. <■
Although we have been back to school for just over a month, seniors are already busy trying to make plans for next year. Some will be heading to graduate school, others will be doing military service and, believe it or not, some will be getting jobs! This sounds sort of scary, but with a resumd in hand, a new suit and a little help from Career and Placement, that first interview may not be so bad after all. This week, Campus Life reporter Maricelle Rufz-Calderon gives us an update on the job outlook and interviews with Kitty Arnold, director of Career and Placment Services.
In This Issue
In Campus Life this week, editor Mollie Mudd talks with Michael Swanson of the Multicultural Executive Council about their efforts to make students more aware of multiculturalism. To read more about multiculturalism atNotre Dameand find out about the upcoming events in the Multicultural Fall Festival take a look at this week’s “Final Word.” News writer Jenny Tate shows us what the Notre Dame chapter of Habitat for Humanity is doing for the South Bend community.
Sports writer Michelle Crouch interviews Maria Panyi, a world-class fencer from Budapest, Hungary, who decided that she would put her Olympic dreams on hold and get an education first. Although her goal now is to compete successfully in the NCAA, she is also looking towards the Olymics in 1996. Amanda Clinton prepares us for this weekend’s football battle against Stanford. Since Coach Bill Walsh spent last season commentating for Notre Dame games, he has had plenty of time to prepare for this match-up.
Welcome Aboard
This week we like to welcome our new Departments Editor Katie Wiltrout to our staff. She is in charge of such weekly features as “Coming Distractions,” “Week In Distortion” and “On Other Campuses.” We are happy to have Katie with us and good luck to her!
Patricia Doyle Editor in Chief
"'SENIOR STAFF WRITERS -ArnandaClinton.'Pete McGillicuddy,■;
RuiZjCalde^
,"■	-y; 77-f-,7
WsOQess®®;^^^^
JSSB«®B#S7
7"". ,■■■'.•
•„/.:/ vtY/'fr'i"/::.A-'

A


Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Noire Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. Thesubscription rale is $25.00/year and backissuesare available al $125 {copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied malerials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include thewriter 's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves therighi to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS
Notre Dame chapter of Habitat for Humanity assists the down-trodden South Bend community
By Jenny Tate
Think globally, actlocally. No organization better exemplifies this slogan than Habitat for Humanity, an international organization which provides low-cost housing for those in need.
The international organization of Habitat for Humanity was the brainchild of Millard Fuller in the early 1970s. The objectives of his fledgling group were to “create affordable and adequate housing” for those in need. The organization, headquartered in Americus, Georgia, gained publicity in the mid-1970s after the cause was espoused by Jimmy Carter. The organization now exists in 25 countries and all 50 of the United States.
Habitat has Christian roots, yet it remains open to applicants for housing and volunteers of all denominations. Robert “Benny” Benedetto, co-president of the Notre Dame chapter of Habitat for Humantiy, stressed that the problem transcends religious or racial issues and, instead, embraces an issue that faces all people. “Anyone can pick up a hammer and build a house,” Benedetto said.
To be eligible to receive a house constructed by Habitat for Humanity, a family must go through an application process in which they are personally interviewed and their finances are reviewed. The family must pledge 500 “sweat hours” of actual labor on the house if they are accepted for the program. Materials for the house are predominantly donated or received at low cost
Upon completion of the house, the family purchases it for anywhere between $20,000 and $40,000. To help afford the house, the family can also take out a low interest loan from Habitat The thriving organization completed its 15,000th house in the United States last year and continues to grow. “We are up and

beyond that now,” said Benedetto.
The Notre Dame chapter of Habitat is one of 700 college campus chapters across the country. The Notre Dame chapter, established in 1988 and officially recognized in 1990, boasts 100 volunteers.
The Notre Dame chapter has three primary objectives. First, Notre Dame’s Habitat sends volunteers to local affiliates to perform actual labor on the houses. Internationally, the organization is broken down by cities or counties, and each area has a local affiliate which basically functions as an independent organization. The affiliates find eligible families, acquire plots and provide supplies and instructions to the volunteers.
ND sends out volunteer work crews nearly every Saturday to one of the three
OCTOBER 1,1992
area sites. Currently, the organization is close to completing a house in LaPorte and is working on renovating two houses in the South Bend area.
: .doesn-t:-tak0 any; skill; it just takes < enthusiasm and a willingness to learn. You don’t^aye tp be
. kri exceileftt7 ^arpeMerto>gb/out r and make a di^
The second objective of the organization is to raise funds to cover some of the costs incurred by their projects. The club is presently selling T-shirts to help generate funds.
Additionally, Notre Dame Habitat strives to be an “educational outlet.” “We would like to make Habitat a household word,” said Benedetto. Benedetto stressed that many people remain unaware of the housing problems that exist in their own neighborhoods. To help increase awareness, Benndetto said that Habitat is organizing a lecture series “dealing with the housing problems that do exist” to present to area high schools says Benedetto.
Notre Dame’s chapter is broken into twelve groups, each having a
group leader. Each group consists of about 15 members, and it is die group leader’s responsibility to contact these members and inform them of the group’s respective work
day. The group leaders must also obtain tools from the organization’s co-presidents and arrange for transportation to the site. Upon arrival at the site, the group receives instructions from the project manager.
After working, the group leader reports to the club secretary who records “who worked, what we did and what times, so that next week, if they are looking for a certain skill to be done, they might send the same group or at least contact that group because they are familiar with the work to be done,” said Bridget Graham, one of the group leaders. The constant contact between the group leaders and the group secretary is designed to encourage cohesiveness and efficiency within the organization.
Graham stressed the importance of quantities of volunteers over the quality of the labor they provide. “It doesn’t take any skill; it just takes enthusiasm and a willingness to learn. You don’t have to be an excellent carpenter to go out and make a difference,” she said.
Benedetto also highlighted that not only do volunteers give of themselves, but they also receive, in return, friendships and gratitude that will last a lifetime. “The real neat
thing about the whole project is that you’re working alongside the soon-to-be owners of the house. The relationships that evolve are great,” he said.
“My favorite part is actually meeting the person whose home you are building and experiencing the huge appreciation that they have for what you are doing for them,” said
7 ■;
to give as many 7people ^le^uate
Graham. “It makes you feel like you are really doing something for less fortunate people instead of sitting back and hoping something gets done. You can actually see your results.”
The organization takes concrete steps at ameliorating existing housing problems on a global level by making a difference at the local level. “We are working toward the short-term goal of giving this person a home, but the longterm goal is to give as many people adequate housing as possible,” says Benedetto.
“Habitat for Humanity is an excellent opportunity for a person to get involved in an inter
national organization yet to see your result at the local level,” said Graham. □
4
SCHOLASTIC

WHAT TO GET WITH $25 ...
30 Soft shell ^n^d^ch that! .. Come on, no on
The Best of the Doors on CD?
al^dy.	aU °fy°Ur fHmds	that
80 staml’s'! r going to got ar0
- Ai-ng°th^ny writing bl
Subscribe to
nd to
Scholastic
Notre Dame's Weekly Student Magazine
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name: ________________________
Address: ________;'	_______
City: -State:ZIP code:.
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager
Scholastic Magazine .
303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
NEWS COMMENTARY .
Campus Watch
■ d v t u r r t d d r d
It’s time for the Gipp to ding-a-ding-dang his dang-a-long-ling-long again this week, so listen up, valued readers! Your favorite weekly column has been more than a little bit error-stricken in the past few weeks, but we promise to make up for it. We apologize for last week’s nonsensical squib (see below). Since it was such an important tip, we’verun it for you again.
GRAD STUDENTS AVERT THE BIG ONE
The most whined-about institution of ritual extortion and naked capitalism on this campus is without a doubt the Hammes® Notre Dame Bookstore. Students have long found this evil edifice to be a source of anger and an explanation for their lack of pocket cash. The Gipp himself has taken on a crusade against this gang of thieves on more than one occasion, and this week is no different
Reliable sources tell us that graduate students in the department of theology have found a way to obtain their books not only cheaper but also without ever having to stand in lines for them. Apparently the grad students have an 800 number for a seminary in St. Paul, Minn., which allows them to obtain theology texts at approximately a 20% reduction. Says one of the students, “We try as hard as we can to avoid the bookstore. What they charge students is unconscionable.” No kidding. This same source tells us that there may be similar 800 number organizations for other departments as well. Readers, this bears investigation! Help us undermine the bookstore and tell us of any cheaper book sources that might be out there!
I MEANT TO SAY...
The Gipp also received a flood of mail (well, not exactly a flood) regarding the unreadable photo which was run in last week’s column. The instructions for the washing machine in the photo read, “Check inside machine for children, pets and foreign objects before loading and starting.” Scholastic apologizes for the error.
CAN’T I JUST GO TO THE COPY SHOP?
Readers, the Gipp has another piece of administrative rip-off news for you. It seems that University Health Services may be running the world’s most expensive photocopying operation. A Scholastic reporter lost a copy of her receipt for services and medication from University Health Services some time ago. When she discovered that her insurance company needed thatreceipt in order to process her claim, she had to go back. Dreading the bureaucracy; she humbly requested another copy. Wonder of wonders, UHS actually had it and could produce a photocopy. The only catch was that a photocopy of this particular documentcostourreporterSlO. This should tell you to two things: Never throw away anything the university gives you (ever) and if you need a copy of something for class, don’t try to copy it at the infirmary.
FIGHT SONG COUNT
Haven’t you ever wondered how many times you hear the fight song on a typical home football Saturday? The Gipp did.
During the Michigan game he counted hearing those familiar strains of music on 22 separate occasions. He tried to count again during the Purdue game, but even ghosts of dead football players were worried about catching a cold in that miserable downpour, so he only counted 8. Try this yourself, and we’ll publish the results in a future issue. Be sure to count them all, from the 8 a.m. band wake-up call to the last post-game tailgater or musical keychain on the quad.
WHAT YEAR IS THIS?
We all know that the Sesquicentennial Year is quickly drawing to a close (only 10 days after the distribution of this issue), and some of us are relishing this occasion with more glee than others. But the lingering question now lurks in some of our minds: what is this year going to be? Has the administration made any suggestions, or are they just hoping that no one will ask for a theme year, having blown ungodly sums of money on last year’s festivities? Seniors, don’t let yourselves be cheated! Demand a theme! Any ideas? The Gipp would like to see something like “The Year of the Squirrel” or “The Year of Raw Sewage.” Send ideas to: The Gipp, 303 LaFortune; Really. You can actually send mail here; some of you have taken the time to let the Gipp know what you’re thinking, and he appreciates it. The rest of you, be warned: The Gipp sees you reading his column, and he knows that you’re not writing in. Get motivated and write to us. Campus Mail is free and easy (even if it is slow).
6
SCHOLASTIC
CAMPUS LIFE
By Maricelle Ruiz-Calderon
£ he vast majority of Notre Dame I students have self-confidence, they have the energy, and they certainly have the intelligence to do well in so many different environments. It just takes a while to get a ‘soft’ market running. Encouragement and support, they are what we are in the business to do,” said Kitty Arnold, director of Career and Placement at Notre Dame.
There comes a time in the life of the Notre Dame student when seniors must realize that there’s more to life than football, the Commons, and the Golden Dome. For most of us this traumatic moment arrives the summer before our senior year. It is during this time that everyone decides to pose the dreaded question: “So what’s up after graduation?” This question makes you seriously wonder — until you spend some time at the Career and Placement Services Office.
Mrs. Kitty Arnold explained that a placement office began operating at Notre Dame in the Administration building after World War II. In 1984, the office was transferred to
its current location the basement of the Hesburgh Library.
Currently, Career and Placement, as it is usually referred to around Notre Dame, has
a staff of 13 permanent employees, 6 in the professional staff and the remaining 7 as support staff. The placement office also employs 12 student assistants who work about 12hours per week. In addition, Career
and Placement employs 2 MBA coordinators who aid in the interviewing process of the MBA students.
Arnold described Career and Placement’s role: “There’s two basic kinds of services that we offer. We try to help students make their career choices, and then we also try to help them implement their career goals.” Arnold mentioned that “students are probably more familiar with placement services because they see their fellow students coming over here in suits and that is a dead giveaway that something unusual is happening. What is happening are interviews for summer internships or for permanent jobs.” : Arnold stated that every year there are an average of 10,000 job interviews hosted through Career and Placement. That is, approximately 350 to 450 employers visit Notre Dame to interview approximately 1,250 registered students.
Nevertheless, Arnold stressed that there is more to Career and Placement than the well-known interview process. She explained that they “also offer services to help students decide what kind of career they want to
OCTOBER 1, 1992
Ken Osgood
Students discuss their career plans and job opportunites with a recruiter in Career & Placement's lounge.
enter.” Arnold further explained that they do this primarily through “individual career counseling.”
Career and Placement sponsors numerous events such as workshops, testing to identify career choices, placement nights for the different colleges, the Law School Caravan and the Summer Job Fair, as well as “mock
interviews,” or sessions on advice for the real interviews, and receptions every year for approximately 100 employers. They also run a Career Resource Library located within their office.
When asked how many students get jobs
as a result of their efforts in campus interviews, Arnold established, drawing on surveys conducted by Career and Placement, that, “on average, 85-90% of students who want jobs are employed within 3 months of graduation.”
Regarding the duration of the job search, Arnold commented: “It is probably a shorter job search for students who are in technical fields.” She explained that it is shorter for two reasons. First, if you are in a technical field it is typically a lot easier to figure out which jobs you want to apply for. The second reason is that people who have specific training related to a specific academic major are more likely to be available for campus recruiting for that kind of a job.
In order to illustrate her point, she used the accounting field as an example, affirming that “in the public accounting industry, traditionally those employers have filled prac
Ken Osgood
8
SCHOLASTIC
tically every entry-level professional job that they have through on campus interviewing.” The undergraduate accounting program at Notre Dame ranks sixth nationally in academic quality. The overall reputation brings the firms to Notre Dame, firms that are focusing only on top schools while in this slow job market.
Arnold predicted that there are going to be more job openings during the next years in the fields of health care and communications. She feels that “the health care industry has to increase because of the aging of our population. Thefactthatwelivelongerlives
Senior economics major, John Moynahan speaks to Mary Ellen Mancino, an ND recruiter for Aetna.
suggests that we have a longer time to get sick.”
Alternatively, Arnold believes that the communications industry has to increase its openings “because we are in the information age.”
Concerning the recession and the availability of jobs, Arnold affirms that this re- | cession has had “a dramatic effect.” Arnold further explained: “This recession is different from die ones in the past. It has not hit a single segment of our economy, it has not been isolated in a certain geographic area— all kinds of jobs, all kinds of employees have been affected.”	[
Nonetheless, she mentioned that the defense-related industries and the domestic airlines have been terribly affected.
In terms of the accessibility of jobs to Notre Dame students, Arnold says that, as a result of the recession, she has seen a decrease in campus interviews, from 11,000 to 7,800 in 3 years. Her advice to students is to be very clear as to what they want to do, in relation to the way the economy is going, to confront seriously the question “Do I give-up my dream for security?”
Arnold said, “We are here to help students try to identify potential alternatives, but we
cannot change the way the economy is, we cannot change the industry.”
Arnold emphasized that the best way to search for a job is by using “multiple avenues.” That is, she encourages students to rely on Career and Placement as one source,
while also pursuing other sources. She said, “One should not assume that Career and Placement Services and the campus interviewing program is the one and only way to get a job. Surely, you should utilize those services but also you need to learn how to look for a job on your own.”
Therefore, Arnold strongly believes in educating oneself using the numerous resources provided by Career and Placement, such as the workshops on how to write effective resumes, how to conduct an effective mail campaign, and how to have an effective interview.
Arnold commented on their education process: “We are here to teach you something that you could use for the rest of your life. We honestly view ourselves as educators —educators on a topic that will continue throughout your life to be important We know the tools you need to conduct a full-fledged job search, we’re here to try to help you to acquire those tools.”
Arnold advises those students who pursue non-vocational majors, i.e., graduates from the school of Arts and Letters. She believes the first step those students must take is to decide what kind of career they want to pursue. She said, “It is not that there aren’t enough options, the problem is that there are too many options and that makes it confusing.”
The next step that should be taken is “to try to acquire some hard experience [before] graduation.” Arnold said, “It makes a thousand percent difference in your job search when you can point to some kind of related experience, either through a summer job or through volunteering in a particular agency. It separates you from the vast majority of other people who, frankly, cannot say with the same degree of assurance that you could, if you had this kind of experience, ‘I know this is the kind of job I want.’”
Finally, Arnold discussed the situations of underclassmen and international students.
Regarding underclassmen, she said, “What I want to encourage students to understand is that this is not j ust aplace that you come when you’re about ready to graduate. We want students that are underclassmen to know that they are more than welcome. We are excited about trying to be of assistance to them very early on.”
With regards to international students, Arnold mentioned that, at Career and Placement, they try to keep up-to-date with the most recent legislation on the employment of foreign nationals in the United States. In the past, they have sponsored workshops in order to inform foreign students about these laws. Career and Placement also keeps up to date on the latest developments concerning “immigration laws that relate to international students trying to get domestic employment” Arnold concluded by establishing that the way people get jobs is “by virtue of the extraordinary effort they putinto it, by making yourself try — one more time.” □
OCTOBER 1,1992
CAMPUS LIFE
C u 11 u i* 8il
A Necessity on Campus according to the Multicultural Executive Committee
By Mollie Mudd
Everyone is part of some culture, a culture that affects certain behaviors, actions and beliefs. That is what multiculturalism is all about, said Michael Swanson, a Notre Dame senior and member of the Multicultural Executive Council.
The council is an organization comprised of twelve Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s students who coordinate events to make the community more aware of multiculturalism.
This coming week, October 4-9, the MEC has organized a Multicultural Fall Festival for the Notre Dame community. There are lectures, fireside chats, performances and international food tastings scheduled as attractions for students, faculty, administration, as well as community members from the Mishawaka and South Bend area.
National and local experts will be sharing their personal thoughts and experiences in daily fireside chats.
On Monday, a lecture on aging in America, titled “A Grey Panther" is sched
uled. Tuesday’s informal lecture will be given by Arts and Letters core course instructor, Ava Collins. She will be speaking on “Multiculturalism and the Media.” On Wednesday, “The Middle. East Peace Process” will be discussed by Khalil F. Matta, an associate professor of management and a
IWlihgrM
native of Lebanon. These three lectures are in the International Student Office lounge.
The MEC is anticipating larger crowds for
fireside chats on Thursday and Friday. They will be conducted in LaFortune’s Notre Dame Room. Thursday’s lecture features Rev. H. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C., director of special projects for the ■ Office of Campus Ministry, who will speak on “Experiences in Kenya.” Author Rosemary Haughton will discuss “Homelessness: Song in a StrangeLand” on Friday. Haughton, a native Englishwoman, is involved in the base Christian communites movement in North America and has written many books, The Passionate GodandThe Re-Creation of Eve, among the best known.
Live dancing and singing performances will be seen on the quad and in the ballroom during the week/ This multicultural entertainment will includes Ballet Folklorico, a Puerto Rican storyteller, the Infancia Americana Song and Dance Group, the Asian-American club and a reggae band.
Samples of exotic foods and international delights will be offered daily on Fieldhouse Mall during lunchtime. Taste cultural concoctions made by the Hawaiian club, the
SCHOLASTIC
Italian club and the Japan club. The annual “Taste of Nations” will end the Multicultural Fall Festival with snacks and delicacies offered Friday evening in S tepan Center.
The Multicultural Fall Festival intorduces the Notre Dame community to the benefits of having such a culturally diverse population in one place.
The MEC wants “awareness on this campus that everyone here is not a white Irish Catholic male. We sell this school short to say that and not recognize the other cultures,” Swanson said. “Notre Dame has many rich cultures and unique backgrounds and not to leant about these other cultures, greatly limits us at this university.”
“Everyone is invited to all events,” Swanson said. “This is not just for students and faculty. I strongly encourage administrators who represent our university to attend as many of our events as possible. Their visiblity is not only important, it is extremely necessary. The administration must show consistent commitment to cultural awareness at this university.”
The MEC is also planning future events that promote multiculturalism around campus and the surrounding community.
Coming in December, Christmas Around the World will be sponsored by the Council. International countries will by represented by different examples of Christmas decorating, food and other Yuletide customs. The different modes of celebrating Christmas will be displayed and explained by someone from the specific regions. Volunteers from the university’s diverse population will be solicited to share and demonstrate their culture through Christmas traditions.
Swanson said, “Because Notre Dame is an institution of higher
learning we should be willing and eager, not only as Notre Dame students but as citizens of the world to learn about the uniqueness of
others’ cultures.”
The MEC, Swanson explained, is also planning Multicultural Workshops to be held with Washington High School and Culver Military Academy. “The purpose of this exchange is to introduce high school students to different forms of multiculturality and
have them go back to their schools and enhance their own programs.” The high school students will visit Notre Dame and the Multicultural Executive Committee will be going to their schools to experience the differences in cultural awareness between schools.
“It is important to do this with high school students because they will be going on to college soon. We want to increase their awareness as well as encourage them to start something like the MEC at their college.
The MEC is comprised of committed individuals that want to “focus on solutions and positive ideas of cultural diverstiy rather than reflecting on the problems of the past,” Swanson said. “We are tired of listening to complaints. If we positively challenge the future with ideas instead of complaints, then I think we can accomplish our goals — our goals of campus cultural awareness.”
The Fall Festival will give students, faculty, the neighboring communities and “the administration an excellent opportunity to practice what they preach about cultural diversity,” Swanson said.	□
OCTOBER 1,1992
B
Send information for your event to: Kate Wiltrout, Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569.
Thursday 1
Movie: "Rebel Without a Cause," 8:00 & 10:30 pun., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Seminar: "A Report from the Gorbachev Foundations," 12:15 p.m., Room 103, Hesburgh Center.
Visiting Scholar Series: "Culture & Contact: The Collision of Two World Cuisines," 4:15 pan., Room 140 DeBartolo Hall.
Friday 2
Movie: "Father of the Bride," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Film: "High Heels," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Concert: Notre Dame Folk Choir, 7:00 pun., Holy Cross Brothers Center, Holy Cross College.
Soccer Notre Dame Women in
Golden Dome Classic, 2:30 & 5:00 p.m., AlumniField. .
Soccer: Notre Dame Men vs. Xavier, 7:30 pjn., at Alumni Field.
Pep Rally: 7:00 p.m., JACC..
Saturday 3
Movie: "Father of the Bride," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Film: "High Heels," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Meeting: Alcoholics Anonymous, 9:30 a.m., Multipurpose Room, CSC.
Performance: Shenanigans, 11:00 a.m.
JACC.	...
Football: Notre Dame vs. Stanford, 12:35 p.m., Notre Dame Stadium.
For More Information Call:
LaFortune Information Desk: 239-8128 Senior Class: 239-5136 Student Union Board: 239-7757 Junior Class: 239-5117 Snite Film Series Hot Line: 239-7361
Sophomore Class: 239-5225
ND News Line: 239-5110
JACC Ticket Information:
239-7354
Notre Dame MenuLine: 283-FOOD
Weekend Wheels Schedule: 283-FRED
Touch Four
Dial 239-2500, then press: x 1211 for news headlines x 1212 for local news x 1932 for top pop albums x 1911 for prime time TV ? x 1906 for video releases
x 1600 for local weather
x 1603 for national weather
x 1903 for movie reviews
x 1300 for local sports info.
x 1301 for TV sports events
x 1303 for national sports report
x 1213 for world news
IS till


■
Sunday 4
?all Concert: "Boston Museum Trio," •00 pun., Snite, $2.
Multicultural Fall Festival: "Spiritual Celebration," 2:00 pun., Holy Cross neld.
Soccer: Notre Dame Men vs. Dayton, 1:00 pin., Alumni Field.
tonday 5
Um: "So This is Paris," 7:00 pan., Snite, L
Um: “Psycho," 900 p.m., Snite, $2. erfonnance: WWF Super Stars of Wrestling, JACC Arena.
Film: "She's Gotta Have It," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "Touch of Evil," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Lecture: "Changing Gender Roles Of Women in Pentecostal Churches and Christian Base Communities," 12:30 pan., Room 103, Hcsburgh Center.
Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. Indiana State, 7:30 p.m., JACC.
J
Performance: "Ah Wilderness!" 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall, $7.
Free Cookout: 7.00 to 9:00 p jn., Senior Bar.
Soccer: Notre Dame Women vs.
Loyola, 500 pjn., Alumni Field.
Soccer: Notre Dame Men vs. Detroit, 700 p.m., Alumni Field.
Movie Theatres:


^dnilay;..........................
£U2:bc£i^j^ Fireside Chat,-"Aging in Amaica,".Paul;R«&;&^
g^^^pj&IOiltux^to
i4:3O-r5:3O‘tfm^^	Associatidn:Ehtertaihmeii/Fieldhoiwd;Mall;
TXi	j_	■ in 1 isiUr Aj:A h,aAi

100 Center Cinema I&II: 259-0414
Scottsdale Theatre:
291-4583
Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090
assail

University Park Cinema East: 277-7336
University Park Cinema West: 277-0441
Forum I & II Cinema:
277-1522
_____SPORTS________
Bound for Atlanta, H®®®
Fencer Maria Panyi has come from Hungary to the United States. Next transition: from college competition to the Olympics.
By Michelle Crouch
iven the choice to compete in the Olympics or to go to kJ college, most students would undoubtedly choose tb go for the gold. Not Maria Panyi. An Olympic-caliber fencer from Budapest, Hungary, Panyi decided that a college degree was more important to her than competing in the 1992 summer games.
“It was the hardest decision of my life,” explained Panyi, 22. “If I stayed home, I’d play for the team and go to the Olympic games, but it was a bigger thing for me to come here and get educated.”
Panyi fenced for the Hungarian women’s fencing team and competedinmanyimportanttoumaments. Individually,she placed sixth at the Junior Under-20 World Championships, and in 1991, her team placed seventh at the University Games, the world fencing championship for students. Furthermore, her team won the peace competition that occurred after the Gulf War.
Despite these successes, Panyi chose to come to Notre Dame. “It’s better than going to the Olympic games,” she said. “They’re only good if you win a medal. If I can get a degree here at Nobe Dame and I still want to fence, I can go to the next Olympic games.”
Because she lived in a Communist country, the chance to get an education beyond high school is a special opportunity.
Panyi said that she has noticed many differences between the United States and Hungary. “It’s opposite here,” she said. “In Hungary, people were so closed. Because it was communist, it was very strict There were government spies . everywhere. Outside, it looked like everyone was equal, but the government actually had a lot of power.”
Panyi recalled that as a child, she “always had good grades but bad behavior because [she] had trouble saying and doing 14
. Ken Osgood
For Panyi, who placed sixth in Individual competition at the Junior Under-20 World Championships and seventh in team competition at the University Games, going to Notre Dame is "better than going to the Olympic games."
SCHOLASTIC
some things.” According to Panyi, all students were required to say “I am a good Communist,” even though they had no idea what they were saying or why. Because she was an athlete and her father was in the party, however, Panyi said it was easier for her to get away with her defiance.
Panyi described Americans as “very open and very noisy.” She noted that they do not place as much emphasis on equality. For example, in Hungary if one student brought a banana to school for lunch, the teacher would not allow that student to eat it because the other students did not have one.
Panyi was especially excited about the freedom of religion in the United States. “In
Ken Osgood
Due to a NCAA rules and regulations "glitch," Panyi may not fence for Notre Dame this year.
Hungary, if you wanted a good job, you had to be in the Communist party, so you couldn’tgo to church,” she explained. Panyi was baptized a Catholic, but she “doesn’t know a lot of things about [Catholicism], She has “a free spirit now.”
Panyi also described the government’s power over athletes in Hungary. According to Panyi, the Hungarian government provides good athletes with fake papers saying they are studying at a university so that they can compete in the University Games.
“Their main goal was to beat capitalist countries,” said Panyi. In addition, Hungarian athletes were not allowed to be interviewed except in extreme cases, in which they had to have a government monitor present.
Panyi began fencing when she was 10 years old when her uncle, an Olympic trainer whose students were second in the Barcelona Games, decided to train her. One of the main reasons she decided to start fencing was because it was a good opportunity for her to travel. Because Hungary was a Communist country, she knew she wouldn’t have very many other chances to leave the country.
Panyi spent her first three years training without competing frequently. However, by the time she was 14 years old, she was 10th on the Hungarian women’s team. At this time, the government began to take an interest in her so they started paying for her
travelling expenses.
Panyi’s favorite fencing trip was to Italy, where her team traveled around doing fencing shows against the Italian nationalteam. Often, they set up the fencing floors on the beaches there. “That was a lot of fun,” said Panyi.
After she graduated from high school, Panyi took two years off to con-
ceritrate on fencing. During this time period, she practiced for eight hours on a typical day.
Then Panyi went to a physical education university in Hungary for one year, but she decided that she wanted to do more with her life. She applied to come to college at Holy Cross so that she could improve her English.'
After the University Games in 1991, she told her coach that if she was accepted to Holy Cross and had a way to come to America, she would not play in the Olympic games. His response was that he could then no longer train her because he needed to spend his time on athletes who would compete in the Olympics.
Although she could not afford to pay the . Holy Cross tuition, South Bend’s large Hun
garian community collected enough money to pay for it In addition, one of the families offered to provide her with room and board. So Maria Panyi was able to spend last semester at Holy Cross where she greatly improved her English.
This summer Panyi felt confident enough with her English to apply to five universities: Penn State, Ohio State, Columbia, Long Beach and Notre Dame. She received a full scholarship for fencing at Notre Dame and chose to come here.
The fencing team practices two hours every day, but it has not started fencing yet. It has only worked on conditioning. Panyi was not required to try out for the team here
because she has proven her ability at an international level. However, she is not sure she will be able to compete this year because of a glitch in NCAA regulations. If she does compete, she is confident that she will do well because no Americans were able to beat her at the Olympic trials here in December, 1991, when she had not practiced for six months.
Panyi said that she is enjoying herself here, but she is having some financial difficulties. “I don’t have any money,” she stated simply.
Her parents are not able to send her any money because Hungarian money is not transferable. The NCAA will not allow Panyi to work on campus because she is already on full scholarship, and she cannot find any work off campus because she is not a United States citizen. For the same reason, she is ineligible for any loans.
Apparently, the financial aid department has never before run into a situation quite
like Panyi’s. Panyi will be able to work for the activity department.
Panyi has found her classes atNotreDame very difficult. Although she has a good comprehension, she described her vocabulary as “not very big,” so she said when she reads she has to look up “lots and lots of words.”
Her goal first semester is just to get through her classes, and then to get better grades second semester. She wants to major in marketing.
In fencing, she hopes to win the NCAAs and then go on the the 1996 Olympic Games.
“I miss th&feeling of winningand all of its happiness,” said Panyi. It might not be long before Panyi will experience this feeling in Atlanta.	□
OCTOBER 1, 1992
15
SPORTS
Old Coach,
New Look
Bill Walsh returns to a revitalized Stanford squad in the hope
of taking it to the top.
By Amanda Clinton
October 6, 1990. Few will forget the fateful day when Stanford rallied from behind to beat Notre Dame 36-31 at Notre Dame Stadium in front of 59,075 fans. The Irish watched their chances for a national championship literally slip away as a last second pass attempt to Notre Dame tight end Derek Brown fell incomplete in the end zone as time expired. So when the Cardinal takes the field this Saturday, the Stanford players will remember the big win they had the last time they visited South Bend.
Even though Stanford was able to pull off an upset over Notre Dame two years ago, the Cardinal could not hold off the Irish in the 1991 season. Stanford was trounced by a score of42-26. Despite losses to Notre Dame, Washington and Arizona, S tanford finished second in the PAC-10 for the 1991 season. The Cardinal suffered a loss to Georgia Tech in
the Aloha Bowl by only one point, with a final score of 18-17. Stanford still finished 17th in the nation, a real tribute to the progress made by former Cardinal head coach Dennis Green and his staff. After
Stanford Sports Information
He has coached the Cardinal. He has coached the 49ers too. He has analyzed Notre Dame for a season as a college football commentator. Bill Walsh now brings a wealth of experience with him as he leads Stanford against Notre Dame.
returning from the bowl game, Green announced that he would be leaving Stanford to coach the Minnesota Vikings of the National Football League. Just a week later, Bill Walsh, who coached the Cardinal be
fore coaching the NFL San Francisco 49ers, was renamed the Cardinal head coach. Last year, Walsh was a NBC commentator for all of the Notre Dame home football games.
Explained Walsh on his return to Palo Alto last January: “This is the only place I could have returned to coaching. This is my bliss. I am excited and pleased to be back at Stanford University. I’m looking forward to the challenge.”
So far this year, Stanford has played Texas A&M, Oregon, Northwestern and San Jose State, suffering only one loss to fifthranked Texas A&M. The Cardinal is currently ranked 18th in the nation.
Despite the loss of four offensive standouts to graduation, including fullback “Touchdown Tommy” Vardell who finished his senior season by breaking Cardinal records for single season rushing and season and career touchdowns, Walsh remains optimistic.
“Our offensive line has experience, talentand depth, and I think it
is certainly one of our team strengths. We will change the thrust of our approach to offense largely due to the loss of Tommy Vardell. We will run a more sweeping, trapping style on offense. Consequently, the
16
SCHOLASTIC
offensive line will be given different skills to learn.”
Stanford boasts the talent of its junior quarterback Steve Stenstrom who completed the 1991 season first in the PAC-10 and 10th in the nation for passing efficiency. With 119 out of 197 passes completed for 1,683 yards and 15 touchdowns, Walsh will count on his consistency.
“We also expect to be a more pass-oriented offense. I think Steve Stenstrom is one of the top junior quarterbacks in the country, and we will depend heavily on his consistency, poise and execution to sustain our offensive style,” said Walsh.
Senior running back and AllAmerica candidate Glyn Milbum will be looked to as a key point in the Cardinal offense. Explains Walsh, “The loss of Tommy Vardell leaves a void that is difficult to fill. Yet, if Glyn Milbum is utilized to take advantage of his abilities, I think he is one of the top players in college football.” With 3,736 all-puipose yards in his two seasons at Stanford, Milbum ranks fourth on the Cardinal career list.
Stanfordretums four starters to the offensive line. The leaders are tackle Steve Hoyem, guard Chris Dalman, center Glen Cavanaugh and left guard Brian Cassidy. With an average height of 6 feet 7 inches and average weight of 300 pounds in 1991, the Cardinal was touted as the largest offensive line in college football. Even though the Stanford line lost All-American Bob Whitfield to the NFL, the void will be filled by Derron Klafter who boasts a height of 6 feet 7 inches and weight of290, again making the Stanford offensive line one of the biggest in college football.
“I like the quality and depth of the offensive line. There are four returning starters who have been successful at this level and who know how to get the job done. If you add that to that our freshman class, then I think we will have a very good group of offensive linemen in the 1992 season,” boasts Walsh.
The Cardinal defensive line, how-
Stanford Sports Information
Coach Walsh abides by the football creed that the best offense is a good defense. He has called outside linebackers Dave Garnett (pictured above) and Ron George "two of the finest linebackers in college football." As for the defensive line, it is anchored by All-PAC Ten tackle Tyrone Parker (pictured below).
ever, is somewhat suspect. Returning seniors Tyrone Parker and Estevan Avila both received honorable mention All-PAC Ten honors last year. Last season, Avila lead the Cardinal with 44 tackles and three quarterback sacks, and Stanford will look to him to lead the team again this year.
States Walsh, “We return all three starters and with another year’s training and development, we think the defensive line will be solid in 1992.”
In the mind of Walsh, the outside linebackers are the strongest position for the Cardinal. “In Ron George and Dave Garnett, we have two of the finest linebackers in college football. I expect Ron to be an All-American in 1992. This will certainly be the focal point of our defense.” George, a senior, had a total of 64 tackles and four forced fumbles last season.
While place kicking has not been one of Stanford’s strong points in the past (junior Aaron Mills only made six of fifteen last season) the Cardinal has picked up the Parade Magazine Prep Player of the Year, Eric Abrams. By being named First-Team All-American in every recruiting magazine, by consensus Abrams is the number one freshman recruit placekicker in the nation.
But Abrams is not the only standout in the 1992 Cardinal recruiting class. Stanford also boasts seven prep All-Americans, three of the top 37 offensive linemen in the nation, the seventh-best linebacker in the country and one of the top running backs in the nation. Walsh couldn’t be happier.
“This is an outstanding recruiting class. We have good balance by position and I would expect that some of the losses through graduation will be filled by this group. I believe there are some in this group who could see extensive playing time in 1992.”
Stanford may look back to the upset over Notre Dame two years ago as a season highlight, but the Cardinal will have a difficult time repeating the performance this year. Stanford is going to be greeted by Notre Dame players who have not yet forgotten that October day two years ago and are anxious to avenge their loss. □
OCTOBER 1,1992
17
SPORTS
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich gp For ANY Size Appetite!!!
• SR 23 At Ironwood
US 31 N (By North Village Mall)
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Mike McWilliams: McWilliams, a junior from Grove City, PA, lead the Notre Dame men’s cross country teamon to win the National Catholic Champoinship at Burke Memorial Golf Course this past weekend. He finished the four mile race in a time of 25:02. McWilliams, Notre Dame senior John Coyle and Irish sophomore
Sarah Riley: Riley, a sophomore from Hinsdale, IL, helped the Notre Dame women's cross country team capture the National Catholic Championship title at the Burke Memorial Golf Course last Friday. Riley won the race in a time of 17:59, just beating second place finisher, Julie Keller, a runner from Loyola, by two
SCHOLASTIC
18
ENTERTAINMENT
by J. Bradley Keck
This week Out of Bounds has gone ultra-technical. I was down at the library, and, because I had heard that Lexis/Nexis had an entertainment file, I thought that I would give it a try. WOW! I mean, you guys are in for information overload. I had only a few topics in mind, and I was inundated with more articles than I knew what to do with. My research time has been cut in half, and my number of sources has increased twenty times. If you get a chance, go down to the reference desk and ask them about Lexis/ Nexis. It’s the most amazing research aid, period. I’ve gotten so much good stuff that O.O.B. might start its own publication. Well, maybe not; .the entertainment department of Scholastic is hard enough to run on a small staff of one.
• - .
Hurricanes Blow
No, I’m not talking about Miami, but they do. I’m referring to Hurricane Iniki. When it ripped through the island of Kauai, it stirred up two facets of the entertainment industry. First, Steven Spielberg and the entire crew of the up-coming movie Jurassic Park were forced to flee the Island. No, they weren’t vacationing, they were filming the final on-location scenes of the movie based on Michael Creighton’s hovel. The storm wrecked some of their prime landscapes. Production crews will probably return in a few weeks to finish location shooting.
The television news world (T.V. news is entertainment, right?) also suffered an emotional trauma of sorts due to the storm. The five major news networks were forced to rely on a single corespondent to coyer the disaster. ABC’s Paul Udell was also covering the story for CBS, NBC, CNN and FOX. Alas, no one had the scoop, and the big boys had to let the lowly FOX into their
OCTOBER 1, 1992
clique. I imagine that after Udell’s reports all of the networks still managed to twist his coverage into to something they, thought would sell better.
Mr. Malph
Colgate is sponsoring the Stand-up Faceoff competition in Chicago today for aspiring comics. There is one catch. All of the entrants must be dentists. The competition pits dentists head to head performing standup acts. Semi-finals are also being held in New York, Atlanta and Los Angles. The grand prize winner receives $2,500 and a lifetime supply of Colgate products. I wonder if Ralph Malph’s dad is going to be the emcee. I’ve heard that after all these years the Happy Days' dentist has “still got it.”
Spike Lee was all over the news last week as the hype for his November 20 release of Malcom X increased. As already reported in O.O.B., he has asked all Afro-Americans to skip work and school to attend the movie’s premiere. Thatis, about50 million people to see one movie on one day. I wonder if there will be enough seats?
The opening credits, already inflammatory in the depiction of an American flag burning then exploding to form an X, are now to be followed by 45 seconds of the video of the actual Rodney King beating. One problem — George Holliday, the plumber who shot the King video, has filed an injunction to stop Lee from using his tape. Lee had already paid Holliday $50,000 dollars for the video that he felt was public domain anyway. Lee’s lawyers are arguing
that the video is “critical to powerfully demonstrate that Malcom X’s struggle for human rights for Afro-Americans is far from being won.” Lee wants to hold up the film’s release until the video can be used. Warner Brothers officials privately hope that the injunction holds because they believe that the film is becoming “too inflammatory.” I agree with Lee’s message but also hope that the film does not send an un-unified violent force to the streets and end up sparking anger focused in a nonconstructive manner.
Rush Limbaugh also ripped into Lee this week, calling the new film “Malcom the tenth” and accusing Lee of using “looter lingo” in his dealings with the press. Mr. Limbaugh does do his show with “one half of his brain tied behind his back” and sometimes it really shows. He, too, after all, is a member of the “liberal media,” if only by association, so maybe he should give us all a break.
Up and Coming (Gigs)
Kris Kross and M.C. Lyte with Fu-Shnickens, Friday at the Arie Crown Theater ... Larry Carlton and The Rippingtons, Saturday at the Rialto Square Theater ... Leon Redbone, Sunday at Paramount Arts Center ... Dred Zeppelin, Friday at the Metro in Chicago ... Yellow Man, Friday at the China Club ... At the movies: Mr Baseball, staring Tom Selleck (with the moustache)... Of Mice and Men, based on John Steinbeck’s novel, starring John Malkovich and Gary Sinise... Hero, starring Dustin Hoffman, Geena Davis and Andy Garcia... In record stores, albums by : R.E.M., Salt n’ Pepa, The The, Gloria Esteffan’s Greatest Hits, Soul Asylum, The Farm, Sundays, Mudhoney, Television and Dread Zeppelin.
19
ENTERTAINMENT
by Moria Muldoon
★ ★ ☆
Great cast, beautiful cinematography, battle scenes to rival Glory — all this could be found in Michael Mann’s latest
I	effort, The Last of the Mohicans, the remake
of the James Fenimore Cooper novel set |	during the French andlndian War. It tells the
| i tale of Nathaniel, the English-born but j?| Mohican-raised frontiersman, and Cora, the
English woman he comes to love.
7 Cora (Madeleine Stowe) and her sister J Alice (Jodhi May) are en route to visit their p father (Maurice Roeves) at his fort when a ! group oflndians, led by Magua (Wes Studi), i	a supposed ally and guide, attacks them. The
li two sisters are saved from certain death by :	Nathaniel (Daniel Day-Lewis), his father
j and his brother (Russell Means and Eric ! Schweig). Nathaniel agrees to guide them, i and Duncan Heyward, Cora’s suitor and ■ escort, to the fort. All are unaware that the i	fort is under siege by the French, and when
j	they arrive a spectacular attack is under way.
(Truly, the battle scenes in this film are :	glorious, if too frequent.) Nathaniel escapes
with Cora and her family to begin their । adventures in the wilderness.
J i The movie is very well paced; despite its i!	two hour length,oneisnevertirednorbored;
j' . The sets are very historically accurate, as are ! |	thecostumes.Itisavisuallystunnirigmovie,
shot in lush, almost Eden-esque parts of i	North Carolina and Pennsylvania. Yet the
; i	movie is disappointing.
> Maybe my opinion of the movie was
tainted when I realized that the movie was based on a novel by James Fenimore Cooper; his stories were always so far from reality that they seemed ridiculous to me. Mark Twain had a field day with Cooper, attacking him for creating aboatthatwastoo big to fit in the river and mocking the eternal ploy of having the heroes, great frontiersmen all, step on dry twigs and give themselves away at critical moments. I have to admit that some of the more exciting scenes may have been wrecked for me simply because I kept waiting for the infamous dry twig to break. (I only counted an uncharacteristic two.)
But beyond that, the movie had no climax. While each individual scene was good, often excellent, when the movie ended there was a definite sense of surprise that it was over. The final action scene seems no more important than any of the other battle scenes and you don’t realize until afterward that that scene was supposed to be the climax. Even the very last scene of Nathaniel, his father and Cora all praying for the death of a Mohican warrior doesn’t leave you feeling that the movie is concluding, just a sense that this is a beautiful shot and a minor irritation at the suspicion that the film is trying to compete with Dances with Wolves in terms of rugged and untamed wilderness. One is left with the feeling thatmuch has happened, but that the film never really got anywhere. Perhaps that’s because the film just wasn’t focused enough; it encompassed so much that it didn’t center on any one thing, not excepting the relationship between Nathaniel and Cora.
The film had so much potential. Daniel Day-Lewis is by far the most talented actor in film right now. Winner of the 1989 Best Actor Oscar for his work as the physically disabled Christy Brown in My Left Foot, Day-Lewis has taken on such diversgsr§
as the stuffy Englishman i View, the seductive d able Lightness of^in^ punk in My Bet tion to Da
prominent
AR^
:t) plays the role of
ll
addi-Means (the
Chingaq^g^.^ leader of the dying ^Nathaniel’s adopted fa-
Mohican ther. w pe all h
g
udi, who plays the vengeful 9', also turned in an excellent did Madeleine Stowe. With , it seems that the film should tter, lann did do a couple of very however: the film was histori-
cally more accurate than Cooper’s book, and it demonstrated the power that the Native
Arne yot| allyii
tad when the colonies were
extremely^ werenotfstei excepticmof of“thegra before the m Indiana Jones,
(ex>ntcome of the war depended on ^eltwi th the Indians and that was ^in the movie. The Indians typically portrayed, with the ho does take the heart jfie” from his body even
t it (shades of
s
It is not a bad film1 to being a great one. have been great and only g disappointing.
(Two and a half stars out of four.)
□
20
SCHOLASTIC
ENTERTAINMENT
ALTERNATIVE TENTACLES AND THE MR. T EXPERIENCE
Every college radio geek in the known universe had a spontaneous orgasm a few months ago, for that was when the Dead Kennedys’ classic “Police Truck” was covered on the new release from Alternative Virus 100, by Champaign, Illi-
ring, thorn
ajority-Istormed into the arly t-%m-
e Didjits.
^Wdys (also known as DK) ontroversy-stir-of-the-govem-
ment, headache' censorship-squad pun out of the San Francisco minds and faces of the worl to mid-’80s and introduced us ening observations and sociosight of singer/spokesman Je
Biafr
Since his days in DK, he has devote^’ to staying in everyone’s head w musical groups and spoken-word
He has tried to tear the top off of narrowmindedness and complacency, and tried to
ces
stimulate thought and jar peopled quiet acceptance of the status qu other things, he has researched the tencies, greed and hypocrisy of^^
ment
and corporate America and tured about if on recordings an around the nation.
The album uses the rfi Kennedys, covered cians and
e Dead ine musi-the 100th
icles. ThisCali-ponsible for, among Kennedys, Jello Biafra, dhut, Les Thugs, Neurosis, and NoMeansNo (many of whom are represented on the record).
By Joe Cannon
As for the slab of vinyl (or CD) itself: The Didjits contribute the previously mentioned yummy morsel. Evan Johns and his H-Bombs clock in with a wonderfully dirty version of “Too Drunk To $&?!” Faith No More plays a strangely subdued and jazzy “Let’s Lynch the Landlord,” which is also covered by popular female grunge punk band L7 (rumored to be the next Nirvana). Kramer, of Shimmy Disc and Bongwater fame, adds a subdued, brooding “Insight,” Mojo Nixon hands you a rollicking version of “Winnebago Warrior,” and French melodic-punk geniuses Les Thugs play “Moon Over Marin.” Many other bands add their interpretations of classic DK gems, including a great a cappella piece from composer/ punks NoMeansNo.
The Dead Kennedys were a great band, and this is a great compilation of talented and innovative musicians revelling in the power and ideas opened up by DK and Alternative Tentacles. So, don’t be dumb: open your brain up, listen, be aware, and buy Virus 100, especially if you’ve never heard the Dead Kennedys - begin your education now.
Beginning with five seconds of Baroque harpsichord that could easily have been borrowed from The Damned’s album Strawberries, The Mr. T Experience’s new album MilkMilkLemonade then proceeds to move your butt and soothe your brain with incredibly tight, energetic pop/punk songs and witty lyrics.
After the aforementioned harpsichord, the opening track, “Book of Revelation,” neatly destroys any notion that “punk” bands can’t play, with guitarist Dr. Frank nonchalantly tossing off incredible melody lines over the charging harmony and rhythm of Alex, Aaron, and John von (drums, bass and rhythm guitar, respectively). The fun never ends as The Mr. T Experience injects pop/ punk happy into your sorry life with bits like “Two Minute Itch,” about the difficulties of holding a relationship while possessing the MTV/sound bite attention span, “better do it baby, as fast as you can/’cause I’ve got a ten second attention span,” or songs like “I Love You But You’re Standing on My Foot,” “when I saw you standing there/in your lacey underwear/I knew I was in the ladies dressing room/but it was wonderful and now we’ve got a lot to talk about/but when we’re hanging out it always seems you’re having a cow.” And if a song like “What Difference Does it Make” (3:09 of rock ecstasy) won’t make you happy, then it’s probably time to start taking your medicine again.
The Mr. TExperience’s music nods to ‘60s pop, punk and post-punk goofiness, with a lot of energy, intelligence and humor. Throw away your old Ramones records, because The Mr. T Experience blows them away, and throw away your classic rock inhibitions so you can flail wildly around your dorm room to the pop/punk frenzy and cool of the Mr. T Experience. They love you, so buy their new album, Milk Milk Lemonade. “I got a gun from the back of a cereal box/it’s got a Smurf trigger, the bullets are blue/I hope I don’t have to use it on you.”	□
OCTOBER 1,1992
21
SCHOLASTIC
ONE-STOP SHOPPING
HERE’S THE STORY
22
The Sexiest Brady,
News of the bizarre from the nation's universities
the Craziest College and Shopping Made Simple
The Daily Student, Indiana University’s student newspaper, does not poll their students about such boring topics as Bill Clinton or George Bush. They recently asked 100 students which Brady Bunch character they thought was the sexiest. Marcia won with 19 votes, followed by Peter with 13 and Alice with seven. Rumor has it Tiger was really the winner, but the university thought it best to discard all votes pertaining to bestiality.
HERE’S WHAT CTI WAS WARNING ABOUT
Know howCTI warns all students to keep their numbers confidential so no one else can use them? The University of Alabama is wishing they had taught the same lesson. Last fall university officials discovered an unauthorized $45,000 phone bill from calls made with an old Student Government Association access code. So far they have only been able to collect $22,000.
THE STORY OF IMMACULATE CONCEPTION
Notre Dame’s Health Services is not the only unreliable infirmary in the country. An article in the University Daily Kansan pointed out “KU Student Health Services reported a few years ago that even abstinence is only 99 percent effective.” Makes you wonder, doesn’t it? Not to worry though — we are Notre Dame, and we all know that DuLac prohibits sex anyway.
Students at Emory University and Georgia Tech will find it a lot easier to kill two birds with one stone. The Atlanta City Council recently passed a resolution requiring all places licensed to sell alcohol to sell condoms also. And who said that the government never does anything productive? Gee, if South Bend passed such a law, the Administration would be in a quandary. What would they do about Senior Bar?
GOING NUTS ABOUT COLLEGE
Broward Community College in Florida is struggling with an influx of new students. No, it’s not that Florida teens are suddenly more interested in getting an education. It’s mentally unstable people who have been swamping the campus since a 1992 Florida law waived tuition for homeless people. The vice-president for student affairs noted: “We are not talking about all homeless people. We’re talking about those who should be institutionalized, who are out of control and desperate to get their hands on $4,000 to $5,000.”
WEEK IN DISTORTION
Cheers To S.U.D.S.
J.T. Burke and Steve Murphy
So begins a series of in-depth articles about things that effect you, the student by seasoned investigative reporters and ardent proponents of underage consumption. Our articles, spanning the breadth of our knowledge, will appear periodically as the need arises.
DISPATCHER: Calling Squad Car 54. Do you read me 54? We have a gang war breakingoutonSouthBendAve. Thepublic schools are lousy and South Bend is deteriorating into the cesspool of die midwest. Students are getting mugged by angry, poor twelve year olds and teenage mothers are dying of crack overdoses. What are you going to do about it?
SQUAD CAR 54: We really don’t have time to deal with your piddling concerns. We have to do something to keep things in control. An underage Caucasian male has been reported consuming alcohol in the vicinity of the Turtle Creek Apartments. I’m calling in S.U.D.S.
Confessions of an Underage Drinker:
I sat down on the sofa with a bottle of Bud and turned on the tube. Senior year had rolled around. I guess I had gotten a litde full of myself; I learned my lesson that night.
I twisted the cap. Heard the “phsst.” I raised the bottle of Satan’s potion to my lips. Oh, God! The giant spotlight of an Apache
OCTOBER 1, 1992
Strikeforce helicopter beamed through the sliding glass door of my apartment (In rebellious violation of Section 3 of my Turtle Creek lease I had not yet put up a curtain.) I bent forward to put down the bottle—a last ditch attempt. The first bullet pierced through the neck. Then came the “magic bullet.” The bottle flew from my hand — down and to the left
Thank God they came when they did. I had almost swallowed an intoxicating liquid, and I am not yet twenty one.
Some may think S.U.D.S. was a little heavy handed with me. Granted, the machine gun fire and the tear gas will nullify my security deposit. But the doctors even say that I may be able to walk again someday. Now, I have time to lie in traction thinking about how to repay S ,U.D .S. for showing me the error of my ways.
Ah! S.U.D.S. That clever acronym has struck fear into the hearts of underage drinkers throughout the greater (and we use the term loosely) South Bend area. Granted, they may have been performing a public service by rescuing a 14 year old from the Commons, but not because that 14 year old may have been drinking, but because that 14 year old might have been trampled to death in that grungy pit of drunks and spilled swill.
But the question is, who is more out of control, the underage imbibers or the S.U.D.S. task force themselves. To think that the main concern of the S .U.D.S. team is the welfare of the students is ludicrous. If
that indeed did concern them, they would work to keep the area moderately safe for all students. Instead, they raid the parties closest to campus, the ones from which students could most easily walk home. They do not distinguish how much they have consumed or whether they are driving. They do not offer rides. They dish out fines and dash.
We have our own little theory. Maybe it has nothing to do with drinking, per se. Maybe they want the money. They fine us with gleeful abandon and revel in treating us like hardened criminals. It does not stop drinking. It does not even put a dent in it Totally negative for the student.
We could be wrong, but we really doubt it. Raiding crack houses is hard and worthwhile. Raiding Commons is a trip to Junior High and useless. In three weeks a new crop of eighth graders will bike on over to the grungy pit and drink their allowances away.
As occasional taxpaying, law-abiding citizens, we just think it’s a cop-out, so to speak. There are more pressing matters to be concerned with. Busting college students for drinking is like handing out speeding tickets at the Indy 500. It defeats the whole point. What the hell else is there to do but go out and get pie-eyed drunk no matter how old you are?
By the way, we are both moderatedrinkers over 21, so we really could care less. Sorry S.U.D.S. Take your pathetic citations elsewhere.	□
23
join us as we bring you the world.
□
24
SCHOLASTIC
We Bring You the
World by Michael E. Swanson
The fall semester at the University of Notre Dame offers several events for students, alumni and community friends to enjoy. One of the most important events during the semester is the annual Multicultural Fall Festival sponsored by Notre Dame’s Multicultural Executive Council. Come see, hear and taste the world in 26 events October 4 through October 9 atNotre Dame.
OurFallFestivalisperhapsthemostpopularand diverse festival in the history of our university. The mission of talent with us as a Puerto Rican storyteller, actress and
the Multicultural Executive Council is to educate as many as possible about the uniqueness of different people from around the world. We are gathered here at an institution that is recognized and represented globally. Hence, we should be willing and eager, not only as Notre Dame students, but also as citizens of the world, to learn about the culture of others. Education about others is the key to world harmony.
The Multicultural Executive Council’s definition of multiculturalism is extremely inclusive. Surely, one does not have to be a member of an ethnic group to appreciate his or her culture. That is, everyone is a part of a culture including the elderly, homeless persons, the disabled or blue-collar workers for example. If we could understand someone’s culture or way of living, we would not feel threatened by those specific groups. It is time to break down the ugly stereotypes the media have placed into our minds. We as a world must begin to do our own investigation about various people in the world today.
The Multicultural Fall Festival is a perfect opportunity for you to broaden your cultural horizons by at-
tending as many events as possible. The Festival will
begin Sunday with a very special and different Spiritual to make Notre Dame and the Michiana community a more
Michael E.
Swanson is a member of the Multicultural Executive Council.
Celebration at 2:00 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Many surprises are in store for you as we kick off the Festival at the Celebration Sunday. Each day during the Festival we will gather for our popular Fireside Chats in the ISO lounge on the second floor of LaFortune. The topics each day include: Aging in America, Multiculturalism in the Media, The Middle East Peace Process, The Culture of East Africa, and Homelessness
... Song in aStrangeLand. National and local experts will lead discussions and share personal experiences. The Fireside Chats will be held from noon to 1:15 p.m. Lunch will be provided.
The Tuesday night and Thursday night events of the Fall Festival are known as Cultural Cafe. You can find us both nights in the LaFortune Ballroom from 7:00 p.m. to midnight.' On Tuesday night, Carmen Alicia Morales will share her
folklorist. Also on Tuesday night, Infancia Americana Song and Dance Group and the best reggae band this side of Jamaica will perform. In addition, Thursday night will offer just as much excitement when the nationally renowned African Dance Troupe dazzles the mind, awakens the body and energizes the soul with its performance.
Moreover, activities will take place each day on the Fieldhouse Mall beginning with Culture on the Quad from noon to 1 p.m. and Entertainment on the Quad from 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Foods from Japan, the Philippines, Hawaii, Italy and other places will be available for sampling during the noon hour. Later in the day, you will be entertained by different Notre Dame groups including Troop ND, Ballet Folklorico, the Asian American Association and many others. The 1992 Fall Festival will conclude Friday night with Taste of Nations. This is our largest event of the week with neatly 2,000 people from Notre Dame and surrounding areas attending in past years. Taste of Nations will not only provide foods from around the globe, but yOu will also be able to dance to music from Reggae to Irish bands as well. Taste of Nations will be held at Stepan Center from 7:30 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. Everyone is more than welcome to attend all of our events.
The Multicultural Executive Council has taken the first step
culturally aware environment. Now its up to you to take the next step. For some students, Notre Dame is the first place where they have come in contact with Hispanic Americans, American Indians or African Americans, not to mention students from Argentina, Nigeria and China. As a result, the Multicultural Fall Festival is extremely important to Notre Dame because it introduces multicultural awareness. Please
Mammoth Crossing
by Dave Kellett
Fe l/Jirnour
Jack HAS ASR.tEDT'O LE<BIFF36T Him.
Ur* FOR THE UFCOMjMS 3Y.H.
Okay,*6iff, hek
IS KAREd.AND SHE'S iM MY COKE ClA&S. You CAH call HE^FbR MJ^ But 1>A’t ACT LIKE AM ASS
'REUH k?K I
GROW OF, Biff!
□AV ALEYOU OWLY Co^CEXhed wml?UYSiCAL
<?UAMT(E^3
'cause -rwls all that matters , besides WoMp>1 lUSTAFTCR MY BonY'
x EOW'T UMDERSTflMD Y<3l|.
X TH Kareh's ATYRflCnV€a
J.’ M A5K/M& MEA Ta TH£ SYR 'GUSe SHE'S FuKTb TALK To, A*Jx> 1 TUlHR W€'lL HAUC a &aobTime.
GErrw-n/E K€AU L^RJ-Td JACK. Find A
YoutoKMBiFF You’D "Probably evem be the Hottest Guy
l»( THE room at A Kemhew Family
"TuahKsI "Teddy would
■BE MY HERP if He LXRErt’T S®
Damped
bWRAd ,
COMING ATTRACTIONS:
The Russell Simmons Def Comedy Jam
Friday, October 2nd
Stepan Center 8 pm
Tickets $10 at La Fortune info desk
The McLaughlin Group's
Fred Barnes & Jack Germond
ELECTION
Ito. Iw&l t; 8:	B .Wj
DEBATE 1992
Wed., Oct. 7th Stepan Center
non-profit organization
U.S. POSTAGE PAID	—'--------------
Notre Dame, IN
Permit No, 10
7:30 pm free admission
STUDENT UNION BOARD
I