LETTERS
Put a finishing touch to that wardrobe with an Arrow tie.
Arrow points the way to perfect grooming.
THOMAS WOLFE SAID IT
June 1.
Sir:
“There was a kind of evil sorcery, a desolate and fathomless mystery in the way they could take the choicest meats and vegetables and extract all the succulence and native flavor from them, and then serve them up to you magnificently with every atom of their formerlife reduced to the general character of stewed hay or well-boiled flannel.
“There would be a thick heavy soup of dark mahogany, a piece of boiled fish covered with a nameless, tasteless sauce of glutinous white, roast beef that had been done to death in dish-water, and solid, perfectly lovely brussels sprouts for whose taste there was no name whatever. It might have been the taste of boiled wet ashes, or the taste of stewed green leaves, with all the bitterness left out, pressed almost dry of moisture, or simply the taste of boiled clouds and rain and fog. For dessert, there would be a pudding of some quiv-ery yellow substance, beautifully moulded, which was surrounded by a thick sweetish fluid of a sticky pink. And at the end there would be a cup of black, bitter, liquid mud.” ■
Remind you of anything?
“Stewed hay. Well boiled flannel. Boiled wet ashes. Boiled clouds. Nameless. Tasteless.”
Remind you of something? •
Your ever loving tomahawk, Buster.
Thank you “ever looking tomahawk." We shall be looking for your face.—Ed.
Headquarters for Arrow Shirts and Ties
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan St.
’ Here—You are always a Guest before you are a Customer
Holy Cross Foreign Mission Brookland. Station May 30, 1946
Sir:
Just a note of sincere thanks to you and to all the members of the Scholastic for all that you and they did to make the Bengal Bouts the grand success that they were this year. I know that to single out any one person would not be just; it was the combined efforts of all of you that made for the best Bouts that Notre Dame has ever put on. I assure you, John Defant,, Paul Wey-rauch . . . the Scholastic, of the sincere appreciation of all Holy Cross in Bengal and working for Bengal here at home. What you have done for our mission in Dacca diocese will not soon be forgotten.
Be assured that in my thanks join all (Continued on page 34)
2
1
-3
Item* ef Interest in the Field* ef Chemistry, £nuineerin0r Physics, mn< ^
Chemistry Finds Better Way to Descale Steel
One of the most bothersome problems in the metal industry is the removal of scale from the surface of stainless steels and other alloys. Scale is a thin film of metal oxide which forms at high temperatures during fabrication or processing. It is very abrasive to dies and other metal-forming tools, and if not completely removed causes serious flaws in the surface of finished products.
Several years prior to
World War II, Du Pont chemists, engineers and metallurgists went to work on the problem of developing a quick and positive descaling process. When success came three years later, a secrecy order prevented its public announcement at that time —the discovery went directly into war work.
Process Development
In developing the process, a group of Du Pont Chemists found that small amounts of sodium hydride, dissolved in molten sodium hydroxide, effectively removed scale without attacking the base metal or embrittling it. However, the problem then arose of finding an efficient and economic means of obtaining the sodium hydride. This was accomplished by developing an ingenious apparatus for forming it directly in the molten sodium hydroxide (700° F.) from metallic sodium and gaseous hydrogen.
Metal chambers, open at the bottom, are placed along the inside of the descaling tank and partly immersed in the bath. Solid sodium is introduced into these chambers, and hydrogen gas bubbled through. The sodium hydride formed is diffused uniformly throughout the molten caustic.
Practical Application
The metal to be descaled is immersed in the bath which contains 1.5 to 2% of sodium hydride. Scale is reduced to the metallic state for
A typical layout showing arrangement of equipment for sodium hydride descaling. The usual treating cycle comprises sodium hydride treatment, water quench, waler rinse and acid dip for brightening.
the most part in from a few seconds to twenty minutes, depending on the size and type of material.
The hot metal is then quenched in water, and the steam generated actually blasts the reduced scale from the underlying metal. A water rinse and a short dip in dilute acid complete the process and produce a clean bright surface.
This process has been called the most significant development in the cleaning of metal surfaces in decades. It is representative of what men of Du Pont are doing to help American industry to better, quicker, more economical production methods.
MAN-MADE SPONGES PRODUCED BY DU PONT CHEMISTS
Among the most versatile members of the family of cellulose products— whose members include rayon, cellophane, lacquers and plastics—is the synthetic sponge.
Du Pont cellulose sponges have many of the attributes of the kind that grow in the sea, plus several additional advantages. For example, quality can be kept uniform; texture and hole-size can be predetermined; they can be cut to handy shapes, and they may be sterilized by boiling.
The complicated 10-day manufacturing process starts when viscose is produced by adding carbon disul
phide to alkali cellulose (from wood or cotton), and dissolving the mixture in water and mild alkali. To produce holes, crystals of the desired size are introduced. Heating in a salt solution hardens the viscose and.dis-solves out the crystals. Washing, centrifuging and oven-drying complete the operation.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
"DOES THE DU PONT COMPANY EMPLOY ENGINEERS?"
There are many diverse opportunities at Du Pont for engineers. Principal requirements are for chemical and mechanical engineers, but opportunities also exist for industrial, civil, electrical, metallurgical, textile, petroleum and others. Practically all types of engineering are included in the work of the manufacturing departments and the central Engineering Department. Openings for qualified engineers exist at times in all of these departments.
\______________________:_________/
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ... THROUGH CHEMISTRY ' t
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to "Cavalcade of America,” Mondays, 6 P. M. CST, on NBC
I. I. DU PONT DI NIMOURS A CO. (INC* WILMINGTON 9», DILAWARI
3
^he ENotre Qiame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867

annul tttiiiiaiiitiiaiitiiiiiaiiaataiaiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiittaiittiataaiiiiiiiiitiiiiiaitaiitaiiiiataaiiiaaiiiaiaiiiiaiaiiiiittt
SCHEDULE of SEMESTER EXAMINATIONS
University of Notre Dame
June, 1946
The examinations for this spring semester of 1946 will be held in all the colleges and in the graduate school of the University on the Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday morning of June 23, 24, 25, 26, and 27, according to the following schedule:
JOHN DEFANT, Editor
JACK HUMMEL -	-	-	-	- Managing Editor
PAUL WEYRAUCH	-	Sports Editor
GEORGE COLLINS ----- Navy Editor JOHNNY WALKER -	-	-	- Feature Editor
JOE CHENEY -	-	-	- News Editor
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
SAM SMITH ----- The Crow's Nest BILL BRAUN, FRANK McCARTHY .	. The Green Banner
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	Soph Soap
JERRY OLWELL -	Campus Clubs
PHOTOGRAPHY
JIM FERSTEL -	Photographic Editor
AL KUNTZ	CHRISTY WALSH
FRANK CACCIAPAGLIA (Cover by Jack Swain)
CONTRIBUTORS
JACK SULLIVAN BILLY SLA VICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM MICHAEL GREENE BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BILL LEAVEY ROBERT J. LEANDER JACK MINZING JOHN A. O'CONNOR
JIM REGAN JOHN THOMAS DICK DEITZ JIM CLEMENS PETE BROWN JIM MALER MEL GODDARD DICK DOWDLE CLARENCE ZIMMER LEONARD DENTE JOE WILCOX JOHNNY KRUEGER LEO BLABER ■. JAMES JOHN
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
ARTHUR COUGHLAN, TOM GARGAN -	- Circulation
M. E. VARGA -	_	-	-	... Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Eepresented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles— San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
Classes taught at	Will be examined at	Date
8:00 on Monday	8:00 on Monday	June 24
9:00 on Monday	8:00 on Wednesday	June 26
10:00 on Monday	10:00 on Monday	June 24
11:00 on Monday	10:00 on Wednesday	June 26
1:15 on Monday	1:15 on Monday	June 24
2:15 on Monday	1:15 on Wednesday	June 26
3:15 on Monday	1:15 on Tuesday	June 25
Classes tazight at	Will be examined at	Date
8:00 on Tuesday	8:00 on Tuesday	June 25
9:00 on Tuesday	8:00 on Thursday	June 27
10:00 on Tuesday	10:00 on Tuesday	June 25
11:00 on Tuesday	10:00 on Thursday	June 27
1:15 on Tuesday	1:15 on Sunday	June 23
2:15 on Tuesday	3:15 on Tuesday	June 25
3:15 on Tuesday Classes taught	3:15 on Wednesday	June 26 By- special	
after 4:00 p.m.	arrangement of the instructor	
NO CHANGE WILL BE PERMITTED. PLEASE DO NOT
ASK FOR ANY
Any examination outside of the time designated for it in the foregoing schedule will not be valid for credit. The period of each semester examination is one hour and fifty minutes. Monday in the first column of the schedule means Monday, Wednesday, or Friday, and Tuesday means Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday. Students must take their examinations with their sections in all instances.
DIRECTOR OF STUDIES
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 87, NO. 11
JUNE 7, 1946
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Fr. O'Donnell Urges Science Foundation
Candlelight Dinner to Precede
Senior Ball at Oliver Tonight
A moonlight cocktail will be mixed this evening when Senior Ball-goers blend candlelight and soft music, white ties and lovely gowns.
The most complete senior weekend ever planned at Notre Dame will begin this evening at the Hotel Oliver when dinner is served at eight. Dancing to the smooth rhythms of Jack Davies and his orchestra will follow until two. Three o’clock permissions have been granted.
Miss Kathleen C. Moore of Richmond, Va., will reign as Queen of the Ball. Miss Moore is the date of Co-chairman Bill Carbine. The Guest of Honor will be Miss Mary Ann Carroll of Bay City, Mich., who will be escorted by Co-chairman Fritz Funk. Miss Toni Crosby of Spokane, Wash., will be the guest of Bill Carey, president of the senior class.
Girls from all over the country—the
Senior ball plans in the making. Left to right. Bill Carbine, co-chairman; Bill Carey, Senior class president, and Fred Funk, co-chairman.
girls from home—will help make this a gala event for all of the seniors who in a few short weeks will be Notre Dame alumni.
The formality of the Senior Ball tonight will be in sharp contrast to tomorrow’s activities. The seniors have broken the tradition of Saturday tea dance and have planned an afternoon junket to Lincoln Park in Mishawaka. On the banks of the St. Joseph River, the park is one of the beauty spots of Northern Indiana. The facilities of the American Legion Lodge overlooking the park have been leased for the occasion. Entertainment will accompany a picnic lunch served at the lodge in the early evening. This will be followed by dancing until eleven with permission extended to one o’clock. This will provide an (Continued on page 33)
Testifies Before
House Committee
Increased Federal aid to scientific research “without incurring centralized control or discouraging private support,” was urged by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame, in testifying last Monday before a sub-committee of the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce.
Father O’Donnell, who is a member of the Government’s Committee on Post War Science, said he favored the Mills Bill which would establish an independent Federal agency called the National Science Foundation. His one reason for supporting this measure, he added, was that he believed creation of such a foundation was necessary for national defense.
“Despite the increased interest in science,”’ declared Father O’Donnell, “pure research continues to lag far behind applied research. The proportion must be corrected because, as the Committee has pointed out, future progress will be most striking in those highly complex fields—electronics, aerodynamics, chemistry—which are based directly upon the foundation of modern science.
“To insist that the need exists,” con-(tinued the Notre Dame president, “is to stress the obvious. A question more to the point is, how is the need to be met. Private gifts, endowments, and grants from State legislatures are inadequate. Universities, already affected by declining incomes and increasing costs of operations, are reluctant to take on expensive projects. Industry, reasonably enough, concentrates on applied rather than on pure research, and, in any case, is financially unable to assume the burden.
Father O’Donnell told the House group that the experience of many universities which undertook special research for the government in the war years gives weight to his opinion regarding federal aid to scientific research.
“In the first place,” he reasoned, “research in universities and non-profit
(Continued on page 33)
5
Large Enrollment At King's College
Heavy registration already received for the new King’s College will, it is expected, necessitate establishment of a second year class at once, it was reported by one of the college officials yesterday. The new college is under the direction of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Attorney Frank L. Pinola, representing that institution, revealed that in the charter before the Luzerne County Court the proposed corporation is designated as “King’s College” and the location and post office address of its initial registered office as 29-31 West Northampton Street, Wilkes-Barre.
In the petition, the college is given authority to grant diplomas and to confer the following degrees: bachelor of arts, bachelor of science, and such other degrees as may be approved and authorized from time to time by authorities under the Acts of Assembly.
It was pointed out that the corporation is to be organized upon a non-stock basis. The amount of assets classified as real and personal property which the corporation will have to start its corporate functions follows: real estate, land and buildings, $220,000; personal property, $30,000.
Six directors to serve King’s College in its first year are Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S'.C., president; George W. Guckelberger, Theodore Stegmaier, Senator A. J. Sordoni, Charles Weissman, and Attorney Frank L. Pinola.
N.D. Graduate Speaks
At 2 Club Meetings
Mr. Leopoldo Brias, who was a student at Notre Dame from 1930 to 1934, has just returned from Barcelona, Spain, where he has been living for the past eight years. During his visit here he addressed the La Raza Club and the Inter-American Affairs -Club on June 2 and 3 respectively, giving an eyewitness account of conditions in Spain.
In his talks Mr. Brias praised Chief-of-State Franco and the Nationalists very highly. He stressed the point that Franco himself is an extremely good, humble Catholic and did not take any credit for the victory of the Nationalists over the Communist-dominated Republicans. He attributed the victory as an answer to the unceasing prayers of the very religious Nationalists, and laid down his sword at the statue of Our Lady in thanksgiving to her for successfully guiding him through the war.
Mr. Brias also stated that Franco
Monsignor Von Waeyenbergh, Prominent Louvain Educator, to Visit Notre Dame
Left to right: Professor Jacques Cox. rector of the University of Brussels; Monsignor Honore Van Waeyenbergh. rector of the Catholic University of Louvain; Professor Edgard Blancquaert. rector of the University of Ghent; and Professor Jules Duesberg. administrator of the University of Liege, all of whom are visiting U. S.
The heads of four Belgian universities are presently making a tour of leading American universities to observe post-war developments under the auspices of the Belgian American Educational Foundation. The Foundation was established in 1920 and through a student exchange system arranged for 477 young Belgians to study in the United States and for 225 Americans to receive reciprocal education in Belgian schools.
The visiting educators who arrived in New York by plane on May 16 are Professor Jacques Cox, rector of the University of Brussels; Monsignor Honore Van Waeyenbergh, rector magnificus of Louvain; Professor Edgard Blancquaert, rector of the University of
never decides any important issue without asking help from God. On nights preceding an important decision the Chief-of-State has his chaplain expose the Blessed Sacrament in his chapel where he often prays all night getting inspiration to guide him and his country in the best possible direction.
Mr. Brias is a native of Manila, Phili-pines, and is a foreign service automobile salesman by occupation.
—Tom Murray
Ghent; and Professor Jules Duesberg, administrator of the University of Liege. Their schedule calls for visits to Columbia, Princeton, Harvard, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Yale, Michigan, Northwestern and Notre Dame.
Only Monsignor Von Waeyenbergh proposes to visit Notre Dame, A Prothonotary Apostolic, he was made rector of Louvain in 1940. Outstanding for his contributions .to philosophy and theology, he is especially noted for his spirit of progressivism in education. During the recent German invasion of Louvain he was the spearhead of the intellectual resistance movement. He was sentenced to 18 months of imprisonment for not having given the names and addresses of students involved in the resistance. After the war he was personally received by General Eisenhower at his headquarters in Frankfort as well as acclaimed for his war efforts by Winston Churchill and General De Gaulle. Monsignor Van Waeyenbergh’s present plans indicate that he will arrive on the campus June 8 where he will be met by old friends, Fathers Christopher O’Toole and Jerome Boyle, both of whom studied at the Catholic University of Louvain.
£
Want a Letter from Bing Crosby?
SEND A ROSARY!
Mr. Bing Crosby of Hollywood set aside his beloved movies last week and appealed to American Catholics for 50,000 Rosaries for Catholics of Greece, who in the words of Mr. Velisarios Freris of Athens (“self-taught in English”) are “counting the Aves by the means of their fingers.”
The Rosaries—assuming that American Catholics come through, and when have they failed?—will be distributed by the Rosary Confraternity of Greece, to which it seems that most Catholics in Greece belong, and of which Mr. Freris is secretary and Mr. Crosby the one, only and original honorary member.
Behind the scenes in this deal, as might be suspected by the least suspicious, is that tireless Irish-American apostle of the Family Rosary, Father Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., of Albany, N. Y., who picked up his telephone something more than a year ago and asked the operator to get Bing on the line; and having got him, went at him like this:
“This is Father Patrick Peyton, a priest of the Diocese of Albany, and I want you to do something for God’s Mother.”
What he wanted Mr. Crosby to do was to join in America’s first nationwide radio dramatization of the Family Rosary on Mother’s Day; which Bing did, along with Archbishop (now Cardinal) Francis Spellman, and the father and mother of the five Sullivan boys who went down to death and up to eternal life on an American battleship sunk by the enemy.
Now the news of that broadcast got around, and there was a story about it in the English Catholic newspaper, The Universe, of which Mr. Velisarios Freris is correspondent when he isn’t busy being secretary of the Rosary Confraternity, or writing for Katholiki, which according to his letterhead is a Journal Hebdomadaire, published at Rue Achar-non 244, Athenes (8) Greece.
Mr. Freris read the story and promptly sat down and wrote to Mr. Crosby as follows:
“With great joy and real pride I read . . . about your speech on Mother’s Day referring to the Family Rosary. Your pledge, dear Sir, to do everything to spread the popularity of the daily Family Rosary urges me to write to you . . . to ask you for a great favor which, let me believe, is not unaccomplishable.
“Here in Greece there are about 50,000 Catholics—a very small minority as you see—who, one can say, they are good Catholics and deeply devoted to Our Lady.
“It is by them that every day, every evening and even every night the Rosary is recited in this country.
“But the most of them they are since some years ago deprived of chaplets and they have to count the ‘Aves’ by the means of theii- fingers.
“It certainly happens because we could not come in contact with the European Catholic countries from where we were supplied 'with chaplets ... in view of the fact that in our country there are no shops selling such kind of things.
“And now, will you be kind enough to make an appeal to the Catholic people of your country for a collection of chaplets to be sent to Greek Catholics?
“I am sure that a few relative words from your part in the Catholic press of the U.S. will be fruitful. What do you think about it?”
Bing thought it was all right—especially when he read on and discovered that:
“Those who will be supplied with chaplets they will recite a Rosary for the intentions of the donor and our Confraternity will offer for the donors a Mass and also another Mass for you, dear Sir, and "your beloved family.”
Mr. Freris enclosed two booklets which “have been published during the enemy occupation of our country,” and announced that a third pamphlet, “Prayers and Poems to Our Lady,” will soon be forthcoming. He also sent Bing:
A play he had written.
Postage stamps from his eldest son to the Crosby children.
A Greek program of a Crosby movie, “East Side of Heaven,” retitled “The Song of the Happiness.”
A bulletin naming Crosby as an honorary member—“and you are the first honorary member of our Confraternity, established in this country since 45 years ago.”
And a “cutting” from his newspaper, Katholoki, with a short article about Bing’s devotion to Our Lady, plus:
“A bad translation of it—made by me, self-taught in English.”
Bing turned to Father Peyton for help, whereupon Father Peyton an
nounced that any one who wants to donate a Rosary may send it to:
Bing Crosby, c/o The Family Rosary, 923 Madison Avenue, Albany 3, N. Y.
“After all,” observed Father- Peyton, “the Family Rosary office gave away 50,000 Rosaries last year to radio listeners who requested them after listening to a broadcast by Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen. Now it’s only fair that American Catholics should return the favor.”
Nor did Father Peyton overlook the opportunity for a bit of a sermon. Said he:
“Hitherto, most appeals from the war-torn countries have been for material assistance. This is one instance in which the Children of Mary have appealed for help to cure their spiritual starvation.”
And just to make sure that he’d get the Rosaries, Father Peyton added can-nily that Mr. Bing Harry Crosby has promised to acknowledge personally every chaplet received.
Simple like a dove and wise like a serpent, that Father Peyton!
Slattery Elected YCS Head at Final Session
Final general meeting of the year was held by the YCS of Notre Dame on Sunday morning, June 2. Activities of the day consisted of a Missa Cantata in Cavanaugh Chapel at 7:00, followed by two meetings in the Rockne Memorial Lounge at 9:00 and 10:30.	.
Guest of honor for the occasion was Andre Rauget, president of the JEC (Jeunesse Etudiante Chretienne) of France, who is visiting in this country and in Canada to establish coordination between Catholic college youth groups of France, Canada, and the United States. In a short talk to the 50 students in attendance, praising the CA spirit he has observed here, M. Rauget emphasized the necessity for collaboration of student effort as an initial step toward general collaboration among nations. He pointed out that the youth of the United States, as representatives of the post-war world’s strongest nation, and those of France, the traditional stronghold of Catholicism in Europe, could and should form a powerful influence on all such international organizations.
Agenda of the YCS sessions included reports on specialized activities, general organizational report, and an outline of the group’s program for the coming school year. New officers installed include: Dave Slattery, president; Pat O’Meara, vice-president; B. J. Bedard, secretary; and Joe Becker, treasurer.
7
Fr. O'Donnell Assails Atheism
in Dunbarton Graduation Speech
If the United States is to escape the fate of those nations “seduced into totalitarianism,” the American people must rekindle the religious faith of their country’s founders, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, told the graduating class of Dunbarton College in a commencement address last Sunday at the college in Washington, D. C.
“From the cradle to the grave,” stressed Father O’Donnell, “millions of our people are trying to get along without God. They profess no religion, or actually belittle or deny God’s existence. As a result there is a growing disregard for the axiom that the American heritage is essentially a Christian heritage. Too many of us seem to have forgotten that the Founding Fathers, who were religious-minded men, made a profession of faith when they wrote in the preamble to the Declaration of Independence ‘that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights.’ They had a true appreciation of the relationship between God and His creatures. It is only by revitalizing this appreciation that our country can escape the fate that has befallen nations that were seduced into totalitarianism.
“But on the contrary,” continued the Notre Dame president, “today there seems to be a determined effort to put God out of His own universe. As we look about us we see a pattern forming. The battle line is being drawn between what I have called the forces of God and those of anti-Go'd. On the one side are those who accept the natural law and recognize natural rights flowing from that law.. They acknowledge the dignity of man because of God-given rights. On the other side are the forces of neo-paganism and atheism. Unless they are checked they can lead to the overthrow of America’s unique institutions.”
Father O’Donnell emphasized that “communism is making strides throughout the world, and its adherents are very strong in our own country. We find certain of its leaders advocating the overthrow of our government, and making a bold declai-ation to the effect that America will be Communistic within five years.”
“Communism,” according to Father O’Donnell, “is the negation of everything we stand for as Americans and Chris
tians, and we would be incredibly stupid to believe that there can be any compromise with it. Communism is a philosophy of anti-God. We must fight it as vigorously as it fights us. We must be as intense, as consistent, as zealous in spreading American and Christian principles as Communism is in trying to destroy them. We must root out a philosophy that threatens a civilization based upon the fact of God’s creation of the individual human soul.
“Happily, you can accept the challenge of godlessness. Here, you have learned the philosophy of Theism. It alone can give a reasoned, honest, and satisfying answer to the great questions that arise in the human mind. It is vital. It is realistic. It considers all facts and phases of human life. As someone has aptly said: “It regards the physical universe, its changing character, its unbroken chain of cause and effect, its plan and order, its gradations of goodness and beauty in the right light, and shows how every form of our surrounding reality points to the existence of God, the First Cause, the Creator of all things.”
Father O’Donnell continued: “And here at Dunbarton you have learned the true place of womanhood—learned it as it was set forth not long ago by the Holy Father. Men and women are equal in their personal dignity as children of God. They are equal in their relation to their last end, which is everlasting union with God. But as to equality in the sense of identity, absolutely no. Men and women, by nature, are decidedly different. They are complementary to each other.
Reminding the graduates that to the Christian, the career of motherhood, next to the religious life, is the noblest and greatest on earth, Father O’Donnell concluded:
“One has only to read history for proof of the statement that when the mothers of a nation are strong and courageous, the nation is strong and spirited. A fair gauge of a nation’s strength—that is, of its moral strength, which in the final reckoning is the only kind that really matters—is the regard, or lack of regard that its people have for the Christian concept of motherhood. Disregard for that concept has always marked the first stage of moral decay. Woman has an eminent place that is hers, literally by divine right, as well as by her inheritance from the Mother of God.”
K. of C. Third Degree Initiation Sunday
Last evening, during a record first degree class initiation into the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus, Grand Knight Robert E. Sullivan announced that this Sunday will be the occasion of the initiation of the John E. Chevigny class. In this latter- group, which will be the last second and third degree exemplification for this year and the first Notre Dame class since 1942, there will be over 100 University students. Following the initiation at Mishawaka, there will be a banquet at the Oliver hotel in South Bend.
Timothy Galvin, Deputy Supreme Grand Knight and lay trustee of the University, will be the principal speaker-on the program which will include remarks by John V. Hinkel, head of the publicity department, who will represent the new class, and Harry Fitzgerald, State Deputy, of Evansville.
The banquet to be held at the Oliver will begin at 6:30 in the evening and all third degree members are urged to attend. The price for the tickets will be $2.00 and they can be obtained at the door or in the council chambers in Walsh Hall. In order to accommodate the large class, it is imperative that all of the members of the university council be on hand to take care of the necessary arrangement, Grand Knight Sullivan said.
An interesting feature incident to this initiation is that it will put the Notre Dame council in the select honor roll of the order’s Century Club. The transportation for the exemplification will be arranged for the convenience of all members who attend, with busses leaving the circle at 12:45 on Sunday for Mishawaka, and later in the afternoon there will be transportation to the banquet at the Oliver. These notices are of special importance to the present third degree members since separate letters of instructions have already been mailed to all of the candidates to be initiated in the present class.
To welcome the newly initiated members into full communion with their brother knights, a regular meeting will be held in the council chambers in Walsh Hall next Tuesday evening at 7:30. In addition to the welcome to be extended to the new knights, the meeting will be the time for the announcement of the new officers selected to lead the council next year. In this connection, all members of the council are urged to cast their ballots during the hours that the polls are open. These hours will be from 12:30 p.m. until 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday prioi- to the meeting.
—James Sullivan
8
Hinkel in Gallery of Catholic Authors
By JOE CHENEY
Navy Decorates Notre Dame Student
With Silver Star For Gallantry
John V. Hinkel, publicity director of the University of Notre Dame, was recently elected to membership in the Gallery of Living Catholic Authors at Webster Groves, Mo. Membership in the Gallery is an honor conferred on Catholic authors for outstanding work done in the field of Catholic letters. It was not until recently that Catholic journalists were eligible for this honor.
Mr. Hinkel was graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1929. He is also a graduate of the School of Journalism at Columbia University, and did graduate work for one year at George Washington University. His first newspaper job was on the sports staff of the Washington Post in 1930-31. He joined the news staff of the New York Times in 1931 and continued there until 1940, when he entered the army. Besides his position on the Times, he also served from 1935 to 1940 as New York Correspondent for’ the N.C.W.C. News Service, which supplies news to hundreds of Catholic newspapers in the United States and abroad.
In 1938, as a special correspondent, he covered major news events in Spain, France, Hungary, Austria, Italy and other European countries. His articles appeared in the New York Times and other secular newspaper*
Mr. Hinkel has been active in the National Catholic Alumni Federation, the Interracial Council of New York, the Reserve Officers Association of America and in other patriotic and fraternal organizations.
Fr. O'Donnell Named
to State Post by Gov.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, has been appointed a member of the Indiana war history commission by Gov. Ralph F. Gates.
The commission is charged with preparing a historical record of Indiana’s participation in World War II. Father O’Donnell, a former professor of history at Notre Dame, has been an active member of the American Catholic Historical Association for many years and served on the association’s executive council for two years.
The Navy ordered a former lieutenant back in uniform Tuesday for 10 minutes while he stood before the sun-tan clad ranks of the naval reserve officers’ training corps on the Notre Dame campus to receive an honor he won before the bloody beach of Okinawa in March of last year.
Ex-Lieut. (j.g.) John T. Whitely, 24, of White Plains, N. Y., an ensign at the time of the Okinawa assault, stood attired in his uniform before the Rockne Memorial building and received the Silver Star for gallantry in action from Capt. J. Richard Barry, commandant of the N.R.O.T.C., at Notre Dame. Thus ended the naval career of Whitely who began it in September, 1940, at Notre Dame when he entered the V-12 unit. He left the campus in October, three years later for Columbia university where he won his ensign’s commission.
Whitely distinguished himself on March 26, 1945, as the leader of an underwater demolition team charged with
Lt. (j.g.) John T. Whitely receives the congratulations of John A. Whitely, his father, after being awarded the Silver Star for gallantry on Okinawa, last March. Others in the picture are (left to right): Capt. J. Richard Barry, who made the presentation; Mrs. Rita Whitely, the hero's wife: and Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame.
the task of clearing the beach area of mines and underwater obstacles before assault troops landed on the island to fight the battle since famous in military circles as one of the bloodiest of the entire war. Whitely carried out this task in the face of enemy rifle, machine gun and mortar fire.
The citation was ordered aboard the flagship of the commander of amphibious forces, U. S. Pacific fleet, and was signed by Vice-Admiral J. L. Hall, Jr.
Whitely left the United States for Pacific combat areas in September, 1944, and the Okinawa campaign was his first assault action.
The former lieutenant, discharged last March 16, returned to Notre Dame the same month and will be graduated in June with a chemical engineering degree. He expects to enter the university’s law school in September.
Also wearer of the navy’s unit citation, Whitely and his wife, Rita, make' their home in South Bend while he attends the university.
9
Seniors Interviewed
For Job Placement
During the past two weeks representatives of business and industry have visited Notre Dame to interview senior students for job placement. Although primary interest centered in engineers, the graduates of other colleges claimed attention, notably Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics Majors in Science, Business Administration and Accounting Majors in Commerce and Credit and Sales Trainees. The representatives in several instances were Notre Dame alumni whose visit was a pleasurable reviewing old times, places and faces.
The Federal Telephone and Radio Company of Newark, N. J., was represented by Joe Abbott, ’26, assistant personnel manager, and Thomas and Skinner Steel Products sent their chief engineer, Harvey Rockwell-, ’34. Mr. C. N. Smith, assistant personnel director, represented the Indiana Bell Telephone and was accompanied by Charles Mason, ’26. Mr. R. J. Canning, supervisor of the school of business training of General Electric, Schenectady, N. Y., made his visit during the trying days of the train tie-up. U. S'. Rubber was represented by Mr. Wooster, Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation by Mr. Peet, factory manager of the Gary plant, the Marathon Corporation of Menasha, Wis., by Mr. J. P. Fagot, assistant director of industrial relations, and the Joseph E. Seagram Company of Lawrenceburg, Ind., by Mr. Renschler, director’ of personnel.
The Standard Oil Development Company of Newark, N. J., will have a representative on the campus the week of June 10. Several aircraft companies, Curtiss-Wright (New Jersey), Boeing (Seattle), Chance-Vought (Conn.), and Ranger Engines, (New York), planned to have representatives on the campus but cancelled arrangements due to the railroad situation.
Application blanks for these aircraft companies were forwarded to the Office of the Placement Counselor and may be obtained there on request. The Office of Placement Counselor is 115 Main Building and office hours are 9:00-11:30 a.m. and 2:30-4:30 p.m.
Glee Club Gives Concert
Under the direction of Daniel Pedkte, the Notre Dame Glee Club gave a concert in Washington Hall Wednesday night before a large audience. The diversified program was well-received by the audience.
The first group of songs were religious, and included Witt’s Ave Maria and Crucifixus. Among the secular songs were such favorites as Loch Lomond,
10
All the Things you are, My Bonny Lass, Onward to Victory, based on Schubert’s Military March, and three parts from Thompson’s Testament of Freedom. This was the outstanding number in this group and was performed by request. The Glee Club last performed this work on May 3rd with the South Bend Symphony in the Drill Hall.
The concert closed with the usual school songs. They included Hike Song, Notre Dame, Our Mother, Irish Backs, and the Notre Dame Victory March.
2 Graduate Students
Attend N. Y. Meeting
Martin McLaughlin and Vincent Hogan, graduate students in the school of Political Science, left June 4 for New York to attend a conference of Catholic delegates who will attend the 20th Congress of Pax Romana in Fribourg, Switzerland, Aug. 27 to Sept. 5, and the International Student Conference in Prague. Hogan and McLaughlin will attend the International Student Service meeting in Cambridge, England, from July 23 to Aug. 1.
The study conference in New York will be a preparation for the conventions in Prague and Fribourg as well as for future organized action of international collaboration. Included in the plan of the conference will be study and discussions of international movements, history, present organizations, and future plans.
Among outstanding lecturers, who will address this conference in New York are Dr. Goetz Briefs, professor at Georgetown University and frequent contributor to the Review of Politics, Cyril Toumanoff, Tibor von Eckhardt, George Shuster, president of HunterCollege, and Oscar Halecki, professor of Eastern European History at Fordham and chief editor of Bulletin of Polish Arts and Sciences.
REGISTRATION
Students who - have preregistered with the Director of Students' Accounts and have not received summons to preregister with Deans for classes in the fall semester should report at the office of the Director of Studies at their earliest convenience.
Students who have not been summoned to preregister with the Director of Students' Accounts and who intend to return to Notre Dame in the fall semester must report to that office immediately.
Father O'Brien Book
Published in Portugal
Father John A. O’Brien’s book, The Power of Love, has been published in Portuguese under the title O Podor Do Arom, and copies of the Portuguese edition have just reached this country. The volume has been translated into that language by Father Artur Alves Pereira, O.F.M., a professor in the Colegio Novo, Coimbra, Portugal.
The kooks seeks to apply Christ’s essential message of love to the problems of the day indicating solutions based upon the principle of understanding, goodwill and mutual love. The volume has 106 pages and is published by Imprensa Portuguesa, Rua Formosa, Coimbra, Portugal.
The Poiver of Love has been widely acclaimed by reviewers, not only for its solid content, but for its literary style. Bishop Hugh J. Boyle of Pittsburgh, in a special commendation of it, characterized it as expressing in capsule form the basic message of Christianity. The Paulist Press reports that the sale has been so extensive throughout the country that the edition is rapidly nearing exhaustion.
Chilean Priest
Visits Campus
Padre Francisco Javier Bascunan Valdes, rector of the Minor Seminary in Santiago, Chile, was the guest of Father Cunningham, C.S.C., last week. Father Cunningham met Padre Bascunan at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, where both were recently treated, and invited him to visit Notre Dame.
While here, he gave a very interesting informal talk on his country to members'of the Inter-American Affairs Club and La Raza Club.—Tom Murray.
Memorial Day Mass Honors N.D. War Dead
By BILL PFAFF
At a Memorial Day Mass almost 1000 students, faculty members and friends of the University honored the memory of the Notre Dame men who died in battle. The Mass was held the morning of Decoration Day at the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart Church. Immediately following the Mass Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, presented Commander George Hutchinson, U.S.N., executive officer of the Notre Dame naval unit. Commander Hutchinson spoke briefly on the meaning of Memorial Day. Father Kehoe then introduced Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, who spoke in tribute of the Notre Dame dead.
“The custom has long been established,” Father Cavanaugh observed, “for the faculty and students of the University to assemble here at this Memorial Door on Decoration Day to pay tribute to the Notre Dame dead. Never before have there been so many assembled here who themselves have been exposed to death in fighting for their country. Never before so many who have watched others die that America might win. Let us hope that never before has a congregation prayed so fervently for the boys who are commemorated here.
“The union of worship and patriotism is part of Notre Dame. Each year the seniors present to the University on Washington’s Birthday a huge American flag. That flag is brought into the sanctuary of the church on commencement day where it is blessed and then reverently borne out to the flagpole so that it may fling itself out to the breezes as a constant symbol that always at Notre Dame love of God and love of country will always spring from the same Christian hearts.
“The services on Memorial Day always join prayer and patriotism. It is Notre Dame’s way of saying to the 324 boys who died in World War II and to all the other boys who died in wars during Notre Dame history: ‘This is our best for you, this mingling of our sorrow with the Gospel and Credo of the Mass, this asking of God’s blessing upon you as the priest stoops over Christ’s own Body and Blood, this recalling of your sacrifice as Christ’s incomparable sacrifice on Calvary is renewed again for mankind.’
“It is our prayer this morning, and
it will ■ ever be our prayer offered through the love of Our Lady, that your souls and all the souls of the faithful departed may, through the mercy of God, rest in peace, Amen.”
With the firing of a volley by a rifle squad from the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps, and the singing of the national anthem by the Dujarie Choir, under the direction of Brother Arnold, C.S.C., the program was concluded.
Present at the ceremonies were the officers of the Notre Dame Veterans Club, who were active in planning the program. In true Notre Dame spirit, each of the 324 deceased veterans was adopted by some campus vet who will sponsor him in a week of prayer, Masses and Communions. Letters were written to the nearest of kin of the deceased informing them that their beloved had not been forgotten at Notre Dame.
Married Vets' Retreat
to be Held on June 9
The spiritual retreat for the Married Veterans of Notre Dame and their wives is to be held on June 9 at St. Mary’s Academy. Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., will conduct the exercises according to the following program:
1:45 p.m., arrival at St. Mary’s; 2:15-3:00, Conference: “The Meaning of Marriage”; 3:20, Group Recitation of the Rosary; 3:30-4:15, Conference: “Marriage as a Way of Life; 4:30-5:00, Group Discussion; 5:15-6:00, Conference: “Happiness in Married Life”; 6:15, Buffet Supper; 7:15, Benediction and Renewal of Marriage Vows.
This should be the most eagerly attended activity of the new organization since the accent is on “married” status rather than on “veteran” status. NonCatholic members of the organization are encouraged to attend.
St. Mary’s Academy is located in the Twyckenham district, and may be easily reached by car, or by the Miami Street bus.
Married Vets' Picnic
, The married Veterans Club will hold an all-day outing and picnic at the Michigan City Municipal Beach on Sunday, June 16. The activities will begin at 10:30 a.m.
Picnic tables, bath-houses, refreshment stands and playing fields are right at hand, and athletic, equipment for an “Old Men’s” ball game will be brought along by the committee. For further particulars, call .Bill Waldron at 4-0911.
Justice. Mercy Answer
to A-Bomb: Fr. O'Brien
“The answer to the threat of the atomic bomb is to be found in universal religious education which stresses the fatherhood of God, the brotherhood of man, and the duty of treating all men and nations with justice, mercy and love,” Rev. John A. O’Brien, professor of religion at the University, declared in a Commencement address at Fort Wayne Central high school this week.
“In the unswerving application of Christ’s law of justice, tempered with charity,” continued Father O’Brien, “America and the United Nations will find the only solution of the problem threatening the existence of the race on this planet.
“Science can make biggei- and better atomic bombs,” observed the Notre Dame professor, “and can pile up rocket planes sky high. These inventions of science only make for more devastating global wars if the conscience and the character of men are left untouched by the ethical teachings of Christ.
“What we need to leara to control,” he said, “is not the atomic boipb but the user of the bomb. In the unenlightened conscience, the undisciplined will, and the unchecked hatreds of men and, nations, lies the real explosive which threatens to blast the race from the face of the earth.
“Instead of spending billions on instruments of destruction and a mere pittance on moral and religious education, why not reverse the process? Why not engage in a global crusade to wipe out race prejudices and hatreds, to teach men justice and righteousness, the Golden Rule, and Christ’s law of all-embracing love? Why not devise some way of getting religious education to the youth of our land before we become a pagan nation?
“Peace rests on the moral character of men and nations,” concluded Father O’Brien, “and the basis of character and morality is religion. A recognition of God as the basis of the moral law and the well-spring of the rights of man is a necessary prelude to the building of a just and enduring peace among the nations of the world.”
MARRIED VETERANS.
PLEASE NOTE! '
Any veteran and wife, now living in South Bend and desiring someone to hold their apartment for them during the summer vacation, please call at Room 215 Walsh Hall.
$
Atomic Bomb: One Small Satchel Carries Power Equivalent to 10 Air Force Raids
Nothing holds the imagination of the average American these days as the fabulous potential menace of the atomic bomb. Dr. E. U. Condon, director of the National Bureau of Standards, corroborated the country’s worst fears when he pointed out recently that one saboteur could carry in one small satchel the equivalent of 10 devastating raids by the full Eighth Air Force.
Dr. Condon, an expert on uranium, joining 13 renowned scientists in an impassioned plea for world-wide control of atomic energy, made this brain-rocking statement: “Within the volume of a small watermelon (can be) stored the energy of more than 20,000 tons of old-fashioned high explosives. Twenty thousand tons of TNT can be kept under the counter of a candy store. We must accept the fact that in any room where a file case can be stored, a determined effort can secrete a bomb capable of killing 100,000 people and laying waste to every ordinary structure within a mile.”
What increases the specific horror of the possibility of large-scale sabotage is the fact that the atomic bomb could be brought into a highly industrialized part of this country disguised as “cigar lighters, keys, a watch, or shoe nails.”
It would be no abuse of the imagination to compare the atomic bomb to a miniature hell. Enlarging on this analogy, Dr. Oppenheimer, who was wartime chief of the bomb assembly plant at Los Alamos, N. Mex., claims the explosion is hotter than the center of the sun and the impact it creates outdistances atmospheric pressure a thousand billion times.
Harold W. Richardson, western editor of the Engineering News Record maintains from evidence gathered at Nagasaki that atomic bomb damage splits into a three-way menace. First, it is a concussion of incredible magnitude, something for which exact comparisons are unavailable in contemporary experience. Second, the heat is so terrific that it creates an endless chain of sudden spontaneous combustions long after the bomb has exploded. Third, the extensive catastrophe of debris flung everywhere catches on fire to burn with seeming inexhaustible energy for days.
It is no longer a waste of time to conjecture what would happen if, let us say, an atom bomb fell on the Chicago Loop. Harold Richardson has it all figured out.
First if you were out in the open you would hear the screaming, high-pitched whistle of the bomb. hurling from its high release point in the stratosphere to a point of detonation high above you.
Then would come a flash of light as if the sun had exploded literally in your face. Then an earth-rocking concussion that would kill every third man on the street. If you were lucky to be still alive, you would be burned to a crisp in places and perhaps, have your ear drums blown in.
The Loop would be something horrible to look at—the smaller buildings would have been knocked flat like strawberry crates; here and there, a skyscraper would stand like a seared skeleton with fire pouring out in hot, blasting puffs. You would find devastation west of Halsted Street, south to 12th Street, north
Where Atomic Bomb Struck—Looking like a spiral cloud formation, a huge column of smoke towers more than 20,000 feet into the air three minutes after the atomic bomb hit Nagasaki on Aug. 10th. Mitsubishi Steel and Iron Works and Mitsubishi-Urakami Ordnance Plant were included in the demolished district, which took in an area .8 mile long and .5 mile across.	(Official USAAF Photo from Acme)
past Chicago Avenue and way out into the lake, every nearby boat would have been scuttled by the tremendous wave set up. Smoke would billow up as high as 40,000 feet into the air and you couldn’t see the sun for the artificial eclipse. Maybe some heavy-reinforced concrete buildings like the Merchandise Mart might still be standing. Oak Park, Woodlawn, and Evanston would be full of dazed people, some terribly burned, gazing in horrified amazement at the windows blown in, the hundreds and hundreds of roofs torn off.
If you remember that only one-tenth of one percent of the total potential energy of the bomb was used at Hiroshima, then you shouldn’t wonder why the world wants it to repose in hands destined for peace. Now it’s a hoe-cake much too hot to handle indiscriminately.
12
Paul C. Bartholomew Addresses
No+re Dame College Graduates
CLEVELAND, 0., June 6—The greatest single factor contributing to success in the world today is a strong moral character, Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, Head of the Department of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, declared here last Wednesday in a commencement address before graduates of Notre Dame College in Cleveland.
“Most persons,” pointed out Dr. Bartholomew, “who do not succeed in life fail not from lack of talent, not from lack of a proper education, but from some weakness in their moral character. With some exceptions, the greatest men we have had in public life, in private enterprise, even among the saints themselves, have been men not of great brilliance but men of steadfast spirit, men of unswerving principles, men of unusual character and unusual labor rather than unusual talent.
“In an age marked by cynicism,” the Notre Dame professor told the graduates, “it seems not out of place to plead with you to keep your ideals. Right now you doubtless have some notion of what kind of wife you want to be, what kind of mother you want to be, what kind of religious you want to be, what kind of career girl you want to be. Your home, your Church, your college have given you great loves, great loyalties. While you live in the world you need not be narrow or bigoted towards other persons, in order to be true to those ideals. . . . There’s too much competition to trust those, ideals to luck. They must be nurtured. You must fight to keep them. Otherwise they will grow sickly and weaken in a worldly atmosphere.”
Telling the graduates that the road ahead is difficult, Dr. Bartholomew pointed out that “there is no sense in denying the element of luck in life, although what some persons call luck is simply being prepared to take advantage of opportunities when they present themselves.”
Dr. Bartholomew continued: “Your education, which, again, simply means the training of your mental powers, enables you to use your talents, to use your knowledge, to lead others to the truth. Have the courage to assume leadership. Your religion, your culture, your philosophy, gives you a tremendous advantage. Use that to help your fellow man. Here in college, you have seen visions and dreamed dreams. Keep those
visions, those dreams, those ideals. And above all, keep your enthusiasm. Don’t sink into the commonplace.
“Here in the quaint halls of Notre Dame your plans and purposes have been in a favorable climate. Today the transplantation takes place. You go out into a world whose philosophy is completely foreign to yours, a world with its own definitions of wisdom and success. But you do not go unprepared. You here at Notre Dame are fortunate in that you have not been kept completely apart from realities. You have not lived a cloistered life. You are not like the germ-free animal that has no immunity built up and succumbs to the first contact with a normal world. You have been innoculated with the Christian principles of right living, and you have had reasonable freedom to develop an awareness of the world into which you are going. You are well prepared. You are ready.
“Within yourselves today,” concluded Dr. Bartholomew, “you have the prescription for- true happiness. As an educated person, and more especially as a graduate of a Catholic college, you have the philosophy that will guide you in your every action. You know the rules, you know the guide posts, you know the way. You have been given the principles and the ideals of Christian living. It is up to you to apply them. You have the know-how* of life. You will be loyal to your God. Further, as an educated person, you have the training that wall enable you to meet life's difficulties as they arise. Properly speaking, you will be able to adapt yourself to circumstances. Where the uninitiated would despair or be desperately unhappy, your mental breadth and depth wall carry you through.”
PHOTO CONTEST
Due to the absence of the contest judges from the campus and South Bend, selections of the winners in the SCHOLASTIC photo contest was delayed. The winning photographs have now been picked, however, and the prize winners will be announced in next week's issue.
First Hail Mary Said in U. S. in Year 1260
Sons of Notre Dame know* well that America has had special devotion to Our .Lady from the day that Columbus first set foot on shore from his ship, the Santa Maria.
The Council of Bishops in Baltimore had Our Lady appointed Patroness of the United States under her glorious title of the Immaculate Conception. As such, she graces our Dome and the Grotto.
In a Catholic quiz program you might be asked, “Where was the first Hail Mary said in the United States?”
You’ll be wrong unless you answer “Minnesota.”
The Kensingston stone found some years ago near Alexander, Minnesota, is pretty generally accepted now by arche- . ologists as authentic and historical.
The stone was found buried in the ground, enmeshed by roots of a tree. The message written on the stone is in Runic language, a combination of Latin and early Norwegian and must have been inscribed by some wandering Norsemen from Vinland, after Leif Ericson’s discovery and colonization in eastern Canada.
The message, as interpreted by experts, relates that the winter belonged to a band of hunters, who have been harassed and attacked by enemies; then comes an invocation to Our Lady—
“Ave Maria, pray for us”—and the date inscribed on the stone is some two hundred years before Columbus’ arrival. (1260 A.D. to the best of my recollection) .
This year there was celebrated on Mother’s Day, May 12, the centennial of the selection of Our Lady as Patroness of the United States.
The promoters of the Marian Congress on Mother’s Day are advocating reception of Holy Communion on the first five Saturdays in response to Our Lady’s fervent request for such reception in her appearance at Fatima, Portugal, in 1917.
Sweetness at LSU
BATON ROUGE, LA. — (ACP) — Louisiana State University is the only university in the United States boasting a sugar school with a sugar factory attached. The school, part of the college of engineering, like the factory, is visited and studied by technicians, chemists and researchers.
Reason for the school: on the southern part of the campus and in the LSU locale there is sugar everywhere.
13
Mind in Action
Life of Father John A. Zahm, C.S.C.
By PATRICK I. CARROLL, C.S.C.
Foreword
This biographical recall of Father Zahm assembles scattered fragments brought together as a single piece. It is offered now, shaped as well as the designer could shape it, finished with as one conscious of shortages in all directions may dare to hope. Whatever the faults of selection or execution, they must be laid to the absence of power rather than to the absence of good will.
Youth
Father Zahm was born in New Lexington, Ohio, Sept. 14, 1851, the second child of the large family. When he was taken to be baptized, it is reported that he kept his eyes looking upward so much, a man present at the christening predicted he would one day become an astronomer. His thoughts must have been mundane, else he would have prophesied the infant would be a mystic, his gaze always on heaven. The mundane prophecy almost became true, because when the future Father Zahm came as a student to Notre Dame he pursued astronomy there, and later erected an observatory to house the telescope that Emperor Napoleon had presented to Father' Edward Sorin. The pursuit would come to him quite naturally, too; for when a boy he studied the stars, standing beside his father on the family lawn, with lamp and star atlas.
In maturity, Father Zahm was serious and dignified; so much so, you often wondered if he were always so. It seems not. Dr. Albert. Zahm tells of a day when a circus came to town at which young John Zahm saw men ride horses, standing erect on their backs while the horses galloped. Presently he and his brother Simon caught “Fan” and “Bet,” the family mares, and did the circus act on the flat backs of the two surprised galloping horses. Father Zahm never talked much of sports, and when Provincial rather discouraged fandom among the religious. Yet his brother Albert tells ns that all through his high school and college years he was expert in athletics, fond of sports, and as a priest encouraged student athletics at Notre Dame.	•
The Zahms lived in New Lexington until the autumn of 1863, when the family moved to Huntington, Ind.
14
Editor’s Note: This article was condensed by James A. Clemens, Jr., Scholastic staff writer, from the original story now appearing serially in “The Ave Maria”)
From 1863 to 1867 young John Zahm received his earlier education part-time, in the local public school, part-time in the parochial school of S's. Peter and Paul. He is remembered as among .the brightest scholars, showing remarkable talent; and he gave evidence of that industry which was to be so unmistakably an expression of his later life. There were spelling championships in those days too, and he captured some first awards when the human, small bees buzzed in orthography. And—omen of his future—he was an altar boy. -
Student at Notre Dame
Young John A. Zahm entered Notre Dame, Dec. 3, 1867. Notre Dame founded in 1842, had not a numerous enrollment in 1867—about 300.
Except for the mention of his name on the list of student enrollment, young Zahm is not further identified in the few weeks that remained of 1867. In 1868, he gets honorable mention for proficiency in “Second Rhetoric” in the issue of the Weekly for Sept. 26. In the Oct. 31 number, those students who received three or more “points” in deport- i ment and improvement in class work are singled out for mention. John Zahm is credited with five “points.” In November, he is given honors in Greek and Latin; in December, in zoology. In February, class marks were published: “J. Zahm, German, 95; Latin, 80; rhetoric, 90; arithmetic, 60.” He again received “honorable mention” for rhetoric on March 12, 1869; for Latin on March 27; for Greek on May -1. In later life he would not be singled out for distinction in either Latin, Greek or rhetoric. .
In 1869, the future Father Zahm appears as corresponding secretary of St. Aloysius Philodemic society.
With the beginning of the next schoolyear, John A. Zahm is coming into recognition. He and D. B. Hibbard debated with J. M. Gearin and J.-McGinnity on the subject, “The Press of Today is
more productive of evil than good.” “At the conclusion of the discussion,” writes a scribe of the time, “the judge, after due consideration, gave his decision in favor of the affirmative.” Zahm, future scientist, won over Gear in, future United States senator.
Scientific leanings are becoming noticeable toward the end of his senior year. An essay read before the Notre Dame Scientific Society, May 15, 1871, appears in the SCHOLASTIC of late May. The title is rather long, the subject matter rather wide—“Thoughts on Science and the Age in Which We Live.” The opening sentence would be true of 1871, 1903, or 1946. “Our age has often, and we believe with truth, been denominated an age of progress and general enlightenment.” There are thoughts in the essay which may be found in some of his later books. For instance, “But we must not be too severe in our criticism of the ancients, because they were not as practical as they might have been.” He expresses somewhat the same idea in Evolutio?i and Dogma.
The annual commencement, in which the future writer on peoples and lands, science and dogma, became an alumnus of the University of Notre Dame, was held during the week beginning June 22, 1871. -
- The future Father Zahm entered the Congregation of Holy Cross, Sept. 17, 1871, following his graduation the previous June. During ’71 and ’72 he was part student, part teacher in the University. He made his religious vows on the feast of All Saints, Nov. 1, 1872. He was then president of the St. Aloysius Society, and at the final meeting of the year, held on the evening of June 1, he is reported as “Reverend Mr. Zahm, C.S.C.”
Professor and Vice President
The September following his ordination Father Zahm became head of the science department of the University, a position he was to hold for 20 years. The school had a student enrollment of about- 500 boys when he began his service as teacher. To broaden the educational outlook of his students, he founded the Academia, or as it was sometimes called, The Academy of Science, the members of which met periodically to read papers on scientific themes.
He shows signs, too, of that intellectual acquisitiveness of which later on we shall find many evidences. Again and again we come upon reports of instruments secured by him for his experimental work, and specimens of all kinds for the museum he had founded.
Next we find him vigorously prospecting in the field of applied electricity. He perfected arrangements by which the students of Notre Dame could take recreation under electric illumination during the winter evening. From electricity careens to art. On Dec. 14 he gave a lecture on .painting and sculpture which was pronounced excellent in every respect.	.
A major project of his, the Science building, had been under construction for some months, and though far from finished was partially ready for students by Dec. 1. This new Science Hall was made possible through a permission given him by Father Sorin, to keep all monies collected or donated as a construction fund.
The opening of the school year of 1885 saw Father Zahm brought into the administration as vice-president, continuing as head of the Science School and teaching his regular assignment of classes. In those days an administrative office did not exempt one from teaching, with the exception of the president; and even he, at times, was called upon to substitute.
The fall of 1886 brought some changes. The former president, Father Corby, was elected provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States by the General Chapter which had convened that summer; Father Thomas E. Walsh continued to serve as president of Notre Dame, and Father Andrew Morrissey became director of studies. Father Zahm was reappointed vice-president. The University of Notre Dame had then three remarkable men in administrative offices in this year, 1886.
May 7, 1892, his first important work, Sound and Music, was with the publishers. In many of his books we discover before-hand the germ of them in earlier lectures and essays. His books on Science and its relation to Religion express final steps in the progression of his mind. His lectures in the Catholic summer schools are reproduced in Scientific Theory and Catholic Doctrine and in Evolution and Dogma. Bible Science and Faith is composed of articles which appeared in the American Ecclesiastical and the American Quarterly Reviews; Sicence and the Church, of essays which were contributed to various magazines. His lectures on Sound, delivered at Notre Dame and the Catholic University, are the seed out of which grew Sound and Music.
Procurator General
Before leaving for his new position Father Zahm indicates his sense of triumph over the promotion. Very likely he was not thinking so much of his honors as of his critics. A dispatch from South Bend had been sent to the Catholic and secular press headed, “Going to Rome”; and the news below the heading is worded in this way:
“Dr. J. A. Zahm, of the University of Notre Dame, who was called some weeks ago to Rome by his superiors, will leave for the Italian capital Tuesday. He was called to the position of procurator general of the Order of Holy Cross, in which position he will be representative of the Order at the papal headquarters. This news will be heard with regret by Catholics throughout this country. Dr. Zahm is the most widely known scientist in America, and has been the star attraction at the Plattsburg and Madison Summer Schools.”
Father Zahm’s first important work as Procurator was concerned with the House of Studies for ecclesiastical students of the Congregation of Holy Cross, established in Washington the year before. It was due to his efforts— efforts which his zeal for higher education quickened and sustained—that this house was founded and fostered.
In the summer of 1897, he was a delegate for America to the scientific congress at Fribourg, Switzerland, which took place in August. He spoke for evolution there; and what is called “his advanced exposition of the theory” found, to quote from one of his letters, but “one dissenting voice.” In a letter, replying to one from Father Zahm, Bishop Spalding of Peoria mentions this Fribourg assignment: “I was very glad to meet Archbishop Keane at Washington and to hear how well you are getting on in Rome. Your influence will be more and more felt. Our newspapers had full accounts of the meeting at Fribourg.”
Provincial By Election
In August, 1898, Father Zahm was elected provincial at the General Chapter held at Cote des Neiges; and the Washington foundation was made permanent. His election seemed in fact assured as the delegates from the United States set out for Canada. Father Fran-cais strongly favored him, and that circumstance would determine minds more or less neutral; hence members representing the United States province, who had not favored him, withheld opposition.
In the autumn , of 1898, the new provincial began his. magnum opus in his building program. He had secured the Rosemont site at Brookland, D. C., for
the new house of studies; and the location, it was indicated with some pride, was the highest point of land around the city of Washington.
Father Zahm dug the first sod; Monsignor Conaty, rector of the Catholic University, the second. Mr. A. von Her-bulis, architect, and Mr. Owen Donnelly, contractor, were witnesses to the act. The style of architecture would be pure Corinthian we are told; “and would embody some of the most attractive features of such famous and imposing structures as the Lichtenstein palace in Vienna and the Palazzo Farnese, Rome.” In spite of these impressive antecedents, the building will be “of chaste simplicity and admirably adapted to the purpose for which it is destined.”
He was now in his 51st year. Most of his life since his ordination in 1875 had been spent in teaching, lecturing and writing books. He had been vice-president of the University for some years, but the duties of that office were not onerous nor of pressing responsibility in the early 90’s. Apart from his term of provincialship, we may say his priestly years were almost exclusively devoted to scholastic pursuits. And so at 51 we find him well-preserved, active and in very good health. The insomnia he complained of was the result of nervous strain brought on by his program of building and other physical projects. The sea voyage to Europe seems to have cured him for some years to come. He was white-haired at 51; erect of bearing, of medium height. He was energetic to the extent of hurry in getting things accomplished. A person needed must be called to the telephone—at once; a piece of machinery for steam house or laundry must be ordered—at once. In his book production we notice the same eagerness- to get his manuscript to the publishers, to get proofs corrected and sent back, to have the work with the public and to hear the public’s response.
Death
Father Zahm died in 1921, three years after the first World War. To those of us beyond middle age his death and the ending of the great conflict seem of yesterday. To those who are now in the early 20’s, Father Zahm will seem a remote figure; the War of the Nations, a cataclysm of history to be studied out of textbooks. So does time determine perspectives. Father Zahm is not so remote from us, if we saw him in his maturity. To those now young his period seems far removed. Perhaps changed points of view about so many things— social relationships, wedlock, the :home,: the family, education, government—set: the mid and late 19th .century so much further away from .us, .due to 'changed conditions rather than to years. '"
IS
Father Louis Deseille. "good messenger of the good God" to Pottawatomies
BY MATHEW ROMANO
The sleeping quarters of the rude log cabin were completely in shadow save for the glow of a dwindling candle atop a battered table. In one corner three Indians crouched over a low cot in which a pain-wracked missionary lay dying. With trembling fingers the priest beckoned to the Indians to move him to the other room which served as a makeshift chapel. They helped him to his feet and gently led him to the altar. The missionary knelt as the Indians vested him in surplice and stole. Then garnering all his strength, he raised himself and unlocking the tabernacle drew forth the sacred ciborium. The Indians bowed their heads. With his eyes transfixed on the only ornament the altar had to offer, a beautiful painting of the Mater Dolorosa, which he had brought from Belgium years ago, the priest administered Holy Viaticum to himself. He was then led back to his cot. As he lay dying, the years away from home passed by like a pageant before his eyes.
Father Louis Deseille was born of excellent Belgian parentage. The circumstances surrounding his family life were very comfortable. But he forfeited comfort and country to become a missionary in the then very distant America. His first assignment was to work in a region which embraced Michigan, Indiana, and Illinois, a field already charted out by Father Badin. The spot later to be named Notre Dame du Lac was inhabited by a village of Pottawatomies, a powerful but peaceful Indian tribe. Father Deseille instructed them in the rudiments of the faith and soon became known among them as “le bon messager du bon Dieu.”
Pokagon. The next morning he was hardly able to say Mass. By noon he found it expedient to ask for a priest. The Indians through naive wishful thinking talked themselves into believing there was no immediate danger. The following day however, his critical condition became painfully apparent. Two messengers were dispatched for a priest; one runner to Logansport, the other to Chicago. By some curious twist of coincidence, missionaries at both places were likewise very sick. The Bishop of Vincennes who had some prescience of Father Deseille’s precarious health sent a fellow-missionary. But for some unaccountable reason he did not arrive. And so Father Deseille died unattended save for the Indians who kept repeating prayers until he closed his eyes. For days the Indians formed a mourning cordon around the log chapel and refused to bury the body. Finally they were forced to do so on the strict orders of the outraged authorities of South Bend.
Years later the log chapel burned down and the remains of Father Deseille along with the bodies of Fathers Francois Cointet and Benjamin Petit were moved into vaults beneath the main altar of the new Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. In time Father Deseille’s log chapel was replaced by a smaller replica which faces the University rather than the highway that led to the Old Sauk Trail between Chicago and Detroit. The Pottawatomies had been forced by the government to a reservation in Kansas. But the memory of Father Deseille is fresh and radiant.
Glenn Boorman Wins
Oratorical Contest
Glenn R. Boarman, C.S.C., won first prize of $100 in the Cavanaugh-Goodrich Oratorical Contest held in Washington Hall last Tuesday. Mr. Boarman spoke on “A Plea for Catholicism.”
Charles J. Perrin, speaking on “The Philosophy Behind the Declaration of Independence,” won second prize of $35. The prize of $15 went to Rolan J. Steinle, who delivered an oration on “In Defense of Liberty.”
The Cavanaugh - Goodrich Oratorical Contest was founded in 1939 by the Hon. James P. Goodrich, LL.D., 1917, in memory of Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University from 1905 to 1919. The prizes are awarded annually to three undergraduate students of the University of Notre Dame who, in the judgment of a committee appointed by the president, deliver the best orations dealing with the fundamentals of American government, particularly the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States.
George J. Frazier, speaking on “The Constitution of the United States,” and Leslie Hahne, speaking on “The Supreme Law of Our Lord” also competed in the contest.—Joe Cheney
Vet Fraternity
DETROIT, MICH.—(ACP)—On the University of Detroit campus there is a new fraternity, Upsilon Sigma Delta. It was formerly known as Veterans Fraternal Organization. The group was reorganized into a fraternity following a decision not to become affiliated with the American Legion. Plans are under way for the organization of a constitution.
The exact date of Father Deseille’s arrival in this country is not available but his work in this locality took in the years 1832 to 1837. Like all other missionaries, he was too occupied to write any memoirs. Information about him must come chiefly from a few letters he wrote to his superiors, friends, and relatives. He would travel from village to village preaching and comforting. It was while he was in the little village of Pokagon that he informed the Indian flock that they would probably never see him again. “I am going to make a long journey,” he said, “so remember me in your prayers and never cease to say your beads in my behalf.”
Already mortally ill, Father Deseille managed to walk the five miles from
16
“Look in my face and search there as you will;
Nothing will meet your question but a lad------,
—Lindley Hubbell
The above may well serve as an apt description of Pete Richiski. Hailed as one of the great high school pitchers in his New England division; Pete was encouraged to come to Notre Dame by the former Publicity Head, Walt Kennedy, who was also a native of Pete’s town, Stamford, Conn. Pete arrived here in 1943, eager to see what he could do along side of our baseball veterans. But, as so often happens, Fate stepped in and called the play. Pete failed to pass the physical examination when a minor heart ailment was discovered. This not only barred him from the baseball diamond, but from any other form of athletic activity. Yes, that semester back in 1943, the outlook was rather gray for Pete; he had lost his athletic scholarship and seven more hard semesters stood between him and that coveted sheepskin.
The following semester, however, Pete was still a student at Notre Dame; and more important he was known to be one swell guy. As one student put it, “he’s a guy who gets along with everybody!” Pete was always inclined to be a bit chunky, and as is only natural with fellows that are liked he has come in for his share of kidding which reopened a peak or something when a few of the boys got together and sent him a girdle, mailed from St. Mary’s!
One of the reasons the baseball team is having a good season is the sparkling pitching of Jack Barrett. You guessed it. . . . Jack and Pete are roommates. Pete didn’t fail to teach jack every pitching trick he could remember. This semester Pete, who is graduating from the school of Commerce, will receive a well deserved degree; and if Notre Dame gave a special degree for the ability to make friends, and downright naturalness, Pete would walk-.-away with all the honors. Therefore,;--Sorin Hall, The Green Banner and Notre Dame wish you all the best Pete; for you have demonstrated to us that type of good-sportsmanship that is frequently found on the Diamond . . . yet transcends a million diamonds.
Day By Day: John Nolan of Alumni incurring the wrath of J. L. O’Connor
By BILL BRAUN and FRANK McCARTHY
by dropping both his and O’Connor’s laundry down the trash shute. . . .Phil Supple found a Priest’s cassock in his laundry when he opened it and ran around the hall shouting excitedly, “I got the Call!” .... And in the Dining Hall: “That guy who writes ‘Man About Town’ must be slipping. Last week I discovered a whole paragraph without a single dig!” Here! Here! .... John Painter coming back from a week-end looking like Scrooge’s Spirit of The Past. . . . Mike Ganey rejoicing over being accepted for graduate work. . . . Wire anyone who has some oil, please contact Bob McBride for his squeaky left shoe. Signed, the boys in Dillon. . . .
Two ice-creams for Caso & Piedmont of ‘Soph Soap’ for cornering what we think is the best joke so far this semester. . . by our own request we reprint it:
Former N D Actors Well Represented
on Stage in London and New York
Robert Speaight, distinguished British actor, who directed and produced “Twelfth Night” for the University Theatre in the summer of -1940, has a full-page portrait of himself as Saint Anthony in the March issue of the Theatre Arts magazine. The play, which is being produced by- the Mercury Theatre in London, is titled “The Way to the Tomb.” It is a poetic drama by Ronald Duncan, with music by Benjamin Britten.
Mr. Speaight will be remembered for his portraits of Thomas a Becket in the T. S. Eliot play, “Murder in the Cathedral” which received highest praise from the New York critics. He also played the leading role of John Campion in a play by Paul Vincent Carroll which was later titled “The White Steed.”	'
After leaving Notre Dame for service in the armed forces in England, Mr. Speaight did a farewell appearance in the role of the Duke of Orsino in the Hayes-Evans production of “Twelfth Night” in New York.
The appearance of the “Old Vic” players on radio and stage recalls that Robert Speaight is credited with the finest portrait of “King John,” the
Underwriter: “Waiter, bring me some tomato juice for a pickup.”
Waiter: “Yes, sir, and what do you want for yourself?” ....
Culled from Campus Clubs: “Mistakes like this could be avoided if the club secretaries would issue press releases for this column. Then all information would be correct.”.....True, but as it is---, . . . Did anyone see Jock Kennedy racing into Science Hall at -9:01 for his 10:00 math class? That’s what comes from “midnighted.” Caught in The South Bend Tribune :“One package of cigarettes on the Berlin black market is currently worth $12 to $15; a carton is worth 10 times as much.” .... They ■must have used a slide rule to figure that out. Funny isn’t it how the football players lose so much weight over night. . . . the night the programs werd printed. Same for age. . . . Walked into John Chambers room and was amazed to find him playing Casino with the Vet’s Club Mascot. “Is that dog playing cards?” we asked, rather startled. “Oh he’s not so good,” said John, “I beat him two out of three games!” ...
chronicle play by Shakespeare, that has ever been given in “Old Vic” history. For his work in this Mr. Speaight was requested to give a command performance for the late King George V.
News of two veterans of the “Twelfth Night” production at Notre Dame is also of interest. Jack White, who will be remembered for his playing of Feste, the clown, has become a prominent juvenile in radio dramatic skits and is married to Joan Alexander, prominent radio actress who is heard frequently in the Columbia workshop productions.
Jack now calls himself “John Sylvester” and his name is usually heard in the casts of the better radio plays.
Ray Wilmer, ’42, who will be remembered both for winning the Emil Jacques medal in Fine Arts, as well as his excellent and original costumes which he and the nuns in summer school created for the “Twelfth Night” production, under the direction of Mr. Hanley of the Art Department, is enrolled at the Drama School at Yale University. Wilmer was with the Army Air Corps (Int.) as an observer and was one of the first Notre Dame men to enter Japan. He returned from Kyoto with some excellent sketches (Continued on page 20)
.	17
Ball week-end
The Senior
to life this evening with a
the Hotel Hoffman.
select flowers for the cant'
that comes candlelight
On the right, Bernie Finu;^ Bill Dunne solve the weeH
use l':ei ihe
ai
the Hotel Hoffman. At (S Sam A. Wing, Jr., and Mr.
dinner dance at the Oliver Hotel is the most complete social event ever planned at Notre Dame. The three days will mix a formal dance, a rollicking picnic and a quiet Sunday morning.
This senior ball weekend is going to be different. It is going to place the emphasis on enjoyment rather than stiff dancing. It will be made up of a dinner dance, a picnic and a Sunday Communion breakfast. The problem of what to do on Saturday night will be disposed of by extending the program for the afternoon into the evening. There will be no waiting in the long lines in the cafeteria on Sunday morning, because a private breakfast will be arranged.
Co-chairmen Fritz Funk and Bill Carbine made this senior week-end a reality. When Bill Carey, class president, asked Fritz and Bill to take charge of the Ball, the trouble began for the two accounting majors.
Early conferences took place in the dugout of 101 Walsh and the preliminary sketch was made. The Senior Week-end would be more personal than those held in the past. A picnic replaced the traditional tea dance and a private Mass and breakfast was scheduled for Sunday morning.
Then Bill and Fritz began the search for a place to hold the dance. Two weeks later it was decided that the Oliver Hotel would best meet the qualifications. Those two weeks were hectic ones. Bill lost weight and Fritz lost his golf swing.
After two meetings with the Student Activities Council, the chairmen arrived at a date that was acceptable to all. Bill
John Slater. Paul Marrietta, Don Trottier, and Harry Sullivan are not hoarding food, but merely gathering supplies in a grocery store for the Saturday outing.
Carbine rushed to the downtown Knights of Columbus Chambers to sign a contract with the Oliver. In the meantime, Fritz Funk was visiting every cabin and country site in Michiana to find a spot for the Saturday picnic. Finally Fritz joined The Legion in order to close the deal on Lincoln Park.
Along with the Rotary Room, which is the large ballroom, the two adjoining rooms—the Gold Room and the Rose Room—will be available to the ballgoers.

Sliding doors connect these rooms to the
Rotary Room. One room will be set up ■ with tables; the other with lounges. Refreshments will be served in these rooms.
V-12 Senior Bill Dwyer was set on the trail of a band. Jack Davis and his orchestra had caused much favorable comment when they played for the Junior Prom Tea Dance. Bill held auditions and was well satisfied with the
danceable music of the Davies was the man.
Jack Davis’ orchestra best in the Smith Bend
Davies outfit.
is one of the area. The fea-
tured vocalist for the outfit is Sunny Vann, and its music is arranged by Sam Rowe and Johnny Nagy. Jack plays a number of novelty selections, his best being “When Budda Swings,” which spotlights Jack Budda on the trumpet. It is a band which prefers smooth dancable music to the fast “jump and jive” brass, all of which is in keeping with a senior ball at Notre Dame.
Jack Tenge, the well-dressed duke from Saint Louis, made a hurried trip to the printer and designed the engraved invitations and the attractive dance programs. .
Everything was rolling along fine for
18
I
alike would like to know
their
secret.
t
3
I
5
a
show. Jim Clemens and his helpful Mrs. will handle the transportation problem for the country’s top flight bands playing at the picnic when they carry the
Lane, Jack Tenge, and kend room problem at be left, Mr. and Mrs. i and Mrs. Jim Clemens dielight dinner.
rented juke Saturday in
box out to Lincoln Park their family chariot.
ordinated chairmen, theatrical search of
the work of the individual
Bernie Finucane contacted agents all over South Bend in talent for his Saturday night
Harry Sullivan, the red headed Cuban, in charge of Saturday arrangements, co-
¥
I IS
Bill and Fritz until the DAV decided to hold their state convention in South Bend. Funk and Carbine thought the idea fine for any other week-end of the year, but not for the seventh, eighth and ninth of June. Every available hotel room in South Bend was tied up—that is until Bill Dunne was let loose. The handsome lad from Alumni uncovered in two days accomodations for one hundred people in South Bend, Mishawaka and Niles. Bill is being- investigated by the DAV, but he saved the Senior Ball when its success was very uncertain.
Week-end plans called for meals on all three days. The food shortage was another problem. Bill Carbine tackled the dinner dance menu and Mr. and Mrs. Jack Slater the picnic lunch. Every grocer in South Bend knew the Slaters after they made their two week shop-ing tour for their family of two hundred.
Don Trottier and Paul Marrietta, in charge ’of refreshments for the picnic, were handicapped by anothei- shortage. They hunted high and low for some of the precious beverage. They built a secret fortress in their off-campus chateau to defend the stock they had collected. South Benders and Notre Darners


The ticket committee estimates their sales. Left to right, they are: Harry Erd, Joe Menfeld, John Vaughan, John O'Neil, and Christ Cochrane (on bed).

Mr. and Mrs. Sam Wing spoke their most polite Texasnese to obtain the floral pieces that will decorate the Oliver tables. Artie Hoffman served a month long apprenticeship as a head waiter so he could arrange the dinner seating to the satisfaction of all. To Jim Molidor falls the job of preserving the ball on paper by being in charge of photography.
Sorin Hall’s Bill Sullivan made arrangements for a special Mass in Dillon Hall Chapel and Barney Slater, noted Glee Clubber, drew up a melodious choir accompaniment. Don Degnan, the squire from Long Island, went into a huddle with Mr. Ford of the dining hall and planned an after-breakfast that will be the final event on the week-end program.
Arrangements set, Joe Patrucco spread the word. Ticket chairman John Vaughan got his agents Joe Neufelt, Harry Erd, Chris Cochrane and John O’Neil together just before the big push on sales. All deserve words of praise for che results. After a slow start that had Funk and Carbine in nervous exhaustion, the tickets sales soon reached the quota— one hundred couples. Class treasurer Ed Haller formally presented Joe Neufelt with the Legion of Honor award for his super-selling.
From this hectic month of preparation the 1946 Senior- Week-end has emerged. To those lucky enough to get a girl and a ticket, it will be the highlight of their collegiate social life.
The Senior Ball will be a success;— thanks to Fritz Funk, Bill Carbine and all the men who worked on committees with them. But tonight if you hear Bill or Fritz requesting Jack Davies to play, “Nobody knows the troubles ah’ve seen!” —you will know the reason why.



19

((UKI PARADE
Wranglers Hear Three Speakers
At meetings held during the past
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
Last week, Notre Dame had a plethora of histrionics, to say the least. From Monday through Thursday, the Savoyards gave forth with a very creditable performance of The Mikado on Washington Hall’s revered (and creaking) stage. On Saturday afternoon, the Old Timers took up where Gilbert and Sullivan left off. (How did those two guys ever get mixed up with Notre Dame?). . . . It’s hard to say which was the better performance. “Falstaff” Brutz, “Laurence” Dove, and “Gregory” Szymanski really gave Thorson and Meli a run for the honors of Actors of the Week. The question is still open to debate.
This poem is respectfully dedicated to those Old Timers who trained so hard for last Saturday’s contest:
Here
With my beer I sit, While golden moments flit; Alas!
They pass
Unheeded by: And as they fly, I, Being dry, Sit idly sipping here ' My beer.	—Setonian
An old lady kept a parrot which was given to swearing. She put up with this all day Saturday, but on Sunday she kept a cover over the cage—removing it on Monday morning. This prevented the parrot from swearing on Sunday.
One Monday afternoon she saw the minister coming towards the house, so she placed the cover over the cage. As the gentleman was about to step into the parlor, the parrot piped up, “This certainly has been a damned short week.”
WJOTW Department — Lifted from the Auburn Plainsman:
What’s the matter with your fingers?
I was getting some cigarettes yesterday when some clumsy fool stepped on my hand.
♦
The head of the Department of Surgery at the Tulane Med School, Dr. Alton Ochssner, reports that smoking
contributes greatly to certain diseases. Among these are pneumonia, lip and lung cancers, and blood clotting in the veins. . . . Hey Doc, didn’t you forget that other old trouble, deflated pocketbook?
She was only the police chief’s daughter, but she was an arresting beauty.
—Butler Collegian
Some babies are born to be rulers. The rest are boys.
—McMaster Silhouette
In parting, may we quote from the Carroll Prospector:
“Cows may come, and cows may go, but the bull goes on forever.”
THEATRE FIGURES
(Continued from page 17) of the Kabuki Theatre (the national theatre of Japan) in his foot locker.
Verne Witkowski, ’40, who used to write Theatre Notes for the Scholastic in ’39,-’40, has left the Navy after a tour of duty in the Mediterranean and is now active in New York Drama circles. His stage name is Whit Vernon and his performance as “Peer Gynt” at Catholic University attracted high praise from the critics.
At Notre Dame Verne appeared in the “Queen’s Husband” and in “Air Raid.” During his sojourn at Catholic University he participated in the production, of several new plays which were produced at the University theatre there.
' Broadway’s hits such as “Sing Out Sweet Land,” “Lute Song” and “Yankee Doodle Boy” were all produced originally by the C.U. group and later went on to New York after attracting the attention of the producers.
Each year a classic is revived by the C.U. players and an original play is produced. This year “Electra” was the classic revival (in this’Mr. Hanley of the art department played King Aegis-thus) and the new play was a musical with a score by John .Munday of the Metropolitan Opera —. “The ^.Liai»”^ Among the stars to have appeared with the C.U. group in recent years are Julie Hayden, Robert Speaight. and Louise Rainer.	'	’
Ralph Dumke, a South Bend boy and
weeks, the Wranglers of Notre Dame heard papers delivered by Bernie O’Hora, Joe Rud and Jim Newman, all “pre-war” members of the society who have returned to school after serving in the armed forces.
Newman presented a paper entitled “The Current State of Religious Belief,” in which he decried the mediocrity of current religious attitudes. He presented an analysis of the factors which have prevented the spreading of religious ideas, stating that our lives are too secure, too normal, too habitual; we have sunk into static complacency. While we have known crises, we have not felt them as the people of Europe have, he added, and concluded that man is by nature a spiritual creature and eventually he will force his way through to what he needs in the realm of the spirit.
The speech delivered by O’Hora, a pre-med student from Mazomania, Wis., was called “Pandora’s Box,” and dealt with modern science. The impact of science on us is inevitable, he said, and the world is sorely in need of education in the scientific field. He observed that the number one weapon of the war was not the atomic bomb; biological warfare, though comparatively new, was a mere destructive force than the terrifying bombs which ended the war in Japan. The paper also dealt with attempts to put scientific progress behind a cloud of secrecy and a military grating.
Last week Joe Rud, a senior in the College of Commerce, delivered a detailed paper on the reorganization of Congress. Before presenting the problems facing the reorganization of Congress, Rud listed the purposes of Congress. He deplored the current political practice whereby the executive branch of the national government determines the national policy, rather than the legislature. The chief item in the revamping process will be the simplification of the congressional setup, which is now an oversized, overlapping, time-wasting legislative. mechanism.
’27, is playing the role of -‘^Captain Andy in “Show Boat” with Carole Bruce and others. Ralph has the '	role.:made famous, by Charles Winniger
‘ in the 1928 production. His robust performance carries the show along with the zest of the original production.
20
Scholastic Sports Section |
Diamond Squad Plays Michigan Tomorrow
By DAVE WARNER
At Cartier Field tomorrow afternoon at 2:00 the Notre Dame baseball team, which has enjoyed reasonable success, takes on Michigan to begin the last lap of its 1946 schedule. Wednesday Bradley Tech of Peoria, Ill., will be here for a single game, and Sunday the Klinemen journey to the Great Lakes Naval Training Station where they wind up the season. In a 15-inning thriller last Saturday the Sailors topped the Irish, 4-3, tagging Bill Sherman for the defeat after Dick Kluck was lifted for a pinch hitter in the 14th.
Irish Won 14 of 58
Michigan’s abilities as a diamond performer are well known to Notre Dame. In 58 meetings between the two schools the Irish have come out the winner only 14 times. Earlier in the season Notre Dame met Michigan at Ann Arbor where the Wolverines administered a 71 trouncing to end a seven-game winning streak. Hard-hitting third baseman Wally Kell, first man at bat against Barrett, made things tough from the start by whacking out a four master in addition to which the Irish were guilty of four miscues afield. Yet in Big Ten competition this year the Wolverines had to settle for second place behind Wisconsin.
Jake Kline is not expected to gamble on a starting pitcher. He’ll probably go along with his ace, Barrett, though Michigan is definitely a jinx team for the “Kewper”; he has never beaten Michigan. But among other things this season Barrett appears to be taking his batting very seriously. Going into the Northwestern game he led the squad with a hefty .421. Capt. Tom Sheehan with .350 will be behind the plate. For tomorrow’s encounter Kline may very well keep the same infield intact which faced Great Lakes last Saturday. That would leave Bay Petrzelka, now sticking .364, at first base; George Schneider back from third to his old keystone spot; Pete Koblosh in place of Hassett at. short, and Gene Lavery at third. In the outfield “Jumbo” Mayo continues his terrific above .400 batting pace with a current .414, but Raba has dropped to .326 and Gilhooley to .283.
Sailors Defeat Irish in 15-lnning Battle
By BUZZ WRIGHT
A rain-soaked Cartier field was the scene of the Notre Dame baseballers’ longest game of the season on last Saturday as the Bluejackets of Great Lakes, stripped of wartime major league talent, were still able to outlast the Irish, 4-3, in 15 innings.
Third baseman Bob Tutterow doubled to send home teammate Mel Riebe with the big counter in the initial half of the 15th after N.D. had come from behind three times to tie the score.
Great Lakes drew first blood when they tallied in the second stanza. Riebe, a professional basketball great, proved his proficiency in the diamond sport with a long windblown triple to right field and scampered home on Tutterow’s single to center. The Klinemen bounced back in the third on Dick Kluck’s single, a hit batsman and a pair of fielder’s choices. The Sailors once again took the lead in the seventh when the pesky Mr. Tutterow pushed Bob Slavens across the plate after the latter had doubled. The Irish would not concede defeat, however, and in the eighth Frank Gilhooley knotted the count. The popular centerfielder was hit with a pitched ball, moved along on Jack Mayo’s single, and scored on Tom Sheehan’s deep drive to center.
Tie Game Third Time
With the game deadlocked at 2-2 and most of the Irish rooters long departed for the football stadium, the Gobs and N.D. toiled through four scoreless innings before the visitors forged ahead on Pitcher Dick Manville’s safety, a sacrifice by Tom Chandler, and a miscue by Gene Lavery. The undaunted Irish came back once more in their half of the 14th. Jack Barrett; mighty at bat as well as on the mound, opened with a pinch single. Kozlik, running for Barrett, raced all the way home on little George Schneider’s mighty three base blow. Then came the fatal 15th.
Freshman Dick Kluck, seeking his second triumph of the year, hurled 14 innings for the Kline nine before giving way to a pinch hitter. Big Willie Sherman took over in the final frame and was charged with the loss. Dick Man-
(Continued on page 25)
Marquette Trackmen Defeat Irish, 66-65
By BOB BATES
In a hotly contested meet Marquette University’s track team defeated Notre Dame, 66-65, by winning all three places in the final event. The Hilltoppers scored the upset last Saturday at Milwaukee. Each team won seven events, and there was a tie in the pole vault.
Bill Leonard, star Irish distance runner, won both the mile and half-mile events. Leonard was able to capture the two events even though he had been unable to do much practicing because of a stomach ailment. His time for the mile was 4:38.1. In the half Leonard finished in 2:01.2 followed by Notre Dame’s Ray Sobota. Jim Murphy captured second place in the two mile run.
O'Neill Takes Second
Hurdlers Bill O’Neill and Bill Fleming found tough competition in Marquette’s Bill Ullrich. Ullrich took first in the 220 yard lows, O’Neill and Fleming finishing second and third respectively. In the 120 yard high hurdles John Smith won first in :15.3. Fleming came in second and Ullrich ran third.
Bob Swain of Marquette dominated in the sprints. He ran the 100 yard dash in 10 seconds. Hunter of Notre Dame finished third. Swain came back to win the 220 in 22.7 seconds. Frazer Thompson and Ernest McCollough came in second and third respectively.
Pat Kenny won the 440 in :52.4 and later returned to help the relay team to victory. Ernest McCullough, Joe Berg-thold, Kenny and Sobota ran the mile in 3:32.2.
Marquette gained the edge in the field events. Cliff Brosey of Notre Dame took second in the shot put. Ken Wiesner, star Hilltopper high jumper, went up to 6' 2" to nose out Painter and Keeler of the Irish, who tied for second. In the pole vault Bogue of Notre Dame tied Marquette’s Fotochnik. Brosey came through to win the discus throw with a toss of 127 feet. Hunter of the Irish won the broad jump with a leap of 21' 6", And then came the last event, the fateful javelin throw. Perhaps eligibility rules should be investigated. The winner was Hercules.
21
VARSITY RCMRT TC EASY
Bv PETE BROWN
Under an overcast November sky, the valiant green-shirted graybeards of Coach Walter Ziemba fell before the powerful five-play offense of Coach Frank Leahy’s Varsity. The game was played last Saturday in the Stadium before 12,000 chilled spectators, who had the added attraction of the University Band serenading them before the game and at the intermission. After two and a quarter hours of tackles and blocks, the Varsity had scored three times, the Old Timers none. The final score was 20-0.
It took the Varsity just a little more than five minutes to register their first score. Fullback Jim Mello did the honors, toting the ball over the last white line.
Bob Livingston took the opening kickoff and returned it to the Varsity 26. He and Mello combined to pick up a first down with seven- and five-yard jaunts. After three more tries at the line, the Varsity was forced to punt. Quarterback John Lujack booted the ball 41 yards to the Old Timers’ 11. After one play which netted nothing, Dippy Evans fumbled the ball. George Strohmeyer, Varsity center, recovered it on the 10. Two plays later Mello crossed the goal on a seven-yard smash over right tackle. Lujack converted to make the score 7-0.
The second score came as a climax to a 90-yard drive by the Varsity. Sandwiched between short gains by Terry Brennan-and Pep Panelli were two passes by Quarterback Frank Tripucka to Panelli and Jim Martin good for 34 and 30 yards. Jerry Cowhig finished the drive by skirting right end for eight yards and the touchdown. Tripucka missed the extra point. The score stood 13-0.
A long pass down the middle from Lujack to S'immons finished the day’s scoring. The play covered 62 yards with Simmons crossing the goal standing up. Lujack made his second conversion attempt good.
With the exception of the above mentioned play, the Old Timers afforded the spectators the most interesting (or amusing) plays of the game. The best of these was a reverse from Steve Juzwik to Dippy Evans on the kickoff after the third Varsity touchdown. The play caught the Varsity looking in
Lujack receives last minute instructions from Coach Leahy before game time.
Coach Leahy eagerly watches the game from the bench
Between halves, Ziemba rallies the Old-Timers into action
22
WIIS EVER OLE IIHIIf
the wrong direction. By the time John Lujack caught Evans, he had reached the Varsity 11. The Old Timers, however, were unable to capitalize on their opportunity and lost the ball on downs.
The opening of the fourth quarter saw Bob Dove block
Some of the estimated conflict in the Stadium.
12,000 fans who attended the
one of Tripucka’s punts. After a mad scramble, Lou Rymkus came up with the ball on the Varsity 29. But the Old Timers were unable to make any headway and lost the ball on downs again.
In the middle of the second quarter Johnny Dee, lend-lease quarterback of the Old Timer’s, got off a 60-yard punt which rolled over the goal. Even Dee was surprised at the distance of his kick. In true pro league form, Juzwik kicked off over the goal at the start of the third quarter.
Flashing the old “44” on the back of his green jersey, Bernie Crimmins showed why he was the No. 1 guard of the nation in ’42. He was in on almost every tackle and seldom missed a blocking assignment, a rarity for the Old Timers.
The passing of Frank Tripucka and the defensive play of Johnny Lujack were two pleasing sights among the members of the Varsity. Jim Mello, Jerry Cowhig, Pep Panelli and Terry Brennan came up with some spectacular running which resembled any the spectators who were in on the cuff, might have seen if they paid S3.30 for their seats.
John Mastrangelo covered his guard spot with the finesse that made him an All-American last season. Left end Jim Martin a newcomer to the campus, raised the hopes of us poor fans who have been reading about the woeful lack of ends on this year’s squad. He looked exceptionally good on a pass from Tripucka in the second quarter. This play set up the second touchdown.
Of the lend-lease players Halfbacks Johnny Agnone and Emil Slovak displayed the hard drive and the shiftiness that goes to make good halfbacks. John Dee, also, put in a good afternoon’s work at quarterback. Frank Gaul, a Varsity tackle gone wrong, looked like a good prospect for the Varsity squad when he gets reinstated.
Lujack is stopped by Bob Maddock as Rymkus and Clatt advance for the tackle. Others players are: Mastrangelo (70), Ziemba (72), Scott (63), and Mello (71).
Bob Livingstone (42), L. H., changes pace to avoid Dippy Evans (23). Brutz is behind Livingstone. The others are: Rymkus (70), Evans (23), Mello (71), and Clatt (65).
23
The weather was what might be expected for a fall afternoon. The cool breezes and the threatening sky kept the fans wondering if the day was the first of June or the first of November.
To round out the picture of the football afternoon, the members of the Band were seated in their usual spot on the 40-yard line. They beat their way through several college victory marches during the long afternoon.
Cummins (44), Nemeth (20), Sheridan (12), and Hines (35) plan Old-Timers' defense at half time.
Johnny Druze and Varsity display keen interest in game from their dugout.
B-P on Heels of Walsh
Hall in Softball Race
Scoring two victories in as many games during the past week, Breen-Phillips remained on the heels of Walsh Hall, leader in the Eastern Division of the Interhall Softball League. B-P defeated Cavanaugh, 16 to 10, and Sorin, 7 to 0, while Walsh was idle because of bad weather.
In the only other games played in this division, St. Ed’s defeated Sorin, 8 to 4, and beat Cavanaugh, 6 to 4, to gain third place.
Morrissey Hall remained on top in the Western Division with five victories and no defeats. Its game on May 31 with Dillon Hall was rained out. This will be the most important game of the second round since Dillon is in second place with five victories in six stai’ts.
Scores of games in this division: Lyons 3, Badin 1; Dillon 3, Howard 2; Badin 11, Alumni 7; and Dillon 9, Alumni 4.
The standings:
Eastern
W. L.
Walsh ...............5	0
B-P .................5	1
St. Ed’s ............4	2
Cavanaugh ...........2	5
Sorin ...............1	5
Zahm ................0	5
Western
Morrissey ...........5	0
Dillon ..............  5	1	.833
Lyons ............  -3	2	.600
Badin ...............  1	4	.200
Alumni ...............1	5	.167
Howard ...............0	3	.000
Breen-Phillips, Zahm Tied for League Head
By JIM REGAN
Breen-Phillips and Zahm Halls still remain deadlocked for the lead in the Interhall Baseball League, each having scored four straight victories. This tie was due to be broken Wednesday when these two teams were scheduled to meet, but the game was played after this issue’s deadline.
During the week, Breen-Phillips defeated St. Ed’s, 9 to 2, to remain undefeated, while Zahm defeated Dillon, 6 to 4, to preserve its unblemished record. In other games, Cavanaugh beat Walsh, 6 to 4, and Sorin edged out Alumni, 7 to 6.
The standings of the league with a little less than half the season re-
Pct. 1.000 .883 .667 .286 .167 .000
1.000
maining:
	W.	L.	Pct.
Breen-Phillips 			4	0	1.000
Zahm 	:			4	0	1.000
Cavanaugh 			2	1	.667
Sorin 			2	2	.500
Alumni 			2	2	.500
St. Ed’s 			1	3	.250
Walsh 			0	3	.000
Dillon 			0	4	.000
Brock Named King's College Grid Coach
James “Tom” Brock, varsity center on the 1942 and 1943 Notre Dame elevens, has been appointed director of athletics at King’s College at Wilkes-Barre, Pa. The college is operated by the Fathers of Holy Cross.
The new faculty member is a graduate of Notre Dame with the class of 1943 and at present is studying for his master’s degree at the University of Iowa.
Brock is a native of Columbus, Nebr., where he and his six brothers, all of whom have recently served with distinction in some branch of the armed services, played high school football. He participated in basketball and track,, receiving his letter in each year over a period of four years. He was all-state basketball choice and football center during his junior and senior high school years.
During the war Brock was a first lieutenant in the United States Marine Corps, attached to the Third Division. While with this division he saw action at Guam and Iwo Jima as platoon officer and company commander. Twenty-three months of his service with the Marines were spent overseas.
Brock will take over his duties with King’s College early in August.
24
NeHers Play Marquette Tomorrow;
Michigan, Wildcats Defeat Irish
By BILLY SLAVICK
Notre Dame’s netters will uncase their racquets as a team for the last time this season tomorrow when Marquette’s Hilltopper squad invades the Irish campus for an afternoon match. The last item on the list will be the Intercollegi-ates at Northwestern during exam week.
The Irish had a pair of unhappy afternoons during the past two weeks as Michigans’ Wolverines squeezed through for a 5-4 win here Saturday, May 25, and Northwestern played the part of ungracious hosts Tuesday, May 28 at Evanston, turning back the Blue and Gold racqueteers, 6-3. The Irish did manage to get in their fifth consecutive win before the black days came though, topping Wisconsin here on May 23.
The Badgers had a tough time against the Irish, and both had a tough time with a strong wind that threatened to blow the match away. Bill Tully, George Ratterman, and Ted Lyons came through for straight set wins and Ed Caparo and Joe Brown battered through for three set triumphs to clinch the match before the doubles got under way.
The Wolverines were undoubtedly the most evenly matched opponent of the year, and except for a tiring George Ratterman, the results might have been entirely different. Tully wasted no time defeating Michigan’s No. 1 Jack Hersh,
Tennis Team—Left to right, Ed Caparo, Artie Hoffman, Tyke Hartman, Phil Lyons, Joe Brown, Bill Tully kneeling. George Ratterman, and Harry Erd.
6-1, 6-0, and Caparo came from behind to win his match, but Brown, Artie Hoffman, and Harry Erd all dropped close matches giving Michigan a 3-2 lead at the start of the doubles. Ratterman made his appearance after a 90 minute grid scrimmage, and paired with Tully to even things up with a doubles win over Hersh and Jim Evans, but seconds later the No. 2 Wolverine duo added another match to the visitor’s cause— Caparo and Erd taking the victim’s roles.
That left it up to Ratterman’s singles match and the No. 3 doubles contest, Lyons and Brown vs. Paul Schoenlaub and Harold Cook. The two matches were played simultaneously, and the eye-shifting required to keep tabs on both matches partially warmed up a chilled crowd.
Ratterman got off to a shaky start, losing his first three games, but came back to even it up 4-4, before dropping the set, 6-4. Lyons and Brown had the same misfortune, losing their opening set, 6-4. George rallied, and slowly took a comfortable 4-1 lead, as Lyons and Brown evened their match with an 8-6 win. The Irish duo dropped their next three games, but quick, and George did likewise, putting Notre Dame in the hole again, but Brown and Lyons came back to take a 5-4 lead just as Bill
(Continued on page 29)
Kline in 13th Season As
Head Diamond Coach
Clarence J. (Jake) Kline, professor of Mathematics at the University, is in his 13th season as head coach of baseball at Notre Dame.
Jake was named’head baseball coach at the University in 1934 to succeed the late George E. Keogan, who wished to devote his full time to basketball coaching. Kline won baseball monograms at Notre Dame in 1915, 1916, and 1917, playing third base and hitting well over .300 all three seasons. He was captain of the 1917 team.	*
The high point of Kline’s collegiate playing career was reached in 1916 when he hit three home runs to lead the Irish to a 14 to 6 victory over the University of Michigan. A fourth drive landed foul by inches or he would have had another homer.
Kline turned down an attractive offer to play with the Pittsburgh Pirates in the National League to go overseas in 1918 and 1919 to serve with the Infantry in World War I. Upon his return, he was named Director of Prep Athletics at Notre Dame, a position he held in 1920 and 1921.
He played and managed a club in the Southern Minnesota League in 1922, played in California in 1923 and 1924, and from 1925 to 1930 he played and managed various clubs in the Utah State League. He returned to Notre Dame in 1931 as freshman baseball coach, served as head freshman baseball and football coach in 1932 and 1933, and became varsity baseball coach the following year.
Coach Kline has enjoyed outstanding success in his 12 seasons as head baseball coach at Notre Dame. His Notre Dame teams have won a total of 117 games, lost 83, and tied 2 during his tenure as mentor of Irish baseball nines. His best season to date was in 1936 when the Irish won 16 and lost only 3. Kline’s teams have suffered only two losing seasons—in 1934 when the Blue and Gold won 8 while losing 11, and in 1941 when the Irish won 6 and lost 10.
SAILORS WIN (Continued from page 21) ville, the elongated sailor ace, went the route for the victors.
Notre Dame touched Manville for 12 base knocks, three of which came from the potent bat of right fielder Elmer Raba. Schneider, Sheehan, and Petrzel-ka each collected a pair of safeties for the locals. Tutterow topped the day’s hitters with four blows, driving home three of the Great Lakes’ runners. Riebe and hurler Manville each hit safely three times.
25
gpltetefiA. ^am tke. PteAL feoa
- - -	By PAUL WEYBAUCH—Scholastic Sports Editor
IRISH SPORTS CALENDAR
Saturday, June 8—Baseball, Michigan Tennis, Marquette
Wednesday, June 12—Baseball, Bradley Tech
Notre Dame over Army
It has been a lot of fun making a few casual predictions here and there in the Scholastic, particularly during the football season last fall. Predictions have never been made with the idea that they couldn’t be wrong. The results verify that. Anyway, for a couple of months this prediction has been thought about and now, as one of the final acts as sports editor of the Scholastic, comes the moment—on Saturday, Nov. 9, 1946, in Yankee Stadium, New York, Notre Dame’s 1946 football team will defeat the all-conquering Army eleven. Okay, now fire away. Here’s the defense.
Anny will have another great team in 1946. Notre Dame will have another
D Day is Dad's Day
REMEMBER HIM WITH A CARD
The Book Store offers a fine selection.
THE BOOKSTORE
BADIN HALL
great team—typical of peacetime Irish elevens and far better than the wartime teams that were mercilessly drubbed by Army. As Coach Leahy has said over and over, “It will be a representative Notre Dame team.” When a Notre Dame team is representative of the school, it is an all-out fighting club that doesn’t know what it is to be licked. It is an athletic combine ready to go all the way with clean, hard play and no goal other than victory. That alone should assure Notre Dame of at least a close battle with Army.
Secondly, boys like Ziggy Czarobski, Gerry Cowhig, Bob Livingston, Jim Mello, Bob McBride, George Tobin, Johnny Lujack, Bob Kelly, Luke Higgins and the others who will be back certainly haven’t enjoyed watching their school, Notre Dame, being trampled in the 1944 and 1945 Army games as Notre Dame has never before been beaten. Don’t you think they want to do something about it? Yes, they most assuredly do, and in 1946, not later. The Army
game will not be a grudge battle in a roughhouse sense but there is a lot of revenge to be gained. Too, the boys still in school who took part in those beatings the past two years will be keyed up for revenge. In other words, Army will meet a team of Fighting Irish as they have never before met. And they have met some great Fighting Irishmen.
We are not saying that the 1946 Notre Dame team will win all of its games and be the National Champions. That would be perfect but it is too much to expect just now, anyway. Army may actually have a far better team on the field come November 9 but that doesn’t change the prediction. Football is played with the head and heart as much as with the arms and legs. There is an old saying that “a team that won’t be beaten, can’t be beaten.” After all, what is an upset? Nine times out of ten it is purely a case of the underdog being inspired to such heights that it just won’t be defeated. The spirit and determination of the 1946 Notre Dame team will compensate for any advantage in physical ability that Army may have. The prediction of Notre Dame over Army is made on the basis of two reasons: 1) that Notre Dame will have a very good football team this fall, and 2) the faith in the Fighting Irish , spirit and determination, possessed by all true Notre Dame fans.
Family Squabble
The Big Nine officials met last week to arrange their 1947 football schedules but the meetings developed into quite a family squabble before it came to an end. It seems that the Big Nine schools with large stadia don’t want to associate with the schools that don’t. Indiana, Purdue, and Iowa are the so-called “have-nots” and everyone else “has.” This all seems very silly and quite discouraging. One might expect professional football teams to play for the gate receipts but when a group of colleges and particularly such an outstanding, pace-setting conference as the Big Nine starts a civil war over prospective gate receipts, college football is in a precarious situation. After all, didn’t Indiana win the conference championship last year? Their home fans and students deserve a chance to see the team play one of the leading conference teams such as Michigan, Minnesota, or Ohio State once in a while. While the larger schools would not make much by playing at Indiana or Purdue, they could play there occasionally just to maintain harmony in the conference. The money angle isn’t that important.
It isn’t a secret that Notre Dame looks at the gate receipts now and then
(Continued on next page)
26
ISII<II<IN<
Upon his return to civilian life the powerful Irishman was tendered several offers to play professional baseball, but rejected them temporarily, preferring a college education.
By JIM CLEMENS
Number two man on the firing line for Coach Clarence J. “Jake” Kline’s highly successful Notre Dame baseball team is Walter Ellsworth Mahannah, burly freshman righthander and ex. G.I. who, to date, has notched two victories against one loss while compiling the highly impressive earned run average of 3.03.
Slow in rounding into shape after his sojourn in the Army, the stocky young Irishman, who packs 185 lbs. on a solid 6 ft. 1% in. frame, didn’t figure too prominently in Coach Kline’s early season pitching plans, and it wasn’t until the first Northwestern game that Big Walt took his stint on the mound. His first effort was a brilliant 7-2 conquest of the Wildcats in which he fanned eight batters, and yielded but seven hits. He followed this up with a win over Iowa, and in his last starting assignment suffered his first defeat in an eleven inning battle with Wisconsin, recently crowned Big Ten Champions.
Walt received his early baseball training at Catholic High School in his home town of Memphis, Tennessee, where he was born December 8, 1924. Pitching for Catholic for three years, he notched twelve victories over that .span while suffering but one defeat, a heart-breaking 3-2 eleven inning- loss to South Side High in which he yielded but one scratch hit. However, Big Walt received some measure of revenge for this defeat as he inflicted a 3-2 loss on the same club later in the season when the two teams met for the City Championship. Rounding out his high school baseball career, Walt captained the Championship outfit and had the further distinction of being nominated to the All-City team in his junior and senior years.
Though he won three monograms in baseball, Big Walt didn’t confine all his athletic activities to the diamond sport, and found time to win two letters in football as a fullback and three in basketball as a forward. The youthful giant was co-captain of the latter team in his senior year, and set a new school scoring record of 165 points in fifteen games.
Upon graduation from high school in June, 1943, Walt was inducted into the Army at Fort Oglethorpe, Georgia. He received his basic training in the Infantry, and then was sent to the Uni
versity of North Dakota for training in Engineering under the Army Specialized Training Program. After completing this course, he returned to the Infantry and in October, 1944, was sent overseas with the famed Rainbow Division.
He landed in France, and was in the thick of the action until he was captured by the Germans on January 9, 1945, near Strasburg, France. Walt was kept a prisoner- of war for four months at Muhleburg, Germany, until he was liberated by the Russians on April 23rd and then returned to the American lines. “It was the most interesting experience of my life,” he exclaimed, but hastily added, “I wouldn’t care to go through it again.” He returned to the States in June for a three months furlough and was discharged November 28th.
NAME YOUR SPORT
SONNEBORN'S has what it takes!
121 W. Colfax Avenue Phone 3-3702
On the academic side, Big Walt is working for a degree in Civil Engineering which he expects to make his life’s work when his professional, ball playing days are over. Among his favorite diversions are swimming and dancing, and - while there are no serious commitments in the romance department, as yet, he is more than good friends with pretty Sarah “Ginny” Carey, the girl next door (in Memphis).
Walt is going to try for a berth on Frank Leahy’s eleven next fall, but in the meantime he will continue to rack them up for “Jake,” and clinch his right to the number one starting assignment in the seasons to come.
SPLINTERS
(Continued from page 26)
but the Irish athletic teams do not refuse to travel to another school simply because they can not accommodate large crowds. The expedition to Georgia Tech is one example of this. The Tech stadium can hold no more than the Indiana or Purdue stadiums but the Irish play there and don’t lose money doing it. Besides, they maintain favorable athletic relations with Georgia Tech by doing it. In 1947 the Irish will travel to Purdue for a game with the Boilermakers, who have the smallest stadium in the conference. The Irish also travel to Iowa this fall.
Teams like Minnesota, Ohio State, Michigan, Northwestern and the other “have” schools would come out all right financially if they went to such schools as Indiana, Iowa, and Purdue. Naturally the fans at the latter schools won’t turn out in huge throngs to see Deedid-dle Tech play their favorites but they would come out to see a leading Big Nine foe. Come on boys, let’s see a little of that ol’ Big Nine cooperation!
MARCHMONT H. "MARCHIE" SCHWARTZ. a32
HEAD FOOTBALL COACH, STANFORD UNIVERSITY
(Editor's Note: This is the ninth in a series of articles on former Notre Dame students who have distinguished themselves in the collegiate coaching profession.)
One of Knute Rockne’s last All-American football players, Marchmont H. “Marchie” Schwartz, is a man whose name is deeply engraved in the athletic history of the University of Notre Dame. Now head football coach at Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif., Marchie was one of the most colorful football players ever to wear the colors of the Fighting Irish.
Schwartz was bom in New Orleans, La., March 20, 1909. He attended grade and high school at St. Stanislaus School, Bay St. Louis, Miss., graduating from high school in 1927 but not before he had won three letters each in basketball and baseball and two in football. He first enrolled in college at Loyola University, New Orleans, but transferred to Notre Dame in the fall of 1928. There began the athletic career that is still a vivid memory to veteran Notre Dame
For your reading enjoyment:
Then and Now
. Our Own Kind For One Sweet Grape Past All Dishonor This Side of Innocence Valley Boy
A World To Win
NEWS CENTER 127 W. Washington Street “In the J. M. S. Building"
fans. Marchie won three letters in football at Notre Dame, playing left halfback. He received All-American honors in 1930 and 1931. As a member of Rockne’s undefeated National Champions he formed a potent passing combination with end T. Conley and also distinguished himself by galloping 60 yards for a touchdown in the 35 to 19 victory over Pittsburgh. His final season, 1931, was played under Heartley “Hunk” Anderson, Rockne’s successor. Schwartz received his A.B. degree in 1932 and an LL.B, degree from Notre Dame in 1933.
The step from college directly into the coaching profession was not too difficult for Marchie. He was a backfield coach at Notre Dame in 1932 and 1933, back-field coach under Clark Shaughnessy at Chicago in 1934, and head coach and athletic director at Creighton University from 1935-39.
Marchie came to Stanford as Shaughnessy’s backfield coach in 1940 and took over as head coach when Shaughnessy left in 1942. Schwartz did a great job with the 1942 Stanford team, although his record of six wins and four’ losses did not look impressive on paper. He had the nucleus of a good line left from 1941 but few experienced backs and only mediocre material. The Indians lost their first three games including a 27-0 defeat by Notre Dame but Marchie kept on building and the team continued to improve. In the next contest, Stanford slaughtered Idaho, 54 to 7, and followed with an unexpected 14 to 6 win over the Southern California powerhouse. The final loss of the season was at the hands of U.C.L.A., the conference cham-
SPEAKING OF BASEBALL
By Joseph C. Ryan
At the time this is being written all twelve of the pitchers listed here are still playing north of the Rio Grande. From the column to your right can you name the team each pitcher hurls for? If you are a baseball fan, you should get eleven or possibly twelve right. If you are not a fan, you will probably get eleven or twelve wrong. For the answers turn to page 33.
1 Al Gettel	a—Cincinnatti Reds
2 Charlie Barrett b—Boston Braves 3 E. Johnson c—Washington Senators 4 Johnny Schmitz d—St. Louis Browns 5 Roger Wolff e—New York Yankees 6 F. Hutchinson f—Cleveland Indians 7 Mel Harder g—St. Louis Cardinals 8 Mort Cooper h—Pittsburgh Pirates 9 Vic Lombardi i—Brooklyn Dodgers 10 Rip Seewell	j—Boston Red Sox
11	Ed Heusser	k—Detroit Tigers
12	Jack Kramer	1—Chicago Cubs
pions of that season. Stanford swept through their remaining four games with ease and finished the season, recognized by most critics as the best team on the coast. Their early season losses threw them out as Rose Bowl contenders, on a percentage basis.
When Stanford abandoned football for the duration of the war, at the end of the 1942 season, Marchie accepted a fine position with a Wichita, Kansas, oil company. When Stanford found herself in a position to resume football this year, Marchmont Schwartz was the man she chose to guide her football destinies. Financially, there is no doubt that Marchie made a sacrifice when he left the oil company and returned to Stanford. However, he likes boys, football, and Stanford. The combination was too much for him so he went back. It will take Schwartz and Stanford a year or more to build their football rating to its pre-war standing. An absence of three years from the athletic picture makes it necessary for Stanford to start from scratch. But Marchie Schwartz will get 100% out of whatever material is given him.
Don E. Liebendorfer, News Service Director- at Stanford, says of Marchie, “From the personal standpoint, Marchie Schwartz is one of the finest gentlemen I have ever met. If Notre Dame has produced more like him, she has reason to be very proud.”
Marchie is married and has twins— John Robert and Mary Jane, and a son, Marchmont James.
28
SERENADE TO A SEVEN IRON
NETTERS PLAY MARQUETTE
(Continued from page 25)
By JOHNNY WALKER
“That was a swell shot, Paul, it bounced off Dillon Hall and lit in a sand trap.” Such talk, gentlemen, can originate at only one place on the campus, the golfing green or officially, the William J. Burke Golf Course.
Indirectly, Notre Dame owes its golf course to Rev. Patrick Dolan, C.S’.C., who interested Mr. William J. Burke, then President of the Vulcan Golf Company, in the University. Mr. Burke agreed to build a course at his own expense and also provide for its maintenance. The University furnished the ground in the form of the present site which includes some 128 acres of reclaimed farm land. Mr. Burke’s engineers drew up the plans and construction was begun in 1926. It was not long after this that Mr. Burke died very suddenly and since there was no portion of his estate set aside for the continuance of the construction, the University completed the project. The course was opened to golfers in 1929.
But a cornfield is not transformed into a golf course overnight. This acreage was devoid of trees or shrubs of any kind. It was largely through the efforts of Father Holderith, C.S.C., Director and Golf Coach and “Chet” Keeley, Greens-man, that the course assumed its present appearance. Between 800 and 1,000 trees and shrubs have been set out on the links since 1931. Some of the greens have been enlarged. Sand traps have been added and others relocated. In 1939 with the construction of the Rockne Memorial Building on a portion of the course, it was necessary to shorten two of the holes and change the course par from 72 to 71, the present par for the eighteen holes. While the course is still in the process of growing, it is a good test of a golfers ability even though it lacks the mountain range, forest preserve quality usually found in sportier layouts. The Scotsmen at St. Andrews were not thinking of the flat lands of Indiana when they designed their first golf course. But what the course lacks in hills it makes up in golfers. The average daily play before the war was about 200. Presently the play is increasing toward that mark and indications are that the old records will be surpassed.
The lowest score recorded in official competition was turned in by Horton Smith when he burned up the course with a 67 at a time when the course was par 72. The highest score; well, there was a high wind that day our drives were off and we were using a cement
ball, cement, that is. But our troubles were nothing compared to the difficulties of the girls at St. Mary’s when the course first opened.
Over at St. Mary’s there is a pond of water which by some great stretch of the imagination is called a lake. There is possibly enough water in this pond to dampen the ankle of a frog or slake the thirst of two minnows. The girls expressed little interest in this minute body of water and considerable interest in Notre Dame’s new golf course. Through their superior, Sister Eleanore, they requested permission to take a hack at the links themselves. Their request was submitted to Rev. Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., then President of Notre Dame. His reply follows:
“The hemming and hawing took place at our council meeting yesterday.
“As a result, I have to inform you reluctantly that your girls may not swing a niblick on our golf course, at least for the present. The reason for this decision seems to be, in a general way, the same reason which Rome so often gives—Non Expedit.
“The real reason, which I do not mind giving you unofficially and confidentially, is that you have never allowed our boys to go. boating on your lake.”
Even though you will not see St. Mary’s girls traversing the links, we call your attention to the signs, traditional on all golf courses which read, “Please replace the turf.” In our observation of those golfers in whom still inheres the spirit of the excavator and whose path over the course can be easily followed by tremendous explosions of dirt and picturesque language every forty or fifty yards, we believe that the signs should be changed to, “Please returf the place.”
1900
228 South Michigan Street Evening* by Appointment
W. G. Bogardue—EL CL Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted J. BURKE
Eti.
Then it ended. Lyons and Brown took an 8-7 advantage and Mikulich went ahead, 5-4. A few seconds later George finally gave way to Mikulich, losing, 6-4, just before Lyons and Brown stepped off with a 9-7 third set win.
Northwestern wasted no time with the Irish, as Bobbie Jake and Larry Daly subdued Tully and Ratterman, 6-1, 6-2, and 7-5, 6-4. Erd and Hoffman came through with wins, but Caparo was finally beaten 9-7, after splitting the first two by 6-3 scores, and Brown was beaten by Northwestern’s Lindquist, 6-2, 5-7, 6-2, to give the Wildcats a 4-2 edge. Then Daly and Jake polished off Tully and Ratterman in the No. 1 doubles to clinch the match.
The Hilltoppers come to Notre Dame tomorrow as a fill in match for the transferred Northwestern match and the canceled Kentucky engagement. Marquette beat Illinois Tech, 5-4, last week, and have only one loss, 5-3 to Wisconsin, blotting their record. Walt, Goebe, Hackett, Dorand,' Fisher, and Sullivan will represent the Milwaukee school.
Ed Caparo got in some extra practice during the past week, getting to the semi-finals of the South Bend Tennis Club’s tourney, before going down before ex-Irish Netter Charlie Samson, now a Great Lakes ensign, 6-4, 6-3. Samson, in turn lost to Big Olen Parks, 5-7, 7-5, and 6-3. Parks, by the way, will be on hand next Spring to boost the N. D. squad. He was a member of the team before entering the service. .
U. S. Male - R. F. D.
"REMEMBER FATHER'S
DAY"
The greatest Male day... of the year — '
SEND A CARD FROM
Lower’s
128 N. Michigan St.
29
POEM TO THE GIRL AT HOME
Do not become a drone, dear, While I am far away.
Just have a lot of fun, dear, Step out each night and play.
The lads I left behind, dear, Must also have their fling. Be sure to treat them kind, dear, And dance and laugh and sing.
Do anything you will, dear, Just neck or flirt or park With Jack or Joe—with Bill, Dear, be careful after dark.
The years are too few, dear, Your happiness to wreck, But if these things you do, dear, I’ll break your little neck.
—Stolen
AIN'T SCIENCE GRAND
Medical observers say an anatomical juxtaposition of orbicular muscles in a state of contraction is a disease communicant. Pneumoniaultra microscopis-cilcavolcanoconiosis, however, is antidis-establishmentarianistically inert under aforementioned conditions.
Explanation: Doctors believe that a kiss carries disease, but the volcanic
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
dust that causes pneumonia is definitely not transmitted in this way.
SHORT SHORT STORIES
“Why did you steal that $50,COO?”
“I was hungry.”
“I know 90 girls on Colfax avenue alone.”
“All told?”
“No, one of them kept her trap shut.”
A dumb girl is a dope. A dope is a drug. Doctors give drugs to relieve pain. Therefore, a dumb girl is just what the doctor ordered.
“Does that girl shrink from kissing?”
“If she did, she’d be nothing but skin and bones!”
One of our philosopher friends compares marriage to the cafeteria.
Pick out something good looking, he says, and pay later.
When a fellow’s a card and gives a girl a good deal, she never knows what he has up his sleeve.
ADAM PHOOL REPORTS
Citizens:
A great deal of attention and publici
ty has been given to the recent installment of science’s latest achievement in the metropolis down the road—the walk and wait signal. Whether the reason for bringing this curse on humanity to our busy village was a desire to brighten the town, which surely needs it, or because some politician’s brother held the patents on them, the contraptions are a menace to peaceful, jaywalking cats like myself.
I shall elucidate. When crossing Michigan street to latch on to the “Mad Night Express” for my monastic cell in Lyons (for you who have never stayed in town until 11:58, this is the bus driven by an ex-tank expert which makes the trip in :70. seconds flat), I started from the curb the second the metallic monster smiled “walk” at me. Half way across, the fickle contraption blinked, and like the two-faced woman it is, frowned “wait” at me. As James Durante would say—“What a predicament!” Should I beat a hasty retreat to whence I came, should I make a run for it, or should I hold my ground, and take a chance of being knocked off by the local denizens in their 1928 Essex?’
After much debate, I retreated to try again the next time I should be glanced upon with favor. Soon I received another gracious “walk” signal and started off. As soon as I was in the center, the contraption, thinking it was playing a game, no doubt, snapped “wait” at me. But I fooled it as I made a dash safely to Max Adler’s door. My anger at the politician’s brother heightened; also my curiosity as to how long one gets to transverse the big street. Pulling out my trusty grandfather’s clock, I timed the length of the yellow demon’s smile. S’IX SECONDS! If I were a dash man trying to set a new record for that 100, that’s all the time I’d need, but being a normal individual. . . .
To add insult to insult, the bus driver lectured me on obeying the signals and told me the value of what the politician’s brother had done. Nuts!
So if you have nothing to do, there being nothing worth while at Wal-green’s, just hop down to the corner by the bank and time the imbecilic object —and send your protests to the Bureau of Patents with the tickets you will surely get for crossing against the light.
See you in traffic court.
ADF.
❖
“What’s the cat’s name?”
“Ben Hur.”
“How’d you happen to choose that name?”
“We called him Ben till he had kittens.”
30
Man About Town K.dbrtq, and Qidma
SOUTH BEND, May 30, 1946—From New York, on the East coast to San Francisco on the West Coast, America rededicated itself today to the cause of peace. Veterans old and young, from World War I, and II, hoisted beer mugs in tender reverence in toasts to their deceased buddies. This is the way all servicemen want it. A simple toast. But • not so here in South Bend, Indiana, or for that matter any place—in this state. Today all bars and cafes were closed. In order to toast your Elysian buddies you could raise a nice, cool coca-cola at Walgreen’s. . . . Since we have mentioned South Bend we might as well tell you all about the new traffic lights. . . . the WALK and WAIT signs. When it says WAIT you are not to cross. But then when the light says WALK it means dash across the street in about 15 seconds. Time it if you don’t believe me.
PERTINENT POOP: Heard on the South Bend-Campus Limited:
“Well how much did Jose offer you today Gil?”
“Not much, Billy. About $25,000 more than yesterday.”
“Well Gil, wanna jump the league today, or give Jake a break and stay for a few weeks?”
“Yes, we might as well stay. Notre Dame has a few more games.”
“O.K. we stay.”
What auspicious Navy Captain was having a wonderful time May 27 in the Blarney Room attired in brand new civvies. Wonder what happened to those two rows of “Lettuce Leaves.” . . . We bumped into John Dugan the other day at Lyons Hall and he didn’t mention the Yankees. . . . Rumor has it that Brother Conan has been offered the position of line-coach for next year. Wonder if he will accept? .... Many students have hay-fever, but none have developed the clever solution that one student has. He resides on the first floor of Howard Hall and he has decided that two classes in a row only aggravate his ailment. . . . If anyone sees Warner Stoll walking about the campus with a sad, stepped-on look on his face you may find out why by merely asking him how his date with one Sophie turned out. Oh yes, duck quick! .... Is the latest rumor true? Has Claire finally hooked Chris? If so here’s good luck to the both of you. . . . That “box of potato chips” that George Kennard was carrying around Decoration Day was the heaviest I have ever seen. . . . Thanks George for all your
information. . . . Bob Phillips got a terrible shock the other day when he found out that his Texas girl friend is on her way to Germany to visit her father. . . . Don’t worry about it Bob. Our GIs will guard her from those Krauts. . . . Paul Abrahams had his girl friend down here from Michigan City. ... By the way, Fred Neagle, the big Wig in the Cleveland Club, visited Chicago last week to see a girl he hadn’t seen for many years. It must have been a fond reunion for he invited her to the Cleveland Summer- Formal. Our best to the both of you. . . .
. NEW IDEAS: Various men on the Campus are suggesting a plan for an Inn to be opened on the Niles road near the Campus. It has been part of the plan to make this a typical gathering spot for those who want to eat the best food and also be able to have their amberfoam at a nominal price. The Inn would be privately owned and open to only students and their guests. . . . Don Degnan entertaining THAT BLOND and her fabulous aunt this past week-end. Dun and Bradstreet rates her at the top. . . . You can now get a lobster dinner at the Oliver Hotel for two pints of blood, your grandfather’s gold watch, your mother’s pearls, and your sister’s eye teeth. Their motto is, “For the most you get the least.” .... New ideas, yes we picked
FOR EASY ACTION . . . .
For comfortable support and easy-going comfort for week-ends
It's browns and whites
at
KUEHN'S
120 S. MICHIGAN ST.
a lulu at the Vet’s meeting. It concerns some kind of re-mobilization right here on the Campus. . . . Officers Reserve Corps, Troop Schools, etc., are rumored to be set up on the campus. We have quizzed many enlisted men and they don’t seem to want any part in this proposed training for a commission.
FLOWER SHOPPE: This week the Old Timers get our vote for their performance against the Varsity. . . . Roses to Janie of the Commerce school for her handling of our future capitalists in the planning of their courses for next semester. . . . Orchids to all those who attended the Memorial Day Mass, for all those who fell in battle. . . . Violets to Al (you can tell he’s from Brooklyn) Clement for his “suit lending”—someone has to keep the N.D. freshmen looking respectable. . . . Rock Gardens to the new gal in the Cafeteria who at exactly closing time on Sunday refused to feed foui- hungry students who work for the school during their spare time. . . . Birdseed to the young lady (even if she has been around 13 years) in student accounts who gets very nasty just because a vet tries to explain how hard it is to meet rising expenses.
Welcome to an old buddy, Chuck Rooney, who has just been released from the Fighting Marines. Chuck is in South Bend visiting a girl he met many years ago. Just how soon he intends to make her a Mrs. is not known. . . . Howard Hall is having their semester-get-together on June 12 at the LaSalle Hotel. This seems to be shaping into one great affair.
31
CAMPUS CLUBS
By JERRY OLWELL
NOTES FROM MY LITTLE BLACK BOOK
CAMPUS CHATTER . . . Last Wednesday the Electrical Engineering Club met in the lecture room of the Science Hall to hear Bernard Waldman speak on the Physics Department’s Electrostatic Generator. Dr. Waldman gave a brief outline of the methods used to accelerate particle nuclear bombardment. He also illustrated his talk with slides of the generators that we have in the Engineering and Science buildings. . . . After their meeting was over the Electrical Engineers had a special treat as they were shown the Atom Smasher, which is now being used. . . . The week before last we made a mistake that has given the Commerce Department a lot of laughs. The Propellor Club is not connected with aviation as this erstwhile pilot would have it. The Propellor Club does not deal with aeroplanes; rather shipping and international commerce.
FAMOUS PHOTOGRAPHY...FAMOUS ADDRESS
. . . The Student Council held a gathering of all club presidents last week. There are 34 clubs on the campus; about 10 presidents appeared. That was a disgrace. ... At this informal meeting Ralph Hayman of the Student Council explained that things will be different next semester. The old N.D. spirit, now so obviously dormant, is going to reappear. Next semester all clubs will have to have a charter or constitution. There will be rules governing all clubs next semester. . . . The Law Club will hold its Spring Informal Dance the 15th of June. At this writing the Oliver Hotel looks like the happiest choice. . . . The Central Illinois Club held a meeting last week also. They showed films of the N.D.-Illinois football game of ’45. Mr. James Armstrong, well-known around the campus, was their guest speaker. . . . The Married Vets have organized a softball team. Jim Clemens of 730 Cottage Grove Ave., in South Bend, is the man to see if you wish to play -with them. . . . By the way the Married Vets
didn’t say whether or not their wives were playing also.
Well, the Chicago Club returns to the headlines. This time it is a Summer Formal that pushes them up into the big type. President John Allen and his committee are planning their affair for the first week of July. Mr. Allen has not yet announced the price but wants it to be known that it will be well under five d.ollars. . . . The Cleveland Club came through and appointed co-chairmen for their summer formal. President Paul Abrahams announced that Bill Braun and Chrales Roult will handle all the details for this affair. It will be held in • the Carter Hotel as I announced two weeks ago. . . . Incidentally, the Cleveland Club has reserved rooms for any out of town visitors who intend to take in their summer dance. . . . The last meeting of the Cleveland Club closed up all business for the present semester. All their meetings have been smokers and well attended.
" The Vets Club held another gala meeting last week that included combat films and guest speakers. The films jumped from fighting front to fighting front. They covered many major engagements. The guest speakers discussed the Officers Reserve Corps. As usual not much was explained concerning the enlisted men. Also the material explained, concerning troop schools definitely was not as well received on the campus as many think, including the Publicity Office.
IMPORTANT: Looking into my mail bag I see two letters. The first is from my fellow journalist, Johnny Walker, who is to be the 1947 editor of the Dome. Johnny, who has a tremendous job before him, is asking the cooperation of all the campus clubs. In this, the first post-war issue of the Dome, a complete section will be set aside for campus clubs. Pictures and explanations of all club activities will fill these pages. .Club presidents should keep all this in mind and remember to help John Walker when he calls on you. I will explain this in detail in the next issue of the Scholastic.
That second letter that I beheld in my mail bag contained a severe scolding by a member of the Student Council who thinks that we fill our column with only Met Club news releases. Sir, this is so oipy when other clubs refuse to make their weekly news releases. . . . Incidentally, since we have mentioned the Met Club we should announce that tickets to the Met Club Summer Formal have gone on sale. Walter Drews, 436 Howard Hall, is the ticket chairman and all business may be directed through him.
The Philadelphia Club has announced plans for its summer formal which is
32
to be held in conjunction with the Philadelphia alumni. Bill Meehan, vice-president of the Philly Club, has been playing host for a few days to Mr. John McFarland who visited the campus last week. Mr. McFarland was sent by the alumni to seal all plans for the summer affair. He also assigned many men to their summer jobs while he was here.
The Detroit Club held its annual elections at their last meeting, and the following men took over the reins of this organization. Bill Stackman has stepped into the shoes of Pat Nolan, the retiring president. Tom Krass takes over the vice-presidency from Carl Karey while Jerry Wayno succeeds Warren Fron-rath as corresponding secretary. The other officers for the coming semester are Gene Szymanski, recording secretary, and Bob Lutz as treasurer. The Detroit Club has a farewell dinner planned for club members who are graduating. They also anticipate a moonlight picnic sometime in July.
Chuck Woods of the Youngstown Club of Ohio presented a fine program last Tuesday. Two of Youngstown famous people were speakers for the evening. They were Jim Brutz and Bob Dove, both football greats of the past. Bob Dove brought a surprise to the party when he introduced “Wee Willie” Wilkins, a former star tackle for the Washington Redskins. A big vote of “good deed well done” goes to Chuck Woods, Al Evans and Drew Diebel for the fine work they have done in making the Youngstown Club meetings the fine events that they have been.
SCIENCE FOUNDATION (Continued from page 5) organizations proved its worth by increasing specialized knowledge and disseminating it when and where it was most needed. Simultaneously, through the Office of Scientific Research and Development, the government was demonstrating that a policy of initiating and supporting basic scientific research through contracts and grants added immeasurably to the national welfare.
“The Mills and Kilgore-Magnuson bills to establish a National Science Foundation may suggest a departure from the traditional relationship of American universities to the government. But changing times of necessity sometimes bring corresponding changes in methods. Even in the instance of the legislation which you are now considering, however, I declare categorically that I support the measure for one reason, and one reason only: In view of what is happening in the world, I believe that is necessary for the national defense. If it were not for this consideration I would oppose unalterably government assistance.”
ANWERS TO QUIZ ON PAGE 28
1 Al Gettel e—New York Yankees 2 Chas. Barrett g—St. Louis Cardinals 3 Earl Johnson	j—Boston Red Sox
4 Johnny Schmitz 1—Chicago Cubs 5 R. Wolff c—Washington Senators 6 Fred Hutchinson k—Detroit Tigers 7 Mel Hardeer i—Cleveland Indians 8 Mort Cooper	b—Boston Braves
9	Vic Lombardi i—Brooklyn Dodgers
10	Rip Sewell h—Pittsburgh Pirates 11 Ed Heusser a—Cincinnatti Reds 12 Jack Kramer d—St. Louis Browns
SENIOR BALL
(Continued from page 5) opportunity for the out-of-town guests to become better acquainted.
Sunday morning the ball goers will attend a private Mass celebrated in Dillon Hall Chapel. The Mass will be sung by one of the Notre Dame choirs. A special breakfast will be served in the Faculty Dining Hall.
Then will come the only sad note of the entire weekend—that of saying a regretful farewell to the weekend guests as the girls pack their special gowns for the trip home after a weekend in which there was but one scarcity — sleep.
Mass Servers Attend Dinner at Oaks Mon.
The Mass Servers club held a dinner meeting last Monday night at the Oaks Restaurant at which the club was reorganized. The group made plans for the reconstruction of the club which has
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
been inactive during the war years.
Frank Saliemo was elected president; Jack Hilbrich, vice president; and Jack Fitzgerald, secretary. The adviser for the club is Brother Boniface, C.S.C., the church sacristan. The meeting was held primarily to elect officers so that activities may start in earnest in the Fall. Other important matters such as the constitution, the honorary President and honorary members were postponed until the new semester starts. The group is composed of those who serve mass on Sundays and during the week in the basement of the church.
At Michigan State college veterans have begun wearing their discharge buttons upside down to signify the fact they are bachelors.
Cement Mixer
Route 66
Painted Rhythm
Welcome to My Dreams
Come Rain or Shine
COPP'S MUSIC SHOP
122-24 E Wayne St.
Wayne to Award 10
$1200 Scholarships
Graduating seniors interested in public service and community work are offered 10 or more fellowships and a number of tuition scholarships for the 1946-1947 academic year. These scholarships and fellowships are presented by the Wayne University School of Public Affairs and Social Work to “graduate students, men and women, of demonstrated ability and evident interest in public service.” These fellowships are worth §1200 a calendar year.
The fellowships and scholarships offered by the National Training school are primarily intended to provide a practical work-training program in citizen agencies and government departments, which training will be supplemented by prescribed academic instruction. Work training will approximate 1080 clock hours during the 12 month period and will be under the supervision of the National Training School. At the conclusion of a year’s work students may be designated for approximately six months further experience in some out-of-town agency or public department of their choice on an employment basis.
Academic training in Detroit will be
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
• ' GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254 •	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER, M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2574
furnished by the School of Public Affairs and Social Work of Wayne University. Fellows will be enrolled in a principal course in public administration conducted for approximately three and one-half hours a day for three days a week. Successful completion of academic work, thesis and oral or written examination, will lead to the degree of Master of Public Administration for the qualified candidates.
For application blanks write to The Director, Lent D. Upson, 5229 Cass Ave., Detroit, Mich. Applications are to be considered in order of receipt until Sept. 1, 1946. Decisions on the applications will be made by the Fellowship Committee shortly after filing.
Business Needs Higher
Code of Ethics: Kelly
The Economic Roundtable meeting, at the Ramble Inn last Thursday evening, heard Jim Kelly deliver a paper on “Corporation Ownership” which was devoted mostly to the relationship between ownership and management.
The paper was divided into two parts, the first dealing with the concentration of power in corporations, the second pertaining to the dispersal of ownership of these same corporations. Kelly stated that 200 corporations control 80% of all business in the U. S., and 2,000 individuals who run these corporations exercise immense financial power.
Because of the trend toward gigantic corporations, the speaker maintained that we need a higher code of business ethics. The individual stockholder is insignificant, and the abuses to stockholders are multiplying. In concluding, Kelly observed that the larger the corporation, the more ownership is dispersed, the more liable the stockholder is to abuse.
P.rompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our wn laboratory.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST

Duarte Charges U. S.
Meddling in Argentine
Rolando Duarte, president of the Inter American Affairs Club, addressed the Commerce Forum’s final meeting of the semester Wednesday evening. Rolando, a senior in the College of Commerce and a native of San Salvador, presented a paper entitled “Argentina and Its Problems,” in which he stressed the importance of better relations between Argentina and the United States. The speaker declared that ill feeling between the two nations was enhanced by the failure of the United States to recognize Argentina when the Ramirez government was overthrown and also by the United States’ issuance of the Blue Book.
“No one with a little bit of knowledge of Argentine psychology would have' carried out this policy in view of this fact. Rather than see General Farrell’s government ousted, those people most opposed to the military regime preferred to remain Argentinians rather than Yankees! The Argentina people openly disapproved U.S. intervention in their domestic affairs.”
An active discussion on the part of the Forum members followed Duarte’s talk. Professor Edmund A. Smith, assistant of the College of Commerce, acted as moderator.
LETTERS
(Continued from page 2)
the Notre Dame men in Bengal. They are proud of you and what you have done to make better known Notre Dame Our Lady in a place where the Mother and S'on are not too well known: the mission of Holy Cross in Eastern Bengal.
With every personal wish and, again, my thanks,
Gratefully,
Thomas M. Fitzpatrick, C.S.C.
Cornell University Ithaca, New York May 27, 1946
S'lR:	.
I am indeed grateful for the kind writeup which you gave me in the recent issue of the Notre Dame Scholastic. Certainly it is flattering, much better than I deserve, because Notre Dame did more for me than I could ever return. '
Again many thanks and with sincerest best wishes,
Cordially, Ed McKeever
Sir:
It was with great interest that I read the entangled hodge-podge that is called
34
a column in your last noteworthy edition. . . . Jerry Olwell, in his . . . “Campus Clubs,” has seen fit, as he calls it, to “wholeheartedly endorse” a candidate for the presidency of the New York Met Club.
Mr. Olwell seems to have overreached the boundaries of his column in this, his latest escapade. Of what possible importance is the endorsement of this candidate to the club? Does it mean that
since this man is approved by the “wheel” that he is the man to vote for or do the members of the club still have the right to vote for whomever they please? We fully expect Notre Dame’s Winchell to come out in the next edition with an endorsement of himself. We see Mr. Olwell fails to mention that he is a candidate on the same ticket with his boy. Does Mr. Olwell claim unbiased opinion or does his limited knowledge of the other students on campus prevent
him from knowing- who the better man is?
We hope that in the future Mr. Olwell will limit his : . . journalistic efforts to the original purpose of the column, reporting campus club news, and leaving the job of voting in the very capable hands of the members of the New York Met Club.
Yours truly,
Gus Kelly,
317 Lyons Hal!
the Human Events pamphlets
EDITED BY Felix Morley and Henry Regnery
PUBLISHED MONTHLY
Searching, unprejudiced discussions of the problems and issues which will determine die future of our civilization. Every
student aware of responsibilities facing dur generation will find food for thought in these stimulating publications.
PAMPHLETS IN PREPARATION
JUNE—z/ Search for Unity, The Basis of World Community ’
By JOHN U. NEF
JULY—Preparing the Way for Peace
By DOUGLAS STEERE
ORDER FROM
Human Events, Inc. 608 South Dearborn St., Chicago 5, Illinois
35
Copyright 1946. Deem & Myixs Tobacco Co.