




NEWS 04 
CUTTING THE CHORDS Alisa Finelli 
Acontroversial decision to cut Notre Dame~ graduate music• program has faculty and students up in arms. 
STATE OF THE ARTS Jennifer Osterhage 
Does arenewed commitment to the arts by the 
administration accompany the recently opened PAC? 
CAMPUS LIFE 1a 
DANCIN'TOTHE MUSIC Katie Solan 
Notre Dame's new, all-inclusive dance team has all the 
right moves. 




ENTERTAINMENT 24 
BUILDING A SHOW Nick Kolman-Mandie 
Scholastic takes a peek inside the best closets on campus. 


SPORTS 30 
AESTHETIC &ATHLETIC Scholastic Sports Staff 
Think your schedule is hectic? Catch a glimpse of the lives of three Notre Dame student-athlete-artists. 



HUMOR 36 

MUSINGS OF A MISGUIDED MESSIAH Steve Mattingly 
Notre Dame senior Steve Mattingly reflects on how the TV networks can milk the presidential debates for all they're worth. 

From the Editor • • . . . . . . 2 Campus Watch • • . . . . . 16 ND Notebook ..•..... 4 Snapshot . • • • • • • . . . . 20 Making Sense . . . . . . • • 13 Being Like Mike • • . . . . . 38 Cribs. . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Final Word . . . . . . . . . 40 
07 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICMAGAZINE 


Notre Dame's Hidden Gem 
About 12 years ago, I satin the stale, 1950s-stylegymnasium of my elementa.ty school, taking in my first school band concert I listened in awe as my fellow students -huffing and rosy-cheeked -belted out quarter note after quarter note without rests, phrasings or dynamics. 
I took up the trumpet immediately. 
I'd like to say that this was the dramatic inception of a blossoming interest in the arts, cultivated through years of work and dedication. However, more accurately, it was the beginning of an eight-year battle to force air through brass tubing. Band, for me, never became more than a social club and resume-booster. . 
Sadly, this nearly encompasses the extent of my childhood endeavors into the arts.Duringmytimeinhighschool,artwasjustahobbyofthosewhowantedto call themselves sophisticated, and I impressed my instructors by playing along. To put it another way, I was the kind of student who would look at a Picasso and ignorantly blurt out that "ifI could do it, it wasn't art." 
But my perceptions began to change during my senior year of high school and changed in earnest during my first year at Notre Dame. 
look for 
ISSUE 5 Yes, Notre Dame-despiteits obsessions with football, schoolwork and lofty on career aspirations -piqued my interests in the arts.
OCT28 
Fallowing my first-year writing and literature courses, I abandoned my inten­tions of enrolling in the business college and declared an English major instead. With the encouragement of my professors I attended a number of Mainstage and student-led theatre productions each year. The friends! made had diverse tastes in music, and I have come to enjoy a wide array of genres; Some of those same friends encouraged me to explore my interest in creative writing. While studying in London last year, I spent hours browsing art museums and viewing pieces from Rafael~ The Madonna ofthe Pinks to Ives Klein's International Klein 
Blue 79. 
By no means would I classify myself as an artsy person. I simply have been fortunate enough to be faced with many opportunities to cultivate an apprecia­tion for the arts during my years at college -and I have only taken advantage of a tiny portion of what is available. 
I encourage every student to make the most of what is available in the arts at Notre Dame.· Our school isn't the most artistic in the land, but much of the writing, painting, photography, performance, etc. that occurs on our campus is nothing short of excellent. Unbeknownst to many students, Notre Dame is home to a small, yet productive and vibrant, arts community. I hope Scholastic's Arts Issue, our first ever, can bring this to light. 

Mike Borgia Edi tor-in-Chief 

2 SCHOLASTICFROMTHE EDITOR 
Vol. 146, No. 4 • 07 OCT 2004 



SCHOLaSTIC 
Editors in Chief Mike Borgia Annie Robinson 
Managing Editor Jennifer Osterhage 
Executive Editor Meghan Gowan 
Executive Design Editor NickAbrams 
Assistant Managing Editor Jim Ryan 
General Manager Christopher Kelly 
News Emily Paladino, editor Alisa Finelli, assistant Anna O'Connor, assistant 
Campus Life Lauren Wilcox,editor Katie Solan, assistant 
Sports 
Christopher Meskill, editor Mike lselin, assistant 
Entertainment Nick Kolman-Mandie, editor Beth Murphy, assistant 
Departments Mike Healy, editor Erik Powers, assistant 
Design Nell Ryan.assistant David Rederibaugh, assistant 
Photography 
Phil Hall, editor Brenna Mannion, assistant 
Graphic Design Christine Graham, editor 
Copy 
Mo Ertel, chief Jennifer Wadkins, a.5sistant Drew Dodge Diana Dolinsky Kate Dresser Bridget McFadden Sean Salinas Doug Schlarman Georgia Schulte 
Kelly Weaver 
Advisor Robert Franken '69 

COVER ILLUSTRATION 
NICK ABRAMS 
Disce Quasi Semper Victunts Vive Quasi Cms Mo,-it1m1s 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed atAve Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556.The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine Is copyright 2004 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, m.iy be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher.The Nalgene bottles really are coming -so stop asking. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to Schofastic Magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published in the next Issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the Issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number.All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made m0re than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year.Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on request.The opinions expressed in Schofastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
07 OCTOBER 2004 




Friends and Brothers ~, -,. .in Holy Cross; 

Priesthood ordination at the Basilica. 


ANSWER-.~ THE CALL,"<!;y 



Judgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 
YELLOW COFFEE CUPS ATTHE HUDDLE 
The jungle scene and corrogated cardboard sleeve surpass the styrofoam of old; and you can pretend to prefer Fair Trade java while actually drinking a powdered french vanilla cappuccino. 
POLITICALTAILGATING 
•1 

FLAGS 
There is nothing wrong with displaying one's political beliefs in public, but something is slightly amiss with mixing pre-kickoff cocktails with "Bush-Cheney" foreign policy. 
MARSHMALLOW FIGHT IN THE FACE OF DANGER 
Congrats go out to the seniors who, with full knowledge of the potential Reslife punishment, pelted marshmallows at each other-none of which, to Scholastic's dismay, contained hard metal objects. 
HANKAARON'S. SPEECH AT THE PEP RALLY 
While we know that you are famous and it was really cool to see you in person, we don't believe that we are the loudest crowd you have ever heard. 
HEINOUS SMELL OF TRASH OUTSIDE OF LAFORTUNE 
Trash is supposed to smell, but this trash smells like something far more rank than rotting hamburger buns and chicken nuggets. 
SCHOLASTICEXECUTIVE STAFF 
While some Notre Dame sm­dents recently have tried to shake the university's repu­tation as a school where an alternative lifestyle is not an alternative -par­ticularly by donning "Gay? Fine by Me" t-shirts and orange arm bands -a poll conducted by NDToday.com shows that the student body is far from unanimous in its acceptance ofhomosexual smdents. Rather, when Scholastic went to press on Oct. 5, 80 percent of 1,387 respondents answered "NOT fine by me" to the poll surveys, it is worth discussing that; despite its unscientific methods, the poll perhaps points-out that the anti-gay problem is far from solved at Notre Dame. 



Most Notre Dame smdents probably would be cordial to a homosexual smdent that they met face-to-face. But oftentimes, overt civility effectively hides underlying intolerance. The poll suggests that, under the mask ofanonymity, smdents are more confident and willing to demonstrate their hostility to the Notre Dame population of homosexual smdents. 
.· . .· ·-: . . . . 
. ··-__.. ·,~_;_:_:-.· .::.: •.•.. ----....:.:._,_._,____ _,_ .; .····~•· ... .:.:_ -_'.;:_ .. ,.;..:. --·-•-: : 
Fine by me [U:X;:q 21 % NOT fine by me ['< :'\;/:!iJ'.,\3:;~;,;.t,>·Y:,.:.,\id 80% 



· ·TotaLVotes: 1387 .· 
. ClickToReturnToThe Voting Booth. 

entitled "Seriously now ... gays at Notre Dame." 
This is byno means a scientific poll. Vot­ers need not be smdents, and while itis not an easy task, it is possible for a site visitor to vote multiple times. The percentages certainly could be skewed. But it still sends a dismrbing public message -one that can be viewed by any Web surfer -that undermines any recent progress made in the acceptance of homosexual smdents at Notre Dame. Like the Princeton Review 

Debating the finer points of Catholic doctrine and the furor over gay marriage are topics outside the scope of this poll. This posited question and its response are particularly dismrbing because they reflect a passionate feeling toward the mere presence of homosexual smdents on Notre Dame's campus. If Notre Dame smdents cannot clear that hurdle, an administration-approved gay smdent club and a truly inclusive campus culmre remain unlikely. . 
4 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
07 OCTOBER 2004 



SCHOLASTIC ~.EWSI----------------------, 
--.....,_ 
No Rest for the Weary 


Architecture students can't smuggle sleepgear 
into Bond Hall 
KATHLEENKUDIA 
Most Notre Dame students lmow in the band," archie senior Amelia Kirk that the life of an architecture says. major -or "archie" -means While the Bond Hall staff does not 
seeing many sunrises thr()ugh the win­conduct backpack or body searches dows of Bond Hall. In order to ensure for the feather-filled head rests, that the innumerable hours logged behind administrators do lbck the student those Ionic columns are spent sketching lounge at night to prevent students and not snoozing, the Department ofAr­from violating the "no pillow policy." chitecture enforces a strict "no Students also are instructed not pillow policy" to prevent to bring any extra furniture students from nodding into the studios, but 
Unconventional Art Classes

off underneath their some hammocks .·. 
::::.:•_~.... 

drafting tables. and well-stocked . The "no pillow refrigerators have policy" means made appearances, 
exactly that Kirk says. S.•· ARST 297S: Artists' 
-no sleeping is "Our approach is, Books and Papermaking allowed anywhere unless it's a really Everything you need to or anytime for the dangerous behavior, 
know to make a coffee-table archies who call we won't get involved," 
book. 

Bond Hall their "home says Kara Kelly, director away from home." This ofcommunications at Bond 
4. ARST 243S:Metal 

is an inconvenient prohibition Hall. Information sessions are 
Foundry

for students, who often pull all-held at the beginning of the year to nighters in the building. "I spent less . inform students about the rules of Bond It's like high school shop time [my freshman year] in my dorm Hall and to encourage them to follow class on steroids. sleeping than my roommate who was a the guidelines. D pre-med and Japanese major and played 
3 MUS 312: Harpsichord 
• A good class if you think · one level of keys just isn't enough. 
2 ARCH 481: Beginning 
• Furniture Beer-pong tables don't count. 


I MUS 127: Gender, Race, 
• Class, Sexuality It's like a musical version of Core. 



SCHOLASTICNEWS S 

. 
.. 
NEWSL,______________________, 





Cutting 
the Chords..... 
The univers_ity phases. out the graduate music program· 
ALISAFINELLI 
Amidst the fanfare for and celebra­tion of the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts' 
grand opening, Notre Dame's Depart­
ment of Music bids a much quieter fare­well to its graduate programs that have produced accomplished musicians for the past 30 years. 
Last May, the university informed the faculty of the Department of Music that the admissions department would no longer accept any new students into the music graduate program. This means that after this year's new students graduate, the Department of Music will no longer feature a graduate program. 
The decision was made based on a report from an internal music review committee, appointed last fall by Provost Nathan Hatch to evaluate the program's performance. "There had been some difficulties in the Department of Music for a number ofyears," saysJohn Affleck­Graves, executive vice president of the 
university, who was appointed chairman 
of the review committee . 
. . Composed of five different adminis­trators, as well as a number of faculty members, the internal review committee collected data on the undergraduate and graduate programs in the Department of Music. A primary consideration in their evaluation was how Notre Dame's graduate music program compares tci peer 
institutions and how well it competes in 
-national rankings. The decision was based on evaluations 
· NOTRE DAME'S LAST SYMPHONY? Senior ~n Henisey will not be able to recieve a g~duate degree in music from Notre Daine.The university's final class of gi:aduai:e.musii: students entered the department this fall.The.: 
· g~du~t: ~~P:~~~-~~~-n~t-=x!t:ftt!~-~~~~-st_u~=~~ g~dua1~~---.. _ ___ ------------_ ···-·· .• ·--------.... _:. · 
outside the university as well, Affleck-Graves says. Every five to 10 years, the university brings in evaluators to assess the graduate programs in each depart­ment. "The last three external reviews we had of the graduate [music] school were extremely critical of the program," he says. 

psychology, in which Notre Dame is a major competitor with other peerinstitu­tions. He also believes that these graduate programs, more.so than the graduate mu­sic program, deserve to fully utilize the availablefundingNotreDame'sgraduate school provides. 
Some faculty members from the De-. 

Many graduate music programs at other • partment ofMusic, who spoke to Scholastic . 
universities feature either a Doctorate of Music Theory or a Master of Music' Performance. Notre Dame's program, however, falls somewhere in-between, of­fering a Master ofMusic in Performance and Literature, with a curriculum that involves both theory and performance classes. The music review committee concluded that the Notre Dame Depart­ment of Music's faculty was too small -16 members for the undergraduate school and 17 for the graduate school -and had too few students to justify the continuance both programs, espe­dally when most performance programs have a much larger faculty to cover a full range ofinstruments. 
"In our view as a committee, the De­partment of Music does not have the scale to have a competitive master of music program," Affleck-Graves says. "The question really is, 'Can we grow? Can we double or triple the faculty?' We just don't have the student base. We don't have enough music undergradu­ate majors." Affleck-Graves cites other Notre Dame graduate programs, such as theology, philosophy, anthropology and 

on the condition of anonymity, question the review committee's procedure for 
· evaluating the graduate music program. The professors claim that the commit~ tee focused too heavily on rankings and national standings with .competitive institutions; rather tlian assessing the quality of Notre Dame's programs. They also feel that when itcame to .evaluating the program's graduates, the committee members analyzed thein with alimited, narrow understanding of a successful program. 
William Cherny, now a professor emeritus in the Department of Music, started the master of Music in Perfor­mance and Literature program in 1974 and worked for the Department ofMusic for 27 years, serving as chairman for nine years. He believes that in order to truly understand the dynamic of the program and its effectiveness, musicians should have been placed on the review com -. mittee. An anonymous graduate music student agrees, saying that the commit.:.· tee members "don't understand how the 
· music world works." Affleck-Graves explains that no mu­
6 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
07 OCfOBER 2004 

:iSGf/101:AS'TTIG NEWS7----------------------~ 
sicians from the faculty were used to Additionally, she has always relied on fewer credit hours that he hopes will ensure that the committee was neutral. graduate students to provide her with appeal to more students. "The under­"The department i~ery fragmented on accompaniment. graduate program won't be diminished. the thepry-performance issue," he says. Though he acknowledges the advan­In many ways, it will be strengthened," Calvin Bower, a music history professor tages of having graduate students in the Crafton says. in the Department ofMusic and director Department of Music, Affleck-Graves In addition to increased focus on the of undergraduate studies for the Medieval believes there are also disadvantages. undergraduate program, the university 
· :•;Institute, believes this division between He thinks competition from graduate has also established a sacred music grad­focusing on theory or performance was students may potentially jeopardize uate program through the Department a likely cause of the graduate program's undergraduate students' performance of Theology, rather than through the difficulties. "One reason the graduate opportunities. Some undergraduate stu­Department ofMusic. Bower, though, is program was removed was because it dents, however, disagree that competition critical ofthis new program. He believes couldn't decide what it wanted to be,'' he is ever a concern for them. "I never felt the program would be better suited in the says. "There were no common goals." that I wasn't getting to play because we Department of Music. But, the Depart­Two anonymous professors from the have graduate students," Thorn says. ment of Music voted several years ago Dep~rtment of Music believe, though, Paul Appleby, a senior voice perfor­not to add a sacred music program at the that, _these problems were rectifiable. In mance music major,· thinks competition graduate level. their opinion, despite its small size, the can only help undergraduates to excel. Facilities available to undergraduate graduate school had talented students who "It's an advantage to me if I'm in a com­students are also a concern for some. No contributed greatly to enhancing music at petitive pool-it's more ofa drive for me individual practice rooms or classrooms Notre Dame. to succeed," he says. Facing more talented for the Department ofMusic were created While Affleck-Graves ensures the musicians or singers is "the nature ofmu­in the PAC, although, there is rehearsal undergraduate music program will not sic performance," he adds. space for music ensembles, and organists be endangered, the loss of the graduate -·· Once the graduate students are no lon­can practice and perform in the organ program will have an underifable impact ger present in the Department ofMusic, and choral hall. Crowley Hall, whose on undergraduate students in the Depart-. adjunct faculty members will be hired to practice spaces are small a~d outdated ment of Music. teach lessons that previously had been with little soundproofing, will still be the Since the beginning of the graduate taught by graduate students. But some department's home. "You can't practice in music program, its students have been students ..say that adjunct faculty mem­Crowley without hearing ten other people a valuable resource for undergraduates, bers, will in no way, compare to having practicing," says an anonymous graduate serving as models ofa higher level ofper­graduate students as teachers. Ricky student. The student also explains that, formance talent and experience. Cherny Leal, a senior oboe performance major, due to poor heating control in Crowley, had this vision in mind when he began agrees. "When you just have adjunct pianos frequently go out of tune and the master's program. One of the major faculty teaching lessons, it's difficult for certain instruments cannot safely be intentions of the graduate program, he undergraduates to grasp on to a mentor stored there without being damaged by says, was to help enhance the undergradu­and have a high-quality mentor available humidity. ates' learning experience. all the time," he says. "They just aren't as Cherny questions why the review com­
•· Graduate students do this in several accessible as the graduate students are." mittee focused so heavily on the graduate ways -::-by collaborating with under­Don Crafton, who just began his first program's ability to compete with other graduates in ensembles, providing year as chairman of the Department of institutions when the administration has accompaniment for undergraduates, Music, says the undergraduate program not, he claims, made an effort to build teaching lessons, and participating in will now receive more attention. Mark competitive facilities. the orchestra, choral groups, and bands. Roche, Dean of the College of Arts and Leal agrees: "The administration Both music faculty and undergraduate Letters, "has begun something he called doesn't give the Department ofMusic the students attest to the fact that graduate the 'Decade of the Arts' initiative," resources to work with, but still expects students bring a higher level ofmusical which "won't get anywhere if we don't results," he says. "They expect to raise the talent to the university, which creates a have a strong Department of Music," standard ofoperations, but the resources greater pool of talent to draw from for Crafton says. He also · aren't given to be able to do that." ensembles, recitals and musical accompa­the Department Affleck-Graves says, while there are niment. They have more time to devote Music is planning to no immediate plans to construct a new to the department than undergraduates, review the current music building, the Strategic Planning who are busy with an undergraduate curriculum to for the next 10 years for the Department course load. create amajor in of Music says a new music building is a 
Noelle Thorn, a senior cello perfor-music that No. 1 priority. 
_mance music major, has played with requires Some students, like Thorn, remain graduate student ensembles since her optimistic about the department's fu­freshman year. She says that playing in ~-· ture: "The huge pro of this department these ensembles has been her most chal-.,,,../. is that it is small and has great teachers. 
4~-·
lenging and rewarding experience ~ Everyone gets a ton of time to play and as a music student at Notre Dame. attention." D 
07 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICNEWS 7 


JENNIFEROSTERHAGE 
W ith the construction and dedication ofthe $64 million Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, the University ofNotre Dame has initiated a "Decade of the Arts," to improve the state ofthe arts on campus in accordance with a 10-year strategic plan. Administrators recognize that a lack of coordinated programming, publicity and funding have limited the growth and prominence ofthe arts on campus. But, as the 10-year plan states, they believe that the number and diversity ofcurrent arts;_ related-activities indicates "an emerging arts agenda that-ifnurtured and managed 
8 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
carefully-will add immeasurably to the university's prestige, to the educational and spiritual growth of our students and faculty, and to the quality of life in our community." 
Though the new space will undoubt­edlyimprove Notre Dame's capabilities in the performing arts, administrators, pro­fessors and students agree that the state of the arts at Notre Dame is improving, but is not yet ideal. 
The PAC houses five performance spaces, as well as the offices for the Department of Film, Television and Theatre. A 350-seat mainstage theatre, a 900-seat concert hall, a studio theatre, a THX-certified cinema, and an organ and choral hall comprise most of the building's 150,000 square feet. In addi­tion to the FTT offices, three faculty members from the Department ofMusic have their offices in the PAC, but most of the music faculty offices are still in Crowley Hall. The department of the visual arts -known collectively as the Department of Art, Art History and Design -remain in Riley Hall, a build­ing that the burgeoning department has outgrown. Likewise, the Snite Museum ofArt is pressed for space. 
As put forth by the 10-year strategic plan, "[P]lanning should begin immedi­
07 OCTOBER 2004 


. . / 
.• •' ' . /..,: ,!' • . • • 




-----------------------l11~ac~•~+tjl3ij[;.l;!ISTORY1-------------------------. 
ately for the eventual construction of an 'arts district' that will provide the Snite Museum, the [Department ofMusic] and the Department ofArt, Art History and Design with the facilities they need to help ensure Notre Dame's emergence as one of the world's great universities." 
Music 
In an attempt to increase the musical fa­cilities on campus, the PAC was designed with adequate space for the university's ensembles, such as the Glee Club, Col­legium Musicum, the Notre Dame Sym­phony, Chorale and the Notre Dame jazz program. However, one con­cern raised by Professor Jones -a fine arts professor whose name has been changed -is that individual music students· have no practice space in the PAC. Professor Smith, who also chooses to remain anony­mous, agrees: "[The-practice rooms in Crowley] are pretty miserable, and there are not many of them; they're not soundproof; they're too small; they have terrible climate control." Or, as senior music minor Ben Ellison puts it: "It's like a musical submarine: small rooms, narrow hallways and no privacy." 
The university has attempted to amend the lack of individual practice space by placing sound-proof music modules in various residence halls and in the Band Building, as well as by converting some rooms in dorms to practice spaces. But university Provost Nathan Hatch says there were early discussions of making the PAC home to both the music depart­ment and FTT. 
While some are disappointed that not all ofthe university's fine arts needs were addressed, John Haynes, director-for the performing arts and executi:ve director of the PAC, says there was not enough space or funding to satisfy every department's needs. He says, "Ideally, I think the build­ing could have been 300,000 square feet and the music department would be here; too ... but at some point you've got to make some compromises." However, doubling the size of the current struc­ture would have resulted in unsustainable costs. 
The Department of FTT moved to the PAC "because the stages are their classrooms," Haynes says. "It's not just a place to present what they do. It's where they teach ... so it's important to get the faculty close to their tools." Such tools include the scene and costume shops, high-quality film production equipment and the stage itself. 
Some feel a greater effort should have been made to place all of the performing arts students in one centralized location. "We learn from being together," Jones says. While the Department of FTT, 
. whichwas formerly spread across campus, is now in one place, the music depart­ment remains scattered among Crowley, the Band Building and the PAC. 
The Department of Music will un­dergo a seemingly retrograde change in the "arts decade," as Notre Dame has decided to discontinue its graduate music program. A committee recommended the elimination ofthe program due to what it saw as a lack offaculty strength. Because Notre Dame is competing with degree programs at the University ofMichigan, Northwestern University and Indiana University-all located in or near major cities -Hatch says that it is difficult for Notre Dame to draw the same caliber of faculty members. Music professors ofthe highest distinction rarely choose to teach in small cities like South Bend. "It's hard for us·to have thatkind offaculty like you do in a metropolitan area," Hatch says. 
The university has to look at what it can realistically do as well as what it can do well," Hatch says. But there are consequences to such a move. Graduate students typically teach individual music lessons and play in ensembles with under­graduates. But with the discontinuance of the graduate music program, "We're going to lose some tremendous [leaders for] ... the undergrads," Jones says. 
For some, the fate ofNotre Dame's mu­sic program as a whole is at stake. "[The changes prove] that they're certainly not expanding, possibly maintaining and, with the elimination of the graduate program, maybe even scaling back [the Department ofMusic]," Ellison says. (See story on page 6.) 
Art, ArtHistory and Design 
Faculty in all three arts departments, however, are excited about the PAC and what it means for the state of the arts at Notre Dame. As Dennis Doordan, chair­person ofthe Department of Art, Art His­tory and Design,says,"More can be done. I don't think there is a department here [that cannot improve]." And now that the PAC has been built, he is optimistic about the future of the visual and performing 
arts at Notre Dame. 
Like the Department 
of Music, the visual arts 
program has experienced 
difficulties in finding 
adequate space. "The vi­
sual arts at Notre Dame 
are healthier and bigger 
than the buildings they're 
housed in," Doordan says. 
The Snite has been in the 
same building for 10 years, 
and its collection keeps 

growing. The students and faculty who work in Riley Hall also are pinched for space. To ameliorate these problems, the strategic plan calls for an arts district that will place all of the re­sources for the visual arts, including the Snite, on DeBartolo Quad. 
Aside from space problems, the visual arts department has several assets. Door­clan points to the graduate program as the strongest aspect ofhis department, refer­ring to its successes in preparing students for their own art exhibitions, teaching and design careers.Anew digital imaging stu­dio on the main floor of Riley Hall has improved facilities for students in the visual arts. The lab is a resource for art students and faculty to do professional­quality. printing on a variety of papers. The studio charges for printing to cover the cost ofink and other supplies. Open to 
07 OCTOBER 2004 "SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 9 

2004 

Art, Art History and Design: 
Studio Design and Art History Majors: 103 175 
Art History Minors: unknown 14 
Graduate Students: 28 21 
FTT: Majors: unknown 180 
Music: Majors: 20 42 Minors: approx. 5 23 
~-.·
.. 

art students 53 hours a week --.. Sourc . .c fJ:'.J--,-<".''.~ .··•• : · ·. performers that would 
es. Dep . . n Musi ,. · . . ·. .
for most of the semester, the lab. · art!llents_ofAn,ArtHrstory_andpesig ': : < ··. · · appeal to more general aud1­will open to all students and faculty in the Patri-·ences to benefit the greatest number of College ofArts and Letters this spring. cia George Decio Mainstage Theatre is people. Less popular performances_.::. like Decisions smaller than Washington Hall, a smaller a harpsichord recital -would not be so 
Since Notre Dame has not built a per-theatre is advantageous. Now a Main-feasible. forming arts facility in over 100 years stage production may sell out, something Student Use (Washington Hall was built' in 1881), she says has never happened. Despite the variety of performance many have said the addition of the PAC Haynes says the PAC is ideal pro-possibilities in the PAC, some students is long overdue. However, creating a grammatically because a university say they have experienced difficulty in building with the size and technical ca-community has multiple interests that being able to use the new facility. Al­pabilities of the PAC involved making are sometimes narrowly defined. "So it though the PAC does contain rehearsal a number of difficult, time-consuming makes some sense," he says, "to have a ·space, AnaMarie Ortiz, a senior theatre decisions. performing arts center that allows you and English major, says the new building 
Haynes says that many universities to have a splendid organ concert, a does not have enough. Haynes says the would have built a large, multi-purpose great movie, a great play in a traditional · · PAC was not built as a rehearsal hall. "A space capable of serving many needs theatre, a great play in a non-traditional 900-seat concert hall with a $100,000 "pretty well." But Notre Dame opted theatre and a concert of absolutely any Steinway on the stage is not what you use to design "a number of moderately-kind you want from solo violinist all the for students rehearsing/' he says. sized spaces, each of which will serve way up to full symphony orchestra." Kennedy says that the limited time its need brilliantly," he says. A large; "It's serving very different kinds of students can spend using the PAC is multi-purpose space, is not ideal for audiences with very different tastes," "frustrating for seniors because we're anyone because the qualities that make he says, which eliminates the competi­a great concert hall are not the same as tion that might normally occur among those necessary for a state-of-the-art different groups for one multi-purpose theatre. space. Haynes refers to a recent harp-
For example, the Judd and Mary Lou sichord concert that approximately 100 Leighton Concert Hall has no pro-people attended; in a 1,500-seat house, scenium arch and no fly space above the sound would have been lost. And, it -two characteristics of a theatre Haynes adds, with only one large audi­-because, if a musician played in such torium, there would be a need to schedule a hall, the music would be lost as the sound rose. Likewise, while it is possible for theatre professionals to perform in a large, 1,500-seat auditorium, such a space would not be ideal for student productions, Haynes says, "because when you're 18, you just don't have a 30-year-old voice." 
Ellen Kennedy, senior English and theatre major, says that although the 



10 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
· 07 OCTOBER 2004 


only able to use this building for one year, and we've been waiting for three years. Maybe in five years it will be the building it can be." 
Student-run groups like Harmonia, Pasquerilla East Musical Company and St. Edward's Hall Players cannot per­form in the PAC, but they have triple the amount ofaccess to Washington Hall that they previously had, Haynes says. They used to compete with FTTand the music department for performance times, but now Washington Hall is operated almost exclusively for their benefit. Student groups, however, say that they are still having trouble scheduling performance times. Ortiz, who is the president of the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company, says her group has been able to schedule only one of its three shows in Washing­ton Hall. 
Haynes compares the limited avail­ability of the PAC to students to pick-up football games on campus, pointing out that none of those teams can play inNotre Dame Stadium. The Snite is not a mu­seum where anyone can hang his or her own artwork on the wall. "[The PAC] is curated in the same way that a museum is curated," Haynes says. "We have a programmatic function, not just a facil­ity management function." Students will perform in the PAC, but it will be only in the context of academic or university activities, not club-related activities. 
Competition 

The state-of-the-art performance fa­cility may have an effect on the type of students Notre Dame can attract. Histor­ically recognized as a school with storied athletic tradition, Notre Dame has taken a step in a new direction with its intent to foster a "Decade of the Arts." 
With a large number of theatre stu­dents graduating last year, Kennedy says the university needs to actively recruit students with both talent and interests in the arts; they will thrive with the new facilities and equipment. "Admissions looks for intelligent, athletic, service­oriented students," she says. "The arts must be included also." 
"[Notre Dame] is for those looking for a broad liberal arts education in a university environment," Dan Saracino, assistant provost of enrollment, says, "but we still get students who want that in a university with first-rate facilities." 
Hatch says: "[Notre Dame] is never going to compete with Juilliard or someplace like Oberlin, although we may occasion­ally recruit a student who is a world-class violin player." 
According to Saracino, Notre Dame looks for students with special talents, and the PAC will enhance Notre Dame's ability to draw students with artistic tal­ents. This will make Notre Dame more competitive with schools that are known historically for the arts, such as North­western, he says. "We've always com­peted very well with Northwestern. For students thinking of theatre, we're now on a level playing field," Saracino says. While students have never come to Notre Dame for its location, the opportunities now available and the university's proxim­ity to Chicago will encourage students to look twice at Notre Dame. 
According to administrators, prospec­tive faculty members will also be attracted to Notre Dame because they will see it as a place where the arts can flourish. "I think we've had some terrific artists here, and we continue to have faculty in both 'the music and FTT programs who are absolutely world class, but they didn't 
07 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 11 
have adequate facilities in which to work," Haynes says. Hatch adds that, in all de­partments, "We try to recruit people that are better than ourselves. We would not have the business school we have today; we never would have recruited Dean Carolyn Woo; we would never have recruited a number of distinguished people had we not built [ the Mendoza College ofBusiness] that sort of said, 'vVow, we're serious about this."' 
John Klein, a senior film and television and Russian major, says, "The faculty has a new-found en­thusiasm for using equipment as an educational tool and to reach out to more students than just majors ... I haven't met an unenthusiastic faculty member." 
The Goals of the PAC 
The PAC is not intended just for the benefit of performing· arts majors, but for the benefit ofall students and faculty, as well as the local community, admin­istrators say. According to the 10-year. plan, "Notre Dame can and should be regarded as a model for the cultivation ofthe whole person, a vocation in which the arts are indispensable." 
A major goal of the university is to integrate the arts into all aspects of its academic life and culture. Professors university-wide are plannning to link their courses to the arts. The curricu­lum ofthe freshman university seminar, for example, will incorporate activities at the PAC, Haynes says. 
Other plans for the arts include inter­disciplinary collaboration. Next spring the PAC, FTT, theJohn A. Kaneb Cen­ter for Teaching and Learning and the Department ofMathematics are copro­ducing Arcadia, a play by Tom Stoppard. The comedy involves romantic poetry, Fermat's Last Theorem, chaos theory and English landscaping. 
Additionally, three festivals involv­ing FTT and the music department are planned for this school year, the first of which-a Shakespeare Festival-will be held in November. This event will feature a film festival, three stage productions, an international conference and two concerts, Peter Holland, chairperson of the Department of FTT, says. . 
Along with these new initiatives, Notre Dame plans to continue holding film series as well as sponsoring perfor­mances by the Actors From the London Stage and Summer Shakespeare, among 

Tony Bill -1962, film producer Jimmy Brogan -1970, comedian and writer for the 
Tonight Show 

Don Criqui -1962, television sportscaster Casey Dame -1992, motion picture animator Phil Donahue -1957, former television talk show host Sandra Hodge -1984, filmmaker Bill Hurd -1969, jazz saxophonist 
· Ted Leo -1994, indie musician William Mapother -1987, actor Terry O'Neil -1971, television producer Don Ohlmeyer -1966, television producer Regis Philbin -1953, television personality Hannah Storm -1983, CBS Early Show anchor Anne Thompson -1979, NBC Nightly News correspondent 
Source: University of Notre Dame Web site 
others. 
What's Next 
The new building alone is not enough to make Notre Dame more arts-oriented, Ortiz says. "Now, the focus has to shift from money and building buildings to, 'Let's get students using what we have,"' she says. 
Haynes says the. amount of activity at the PAC itself could constitute an entire decade of the arts. Though the arts have always been a part of Notre Dame, he says, "I don't think that it's ever been collected and coordinated in a way that's caused you to say Notre Dame has a cultural agenda." Prior to this year, FTT may have opened a play the same night that the orchestra per­formed a concert, simply because the departments were not communicating. Coordinating the scheduling of perfor­mances will be important in eliminating the competition for audiences between the departments. 
Even those whose needs were not fully satisfied by the PAC are behind the ef­fort to make the arts a priority at Notre Dame. "It's tremendous to have ... the arts 
finally be im-portant at Notre Dame," Smith says. 
Haynes realizes there will always be people who are not satisfied by a project. "But this was built to serve ... as many people as possible, as well as possible," he says. Klein calls it the beginning of a trend. "The student body is largely un­aware ofthe opportunities [in the arts]," he says. "There hasn't heen a lot to get them excited, but this really could." 
Even if the next decade is not devoted solely to the· arts, the PAC marks a threshold and represents what Doordan calls "our commitment to the arts as an important part ofstudent life, an impor­tant part of the community." He says, "There is no reason why Notre Dame cannot be one ofthe leading universities in the visual and performing arts. The talent is here; the potential to collect re­sources is here." Over the next few years, many will be interested to see just how well Notre Dame uses those talents and resources to devote this decade to the arts. . 

12 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 07 OCTOBER 2004 
>iSGH011:AS-:ITIG OPINION;----------------------, 



A Fair Fight 
RICHMclVER

Why America needs the draft 

All-Volunteer Army." . 
When President Bush uttered 
those three simple words during the Sept. 30 presidential debate, upper­class homes and prestigious universities across our nation breathed a collective sigh of relief. 
With legislation pending in Congress that would reinstate the draft, millions of young Americans silently have feared that they might be called to serve in 
been avoided ifAmerica had been more judicious in its use of force. It seems that if the military included · 
-and thereby endangered -more in­dividuals from powerful families, there would exist a stronger influence to en­sure that heading to war is pursued as a last resort. Furthermore, I contend that ifmore wealthy or politically-influential individuals were in danger of dying in things like bulletproof armor more expeditiously. However, it seems that if more children ofpowerful families were fighting, the question of the safety of our troops -not the cost of equipping them -would be at the forefront of all military discussions. 
The argument for implementing a draft certainly has its limitations, includ­ing the difficulty of motivating troops 
who do not choose to 
join. Nonetheless, the 
argument is important 


because it encourages us to question whether or not the motivations of our political leaders might be different if our military included individuals close to their hearts. 
Representative Ike Skelton of Missouri has pointed out that 
43.5 percent ofsoldiers 
killed in Iraq came -0: from rural towns ofless 
-' -' w than 20,000 people; 
~ 
u minorities account for 
"

and economic class. In 
practice, certain clauses allowed some college students to defer. 
Other clauses allowed influential indi­viduals to enter the Nati~nal Guard. This meant that the draftees tended to be poorer and less educated. 
In comparison, the proposal currently in Congress eliminates some of the elite-biased exclusions (such as college deferment), which worries some of the members ofthe middle and upper classes who could be drafted. But before college students decide that the idea is entirely bad, it might be helpful to discuss its potential ramifications. 
Evidence shows that America may have overstated the potential danger of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, and many -regardless of political af­filiation -say that the war might have America's conflicts, politicians woulq_ be more inclined to ensure that our military endeavors were as expeditious and casualty-free as possible. These two conclusions are based on my belief that when influential people exercise their political muscle, politicians who rely 
on them for reelection will listen. 
A military comprised of individuals from all social and economic classes that does not offer exemptions for members of influential families has the capability not only to alter our outlook on the necessity of war, but also the way in which we conduct war when it is deemed necessary. It might be presump­tuous to assume that if Kerry and Bush had their own daughters on the front lines, our soldiers would be provided 
u 
z over 30 percent of the 

military; and the aver­age family-income for a white enlistee is almost 25 percent lower than that of the average white family. 
These statistics indicate that our mili­tary is not representative of our popula­tion as a whole. The obvious response from the current system's defenders is that our military has always provided an avenue for the lower and middle classes to move up the social scale. While this is a legitimate point, it skirts questions ofpolitical motivation. By allowing the military to virtually exclude people at the top of the economic and political ladder, are our leaders more likely to play hard and fast with the lives of Ameri­cans? If the lives of their own children were-on the line, would they not be a little more careful? . 
07 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICNEWS 13 


(~'"·.__ i -~~ 




'\ft' 
\/ 
-~t 
-/X:•r 
:::· 
t~~:·~.·•. 
Bound to Bond 
-Ft>r -ITlany architecture majors, Bondi Hau·:bec:6mes a.::seCohd {e>r firsir crib 
. ' . ... . ' , '. . . . . ' .~---... . . . ,, ·. 
·.ANNAO'.CONNOR 
W'alk_into any of th~ architecture studi~s inB:~_}_1_d .: supplies .that:·<;9y~rher:desk. 11I-nee4ed tt(Iriake:itit!ellike _. Hag,_ and· you will see students hard at work he>me/i'shesays: . • ..._. .· . ·•· _· ._. · . . .. _ _ drawing huge buildings, designing apartments ..-_-Senior Glenda NlaJute!-also_pets61,1aliz~.d,herjpace,.Het 
•. on cpmputers, and even sleeping on their desks. . decorati9ns 'iriclude p1drire_s of fri~U:a.s; prints of l:>riifd1ngs, 
Architecture majors spend an inordinate amount of tiiile and a colorfulscroll wi~hhiir nam~_writt_e;ti-iri la):ge)etFet~­workinginside the studios ofBond Hall, leaving them little._ Mat1.1te h01ighfthe· scfol.l:frdil,i.a:'stre~t)vendcfw~~~she time for much else.:_ even sleeping in their own beds. To studied in R.ome last year~ , . . . _ , . -._ . _.· -. . . . : these students, the s~udio be conies more of a residence than Despite the incalculal,Je number ofho1.1rs sli~'iias spC!nt in •. 
·.· their donn rooms, making Bond Hall their "crib." _the st~dio,:fylatut:lkeeps a •positiv~ attitude aqoifr t:he:work: . , '."My rooriunate says I don't really live with her anymore/' . -"We have be::~ome s01.:t o_f like .a _family," she .~ays, d¢s_i:rib-· ::, .. says sophomore Jennifer Heller .. "Besides the four..:hour Stu-ing '.J,.er fellow ai:chit¢ctu,re students; ",We work tog~t:her,. ·.._ dio class we have to_ go to on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, _we eaf togetp.er, we goout together, and we spent the:year 
lprobably sp.eild adeastfour hours a night on weeknights ·abroad together.:Y-ou know a lot of.people arid you\have a 
• her~; Qn weekends I might stay here eight hours. On football ·_ lot offriends." . · . . ' : .. . . ·-. . .. . . . ·. _ -~ Satuhlays, I come here before the g~m~ and when I heat the : ' So kh.iJe Bond Hall may not be everyone's idea ofa place l? 
ban'd play outside, the~ I go to_the game." · _ . _ : / to spei;id end!~_sshours~ fot111any'~1:u4e~ts}il-thear,c~itecture;j;\} . ;Bec;~use she speµds so :DJ:UCh tiii?-¢. at h~r desk Jn Bo11d Hall,,..:/prog!-"~lll,•itl~ils be¢oine, a)~tond'home ~ a place. to decorate,: ')j: Heller_ b:rvered the\vall/ri.ext; t~l';her desk with p·osfots and '' -:hang out:-With frieq.ds/all~ _even_ !lne~k: anap. ; '._·. _·.. . .: ' ._;-:::;. 
picture!s: Alarge poster o(U2, liedavorite band, an4 picture~.· '· ·· · 
·,:'•. :_0~ 0~ef;_-~-oyfr1:~~d s!and o;~•am~1r~~J.~t¥~~-te~~~~ti~:~~ ..~&d , 
:,, .;,•8§.. 



--... 
,;, 
·.-...·, .... 
) i ' :,._,_,, 
-~,--~--=-~ ~--. 
--p • • ., ' -~­

-BO,~D. SVVEl;T: BO~D ' ', ·. ' ' ', ' ' 
.··senior Glertda Matute (le~) and·sophomore: Je11nifer Heiler· (;i~tjve) ~re .two of the ma.ny: ·• · architecture. students whb spend so much ..·· 
·· time working· on· projects at Bond Hall that .. they decorate their desk space with personal . • affects. Students display posters, photographs;· prints of buildings; etc: to give their work .. 
. spaces a ~ouch ofhqme, · 
" -·----. ·• ..,... -•·.. 


We meet again, faithful read­ers. Sadly, this is the last time you'll be showered by Gipp's love before your fall. break. Maybe the Gipper could develop a GippBlog so you can stay in touch with him wherever you may be. Stay tuned for that. Luckily, for those of you who prefer the farts to the arts, this column will break from the theme of this issue and give you some bread-and-butter Gipp tips. 
Front Row Spot 
We've all heard the oft-expressed frustrations over the availability of on­campus parking. Those students who have escaped the bubble have found that, every year, it seems to be more difficult to find a parking spot. To make matters worse, it appears -judging by the ever-so-classy inflatable gorilla on Edison Rd. -that the JACC parking lot will double as a used-car lot this year. But why wouldn't we make students' lives less comfortable in exchange for a few extra bucks? What do you think we are, an academic institu­tion? On most days, the Gipper finds that it's easier to bike-it than to drive, then walk 28 minutes to class. Plus, it's not good for your GPA when the closest parking spot is at the Linebacker Lounge. We all know, "American Literature II" really can't compare to an 11 a.m. brew. 
Since the university cares about off­campus students as much as it does about non-donating parents, no solu­tion seems to be in sight. So you have Gipp's permission to park wherever you damned well please .. That's right, your DeBart will only be a short jaunt from your new parking spot in the middle of DeBartolo quad's graciously green grass. Let's make it a photo-entry contest: Fun­niest on-on-campus parking location wins. The Gipper has no idea how to get a car into the end zone of Notre Dame Stadium or the lobby of the Basilica, but you don't really love Notre Dame if you don't either do it or die trying. So grab your camera and keys and get to work. 

Note: The lawyers at Scholastic want to remind you that during your potential trip to ResLife, the Gipper's identity will remain anonymous but yours defi­nitely will not. To clarify, the Gipper would never promote illegal activity of 

·any kind. 
You Gotta Hide It Somewhere 
One day, a few overachievers were at­tempting to do a dorm activity they call "24 in 12." Unlike their architecture­major friends, they weren't aiming for 24 hours of sleep in 12 months, but rather 24 brewskies in 12 hours. Our lead, who we'll call "Ian," got a little hot-tempered dur­ing an argument and, as our tipster noted, "broke one or his Corona bottles on his sink to persuade others to see his side of the issue more clearly." Well, that tactic seems to work in the movies, at least. The commotion caused by_ this uprising quickly drew the attention of the hall staff. When Ian learned that an assistant rector was approaching, he attempted to hide in one of the room's closets. This proved futile, as his figure was only par­tially blocked by a few articles ofclothing. Convinced that his clever idea left him completely invisible, he assumed the dorm staffer's calls for him to come out were simply a ruse. This forced the AR to drag Ian out of the closet (since we all know it's usually hard to come out of it at ND). Then, we're told, the AR was forced to "dislodge a bottle ofCaptain Morgan's, which [Ian] 

had apparently been sitting on." No word on whether the bottle cap was on or off. Frankly, the Gipper doesn't even want to know. 

Maybe He Should Switch to O'Doul's 
No one's an angel while intoxicated, but Gipp's attention has been brought to a scholar who still can't seem to find the appropriate level of moderation. Re­cently, on the subject's 21st birthday, he celebrated his entrance to manhood by blacking out in the women's restroom at a local Stately nightclub. He eventually was awoken by a female friend and made it back to his domicile, where he had to try out the beds of a few strangers before deciding to stick with his own. Later that night, he confused a radiator for a toilet. This must have been a trick he picked up in the ladies room in that nightclub, where apparently the gals do things a bit 
. differently. 
His bodily fluid disposal problems continued a week later. After a night of yachting, he went home to get some 
·sweat-drenched Z's. Our tipster -his roommate -noted that our friend fell out of bed around 5 a:m. and realized he needed to find a lavatory. The roommate later was awoken by someone tapping on his bedroom window: The drunkard was locked out of the dorm. He had been wandering around shirtless outside of South Dining Hall, looking for his dorm's bathroom. Son, the Gipper's seen a lot of things outside of South, but a Dillon bathroom is not one of them. 
That's a wrap, folks. (By the way, did anyone else notice that Gipp managed to write a whole column without turning the nicknames of our next two football opponents into perverted jokes about wood and seamen?) We'll see you in a few weeks. And, please, don't take any shots in Keenan anytime soon. D 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 
07 OCTOBER 2004 




HUDDLEMart 

FOOD COURT 




NOTRE DAME FOOD SEllVICES 



DomeLights 
COMPILED BY JENNIFER OSTERHAGE 
At Least AH That Tuition is Being Put to Good Use 

3,000+ Total workers employed in the PAC's completion 2,551 ; Pipes in the handcrafted Baroque Fritts organ 84 ' Shades of paint 384 Doors 177 'Rooms 
I foot: Thickness of concert/organ hall roofs 
6 stories 'Highest point inside the PAC -found in the Decio Mainstage Theatre fly tower 
14,000 Cubic yards of concrete used in PAC 
0 to 4.5 Range of adjustable sound persistence seconds in the theatres 


1:>-Half Tip 

Puppy Chow 

-Chocolate chips from ice cream toppings 
"' <( tJ w -Peanut butter ~ 
w 
-Crispix cereal ~ 
0 -Powdered sugar from 0 tJ /;;
waffle line 

w 
f­
a: 
::, 
Microwave chocolate chips 0 u and peanut butter until melted.Blend well. Add cereal and stir until evenly coated. Mix in powered sugar. For an interesting variation, substitute a different cereal: Frosted Flakes, Golden Grahams or even granola. -Alisa Fine/Ii 
submit your own dish to scholast@nd.edu 


You may have seen him testing out raps at the dining hall, or peiforming at Legends or the Keenan Revue. This week Scholastic 
catches up with sophomore JeffStephens -aka Da Natural-Notie Dame's resident rappe1: He has one non-studio CD under his belt and a studio CD slated for release in late April, which will be produced 011 his own record label, Poetic Productions. 
How did you come up with your name, "Da Natural"? 
It was in the middle ofwriting a rap ... I was rhyming something and went, "Call me The Natural." I thought about it, and· was like, "Wait, I am a natural." Originally, it was The Natural, but I wanted to get a jersey from Eastbaywith my name on the· back, and "the" wouldn't fit. So I changed it to "da." 
How long have you been rapping? 
Since I was eight. As kids, we did midnight concerts for my grandma; then my sister and I decided to write our own raps. 
Where did you grow up, and has that influenced you? 
I grew up in Chicago -in the 'hood, the projects. Being here, a lot of people wouldn't think that. With a lot of things I see ... sometimes that's how you have to live [to get by]. I didn't want to live that way, but where you grow up ... it's an inspiration. 

Who are your musical influences? 
Mos Def, Tupac, The Roots ... and I do like Eminem. 

How do you define your rap style? 
I'm just natural ... I don't try to be like any­one; I keep it real. I try to stay away from all that mainstream commerical stuff. 

Where do you get your ideas for lyrics? 
From things that I see, what's around me, society, what I grew up watching, sometimes things that I want to change. Of course, sometimes there might be a girl in there. 

Who do you look up to as a rap artist? 
Kanye West. He grew up not too far from me, and he Jnade it to college, too. He dropped out, but I'm trying to stay. 


What do you like best about rapping? 
The best thing is when people start to repeat my songs, when they know the lyrics. It happened at the Keenan Revue. People in the crowd knew the words, and you know they're feeling it. Of course, the girls aren't bad either. 
-Katie Solan 

18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
07 OCTOBER 2004 

From the Notre Dame Bagpipe Band to the Texas Club, the hundreds of student groups on-campus encom­pass a plethora of interests. Junior Sarah Tarighi, however, found one of her pas­sions unrepresented and, in response, started her own club, the Dance Company ofNotre Dame. Tarighi, who transferred into Notre Dame last year, loves to dance. "It's my passion," she says. When Tarighi arrived at Notre Dame, she could not find quite the right outlet for her favorite activity. Porn Squad -a dance group that often performs at pep rallies and basketball halftimes -was "too cheerleader-ish," says Tarighi. And the ballet and jazz classes offered through RecSports were not challenging enough, nor did they offer a chance to perform. For Tarighi, performance is crucial. "When I took RecSports classes, practicing and not performing [was] torture," she says. Tarighi saw the need to create a non­exclusive dance club at Notre Dame that emphasizes a final performance. Last spring, Tarighi began the process· of forming the Dance Company by fill­ing out numerous forms through the Student Activities Office and by holding an informational meeting to assess inter­est. The Dance Company was approved last April as a probationary club, and Tarighi brought together women who shared her dance interests to serve as officers. Jessica Runyon, vice president, Tina Brinck-Lund, secretary, and Christy Hentges, treasurer, had all taken dance classes through RecSports with Tarighi, who serves as president. Dance Company tryouts were held early this semester 
LIF E7-------------------------, 
-not for Tarig,/ 
to make cuts,tbut 
to evaluate skili::'.'l~vel. 
" d . d ' :,_:A,~--{
I 1 n t. wa11,FJP;..,.,,1} be exclusive,"·:[:igi~t~~ says. "Everyone who··.·· wanted to dance could." 
After tryouts, the dancers were orga­nized according to skill level and dance­style interest, such as ballet or jazz. 
The 38 women that now comprise the Dance Company practice an average of five hours per week in order to prepare for their final performance at the end of the semester, which will showcase a variety of dance styles, including jazz, modern, ballet, lyrical and hip-hop. The performance will feature an opening dance to Outkast's "HeyYa." "I hope it'll make people laugh," says Tarighi of the opening piece. "It's a wake-up-and-pay­attention number." The show will also feature jazz dances to Britney Spears' "Toxic" and Christina Aguilera's "Come on Over." Classics have a place, too, :as a lyrical piece will be performed to Frank Sinatra's "The Summer Wind." The final performance in November will feature 10 dances, eight choreographed by Tarighi. The other two dances, choreographed by Brinck-Lund, are ballet numbers. 
The women who joined the Dance Company have a variety of dance back­grounds, but they come together with a love of dance. According to freshman Maria Iuppa, her intermediate-level group practices once a week, and she wishes she could practice more. Fresh­man Marti Mirandola Mullen says that the idea behind the Dance Company is "neat, because I knew I wasn't going to 
cut. I just wanted to dance." ., · ong with performance, Tarighi seeks 

opromote interactions between the 
. Dance Company, the school and the local community. The Dance Company plans to host a dance workshop later in the semester, and hopes to put some spice in the step of Notre Dame community members. The group also will participate in a fundraiser with the Junior Class Council and will put on a Christmas show for the residents ofSt. Joseph Care Center. 
Next semester all but one of the officers of the fledgling club will no longer hold of­fice, as one will graduate and two will study abroad. Runyon will take over as president, and new officers for the second semester will be elected in December. Tarighi, however, plans to resume her presidential duties after her spring semes.ter in Rome and sees the future of the Dance Company as bright. Aside from immediate success at their se­mester-end show, Tarighi hopes to return to Notre Dame in 10 years and still see girls performing in the Dance Company. "I want it to not fade out," she says. 
The scene in the Dance Company's warm and brightly-lit practice studio on a chilly fall night is full of energy and friendship -girls laughing, talk­ing, trickling in early to go over dif­ficult dance moves. Tarighi pauses her stretching to jump in and help a small group of girls work on choreography. When the short piece is perfected, the girls hold their pose with satisfaction, rosy-cheeked and smiling. Says club member Mirandola Mullen, "You not only get to dance but you meet some great people. Everyone here is helpful and supportive." . 
07 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 19 
Josam Scott plays an ecdectic mix ofcover and original songs influenced by Lynyrd Skynyrd, Dire Straits and The Who. Vocalist sophomore Don Greiwe, keyboardist freshman Ben Gunty, ba~sist senior Andrew Henebry, drummer sophomore Karl Kadon, guitarist graduate stu­dent Andrew Kostyal, guitarist sophomore Mike Maloof and saxophonist sophomore James Weich er make up the year-old band a~d are all current or former Siegfried resi­dents. Hear themon Oct. 8 at a party on East Cripe St., or listen to clips at http://www.nd.edu/~akostyalljosam.htm. 
The Heroes We Thought We Had to Be is a Bruce Springsteen cover band, with Marc Coughlan on sax, Reid Rector on guitar, Erling Wu-Bower on drums, "Big Fat" Paul Appleby on keyboard and lead vocals, Megan Rackish on the violin, Mike McNamara on har­monica and backup vocals and Dan Block on maracas and backup vocals. All members are seniors except for Rackish, a sophomore.·Catch them at theBoatGlub_on= Oct. 8 at 11:30 p.m. I 
I ! 
i l 

Cracker Barrel is a jam band with j~zz and R&B roots. Percussionist senior Ben Ellison, sa~ophoni~t and key­boardist junior Andrij Hlabse, bassist Jenior Paul Kellner, guitarist and keyboardist junior Matt{\1archona and per­cussionist junior Ben Wilson formed the quintet a year 
'' 

and a half ago. They have since played gigs at both the 
up-scale Club LaSalle and on-camp!s SYRs. See them .. perform on Nov. 4 at Legends. 
1 \ 
!i 

~.;.;;;;;;;~_ _;;,,,___;...;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~.....;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;..;.;..;;..;;.,,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.111111111------------­
2-JOSAM SCOTT: ANDREW KOSTYALAND MIKE MALOOF ON GUITARS 
3 -HEROES: "BIG FAT" PAUL APPLEBY ON KEYBOARD AND VOCALS 
4 -JOSAM SCOTT: ANDREW HENEBRY ON BASS AND DON GREIWE ON VOCALS 
S -CRACKER BARREL: BEN WILSON ON PERCUSSION AND ANDI HLABSE ON SAXOPHONE 


The Notre Dame She Club 


Harmonia, an all-female a capella group, gains prominence in its fourth year 
LAURENWILCOX 
The same force that in 2001 in­spired four McGlinn Hall resi­dents to found Harmonia, Notre 
Dame's all-female a capella group, still drives the group's members today. That force is a passion for singing. 
Danielle Rinaldi, Jessica Rinaldi, Brooke Phillips and Shawna Monson -the Notre Dame student creators of Harmonia -had a lot in common. Theylived in the 
I think this is what people are looking for, 
same section of McGlinn, practices twice a week as shared a love of singing since there hasn't been a girls' group with an entire ensemble in or­and were disappointed der to put all the section

this sustained role ever before.
that there was no female equivalent to the Under­tones -Notre Dame's all-male a capella group. Theypooled their talents into Hanno­nia, now in its fourth year. The group offers female students at Notre Dame and St. Mary's College an alternative to the more structured choir groups that are available on-campus, senior Kelly Nelson, Harmonia co-president, says. 
Members pick their own songs, de­cide where to perform and market the group to line up future venues. Along with various performances throughout the year for university events, Harmo-Kroeger, Harmonia secretary, says. 

Harmonia's co-presidents, seniors Nelson and Colleen Traeger, both have been involved in the group since its inception. Tr_aeger also serves as the director and, along with some of the other members who play piano, teaches voice parts in weekly section practices. 
-In addition to the sec­
tio~ practices, Harmonia 

song-parts tc:>gether and -Colleen Traeger, Harmonia co-president add vocal dynamics. 
nia hopes to perform its repertoire at Washington Hall or Reckers. 
"We sing fun music, songs that peo­ple recognize and love," senior Molly This year, approximately 

40 women auditioned for eight open spots. The group caps its membershil) at 16, with four members in each ofthe grqup's four sections: so­
22 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 07 OCTOBER 2004 
prano one and soprano two, which are the higher parts, as well as alto one and alto two, which are the lower parts. 
Nelson says that as a sponsored club, Harmonia receives a fair budget from the university every year. The univer­sity has provided the group with an official practice space and frequent performance opportunities around campus. 
Once only heard at dorm events, such as bonfires and Christmas parties, Harmonia has recently been asked to perform at both off-and on-campus events. The group sang the national anthem at Relay forLife and have per­formed at pastJunior Parent Weekend events. 
Harmonia's members hope that by performing at these higher-profile events, the group will establish its own recognition, distinct from that of the better-known Undertones. 
Harmonia and the Undertones teamed up for performances during the spring semester of both the 2002 and 2003 school-years. Harmonia opened for the Undertones in 2002 and co-headlined in 2003. Nelson says that the Undertones decided to perform alone last year, so Harmonia performed their own concert at Reckers. "I don't feel overshadowed by the Undertones," Traeger says. "I feel like they have really earned their posi­tion, since they have been around far longer than we have. I feel like we are still building a name for ourselves." 
Kroeger adds: "The Undertones have been around much longer and are more established, so it is a little intimidat­ing, but we know we have a lot of room y,:­
1
1/•
1~ 




/ii : 

space at Crowley Hall of Music. 
to grow and are looking forward to some day being in the same light as the Undertones." 
"Our support group and fans have grown over the four years," Traeger says. "Even though our group is young, there are groups ofstudents and faculty members that really know about us and · ask us to perform more and more." 
On Oct. 7, Harmonia will perform at the Summit Club in the City Cen­ter in downtown South Bend for the Notre Dame Estate and Tax Planning Institute dinner. Because of its well­received performance at Relay for Life, Harmonia was also recent­ly asked 
by the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore to sing before football games. They will be joining the Undertones, who also typ­ically perform at the bookstore before home football games. 
"It wasn't until this year that people heard us sing at Relay for Life that they invited us to sing at the bookstore. People sometimes dismiss us because we are so new," Nelson says. 
Traeger adds: "I think this is what people are looking for, since there hasn't been a girls' group with this sustained role ever before. I'm hop­ing for the bookstore performance opportunities [before home football games] because I think these are really important for graduates of the univer­sity. Visitors really love to hear talented musicians." 
Harmonia began work on its first CD last February. It is currently in produc­tion, and the group's members hope to have it on sale in the bookstore either late this semester or early next 
semester. 
"I had been singing all my life, but I was never attracted to church or classical music," Kroeger says. "When I found out about Har­monia at Activities Night, they promised a fun variety of music. And they came through." D 
Officers (from left): Seniors Kelly Nelson, Colleen Traeger, Molly Kroeger and Kristin Marcuccilli 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 23

07 OCTOBER 2004 







Eyes is a Prize 
***** 
Burned Mind lights up college scene ('1IJl>cDREVIEW 
BJSTREW 
0 ne supernova of pop-genius and Friday nights at the neighborhood is beginning to outshine the cinema were the norm. Young's mellow, other stars ofthe cramped col-sunny meditations recall lazy summer 
lege-rock firmament, and the British afternoons. Listeners will find songs in 
==========

music press has identi­fied this supernova as Wolf Eyes. Their latest release, Burned Mind, is a perfumed love-letter to the awkward vagaries of high-school alliances and dalliances. What does it sound like? Blend the relaxed glitter ofJohn Mayer with the 
bookish, often cerebral, gravity of Jack Johnson,· add a dash of Merzbow, and 
you get Wolf Eyes. 
Track after track, lead singer Nate Young's songwriting is first-rate. Burned Mind evokes the memory of praise of bodyboarding and jam sessions redo­lent of Dave Matthews in their intricacy, as well as the unique, but inspired, prominence of the intercom. 
Sparse musical ar­rangements comple­ment the inventive lyrics. In the track "An­
cient Delay," Young gracefully balances being both charmingly self-deprecating and almost offensively patriotic. In the title track, Young describes his inability · to navigate Manhattan, and how only a new girlfriend helped to orient him. 
captur~s the wounded adolescent feeling of being stood up at the mall in "Dead in a Boat." 
Attentive ears will spot the influence of 
O.A.R. on this album. For better or worse, echoes ofreggae remain faint. And while Young occasionally walks the snaking path ofjam band, catchy, acoustic guitar-driven pop is the name of the game. Albums like John Mayer's Roomfor Squares or O.A.R.'s In Between Now & Then simply cannot match the variety ofWolf Eyes. 
The French philosopher Diderot said that while the signs of music are fleet­ing and formless compared with those of painting or literature, their emotional impact upon our senses is more profound. Burned Mind is proo£ D 
Listen to BJ Strew at http://wvfi.nd.edu Wednesdays, 6 p.m. -8 p.m. 

bittersweet days when lacrosse practice Speaking in nautical metaphors, Young . 
Race over to Bistro *** ½ * 
For a nice lunch or a pricier dinner, Bistro on _the Race is a contemporary option. 
NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
For students on a limited budget, Scholastic recommends heading to Bistro on the Race for a slightly upper-crust lunch that won't break the bank. Lunch entrees range from $5.50 to $10, and the atmosphere alone makes the experience worth the cost. Bistro is decorated simply but comfortably. Dark-toned walls and hardwood floors give the restaurant a modern feel. Warmness to complement modernity is missing from most urban bistros, but not from Bistro on the Race. During peak dining hours, the restaurant can be noisy with a fleet ofservers treading the hardwood floors, diners clanking flatware, and poor acoustics failing to absorb loud conversations. Still, the boisterous air only adds to the authenticity of Bistro's atmosphere. And while you may have to raise your voice to be heard, chances are the folks at the next table still cannot hear your 
conversation. 

As for food, the spicy shrimp ap­petizer is very good. The shrimp are tender with a kick created by cilantro, chili peppers and imported Spanish peppers. But the spices are not too hot, so the faint-of-palate can order without fear. Still have your doubts? For a tamer starter, trysome of the best New England clam chowder west of Cape Cod. 
Bistro also serves up a large, delicious greens and gorgonzola salad with honey­mustard dressing. The gorgonzola ac­centuates the flavor of the ·dressing and overall serves to complement -rather than to overpower -the salad. 
For lunch, the grilled salmon BLT is a decent choice but is as greasy as a Steak 'N Shake patty melt. The BLT is served with chips made from potatoes, carrots and other vegeta~les. 

24 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 07 OCTOBER 2004 


L------------------fljf,:if!:@lil#lllCe!J~!ir:.1$-iiiiiI!J®ENTERTAINMENTI----------------------, 

SEE THE TERMINAL, FEATURING TOM HANKS AND 
CATHERINEZETA-JONES, PLAYING IN DEBARTOLO 
HALL, OCT. 7-9: 
Every Thursday at 10 p.m., and every Friday and Saturday night at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m., SUB shows a movie in room 101 DeBartolo for only $3. In this week's film, Tom Hanks plays an immigrant who lives in an airport terminal and falls in love with a flight attendant, played by the beautiful Catherine Zeta-Jones. Don't miss this drama/comedy, directed by Steven Spielberg. 
LEARN ABOUT THE 9/11 COMMISSION WITH 

TIMOTHY ROEMER: 
Those curious about U.S. intelligence regarding September 11th should attend this lecture given by Timothy Roemer, the former 3rd-District congressman of Indiana and recent 9/11 Commission member. Roemer will speak on Thu, Oct. 7, from 7 
p.m. -9:30 p.m., in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza Col­lege of Business. 
LISTEN TO PEERS WAX COMEDIC: 
Ifyou like a good laugh, you're in for a treat! There will be a live stand-up comedy show provided by Notre Dame's own student comedians at Legends on Thu, Oct. 14. The show starts at 10 p.m., no charge, and remember to bring your student ID. Visitwww.lege­ndsofnotredame.org for more information on upcoming shows. 
VISIT THE COLLEGE FOOTBALL HALL OF FAME IN 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND: 
The College Football Hall ofFame is a haven for the avid col­
lege football fan. Quiz yourself on football trivia, take a knee and listen in at the strategy theater exhibit, or just walk around at your leisure. The Hall of Fame is open year-round from 10 a.m. -5 p.m. daily. Check www.collegefootball.org for admission prices 
and more details. 
TAKE A TASTY TOUR OF THE SOUTH BEND CHOCOLATE COMPANY: 
Hey, chocoholics: When you were a kid and watched Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, did you ever wish a real chocolate factory like Wonka's existed? Well, one does! The South Bend Chocolate Company provides tours of the factory, and even has a chocolate museum. Basic 20-minute tours are free, but for $4 you can join the "Inside Scoop" for a behind-tjie-scenes look and free samples. Call (574) 233-2577 for tour times and to make appointments. 

GET PUMPED ON FOOTBALL FRIDAYS AND 
PARTY ON THE PLAZA IN DOWNTOWN 
SOUTH BEND: 

Start cheering for the Fighting Irish on Friday nights before football games. The new plaza, north ofSouth Bend Choco­late Cafe in downtown South Bend, is full of ND fans sup­porting the football team. There's live entertainment, spirit beads, t-shirts and more. Best ofall, it's free. Join in the fun from 7 p.m. -10 p.m. on football Fridays. 

SEARCH FOR THE PERFECT HALLOWEEN 
COSTUME AT FUN FIX, INC.: 
Ifyou are looking for the perfect accessory to complete your Halloween costume, or ifyou haven't. even started put­ting together an outfit, look no further than Fun FIX, Inc. This costume shop is located in the Indiana Ridge Plaza on Grape Road, and is next to TJ. Maxx. They have every­thing from wigs to props to decorations and more! Check out www.funfx.com/store.asp, and look for some compelling costume ideas. 
-Compiled by Dana Ergas 

The lunch menu also features a simple $24, and a dry-aged New York strip more. Dinner also appears appetizing, but 
burger-the cheapest thing on the menu costs $36. Less-expensive choices include costs more than most college students can -or an upgrade, called the Bistro burger, the Bistro pot roast or the herb-roasted afford on a day-to-day basis. O 
made with filet ..--------------. chicken, both priced 
mignon, veal and at $16. L~catio~: so( N; Nil~s Ave.,:sb'uth Bericl.(next w:".": 
la:~r:t:;do~:~0:J~ ti:~:~~n~s~o::~:s~-, ·~;!i::"J)~;?~3~~~~cib >,'~"-/ .. ':< · •'.); :. wiches and wraps who would like to . Lunch:prices: Enti-ees range from $5.S0'to $10, · also are available. . dine outdoors on a appetizers from ~4 to $8.< . . •· : ···•.·· . • . 
. Di~ner pr,ict!S: Eni:rees ra,ngl!•from $16 to $36,. \ •• 
Ifyou would like nice day. · appetizers from $4,tii.$1 J;:, ( :: < · · • . · 
· to try Bistro for As a lunch spot, Bis-Lunch Hour{Mon:-. Frfl 1'a:111..:..2 p,m-' 


1!n;:;·:~;:::~ea~ ;:}r:~~oodk~~~c;~! ~:r;:t~1:l~:_M,~\:J-hu,{h~:--l~.~t· •·· 
more for your meal. quality food and are Babyback ribs cost willing to pay a little 
***** 

07 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 





Building a Show. 
The people and places behind the actors 
NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
Many European theatres have a penchant for nudity. Any con­ceivable opportunity for an ac­tor or actress to shed his or her clothing is met with such gusto that an American audience member might wonder where that European carefree spirit got lost when crossing the Atlantic. In most people's minds, the only shows in the United States incorporating such a level ofnakedness requires a minimum age of 18 for entrance. · Actors on the American stage, par­ticularly the University ofNotre Dame's stage, tend to remain clothed. All the better for Notre Dame's cos­tume department. In the basement ofthe Marie P. DeBar-, tolo Center for the Performing Arts is a room whose most basic purpose is to cre­ate, or "build," attire for stage perform­ers. The Film, Television and Theatre costume shop is rarely seen by audience members, yet its staff plays a critical role in all FTT performances. 
Costuming often is taken for granted. After all, an audience member watching a play with an 18th-century setting expects to see characters dressed in 18th-century clothing. So when it comes to producing a play, the costume department is laden with planning and labor. 
FTT's costume designer, professor Richard ;Donnelly, describes the costume shop as "a working laboratory for students to learn how costumes are put together for production." While the costume lab may not be scientific in the traditional sense, it is equipped so that a builder can construct the most Frankensteinian of costumes. Clean, white work' tables, each with a sewing machine, fill the lab. A fabric cutting table sits next to several industrial-strength irons. In the back room, next to several' washing machines, 

ATTENTION TO DETAIL Professor Richard Donnelly, ITT's costume::~esigner, is in charge of outfitting actors for productions at t~e PAC. 
is a giant metal .cauldron for dyeing clothes. "The goal," explains Donnelly, "is that, since this is an educational lab, we want to show students how it is done [professionally]." 
The costume shop in the PAC is six to 10 times larger than its predecessor in Washington Hall, Donnelly says. The lab is scrupulously organized, with floor-to­ceiling shelves stacked with boxes filled with such costume ingredients as buttons, clasps and scarves.-Each actor for the upcoming production ofFortinbras has a box with his or her particular costume essentials. Sitting on a nearby table are several long cardboarg boxes, recent ar­rivals, full ofimported Chinese silk. Nine of Fortinbras' characters will be wearing 42 yards ofit -each. 
Fortinbras, a comedy set to immediately follow the action ofShakespeare's Hamlet, opens with a group of bodies lying dead on the ground -Hamlet's final scene. 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 07 OCTOBER 2004 
--------------------lffi:~:@!1J::):)l~~eJf!lil1:~::f.§:jj[iijr,[s'§lEN1:~R:(AINl'1~~L---~~,\:. 
The play tells the story of the ascension the scene designer and create them full-r--~ 

ofFortinbras to the throne of Denmark. Hamlet, Polonius and other ghosts -each wrapped in a costume of silk that, if laid out, would extend nearly half a football field in length-make frequent appearances. 
Costuming a character begins with taking measurements of each actor for clothing sizes. Then the costume is tai­lored to each actor's exact dimensions. At times, costumes are recycled: After each production, they are put into storage and archived so that they can be pulled out when needed in the future. Costumes that will have little stage exposure -such as those on the dead Hamlet characters at the very beginning of Fortinbras -or have very complex designs may be rented. 
Donnelly traveled to Stratford, Canada -the site of a well-known Shakespeare festival -to rent medieval clothing that would otherwise be too time-consuming and expensive to build. The characters will be seen in those costumes for only the first 10 minutes of the play; they will don their ghost costumes afterward. 
Fittings and tailoring begin as soon as an actor is cast for a role -often three months before production -but the en­tire planning process for each play begins about nine months earlier because of the numerous, and often elaborate, costumes frequently required. The Heidi Chronicles, for example, has a setting which spans from the 1960s through the 1990s, with very fast costume changes and period clothing required for each actor. 
While Donnelly and his team work on costumes, FTT's technical direc­tor, professor Ken Cole, and the rest of the scene shop will be constructing the Fortinbras set. Simply put, "The job of the scene shop is to take the designs of 
·SCENES BEHIND THE SCENESThe sets and props for productions at the PAC are constructed at the scene shop, which is headed by FTf's technical director; professor Ken 

scale," Cole says. 
First, the set designer envisions and ; . constructs an aesthetic model for how i · the set should look. Once the model is \ deemed acceptable by the set designer, :f the plans fall into the hands of Cole, [. the technical director, whose job is to .r determine how the scenery should be 1 built. What 1:1-aterials will be used? Will ~; ; ·. it be safe? Will the set last through pro-, duction? "There's a lot of engineering in what I do," Cole says, "The set can't fall down." After a good deal ofplanning and drafting, mostly accomplished with computers, materials are ordered and the construction process moves into the PAC's scene shop, located near the Regis Philbin Studio Theatre and the Decio Mainstage Theatre. 
The scene shop is massive, especially when compared to its old site under the stage ofWashington Hall. "It's fabulous. I mean, it's fabulous," Cole says. The scene shop's old, seven-foot high ceiling in Washington Hall has been replaced E:ft!}.f:_·=·""""' 
by the 26-foot high ceiling of its new A DRESSTO IMPRESS Manager Jane Zusman examines a costume at the PAC costume shop. Each costume is location, and towering, vault-like sliding custom-designed for the actor or actress who will wear it. 
doors allow scenery to be shuttled eas­ily into Decio's backstage or the Philbin constructed set ofsteps must be examined Theatre. Tables and machines are built by all groups. 
on rollers allowing them to slide against "Sometimes it's as silly as if you put an the walls, creating an enormous open area actor in a wig and hat," Donnelly says, for construction. A huge, caged room "Will they fit through the door?" That contains tools and materials, and above door may have to be widened slightly bythat sits the prop attic. Cole's student Cole, or Donnelly may have to tone down team, in addition to building scenery, is the girth of his character. 
responsible for creating characters' props, The costumes and set of Fortinbras make 
as well as moveable set pieces, like tables 
their debut (with the actors, of course) on and chairs. 
Nov. 3 at 7:30 p.m. in the Philbin Studio A good deal of research is involved in Theatre. While Fortinbras will keep the finding the right props, says Cole, us­scene and costume shops busy for the fall ing an 18th-century-style chair as an semester, the spring promises two more example. The trick, he says, is to find FTT plays, The Laramie Project and Ar­furniture that can span a number of 
cadia, that also will utilize Donnelly and years. Chairs and tables must look pe­
Cole's expertise. 
riod-appropriate, but at the same time Cole, in his second year at Notre Dame, must be able to be used in a different previously worked at Indiana University production that is set 10 years earlier South Bend and as the assistant technical 

or later. As with costuming, recycling director for Virginia's Arlington County of set materials is key. "There's a saying theatres. He proudly says that his present that wood doesn't get thrown away," scene shop at Notre Dame is the best he Cole says, "It just gets shorter." 

has ever had. 
Though the costume and scene Donnelly has been at Notre Dame since shops are located on different floors 1988, and works alongside his colleague,of the PAC, the two departments, shop manager Jane Zusman. "We've along with the show's director, work worked with a lot of great students here," very closely from the early planning Donnellysays. "It's a lot of fun, and we love stages onward. Even a matter as seem­

our jobs." 0 ingly insignificant as the steepness ofa 
07 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 

CROWD PLEASERS Kennedy's Kitchen performs at the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts as part of"Here Corne The Irish:' a concert
Beyond Crowley featuring Notre Dame alumni musicians. The band is led by John Kennedy (ND '79 
_and '91.).

Alumni making their names in music 

BETH MURPHY 
egis Philbin and Condoleezza 
Rice are not the only Notre Dame 
graduates to have made a name for themselves. Notre Dame also has produced some fine singers, songwrit­ers, guitarists, pianists, flautists and more. Just last week, a concert at the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts -called "Here Come the Irish" -showcased several alumni who have made careers in the arts. Scholastic met with three alumni musical groups who have maintained strong ties with Notre Dame. One got its start in the raucous Keenan Revue, one in the basement of LaFortune Student Center and another with Notre Dame's Folk Choir. 
R




The O'Neill Brothers 
Tim ('94) and Ryan ('97) O'Neill began taking piano lessons when they were six years old, but it was not until they were both at Notre Dame that they began playing together. During Tim's senior year and Ryan's freshman year, they thought it would be fun to do a show together. They made their musical duo 
debut at the Keenan Revue in 1994. "Be­ing together at ND brought about a nice environment, allowing us to share our mu­sic and get it out there," Tim says. Ryan adds: "People responded well to our Billy Joel/EltonJohn style ofmusic. Playing on two pianos was very well accepted." 
Surprisingly, neither Tim nor Ryan majored in music at Notre Dame. Tim was a marketing major and Ryan studied German. They joke that their musical tal­ents must have been "a gift from God;'' Tim explains: "You don't need a music for both of us, the important thing was realizing that truly successful musicians 

· have to work hard to get their music out there. That's the real integral part of the business." With 18 CDs under their belts, itseems that business is doing fine. Their music consists of familiar songs, and each CD represents such different themes as Broad­way songs, wedding songs, movies and lullabies. "In general," Ryan says, "each CD is one hour of relaxing songs. We want people to ·sit back, have a glass of 

degree to earn a career in music." 

True to his mar­keting background, Tim understands the business aspect of show business. "In my opinion," he says, "it's really only one­third show and two­thirds business." Ryan agrees: "Sure, getting a music degree is a good idea because you sur­round yourself with TWO OF A Ki°ND Tim ('94, le~) and Ryan ('97) O'Neill perform together at 
"Here ComeThe lri_sh:" The brothers have collaborated to produce 18 CDs.
great performers. But 

28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 07 OCTOBER 2004 
--------------------18:~:@j::j~~•)l!!t~.:.\:~:fiiit.
t!i!lENTERTAfi'Ji'fENT]i---------------------~ 
wine and enjoy it." 
Perhaps the brothers' most popular CDs -at least on campus -are their two Notre Dame-inspired albums: Here Come the Irish and The Notre Dame Experi­ence. "Here Come the Irish was inspired to go along with The Shirt," Tim explains, "whereas we made The Notre Dame Experi­ence so that people could listen to some­thing when they came back from home football games." 
Most students probably have heard the O'Neill Brothers' music while browsing the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, where it is played constantly. 
"People love it," Melanie Willamowski, the assistant to the director of the book­store says. "At least once a day someone asks what we're playing on the speakers and where they can find it in the store." 
Hedge Harridge, the bookstore's event and community relations manager, says, "It speaks ofNotre Dame to everyone that comes in. In that respect, we feel honored that the O'Neill Brothers have the rela­tionship they do with us. We have a lot of fans that come in specifically looking for their music." 
The O'Neill Brothers will perform on national television on Sun, Oct. 10 on the QVC network, 2 p.m. -4p.m. CST. They performed on QVC last July and sold over 75,000 CDs within 30 minutes. "That's the day we sold our millionth CD. It was fun, and we're looking forward to doing it again," Ryan says. 
When asked what they miss most about Notre Dame, Ryan says, "I miss the student environment. At Notre Dame, people are from a lot of similar yet diverse backgrounds. I miss the real meaningful Catholic masses, particularly the dorm masses where the priests give great homilies." Tim says, "I miss the food from North Dining Hall." 
More information can be found on their website, www.pianobrothers.com, or by call­ing their mttsic hotline, 1-888-966-3455. 
Kennedy's Kitchen 
Kennedy's Kitchen plays heart-thump­ing Irish music that is bound to get lis­teners on their feet. Bandleader John Kennedy graduated from Notre Dame in 1979 with a degree in psychology and returned for his doctorate in economics in 1991. He also worked as the director of the Arts and Letters Computing Of­fice for 10 years: "When I started there, there were 30 computers. When I left, there were 700." 
Bob Harke, another member of the band, got his master's degree in biology from Notre Dame in 1971. 
Kennedy admits he didn't even pick up a guitar until after college, when he joined the Peace Corps. When he returned to Notre Dame for graduate school, he be­gan playing in The Nazz, the former name of the 24-hour space in the basement of LaFortune. The Nazz provided an open­mic night for students six days a week and was a "crucial develop­ment" in the evolution of Kennedy's musical career. "I played there at least \ once every two weeks," he · says. "Had I not had that op­portunity, I'm not sure I'd be playing music today." 
Kennedy's Kitchen is com ­posed of six members, who have been playing together since 1998. They use a variety ofinstru­ments, including the guitar, fiddle, violin, whistle and banjo. The band released its first CD, Kennedy's Kitchen, in July 2003, and finished its second, Music in the Glen, last month. 
Kennedy's Kitchen often can be found playing locally at Fiddler's Hearth, and will be playing there again on Oct. 8 and Oct. 30. 
For more infornzation, check out the band's website, www.kennedyskitchen.com. 

Danielle Rose 

Danielle Rose ('02) is a self-pro­claimed Catholic music missionary. "I share my faith through my music," she explains. "Whenever someone asks me to come, I go, whether it be churches, schools, retreats, whatever. It's so much fun, and it's different every time." 
Rose is on the road most ofthe year, but she doesn't mind. "No matter where I am, I make sure I get to daily mass. That's how I'm able to do this. I don't think I could do it on my own strength." Rose also traveled through much of Europe this past year, visiting various Notre Dame study abroad programs to help lead music on retreats. While at Notre Dame, Rose majored in theology and music. 
"There's not enough you· can say about Danielle Rose," says Lenny DeLorenzo, director ofND Vision -a summer pro­gram held on-campus that is designed to foster a sense of vocation among young people. ND Vision just celebrated its third anniversary this past summer, and Rose has been an important part of the team each year. "She has introduced young people to the rosary through her music and personal faith story in a way no one else can," DeLorenzo says. 
"She is a person of deep faith and ex­traordinary theological intelligence," he adds. "She communicates some of the deepest mysteries of the Catholic faith in an accessible way that speaks directly to people's souls." DeLorenzo says Rose's theology degree has certainly been instrumental to her _,. musical career. "The community she found here and helped to create here has been, and continues to be, an 
essential support system for her." 
Rose admits that she considered going to a more musically focused institution instead ofNotre Dame. "I considered it," she says. "I could have gone to a music conservatory or something like that, but I knew I wanted to go somewhere where I could be growing in my faith. Notre Dame is such an amazing place, and it gives you endless opportunities to do exactly that." 
Rose took advantage ofthe many oppor­tunities offered at Notre Dame, including the Folk Choir. "I joined the Folk Choir the first week after my freshman year. That experience for me was crucial to understanding that the Eucharist is the center of our faith. That changed my whole life. I knew rightaway that I wanted the Eucharist to become the center ofmy life," she says. 
"I always knew I wanted to use my gifts for God, but in terms of falling in love with Catholicism, I came to fall in love with my Catholic faith at Notre Dame. The more I learned, the more I fell in love with it and the more I became prepared to evangelize." 
Rose currently has two CDs available for purchase. She recorded her first CD, Defining Beauty, during her junior year of college, and she released a double CD, Mysteries, in November 2003. 
Go to www.daniellerose.com for more information. 
07 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 

I 
Ii 
I 
ll 
I' ii 
r 
I 
I I 
,I 
1, 
:1 




DidThat Just Happen? 
Wild games from around the nation 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
Shocked? I lmow I was. Last weekend, Purdue successfully lmocked the wind out of the Irish in two plays: a 100­yard kick-off return by Jerome Brooks and a 97-yard touchdown reception by Taylor Stubblefield. On the bright side, Brady Quinn had one of the best performances 
of any quarterback in Notre Dame his­tory. He passed for 432 yards and had no interceptions; unfor­tunately, he had only 

one touchdown pass. people attended,this .: . i~to the world of college football, as he 
Jose State tied Rice at 63 with less than three minutes left to play. OnRice's next drive, San Jose State's Brian Nunez intercepted Rice quarterback Greg Henderson's pass and returned it for a 28-yard touchdown. With a final combined total of 133 points, this is the highest scoring game in Division-I 

Quinn's performance game, compared to ·· was upstaged by vis­the 80,000+ who iting Reisman-win­attended the Notre ner-in-the-making, Dame vs. Purdue 
Kyle Orton, who systematically embar­rassed the Irish secondary with a "brilliant" game plan. Afterthe devastating loss, I could find solace only in the misfortune ofothers. Here are some ofmy favorite "unfortunate" events ofthe weekend. 
San Jose State 70, Rice 63 
After trailing for the entire game, host San 


STATZONE 



John Everett brings you ... 

.1 
ALLTHE STATS 
___________, 
~~~~ 
30 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
football history. In addition, Rice set a new school record for rushing yards with 634. Unfortu­nately, only 4,000 
match-up. 

Northwestern 33, No. 6 Ohio State 27 

This game looked like an automatic vic­tory for the Ohio State Buckeyes, who had notlost at conference rival Northwestern in 46 years. In addition to history, OSU had place-kicker Mike Nugent's golden toe on theirside. Nugent-acandidate for the Lou Graza award -has helped lead OSU to a 
Football (3-2): While the loss to No. 9Purduewasugly, a few players performed well. Sophomore Brady Quinn showed the poise of a veteran quarterback, com­
pleting 26. of 46 passes for 432 yards and one touchdown. Juniors Anthony Fasano and Rhema McKnight were also _t:he first number ofvictories, including a nail-biter against Marshall. In this game, however, Nugent missed a key field goal in overtime. Now all Northwestern needed for the vic­tory was a field goal; instead, they scored a touchdown. The Northwestern students stormed the :field in celebration oftheir big­gest victory in over four years. 
No. 9 Auburn 34, No. 8 Tennessee I 0 
Tennessee quarterback Erik Ainge -who had the best passer rating in the SEC -started for the first time against : Auburn. But Ainge had a rude welcoming 
threw four interceptions and fumbled the ball once. Meanwhile, Auburn quarterback Jason Campbell showed the poise of a pro, passing for 252 yards and two touchdowns. Tennessee's loss could be a good omen for the Irish; it shows they are beatable, even 
athome. · 
On a side note, I had the pleasure ofmeet­ing former Notre Dame head coach Gerry Faust at the Purdue game. Meeting him was one ofthe greatest thrills ofmylife. Coach Faust is an intelligent and honorable man with a great passion for football and the university. D 
losses to BYU and Purdue book-ending a three-game winning streak, many stu­dents are questioning how the Irish will fare against Stanford on Oct. 9. Earlier this yeai-, many thought this would be a 
d c h
guarantee victory ror the Iris . However, Stanford showed they could play with the ... 


duo oflrish players to each gain over 100 . -best of. them two weeks ago, when they receiving yards in the same game since lost to No. 1 USC by a last-minute field the 1977 match-up with Purdue. With goal. 
07 OCTOBER 2004 
GREG 

, ,.. ... ­


l·s··H·· 1:•-···1:--·s·,,
..•.-v· 
. . 
-DALBY· 

. This year, midfielder sophomore Greg Dalby has been an integral part of the men's soccer team's best start in 16 years. The Poway, Calif., native was named an All-American by Soccer America last year, after tallying assists in 20 of Notre Dame's 23 games. Dalby has started every game this season and is becoming one of the team's key players. The six~foot midfielder is enrolled in the College ofArts and Letters and is a theology and Film, Television and Theatre major. 
What are your goals for this season? 
Our main goal; obviously, is to win a national championship, and I'd say that our second goal behind that is to win the Big East. Our team sees it as really important to win the league. Last year we won the Big East tournament, which is an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. Winning the league represents day-in and day-out beating teams and playing well, and so that would be huge to win. 
When did you start playing soccer? 
I started playing soccer when I was about four years old, and I have been playing ever since. I played a lot of sports when I was younger and then, as I got older, I started to focus more on soccer. 
·What brought you to Notre Dame? A lot of things did. The education obviously brought me here. The soccer team. The coach. When I came here to visit I really liked the guys on the team, and I seemed to fit in real well. Just the combination ofthe team, the coach, the environ­ment, the school, the education; it all just kind of felt right. 
How do you prepare yourself for a game? 
Before the game, our whole team goes to our coach's house and we have pancakes, fruit and yogurt -kind oflike a pre game meal. So I guess for home games that's our ritual. We just go there and relax. I don't have any ritual. I just relax and try to prepare myself for the game. 
What are you most looking forward to this season? 
We have a lot of good players that left last year and some other good players who 
are going to leave us the year after that. Ifyou are at a good program, you are always 
going to lose good players every year. So I am looking forward to the challenge of 
being a team that a lot of people expect to struggle. The challenge of a new year ·and new goals, I'm excited about that. 
-Christopher Nleskill 

Our Calls 
Football 
OPPONENT: STANFORD WHERE: NOTRE DAME STADIUM WHEN: SATURDAY, OCT. 9, I:30 P.M. 
I Even during the loss to Purdue last weekend, Notre Dame's offense performed very well. Look for Brady Quinn to pass for more than 300 yards and throw three touchdown passes. Stanford is better than most people think, but it doesn't make a difference. The Irish take this one in convincing fashion, 31-20. 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
SPORTS EDITOR 

IAfter a tough loss last week, Notre Dame realizes that Stanford has a much better team than most people know. The Irish are able to find a balance between the run and the pass, and they put enough points on the board to win. Notre Dame 27, Stanford 17. 
MIKEISELIN 
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 

KEYTOTHE GAME: 
Taking it one game at a time 
Notre Dame has to stay focused on the task at hand. After losing by a field goal to No. I USC two weeks ago and demolishing Washington last weekend, Stanford has proven that they are not a pushover. If Notre Dame does not take the Cardinal seriously, they could find themselves in another BYU situation. 

Women's Soccer (11-0-0): The women's soccer team remained perfect over the weekend, defeating No. 20 West Virginia, 3-1. Senior Melissa Tan­
. credi was named the Big East Conference Defender of the Week for the third time this season, and junior Katie Thorlakson scored her 10th goal ofthe season against West Virgina, making her the second-leading scorer in the country. The team looks to continue its dominance as it takes on Big East rivals Villanova, Georgetown and Boston College. The next game for the Irish is Fri, Oct. 8, at Villanova. 
Men's Soccer (6-1-2): After a 1-0 overtime victory against No. 12 Boston College on Fri, Oct. 1, the No. 14 Notre Dame men's soccer team is in contention for the conference title for the second straight year. Sophomore Justin Mc­Geeney scored the game-winning goal against the BC Eagles. The previous week, McGeeney was named Big East Offensive Player of the ·week. At 7 p.m. on Thu, Oct. 7, the team plays Pittsburgh at Alumni Field. D 

07 OCTOBER 2004 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 31 




Scholastic takes a look at three 







Aesthetic and Athletic 
Notre Dame athletes who 
have a passion for both sports 


CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
The University of Notre Dame is a school that constantly has rede­fined itself. Established in 1842 by the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. and the Congregation of the Holy Cross, the university's founding mission was to deliver a quality, higher-level education to young, Catholic men. By 1887, Notre Dame had found its niche as an athletic school. That year, Notre Dame opened its first sports pro­


and the arts 
This year, Notre Dame's art and design programs did not make it into the top na­tional rankings, as published by U.S. News &World Report, National Doctoral Survey Program andthe Gourman Report. With the addition of the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, Notre Dame hopes to improve future rank­ings. The university hopes to compete for prospective art students against such 
ments. However, many believe that arts and athletics can coexist and thrive. "I don't think that sports and arts neces­sarily hinder each other, even though many people who are in the arts aren't exactly athletic people," sophomore Mike Peterson a Film, Television, and Theatre major and NDTVproducer, says. "I think it would be easier for the university to be specialized in one field, but it's great that Notre Dame has 

grams and played its All the time, people ask me, "Why do you do this?" the ability to excel in 
first football game so many ways. I think against Michigan. -Lisa Lombardi, fourth-year architecture student it's pretty much true 
Another redefini­tion occurred in 
1972 when the uni­versity became coeducational, after which Notre Dame took steps to initiate its first women's athletic teams. 
With both athletic and academic stan­dards improving, the time came for the university to redefine itself in yet another way, and that has happened this year with the revitalization of Notre Dame's art programs and departments. 
and member of the women's lacrosse team 
recognized programs as those at North­western University. 
As Notre Dame continues to improve and expand its arts programs, a new chal­lenge arises; the university must find a way to balance the two seemingly oppo­site programs of arts and athletics. Some may question the feasibility ofsustaining two strong, though conflicting, depart-of the people I know 
in FTT and NDTV 
that we are interested in the arts, but are as hardcore as anyone -about Notre Dame sports." 
Peterson is not the only student excited about both the arts and athletics; many others share this dual interest. Among those interested are several student-ath­letes who are succeeding in both varsity athletics and artistic concentrations. In fact, there are few sports teams that do 


32 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 

---------------------il@:si!.fii==lmi•)l!i'.a.ri,'i~i:iilitili:sPORTS 1-----------------------, 

Blueprints and BlueWat.er 
Jon Kelly balances water polo and an architecture major 
not have at least one member pursuing an art degree. 
Forest Walton ('04) was one student who successfully balanced arts and athletics as an architecture major and member of the Notre Dame fencing team. After spending his junior year studying in Rome, Walton returned to N otr'e Dame and won a national cham-
MIKECOYNE 
Being a student at Notre Dame is no easy task. Being a student-athlete and being enrolled in one of the university's most rigor­ous majors is a daunting task. Sophomore Jon Kelly eagerly takes on this challenge. Kelly plays water polo and is a student in the university's challenging five-year architecture program. Kelly has known since he was seven years old that he wanted to study architecture. He re­calls that he enjoyed drawing pictures offuturistic buildings, space ships and roller coast­ers. Kelly also admits,"Legos helped the. process." While architecture at Notre Dame · is a bit more complicated than 
to training for the water polo team. 
TWOTYPES OF PRACTICE Kelly spends.hours drafting each week in addition 
kids' toys, Kelly's skills and de­sire to be an architect have been strengthened by the challenge. 
A large part ofthe architecture sched­ule involves studying architectural history, and Kelly, like all architecture majors, will spend his entire junior year in Rome studying the city's classic works of architecture. He looks forward to going and believes that "classical architecture in its proper setting will offer so much to our education as clas­sical architects in the modern world." As a sixth-grader in California, Kelly was introduced to water polo, a sport with which many people are unfamiliar. In California, however, water polo is a very popular sport, and Kelly thrived in the competitive environment. It will be difficult for him to continue playing while he is busy studying abroad, but he hopes to join a club team in Rome. This fall, Kelly will practice more than eight hours every week and will have tournaments every other :weekend. His workload is also heavy in architecture. He pionship in fencing, while earning All­American honors. 
Junior Erika Bohn is both the goalie for the women's soccer team and a design major. She performs well both on and off the field; her high grade-point average earned Bohn Academic All-American consideration, and last month she led her team to a No. 1 ranking. 

The following pages will highlight other students who are successfully bal­ancing art and athletics. 
The university hopes that new facili­ties like the PAC will not only draw more artistically-inclined students to Notre Dame, but also will foster in current students an appreciation for the arts that rivals their love of athletics. . 
has already had projects that have taken 50-70 hours to complete. He adds, "Most of us [ar­chitecture students] wind up pulling more all-nighters than we can recount." 
Almost everyone at Notre Dame must manage extra-cur­ricular activities and school work, and Kelly 
{~'.~:~j! [;e:ot~~tf;:;e~~u:~~: 





}:,J:t ?o::;7i~;;c;~:: 
ing himself -sleep sometimes takes third place to school work
· 
and extra-curriculars. 

Kelly's advice for other students is to prioritize. "Make sure that academics comes first, but there is definitely a way to do both [ athletics and school work] and have plenty offree time to enjoy all that college is about," he says. "Notre Dame is a great university to be involved in, so do not limit yourself to academics and athletics. Do not be afraid to get out and help the community and be involved in dorm events. I do not think that there is a limit to what this university can offer an individual." . 
07 OCTOBER 2004 SCH0IASTICSPORTS 33 ' . ' 
-, ____ ~---------...:-~-~~-•-----~ 


A Dashing Designer 
Olympic trialist Selim Nurudeem is --passionate about his industrial design major 
MIKEISELIN
The track is not the only place medical school. Nurudeem says, "I came where hurdler senior Selim Nu­in thinking I was going to go pre-med. rudeem has excelled. He is also And the only reason I went pre-med was 
an extremely talented industrial design because my older sister is in med school major. and my dad is a doctor, so I felt like I had 
As a freshman, Nurudeem began tak­to do that." ing classes toward a pre-professional He says he didn't know industrial de­degree with the aim of continuing on to sign was an option until his sophomore 

NO HURDLETOO HIGH Nurudeem has succeeded both as a hurdler and an industrial designer at Notre Dame. 
year. But it was not until his junior year 
that Nurude·em declared the industrial· 
design major.In the short time since then, 
he has had a lot ofsuccess. Nurudeem says 
he decided to make the switch because 
"one of my passions is drawing. When 
I come up with the shape ofsomething, 
and then I have to put it on paper, that's 
the part that I really enjoy." 

While many believe industrial design . is part of the engineering major, it is ac-.. • tually an art major. Nurudeem describes .. 
it as "everything designed except for architecture." This can include design­.ing everything from household products. -such as brooms and refrigerators~ to clothing to cars and even video game 
characters. 
Because it encompasses such a broad 
range of design, industrial design boasts 
a myriad of career options. Currently, 
Nurudeem's primary interests are in de­
signing athletic apparel and video game 
characters. However, Nurudeem is un­
sure of what career path he will follow 
after he graduates in May. 
Nurudeem also has considered becom­
ing a professional athlete after he gradu­
ates from Notre Dame. As a member of 
the men's track and field team, he has met 
much success. 
In the past three years, Nurudeem has 
excelled in the 110-meter hurdles dur­
ing the outdoor season, as well as both 
the 4x400-meter relay and the 60-meter 
hurdles during the indoor season. Nu­
rudeem has won two consecutive Big East 


34 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
07 OCTOBER 2004 


titles in the 110-meter hurdles. 
Notably, Nurudeem also competed'in this event at the 2004 Olympic Trials and placed 24th. Nurudeem felt he was not as prepared as he could have been fqr the event because he. was notified only two or three weeks prior to the trials that he would be competing. Nonetheless, Nu­rudeem believes he gained some invalu-
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
Senior Lisa Lombardi, a midfielder for the women's. lacrosse team, red-shirted last year to study in Rome with Notre Dame's architecture program. After spending the year work­ing under the shadow of the Pantheon, Lombardi returned to an almost entirely new team; two classes ofathletes had en­tered Notre Dame since the last game Lombardi had played. Although it was difficult to return to a changed team, her year away from lacrosse seems to have served Lombardi well. The year abroad gave Lombardi the chance to bond with her studio-mates. She was unable to do so during her freshman and sophomore years, when able experience at the meet. 

Balancing his major and his athletic in­volvement has been difficult. Nurudeem says he spends 10-15 hours a week at prac­tice; 10-15 hours a week in the studio; and 12-15 hours a week in class. With this schedule, time management is im­portant for Nurudeem. "I am really pas­sionate about track and about my major, 

.. -From a Little Rubber Ball to Bond Hall 

Fourth-year architecture major Lisa Lombardi is a member of the women's lacrosse team 
she spent more time shuttling between 
practice and studio than establishing 
friendships. "In Rome, everyone really 
got to know me. Before that, I was really 
just known as 'lacrosse girl,"' she says. 
The year in Rome also solidified 

Lombardi's career choice. "If I didn't 
know for sure that this was what I want 
to do, I would probablynotstill be doing 
it," she says. "Rome really was proof that 
I have the best of both worlds. For a year, 
I really got the chance to focus on school 
and· got immersed in a different culture 
and got to see things that we only got to 
see in slides before. It really was the best 
year of my life." 
While in Rome, Lombardi worked on 

a number of urban-development proj­
ects, including one in the small Italian 
town of Orvieto. Lombardi collaborated 
with her classmates to design a parking 
lot for an Orvieto business that reflected 
the town's architectural scheme. 
Lombardi returned to Notre Dame 

this fall not only as a fourth-year archi­
tecture student, but also as a key figui;e 
on the women's lacrosse team. Conse­
quently, she had to re-adjust to balanc­
ing arts and athletics. Always flexible, 
though, Lombardi seems to have had 
no trouble getting back into the swing 
of things. "You feel like you really never 
left," she says. 
In order to fulfill her responsibilities to 

both her team and her demanding major, 
Lombardi often has to take her workload 
on the road. Because fourth-year archi­
tecture students are allowed to draft on computers, Lombardi brings her laptop . · to away games to draft while away from 
the studio, which lightens the amount of 
work she must do in Bond Hall. Some­
times unavoidable conflicts arise in 

ANYTHING BUT "LAX" When not practicing, Lombardi spends much of her time working in Bond Hall. 
Lombardi's hectic practice and studio schedules, but her coaches and professors are usually very accommodating and will allow her to miss a practice or lecture if it is absolutely necessary. 
Lombardi says, "All the time, people ask me, 'Why do you do this?"' But de­spite comments such as these from fellow students, who also say she is missing out on some aspects of college life while she is drafting in Bond, Lombardi says she is satisfied with her chosen major and her athletic commitment. . so the hardest thing is not the workload; it's just dividing my passion between the two," he says. "Sometimes I want to be a hurdler. I want to be a really good hurdler. Other times I want to be really good at industrial design. So sometimes I feel like one is taking away from the other, and it makes it really hard to put 100 percent into both." · D 
07 OCTOBER 2004  SCHOLASTICSPORTS  35  
.  .  - .  .  .  ..  .  - --~------­ 
!  ' ----­--­ .  -~--­ -­-­ - ---~~­ 







LISTENING 

"Who doesn't enjoy a good man-spooning?" -overheard student 
"Lawns just turn me on like nothing else." -sociology professor 

"There's a kind of libidinal energy that can't be held down. No pun intended." -literature professor 
"Dude, I think there's something wrong with me. I can't feel balance." -student waking up after partying all day 
"I defy you, Purdue! You and your 41 points! I defy you!" -lone ND student cheering during a lull in the Purdue game 
The Game Wasn't Really That Bad,Was It? 
With few opportunities to push 
up students during the Purdue 
· game, band members sent a 
tuba skyward instead. 
I' 
58 Years Ago 
A Building Half-a-Century in the Making? 
The June 21, 1946 commencement issue of Scholastic published the university's plans for several future cam­pus structures, including a proposed fine arts building to address the "pressing need for a larger, more up-to-date auditorium." It sounds like, even then, Washington Hall -an edifice from the late 19th century-was small and outdated. 
Rockne once said at the co11zpletion ofafootball season which saw the Irish named the national champions, that he certainly didn't intend to rest on his la11rels b11t wo11ld contin11e to prog­ress, to moveforward, for unless that is done, he said, what then ocwrs can be only retrogression. That same spirit ofprogress, that same realization of the necessity offurore planning that Rocknefelt has not been weakened or diminished at Notre Dame since his death. The immense and ambitiously conceived b11ild­ing program ofthe University is a plan thoroughly in keeping with that spirit. 
The same issue said that the new "spacious auditorium" would be "capable ofseating the entire student body ... with a moth~ing instinct for fledgling actors to come." Hopefully, the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Per­forming Arts will live up to its age-old expectations. 
-Jennifer Osterhage 

07 OCTOBER 2004 

~SGH01Y>.Sl110 AU-MOR'----------------------, 
,,.-· . ,: 
(~-~

I 
. ,._. ,' i
I .-,--.. ! 
-I 


Debatery Strategery 
A few suggestions for spicing up future presidential debates 



STEVE MATTINGLY 
Before Bush and Kerry faced off in their debate last Thurs­day, their lawyers had established a 32-page set-of-rules that encompassed every conceivable detail of the event. 
Specifications included establishing an exact temperature for the auditorium -presumably to ensure that Kerry's face would not melt or freeze -and an exact location for the candidates' families to sit -probably to keep a certain ex-president from being close enough to whisper answers to his son. 
But in seeking to dramatize the debate as much as possible, the television networks ignored many of these rules, showing can­didate-reaction shots, among other prohibited things. This spiced up the debate for television viewers, but it didn't make it as engaging as it could have been. If the TV stations are going to break the rules, why not go even further and make the debate really exciting? 
To that end, I present the following list of ideas of how to make TV coverage of this Friday's debate in St. Louis more enticing than a Mike Tyson vs. Michael Jackson celebrity box­ing match. Network execs, take note: 
• 
The shots of Bush scowling and pouting last week were good, but more can be done with them. Implement a "George 

W. 
Bush Chimpanzee Watch" to capture both outstanding still-shots and brief video-clips of the many instances when the President bears a remarkable resemblance to our closest relative in the animal kingdom, Pan troglodytes. The photos and clips can then be shown during the most boring stretches of Kerry-speak with voice-overs from a prominent zoologist or paleontologist who explains, as the chimp-like images flash across the screen, how we humans share up to 99 percent of our DNA with chimpanzees, but Mr. Bush may share even more. 

• 
In the interest of impartiality, implement the "Kerry Face-Melting Botox-Watch." Fix a powerful zoom-lens on Senator Kerry's face in order to observe how portions of his face actually thaw, melt and resettle throughout the course of the debate. Hire famed football commentator John Madden to use a telestrator to point out this remarkable phenomenon and make insightful comments like, "Now here's a guy who, when he sweats, looks like he's made out of the same stuff as Stretch Armstrong!" 

• 
Prior to the debate, ask the Kerry campaign for permis­sion to film several brief clips of the candidate, decked out in Sylvester Stallone's Rambo gear, sprinting through a jungle and firing offrounds ofmachine gun ammo, all the while looking as tough as possible. It won't be difficult to obtain the consent 


of Kerry's team, which -according to anonymous sources 
-wishes it had concocted this idea before the Democratic Con­vention. These film clips can then be shown whenever Kerry is speaking about his service in Vietnam. The juxtaposition of Kerry's voice with the image of him shirtless, snarling and toting a machine gun should be quite dramatic. 
• 
Install a secret camera to monitor both candidates' note­pads. This will give the viewer an unprecedented glimpse into the thought processes of the candidates and will allow everyone to find out, once and for all, whether Bush is actually taking notes, or ifhe is simply drawing blue ducks and writing things like, "Kerry= flip-flopping butthead," and, "My daddy could kick your daddy's ass!" 

• 
Assemble an in-studio choral group to sing catchy tunes and jingles. The possibilities for this chorus are endless, but I have a couple ofsimple suggestions. Whenever Bush calls Kerry a "flip-flopper," have the group immediately sing a chorus of, 


"He's a flip-flopping, flip-flopping fool!" Whenever Kerry says, 
"I learned in Vietnam ... ," have the tenors and altos immediately chirp, "In Vietnam! InVietnam!" This will add a lively musical spirit to the debate that was missing from last week's coverage, and it will lend even greater emphasis to those points that the candidates are already ramming down everyone's throats. 
• 
Everyone knows about "Bushisms" -those curious little mistakes our president often makes while speaking in his na­tive Texan tongue. But only on television can the collection be updated in real-time, with live analysis of the blunders. Start a new segment entitled "The George W. Bush Word ofthe Day" to highlight whatever new word Bush learns from his advisors, which he will promptly mispronounce and use incorrectly. Have an English teacher immediately comment on the mistake and explain how the word should be used properly. This segment will appeal t~grammar teachers all over the country, who will require their students to watch your network's coverage. Last week's debate, for example, would have served as an excellent teaching tool for illustrating how an enemy cannot "fight vociferously." 

• 
Lobby to have the podiums moved closer to each other, in order to increase the probability of a Bush-Kerry brawl. Both sets ofadvisors could agree to this, since they will both be con­fident in their candidate's ability to physically dominate his foe. It should be a great fight, and the result will likely determine which way the vote will swing, garnering substantial publicity for your network. 


That's all I have for now. I hope everyone enjoys the debate on Friday. Until then, I'll be "fighting vociferously" to ensure that some network utilizes my ideas to make the debate all it can be. D 
37 SCHOLASTICHUMOR 07 OCTOBER 2004 



;l'.SG!'.:101.:'ASTIG f:!0M..OJf1-----------------------, 

Enjoying the Finer Things in Life 

As long as those things don't suck 
MIKEHEALY 
While I'm sure many ofyou view me simply as a cigar­chomping, brawling, womanizing hero to the com­mon man, I also have another, more sensitive side 
that many.are not aware of. Just know, however, that when I say 
"sensitive," I don't mean it in the way you would use to describe the kid who sits by himself at recess; I'm referring to the kind ofsensitivity that makes girls want to hook up with you. 
Yes, I possess many unexpected, emotional, almost effemi­nate interests. I own two Boyz II Men CDs and several collared shirts, and I often pretend I'm interested in what others have to say. These burgeoning traits of compassion did not appear magically, but have been fostered lov­ingly over the years by an above-casual, almost semi-passionate interest in the Arts. 
Please note that I use the word "Arts" with a capital "A." This is because I am referring to the Arts proper, a cornu­copia of expressive delights. For many of us, the term "art" is too narrowly defined. It was not until recently that I came to understand that art is much more than fancy paintings and black and white pictures ofnaked girls. 
Too often, the public at large erro­neously restricts its perception of art to only a few mediums. Little do they realize that true beauty can be found in nearly every avenue of human expres­sion. If one looks closely enough, the exquisite splendor of a Van Gogh mas­terpiece can effortlessly be matched by a harmoniously composed symphony, or a tortured cinematic sequence fea­turing a naked woman, provided that it is in black and white. 
Art even can be found in the world around us, such as in the dignified determination of an old man as he stoically trudges through an unrelenting snowstorm, or in the anguished tears of that .same old man after I pelt him in the side of the head with a snowball. (Don't judge me, I'm an artist.) 
That being said, I do believe that there are many unnecessary excesses (the worst kind ofexcesses) undertaken in the name of art. Too often, senseless acts are performed in an extravagant fashion and termed as "art" in an effort to justify unwarranted consumption of time and valuable resources. 
I do not say this as an indictment of true artists who labor meticulously to bring a beautiful respite from our insipid, drab little lives, but instead offer this as a condemnation of those who feel that just because something is out-of-the-ordinary, it is art. Usually, the perpetrators ofthis offense are sad, insecure people with strange, made-up names, like Pons or Kenton. But every so often, a sizeable portion ofthe general public is fooled by a grand ruse of this order. 
The most glaring example of this "simply-stupid-but-con­sidered-art-for-some-reason" phenomenon that comes to mind is the commercial success of the jam band Phish. I must confess, I was unaware of the true nature of the "gift" lead singer/grand prophet Trey Anastasio gave to the world until 
last year, when I became friends with a certain Andrew J. Astuno. Astuno was so kind as to subject me to Phish's sup­posed masterpiece: the rock opera known simply as "Gamehenge." 
For those fortunate people unfamiliar with the life-changing experience known as "Gamehenge," allow me to give you a brief synopsis: The "opera" opens with the members of the band screeching the name "Wil-son" into their microphones for roughly three minutes. This is fol­
. lowed by Mr. Anastasia's spoken-word performance about a peaceful people called the "Lizzards," who live in the ·woods and lead their lives as directed by 
· a magical book -that is, until a man named Wilson arrives, tricks the Liz­zards, steals the book and locks it in the highest tower in the land. 

From there, things become truly bi­zarre, focusing -as far as I can gather upon an executioner robot known as · "AC/DC Bag" (I'm serious). AC/DC Bag must tie a magical hummingbird to a pole using nothing more than glue and rubber bands. Thankfully, Mr. Anastasio informs us that the mystical land in which all this occurred still exists, and is known today as Prussia (I apologize if I have misrepresented any aspect of 
"Gamehenge," as I've only been able to sit through it once). 
Now, I am not writing this to discredit Mr.. Anastasio, insult Phish's fans or destroy the morale ofthe ND Ultimate Frisbee Team. I am only trying to illustrate that, while some unconven­tional things may indeed be construed as art, there are other things that are, in fact, just plain stupid.· 
Ofcourse, all this should be taken with a grain ofsalt, because, unlike a topless Elizabeth Hurley, the definition ofart is not some­thing that can be seen in black and white. D 


38 SCHOLASTICHUMOR 07 OCTOBER 2004 



i~~}i;]\~/:: ~·: ;/ 
,-.·. _.,-. r.,. ' . ­
MARIE P. DEBARTOLO

• 
-­
CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
. . .
For a list of upcoming events, visit 

We~11_esday, Od9ber: 1°3 at.8 p.m. ·. ·...
http://performingarts.nd.edu 

'··-··· <:._Lt;t'g~t~n. Co.".ic~rtl:faH, /}: .: ··. 
Once there, you may sign up 

.·• Fad~--is uth~_~hies;; of -P~~ttg~I, ~n~ Mciriz~:i~ ib~ <: ·. . 
for our mailing list to receive 

··• epitome ·of Fcido. Mariza ·is a diva' in the best sense updates to our schedule and 
;: •of.the .w6r~ gnd wh~i, ~he-puts he(persoricilj ·> ./i. ·.iride_lib.le:-siqmp>'on •a.s9rig",she_Jedyes ;g:od_ier:ices .
for advance ticket sales. 

\speUboun~ cincl:breciihless: ·• : ,.', C . ,: ,..:: 
Call 574-631-2800 to order tickets. 








td~t~~ir#z~?';~~~~i.I~~}11 s,,1~~€::c:."· 
The International Studies Program would like to remind students of an upcoming deadline. .. ,· On November 15, 2004, applications are due for the following programs: 
~~---~..,...,--,---~~-~-..,......,..~~~,.,._,-~~-,...,..........,.--..,....----,-...,..,-,....-,-.,-,-.,...,~--,..,.-~....,---~..,--,..--,-~-.,.....-,----,...,.......--,,...-~-......,,
·•· ...·:. 
•.:~·:eer~~.:i~J~?s~2~06 ) ..··.... .•·· ·.· ·,
•-• Ange.rs,: Dublin, Fre¢an.tle,-llonie alid'Toledo: Spring 2006. progr~s . 
··-··· ·-· ····· ··\Londoµ;: Sprfug; :Fail(an.d AII.:Ye~rpi<>grariis · · ·..·· ·· ···. . ·. ·Wasliingtom ::Fall and Spring programs . . 
... . ·.. Berlin: All-V¢ar program .. . . Trhiitjr College I>11hlin . 

(You may still apply to e~rly acceptance for all Spring programs by this deadline.) 



few days ago an English-major friend and I 
were lamenting our heavy workloads when 
he turned to me and shrugged, "Yeah, but at least your work is, like, fun." As an art major, I get this a lot. My friends mention it jovially or longingly, as if to remind me how lucky I am not to be writing essays or taking exams -both of which I do. There's a more derisive version of the comment, though, inwhich "fun" sneakily morphs into "worthless," just by a trick of tone. "What's your major?" "Art studio." (pause) "Oh. Fun." I don't even hear the "Whatare you going to do with that?" question much-I think people assume it's a dead-end inquiry. 
My second major, French, gets a little more respect, but there's certainly not much money or prestige in that either. So, I worry thatthe scholarly disregard for the arts that pervades ourprimary and secondary schools -wherearts funding is consis­tently the first to be cut from tight budgets -also exists at the university level, particularly at Notre Dame, which is, justifiably, not known for its arts 
programs. It's hard to shake 
the misconception thatart 

It's hard to shake the misconcep­
students aren't doing work tion that art students aren't doing thatis asvaluable as thatof work that is as valuable as that of engineers, theologians or engineers, theologians or pre-pro­pre-professionals. 


fessionals. 
Liz McCorry is a senior at Notre Dame, and a studio art and !· French double major. I She hopes to pursue a
i 
career in film or art after graduation. 
; l 
j· 
40 SCHOLASTICFINALWORD 
I 
If the learning goals 
set forth by Notre Dame 

in its mission statement apply to artistic study, this misconception should not persist. (In fact, while the goals do apply quite aptly, I'd argue· their irrelevance would signify _a need for revisions in the goals themselves rather than in artistic study.) These goals ask students to "pursue knovJledge and evaluate its consequences; think critically, abstractly and logically to evaluate and solve problems; integrate new information to formulate principles and the·ories and display an _ openness to different viewpoints; and share the desire for intellectual creativity and the acquisition ofknowledge." Artstudents desire, work toward and meet these goals, 
Ifit's hard to imagine such "intellectual" objec­tives having a connection with the arts, you do not yet need to erase the mental image of a sloppy painter holding a palette and sporting aberet. 
(Please believe me, though; it's got to go at some point.) We in the art department do spend a lot of time dirtying our clothes with chemicals, dyes, clay and paint. Ourprimaryworkis notreading, writing or 'rithmetic, as with most students. The miscon­ception is simply that our sketches, photographs, designs, furnishings, portraits, etc., don't function as well as equations, novels or data analyses to form us into wiser, more knowledgeable, more curious individuals. This is what you can take to the curb. 
Never before inhistory have people been so bom­barded with images; television, film, photographs and computer graphics are everywhere we turn. At the same time, the majorityofus go through school without learning how to process or value such im­ages. Our art professors provide us with tools to bridge this huge gap. We learn to be critical ofwhat we see, whether it be a mosaic on a 12th-century cathedral or a presidential debate onTY. Thevalue ofartlies notjustinits ability to help us understand what we see, but to change how we see. 
The artist's gift is the ability to use the visual to understand and expose beauty, truth and wisdom -which can present itself in the gruesome, the sparse, the silly, the bold, the intimate, the grand; the deformed, the geometric, the hidden. Students in all fields can apply their particular study to this rather idealistic end. I am not calling for an eleva­tion ofthevalue ofthe arts above all other academic pursuits, but rather the recognition that its value is on a par with them. · 
Contemporary artistic study places a profound emphasis on process as opposed to product. This is sort of the mathematical equivalent of having the wrong answer and getting points for showing correct work, or writing several drafts ofthe same essay. The work ofartists at Notre Dame is a work in progress. It is cpnsistently better than it was 10 years ago, and is capable of continuing to mature with dedication and support from faculty, students and staff. We have a new performing arts center and an incredible opportunity to develop all ofour arts programs. Facilities alone don't make much difference, thoug~. Support the arts by learning their value for yoursel£ When you put together your spring schedule, consider adding a fine arts elective to it. You'll be amazed. It's more than "fun." It's vital. D 
07 OCTOBER 2004 

Thursday, 14th ..•::j


10pm ~a~st~C;om;ic~S:ta:nd:_in~g.::,:Co;m~pe~ti~tio~nr:---=--=--:~---l_/i-'-.;J~~·•~===-::-=··--=·=-i·­
Midnight Brew &View -T eUsual Suspects BRew Thursdays.@ Midnight Friday, 8th Midnight Nightclub w/Live DJ & VleW -r.r-,.~ Saturday 9th Midnight Nightclub w/Live DJ .,;'!i.:Pu;;f:1.t,~ 

' . . . . . . -~ . ­
-~ ~ ~"----'------· ------­


AcoustiCafe 

Every Thursday in La Fortune. Basement l 0:00 PM-12:00 AM all musicians, poets, singers welcome to sign up contact Mike Tallarico Michael.V.Tallarico. l@nd.edu 
Every third Thursday of the month at Legends l 0:00 PM-12:00 AM 
check out SUB.ND.EDU for other great SUB events! brought to you by the student union 
•;•;-,.,.·•.C•;·.> a•••·••I 




