^Winston!
I
WINSTON is the cigarette selected by Capital Airlines to serve passengers aboard the new Viscount.
W
■ I INSTON changed America’s mind about filter smoking! This cigarette gives you real tobacco flavor — the full, rich flavor real smokers want. You know what they say: “Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should!”
Winston also brings you an exclusive filter that really does the job. It filters so effectively that the flavor really comes through to you — smoothly and easily. Have fun — have a Winston!
I
IF
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. W I NSTCN-SALEM. N
Z *
I N E B
N £ B
like a
CIGARETTE
SHOULD
I

WINSTON TASTES GOOD-
*r



S^xok WINSTON
tk	4ot c^cwette!

I
IN NECKWEAR
^GILBERT'S
IN SHIRTS by WILSON BROS. Perfectly tailored, with the NATURAL LOOK. Fine Oxford cloth with button down collar, and button-in-the-back of the collar for neater, trimmer appearance. $4.95
The NATURAL LOOK in neckwear . . . slim, trim . . . in soft charcoal tones with a neat rep stripe. In charcoal tones of red. bine, green, silver or srold. 2.50
In Imported Flannel Trousers
Wonderful, comfortable NATURAL LOOK styling with pleatless front . . . tapered legs . . . belted back. In charcoal tones of imported flannels. $12.50
3
January 13, 1956
4
The Scholastic
trend
BTATURAI. X.OO^E
Now, dressing well is only NATURAL! The new suits are narrower at the shoulders, have narrower lapels, tapered sleeves and trousers ... no pleats in the trousers. Because they're trim-looking, they do so much for you__________are more comfortable to wear. The effect on you is smart. . . and by comparison, every other suit or sport coat you own will seem dated! Come in and see the NATURAL look in suits and sport coats. . . in NATURAL charcoal tones of grey, blue and brown.
NATURAL LOOK SPORT COATS___________________________37.50
NATURAL LOOK SUITS by EAGLE________________________69.50
January 13, 1956
5
0—‘..Ik	-d»v	^*<T—5«l<f—5«le	M»<	'■-.Od—
Why John Gunther reads The Reader’s Digest
"7 am fonti of The Reader's Digest on all sorts of scores, hut mainlv because it altcavs lives up uncompromisingly to being what its name implies—a service to readers. In a dozen languages — Inside Asia, Inside Europe, Inside South America, Inside Africa—it brings readers an invaluable cargo of pleasure, information and encouragement sifted scrupulously and zealously from printed pages all over the world."
John Gunther, author of the current best-seller “Inside Africa”
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 97 Jan. 13, 1956 No. 11
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
PAUL LaFRENIERE
Associate Editor
In January Reader’s Digest don’t miss:
CONDENSATION FROM $3.50 BEST SELLER: “A NIGHT TO REMEMBER.” Hailed as “unsinkable,” the Titanic proudly sailed, carrying the world’s rich and famous. 5 days later—gashed by an iceberg—she sank with 1,502 souls. Here, filled with details never before published, is a gripping account of the world’s most appalling sea disaster.
UNLESS YOU DENY YOURSELF. The prevailing idea of millions today is: “How can I enjoy myself?” Famed author A. J. Cronin shows why nothing of real value can be accomplished without self-discipline; and why the surest path to true success and happiness is in learning to do without.
ARE EUROPEAN STUDENTS SMARTER? In Europe, pupils learn more, work harder, and play less than in America—but fewer get to high school and college. Which system is best? Here’s a chance for you to compare for yourself.
THE FEARSOME ATOMIC SUBMARINE. Here, told for the first time, are the capabilities of the Nautilus, and why atomic submarines will outmode the defense setups of all nations, including our own.
Get January Reader’s Digest at your newsstand today only 25£ 39 articles of lasting interest, including the best from leading magazines and current books, condensed to save your time.
JOHN ADAMS
Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ....News Editor ED JOYCE.......................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN...........Production Manager DAVE KUBAL ...........Assistant News
DAVE THOMPSON.............Assistant Newi^
JAMES McDONALD .......Assistant News JIM O’BRIEN ...............Feature Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN...................Art	Editor
KEN WOODWARD.............Business Manager NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator DAVE DAVIN...............Sports Editor
JOHN GLAVIN........................Assistant	SporU^
JOE NORTON................Assistant Sports
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-ley, Joe Heimoski, Tom Holberg, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, John McMahon, Joe Mocarski, Dave Noland, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon. Joe Schaefer, David Schwartz, Jim Steintrager, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh.
SPORT STAFF: John Barthel, Patrick DeFoe, Robert Early, John Grady, Russell Hopkins, James Langford. Frederick Lavin, Raymond Lescher, James Merz. Brian Moran, Robert Parnell, James Reiher, Edward Rohrbach, James Short, Carl Skiff, Richard Sofranko.
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon, Loran Sheffer.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University ol Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
on THE COVER Artist Dick Navin catchers something of the tenseness that will* seize both Frank Ferguson and the architecture faculty at his thesis judgment.
6
The Scholastic
Zwbuee
£ by William M. Malloy
gristle of life is main theme
Notre Dame has always been the home of young poets. Perhaps this is partly caused by the overwhelming amount of poetic material offered by the life we lead here. Always the poet, G. K. Chesterton, who once visited Notre Dame in general and one of her football games in particular, was so impressed with the spectacle that while he was watching the game he suddenly became very quiet; and his eyes, slightly tearful, had a faraway look in them. He turned to the man sitting next to him and exclaimed, “There, I’ve swallowed my hot dog.”
We must confess that it has been our secret desire to write poetry ever since we had the good fortune to hear Margaret Truman sing “Trees.” This is why Entree has tried to foster interest in this most excellent field and let us explain right now that we are grateful indeed for the many fine poems sent in by Scholastic readers. In return we have a surprise for you. This is to announce our success in publishing our first volume of Poems entitled, “The Gristle of Life,” (Body Press, $3.50). Here is a representative group of poems from the book:
The first thing a poet must learn is a love and respect for nature.
LOVE SONG OF A WHIRLE IG-IG BUG
If I were a bunny, I know just what I’d do.
I’d live a life that’s loose.
I’d hop
And eat
And hop /
And eat
And then, of course, I’d reduce.
But then I’m just an Ig-Ig-Bug
And all I do is spin,
I buzz
And jump
And buzz
And jump
With hardly any time to sin.
Except on Saturday nights.
(I know this last line doesn’t go here too well but bugs have their
faults so I thought you should know about them, the whole truth I mean.)
METECOSMOSMICROMETER
Hold! ashen cosmos
Hail the everlasting Blurb,
Superb. Now let me Suffer heliotropism.
Good Night (see page 13).
We thank thee for Our Freedom
Margaret Mead.
Some of the poems just eat your heart out:
A GUEST
Sitting on her mother’s knee
When she was just a child of three So tender, strong and true;
Or laughing for the sweetest flower Like honey dripping by the hour
When she was only two.
And when she died, she died at four And of her we will see no more, My heart is ever blue.
And for those that prefer something a little more homey:
THE DEATH OF A STUDENT
Bill sat by a lamp, his Leg being devoured by a dog. Sh! not so hard, he Said. He was just a simple Plain student and he Died nice and easy like. But The dog—ah, that’s a different Matter. I think. The dog— . Since he was not the one
That was dead, scratched on a Door to go out, but he Wouldn’t have gone anyway Even if he was asked and He hadn’t been.
We were not above experimenting with some of the modem forms:
(15) eFul
NON-POEM
or (follow the numbers) (1.) Go (2.) ing
(3.) rol
(6.) alone (9.) !
(4.) liNg (7.) So (10.) r
(5.) home (8.)mE (11.) Kitty (14.) AM (13.) Sh (25.) &y2 (12.) (
Or, again in the modem way: c hee r for ol’ not re dame w ake up the e chos cheerin g her name s end the vo
Iley che er on etc
Sometimes poets have difficulty getting the exact word they want:
DILEMMA
I had two dates, ah, yesternight, And couldn’t tell one from the other.
My soul she weeped at such a dread Ta-ta ta peanut-butter.
Out of all the poems this one will be the most popular:
ODE TO LA JAZZ FRID
There are some songs that really vex us	'
And disturbing are some bands That play “The Yellow Rose of Texas,”
Or blow “The Shifting, Whispering Sands.”
However, let us not condemn
All kinds of music and their fans
(Music cannot exist without them) But rather take all worthy hets That all the world will not remem-
Ber men like Kenton and like Getz As failures of a maudlin treat And travel therefore miles by jets
To hear the driving swinging beat And miles to go before I sleep, And miles to go before I sleep.
January 13, 1956
HELICOPTERS
are here to stay
but not to stay put
Like well-coordinated athletes, helicopters really distinguish themselves in motion. Because of their unique ability to move about quickly and surely in close quarters, modern helicopters have earned a remarkable reputation as the world’s most versatile aircraft.
However, like most engineering triumphs today, rotary-winged aircraft present a stimulating challenge for tomorrow.
Certainly a bright future is assured. But the exciting details of that future remain to be discovered and worked out. Since Sikorsky Aircraft is the world’s pioneer helicopter manufacturer, it naturally follows
' that the world looks to Sikorsky for con-
tinued leadership. And to provide the creative engineering abilities such leadership will demand in the future, Sikorsky looks to you.
Obviously, you want to choose your career wisely and well. Today there are countless fields in which you might invest the capital represented by your technical training and talent. It is our belief, though, that few of them can produce the dividends of satisfaction, the rewarding challenge and the possibility of career growth that you will find here. If you will write to Mr. Richard Auten of our Personnel Department, he will gladly tell you more about Sikorsky Aircraft.
IKORSKY AIRCRAFT
ONE OF THE DIVISIONS OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
BRIDGEPORT 1, CONNECTICUT
8
The Scholastic
Viw
dollars
> segregation
Shortly before the Christmas vacation began two Notre Dame seniors walked down to the most local of the beer emporia for a couple of specialties of the house. They pushed through the door and sat down at the bar. “I’ll have a beer,” said one of them as the bartender looked j questioningly at him. “So will I,” said the other, but the bartender only looked at him for a moment and then said, , “I’m sorry', I can’t serve you. My regular customers wouldn’t like it.” The fellow climbed down slowly off the stool and he and his friend started out. The “regular” clientele that was on hand suddenly remembered pressing engagements back at the University and left en masse with them.
A person is led to wonder just what sort of mania afflicts people like this bartender. Over and above the social and moral implications, it seems to me that the man must either be a fool or the relic of a Southern day long gone past. What else can one say about a man who is in business and whose business depends in toto upon university students, friends of the fellow he had denied the right to drink in his bar? Surely he couldn’t have thought the event would go unnoticed and there can be no doubt of his lack-luster intellect if he thought the student body would take his side.
It is within the power of the student body at Notre Dame to close this fellow down, by boycott. But what would this • accomplish? It wouldn’t make the offended senior feel much better nor would it change the bartender’s mind in regard to the basic problem, that of social equality. I have no doubt, however, that a short but total boycott would convince him of the error of his ways in the business world, I but how this would be effected would be a moot point at । best. Perhaps the “regular” reaction to the incident itself has converted him, who knows? And apparently nobody will know until the circumstances again present themselves.
The really significant aspect of the whole matter, it I seems to me, is that this should happen in the dyed-in-the-j wool North which, if one is to believe all the finger-pointing it does at the South, has virtually purged itself of any thought of segregation. At least Southerners can say segregation has been a part of their very culture for generations, but what excuse can the North offer when incidents like this pop up?—J. A.
January 13, 1956
For the past couple of years around this time, a great hue and cry has been raised by a number of campusites because of the fact that the Student Senate was out to pinch their pockets again. It seems that the blankety-blank Senate was asking for another whole dollar to cover the operations of student government for the second semester.
The nerve of those guys! Why, Joe Student had just doled out a buck in September to that crew. Just what were those big-shot senators doing with that dollar. A buck is a buck, and you can’t go throwing them around to some blankety-blank Student Senate to piddle with. Gee, for a dollar you can go into town and see a Jack Palance movie. Or you could buy four packs of king-size Chesterfields. Or, gosh, if you’re lucky to be old enough, you can get four beers (only three, if you like that premium-quality stuff) down at Chester’s.
And another thing. You know what those guys plan to do if you don’t fork over a buck? Yeah, they’re going to bar you from all Student Senate activities during the whole semester. That’s bad enough. But they’re working another deal where you won’t even be able to purchase a bid for your own class dance, if you haven’t paid your Senate fee. Boy, those guys have a lot of crust.
Guess a buck isn’t really too much to pay for a semester, but it’s just the principle of the whole business. That idea of forcing you to pay a buck just to go to your own class prom—why, it must be unconstitutional, or . . . or . . . something. It’s just the principle of the thing.
We don’t think that any of the above “arguments” can hold water. In previous years, about the only gripe of any consequence a fellow could have was that the announcement of the activities fee was poorly timed and/or that the reasons for the tax were poorly publicized. But this year the Senate has had posted on the hall bulletin boards since before the holidays a statement of estimated income and outgo for the semester thus far. If you want a good reason for paying your buck, why not take a look at that statement. The Senate has been conscientious enough to publish it; the least we can do is take the time to go over it.
Representatives from the Senate began collecting dollars this week during registration for the spring semester. With this in mind, the Scholastic has contacted Senate Treasurer Jerry Murphy for the story behind the Senate dollar, which appears elsewhere in this issue.
If you still have qualms about paying up, we suggest you contact the nearest Senate member to answer your questions. Personally, we think it’s a good investment.—P.L.
9
ALL THE PLEASURE COMES THRU

I


FILTER TIP
©A. T. CO.
r
MC^ftN SIZE
Here you have the best in filtered smoking —Filter Tip Tareyton, the filter cigarette that smokes milder, smokes smoother, draws easier... the only one that gives you Activated Charcoal filtration. All the pleasure comes thru... the taste is great!
PRODUCT OF
FILTER TlpTAREYTON
AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
10
The Scholastic
^CtM
KING COLE GRANTS AUDIENCE
TO AB COURTIERS TONIGHT
Bud Dinwiddie Conducts Royal Orchestra in Center; Nursery Rhyme Characters Provide Atmosphere
Fantasy and frolic will be the royal command tonight as 300 Arts and Letters men and their dates dance away the magical hours at “King Cole’s Court.”
The Lou Breese orchestra, directed by
Dr. Fogarty Named To Economics Staff
Dr. Michael Fogarty, a noted English economist, has been appointed a visiting professor of economics at Notre Dame for the spring semester beginning Jan. 30, it was recently announced by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president for academic affairs. Dr. Fogarty is head of the department of industrial relations at University College, Cardiff, South Wales. He is one of several internationally known scholars to join the Notre Dame faculty under the University’s Distinguished Professors Program.
During the spring semester Dr. Fogarty will conduct a graduate seminar comparing the American and British trade union movements. He will also teach one undergraduate economics course in “distributive justice.” It is expected that Dr. Fogarty will give at least two public lectures during his stay at Notre Dame.
Dr. Fogarty has lectured at Oxford University and is the author of several significant studies. In recent years he has specialized in the related areas of economics and urban sociology with special reference to the location of industry and city planning. He has written a book on industrial sociology to be published in the spring and is preparing the manuscript for another book on the West European Christian Democratic movements. Dr. Fogarty is a member of the Royal Economic Society and also is affiliated with a number of other learned groups in Great Britain.
Bandleader Bud Dinwiddie, will furnish the music at the Student Center from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. The Arthur Murray dancers will stage an exhibition during intermission.
Queen for the evening will be Miss Loretta Gallagher, who will be escorted by Phelan Thompson, general chairman of the dance. Miss Gallagher, a resident of Toledo, 0., is a sophomore at Mary Manse College in Toledo, where she is majoring in education.
An added attraction will be the choosing of a Cinderella of the ball. The girl whose foot fits the fabled glass slipper will be Cinderella, and will receive a special prize.
Decorations Chairman Gerry Reed has arranged for live nursery rhyme characters, such as Simple Simon and Little Jack Horner to give atmosphere to the dance. A backdrop of King Cole and His Fiddlers is also planned, in addition to silhouettes of various nursery rhyme characters along the walls of the Center.
In connection with the weekend activities Ed Pistey and his Lettermen will play at the Senate dance, “Winter Wonderland,” to be held at the Student Center tomorrow night from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m.
The weekend will close Sunday morning with a 9 o’clock Mass in Fisher Hall chapel for the ball-goers. Following the Mass, there will be a Communion Breakfast at the Morris Inn. Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the AB College, will celebrate the Mass and will also be guest speaker at the breakfast. Mr. and Mrs. Devere T. Plunkett will also be guests at the breakfast. Mr. Plunkett is assistant dean of the College.
Regular cai' permissions will last until 2 a.m. tomorrow morning.
Other committee chairmen assisting Thompson, in addition to Reed, are: Jim Moran, business manager; Dick Scherer, tickets; Jim Smart, hotels;
MISS LORETTA GALLAGHER
. . . rules King Cole’s Court . . .
Charlie Vandegrift, publicity; Bob Guthrie, refreshments; Jack Bure, entertainment; and John Giavin, Communion breakfast.
Senators Assess Tax For Spring Semester
The Student Senate passed a $1 student tax for the spring semester at its last meeting prior to the Christmas vacation. The tax is being collected during the present registration period.
The tax was arrived at after the Senate found it needed $5000 for the two fiscal periods from Feb. 1 to May 15 and from May 15 to Oct. 1.
Estimated expenses for the second semester are approximately $4000. Some $2000 is necessary for the summer fiscal period to cover bills that come in during that time. Class appropriations will come to $600. This brings the total amount of funds the Senate needs to continue operations to $6600. However there is $1600 cash on hand and accounts receivable which make only the $5000 necessary.
“The biggest loss the Senate will incur during the coming semester will be a $1500 deficit on social activities,” said Jerry Murphy, Senate treasurer. “This plus the class appropriations and the hall fund account for over half of the total amount needed. The students benefit from all of these directly.”
“The Senate will make a strict accounting of all expenditures available to the student body,” Murphy stated.
January 13, 1956
11
Music Department Plans Program Revision Emphasizing Intellectual, Moral Development
A revised music education program designed to provide teachers as well as band, orchestra, and choral directors for the nation’s mushrooming schools will be inaugurated at Notre Dame in September. Liberal arts courses, as contrasted with professional courses in music and education, will constitute more than one-third of the new sequence of studies leading to the degree of Bachelor of Music Education.
According to Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C., head of the Notre Dame department of music, “too much stress has often been placed on techniques and methodology” in the training of music educators with not enough attention to the humanities. To counter this trend, the revised Notre Dame curriculum includes more than fifty semester hours in history, litera-
Top European Scholars Schedule ND Lectures
Two noted European scholars will lecture in the University’s department of philosophy during the spring semester, according to an announcement today by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president for academic affairs. They are Very Rev. Monsignor Louis De Raeymaeker, president of the Institute Superieur de Philosophic at Louvain, Belgium, and Dr. Edward F. Caldin of the department of chemistry at the University of Leeds in England.
Dr. Caldin, author of The Power and Limits of Science, will lecture on “The Philosophy of Science.” Awarded a master’s degree and doctorate by Oxford University, Caldin has lectured in physical chemistry at the University of Leeds since 1945. His special interest in the relationship of science and philosophy will be the basis of his Notre Dame lectures and seminars. Two new books by Dr. Caldin, soon to be published, are Thermodynamics and A Scientist’s Approach to Morality.
Monsignor De Raeymaeker’s lectures on philosophical psychology at Notre Dame will begin after the Easter vacation and continue through the remainder of the semester. The Belgian scholar heads the Institute of Philosophy founded by Cardinal Mercier under the direction of Pope Leo XIII. The president of the Institute continues to be appointed by the Holy Father. Before assuming his present post Monsignor De Raeymaeker was rector of the Grand Seminary at Louvain. Internationally known for his work in metaphysics and psychology, his books include The Philosophy of Being and An Introduction to Philosophy.
ture, philosophy, religion and the social sciences.
“While a baton may prove useful to a teachei- in conducting a musical group,” Father Hager observes, “solid intellectual and moral training in his collegiate years are the best equipment for exercising real leadership in a school or community.” The Notre Dame priest-musician emphasized that this course of studies is designed first “to educate the man” and secondly “to train the musician or music educator.”
Students enrolling in this music education program will select a major area of study in voice or on one particular instrument, Father Hager explained, but they will also receive private instruction on at least one instrument each in the woodwind, brass, string and percussion sections. Instead of visually examining music written for performance by school groups they will read and perform the scores in the classroom, he said. The curriculum includes a sufficient number of academic hours in education to prepare the student for teacher certification in most states.
An unusual feature of the revised music education program will be a four year cyclic course in “Music Literature.” In this course the student will receive training in the recognition, analysis, criticism and performance, when possi-ible, of the great works in every important area of music literature. Similar courses are being offered at two nationally known conservatories, Father Hager said, but the Notre Dame course is believed to be unique among college or university music departments. Father Hager also remarked, music students have been known to receive degrees without being able to recognize, much less comment intelligently on, such familiar works as Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony, The Emperor Concerto or Schubert’s Der Wanderer?
Father Hager stressed that the Notre Dame music department, in addition to the course in music education, will continue to offer courses leading to the conventional bachelor’s and master’s degree. Nearly fifty graduate students, most of them nuns, study for advanced degrees in music during the summer session. In addition to Notre Dame’s 25 music majors, about 250 students each semester take such elective courses as “Music Appreciation,” “Modern Music” and “Opera,” he explained. Majoring in music at Notre Dame, Father Hager said, offers all the advantages and resources of a major, in addition to the special attention and interest of faculty members possible only in a relatively small music department.
<
Ballet Performance Booked For Feb. 3-4
The International Repertory Company and Ballet, Inc., will perform in the University’s Concert and Lecture Series on Feb. 3 and 4.
Last year, the first time that the Company appeared here, it played before a standing-room-only crowd. Both peifformances this year will be held in Washington Hall at 8:15 p.m.
LOIS RUBIN
Prima ballerina to perform here.
The program for this Ballet is: on Feb. 3, Swan Lake, Pas De Deux, Blue Bird, Love Awaits and Village Mazurka; on Feb. 4, Nutcracker Suite, Pas De Deux, Black Swan, Americana—1861 and The Tivo Loves.
Tickets will be $1.50 and $1 for the general public, and $1 and $.75 for students, faculty and staff of the University.
Ticket Sale will take place at the Washington Hall box office Jan. 31, Feb. 1 and 2—from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., and from 3:30 to 7:30 p.m. On Feb. 3 and 4, tickets will be sold from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., and from 3:30 to 8:15 p.m.
MORRIS INN RESERVATIONS
Reservations for the Morris Inn during the June Graduation weekend can be made at 5 p.m. on Jan. 15 at the Inn.
The registration desk will be located in the basement and entrance will be through the south side door of the Inn. The rooms will be alloted on a first come, first served basis.
Upon presentation of an ID card, the seniors will be alloted one room. The name of each senior will be recorded in the event of a cancellation or any other possibility for a room.
12
The Scholastic
Civil Engineers Insure 'White Christmas' As Chalk Dust Flies in Prof. Plumber's Class
Christmas gifts were plentiful around the Notre Dame campus before vacation, but none was more unusual than the one Prof. Raymond B. Plumber, an instructor in the civil engineering department, received from a group of his students. On the last day of class before the big rush homeward, a group of students gathered around Prof. Plumber’s desk while he unwrapped a ribbon-bedecked gift containing a two-foot-long blackboard eraser, bound in an aluminum holder.
The present was a result of several unconscious “hints” the professor gave to his engineering class during the course of several semesters. Prof. Plumber often would attack a dirty blackboard with an eraser in each hand. After he had the board cleaned, he would say to his students in a panting voice, “If you ever come across an eraser that long, (as he gestured) buy it for me!”
Two of his senior civil engineering students, Ben Zajeski and Roy Morris, took these words into consideration. A
Writing Workshops Planned For Summer
The second annual summer workshops in writing will be held at Notre Dame beginning June 18, according to an announcement by Prof. Thomas J. Stritch, director of the program and head of the department of journalism.
The sessions are designed primarily for high school and college faculty members who teach writing, direct school publications, and produce radio and television programs. One and one-half credits for each workshop may be ap
plied toward advanced degrees.
Subjects of the first series of workshops, June 18-July 6 will be “Teaching Students How to Write for School Paper and Yearbook.” “Planning and Writing School Radio and Television Programs,” “Editorial and Critical Writing,” “Writing Fiction” and “Writing and Teaching Poetry.”
From July 9 to 27 workshops in “Designing the School Paper and Yearbook” and “Writing Articles” will be offered as well as a continuation of the earlier sessions on “Fiction,” “Poetry,” and “Editorial and Critical Writing.”
The summer workshops in writing will be conducted by Professors Richard Sul-* livan and John Nims of the department " of English and by Professors Stritch, James Withey, and Edward Fischer of the journalism department.
thorough search of the chalk ledges around the campus produced four regular sized blackboard erasers. Zajeski, whose father is a Chicago contractor, obtained a section of aluminum hand railing. After proper trimming and polishing, the two engineers fitted the erasers into place, making the two-foot gift.
To top off the present, an appropriate inscription had to be engraved on it. Zajeski and Morris gave the matter careful thought, and then took the present to a downtown engraver to do the job.
Prof. Plumber’s eyes widened as he tore the paper from the present and read the inscription. Engraved into the shiny surface was the inscription: “When bigger mistakes are made—the Class of 1956.”
St. Mary's Schedules
Fr. Lauck Art Exhibit
St. Mary’s College has scheduled an exhibit of the sculpturing of Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., in the Art Gallery of the department of art for this week, and continuing through Jan. 31.
One of the more important sculptures by Father Lauck is his oak panel called Playing Cherubim which has been in national exhibitions in the East as well as in regional shows in the Midwest. Another of his larger works is a terra cotta called The Visitation. This work has won several major awards in Indiana Art Shows.
In all, there are seven pieces of Lauck sculpture, as well as a group of sculptures by Mr. John Goethe of Santa Monica, Calif. Father Lauck is presently
“Do not go gentle into that good night.”—Dylan Thomas
teaching sculpture and ceramics in the art department at Notre Dame.
Stanley S. Sessler, head of the department of art, has painted a decorative map for the new library of Buchanan, Mich. The map, a painted panel measuring six by nine feet, illustrates the Buchanan area, and images forth the more important historical events occurring in the area. Research work for the map material was gathered by Walter Hawes.
St. Mary's Sets Feb. 4 Date For Annual Winter Carnival
The annual St. Mary’s Winter Carnival will be held on Feb. 4, General Chairman Genny Meade recently announced. This year the Carnival is to be on a larger scale than ever before. Some two thousand people are expected to attend.
The entertainment will include two shows to be held in St. Angela’s Hall. Among the features of the show will be an octet from the ND Glee Club and the rendition of a number by the Irish Guard.
The dates of freshmen and juniors are requested to arrive in time for the first show at 2 p.m. Dates of sophomores and seniors should arrive at 3 p.m. for the second show.
To accommodate those who don’t attend the show there will be ice skating and games, and cake walks will be played in the Clubhouse. Food also will be sold.
Dinner will be served in the evening and following it will be an ice show on Lake Marian. Then the coronation of Our Lady of Snows will be held.
Concluding the day’s activities will be dancing in the Recreation and Social Hall. Dick Miller and Sugar Foot Stompers will provide the music.
January 13, 1956
13
COACH DRUZE AND WINNER PAT CONWAY
Suspense, then smiles at Gilbert drawing.
Pat Conway Wins Car Awarded by Gilbert's; Radio Bulletin Arouses Winner From Sleep
Pat Conway, a finance major from Rochester, Minn., won the new Studebaker awarded by Gilbert’s Campus Shop on Dec. 16.
The ticket which won the car was received for the purchase of a S-63 Wilson Brothers T-shirt. In all, Pat had ten chances, which amounted to a total purchase of §11.
Since the drawing was held late that Friday afternoon, Pat could not officially receive his prize until Hilton Gramps, manager of the Shop, presented him •with the keys at a public ceremony the next morning.
When the winning ticket was drawn, Pat was asleep in his room, though he had intended to be present. There was only a number on the ticket, so no one knew who the winner was. He had fallen asleep with his radio on. When he awoke, he heard the winning number, 1788, being announced over WSND.
Immediately he got up and hurried ■over to Gilbert’s. It was almost 5 p.m., and the store personnel were beginning to think that perhaps the winner had already left for home. Just then Pat walked in and put his stub on the counter.
The license bureau was already closed, so Al DeCaussemaker, a Gilbert’s salesman, drove him downtown to get a permit to drive the car home, and to pick up the bill of sale.
Together with three other students Pat left that Saturday fox- home. He had called his parents the Thursday before, to tell them which train he was taking. Friday night aftex- the drawing, he called again and told his parents that he was driving home. When his
father asked him: “Who are you coming with,” Pat told him the whole story of how he had won the car. As soon as he got home, he had to repeat the whole story over again to his mother.
Pat has decided to keep the car, because he needs one fox- his summer job, and could not use the family cai- since they live a mile outside of town. Planning to live off-campus next year, Pat also intends to use the car to commute to school.
This is the first time that someone in his family has evei- won anything. Fox- this reason he was ribbed at home as the “Lucky Irishman.”
Over the holidays, Pat put 1,600 miles on his new Commander V8, and is very well satisfied with its performance.
Dean O'Meara Reports On 'Freedom of Inquiry*
No man’s rights are safe unless all men’s rights are respected, according to Dean Joseph O’Meara of the Notre Dame Law School.
“The simple tx-uth is that you have to be fox- the Bill of Hights or not,” Dean O’Meara believes. “You can’t be for the Bill of Rights fox- yourself and youx-friends; it’s all or nothing.”
O’Meara’s views are expressed in “Freedom of Inquix-y Versus Authority” in the Decembex- issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer, a quarterly review published by law students at the University.
Citing several celebrated cases and the opinions of a number of Supreme Court Justices through the years, Dean O’Meara asserts that “the right to criticize the government is no longex- ques
tioned. In our day,” he writes, “the, issue is how fax- men may go in what	,
they say ox- write against public au-	,
thority.”	'
In Dean O’Meara’s opinion, “no form of words can be devised which will tell us in advance where to strike the balance between the contesting claims of authority and freedom.” He insists, however, “that the presumption favors freedom; that the burden of proof—a . 0 heavy burden—rests on him who seeks to hobble freedom of inquii-y and expression; that freedom should have the ' benefit of every doubt.”
“Too often,” Dean O’Meara believes, “free speech is discussed only in tex-ms of the rights of the individual. That is not by any means the whole story. At stake is our collective political birth-x-ight. For it is one of the pre-suppositions of democracy that men will speak " their minds; it is one of the conditions of democracy that all sides of public questions will be heard. Hence it is one ' of the obligations of citizenship to speak out fox- what one believes. Thus, ovex-the years, is error best combated; such , is the democratic thesis.”
Second Semester's Enrollment Dates Set •
Procedure for second-semestex- registration has recently been announced by ' University officials.
Undergraduate students are to pick up certificates indicating settlement of account at the Office of Students’ Accounts until Jan. 18. They are to obtain their class cards at the Office of Academic Affairs until Jan. 25, meal cards _ at the Dining Hall from Jan. 23-28, and 0 laundry cards at the laundry office until Jan. 27.
Registration of new students fox- the spring semester will take i place at the Drill Hall on Saturday, Jan. 28.
The date for payment of the §50 enrollment registration, as preregistration for the fall term, has been changed this year. In the past the fee was paid at the same time that rooms were reserved for the fall term, but in the future, the two will be separated. The §50 pay- 4k ment will be made before the student " signs up fox- a room, from March 5-9 in the Office of Students’ Accounts.
Students who have not paid this fee by March 9 will not have a spot reserved for them in the enrollment quotas for the fall semestex- and will be denied admission in the fall. He will have to re-apply for admission for the February semester.
The resex-vation of campus accommodations, which in the past accompanied - I the transaction of the §50 deposit, will Q' : take place Apx-il 10-20, in accordance L with the official calendar.	-
The Scholastic
Covers, 'Entree,' Features Among Main Gripes; Local Critic Expresses Disgust With Magazine
He fired a Pall Mall and leaned back against the wall. An expression of extreme disgust spread across his countenance. A grant of apathy belched forth £ from his lips.
Dennis Britt, part-time accounting major from Davenport, la., and parttime master critic of the 1955 Scholastic, was discoursing on his favorite gripe—the quality of this year’s student newsmagazine.
Amid the luxury of his suite in Pang-born Hall, Denny was relaxing after a strenuous morning of hearts and class. Needless to say much more time was spent at hearts than in class.
“It’s positively disgusting,” roared Denny in his opening blast, “that, that rag, the Scholastic, has sunk so low!! Why I can actually remember the time back in my youth, as a freshman, when, they had photographs on the cover. Now what do they have, things that look like the footprints of an inebriated hen staggering across St. Mary’s Lake. It’s awful, I tell you, that college students have to look at such nonsense.”
Den shook his head sadly as if to say, “I wish I could get my hands on those morons who publish that rotten magazine.”
Like a flash he leaped from a reclining position and bolted from the room. He hollered over his shoulder as he galloped down the hall, “I’ll be back as soon as I find out what movie is on TV this afternoon. Johnny Mack Brown was on yesterday. Gosh, I hope “Strike It Rich” isn’t over yet.”
About five minutes later Den returned to the room in a rage. He lit another cigarette and slumped back in a chair.
“Wouldn’t you know it, a Charlie Chan picture. And so soon after the holidays. It’s really a nifty one, too, “The Death of Secret Agent X-100Y.” I bet the kiddies will really go for that one.”
Turning his wrath once more upon the Scholastic, Denny said, “That Thanksgiving cover was really neat; W you know, the one with all that brown stuff on it. It looked to me like someone had either stepped on a freshly painted floor with tennis shoes or the artist was scratching his back and drawing at the same time. It scared, me the first time I saw it, but I guess it won’t do too much harm unless the children see it.”
Turning to the content of the book, our local Brooks Atkinson had this to say, “That editorial on “hazing” was uncalled for. How many occasions of fresh-£ men being pestered have there been at Notre Dame since I’ve been here? I bet you could count them on one fingernail. Why should trouble spots like that be:
brought up when the problems of that nature don’t exist here. It was foolish.”
The Entree column was next in line for a whipping. Mellowing a bit by now, and having begun to page through one of the back issues Denny added, “Some of Malloy’s work is entertaining. I especially liked his column in the last issue before the Christmas holidays.”
Upon being told that there was no Entree in the last issue, Denny fiendishly replied, “that’s why I liked it so much. He’ll never write another one that good.”
While on the subject of the Christmas issue, Mr. Britt had this to say, “You know it must have been an artist who drew that cover. The colors blended so very well—bright green and bright blue. It was repulsive. I lost the Christmas spirit for three days after looking at that unintelligible drawing.”
An earlier cover also drew a line of commendation from the genial Mr. Britt. Referring to the Oct. 7 cover of a football player recovering a fumble, Denny said that the figure looked like an “overfed ogre.”
The sports section drew praise from the future C.P.A. “I think that since you have only one issue per week, coverage is as good as could be expected. Most sports is just a rehash of old events anyhow. I would like to see some stories on former players who are now professionals, however.”
Discussing the features section of the Scholastic, the magazine’s most avid fan commented, “The articles on France and the Sikh sightseer were pretty good. But nobody can do a complete job on just one page. The same thing goes with those fiction pieces—although some of them didn’t show me too much. That stuff is for the Juggler, and, I might add, I don’t read the Juggler.”
However, when finally cornered, Denny said somewhat prophetically, “Someday the students will revolt and demand the heads of all Scholastic staff mem-
DOME AWARDS
Sunday night at 7:30 p.m. in the Student Center balloting will be held to determine the recipients of the 1956 Dome awards.
The awards, given each year to four outstanding seniors who have distinguished themselves in extracurricular activities while at Notre Dame, are the highest honors which can be bestowed by the DOME.
Selection of the award-winners ' will be made by a panel representing eight campus organizations.
bers. Then maybe we’ll have a photograph on the cover.”
As a painting shot, Denny answered when asked how thoroughly he read the Scholastic each week, “Oh, I never read it. I just scan the headlines and look at the pictures.”	.
—Charles McKendrick
Semi-Formal Sets Off Mardi Gras Carnival
Chuck Foster and his band open the 1956 Mardi Gras season on campus with the annual Mardi Gras Ball from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Friday, Feb. 10, in the Student Center. Bids for the semi-formal event cost S5.
Saturday evening at 7 p.m. the Mardi
CHUCK FOSTER
Wields baton at Mardi Gras.
Gras Carnival begins in the Drill Hall. It will continue on Monday and Tuesday with a mixer in the Center for students and their dates planned for Sunday.
From the 40 bids submitted, 25 were chosen as booths for the carnival. Games this year will include a variety of dice and card stunts, roulette type games, and at least one novelty idea.
In conjunction with the activities in the Drill Hall, a Bingo game in the Vetville Rec Hall will especially attract people from South Bend on Monday night.
In addition to the drawing for the Buick there will be the drawing of tickets for four Irish Terrier puppies of the Notre Dame mascots. Tickets on the pups will be sold on carnival nights. All money and stubs on the car drawing should be turned in to the hall representatives.
The money system at the carnival will be handled the same as last year with bills being purchased at the dooi'.
January 13, 1956
15
Careful research precedes project.
thesis
by Terry Plunkett
On the afternoon of January 27,w senior Frank Ferguson will walk alone into a large room to face a jury of six faculty members of the school of architecture. Armed only with the knowledge garnered in four years of special schooling, he will defend his thesis before the critical and prying inquisition of the jury.
The thesis, which is the culmination £ of the student’s work and embodies everything learned in the past, must be defended and explained skillfully and the student must exhibit enough architectural savvy to convince the jury that he should graduate. If he fails the crisis, he is doomed to another semester of frantic preparation.
Frank, after spending his freshman year in Geology and taking a summer _. school course, is in his fifth year of schooling. He is one of six hopeful graduates in the school of architecture this fall semester. The average June graduating class is around twenty-five.
He first conceived the idea for his project two summers ago, while at his home in San Diego, California. Due to the appalling lack of Catholic school facilities in that city, Frank realized that a complete design of a church, school, convent, rectory, parish hall, and £ caretaker’s quarters would be practical. Of course, these structures are purely hypothetical and will probably never be built, but everything down to the minute details must be carefully worked out. In reality, however, the plan may never get off the drawing board.
“I asked myself,” said Frank, “What need will this project satisfy? The answer was obvious. The religious motive also made this idea more satisfying, A and provided extra incentive and drive while I was developing the thought.” Typical theses done by other students
Architect Ferguson—thesis-maker.
Long hours at the drawing board . . .
The Scholastic
16
. . . drive Frank to drink!
are on various types of factories and a drugstore.
The initial enigma was to determine the site. Considering such elements as climatic conditions, scenic value, terrain, and general environment of the area, Frank singled out the side of a mountain in San Diego, which presents a panoramic view of the ocean and is backdropped by snow-capped mountains.
Frank nursed his embryo idea for a year. He obtained maps and charts from his city engineer. He checked on the classroom specifications of the San Diego diocese. He investigated the probable number of parishioners, and tried to determine how large the church should be. His germ of an idea, fed on a steady diet of investigation, grew until it had been sufficiently developed to present to the board for approval last September. With this ratification, came a host of suggestions, revisions, and problems.
“I never once thought about dropping the idea,” said Frank, “but now I realize my plans were a little too big, requiring too much time.” Once approved by the board, no basic idea may be altered.
Many times he had wandered off on the wrong track. Frank had entertained notions about basing his designs on the old mission buildings, which are typical of early California. After much book work, he decided that this plan wasn’t feasible, resulting in many wasted hours. The church, which is the most fully developed building, provided another pitfail. Special construction for buildings in earthquake areas • is essential, and this had been overlooked in the planning.
Overcoming these and other frustrations, Frank found time running short
A thousand lines and a hundred hours.
lanuary 13, 1956
17
and the pressure increasing. He constantly consulted Dr. Seeler, the only engineer on the architecture faculty. Fr. Mathis, C.S.C., the local liturgical leader, was conferred with for the liturgical requirements of the church. Other students contributed their observations and ideas. Many worthy ideas have been gleaned from the candid comments of underclassmen.
Twenty plates, which are similar to blueprints, were used in the design. Frank’s idea incorporated the desired emphasis put on the altar by long churches, while eliminating the resulting disadvantage that people encounter when in the distant rear of a long church. This balance was attained by surrounding a free-standing altar on three sides by pews, and placing the choir behind the altar, creating an axial effect with the altar as the hub. In this way, all parishioners are close to the focal point—the altar. Further stress is added to the sanctuary by raising the roof to an eighty-eight foot peak over the altar, thus giving an external appearance of a pyramid with a hexagonal base. A stained glass skylighting filters the sun into a mottled spectrum immediately over the sanctuary.
The rest of the buildings are below the crest of the mountain and rise in semi-circular fashion to the church, making it the dominant structure. In arranging the buildings, many difficulties were encountered. Where should
The hour of decision.
Explanation-defense under way.
the parking lot be put so that it will facilitate both the parish hall and the church? How can the convent and rectory be kept residential in character, yet conform structurally with the ornate church, and still be available to the public?
The church is of wood structure with stone abutments and fourteen have stained glass windows, accommodating 850 people. Electric radiant heating is planned, in view of the warm southern California climate.
From the outside, the major emphasis is on the sanctuary because of the rising peak, while the Baptistry was given the minor emphasis by projecting the sloping roof up and the use of glass.
The inclusion of a “crying room” for young children was seriously considered. Since it tends to segregate the congregation, thus destroying a cardinal Catholic idea of unity, it was dropped. It is easy to see that Catholic tradition was no less important than technical architectural details.
Every thesis has a director, or critic, who is a member of the faculty. Mr. Frank Montana, head of the department of architecture, is directing all six theses this semester. His criticisms and sug-
18
The Scholastic

by Dave Kubal
The door closed behind me and left the sounds of the December streets in another world. The warm room filled with sounds of glasses, people, and slow music filtered through my mind leaving nothing but a vague feeling that I was in a bar. The mirror behind the bar reflected a man with a well tailored grey suit sitting dejectedly holding a drink. The bartender brought me a drink and my change, and tried to start a conversation about the possibilities of a white Christmas, but he received only a nod and returned to a waitress who stood near the end of the bar. The man in the grey suit swept his money into his hand and faded into the world of bells, shoppers, and snow.
The waitress told the bartender how she disliked calf’s liver when she was a child, but now couldn’t live without it. He answered, disinterested, with a smile and dropped a dirty martini glass in a sink of water. He took it out again, and caressed it with a white towel. He then set the glass upside down on a tray, and dropped another one into the water.
I pushed my empty glass forward, and the bartender picked it up, added a shot of whiskey, and mixed it with soda. I took a bill from my pocket, and laid it in front of me.
“Not too busy tonight,” I said.
gestions are invaluable in completing the thesis.
The final details are being completed now. The jury hearing is the last step in a long process. The jury usually consists of four faculty members, an architect from South Bend, and occasionally a member of the Engineering faculty. They search for fresh, but subtle and practical, approaches to the problem. Often a good idea not too well-developed has greater virtue than a poor idea finely detailed.
After graduation, Frank, who is in the Army ROTC, has pledged two years to Uncle Sam. Following his hitch in service, he will acquire further training under an established architect for three years. This will prepare him for a state board examination and a license.
Frank hopes to practice in San Francisco someday. He appreciates the need of further training and said, “After all, part of the job in real life is giving the client what he needs, rather than what he thinks he needs.”
the party
“No, never is before eleven around Christmas time,” he answered back over his shoulder as he rang up the sale. The bartender laid a quarter down, and counted out the rest of the change in bills. “Na, nevei- is. You see, mister,
the people plan to come down earlier, but by the time they have the Christmas cheer at each other’s house it’s pretty late in the evening.”
I said I understood, but I wasn’t thinking about what he said. I was thinking about last Christmas when Loraine was alive, about the Christmas cheer, and the places, like these, we came to after we finished shopping. This Christmas would be different, that’s for sure. Funny how little things that you hear bring back memories. I hadn’t given Loraine a thought in a month. Her death was, let’s see, a year ago next Wednesday. Yeah, Christmas eve, that was one hell of a holiday. It was good we didn’t have any children. What could I have told them? “Sorry, kids,
your mother won’t be able to help you open your presents. She fell down the stairs at Wolf’s party last night, and died.”
The bar-tender put another drink down, and took away the empty glass. And • the funeral—a day before New Year’s Eve, I bet I cried for a week. What the hell, we had been married only nine months. We had gone together* all through college—I had pinned her Christmas of my sophomore year. That was a good Christmas. She was happy then, too, just like last year. We had the tree up, and we were getting dressed for Wolf’s party. Always was a good one, lots of drinks and laughs.
“Com’on Dick, put that martini down, and get dressed, they’re having dinner at seven.”
“Ah, for pete’s sake, Laur, you know they drink for an hour before they sit down.” I went over to the radio and turned it on. “Laur, let’s call, and tell them we can’t come. We’ll spend Christmas eve alone.” I took her into my arms and kissed her.
“Oh, now you smeared my lipstick. Hon, you know we promised them,” she said as she wiped the smudges from her chin. Then she came over to me, and I put my arms around her. “Here, you have it all over your face, they’ll think we were parked someplace if you go into the party like that.” She wiped the marks away, and kissed me on the nose, “We’ll stay home New Year’s,” she whispered. I gave her a little squeeze, and started to get dressed.
* * *
“You want another one, mister?”
“Huh, oh yeah, yeah, might as well.” I pushed the glass to him. “Pretty crowded now isn’t it?” He nodded agreement.
It was crowded that night too. They must have had ten couples there. And as usual, we didn’t stai-t eating until 8:30. Everyone was well plastered by then, and the dinner did nothing to sober us up. An hour later everything stopped with a scream, and the party broke up with the sound of the ambulance siren in their ears.
I put my head down and cried. The bartender rushed over to me. “What’s wrong mister, what the hell’s wrong?” “I’m sorry,” I mumbled, “I did love her. I was just a little drunk. God, I didn’t mean to push her.”
AUTHORS WANTED
Once again, SHOWCASE sends out a plea for creative writing, not necessarily fiction, of all lengths and on all subject matters. Please submit all manuscripts and requests for information to Jim O’Brien in 303 Walsh.
January 13, 1956
19
Lo* &U»PEL
MRIN 8106
Century-old Nucleus for a great university
ND Expansion:
and still it grows
by Paul Coffee
WHICH IS THE NOISIEST hall Oil campus? Right now it’s pretty difficult to say, but last year at this time any Fisher Hall resident would have loudly claimed, over the din of air hammers, a giant power shovel, etc., that there was no doubt about it; his location was the noisiest in ND history. For at that time the area immediately west of Fisher Hall was in the process of change, change from an idle piece of land into the site of Notre Dame’s newest residence hall. Impressive as Pangborn may be, however, its construction was just one part of a vast program of planned expansion for the University, a program which has developed throughout the years and still continues to develop.
The term spirit means much at the University of Notre Dame; we see its influence in many things. Although it is intangible, something that can’t be seen or touched, we can see and touch many of the things it motivates. If by spirit we mean the driving force that brings projects to a successful comple

tion, then it is nowhere more evident than in the results of ND expansion throughout the years.
Ever since 1842 when Father Sorin’s small group converted 60,000 feet of lumber and 250,000 bricks into the building now known as “Old College,” Notre Dame has constantly tried to keep her physical plant at a maximum level.
Unlike many other universities, there has been no large state subsidization, and the University has had to rely on resourcefulness, good business methods, and many generous people in order to build the campus of today.
Perhaps the first major expansion program was the one begun in 1879, after fire had completely destroyed all major buildings on the campus except Sacred Heart Church. The 37 years previous to this disaster had been difficult ones. Notre Dame had just established a small physical plant, when the fire had apparently quenched its growth. The students were nonetheless promised a rebuilt Notre Dame by September.
A huge job lay before the Administra
tion if they were to make good tha^ promise. An appeal went out for aid, for even though the Priests and Brothers were able to bear much of the actual labor themselves, money was necessary for materials and skilled assistance. The results of the appeal were instantaneous. Benefits were held in Chicago, and many private citizens contributed generously—Alexis Coquillard,^ the first ND alumnus, contributed per-W sonally, and organized a fund raising program in South Bend. Several individuals who had never even seen Notre Dame made large personal contributions. In four short months the structure now known as the Administration Building was ready for classes, as promised, thus marking success for the first Notre Dame building program.
Though back on its feet again, thetf University did not stop building. Work on the Administration building had awakened a desire to expand the campus, even though there was little money to do so. The labor costs were greatly minimized, however, by a faculty and administration who made labor their “extra-curricular activity.” Gradually the campus grew, and began to have a semblance to the Notre Dame of today. St. Edward hall was built, as welltf as several other structures of lesser durability, which have not withstood the test of time.
In 1888 the University took a step in expansion that was revolutionary in * American college history. The new edi-tion of Notre Dame living quarters, Sorin Hall, was to have separate rooms for students. Previously, University students had been required to live in common, all in one large dormitory, but now A-the privileged few with high averages W and spotless disciplinary records were to live in a room with only one or two other students. Such luxury was unheard of.
In the early 1900s the building program was somewhat de-emphasized, but in 1922, when Rev. Matthew Walsh became President of the University, building once again was necessary. Due to constant increase in enrollment and limited residence hall accommodations, many students were forced to live in South Bend. Father Walsh immediately A began his program to “bring the students back to the campus.” To make this possible, several halls were built, among them those of the Sophomore quadrangle: Lyons, Howard, and Morrissey. They, being the latest in living quarters, were dubbed the “gold coast.” Due to the increase in campus population a need for a new type of building became evident, so in 1926 Father Walsh called in his architect again, this time to design a University Dining Hall. The a new construction was to consist of two * separate dining areas seating 1100 each, separated by a cafeteria seating 300
20
The Scholastic
1 •people. There was to be a second floor I hall built for special functions with a | capacity of 150. With the approval of j Father Walsh, construction began, and I in a short time the University had a j $750,000 dining hall to add to its collec-I, tion of new buildings.
In 1928, when Father Charles O’Donnell took the reins of the University ' Administration, he had quite a building •standard to live up to, since his predecessor had built over $1,500,000 worth 1 of new Notre Dame. Expansion continued to go on in spite of depression in the United States, with construction of a football stadium in 1929 to replace the rickety stands in Cartier field. Records show that attendance had been as high as 30,000 spectators for one contest at Cartier field, and some sort of facilities •had to be provided before the overcrowded stands led to a tragedy. The new stadium was financed, notably, by i the presale of season boxes before con-ii struction was even started. There were I to be 244 boxes seating six persons each, ! to be sold for amounts ranging from (	$1,250 to $3,000, entitling the owner to
i a 10-year occupancy. In this manner the University achieved an amount of money large enough to begin construction on the stadium in spite of limited ^cash reserves.
As the 1920s had roared with the j sound of residence construction, the thirties witnessed a marked expansion in classroom facilities. 1930 itself set the . pattern with the erection of the Law J . ' Building, and in rapid succession came V . the College of Commerce, an Engineering Building, a Biology Building, and in 1937, to commemorate the man who did so much for Notre Dame, the Rockne ^Memorial Building. A laundry was built, j and an infirmary was provided to take care of the physical needs of the students. More new residence halls were built, notably Alumni and Dillon Halls, erected at a cost of $950,000. Students
Pangbom is an unfinished history of brick.
claimed that if Lyons, Howard, and Morrissey had been the “gold coast” of the twenties, Alumni and Dillon were the “platinum coast.” Notre Dame had become a city, even to the point of having its own Post Office.
With the coming of World War II, expansion operations of the University took a new twist. The Campus was transformed into something resembling a military barracks, since it was practically given over to the U. S. Navy. In order to accommodate these personnel, entire residence halls were given to their use. It was then that the government itself took a hand in Notre Dame expansion with the construction of a Navy Drill Hall at the east end of the campus and a building for ROTC classes at the west end. At w-ar’s end, when a flood
of married veterans was pouring into ND, a need of a different type of student accommodations was obvious. To answer this need, the Government transported 39 prisoner of war barracks to serve as 117 living units for married students^ The University remodeled them at a cost of $36,000, creating a “suburb” to Notre Dame — Vetville.
Perhaps the most significant year in the ND expansion stoi-y, however, was 1947, for in that year all expansion in facilities was formalized under the Notre Dame Foundation. This organization, with Father John Cavanaugh, Past President of the University, as its head, has been entrusted with the privilege of carrying on the spirit of expansion at Notre Dame, a spirit which strives to (Continued on page 35)
by 1897	by 1935	by 1945	by 1955
Main Building ..........1879
Sacred Heart Church ....1871
Log Chapel .............1842
Old College ............1842
Maintenance Shops ......1888
St. Edward’s ...........1881
Sorin ................  1889
Corby ..................1893
Badin ..................1890
Architecture ...........1893
Student Center (Old Science) ..........1890
Washington Hall ........1891
Library .............  1917
Walsh ...............  1909
Huddle ..............  1915
Gymnasium .............1898
Old Chemistry .........1920
Morrissey ...........  1925
Howard ..............  1924
Post Office ...........1931
Lyons .................1925
Dining Hall ...........1927
Dillon ..............  1931
Alumni ................1931
Law .................  1930
Engineering ...........1933
Stadium ...............1930
Commerce...............1932
Heat Plant ............1933
Cavanaugh -------------1936
Zahm ..................1937
Infirmary .............1936
Biology ...............1937
Laundry _______________1934
Heat Power Lab. -------1941
Ave Maria -------------1940
Social Science --------1943
Aeronautical Bldg. ----1945
Drill Hall ____________1943
Fire Station 1946
Farley _________________1947
Nieuwland ______________1952
O’Shaughnessy 1953
Sculpture Studio--------1955
Bus Shelter 1954
Morris Inn -------------1952
Fisher ___,_____________1953
Pangborn _______________1955
Bookstore 1955
Lobund _________________1951
TV Station _____________1955
January 13, 1956
At a Qlatuse
AVON
I Am .4 Camera, (begins tonight for one week); C; Although Julie Harris’ stage portrayal of Sally, a well-bred but amoral English girl (turned immoral in the story), was well done, her acting in the screen version is vapid. The theme is sordid, the script—insipid, and the camera—lousy.	.
COLFAX
Rains of Ranchipur (begins tonight and runs through next Tuesday) ; A-2; in color and CinemaScope, the climatic rains, earthquake, and flood somewhat overshadow the fine acting of a bevy of stars including Lana Turner, Richard Burton, and Joan Caulfield. There are a number of love affairs against the background of mystic India and should help ihake some very fine entertainment.
The Square Jungle (begins next Tuesday); A-2; Tony Curtis, in the role of a boxer, shows himself a good performer in this story of a San Francisco youth who rises to the highest rung of the pugilistic ladder. Three championship fights take place in the course of a story that runs off smoothly except for a few wobbly spots near the end.
GRANADA
Hell On Frisco Bay (Now through next Wednesday) ; Despite the presence of name actors (Alan Ladd and Edward G. Robinson), this blood-and-thunder tale of early rivalries on the West Coast lacks many basic essentials to be classified even as a fair picture. Also, Twenty-Four Hour Alert; A movie short by Jack Webb about air defense. And, Football Highlights of 1955, including Notre Dame versus Michigan State and Navy.
Indian Fighter (starts next Thursday); B; As you can probably guess, the title presages another hackneyed cowboy-indian story. This one is a little better than usual, thanks in small part to Kirk Douglas.
PALACE
At Gunpoint (begins tonight and runs for one week); A-l; A better title would be more suitable for this excellent Western. . Stars like Fred MacMurray, Dorothy Malone, and Walter Brennan, make an exceptional movie out of an old theme. Also playing, The Toughest Man Alive; A-l; Dane Clark masquerades as an infamous smuggler of stolen munitions to other countries, that is, until the real culprit seeks to defend his (dis-) honor and take it out on poor Dane. A mediocre partner for At Gunpoint.
RIVER PARK
Seven Cities of Gold (tonight and tomorrow); A-l; A St. Mary’s benefit. The story of the founding of the first Mission in California. The story is very well done, with accent on action, which includes numerous fights between the Spanish Soldiers and the Indians. Dick Egan, Anthony Quinn, and Rita Moreno have leading roles.
Mogambo (Sunday through Wedesday) ; B; Clark Gable has difficulty choosing between Ava Gardner and Grace Kelly (who wouldn’t). Inasmuch as Miss Kelly is married, he ends up in Ava’s embrace after surviving African gorilla hunts, entrapments (other than those of designing females), and a slight touch of dipsomania. Also, Play girl; B; Shelley Winters finds life in New York too rough and takes to drinking to soothe her nerves. This doesn’t seem to help for in the process she kills her fiance, Barry Sullivan.—Not so hot.
Lone Gun (begins next Thursday); A-l; ’Nother run of mill. And, Purple Plains —likewise.
STATE
Devil Girl from Mars (ends tomorrow); This is another resplendent milestone in a brilliant line of exceedingly interesting and captivating science-fiction movies which
enthrall such highbrow audiences as cai^ be dragged in to see them. Capsule” comment—she should’ve stayed there. Also playing, Southwest Passage; the only attraction aside from Rod Cameron and Joanne Dru is 3-D.
Not As A Stranger (Sunday through Tuesday); B; Bob Mitchum and Oliva de Havilland do a fine job in portraying this recent best-seller on the screen. This is the story of the life of a medicaW student struggling through college and going into practice. Oliva plays his wife, a nurse whom he married for convenience but, after an escapade with Gloria Grahame, actually falls in love with her. Accompanying this, Top Banana; B; a musical comedy headed by Phil Silvers and done very well indeed.—An excellent double feature.
The Farmer's Daughter (WednesdajA and Thursday). An old comedy. Also,” Notorious.
WASHINGTON HALL
Doctor In the House (tomorrow). Not much story, but there are a number of sufficiently humorous anecdotes to redeem this English story of four young medical students who lead a rather riotous existence off the inheritance of one of them.—Reviews by Bob Sedlack. I
Exhibits
THE UNIVERSITY ART GALLERY
O’Shaughnessy Hall is exhibiting Mestrovic’s sculptures and its collection of Peruvian pottery. The Mestrovic exhibit is showing for the last week. The gallery is open week days from 2 to 5.
WSND	(
Tonight: Split-Kick (modern jazz), 8:30. Heaven ’n Earth (music) tomorrow 2:00-3:55. Regular programming terminates Saturday night, January 14th at 12 p.m. and resumes again Monday January 30th. From the 15th through the 29th there will be F.M. music every day continuing through exams.
WNDU
Tonight: High School Basketball, । 7:55. Basketball Scoreboard, 9:30. Bandstand, 9:30. Tomorrow: Grantland Rice Story, 5:00 p.m. Saturday night Dancing Party, 9:40. Sunday: Campus Quiz, 4:00 p.m., Music You Want, 10:30. Weekly, Breakfast Club, 8:00 a.m. Rollin’ Home, 3:05 p.m.
WNDU-TV	|
t Tonight: Celebrity Playhouse at 8:30.	•
Also, Lamplight Theatre, 10:30. Tomorrow: 7:00, Perry Como Show. Sun-^ day: 7:00, Comedy.Hour. 9:30, Sunday Cinema. Weekly, 10:05 Sports Final.
22
The Scholastic
lear: a challenge met
by John Kearns
John Kearns, former Scholastic movie revieiver and sophomore from Ly-gws Hall, here tries his hand at the legitimate theatre and the famous Players Inc. Company. Due to press sched-ides, Kearns was unable to prepare « reviexv of Much Ado About Nothing. Last-minute report by the editor, however, reveals that the play was brilliantly executed, well received, and the Players’ standard uncompromised.
N THEIR performance of King Lear last Sunday, the members of Players Inc. appeared very polished, maintaining the high standards for which their company is known.
King Lear, one of Shakespeare’s more complex works, poses a difficult problem in the presentation, but, on the whole, the Player’s version met this challenge well.
The tragedy of King Lear can be [paced on two levels. On the higher level occurs the tale of Lear himself. He is driven mad by the cruelty of his two daughters to whom he gave his kingdom. Cordelia, the one daughter with love for him, he banishes because she will not proclaim her love publicly, as did her sisters, Goneril and Regan.
The tragedy of the Earl of Gloucester makes up the lower level. His illegitimate son Edmund persuades him that his other son, Edgar, wishes to kill jiim. Edgar is thus forced to leave and Edmund wins the Earl’s favor. Edmund, however, is wholly evil, and he later betrays his father, causing him to have his eyes put out.
Both Lear and Gloucester place their trust in the wrong children, and both are made to suffer by these children. Gloucester’s tragedy is a reflection of Lear’s and it adds to the depth of the play. But Gloucester never attains the stature of Lear, and his tragedy is not so complete.
" The role of Lear is a very difficult one to play. The actor is required at different times to be robust and tender,
proud and pathetic, sane and mad. This part offers great possibilities, but it also demands much from both the lungs and the judgment of the lead.
Perhaps the chief danger of this role is that it can so easily be overdone. It requires a delicate sense of balance on the part of the actor. He should try to
raise his performance to a certain level, but he must not go beyond it.
Dick Sykes, who portrayed Lear, did an admirable job on the whole, but on a few occasions he was guilty of the charge of having overdone his part, particularly in the early portions of the play when he portrayed the bluff, hearty Lear.
However, after Lear’s reversals of fortune, Sykes seemed more suited to the part. His depiction of Lear’s madness was good, especially in the humorous and ironic speeches. And his acting from the time of Lear’s reunion with Cordelia to the play’s end displayed much insight into the meaning of his role. The delivery of Lear’s final speech was particularly moving.
William McGuire, playing the Earl of Gloucester, did not perform with consistency throughout the play. In the early scenes he was very good and seemed to have a feeling for the part, but when Gloucester’s fortunes took a
turn for the worse, McGuire’s acting did also. He did not arouse the sympathy which his part allows, although he did become slightly more effective as Gloucester’s life drew towards its end.
Edmund, Gloucester’s bastard son, was portrayed by Edmund Torrance, who did an excellent job. He appeared to have achieved almost complete identification with his character, and he was consistently evil.
The two other chief evildoers, Goneril and Regan, were ably played by Naomi Vincent and Pat Barnett, respectively. Both were very good, acting with the assurance of veterans, and both captured the essence of their parts, apparently living only to be treacherous.
Henry Sutton did very well as the Earl of Kent, although at first it seemed that he might not. His rebuke of Lear for banishing Cordelia somehow lacked sincerity, but after Kent returned to the King in disguise, his acting soared to a very high plane. His portrayal of the Earl, loyal to the King in spite of the King, was a sensitive one.
The part of Cordelia was taken by Jeanne Davis and in this very important role she succeeded nicely. However, much of her effect was lost on the more distant members of the audience, for she spoke too softly to be heard throughout the theatre. This was rather disappointing, because Cordelia’s reunion with Lear is perhaps the most moving scene of the entire play.
Scranton Mouton turned in an excellent performance as the Fool. He was consistently delightful. As Edgar, Howard Lord gave a sympathetic portrayal, but he seemed a bit too simple when he was tricked by Edmund.
Thom Hitchell and William Starrs, playing the Dukes of Cornwall and Albany were very good especially Starrs. As for the rest of the cast, they all performed most adequately.
After a successful performance such as was put on, one can only say that the players were entitled to the long applause that followed the play. And it is to be hoped that the Players will return again next year.
January 13, 1956
2*
Campus Personalities
he practices his preaching
by John Walsh
hot story, really, but would yo>| mind . . . ? ”
“Sure, Bill, here, get that chair while I clean this off.” He pushes a pile of manuscripts aside, and takes up your story. You don’t believe a word you’ve said about it not being good, it turns out. There are parts here and there that aren’t so hopeless, though, and when you walk out of the room you. realize it, you know what to do tj correct the faults, and have a feeling that all is not lost. In fact you feel pretty good.
He was probably in a hurry to finish correcting the papers he had been working on when you came in, so that he could get home to’ work on his newest novel, or on a book review. But he gladly spared you the time, and will again.
A Favorite of Students
He stands between library bookshelves, idly glancing at titles, authors, searching for a book that looks worth reading. He wears a blue jacket with “Notre Dame” lettered in gold across the back, and his hair is cut short and square. His eyes light on The Dark Continent. He pulls it out of the shelf and riffles through it. “By Richard Sullivan. At South Bend, Indiana.” His lips purse a little, as if to say “Don’t tell me something good came out of South Bend!”
He doesn’t know that for over twenty years now, some very good things have been coming out of South Bend, written by this Mr. Sullivan. Five novels, a book about Notre Dame, a collection of short stories, and a steady stream of book reviews for two of the world’s largest newspapers have emanated from a house on Riverside Drive.
What would surprise him even more is that this Mr. Sullivan is a Professor of English at Notre Dame. Although not a result of the well-known Distinguished Professors program, he is considered a truly distinguished professor by the great majority of his students.
Why? For several reasons. His classes are relaxed, and students are invited to voice their opinions, to the extent that student discussion makes up the greatest part of the class. There is no necessarily right view; each man is entitled to his opinion. Oddly enough, after all the ideas have been aired, most agree with Mr. Sullivan of their own free will. If they don’t, they are respected, not looked on as imbeciles. He makes it a practice to consult with his writing students privately at least once a year, or as many times as the pupil has a problem with a story.
He is a stumpy man, a bit under the
average height, and broad. He gives the impression of weight, but solid weight. Fine brown hair, thinning, and a worn face with sometimes a half frown, sometimes a smile, all combine
A moment to ponder.
to lend an air of quick good humor, yet demand respect.
Picture yourself as a would-be writer, or- one who just enjoys putting stories into words. You have just finished your masterwork, you think, but how to find out if it’s any good? You pull on your parka and head for his office.
. . . You stop, and swing open the door. You enter a room containing six chairs, six desks, and six sets of bookshelves set in six small cubicles. Professors hurry in and out, or sit working. You hesitantly walk back to the last desk on the right side.
“Uh, ’scuse me, Mister Sullivan, I’ve got a little . . . well . . . it’s not such a
His students all respect and admire his brilliance, but to them the essence of Mr. Sullivan is this. The fact that his first concern is for the progress of his pupils. Even though to him most of their efforts must seem poor, or at best mediocre, he treats each piece as a very important work, and though he criticizes, at the same time he builds up^ the youth’s self-respect.	V
Mr. Sullivan was born in Kenosha, Wisconsin, but half of his life has been spent here at Notre Dame; he graduated in 1930, and was married in the Log Chapel two years later. He has taught here since 1936.
His life is so tied to this school, in fact, that four years ago he published a book entitled, simply, Notre Dame, which should be made required reading for every student. In it is contained^ some history, but it is principally the^ feeling of Notre Dame, a beautiful setting down of the University, as it is to every student.
First Published in 1932
His first story was printed in The Midland, a magazine of quality writing published by Mr. John T. Frederick, also a member of the faculty. This was in 1932, and since then Mr. Sullivan’s by-line has appeared in such top-flight^ magazines as The New Yorker, Accent, Cosmopolitan, Commonweal, Catholic World, and the Yale Revieiv, among many, many others.
He received the Golden Book award for 1950 for a collection of short stories entitled The Fresh and Open Sky, and each one of his five novels has received great critical praise. He has been anthologized in Foley’s annual Best Short Stories of the Year, and in the O. Henry Memorial Award Collection.^-His stories have been translated and™ published in several of the foreign languages, amonk them Danish and Italian,
24
The Scholastic
•nd have been published in all parts of the British Empire.
All but one of Mr. Sullivan’s stories take place in the town of Baysweep, a mythical midwestern town, which many say is really Kenosha, Wisconsin, his original birthplace. The books are not about the town itself, but about people, with the town as a seemingly static, but «ctually shifting, moving backdrop. The
-ories are not sequels, but do touch upon one another at various points.

J
Stories About People
The stories all concern what one might think of as trite situations and characters. Summer after Summer tells of the daily life of a young, lower middle-class couple, during the period of .the wife’s second pregnancy. In Dark Continent, a character loses his memory and relearns, rediscovers the world around him. The World of Idella May tells of a self-seeking, totally unrealistic woman who sees herself as a glamourous, movie-magazine heroine. First Citizen concerns a ruthless, acquisitive politician, to whom the worst possible thing in life is mediocrity, and 311 Congress Court tells the story of a family struggling to retain a rambling old ^ouse, which they have occupied for many years.
All may seem rather stereotyped, but they gain life, movement, and great interest in the telling.
For the past two summers, the Journalism Department has sponsored a three-week course called Workshop in Writing, with which he has been associated, teaching the techniques of fictional writing. In the years before ^hat, the School sponsored a one-week •Vriter’s Conference, where, in conjunction with most of the writers before the public eye at present, he exchanged ideas and discussed the more important trends . in story-telling.
A renowned and translated novelist, a widely anthologized short story writer, an accomplished book reviewer, a literary prize winner, all these things are Mister Richard Sullivan, author, Professor Richard Sullivan, teacher. And above all things, he is a product of ^Qotre Dame.
1QUINAS LIBRARY ud BOOK SHOP j We Sell Truth
| New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
NEED A CHEST Bookcase or Record Cabinet? Buy it unpainted—save one-half or more WILLIAMS PAINT CO.
755 South Michigan St., one block north of Gilberts FREE DELIVERY
RUSSIA and the IRON CURTAIN Countries can be in YOUR summer travel plans for 1956
Scandinavia: Russia (4 weeks): Bucharest: Budapest: Vienna: Munich: Paris: London All inclusive: $1930.00
For detailed information write:
Ken Steinbeck, Georgetown University, Washington, D. C.
NOTRE DAME PRESS
announces
Britain Views Our Industrial Relations
by Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C.
This study is based on analysis of over sixty reports of British unionmanagement teams which visited their counterpart industries in the United States. Observations of team members are emphasized and supplemented by personal interviews the author made with team members in England. The book stressed phases of industrial relations the British consider vital factors behind the high rate of American productivity. Pertinent recommendations for British economy are noted. $4.25
AT THE BOOKSTORE
Tuesday and Thursday
T-Koae Steak $1.25
Pork Chops $1.11
These are complete dinners
Flawiigo Restunit
610 N. Michigan o
OPEN SUNDAY
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
January 13, 1956
25
ENGINEERS:
Your future at B&W is in the hands of ENGINEERS ...whatever you choose to do at B&W, you'll do it with ENGINEERS
In every area—from Management through the many diversified activities of The Babcock & Wilcox Company —the emphasis is on engineering. Sales, Manufacturing, Quality Control, Field Erection, Service, Research, Development and Design have Engineers both as their key men and as those who will become key men.
Because of the nature of the company, its integrated products, services and activities, the progress of the individual is not restricted to a special phase of engineering work. This unique approach means that as a part of B&W you will be doing what’s best for you as well as for the company. B&W activities are so broad in scope that there is much to choose from—much to give you the opportunity to make sure that what you’re doing is the “right fit.”
To give you further details on what the future holds for you at B&W, we have prepared a 16-page book with detailed training plan, called “Opportunities With Babcock & Wilcox.” We’d like you to have a copy just merely by writing The Babcock & Wilcox Company, Student Training Department, 161 East 42nd Street, New York 17, N. Y. and asking for “Opportunities.” Or ask your college placement officer for a copy when you talk to him about an interview with B&W representatives who will be on your campus on
Tuesday, February 7
fBABCOCK^ SILCOX
i - _	....
G-740
Parker-Wiaterrowd Inc. TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 17% No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Winterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115’/2-117% No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Consult my campus representative: JOHN E. KUHN, 308 Pangborn
26
The Scholastic
1
9>Uiiil c>C«M
WILDCATS SEEK REVENGE IN FIELDHOUSE
fNo+re Dame Ma+men
Face Miami of Ohio
Tomorrow afternoon, Coach Tom Fallon’s wrestling aggregation will tangle with the visiting representatives from Miami University of Ohio. This will be a grudge match for the Irish matmen, who were victimized by one slim point
IRISH WRESTLING
Chuck Henzy (L.) grunts and groans.
at Miami last year. The contest will take place in the Navy Drill Hall.
_ Capt. Terry Crowley, a junior from Bfemaha, Nebraska and Bob Pivonka, a sophomore from Sterling, Colorado, have proved to be the squad’s backbone in the early battles.
Likely starters tomorrow will be Bud Day, 123 pounds, Bob Calabrese, 130 pounds, Bob Pivonka, 136 pounds, Capt. Terry Crowley, 147 pounds, Chuck Henzy, 157 pounds, John Gavin, 167 pounds, Jack Armstrong, 177 pounds, and Bob Salvino, heavyweight.
Two sophomores, Chuck Henzy from jCleveland, Ohio and Mike Gleason from Clilmore City, Iowa, figure to improve as the season progresses because of their industrious training and conditioning. These men possess one of a good wrestler’s most important qualities—“self discipline”—emphasizes Coach Fallon.
This year’s wrestling unit faces a glaring obstacle of inexperience; sophomores make up more than 60% of the team. On the other hand, Notre Dame’s opponents are often bolstered by experienced veterans.
F The team’s ardent desire to produce a “winner” is perhaps its greatest at-(Continued on page 28)
Cagers Beat Butler as Aubrey Sets Record; DePaul Rallies to Dump Irish in Overtime
By JIM SHORT
The Irish cagers broke even in their first two games of 1956, breezing past Butler 83-69 before dropping an overtime decision to DePaul University 77-74. The split brought Notre Dame’s record to five wins and six losses.
On Monday, Notre Dame will entertain Northwestern’s Wildcats at the Notre Dame fieldhouse. While they have found the going rough in early games, the Chicagoans will be anxious to revenge their 71-61 loss to Notre Dame last month at Evanston.
Capt. Dick Mast, a six feet-165 pound junior, leads the inexperienced Northwestern squad which includes only one senior, Steve Delaney. Mast, a guard, was the most consistent man on last year’s team, starting all 22 games and leading the team in shooting percentage with 110 goals out of 257 attempts for a 42.7 percentage. His best shot is a two-handed jump from 15-25 feet out.
Another man to watch is Gene Lose, a six foot two inch junior who also has a fine jump shot and is an excellent driver. Phil Bromberg, a six foot seven
DE PAUL DUMPS IRISH 77-74 IN OVERTIME BATTLE
Weiman hooks . . .	Aubrey drives, but not enough.
inch junior, and Bill Schulz, who at six feet, eleven inches is the tallest player in Northwestern history, share the center position. Several juniors and sophomores as well as members of last year’s JV squad are battling for the other positions.
Neither the return of John Fannon nor the sparkplugging play of Bob Devine could stop Louisville. The Cardinals pulled it out in overtime, 80-75. Aubrey scored 21 and Smyth 18 for the Irish.
The outcome of the Jan. 4 game with Butler was never in doubt. The Irish jumped off to a quick 14-8 lead early in the first half and were never headed. Lloyd Aubrey, Notre Dame’s six foot, five inch center, led the scoring with a record-breaking 43 points. Late in the second half Aubrey broke the existing Notre Dame individual scoring mark of 35 points jointly held by himself, Jack Stephens, and Joe Bertrand by sinking his fourteenth goal. Altogther Aubrey connected on 16 shots from the floor and added eleven out of 13 foul tries for his 43 total. Bob Plump led the losers with
January 13, 1956
27
;	DICK MAST
:	Wildcat Capt.—Guard . . .
!	■	18 points on three goals and twelve out
i of twelve foul tosses.
A late game rally by the De Paul Demons which brought them even with the tiring Irish courtmen and a clutch overtime performance gave the Chicagoans their second victory on the Notre Dame floor in 26 meetings.
Hitting on 20 out of 47 field goal :	attempts in the first half, the Irish built
i	up a commanding 46-39 half time lead,
i	despite Aubrey’s temporarily leaving
।	the game with four early personals.
|	With less than seven minutes to play,
'	the Irish had increased their lead to
t	68-58. With Ron Sobieszczyk, one third
;	of De Paul’s big three, out of the game
i	on fouls, the Blue and Gold appeared
i	in complete control.
;	Ten straight De Paul points, includ-
|	ing four quickies by Bill Robinzine,
i	however, knotted the score at 68 all.
।	Baskets and fouls were exchanged and
the regulation time ended with the count at 71-71 as an Irish desperation shot missed.
I
i After Bill Weiman and Robinzine had i exchanged baskets in the opening seI	conds of the overtime, the game was
j	scoreless until with one minute remain-
| ing, Robinzine made good a foul toss.
Against the protests of Irish coach Johnny Jordan, the officials ruled Robinzine’s second toss a tip in field goal by Ken Jaksy and De Paul led 76-73. Dick Heise and Jack Bedan each added a foul toss to round out the scoring.
Bob Devine, ND’s sophomore backcourt star from Philadelphia, led the Irish scoring parade with 17 points, 14 coming in the first half. John Smyth and Aubrey, both of whom fouled out, had 16 and 13 respectively. Jaksy with 24 and Robinzine with 25 were high for i De Paul.
Holiday Cage Results
Capturing the Sugar Bowl Tournament in New Orleans for the second consecutive year highlighted a Christmas holiday schedule that saw the Irish eagers break even in their four games.
Smyth scored 88 points in the four games, 48 coming in the two Sugar Bowl games where he was named the most valuable player. Sharing the spotlight in the surging Irish showing were center Lloyd Aubrey and guard Bob Devine. Aubrey scored 80 points in the four games and Devine 69.
First Bow to Gophers
The Irish opened the holiday by bowing to Minnesota 83-75. Behind 34-28 at the half, Notre Dame closed the gap to 75-73 with two minutes remaining only to see some sharp shooting and ball hawking by Gopher Jim Tucker ice the game. Aubrey led the Irish attack with 23 points, followed by Smyth with 21 points and 17 rebounds, and Devine with 16 points.
Julius McCoy proved too much for the Irish, personally guiding Michigan State to an 84-78 victory with his 45 points. Smyth’s jump shot with 36 seconds left tied the game up at 74 each only to see McCoy score eight points in the overtime period. Devine led the Irish scoring with 24 points followed by Smyth’s 19.
Sweep Sugar Bowl
Aubrey’s 35 points against Alabama helped the Irish win the first game in the Sugar Bowl, 86-80. Smyth again helped carry the load with 21 points. The Irish led by only 79-77 with one minute left when two baskets by John McCarthy clinched the victory.
The Irish won the championship the following night by defeating seventhranked Utah 70-65 in an uphill battle all the way. After being down 37-32 at halftime, Smyth, Aubrey, and Devine again went to work and put the Irish ahead for good with three minutes left. Smyth scored 27 points to lead the Irish, followed by Devine with 21, 14 in the second half.
BASKETBALL SCORING
FG FT Pts.
Lloyd Aubrey, c ..... 98	66	262
Bob Devine, g ....... 63	35	161
John Smyth, f ....... 64	30	158
John McCarthy, f..... 37	22	96
Bill Weiman, g ...... 29	14	72
Ed Gleason, g ....... 10	24	44
John Fannon, f ...... 13	5	31
Lee Ayotte, f......... 6	6	15
Jack Bedan, c ........ 3	3	9
Joe Morelli, g ............. 12	4
(includes eleven games)
Wrestling
(Continued from page 27)
tribute. Most of the present unit’s members participated in wrestling here last year when there were no monograms to be won; they even had to pay for their own equipment and travelling expenses.
Mr. Fallon considers this season as a “shakedown cruise” for Notre Dan^ wrestling. Previously, there had been much complaining that Notre Dame did not have enough sports for those who
*
1
WRESTLING TOURNAMENT
The annual Intramural Wrestling Tournament has been scheduled for Feb. 22-25. It will include both Open and Novice divisions with( weight classes ranging from 121 lbs. to heavyweight at ten pound intervals. Awards will be given to winners in each class of the two divisions. Candidates may sign up with Mr. Fallon in the Rockne Memorial. Organized practice workouts will be held with members of rhe varsity wrestling squad helping rhe candidates.
could not participate in football or basketball. Wrestling as a major sport is the answer to that situation.
In the Miami encounter, the Irish will be striving for their second consecutive win on the home mat. Last Saturday, the grunt and groaners soundly thumped the Chicago branch of the University of Illinois by the tune of 24 to 6. Previously, Notre Dame had beaten Findlay and lost to Illinois Tech. g
GLEN LOSE . . . and Forward.
28
The Scholastic
Chicago, Toledo, Irish Lead Kampus Keglers
Following the Christmas vacation the Kampus Keglers are back in full swing again. Chicago, Toledo, Detroit and the Irish clubs are leading in their respective leagues as the new year’s rol-^ng begins.
The Red League is dominated by the Chicago Club. They lead with a 23-9 J record followed by the Industrial Engineers and the California Club. The Windy City boys also hold down the team high for three games as well as for a single encounter. Nicholas Ranieri of the Chicagoans leads in high three games with 531. Californian Tom j^'rowe has the high single game and Jim Trino of the same club holds the league leading average of 161.
The Wednesday Keglers are led by Toledo, with the Chern Engineers and Cleveland Club following in that order. Cleveland also holds top single and triple game honors. The individual high for a three game set belongs to Tom Weigand who rolled 601 and the single game honors are held by Bob Filipiak Jfcdth a 234. Dick Torda’s 172 average paces the league.
In Thursday’s league the Irish “A” Club leads the Wisconsin Club and the Civil Engineers. The Irish also dominate high three and single game totals. Brown is high man for three games with 529 and Bill Fanning holds the single game high with 221, high average is held by William De Bot with 160.
Detroit is far out in front in the ^Blue-Gold League with the Irish Air ©ociety in second and the Wash.-Md.-Va. in third spot. The Villagers however own the high three game score and (Continued on page 31)
Dillon Dominates All-Campus; List Six and Coach on Team
Dillon hall, the 1955 campus football champions, dominated the balloting for the all-campus team by placing six play-g|ers on the 14-man squad picked recently ^at a meeting of the hall coaches. George Strake, also of Dillon, was named coach of the year.
Alumni’s fullback, Jerry Ryan, paced the voting as he was named to the team for the fourth consecutive year.
Ends—Joe Killian, Howard; Ed Sobolewski, Dillon. Tackles—Moore McDonough, Dillon; Charlie Connor, Off-Campus. Guards—Joe Neuhoff, Dillon; Kevin Riley, Badin. Centers—Sam Rizzo, Dillon; John Rodgers, Off-Campus. ©Backs—Dan Castro, Morrissey; Jerry Ryan, Alumni; Billy Thees, Dillon; Bob Costello, Alumni; Tex Tyson, Off-Campus; Bill Maddux, Dillon.
t January 13, 1956
Tankmen Face Xavier U. In Rockne Pool Sunday
The Notre Dame Swimming Club will meet Xavier University of Cincinnati in a swimming meet Sunday at 11 a.m. in the Rockne Memorial.
Capt. Jim Perry, a veteran swimmer, will lead the Xavier team against the Irish. Other members of the squad are George Murphy, breast stroke; Dan DiSalle, backstroke; and Hank Rohs, Don Isphording, Marty Wertz, and Jim Wiggs, free style.
Perry, Rohs, Isphording, and Wiggs will swim in the 400-yard free style relay announced Xavier Coach Rev. Daniel O’Brien, S.J.
A strong Loyola of Chicago team defeated the Irish, 45-39, in a swim meet Tuesday, Dec. 13. Coach Gil Burdick was pleased with the club’s showing as the Irish captured four of the ten firsts.
Mike Regan, the only senior on the club, won the 50-yard and 100-yard free style. Ed Healy took first in the diving and the Irish relay team of Regan, Gene Loveless, Bill Holland, and Paul Kerwin won the 400-yard free style relay.
Fencers Face Titans;
Seeking Third Victory
Notre Dame’s Fencing team will seek its third victory of the season today as they play host to the revenge-seeking
FENCERS OPEN WITH DOUBLE WIN
Indiana and Lawrence Tech fall before Irish blades.
Detroit University Titans in the fencing room of the Fieldhouse. The Titans will be trying to avenge a bitter 14-13 defeat at the hands of the Irish last season which ended a long Detroit winning streak. Irish Coach Walter Langford rates Detroit as “one of the finest teams we will face all year.”
Tomorrow the Irish will host Case Institute and Indiana Tech in a triangular meet which Coach Langford describes as “not too severe a test” for his lancers. The meet will be held on the basketball cour-t and will begin at 1:30 p.m. Following the matches tomorrow, the fencers will remain idle until Feb. 4, when they clash with Iowa and Northwestern at Iowa City.
The Irish Swordsmen, attempting to improve on last year’s 12-3 record, opened the season last Saturday with two impressive victories, defeating Indiana 18-9, and Lawrence Tech 21-6 in a triangular meet here.
Irish Captain Don Tadrowski, the N.C.A.A. Epee Champion last year, won four bouts without a loss to lead the Epeeists.
In Sabre, Frank Dwan and Bob Eich-elman set the pace, each winning three bouts without a loss. Foil was led by Jack Friel, winner of four botits without defeat, aided by Bill Fox, Julio Vizcarrondo, and Joe Blazina who each captured three bouts without a loss. The Foil team won sixteen out of eighteen bouts during the day’s festivities to aid the Irish considerably in their double win.
WINTER SPORTS CARD
By now I believe everyone is over the shock of the Cage Irish winning the Sugar Bowl title. The shock may have passed but the answer to how
they did it will bound around the campus, and other places, for* some time.
any team successfully defended its title.
Their feat was the first time
SMYTH AND AUBREY
It seems they play a different brand of basketball when something novel comes up.
Presently they seem to be back in a little slump. They roared out of New Orleans ready to lick the world. And if poor Butler is the world, then the world they licked. But alas, Butler is just another school. De Paul put the dimmers on the glowing Irish attack last Saturday. And what happened? For
one thing, a few missed foul shots hurt. But most noticeable of all was the way Bob Devine went out of range the second half. At the outset, his mates fed him regularly for a change, when he drove in. But after the intermission, he didn’t get as many chances. And Demon Rosen was watching him like
. . . a demon.
One thing has been added to the locals attack—Smitty is wearing his glasses again. It was around this time last year he donned his specs for games and did a bit better. In the past five games Big John has scored 94 points. He began wearing the glasses in the Sugar Bowl, dumped in 48 points in two nights, and picked up the most valuable player award.
Smyth’s giant friend, Brother Aubrey, has been doing well for himself of late. He has a 23.5 average for twelve games. His scoring against Michigan State dropped his mark a bit but the 43 against Butler boosted him back up there. Should he continue at his present rate, he could break the all-time scoring mark of these premises—506, set by Dick Rosenthal.
* * * *
One thing that grates some people who watch an athletic contest here at Notre Dame is the behavior of the student body. I say “some people” because these actions don’t seem to phase the students themselves. It has been a constant thing—their poor behavior, hardly a credit to any school, especially one that strives to develop the whole man. Last week at the De Paul game the students found folly in riding the officials.
Perhaps some of theii- decisions were touchy—but they were doing their job. They did what they thought right. And the students were all over them like a wet sweat shirt. Near the end of the game the troops started throwing things out on the court. But the officials were not the only ones who received the brunt of our hospitality. The De Paul cheerleaders had a hard time doing their job. I' don’t think they need the money that was tossed at them at the end of the game. Losing a game is no license for the student body, or that portion of the student body who belong in a cage, to behave like boors.
Basketball is not the only time this minority acts up. I say minority because I do not believe it is the whole-student body. But the blame-lies -at all our feet because these few are as much a part of us as the team that represents us on the floor or field. Last fall a favorite phrase of the students was, “Who’s he?” chanted after each opponent was called out in the starting line-up.
We are a group of over five thousand who supposedly come from fairly-well-to do families. Yet we act like we nevei" saw more than the inside of a barn, much less a house. We are supposed to know correct acting. Maybe we do. But we surely don’t show it.
* * * * *
Last week Bill Wightkin was named UP All-Pro offensive tackle. This is very ironical. When Wightkin was a senior at Notre Dame he roomed with a fellow who picked up just about every football honor around—Leon Hart. This year, Wightkin’s roomie was unheralded and unsung. Times change, that’s for sure. D. D.
Jan. 13—Fencing—Detroit at ND.
14—Fencing—Case at ND.
—Wrestling—Miami of Ohio at ND.
16—Basketball—Northwestern at ND.
28—Wrestling—Chicago at Ch0 cago.	'
30—Basketball—Indiana at Bloomington.
Feb. 1—Track—Purdue at ND. 4—Basketball—Loyola at Chicago Stadium.
—Track—Missouri at ND.
—Fencing—Iowa	and North-
westem at Iowa City.
—Wrestling—No. Illinois StaiW Teachers at DeKalb.
7—Basketball—Butler at Indianapolis.
11—Basketball—Navy at Annapolis.
—Track—Michigan State Relays at East Lansing.
—Fencing—Chicago and Wayne at Chicago.
—Wrestling—Western	Illinois
State at Macomb.	'
13—Basketball—Holy Cross at Boston.
14—Basketball—Providence at Providence.
18—Basketball—Purdue at ND.
—Track—National A.A.U. at New York.
—Fencing—Michigan State and Ohio State at ND.
—Wrestling—Eastern Illinois ft State College at ND.
20—Basketball—Marquette at ND.
24—Fencing—Wisconsin and Illinois at Madison (Tentative).
25—Basketball—De Paul at Chicago Stadium. .
—Track—Indiana at ND.
29—Basketball—Marquette at Milwaukee.
—Wrestling—Marquette at Milwaukee.
Mar. 3—Basketball—Bradley at Peoria —Track—C.C.C. at Ypsilanti.
4—Wrestling—Wheaton College at Wheaton.
9—Fencing—Oberlin and Fenn at Cleveland.
10—Track—Milwaukee Relays.
—Fencing—Buffalo and Boston at Buffalo.
16—Track—Cleveland K. of C.
Relays.	(ft
23-24—Fencing—NCAA Fencing Cham- ' pionships at Annapolis.
24—Track—Chicago Relays.
30
The Scholastic
Interhall Results
Interhall basketball goes into the final round of play for this semester next week in the Rockne Memorial. At the termination of this round each team will have played four games and will be seeded according to its won-lost record ^or play in the second semester.
9 There are two leagues, one for the halls and one for the campus clubs. The halls "will play their games in the Rockne Memorial, while the campus clubs will battle it out in the Fieldhouse.
Each league will be composed of an undetermined number of brackets with foui- teams to a bracket. A round robin will be run off in each bracket, the winners competing in a tournament late £n February.
The leagues will not be combined for tournament play, and there will be no championship game between the winners of each league.
This year, as in the past, awards are to be awarded to the teams finishing in the top three positions during the tournament.
Action in the novice handball tournament at the Rockne Memorial has moved ^nto the third round of play. Players who won their first two matches or drew a bye and then defeated their next foe are Joseph Penn, John Diebel, Pete Milos, Dennis O’Brien, Bill Scanlon, Fred Vida, Dan O’Shea, and Tom Mark. Semi-final deadline is Monday and the finals will be played by next Wednesday.
Keglers
" (Continued from page 29)
the Irish Air Society have top one game. Torda holds all the individual marks in the competition with a 587 three game total, 226 single game, and a 185 average.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
ROCCO'S
South Bend’s Original House of Pizza
Still the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes
Special Noon Lunches 11 — 1:30
537 N. St. Louis
Open—11 a.m. — 12 Midnight
=B9BES=aS9S^SESSSH An Hutoric Announcement
to Mutic-Loven. from theDirectonof the MM-Famou, Qncatrf-^
TO INTRODUCE YOU TO AN EXCIT1NQ MUSICAL EXPERIENCE, YOU'RE INVITED TO ACCEPT
10
Not $1 each-but $1 FOR AU UN!
SEND NO MONEY! NO STRINGS ATTACHED!
Even if you never buy another record from us —now or later—you can now obtain all the advantages of a Trial Membership in The Jazztone Society
FEATURING THIS
WHO’S WHO ' IN
COLEMAN HAWKINS
KING OF THE TENOR SAX
Art Tatum
GtNIUS OF UK KtYIOMD
1W srteir OF DIXIELAND* ANO GUITAR
SIDIET HCIIT
NEW ORLEANS' GREATEST SOPRANO SAX
Erroll Garner
WORLD'S MOST POPULAR JAZZ PIANIST
DIZZY GILLISPIE
oazzuNC *ibr ntiMKT
TUBBY WILSGX
DEAN OF “SWING- PIANISTS
PEE WEE RUSSELL
THE CLARINET IN CHICAGO STYlf
JACK TEAGARDEN
MAN WHO HAYS THE BLUR TROMBONE
Charlie Parker
THE FABULOUS “W®- ON ALTO SAX
AND INCLUDING: Rex Stewart. Red Norvo, Albert Nicholas. Flip Phillips. Billy Taylor. Milt Hinton, Sonny Berman, Bill Harris, Serge Chaloff, Ralph Burns, Chuck Wayne, Artic Bernstein, Don Lamond. Fernando Arbelo, Buck Clayton, Sid Catlett, Slam Stewart. Wardell Gray. Howard McGhee. Dodo Marma-rosa. Barney Kessel!, Jo Jones, Bobby Hackett, Bud Freeman, George Wettling, etc., etc.
All IO FOR $I.OO-MA)L COUPON-NO MONEY-NOW!
The Jazztone Society, Dept. UND-10
Please send me the ten high-fidelity long-playing jazz classics listed above. PLUS a free copy of "An Introduction to Jazz.” Also reserve a Trial Membership in my name. After 5 days free trial I will either return these recordings or send only $1 (plus a few cents shipping) as payment in full.
I am not obligated to buy any other recordings from the Society. I am to receive an advance description of future monthly selections. I may try any of these—free of charge— without paying a penny in advance. I may reject any recording, before or after I receive it. And I may cancel my Trial Membership
JAZZ:
TREASURY OF JAZZ PERFORM
0

ENCOMPASSING EVERY JAZZ ERA—
Featariag seek classics as Jeify Roll Kees, HttefucVe Hose, Haste Street Hies, Moon Bams. Helaxin' at CatsariUe. etc,
NOW you can begin to build that library of the "all-time greats" of Jazz—without risking a penny! Simply audition these 10 superb jazz classics for 5 days in your own home. Then, if you decide to keep them, pay NOT $1 each — but $1 for ail ten of them! Here’s a veritable "who’s who” of Jazzdom from Sidney Bechet to the dazzling trumpet of Dizzy Gillespie! Every era, every style; virtually the entire history of jazz can be traced in these selections.
The Finest in Jazz Recordings—Yours at More Than 40% Off the Usual Cost!
Here is why we make this amazing offer: only by hearing these Jazztone Society recordings can you appreciate their technical and artistic excellence, their aim:-ing fidelity. The famous Concert Hall Society gold-sputtered master process, employed in these recordings, assures you of the finest high-fidelity reproduction.
As a Trial Member, you will never be under any obligation to buy any other JAZZTONE SOCIETY recordings—now or ever! You do have the right, however, to try any of the Society’s selections, AFTER receiving an advance description. You are not obligated to keep those you select—even after you’ve listened to them! You pay only for those that you want to keep— at the special Member’s low price of just $2.75, plus a few cents for shipping, for each 12-inch long-playing disc! Each one averaging nearly an hour’s playmg time! A saving of over 40% off their usual retail price!

। gnt tig styles-
Offer Limited— Rush Coupon NOWf
Here’s your chance to be first to own these 10 ’’gems of jazz”—FOR JUST $1— even if you never buy another record from the fazztone Society, If not delighted return your Jazz Classics — pay nothing, owe nothing. This offer may soon be ■withdrawn, so mail the coupon—NO MONEY— without delay!
43 West 61st Street, New York 23, N. Y.
at any time. In the future, for each selection I decide to keep —I will pay the special member’s low price of Just $2.75 plus few cents shipping... a saving of over 40% off their usual retail price!
LIMIT: One sample package per nmoaMr.
Name.
(mass rann)
Address
City.
Zone.. .State..
January 13, 1956
31
Top Pairs Announced In Bridge Tournament
The first monthly Master Point game of the Notre Dame Duplicate Club was held Sunday in the Student Center at 2 p.m. Bernie Dowling and Joe Bihn were the winning paii- in the northsouth position with an average of .619. East-west honors went to John Adams and Bob Blakey with a score of .580.
Other N-S winners were Fletcher Murphy-Gerry Geisler, with .580; Jack Toy-Mike McGahey, with .560; and Jerry Meisels-Hike Heichelheim, with .497. Other high scorers for E-W were Jack Casey-Dick Rupp, with .554; Ron Var-diman-Wilf red Joncas, with .548; and Pat Bradford-Pat Snyder, with .506.
Monthly Master Joint games are sanctioned by the American Contract Bridge League, and master points won have the same value as those won in national or sectional tournaments. Winners are awarded one full master point; second place, one-half master point; third place, one-fourth master point and so on. The next monthly master point game will be on Feb. 12. On other Sundays, fraW tional master points and prizes are awarded winners.
Coming events in February are: the ,i National Intercollegiate Bridge Tourna- 1 ment for campus participation; an Interhall Team-of-Four event; and the Campus Championship later on. Dupli- ! cate sessions are held every Sunday in the Student Center at 2 p.m. All students are invited to take part; there ai^ no membership requirements or dues. *'
r
3
Graduates
AERONAUTICAL, PHTS.CS, CIVIL ’/
electrical, mechanical
and Undergraduates h
company in the industry
xn AIRCRAFT CORPORATION GOODYEAR AIRCRAr	utchfiew part,
• nn Departments in Akron, ’ missiles, guidance The Engineering Wphases of guided Specialists m Arizona, areas& deveyopment of anal°LCareP highly important to systems and ^Vianism circuitry, e • . Oiertronic, electromicrowave, servom^^^ departments req^.“® and aeronautical these operation • y structural, propul ,	departments
mechanical, mec	’ opportunities exis	of simulated
development en^^rS industry in the	bIakeS;
which eater to	radomes estate ^aperture an-
tennasfor ground-based an	Aircraft where new
a-SX5SX--"
activities- Here is	and future plans.
in keeping with yo	SERVICE DIRECTOR
. CONTACT YOUR
Arrange nowcamp» on
^"“ZnESUAT. FEBRUARY «
32
The Scholastic
? a
>	Laves Discusses UNESCO
1	In Lecture Here Recently
Prof. Walter H. C. Laves, chairman of the department of government at Indiana University, spoke here recently on “UNESCO, A Center for Cultural Diplomacy in a Changing World” sponsored by the University’s Committee on international Relations.
' From 1946 to 1950 Dr. Laves served as assistant secretary-general of the United Nations Educational, Social and Cultural Organization. Earlier he par' ticipated in the formation of the UN i and for a time served with the General Assembly as well as the International Labor Organization. He has also been a consultant to the Economic Cooperation Administration and the Mutual ^oecurity Agency.
Among others scheduled to speak in the Notre Dame international relations lecture series are Chester Bowles, former American ambassador to India, and UN Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold.
Ticket Sale Begins Jan. 17-18 For 1956 Marriage Institute
W1 Tickets for the 1956 Marriage Institute lectures will be on sale Jan. 17 and 18 in the Bus Shelter and Dining Hall ' basement. They can be bought on those days in the Bus Shelter from 12 to 2 ' p.m. and in the Dining Hall from 5 to
7 p.m. The lectures are open to seniors only.
The price of tickets is $1. This is for admission to all six lectures of the series. Tickets for individual lectures £.vill not be sold.
This lecture series, sponsored by the Senior Class and the department of religion, will begin in Washington Hall '• on Feb. 2 and will conclude on March 22.
After each lecture there will be a question and answer- period followed by [ a coffee hour in the Student Center, where the seniors may informally meet and talk with the speakers.
fBand Readies for Spring Tour
The Notre Dame concert band, under the direction of Robert F. O’Brien, has begun rehearsals for the annual spring concert tour, which this year will take the organization through 3,000 miles of the Mississippi Valley and Gulf Coast.
About half of the two-week tour has
been booked, according to Band President George Murray. Some of the booked and tentative cities include Memphis, St. Louis, Monroe, La., Dallas, | ^Houston, Corpus Christi, Tex., Tulsa, p ^Okla., and Danville, Ill.
I The band will leave the campus Mar. ।	31 and return Apr. 12.
'1
| January 13, 1956

COOLER SMOKING
WITH ANV PIPE
OThe Right Tobacco
Experts agree white burley is the finest, coolest smoking tobacco of all. For this reason, many pipe tobaccos contain burley. But not one in over 50 years has ever equalled Edgeworth’s way with white burley. Edgeworth tobacco buyers look for a certain type of white burley, grown on well-drained land on sunny hillsides, just like fine wine grapes or fine coffee. Then, like fine wine, these special burleys are aged for years before blending.
A. BITS AND FLAKES burn hot and fast, bite the tongue.
B. FINE CUT SHREDS all right for cigarettes — not so good for pipes.
C. ONLY EDGEWORTH gives you slow burning, cool smoking "chunks"
©The Correct Cut
Many a smoker used to rub a slice of tobacco carefully between his palms, until it formed chunks of just the right size to pack right and smoke cool. Now Edgeworth does all this before the tobacco is packaged. No other tobacco manufacturer can duplicate the Edgeworth cut—because it’s actually “ready-rubbed” by an exclusive process. See in the picture what a difference this makes. Edgeworth’s even-sized chunks (Picture C) bum slow and cool with never a touch of tongue bite. No other tobacco is “ready-rubbed” like this. And tests show that Edgeworth smokes 8 to 10 degrees cooler than other tobaccos tested.
©Factory Freshness.
Edgeworth’s exclusive wraparound pouch is heat-sealed. Moisture can’t get in—proof that freshness can’t get out! And no bulky comers in your pocket. You can always count on Edgeworth, America’s finest pipe tobacco for over 50 years.
LARUS & BROTHER CO., INC RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
EDGEWORTH
America's Coolest Smoke
' 3 ^9 io DEGREES COOLER
AMERICA'S FINEST PIPE TOBACCO
33
Distinguished Professors Niemeyer, de Luna Reunited at University After Long Separation
A German-born political scientist and a Spanish authority on natural law, both recently appointed distinguished professors at Notre Danie, are holding a reunion here after years of separation.
The two scholars whom fate has drawn together for the second time are Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer, now teaching a course in “Communist Ideology” in the Graduate School, and Dr. Antonio de Luna, acting editor of the University’s new Natural Law. Neither knew the other’s whereabouts until Niemeyer spotted his friend’s name among Notre Dame’s faculty appointments for the fall semester.
Their paths crossed the first time in 1933 when Niemeyer and a small group of political scientists fled Nazi Germany and took refuge in Spain. The successful flight from Hitler’s storm-troopers was engineered, to a large extent, by de Luna who welcomed them to the staff of the Institute of International and Economic Studies which he had founded in Madrid.
As Niemeyer conducted research in international law and sociology at the Institute, he and de Luna became friends as well as colleagues. The German scholar recalls how he introduced the British custom of afternoon tea among the Latin scholars. In 1936 Niemeyer left Madrid for what was to be a brief vacation. A week later the Spanish Civil Wai4 erupted, preventing Niemeyer’s return to the Institute and forc-
ing his German colleagues there to leave Spain.
In the intervening years Prof, de Luna continued his teaching and research at the University of Madrid where he has been a faculty member since 1932. A recognized authority on both natural and international law, he is also director of the Institute of Francisco de Vitoria, a center for research in those two fields. During World War II de Luna provided refuge at his Institute for Polish, Hungarian and Flemish scholars. At the invitation of the State Department, de Luna lectured at several leading American Universities during 1954.
Since coming to Notre Dame both Niemeyer and de Luna have formed distinct impressions of the University and its students. Although not a Catholic, Niemeyer says it’s “very easy to fall in love with Notre Dame.” The students at Notre Dame, he says, have an attitude of “respect with affection” toward faculty members that he has not found elsewhere.
Notre Dame Right Size
Prof, de Luna describes Notre Dame as just the right size, “not too small, not too large.” Whereas he lectures to an average of twenty students in a class here, he delivers the principal lectures in international law to more than 1,000 students at the University of Madrid which has an enrollment of 40,000. According to de Luna, Notre Dame students work harder than their counterparts in Europe. He pointed out, however, that the high school preparation of American students is not as good as secondary school training in Europe.
Niemeyer’s graduate course in “Communist Ideology” at Notre Dame is believed to be the only course of its kind offered at an American college or university. His new book, An Inquiry into Soviet Mentality, will be published early in the new year. Dr. de Luna, in addition to conducting a Natural Law Seminar at Notre Dame in association with Judge Roger Kiley of the U. S. Appellate Court of Illinois, is serving as acting editor of the Natural Law Forum, a forthcoming publication of the Notre Dame Law School. It will be the first natural law journal published in English, de Luna says, and will serve as a world-wide clearing house for research, discussion and information on natural law problems.
In the spring, de Luna and his wife plan to return to Spain to visit their six sons and two daughters. Two of the
sons are studying for the priesthood While in 'Spain he hopes to arrange with University of Madrid authorities so that he may return to Notre Dame for an indefinite period.
Niemeyer’s wife and four of his five children are currently living at Greenwich, Conn., until the family home can be established in South Bend. A son, Paul, is living with Niemeyer here ai^ attending John Adams High School.
ND Democrats Drill For Mock Convention
The grass root elements behind Democratic hopefuls Stevenson, Harriman, Russell, Kefauver, Williams, and Lau» sche are beginning to form for the mocS Democratic National Convention on April 16, 17, and 18.
Chairman Bob O’Malley is prepared to receive all interested in supporting any candidate for the Democratic Nomination by making 245 Alumni available as campaign headquarters.
Election of delegates from the 48 states, the territories, and the District of Columbia, will take place on Februarv 19, 1956. Nominations close on Febrilr ary 11. By this time, each candidate should be able to present backers for his election from the various states. Each state will vote as a unit according to the rules of the Democratic Party. A total of 1,126 delegates will be selected by and from the student body. Every Notre Dame student is eligible to be chosen as a delegate or alternate.
This year, the leaders of the Democratic Party have indicated their te£ best issues in the coming campaign. In' a recent poll described in the December issue of the Democratic Digest, the falling farm income was voted the greatest issue. Returns indicated that Democrats considered tax favoritism for the rich, public power giveaways, favoritism in big business, misconduct in government, rising cost of living, small business failures, Republican antilabor policy, inadequate schools, and growth of monopolies as the main issues;, that will bring a Democratic victory. W
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
M2 S. WALNUT
34
The Scholastic
AIR FORCE REPRESENTATIVES
Representatives from the US Air Force will be on campus on Monday and Tuesday in the lobby of the Dining Hall to answer questions about aviation cadet training in the service. They are particularly in-£ terested in seniors, but welcome questions from the entire student body. Information about jet pilot training will also be explained by the visiting officers.
New Books Describe ^Mediaeval School Life
A boy’s education in the Middle Ages included more than book learning, according to Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame. A carefully regulated regime, which stressed such things as the liturgy and the practice of charity, and sought to make education attractive, was designed to develop the boy’s entire personality without, however, sacrificing his ^individuality.
An authority on mediaeval education, Father Gabriel is the author of Student Life in Ave Maria College, Mediaeval Paris, published here recently by the Notre Dame Press. The book provides intimate glimpses into the intellectual, liturgical, administrative and economic life of scholars in fourteenth century Paris. It also provides a wealth of material for economists, students of morals ^.and manners, topographers of mediaeval WParis, and art historians.
4
Covers Every Phase
Ave Maria College, founded in 1336, provided lodging and Christian environment for students between eight and sixteen years of age. The basis of Father Gabriel’s book is the statutes of the college which cover every phase of activity, including the texts to be studied, the kinds and amounts of food and drink sto be served, as well as matters of student dress and recreation. The tech-
i
D*RWTURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
-- EYES EXAMINED ---
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
niques of the modern comic strip artist were employed in the creation of “miniatures” to illustrate many of these regulations and practices of student life in the College Chartulary, believed to be the only document of its kind to have illustrations.
Ten Paintings Given To University Gallery
Ten paintings have been acquired by the University galleries in recent weeks, according to an announcement by curator Paul Byrne. Two of the paintings are modern works while the others are by artists dating back as far as the loth century.
Dr. M. L. Busch of Huntington Park, Calif., is the donor of Ecce Homo by Cornelius Massys, a bust portrait of Christ wearing the crown of thorns, and Descent of the Holy Ghost Upon the Apostles by Justus of Ghent, a 15th century Flemish artist.
Sir Henry Raeburns’ painting, Neil Gow in Highland Dress Playing a Violin has been presented to the University galleries by Mr. and Mrs. David Findlay of New York City. Neil Gow was a famous Scotch composer and violinist.
Kaplans Give Five Works
Five works of art have been donated to the galleries by Morris I. Kaplan and his son, Stuart Kaplan, of Chicago. The paintings presented by the elder Kaplan include View of the Piazetta, Venice by Richard Parkes Bonington; Clement XVI by Anton Raphael Mengs; and Portrait of a Nobleman by Frederigo Zucchero. Stuart Kaplan’s gift includes Sir William Beechey’s George IV and Portrait of a Lady by Bartholomeus van der Heist.
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Kilpatrick Perry of Pelham, N. Y., are the donors of two modern paintings by Amanda de Leon, Boy tvith Dogs and At the Horse Races. These two works augment the galleries’ growing collection of modern art.
Expansion:
(Continued from page 31) provide the best possible physical plant for the student. The Foundation has done an admirable job in the eight years of its existence, as any campus observer can see. New and modern structures, such as the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall, the Morris Inn, Fisher and Pangborn halls, and the Nieuwland Science Building require tremendous financial resources, which have been obtained from benefactors through the Foundation. •
William M. Malloy and his Entree.
The Notre Dame campus has become a study in architectural contrasts; Alongside ivy-covered buildings steeped in tradition and history have sprung up structures as new and modern as Pang-bom Hall. Near Cartier Field, where rickety stands once supported 30,000 spectators watching Notre Dame build a tradition in football, there now stands the new TV station, enabling Notre Dame to continue a tradition in leadership. Beside Badin Hall, on the site of what once was known as “Badin Bog" now stands the new Hammes Shopping Center, which provides marketing services to students and visitoi’s- in a modem, well-lighted building.
Although the Notre Dame spirit of expansion has seen to the building of many and varied structures, the work still goes on—the need for a new Dining Hall and more residence facilities has become evident to the Foundation, and plans are being made accordingly. There will'soon be a time when all students will be able to live on the campus. As growth is a sign of life in every other living organism, so it is that the growth of Notre Dame has been a constant sign of her vitality, and promises to continue as such.
35
January 13, 1956
String Quartet to Give Concert Here Jan. 24
Hailed as ‘‘Ameifca’s greatest contribution to quartet history,” the Juilliard String Quartet is scheduled to perform at 8:15 p.m. Tuesday, Jan. 24, in Washington Hall.
Distribution of the tickets, at the box office of Washington Hall, will be as follows: Thursday, Jan. 19; Friday, Jan. 20; and Monday, Jan. 23; from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., and from 3:30 to 7:30 p.m. There will be no charge for the tickets.
Quartet-in-residence at the Juilliard School of Music, New York City, the ensemble’s members, all of whom have distinguished themselves as solo performers, are Robert Mann and Robert Koff, violinists, Raphael Hillyer, violist, and Claus Adam, cellist.
Since its inception, the Juilliard String Quartet has played hundreds of concerts in the United States, Canada and Europe.
Within the Juilliard’s vast repertory of more than a hundred major works lie the masterpieces of the 18th and 19th century—the Golden Age of quartet writing; the famous quartets of Hayden, Mozart and others which the Juilliard has presented complete in concert cycle; the incomparable 16 quartets of Beethoven, which have also been performed in their entirety in cycles of five concerts, and the quartets of Schubert.
Their playing of the classics has been heralded for its freshness and spontaneity, bringing to the musical art of the past an insight which gives it a new meaning today.
The Juilliard String Quartet has brought to the fore the masterworks of today’s great composers—works which had remained inaccessible due to their immense technical difficulties and newness of musical language until the Juilliard brought them to life with the utmost skill and understanding.
SOCIAL ACTIVITIES
Ed Pistey and his Lettermen will play tomorrow night at the weekly Senate dance, “Winter Wonderland,” to be held in the Student Center from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Admission price is $1 per couple. Feature attraction of the evening will be a lead-the-band contest, in which students will participate. A prize will be awarded to the winner.
Open house is to be held at the Student Center on Saturday, Jan. 21, for all students and their dates. Record music and refreshments will be provided for the couples. Admission will be free.
... and get a better shave! Old Spice Pre-Electric Shave Lotion sets up your beard—tunes up your shaver. Stops dragging, clogging and over-heating. The new, non-oily lubricant, “Isophyl”,* prepares the skin for easy gliding_lubricates the shaver cutting edges for greatest efficiency._____JOO No federal tax
SHULTON New York • Toronto
36
Th? Scholastic
WSND Brings Music To Morning Listeners
WSND began a new morning program called “Brunch,” Jan. 10, featuring classical and semi-classical music for the student’s listening pleasure. The Broad-.cast runs from 8 a.m. till noon Monday "hrough Saturday and originates from an FM station in Chicago.
The program will have no commentator and will consist of continuous music with only occasional breaks for station identification. This new show will effect no change in the regular schedule of WSND as it comes on before official station sign-on time.
‘ During exam week WSND will stay
on the aii- for the first time in its history with this new program which will then run from 8 a.m. till 12 midnight featuring the same type of music.
The reception of this program from the Chicago station is entirely automatic and was made possible by cooperation between the two stations. The program is broadcast from Chicago on FM and converted at WSND to AM to enable the students to pick it up on their own sets.
Chief Engineer Charles Casale says that with the new converter installed by WSND other re-broadcasts will probably be made in the future of ball games, music programs, etc., that the station would otherwise be unable to receive.
DR. N. FIZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Su liny Italy Cafe A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Niles Avenue
If id it it Opportunity
for technical graduates with Goodyear
Representatives of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company will be here on the date shown below to interview Seniors who will receive B.S. or advanced degrees in the following fields of technical study:
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
CIVIL ENGINEERING
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
$
CHEMISTRY

There’s a career for YOU at Goodyear in any of the following fields:
•	PLANT ENGINEERING • MACHINE DESIGN
•	PROCESS DEVELOPMENT • RESEARCH
•	FACTORY MANAGEMENT • TECHNICAL SALES
• PRODUCTION DEVELOPMENT
Contact your student placement office now — plan now to have a personal interview!
' Goodyear representative will be here on •
I	J
! Wednesday, February 8 J I	I
I	I
I——--------------------------------
THE GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER COMPANY
January 13, 1956
Back Pa^
by curt matthews
some students*
I
and a fresh idea
Last summer it was announced that the United States was preparing to launch the first Earth satellite. Although I have something less than a scientific mind the announcement held a particular interest for me because I looked upon the whole thing as an achievement of the imagination more than one of the slide rule.
Here, I thought, was a pretty good example of just how progress takes place. It wasn’t too long ago that Earth satellites were something strictly for the pages of the latest science fiction book. Then someone seriously inquired, “Why not a real one?”
It might have been a scientist, or even a scientist’s twelve-year-old son. But, whoever asked the question and honestly wanted an answer to it, demonstrated the kind of imagination that is needed, but too little appreciated or understood, today.
Science and industry are daily improving their tools for developing our world; what they need more of, however, are good problems, often problems as absurd as creating artificial moons, to apply the tools to.
Fresh ideas are a commodity that seems to have become all too rare not only in science, but everywhere. From politics to publications there seems to be little really new under the sun. Everyone stomps along in the same old rut and only occasionally offers anything new, fresh, or “radical.”
One of the reasons for this might be that too few people appreciate or accept the new or fresh idea.
Probably no one has a better chance to become aware of all the staleness we seem to be afflicted with than the person who has struggled with two or three years of college education. Not all, maybe not even the majority, however, actually give serious thought to the repetition of worn out ideas expressed in a worn out way. A good many
students merely accept it as something to be tolerated—while others don’t even recognize it at all.
But, those who do become aware of it usually find themselves in a rather unpractical position. Because of age, environment, and IQ, the college student has, almost by nature, a somewhat bland, slightly uninhibited, and essentially sincere personality. Add to this a growing realization that people around him soak up and spiel out a lot of hackneyed ideas and ideologies and it’s easy to see why he snobbishly sneers so much and is so often looked upon as some one who hasn’t got the good sense to observe a common reverence for the things that everyone else holds up as sacred.
Those who grow weary of all the staleness that suddenly seems to have penetrated everything from text books to class hours often have a difficult time talking to those who seem to revel in all the banalness—particularly adults but, often as not, other students too.
To try to explain their position to these people is next to impossible, for with every sentence the college student, with a discriminate sense of appreciation, makes himself appear more of a snob and cynic. He’s even accused of being a “pseudo” (whatever that’s supposed to be) and a pedant.
Because he has lost his enthusiasm for the tin idols of the publicity agent, the meaningless slogans of the “selfappointed committees,” the prejudiced criticisms of the narrow-minded demagogue, or the shallow phrases of the ladder-climbing sycophant, a good many college students are viewed as people who have cultivated their intellectual tastes far above their needs—oi’ have become what we know as a highbrow.
Actually their tastes may not be intellectually too high at all but simply suffering from a very dry thirst for something fresh and a little different. But, as I said before, that’s n<jt some
thing you can explain to just anyone. j From my own experience I can say ) that one form of triteness particularly | disturbs college students. That’s the con- * tinual use of words and phrases that have been defined so many times they have lost definition—are beyond definition.
The American way, secularism, de- i mocracy, socialism — even words like H jazz—have all been shuffled through th^' 4 deck so often that they’ve lost their ■ spots. But, we still run up against . them in texts and classes. A revolt against their use is often misinterpreted as a revolt against the idea that professor or author wanted them to signify and leads to even more misunderstanding of the ideas and feelings of the student.	'
Once a person’s appreciation has been । broadened—or rather — narrowed — h^ takes a quick look around at the things^ near at hand for some good example of ' freshness of thought or imagination, but usually comes up with very little to satisfy him.
So he naturally begins to look down the less beaten paths for the things he > has learned to like. He begins to get his news from the well edited and lean pages of a Reporter, his art from the ( subtle pen of a Steinberg, and his music from the imaginative keyboard of a Brubeck.	{0 ,
And when this happens it isn’t long ' ( before someone has called him affected and snobbish. He may even be looked 5 upon as a cynical, impressed, apathetic, satirical and bitterly sarcastic person ( by those who find his taste eccentric and his expression bland. And although he may not really be all those things Jie can seldom explain to those who j find him so that he has a very good 3 right to be even if he isn’t.	|
With some people their narrow tastq^.r: and sincere criticism becomes a sociaf A problem. The solution?. Just try not ' to let it show, gentlemen.
38
PRINTED AT AVE MARf A PRESS
I--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------j
A Campus-to-Career Case History
“One open door after another”
“That’s how I feel about the telephone company,” says Walter D. Walker, B.E.E., University of Minnesota, ’51. “When I joined the company I felt that I could go in any direction. And that’s the way it’s been.
“For the first six months I was given on-the-job training in the fundamentals of the telephone business—how lines are put up and equipment installed. Learning those fundamentals has really paid off for me.
“Then I had the opportunity to go to the Bell Laboratories in New Jersey. I worked on memory crystals—ferroelectric crystals—for use in digital computers. I learned how important research is to the telephone business.
“After two years I came back to Minnesota, to St. Cloud, to work in the
District Plant Engineer’s Office. There I made field studies of proposed construction projects and drew up plans to guide the construction crews. This combination of inside and outside work gave me invaluable experience.
“In July, 1955,1 came to Minneapolis as an Engineer in the Exchange Plant Extension Engineer’s Office. We do forecasting—not of the weather, but of future service needs. Using estimates of growth and economic studies, we make our plans for the years ahead. We figure out where and when new facilities will be needed to meet future growth.
“All this has been preparing me for a real future. You see, the telephone company is expanding by leaps and bounds.. That’s why it offers a young man so many open doors.”
Wally Walker’s career is with Northwestern Bell Telephone Company. Similar career opportunities exist in other Bell Telephone Companies, and in Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Your placement officer has more information regarding Bell System companies.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
YOUR BIG RED LETTER DAY
L&M’s superior taste comes from superior tobaccos — especially selected for filter smoking. Tobaccos that are richer, tastier . . . and light and mild.
.-■r-.
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
Smofe America’s Best Filter Cigarette
1. SUPERIOR FILTER
Only L&M gives you the superior filtration of the Miracle Tip, the purest tip that ever touched your lips. It’s white ... all white .. . pure white!

EFFECTIVE FILTRATION
king size