— Cbe-
Dotrc Dame Scholastic
™r<c QVASl- SSIUPGR- VICTVRVS’ •VIVG -QVASI- CRAS-IMORITVRVS-\ ■ - *
x Vol. L.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 25, 1916.	No. 10.
The Cost of Victory.
plE rifles bark, the cannon roar, ~	The kings curse at their play.
The crashing shells spread horror round
— The warships in the bay.
And on the field ten thousand men
Must meet their death to-dav.	.
For three red years the battle raged With neither foe ahead.
All thoughts of peace, of love, of God In those three years have fled;
. And the final cost of vic’try will
-	' Be measured by the dead.
.	D. E. IT... 17 ’
. ------------------»•*■--.—■—	.
The American Modern Drama. ••
BY D. E. HILTGARTNER,Ji/.
^Wi^HE one encouraging statement that is || to be made about the American drama it is that it has a future rather than
a past. The division into - ‘ high-brow ” and “ low-brow ” expresses the two extremes that dominate the product of the American dramatists. ■ The'7 former is boldly copying foreign masterpieces without imitating their -daring form of expression. The latter is as industriously following the fashions of Broadway and producing a play so “up-to-the-minute” that a delay of three months is the difference between success and failure. On the whole, the “lowbrows” are correct in maintaining that the most valuable contributions to the American drama are to be found among- those plays that- please the rural supporters of the theatre. The plays-of George Cohan and George Ade are right from American! life and true to it- alone.. -Europe, while asserting a superior manner in regard to- serious American literary efforts, has always been, quick • to1 recognize what was actually distinctive of America—Mark Twain, 0. Henry
and-Bret Harte and so f^rth. So it is .with . the American comedies that have represented American drama abroad. George Cohan is now one of the most-sought-after dramatists -in London theatres. Miss Mayo’s “Baby Mine” was -recently acted in Paris, and the Parisians liked it. Serious American plays,, however, -have with few exceptions failed in Europe.
Nevertheless, serious plays frequently come from American life, if not in spirit at least in material form. Charles Klein’s “The Lion and the Mouse,” doubtful as it is when regarded as a. work of art, was really a praiseworthy achievement because it was looked upon at the time as a serious reflection of the American social conscience. Since then there has been many vigorous plays expressing the trend of- , public opinion on matters of politics or business.' . Perhaps the most able of the serious American dramatists, in point of execution, is Eugene Walter, who’ipi” The Wolf’’.and “The Easiest Way” wrote .plays ;that might be classed with the ' best European dramas. . No American , playwright can equal him in the writing- of realistic dialogue, which is dramatic and still true to life—natural. .	~	-
Charles Rann Kennedy, . though bom . in . England, has written most of his plays. in America. He is a “high-brow” in the real sense of the word and is the author of “The" Servant in the House,”-a box-office - success. This play is a memorable one in American stage . history not alone because of its nearly perfect dramaturgy but because of the sermon that it contained.	'	-	'
Edward Sheldon has written a number of plays in which a thorough knowledge of the stage has saved from failure what is technically known as an absence of artistic and ethical conscience. xAugustus Thomas has injected some of the native American spirit into his plays,and is especially proficient in the construction of : dialogue,, which is the usual weakness in most of our plays in this country. He is one of the ,
146	, THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
American playwrights who respects French plays. In comprehension, his zealous attempt to say-, something
understands and addition to this sincerity in his in ’ his plays has
often been the cause of his failures.
.Of a different kind, though no less sincere, is Joseph Medill Patterson, whose plays, “The Fourth Estate,” “Dope,” and “By-Products” combine critical thought and observation of life with a considerable amount of dramatic ability.
In Percy Mae Kaye and his life of failures there is a story of persistent and stubborn refusal to concede to the tastes, and demands of the average theatre-goer. Some of his realistic comedies have been mildly successful on the stage, but his dialogue is not natural and his plots are arbitrary in the extreme. He is a master of a certain sort of whimsical humor and his verse is often inspiring, as in “Sappho
and Phaon.” This stolid dramatist chiefly admired for the rare quality himself, even in his works.
Considered as a dramatist, Upton
is to be of being
Sinclair,
the “unproduced playwright,” and author of “.The’ Jungle,” “The. Machine,” and “Prince Hagen,” deserves high rank notwithstanding that he is a socialist and that all he writes is
devoted to the exposition of the proletarian ;
philosophy. This fact has no doubt prevented his work from achieving success on the stage.
In the discussion of what is and what is “not - a play, Granville Barker’s curt statement stands ’ out as a conclusion of the whole matter: “A play,” he'says, “is anjdhing that can be made . effective upon the stage of a theatre by human agency. And I am not sure but this definition
, is'not too. narrow.” Dramas were first made and then the “laws of drama” afterward.
My Ambition.
. It’s not great fame, nor a golden name
.	“ That I work for here.below;	~
. It’s.nqt for gold, not ambitions bold
. . That-I strive and .struggliTso.	,
; Just the slender fame of .having the;name
; : JOf being a friend of.man! ... - .
. A humble task? Yet it’s all I ask!—. ’
Vy ’ .Just doing the best I can.. -	~ .
.' Yes, all I ask, when—through my task—
Ly-y T’ve: gone_tO’my endless-hod, ‘y	>	•
ylsthat men will say, "In his humble way, -‘He. served.both-’man and..God. ’ ’	. Hi
Those Mournful Chimes.
Those mournful chimes, th.ose awful chimes, I’ faith, they should be tuned betimes.
They jangle early round my head , As dreamily I lie in bed. -	_
Aside all-thoughts of work ' And buns arid classes shirk. _
Would it jar your poise, Could you stand that noise, If’t had been in" your ears For the last ten years? < (So it seems to me, '
. Though it cannot be ’ x-Above a month or two
Since the chimes were new).
Does this verse seem lame and broken,
- To’ve lost all sign of rhythm, Becoming a wearisome succession Of verses, jumbled so you can’t stay with ’em? Then you "get” my battered feelings As those ‘bells repeat their pealings.
And do you wonder that I wish on them ‘
'A sojourn long at Camp Perdition?—
Those mournful chimes, those1 awful chimes, Here’s hoping they are tuned betimes.
The Modern Miracle.
BY HARRY E. SCOTT.
" “I think she’s-working the rube, myself,” said Louise Elizabeth Arnold, as she wound a long braid'of blond hair, of the drug store hue. into a chic coil on the top of her head.	:
‘ ‘ Same here, Lizzie, ’ ’ agreed MargaretMurray, who always made her remarks short because long speeches interfered with her gum-chewing.
“ And lisson,” suggested Geraldine Hughes, who was tall and skinny and of the gossipy _
kind, if-.this ..show ever goes, on the rocks, watch her drop him?like as if he was a hot potato.” X \s ••	4 . ?
The three then nodded their heads, satisfied : that all were correct in their, conjectures because all agreed to them. ~	‘	’
“ Actresses ’’of the spear-cafryihg kind always ? have their own private opinions on all the . affairs, both ^personal and otherwise, of the • > leading lady; >They know, hfcr innermost thoughts . and intentions. They glory; in the prophecy.. A
a




f
THE NOTRE. DAME SCHOLASTIC
of her actions. And the Misses Arnold, Murray and Hughes were no exceptions. .
Each of the three had a speaking part in “The Modern Miracle,” the play that was to be viewed by the public of Columbus, Ohio,, for one night only before opening an indefinite run in Chicago. Eouise took the part of a maid in the first act; Geraldine was the stenographer in the second; and Margaret was’ the nurse girl in‘the third, her line being: “My God, Mrs. Kocker, the baby is dying.” So you see, because of their constant association/ with the leading lady in rehearsals, they should know her most, secret thoughts. * •	•
Their conversation was cut short by. the- ' The boy. was. his father’s son, and had -in.
announcement of the call boy, who poked his head in the doorway of the tiny dressing-room that the three shared and yelled:
“The stage manager wants to see youse up .. on the stage before the show starts.”
The one referred, to as “she” in the threecornered gossip was Dorothy Mackey, who four months before, in addition, to singing in the chorus, played a small part in one of ..Broadway’s big revues. “She” was now leading lady of “The Modern Miracle” company. .
The one referred to as “he” was William Barret, late of Eternity, Ohio, more recently ' of New York, and author of the play in which “she” was to be starred.- -
The story of . the young dramatist and his 'affair with the Mackey girl was common gossip among the rest of the cast.. It was as if all the details of the recent lives of each had been printed- and a copy presented to everyone in the cast. - . '	'	*
William Barret had cpme to New York from ■	f -	-
Eternity, Ohio, armed with the hope of Moses, the patience of Job and the manuscript of “The Modern Miracle.” He -was young, not yet . ’ twenty-three,, tall and slender: His eyes were
blue and in them was the- innocence of . the to the game and don’t know much. Do'you think I would have taken your play if it had not . been for the fact that. I got a girl I want to
' country, while his face looked, ho older than when 'he was eighteen. . Since ■ his boyhood he . had. been a dreamer. and never took to his father's command<that he should forget - the nonsensical books that "he was always reading
-.and’ take to . the business of making money. Barret drew himself up to his full height, When he was ready to enter college, his father indignant and ready to complain, but, remem-■ insisted that he should study law, and-finally bering-that it was through the kindness and interest of Kline that he had been, given a
enter that profession. The son. refused, to: go to-Cbllegeon this condition, and so/after both ;had held- out; obstinately-for. over a .month, ' / : young . Barret was. allowed to - enter-. a small
western-.university and take,up the study of English and’literature. •	.	.	, .
Four years later, on the night following, the graduation, there was a stormy scene between the father-and the son.
“What do you intend to do now, William?” the father had asked.	’	-
“I have' written.a play. I intend to sell it, and then write another.’’ ■	.	.
The father became enraged,, called his son. a fool, and finally threatened to throw him out of his house unless he got down to business, and stopped all such tom-foolery as writing, plays. ....	.	•
himself - some of his father’s 'obstinacy and independence; so, packing his suitcase, taking' what money= he had, left Eternity and.went to.- -New. York. .	.	...
“He can’t stand a year’s failure,” said.his 'father. “He’ll be back begging my pardon.” , . -
But it is a wise father that knows his own children. .Failure only made William Barret persevere the more. For months he made the-rounds of theatrical managers, seldom getting ' past the office boy. One firm read his play— or at least kept it for two weeks—;but returned . it with a printed slip which said that the play was not suited, to the needs of that particular producer.	‘ -
Finally Max Kline, a . newcomer in the field > of producers, accepted “The Modern Miracle” for production, and the joy of Barret’s heart knew no bounds. .	.	..
The young author came to the manager with ’ a list of expensive stars from: which he wanted the leading lady selected. .	■
Max Kline, who was. fat, swarthy com-plexioned and good-natured, waved him back with the open palm of his hand. .	.
“Barret, you’re all right, but.you are new
star?”. _He settled back in his chair with a sleek smile on his face and an air of finality-, which suggested that the matter was dosed. ,
chance, he agreed with him.. .	. ;.	.
“ You,see, Barret, this girl.means a lot to me,” said. Kline, and he. added .with a- wink of his,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
eye, “she used to be in the chorus of Mohan’s Revue. You see she has been a pretty good pal - of mine and—and—anyway, you only wrote
this show. Who is risking the money? Who is it that will stand the loss if the show is rotten? Besides she has got all the makings of a star.”
When Barret saw the one groomed for the leading part, he was satisfied—to say the least. She was tall, perfectly formed, with hair of a raven’s black. Her eyes were dark and shone soft!}' under long black lashes that blinked shyly. He was more than pleased with the new
leading lady. He was in love with her. From " empty, silent and lonely. Eat Max Kline
the start they, were together constantly, when the show was not in rehearsal, at cafes, theatres and art galleries. She had moved to exclusive apartments and his calls were frequent.
Max Kline would have closed the affair by threatening to send the play to the warehouse, but about- this time he found another girl in another chorus, and his personal interest in Dorothy Mackey was ended. It was enough that she should develop as an actress and play her part well.
It was common talk among.the members of the cast, and the rialto in general, that Dorothy Mackejr was “stringing young Barret.”
“She . knows hisz father back in Ohio is burdened with wealth” was the reason they ascribed., for her great interest in him.
. Barret knew that many were saying the same thing, and one night in the Actors’ Club of New York, knocked a fellow down who made an insinuation to that effect. After this occurrence,-people did less talking, but never ceased to think what they feared to say ri	. "
The company arrived.in Columbus, on Satur-, day night, had a dress rehearsal planned for Sunday night, and played the initial performance’
on Monday evening. ' •	in it you' will carry the whole show with you.
Barret and she .rode together from the train / If you can come through; good, but-if you to the. hotel, and-were'altogether mindless of can’t' the\show .will be a failure.” He stopped
your answer.” She did. not speak but moved a little nearer toffiim.
‘‘A hundred times have I wanted to ask you to be my wife, but I have never had the money with which to give you all that you deserve to have. Now, with success just around the corner, will, you marry me?”
“Yes,” she answered feebly, and in his excited joy'he did not realize, when he kissed her, that a tiny tear fell upon his cheek. •
The next night was the evening of the dress rehearsal and every member of the company was excited. The" front of the theatre was
chewed a cigar and wasted his energy, shouting and walking around--- in a senseless circle. Everyone was nervous' except the author who was so confident of ,success that he did not' think of being nervous.
This was the night that Elizabeth Arnold, Margaret Murray and Geraldine Hughes decided in their two by four dressing room, finally and certainly that Dorothy Mackey was “stringing the rube.” There would have been no end to the extent of their scandal if it had not been for the call-boy. who announced that the manager wanted to see them all on the stage before the rehearsal started.	v
Max Kline arranged the cast ,in a circle, with himself, in the centre, and gave them a long heart-to-heart talk. He pleaded that they work extra hard because the show was-by a new author. When lie dismissed them, he asked Dorothy, Mackey to stay.
“Come down in the front of the house where we rican talk quietly,” he told her, and she-followed-him. -	•	• ’ •
“You know as well as’I do that this here7 play of'Barret’s is a one-part play,” he began; -“You are the.part,’and if you put all you got

the bus}* traffic outside the taxi, so; engrossed for- a moment to let what he had said sink’ in: .’ •were-they in their own little world. For a while _ “Now I know that you have been playing young, they' sat still and silent,, holding each:other’s Barret and.think a lot of him’—the house was hand and cuddling netr like children. ’He was' too dark for him to see. her expression when he' the first to speak, ri - ’ •	.*	\	said-this—“and naturally'you want to see the
theffirst/to-sp	.*	\	said-this—“and naturally'you want to see the
“Dorothy; the end of our rainbow; is in sight, .show. go.. Then work: hard,/’cause it’s :up; to Monday-nightI am sure that my play willbe you.” :	- ri . v -	.. ri '
announced a success and then I am going to . ; She said;nothing but walked silently* to' her daim .the. pot of gold that lies at the end of dressing-room. .That night,. the show. went -every -rainbow? J And when ’ Lcome to'/claim it; withoiit a hitch/and Dorothy Mackey never -will ;you; give "your? consent? -It (all; depends on. * played -her ?partrisb?^eli:. Barret was’ elated,



.^6^4


I
s
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
• *49
but Kline, while admitting that it went well, was sceptical. (	-
. “Whenever a play goes with such a smoothness in its dress rehearsal, that’s a bad sign. I hope for the best, and maybe I’m wrong, but -I feel that something'is going to happen, yet.” Barret could not share in Kline’s pessimism.
Neither did Dorothy Mackey, and that night, in her room at the hotel, she was supremely
happy. She felt certain that life-was sweet	.
and well worth living. She sat in front of his and I tell you that he shall never have a cent
picture for ten minutes, just thinking of him as long as he lives. So there’s nothing in it for. and just loying him.	you to play the heroine and rave about how much
She. was finally , aroused from her golden you love him.”	-	'	. , ; t .<■
dream by a loud brisk knock at the door.
“Come in,” she said simply, and in walked a stranger, a man about fifty years old, tall,
’ powerful, and business-like in his manner. .	.
“Are you Dorothy Mackey?’.’ somewhat severely.	.
- “I am!” She pretended not to
walk and
he asked
notice his
rude manner of addressing her,. '•
Pie hesitated for a moment, moving' his eyes up and down from her head to her feet, and then walked slowly toward her.
“I am James D. Barret, father of William Barret, .who, I believe, is author of the play -you are acting in.”
. “Well,”.she said, for no other reason than to „ break the monotony of an awkward silence.
“Well, I came down from my town to try and persuade that young fool son of mine to . cut-out all this nonsense and return home with his father,- where be belongs; 'to take up the law; or to start in some, decent business.' ”He was angry, and was.letting his feelings get the better of him. He continued talking rapidly, very much excited. “ I have had a man looking up his actions for the last month and he informed me that-you an,d he were pretty intimate. I found out to-day that you and he were going to be married.”	’	<	■
.. “What of it?”’ she asked sharply,-her black eyes shining with the fire of a- rising tehiper.
“I want to say right here that that can never . be!”	■	■
■ “Who says it cannot be?” .	.
He watched her for a few. moments, to what'he was saying. Quick to see his advantage, he made his master stroke. ,
I!”
but she did not speak, so he continued: “Come now, I know your type. You are . after him -.-because you think he has money;and a future
-and all that. Why I tell you. I, can make it worth your while; I will,pay,you—,
She stopped him before he1 could finish what he started-to say.	- .	’	- > -A
“Air.. Barret, I think more of your son.than: of anything you could possibly give me. ■ Hei is the only man I ever loved, and he is the first man that ever really loved me. And now, please leave my room.”	...	. '1 J
Instead of leaving (as she had directed) he came closer to her, speaking his words- directlv in her face. “I found out all about the case;.


4^5

Her anger was beginning to subside and she was losing some of her spirit of independence. '
, “.I tell you I love him more than I do my own life, and he loves me. Do you think I'wduld give up all the happiness I have ever known, or. ever expect to know?” Her tone had become conciliatory, almost pleading.	\
He took no heed of her last remark,: but, taking a check from his. vest pocket, handed it to her. She tore it into bits and’ threw them
'	i	_ . - .
?
at his feet.
t
Being a man of the world and accustomed to. reading people’s thoughts, he.saw- that if he" would win her, it must.be by different methods^ z“Do you think he really loves you?’h He shouted this at her ears and then waited for the suggestion to sink into her souL<?;“Z)fh course he doesn’t! He probably thinks -so now—but later on! Why he comes from the best of Virginia stock, with the bluest of blue blood flowing in his veins. Don’t you. realize that in time he will become tired of you, that; he will become ashamed after the- novelty7- ofx his whim has worn .off?” ~
He changed his tone immediately, - and! beganJ pleading to her.higher nature. - HehtruckVatJ her nature’s most vulnerable spot,. her - love for him.,-	I '	-
“You say you love him!”- he spoke low.and . distinct. “Then prove it' by leavingAhrmA; Otherwise, in a-year’s time, he will have tired; of you. In a year’s time; you will have spoiled^ ■ his whole life.” .	-
She was listening now with.some attention;
V

a




“Miss Mackey, if-you love my somyohjwilH

leave, him. If you insist upon'manning you will live to see him regret the day .hejwas^
5born.” .He. made this rspeech asAdfama-ticgas^^

3
I
150
THE NOTRE DAME, SCHOLASTIC
he would close it to-night, that it was hopeless to even try patching it up.”	-	.
He shook his head in . dumb agreement, as if he had heard Kline say the same thing, and its ■ repetition was of little consequence and bore-some. At last he roused himself from his stupor, and came toward her.
’ “But Dorothy, I still have you, haven’t I?” He said this in a tone full of the faith of a child.
She took a step nearer him and looked into his eyes. Then summoning;up.all the courage in her heart, she spoke to him.	-
“Billy, I think.it is better that.wezdo not-see each other again.” .	.
“What .do you mean?” He did not understand ' the words she spoke.	'
“I .mean that—that what folks have been saying is about true. I cared for you Billy, but I am afraid that I did not love you. I thought you were gcing to be a success; instead you have been a failure.. And'Dorothy Mackey is not. used to living on twenty dollars a week.”	-	.
The realization ■ of what she was saying slowly dawned upon his mind, and as- it did he arose from his chair and-came to her; his eyes were large and full of a strange look of despair and pleading.
“You mean to say—7 she stopped him before' ha could speak his protest by placing, her hand over his mouth..’	•;	‘ -	.
- The two stood looking at each other, neither speaking, and her hand dropped to her side. Her eyes fell from his face but immediately, rested Upom it again.
He attempted protests and began pouring out all the love that was in his soul. -He begged; he .pleaded/ until, finally she could stand to listen nd longer.. .	‘
'-“Please go!. Go, before I learn to hate you as well’as not love you.” She made her tone as harsh and. as-cruel as .she possibly could.
He stopped, his pleadings, as if he had been .
possible, speaking ever}’'' word slowly and . ^•emphatically.	’	.
, When he had finished speaking, her -head fell and her eyes closed. He saw the work of his words and quietly left the room. .
As the door closed behind him, .she walked with unsteady step across the room and fell upon her bed. Never in her life had she so felt ' like crying, yet the tears would not come. They burned in her head but would not wet her eyes. That night she could not sleep but lay awake thinking of the words of the elder Mr. Barret as the}- were repeated over and over in her aching brain:	.
“If you” love my son you will leave him. If you insist on marrying him, you will live to see; him regret the da}’ he was born.” '	‘
_ Wlien young Barret called'the next morning . she was not at home; and she avoided him all - through the day. He did not see her until that night at the theatre, and then only long enough to say hello. ‘	.
The opening night of “A Modern Miracle” " was a fateful one. Dorothy Mackey’s appearance ' .as a' star was a miserable failure and' so was the play. The leading lady went through her part as one dazed by some calamity. She forgot • lines; she let the best, scenes of the play fall flat, lifeless. The .whole performance was a' pitiful failure. -	.	.
Max Kline tore his hair andswore vehemently.
. Young Barret > sat put in the audience, still and dejected-like one devoid of all hope and
. reason. Many times, he tried to catch the eye of the leading character in- “The Modern Miracle,” but always she avoided-, his gaze.
-'Z 'He did not stir, from his seat until the end of the last act and then he walked unsteadily to
-?' her dressing room. / Her?maid, Avho answered ?.- his knock, announced -that? she had gone to
'• her hotel., r .. ? -	’ ?	’ •? '	.
. He found her in her room, dressed ih the' same' . ;clothes.that she. wore in?the.last act, with the

£
I
??grease , paint still./on her cheeks. , . . ?. slapped across/the face,-and moved mechani-
:	He stumbled into her room like one under cally toward the door. 1 1
the influence of “dope” and sank into a' chair. “Wait a minute Billy!’’ she.called. “Please .Neither one spoke for some , minutes, ; and she go back to Eternity, and to your father. He , kept humming! a gay tune and.busying:herself needsyou! And./listen, Billy—-Billy, give up , ?’./by?/arranging/some things: on /her/ dresser. the,. playwrighto	. You’re not cut
/ Since’?he? seemed., tongue-tied, -andfound it 6ut?fo‘r-it.”'And. please!—please—/forget that I
impossible to speak, she ventured to break the fooled you/into/thinking that. I loved you.” . //silence//,??/ .?• /■/// ??/?:-. ;y// 1 '/ ? //???/?: •”/ ?? Hewas out; „of /the/room//before .she ? had : ; J /?J gu^s you kn ow thatthe show' is doomed ? ” . finished .spealang/a^^	til whether ’or J
/. ..sfie/usked/Eghtiy.? ‘?I heard Max/Kline say that . not he heard hdr last wordsA A /-
‘a.



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Varsity Verse.
The Leaves Have a Story. -
The leaves have a story to tell me,
As-I watch them drift to the ground ..
From the maple .branches yonder, .
■With scarcely a lisp, of a .sound.
It’s a story of God and His power,' That I cannot put into speech.
But I sit’and sweetly ponder ' The lesson it has to teach.
Leaves are the'wealth of-the summer, God gives them manifold.
Fall steals the wealth from its owner, And turns it into gold.
Months pass, and the winter is over; . -Once more God’s power is seen,
And the summer’s empty coffers-Are heaped with her treasures green.
.	Richard Daley.
The Age of War.
* -
God made the world in beauty
• And considered His task well done.
' Then’man came along and spoiled it
■ By inventing the sword and the gun.
Who's.Who? .	\
Who wears my neckties when I’m home? : - My brother.	.	. . ’ .
" Who have I nick-named ‘Ivory-Dome?’ .-:	. My brother? .	.	. ,
. Who'is it mother thinks has wings, ;	;
Who spoils my socks and shirts and things, ~ And when I crab, who merely sings? ■ .
,	My brother. - ; ..



Who is it sews my buttons tight? .
:	- My sister. v -	• r	: ;;
Who lets me in real late at night? .
My sister.	’	.
Who lends.me money when I’m broke, .
Who never snitches when I smoke,.	< -
- And feeds me good things, till I choke?
My sister. .	-.	: ■
Who pays the bills I can’t make.good?
My father. *	.	. ‘	-
And who has always understood? .
• My father. .
Who is it never fumed or cursed . < When I’ve deserved the very worst, Although his heart could almost burst?
My father. • . -	. ’


Earth was a glowing paradise
When the things of the earth were new, Ere the feet of marching millions
Had trod on its morning dew.
But human life is deepening. Full of war and doubt and din.
Its childhood days are over;
It is now in its age of sin.
The need and greed of nations Have driven all peace away. -
Men kill men by the millions, . And blood is a nation’s pay.
And Death with his scythe stands.waiting While hate like a blood-red sun ■	.
Ripens the human harvest	. .
Death reaps ere the day. is done;	=
■ .	.	.	• H. E. S.
.	.	.	' "AutuKin.	,s.	’	. ■
The melancholy days are here, the saddest of the year, ■ The toothsome.turkey’s roosting high—Thanksgiving \ day is near. -	‘	"
,A little,snow is-in the air,- the-B. V? Ds. are thin—	.
j The' thing that really "makes us. sad’s'the prefect’s
cheerful grin.
Leo Berner.
Who does the things .no other can?
My mother.
Who made me, if l am a man? .	: c '	’
’ My mother.	-	T
Who knows if I am sick at night.* ?	"
Who tells me if I'm wrong or right;'	*-•
Who. makes the whole world warm and bright?.


My mother.
. John U.-Riley
A Drunkard’s Reverie.	.
Long are the days and restless,the nights, , All fever, fret and strife,	?
For the wine is gone, and L’ve. reached the dregs Of an ill-spent, wasted life. ’	\.

Relentless; unceasing, come phantoms of pain, Dim ghosts of the year’s bitter folly
They might have been angels of good deeds ‘done;. . Not the wraiths of a dark melancholy. 3?



But a thought from my Lord, like an ahgel'of-Light, • Drives the dim, gray ghosts afar.	3^-^
..“Look ahead, walk with Me p^t theshadowfsedge ■ Where the day sprites’joyful are. 3.-
;	~ ■ ,'tt	fiSHi


152
- 'IHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Act of Composition.
BY HOWARD R. PARKER, ‘17.
Have you noticed how strangely a fellow , seal on it. Of course you have to pick up the
acts»whenhe sits down at a typewriter to do some extemporaneous writing; when he hasn’t an idea in his head that can be coralled for use? Of course this fellow may be yourself; if you watch your own actions you will get my idea exactly, unless of course'you know just what you are .going to write when you begin.
First you sit down and place your right foot slightly under the chair, allowing the left member to wander as far under the table as it desires. You put your sheet of paper in the machine and take extreme care that it lies exactly straight in the carriage. - T
Now you are ready to write, but not prepared .to do so; oh my, no! The search for an idea has just begun. What is a good thing to write about? How shall I start it? “Early Returns Cheer Hughes Supporters.” -“High Cost of Living To Rise Still Higher.” . Your gaze has wandered to a newspaper on your desk; you . read for two and a half minutes and then get ■ back to the pressing business of writing’what you have started out to write.	-
! Let’s see: why not write a short feature story on the retirement of Brother Leopold from active service ? Start it off like this— “November 18, Notre Dame at Michigan Aggies. November 25, Alma at Notre Dame,” ; Now tlie football schedule has trapped your . roving eye. You call it (the eye) home again and fix your attention on the work in hand.
Well, this is a -Number Five Underwood. . -; I didn’t know there had been that many models already. The machine ought to be cleaned out; a lot of eraser particles • has fallen down into the type arms. Some of the letters are clogged . up with lint from the ribbon. So you get a pen . and pick out the small “ o” and the large “d. ” .. But I can’t waste time now cleaning out
' this machine; this article’s gotta.be turned out before this', period’s over. " Let’s . . .. see. . . now,; two ori three hundred words of a dialogue ; between a couple of letters in the Notre Dame postoffice might go good. ' Have; one of them .going home -from the . Prefect, of Discipline and w the .other, one going the. same' way from the ; fellow . himself. That’d make pretty good reading if T could<w6rk ^
L ;Vfery -.good'. You are . now all set to . write;
.You sit back in your chair, spread your hands ■out on your hips, and look at the typewriter. Everything is ready for the attack. But right near the machine there is' a tin box with a red
box and open it, to see if there is another ribbon in it. Yes, there’s a new ribbon .on a spool all ready to be put on. Wonder if it ought to be put on now. The old ribbon is pretty faint, all right. . . ..No, I’m going ahead and write this thing.	_
More meditation and' you have the first sentence ready to be.put on the paper. .You start banging the typewriter and have reached the second syllable of the third word when the bell rings for class.	.
It’s all wrong. You jerk the sheet from the typewriter and shoot it .into the basket: the world must wait.	.	..
A Parnassian “Scoop.”
Isn’t It True?
It’s funny how you boost the dear old plate when you’re - - away, 1
Yet, when you’re here you knock and crab with greater zest each day.	.	.	.
For instance, if the prefect of your hall refuses “per,” When you feel it’s very necessary you should call on “her,”
You just knock the institution till the founders fairly squirm,
. But the minute you get home there comes a turning of the worm. '	.
When they shut the drinking water off at ten o’clock ' . at night,	’
Arid you’ve got a camel’s thirst, it’s then you’re sure ' to crab, all right, ■	'	.
And you swear the doggone .faculty- could not be any
■■ , worse, ' -.	’	■
Forgetting all the time that it’s a necessary curse.*
The riieals .'perhaps .are not purveyed exactly to your -	•
- taste, .	, ':	\ ; ■	’.	.	'
But energy; expended in complaining goes to waste, For fifty years, plus twenty-five, those meals have been ■ the same,	'
And always will be, just as‘-long as there’s a Notre , ' . ‘ Dame.; \	. . ".'	'' . -
;Now all-these knock arid.crab producers I’ve named up '-‘ . above; ,. "	'.-■; ■' ■ .“<■ - -
. . * Meaning th	' / '	-
1
THE NOTRE. DAME SCHOLASTIC
Completely disappear when you’ve a chance to show your love	'	-	.
For your little grey old mother far away from your own home,	■	-
On an Indiana prairie, ’neath a' shining golden dome.
- And History would not know itself Jf spoken to by name.	.	.-	■ ,	/. -
For in Hullies’ elocutin’. as to prices high falutin, The issue makes no difference, it’s the Toreadorian ' - game. -	.
And if a stranger says, “My son, how do you like tire .
J. Paul Fogarty.
. . October,
school?”
Or, “Hour’s the meals and “Any fool
Could get along at Notre content,” .	.
You praise the old school magnificent.
discipline?” you answer,
Dame;
to the
be happy and
skies in terms
High up, along the winding river road,
, Where scarlet sumac flaunts its pennons' gay,. .
And golden- maples colonade the way—
An aisle of dying color, strewn
As for an Autumn bride;	(	.
There sat we, side by side, .
And laughed and talked like children.	"
So while you’re here remember that you’ve got to
. stay aw'hile,	-
Forget your role as critic, lose your frown and try a < smile;	■
Sell your hammer, buy a horn-, boost, build, get in the', game, <
And I’ll bet when you've a son you’ll send him here to Notre Dame.	•	.
The month’s moon spread its light across the stream.
And made the night a silver noonday seem;'
Against my cheek, a silken wisp
Dropped soft, stray kisses from your wind-tossed hair; .
The scene was magic, you, my own, so fair. :
It’s funny howr you boost the dear old place when you’re . awray, ' .	_■
Yet, ivhen you’re here you knock and crab with greater zest each day.	'
A lonely night-bird whistled up above,
The fire burned low, ’twas time to go, my love. And when the glowing embers died away, -Were left, the ashes of a perfect day/
•	;	■ John U- Riley.
' “	'	' ■ At “Hullies.”
Did you ever loaf at Hullies where the dope, flows ‘	’ round in gullies,	'
And listen to the chatter-and the confidential dope'? Regarding Thaw or Ruth St. Denis, shooting craps or playing tennis,
The issue makes no difference, for the bull gets lots. of rope.	-	-
We turn, but hesitate to leave our dream, With you in solitude is happiness supreme.
When the hot stove league’s in session every German, Wop, or Hessian,	.
Every bum and every banker has to have his little say.	..
Submarines, appendicitis, politics, peritonitis,— The issue makes no difference in this Mexicana play.
Great Scott! 1!
A soft-brained canoest one day tried.
In his slender craft the falls to ride,
I happened near by as a yell he gave. , ' And saved the chaps from a watery grave.
•Then Carnegie—handed me, "
One of his medals for that, he did, ' One of his medals for that.
When old “Mike” is rightly feelin’, and they wind him ‘	, , up to spielin’,	•	-
The shades of Aristotle turn and twust and squirm
> . “en mort.”.	'
■ - : >
Saskatchewan, mayhaps Altoona, Herpicide or e’en
v	Peruna.	-
The issue makes no difference in this gay old Spanish ,	sport. "
Attracted one day by a yell,“Save my che-ild!” ■ I burst thru the door of a house, all wild.
But the creepycry—to tell will mar it	.
Was the screamy screech of Miss Poll Parrot. . :
■ Yet Carnegie—handed me	_■
• One of his medals for that, he did, . • .	One.of his medals for that.
•In the heat of'all discussin’, rhet’ric gets an awful .	mussin,’	.	.■ r .	,
' A farmer boy by a bull was chased,-Both romped along with precipitous haste.
'	>1 came along in a shirt bright red
Now* why did that bull chase me instead? But Carnegie;—handed , me,	.
One of his medals for that he, did, .
7 .' One of his medals for that; • ”	-
A. S:
X
A :■

154
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the' School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid
. Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indiana
•SON^KSER. 25, 1916
No. 10.
student. They should teach us not to let the spirit drop .at the day of graduation, not to let our loyalty flag with passing years. These examples should impress upon us tlie need of strong, enthusiastic Notre Dame.clubs throughout the States.	.	-
One young Detroit physician found it necessary to pay a substantial sum to secure a substitute to take his place Saturday, but he did
BOARD OF EDITORS
Howard R. Parker, ’17
Speer Strahan,'’17
F. Jennings Vurpillat, ’18
Harry E. Scott, ’17
it willingly; just to cheer for his team, made similar sacrifices. . The lesson is
. one. Let’s organize everywhere.
In the Old Days.
Others a good
John A.'Lemmer, ’18	-	’
Delmar J. Edmondson, ’iS
Thomas F. Healy, ’19
From the beginning the "editors
of the
—The student who at home
is. high-voiced
- in declaring that Dame quadrangle
the beauty of the Notre
Scholastic had great ideals. The motto on the first page of “Vol. I was “Labor omnia " vincit” and at a regular meeting of the Editorial Corps the following resolutions were adopted:
Articles for publication in the Scholastic
is surpassed by no college. Year must be received before Wednesday noon,
Campus Lovers.
campus-in the country, is - often found blazing a trail across the green - and
marring the beauty of a truly beautiful lawn.
otherwise no attention will-be paid to them.
No article received for publication will be returned.
Society reports—except semi-annual—of more
. Our campus is indeed something to be proud of. than half a column will not be published.
The constant care and labor of'those in charge of it, to keep it a delight to the. eye are sadly frustrated however, by those who must follow the line of shortest distance between. their halls and their classrooms. We cannot, eat our bread and keep it too. .
If any contributor becomes unjustly offended because his or her article is not published, no article from this person shall, (during the remainder of the Scholastic session) be received by any. of the editors for publication.
No. attention will be paid to articles, written
- —Members of the Notre Dame Club, of Detroit made the trip to Lansing last Saturday to cheer for the Gold and Blue in its battle with
. -	the Michigan Aggies. '
Keeping Spirit Alive. And cheer the'Detroiters l home.”
This advice was given in the first days of Notre Dame: “Be temperate in diet; our
first parents ate, themselves out of house and
did.' Uniting with stu-	,	. ' ***	• • '	•
- dent's who had gone to Lansingj.to see the game Watson, hand me the telephone' directory: they gathered in one stand, and sent the Varsity “October 24, 1908. Lost:-^A . brown leather, yells hurtling across . the gridiron in successful suit case,' with a YellowstonePark and a Notre ’ defiance of the great organized cheering of the Dame, seal pasted , on the side. Taken from the' Aggie rooters. Not once did they , let up in lobby of the Oliver Hotel last Sunday night.
' . their enthusiastic support of the 'team, and ' Finder, .will kindly, return, to room 56,-Cdrby .when the game was over, while the Aggie band Hall^	-. :	-
was playing its sad recessional, these energetic--:	■
. Notre . .Dame , supporters' climbed the . fence .' When, they put their -heads together: “ Oct. surrounding the gridiron, formed a snake dance 1908. - At the first meeting of .the Philopatrian ■ and gave' the bld “U. 'N.' D. ” with a boom. Society held: Wednesday evening in their room ' The example oLthe Detroiters and that of. the in the Main Building, eighty: memberspf Carroll L yNltyw Yoii^ alumni who Imade the trip tb West Hall ;outfined;an:interesting cotyse of work fcr the Jcomii^	A? f ~	'

%
. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
' Personals.
—We have received.the announcement of the wedding of Mr. James-Foley, of Chicago, (old student) to 'Miss Ellen Mary Butler, on Wednesday, November twenty-ninth. ’ ~ —S/ H. Burkhart (student ’09-T3) visited the University last week/ Sylvester is now acting as biiilding inspector for the Illinois Central R.- R. and can be reached at R.oom 1000, c-o Illinois Central R. R., Chicago, Ill.
I ’
—The Muscatine Journal announces the ' engagement of Mr. Robert Roach to Miss _ Julia Schneider of Iowa City. The genial President of the 1915 class is now in Live Oak, Florida, where he fis in charge of his father’s interests. He will probably reside in Florida . after his marriage, which is to take place early in he new Year.	:
Local News.
—The Corby and Walsh elevens ’ will clash to-fnorrow to settle the question of the Inter-_ hall Championship.
.—Lather C. Hagerty and his Walsh Chicks spent the. week-end at St. Joseph’s College at Renssalaer, Indiana.	✓ -
—There will be a special number of the Scholastic devoted to football. This issue will ■
appear soon after Thanksgiving.	-
—Speakers have been selected for the. first of . a series-of monthly debates between the Brownson and St. Joseph Literary and Debating -
Societies. The opening contest will be. held shortly before Christmas.	'
—The President of-the University has received information of ten vacancies as high school principal or assistant, and as common school
principal and teacher. Persons interested may . son,^ secretary-treasurer . apply-to the National Educational Agency, 1129 State Life Bldg., Indianapolis, Indiana. '
—Sixty members of the Glee Club ..gave a; concert in St. Joseph’s Hall at. St. Joseph, Michigan, last Wednesday evening. The con- cert was' given under, the auspices of Father -' Esper,. who has made the 'concert an annual . affair. - .At the conclusion of the ,'program an . ' entertainment-- and banquet - were tendered the
- local entertainers.	. ' /'	"	.
of a* person in a_western penitentiarywhohopes • ; —Joseph7 Flynn has been elected president / to -derive enough money from- the sale -of it to of the 1917 Law, Class: Flynn Jives-'in^ South . purchase, books and ; procure JanM education. Bend. He'is one of thermost active men among/ We suggest that .this; collection: of: fobs;yhat
the senior lawyers:-. Joseph . E.\. Dorais^ Chippewa Falls, Wis., was elected vice-president;
-Henry J. Brosnahan of Crafton, North Dakota, secretary; Frank M; Kirkland, of Independence,: Oregon, treasurer; and Arnold. MvMcInerny. of South Bend, sergeant-at-arms.. . ... : : /J
—Members of the. Kansas City Club met last Wednesday evening for the purpose /of electing officers and malqng plans'-for their annual banquet at the' Hotel.. Muehlbach in Kansas City, during the Christmas vacation.: The following.are the officers: Stuart Carroll,: president; A. . Fasenmeyer, ? vice-president;
’ George Reinhart, secretary-treasurer; /Harry Anleitner, sergeant-at-arms/ James .Lynch,’ chaplain. . .	. -•/■/.-
.	—Last Sunday, on Cartier Field, the G.-P.
football team of South Bend was defeated by the fa J eleven of Carroll Hall by- a score of 30 to o. The Carrollites were outweighed, about? ten pounds to the man, but their fine teamwork' and defensive playing,' together with a large assortment of clever plays, outwitted the visitors who claimed the 130 pounds championship ...The

* touchdowns were made by Bailey,. McGrath, Williams and Wolf. -	-	,
—Ring Lardner, in a •stanza on Notre Dame: in ‘‘-The Wake of the News,” suggests ..the
well-known poem of James Jeffery. Roche on ‘‘The Vase:” .	..	. -Jy/J
East Lansing bugs will see the game.*: .	. / -
Between the Ags and Notre Dame. - . W ’Twill be a battle, but I am . ~ •	. r
Obliged to favor Notre Dame. .	'	. y
• However, I’ll remain quite calm	<"..//
'	. If M. A. C. beats Notre Dame. * -

—The'Freshman Journalists -met Friday, Nov. io, and formed the Cooney. Club/ ' The officers chosen were: 'Hany Denny; president;; Walter Sweeney, vice-president; Barret-Ander-
Theodore ‘Wagner, reporter. A committee, headed by John 'Ward;

was appointed b}’ President Denny to draw up the by-laws, of the club... The object-of/the club is to hold the Freshman Journalists . toy gether, and to promote the interchange of ideas;, -regarding newspaper work. '	/ y
—-There is a remarkable collection of artistic work in horse-hair bn . exhibition atmAdler’s/ Athletic Store. The work is the.; handicraft;


sSiSS
■	_	I
.	-	■ ■" I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	i
bands, and similar articles furnish material for Christmas presents. We cordially invite all to inspect the collection at Adler’s Store on the campus.
—On Sunday evening, Nov. 5, 1916, a short program commanded the interest of the Holy Cross Literary Society, which was. not lacking in intensity, because of the fact that there were only a few participants. However, each did -justice to his assignments and a critic would find it difficult to determine which was the best. Nevertheless, the excellency of the short story written and read by William McNamara, caused the critic of the society to voice his opinion that Mr. McNamara should appear several times during the }rear on the program' in this capacity.	. •
—“Mel” El ward and his Eastern Interscholastic ‘ Champions, . St. John’s Preps of Danvers, Massachusetts, were entertained here . last Sunday by the New England Club. “Mel,” who played on the Notre Dame Varsity for three years, is coaching the Easterners who played DePaul at Chicago last Saturday., 'His team has beaten every Eastern prep eleven played, and will clash with Haverhill High on Thanksgiving for the undisputed championship. Brother Thomas is authority for the statement that five er six members_of the team intend to enter Notre Dame next September.
—That a man is one having the qualities of modesty, honesty, bravery, and virtue, and that a gentleman is a man considerate of others was told the boys of Brownson Hall by Father O’Donnell on Tuesday evening in the third of a .series of short talks. Many of his sayings were highly epigrammatical in character, a few of, which were: “To be a gentleman' does not mean that one must be a mollycoddle,” “A soft, voice, a silk ..shirt, and soft hands dp not .make a gentleman, ” ‘ ‘ The marks of gentlebreeding without the foundation of true manhood, only make a fop or a dandy.” .
.—-Members bf the dramatic club are having regular practice for the play, “Under Cover,” to be, presented at the University Saturday, December the sixteenth. Professor . "Lenihan announces the cast to be as follows:. Stephen
dmirable ’ - Assistant,
been looking'forward for weeks to the visit ofc the local- eleven? \_On the Friday night preDenby, Smuggler, John U.. Riley; Monty ceding the fray, M. A. C. rooters gathered in. . Vaughn, Accomplice, Daniel Hilga.rtner; Mich- the most .enthusiastic mass meeting of the . ael Harrington,-New York Millionaire, Leonard season arid rehearsed cheers, and* songs for- the 5 Evans; Daniel Taylor,. United States Customs game.. So enthusiastic did the Farmer supporters ?.;^	His' : become.That ;they - overstepped, the bounds: of
Thomas Trader; Gibbs, United States Customs Officer, Robert Maguire; Peter, Attendant, John Cassidy; Lambart, Butler in Harrington Home, Thomas Kelly; Ethel Cartwright, Leading Lady, Charles McCauley; Amy Cartwright, Her Sister, Robert O’Hara; Alice ^Harrington, Wife of Michael Harrington, Thomas’ Beacom; Nora Rutledge, Ingenue, Friend of the Harringtons, Richard Lightfoot; Sara Peabody, Second Ingenue, W. O’Keefe.
—The following clipping appeared in a recent issue of the Lansing State Journal:
Notre Dame has a system of developing football players that should eventually make the Catholics well-nigh unbeatable. They call it the “'chick” system down at South Bend, but it is not as naughty as it sounds. It is largely responsible for that powerful freshman eleven. Notre Dame has a huge prep department, and hundreds of little fellows go there. The youngsters are called “chicks.” Wherever the big fellows are, there can always be found a flock of “chicks.” Every time the. Varsity wants to use the gym, the “chicks” have to be shooed out of the way. Then they hang "around and get their eyes and ears full. They have their football teams, and it is'said that half an hour after Coach Harper gives out a new play to his Varsity,, half a doxen “chick” teams are • working the formation themselves somewhere around the campus. Those fellows are absorbing, a football education that will- make them wonders when thejr attain their growth. - -	* • .
' Notre Dame, 14; M. A. C., 0.	,	’
Notre Dame demonstrated its class among The best teams in. the west by taking, the Michigan Aggies into camp at Lansing last Saturday, 14 to o.
M. .A, C. was the first strong western aggregation to meet the Varsity this, year-and the eyes of critics were turned u^on ’ the battle. Earlier, in’ the season, the Aggies had held Michigan to az 9 tO' 3 score, and, although comparative scbres had. previously shown Notre Dgme to be stronger than the Wolverines, the result of Saturday’s. game was even more cdnclusive evidence of the superiority of the Gold and Blue.	/ ' - - "	- -
; The Notre Dame. game, was the big card* on the Aggies’: home schedule; and Lansing had

THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
157
" propriety a bit and buried an effigy of. Notre Dame during their meeting. The dead came to life on Saturday afternoon, however, and drove the “grave diggers” to despair. :	«
But Aggie rooters were not the only ones to show an enthusiastic spirit. What the Notre Dame cheering crowd lacked in numbers it made up in energy. Throughout the game, the Gold and Blue rooters cheered constantly, and at the conclusion of the battle, when the Aggie band' was playing 'its defeat song, the Notre Dame students and alumni snake danced to the middle of the field and sent up a big “U. N. D.”
Members of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit did themselves proudly. In an organized body, the Gold and Blue grads from the Michigan city, accompanied by wives, sisters or friends, stormed Lansing and, with colors flying, cheered themselves hoarse for Alma Mater.
Although it was found necessary to abandon , the special train from South Bend to Lansing because .too few students purchased tickets, a goodly number of rooters from the school were on hand at the game and united with the
• Detroiters and alumni.from other nearby cities in cheering.
Following is an account of the Notre Dame-M. A. C. game taken from the Detroit Free Press:
' East Lansing, Mich., Nov. 18.—Notre Dame found M. A. C. a much harder team to beat than the other big teams which have submitted to the terrific onslaughts of the Miller, Cofall and Bergman backfield combination, but the Farmers nevertheless allowed Coach Harper’s men to tally an even 14 points before the final whistle blew. M. 'A. C. failed to score.
' The Aggies, however, did not let'Notre Dame players finish the game without knowing that they had been through a real battle, every member of the Aggie ' team fought fiercely to the'finish. Twice they -were within striking distance of Notre Dame’s goal, but the
' . Catholic line stiffened -and the ends refused to be circled. T.he result was that the Aggies were forced.
' to pass over the ball by failure to make downs.
. In the first quarter, the Farmers were outplayed, . and Notre Dame made the 'first touchdown in less
. than three minutes of play. In the second quarter M. A. C. showed a ‘ decided improvement and the , period ended without either team scoring.
'At the beginning'of the fourth quarter, M. A. C.
appeared to have an even chance to tie the score when .Quarterback Huebel started to call for a few of the freak plays which Coach Summer had designed especially for the Notre Dame game. M. A. C. made 3 * * *
first downs for the first time and a steady movement _ M. A. C.
3 towards Notre Dame’s goal line was noted. The
. Farmers, however, w’ere halted on-'Notre Dame’s
10-yard line-and required to lose the bait on downs.
'■	Intercepted Pass-Costly. ’	.
:	Later in'the period, with the Farmers again possess- Notre Dame—75 yards. Substitutions: M. A. C.
the ball, Rydzweski ran forty-five yards
ing and the
intercepted a forward pass for a ' touchdown. During
final period neither team could gain much', and ,
Butler and DeGree engaged in a punting duel. . Notre . 5 Dame came near scoring during the final two minutes . \ of play when Grant received Huebel’s punt on Notre Dame’s 40-yard line and ran sixty yards to the Far7 J. \\ mers’ goal line. The referee called Notre Dame back, ■ L. however, for holding and inflicted a penalty of 15 yards 7rv> .
M. A. C. made but four first downs during the entire ., -game. The Catholics made their downs eight"times.
Coach Sommers’ plays in which forward passes were 1 featured, failed to work against the Notre ‘Dame . < defense. In all, 17 were attempted by the Farmers, of which seven were successful for a total of ninety-’ .	;
three yards’ gain. Notre Dame tried seven, connecting \ ’ . for three, with a total yardage of sixty-four.- *-	-7 ' " ■
Notre Dame was penalized nine times during the • . four periods, three times for holding and six for off-side, 7 making a total loss of seventy-four yards. M. A. C. - - < was set back but twice for a total of ten yards. M. A. C. - ’ ’ 7 punted twelve times for a total of 520 yards. Notre Dame was forced to boot the ball out of danger seven times for a total of 396 yards. M. A. C. made but'three' . fumbles and Notre Dame one.	' '	: '	../
Cofall is Star.	/	. . L.
Cofall until forced to retire in the fourth, quarter because of injuries carried the ball more than, any other member of the Notre Dame team. Miller and . 1 Bergman were about even for second honors^ Early -in the game these backs came to the conclusion that 7.7 gains through the'Aggies’ line were otit of the question • and they began an organized drive^on the ends. The r : -result was that nearly every big gain was made:-by. ; running the ends, and Ramsay and .Captain Henning . . ; were nearty exhausted before the game was half over. -7 ' Henning was forced to retire in the fourth quarter and was replaced by Turner.	•	7 .	\
Butler and Jacks were the stars for M. A. C., but : even these line plungers could not puncture the Notre f \ Dame line with any degree of consistency. Fick made :< * two of the most spectacular tackles of the game in-which he downed his man far behind the Notre Damty -line. Frimodig continued the entire -game in spite of- . .>7 injuries which have kept him out of practice for- more; "yX than a week. .	.	- *■	* •	- .
Ramsey...
Coryell....
Straight...
. Frimodig.
' Notre Dame .
_________Baiijan .
...Lt E;~ ...L. T..„ .LL. G.._ ...C.L.... ...R. G_. .JR. T„. ...R. E...
Q-----
V andervoort___ Blacklock.______7.____ Henning (capt.).. Huebel___________.
Jacks___________
Fick.	I	 Butler.__________________F.l___ ' .____________________________Score by Quarters-
•Notre Dame..
.0
-7
.Touchdowns: M. A.' C.—None. ‘ Miller, Rydzewski. . Goals:. M. A. ,,C. Dame—xCofall. Penalties:...M. .A'.
______Coughlin .
______Bachman
_..Rydzewski _____ DeGree	. _____..Mclherhy ...._Meagher j _Grant: _i_Bergman ....(capt.) Cofall.
_____.—^Miller-.
b o 6
■ o '7. 0-^14.. Notre' Dainty— -tyNone.. fiNqtre C.-^ioT yards,
s



I5§
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC _
Turner for Henning,, Brown for Huebcl, McClelland for Jacks: Notre Dame—Miller for Cofall, Dorais for Grant, Whipple for Meagher. Ward for. Mclnerny, Franz for Bachman, Fitzpatrick for Bergman, Stack for J. Miller. Officials: Referee—Ray of Northwestern Gardner, of Cornell. Umpire—Hoagland, of Prince--ton. Field judge—Lynch of Brown. Time of quarters, 15 minutes.
' Both the Varsity and Freshmen teams will be in action to-day, the regulars meeting Alma on Cartier Field and the yeasjings clashing with the strong Kalamazoo College eleven at ,
Kalamazoo, Michigan.
To-day’s Varsity game will be but a practice tilt in preparation -for the Thanksgiving Day struggle "with Nebraska at Lincoln, and it is hardly, like!}’ that Coach Harper will use his regulars for more than a few minutes, if he uses them at all.
All western-interest will turn to the Turkeyday battle between Notre Dame and Nebraska. The Varsity-players remember the 20 to 19 victory^of the Cornhuskers last season and they are out.for revenge. The fact that Nebraska was beaten bj- Kansas last Saturday has not caused S feeling of over-confidence among them, ’ and Coaches Harper and Rockne are working them steadily in anticipation of a hard struggle. \ The Freshmen will conclude their^ season’s
play with to-day’s game. Coaches Fitzgerald and Lee have developed a strong-aggregation and great credit is due them for their work. The first year men have furnished valuable opposition to the Varsity in scrimmage. They
. .	.	.	,	„	'dear spoush,” said he bravely, “ I’ve not been drinking
-have also beaten Sl. Viators College and agajn> I’ve been eating frog’s legs and it’s the hops . Western State. Normal and they will make a hard fight to defeat Kalamazoo Cdllege to-day. Kalamazoo, however, is unusually strong, hav-’ ing won the championship of Michigan Colleges.
Interh all'Athletics.
Walsh Chicks, 12; St. Joseph’s College, 6' . Last Saturday the Walsh “Chicks” journeyed down the State to Renssalaer,'Indiana, where they' .defeated the heavy "varsity- team of . St.
. Joseph’s;College bj' the score, of 12 to 6. ~	.	-
. The “Chicks” were ably assisted by Barry
• of The-Freshmen; Lockard,, the sturdy quarter- . back'of Corby;: a pair of excellent tackles, -Noonan and McFeeley of the Walsh Hall'team.
. j V Barry’s .work on interference- was beautiful
to behold.- He and Capt. Moore showed great
.. .	,... -	-----	. .Wanted1—Someone .to act tefnporarily as a'flag-pole
Speed in cirifling-tfie end^ forlong	on the new.Library building^ • V. ' V-J ‘
intercepted a forward pass and carried -it so close to the goal line that Lockard went over easily on the next play. Kenny, James and Giles
. Cain played their usual fast, aggressive' game. ' Dunne and McCabe fought against heavier opponents.	-	-
The “Chicks” were quite elated over their trip and victory. They have only words of praise .for the hospitality of the Fathers and students of St. Joseph’s. -	‘

■ Corby Chicks, • 2; Walsh Chicks, o.
The Walsh' Chicks ’were shooed off the' top roost on Thursday morning by the Corby Chicks
5
after a hard fight. Both teams played well,, but the Walsh eleven finally succumbed to Brandy, when he tackled Insley behind - the .Walsh goal thereby registering a safety,2—two points. The fact that the Walsh Chicks had just returned from , an extended visit down-■ State during which they broke away somewhat from their usual hard training may have had something to do with Thursday’s defeat.
Safety Valve.
“They never come back” may hold good in athletics, but it does not apply to the marks sent home. . - , ***
Little Johnny Hawkins, Playing near a well, . ' Stubbed bis toe and fell below, ' And now he’s gone—Do tell? . *** -
His wife accused him of drinking again. “No, my
you smell.”
. - *** • ■
“If silence .,is golden,-when will Mike Murphy be worth thirty cents?”	-	.
_- *** ■ '
■	' Famous Spirits.
College
Liquid ‘
of AmmoniaT
; Departed
■ - . . *** .
Rabid Ravings.	.
- The.conference teams are running wild;
, The worst teams win, the best, teams lose, The champion you could never choose—.
Oh! fireman save.my child. -	= ’	'
- -J 1 Light Occupations. .	' --- ■
. Looking for signs .of'intelligence in an Ontology^class.
/1-. v	7 w *** •'•• "v-	- -	'	■ ' ' ' *
- C ' Come 'Back; Erich -Hans. -	- . . . ’

THE NOTRE DAME_ SCHOLASTIC
159
Now thatAhe examinations- are over, we have got nothing to worry about until the next- exams.
.	In Ontology.	,
Professor: “Everything that is, is; whatever is, is good; whatever is evil, is not!—” -
Cries from members of the class:—“I don’t see that! It’s over my head! What the—! Oh, I ain’t ' bothered!” '	.
'	A Real Touching Letter.
. Dear Dad:—	'	.
Thanks for the check you sent me last Thursday. I am fine and am studying hard. In fact expect to get high grades in all my classes. Aly washwoman lost two shirts for me, my pajamas, all of my socks except one, and my heavy underwear. The weather is very cold up here at Notre Dame. I guess I will have to do without these things, ’cause money is scarce these days, ain’t it, dad? And, honest, if it isn’t one thing it is another!. That’s what uncle Jake used to say! Ha, Ha! Now, the class, our senior class,- is getting pins, which cost $4, and throwing a' banquet which costs two beans. I don’t want to go,
but guess' I will have to. I heard from my first exam, -to-day, and I got 98, which is. pretty good, considering that the next highest only got 76. Oh, and before I forget it, the fellows are forming a skating club, and you know I cannot find.those skates Aunt Molly gave me three years ago for Xmas. They are lost, and unless I can find some money growing on some bush somewhere, I guess I won’t be able to join them. They don’t cost so much though,— I saw a good enough pair in a window down town for eight- dollars. Well, dad, I guess I will have to say good-bye, as I have a lot of studying to do. Your
Bernard.
loving son,
. P. S. Dear dad. I cut out the cigarettes, as you asked me to do.	-
.	’ Foolish
How does Rockefeller football race?
-	Which
*** _
Questions. '
‘Hall stand in the interhall
is Right?
Ring Lardner took the dear old school, -And called it Dame and Dame and Dame,
But just the same. /	-
We students claim The regular name ' . Is Notre Dame. ' *** *
Aggie rooters were surely timely at that “greatest mass meeting” when they .buried the effigy of Notre Dame'.- Was it a case of “Eat, drink and be merry, for to-morrow—” . '
. - •***. - . - . -
(Answer to last week's riddle). None of them can swim.	•	• .
Arid plunge me in, no more to see thy face.
Now that, the cigars of the council have been 2nd Student:— .	'. ; _
• ■ . ‘ — *** .
* At the K. of C. .Meeting.
*	.	Chicago,
My Dear Valve:—
I would like to say a word Kanaley and Cartier. Trilby
Ill.,. Nov. 20, 1916
in defence of Messrs, had her Svengali'and
they need their Fitzgerald. I can distinctly remember a few years ago, at the Commencement, that Kanaley. and Cartier were prominent in a- chorus “We’re Here Because We’re Here,’’. with a variant in the second stanza, “full*of spirit.” . It was well sung and I believe they could do it again if thej’ had the magic Bostonian .
to wave the baton.
Yours in '07.
a
***
Days Past.
Nebuchadnezzar “Call in a stone mason, I want few of my letters filed.”	.	-
*** -
1st Student:—“I’m going to call on Vera tb-night, .
Jim, and I think it will be the pivotal night of my
existence, sunshine
To-morrow will be one great splash of. or it will be the beginning of perpetual
darkness. .I’m a trifle nervous about just how I should put the question and as I want it to be done in the best: possible manner—as Shakespeare or Jack Lait might do it—I am going to ask you to practice with me for a . few minutes so that I’ll have the thing down. You’re
' to be Vera for a few moments and I’m to come up to .
you and—”	'
2nd Student:—“But won’t I have to shave?—I can’t
be Vera with a beard like this.”
1 st-Student:—“Never mind shaving. I’m going.to overlook the beard, and flat nose and alleged brain and bow legs, and look upon you for the moment just as though you were capable of arousing an emotion. You must sit on- the sofa there and I’ll pretend that* at last the moment of moments has arrived:	.
“Vera, I drop down on this bended knee	.
Which is now full of wrinkles all for thee, .
I swear to you by all the spearmints gum	\
That I will never raise another thumb	-
For anyone but thee. I’ll buy you tarts-	;
. With sticky jelly that will join our hearts	.
And all day long I’ll sit upon the floor .
Catching pneumonia from an open door
And having hives and measles and all that.” .
2nd Student:—	’	_
“If thou hast measles, Romeo, take thy hat _	.
..And parrasang thy way unto the door	. ,
Else I will kick a goal and tie the score ’*
. 1 st’ Student:—	. ..
“O Vera, see the pools about.thy feet	J
Made by my tears, arid listen to me bleat, *
" I am a tired, lonesome little lamb. .
2nd Student:—	-	-	. .
“Yea, thou art full two-Hundred pounds of ham ;
And look riiuch like a fish. That beak that grows . : Between thine eyes is mighty like a rose.”
, 1st Student:—	-	_
" Wilt thou refuse me then and let me die
~ Must I to yonder river quickly hie
passed around' and* everyone is puffing; the J>oor hay-	"Save thee the trouble—here’s a slipper lace
y arias, I ■ will ask-Mr. McCauley to rise and sing that Go hang thyself upon the bed-room door ? . significant little ditty ‘Mighty like a Rope:’” . -	* And I will tell all how the crimson gore—”
i6o
THE NOTRE DA ME SCHOLASTIC
ist Student:—	‘
“Ah wretched one that I had loved—”
2nd Student:—	•'
"Ah. that’s enough for Vfcra, let’s go,out to Tony' and get a hot dog. I’m hungry.” -
1 st Student:—	•
“Say; you unromantic Fish, do you ever expect to jearn enough to graduate?”	.
Old Students’ Hall—Subscriptions to November 25,1916
The following subscriptions for Old Students’ Hall were received by Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Michigan, treasurer of the
building committee:
$2000.00
Samuel T. Murdock, ’86	.
■	$4000.00
P. T. O’Sullivan, ’68
Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, '75
M. F. Healy, ’82 John C. Shea, ’98 Clement C. Mitchell, ’02 Byron V. Kanaley, ’04. Daniel P. Murphy, ’95 John P. Lauth, ’68 ■	$500.00
C. A. Paquette, ’90
Rev. John Dinnen, ’65
Warren A. Cartier, ’87	■
Stephen B. Fleming, ’90 Thomas Hoban, ’99 Angus D. McDonald, ’co '' William A. Mclnerny, ’01 Joseph M. Byrne, ’14 Cassius McDonald, '04 William P. Breen, ’77 Student from Far West Rev. I. E. McNamee, ’09 , . C. C. Craig, ’85
Frank E. Hering, '98 . Peter P. McElligott, '02
James J. Conway. ’85	-
George Cooke, ’90
$250.00	-
Peter' Kuntzz
Robert Sweeney, ’03	.. -
John H. Fendrich’ ’84 - John Eggeman, ’00	"
A. A. McDonell, ’00
Eugene A. Delaney, ’99 ' R. A. O’Hara, '89	-
;	$200.00
W. G. Uffendeli	’
■ John O’Shea, ’n ,
James F. Kennedy,..’94 ;
Louis C. M. Reed, ’98 Francis O'Shaughnessjr, ’00 Joseph J. Sullivan, ’02	"
G. A. Farabaugh, ’04	.	.
Robert Anderson, -83 .	-
. Jqgeph Lantry, ’07	.
Rev. F.' J. Van Antwerp, ’14 “ . John Dowd, ’99
Rt- Rev. Thos. F. Hickey, ’03 . Christopher C.. Fitzgerald, '94 ; E; A. Ka.ul,.J97. .	;	.
. ’ William Hoynes, ’77	• . •'
Edwin J. Lynch. ’10	. .	-
T. D.- Mott," '’95' -	.
F. Henry Wurzer, ’98-; ' , .. . . ■ Paul R. Martin; T3 ’ -
' Timothy V. Ansberry, ’93 .	’
John M.: Quinlan, ’64’ -‘“x	.
. Daniel Madden, ’o6 . :i. M.Fred J.‘Kasper,-’04 -x -- •
J.-S..Corby,:'98: .r .<	- •
- - ThomasSteiner, *99'
•sJohn-F.- Cushing,’ ’66'	>' " -•, ’
$150.00 William Byrne, '95' James L. Tong, *94 W. A. Draper, ’06
•	$120.00	'
Maximilian St. George ’08
$100.00
Harry V. Crumley. ’03	’
Harry S. Cahill ' Walter V. Heekin » William McKenzie Rev. Bernard P. Murray, Mark M. Foote, '73
Patrick J. Houlihan, ’92	*
E. J. Maurus, ’93
Thomas J. Swantz, ’04
H. G. Hogan, ’04
Harold P. Fisher, ’06
John B. Kanaley, '09
James F. Hines, '09	-	.
John B. McMahon, ’09
Rev. John M. Byrne, ’00
J. H. Gormley, ’03
Thomas O’Neill, '43
Robert E. Proctor, ’04
John F. O’Connell, ’43
Frank C. Walker, '09 -
Rev. Gilbert Jennings, '08 '
George O’Brien, '90	’
1 Vitus Jones, ’02
. W. A. Duffy, 'oS
Rev. J. H. Guendling, ’r4
Fred C. McQueen, ’00
Charles J. Stubbs, '88
Rupert Donavan, ’08	•
Rev. Francis H. Gavisk, '14-Rt. Rev. Frank O'Brien,,’95 Frank L. McOsker, ’72	-
Charles E. Ruffing, '85
. James F. .Foley,"’43	.
Rt. Rev. T. C. O’Reilly, ’09 Thomas J. Welch, ’05
'William E. Cotter,'’43
John C. Tully, 'r4„ -.John F. O’Connor, '72.	-
T.’P. O'Sullivan, ’02
G. M. Kerndt,’ ’82'	‘
Dr. Frank J. Powers, -’94
. Rev. John Talbot Smith, ’07
.- Daniel; C. Dillon., . . -. Thomas C. Butler, '08 .
Edward M. Kennedy, ’08 '
John J. Kennedy, ^09 ’ ■ Peter M. Ragan, '92 . J •
. James D. Barry, ’97.-	.
• Fred L. Steers,’ri ...	.
. Walter Clements, ’44 ,- :	~
- 'Edward J.- Carlton,*’r6 .• -' Leonard M. Carroll, ’46','	.
’ -Luke L..Kelly,t*i6 .
’. ■ Frank E. Swift,V’46,	:
;C; P.'Mdttz.T
. Smhu’el Ward Perrott, T6 ;
-	$100.00 . _
Edward C. Ryan, ’16 James Francis Odem, ’16 Emmett P. Mulholland; ’16
' Thomas A. Hayes, ’46 Frank J. Hiss, ’16 . Joseph J. McCaffery, ’16 Walter P. McCourt, '16 . ' M. J. McEniry, ’81 Thomas J. Shaughnessy, '15 James F. O’Brien, ’13 Michael L. Fansler, ’04 A. C. Fortin, ’01	'
Daniel J. O’Connor, ’05 M. H. Miller, ’10 William D. Jamieson, '05 Grover F. Miller, '16
■ Thomas A. McLaughlin, ’16 Edwin H. Sommerer, '16 -Joseph O’Sullivan Jacob E. Eckel, '16 Vincent Mooney, ’16 John T. Shea, ’06 Edward M. Schaack. ’93 Anton C. Stephan, ’04	.
Dr. F. B. McCarty, '07 Harry F. McDonagh, ’10 Charles W. Lahey, '13 Adam J. Kasper, '95 George W. Kasper, ’95 Robert A. Kasper, ’07	_
Charles Girsch, ’94
” Gerald A. Fitzgibbon, ’07 John B. Fruechtl, '04 Hugh J. Daly, ’12 Edward K. Delana, ’13 Harry Curtis, ’08 Charles Cullinan; '07	.
Daniel Cullinan, ’07 ' Dr. W. P. Grady, ’99 Edgar Crilly, ’90	■
George S. Crilly, ’88 James V. Cunningham, ’07 ’ ' M. H. Miller, ’10 Frank X. Cull, '08 Jesse E. Vera, ’10 Walter Duncan, '12 James W. O'Hara, '43 ’ ' Joseph Collins, ’11 Dr. H. G, McCarty, '12 . James Dubbs. '06	. "
Raymond E. Skelly, ’44 William R. Ryan, '11	.
William A. McKearney, ’08
. §75-00	’ J
John W. Costello, ’12	"
'	$50.00
•Rev. John Schopp, ’94 A. J. Major, '86	.	'
Charles Vaughan,-'14 Stephen^ H.*Herr, .’10 J. N. Antoine, ’70	-
Rev. Thomas Cleary, ’09 Fred Stewart, ’12
Jay Lee, '12	,	’ '
Albert F. Gushurst» '09 , ,
‘ 'Edward P.~Cleary, ’69' ’	'
. Rev. John J. Burke, ’83' .
' Rev. M. L. Moriarty, To ' Rev. J. E. Sculling '09	- .
Rev. John P.’ Quinn, ’83	•
Simoh'E. Twining, ’13 ’ , ’ J. V. Birder, ’13 -	-
Cecil E. Birder,’14 ' M. Emmett Walter, ’15':
; Ralph Eberhart, ’02 .
Rev. Jbhn M. Gerenda, ’o9 Timothy P/Galym-, ,’16 _ •. /. Ray M: Humphreys;-’46 ' Hugh E. Carroll,'’46 ;..' r' Jesse C.-Harperrt;:	; ’■
.	$50.00
Ronald S. O'Neill, ’14 Louis P. Hari,' ’16 Joseph D. Kovacks, ’16 Patrick'Maloney, ’16 J. F. Delph, ’16 Hugh O’Donnell, '16 James Sanford, '14 Ira W. Hurley, ’14 -Emmett G. Lenihan, '15 Francis H. Hayes, ’14 E. P. Cleary, ’09 Raymond J. Kelly, ’16 - Ernest P. Lajoie, ’15	.
Rev. P. J. Crawley, ’95' Arthur Pino, ’06 William Milroy, ’13 Dr. Robert Frost, ’02 Eustace Berry, ’03	■
A Friend from the South , .Daniel Shouvlin, ’14 $40.00
Gerard N. Krost, '04 .
$25.00 Lawrence Janszen Rev. A. A. Lambing, ’83 James M. Riddle, ’13 , Henry. Hess, IS2 _ Dr. E. M. McKee, ’06	.
Robert B. Gottfredson, ’13 Rev. John H. Mullin, '11 I. N. Mitchell Sr., ’92 Frederick Williams, ’13 Rev. Joseph Toth, ’11 Joseph M. Walsh, *14 Max Adler, '89	*
John G. Mott, '95 Rev. T. O. Maguire, ’09 Paul J. Smith, ’16 C..I. Krajewski, '16 • Joseph P. Flynn, '16 John P. Conboy, '16
- W. W. Turner, ’16 Alfred Fries. ’16 J. A. McCarthy, ’16	‘
J. Harry Sylvestre, ’16 Harold P. Burke, '16 Peter C. Yerns, ’16	,
Fred M. Pralatowski,	’16	’
Francis J. Kilkenny, ’12
,	Edward L. Figel, '11	‘
-	Thomas J. Dooley, ’97
■ .Mark A. Devine, ’ioDaniel E. Cooney. ’10.
. Fremont Arnfield, ’12'
, W. W. Harless, ’86 ■ Edward J. Walsh, ’00 -
' Thomas Curran, ’16 , . .	,.	$20.00
’ Gabriel Davezac, '94
James R. Devitt, ’13 Albert A: Glbeckner, ' 15 $15.00
Bernard Durch1. ’13’ , ’	'	$10.00	.-
■ Alfred Vignos,’ '95	’
- Andrew L. Shimp, ’91 ■ ' Frank Niedecken, ’09-
\ Harry Kirk, ’13	-.
- Louis Chute, ’9'2
J. J. Deasey, ’06 . '-'H. King.T6 ' ■ - James E. Roach, ’16 ■ J. E- Hogan,T6 . .	-.	$5-°°
.; Robert D.- Murphy, ’01 .
•-Mark Duncan, ’15	,	.
- -Hiram Halliday,,’06. -	,
’ f Claude S. Moss, ’95 > .
John'Bell, ■’08 ' - •’ ...
