The Notre Dame Scholastic
vl

163
COMMENT
Fickle people these sports writers. Before the Carnegie Tech game we all read columns which played up the impending defeat for Notre Dame. This defeat, which seemed inevitable, would be laid to the inequality of the respective lines. Carnegie had a bonecrushing forward wall; Notre Dame couldn’t hope to dent it with the “green, inexperienced line” they had. The writers of those same columns are now singing the praises of the new “seven mules.” Prior to the Pitt game, they declared that “it would be a battle between two of the greatest lines in the country.” My, my, how their eyes have been opened.
r—'
Who wants Hoover’s shoes? Somebody is after them. It is hard right now to tell who will get them, although the governorship of New York seems to be a deciding factor in the question of the presidency. People of New York have settled it among themselves that who ever wins the election for the governor’s office will be the logical candidate for 1932.
The latest cause for tears seems to be the announcement that general admission tickets to the Indiana game • will be sold for one dollar. Some of the freshmen are griping because they bought an athletic book; they think they should have waited and got in on the bargain sale.
Some of the boys have decided not to study any more. Since plans were announced concerning the construction of a “community center” in the form of a §200,000 building, which will include a ballroom, a swimming pool, and almost everything a student’s heart could desire, the books have been thrown in the baskets. The boys are simply not going to study; they are going to flunk out and return when the building is completed. No sir, they don’t want to be cheated out of anything.
Can you imagine a wad of some §60,000 being dangled in the faces of. thousands of needy people—and then having a few scrupulous gentlemen taking it away? If we could think of something really mean to compare these men with we would put it on the front page of every newspaper in the country—if we had to pay for the space. .	W. V. B.
QiomiiiiimuiiimimiiuiimimiuHiitiiuiiiimmiiiuiiHiHiKiiuimuiiuiuiiif.mull...limit.mmiiiiu
I The Notre Dame Scholastic
i Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
:	Founded in 1872
EMIL L. TELFEL.... HARLEY L. McDEVITT
EDITORIAL STAFF
John E. Bergan..... James J. Kearney... Edward E. Brennan Walter V. Beesley.. Alfred E. Gall..... James K. Collins... Austin Boyle....... Paul J. Hallinan. ..
■■a
.... Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager
..........Managing	Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Assistant Managing .............Makeup .............Makeup ...........Features ..............Script
Editor Editor Editor Editor Editor
Associate Editor
Richard J. O’Donnell.....................The	Week
Ramon G. Smith..................The College Parade
Frank E. Seward..................Music and Drama
W. Leslie Raddatz.....................Campus	Clubs
NEWS STAFF
Neil C. Hurley.........................Neivs	Editor
William C. Karl...............Assistant	News Editor
Edward R. Brennan	Myron Crawford	John Pick
James Carmody William Fitzgerald John Conley	Anthony R, Schreiner William Corr Lloyd Teske F. Granger Weil	Lawrence Dunda Sanguinet Williams Lawrence Prybylski
	SPORTS STAFF	
John A. Kiener	 Cleve Carey	James E. McFeely, Jr. Robert Balfe	George Belting		Sports Editor Henry B. Asman T. Edward Carey.
BUSINESS STAFF
James H. RorKE...........Local	Advertising Manager
James L. Rizer........Foreign Advertising Manager
John R. Blanda...;.....Local Circulation Manager Andrew McGuan..........Foreign Circulation Manager
Frederick Bauer Merle Baldwin Raymond J. Naber John P. Hess
Vol. LXIV
OCTOBER 31, 1930
No. 6
I	TABLE OF CONTENTS
i	The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell-----------------------  165
:	Coming Events________________________________________ 166
=	A Man You Know—Edward E. Brennan--------------------- 168
=	Music and Drama—Frank E. Seward---------------------- 172
=	Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan----------- 173
E	College Parade—Ramon G. Smith------------------------ 176
E	Campus Clubs—W. Leslie Raddatz----------------------- 177
5	Editor’s Page________________________________________ 178
j	Strike Up the Band—James Collins--------------------- 179
1 The Wink___________________2__________________________ 180
=	Emil Jacques, Notre Dame Art Leader__________________ 181
=	Battered Indiana Team Next Foe—John A. Kiener-------- 182
E	Fighting Irish Smother Panthers—T. Edward	Carey------ 182
1	Splinters From the Press Box------------------------- 185
E	Interhall Sports 188
=	On Down the Line_____________________________________ 192
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing a special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 191$.
:	The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronace of
:	All Notre Dame Men.
1*1... .....mum.....mmmmmmiiimmiuiuiiiiiiniiiimmmiiimmuiimuimmmmiimmimiiimmiiimmiiiim
B.....................................................................................................                        mum.,...............................................................................................
164
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The University Library
The Notre Dame Scholastic
165
♦ THE WEEK ♦
'he Scholastic almost failed to come to press this week as a result of a dearth of material. The members of the editorial board had a hard time finding copy. Had they been in Pittsburgh for the recent bloodless slaughter, they might have found silent cheering there worthy of their Phillipic criticisms. The Pitt students must have been dazed by the stunning spectacle on the field, or by some other equally stupefying influence. The patterns they presented under the guidance of their army o‘f cheer-leaders resembled the works of a modernistic madhouse painter. The only correct thing about their act was the coloi- scheme, since their representative school hues are gold and blue. Considering the confusion of their team on the field, the confusion of the students in the stands may easily be excused. It would be hard to tell black from white if our own Fighting Irish were on the wrong end of a thirty-five to nothing score, and they had to make the difficult distinction between gold and blue. It seems as though a pun would be almost appropriate here concerning- the predominance of blues and lack of gold among the Pitt rooters after the game, but we shall fight off the temptation, and keep the column uncontaminated.
^1' HE Notre Dame yearbook is undoubtedly one of the most important of the campus publications. And the editor of the Dome is just as undoubtedly an important figure on the campus. But prominent as he is, and influential as he is, he is too presumptive of his power when he takes it upon himself to openly insult as a body the senior class of 1931. For the first time in the history of the school, a student of lower class standing has assumed the responsibility and consequences of publicly and pointedly offering an affront to the men of the University who, with the assistance of heaven, will graduate this coming year. Mr. H. (we shall spare him the embarrassment of using his name) is not content with announcing- on his bulletins that seniors must wear coat, vest, tie, and clean shirt to have their pictures taken, but he repeats the offense by announcing it again on the cards announcing the appointment with the photographer. He was not, however, specific as to the color of the tie, or as to whether it should be bow or four-in-hand. It has been rumored that he was considering making a derby or opera hat a necessary part of the subject’s equipment, but that has as yet failed to make the bulletins. Nor did he specify just what he meant by a clean shirt. Perhaps he deduced that after four years at college a man should know when a shirt is clean and when it is not clean, but we have| known opinions on this debatable subject to vary widely. Some tux shirts on this campus have seen the Sophomore Cotillion and the Senior Ball without having paid a visit to the laundry during the intervening years. We wondei* also if Bill the barber has to be seen before we may stare into the camera’s lens. There’s room for a racket there. Who will make a bid for the concession? After all, we did not have to go through this dressing program to enter the A. A. book’s rogue’s gallery. The results, though, may justify Mr. H’s precautionary measures.
I F we are to believe the enthusiastic reports of sports writers who saw the game last Saturday, there is but one football team in the United States, and that team eats its meals in the Notre Dame dining halls. Other gridmen throughout the country might just as well fold up then-moleskins, and put them away where the poor, starving moths may find them. There are not many complimentary adjectives in the dictionary which were not used in the superlative by the gentlemen of the press who sat open-mouthed while Bock’s boys worked their magic spell over the hypnotized Pitt eleven. We envy the lot of the sports writers whose pleasure it is to follow Rock’s outfit about the country and report on its activities. All he has to do is look up the synonyms for “marvelous,” “wonderful,” and “perfect,” put them in the superlative, mix them up, and he’s got an exact description of the football warriors that represent our University. Let us hope that the reports that emanated from the Pitt stadium last week were kept hidden from the Indiana team that is spending the week-end with us. The Hoosiers would hardly be encouraged by them. Or if the papers were not kept from them, the local newsmen should have sent out stories of a broken leg epidemic on the Notre Dame campus. Nothing would be more stimulating to football enthusiasm in all parts of the country. It seems now as though nothing less than eleven broken legs could prevent the national championship trophy from again reposing in dignified security in our trophy-filled library.
W ITCHES, hobgoblins, and imps of mischief will reign supreme tonight. The love of mummery and masquerade which is so innate in human nature will be released for an evening of merrymaking, then to be closeted and locked away until another year has passed. This ancient custom of masking and dressing fantastically is probably the survival of the rites of primitive voodooism and magic. The constancy of its appeal to man’s imagination is manifested by the persistence with which it has clung to our customs, in spite of the conflicting opinions of convention and civilization. It but proves that all the world is really a stage, and the men and women in it are ever* willing to not only play their own parts in its drama, but also to assume different roles. The streets of South Bend and of most other towns in this country, and in many other countries, will tonight be filled with queerly clad persons allowing their imaginations to wander. The celebrations can hardly be called appropriate for the eve of a holy day. But then it is only in accord with the modern idea that the night before Christmas, and the eve of a new year are but occasions for the increasing of cover charges, and the raising of the price of theater tickets. This is a material world, with material ideas to supplant concepts which were once sacred and holy. Most of those who take part in the frivolities tonight will be unaware that the name of the occasion they are celebrating is a form of “Holy Evening.” May their ignorance excuse their irreverence 1
i
166
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Coming Events
These dates are subject to change without notice.
FRIDAY, Oct. 31—Scholastic staff meeting, Publications’ office, Main building, 7:00 p. m.—Football, Reserves vs. St. Viator’s, at Bourbonnais, Ill., 8:00 p. m.—Tennesee club meeting, north room of library, 6:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, Nov. 1—All Saints day. No classes. Masses same as on Sunday.—Football, Notre Dame vs. Indiana, Notre Dame stadium, 2:00 p. m.—Notre Dame "B” vs. Indiana “B” at Bloomington.—Movies, “Sins of the Children,” Washington hall, 6:40 p. m.
SUNDAY, Nov. 2—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00.—Interhall football, 9:30 a. m. and 2:30 p. m.—Interhall coaches, officials and team pictures, 1:30 p. m.—K. of C. first-degree initiation, 10: CO a. m.; third-degree initiation, 2:00 p. m., South Bend council chambers.—K. of C. banquet, Oliver hotel, 6:30 p. m.
MONDAY, Nov. 3—All Souls day. Masses, Sacred Heart church.— Lyons and Morrissey hall group pictures, 12:30 p. m.—A. I. E. E. meeting, Chemistry hall, 7:45 p. m. —Italian club meeting, Room 2, Walsh hall.—Educational Confraternity meeting, Journalism room of library, 7:00 p. m.—K. of C. meeting, Walsh hall chamber, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, Nov. 4—Howard and Badin group picture, 12:30 p. m.— Blue Circle meeting, south room of - library, 6:30 p. m.—Spanish club meeting, Room 219, Main building, 6:45 p. m.—Wranglers meeting, Journalism room of library, 6:30 p. m.—New Jersey club meeting, old Law building, 7:45 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 5—Scribblers meeting, Howard “Rec” room, 6:30 p. m.—Corby and Sorin hall group picture, 12:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, Nov. 6—Juniors’ Dome photos taken in Walsh hall chambers of K. of C.—Walsh and St. Edward’s hall group picture, 12:30 P- m.—Spectators’ club meeting, Journalism room of library, 8 p. m.
FRIDAY, Nov. 7—Brownson and Carroll hall group pictures, 12:30 p. m.
FATHER EDWIN V. O’HARA CONSECRATED BISHOP OF GREAT FALLS, MONTANA
Was on N. D. Summer Faculty
The Right Reverend Edwin V. O’Hara, for many years a national figure in the field of sociology, was consecrated Bishop of the See of Great Falls, Montana, in St. Mary’s cathedral, Portland, Oregon, on Tuesday of this week. The position which
Right Reverend Edwin V. O’Hara
Father O’Hara has been appointed to was vacated by the Right Reverend Matthias C. Lenihan, who tendered his resignation some months ago.
The consecration of Bishop O’Hara was impressively celebrated with the Most Reverend Edward D. Howard, D. D., Archbishop of Portland, Oregon, as consecrator, and the Right Reverend Charles D. White, D. D., Bishop of Spokane, and the Right Reverend George J. Finnigan, C.S.C., D. D., Bishop of Helena, Montana, as assistant consecrators. The installation of Bishop O’Hara will take place on November 5.
Father O’Hara was appointed to the bishopric during the summer, at which time he was a member of the summer school faculty at Notre Dame, teaching several classes in rural sociology. He also taught classes at the University during the summer of 1929.
Since joining the priesthood, Bishop O’Hara has spent considerable time
DEBATE SQUAD TO MEET IN LIBRARY MONDAY;
PLANS COMPLETE
Anticipating a revival of interest in debate, Reverend Francis Boland, C.S.C., coach of the University debating team, states that he expects approximately one hundred candidates for the varsity squad at the initial meeting of the season, 12:30 p. m., Monday, November 3, in the south basement of the library. In all there will be two elimination contests, the first within a few weeks, and the second, sometime after the holidays, cutting the squad to ten men at the beginning of the season.
The question for debate, an economic one of timely and universal interest, follows:
“Resolved: that the several states should enact legislation, providing for compulsory unemployment insurance, to which the employers shall contribute.”
The following interpretations are included with the question:
(a)	Constitutionality is waived.
(b)	Any business in which less than ten persons are employed shall be exempt from the provisions of the law.
(c)	Insurance shall not apply to seasonal industries.”
An especially attractive schedule which has been arranged, including many of the leading universities of the East and Middle West, together with the interesting topic, would seem to justify Father Boland’s expectations of a successful debating season.
in intensive study of American social conditions, particularly those of the rural communities. He has worked hard to broaden and deepen his knowledge of this important field and his success is shown in the fact that at the present time he is looked upon as one of the most eminent authorities in the country on social work.
Study alone has not been the factor contributing to Bishop O’Hara’s success. Combined with his intellectual ability, he possesses a most pleasing personality and a kind nature, qualities which are of invaluable aid to men working in the field of sociology.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
167
GLEE CLUB TO SING OVER RADIO
DURING THE ARMOUR HOUR
Notre Dams’s famous glee club will take part in the Armour hour program, November 28, on the National Broadcasting Company’s hook-up of 36 stations during the gala week-end of the Army game. According to Business Manager J. Edward Phelan of the club, they have contracted to sing several times during the well known hour which goes on the air at 8:CO p. m. each Friday night. The organization will include in then- program all the popular Notre Dame campus songs as well as those of the Army.
Also on the program and of interest to Notre Dame men is a live-minute talk by Coach Rockne. Coming at that time, just previous to so important a tussle, it should prove very interesting to all to hear “Rock’s” opinion on the grid battle of the morrow. Aside from that his appearance will provoke much favorable comment because of his well known abilities as a speaker for all occasions.
This is the glee club’s second ap-
BLUE CIRCLE MEETS; SUPPORT OF GRIDGRAPH
ASKED
At a meeting last Tuesday members of the Blue Circle discussed the operation of the gridgraph and suggestions for, its improvement were made.
President Madden talked on Gilbert’s contest to send a Notre Dame student to the Southern California game. He urged the support of Bob Cunningham who now has many votes.
The Blue Circle considered methods of raising funds. Boxing matches, were suggested but as yet no definite plans have been made.
Tomorrow there will be silent cheering incorporating a number of novelties and improvements.
REINKING GIVES TALK TO COMMERCE JUNIORS
Mr. Charles Reinking, cashier of the First National Bank Union Trust Company of South Bend, addressed the juniors in the college of Commerce Thursday morning on the subject of branch banking. Mr. Reinking is the first of a group of speakers who will discuss current business problems fcr the benefit of the commerce students this year.
pearance on the Armour hour, as they put on their stuff before in the stations of the same company. They were well received then and look for the same success in this appearance.
The membership is as follows:
FIRST TENOR—William Frank O’Neil. Herman A. Ziffrin. Maurice J. Scanlon, Ron Zudeck. John B. Sodeski, Joseph E. Kennedy. Frederick G. Breit, Ray J. Pellman, Eugene Moreau. Theodore C. Collins, L. Orgera, Jim Collins, Arthur Glassow.
SECOND TENOR—Donald J. O’Toole. Jerry Culligan, Francis J. Maas, John Hickey. Paul J. Murphy. Jerome J. Crowley, Bill McAleer, Schmidt. Dunn. Joe Bellamy. Jack F. Fritzer. Edward G. Mason. David S. Haran, James Carmody, Arthur J. Wiele, John K. Carnes. Jack Tulerty. Herbert J. Wehrling. Thomas Downs. Edward J. Radzuk. Charles L. Farris. E. A. Rohrbach. Joseph Clark. Albert H. Monacelli. Thomas B. Burke, John J. Maloney. George J. Stenger. Ed Massa.
BARITONE—Edward Quinn. John William Sequence, John Thomas Garner, William C. Murphy, Joseph Edward Pilon, Gerald Conway, R. J. Nesbit. Paul O'Toole. Cy Rapier. Herman Uhl. George M. Menard, Robert M. Cahill, J. Justin Tompkins. Hugh O’Brien. James J. Gerend. Jim Kirby, Richard Breen. Hecter Mariani. Raymond G. Reuland, Robert William Butler. Frank Oberkeeter. Joe Talbot, William D. Waltz.
SECOND BASS—Bernard J. Huston, Clayton Duerr, John Murphy, Walter Philip. Francis W. Brown. Edward R. Brennan. Geo. G. Lennartz, George T. Coaty. Ed. Phelan. Richard Breen. William D, Ayers. Thomas Edmund Meade. John Christopher, Frederick McLaughlin. James Bourdeau. James E. Wade. Philys C. Geoghegon, Donald E. Mihan.
“SCRIP” TO APPEAR IN NOVEMBER
Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager of publications, announced recently that Scrip, Notre Dame’s literary quarterly, will appear about the middle of November. Work on this issue has already begun by Editor Louis A. Brennan of Portsmouth, Ohio. The Reverend James H. McDonald, C.S.C., head of the English department, is advisor of the publication.
SCIENCE NOTES
The Academy of Science announces a lecture by Ralph McDonald; M.D. on next Monday evening at eight o’clock in the library. This lecture will be of particular interest to all pre-medical students and the Academy extends a general invitation to the student body.
The membership of the Academy for the current semester is 44.
All seniors in the college of Science will meet in room 208 of Science hall on Friday, November 7th at 12:45 for the purpose of discussing graduation dissertations.
The membership of the college is 309, not including graduate students.
HALL GROUP PICTURES
FOR “DOME” TO BE
TAKEN NEXT WEEK
Photographs of the various hall groups will be taken beginning next Monday, November 3. The hall section of the 1931 Dome will be given prominence and consequently the entire student body of each hall is requested to be prompt for their picture.
Following are the assigned dates for the hall pictures: Monday, Lyons hall, Morrissey hall; Tuesday, Howard hall, Badin hall; Wednesday, Corby hall, Sorin hall; Thursday, Walsh hall, St. Edward’s hall; Friday, Brownson and Carroll halls. The group picture of Sophomore and Freshman halls will be taken Thursday, November 13.
All hall group pictures will be taken promptly at 12:30 p. m.
LIBRARY BOASTS OF NEW FEATURE
Several features in the library this past week have caused much admiration from all who have observe ! them. In particular is the beautiful illustrative map on display in the main entrance. It is a noteworthy accomplishment in map making and furnishes a small education in itself. It bears the inscription “Map of America, making a chart of Places and Events. For those who would sail with the discoverers, seeking freedom with the Colonists, following the Westward trails, subdue the Wilderness, and behold the Building of a Republic.” As a complement to the map a globe, beautifully wrought, is furnished in the file room for the inspection of all.
A series of oil paintings, the work of Mr. Emil Jacques, head of the art department, is also on exhibition. This should be of particular interest to the students.
EDUCATIONAL CLUB TO HEAR KUNTZ
There will be an important meeting of the Educational Confraternity in the Journalism room of the library on Monday evening, Nov. 3, at 7:00 o’clock. Dr. Kuntz will be present and has consented to speak on a subject which concerns all those interested in education. All those interested in this club and desiring membership are invited to attend.
168
The Notre Dame Scholastic
4 A Man You Know £
Every student visits the University library, and is presumably familiar-with the facilities for research and study which that department has, but the University librarian, Mr. Byrne, is not so well known. His very unobtrusiveness is an eloquent tribute to the efficiency of his organization. Dur-
Mr. Paul R. Byrne
ing the years of his, administration he has made the Notre Dame library one of the best college libraries in the United States.
He was born in Moravia, a little town in New York, in 1889. For one year he attended the high school in Auburn, New York, but eventually he came to the Notre Dame preparatory school. After his "graduation from here, he entered the University and was graduated in 1913. Then he spent two years in graduate study at the library school of the University of the State of New York in Albany, finishing there in 1915.	•
Pursuing his vocation, he worked in the library of Ohio State university, at Columbus, for two years. There he was in charge of government documents, and he also worked in the reference department. In 1917 he was called to New York by the National Bank of Commerce and given the task of organizing a financial library for that institution. Upon the outbreak of the war he joined the 89th Infantry, but he never saw active service. His regiment was stationed in North Carolina and did not go to France.
After the armistice he returned to the National Bank for a while, but he was soon employed by the adjutantgeneral’s office, being stationed in Brooklyn. He was placed in charge of the distribution of books which the government had used in the University of Beaune in France. These books were given to the libraries maintained in army posts in the Panama Canal Zone and the Philippine Islands. Later the war department sent him to Fort Sam Houston, Texas, as supervisor of the army libraries in the 8th Corps area. He went to the Philippine Islands and Tientsin, after a short stay in Texas, but the government appropriation failing to materialize, he took a trip through China and Japan and then returned home.
In the summer of 1922 he returned to Notre Dame as reference librarian. In 1924 he was appointed acting librarian. He was appointed librarian in July, 1925, and he still holds this position.
During his years at Notre Dame as a student he worked in the library, which shows that his bent for library methods was formed early in life. He was one of the editor’s of the Dome for 1913. Even 'his hobby is determined by his work. He is a collector of autographed books and old books. Since his return to Notre Dame he has taught a course in library methods during the summer sessions, except in the summers of 1926 and 1930.
“SCHOLASTIC” PRINTING
RECORD NUMBER
OF COPIES
According to Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager of publications, more copies of the Scholastic are being run off the presses this year than in any previous year. The Ave Maria Press is printing approximately 4,COO copies each week. Due to the increase in the numbei- of students at the University, and the increase in outside subscriptions, it has been necessary to print additional copies this semester.
The large amount of advertising carried each issue also necessitates an increased mailing list to advertisers throughout the country, plus a great many exchanges requested from other colleges and universities.
BISHOP NOLL TO CONFIRM 75 SATURDAY
The Right Reverend John F. Noll, bishop of Fort Wayne, will confirm a group of about 75 in Sacred Heart church on Saturday morning at nine o’clock. Included in the group will be about 15 students, a few girls from St. Mary’s academy, and some members of the parish at St. Joseph’s farm.
Several adults, converts, will also be confirmed at this time. The group has been receiving instruction for for some time. The parishioners were instructed by the Reverend Edward Finnegan, C.S.C., while the students have been instructed by the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion. The girls from the academy were instructed by the nuns of the Holy Cross order.
DANCE CHAIRMAN NAMED FOR INDIANAPOLIS CLUB
At a meeting Wednesday evening of the Indianapolis club, President Habing announced the appointment of the chairmen for the annual dinnerdance to be given during the Christmas holidays in the capitol city. Frank J. Noll was named as general chairman of this affair. The chairmen of-the various committees are as follows: tickets, John Scanlan; patrons, Thomas Mahaffey; arrangements, Thomas O’Connor; publicity, Robert Leppert; decorations, James Kirby; programs, Maurice Mulrey; music, Patrick Mangan.
As yet arrangements have not been completed for the selection of the orchestra. The club is considering the services of Charlie Davis and his Indiana theater orchestra again this year. Mr. Davis is a Notre Dame alumnus.
MANY EASTERN ALUMNI AT PITT GAME
Hundreds of Notre Dame alumni now residing in the eastern states were in attendance at the Pittsburgh-Notre Dame game last Saturday. Special trains to the game were run from Cleveland, Toledo, Youngstown, Buffalo, Altoona and Rochester.
The Notre Dame club of Pittsburgh was host to the visitors at a dinner-dance held Saturday evening in the Hotel Fort Pitt. The club also entertained the members of the varsity at dinner.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
169
SOPHOMORE COMMITTEES BUSY AS COTILLION DATE DRAWS NEAR
The program committee of the Sophomore Cotillion, headed by Dick Parrish, has selected an attractive dance program. It is a new effect in black leather stamped in gold with the seal of the University. It contains the names of all committeemen and a novel idea for the presentation of dances. With its dozen pages it is larger than any previous dance program.
For the first time in the history of sophomore cotillions formal engraved invitations will be used. Since last Wednesday they have been available on the presentation of a cotillion ticket to any member of the invitation committee: Frank Hurley, chairman; Thomas Walsh, Frank Len-nartz, Raymond Nabor, Thomas Downs, James Bourk, James Engels.
Members of the class who desire a communion breakfast on the Sunday morning of the cotillion week-end should communicate with one of the
MUSICAL COMEDY STAR VISITS CAMPUS
•	Charles Butterworth, a graduate of
the University in the class of 1924 and present star of “Sweet Adeline,” -	foremost musical comedy now playing
in Chicago, was a visitor on the campus Tuesday. While here he conferred with a number- of his former teachers.
4	'	•
Mr. Butterworth, one of the young-i	est musical comedy stars, has also
!	appeared in a number of moving- pic-
tures. His latest starring vehicles i	are “Illicit” and “The Life of the
• Party.” He will also appear in further-pictures made by Warner Brothers.
The young comedian began his dramatic career while at Notre Dame. He appeared in a number of the . campus plays and contributed some ’ very amusing skits to the Monogram , Absurdities of 1923 and 1924. After ' leaving school he entertained at ban-/	quets throughout the country by giv-
>	ing his famous “Rotary Club After-
1	dinner Speech.” In 1926 he played
|	minor roles in musical shows in New
I	York. He was starred in 1929 in
I	“Sweet Adeline,” a show that ran ten
•	months on Broadway and which is
now running in Chicago.
Mr. Butterworth also visited friends in South Bend and left late in the afternoon for Chicago.
members of the ticket committee. The number of applications for this breakfast will determine whether this breakfast will actually be held.
The fact that the music committee has been successful in completing arrangements to bring Bill Donahue and his Drake hotel orchestra to the Palais Royale on the night of November 14 has excited favorable comment on the campus.
The cotillion will be limited strictly to sophomores. Members of the class will be required to be in their place of residence by 2:00 o’clock on the night of the dance.
Sophomores are to be reminded that the sale of tickets for the cotillion will close a week from today (November 7). The members of the ticket committee are listed on the bulletin boards in the halls. Sophomores are urged to consult the notices and purchase their tickets as soon as possible.
PITT TRIP SUCCESS, SAY MEMBERS
Members of the Pittsburgh club who made the trip last Friday to wit- , ness the game with the University of Pittsburgh report a very enjoyable and eventful week-end. A section of the huge Pitt stadium was reserved for- the students and alumni of Notre Dame. The dinner-dance given by the Notre Dame alumni club of Pittsburgh at the Fort Pitt hotel was attended by prominent alumni and by members of the 1930 team. Several other parties were well attended on both Friday and Saturday nights. The special train returned to South Bend early Monday morning.
FOOTBALL ISSUE OF “JUG-
GLER” OUT NOV. 13
That “Funny Fellow,” Jack Dempsey, promises the sophomores one of the best Jugglers of the year- for their cotillion guests. Although nominally a “Football Number,” this edition, appearing on the campus on November 13, will contain much cotillion material.
All students are invited to submit material—jokes, sketches and poetry —before the deadline, November 1.
DEAN MILTNER TO SPEAK IN CHICAGO
The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will read a paper- at the dinner session of the meeting of the Catholic Association for International Peace to be held in Chicago on Armistice Day, November 11. Father Miltner’s paper is entitled, “The Church and War.”
Members of the faculty and student body interested in the burning question of international peace and security are invited to attend this meeting sponsored by the Calvert club of Chicago. The subjects to be discussed are: Economic and Political Causes of War, Remedies for These Causes, and the Relation of the Church to the Problem of International Peace.
The Catholic Association for International Peace is endeavoring to arouse interest in the problem of international peace in all the Catholic colleges and universities in the country. It is hoped that the students of Notre Dame will take advantage of whatever suggestions or assistance the peace society may be able to give.
I College of Law I
Honorable E. J. Dempsey, of Oshkosh, Wis., president of the State Bar Association of Wisconsin, president of the state board of bar examiners, and president of the state board of teachers’ colleges, will deliver a lecture Friday evening, November 7, in the Law building. This will be the second of a series of lectures sponsored by the Law club.
Mr. Dempsey has two sons at Notre Dame: John E., senior in the College of Arts and Letters and editor of the Juggler, and Joseph F., a sophomore in the same college.
Judge M. M. Oshe of the Chicago Title and Trust Company gave the first of a series of lectures to the Law school last Wednesday evening at 7:00 p. m. The talk was on the subject of abstracting and conveyancing.
The moving of the law library to the new Law building has been completed and the library is now ready for use in its new quarters.
T*
170
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Campus Opinions
Question—“What do you think of the Blue Circle’s vigilance committee?
Arthur J. Kane, off-campus senior —“Until last year I had not heard of the vigilance committee. But I learned that it was a group of members of the Blue Circle brought together to correct slight misdemeanors of the student body. To me this seems to be a good method of teaching the students the proper spirit that a Notre Dame man should possess.”
Kenneth J. Konop, off-campus, senior in the College of Law—“I have never heard of the vigilance committee before, but it sounds like a good idea. As long as the purpose of this organization is for the creation of pep and enthusiasm among the student body, and not the enforcement of disciplinary rules it has my wholehearted. support.”
Tom Monahan, Sorin hall, senior— “It is my belief that such a committee, through its activities, can exert a good influence toward the betterment of student life and the making of real Notre Dame spirit. In past years this committee has always been an active one and composed of real Notre Dame men. I can’t see any reason why age-old traditions cannot be sustained.”
Frederick N. Davis, Walsh hall, graduate student—“Such an organization as a vigilance committee is most suitable to a community inclined to lawlessness, when the property and lives of law-abiding citizens are unsafe. It comes into being only when ordinary police methods are inadequate to preserve order. The state of affairs at the University is not that of a lawless community, nor can anyone say that the ordinary methods of discipline are inadequate. The university student is usually regarded as law-abiding and as a gentleman. He threatens neither the property or lives of his fellow students. In the eyes, of the committee the offense is against the ‘spirit of the campus.’ Penalties, therefore, can be inflicted for this but not any physical harm. He should be punished according to the magnitude of the offense. An offense against spirit should be punished only in a non-physical manner.”
CHESTERTON LECTURES ON THACKERAY IN ELEVENTH OF LITERATURE SERIES
Compares Him With Dickens,- Says Two Authors Are Interesting Contrast •
On Tuesday afternoon, Octobei- 28, in Washington hall, Gilbert K. Chesterton gave the eleventh lecture in his series on Victorian literature. He spoke about William Makepeace Thackeray, and in the manner of the people of Victorian times, he contrasted this author with Charles Dickens.
Mr. Chesterton said that the Victorians tried to compare the two men since they believed that to like one was to dislike the other. It was inconceivable to them, he said, that anyone could enjoy both men. Among the people it was considered a mark of intelligence to prefer Thackeray.
The lives of the two men, Mr. Chesterton declared, present an interesting contrast which explains in a large measure the difference in their writ-
JOE E. BROWN CHANGES ALLEGIANCE AT
PITT GAME
“Best game I have seen in a long time, and I’m telling you I’ll be at the Notre Dame-Southern California game December 9, with gold and blue pennants in both arms,” was the comment given by Joe E. Brown, movie star and featured player of “Maybe Its Love,” after Notre Dame had' vanquished the Pitt Panther last Saturday.
Brown, who was a Pittsburgh rooter and associate Panther yell leader at the game, was loud in his praise of the 1930 edition of the Fighting Irish and said that he sure learned a lot about Notre Dame from Tim Moynihan, 1929 center, while his picture, “Maybe It’s Love,” was being made.
Robert C. Balfe, Walsh hall, senior, and manager of the 1931 baseball team — “As a guardian of Notre Dame’s treasury of tradition and honor, the vigilance committee should have a strong influence on student life. It should be an unbiased judiciary body with definite standards to maintain. When it oversteps its bounds it is defeating its own purpose and becomes harmful rather than helpful.”
ings. Dickens rose from lower class poverty, and he never lost the fighting spirit which led him on. Thackeray was born in India, of the class known as “gentlemen.” He was well-educated, but after leaving Cambridge without a degree, he became associated with a bad group of gentlemen card players who relieved him of a small fortune. Much of his writings show this quality of shabby gentility.
Thackeray was disillusioned and presented all life in the same dreary, drab grey. Dickens, on the contrary, had a more optimistic outlook on life. He could understand the great “adventure” of going to some long-anticipated amusement. Thackeray looked at things through the “diminishing end of the telescope,” Mr. Chesterton said.
BRITZ OPENS “DOME” ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
Monday marked the beginning of the foreign advertising campaign of the Dome, under the direction of Edmund Britz, of Chicago, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. The next two months will be spent in procuring advertising from all over the country. The 1931 Dome is now working with a new staff appointed at a recent meeting held for that purpose.
FATHER KELLY TALKS TO KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS
Some sixty members of the Knights of Columbus met in the Walsh hall council chambers Monday evening. Several important matters were discussed, especially the suspension of members for financial arrears, and eligibility requirements for voting at the election of council officers.
The principal address was by the Reverend John Kelly, C.S.C., who described at some length the Knights’ building fund, which now totals approximately $35,000. Father Kelly traced the history of the fund and pointed out the work yet to be done.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
171
JUNIOR PHOTOGRAPHS FOR "DOME" TO BEGIN THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6TH
Alfred E. Gall Named As Snapshot Editor; Novel System of Prizes Announced
The majority of the senior pictures have been taken by press time today, setting a new record for this kind of work at the University. Seniors who have not attended to this matter are urged to do so immediately. By act-' ing promptly they will insure their picture appearing in the 1931 Dome.
Junior Photographs
Junior pictures for the Dome are to begin Thursday, November 6. Instead of taking their pictures in groups of foui- as has been done in previous years, the juniors will be photographed individually. They are asked to come suitably attired in a white shirt, coat and vest, and necktie. Since the photographer* has to take all the junior pictures in a week, it is necessary that they report to the K. of C. room in Walsh hall basement, as soon as possible, to arrange for an appointment. The assessment will be 50 cents.
Paul Hallinan, Dome editor, has announced the appointment of Alfred E. Gall as snapshot editor for this year’s annual. In the next issue of the Scholastic, Mr. Gall will announce the appointment of a man in. each hall to assist him in his work. Plans are under way at the present
NEYDON ANNOUNCES DE-
TROIT CLUB DANCE COMMITTEES
President Robert Ney don of the Detroit club announces the following committees for the Christmas dance:
General chairman—Walter T. De-Baene.
Tickets—Joseph Buchanan, chairman; Joseph Sinkule, Waltei- Duprey, Edward Moriarty, Edward Dobsky, Morris Leahy, Clyde Craine, James Daly, J. Laughna, Joseph Gaukler.
Invitations — Francis Beaupre, chairman; Norman McLeod, R. Cati-zone, D. Schneider, D. Haeker.
Music—Kenneth McLeod, chairman; Edward Reaume, William Escher, Joe
time to make the “Year” section of the Dome very successful. “Every student in a snapshot” is the slogan adopted by Gall.
In order to excite some enthusiasm among the students, a novel contest has been announced by Hallinan and Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager of publications. A prize of five dollars will be awarded each month for a period of three months, to the student who submits the best snapshot to the editor. The first award of the prize will be for the best picture turned in before December 1; the second award for the best snapshot handed in between December 1 and February 1, and the final five dollar-award for the best snapshot turned in between February 1 and March 1.
Snapshots of all kinds are desired —action pictures, trick pictures, scenic views, campus events, and pictures of student foolishness. In view of the fact that the snapshot section has been allotted to 15 or more pages in the Dome, a great deal of material is needed.
If the snapshots are not used they will be returned to the student wishing them. He should write his name lightly on the back of the picture. They may be had after April 1.
Brehler, L. Stockwell, John Young, Charles Wright.
Publicity—Granger Weil, chairman; L. Schrage, J. Powerie, J. Fisher, John Heenan.
Arrangements — Joseph Holderith and Deon Sutton, co-chairmen; H. Douville, F. Jehle, E. Gargaro, E. Kopek.
Patrons—John Breen and Ted Feldman, co-chairmen; J. La Brie, W. Powell, G. Kohs, W. Aldoni, T. McLaughlin.
Programs—Russel Beaupre, chairman; J. Witliff, H. Kopek, F. Laughna, William Adams, E. Ackerman.
Reception—M. Trombley and W. A. Mortenson, co-chairmen; R. Powell, K. Montie, F. Gatz.
ENGINEERING NOTES j J j
The second meeting of the A.S.M.E. was held in the Engineering building. Maurice Mulrey, senior, presented a paper on “Increasing the speed of racing car motors.” This was followed by the showing of a film on “Belt, screw and cable conveyors.” The total attendance was 40, with several new members being admitted into the society.
A meeting of the A.I.E.E. will be held next Monday evening at 7:45 in Chemistry hall. A representative of the Holophane Illumination Company of Chicago will give an illustrated lecture at that time. Several student papers will be read as usual.
A group of senior electrical students with the Reverend Henry Bolger, C.S.C., recently made a lengthy inspection tour of the Western Electric Company’s plant in Chicago.
The first meeting of the Engineer’s club was held Wednesday evening in the north room of the library. After a discussion of plans for the coming year, Reverend Henry Bolger, C.S.C., and Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C. gave talks which proved both interesting and humorous. Mr. James Koores, amateur magician, followed, with a highly interesting performance which succeeded in thoroughly baffling those present.
The following committees were appointed:
Speakers: Herbert Perry, chairman; Francis Loney, Paul Cushing, James O’Brien, James Hanley; entertainment: Clifford Fisher, chairman; Joseph Conley, Robert Baskerville, Barney McGlone, Charles Powers; refreshments: Vincent Eichenlaub, chairman; William McCarthy, Robert Tishler.
Meetings of the Engineer’s club in the future will be held on the first Wednesday of each month.
All those interested in forming an Engineers’ debating society should leave their names with William Karl in Walsh hall. Organizations of this character have met with success in several leading universities in the middle west, which alone should be sufficient incentive to the men of the Engineering school.
172
The Notre Dame Scholastic
« Music And Drama »
The Chicago Civic Opera began the season with a brilliant opening night last Monday. The performance was the American premiere of Ernest Moret’s Lorenzaccio. Vanni-Marcoux repeated the notable success he achieved in this opera in Paris, where he created the strangely fascinating character of Lorenzaccio. Here is one man possessed of a voice and figure admirably suited to the singing and acting of opera. All last week and the week before, orchestra rehearsals were in full swing, and artists cast for the first week’s productions were busy with conductors and assistant conductors putting the final touches on roles already in their repertoire as well as those learned during the summer. .
On Tuesday night was the magni-ficient second number of “The Ring,” Die Walkuere, marking the debuts of three new arrivals, Lehman, Nissen, and Althouse. The first Italian opera of the season was given on Wednesday night, Verdi’s La Forza del Destine. Last night was the intense and fascinating Jewels of the Madonna, the beautiful intermezza of which is known to almost everyone. Massenet’s Manon will be sung at tomorrow’s matinee, and Wagner’s Tannhaeuser tomorrow evening. Sunday afternoon will be given over to The Love of Three Kings, Montemezzi’s opera founded on Sem Benelli’s dramatic poem.
The second act of Tannhaeuser will be broadcast from the opera over the WJZ network at 9:00 o’clock tomorrow night. This act contains many of the important themes of the opera and will be well worth your listening to. The broadcast is the first of 13 to be made this year from Wacker drive.
Uli
Speaking of Sem Benelli reminds us of his play, “The Jest,” which was introduced into this country by the Barrymore brothers some 10 or 11 years ago. We were fortunate enough to see this tragic drama produced at the Playhouse in Cleveland. It is a play which demands most of the resources of the theater, set as it is against the gorgeousness and the sordidness, the fiery passions and the gentle emotions, the strong love and
the fierce hate of Florence during the Renaissance. From the smooth, unruffled opening in the banquet hall of Tornaquinci’s house to the climax of horror in the dungeon, and on to the final, terrific struggle of emotions when Giannetto Malespini realizes his revenge by seeing Neri Chiaramentesi commit fratricide and then go insane, “The Jest” is grand drama. And when the curtain descended on Giannetto at last able to pray, uttering the words “Sancta Maria, Mater Dei, ora pro nobis . . . ora pro nobis,” there was an audience more in the palm of the dramatist than we had ever seen before, except possibly the one at Walter Hampden’s “Cyrano de Bergerac.” As an interesting fact, the Playhouse people used the Barrymores’ manuscript containing their marginal comments and annotations. A choice bit for collectors and lovers of the theater, but just try to get it. There is also an opera based on “The Jest”; the title is La Cena delle Beffe, at least approximately. We doubt that this is often performed, although it is in the repertoire of the Metropolitan Opera with Lawrence Tibbett in the role of Neri.
MURRAY HICKEY LEY VISITS CAMPUS; PRAISES “SCHOLASTIC”
Murray Hickey Ley, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic last year, visited the campus last week. He arrived on Friday and stayed for the week-end, leaving Sunday night.
While here Mr. Ley complimented the present editor-in-chief of the Scholastic on the improved cover and general make-up of the magazine. Speaking to the members of the editorial board, Mr. Ley said, “So far this year you have succeeded in making the Scholastic far more interesting and attractive than any issue of previous years.”
Mr. Ley graduated last June from the College of Arts and Letters of the University. He was very prominent in campus activities, being secretarytreasurer of the Scribblers, and secretary of the Spectators, in addition to holding the editorship of the Scholastic. At present he is an instructor- of English in St. Viator’s college, Bourbonnais, Illinois.
K. OF C. TO INITIATE
SIXTY MEN SUNDAY
Noted Men to Attend Banquet
Knights of Columbus Council 1477 will hold its first major initiation of the year Sunday when 62 candidates will receive the second and third degrees of the order in the South Bend council home at 1:00 o’clock. Grand Knight Louis Buckley has announced that a first degree initiation will be held at the campus council rooms in Walsh hall Sunday morning at 10:00 o’clock.
Following the degree work, an initiation banquet will be held in the Rotary room of the Oliver hotel.
The Reverend Patrick McVeigh, of Helena, Mont., has been selected toastmaster for the gathering which will be addressed by dignitaries of the University of Notre Dame and by high officials in the Knights of Columbus order in Indiana.
Judge Cain, professor of law in the Notre Dame College of Law, will deliver the principal address of the evening. Professor Cain was formerly a member of the supreme court of the state of Nebraska, and since coming to Notre Dame this year has gained a reputation as a most interesting speaker. He will talk on “Tolerance.”
Other celebrities to be at the speakers’ table include the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University; the Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., trustee of the Notre Dame council; Otto Dorsey, state secretary, of Laporte, Ind., who is scheduled to tell of the place the Notre Dame order holds in state K. of C. affairs; District Deputy F. P. Shortle, of Laporte, Ind., who will discuss the place of the Notre Dame knights in this district; Edward McKeown, and Robert Irmiger, both of Chicago, and both former grand knights of the University council; Edmund Wills, chairman of the South Bend Building Corporation; L. W. Miller, grand knight of the South Bend council; A. A. Goeller, grand knight of the Mishawaka council; Deputy Grand Knight of the Mishawaka council Carl Christianson; and Nelson Christianson, also of the Mishawaka council.
The Notre Dame Jugglers will play during the banquet, which will begin at 6:30 o’clock.	.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
173
« Glances at the Magazines »
CHESTERTON DEBATES IN CHICAGO WITH BRIDGES ON MODERN PSYCHOLOGY
•	Mr. Armstrong is to be congratu-
lated on the October Alumnus, the Stadium number, in which is reviewed the story, past and present, of Notre Dame’s gridiron achievements and of the mighty warriors who have made achievement great. Illustrated with excellent photographs, the Alumnus affords such a record of Notre Dame football as would make an attractive souvenior for one’s self, and an appealing- gift to the folks at home. There seems only one handicap to the writing of the epic of Notre o Dame football; namely, that it never ends. It is a story of a hundred climaxes, with the moving events of the present bound up in the glorious traditions of the past. It goes on and |	on, manifestation of the spirit of
5	Notre Dame, as shining in defeat as
4 it is splendid in victory . . . The , Alumnus is on Bill Kirby’s news stand.
We have quite deservedly been taken to task for the inclusion in last week’s column of mention of two magazines which, because of the lurid type of cheap sensational story they publish, have indeed no right to consideration in the Scholastic, or in any college man’s reading list. Although their inclusion was through a misunderstanding, it was a mistake. And although we thought that mere mention was not recommendation, our common sense failed in not perceiving that recognition is often sufficient recommendation. We make no excuses, and apologize for what amounts to an insult to your intelligence.
“The Church and Birth Control,” by the Right Reverend Charles Fiske, Anglican bishop of New York, is in the November Atlantic Monthly. The title is misleading. The article is not concerned especially with birth control, but is an ineffective attempt to prove the Lambeth conference not ineffectual. The author bases his argument on logic such as: “The truth usually lies between two extremes.” An easy formula, but not very practical, except to prove his seeming point—that mediocrity is a virtue.
Every ten years the Lambeth conference brings together Episcopal
bishops from all over the world to settle matters of dogma and define Anglican doctrine for another decade. But dogma has now been scrapped; the conference advocated that precepts be dropped and principles be adopted instead. As a matter of fact, only one principle appears to have been adopted: that the individual be allowed to determine his own principles.
The author’s thoughtfulness precludes the necessity of a rebuttal to his article. Carefully he states all the main attacks on the conference, and allows them, through utter inability to prove them untrue. He affirms that the resolutions of the conference were not compromises, and illustrates this by the greatest of all its compromises, namely the resolution, after expressing horror at the mere thought of birth control, to sanction it whenever there is a “morally sound reason.” “Christian principles” are to be the guide of the individual at this point. What Christian principles? Here Bishop Fiske is forced to admit a bit of vagueness on the part of the conference. Everything seems to devolve on the individual; the conference gives not the slightest guidance, not even a hint of direction.
Considered sanely, the Lambeth conference serves only as a testimony to the mutability, the impermanence of its church. Padding here’ and lopping off there, the conference did all that it could to maintain the popularity of the Anglican church. Any concession was made so that no one’s feelings might be hurt. Any point was stretched to make the church fit its members, rather than the members the church, until, running unguided from doctrinal “pillar- to post,” the conference was left finally without a leg to stand on. Its efforts to set new fashions in religion, to keep religion in the mode, failed completely. Its very members were never in agreement; the bitterest attacks against it have been from within its own flock.
“Over the Wire—A Drama,” by Jean Cocteau, in the Atlantic Monthly, is an experiment in dramatic technique, and suggests Dorothy Parker’s “Telephone Call” all dressed up with stage effects. It is a monologue, frightfully long . . . and tedious.
Calls It “Nuisance”; Opponent Says It Has Done Good
Gilbert Keith Chesterton debated in Chicago last Saturday night at Orchestra hall with Dr. Horace J. Bridges on the subject, “Is Psychology a Curse.” Dr. Bridges is head of the Chicago Ethical society.
These two noted philosophers adopted separate modes of attack. Mr. Chesterton, who debated the affirmative, was rather facetious, while Dr. Bridges maintained a serious attitude throughout the evening.
A novel definition of psychology was given by Mr. Chesterton when he called it the “study of the soul, largely pursued by people who deny the existence of the soul they study.” Continuing along in his humorous vein, Mr. Chesterton linked up psychology and divorce, since both things became prevalent at the same time. He stated: “You’d think that the psychologists discovered the difference between people and fixed the particular character on the person.”
The conclusion of Mr. Chesterton was that even though psychology might not be a curse, “it’s at least a blamed nuisance that the -world got along uncommonly well without.”
Dr. Bridges replied that the only trouble with psychology was the misleading remarks that are so commonly directed against the subject by that group who know nothing about the subject. He went on to say that this group is best described by the phrase of president Roosevelt: “the lunatic fringe.” His defense of psychology hinged around the instances of the good done by the science. He cited the benefits resulting from its skilled use in the juvenile problems concerned with court work and home life.
GRIDGRAPH MUCH BETTER THAN LAST YEAR
The gridgraph was used for the first time this year in giving the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game last Saturday. The Western Union system brought a play-by-play report of the game directly to the booth in the gym. Each play was visualized upon the gridgraph, but was not accompanied by announcements through the sound apparatus.
174
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BIG TEN FACULTY MEN VETO CHARITY GAME FOR NORTHWESTERN
Committee’s Ruling Comes As Complete Surprise To All
The Big Ten faculty committee on athletics refused this week to waive a technical rule which would have allowed Notre Dame to meet Northwestern at Soldier field, rather than Dyche stadium, so that the proceeds over 50,000 tickets sold, could be given to charity.
The ruling of the committee, which has been subjected to a fire of criticism on all sides, came as a complete surprise to everyone.
Knute Rockne, who previously was enthusiastic over the plan, was outspoken in his answer, although he pointed out that Northwestern had never asked Notre Dame’s approval of the switch in stadiums.
“Notre Dame would gladly have consented to transfer the game if Northwestern had invited us to do so,” Mr. Rockne said. “As far as the playing conditions are concerned it makes no difference to us. We can play as well at Dyche stadium as at
CUNNINGHAM IS ENTERED IN GILBERT CONTEST
Bob Cunningham, a senior in the College of Commerce, is one of the leading entrants in the popularity contest being staged by Gilbert’s and R. K. O. to determine who will make the trip to southern California. At the tabulation of points this week, Cunningham is well up towards the front.
Notre Dame men are asked to support one of their fellow students, inasmuch as the real purpose of the occasion is to witness the Irish squad play the University of Southern California.
NOTICE!
The Dome studio in Walsh hall basement will be open all Saturday morning, beginning at 9:00 o’clock. Seniors who have missed their appointments during the week are asked to report immediately to insure their picture appearing in the Dome. ■ The Publications office will be open Saturday morning.
❖--------------------------4
Soldier’s field. But here was an opportunity for the two universities to do something in a big way for the welfare of their communities. Chicago has been very kind to Notre Dame. We should have welcomed the chance to do something for Chicago. I am surprised that the Big Ten faculty men turned it down.”
Notre Dame and Northwestern, playing at Evanston, could draw only a crowd of 48,000 spectators, which is the capacity of Dyche stadium. However, by transfering to Soldier’s field the game might have drawn 110,000 customers.
It was planned to turn the proceeds of the 60,000 extra tickets over to charities of South Bend and Chicago. It could not have affected the other' schools in the Big Ten, and since Northwestern and Notre Dame were both agreeable, the decision of the faculty members is hard to understand.
BIERNE, PICK, O’MEARA ELECTED TO WRANGLERS
Last Tuesday at a meeting of the Wranglers, Notre Dame’s honorary forensic society, three new members were voted to membership: Roger Bieme, John Pick, and Thomas O’Meara. Each of these men had spoken before the Wranglers at a previous meeting.
Roger Beirne, a sophomore in the college of Arts and Letters, debated with Howard hall debate champions last year. He also took part in the production of “Journey’s End,” which was presented by the University Players. Besides this, Mr. Beirne is a member of the football squad, playing consistently with the “B” team.
Another sophomore in the college of Arts and Letters, John Pick, debated on the Brownson hall team and took part in the freshman and constitutional oratory contests of last -spring. He is a staff member of the Scholastic.
Thomas O’Meara, formerly a member of the Brownson hall debating team and a sophomore in the college of Arts and Letters, was also received into the Wranglers.
|	« MUSIC NOTES |
;-----------------------------;
All is activity again in Washington hall. The band promises something new in formations for the Indiana fracas. This is to be the spelling out of Notre Dame’s nickname “Irish” before the game. At the half they intend to form, if opportunity presents itself, the opposing school’s letters and most of their Notre Dame formations.
An important announcement was made this week by Director Joe Casa-santa relative to all mandolin and banjo players. On Monday evening, Nov. 3, at 6:30 p. m., tryouts for the Mandolin and banjo club will be conducted in the band room of Washington hall. All are invited to attend.
Notre Dame’s orchestra, the Jugglers, have again rounded into fine form as is evidenced by the pleasing-number of engagements they have re- । ceived thus far in what Joe Casasanta pleases to call a dull season. They are to syncopate tonight at Elkhart for a sorority dance. November 2 finds them engaged for an affair at the Oliver hotel which will be sponsored by the Knights of Columbus. < On the 14th they will again be at the Oliver, where they will play for the Holy Cross Church card party and dance. Finally, the Notre Dame Club of Chicago has engaged them for their dinner on the Friday preceding the Army game.	<
MEMBERS OF ENGLISH FACULTY WRITE
ARTICLES
Contributions from a number of members of the English faculty are to be found in recent issues of several magazines. “To Lecture or not to Lecture” is the engaging title of an article by Professor H. J. Tunney in The English Journal, (College edition). For the same monthly Professor John T. Frederick is writing book reviews and papers. Professor Camille McCole published in America an essay on “The Critics of Humanism” and one in the Catholic World entitled, “The Tragedy of Theodore Dreiser.” To this periodical also Father Carroll is contributing book reviews. Reverend Sidney Raemers, professor of philosophy, is the author of a series of articles on “Brownson, the Man” which are now running in The Placi-dian, a benedictine quarterly.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
175
h
RED CROSS IN FAVOR OF A MORE GENERAL SPORTS
PROGRAM
Red Cross representatives in contact with educational centers, of the • country state that university faculties are giving thought to the needs of a sports program in which all students rather than only the super' athletes may participate. In conjunction with specialized athletics a course valuable to all students as physical *	recreation is needed.
For years the Red Cross has been (	welcomed in universities with its prof	gram of swimming instruction, life-
j	saving, and first aid. These courses
have been adopted as official requirements in certain institutions where 0 physical education is stressed, and for their practical value after graduation in many other schools.
The Red Cross has no part in a dis-। cussion of too specialized sports; but, I as the problem has arisen, it has sud-2	Jenly been realized that in the Red
1	Cross program there is an answer.
■ “The college man is supposed to have higher academic qualifications than one who is not college trained —why should he not be better equipped for practical sports?” says one Red Cross , instructor.
Under the Red Cross plan a considerable part of the instruction is by qualified students who give volunteer service. They are given awards of ,	distinction for such service.
i	These facts are generally recog-
4- nized among college leaders, conse-,	quently each year sees a closer degree
j	of co-operation between the Red Cross
;	and the country’s educational institu-
tions.

77 AVERAGE NECESSARY FOR GRADUATION BY
NEW RULING
At a meeting of the University council on Tuesday, October 21, it was determined that a qualitative average of 77% is now required for graduation from any of the colleges of the University.
This new ruling is not retroactive. To be graduated with a bachelor’s degree the present senior must maintain this average throughout his last year. The same rule applies to the present junior in his junior and senior year. Sophomores and freshmen must attain the required average during this year and in the scholastic years to follow.
PROF. PIRCHIO ADDRESSES ITALIAN CLUB
The Italian club met Monday evening in the public speaking room of Walsh hall. Elections of officers were held. Sal Bontempo was elected president; Fred Eisenmann, vice-president; and Leo Schiavone, secretary.
The attendance was a large one, many students being required to stand in the aisle due to the lack of chairs. The most impressive occurrence of the evening was a brilliant address in Italian made by Mr. Pirchio. He stated his heartfelt appreciation of the demonstration, and said, “The appearance of such a multitude of eager members displays the fact that this club was necessary as well as desirable. Your attendance, the co-operation of the officers, and the eagerness of so many members to talk and to recite in Italian, assure me of the success and life of the club.”
Two interesting talks were given in Italian by Mr. Ferrari and Mr. Botit-ta. Four members have volunteered to speak at the next meeting. The meetings of the club will be held every Monday evening at 6:30 p. m. in room 2 of Walsh hall.
SOPHOMORES HOLD CLASS MEETING
Monday noon the sophomore class met in Washington hall where several questions relating to the cotillion were discussed.
James B. Clark, the chairman of the cotillion, announced that a special section will be reserved in the Notre Dame stadium for the sophomores and their guests for the Notre DameDrake game. Tickets are priced at three dollars a couple. It was also announced that arrangements had been made with the leading hotels of South Bend to have the usual rates in eifect for the guests of the cotillion.
SPECTATORS HEAR BENITZ AND STEPAN
Last Thursday night saw the Spectators on their way to a year of discussion and argumentation. Alfred Stepan, president of the club, presented the Franco-Italian situation as it exists in Europe today. Mr. Benitz read a paper concerning the desirability of psychological qualifying tests for entering college.
LECTURES GIVEN TO PRO-
BATION WORK STUDENTS
Students majoring in probation work in the department of Sociology listened to lectures by authorities on protective care recently.
Brother Benjamin, C.F.X., head of St. Mary’s Industrial school at Baltimore, Maryland, addressed the seniors. He explained to them the opportunities of college men in institutional work. The responsibilities of a probation work officer was the theme of the talk given to the juniors by Cyrus E. Pattee, judge of the St. Joseph county Circuit court. Judge Pattee presides over the juvenile court in South Bend and was also instrumental in the establishment of a probation work course at Notre Dame.
FIVE NEW MEN APPOINTED TO “SCHOLASTIC” STAFF
Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, announces the appointment of Lawrence Prybylski, John Conley, and Lloyd Teske to positions on the news staff with this issue. Teske is a sophomore in the college of Arts and Letters, and Prybylski and Conley are freshmen in the same college.
George Belting and T. Edward Carey have been added to the sports staff. Both of these men are freshmen.
Mr. Telfel reports that according to Neil Hurley, news editor, and John Keiner, sports editor, the five men added to the staff have done excellent work.
In accordance with the policy instu-tuted this year, successful candidates for the staff of the Scholastic will not have to wait until the second semester to be added to the staff as has been the rule in the past. New men will be taken on as soon as they show ability, and measure up to standards.
NOTICE!
To candidates and members of the Knights of Columbus:
The first degree will be exemplified at 10 a. m., Sunday, November-2, in the South Bend council chambers. At two o’clock that afternoon the second and third degrees will be conferred. The initiation banquet will be held following the degrees at 6:30 in the Rotary room of the Oliver hotel.
176	The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE DADADE
Mail Help Wanted
My hat is off to the Minnesota Daily. It recently printed a call for candidates for the exchange staff. That gives me an idea—I think I’ll ask for an assistant myself. (Ed. Note—Oh yeah?)
How About Fezzes Here?
Freshmen at St. Olaf’s college are obliged to wear berets in their cheering section. Nothing like old-world consistency.
And More Hats
Were we speaking of hats? At the University of Oregon, the drum major wears a huge white shako. The rest of the band wear headgear that resembles the American Legion overseas caps.
Have You An Austin In Your Room?
The Daily Nebraskan suggests that every college student have an automobile so that he can practice parking in small places—such knowledge will be of inestimable value in later life.
They Never Could Get Along Anyhow
At Kansas there are two student governing bodies. One is for women, the other for men. It seems they can’t get together. Men won’t be told what to do by women, and women won’t—well, they never have, have they?
An Idea For Profs
At Michigan hereafter, students violating auto regulations will be punished not by suspension but by doing extra class work. Oh, well, they were supposed to go there for an education anyhow.
Scotch Foursome Situation Improves
A golf class has been arranged, supposedly by men of the faculty, for faculty women at the University of Texas.
Come Again Pop ... Please
The “Bronx Cheer” (illustrated) of the Daily Californian tells us rather cleverly that “Pop” Warner is all wet when in a movie-tone skit he tells his many admirers that since he became head coach at Stanford he never lost an intersectional game. The “Birdie-Man” reminds him that in 1925 Stanford was “soundly walloped” by Notre Dame by a 27-10 score. He invites “Pop” Warner to make other statements. (P. S.—“Pop” declines.)
Now It’s Miniature All-American
Yale is taking the first steps to institute a football team the members of which each weigh under 150 pounds. It is to play other teams of like size that are expected to crop out here and there . . . Imagine . . . well, just imagine . . .
Shades Of Ripley
At Southern California types of employment are numerous. Driving new cars to Arizona for week-ends, escorting ladies to town and other places are examples of “positions.” One young man works in an oil field from four to twelve each day.
«
Cleopatra A Soph In Pennsylvania
The Villanovan informs us that at the Moravian College and Seminary for women at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, sophomores have drawn up and put into force twelve commandments to be observed by freshmen:
1.	Freshmen must, on request, run all errands for sophomores; must walk in the guttei* when in the presence of sophomores; must kneel on the floor upon encountering sophomores in the school, bowing their heads and repeating “sophomores supreme!”
2.	Freshmen must wear fingerless gloves.
3.	Freshmen must attend chapel every morning.
4.	Freshmen must at all times be supplied with “animal crackers” to be preferred at the request of sophomores.
5.	Freshmen must carry no less than five books in a bucket.
6.	Freshmen must wear short dresses backwards; dress must have pocket.
7.	Freshmen must carry umbrellas at all times.
8.	Freshmen must wear white cotton stockings and shoes with low heels. [It would take a woman to think of that!]
9.	Freshmen must use no make-up of any sort and must wear no jewelry.
10.	Freshmen must wear bright-colored water-wave nets tied under the chin.
11.	Freshmen must be able to recite the alma mater forward and backward. [Is there no balm in Gilead?]
12.	Freshmen must wear a sign with the inscription “Freshmen” suspended from the neck by a green ribbon.
Cleopatra, if she could have endured through the freshman year, would undoubtedly have felt quite at home attending that school.
♦
Hey!—Are We All Crazy?
Not satisfied with the above, I glance at a Silver and Gold of the University of Colorado. For the first time in history, a young lady has been shown no chivalry. Because she walks up the forbidden steps of Lawyers’ hall, the addle-pated asses take it upon themselves to throw her in the lake. Nice boys!
The Notre Dame Scholastic
177
CAMPUJ <111/
At its meeting on Wednesday, October 22, the BUFFALO club, like so many of the other clubs, discussed its Christmas dance. Unlike most of the other clubs, however, the BUFFALO club did something about it. President Francis Hausser announced the time, the place and the men who will be in charge. Monday, December 29, is the time. The Cafe room of the Hotel Statler in Buffalo is the place. Principal man in charge is General Chairman Leo Frietas. Under him are the following committees: publicity, William Hall, chairman; Norman Wei-tig, J. Rickard and William Mauard; reception, James Doyle, chairman; Edward Weinhiemer, John Hawkes, J. Barker and John Canino; music, Paul Haag, chairman; Thomas Brobson, Ralph Else and Joseph Oldham; patrons, John Travers, chairman; Walter Mullen and John Rudd; invitations, Anthony Brick, chairman; Carlos Frank and Robert Measer; decorations, Ronald Zudeck, chairman; Edward O’Connor, Paul Seaman and Robert Slack.
At its second regular meeting the FRENCH club followed the intricacies of French conversation a little more readily than at the last meeting. Mr. Rohrbach conducted the conversation, which dealt with the parts of the human body. All during the meeting various words naming parts of the body were used over and over again until all the members were familiar with them. This is the principal features of the Berlitz method of teaching; the students, become so familiar with the words in class that they do not have to study them outside. After the period of conversation, a French story, Le Petit Trotte, was read and questions were asked about it. The meeting closed with a discussion of several suggested changes in the procedure.
Club secretary Fred Macbeth reports several new members.
The AKRON club held its annual “Freshman Welcome Banquet” at the Rose Marie Tea room on Thursday evening, October 23. The Reverend John J. Reynolds, C.S.C. was the main speaker of the evening. The topic of his talk was “The Value and Aims of a Campus Club.” He touched briefly on the history of the various clubs at Notre Dame as well as the things they have accomplished.
Following Father Reynold’s talk, two of the club members, George Jackoboice and Harry Merdzinski, told of their adventures during the summer vacation. These intrepid young men spent the summer months in a tour of Europe on bicycles. Their comments on England and Germany were especially interesting.
The banquet ended with short talks by some of the freshman members of the club.
At a meeting held in the old Law building last week, the CLEVELAND club again took up a matter that has been much discussed in all of its meetings for the past year or more. Last year the members appointed a com
mittee to look into the matter of club pins. Drawings of suggested designs were procured from various companies but the matter was dropped. At the last meeting pins again came to the fore. President John Raleigh appointed James Uprichard and Francis Seeley as a committee to select a suitable pin.
The ENGINEER’S club held a meeting on Wednesday evening, October 29, in the north room of the library. Faculty members spoke; refreshments were served; and entertainment was provided.
The proposed dance to be held in Chicago at the time of the Army game occupied the members of the CHICAGO club at their last meeting on Wednesday, October 29. The meeting was held in the lay faculty dining hall. Present were Mr. Fitzsimmons, president of the Notre • Dame club of Chicago, and Mr. Halpin, chairman of the Army dance. These men urged the co-operation of the members of the CHICAGO club here on the campus in putting the affair over.
The WABASH VALLEY club held its first meeting of the year on last Wednesday. Men from within fifty miles of Logansport attended anti helped with the first work of organization for the coming year. President Tuberty welcomed a large group of new members and announced that- the club this year’ will do more than it has ever has in the past.
The NEW JERSEY club will meet tonight for the purpose of discussing plans for a banquet in the near future.
The GRAND RAPIDS club plans a banquet to be held at an early date, according to Jerome Roach, club secretary.
The Notre Dame of PHILADELPHIA i s now making extensive prepai-ations for a football dance to be held after the Notre Dame-Pennsylvania game at the Bellevue-Stratford ballroom. The members of both the Notre Dame and Penn teams will be guests of the club at the dance.
Meyer Davis and his famous orchestra will furnish the music. Tickets are three dollars.
The PRESS club held its regular meeting last week. President Robert Balfe has not as yet announced the program for the year. He plans, however, to have some noted figure on the campus speak at each of the meetings.
178
The Notre Dame Scholastic
EDITCK’r PACE
OUR EDITORIAL ATTITUDE
Amid a caustic tirade, the Scholastic has been accused of “attacking” the existing campus institutions. The editor-in-chief and editorial writers have been pointed out as the authors of numerous collegiate crimes, including a flagrant lack of school spirit, and—the “most unkindest cut of all”—it has been insinuated that we are not true Notre Dame men.
We presume that this sacred regard for various new and ancient customs grew out of the years when the Scholastic remained pacifistic, and freshmen were gayly dropped in the lake whenever any of them uttered a word of criticism against the S. A. C., the Blue Circle, or anyone else.
The Scholastic, we are rather proud to say, has changed its attitude. Some have called the new policy “belligerent.” We doubt if that is true; we question whether even in our more irritable moments we appear war-like or bellicose. Others have called us “meddlesome.” And we ask if it is meddlesome to point out, with no attempt at malice, that there are faults and abuses, and to suggest possible remedies?
It has also been said that we do not voice student opinion. That charge is a sweeping generality without much truth in it. It is possible that we do not voice the opinion of certain students, but if the commendations we have received are indicative of “student opinion,” then we certainly are expressing the views of at least an intelligent minority—if not the majority I Furthermore, the essential function of an editorial is not to voice popular opinion, but to “inform, interpret, convince, and persuade,” to quote from one of the leading texts on editorials, the author of which goes on to say that “the editorial is a comment on current news, new policies—or is an expression of the paper’s opinion.” The SCHOLASTIC is, of course, the magazine of the students, but our duty to them is ended when we turn out an interesting and “newsy” publication. The editorial page is ours. But we are not narrowminded; we wish to be fair and present both sides of controversies. We are always willing to receive replies to editorials. So far no one has sent in an answer. What are we to infer from that?
We characterize our attitude as “critically observant.” And we appeal to the records to back us up. We have questioned editorially, if “Hello Week” were fulfilling its purpose; if silent cheering were not a bit sophomoric; and if vocal cheering could not be improved. We were commended for our stand; but at the same time we were greeted by a burst of indignation, black threats to have us “tossed in the lake” and the mention of other pre-historic checks to. free opinion.
Since we have been inanely accused of a lack of Notre Dame spirit, we invite you to use our files for a few minutes. We ask you to read the following excerpts from some of these same bitterly assailed editorials:
“A man who has spent four years at Notre Dame has an ideal to live up to. He has a reputation to maintain” . . . “What must they [the visitors who come to the games and receive a barrage of colored cards] think of Notre Dame courtesy? What is the impression they gather of ■Notre Dame men?” . . . “The Victory March . . .
is Notre Dame, and should not be cheapened by being played by every jazz band in the country” . . . “If we„are to have organized cheering, it must be the best that lusty-lunged boys can send forth.”	-
Besides, there have been two sincere appeals to men, who are assumed to have common sense, to recognize the fact that Notre Dame exists that her students “may become worthy members of society,” and that most Notre Dame men are missing an intellectual and cultural stimulus in not attending the Chesterton lectures.
Are these iconoclastic principles? Theories dangerous to campus morale? Slandering assertions? We ask you to read them again.
And we request those who first attacked us to read each editorial over until they understand that the Scholastic is not just having a lot of fun, but that we are eager to see worthwhile institutions flourish, to help silly and unbalanced customs to an early grave, and principally to banish the halo and the sacred robes which have for many years, surrounded so many of these institutions.	-
E. L. T.—P. J. H.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
179
STRIKE UP THE BAND * JAMES COLLINS

When the ninety-odd straight-backed, stiff-legged members of the University band march on to the transplanted sod of the new stadium tomorrow afternoon just before the football teams of Indiana university and Notre Dame take the field, there may be some rooters on the Hoosier side of the field whose memory reaches back to that autumn afternoon in 1919, George Gipp’s greatest year, when the first Notre Dame band sat in the stands at a I. U.-N. D. football game.
That first band which appeared at a game between the same two teams was vastly different from the smartly dressed and military appearing organization of the present day. It was composed of nineteen spirited men who lived in Washington hall—it was a residence hall also in those days just following the World war—who apparently were the original wandering musicians of the University. The band travelled to the Northwestern game also in its first year of touring.
The trip to Bloomington was distinctive in that the bandsmen appeared in civilian clothes. It wasn’t that they forgot their uniforms; they just didn’t have any. They did wear, however, blue caps and coats which' provided some degree of similarity among them.
These men blared forth all afternoon but the pieces they played were very different from those included on
the program of this year. “The Victory March,” written in 1908 by Father Michael Shea, was played before the game, after every touchdown, and at the end of the game. That was the only school song of those days. Now it is played only between the halves and at the end of the game. The othei' school songs, “Hike, Notre Dame,” “Down the Line,” and “Irish Backs,” were written after 1923.
Professor- Casasanta took active direction of the organization at the beginning of the school year in 1923, and much of its tremendous success can be attributed directly to him. Under his direction the organization has increased in members from twelve to over a hundred; it has increased in personnel from a few instruments to an instrumentation any band could boast of, and it has increased in appearance from a number of pinch-back coats and tight trousers to a young army of blue and gold bedecked musicians in uniforms resembling those of cavalrymen, even to leggings and straps.
About the only features of that first band which still remain on the campus are “The Victory March” and Joe Casasanta. The song was unchanged through the intervening years, and Joe has changed only in that he is now Professor Joe, director of the band and glee club, and acting head of the department of music.
Among other things it has acquired
in the last fews years is.a penchant for marching into perfectly formed letters and insignia of this and other colleges, and a drum major who knows how to have the men form those insignia. The band received a compliment at the Navy game in Chicago in 1928, of which it is still proud. It came when Graham MacNamee, between the times he was telling his radio audience that they were listening to Graham MacNamee, said that the West Point cadets could take a few pointers on marching from the Notre Dame band. Tholen was drum major during that year, and led the bandsmen in the formations worked out by Professor Casasanta and himself. The first marching on a football field was done during the fall of 1927 when Jerry Bigge was drum major.
If the men in the 1929-1930 organization never do another thing on the campus which is worthy of exceptional note, they can still tell their children that they were in the band during the year when it accompanied the national champions from the Atlantic coast in New York to the gold coast of Chicago, and made those who paid the expenses of the trips—the Student Activities council, and ultimately the students themselves— like it.
Three times the bandsmen donned their woolen uniforms to thrill the (Continued on Page 190)
The University Band
180
The Notre Dame Scholastic
•1
♦ THE WINE ♦
Drop a tear
For Joe McBeer.
He broke his arm On a silent cheer.
QUICK WINKS
Al Howard dedicating the first shower-bath on Badin’s Roaring Fourth . . . Ye Scholastic Ed and Ye Dome Ed exchanging greetings . . . the occasionally good steak, the not-so-good chicken a la king, and the excellent chairs in the refectory . . . the regular “Wink” and “Quick-Wink” conductor week-ending in Pittsburgh . . . the amazing-fact that it takes three men to fill his place . . . the boys wondering (after the massacre of Pitt stadium last Saturday) if Indiana would show up this weeK . . . the campus mathematician trying to figure why students have to pay S4 plus band tax for Army tickets; the outsiders only $4 . . . the utter failure of the Upton yell at Pittsburgh, even with Joe E. Brown to lead it . . . the new colyum, “Campus Opinions,” and the chance it should be for some of the gripers . . . the South Bend-Mishawaka game in the stadium, and a certain young lady acting in a very undignified manner when Mishawaka scored a touchdown ... a visitor remarking that he never came to Notre Dame that somebody wasn’t playing football . . . he should come at noon; it’s another sport then . . . the sports Ed getting mean about stealing his old dots, thus..........from	his colyum, “On Down the Line”
. . . All right, Jack, here they are back again . . . you can have them . . .
The day is done, Ah, ivoe is me. The day is done— No cause for glee. The day is done— Ah, sad my lot; The day is done, But “The Wink” is not!
And even as I am weeping softly into my mustache cup, two letters are slipped under my door. (I’ll have to put some sand on that threshold.) There was no check in the first letter . . . but something rarer than checks . . . Poetry! (Says I with a tongue in my cheek.)
THE NEWEST RUBAIYAT
' Alas! she who was once the world to me,
Is mine no more. She is alive, will be
Long years and more. But tvhat is that to one To whom is lost her smile and laughter free?
The hands I touched, the lips I once did press, The old, old question, never answered “Yes”— All these are now the things of yesterday Yet still torments in dreams her sweet caress.
As Omar’s plaint—that saddened his soft soul—
And to his lips held up the bitter bowl As he once sang of age-old questionings, So sings my heart, and echoes all his dole.
—The Plaintive Persian.
Whatza matter, Plaintive Persian, aintcha got no table manners? You don’t hold the bitter bowl up to your lips, thou zaney. Use a spoon, you darn fool, or pour the stuff in a saucer. Buy a copy of Emily Post and see what she has to say. Or buy a Thrift Book and get two drinks of the bitter bowl for the price of one, we says. Anyway, Plaintive Persian, “The Newest Rubaiyat” was pretty good, but speaking of yachts, what do you think of the Shamrock V? (It’s a pun, I tell ya, it’s a pun.)
NOCTURNE Soft through the dee]) night, Under the star light, Your siveet voice sings Songs of a maiden (Loveliness laden) Sighing for things . No mortal could find:
Sighing for moonbeams, Whispering silver dreams Into the zvind.
Faithful, my lover, Can morning discover The song of our tryst?
Let it be floivn, love, Soaring, a silver dove, Into the mist.
—Star Gazer.
Very good, Star Gazer. I’m that way when I’m in love, too—all in a fog. The second letter, by the way, was much more disturbing to my unruffled mein and modest mannerisms.
Dear ????—
You can’t fool me, you little dickens. I know who you are. You’re Question Marx—one of the four Marx Brothers. Please send me your autographed picture.
S. S. Van Dine and Dance.
Wrong, S. S.! I was baptized Interrogation Points, the last of a long line of famous Points of Interest, West Virginia. You know the family, don’t you? Furthermore, I don’t autograph my pictures; it costs too much. The Athletic Association charged me a half buck for the last one. I think that your whole letter was a reflection on me . . . here it is only 48 more shopping days till Christmas, and I am still a nameless neurotic. My cup of woe—or my bitter bowl, according to the Plaintive Persian—is overflowing. I have no name, my poetry is running low and now Ye Ed has come in, and in a fit of editorial passion, has bitten the interrogation point out of my Underwood. It grieves me but I will have to sign myself__________________!!!!!!!!
The Notre Dame Scholastic
181
Emil Jacques, Notre Dame Art Leader
i

Ernest thorne Thompson, former head of the Department of Art at the University, was a young man of exceptional promise and considerable achievement. His loss (to study in New York) was regretted by all friends of art. It is no less regretted because of the fact that he was succeeded by another distinguished artist. But it is a source of great satisfaction to all friends of Notre Dame that the art traditions of the University, ably pursued by Prof. Thompson, are being carried on with the same ability, the same enthusiasm, and the same splendid results by Professor Emil Jacques.
Professor Jacques was born near the city of Ypres, in Flemish Belgium, the famous “No Man’s Land” of the World War. He studied in Antwerp at the Royal A c a d e m y of Fine Arts, and at the High
Institute of Belgium. He won the Grand Prix of the City of Antwerp and the second prize in the Grand Concours of Rome.
From the City of Antwerp Professor Jacques received a commission to paint a series of ten murals representing “The Flax, Its Culture and Industry.” The Belgium State Government purchased “The Hop Pickers” and the “Flax Weeders.” The Museum of the Art Institute of Antwerp
An Indian Theme by Prof. Jacques
possesses “Innocence,” The Provincial Government of Antwerp his “Lacemaker” and “In Flanders Field,” the Museum of Huy (Belgium) his “Portrait of a Poet,” and the Museum of Bucharest “The Sick Child.”
In 1923 Prof. Jacques came to America and made his home in Portland, Oregon. He painted much in that beautiful country, chiefly along the picturesque Pacific coast. As professor of art his experiences are wide. As a trustee of the Pulchri Studio at The Hague he conducted the classes in drawing and etching; was professor at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in Mechlin and was inspector of the Belgian art schools. At Portland he created the art department at Columbia university. He is a member of the Chicago Galleries Association, and of the Hoosier Salon Prof. Jacques has a studio in South Bend, exhibiting here recently.
The American Influence in Prof. Jacques’ Art
182
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
BATTERED INDIANA TEAM NEXT FOE
Page Assumes Hoosier Gloom As Rockne Looks Ahead
At Schedule
ONE of the most doleful figures in the Big Ten circles this fall has been Pat Page, Indiana coach. He has good reason for being so, too. Any man that loses eight linemen and five backs from just a mediocre team of the year before has a right to feel gloomy. Not that it’s one of these optimistic “gloomy” feelings so prevalent right here in Indiana either. It’s one of those straight from the shoulder glooms with gray hairs in abundance.
Last June, Page bade goodbye to McCracken and Catterton, ends; Shields, K. Bennett, and Dudding, guards; Ringwait, center; and Hoj-nacki and Unger, tackles. If you can recall the names of the men who straggled under a 14 to 0 defeat by the Fighting Irish last fall they will have a familiar ring for they represent the biggest part of the linemen who bore the brunt of the pushing and hauling.
Parade of Material
So far this season Page has been staging a mammoth parade of material. He’s had a tryout day every week and that day usually has been Saturday. Thus it’s impossible to tell just whom he’s going to pit against the Rockmen tomorrow. Indiana might have a few more new men who haven’t as yet seen action, but they will have to confess otherwise after tomorrow.
An example of Pat Page’s dexterity as a juggler of the first class is the rapid progression that one Mr. Ashby has been making. In the Oklahoma game he played left halfback, a week later against Minnesota he was shifted to right half and just last Saturday in the Texas tilt with Southern Methodist, Ashby was found calling signals from the quarterback post. Tomorrow he’s due for the fullback job, if Page’s previous plans pan out.
Five Good Backs Lost
Indiana misses Paul Balay, a really versatile back, who is no more. With him went Garrison, Faunce, Todd and Magnobosco; five good backfield men and only a few hopeful sophomores to replace them.
Leslie Edmonds looks like the formidable man for the fullback job tomorrow with Stan Saluski at right half and a toss-up between Opasik, Hoover, and Ross for the left side. Ashby, contrary to other expectations, will undoubtedly be at the signalbarking quarter again.
In the line Bill Spannuth is sure of being pivotman with Captain Joe Zeller at right guard and Bill Rehm on Spannuth’s left. The tackles probably will be Paul Jasper, who has the makings of a crack man, and Alex Richardson, Art Thomas, Bernard Dickey, Jack Hansen, Tom Martick and Ed Olson have been fighting it out for the wing positions with any one of the first three named liable to start.
FIGHTING IRISH SMOTHER PANTHERS, 3549, WITH DEVASTATING OFFENSIVE
DOWN there in smoky ol’ Pittsburgh they have a couple of good football teams, and they used to tell the world about it. But after the local talent had mixed with those invincible Fighting Irish of Notre Dame on two successive Saturdays they became less garrulous. In fact they became downright silent.. Last year the Pittsburgh Panthers disputed Notre Dame’s claim to the national championship. This year they won’t. That’s because they played Notre Dame this year.
Seventy-two thousand people jammed the Pitt stadium last Saturday afternoon and saw the most polished team in Notre Dame’s great football history trample the mighty Panthers of Pittsburgh university, 35-19.
Notre Dame scored on its first offensive play. Marchy Schwartz,
Indiana’s only surcease from grief was the opening game, a very unimpressive 14-0 victory over Miami. Ohio State trounced them 23 to 0, a 7-7 deadlock with Oklahoma Aggies followed, then a 6 to 0 trouncing by Minnesota and last week’s crushing 27 to 0 loss inflicted by the Southern Methodist aerial circus.
An Easy Match
The downstaters haven’t such a very reliable reserve stock and at this stage of the season are in a very strategic if not fearful position. Their five games have drained the regulars of a lot of pep and fire and they will undoubtedly be an easy match for the Fighting Irish tomorrow.
Rock’s parting warning to the second and third stringers tomorrow probably will be: “You fellows better do better today than you did against Pitt. Go out today and clean up the Hoosiers.” And meanwhile Carideo, Savoldi and the rest of the Irishmen will sit back and pick their teeth in solid comfort.
screened by perfect interference, raced 60 yards to a touchdown and was the first opponent to cross the Pitt goal line this season. The great crowd was silent in its tribute, as the Fighting Irish advanced the ball 70 yards on eight plays and scored their second touchdown. The rhythm with which the Notre Dame team executed its plays was magnificent.
When the Fighting Irish crossed the Panthers’ goal line for the third time only seven plays later the radio announcers ran out of superlatives and had to use war-whoops to express the perfection of the Notre Dame team-play.
The Rockmen scored their fourth touchdown less than a minute later when Joe Savoldi intercepted Captain Eddie Baker’s pass and galloped 30 yards unmolested to the goal line.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
183
4"—■—■—“—-—"—~■—«—-—■—■—■—-—-—-—■»—-—-——
j	I
f	I
I	I
I The South Bend Clearing [
] House Banks }
I Invite Your Patronage I
If the Worst Comes to the Worst
. . . and the rumor of thumbprinting the class becomes a reality, Walgreen^ stands ready to make quick, painless work of it; and save the student body much humiliation. Students will drop into 208 North Michigan and leave their thumbprint on a malted milk tumbler!
(We suggest lemonade for the fellow who drank six “malteds” in one sitting last week!)
SPECIAL!
50c Cocoanut Oil & Egg or Lemon Castile Shampoo with
50c Lustre Hair Dressing
()<
I ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS | f	BANK	|
I	§
! ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST I
I	COMPANY	?
I	1
I	UNION TRUST COMPANY	1
I	1
f	AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY	I
I	CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK	1
I	1
I	CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS	|
I	BANK	1
?	FIRST	NATIONAL BANK	I
1	S
I	INDIANA TRUST COMPANY	I
I	1
I	i
I	1
♦ —“—“—■—"—"—»—«—«—■—«—“—“—■—■—■—■—■—-—<4*
s SUNDAY
I	THRU
j TUESDAY
f NOV. 2-3-4
^•n—mi—w—mm—im—•—bm^—mb—mm—mb—mm—dm—so—mm—•—•—w—■»—»Ji
IT STILL IS THE | BIGGEST PICTURE | OF THE YEAR! |
I You've read the headlines! Prison break after prison break! |
I And now the true inside story is told in a talkie of magnificent I 1	=
? thrills and heart appeal.
I	a
I "The Big House" |
|	CHESTER MORRIS	WALLACE BEERY	।
I	ROBERT MONTGOMERY	=
I	LEWIS STONE	LEILA HYAMS	a

WALGREEN CO.
Drugs with a Reputation
WED.—THURS.
Nov. 5-6 GOUVERNEUR MORRIS’ Powerful story now a Paramount talkie “ANYBODY’S
WOMAN”
With a Perfect Cast including RUTH CHATTERTON CLIVE BROOK
FRI—S.-IT.
Nov. 7-S
The Greatest Romantic Adventure of Modern Times—Thrilling
“WITH BYRD
AT THE
SOUTH POLE”
Filmed as it was lived . . . 2.300 miles beyond the world’s frontier.
i JTKAND !
f Main QZc Balcony 15c	SOUND YOU CAN j
1 Floor Children 10c	ENJOY—DEFOREST s
I	I
^“BB“"MM—^BS BB^^—BH—MB—"BB“^“ ••■“■—•■I MM MM BB^^—
184
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Coach Rockne took pity on the paralyzed Panthers at this point and substituted his second team. But it too, had entered into the spirit of the occasion and scored two touchdowns in as many minutes but had one of them called back. The score was 35-0 when the half ended and the score keeper collapsed.
Subs Taste Bitterness
The Notre Dame second and third teams played all but the last minute of the second half. They gave the rejuvenated Panthers a pretty battle until the closing minutes when Pitt’s passing began to click and they twice placed the pigskin on the two-yard line for fullback Clark to plunge over. They recovered a Notre Dame fumble within the four-yard line, and Reider converted it into theii’ third touchdown.
The varsity then took the field and Savoldi returned the kick-off 40 yards as the game ended.
"The Notre Dame team is one of the most perfect football machines that I have ever seen,” said Jock Sutherland, coach of the Panthers, after the game. And that means a lot.
All Equal, All Perfect
Perfect precision—the mechanical smoothness, the faultless blocking of the Notre Dame team is something that Pittsburgh will remember for many a year. The Panthers, famed for their peerless defense, were helpless before the speed and power of the Rockmen. They were set to stop Notre Dame’s aerial attack but were not called upon to do so. The victors threw only one pass during the entire game.
Not one player on the Notre Dame team can be called the star of the game; they were all equal, all perfect.
HOWREY BREAKS RECORD AS BADGERS WIN MEET
The Wisconsin Badgers defeated Illinois, Notre Dame and Northwestern in a quadrangular cross-country meet at Evanston, last Saturday morning, in a contest which found Captain Gene Howrey of Notre Dame, crossing the finish line in first place and lowering the course record by nearly a full minute. The next fifteen men to finish were closely bunched and all are believed to have recorded times better than the old mark, but
The sensational broken-field running of Schwartz, Brill and O’Connor; the battering-ram plunges of Mullins, Savoldi, and Koken; the faultless kicking of Carideo cannot be admired without giving equal credit to the stalwart line. It was a machine, not a team of individuals. True, the Four Horsemen rode again, but with them rode the Seven Mules.
Notre Dame has made great football history in the past, but they are not through yet. The Fighting Irish have conquered the best in the east; they now turn to the middle-west, and then to the far-west.
Pittsburgh	Notre Dame
MacMurdo ............LE............... Host
Quatse ..............LT............. Culver
Milligan ............LG............. Kassis
Daugherty ............C............... Yarr
Lewis ...............RG............. Metzer
Tully ...............RT.............. Kurth
Collins .............RE............. Conley
Baker ...............QB............ Carideo
Heller ..............LH........... Schwartz
Williams ............RH.............. Brill
Hood ................FB............ Mullins
Notre Dame Pittsburgh
14 21	0	0—35
0	0	0 19—19
Touchdowns—Schwartz, Mullins. Savoldi 2, Koken, Clark 2, Reider. Points after touchdown—Cariedo 4, Jaskwich, Baker (all from placement).
Substitutions—Notre Dame: Metzger for Pierce, Savoldi for Mullins. Kosky for Host, O’Connor for Brill, Koken for Schwartz, Mc-Manmon for Kurth, Hoffman for Culver, Jaskwich for Carideo, O’Brien for Kosky, Harris for Kassis, Vik for Mahony, Howard for Savoldi. Terlaak for Metzger, Rogers for Yarr, Butler for Rogers, Mullins for Howard, Howard for Mullins. Kaplan for O’Connor, Greene for Harris, Pierce for Terlaak, Greene for Harris, Pierce for Terlaak, Host for O’Brien, Metzger for Pierce. Kurth for McManmon, Culver for Hoffman, Yarr for Butler,
Pittsburgh: Clark for Hodd, Reider for Williams, Tormey for Daugherty, Daily for Mac-Murdo, Williams for Reider, Reider for Williams. Walinchus for Heller, Hirshberg for Collins.
Referee—John Egan (Duquesne). Field judge—Fred Young (Illinois Wesleyan). Head linesman—Frank Birch (Earlham). Umpire— C. L. Bolster (Pittsburgh).
a check-up on these men revealed the fact that only one Blue and Gold man, ex-Captain Joe Quigley, was in the crowd. Tom Grimes crossed next for Notre Dame in twentieth position. Duke and Russnak finished twentyfourth and fifth for Notre Dame and were the only others to count in the scoring.
Capt. Howrey jumped into the lead at the start and held it for the whole of the three and three-quarter miles.
PROBABLE LINE-UP TOMORROW
Notre Dame		Indiana
Host	LE	Richardson
Hoffman	LT	Kutchins
Greene	LG	Rehm
Rogers	C	Spannuth
Terlaak	RG	Zeller (c)
McManmon	RT	Jasper
Mahoney	RE	Thomas
Jaskwich	QB	Ashby
Koken	LH	Opasik
O’Connoi-	RH	Saluski
Mullins	FB	Edmonds
Notre Dame varsity: Kosky, left end; Culver, left’ tackle; Kassis, left guard; Yarr, center; Metzger, right guard; Kurth, right tackle; Conley, right end; Carideo, quarterback; Schwartz, left halfback; Brill, right halfback; Savoldi, fullback.
Although he was-pressed hard by several of the Badger runners he always had enough left in him to stave off his opponents and finished with a lead of about twenty-five yards. His time was 18 minutes and 56 seconds.
Coach Nicholson’s performers will play host to the Crimson of Indiana university tomorrow morning in the first home meet of the season. The Hoosiers were expected to have their • usual strong, well-balanced team, and “Nick” entertains little hope of his men emerging victorious. The race will be over a four mile course.
FRANK LEAHY OUT FOR REST OF YEAR
Definite news on the condition of Frank Leahy, left tackle, who suffered a recurrence of an old leg injury just prior to the game with Southern Methodist, was given out this week. It was very disheartening news, too, for it meant that Leahy will be out for the remainder of the season.
The doctor found that Leahy’s leg was not coming around into shape the way it should and upon examination he discovered that periostitis, inflammation of the membrane that surrounds the bones, had set in.
Dick Donoghue, who also has been suffering from a fracture in his ankle which was not apparent until an x-ray of it was taken, is more foi’-tunate and has returned to action in the daily work-outs.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
185
Splinters From the Press Box
FUNDAMENTALS IMPORTANT.
The way Knute Rockne’s charges have been cavorting on the gridiron this fall is enough to bewilder and surprise the sagest and most hardened football fan.	.
Such success comes down to one thing only and that is proper mastering of the fundamentals. By fundamentals is meant blocking, shiftiness, charging, tackling, speed and in the case of this year’s team, versatility.
Co-ordination of these principles, so uncommon to the team which relies upon the steam-roller system of point scoring, takes the ordinary outfit off its feet with surprising- and stunning effect.
In the game with Indiana tomorrow look past the ball carrier, see how each linemen plays his part, how the quarterback leads the way, and how the ends “fade out” with the opposition. And after a play has been run look around the field and see how each player has taken out his man. When a halfback takes the ball on a cutback play through the center of the line, notice how the center and guard work together in opening up the path with the tackle working on the other-side of the lane.
McCarthy success.
The New York Yankee fans are jubilant over the recent acquisition of Joe McCarthy to manage the team next summer. They are hoping that the McCarthy record will help them climb the ladder to the 1931 championship.
In eleven years of major and minor league baseball McCarthy has piloted his teams to first division honors every season. He has won three pennants with Louisville and Chicago as the winning teams.
THE DOPE BUCKET.
Plenty of things happened last week to cry about, but there’s more liable to happen tomorrow so no use making any fuss about a few upsets. However, our total is now 41 -winners, 16 losses and four ties. Not so bad, and not so good either.
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 □ | PROBABLE SCORES I |	TOMORROW	1
E	Notre	Dame 28, Indiana 0.	i
=	Northwestern 13, Minnesota 6.	z
: Ohio State 7. Wisconsin 0.	E
E	Purdue	14, Illinois 7.	z
E	Princeton 13. Chicago 0.	=
E	University of Detrait 13, Iowa 6.	=
E	Brown 13, Syracuse 7.	E
E	Carnegie Tech 20, N. Y. U. 7.	E
E	Colgate 20, Mississippi College 0.	E
E	Cornell 20, Columbia 6.	z
:	Yale 7, Dartmouth 6.	E
=	North Carolina 14, Georgia Tech 13.	z
=	Harvard 19. William and Mary 0.	=
E	Army 14, University of No. Dakota 0.	=
E	Navy 21. West Virginia Wesleyan 6.	E
E	University of Kansas 7. Penn 0.	E
z	Pittsburgh 13. Nebraska 0.	E
:	Bucknell 14, Penn State 7.	E
=	Louisville 13. Centre 7.	E
E	Vanderbilt 20, U. of Mississippi 0.	:
E	Oklahoma 19, Iowa State 7.	=
E	Southern Methodist 20, Texas 7.	E
E	Butler 7. Wabash 0.	E
E	Drake 13, Washington U. (St. Louis) 6.	E
z	Missouri 14. Kansas Aggies 0.	E
z	Marquette 20. Boston 0.	E
5	Michigan State 19,	Georgetown	6.	:
E	Georgia 14, Florida	6.	=
E	Stanford 60. U. C.	L. A. 0.	z
E	Southern California	40. Denver	0.	E
E	Washington State 20, Oregon State 7.	E
171 iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin.Ulin.iitiuiniiiiiiiiiin.lulling
Notre Dame vs. Indiana — well be yourself. Northwestern is overjoyed, Bruder is back, and they should tease the Gophers. Ohio State and Wisconsin make a nice interesting contest with the Buckeyes due to come across. The fighting Illini will die fighting with Purdue, and Chicago is no match for Princeton this year.
Yale against Dartmouth is a corker, the former by a close shave. Georgia and Florida mix in a battle filled with enmity and such things. Georgia looks g-ood to us from up here.
The Pacific coast teams have just warm-up games listed with the exception of Washington State which will take Oregon State. Kansas goes to Philadelphia and is picked to ease a win over Pennsylvania.
BIG TEN PREJUDICE.
The action of the nine representatives of the Big Ten in turning down the proposal to have the Notre DameNorthwestern game played in Soldier’ field for the sake of charity is one which demands a very careful and lengthy explanation. Flimsy excuses and what might happen in the future have no bearing on such a worthy cause.
Silence, they said, was necessary. There are exceptions to every rule
and charity is a worthy exception. The finest thing these nine men could have done to alleviate the sufferings of the Chicago needy would have been to allow the transfer of the site.
No other games would have suffered any loss in attendance; there are no Big Ten games scheduled in Chicago that day. Post-season games are a horse of a different color and exist only as a paper bound alibi, which these most worthy gentlemen made good use of in their determining.
WHERE
NOTRE DAME
MEN MEET
“Always in the Crozvd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili Hot Tomale
Ice Cream Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 N. Michigan St.
186
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE New
Smartest Coat on the Campus
College men. who know what to wear and how to wear it choose Alligator "50”—the new College Coat... Alligator "50” is a smart double-breasted raglan—long—fullcut—roomy—full-belted, with big patch pockets, and a convertible collar that gives extra protection around the neck ... Light in weight—semi-transparent—absolutely weather-proof. Four rich, original colors—Deep Sea, Tan, Blue, Black—and only $7.50!... Other Alligator models from $5.00 to $25.00.
THE ALLIGATOR CO.
St. Louis, Mo.
I
ROCKNE VETOES CHARITY CLASH WITH DETROIT
Knute Rockne, director of athletics and head football coach at Notre Dame, is not in favor of a postseason game for charity between the Irish and the University of Detroit, as was proposed by Mayor Frank Murphy of Detroit.
“Our schedule is heavy enough,” said Rockne. “It would be impossible to play the game until after the season is over, and ten games are enough for any team.”
The Detroit proposal followed the ruling by Big Ten faculty men against the Notre Dame-North western charity game.
INTERHALL SEASON DRAWS TO CLOSE
St. Edward’s win at Sophomore’s expense Sunday toppled the latter from the tie for first place in group number one, Corby and St. Edward’s now holding the position. That tie will be broken this week as the two squads meet on Cartier field Sunday morning. Another close game should result if anything can be learned by comparing scores, because Corby and Sophomore fought to a draw earlier in the season, and St. Edward’s eked out a 7-0 victory over the Sophomore squad last week.
The interhall league schedule draws to a close with Sunday’s contests, the winners in each division playing for the campus championship a week from Sunday. One guess is as good as another, and ours is that St. Edward’s and Walsh will represent their respective divisions in the final tilt. However, Walsh has to meet the strong Off-Campus outfit this week, and one never can tell just what will happen in interhall sports.
Results Sunday
St. Edward’s 7, Sophomore 0.
Howard 13, Off-Campus 0.
Freshman 18, Carroll 0.
Walsh 13, Brownson 0.
Corby 1, Off-Campus “B” 0 (forfeit).
Lyons 1, Morrissey 0 (forfeit).
STANDINGS
Group 1 St. Edward’s		w 	3	L 0	T 1	PCT. 1.000
Corby			2	0	2	1.000
Sophomore			2	1	1	.667
Lyons			1	1	2	.500
Off-Campus “B” _		1	2	0	.333
Morrissey			0	4	0	.000
Group 2	w	L	T	PCT.
Walsh 			3	0	1	1.000
Howard			3	0	1	1.000
Freshman			1	0	.750
Off-Campus 			2	2	0	.500
Brownson			0	4	0	.000
Carroll 			0	4	0	.000
Sunday’s Games
Morrissey-Off-Campus “B”, Minims field, 9:30.
Lyons-Sophomore, Brownson field, 9:30.
St. Edward’s-Corby, Cartier field
No. 1, 9:30.
Freshman-Howard, Cartier field No.
2, 9:30.
Carroll-Brownson, Cartier field No.
1, 2:30.
Off-Campus-Walsh, Brownson field, 2:30.
ROCKNE TAKES ROLE OF BROKER SHORTLY
Coach Knute Rockne 'will assume a new role in his daily work when he takes possession of a desk in the new brokerage office being opened on the second floor of the Odd Fellows building by the Gibson Company of Cincinnati. The ticker in the new office is expected to be in operation November 5.
This marks Rockne’s debut in the business world as a full-fledged broker, but Rock’s one-time teammate, Al Feeney of Indianapolis, is to be manager- of the South Bend branch, and will lend his knowledge of several years in the brokerage business.
| Residence	Office |
| Phone 3-4041	Phone 2-1067 =
j Dr. Edgar	S. Lucas 1
I	Dentist	I
j	i
|	702 J. M. S. Building	j
I	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	I
I_______________________________I
OVERCOATS $12.50
Heavy wool. Double breasted. Sleeve and yoke lined. Fine, handsome patterns. Values which you cannot afford to overlook. A coat you will be proud to own.
If you are interested, write for particulars today to
WISGARCO CLOTHING CO.
Dept. P	Burlington, Wis.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
187
164,000 SEE NOTRE DAME IN FIRST FOUR GAMES
Official attendance figures for the Notre Dame football games this season, released by business manager J. Arthur Haley today, show that 164,-000 have attended the four games to date. The figures are: Southern Methodist, 20,000; U. S. Naval academy, 42,000; Carnegie Tech, 32,000; Pittsburgh, 70,000.
DUFRY WINS TWO FIRSTS
IN FALL HANDICAP MEET
The annual fall handicap track meet was held on Cartier field last Thursday and it brought forth some good races but no outstanding times. This.was due no doubt to the condition of the track and to the cold weather. The track, which was recently resurfaced, has not had time to settle to any great extent with the result that after one or two races had been run, the cinders were well torn up and the going pretty tough.
Dufry was the only man able to annex two firsts. He confined his activities to the hurdles and was rewarded with victories in both highs and lows. Brantford, of last year’s freshman squad, captured the shot put and placed second to Finkel in the discus. Finkel was runner-up in the shot put.
Mickey Macbeth, Canadian Olympic man who starred in the quarter and half mile as a freshman last year, deserted these events to take second in the low hurdles.
Scanlon took third position in three events, the 100- and 200-yard dashes, and the 880-yard run.
The results:
100-YARD DASH—Won by Scott; Gilfoil, ■second ; Scanlon, third.
200-YARD DASH—Won by Kelly; Gilfoil. second ; Scanlon, third.
440-YARD DASH—Won by Horan; McDonald, second; Obergfall, third.
HIGH HURDLES—Won by Dufry; Pore-don, second ; Escher, third.
LOW HURDLES—Won by Dufry; Macbeth, second; O'Grady, third.
880-YARD RUN—Won by Young; Fehlig, second; Scanlon, third.
MILE RUN—Won by Rafferty; Cline, second ; Moher, third.
POLE VAULT—Won by Johnson; Mallon, second: Wallace, third.
DISCUSS—Won by Finkel; Brantford, second : Halprin, third.
JAVELIN—Won by Pahlmans ; Hoeshler, second; Halprin, third.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Hughes; Ryner, seccond; Wallace, third.
SHOT PUT—Won by Brantford; Finkel, second; Groves, third.
HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
out the nation as better bran flakes.
PEP for flavor—bran for health—whole wheat for nourishment. No wonder Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes are so popular and so good for you.
Ask to have them served at your fraternity or campus resturant.
[■JilitiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHtii...........iititiiiiiiiiniiitiBiiiiiuniniuitiiiiiiiiimitiiiiiutiiiQ
1 Please Patronize Scholastic Advertisers I ......
188
The Notre Dame Scholastic
4 INTERHALL SPORTS
Another attempt to take pictures of the interhall squads will be made this Sunday just before the time for the games. The teams will pose for the group pictures at the site of their contest. Due to a misunderstanding, the photographer arrived with only one plate to take the pictures of all the teams last Sunday. There won’t be any such hitch this week.
By virtue of the win over Off-Campus, Howard still keeps in pace with the Walsh outfit in the race for interhall football honors. Walsh let Brownson down on the short end of a 13-0 score last Sunday, thereby increasing the number of games won to three. Howard is credited with a like number of wins, and both teams have one tie marked up against them, the deadlock having fallen when the two squads met earlier in the season.
Freshman has won three games, but has lost one contest. The encounter last Sunday between Howard and Freshman will see one of the
teams fall, unless the game ends in the seemingly ever-popular tie score.
Off-Campus, always strong because of the unlimited supply of material for football teams, has lost two games this season and is low down in the column with a percentage of .500. The boys from the dormitories also seem unable to get going this season, each team having played four-games, all of which have been losing affairs.
Dan Halpin, senior football manager, returned from Pittsburgh last Sunday morning, only to step out of character for a while to act in the capacity of referee for the Brownson-Walsh fray on Cartier field number-one. And from all reports four years as a manager has enabled Dan to referee a mean game of football.
One Sunday of extra warm weather, one of extra cold, and then the third turns out to be an excellent football day. Not a single game was post
poned last Sunday and only two were lost through forfeit. (The interhall sports department is all smiles.)
“Bud” Gill, playing under Morrissey’s colors, tried to turn in one play too many from his position at end last Sunday and experienced an unusual sensation when someone’s flying boot caught him squarely on the bridge of the nose. Not such a pleasant experience, having one’s nose broken, avers Mr. Gill.
St. Edward’s 7, Sophomore 0
After battling through three scoreless periods without a serious threat on the part of either team to advance the ball to the goal, St. Edward’s took advantage of a fumble by a Sophomore back on the latter’s eightyard line, and after four thrusts at the center of the line, finally pushed across, with McCarthy, fleet half, carrying the ball.
The two teams showed great weaknesses on the defense, but when it came time to ward off an enemy threat, the lines usually braced themselves and held. In the second quarter Sophomore had worked the ball down to the eight-yard line from past mid-field on a sustained drive, only to find their hopes to score gone glimmering when one of their over
Starts Saturday
fOLFAY
THEATRE yW
Thru Tuesday
<
Gilbert and Beery—what a pair of carefree, fighting sailormen to win your heart! The rough humor, the grand romance of the seas in the year’s dramatic smash!
JOHN <11 Illi
WALLACE BEERY JIM TULLY LEILA HYAMS
A rollicking two-fisted talkie of men of the sea, with a great he-man feud carried to the ends of the earth!
“Way For a Sailor”
ADDED
Paramount
Sound News
A METRO-GOLDWYN PRODUCTION
A Publix Theatre
ADDED
Vitaphone
Sound Vodvil
The Notre Dame Scholastic
189


anxious linesmen was off-side and a penalty for holding was given. A 35-yard run by Gough, flashy Sophomore back, had aided in advancing the ball goalward, but the two penalties handicapped the team severely.
Aftei' McCarthy had scored the lone touchdown, the kick from placement was wide, but Gru, Sophomore quarterback who had replaced Collins, was a bit anxious, breaking through the line in an attempt to block the kick before the ball was snapped. “Red” McCarthy and Malan, halfbacks for St. Edward’s, were outstanding in regard to ball carrying with Marek, end, playing a strong defensive game. Bodo and Gough showed flashes of offensive ability for the Sophomore backfield. Scanlon, end, and Freehill, guard, were outstanding on defense for the latter squad.
Freshman 18, Carroll 0
Freshman hall’s football machine added considerably to its rapidly growing momentum Sunday when it rolled over Carroll, 18 to 0. The Freshman squad presented the most powerful offense it has shown all year.
They pushed over their first marker just as the initial period ended. Gleason carried the ball around left end on the scoring play. Carroll, fighting-hard throughout the whole game, showed to best advantage in the second quarter. In this rally the boys from the dorm completed several passes but could not maintain the attack long enough to score.
The other two Freshman touchdowns came late in the fourth quarter. Crosaro chalked up the first of this pair on a sweeping end run after overcoming a loss through a penalty that had apparently checked a nice drive. The third and last scoring effort was by Disser, fullback, who squirmed twenty yards after intercepting a pass just as the gun sounded ending the game.
Walsh 13, Brownson 0
The charging Walsh backs spelled disaster for the Brownson eleven and succeeded in placing their outfit one notch nearer the interhall football championship last Sunday morning. The score was 13-0.
The Walshites scored in the second and third quarters. The first tally came in the second period after McCarthy had recovered a Brownson fumble on the latter’s 30-yard line. Crawford and Law alternated in
working the ball to the Freshman 20-yard stripe. On the next formation McCarthy circled end for the remaining 20 yards and a touchdown. Law hit center- for the extra point.
Both teams battled on even terms until the third quarter, when a Brownson pass was intercepted by Bob Law, who raced 80 yards to annex the final tally.
The Dormmen threatened the Walsh goal in the third quarter when McCarthy fumbled on his own one-foot line, and the ball was retrieved by Carney of Brownson. But here the
HERE is exceptional value ... a snappy, custom-appearing model of • Genuine Imported Black Calf. The higher front adds smartness.
S1C.CC
If” OR more than half a century Walk-Over shoes have been first choice of discerning men. Better wear . . . custom appearance . . . shape retention . . . smooth, comfortable fitting . . . those are outstanding reasons for their popularity.
Walk-Over Shoe Store 111 South Michigan

Walsh line proved to be a stone wall, and the Brownsonites failed to push the ball over in their allotted four downs. Crawford then punted out of danger.
McCarthy, Law and Crawford were the main cogs in Walsh’s terrific offense. Crawford handled his team nicely at quarterback, and also displayed some fine exhibitions of broken field runnning. Mikes stood out at left end in the victor’s defensive tactics. “Red” Carney at left half and Leo Conlon at left end did the best work for Brownson.
190
The Notre Dame Scholastic
S. A. C. SPONSORS BOXING SHOW AT GYMNASIUM
On the night of November 14 the S. A. C. will sponsor a boxing show in the gymnasium. Tim Benitz, the president of the organization, has appointed Vernon Knox chairman of the committee in charge of the affair.
The other members of the committee are James K. Collins and William Hanifin. These men will be aided by Frank McAdams and John Burns.
These contests are merely preliminary to the regular boxing show. The elimination contests will be held after Christmas to determine the school champion at the various weights.
As the bouts will be held the night of the cotillion when only sophomores are allowed out, the students will have some form of amusement here on the campus.
BADGERS NIP “B” TEAM IN CLOSE GAME, 26-19
The Wisconsin reserves’ surprising and fighting come-back in the third quarter enabled them to conquer the Notre Dame “B” team last Saturday afternoon by a score of 26-19.
Notre Dame got away to an early lead by scoring 13 points within the first three minutes of play. Wisconsin kicked off to Capter who took the ball on the run and dashed 90 yards for the first score. After Wisconsin failed to budge the Notre Dame forward wall in three attempts, Bullock punted to Thornton on the Blue and Gold’s 10-yard line. Behind perfect interference Thornton carried the ball to the Badger’s 12-yard line before he was brought down from the rear. Banas turned in the prettiest play of the afternoon when he reversed his field and circled left end for the remaining 12 yards and the second touchdown. Christman raised the total to 13 points with a perfect place-kick.
In the second quarter Banas counted again with a perfect off-tackle play which was good for 15 yards and six more points. The Madison team scored on a pass and two off-tackle plays in the second period and at the half the score was tied 19-19.
Bullock, who had been doing most of the Badgers’ work all afternoon, was responsible for the winning touchdown. Taking the ball on the Notre Dame 12-yard line, he bored his way to the three-yard stripe. On the next formation he hit center for the tally which in the end meant victory.
.j.------------------------------$
IFROM ANOTHER EDITOR)'
I I
An interesting editorial was clipped from the Indiana Daily Student this week. It was complimentary to Notre Dame and also to the cheerleader, Ed Massa. The article runs: “A week ago today this writer attended the Notre Dame-Carnegie Tech football game at South Bend, Indiana, and got almost as much enjoyment from hearing the spirited cheering as he did from watching the game itself. The students in the stands seemed to be fighting as hard for victory as were the players on the field. Those fans not only cheered when their team scored but when the cheering was most needed—when their goals were threatened.
“Being an I. U. man, the writer could not help but contrast the spirit as was evinced at this game with the weak and spasmodic cheering he has heard coming from the rooting section at home games.”
(Ed. Note: This extract is printed at the request of a student who thought it only fair that the readers of the Scholastic become acquainted with another’s point of view on Notre Dame cheering. It is in no way a retraction of the Scholastic’s recent editorial about that same cheering. The opinion of an Indiana Daily Student editorial writer, expressed in an editorial probably written to arouse better cheering by Indiana students, is not the opinion of the Scholastic, nor is it the opinion of a great many Notre Dame students who .have commended us on our editorial. A further explanation of the Scholastic’s editorial attitude may be found on the editorial page.)
RESERVES PLAY TWO AGAIN THIS WEEK
This week Coach Rockne has again lined up two tough battles for his reserve teams. Tonight at Bourbonnais, Illinois, one squad of reserve men will take on the St. Viator college outfit under the bright lights.
Tomorrow afternoon in the Hoosier stadium at Bloomington, a picked squad of football men will be pitted against the Indiana “B” team as an addition to the Notre Dame-Indiana varsity contest being played in the Notre Dame stadium at the same time.
STRIKE UP THE BAND
(Continued from Page 179)
huge crowds at Soldier field for the Wisconsin, Drake and Southern California games. The fourth trip was to Evanston where they matched lip movements and clock steps with the fine Purple and White band of Northwestern. And then came the trip.
Going to the Army game in the Yankee stadium, New York City, for the first time, the Notre Dame band attained the distinction of being the first mid-western university band to march up Fifth avenue and Broadway, as well as on the field of that stadium made so famous by world series, Army-Notre Dame games, Babe Ruth’s clouts, and Jack Elder’s famous run-back of an intercepted pass.
Those five trips were the apex of the pyramid whose base was the nineteen men who went to Bloomington in civies.
The band appears at other times than football games, however, and these deserve recognition even if they are not so widely known as the autumn appearances. Each year a campus concert, a very good one, is given in Washington hall.' This concert was supplemented last year by an appearance in the Oliver theater in South Bend, at which time Professor Casasanta proved conclusively to the people at large that his band could play concert and classical selections as well as march airs. The band is also a feature at the annual flower pageant at St. Joseph, Michigan, where its five-mile march during a warm May afternoon is its greatest physical effort of the year.
In addition to the times mentioned the musicians appear at all pep meetings, testimonial banquets, send-offs, and free shows. Usually it takes a weekly tour during the spring quarter.
The marching at the game tomorrow will be the first time this year that formations have been made on the field. Professor Casasanta, we are happy to state, is still director of the organization, and Henry Tholen, the tall drum major, is serving his third year in the position. Vigilius Phillips, president, and John Weibler, vice-president, are two of the many men who are serving their fourth year as members.
i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
191
' J	'
i Interhall Sports
*-----------------------------------
Lyons 1, Morrissey 0
After playing to a scoreless tie, Morrissey and Lyons found out that a	their labors were in vain, as Lyons
was awarded the game on a forfeit. Morrissey had played an ineligible man.
Neither team possessed the necessary scoring punch. A Morrissey rally which began when Duffy contributed a long run after receiving a pass was short-lived, the ball being lost on downs. On a sustained drive that took the ball to the eight-yard line Lyons seemed certain to score, but a fumble by Oelrich on the goal line sent the Lyons stock into a decided slump.
Conti and Gosselin performed well on the offense for the Lyons squad, and Duffy and O’Hara, Morrissey’s Irish backs, were consistent groundgainers for the latter outfit.
Corby 1, Off-Campus “B” 0
The Corby hall footballers found themselves a bit handicapped last Sunday by lack of opposition and were forced to accept a forfeit from the Off-Campus “B” squad. The lat
ter encountered some difficulty in mustering a complete team and bowed out gracefully.
STATISTICS OF THE
GAME
First Downs :	.
Notre Dame, 14.
Pittsburgh, 8.
Yds. Gained From Scrimmage: Notre Dame, 237 yards.
Pittsburgh, 151.
Forward Passes:
Notre Dame, one incomplete pass.
Pittsburgh, 3 of 10 completed for 57 yards (one by penalty).
Penalties :
Notre Dame, 35.
Pittsburgh, 10.
RESERVES TROUNCE WILD-
CATS, 7-6
Playing for the early arrivals of the Northwestern-Centre game in the Dyche stadium last Saturday, the
Notre Dame reserves defeated the Northwestern “B” team, 7-6. Although the close score would indicate the meeting of two evenly matched teams it was plainly evident to the spectators that Notre Dame was superior in every department of the game.
In anticipation of the varsity playing Northwestern shortly, the reserves displayed little of the Notre Dame style of play this year, as the Wildcat coaches were present. Bran-shaw scored on a pass from Conley, and Foley kicked the goal early in the second quarter that became the deciding point. After that Notre Dame was content to play defensive ball.
Northwestern scored in the third quartei- after recovering a Notre Dame fumble deep in their own territory.
Kremer played well at fullback for the visitors as he seemed capable of penetrating the Purple line at every attempt. Displaying those qualities, power, speed and deception, for which the varsity is famous, the reserves showed fans that they will be capable of carrying on the great record of Notre Dame varsities when their chance comes next year.
tw—mi——in—tm—Ba—tw—tm—nn—uu—mimt—un—aa—
your EYES
II
I i •
I
Have them examined every
I year
^OCCASIONALLY we hear someone boast of the extreme long life of his glasses — as though it were something of which to be proud.
Our eyes are changing constantly, and the best experience proves that the ophthalmic correction provided by lenses usually requires changing every eighteen months to two years. To wear glasses longer than that means that the eyes are being forced to adjust themselves to the glasses, instead of the glasses being an aid to the eyes.
LEMONTREES
JI
102 W. Washington St.
222 1-2 S. Michigan St.
o——tw—to—ob—m—oa—bb—bb——to— bb—bb—w—
Shaving Supplies j
At Cut Prices j
Koolshave Shaving |
Cream, 39c I
35c Colgate’s Shaving	Cream------------------29c	j
60c Barbasol Shaving	Cream------------------49c	j
50c Mennen’s Shaving	Cream------------------39c	]
35c Palmolive Shaving	Cream------------------29c	|
$1.25 Pinaud’s Lilac Vegetal-------------------98c j
35c William’s Shaving	Cream------------------29c	j
$1.00 Package of 10 Gillette Blades------------77c j
$1.00 Package of 10 Auto-Strop Blades----------75c j
Corner Michigan and Colfax
•j*-bb«^bb"^bb«^bb"» «b—tm—- m i—ns—bb—bb	to—w—to«*—bb^b
192
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ON DOWN THE UNE

W HOEVER the fortunate winner of this title will be— one thing is certain—he will be the possessor of abundant health and vitality.
Shredded Wheat is the food upon which many a dazzling social career is founded. It contains in the most easily digestible form all of the essential food elements. It supplies the lordly senior
Greatest
Social Light”
and the aspiring underclassman with boundless energy. Try eating two biscuits each morning for breakfast with plenty of good rich milk. It will help to keep you ahead in ball room and class room, alike.
... It looks like it’s going to be another track meet at the stadium tomorrow . . . S. M. U. smothered Indiana last Saturday to the tune of 27 to 0 . . . and it doesn’t seem possible that PAT PAGE will fire his charges to a point where they may prove to be an overwhelming upset . . . RED MAHER . . . star halfback here at N. D. in 1921-23 . . . accepted a coaching job at DePaul . . . KING LEVINSKY . . . pride of Chicago’s ghetto . . . has been bowling over his opponents with ease . . . most of them second raters . . . his first acid test will be November 6, when he clashes with JIMMY SLATTERY . . . the Buffalo Harp. . . .
... On Tennesee’s football team are seven seniors who have been playing together for three seasons, suffering only one defeat . . . and that, two weeks ago . . . Alabama bumping them off . . . It might be interesting for the boys who are saving up for the Army week-end to know this . . . the total betting at race tracks in the United States, Canada and Mexico is estimated at approximately $450,000, 000 yearly . . . ERNEST USEMAN . . . another would-be Elder . . . is a dash man on the University of Illinois track team and a candidate for the backfield of the grid team . . ,
. . . The American Association . . . victorious in six of the ten junior world series . . . has signed a new agreement with the International • League for anothei- series covering a ten year period . . . JOE DUNDEE . . . has won less than half his fights since he lost the welterweight championship to JACKIE FIELDS a year ago . . . once they start on the slide it’s always too bad . . . The WARNER system is still spreading . . . MIKE GETTO, coach at Kansas, has adopted it. . . .
. . . NOLIE FELTS . . , sophomore fullback at Tulane is married and has a two year old son . . . FELTS is a triple threat man weighing over 180 pounds . . . FRANCIS McELLIGOTT. . . . the Chicago pepper-box who quarterbacks the Marquette eleven, ... is also an instructor in journalism at the university .. . Reports have it that Princeton’s polo team is playing in very rare form . . . perhaps BILL ROPER might borrow a couple of their ponies ... this is the worst year in the history of Princeton’s football