



The Notre Dame Scholastic
459
H'*........■*■*,,1,1,,,,l,,,,,,|l,,||,,,,,l,,,,,,,...........................................................................................   111,.....Q
COMMENT
One of the most pleasant and congenial members of our office force has suggested that this column of “Just Filler” be replaced with something more interesting. As a substitute, our friend said that we might run a column entitled “The Man Who Was.” That would indeed be appropriate at this time. The second semester as a rule means nothing more than passing a few “pipe” exams and going on with the regular routine. (All agreeing say “aye”). This year, however, we are astonished at the number of men scurrying across the campus with bags in hand, ready to face an irate father at home. And we aren’t losing only freshmen; many of the men who have been together four, almost four years, are leaving. It is a tough break and we hate to see them go. On the other hand, we are consoled by the fact that many of our friends are coming back after a leave of absence. May they do better!
I The Notre Dame Scholastic
| Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 5	Founded 1867
	EMIL L. TELFEL—Editor-In-Chief		
	Assistant Managing .Editor	Managing Editor	Assistant Managing Editor
	Neil C. Hurley	John E. Bergan	John A. Kiener
	Edward E. Brennan	Associate Editors James J. Kearney	Edward R. Brennan
	Austin Boyle	James Carmody	Paul J. Hallinan
	John Pick	William Corr	Lloyd Teske
z	The Week	Make-up Editors	College Parade
	Richard J. O’Donnell	Walter V. Beesley	Daniel C. Williams
	Music and Drama	Feature Editor	Campus Clubs
	Frank E. Seward	James K. Collins	W. Leslie Raddatz
z	‘	Neius Staff William C. Karl, Neirs Editor William F. Fitzgerald, Assistant Ncirs		Ed tor
z	John Conley	Anthony R. Schreiner	Lawrence Dunda
-	Myron Crawford	F. Granger Weil	Lawrence Prybylski
	John Pick	Walter Johnson	Edmund Stephan
=	Joseph Degnan	Richard Moligue	William Knox
|	Cleve Carey	Sports Staff Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor George Belting	T. Edward Carey
z	James E. McFeely, Jr.	James Kearns	Irving B. Halper
Business Staff
James H. Rorke, Local Advertising Mgr. John R. Blanda. Local Circulation Mgr.
James L. Rizer, Foreign Advertising Mgr. Andrew McGuan. Foreign Circulation Mgr.
Frederick Bauer	Raymond J. Naber	John P. Hess
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
And what a beating the office force is taking! It is really a dirty shame that our freshmen can’t have morning classes the year through. Everywhere we hear them complaining about having a “two-fifteen three days a week” and some go so far as to gripe about a one-fifteen.” We might take sides with a senior who should be burdened unnecessarily with afternoon classes but our “alumni-freshmen,” oh boy! It is a physical impossibility to give everyone the schedule he would like, so if you happen to have an afternoon session, and can’t have it changed, don’t complain too much, you just got a poor break; there are other semesters coming, and who knows but what you might have all morning classes at least once before you get out of school ?
A good move to pacify a large number of discontented men who have spare hours during the day and who spend them in Brownson “Rec,” would be to purchase a few decks of cards for the use of those men. Bridge is a good, clean game and an hour spent in Brownson ”rec” without some form of amusement besides checkers is indeed a dull one. Bridge is the campus pastime, so Brother, give the boys a hand. (Will somebody put a copy of the Scholastic in Brother Aloysius’ room?)	—W. V. B.
KHlIltHlllIllIlIHllHiHHIIIIHIHIHIHII'HIIIHIinHIIIIillillllltlllUillllllillllllllllllHIiniililiHIIIKIHIIHIHIIIIHIHIUIIIHniHIMIIHIIIIinilil
i Vol. LXIV. •	FEBRUARY 6, 1931.	No. 15. [
|	TABLE OF CONTENTS	e
1	The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell---------------------------461	=
|	Scholarships Announced—Lloyd Teske--------------------- 463	1
i Music and Drama—Frank E. Seward-------------------------. 465 i
=	Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan------------- 468	i
=	Book Reviews—John Pick--------------------------------- 469	:
=	A Man About the Campus—William Knox-------------------- 472	=
=	A Man You Know—Edward E. Brennan----------------------- 473	=
:	Campus Clubs—IF. Leslie Raddatz------------------------ 474	|
|	Editor’s Page----------------------------------------   475	|
|	College Parade—Daniel C. Williams---------------------- 476	|
=	The Wink________________________________________________ 477	j
:	Cagers Triumph Over Hoosiers—T. Edward Carey----------- 478	:
E	“Scrap-Iron” Young Rejects Law—Irving B. Halper-------- 479	i
E	Splinters From the Press Box—Henry B. Aswan------------ 485	e
S	At the South Bend Theatres—John Francis---------------- 486	|
|	On Down the Line—Cleve Carey--------------------------- 488	|
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manu-	:
scripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Buildin?.	E
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. authorized June 25. 1918.
E	The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of
:	All Notre Dame Men.
[i]i,<,iiiii„«iii„iii,ii„i,i,i„iiiii„iiiliiiiiii,iiiiiiliiiiui„iii>iiii>iiii<iiiii„iiiinii,<iiiii,ii„iiiiiiiiiiii>i>iiiiiiii(>i>»,iii,,(l(,a..
460
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Entrance to Chemistry Hall
i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
461
♦ THE WEEK ♦
Semester examinations last for only four or five clays. Yet the mental fatigue which results from them has been known to last for months. Ambitious pseudo-scholars who spent the last week of the first semester in prodigious preparation for the fatal tests now feel that the few hours of sleep they missed must be made up. Ergo, they will get their twelve hours a night, with a slight nap in the afternoon for as many weeks or months as they deem necessary to repair' the harm which the examinations caused to their mental and physical systems. All forms of relaxation and entertainment will be indulged in, in an effort to forget that horrible nightmare of psychic torture in which they actually pored over textbooks until midnight, and did a semester duty which should have been completed weeks previously, by candle light. The student conscience is the easiest one in the world" to appease. Perhaps this is because the college man’s imagination is so effective in finding means of appeasing it. And there is no means of satisfying a protesting conscience that is so efficacious as the recalling of the rigors of the past examination. If one passes them he is justified in celebrating the good fortune which is his by either a prolonged loaf or prolonged festivities. If, however, he is so unfortunate to fail, it is imperative that he resort to some kind or kinds of recreation which will enable him to forget the terrible ignominy. Thus, the post-mortem of examinations is customarily a pleasant party. It’s the same as a good old fashioned wake. There are some tears which must necessarily be shed, but when that formality is done, and everyone resolves to “do bettei' next time,” campus life becomes once more contented and serenely sleepy.
0 robin has as yet visited the campus bringing tidings of the approach of spring. In fact there has not even been a rumor of a visiting robin. And that portends a lengthy winter. For the rumor usually precedes the robin by at least two weeks. In fact rumor invariably precedes any actual happening in these parts by no less than ten days. But some believers in omens have been satisfied by the actions of the good old reliable groundhog who did his annual trick, and had his annual picture in every newspaper in the country with the annual journalistic humor in the supplementary caption. For those who rank the freshman intelligence above that of the groundhog, or even that of the robin, there is reason to believe that ’ spring is just around the corner and summer is not far behind. It should not be hard to unload a stock of straw hats on the eastern boundary of the campus. The boys in that territory are oiling up the baseball bats, greasing the leathei- mitts, trading mashies for drivers, and having the winter crop of hail' removed. A little ray of sunshine, in the popular song vernacular, is a beautiful figure expressing hope, future contentment, and all that sort of thing. But it takes more than a single ray, or even a dozen rays to indicate that dear old spring is about to bounce in upon us, if you will pardon the expression. This particularly applies to that queen of states, Indiana, who is as temperamental as a prima donna, and as erratic as a woman taking her first driving lesson. Its most consistent characteristic is its inconsistency. So put away the baseballs, gentlemen, and take the ice skates out.
^1'HE beginning of the second semester witnesses the return of many of those ill-fated students who made unexpected exits from the University upon occasions during the past months when exits were not being legitimately made. Many of them became over enthusiastic over football victories. Many also, were lacking in enthusiasm over the quarterly examinations. Some did a thorough job of it, and combined the two reasons for departing. It has been estimated that about one-half of these returned prodigals have been greeted by erstwhile friends with a “Hello, where you been the last couple of days?” But even such forgetfulness does not seem to dim the apparent gladness at being returned to the arms of their alma mater. Many of the men who were standing in line before the office windows in the early part of this week had not so long ago been announcing that their student days here were ended. But after four years of detailed investigation, we feel that it is safe to state that they always come back. There are no available statistics as to the number of Notre Dame men who have at some time oi' other voiced intentions of “going some place else next year,” but it would not be illogical to estimate that these individuals make up ninety-nine and forty-four hundredths per cent of every graduating class. It would take an expert psychologist to analyze and explain this “griping” complex. It’s as paradoxical as any statement of Mr. Chesterton’s.
IZAAK WALTON’S local feminine disciples have apparently tired of the rod and reel and have turned to a more suitable instrument (or is it weapon?) whereby to while away these winter evenings. This week we are treated to a sample of their ability with the pen. Nor is it a bad sample, as samples go. If the wielder was as successful in her angling as she has been in her poetizing, she will probably be often “among those present.” Let us hope that this is so. For apparently she is a talented person, though her identity remains a mystery, with a real appreciation of the higher things in life, such as worms, bait, spiders, and so forth. Entomology is a wonderful thing. And to bring it before the public eye in an attractive verse form is an accomplishment deserving of much praise. The Laetare Medal would be an appropriate award for such a deed. In such a person we have the incarnation of versatility. Proms and poems are at opposite ends of the meridian, but here we have an individual who can appreciate both, and at the same time be interested in the art of fishing, to say nothing of the science which has already been dubiously mentioned. Dubiously, for we are not certain that its limits include the specimens of animal life which were listed. If not, the versatility is all the more pronounced. It is unfortunate that this mind and eye wearying column is prevented by tradition from including poetry, else we would herewith invite all contributions that approach the excellence of the much discussed, and frequently quoted “Lines To An Egotistical Angler.” The Wink, however, is not so particular. The title of that page connotes poor vision, and consequently impeded critical powers. Accordingly, dear anglers, address your poetry to it, and fear not that it will be rejected.

462
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COMING EVENTS
SCRIBBLERS HOLD CONTEST
GLEANINGS
Dates Subject to Change Without Notice.
FRIDAY, Feb. 6 — Last day for changes in registration.—Scholastic staff meeting, 7:00 p. m., Main building.
SATURDAY, Feb. 7—Movie, “Check and Double Check,” Washington hall, 6:40 and 8:15.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh. — Indoor track, Millrose games, New York.
SUNDAY, Feb. 8—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, Feb. 9—Dome picture, 12:20 on the library steps, Cleveland club.—Villagers’ club meeting, 6:30 p. m., LaSalle hotel mezzanine. —Indoor track, Seton Hall games, Newark, N. J.—Italian club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 2, Main building.—Wranglers’ club meeting, 6:30 p. m., journalism room.
TUESDAY, Feb. 10—Dome pictures, 12:20 in gymnasium, Pre-legal club, Pacific-Northwest club, Connecticut Valley club, St. Louis club.
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 11—Scribblers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m. in Howard “rec.”
THURSDAY, Feb. 12 — Spectators’ meeting, 8:00 p. m. in journalism room of library.—Debate, Notre Dame vs. University of Pittsburgh at Notre Dame.
FRIDAY, Feb. 12—Junior Prom, Palais Royale, 10 till 2.
NOTICE!
The Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, announces that the course in Education 7e, The Teaching of English, will be taught by Mr. Charles J. Griffin on Tuesday and Wednesday evenings at 7 o’clock. Registration for this course will be held open until Tuesday, Feb. 10. Juniors, seniors, and graduate students are eligible.
#----------------------------&
Annual Poetry and Short Story Competitions Opened,
Emil L. T'elfel, president of the Scribblers, announces the opening of their annual short story and poetry contests. Richard J. O’Donnell, 101 Sorin hall, has been appointed chairman of the short story contest, and Frank E. Seward, Corby hall, chairman of the poetry contest. Manuscripts should be sent to them. These men have not as yet picked their assistants, but will do so shortly.
All students of the University are eligible, and are urged to submit manuscripts. Class rank or other campus affiliations have nothing whatever to do with a student’s eligibility to enter the contests.
In former years many students have responded to these contests, which have been very successful. Over 150 manuscripts were submitted in the past two years to the two competitions.
Further information concerning the contests and the names of the judges, and the closing dates, will appear in subsequent issues of the Scholastic.
A. S. M. E. Hears Andres
Mr. W. T. Andres of the Bendix Brake Corporation was the principal speaker at the last regular meeting of the Notre Dame student branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers held in the Engineering building. His talk dealt with the development and design of the various types of brakes in use today. He pointed out the advantages and disadvantages of the hydraulic and mechanical brake and the problems which each type presented, at the same time giving the steps which were being taken to overcome these obstacles.
Chester Barbeck, sophomore, presented a student paper on “Diesel Aircraft Engines” and William Karl, senior, spoke on “Marine Power Plant.”
Among other things which were discussed was the ordering of pins in lots from the national society for the Notre Dame branch, and the possibilities of forming a glider club.
Word reaches the Scholastic that Larry Cronin and Tom Bradley, both of the class of ’30, are planning to sail soon for South America.
Eddie Collins, varsity end on the 1929 football team, is spending his days relaxing undei’ an Arizona sun, recovering from an illness contracted during the past summer. Reports indicate that he will return home about the middle of June.
Tom Kenneally, ’30, is teaching at Manhattan college now that his football season has passed along.
Ralph B. Garza, ’28, is toiling under the heat of a Mexican climate, where he is working for a hydro-electric company. His brother, Oscar Garza, ’27, is reclining a short distance away at Saltillo,’ Coah.
Walter F. Stanton, ’30, is expected to create somewhat of a sensation in the Indiana legislature shortly, since he is the youngest member of that body. He graduated from the Law school here last June, taking his oratory practice as a member of the Wranglers.
James Walsh, debater extraordinary, is teaching at Brooklyn Prep. His subjects include, English, dramatics, and public speaking.
Joe MacNamara, ’29, former editor of the Juggler, has visited South Bend on several occasions recently.
John Law, captain of the victorious 1929 football team, has succumbed to the darts of Dan Cupid and is reported to be engaged. He coached a rather successful Manhattan college football squad this year.
❖---------------------------------♦
NOTICE!
The Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., requests the presence of all A.B. students majoring in economics in Room 1, Main building, Monday afternoon, Feb. 9, at 4:15.
4---------------------------------&
o
The Notre Dame Scholastic
463
SCHOLARSHIPS ANNOUNCED
Cavender, Sophomore Winner
Cowles, Toussaint, and Cavender Are Named Winners of Sullivan Awards
$250 Awarded to Each Student For Improvement in Work Since First Semester.
Albert Cowles, saint, and Arthur been awarded the
Joseph A. Tous-T. Cavender have Roger C. Sullivan
f

Albert Cowles Senior Winner
scholarships for 1930 and 1931 according to a recent announcement of the committee on scholarships.
Three scholarships of $250 each are awarded annually to applicants from among the senior, junior, and sophomore classes, respectively, who show the greatest amount of improvement in scholarship during the year.
Albert C. Cowles, a senior in the College of Science, during the second semester of last year showed an improvement of 43.63% over the work done during the first term. He received his secondary education at the Newark high school, Newark, N. Y. During those four years he was active in basketball and general track, having received recognition in both sports.
Since he has been at Notre Dame, Cowles has been too busy to think much of extra curricular activities.
During the past four years, however, he has been a member of the Rochester club, and this year is also a member of the Academy of Science. His avocation, however, is physical education to which he devotes a considerable amount of his time. He lives in Corby hall.
Toussaint, a Junior
Joseph A. Toussaint, a junior enrolled in the chemical engineering course, was awarded the scholarship for his class with an improvement of 43.59% in his scholastic record.
Toussaint graduated from Assumption academy in Utica, New York, his home town. He partook of no outside activities in his “prep” school days, but since he has been at Notre
Joseph A. Toussaint Jttnior Winner
Dame, he has become interested in those organizations which are along the same lines as his school work. He is a member of the Chemists’ and Engineers’ clubs. His literary accomplishments are attested to in that he is junior* editor of the Catalyzer, published by the students of the chemistry department.
Last year, the year in which Mr. Toussaint showed such marked improvement, he was a resident of Sophomore hall. At the present time he resides in Corby “sub.”
The sophomore recipient of the scholarship is Arthur T. Cavender of Wakefield, Michigan. Cavender, who is enrolled in the College of Commerce, showed an improvement of 42.4% between the two semesters last year.
As a member of the Wakefield high school, Cavender took part in many activities. Chief among them were football, basketball and dramatics. His extra activities at Notre Dame have consisted in interhall football and basketball. He is also a member of the Commerce Forum and the local council of the Knights of Columbus.
Arthur T. P. Cavender Sophomore Winner
During his freshman year the recipient resided in Freshman hall. This year he is a resident of Morrissey.
The scholarship from which these men are benefitting- was established in June, 1922, by a gift of $15,000 from Mrs. Leo Sullivan Cummings and Mrs. Thomas Sullivan Brennan in memory of their father, the late Roger C. Sullivan of Chicago.
“Scholastic” News Service
Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, announces that the magazine has become affiliated with the Intercollegiate News Service. This organization is a distributing agency for college news from various colleges throughout the country. Connection with this agency will enable the Scholastic to secure items of general interest from other institutions that would otherwise be unavailable.
464
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PROM BAND CHOSEN BY MUSIC COMMITTEE
Clyde McCoy Selected to Play For Junior Class Dance.
After due deliberation John J. Collins, chairman of the Junior Prom of 1931, assisted by the committee of music, in charge of Philip Dun-leavey, has chosen Clyde McCoy and his orchestra to furnish the music for the junior class dance to be held at the Palais Royale ballroom on the night of February 13th.
This choice, together with the details heretofore mentioned, insures the complete success of this year’s prom in every department. After careful consideration McCoy was chosen, by right of his popularity and wide experience, as the best and most logical selection to entrust with this division of the dance.
McCoy is well known to those from this section of the country because of his radio programs and Iris recent engagements at the Drake hotel and the Terrace Gardens in Chicago. He opened at the Drake in September 1930 and immediately won national popularity for his rendition of “Sugar Blues” over station WGN. The manner in which this number was received and the number of telegrams and requests prompted the recording of “Sugar Blues” and “Beadin’, Ritin’ Rhythym” on the Columbia record.
Of his experience much can be said. During 1924 and 1925 he played with RKO and in 1928 set the record for steady engagements, playing for twenty-eight consecutive weeks at the Madrid ballroom in Louisville, Kentucky. He is particularly fitted to play in a college setting. During the 1921 season he visited almost every college in the South, playing at the University of Georgia, the University of Tennessee, the University of Virginia, the University of North Carolina, the University of South Carolina, and Washington and Lee university.
McCoy is the author of “I Wrote a Song About You,” “After I Said I Love You,” “Sugar Blues,” and “Readin’, Ritin’ Rhythym.”
I	NOTICE!
There will be an important ? meeting of the News and Sports < staff this evening at 7:00 in 5 room 222 of the main building. ? The regular 6:30 editorial staff s meeting will be held in the pub- J lications office. All members $ are required to attend.	<
SPECTATORS HEAR TALKS
Telfel and Stepan Consider
Phases of Modern Art.
At a meeting of the Spectators held last Thursday evening, Emil L. Telfel and Alfred C. Stepan spoke on two subjects which created a much heated discussion by members of the club. “Modem Opera” was the subject of Stepan’s talk. He pointed out the varied success of the opera during the last twenty years, holding that, with hardly an exception, modem operas have not earned permanent recognition by the opera-going world. Discussing the American opera, Stepan claimed that it had not been a success. Only in the actual staging of operas has America made improvements over the older productions; the music of these works has been decidedly inferior to the music of the older masters.
The second talk on the subject: “Is There a Literary Art in America?”, was presented by Telfel, who first reviewed the opinions of American critics upon the literary artists in America. The general opinion of the critics was that, because of environmental and economic conditions, the artist had no opportunity to express himself adequately. Telfel, after summing up these opinions, pointed out that the artist could overcome these peculiarly American conditions and produce ah art as great as that achieved in any other period of history. He showed that the adverse conditions were merely minor influences, which could never interfere with the creative work of a true artist. In conclusion, he maintained that the dearth of lasting literature in modem America is not so much due to interfering conditions as to the scarcity of great artists. This talk also produced considerable criticism and argument.
PROFESSOR PHILLIPS INVITED TO MEXICO
To Join Seminar for Study of Catholic Welfare.
Professor Charles Phillips of the department of English has received	t
an invitation to join the sixth seminar in Mexico in July of this year. The seminar, which is now an annual affair, is devoted to a first hand study of conditions in Mexico and is of special interest to Catholics because of the precarious situation in which	t
the Church finds itself in the Latin republic. Among the leaders of the 1931 seminar will be the Reverend R. A. McGowan of the National Catholic Welfare Conference.
In 1925 Professor Phillips made an investigation tour of Mexico for the	t
N.C.W.C. and has since written and lectured extensively on the subject of Catholic welfare. The coming seminar, in which he has been invited to participate, will continue for twenty days, from July 4 to July 24, carrying on all its researches in Mexican	»
territory.
Studies of the arts and crafts of Mexico, with visits to the historic churches, to studios and museums, a study of American relations — especially in regard to the Monroe Doctrine, investigation of Mexican edu-	«
cational problems with visits to schools, and likewise an investigation into industrial and labor problems, are included in the program of the seminar.
O’Connor Honored at Banquet
A testimonial banquet, in honor of Paul (Bucky) O’Connor, varsity back, was' given last Tuesday evening at the LaSalle hotel by the New Jersey club.
Professoi- Daniel C. O’Grady acted	*
as toastmaster for the occasion, and introduced the various speakers in his usual humorous and effective manner.
John Chevigny and Tom Conley spoke highly of O’Connor as a friend, player and student, mentioning in particular some, interesting incidents	j
connected with the trip to California.
Salvatore Bontempo was in charge of the affair which was attended by some 65 members.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
465
“CATALYZER” DISTRIBUTED
Music And Drama
Thomas Vaughan Writes Feature for January Issue.
The January issue of The Catalyzer, published by the department of chemistry, contains a most interesting and informative selection of articles. The feature article, “The Order in Which Man Recognized the Various Forms of Energy,” written by Thomas H. Vaughn, B.S., ’31, tells of the many forms in which energy has been found, controlled and measured, and of the discoveries found concerning energy from the time of Archimedes to that of Einstein.
“Ramblin’ Round Chemistry Hall” is the title of a column of short notes that should prove -of interest to many.
The concluding words of the editorial “Patience in Research” are applicable to all people, chemists or no: “The reward of labors will be found in the joys of discovery.”
CHARLES HANNA WRITES * PARODIES FOR “DOME”
HALL SECTION
If Lincoln had delivered his Gettysburg address from the porch of Sophomore hall, what stirring words would have marked the occasion? How < could Chaucer have described the grandeur of the campus-edging Lyons hall? If Caesar had discovered Carroll hall instead of “all Gaul,” how would his report have read?
These famous authors, and others, are contributors to the 1931 Dome. • The year-book has secured their services (by proxy) for the Halls’ section, and those who have read the “contributions” state that they are among the cleverest satires that have been used in the Dome.
Charles M. Hanna, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, is responsible for the witty parodies. He has written the Notre Dame viewpoint into the carefully imitated style of Chaucer, Lincoln, Longfellow, Pepys, and others.
Included in the Halls’ section are * three new features besides the parodies. These are a picture of each hall, a photograph of the man after whom it was named, and a short five-line verse.
This column recently received a copy of the new edition of “My Prom Sweetheart,” which is now published by the Melrose Music Company of Chicago, in whose hands are also the Notre Dame songs, “Sweetheart of Sigma Chi,” and other college songs. For the benefit of freshmen and others who weren’t here last year, “My Prom Sweetheart” was written for the 1930 Prom by Messrs. John Beljon and Zeno Staudt. It is one of the best songs of its kind in collegiate music and has been steadily growing more popular- since last winter. The bigger bands playing it regularly are : Wayne King (Puroil hour), Isham Jones, Guy Lombardo, Freddy Hamm, Jack Chapman, Hal Kemp, Emerson Gill, and Key Keyser. Here’s to the song for the best of success.
Friends in Cleveland have written in that “Cherries Are Ripe” is a pretty good show. Sophisticated, hardly demure, but very entertaining. This is the first appearance on the stage of Rod la Roque and his wife, Vilma Banky. This fact in itself will probably draw a good many to the play. Also in Cleveland was Katherine Cornell in the American premiere of “The Barretts of Wimpole Street.” This is a decided change for Miss Cornell, for Elizabeth Barrett Browning is rather different from the heroines of “The Green Hat,” “The Letter,” and “Dishonored Lady.” The plot concerns itself with the courtship and elopement of Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett.
Romberg’s “The Student Prince” is being revived and will very likely tour the country again, as “Blossom Time” has been doing for the last eight years. Away back there in 1926, “The Student Prince” made something like $l,0CO,000 for the Schuberts, and about twenty years before that it roamed the country as the play “Old Heidelberg,” with Richard Mansfield as Karl Franz. These are both shows we all like to see again and again, for though the music is surely as well known as that of Victor Herbert, it just doesn’t seem to wear out. I saw “The New Moon” the first part of this week at the State. A new story has
been fitted ot the tunes, but Lawrence Tibbett and Grace Moore are so fine that it doesn’t matter. Miss Moore should be headed this way again soon in “A Lady’s Morals.” Poor Jenny Lind must be twitching in her grave at this title.
Helen Morgan is on the Arkayo circuit now, after the break-up of “Sweet Adeline.” . . . Roland Pertwee, whose novels are .as exciting as they are clever, is to write stories for the movies. . . . Lewis Stone and Charles Butterworth are to play in the film version of “You and I,” which play has been discussed in this column before. . . . There are now two versions of the tear-jerker of days gone by, “East Lynne.” The modern version with Marion Nixon and Neil Hamilton is titled “Ex-Flame” (for which somebody should be shot), and the more literal adaptation retains the original title. The cast for this is much the finer of the two: Ann Harding, Clive Brook, and Conrad Nagel. . . . Tomorrow afternoon at the Metropolitan Opera is the first performance anywhere of Deems Taylor’s new opera, Peter Ibbetson. . . . There is a rumor that a sound film may be made of Debussy’s opera Pelleas and Melisande, with Mary Garden in one of the title roles. (I don’t mean “Guess which.”)
No doubt you have noticed that the Passion Play is to be given by a well-known company at the South Bend High school auditorium next week. It is a happy accident that it comes just at the beginning of Lent. The drama is presented in English and should be well worth your while.
The motion picture production of “Kiss Me Again,” with the musical score by Victor Herbert is preparing to enter South Bend. The musical numbers, appropriately arranged by Mr. Herbert, shows promise of being the most artistic of the singing pictures of the year. It features both the song bearing the title of the production, “Kiss Me Again,” and “The Time, the Place, and the Girl.” Bernice Claire plays the leading role and sings both numbers. She is capably assisted by an excellent cast, including June Collyer.
e Notre Dame Scholastic
466	Th
PLANS COMPLETED FOR JUNIOR PROM WEEK-END
Dinner Dance Open to Only ISO Couples Saturday Evening.
In connection with the Junior Prom of 1931 there will be a formal dinner dance for the members of the junior class and their prom guests. The dinner dance will be held at the Oliver hotel on the night of Saturday, February 14th, beginning at 6:30 p. m.
Leonard Condon of Walsh hall has been appointed chairman of the committee on the dinner dance. Tickets will be available all next week until Friday at 9:00 o’clock and may be secured from the following men: Leonard Condon and Charles Hitzel-berger, Walsh hall; Frank Murname, Lyons hall; John Connolly, Badin hall; Thomas Duffy, Morrissey hall and Thomas Magee, Corby hall.
Each junior who plans to attend the dance is advised to make arrangements as quickly as possible because the affair is limited to the first 150 couples. Tables will be arranged for parties of four couples and upon purchase of his ticket the junior is asked to see Leonard Condon in Walsh hall for table assignments.
A Communion Mass and breakfast will be held on Sunday morning, February 15. Following the procedure of other years, the Mass will very likely be celebrated in the Morrissey hall chapel with breakfast in the lay faculty dining hall. Tickets may be secured from Theodore Kramer in Lyons hall. The Mass and breakfast will be strictly limited to 60 couples.
From C. Bourke Motsett, manager of track, comes the announcement that a special invitation to the Butler-Notre Dame dual track meet is tendered to the members of the junior class and their prom guests. Seats, directly opposite the finish line, will be reserved for them. Admission will be fifty cents a couple upon presentation of A.A. books.
Joseph McKeon, junior manager of track, assures the Scholastic that some method will be devised and measures taken whereby the books will be presented -without the guests catching a glimpse of the accompanying photograph. Mr. McKeon thinks that a catastrophe of this sort would more than likely spoil the week end for many a girl.
FOUR HUNDRED COUPLES ATTEND K. C. FORMAL
WEDNESDAY NIGHT
Over four hundred couples attended the formal dance given by Notre Dame council 1477, Knights of Columbus, Wednesday evening in the Palais Royale ballroom.
“Tweet” Hogan and his band were the music-makers, and their melodies were highly praised by the Knights and their guests.
The hall was decorated with pennants bearing the names of Notre Dame’s football opponents of the past season. On the wall opposite the entrance ivas a large silver shield bearing the insignia of the Knights of Columbus, and a blanket with the letters K. of C. hung on the wall back of the orchestra.
The favors, given out at the door, were black leather covered address books with the program of the dances on the first three pages. The dances were named after the different branches of scholastic philosophy, something entirely new to Notre Dame dances.
“RIP” MILLER IS NAMED
HEAD COACH AT NAVY
Edgar E. (Rip) Miller has been appointed to succeed “Navy” Bill Ingram as head coach at the United States Naval Academy. Miller, an all-American guard at Notre Dame, was a member of the famous Four Horsemen team, national champions in 1924. He has been line coach at Annapolis for the past five years, ever since his graduation at Notre Dame, joining Ingram during the latter’s first year at Navy. Together they turned out an undefeated team in their first season at the reins of the Middie eleven. Ingram recently vacated his post to take a position as head coach at the University of California. Efforts to take Miller with him were fruitless.
During his years at Notre Dame Miller was one of the oustanding grid stars of the nation. Three years a varsity lineman, he merited all-American honors once and all-Wes-tern three times. The Four Horsemen team, of which Miller was a member, has contributed more coaches to the sport than any other team in history. Six of them are head coaches, and three are serving as assistant coaches.
NOTRE DAME “LAWYER” PUBLISHED YESTERDAY
Features Articles by Judge Cain and Prof. Rollison.
The Notre Dame Lawyer, official organ of the University of Notre Dame Law school, was issued Thursday by Joseph Guadnola, editor of the magazine.
Featured in the publication are articles by Judge William Cain, a member of the faculty, and former justice in the Nebraska state su-supreme court, Professor William Rollison, of the Law school faculty, and Eugene C. Knoblock, South Bend attorney.
“Extension of Equity Jurisdiction,” is the subject treated by Judge Cain. His purpose is to print out the unwarranted extension of equity jurisdiction, particularly an unwarranted extension in the field of private morals not injuring another.
In substantiation of his view, Judge Cain has cited and discussed decisions of cases decided on this subject before state supreme courts and the supreme court of the United States.
Joint enterprise in the law of imputed negligence, a doctrine now in its formative state is treated by Professor William Rollison in his article.
Eugene C. Knoblock, South Bend attorney, has written on patentable inventions.
The publication further includes reviews of the latest books in legal subjects, discussions of the more important recent decisions, treatments of current problems before legislatures, and under a department called “Notes” a study of comprehensive legal matters by students in the Notre Dame law school.
Beljon Is Vice-President
John R. Beljon, of the class of 1930, co-composer with Zeno Staudt of the waltz, “My Prom Sweetheart,” which has been played at several college proms throughout the country, has recently been made vice-president of the American Music Service, an organization featuring prominent orchestras in Cleveland. He is also at present broadcasting over Cleveland radio stations.
When he was at Notre Dame Beljon was a member of the orchestra and Glee club.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ENROLLMENT FOR NEXT
YEAR TO BE LIMITED TO THREE THOUSAND
PREREGISTRATION SOON
Each College to Have Quota; Class Schedules For ’31-’32 to Be Made Up in May.
According to an announcement made this week by the Reverend J. ' Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director- of studies, the enrollment at the University for the schoolyear of 1931-32 is to be strictly limited to 3,000 students. The quotas for the five colleges, as fixed by the local council, are: 1,000 for the College of Arts and Letters, 500 for the College of Science, .500 for the College of Engineering, 200 for the College of Law, and 800 for the College of Commerce. The students now at the University are to receive first consideration in the enrollment, provided they express, in the manner and within the time here prescribed, their intention of returning to school at Notre Dame next year.
The student who wants a place in the University in 1931-32 must, as a guarantee of good faith, make at some time between the 8th and the 22nd of April a preregistration deposit of $25 with the registrar of the University. The receipt for this deposit, given by the registrar, will admit the student to the assignment of courses for next schoolyear. The assignment to courses, by the deans of the colleges, will begin on the 15th of April and will end on the 15th of May.
The preregistration deposit is to be applied on the student’s account for the first semester of the schoolyear. Should the student after preregistering decide not to attend the University next year, his deposit will be refunded, provided he informs the registrar of his intention before the 15th of August. Should he fail to notify the registrar before that date, his deposit will be forfeited.
Any student who has, according to regulation, the right to reserve for next year the room he now occupies, may make the reservation of it when he makes his deposit with the registrar. Rooms may be reserved in Corby, Walsh, Badin, Lyons, St. Edward’s, and Morrissey halls. Only
those who have preregistered and have received their assignment of classes, in accordance with the regulations stated above, will be admitted to the drawing for rooms in the residence halls, after the period of preregistration.
Students who neglect to preregister and get their assignment of classes within the time fixed will not be considered for admission to the University in next schoolyear.
SPECTATORS TO RECEIVE NEW APPLICATIONS;
LIMITED TO THREE
President Alfred Stepan announces that the Spectators are at this time receiving applications for memberships to complete the organization’s roster which is at present lacking three members.
The Spectators is an organization composed of students chosen from the University at large, and may at no time include more than fifteen men in its membership. It has for its object the discussion of current events and developments in the arts, sciences, philosophy, sociology, politics, religion and like fields.
The following is a copy of the application which each candidate must answer:
In which of the fine arts are you particularly interested?
How far does this interest take you?
In what subjects of a more practical nature are you interested?
How far does this interest take you?
In what campus intellectual activities have you taken part? (e. g., debating, Wranglers, Scribblers, Players’ club, staffs of magazines, etc.)
Do you read extensively? In what does your reading chiefly consist?
If you care to do so, mention your high school intellectual qualifications.
Do you attach more importance to facts or to ideas?
Why do you want to join the Spectators?
Do you think you could add something in an intellectual way to the club if you were to be elected?
These questionnaires-are obtainable from and returnable to either the sec-retary of the club, Tim Benitz, Sorin hall, or the president, Alfred Stepan, Badin hall.
467
PROF. McCOLE’S VIEWS ON SINCLAIR LEWIS
DEBATED AT MEETING
FACULTY VIEWS DIFFER
Two Hour Discussion Features Second Gathering of Arts and Letters Men.
The recently organized society of lay faculty members of the College of Arts and Letters, with Chairman Frank Moran of the English department presiding, held its second meeting in the faculty dining room last Tuesday evening. The meeting was preceded by a dinner. A name for the new society has not yet been chosen, but a committee has been appointed to consider an appropriate one.
The speaker of the evening was Professor- Camille McCole of the department of English; his subject was “Sinclair Lewis and the Nobel Prize.” In his discussion Professor McCole proposed a reconciliation and even a justification of the latest Nobel award in literature. The speaker then summarized all of Mr. Lewis’ novels— with chief stress on Babbitt, the particular novel for which Lewis was awarded the prize.
After Professor McCole’s talk, the other members were invited to submit their opinions on the subject. Over two hours were devoted to the subsequent agreements and disagreements. In the end the speaker in a good-natured fashion, answered the arguments of the other speakers. His general contention was that Sinclair Lewis perhaps did not deserve the Nobel Prize, but that there was no other present day literary man or woman who so nearly merited the distinction.
Football Team Honored
Members of the 1930 national championship football team were the guests of honor at a dance given Tuesday evening in the school auditorium of Saint Joseph’s school under the auspices of the St. Joseph Y. M. A. Nicholas Tsiolis, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters at the University, was chairman of the affair.
468
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Glances at the Magazines
The weeklies at this time have two great items of interest to which they devote unlimited space for discussion pro and con. The one is the Wickersham report which everyone agrees not to be an especially important document. The other is the Holy Father’s Encyclical, which everyone, whether1 they agree with its teachings or not, admits to be very important. It is no difficult prediction to make that next month the monthly magazines will devote their usual quota of space to discussions of it by dissenting ministers and fashionable evangelists. Father O’Hara procured for his pamphlet rack a number of copies of the Encyclical which we advise you to purchase—if there are any left.
Of course, the prime arguments against the Encyclical are concerned with the subjects of birth control and sterilization. Both of these practices are sociologically unsound, and if you desire full verification of this statement consult Father Murray. Nevertheless a great many absurd arguments have been advanced by ultramodern eugenists. For example Dr. Charles Potter, founder of the first Humanistic Society of New York, says, “When a majority of intelligent, honest citizens deliberately accept a practice, it thereby becomes moral, whatever any religious leader may say to the contrary.” He refers to contraception. In the first place contraception has by no means been accepted by a majority of persons in this country or any other. Moreover, moral law is not determined by the transient fads of any number of persons. It is based on the natural law, to which contraception is basically opposed. Mrs. F. Robertson Jones, president of the American Birth Control League, says, “In unconditionally condemning birth control, the Catholic Church sets itself squarely against social progress.” But, the Pope does not unconditionally condemn birth control, only “frustration of the marriage act.” Control of offspring by “virtuous continence” is allowed. As to her assumption that social progress is to be achieved only by birth control, it might be well to consider the statement of Dr. Wilhelm Ropke in the Frankfurter Zeitung, as quoted in The Literary Digest of January 31,
that the “international birth strike” is one of the gravest menaces of the day.
To hear them score the Encyclical for not meeting the requirements of modern life, one would think that these pseudo-sociologists had discovered in birth control and sterilization an entirely new, hitherto unheard of, and up-to-the-minute process of social betterment. Whereas, both these practices have been employed by different peoples, at different times, in the world’s history, and have before been as summarily condemned by the Church, whose judgements have been abundantly justified in the past, and will continue to be justified.
The Readers’ Digest, which was heartily endorsed last month by no less an authority than Professor “Billy” Phelps of Yale, contains a sufficient number of articles and essays to satisfy every taste, and at the same time present a fairly complete digest of affairs and trends of the moment.
Mr. Dempsey’s “Racketeer” Juggler is perhaps his best yet, and he has turned out some very good ones. This issue is distracting enough to take your mind off the past exams, so buy a copy. The cartoons, especially, are good, as well as the contributions by Corey Ford. Incidentally someone has suggested that Dempsey call the “Racketeer Number” the “Corey Ford Number.”
And John Bergan has certainly worked wonders with the Santa Majria, official organ of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus—but it has more than a group interest. The literary section has some very good articles, notably those by Kenton Kilmer, Professor Charles Phillips, Professor John Cooney, Professor Henry Staunton, and Arnold I. Coplan. The poetry by Theodore Maynard and Father Carroll is exceptional. “Joyce Kilmer,” written by his son Kenton, former editor of The Dial, is a plea not to base every critical estimate of Kilmer’s poetry on the one poem which everyone knows too well, “Trees.”
ARMSTRONG TO PRESIDE
Chosen as General Chairman of Alumni Convention.
James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary of the University, was chosen general chairman of the National Catholic Alumni Federation convention which will be held at the Drake hotel, Chicago, April 24, 25 and 26. The choice was made at a meeting of • representatives of the Notre Dame club of Chicago, which is the official host to the convention, and of Loyola, De Paul and Marquette universities, held in Chicago last Saturday. Armstrong is vice-president of the federation and director of the mid-west colleges and universities who are members of it.
A general committee consisting of representatives of the above named universities and the Chicago club, and a number of sub-committees will complete the organization which is preparing for the meeting, the first convention to come west in the six years of the federation’s existence. The University of Notre Dame’s alumni association is a charter member of the federation, which includes all of the organized Catholic college and university alumni associations in the United States.
NOTRE DAME MEN ARE ARTILLERY OFFICERS
Announcement was made recently of the organization of the 327th Field Artillery, 84th Division, with headquarters in South Bend. Three Notre Dame men will have places on the regimental staff of the new organization. Major Walter Clements will command the regiment; Captain Clarence (Pat) Manion, a member of the faculty of the College of Law, will command the 1st Battalion which will be located in South Bend; and 1st Lieutenant Robert B. Riordan, registrar of the University, will be on the regimental staff as plans and training officer.
Organization of the regiment is in accordance with the recent regulation reassigning a 155 mm. howitzer regiment to the artillery brigade in the division. This is a reversal to the war basis of organization.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
469
WEEKS JOINS FACULTY
Book Reviews
Psychiatrist Added to Staff of Sociology Department.
Dr. Patrick H. Weeks, physician psychiatrist at the Indiana State prison, Michigan City, has been added to the faculty of the department of sociology of the University of Notre Dame and will conduct an advanced class in criminology, commencing February 2, 1931. Dr. Weeks is a graduate of the university of Georgia Medical school, and has had wide experience in dealing with mental disorders, having served on the staffs of the Warren State hospital, Warren, Pa., and the Central hospital for the insane, Indianapolis, Ind. For the last eleven years Dr. Weeks has devoted most of his time to medical and psychiatric problems at the Michigan City penitentiary.
In his class at Notre Dame Dr. Weeks will deal with problems of prison administration, methods of determining fitness for parole, and other topics of special interest to students who plan on entering the field of correctional work as proba-tionor parole officers.
JACK CANNON SIGNS TO HELP ALEXANDER
News was received recently that Jack Cannon, All-American guard of the 1929 national champions, has signed to coach at Georgia Tech next season. Announcement was made nearly a month ago that Bobby Dodd, star athlete at Tennessee for the past three years, had signed as back-field coach and now comes the word that Cannon will coach the line in 1931.
Hayward Committee Head
Professor J. W. Hayward, head of the department of agriculture, spoke Wednesday at the St. Joseph county poultry school at the Center township school. Mr. Hayward is chairman of the poultry club committee and made a report of its activities since the last meeting.
Included on the program was William Kohlmeyer, extension poultryman . of the poultry department at Purdue university, who discussed methods of increasing profits in the poultry business.
Festival. By Struthers Burt. Scribner’s. $2.50.
In Dorn Griffith’s life there were, at 50, few enough keynotes of interest. There was, of course, Dee; but love for her- had waned not many years after their marriage. Then there was Leedom Craigie, his physician and friend. And also, there was Elsie Holt, his love for whom was twenty years old. Elsie had married, then, married because she saw that Dorn was on the point of breaking up his relations with Dee for her; and now theirs was still the same close friendship.
. Finally, in Dorn Griffith’s life, there was his daughter, Delice. Upon Delice, a princess married to an Italian prince, and living most of the while in Italy, he lavished not only the love of a father but also of a companion. It is primarily with Dorn’s relations to Delice, whose happiness he so much desired, that Struthers Burt is concerned in his new book, Festival, the first novel in four years by the authoi-of The Interpreter’s House and The Delectable Mountains.
Scarcely is the reader introduced to Dorn and the background of his life in Philadelphia when a radiogram sent from mid-ocean is received to inform Dorn that Delice is on her way back to America, alone. Immediately, of course, the reader guesses that Delice has arrived at some crisis of her life. And such proves to be the case—a crisis which involves her husband, his dissipations and his flagrant unfaithfulness to her, and a crisis which involves a suddenly realized love for Graeme Borden, a young American architect.
The reader is anxious to meet Delice and when he does he is not disappointed. She is the epitome of the new woman—charming, frank, and self-sufficient. As for those readers who admired Mr. Burt’s The Interpreter’s House and who have waited long for a new novel from him, Festival more than compensates them for their impatience. It is a fine and vigorous work of fiction; it contains prose both brilliant and strong; it flashes with epigrams which are vital and trenchant criticisms of modern life. Festival is a novel that can be recommended without reservations.
Together Again. By Helen Grace Carlisle. Cape & Smith. $2.50.
The critical success of Helen Grace Carlisle’s previous novels, See Hou- • They Run and Mothers Cry, has been attributed to duping her critics with mannerisms and eccentricities.
Together Again concerns a boy and a girl who love each other and whose love is blemished by an older man, “the doctor” (none of the characters are given names) who takes the girl from her home in New York as his laboratory assistant in a French tubercular hospital. The setting of the story, which is a curious admixture of the subjective and objective methods of narrative, runs, so to speak, all over the lot, from New York to a small New England school, to London, France, Paris, Russia and back again to New York.
It would not be fair to dispose of Together Again without saying that there is a definite strength and an unrelentless sense of tragedy in Miss Carlisle’s novel. But whether these prevail in spite of her sometimes annoying idiosyncrasies is a matter for debate.
Dreamy Rivers. By Henr-y Baerlein Simon & Schuster. $2.50.
Dreamy Rivers is a travel book disguised as a novel, or a novel disguised as a travel book. It is about Czecho Slovakia, but whatever the verity of Mr. Baerlein’s picture of that possible, it seems entirely too Utopian to be true, altogether too charming to be believed by the untraveled reader. However that may be, the book, picaresque, fantastic, and ever so delicately sentimental, makes for superb and entirely delightful entertainment.
The Raspberry Tree. By Stoddard King. Doubleday Doran. $1.50.
The Raspberry Tree is a collection of new verses by a newspaper columnist, at least two of whose efforts have attained popularity, “There’s a Long, Long Trail” and “Give Me a Loud Tie, Brother.” Stoddard King has the ability to amuse his readers; little more can be asked of a writer of light verse.
470	The Notre Dame Scholastic
SEVERAL “SCHOLASTIC” STAFF MEN PROMOTED TO NEW POSITIONS
Editor-in-chief Emil L. Telfel of the Scholastic has announced a change in the staff of that publication effective with this issue. The change involves a number of promotions and several additions to the news staff.
Lloyd Teske, formerly news editor, has been made associate editor, as have William Corr and John Pick. Filling the vacancy in the position of news editor is William Karl; William Fitzgerald of the department of journalism has been appointed his assistant.
Four men have earned places on the staff after a period of probation. They are Joseph Degnan and Richard Molique, freshmen; William nKox and Edmund Stephan, sophomores.
The successor to Alfred Gall, makeup editor, who is leaving the University, will be announced next week in the Scholastic.
Pre-Law Club to Meet
The first meeting of the Pre-law club, to which all pre-law students are invited, will be held in the new Law building on Monday, February 9, at 7:30 p. m. The purpose of the meeting is to arrange plans for the coming Law club banquet and to announce the schedule for the semester.
Vice-president Robert E. Lee has named the following men as members of the ticket committee ’ for the banquet: John Ryan, Morrissey; Walter Kiolbassa, Walsh; Joseph Vasslo, Corby; J. Reidy, Lyons; Maurice W. Lee, Sophomore; Steven Banas, St. Edwards; James Larkin, Freshman; Leo Crowe, Carrol; Francis Dillman, Badin; Richard Burchell, Brownson.
Glee Club Concert Postponed
The glee club concert in Fort Wayne, which was scheduled for the night of Sunday, February 15, has been postponed until after the Easter vacation, Edward J. Phelan, business manager of the club, announced.
The personnel of the club which tentatively numbers about 75 men, is to be reduced after the quartette try-outs this Saturday. Try-outs will also be given by Mr. Casasanta to solo and novelty numbers.
The first concert of the year will probably he given in Washington hall for the student body.
PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH WRITES FOR “AMERICA”
Rufus William Rauch, professor in the English department of the University, and chairman of the board of publications, is the author of a feature article which was printed in the January 17th number of the Catholic weekly, America. The title of Mr. Rauch’s essay is “On Words,” and he treats of the sophistry, the treason, and the trickery of words. The subject is dealt with not from a scientific point of view, but rather with the consideration of words as “decayed and fallen symbols.” Mr. Rauch says that the subject considered from this angle provides sufficient matter for a lenthy treatise.
In speaking of the deceiving nature of words, and the manner in which their manipulation may lead to divergent interpretations, the writer refers to Chaucer’s House of Fame, Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet, Poe’s The Poicer of Words, and in conclusion to James Joyce, whom he refers to as a modern genius in “words.”
Edgar Allan Poe, according to Mr. Rauch, is the father of the modern experimentation with words. It is he who was the source of the present day attempt at the production of pure abstract poetry.
S. H. EELLS ADDED TO COMMERCE FACULTY
Mr. L. H. Eells, A.B., M.B.A., a second graduate of the Harvard Graduate School of Business, and thus a colleague of Victor A. Crecco, who has recently been added to the faculty, has been procured by the College of Commerce, as an instructor in credit and foreign exchange and in public finance. Mr. Eells was graduated from the Iowa State Teachers’ college, where he obtained his bachelor’s degree, in 1926, and from the Harvard Graduate School of Business, with a master’s degree, in 1929.
. A year as teacher of social sciences in Waverly High school, Waverly, Iowa, was followed by some two years employment in the sales and market department of the United Fruit Company. His work during this latter time carried him through. all the southeastern states.
Formerly a member of the Boston Civic Symphony, Mr. Eells is also a talented musician, and will undoubtedly interest himself in many of the musical activities of the University.
CLIFFORD N. COLLINS TO HANDLE BUSINESS OF UNIVERSITY
Clifford N. Collins, a Boston, Massachusetts, accountant, has been appointed business manager and controller of the University according to a recent announcement. He will assume his new duties on March 1.
Mr. Collins is a graduate of St. Thomas college with a degree of bachelor of arts. He received his master’s degree in arts at Catholic university in Washington. He is also a graduate of the Harvard School of Business, having been an instructor at the last institution.
He has an office in Boston, Massachusetts, under the firm name of C. N. Collins and Company. His associates will carry on the business after Mr. Collins has come to Notre Dame to take up his new duties.
“SCHOLASTIC” MEETINGS FOR CUBS TO CONTINUE
!
Neil Hurley, assistant managing editor of the Scholastic, will conduct another meeting for the “cubs” on the staff next Tuesday at 6:30 p. m. in his room in Morrissey hall. He plans to take the copy of the young newswriters and to compare it with the printed article, pointing out the errors to the youngsters.	-
It is hoped that this will help the men in their work. Editor Telfel has announced that John Kiener, present assistant managing editor and former sports editor, will’ conduct similar meetings in the near future for new sports writers.
Pope to Speak Over Radio
Pope Pius XI will broadcast over the radio on February 12, according to an announcement from Rome. The Pope will speak from the Vatican, opening the Centennial celebration. The broadcast is scheduled to begin at 11:15 a. m. Among the dignitaries present will be Marconi, the inventor of the wireless, who has built a specially equipped station for the Pope in the Vatican city.
The address will be picked up by a national net-work in this country, enabling the nation to hear the talk by the Holy Father.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
471
DEBATING TEAM SPEAKS OVER RADIO STATION
Kirby and Hanna to Debate With Kent Speakers.
Notre Dame’s debating team will on Sunday, February 15, take to the air. In other words, for the second time this school year Father Boland’s proteges will participate in a radio debate, this time with Kent College of Law in Chicago. As before the debate will be broadcast over station WLS in Chicago.
Leaving for the moment unemployment insurance, the regular topic, the University team will discuss the question, “Resolved: that the various states should adopt compulsory insurance of motor vehicles.” • This discussion involves consideration of the possible effect of the law on reducing the number of automobile accidents; the protection of an injured person who has been struck by a driver who carries no insurance; and the effect of the proposed law in forcing off the highways the car which because of its advanced age or general breakdown should no longer be permitted on the streets.
Defending the affirmative, and thus advocating the adoption of compulsory automobile insurance, Charles M. Hanna will present the constructive argument and William T. Kirby will conclude the case with a five minute rebuttal for Notre Dame.
A previous debate, likewise over station WLS, in which John Keefe and Frank McGreal represented the University, evoked over three hundred responses from some thirty states and Canada, and gave an overwhelming popular majority to Notre Dame.
The debate will be broadcast at 3:00 o’clock on February 15.
Pick to Address Wranglers
J.	Edward Phelan, president of the Wranglers’ club, announced this week that the first meeting of the organization since the examinations will be held on Monday evening at 6:30.
John Pick, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, will address the club, while a discussion concerning the merits- of holding another oratorical contest for the high schools of northern Indiana, an annual Wran-glei’ project, is also expected to take place.
O’MALLEY TO ADDRESS CLASSICAL CLUB MEN
The Classical Association of Notre Dame will hold its February meeting on Thursday, February 12, 1931, at seven o’clock in the classical room of the new Law building.
A brief literary program will be given with Francis J. O’Malley reading a paper on “Dante, the Great Medieval Mind.” Assignments of papers for the Classical Journal will also be made. Plans for the production of the association’s first play will also be considered. The Phormio of Terence has been tentatively selected.
President Cooper has appointed a committee on constitutional regulations, with John Pick as chairman.
All new members are requested to attend; the cut system will begin with the February meeting.
Gall Leaves University
Alfred E. Gall, former make-up editor of the Scholastic, and well-known man about the campus, has left the University. He is traveling east to secure a position with an engineering concern in either Cuba or South America for a period of three years.
While at the University, Gall held many campus positions, as well as being prominently connected with interhall athletics. He has been feature writer for the Scholastic, and was snapshot editor of this year’s Dome. He was a member of the Engineers’ club, treasurer of the Connecticut Valley club, and served on the program committee of last year’s Prom.
“Scholastic” Changes Heads
A new headline schedule, composed by the editorial board, has been put into effect by the Scholastic. Hereafter, Cheltenham type series, comprising condensed, expanded and regular, with italic and roman bold and light face, will be used exclusively.
K.	C. Meeting on Monday
The Knights of Columbus will hold an important meeting Monday evening in the Walsh hall council chambers at 8:00 o’clock. Grand Knight Louis Buckley announces that a report of the K. C. Formal will be given by general chairman Bourke Motsett, while the subject of the initiation of new members will be briefly outlined by officers.
$1,000 NATIONAL ESSAY CONTEST ANNOUNCED
College Men to Present Views on Prohibition.
The Intercollegiate Prohibition association has announced a national college essay contest with international culmination. According to the association, the purpose of the contest is to increase intelligent interest in the problem of alcoholic drink in modern society, to encourage students to study it for themselves, and to express the results of their study in a paper that will convey information and, at the same time; be interesting to the reader.
The general theme of the contest, then, is “Alcoholic Drink in Modern Society.” This does not limit the contestant to that one title. He may choose any specific subject he so desires, provided it deals with the general topic provided by the association.
The contest is open to all bonafide undergraduate students enrolled in colleges, universities, teachers’ colleges and other schools of similar rank above the high school in the United States in the academic year 1930-31. The country will be divided into eight interstate , areas with an interstate contest in each. The winners in each area will compete in the national contest, the winner of which will be given a prize of §500 in the form of a trip to Europe about September 1, 1931. Each interstate winner will be awarded a prize of §100.
The essays may contain not more than 2,000 words by actual count. To this should be added by each writer a page of bibliography consulted while writing the paper. Three copies of the manuscript, carefully typed in double space are required. The typing must be done on plain white paper 8I2 by 11 inches only. The manuscript itself shall bear no name or mark of identification whatever except the. general theme and the specific title of the essay.
The Intercollegiate Prohibition association will furnish reference lists, literature and all information available to students desiring to enter the contest. Address all mail, care of Contest Secretary, I. P. A., Hotel Driscoll, Washington, D. C.
472
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About the Campus
FEB. 20 FINAL DATE FOR “DOME” SNAPSHOTS
There are about Ray Smith enough interesting stories to fill adequately this skimpy space. At one time Ray wrote this very same column and that experience served as a joy to the interviewer. Clearly, easily, quickly came the tales. He does not adopt modesty. He keenly distinguished the unusual from the usual. He adds at the end of his sentences, pleasant, little twists that are humorous and agreeable.
Between “Judge” Telfel and him a friendship exists that overflows with anecdotes and incidents. In the spring of his freshman year Ray Smith biffed a husky senior in the nose. Protesting, as they flung him, that he could not swim, he landed in the lake and with swift, unfailing strokes made for the shore. During it all, Ray tells, his comrade “Judge”, was staunchly behind him. And, adding the twist: “discreetly, about fifteen or twenty paces.”
For three years Ray lived in Science hall. His work there as Father Nieuwland’s secretary did not fill the gap of loneliness. The first of the year a needy Walsh hall team accepted his basketball services. Later on, Sorin, at a loss for lightweights among their corpulent group, recruited him. He alone, as far as he knows, has the distinction of being the only man to play three years on a Sorin team: In an interhall track meet he himself representing Science hall, tied Morrissey, the largest of halls.
Dreaming, in the large Sorin tower room, of his Colorado home and of his Texas experiences, the memories that come are dimmed a bit. In the four years Ray has been home only twice. “There is nothing,” he says, “as colorful, as a Notre Dame summer.” Changing from A.B. to Commerce in his freshman year he has stuck with fair diligence to the latter.
' In third year the rapidity of his rise on the Scholastic startled him. This year the duties entailed were tremendously more startling and he left most of them to other hands. The now active Rocky Mountain club had been for five years a glum, stagnant blob. Shaken with Ray’s energy it quickly prospered. Such was his influence that the club has for two years honored him with the presi
dency. As a junior he handled publicity for the Prom. Last year and this, his activities include the Spectators. A senior- honor that he can now add is a membership in the Blue Circle. The dramatists of the University Theatre know him as a colleague.
The large room through the windows of which half of Sorin hall has at one time or another looked out on visiting enchantresses, he shares with
Ramon G. Smith
Bob Neydon, president of the Detroit club. Corresponding tastes enabled them to acquire an interesting and valuable array of early editions. Their pleasures include Galsworthy, Farnol, Brookes, Vanity Fair, The New Yorker and for strictly mercenary reasons College Humor. Ray Smith’s fascination for Edgar Wallace developed into the habit of writing short-stories at one sitting. When the stories are finished he does not correct them, never re-reads them, and never uses them. He has no idea of the number so done. He is certain that it is a high one. He has a lack—and it is, so I hear, a very sorry lack—of musical ability. His admiration for that art, however, is on an intelligent level.	>
When he finishes school he intends going either for life-insurance in Colorado or for oil in Texas. And when he does the “Judge” had better be settled down with someone capable of dressing him for formals.
Offer Three Money Prizes in Last Picture Drive.
In an effort to collect every available snapshot on the campus, as well as off-campus, the Dome has extended the contest date for the final drive for pictures. Friday, Feb. 20, two weeks from today, will be the dead-line.
There is, therefore, a chance for several students who have some clever snapshots to win the money prizes which are offered. The Dome staff wants to fill ten or twelve pages with attractive shots of life on the Notre' Dame campus—interior of rooms, pictures of recreational activities (as skating, swimming, touch-football, etc.), views, groups of boys, individuals, “student-foolishness” pictures, and so on.
The prizes offered this year for the Dome snapshot section will be awarded immediately after the winning pictures have been selected. This time, there will be three prizes instead of one prize. The best picture will be worth three dollars, the second and third best one dollar each. Every entrant will thus receive a better chance of taking a prize.
James Dubbs, of Morrissey, will be in charge of this contest. He will instruct representatives in each hall as to the progress of the campaign.
KUNTZ AND HOYER TO DISCUSS “EDUCATION”
Professor Leo Kuntz, Ph.D. and R. A. Hoyer, M.A. of the school of education, have been appointed to serve as members of the St. Joseph county conference on “Child Health and Protection.” This group will discuss the recommendations offered by President Hoover’s conference on the same subject held in Washington last November.
Professor Kuntz, head of the school of education, is a member of the sub-committee on “The Handicapped Child” and Mr. Hoyer, professor in Boy Guidance, will serve on the subcommittee conferring on “The Child Outside the Home.”
* *ki
>1
The Notre Dame Scholastic
473
COLLEGE EDITORS AIR VIEWS ON FOOTBALL
A Man You Know
“Tending to Professionalism/’ Is Opinion of Majority.
(Intercollegiate News Service)
In the South, more-than any other section of the country, does one notice that the personnel of the athletic teams of the colleges truly represents not only southern men, but in most cases, men from the state in which the college is located. There is a certain pride in the South which is shared by all college men who have been reared there. And, moreover, the boys there take their football seriously, as is evidenced by the number of good teams which have been consistently produced in the last few years.
A recent survey of student editors in the south brought forth some interesting statements on the hue and cry that has been raised of late regarding over-emphasis of college football. The comment of all was surprisingly alike in opinion. For instance, Editor Dungan of the North Carolina Tar Heel says, “I think college football in general is tending very definitely toward the professional,” and this from Editor Savre of the University of Virginia College Topics, “here, all extra-curricular activities are on a strictly amateur basis.” Editor- Moore of Georgia’s Red and Black says, “College football is becoming professionalized gradually, which is certainly unfortunate because of the ill feelings aroused between non-subsidized athletes and subsidized athletes, scholarly athletes and the morons.”
The editors are unanimous in their desire for the best possible coaches. They are divided on the question of “player control.” The majority favor a shortening of the long schedule, and also favor a continued method of letting the public view the games. Some of the editors, however, are in favor of moderating this somewhat,
To sum up, they want the sport as their own game, with the best coaching but without alumni interference; they want good teams but teams of students, without subsidized players; they don’t ban the public from viewing their games, but don’t care to have the games played primarily as public entertainment.
Handling money is usually considered a rather pleasant way of passing time. When is is made a lifework instead of an idle diversion, rarely practised,, however, the novelty must soon pall. One cannot imagine a banker, for instance, deriving any great amount of pleasure from the mere sight of money. Remembering
Brother Florence, C.S.C.
this, it is rather strange to find that Brother Florence, treasurer of the University for the last ten years, is completely satisfied with his post and very much interested in his work.
Brother Florence was born in Grand Rapids, Michigan, in 1888. He attended St. Marys grade school and then entered McLaughlin’s Business college in Grand Rapids. After finishing there, for several years he worked as an accountant for various firms in that city. In 1909 he came to Notre Dame, entering the postulate. After a few months there, he spent a year in St. Joseph’s novitiate and four years more at Dujarie Institute. He made his final vows in 1912. Finishing his studies, he went to Trinity high school in Chicago as a teacher of Mathematics and other . commercial subjects. He remained there for eight years, from 1913 till 1921. In 1921 he was appointed treasurer of the University, the position which he now holds.
. As treasurer of the University,
Brother- Florence has a vast amount of work to do. All of the offices of the University— the students’ office, the athletic office, and the refectory" office—are under his supervision. He must attend to the bookkeeping of all the houses and missions in this province of the Congregation of Holy Cross. As if all this were not enough, Brother Florence is also general treasurer of the Congregation, a position which is quite as important within the Congregation of Holy Cross as the position of Secretary of the Treasury" is in the United States.
Brother Florence considers mathematics his hobby. Inasmuch as he took commercial accounting from Brother Cyprian and other easy courses like that while he was a student here, he never had the time for reading, debating, or writing for the campus publications. Probably that is still a potent reason for the absence of students in the College of Commerce from the so-called cultural pursuits. Since mathematics is his hobby, we can partially’- understand his lasting interest in his work. He must derive as great an amount of pleasure from a perfect balance-sheet as a philatelist does from the acquisition of a rare stamp.
Library Adds New Books
Several new books have been added to the library’s collection during the past ten days. Two works by Gilbert K. Chesterton entitled The Resurrection of Rome, and The Judgment of Dr. Johnson will undoubtedly become popular. An anonymously written work, Among the Broad-arroiv Men” gives an interesting account of prison life as it is today in England. Another book which will have a strong appeal for many is Fred D-. Pasley’s Al Capone, in which several amusing side-lights of the renowned gangster’s life are given. Along more intellectual lines is a biography of the late William Howard Taft, written by Herbert S. Duffy. Another recent addition is The John Riddell Murder Case, by Carey Ford, in .which the antics of the famed Philo Vance are ludicrously depicted. This latter book has had an enormous sale in recent months.
474
The Notre Dame Scholastic
«
CAMPLr CLUHf
NATIVE SON
The NEW JERSEY club last Tuesday evening honored one of her native sons, Paul “Bucky” O’Connor, football star, at a banquet in the Hotel LaSalle. Present in addition to Guest of honor O’Connor were Jack Chevigny, assistant football coach here; Tom Conley, captain of the 1930 team; and Robert Massey, president of the NEW JERSEY club. Most conspicuous absentee was the Reverend Jolin Farley, C.S.C. honorary president of the club. Toastmaster was Professor Daniel O’Grady, known to every attender of club banquets.
Guest O’Connor, after his graduation from the University this month, will go to Yale as a student in the medical school and as assistant football coach.
In charge of the affair last Tuesday were S. A. Bon-tempo, general chairman; William C. Blind, Raymond Geiger, Raymond Troy, William F. Murphy, William Hawkes and Edward Shields.
Said New Jersey man Emil Telfel when asked about ■ the banquet: “I was out in Mishawaka Tuesday night, but I heard it was a nice affair.”
MEETING AND PICTURE
A few weeks ago the Dome group picture of the METROPOLITAN club was to have been taken. No one was there at the assigned time. METROPOLITAN President Edward Cunningham arranged for another time. Last Tuesday bulletins summoned members to an important meeting in the old Law building. When the meeting was called to order wise President Cunningham announced that the Dome picture would be taken Wednesday on the library steps. As a result nearly one hundred members were present instead of the handful that might have noticed the bulletins posted in the main building.
—o—
CLUBS, CLUBS, CLUBS
Usual places for club meetings are the old Law building, the library basement. Last week, however, all of the clubs gathered in St. Edward’s hall. They were not the clubs with which this page usually concerns itself. The scene was really a bridge game. One of the players happened to get thirteen clubs in one hand. A real club probably would have been a good thing to have in the other hand to stave off the onslaughts of the other three players.
CREDIT
The Reverend Conrad Hoffman, director of the local FRENCH club, has announced that no half-year credit will be given in that organization. At the end of the
school year faithful members will receive the full two hours credit. Since this is a department regulation, it probably holds true for the SPANISH and ITALIAN clubs as well.
DOME
The taking of group photographs for this year’s Dome has nearly been completed. If there are any official clubs on the campus which have not as yet been photographed, they should notify W. Leslie Raddatz, 450 Morrissey hall, to make arrangements for a sitting.
On each club’s page in the Dome will appear a picture of the club’s president. If any president has not been photographed, he should attend to it immediately.
—o—
LETDOWN
Phenomenal this year has been the scarcity of postholiday club meetings. Only a few organizations have as yet found out how much their Christmas dances cost, how much the members will have to pay to make up the deficit, how much the decorations (three pennants) cost, what the breakage bill was.
NEW ONES
In the latest official list of campus clubs are three new groups: the PRE-LEGAL club, the FOREIGN COMMERCE club, the IOWA club.-
—o—
VILLAGERS
The VILLAGERS’ club held its annual post-exam dance on last Monday evening. In spite of the K. of C. formal competition and the number of students away for the weekend, a large crowd was present.
SCHEDULE
Among the few clubs left to be photographed for the 1931 Dome are the following: .
Monday, February 9—CLEVELAND club (on the library steps).
Tuesday, February 10—PRE-LEGAL club; PACIFICNORTHWEST club, CONNECTICUT VALLEY club, ST. LOUIS club.
—o—
All group pictures will be taken at 12:20. With the exception of the retake of the CLEVELAND club, all clubs will be photographed in the gym. Club secretaries are urged to announce the date of their club’s picture so that they will have a representative group present.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
475
EDITOR’/ IMI
THA T “CA THOLIC STUFF’ ’
The answer to that ever popular question of speakers and writers, “What do our Catholic magazines and papers need most?” has been answered very intelligently in an editorial in a recent issue of Columbia. The writer says that the answer to this question is: “Readers.”
“Small as the group of Catholic writers is”— the editorial continues, “less than ninety of approximately 3,500 contemporary authors are Catholic—it produces ample material to satisfy the demand for Catholic reading. The Catholic reading appetite is a delicate thing indeed. And it is a mysterious thing, too.
“We reveal no state secret when we confess that there are Catholics—and many of them— who, offered the choice of one book to beguile years of banishment on that famous desert isle, would prefer a Joe Miller joke book to a copy of the New Testament.”
Why then should these Catholic writers continue to write when no one will read ? Why talk when no one is willing to listen ? It is not at all surprising that these few writers are in a sad state of discouragement. Their material payment is necessarily small; Catholic magazines as a rule are not being published for profit. A Catholic writer must be content with the thought of work well done.	•
More to be pitied is the Catholic who boasts that he doesn’t read that “Catholic stuff.” He should be pitied, when he really expects congratulations upon his sophistication and superior intelligence. He causes one to wonder if he can recite the Creed without grinning wisely.
Notre Dame students belong to both classes. There are Catholic students here who read Catholic publications. They realize that the best Catholic writers, appearing in the best Catholic magazines and books, are second to none. These readers have read and appreciated Chesterton, Belloc, Michael Williams, Peadar O’Donnell, the Abbe Dimnet—to mention only a few.
To these readers the Scholastic makes a special appeal. Let others know that Catholic publications of today are neither dull nor far behind the times. Introduce them to America and Commonweal. You may yet succeed in making even truth popular.
WE TOLD YOU SO!
The results of a week of frantic study and hesitantly written examinations have proved a number of editorial statements made by the Scholastic some time ago in regard to extracurricular activities. It was remarked then that such activities might be detrimental insofar as the real purpose of education was concerned, and that they are also failures from a social point of view.
Now the Scholastic learns that some two hundred students are leaving school because they have failed a certain number of required hours. That number, incidentally, represents just about seven per cent of the total enrollment of the University, and is rather surprisingly large. The question is: “Who or what is to blame ?” There is undoubtedly a certain portion of the group leaving because they could not cope with the bare requirements of their course, but by far the greatest number is leaving for the simple reason that they were too much occupied with so-called “supplementary” pursuits. Time that should have been spent in the required two hours of study was used for something else, anything else, it seems. Not even a week or two of cramming could offset the handicap erected by negligence where there should have been diligence.
Those who are leaving or have left can bear the best testimony to the fact that most extracurricular activities can be a waste of time that could be better used in learning the common and ordinary things that a university teaches. All of which prompts the editor to remark that one of his bulletins returned with a rather disconcerting grade attached, and that his thesis is a long way from being completed.
476
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE PALACE
Concerning Professors
At present, it seems that no collegiate in-, stitution is invulnerable to attack. Even the professor, one of the oldest of university institutions, has come in for his share of the criticism. Dr. Hendrick Wilhelm Van Loon recently came forth with the statement that there are not half a dozen men in half a dozen universities who can inspire students to do something good, and great, or unselfish or foolish. Somewhat of a broad statement to make, of course, but what is more surprising is the serious unanimity with which the collegiate press has come to the defense of their professors and schools.
The Brown Daily Herald says: “It may be truthfully said that every man meets somewhere in his college course two or three men, while they are not Socrates or Abelard, yet give him in some degree the stirring up and awakening and inspiration to real thought that Dr. Van Loon rightly prizes above everything else. Where outside of college is a young person likely to get any of this ? ■ How else can any normal boy or girl with the required intelligence and some desire to know about things spend the years from eighteen to twenty-two so profitably?” And we echo: “Where?”
The Daily Texan also justifies the college professor in somewhat novel fashion:
“There may not be any more professors than those who are capable of inspiring students ; but it appears that there are really more than that. Few schools can boast of having fewer than one man with such a personality that he can inspire his students beyond their ordinary desires. There are certainly not enough men who are capable to inspire; but there is also a place for the professor whom the students classify as a bore.
“Inspiration alone cannot make an education. There must needs be a bit of grinding, of working and digging. The professor who works his students until the bones in their
fingers ache from writing term themes has just as much place as the inspirational professor who gives zest but requires study.
“There results a happy balance if every student has one professor who can inspire, and then one that buries his inspiration under the burden of hours of study. The accomplishment of hard tasks for this professor will give the student a chance to be inspired further by his inspiring teacher. Dr. Van Loon may be right in his statement; but it should be remembered that there are other things for the college to do besides inspire. There are facts of life, of cooperation, and of tolerance that are necessary to every college graduate.”
—0—
Flashes
The easiest course in America: a class at Barnard college in rest and relaxation. . . . The more a person sleeps in this class the better * mark she gets. ... It is not true that Groucho Marx will conduct the course. . . . The inter-fraternity snowball fight at the University of Illinois. ... 75 windows broken. . . . the Sigma Phi Sigma’s house had twenty panes shattered. * ... so indignant Sigma Phi’s scattered the attackers with a volley from their B.B. guns. . . . Dear old Oxford, England, whose scholars owe the town shopkeepers more than a million dollars. . . . The height of something or other:	•
two brothers who flew from Los Angeles to St. Mary’s College, California, to avoid paying the late registration fee. . . . The great indignation of the male students of Morningside college, Iowa, when the co-eds appeared for breakfast 2 clad in their pajamas. . . . The very latest in rackets: Colorado university students are taking out insurance policies against being called upon to recite in class.... Cincinnati university’s new “bumming” room. . . . the sole purpose of the room is to provide a place for students to loaf and talk. . . . something like a classroom, at that, think we. ...
The Notre Dame Scholastic
477
♦ THE WINE ♦
Let’s have a chant For Joe McSlant.
He took to the Prom His maiden 'aunt.
QUICK WINKS
The Beamy Bard really celebrated his release from this job by taking a front row box seat at the Palace . . . The seniors who said that the rational psychology final was comparatively simple . . . Our hats are raised high to the graduates of the February class of 1931, Ed Cronin, “Spike” McAdams, Bert Metzger, Dick Donoghue, Tom Kassis and all the rest. Good luck to each and every one of you . . . There are at least a few juniors who are making two Proms within one week, and with the same girl, too. Well some guys get all the breaks . . . Walsh hall has won a new plume for its many accomplishments, the latest is the refuge for backgammonists . . . Sure enjoyed seeing the Knights and their pals celebrate Wednesday, it was our first formal of the year . . . Guess, the Dome club pictures have been about taken. They say Keg and Tony made eight and seven of them, respectively. . . . This week’s prize goes to the junior who is bringing-down his Cord for the Prom just to show the fellows that his folks gave him a Christmas present. . . . The Racke-tcerless Juggler. We were somewhat disappointed, Jack, as we expected to find out the bold holders of rackets on the campus.
TO LOUISE
My dear, you’re really not so dumb, Although you like to act that way; The tricks you know are no mean sum.
My dear you’re really not so dumb, Your Ulis bum mine like sodium, Your technique is, to me, okay;
My dear, your’re really not so dumb, Although yozt like to act that tvay.
—Francois.
Dear ole’ Winker:
I am still hoping that your department will be of assisitance to me in getting a “date” for the Prom. The Beamy Bard has gone, but I certainly hope that he has not forgotten to introduce me to some nice South Bend girl who might like me. In case he forgets I hope that you will maintain the morale of the department and aid me in my distresss. I have my ticket and my “tux” and shoes and everything but the girl. Hope something can be done soon as the dance is only a week away.
—Doubting Corbyite.
Well, my dear Corbyite I shall certainly do everything in my power to aid you in your distress. The Beamy Bard is certainly not a man of his word or else he would have taken you out to his girl's house and introduced you to the three sisters whom I have heard so much about. Don’t wory, I’ll help. Just call one of these numbers: 2-7328, 3-3254, 5-1631R, or 3-1159.
The boys over in Sophomore hall are singing a little .song, apropos the recent exams. The title, “Little Did I Know.”	—Little John.
ANOTHER BUSTED ROMANCE Cause:
Dear Jack:
I think that you are an old darling to ask me down for youi- Junior Prom. I know that it will be just too adorable for words. I can hardly wait. Jack, I have persuaded Aunt Frances to come down with me; you won’t mind I hope. We will arrive at the Union station at 10:38. I looked it up in one of those crazy time-tables.
Listen, Jack, could you tell me about some of the boys that I met at the Cotillion last year? Is that cute Fran Oelrich still in school? He told me last yeai- that he wanted to dance with me when I came down this year. And how about Jim Collins? He wanted to have me down this year, but you had already asked me, so he’ll have to be satisfied with a couple of dances. And I mustn’t forget Paul Host; he was just darling to me last year. I have promised him a dance or- two, too. If you get a chance have me get acquainted with some of the football stars, will you? And when you see Fred Hamilton, Johnnie Ryan, John Connelley and Dick O’Donnell tell the dear boys that I will be down, will you?
Jack, I want to thank you again for asking me. It was just too sweet of you. Dont’ forget about the boys. See you some more. Love,	Dot.
Result-.
For Sale—One Junior Prom ticket, price greatly reduced, girl included. Don’t miss this chance, boys. See Jack Cooper.
The following poem is appropriately dedicated to one of our own students. Would you believe it? Its sent by an outside contributor, too.
LINES TO AN EGOTISTICAL ANGLER
That’s quite a line you have, big boy, And quite a bait.
And hooks are always cruel things—
Still if you wait
The worm may turn, the spider boiv
Before the fly.
And if you think YOU caught a fish
Well—so did I!	—Static.
Well, now that the Beamy Bard has left his post it takes two men to fill it. What a man was the Beamy Bard, what a man! This week I have tried to fill it to some small degree. Next week watch for the efforts of our relief man, the Weary Bumper, and so on, and on, and on, and on. We only hope that the Bard’s old pals won’t forget to send then- contribs in. Sure would be a great surprise to have that Prom guest see her little playmate’s name in print. Next week is the time. Don’t forget that the old skipper is running his own Prom song next week and that McAleer and Hickey have promised to sing it at the beginning and end of the Washington hall movie next Saturday night. So here’s hoping that everyone will aid the cap’n pull the old skiff, S. S. Wink, through the waves. Bishop M. and Attache, that means you too!	—The Salty Skipper.
478
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Cagers Triumph Over Hoosiers
Notre Dame Quintet Tops Deanmen By 25-20 Score In Rough, Fast Game
RELAY TEAM, O’BRIEN, TO RUN IN NEW YORK
Notre Dame Defense Effectively Stops Indiana; Newbold Wins High-Point Honors.
Notre Dame cagers took the measure of another downstate team last Wednesday night when they outclassed the University of Indiana team, 25-20, in one of the fastest and roughest games of the season. Bill Newbold, rangy Blue and Gold forward, took the scoring honors, sinking five field goals and three fouls, most of his scoring coming in the second half.
Indiana fought desperately in the second half, and for a while threatened to overcome the Notre Dame lead, hut at last-minute rally by the fighting Irish brought their efforts to naught. Notre Dame led all the way, Indiana coming closest at the half time when the score stood 9-8.
The week lay-off of the Notre Dame team during the period of semester examinations apparently did them a world of good for they showed no signs of their previous staleness, and the speed and accuracy of their floor work left nothing to be desired and was the chief cause of their victory. Playing a fast-breaking short-pass game, the Keoganites had great success in working the ball down the floor and did most of their scoring from under the basket.
Indiana found the Notre Dame defense too tight to penetrate but connected regularly with their long heaves. They played a smart, cautious game, but the 1931 edition of the Hoosier five does not possess the same smoothness and finesse that the 1930 team possessed. Dickey at center scored eight points and all in all he seemed to be a capable successor to Branch McCracken, all-American player, who led the Deanmen last year.
Newbold started the local scoring in the second half with a field goal and a foul toss, and the Notre Dame five maintained about the same lead throughout the remainder of the game. Coach Dean of Indiana made many substitutions in an effort to get his team to “click,” but no combination succeeded in penetrating the Keogan defense.
Captain Ray DeCook of Notre Dame was put out of the game on personal fouls in the closing minutes when he collided with Veller, Indiana guard, under the basket. Veller was injured in the crash and he too had to leave the floor. Newbold shifted to center for DeCook and Schumaker went in at forward.
For the first time this year, Burns, Notre Dame guard, abandoned his rigid abstinence from shooting and connected for five points, two field goals and a foul. His running mate, Baldwin, made it a strictly defensive evening and chalked up only one point.
Notre Dame’s strategy lay in keeping the ball, and this they did by pressing their offensive at every opportunity. They broke fast whenever they came into possession of the ball, and, contrasted with the Hoosiers’ slower game, this seemed to be where their advantage laid. Both teams did poorly at the foul line, and although many infractions were called, Indiana scored but six and Notre Dame five
points on charity tosses.
Indiana was Notre Dame’s second Western Conference victim; Ohio State fell before the Keoganites earlier in the season.
Indiana (20)	Notre Dame (25)
B f P idler,	f	2	0	4
Dauer,	f	2	0	4
Oickey, c	3	2	8
(Teller,	b	0	2	2
Campbell, b	0	1	1
3retz, f 000 Massey, B	0	11
Slasrave, c	0	0	0
Xshby, f	0	0	0
7 6 20
B F P
Crowe, f 0 0 0
Newbold, c 5 3 13
DeCook, c 2 0 4
Baldwin, b Oil
Burns, s 2 15
Gavin, f 0 0 0
Schumaker, f 1 0 2
10 5 25
Mile, Two-Mile Teams to Be in Millrose, Seton Hall Games.
Pounding the boards of Madison Square Garden in the Milrose A. C. games tomorrow night will be a slim, blond fellow by the name of Alex Wilson. Six hundred yards he will run and against the best men in the East at that distance. Bernie McCafferty, of Holy Cross, will be there to offer competition, as will Eddie Roll, of the New York A. C., and Clyde Blanchard, the big Californian. But Alex Wilson, of Notre Dame, is ready and it will be a real race between him and McCafferty, who is expected to give him the most competition.
To prove to Coach John Nicholson and to himself that he is ready, Wilson covered the distance in 1:13 last Saturday afternoon. That is probably fast enough to win tomorrow’s race.
After the six hundred-yard run, the fifty-yard high hurdle event will be held and in that Notre Dame’s track captain, Johnny O’Brien, will appear. Johnny has been doing splendid work thus far in practice, for almost nightly he comes within a tenth of a second, or so, of tying the world’s record for the sixty-yard high hurdles. He, too, will be up against the best competition the East can muster up.
With O’Brien and Wilson will be five other Notre Dame tracksters: Joe Quigley, Brant Little, Regis Kuhn, Mickey Macbeth, and Charley Kelly. The seven men left last night accompanied by Coach Nicholson and senior manager Bourke Motsett to represent Notre Dame in the Millrose A. C. games and at the Seton Hall games in Newark, New Jersey, on Monday. Wilson, Little, Macbeth, and Kelly will run in the mile event in New York while Quigley and Kuhn will probably have to wait until Monday to show their wares in the two-mile relay race.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
479
“SCRAP-IRON” YOUNG REJECTS LAW PRACTICE IN FAVOR OF ATHLETICS
Former Star Trackman Returns to Alma Mater In Role of Varsity Trainer
The sun is setting. It is a cold, bleak November Saturday. Down on the green grass field twenty-two men are fighting for school and honor. The whistle blows. The scrimmage is over. The men return to their positions, but one, starting to get to his feet, suddenly falls and stretches out on the soil. The whistle blows again. It is a Notre Dame man! His teammates gather around him.
From out of the Notre Dame dugout leaps a swarthy grim-faced man of stocky build. First-aid case in hand, he dashes out on the field and while the spectators give a rousing cheer for his patient, he administers the necessary first aid. Then he walks the injured player about to see if he is able to continue play. And as silently as he came, he leaves the
field of combat. Who is that man? Bet you don’t know. All right, we’ll tell you. It is Notre Dame’s varsity trainer. His name? Why, his name is “Scrap-Iron” Young.
Athletics at Notre Dame were coming into their own the year Eugene John Young was bom in Dover, Ohio. “The Mighty” Lou Salmon and his cohorts were nationally known in ’03 and maybe Eugene John Young’s father visioned his son as a star at Notre Dame while holding the baby on his lap during that season.
Anyway, Young came to Notre Dame. He entered here in ’23 after completing his high school work in his native town in two years. Quite an athlete he was in high school, too, for he made letters during both years
“Scrap-Iron” Young
Varsity Trainer
]	HELLO MEN!	|
| SMITH’S CAFETERIA |
I 111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The South Bend Clearing House Banins Invite Your Patronage
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
I The Favorite Eating Place of
i	Notre Dame
ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST COMPANY
UNION TRUST COMPANY
AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS BANK
FIRST NATIONAL BANK
INDIANA TRUST COMPANY
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS BANK
480	The Notre Dame Scholastic
of his prep school career in football and basketball. The fall of his freshman year saw Gene Young as a member of the frosh football team. Again, in his sophomore year he tried out for Knute Rockne’s team but he was not the success he had hoped to be on the gridiron. That was the year of the ‘‘Four Horsemen” and “Seven Mules” so it may be easy to see why Young turned to track. It is a good thing he did, too, for it was on the cinder path that Young of Notre Dame, became known.
He started his track career as a member of the cross-country team of 1924 and he succeeded in winning his minor monogram. In the following spring he became a miler and two-miler on the varsity track squad and in almost every meet the name Young went down in records as a point scorer. The next spring, after he had again been one of the stars on the cross-country team, Gene specialized more in the two-mile event and became a steady contributor of five points, for first place, to Notre Dame’s total.
In his last year at Notre Dame, Young again won his monogram in cross-country. The spring saw him once again turn to the mile and two-
mile runs and he became a star in both events, many times winning firsts in each of them — which was quite a feat in itself. After the season was over, it was graduation time, and among the list of graduates of 1927 was Eugene John Young.' He was graduated from the Hoynes College of Law with a “Cum Laude” attached to an LL.B, degree. In six years he had completed high school and college, and in the interim had found time to win monograms in athletics even while working his way through school. And when he was through, he received the Keach-Hering prize for having maintained the highest scholastic average of any monogram man in his class.
His natural love of athletics caused him to turn from Blackstone, and he became coach at St. Catherine high school of Racine, Wisconsin, in 1927. For two years he remained in the city of Racine and taught the boys of St. Catherine’s the principles of football and basketball. In 1929 he returned to his Alma Matei' as varsity trainer and in this capacity he has remained to the present day.
Every day during the week one may see him over in the varsity locker-room rubbing-down or taping
some stiff or injured athlete and making use of , his “pets” the diathermy, generator, and Alpine sun lamp. “The diathermy,” said Young, “is for treating ankles, sore muscles, to bum warts and moles, and to get rid of colds. The generator I use to cure fallen arches, scratches, and anything of that type. Alpine sun lamps are for building up resistance.” And so he goes about his business of making national champs fit to win more national championships!
CAGERS SEEK REVENGE
Meet Panthers in Smoky City; Keoganites Confident.
• It’s going to be a case of “revenge is sweet” when Dr. George Keogan takes his boys to Pittsburgh tomorrow night to play a return game with “Doc” Carlson’s basket-tossers. Pittsburgh already boasts one victory over the Notre Dame eagers this year but the Blue and Gold are determined that the 28-20 defeat shall not be repeated. Following a short lay-off for the
Qtitiittiiiiiniiti turn tittiiiiintittttiiiiiiii tint itt ttnniti in it it tiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiittttttiiiiiiiiiiiiiniQ[
The Book Shop
1	119 N. Michigan Street	1
|	Headquarters Unexcelled	i
!	For	i
Books, Periodicals and Class Room Requisites
1	Pay Us a Visit	1
|	We have the Book you want.	|
THE BOOK SHOP
i	119 North Michigan Street	1
H««!«i.......................    iitiiiiiiinitiiifiiiiQ
Qittiittiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinitiittiiiiiiiiiititiiiiitiiniiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiin.iiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii»i»»««»»»Q
Buy Your Kodak Film
j	and have them DEVELOPED	|
j	at the NEWS STAND in the	]
Notre Dame Cafeteria	I
i	When in town visit our store	|
1	with a complete line of Photo-	j
graphic Supplies	I
Schilling’s Photo Supply
1	329 S. LaFayette Blvd.	=
I	““	I
I PHOTOSTAT COPY SERVICE j
QiiitlliiiiiiiliiliiliiliilillititiilliliiiliitllilliilliitllilllllllllilllliilllilltiiiiiilltittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniQ
The Notre Dame Scholastic
semester exams, the eagers returned to practice with a spirit they feel will return them victorious.
The same line-up that faced Notre Dame two weeks ago will probably take the floor against them tomorrow night. Captain Bill Arture, the star of the first engagement, will be found at his old forward position. Smith, the lad who became mighty unpopular with local fans when he was chosen to hold the ball in the center of the floor when Pitt began her stalling tactics, seems to have one guard position cinched with the Kowallis brothers dividing time at the other one. “Tiny” Albright will be back
at the pivot position and either Cohen or Lawrey will hold down the forward position opposite to Captain Arture. This combination worked together. very well in their appearance here and should prove tough for the Notre Dame men to stop.
The new style of defensive play of the Blue and Gold worked to perfection during the greater part of the last game but Coach Keogan’s men couldn’t break up the Pitt stall without returning to their old “follow-the-man” style of guarding. Since “stalling” is not allowed in the East, the new defense should prove quite disconcerting to the Panthers.
481
Indoor Workouts Begun
Indoor workouts in boxing, wrestling, and sprinting were started Wednesday afternoon, February 4, in the University gymnasium. The boxing rooms underneath the north stands in the gym have been completely renovated during the past few weeks and much new equipment has-been added to the old supply. Boxing and wrestling will be under the direction of competent instructors while the sprinting will consist principally in learning the art of quick-starting.

The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining - rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Kris-pies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee —the coffee that lets you sleep.
BY 4 P. M. their energy has gone. They listen to the lecture without paying real attention. Naturally the exam finds them unprepared.
Loss of energy, listlessness, lack of appetite are signs of constipation. This condition is a serious handicap to class and
campus life.
Yet it can be overcome so easily, so pleasantly. Just eat a delicious cereal: Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN. Two tablespoonfuls daily are guaranteed to give relief. Ask that it be served at your fraternity house or campus restaurant.
You’ll enjoy Kellogg’s Slumber Music, broadcast over WJZ and associated stations of the N. B. C. every Sunday evening at 10.30 E. S. T. Also KFI Los Angeles, KOMO Seattle at 10.00, and KOA Denver at 10.30.
482
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Interhall Sports
Due to the suspension of interhall basketball activities during the examination period, the games scheduled for play during that week have been postponed until the end of the regular season, and the teams will now continue to play according to schedule. Only one group of games, those set for play on Sunday, January 25, have been played, and the results to be found elsewhere in this section include only those contests.
Every campus team with the exception of Howard will engage in the renewal of competition Sunday.
Schedules for practice for the interhall indoor track meets to be held later in the month have been drawn up by the managerial staff and the physical education department has chosen men to coach the various halls. These coaches have already begun work for the meets, the first of which will be held on Thursday, February 19, with Sorin, Corby, Badin, Lyons, Freshman, Howard, and Off-Campus competing. A list of the coaches appears on the next page. These men
are students of the department of physical education who have taken courses in track and under' Coach Nicholson and are, therefore, thoroughly capable of instructing the interhall candidates.
The second preliminary meet will bring together athletes from Morrissey, Brownson, Walsh, Sophomore, St. Edward’s, and Carroll on Tuesday, February 24. The winners of the first three places in these elimination contests will be eligible to compete in the final meet to be held on March 14.
The practice schedules, which are elsewhere in the interhall division of this issue, will allow each squad three practice sessions before the preliminary in which it competes, and three additional practices between that time and the date set for the final meet. In arranging the schedule, care was taken to insure equal practice time for every hall team. As in the past, those freshmen who equal the required times, heights, or distances in competition will receive numerals for their efforts.
INTERHALL BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
SUNDAY, FEB. Sth Off-Campus vs, Carroll Lyons vs. Morrissey St. Edward's vs. Walsh Freshman vs. Sophomore Brownson vs. Sorin Badin vs. Corby No game—Howard WEDNESDAY, FEB. 11th Off-Campus vs. Brownson Lyons vs. Badin St. Edward’s vs. Howard
THURSDAY, FEB. 12th Freshman vs. Sorin Carroll vs. Corby Walsh vs. Morrissey No game—Sophomore
RESULTS
HEAVYWEIGHTS Off-Campus 12, Lyons 10 St. Edward’s 14, Freshman 13 Howard 19, Carroll 15 Brownson 17, Badin 8 Walsh 11, Sophomore 5 Morrissey 20, Corby 11
LIGHTWEIGHTS Off-Campus 24, Lyons 12 Freshman 14. St. Edward’s 13 Carroll 16, Howard 4 Brownson 20, Badin 14 Sophomore 21, Walsh 11 Corby 18, Morrissey 11
E
Wool Sweaters 1-2 Price
Theatre in Chicago
•’/nf/T
Mens 4 Buckle Galoshes $4.00 values
$2.39
Glance through the theatrical section of one of the Chicago papers. There are always a half dozen good legitimate shows at this time of year. Pick out the one you like. Catch the five o’clock South Shore Line flyer out of South Bend. Dine enroute if you like.
Return special 11:15; 1:25.
on the after-theatre leaves Chicago at arrives South Bend
;50UTH»
GIL-BRO’S
FORMERLY — U. S. ARMY STORE 330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Trains every hour on the hour to downtown Chicago.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
483
r«i 1111 • 1111111111111 < 1111111111 * 111 • 1111111111111111 ii 1111111111111111« ii
Interhall Indoor Track
BAILIE, LITTLE, HONORED
❖ ENGLAND URGES FROSH TRACKMEN TO REPORT
Freshman .. Brownson .. Carroll ... Howard ........ Sophomore .. Morrissey .. Corby _______
Walsh ..... Lyons ..... Badin ..... Sorin ..... Oif-Camups St. Edward’s
.....Friel
.... Wilson . .Addonizio ... .Keating ....Butler ....Kozak ....Harris
.....Pierce .....Conti .....Smith
.Bohnsack Brancheau .Brantfort
Quin iiiiiiiuiii 11 mu..
I	RECO	I
|	1-2	|
|	Price	|
|	Sale	j
I PATHEX MOVING 1 i PICTURE OUTFIT i
I SAVAGE HEALTH AND
REDUCING OUTFIT j i SHEEP-LINED COATS I j SWEATERS—GAMES I 1 SLICKERS—TOYS i i See Items in Our | =	Window	=
Reduced Prices on	i
SKATES, SKIS, SLEDS I Etc.	i
I Recreation Equipment Co. | i	Inc.	=
I The RECO Store i i 113 N. Main St. i j «IT PAYS TO PLAY” j
PlHUiMimiiimuimniiiinminiiiHituiiiiimtiiiiiiHMmuiPI
Two Stars on 1930 Track and Field Honor Roll.
Roy Bailie and Brant Little, two mainstays of Coach Nicholson’s track team last year, gained national recognition recently when they were awarded places on the honor roll of college track and field athletes by the National Collegiate Athletic association track and field rules committee. The honor roll consists of the,men who recorded the best times and distances in the various events during the 1930 season. Some ten to twelve men are named for each event.
Bailie was rated fifth among the 220-yard low hurdlers of 1930 by virtue of his performances in the Notre Dame-Michigan State meet when he was clocked in 23.9 seconds. His other outstanding marks are 23 feet in the broad jump, 15.9 seconds in the high hurdles, and 7.3 seconds for the 65-yard low hurdles. The latter mark is the present Central Intercollegiate Conference record.
Little earned ninth place in an exceptionally brilliant field of halfmilers by running the distance in 1:56.2 in the Indiana state meet, on Cartier field, last May. Ahead of him in the rating were such stars as Chapman, of Bates; Martin, of Purdue; Bullwinkle, of C. C. N. Y.; and Lermond, of Army. Little does not confine his efforts to the half-mile, however, and has chalked up 49.6 in the quarter-mile, and 4:24 in the mile. He ran one leg on Notre Dame’s record-breaking two-mile relay team last year and made his 880 yards in 1:54.2 in the Ohio relays at Columbus. This was from a running start, of course.
Interhall Indoor Track Practice Schedule
Saturday, Feb. 7—7:00, Morrissey;
8:00, Brownson; 9:00, St. Edward’s.
Sunday, Feb. 8—8:00, Walsh; 9:00, Corby.
Monday, Feb. 9—7:00, Freshman;
8:00, Carroll; 9:00, St. Edward’s.
Tuesday, Feb. 10—7:00, Off-Campus; 8:00, Walsh; 9:00, Sorin.
Wednesday, Feb. 11—7:00, Corby;
8:00, Lyons; 9:00, Carroll.
Thursday, Feb. 12—7:00, Badin;
8:00, Off-Campus; 9:00, Freshman. ❖
Coach Edward “Spike” England, freshman track mentor, urges all first yeai- men who have any leaning toward track to report to him this week in the field house.
“You don’t have to have been a high school track star,” says “Spike.” “All we ask is that you do what we tell you.”
I
484
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PITT PANTHERS WIN OVERTIME THRILLER
Jack Baldwin Leads Blue and Gold With Ten Points.
Coach George E. Keogan’s Notre Dame varsity dropped an overtime decision to the Panthers of Pittsburgh university at Notre Dame on Saturday, January 24th. At the end of the extra period the visitors from the land of smoke were out in front by a score of 28 to 20. Notre Dame had held a small lead throughout the second half but a free throw by Willie Kowallis sent Pitt into a tie with the Blue and Gold a minute before the final gun. In the extra five minutes the winners unleashed a powerful attack led by an accurate Mr. Arture and rolled up eight points for their victory.
At the opening of the game Notre Dame flashed Johnnie Baldwin to the front and on the strength of his shooting moved into a five point lead. Pitt countered with Lawry and tied the score, however, at five apiece.
Here Baldwin stepped in again and the Gold and Blue were two points to the good before Pitt scored again. Field goals by Arture and Albright and a charity toss by Smith topped Baldwin’s third basket and the teams left the floor with Pitt holding the long end of a 10 to 9 score. In the final three minutes of this half the visiting guards had staged the first stalling exhibition of the year on the local court. For that time they tied up the play by holding the ball near mid-court. Refusing to break up their zone defense, the trailing Blue and Gold were unable to force the play. Just before the klaxon they elected to speed things up and though they succeeded in getting the ball in play they were unable to score.
As the second half got under way Bill Newbold contributed a follow-up shot that gave Notre Dame a one point margin. Pitt came back to take the lead by two points and then the Blue and Gold opened fire. DeCook, Newbold and Baldwin scored and the home team held a brief lead. Arture and Kowallis cut it to a single point with about six minutes to play. Free throws gave the Keoganites a three point surplus and things looked bright for their prospects. Smith closed the
gap part way and Kowallis knotted the score. Arture was a fraction of a second late with a long, looping toss that would have meant the game and the play went into the extra period. Here it was all Pittsburgh. Arture dropped three field goals and Kowallis one to provide the Panthers with their margin of victory.
Johnnie Baldwin was easily the offensive star of the Notre Dame quintet, sharing the scoring honors of the evening with Arture. Each collected ten counters. Tommy Burns turned in a fine defensive exhibition and shared with Baldwin the burden of the defensive play. Besides Arture, Pitt had a pair of bright stars in W. Kowallis and Lawry.
The score:
Notre Dame		(20)		Pittsburgh	(28)		
	G	F	p		G	F	p
Newbold, f	2	3	0	Cohen, f	0	0	0
Crowe, f	0	0	1	Lawry, f	2	1	0
Gavin, f	0	0	1	Baker, f	0	0	0
DeCook, c	■ 1	1	3	Arture, f	5	0	1
Burns, g	0	0	1	Albright, c	1	0	2
Johnson, g	0	0	0	Smith, g	1	2	3
Baldwin, g	4	o	3	S. Kowallis, g	0	0	0
				W. Kowallis,g 3		1	1
Totals	7	6	9	Totals	12		4	i
Referee: Lane. Umpire: Bolstrom.
j	SEE	j
I	WILLIAMS	|
|	THE FLORIST	|
|	about her corsage for the	i
I	Junior Prom	I
1	Moderate Prices	i
|	Fresh Flowers at all times	|
I WILLIAMS, The Florist I |	219 W. Washington Avenue	|
|	Telephone 3-5149	|
lb-------------------.........—............................................q
I MEN! j
I Save on Smokes [
I All 15c cigarettes ।
i llc I
Carton $1.10
j Corner Michigan and Colfax	f
6--------------------------—4

The Notre Dame Scholastic
485
Splinters From the Press Box
THESE MARTINS
Sometime before the present indoor track season is closed in the East, spectators may hear an official announcer of some meet speak such words as these, “The last race was won by Martin; Martin second; Martin third; Martin fourth.” “The announcer stutters,” will probably be the verdict of the majority. But no! ’Tis possible that the announcer would be perfectly correct, though not so specific as he might be—for it could be Sera, or Paul, or Orvil, or even Sam who was returned the winner.
With the announcement by Sera Martin, of France, of his intention of competing in most of the big indoor meets of the year in America, the fourth Martin was added tc the entry lists. Ei. Paul Martin, eminent Swiss surgeon and runner, has already made several appearances this year under the colors of the New York A. C., and Orvil Martin of Purdue and Big Ten fame, has signified his intention of running the middle-distances this winter. The fourth member of the quartet is Sam Martin of Boston, prominent for several years on eastern tracks.	-
Sera Martin holds the world’s record for the 800 meters, 1:50 3/5, which he made in the 1928 Olympic tryouts. His fellow countryman, Paul Keller, who has accompanied him to America, is the French champion at that distance.
Relay fans at the more prominent “games” around New York will be treated to some extraordinary races when Penn, Harvard, Holy Cross, Manhattan, Seton Hall, and a few others, get together. Penn boasts of two veterans from last year’s one-mile team which recorded 3:18, and in addition have on hand a freshman team that was clocked in better than 3:20. That’s stepping right along! Holy Cross handed Harvard a neat trimming last Saturday night when Bernie McCafferty came from behind to lead the Crimson anchor man to the tape.
TOM WARNE
Northwestern has lost the services of her 1931 track captain according
to reports from Evanston last week. Tom Warne broke his ankle while pole-vaulting in the National Inter-collegiates last summer and the bone has refused to mend in a satisfactory manner. An operation was performed a short time ago but the Wildcat star has not yet been able to use the leg freely.
Warne is a great pole-vaulter. The records he holds are almost too numerous to mention here but on his one appearance at Notre Dame, in 1929, he broke the existing gym record with a height of 13 feet 3 3/8 inches. That was when Tom was a sophomore and was one of his first record-breaking performances. Since then he has been improving constantly and was co-favorite with Sturdy of Yale in the National meet last June when his accident occurred. It is tough for Northwestern, for they have lost a sure point-getter; it is tough for Warne, for he is forced into the position of a non-competing captain.
LIVING UP TO THAT REP
One of the most difficult things in the world to do is to live up to a high school reputation after entering college. We might go so far’ as to say that a vast majority of prep “stars” fail to make the grade in faster competition and find themselves relegated to the “scrubs.” But there are exceptions! And the most notable exception that we can think of at present is John Arthur Baldwin. “Baldy” came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1929 from Englewood high school in Chicago, where he played basketball. Englewood was one of Chicago’s representatives in Alonzo Stagg’s scholastic basketball tournament in March of 1929 and -when the tournament was completed Jack Baldwin was placed at forward on the All-American team. Last year he gained a place on Joe Jachym’s yearling squad and was the bane of the varsity guards during practice sessions. This year Coach Keogan converted him into a guard to help fill the vacancies left by Donovan and Smith. That he has lived up to his All-American reputation is shown by the fact that he has earned a regular guard position and ranks
third among the scorers of the team. Against Pitt two weeks ago he scored more than half of the Blue and Gold points and was, without a doubt, the star of the game. It seems, now, that Notre Dame’s string of exceptional guards will be continued for several more years at least.
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
♦ n—ca^—mi—«i—w—«— I	i
I	I
s	Phone	3-1254	|
I	3
f	I
I	Drs. Singler	&	Probst I
!	DENTISTS ’ |
I	s
I	I
I	3
|	I
s	Suite	261 Associates Building J
i	South Bend,	Indiana	?
On your radio Saturday . . . listen j Lorna Fantin, famous numerologist. She’ll tell you how names and dates affect success in business, love or marriage. A real radio thrill.
WBBM at 8 o’clock Saturday
central standard time
r. Lonl tard Co— Ine,
OLD GOLD
RADIO PROGRAM
486	The Notre Dame Scholastic
At the South Bend Theatres
attention to the end. Walter Byron, Carmel Myers, and Raymond Hatton combine to form an excellent cast. The story is by E. Phillips Oppenheim.
Motion Picture Shorts
If you liked the Yancey Cravat of fiction, you will be more than pleased with the personification of this wandering pioneer of Oklahoma as portrayed by Richard Dix in the photoplay “Cimarron,” adopted from Edna Ferber’s recent novel. Sabra Cravat, the well-bred and refined southern wife of this early attorney-printer of the new territory is allayed by Irene Dunne. She was selected for the part after months of searching for the perfect Sabra. Thirty film favorites, over half of them stars or featured players, constitute the all-star cast of “Cimarron,” which is now playing at the Granada.
' The picture is not ordinary "blood and thunder” type, but a true story of the settlement of the Oklahoma territory. If you are tired of all these gang, love and society pictures, “Cimarron” will be a pleasant change.
Janet Gaynor and Charles Farrell will appear at the Colfax beginning
Saturday in their latest co-starring hit, “The Man Who Came Back.” Far-rel interprets the part of a rich man’s son ruined by wealth, and Miss Gaynor plays a cabaret singer who helps him fight his way back to society. The supporting cast includes Kenneth MacKenna, William Holden, Mary Forbes and several other stars.
In addition to the picture, the programs will include the usual clever organ features with Joe Alexander at the console.
The biggest stage show of the year is appearing at the Palace this coming week. Johnny Perkins is featured as master of ceremonies to a big array of RKO vaudeville stars in “Rah! Rah! Rah!” It undoubtedly will be a treat to the theatre-going public.
Besides the stage presentation, “The Lion and the Lamb” is being featured on the screen. It is a novel mystery story that will hold your
i 1930-31 BASKETBALL | j SCHEDULE |
E	Dec. 8—Notre Dame 26, Kalamazoo 15	5
:	Dec. 12—Northwestern 42, N. D.	29	:
:	Dec. 15—Purdue 34, Notre Dame	22	:
E	Dec.	19—N.	D.	31, Pennsylvania	19	:
E	Dec.	30—N.	D.	24, Hl. Wesleyan 17	E
:	Jan.	3—N.	D.	17, Northwestern	20	E
j	Jan.	6—N.	D.	27, Ohio State 24	E
E	Jan. 9—Notre Dame 29, Wabash	19	:
E	Jan. 13—Marquette 23, Notre Dame 30	:
E	Jan. 17—N. D. 21, Pennsylvania	20	=
E	Jan. 24—Pittsburgh 28, N. D. 20	E
:	Jan. 31—Open	:
:	Feb. 3—Notre Dame 25, Indiana 20	E
E	Feb. 7—Pittsburgh there	:
E	Feb. 13—Wabash here	z
:	Feb. 21—Butler here	E
:	Feb. 28—Army there	E
:	Mar. 2—Syracuse there	E
E	Mar. 6—Marquette there	:
E	Mar. 10—Butler there	j
E	Mar. 14—Iowa there	E
Quimiuiun............
STARTS SAT. fOUSAkV I THRU TUES
.. TS - ..., ,|	THEATRE /I I—.—
Virtue—life—happiness—she risked them all to save the man of her heart from the evil of his own ways.
The Man Who Came Back
A Fox Movietone masterpiece with
JANET GAYNOR
CHARLES FARRELL
America’s sweethearts in a powerful drama of wayward youth’s struggle for happiness.
-----ADDED-----
JOE ALEXANDER At the console of the -Colfax Wonder Organ
A PUBLIX THEATRE
—ADDED— VITAPHONE SOUND	VODVIL
PARAMOUNT SOUND	•:	NEWS
The Notre Dame Scholastic
487
DeCook, e .............
Newbold, f ............
Baldwin, g ............
Crowe, f ..............
Gavin, f...............
Johnson, g ............
Burns, g ..............
Schumaker, f ..........
Schroeder, c ..........
Jaskwich, g.............
Staab, g ..............
Totals ...............1
DeCOOK NEARS 100
(Including Indiana game) FG	FT	TP
36	19	91
28	23	79
13	7	33
12	4	28
9	6	24
9	4	22
5	2	12	.
3	17
10	2
10	2
Oil
17	67	301
Opponents’ total points.283
“SCHOLASTIC” PLANS TO
RUN SPORTS FEATURES
Henry B. Asman, sports editor of the Scholastic, announces that in the future the magazine will carry feature articles concerning Notre Dame athletes. These features will contain an amusing form of biography of the man, telling his hobbies, favorite radio program and other interesting items.
Figuring that the football men have received enough publicity during the football season, Asman plans to make these articles concern only track, baseball, and basketball.
FACULTY OF ARTS AND LETTERS START CLUB
A lay faculty club for the purpose of stimulating intellectual discussion and furthering cultural and scholastic achievement was organized at a meeting of thirty-six members of the faculty of Arts and Letters on Tuesday, January 13, in the Lay Faculty Dining Room.
The club elected the following officers for the year 1931: Prof. Francis Moran, department of English, president; Prof. William E. Farrell, department of History, vice-president; Prof. William H. Downey, department of Economics, secretary; Prof. Pedro de Landero, department of Modem Languages, treasurer.
The formation of the club—as yet unnamed — resulted from a feeling among many members of the faculty that they should have an opportunity of meeting regularly to discuss subjects of scholastic interest so that each might profit from the knowledge of his confreres. A committee composed of Professors Rufus W. Rauch, Daniel O’Grady, Thomas Madden, and Francis Moran took the initiative of calling the first meeting, Prof. Rauch acting as chairman. The initial response to the committee’s efforts was
even greater than was anticipated, and applications continue to come in.
To achieve its purpose the club proposes that following the regular monthly dinner, each member shall in turn read a paper on a topic within his field, which topic shall then be thrown open to general discussion.
The very active program committee composed of George Wack, Prof. O’Grady, and Prof. McCole, has already announced the speakers and their topics for the remainder of the present scholastic year. They are as follows:
February—Prof. Camille McCole— Sinclair Lewis and the Nobel Award.
March — Prof. William Farrell— Fascism and the World Peace.
April—Prof. Daniel O’Grady—The New Physics and the New Scholasticism.
May—Prof. William Downey—Economic Depressions: Causes and Remedies.
Judging from the wit, humor, and rapid-fire repartee of the first meeting and from the number of papers already volunteered, the present worry of the club threatens to be not a lack of interest, but the problem of finding a sturdy sergeant-at-arms, capable of enforcing a “gag rule” and effecting an adjournment.
F
A LACE
STARTING WED. THRU TUES.
The Biggest Stage Show of the Year
Featuring
JOHNNY PERKINS
As Master of Ceremonies
and
A Big Array of RKO Vaudeville Stars in
RAH! RAH! RAH!
And on the Screen E. Phillips Oppenheim’s The Lion and The Lamb A Mystery Thriller that will hold you in suspense from start to finish—with Walter Byron, Carmel Myers, Raymond Hatton
STARTING WED.
BEHIND OFFICE DOORS
Mary Astor - Robert Ames Also Another
Big RKO Vaudeville Show
N
W
Edna Ferber’s Mighty
Novel Springs to
Life
Richard DIX
Irene Dunne
Seething, Tumbling, Pitching Sweep of Empire! the Oklahoma Run . . . Frenzied Days . . . Love Starred Nights . . . Bloodstained Dawns that Shook the World as Civilization was Born from a Wanton Frontier.
488
The Notre Dame Scholastic
On Down the Line
. . . After a week’s vacation we’re back on the job with more dots and more news ... Of the regular Washington State eleven, only one player, GEORGE HURLEY, a guard, is a non-resident of the state . . . BENNY LEONARD is seriously considering pulling a “DEMPSEY” and becoming an itinerant referee, his first job being the proposed RISKO—PRESIDIO bout in Newark. . . . PAUL DERRINGER, Cardinal recruit, pitched 289 innings last year which should establish some sort of a record as he was credited with 23 victories . . .
to New Haven
... the FAVORITE pipe tobacco of college men is—
WHEREVER college men pause to load their pipes you’ll see the familiar blue tin of Edgeworth’
At California, at Yale, at Williams and Cornell... in America’s leading colleges and universities you will find Edgeworth the favorite smoking tobacco of the college man.
College men everywhere respond to the appeal of pipes—packed with cool, slow-burning Edgeworth. Be guided by their choice. Try Edge-worth yourself. Taste its rich natural savor that is enhanced immeasurably by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process.
You will find Edgeworth at your nearest tobacco shop—15^ the tin. Or, for generous free sample, address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
. . . STANLEY KETCHEL, former middleweight champion and one of the greatest fighting machines in the history of boxing, was a bouncer in a western dance hall before he became a boxer . . . ALF ENGEN, national ski champ, broke his own record last week when he jumped 231 feet from a 700-foot runway and at an average of 90 miles an hour . . .
. .:I SUN BEAU, one smooth race boss, is at Agua Caliente accompanied by ten trainers, several tons of food, ten cylinders of South Carolina water and a jockey . . . LEO DARO, who is reputed to have made some $500,000 as wrestling promoter in California in the past ten years, was a dishwasher in a Boston restaurant before
he took HORACE GREELEY’S advice and went west . . . GEORGE “ELBOWS” MCFADDEN, old-time boxer, engaged in 580 bouts over a period of 15 years without being disqualified once . . .
Edgeworth is * blend of fine old burleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms -"Ready-Rubbed” and "Plug Slice.” AU sizes, 15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin.
... GUS SONNENBERG is going to quit the wrestling game because his weakness doesn’t go for that sort of thing'. .. The coming season will mark the 25th year DICK GLENDON has coached the crew at Annapolis . . . Bad weather hurt Stetson university’s football receipts this year, so the deficit was made up by giving a play . . • just another one of those “up and coming” schools . ... MAX SCHMELING’S tour will cover 54 cities which will net him over $100, 000...
used this
Pressureless -Writing Pen GUARANTEED FOR LIFE 31% more Parkers in college too as nation-wide pen poll shows
The late Sir Arthur Conan Doyle wrote reams of manuscript—tried all sorts of pens. Came the day, as it has to 26 million others, when he discovered the Pressureless-Writing Parker Duofold. “I have at last met my affinity in pens,” he said. You, too, can gain great aid from this Pen that lets you write without strain, and think without irritation. Go to the nearest pen counter and look for the name— “Geo. S. Parker—DUOFOLD”— on the barrel That Guarantees the genuine for Life.
The Parker Pen Company Janesville, Wisconsin
Duofold
RNGUA*ANTEEDro*UFESS-S7-$10 Ftaci/s to Motcfi tfiMi aff: SM0 to SS Other Parker Feos, St.75and$3J0
