GILBERT'S, One Man Tells Another - 813-817 S. MICHIGAN, Open Evenings
2
The Scholastic
Letters
For Appointment Phone 3-0678
5 Barbers Manicurist
Yeh, Ferstel!
Dear Editor:
May I compliment you upon the timeliness, the beauty and the tranquility of the cover on your October 22 issue of Scholastic. It is Indian Summer at its best, with the man in the plaid jacket thinking long, long thoughts. . . .
(Miss) Marion McCandless Alumnae Director, St. Mary’ College
Tradition and the Browser
Deal’ Editor:
“The Browser” has, to my sincere delight, complained about the absence of Notre Dame tradition. I say delight, because to detect any interest in tradition is evidence of the deepening of Notre Dame roots in the questioner.
“The Browser” has made the very human and understandable mistake of confusing customs with traditions. Any meeting of the Student Activities Council or the Blue Circle could institute or revive a calendar of customs, or call attention to many that now exist, which are not commonplace in the life of every red-blooded boy. Freshman beanies are not necessarily the trade-mark of tradition.
If “The Browser” wants colorful customs, let him agitate for hall blazers, for revival of the “lake parties,” for Class ties, for a tavern that will undertake to duplicate the name-carved tabletops of Louis Nickel’s turn-of-the-cen-tury saloon. Let him bring back the old days when Notre Dame men left their seats and put out their cigarettes when a lady boarded the bus. Let him get out the students before daylight when a losing team comes back to the campus (if he can persuade a team to lose).
Customs, then, are not difficult to create, to perpetuate. But they are not— as the late great Father John Cavanaugh, president of Notre Dame from 1905 to 1919 said of traditions—“the tapestries of all noble halls.” Traditions are as he referred to them, going back “to the caves from which we are digged, the rocks from which we are hewn.”
Our traditions, as a result, are elusive. They are, in the Christian humility, shared with the traditions of the Church. They are a part of the educational tradition that flowered in the mediaeval universities. They are an integration with the patriotic tradition which made America in 1841 a challenge and an op-
(Continued on Page 30)
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
"South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT
W. E. Cyr, Prop.
100-102 South Main Street
Chair No. 5
WE HAVE THEM ’50 to ’125
COLLAR FIT? Does the collar of your coat stay in place? It does if it’s a Mt. Rock . . . because a Mt. Rock coat has increased depth in back from your ninth vertebrae to your collar top . . . that means the collar never funnels out behind. Try on a Mt. Rock coat today and see for yourself.
15% discount to all Notre Dame men through November on all ready-made and tailor-made suits and coats. Use our charge account.	-
Campus representatives: Pete Francken, Tom Tierney, Mike Ivers, Jack Clynes, Tom McGuire, Gus Cifelli, and Max Gabreski.
Clothiers
Tailors
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
11554-11754 N. Main Street (upstairs)
Nov. 5, 1948
3
Campus Clubs
Prop Club Talks Trade
A talk on Britain’s foreign trade picture in the post-war world by Joe Eames led off to a lively discussion at the Propeller Club meeting last Wednesday night in the Commerce Building. Interesting technicolor sound films entitled “Mainline U. S. A.” and “Coffee, Pride of Colombia” were shown.
A program has been arranged for future talks on phases of foreign trade with active membership participation. The club has been fortunate in obtaining international films for each meeting. Plans are underway for a; dinner meeting with a guest speaker at a South Bend hotel to be held Dec. 7.
Rockford Club Reorganizes
The Rockford Club at Notre Dame reorganized its executive staff after two meetings this year. John E. Sullivan, senior from Rockford, was awarded the top command, and Ray O’Connor, also from Rockford was chosen vice-president. Freeporters Charles Luecke and John
McKinstra were named as treasurer and secretary. Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., accepted the position as moderator of the organization.
Immediate club plans include the ubiquitous membership drive, constitutional amendments concerning proxy voting, and preparations for Christmas activities.
Architects Feed Faculty
Francis W. Kervick, head of the Department of Architecture, was main speaker at the Architect Club’s faculty invitation dinner last week at Ramble Inn. Other faculty guests included Dr. Karl E. Schoenherr, dean of the College of Engineering; Raymond J. Schubmehl, assistant dean of engineering; W. W. Turner, head of the Department of Engineering Drawing; and Eugene Kor-mendi, Michael Aime, Vito A. Girone, W. S. Moore, Aladar Olgyay, Victor Olg-yay, W. J. Sherer, and J. G. O’Connell, all of the Department of Architecture. Pat Gallagher was toastmaster.
Mountaineers Outline Plans
An intensive program for the coming school year was outlined at the initial meeting of the West Virgina Club last
week. Plans are underway for the following events: club smoker November 10, Thanksgiving dinner, Communion breakfast for alumni dead from West Virginia December 19, entry in the Kam-pus Kegler Bowling League, Mardi Gras participant, presentation of a trophy to the winner of the State Catholic Basketball Tournament to be held at Huntington, W. Va., February 26 and 27, 1949, and a spring smoker.
The chief objective of the club is' the accommodation of graduating seniors of the state with job placements through the cooperation of both the club and the Notre Dame alumni at home. Capacity of the club for the current year is 33 members.
Sociologists Plan Series Of Scintillating Seminars
The Department of Sociology has announced a series of six seminars this semester in hopes of arousing more interest on campus in the field of sociology.
The first seminar will be held at 7:30 p.m. Nov. 11 in room 101 of the Law Building. Everyone is invited. The subject to be discussed is the Nature of Sociology. The faculty panel (will be composed of Professors Kane, O’Brien, Francis and Radelet.
You'll like Ike "Bold Look" in
TUXEDOS . . 12.50
Tailored to give that long, lean, off-the-pages-of-Esquire look that can be achieved only by perfect styling. Completely comfortable because ... if it doesn’t fit . . . perfectly ... we won’t LET you wear it!
Tuxedo Shirts by Van Heusen
Formal Jewelry by Swank
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER: T. DOVE, 440 HOWARD
4
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Bob Vierhile
. Block? Did you guys block? Miller, you never touched your man. You just tore down the field to catch a pass. How can a guy throw you a pass when the man you let through has a hammerlock on him?
“Schlotsky, you are supposed to kick a football, not try to balance it on your toe. You punted like you had corns. You didn’t have time? I’d give you time— about 30 days.
Top of the Week
Student sells 8 Northwestern tickets to Detroit man.
—x— Letters-to-the-Editor Dept'.
My old friend Mrs. Eager took a rather dim view of my defalcations last week. It appears that she regards me as a heinous heretic long overdue at the stake.
Perhaps I should hang my head and look for a form-fitting garbage can. I cannot. True, I am a reasonably accurate facsimile of the “dissipated personality” she describes, but this is due, largely, to the banal environment to which I am slave. Thrice daily I dither to the dining hall to receive my dole of ham gravy on hot dogs, mutton gravy on fish, and tomato sauce on everything. My days are torn with the terrorizing whang of bells. My evenings are interrupted by lights blinking mysterious omens which suggest that the Witch of Palsey has decreed my return to the asylum.
Add to this the heresy that is the comics and you have the mental madness that is mine. I must further advise, Mrs. Eager, that I will go on hating the simpering, brattish spinster who calls herself Ella Cinders. I will continue to shun the wishy-washy dribble that is venom-ed as Little Orphan Annie. But, hereafter, I shall wait with penchant placa-tion the hilariousness that is Eager of Notre Dame.
For the Busted, a Bus
It’s seldom that a campus club does anything more constructive than pass on the alleged merits of Schlitz over Budweiser. Nevertheless, the Chicago Club has made of itself an isolated instance o f go-forward-and get-something-done-ness. I’m speaking of their inauguration of a Greyhound special to and from Chicago on weekends. This new bus service is open to all students. Leaves the local greyhound stables at 12:45 Saturday and returns from Chicago' at 8:30 p. m. The fare is $1.90 one-way; $3.45 round-trip.
The Lads Let Me Down
Football coaches, like all college students, suffer a letdown on Monday mornings. Had their previous Saturday afternoon been one of threatless triple-threat-ers, O-O-O-O scoreboards, and Wisconsin-
like alumni, they are not likely to be in the rosiest of moods when they greet their squads Monday afternoon. Whitney Martin, AP sportswriter, herewith records the mumblings of a coach who, quite unfortunately, fell victim to a pack of marauders, not unlike Notre Dame, on his last outing:
“I suppose you are proud of yourselves. You scored. The score was only 62 to 7, and it might have been 62 to 0. And who did you score against? I’m not saying it was their fifth team, but their girl cheerleaders disappeared just before that and I noticed a couple of their halfbacks powdering their noses.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
HERE’S good moos for people with problem hair. Even a cow lick stays in place all day long with Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. What’s more, by using it regularly every morning it will relieve annoying dryness and remove loose dandruff* Non-alcoholic Wildroot Cream-Oil contains Lanolin. Helps you pass the famous Wildroot Finger-Nail Test. Get a bottle or tube at any drug or toilet goods counter today. And ask your barber for professional applications. Remember there’s only one Wildroot Cream-Oil—so don’t
• buy any udder!
# of327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
—x—
“Think of my little children, the innocent little tots. If you don’t care about yourselves, or the school, or the alumni —please, please, think of me. I have to eat, my family doesn’t like to move. I worry, and sweat, and try to pound some football into you, and what do I get? 62 to 7.
“All right, let’s get out there, and try to remember something. What’s that??? I forgot to call my wife? Humph.”
Bottom of the Week
Fish-tail Cadillac sent to ND student via air mail.
Nov. 5, 1948
5
CALENDAR
NOVEMBER 5
PALACE—Return, of the Badmen. Story of five history profs who return to a university faculty after failing to see “The Coming of the White Man.” Companion feature, Angel in Exile. Memc-irs of Henry Wallace.
COLFAX—Rope. Lullaby-lunged Jimmy Stewart toys with a length of manila hemp while several sadistic characters shoo flies from a mellowing corpse.
NOVEMBER 6
NOTRE DAME vs. INDIANA—Fans will have a chance to see if a Leahy-coached club can best the Rockne-coached team record of 24 straight without defeat. The Hoosiers will find themselves in the undesirable role of record-breakers. Likewise Northwestern next week.
HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL—Fans will have a chance to see the top game of the year at downtown School Field, as the Riley Wildcats tangle with the league-leading Central Bears. Game starts at 8 p.m. but you’d better get there early if you want to find a seat closer than Howard Park. Local pubs will not carry the affair on television sets but radio stations will give a tackle-by-tackle description. There will be no foreign language broadcast.
NOVEMBER 7
GRANADA—Triple Threat. The ticklish football commercialization question should be sidelined forever after this one. With ten seconds left, a honeycombed halfback from State goes 104 yards to a TD, kayoeing on the way a lot-full of Hollywood extras that couldn’t make the Osceola high JV. Final score: Granada, 55; Youi- Wallet, 0. Companion feature, Night Time in Nevada. Full the shades on this one unless you’re a Roy Rogers fan.
STATE—House Across the Bay. Better had the producer and cast been towed into deep water and dumped overboard. Companion feature, Stand In. If this is a suggestion, no thanks!
NOVEMBER 8
HISTORY DEPARTMENTALS—Once again, two dozen fact-happy old gents will hot-foot then- hapless students with questions on everything from the breed of Jackson’s dog to the names of Wilson’s blind dates while he attended Princeton.
NOVEMBER 11
ARMISTICE DAY—One minute’s silence at 11 for all those poor soldiers and sailors who didn’t return from the Pentagon. No muster in Colonel Brown’s classes.
COLFAX—Rachel and the Stranger. This is the frontier equivalent of an extended week end in Chicago. It’s, a rollicking bit of brimstone about the frontier in the early 1800’s. Stars Bob Mitchum toting two packs of cigarettes, Loretta Young toting a Toni, and Bill Holden toting a belly-full of lead.
GRANADA—So This Is New York. Henry Morgan on that same corner in front of the cigar store, selling pencils. Companion feature, Rusty Leads the Way. Over the cliff, we hope.
WASHINGTON HALL — The Royal Theatre Repertory Company presents a Shakespearean double feature, A Midsummer Night’s Dream and The Taming of the Shrew.
Stratigon Grill
The finest in foods . . .
SEA FOODS STEAKS
CHOPS
Noon Lunches
“Art” Buchtel and “Harry” Reed Proprietors
“WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN MEET"
AT LAST!
Family Group Hospital
Insurance for
Married College Students
Hospital expenses, Surgeon’s fees, Full Maternity benefits (10 days). For full information, write—World Life and Accident Ass’n., Dept. P, Richmond, Indiana.
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in
•6
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 November 5. 1948 No. 7
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
The Staff JOSEPH A. DOYLE. Editor
Associate Editors
ROBERT T. STOCK JOSEPH HERRINGTON
KENNETH A. THOREN.______________News
VICTOR DORR_____________Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN___________Features
HARRY MONAHAN_________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER____________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN_____________Librarian
L. A. KYSER______________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE_________Advertising JOHN T. CLARK__________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL_______Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN._____Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: For this scene of arrested
violence the Scholastic is indebted to
the following: Mr. Robert Leander of
the Badin Hall Leanders for the use of his despondent person; the Oak Park Public Library for the Age of Hate', the Office of Student Welfare for the gun; Versatile Freshman Roger O’Keefe for his history notebook; to
Father McAvoy, Head of the Depart-
ment of History, without whose fore-
sight and untiring zeal in the fields of outdoor reading, this cover could not have been made.	—Photo by Harlan
Ute
Beware the Flapping Red Cape
For the past several months this magazine has been bombarded with literature from various Communist, semi-Communist, and slightly-pink organizations demanding that we get right to work and do something about the Thomas Committee. It seems that J. Parnell and his nasty henchmen are making an awful mess of the Constitution, and we college editors ought to clean up on ’em in our editorial columns.
All this stuff is quite understandable coming from the Marxists and their befuddled buddies. They have orders to follow and a position to protect. But the activities of the Thomas Committee and other movements on the national scene should nonetheless give the college man matter for serious thought. It’s too easy to announce that all Communists should be hanged and then go back to Aristotle or Ozark Ike or whatever happens to be occupying your attention. There are serious indications in America today that the Red-hunt hysteria of the' early twenties is returning. Any prominent man who has ever displayed the slightest tinges of pink is being hauled up before Thomas and called to account, like a torso murderer caught in the act. Others who are opposed by birth, training and belief to everything Communism stands for are having their reputations blackened because they were once seen in the company of people who were supposed to be Commies. Along with their reputations, their positions, their businesses and their families are suffering.
Politicians have caught on to the advantages of this incipient Red hysteria. The campaign just past demonstrated that one of the most effective ways to discredit your opponent is to associate him with Communists. Once that is done, however, vaguely, there is little further need to examine his record or yours.	.
The worst angle of this situation is the treatment accorded the investigations by many newspapers. The cases are being tried in print, where the defendant never wins. Big, black scareheads scream the name of the latest victim, but when he is exonerated or the case is shelved, you have to read eight paragraphs down the column to find out.
Obviously Communism is a serious menace and must be checked. But no menace can justify the injuring of innocent men. We must not use Communist methods to defeat Communist aims. Christian justice demands calm and responsible judgment.
The Meal Books Are Too Thick
Much commotion has been raised as a result of the dining hall’s decision to charge for the replacement of lost meal books. We don’t intend to debate the merits of the decision here; it is doubtful if any amount of debate can dislodge a procedure so well established.
We would, however, like to offer a suggestion. If the student must pay for a new meal book when he loses his old one, why not issue the books for shorter periods? Under the present set-up the books are issued for a month or six weeks; when a student loses a new book, he has to pay for six weeks’ worth of food. If the books covered shorter periods, his loss wouldn’t be so great. Why not cut the books down to two or three weeks?	-
Nov. 5, 1948
Mike Still Missing
Ferste
Clashmore Mike was still missing this week, and the fear was rapidly growing that Notre Dame had seen the last of him. On the night of Oct. 27 the Irish terrier with the penchant for jumping hurdles jumped out of his coop in the Stadium and wandered off into the dark, unknown world, leaving his ND blanket behind him. At first it was thought that Mike had fled to the fleshpots of Roseland, where several people had seen him, but a -wide search of that neighborhood failed to locate him. No telling where he is now.
Just to give your voice a lift
. . . ALSO LOST
A wallet—dark brown leather (cordovan) ; contains all essential identification and credentials; return to Pat O’Sullivan, 224 Morrissey, for reward.
Irish-horn six-decade rosary.
Lost in 207 Cavanaugh—blue, double-breasted suit coat.
ID bracelet, with initials “MJ” faintly inscribed; return to 233 Howard, for reward.
Eyeglasses; in back of Lyons.
FOUND
Parker 51 pencil—maroon; 9:00 class, Main Building.
Sheaffer pen and pencil set—green; Sept. 18 between Zahm and Cavanaugh.
Esterbrook pen—green.
Girl’s ID bracelet.
Girl’s sorority pin from Mundelein College.
Sheaffer pencil—brown; Sept. 20, between Farley and Breen-Phillips.
Wallet — black; important papers wanted.
Two sets of keys.
Fineline pen—black.
When you make a long distance telephone call, your voice would soon fade out were it not for vacuum tube repeaters. They give your voice a lift whenever needed— carry it clearly from coast to coast.
Vacuum tubes and other electronic devices are playing an ever-growing part in your Bell telephone service. As the manufacturing unit of the Bell System, Western Electric makes millions of these intricate little things.
To produce them to highest standards of precision and at lowest cost, Western Electric has just completed its new Allentown, Pa., plant—latest addition to vast telephone making facilities in 18 cities. Now, and in the years ahead, this new Western Electric plant will help to make your Bell telephone service better than ever.
Western Electric k UNIT OF THE BELL Gil) SYSTEM SINCE 1882
8
The Scholastic

SCHOLASTIC
Volume90 - Number? NOVEMBER 5, 1948
N D and the Nation Go Wild About Harry
Lawrence Adds Zest To Cotillion Bid Sales
With the name of Elliott Lawrence as an added incentive to swing and sway, ticket sales for 1948’s promising Sophomore Cotillion began climbing high this week, just shortly after they opened Wednesday morning. Sophomores had first crack at the 600 available bids from exclusive Morrissey Hall sales. Beginning Monday upper classmen may purchase the ducats in the basement of the Dining Hall for $5.40.
The smooth Lawrence orchestra, generally conceded to be the greatest collegiate band favorite in the nation, is expected to enhance the sophomores’ November 26 formal as one of the most successful Notre Dame class dance dates in recent years. Known throughout the land as “the band that’s sweet with a beat,” and having gained renown at many of the country’s top-flight entertainment spots, Lawrence has become a special favorite with college crowds because he continually caters to their desires for danceable music.
Plans for an extraordinary night of dancing and revelry have reached a near-climax, according to Tom Logan, co-chairman of the dance. The one big problem remaining to date is the deciding of a theme for the occasion. Logan and co-chairman Ray Miller, working in coordination with Dick McDonald, decorations committee head, have been striving to choose a satisfactory theme designed around Lawrence’s music style.
Dave Schoen, chairman of the favors committee announced last week that the Cotillion favors have been selected and ordered. Plans call for a small genuine leather address book and program combined. It is to be a neat white leather job, complete with a tassel, and embossed in gold with Notre Dame’s Dome centered on the cover. Inside will be the Cotillion program for the evening and ample space for addresses.
Harry Truman said there’d be some red faces this week. Beating off attacks from the left, from the right, and from in front of him, the gallant little gamecock from Independence rode to a clean sweep of the White House and Congress Tuesday to climax a one-man fight unparalleled in the history of American politics.
At Notre Dame 850 voters went to the polls in the Fieldhouse, and contrary to national and Scholastic straw votes, Truman came out ahead with 471 votes to Dewey’s 396. A plurality of votes was cast for every candidate on the Democratic ticket, except U. S. representative.
In the SCHOLASTIC'S campus-wide
AFTER HIM—HIM
Gallant Gamecock
FOR SALE
Several Very Used
Polling Agencies
Write:
Dr. George Gallup
Mr. Elmo Roper
The Notre Dame Scholastic
straw vote of student opinion prior to the elections, a decided eight to five margin of victory was accorded Mr. Dewey and his cohorts. Of the 732 student* asked, a total of 403 liked the Republican gentleman, with but 274 for Mr. Truman, and 18 and 14. respectively, for Messrs. Thurmond and Wallace.
Probably the major cause for the conflict between opinion and actual results is that a large number of the poll answer* were tendered by non-voting freshmen. Another group of opinions were obtained in both the Caf and Huddle, thereby airing the possibility that a good number al the total were offcampus students who cast their ballots in downtown precincts, hi addition. Tuesday's Fieldhouse poll* were open not only to Notre Dame students, but to the faculty and clergy as well. Students alone were approached in the straw vote.
As the mysteriously curtained voting machines whirred and rang in the Fieldhouse lobby from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., the expressed opinion of Notre Dame voters veered more and more in the direction of the Democrats. Henry F. Schricker outgained the Republicans’ Hobart Creighton, 525 to 321, as the local choice for Indiana’s governor. For State Representatives, Patrick Brennan edged Republican Tom Leahy by 606 to 538. Three representatives were to be named, however, and the incumbent Leahy was an easy second. The COP'S United States Congressman, Robert A. Grant, was deadlocked for the office with the Democrats’ Thurman C. Crook at 419 tallies apiece. The rest of the 27 offices on the ballot were swept by the Democratic party.
Evidence of a slight, almost imperceptible pink tinge was seen as two individualistic persons named Henry A. Wallace and Glen Taylor as their choices for the nation’s two highest positions. Five votes each were cast for the Socialists’ Norman Thomas and Tucker P. Smith as more free-thinkers hailed their favorites.
The Prohibition ticket polled but one vote of the total, naming Clinton W. Speicher the governor of Indiana.
Nov. 5, 1948
9
New Student Theater Cast Buckles Down As 'Milky Way' Promises Potent Comedy
Slowly gaining momentum as its practice sessions become more and more coordinated, the new student production, The Milky Way, ended its second full week of rehearsals today, with but three weeks remaining until the first curtain rises in Washington Hall November 28 for a five-night run. Emerging from a decadent two years with no campus plays, the University Theater has inaugurated a new drama movement and this, its first offspring of good intention, has all the earmarks of a success.
With a select cast of nine and a capable technical crew, intensive practice has been the by-word as director Leonard Sommer moves the group into high gear. In view of the relatively short time before the opening night, much work has been crowded into the cast, the director, producers, et al. But the keen interest displayed, and the highly entertaining nature of the play itself set up the Milky Way as a genuinely attractive production before the first curtain ever leaves the floor.
Written by Lynn Root and Harry Clork, this three-act comedy-farce achieved considerable success as a stage production before it was ever transplanted to the screen. In an early movie release it was characterized by the antics of Harold Lloyd. And more recently, it appeared as “The Kid From Brooklyn,” starring Danny Kaye.
The story is typical comedy stuff. It revolves around the situation created when Burleigh Sullivan, a mild, inoffensive milkman, accidentally knocks out Speed McFarland, the world’s middleweight champion in a street argument.
The champion’s boisterous manager, Gabby Sloan, sees the damage such notoriety will bring, and glibly conceives the idea of making a fighter out of the meek little milkman. Through a series of fixed fights he plans to build Burleigh up as a logical contender and a financial asset.
Against his will the milkman is drawn into the scheme amidst a shattered love affair between his sister, Jane, and McFarland. Jane persuades Burleigh to call off the fight, but the milkman, inflated with his own importance,, riles the champion so much that he loses his head and demands to go through with the fight. Through a series of typically melodramatic and comical sequences, the hero encounters problem after problem, meets seemingly impossible barriers, and emerges inevitably in a happy ending.
The love interest of the story and Sul
livan’s quirks and eccentricities, combined with the explosiveness of the manager, evolve a series of rib-tickling situations that make this an outstanding comedy, original in idea and strong in sentiment.
Artificial Production Of ATP Is Disclosed
Mankind’s health may benefit from the artificial ^production of ATP, the substance which provides energy for muscular contractions, Dr. Alex Todd, distinguished British scientist and Nieuw-land lecturer at Notre Dame last week, disclosed before leaving the University.
Describing the energy-giving substance—formally known as adenoisine-tri-phosphate—Dr. Todd pointed out that medical science now can produce it synthetically. ATP is ordinarily made by the body and stored in the muscles as a source of energy.
At present, though, the synthetic ATP is medicinally useful only when applied to internally-caused body deterioration, Todd said. Slight success has been achieved in using the substance to cure heart conditions, but this use is still in experimental stages.
Dr. Todd, after visiting LOBUND, said research being conducted with germ-free animals there may be of great value to further analysis of body functions in connection with vitamins.
BELIEF COMMITTEE HEADLINERS Ernst Haindl. Austrian grad student, poses with Leo J. Condron, publicity director of the Foreign Student Relief campaign, which hopes to gather $500,000 for student relieL
Dull Weekend Enlivened by Two Vet Halloween Dances
Informality was the keynote as Saturday and Sunday night Halloween Dances at Vet Hall provided the only bright spot in an otherwise dull campus weekend. The Saturday night party-dance was open to married and graduate students only; 120 couples were there to dance and enjoy the entertainment, led by MC Ed Mathewson. The door prize, dinner for two at the Philadelphia, was won by graduate student Alvin Marrero.
Sunday night’s Dungaree Dance was open to all students who wished to attend. The festivities followed much the same pattern as the preceding night with games being substituted for the entertainment. Cider and doughnuts were served to the 65 couples who attended.
The Married Students Welfare Council, which sponsored the dances, announced that any profit realized would be turned over to the Maternity Aid Fund. Congratulations are in order for Lee Rumely, Leo Zuckowsky, and Bob Ott who were in a large part responsible for the success of the affairs.
LOBUND Boss Heads West on 10-Stop Tour
Speaking on the “Development of Germ-Free Animals,” Professor James A. Reyniers, director of the Laboratories of Bacteriology at Notre Dame, opened his ten-stop lecture tour Monday with an address to the Zoology Department of UCLA.
Professor Reyniers, who is in charge of Notre Dame’s famed LOBUND research in germ-free life, is delivering a series of ten lectures and seminars on an extensive western trip. Following his opening lecture at UCLA, Professor Reyniers conducted a biology seminar Tuesday at Pasadena’s Kerkhoff Laboratories of Bacteriology. The remainder of his tour includes stops at the Los Angeles Society of Internal Medicine and the Department of Physiology at UCLA. He will conduct a seminar at the University of California’s Scripps Institute of Oceanography at Palo Alto tomorrow.
Before winding up his lecture series Professor Reyniers will speak on “Aerio-biology” Nov. 8, 9, and 10 at the University of California at Berkeley. His lecture at Stanford University on Nov. 11 will conclude the tour. On his return trip to Notre Dame, he will address the School of Medicine at Creighton University on “Germ-Free Life as Applied to Medical Research.”
10
The Scholastic
ASCE's 'Highway' Shows New Film Style
A three dimensional color movie entitled Highway USA, will be presented in the Engineering Auditorium Tuesday, November 9, under the auspices of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers. It is an entertaining, non-technical presentation utilizing the latest developments in stereoscopic color photography, and designed to depict some of the most beautiful scenic spots in America.
Produced by the Barber-Green Company, the film was first presented at the Road Show of the American Road Builders Association in Chicago. It was felt to be of special interest to everyone because of its non-technical presentation, and for this reason, the Notre Dame ASCE chapter feels that it should be made available to all on the campus.
The presentation is made through the use of a special screen and projector. Polaroid glasses must be worn by each member of the audience to obtain the three-dimensional effect, which is the same principle employed in the popular stereoscopes of the Gay Nineties.
Because the special glasses must be worn, the audience must be limited to 200 at each performance. Plans now call for three presentations of the film, the first beginning at 4:15 p. m., and of approximately 45 minutes duration. Evening shows will be at 7:15 and 8 p. m. Tickets may be obtained from Norman Hennessy, John Norton, Leonard Adler, Charles Bauman, Terry Garvey, Frank Callahan, and William Carter.
'Reader's Digest' Runs Article by Fr. O'Brien
Rev. John A. O’Brien, professor of religion at Notre Dame, in an article in the November issue of Reader's Digest, declares that nuclear physics research in recent years is sounding “the death knell of materialism as an explanation of the universe and as a philosophy of life.”
In his article, entitled “Atom Fairyland,” Father O’Brien points out that sub-atomic physicists have found that all matter composing the body of a full grown man could be compressed into a tiny speck invisible to the human eye if the gaps between the electrons and protons were eliminated. Yet this same speck; would weigh as much as the body of a man six feet tall.
Father O’Brien also presented some of the other amazing discoveries of scientists concerning the power and energy within the atom. These new findings, according to the author, offer new and striking confirmation of man’s age-old belief in God.
Conerty
BANNON AND DOYLE
Chesterfield sponsored a "Chesterfield Adds Up" contest at the start of this school year and things really added up for Bernard Bannon of 27-A, Vetville. last week. Here he is being presented with a Lon-gine watch by Joe Doyle. SCHOLASTIC Editor. He was also awarded a B-B pen and desk set by Campus Merchandising Bureau which sponsored the contest for Chesterfield.
Bannon and the University of Notre Dame were saluted on the "Supper Club" last Friday. One of three representatives here on campus, Bannon was one of three men selected as tops in the nation for convincing people they should change to Chesterfields. Since the start of the contest on September 20, he has convinced 123 men that they should make the switch. The SCHOLASTIC was asked to make the award in conjunction with the third monthly Chesterfield contest which appears on page 34 of this issue.
Hall Decoration Contest Set For Northwestern Weekend
On the week end of the Northwestern game, which has been designated as homecoming weekend, the annual Hall Decoration Contest will be held. This year the display will be judged by the Blue Circle or judges appointed by them. The selection of the winner will take place on the Friday before the game. Decorations of the individual halls will be decided upon by the hall councils.
As closely as possible last year’s rules will be adhered to. A $100 expense limit will be in effect and, as the judging will take place in daylight, lights will not be considered. Badin Hall’s “Dogpatch” scene won last year because of its humor and originality.
Chesterfield Announces
12 Contest Ad Winners .
More than 125 applicants submitted answers to this month’s riddle on Chesterfield’s back-page Scholastic advertisement featuring Jane Wyman. Sixty per cent of the answers were correct, but only the first twelve correct ones received the prize, a carton of cigarettes.
Those twelve winners are: Fletcher Daniels, 304 Alumni; John H. O’Reilly, 158 Dillon; Jim O’Brien, 237 Breen-Phillips; William F. Gorman. 345 Sorin; Maximo Fernandez, 237 Breen-Phillips; Robert E. Sayers, 307 Sorin; John Powers, 431 Farley; Peter M. Brennan, 237 Breen-Phillips; Vincent O’Reilly, 104 Sorin; Tom Healy, 322 Walsh; Ralph Wright, 346 Sorin; and Jack Murphy, 346 Sorin.
Neil Peters, 235 Farley, sent in sixteen entries with different answers on each. He was awarded a pack of Chesterfields for his earnest effort.
The keys to the cryptograms were all included in the ad. For part A, the word in the comparative degree answering, “I reveal my smoking superiority,” was Milder. In part B, the word Wyman (y-man) fits the riddle, “I’m twenty-five, when you add a man I become alive.”
Part C proved to be the most puzzling. For the pin that joins the two pieces, the word “dowel” (a pin joining pieces of wood) combined with the given clue, “Mac,” to result in McDowell, the name of the tobacco farmer whose picture appeared in the advertisement. .
The next contest will appear in a forthcoming issue of the Scholastic, with a new ad featuring Tyrone Power. Watch for the questions and solve them promptly, for next month’s contest winners will be limited to-the first ten correct applicants alone.	'
Nov. 5, 1948
11.
Overalls. Plaid Skirts At Junior Barn Dance
Student Trippers Join Dewey In Total Collapse As Capital Victory Special Rolls Back Home
Notre Dame’s Junior Class, at their initial meeting of the semester, last week, announced definite plans for a fall barn dance.
According to class president Russ Skall, the “overalls and plaid shirt” affair will be held Saturday, Nov. 20, at St. Joe Farm, from 3 until 10 or 11 p. m. Anyone unable to obtain a date for the occasion may have recourse to the Junior Class date bureau. Transportation has not been arranged yet, but it will likely be by bus, although there is the possibility of a hike.
The matter of the spring prom also came in for considerable discussion at the meeting. Questionnaires were distributed to all members present for the purpose of determining their opinions on the matter. Three dates are open for the dance, Feb. 18, Feb. 25 and possibly April 29. Also, three sites are being considered, the Palais Royale, the Navy Drill Hall and the Rockne Memorial building. According to available information, after tables are set up, the Drill Hall will accommodate 500-600 couples, approximately the same as the Palais. However, the price of a band would probably be cheaper at the latter. The Rock has the smallest capacity, 400-500 couples.
Other topics dealt with in the questionnaires included the possibility of limiting attendance at the prom, theme of the dance, favors, and activity for the Saturday following the prom. Class members were also asked to write in the name of the band they would like to have.
What a week end! The student trippers had just about enough energy to gasp forth that laconic expression before collapsing into their downy lairs in the wee hours of last Tuesday morning. The week end’s description was terse but behind it stood many tall tales to substantiate the statement.
.The minute the special train pulled out of the Union Station, leaving mobs of femmes on the platform, including a choral group chortling “Goodbye, My Baby, Goodbye, My Notre Dame Boy,” the shaggy-hair dog stories started to grow. With each rehashing the fables expanded.
There was the handful of localites who spent ?46 for seven chicken sandwiches and one round of cokes. There were two who had rubbed shoulders with Ike and who upon telling an accompanying padre were asked, “Where was Kay?” Recaps of the blind dates sounded like a can-you-top-this? program. All seemed more than satisfied with their draw-bag girls and if a consensus had been taken a majority would have voted for the immediate moving of Notre Dame to Washington.
Spirit abounded among the 500 trek-kers to the Capital, but few could equal the exhuberance of Tom “Red” Wolff. Even the loss of his voice could not stop him from shaking the rafters of a Pittsburgh station with a rousing impromptu-led cheer.
One particularly attractive Trinity filly was heard to quip the following:
Is it true that the Notre Dame men are the cream of the crop—rich and thick?”
Tuesday morning found that cream of the crop back on the campus, still thick, perhaps, but no longer rich.
'Bama College Writer Gives Full Dope on How to Study
ATHENS, Ala. — (ACP) — “What about your study habits?” asks the writer of a feature for the Crows Nest of Athens College. He lists the following study habits to be checked by the individual :
Have a definite place and time for study. Study having the purpose of the lesson in mind and with the idea of recalling things studied and using what is learned.
Limit the time spenb on a lesson and try to do a little more in the same length of time each study period.
Get an overall view of the work by looking over the whole assignment or chapter before beginning to study.
Try to analyze material into its parts and after selecting the important points, write them in fewer words.
Try to discuss with other things that have been learned and also try to practice what has been learned.
Get reports and written work in on time; don’t let your feelings toward the teacher affect your study.
Be accurate in your work and try to develop an interest in every study. Make definite preparation for exams.
Work out a good system of taking notes in lectures so that the material is understood and the importance of the various facts gauged before the notes are written down.
___	Harlan
MORE STUDENT RELIEF COMMITTEE MEMRERS
Bob Leander, Bill Small, Tom Eilerman
JUNIOR CLASS OFFICERS
Jim Holway, Jack Thornton, Bob Lally, Russ Skall
12
The Scholastic
<fjou ^ijalt ^ot ^teal
<1 he Maww^d ^aqa &{ a Man Wiiluwi Goal
Dear. Editor:
Last fall I reported to you a great personal loss which has befallen me. On Oct. 8, 1947, a red lumberjack coat belonging to me was stolen from Room 112 of the Main Building. The coat departed my fond possession on that day and has not been heard from since.
I will not dwell at length on the physical and mental suffering to which I have been subjected as a result of my loss. Suffice it to say that Where I was once a great strapping fellow, standing over six feet and weighing 15 stone,1 I am now a poor, broken shell of a man, weighing only five stone, three pebbles.
(I have reconsidered. I will dwell at great length on my physical and mental suffering.)
The sad departure of my coat has changed the entire pattern of my life. That handsome, brightly colored garment gave me confidence. When the coat went, my confidence went with it. Once, when I saw a beautiful young lady on the sidewalk, I would step smartly up to her and shout:
“Young lady, kiss me passionately on the lips!”
She would immediately do so.
Today I walk through sewers just to avoid meeting beautiful young ladies on the sidewalk.
My grades have suffered. When I wore that coat, no professor dared cross me. If an economics teacher- said to me:
“You there! What is the law of diminishing returns?”
I would casually spit on the floor and answer:
“You may very well ask that question of someone else, Professor Mumbleworthy! I for one am sick to death of your constant yapping.”
And cringing like a whipped ai-ma-dillo,2 he would whimper, “Mercy, sir, I meant no harm. Here is a semester bulletin of 107%. Please leave me now or I shall have a heart attack.”
Now my average has fallen to 43%, which is mediocre at best.
My athletic prowess has disintegrated. When I had that coat, I was one of the most formidable Mah Jong players on the campus. From Farley to Lyons I
1 A stone weighs 14 pounds, you dumb editor, you. - Armadillos are notorious cringers.
. . GASP . . .CHOKE . . COUGH . .
was known as “The Mah Jong King.” Now I can hardly Mah, and Jonging is entirely out of the question.
(Jonging, by the way, is not so easy as most laymen think. There is nothing quite so difficult as Jonging, except perhaps riding a horse up the front steps of the Main Building. And the only reason it is difficult to ride a horse up the front steps of the Main Building is because most horses are undergraduates. You get a horse with an A.B. degree and it’s no trouble at all.)
Also (to return to my dolorous subject) my fellow students constantly ridicule me.
“Hah, hah,” they say, “there is the stupid oaf who left his red lumberjack coat in a classroom and had it stolen. How can anyone be so imbecilic? Ya, hah, hah!”
Their insults cut like steel knives into my soul; I clench my fists, grind my teeth, and walk on. (My teeth have the sharpest edges ever honed.)
Even my closest friends make fun of me.
“Well, lose any coats lately?” they jeer.
I manage a hollow smile, but my heart isn’t in it. My heart is in my coat.
Now it is beginning to get cold again. Soon the frigid north wind will blow out of Canada, sweep down the Michigan peninsula, and roar across the Notre
Dame campus — withering everything in its path, blighting the little flowers, and destroying every unprotected life. And I have nothing to wear but a basketball uniform.
But do not be misled, Mr. Editor. I have no intention of pleading for the return of my coat. Months of suffering and privation have left me numb. Besides, the heartless monster who stole the coat probably boarded a crack New York Central streamliner immediately after the crime last fall and by now is well on his way to Elkhart. (It is rumored that next year the New York Central will install round wheels, an innovation rapidly spreading in the East.)
No, I won’t ask that my coat be returned. That would be seeking too much.	•
But I do ask something else. Jim Engel, of 322 Alumni Hall, has recently suffered a loss similar to my own. While Jim was playing in an interhall football game last week, a blue jacket belonging to him was brazenly lifted from its appointed place and spirited away.
I ask that his jacket be returned. .
The tragedy of my life must not be repeated! It cannot be that another man shall stumble down the twisted, broken path I have followed. Thief, I beseech you: renounce the devilish cunning which, has enabled you to snatch this trophy, mend your sinful ways,. bring back Engel’s jacket!	-
For myself I don’t care much any more. My life has nearly run its course. My Lady Nicotine, to whom I turned for comfort in my misery, has grown tired of me and will deal the death blow'at any moment . . . This has been written . . . out of the soul of a man . . . about the soul of a man....	_
a man. ...	-
Robert T. Stock
Booth 16
The Stratigon	- - -
Oct. 30, 1948
(The Scholastic reopens for a moment the case of the stolen coat, ponders upon the evils of all thievery, and asks that Mr. Engel be spared the fate of Brother Stock. And look here, you. dnrrib associate editor, you: I might not know how heavy a stone is, but I know this letter is too damn long for the Letters Column.)	.	.
13
Nov. 5, 1948
Mediaeval Institute
Slates Lecture Series
Four public lectures by guest professors from the United States and Canada have been scheduled by Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute, for the academic year 1948-49, it was announced by the Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, director of the Institute. The first of these lectures, which are made possible by the Michael P. Grace II trust fund, will be delivered December 13.
Professor Urban T. Holmes, Jr., instructor of romance philology at the University of North Carolina will open the series in December. He will conduct a five-day session, speaking on the subject “With Alexander Neckham in London and Paris: A Study in English and French Civilization in the second half of the Twelfth Century.”
Beginning January 17 and continuing through January 21, Dr. Stephan Kutt-ner, famous professor of the history of canon law at Catholic University, will deliver the second lecture in the series. He will discuss the “Canonical Aspects of Mediaeval History: The Importance and Influence of Canonical Concepts in Mediaeval History.”
The third lecture will be given by Professor Gaines Post, of the Department of History at the University of Wisconsin. Speaking February 14 through February 18, he will discuss “Roman and Canon Law Representation in the Thirteenth Century.”
. The Rev. George B. Flahiff, C.S.B., professor of history at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, Toronto, will conclude this year’s series with a five-day session, March 21 through March 25. For his subject he has chosen “The English Critics of Civilization in the late Twelfth Century.”
All lectures will be given at 4:30 p.m. in Room 101 of the Law Building. Detailed announcements of the subjects and dates of each lecture will be made prior to the beginning of each series. All members of the faculty and student body are welcome to attend.
IBM Monsters Total Enrollment at 5090
After a six-week struggle with IBM machine, official enrollment figures for this year finally crawled out of the Administration Building this week.
It will come as something less than a a stunning surprise to learn that the total this year sets an all-time record for ND—5090 students. Broken down by classes, that means 819 seniors, 1416 ju
niors, 902 sophs, and 1279 freshmen. Never have so many freshmen entered at once. The whopping junior class enrolled ' in two sections—March and September.
Classified according to colleges, there are 1426 in Commerce, 1410 in Arts and Letters, 1125 in Engineering, 455 in Science, 387 in the Graduate School, and 287 in Law.
These figures are probably all wrong, but the IBM machine was pretty much beat up this week.
KC's Fall Formal Features Hull's Band
Next November 12 the Knights of Columbus will hold their formal at the Erskine Country Club with Gene Hull and his orchestra giving forth with danceable tunes. One hundred bids—no more—will be sold at $3.60, first to K.
of C. members and then to outsiders. They can be obtained in the council chambers, Walsh Hall, from 2 to 4 in the afternoon.
Arrangements have been made for transportation of the couples. Buses will leave the circle at 8:15 p. m. and proceed to the Country Club via St. Mary’s. The dance will conclude at 1 a. m.- and the couples will be conveyed back. As an added attraction, late permissions may be secured for the evening.
Since the formal takes place the night before the Northwestern game, entertainment at the Country Club will be centered on dire forebodings for the Wildcats with the girls pinning tails on the invading felines and, in general, holding a premature wake for the team from Chicago.
Field Trip Conducted Over Weekend by ND Geologists
Over the past weekend, Dr. R. C. Gut-schick, professor of geology at Notre Dame, and four geology students conducted a field trip through southern Indian, western Kentucky and eastern Illinois to study geological conditions.
The four students who participated in the trip were Harold V. Anthony, of Fort Recovery, Ohio; Harold Sheeran, of Fostoria, Ohio; Edmond Tonti, of Woodbury, N. J., and Raymond Throckmorton, of South Bend. The group visited Mono quarry, Kentland quarry, the Danville, Ill., strip coal area, the eastern Illinois oil fields, Cave Inn rock in Illinois, Hick’s dome, the Fluorspar mines in Rosiclare, the dike at Orr’s landing, Spar mountain, Galconda outcrop, Kinkaid outcrop at Owensboro, Ky., and several southern Indiana stone quarries.
'Tomorrow' Offers Cash
For College Story Writers
A short story contest for college writers will be conducted for the third year by the literary magazine, Tomorroiv. The best short story will win $500 as first prize, the next best a second prize of $250. Prize-winning stories will be published in the May and June issues. All entries will be considered for publication at the magazine’s regular rate of $125, thus providing additional opportunity for the college writer.
The contest is open to all officially enrolled undergraduates in the United States. There is no limit to the number of manuscripts a single contestant may submit. Manuscripts should not exceed 5000 words, and the phrase “College Contest” and the writer’s name, college, and mailing address must appear on both manuscript and envelope. All entries must be accompanied by a selfaddressed stamped envelope. Closing date for the contest is December 31, 1948, and entries must be postmarked prior to that date for consideration. The magazine’s address is 11 E. 44th St., New York City, N. Y.
Trip Honored by R. I. Club
Frank Tripucka was guest of honor at the Rhode Island Club banquet held Wednesday at the Ramble Inn. The club now numbers twenty-nine citizens of the land between the Harvards and Yales. Arrangements have already been made with the home chapter of the alumni to include the club in plans for the Christmas dance. President Clem Grimes of the alumni has assured the Club a “break” on the expenes of the Yuletide Soiree.
14
The Scholastic
Shakespeare Plays Open Wednesday
Next Wednesday, Thursday and Friday will bring two of the most unusual stage productions ever to appear in ancient Washington Hall. It will be a Shakesperean double feature, presented by the Royal Theatre Repertory Company at 8:00 p. m. on those nights. Produced by H. M. Rogers, the production is complete with stylized settings and costumes, musical background, and narration. The presentation is sponsored by the Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series.
The double feature is made possible by the fact that both of the plays, A Midsummer Night’s Dream and The Taming of the Shrew, have been shortened to approximately 45 minutes. Descriptive narration over a public address system compensates for cuts. A Midsummer Night’s Dream is one of Shakespeare’s most delightful fantasies, and is most famous for the impish Puck. The Taming of the Shreiv is filled with laughter and the fights between the Shrew and her suitor are hilarious.
The leading lady of the company is Marrian Walters, who doubles as Katharina and Helena. Miss Walters recently concluded a successful engagement in John Golden’s Broadway production of Made in Heaven. A versatile actress and a clever one, she brings to this production a fine sense of Shakespearean comedy techniques.
The roles of Petruchio and Demetrius are filled by Frank Leslie, who has a background of several years’ work with the Theatre Guild. Mr. Leslie is also an accomplished artist and designer, having designed both the costumes and sets for these productions.
The cast is as follows:
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM
Lysander .........................   Elbert	Smith
Hermia .............................. Peggy	Deane
Helena ............................Afarrian Walters
Oberon ...............—...........George Womack
Puck ............................   Christy	Palmer
Demetrius ____________________________Frank Leglia
Scene 1: A Room Adjoining an Athenian Court. Scene 2: A Forest near Athens
Intermission
THE TAMING OF THE SHREW
Petruchio ____________________________Frank	Leslie
Grumio ....„.......................  .David	Rhode
Hortensio .......................... Albert	Smith
jiatharina .......................Marrian Walters
Bianca _______________________________Peggy	Deane
Baptista   .......................George Womack
Scene 1: Road before Hortensio’s House.
Scene 2: Baptista’s House.
Scene 3: Petruchio’s House.
Scene 4: Petruchio’s House.
Scene 5: Road to Padua.
Direction by Marrian Walters and Frank Leslie Stage Manager_____________________Adolph Attianese
Assistant Stage Manager___________George Womack
Ernst Haindl
Austrian Escapes Red Troops to Reach N. D.
Four years ago Ernst Haindl was a mud-eating foot soldier in the German army, fighting a war he knew was lost, for a cause he hated. Three months ago he was a virtual outlaw in Austria, dodging Russian troops in fear of being seized for slave labor.
Today Ernst Haindl is a Notre Dame student, eating in the chow hall, smoking American cigarettes, answering the phone outside his second-floor Morrissey room, reading the South Bend Tribune, and, for the first time without fear, giving free voice to strong opinions.
This is the story of Ernst’s long and painful transition from a dark Europe
in the middle of history’s worst war to a bright Indiana in the middle of a football season. This is Ernst’s story, but it’s also partly the story of Europe today and of Europe for many tomorrows to come.
Ernst, a 23-year old Austrian graduate student from Vienna, was one of 28 Europeans awarded one-year scholarships to American Catholic colleges and universities by the National Catholic Welfare Conference. He was assigned to Notre Dame (of which he had never heard). The scholarships, arranged by the NCWC and awarded on the basis of competitive examinations and knowledge of English, were provided by each of the 25 schools to which students were sent. Transportation was paid for by the bishops of America and the National Foreign Student Relief Campaign.
Before he came here, Ernst attended the University of Vienna; at Notre Dame
he’s doing graduate work in English literature—with particular emphasis on American writers. Between classes he’s working for the Department of Foreign Languages and soaking up American ideas as fast as he can.
But all this would have seemed fantastic seven years ago when Ernst was first forced to put on a German uniform. He was an infantryman in the Balkans and Italy in the dying days of the Wehrmacht, and he couldn’t give mudi thought to college anywhere—certainly not an American college. He served three and a half years with the Germans.
“It was not very nice,” he remembered this week, “fighting in a war which one knew was lost from the moment it began. Nor was it easy to break away. The Nazis liked to practice family revenge.”
After his army was disbanded, Ernst returned to his home in Vienna and entered the university. He found the city surrounded by Russian occupation forces and infested with Communist agents. The cold war had begun; Vienna, like Berlin, was caught between the firing lines.
Then last fall Ernst noticed an item in a Viennese newspaper; somebody was offering scholarships for American universities. For a long time he had believed in closer union between Europe and America on something more than material lines. He saw America as the world’s leading protagonist of democracy —Europe’s hope in the face of barbarism. He wanted to study the United States at first hand. Here was his opportunity; he entered the competition and won a scholarship.	.	.
But that was only the beginning. He still had to get here. To leave Austria he had to pass through the Russian zone, and the Russians don’t like college students who become influenced by American ideas. To make the Reds’ identification task easier, names and pictures of the six Austrian scholarship winners had been printed in American newspapers by over-zealous publicity departments.
“Had we left Austria when we had originally planned,” Ernst said, “the Russians might have kidnapped us, so we got out two weeks ahead of time. Even if I had stayed in Vienna, I don’t think I could have remained another year without harm. In Czechoslovakia one-third of the students were kidnapped for anti-Communist ideas. In Austria itself about 30 people are kidnapped every month.” (Continued on Page 28)
Nov. 5, 1948
15
Mademoiselle Wants Us?
Freight Charges Discussed At Economic Round Table
Sometimes publishing this magazine gets awful darn puzzling. We got a letter a couple of weeks ago which has thrown us into a state of utter confusion. The letter was from Mademoiselle, “The Magazine for Smart Young Women.” Mademoiselle has apparently got us mixed up with somebody else. Whatever Scholastic is, it certainly has no truck with magazines for smart young women. Most of the young women we know are pretty dumb anyhow.
What was most astounding about this letter, though, was the fact that it was addressed to the “Woman’s Page Editor.” As many of our exceptionally bright readers may have noticed, we do not have a woman’s page. We don’t even have a woman — except L. A. Kyser, our gorgeous advertising manager who doesn’t count because she is not a student. Besides, she’s 87 years old and can’t spell very well.
It was a very nice letter, you understand, written on very pretty pink paper. We want Mademoiselle to know we appreciate their interest in us. It’s good to know somebody cares.
Dear Editor (the letter said) :
Look . . . there isn’t the ghost of a “story” in this for you.
We’d like to think so. Naturally, we’d love it if you’d run a banner head and a front page story, (Land sakes, honey, we could certainly use one) on how we’re looking for alert, observant undergraduates (We are generally about as alert as a dead horse) to represent your college on the MLLE College Board. . . . But as a former college newspaper editor myself, I know it smacks of ye olde publicity handout. (You bet it does, kid,)....
No, there’s no story here. Not just now.
But next June there may be a big story for you — a “local girl makes good” feature you’d give your byline for. (We’d give our byline for a box of mildewed popcorn). And it may very well be about you or a sharp girl Friday on your staff.
It all depends on what you do in the next ten minutes.
If you read over the enclosed explanatory folder ... if you get together with your staff to decide which of you could best keep MLLE posted on campus doings . . . you may be writing, next year’s headlines right now! ,
Time is running short — College
16
Board applications must be mailed by Novembei- 1 — so please be sure those outstanding staff members meet this deadline.
Sincerely yours, MADEMOISELLE
P.S.: Because your position as editor attests to your own ability, we hope you’ll be among the first to submit a trial report. We want you, as well as . . . other outstanding girls who might do credit to your college, your paper, and to MLLE!
That, with a few deletions, is Mademoiselle’s communication. We are at a loss to figure out what’s it all about. Mademoiselle can’t possibly want us; we’d make rotten representatives on their college board. Maybe somebody else around here would like to handle the job. If you’re interested, we got that explanatory folder around someplace, and you can come and look at it. We don’t want it. If they’re serious about that dead-, line, it’s probably too late anyhow.
There’s something funny going on here.
Attention, crew! Leaf fallin? in Zone A! Attack on a heading of 170 ! That is all!
Notre Dame’s Economic Round Table met recently at Clark’s. Bob Griffith delivered a paper on the “Demise of the Basing-Point System.” The system under controversy is that wherein customers pay equal prices at the factory for commodities, after which each buyer pays his own freight charges. This is opposed to the old plan of “spreading the freight costs” among buyers regardless of distance from the factory. The discussion which followed the reading of the paper quickly became heated as members from various sections of the country took up the plan as it affected their own localities.
The Economic Round Table meets each Thursday to discuss various problems of economic, political and social significance. The subjects are not necessarily of an economic nature, rather are concerned with important developments in many fields of interest. At two earlier meetings this year, the Round Table discussed “The Coming Senatorial Elections” and the “Berlin Crisis.”
The Scholastic
THE
REVIEW OF POLITICS by Lawrence Connor
Ten years ago tension was mounting in Europe. The world anxiously awaited the results of Chamberlain’s talks with Hitler. When Germany was handed the Sudetenland, the world knew that war was just a matter of time.
In that fateful summer of 1938 three Notre Dame professors gathered together to discuss the founding of a quarterly review. In the face of the new internationalism, they saw the need of a journal of international affairs that would re-emphasize the Christian outlook, a kind of bulwark against materialism and secularism.
members at the University of Chicago on the subsciiption list than there are right here.
This lack of reception locally has not deterred its editor, Waldemar Gurian. The fabulous Mr. Gurian, with the uncontrollable hair, has made the magazine what it is. He fashioned the Review from behind his desk in the Science Hall, where he began work on it in a room no larger than an ordinary closet. His goal extended, from the first, much further than the limits of the campus. He envisioned a journal that would act as a sort of exchange medium for some of the great ideas of our time.
Work and Worry
But that wasn’t the end of it; success doesn’t come without hard work. The managing editors (as well as Gurian) and consultants here often had to work long hours on their own articles, read copy, and furnish book reviews—an integral part of the Review. Frank O’Malley, the man with the well controlled hair, doubtless smoked a package of cigarettes at one sitting—while he labored over manuscripts — rewriting sections here into readable English, and dropping superfluous sections somewhere else. Father McAvoy was working right along with O’Malley on revision work,
Indiana Renaissance Magazine is Ten Years Old
In January of 1939 the first issue of The Review of Politics was published. Success was immediate. Readers of high intelligence the world over began to subscribe to the Review: scholars, Catholic and non-Catholic, welcomed the publication.
Now, at the end of their tenth year, the evidence is piling up. Letters of praise and admiration from all parts of the United States, Europe, Latin America and Asia have come in to verify it. “Best now available in any language”. . . “outstanding periodical in political science in the United States” . . . “one of the most remarkable and enlightening publications in political science”—these are just a few of the enthusiastic notices.
Little Attention Here
But these have come from Yale, from Columbia, from New York, Berlin, and Chicago. The perplexing thing about the Review is that it has made so little dent in the Notre Dame student consciousness. For the Review of Politics is something to be proud of. Here is a publication that is conceded to be one of the noteworthy intellectual efforts to come out of Notre Dame—indeed, considered to be the best journal of its kind in America. Yet, there are more faculty
He went to work immediately on that vast circle of friends and acquaintances, the scholarly world over, which his books and career had won for him. They reacted immediately. Here was a chance for them to propound their views where they could best be understood and accepted. It wasn’t long before contributions began to come in.
and at the same time, was doing articles of his own on American church history. Professors Hermens and Fitzsimons both devoted their time generously to the Review.
It must have given these men, and the contributors as well, immense satisfaction to know that isuues of the Review were frequently used as texts in a number of universities. There have been a number of instances, too, where material was re-printed in books and magazines, here and abroad. In Hans Morgenthau’s latest book, Politics Among Nations, you will find quotes from the Review. Walter Lippmann acknowledged its practical value by incorporating passages from its articles, when he was writing on the “cold war” in his daily column. Says Lippmann, “I regard the Review of Politics as having very few equals and no superiors in the English-speaking world in the serious discussion of international politics.”	.
The fact that Mr. Lippmann used passages from the Review in his newspaper column seems significant somehow. Maybe the lack of student response can be traced to the misconception around here that the Review is for specialists. Mr. Gurian insists that it isn’t so, that '
Nov. 5, 1948
17
it’s an aid to anyone interested in the social and political problems of life. It seems to be important, then, for the student who cares to broaden his understanding of the world.
Covers Important Issues
A look at some of the topics dealt with in past issues supports Mr. Gurian’s contention. There have been numerous articles dealing with the atom tomb, the German crisis, Soviet policies, and contemporary problems in the United States. Philosophic and historical essays have also helped to trace the reasons underlying present day conditions. No one denies that the authors of these articles are qualified: Jacques Maritain, world renowned scholastic philosopher; John U. Nef. brilliant professor of economic history at the University of Chicago; Don Luigi Sturzo, founder of the Christian Democratic Party in Italy, are just a few.
There is a big difference between the Review's coverage of these subjects and those of a more widely read magazine— it goes deeper. Its contributors are informed of the facts, but they try to interpret them, too, generally looking at them from the historic and philosophic view, an approach best described perhaps as the Christian world-view.
Surely today everyone is concerned with the state of Russia. In the latest issue, the anniversary issue N. S. Tima-sheif, professor of sociology at Fordham University, discusses her relative strength- and weaknesses. Her area, population, location, raw materials, internal condition, industrial capabilities, food, education and morals are dealt with as entities to be reckoned with in case of war. Here is a complete analysis of our enemy in the “cold war.”
The Dome
FATHER McAVOY
Mr. Gurian, in past issues, has analyzed Hitler’s rise to power, and present Russian policies; Hermens has done a widely discussed series on Potsdam and Yalta; Smiths’ Hans Kohn on Russian nationalism . . . there are milestones in the Review's impressive attainment of its objective.
It’s this diversification of interesting subjects that makes the Review worthwhile to the non-academic as well as academic person, the non-Catholic as well as Catholic. Perhaps it may just be a matter of time before Notre Dame students begin to realize they have a unique journal in their midst. From the look of things they will have plenty of time in which to make the discovery. Here is what people at Yale University have to say about the continuance of the Review, “The Review has constantly maintained a high level of quality in its choice of
articles and reviews. ... It has established itself as indispensable for the political scientist. We wish you and its staff every success in the future.”
AIEE Head to Address ND Electrical Engineers Nov. 12
The president of the national engineering society, the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Everett S. Lee, will address the Notre Dame chapter of the AIEE in the engineering auditorium on November 12. For his topic he has chosen “Our Institute.”
A graduate of the University of Illinois, Mr. Lee received his master’s degree from Union College in 1915. Since the end of World War I, he has been continuously affiliated with the General Electric Company and in 1931 was appointed Engineer, General Engineering Laboratory, which position he now holds.
EVERETT S. LEE
According to Professor L. F. Stander, counselor for the Notre Dame chapter, Mr. Lee is an excellent inspirational type speaker. In addition to his major address, Mr. Lee will also have a short session on “The Engineer” with engineering freshmen at 4 p. m. the same day.
Bridge Tournament Underway At Walsh
Sponsored by the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus, a high-pressured bridge tournament got under way Wednesday in the KC’s Walsh Hall club rooms. Following up this first week’s play, similar tournaments will be conducted every Wednesday night beginning at 6:45 p.m. for all students interested in this highly competitive game.
According to information received from the K of C, all tournaments will be conducted on the duplicate bridge plan, which eliminates the element of luck to a great extent and enables players to compete by comparing their skill as they bid and play the same hands in the course of an evening.
There is no essential difference between contract bridge and duplicate bridge except by scoring and score comparison. Preliminary instructions in the duplicate technique will be made prior to each of the tournament sessions. Further details, including information on cash prizes, trophies and season competition Mall be explained later.
Notre Dame students have recently taken steps toward participating in National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournaments, which are always conducted on a duplicate basis. These K of C bridge sessions offer excellent practice in the development of a good game.
18
The Scholastic

1
may stray —
t.

-	- — 1 would leave
s^Some whimper of a song in these old oaks,
A foot fall lingering 3til some distant summer	s
Another singer down these fptyhs

The destined one a golden- future cloaks —
And he may love them, too, this ■ graced newcomer,
And may remember thaTT passed
EASTERN INVASION!
SCHOLASTIC photographer Joe Hipp captures some of the highlights of last week's student trip to the Navy game. (Upper left) Band members initiate new men in traditional student trip ceremonies. (Upper right) Students depart from train Saturday morning in Baltimore. (Right) Headliners at the Student Relief dance at the Uline Arena. From left to right: Lou Bums, national head of Foreign Student Relief Committee; the Secretary of the Italian Embassy; Burns' date for the dance; Mr. John V. Hinkel, Director of Public Information at Notre Dame; and the Secretary to the French Embassy. (Lower left) Students leaving Clifton Park Station (the busses were for the Middies). (Lower right) Dancing at the Uline to the music of Larry Clinton (left) and the singing of Patti Dugan (right).


SCHOLASTIC SLCLTJ
Hoosier Eleven Next Hurdle For Irish
Scout Unimpressed With Bowl-Bound 'Cats; Warns Against Supercharged Sophomore
ND Heavy Favorite To Extend Win Streak
With most students looking past the Indiana game to that big battle with Northwestern, Scholastic sent a scout scurrying to Evanston last week end to spy on the Rose Bowl-bound Wildcats, and he came back with good news. He said that Northwestern won’t beat Notre Dame here on November 13.
In their crucial contest with Ohio State, the Wildcats were victorious but not impressive, according to the scout. He reported that the NU defense looked good, especially on passes, but that the offense lacked that Leahy polish. The difference between victory and defeat was a supercharged sophomore named Johnny Miller.
The second half was all Miller’s show. Replacing highly-touted Frank Aschen-brenner, Miller demoralized the Buckeyes by continually breaking free for long gains around the ends and off Ohio’s weak left tackle. He scooted 25 yards to give Northwestern the lead and plunged for the clinching touchdown after Ohio State executed a clever double fumble.
Until Miller entered the game, Ohio
GEORGE TALIAFERRO
State seemed to hold a slight edge. Quarterback Don Burson’s lone completed pass had put the Wildcats ahead; he ran wide to his left, faked a run and lofted a floating toss to Ed Tunnicliff who was all alone. However, Jerry Krall tied it up quick with a 57-yard scoring run for the Buckeyes.
Ohio could have held a halftime lead if it hadn’t blown up. With the ball on the NU 9 yard line and 75 seconds remaining in the half, the Buckeyes got so nervous about the clock that at least half of them didn’t know what plays were being called. When Krall’s bad leg forced him to leave the game early in the second half, Ohio State was through.
Miller ran 14 times for 120 yards. An All-Chicago choice for Schurz High School in ’46, the 175-pound speed back squirts out of tacklers’ grasps like a greased pig. He should be one of the toughest breakaway threats to face the Irish this year.
Dependable Art Murakowski’s linebucking showed why he is always near the top in Big Nine ball-toting. Aschen-brenner added nothing to the Northwes-(Continued on Page 32)
DEL RUSSELL
By VIC DORR
Riding the crest of an 18-game winning streak, Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish will seek to extend their undefeated string to 25 in Bloomington tomorrow as they meet the Fightin’ Hoosiers of Indiana University for the first time since 1941. Sporting an admirable win column, the Irish are heavily favored to tack another loss on Indiana’s already mediocre record in this twenty-first renewal of the rivalry between the two schools.
Still smarting from Minnesota’s bitter 30-7 chastisement last week, the Hoosiers may well be expected to brace themselves before a home crowd tomorrow in a gallant attempt to stave off Notre Dame’s victory-bound onslaught. Though woefully lacking in good reserves, Coach Clyde Smith’s Indiana squad could give the Irish a busy afternoon by finding the second half spark they have so sorely missed in past games.
Highlighted by George Taliaferro’s three snappy touchdown runs, Indiana opened its season this fall with a 35-7 victory over a punchless Wisconsin squad. Iowa fell by the wayside the following week and the Hoosiers seemed destined for a successful year. But four straight losses have marred their record to date. TCU squeezed by, 7-6; Ohio State triumphed 17-0; Pitt outscored, 21-14; and Minnesota romped, 30-7.
A roster including twenty of last year’s lettermen indicates ample experience on the Hoosier squad, but after the first game their line has consistently failed to open the necessary holes. The graduation losses of Ends Lou Mihaj-lovich and Bob Ravensberg, as well as Guards Bob Harbison and Howard Brown, have presented a serious problem for Hoosier mentors. A lack of capable reserves has weakened their attack no little as the regulars have continually pooped out in second half play.
Nov. 5, 1948
21
Taliaferro Is Trouble
Heading the Indiana offensive is the highly-touted George Taliaferro, versatile Negro halfback from Gary, one of the top passers, runners and punters in the Big Nine conference. With him in the first string backfield are Quarterback Nick Sebek, Right Half John Mc-
HOOSIERS' WITUCKI
Donnell, and Fullback Harry Jagade, who tallied the Hoosiers’ lone score in the Iowa game with a brilliant 32-yard run. Del Russell, a victim of injuries so far this season is another capable halfback to be considered. Having discarded Bo McMillin’s familiar “cock-eyed-T,” the Hoosier offense has employed the single-wing exclusively in ’48.
Alert Irish scouts have probably detected one of the Hoosiers’ favorite scoring tricks. In recent games, a screen pass play involving Taliaferro, McDonnell and Sebek has accounted for much yardage. Both touchdowns against Pitt were the result of screen passes, one from Sebek to Taliaferro who scored on an 80-yard jaunt, and another toss from Taliaferro to McDonnell. Indiana’s sole tally against the Gophers last week sprung from the Taliaferro-to-McDon-nell screen pass combination again.
Irish Roll On
Capitalizing on Navy fumbles and sheer* Irish offensive might in Baltimore’s Babe Ruth Stadium last week, Notre Dame rode to an overwhelming 41-7 triumph over a game, but out-manned team from the United States Naval Academy. Scoring in every period, the Irish ran their total to thirty quarters without a blank, as Sitko, Pan-elli, Gay, Lank Smith, Spaniel and Landry all tallied in succession.
Using few passes and many substitutions, Frank Leahy’s lads unleashed their greatest offensive play against the Naval Academy in 22 years. Harrassed by 129 yards lost in penalties, but supported by a hard-charging and smartly-blocking line, the Irish still amassed a total of 407 yards by rushing and passing to the Middies’ 227.
Frank Tripucka and Baltimore’s Bob Williams performed brilliantly in directing the Notre Dame victory. Trip completed five passes in as many attempts while Williams connected for four out of six. Emil Sitko was again the Irish workhorse as he carried 17 times for a total of 172 yards, including several beautiful runs. Steve Oracko, too, was beside himself as he converted five points after touchdown, his best record to date.
Irish injuries incurred in the battle include a possible leg fracture for reserve guard Jim Dailer, a sprained ankle for Larry Coutre, and, as Jim Costin says, “Bob Lally lost three teeth when he swung his mouth against a Navy lineman’s elbow.”
■ o •	■
Fancy Irish Fencers Unlimber ‘48 Weapons
For the past three weeks, Herb Melton’s swordsmen have been working out in the Old Gym for the 1948-49 fencing
HERB MELTON AND FRIENDS The Coach Shows His Pupils the Way
season. With thirty men out for the varsity and with five home matches, the squad is expected to attract much attention on the Irish campus.
Although the scehdule hasn’t been approved yet, ND is slated to play host to Chicago, Illinois, Northwestern, Ohio State and Illinois Tech. Teams like this will make it the best home schedule since the sport was resumed here in 1946.
Twelve lettennen return including excaptain Lou Burns, Jerry Lubin, Colin MacDonald and Mike DiCicco in the foils; Bob Schlosser, Bob Bloser, Ralph Witucki, and Tom Roney in the sabre; and Ralph Dixon, John Vincent, Jerry Dobyns and Jim Jansen in the epee. Added to the stiff competition for the nine starting berths are sophomores Dan Parisi, Nick Scalera, and Bob Westrick in the foil; Joe Eusteman and Al Bloom in the sabre; and Murray Powers and Tom Leonard in the epee.
Although the foil team was undefeated in its phase of last year’s matches, the epee and sabre groups will be the strongest and most depended upon for points this season. Even the possible loss of two varsity men in February will not be too disastrous for the Irish have adequate replacements.
Since experience isn’t necessary and major monograms will be awarded for the second year, the call for freshmen, sometime after November 15, should be large.—Jack Varley
22
The Scholastic
Harriers to Defend State Crown Today
Notre Dame’s cross country runners will defend their State title Friday, Nov. 5, at 3 p.m. when they engage Indiana and Purdue in a four-mile battle on the Irish course. Ten colleges will compete for the little state crown at the same time, the total field comprising approximately 100 men.
Coach Elvin R. Handy will use six of the same runners he has employed to date. The remaining position will go either to Jim Kelly who has partially recovered from his foot injury or to Gerry Johnson or Leo Paradise. The regular’ squad is composed of Jim Murphy, Jim Kittell, Bill Leonard, Lou Tracy, Tony DaDamio and Lou Lepry. These six Irish harriers swamped Navy and Villanova last Saturday on the five-mile Annapolis course. Notre Dame scored 24 points to 47 for Villanova and 55 for the Middies. Browning Ross of Villanova won the individual crown, but Murphy and Kittell followed his example in breaking the course record.
Purdue and Indiana will make the fight for the Big State Title one of the roughest in years. Notre Dame under Handy has won the championship every other year, and this is the year for the Irish to relinquish the title. Both Purdue and Indiana have impressive dual meet records to date.
In the Little State competition, the fight for the crown seems to be wide open, although DePauw and Ball State both have fine teams. Other squads competing are Earlham, Taylor, Anderson, Canterbury, Franklin, Manchester, Butler, and Indiana Central.
The run will begin on the Notre Dame golf course, but spectators will see the affaii’ from special bleachers erected near the Grotto. From this vantage point the crowd may view the finish of each mile. The state contest is the first held here since 1945 when the Irish won. In 1946 Indiana took the team championship.
On Nov. 13 Notre Dame will be host to the Central Collegiates. Michigan State, Drake, Marquette, Michigan Normal, Western Michigan, and Bowling Green colleges are entered to date.— Jim Howard
RUSHING
L. Smith 		Times 	 2	Net Yds. 24	Avg. 12.0
Panelli 			 55	463	8.4
Coutre 			 21	145	6.9
Brennan 				 29	184	6.3
Spaniel 			 18	111	6.2
Sitko 			 97	587	6.1
Zalejski 				 5	27	5.4
SPLINTERS from the Press Box
By Harry Monahan
Notes on a Matchbook Cover
LaPaz incident: pint-sized autograph hound: “Say, mister, are you a coach or something?” “Moose” Krause: “Who, me? No, I’m just one of the managers.” . . . Battlecry of the whistle signatureseekers, “Just get the big ones, don’t bother with the little guys!” . . . It’s quite a sight seeing Steve Oracko stepping through the club car carrying a large copy of the works of Homer.... Where were Panelli and Sitko when the team got off? That was the same question they asked themselves as they arrived in Washington terminal while the rest of the team had gotten off at Catholic U. Fortunately both found their way back to the pack before game time.
Irish student body chanting “Three Blind Mice” as the referee paced off penalty number 12 against Notre Dame. . . . The minuet practiced by Leahy’s lads in the ballroom of the Lord Baltimore Hotel Friday was changed to a waltz Saturday. . . . Harry Wismer unimpressed by the running of Sitko and Gay, but overjoyed and incoherent every time Navy made three yards. . . . The laconic fourth-quarter press box announcement, “That touchdown is the first Navy has made against Notre Dame in three years.” Say “thank you” to Frank, Coach Sauer. . . . Poor Navy this week: The Michigan reserves will see very little action as the Wolverines will attempt to gain lost ground by swamping the Middies by at least 60 points.
Competition for Terry
The pessimistic Mr. Leahy wasn’t feeling too well last year when a promising halfback had to drop out of school due to the complications of a broken jaw and the flu. The loss was even more serious when Terry Brennan became a question mark for this season. Now the head man has to flip a coin to decide which one to send in. Those who saw Bill Gay’s performance against Navy last week and remember the running show he put on here during the Michigan State game will find it hard to believe that he once was so badly injured that it was doubtful that he would ever play for the Irish again. Bill is giving
the Milwaukee speedster a fight for that portside backfield slot. He may not ease Brennan out this season —Terry
BILL GAY
isn’t exactly standing still when he gets the ball — but it’s comforting to know that we’ve got some capable replacements for the rough days ahead in 1949.
Musings at Halftime
Zalejski should have had a touchdown against Navy, but the limp in his right leg was quite noticeable and slowed him enough to let the Navy drag him down from behind. . . . ’Tis rumored that this is O’Shea’s last year for the Irish. The pro ball offers are getting too good to pass up. . . . Notre Dame lost both McGees recently. Randy decided to transfer to Texas A & M shortly after his brother, Coy, was injured. ... Is Fritz Crisler going to the Pacific Coast? New offers from USC and UCLA are very tempting. USC’s offer has only one drawback: they have Notre Dame on their schedule. . . .
Prediction of the Week
The Hoosiers started out fast, but have faded. Even with Taliaferro in his best form they couldn’t pull this one out of the fire. Notre Dame, 36; Indiana, 6.
Nov. 5, 1948
23
Kennel NoteA • . .
University of Chicago Soccer Squad Beats Outclassed ND
Last Monday the University of Chicago soccer team easily defeated the Notre Dame soccer team by a score of 6 to 1. Flaying on Stagg Field in Chicago, the Irish representatives were outplayed from the start.
Very inexperienced and not as well trained as Mr. Maxwell would have liked them to have been, the Irish traveled to Chicago with high hopes. The game was witnessed by 200 spectators; many from the University of Chicago who were rooting for the Irish. The Chicago team, a very well trained and very aggressive outfit, almost scored at will while Notre Dame was only able to chalk up one goal. The lone Irish goal was scored by a Chinese boy, Joe Ku, the center forward. Frank Gwinn, left wing, and Louis Pallais, goalie, also played commendable games.
Hipp
SPANIEL BIPS OFF A GOOD GAIN IN NAVY GAME
(The following is a transcript of a rvire recording made by Clashmore Mike shortly before he left home.)
Whoosh!! Is that character with the plow back again? He bounces in and out o’ our schedule so much you’d think he was part Mexican jumpin’ bean instead of a stolid Hoosier corn farmer. Well, we’ll see what entertainment we can take down to our country cousin, but I don’t think he’ll be likin’ it any better than Purdue or Michigan State did.
Sure, and I don’t trust this quiet fella’, chewin’ on a straw. He’s standing there so unconcerned, with one foot in the furrow, but the other one just waitin’ to kick my boys in the tail end of an undefeated season. He’ll have the welcome mat out all right, but I think he’ll have it wired to give us the hot foot.
Frank was talkin’ to me just the other night about you people. He says none of ya are normal when ya play my boys. That includes Michigan State, Purdue, Iowa and Nebraska. He can’t figure it out, except that you kind of go berserk when someone waves green in front of ya. But we’ve got just the 11 psychiatrists to calm ya down.
He told me what ya did to his buddy, Harry, who works someplace north of here. You’re not catching me with my “Good bye Clashmore Club” sticking out. I like it around South Bend, swell bunch of kids to work with, acres and acres of trees, and the whole works is mine. Leave your tools at home tomorrow, cousin, the Irish will do your plowin’ for ya!

“I bin a-waitin’ on this here game fer a long time,” the Typical Indiana Hoosier told me when I asked him about the coming battle between Notre Dame and Indiana.
It took me a long time to find the T.I.H., but after spending a week at Walnut and Kirkwood—Bloomington’s Broadway and 42nd Street—I finally found him on a Saturday. He was easy to spot because of his store-boughten overalls, and the limestone chips in his hair.
“I’d like to ask you a few questions, Mr. Hoosier,” I began.
“Go ahead, just so it don’t cost me anything,” he replied. “Ask all you want. I got my corn all husked, so I’m in no hurry.”
“You know there’s a football game coming up between Indiana and Notre Dame, don’t you?”
“I shore do. It’s one of them things where the Hoosiers are playin’ against the rest of the world. You know Indiana’s team is almost all boys from this here state, which is the best in the world, you know. Well, them Notre Dame lads are a bunch of guys from! all over, you know. Can’t compare with a boy born and raised in Indiana, you know.”
“Did you know that Notre Dame has a long unbeaten streak, and is rated the best team in the country?” I asked.
“I shore do know it,” he answered. “Them Irish boys is a-ridin’ fer a fall. They’re gettin’ just abit too cocky fer a fightin’ team like Indiana. Why, they bin a-scorin’ touchdowns so easy they most like fergot how to earn ’em.”
24
The Scholastic
Eight Hot-Shots Pace 160-Candidate Frosh
Basketball Turnout; 43 Hopefuls Left
In the spring, they say, “a young man’s fancy turns,” etc. Here that saying may be changed to read something like: “In the fall, when the trees are bare and the air has taken on a certain briskness, a freshman’s fancy turns to basketball”— if the turnout for the frosh basketball team means anything.
About 160 aspirants showed up during the first week of practice. The coaches were quick to chop off a large part of this number and now there is a reduced squad of 43 which will have to be cut again. There are, however, eight men who are sure to be around when the final cut is made. Wayne Curran, brother of 1947 captain, Fran, and Andy So-bek, of a long line of brothers, are coaching the frosh squad.
These boys come from all over the country and are rated as very good material. From Brooklyn, New York, comes Bob Wray, a six foot five inch two hundred and twenty pounder who navigates at the center spot. Bob never played high school ball at Brooklyn Tech but he did play in the New York Knicks league with the Abraham & Strauss team. He also played CYO ball on his parish team and was the high scorer last year.
Another boy who makes the coaches feel good is Don Strasser. This six-footer hails from Chicago where he played on the Leo High team and was voted the most valuable player on his squad last year. Comparatively small though he may be, he is an excellent ball handler and on the whole very deceptive. His first three years in high school he played on the lightweight team and was co-captain in 1947.
Another Easterner is Leroy Leslie who calls his home town Johnstown, Pa. Standing six feet two inches and weighing 167 pounds, he played two years on the Johnstown Catholic High quintet. While there he set a school record for individual scoring in a game, racking up 36 points. His team won the western Pennsylvania Catholic AA title in 1948 and was runner-up in 1947. He is an energetic and smooth working ball player. His best shot seems to be also the set.
South Bend’s lone contribution to the team is Tom Roemer, who attended the Holy Cross Seminary for three years. Like Bob Wray, Tom did not play higl# school ball. He got most of his experience in the army. In his one and a half years in the service he played quite a bit of ball. He played for the Camp
LOOK AT THAT REACH!!
Lee team and also for the Eighth Army team in Japan. Now he hopes to make a name for himself at Notre Dame.
Dick Clancy from Kankakee, Ill., was one of the few men to ever play four years of varsity basketball climaxing his high school career by being captain and setting the school record for most points in a single game, 33. His school team, St. Patrick’s High, won the Kankakee
BAYLESS, WRAY, WILCOX. JAEKELS, ROEMER
Valley Tournament in 1947. Dick’s build is about the same as Leslie’s, 6’2”
and 175 pounds. His favorite shot is a one-hand push.	-
Hugh Wilcox is the tallest member ot a very tall team towering at 6’6” am weighing 170 pounds. He was captain of the Abraham Lincoln High school team in Council Bluffs, Iowa. His team in Council Bluffs won the inter-city title in 1947 and was second in the Missouri Valley Conference. '	.
From the South comes Jerry Stricker. He lives in Charleston, West Virginia, and played two years on the varsity in. Charleston Catholic High. He is a 6’4 %” center and won All-State Catholic recognition in 1947. Another .boy who hails from the mid-west is Mike-Jaekels. Mike is from Milwaukee, Wis-r consin, and is also a center. He. stands 6’5” and weighs 202 pounds.—Bill D
Purdue B Team Topples Irish Junior Varsity, 13-0
Last Saturday, while the varsity was sinking Navy, the Junior varsity traveled to Lafayette for a return engagement with the Purdue “B” team. As it turned out Purdue dumped our boys to the tune of 13 to 0.	’
Notre Dame was without the services of Len Kroll, who was the standout performer in the last meeting between these two teams. Purdue flashing a hard running attack and a tight defense evened the series with the Irish “B.”
Nov. 5, 1948
25
Alumni Outclasses Morrissey, 12-0
A snappy passing attack unfurled in the first quarter and midway through the third period brought Alumni Hall a 12-0 win over Morrissey Hall on Tuesday, October 26.
Alumni took the opening kickoff and quickly drove to the Morrissey 35-yard line. Then Harry Goheen dropped an aerial into the hands of Bill Small on the five, and Small went over for the first score.
In the third quarter, Alumni, starting deep in its own territory, pished the ball to the Morrissey 30-yard line where Goheen hit Leo Schmidt with his second touchdown pass.
Rugged line play held the offense of both teams in check throughout most of the game, and it was not until the fourth quarter that Morrissey made a bid to score. They penetrated to the Alumni 15-yard stripe, but a touchdown pass was called back and Alumni took over as the contest ended—Frank Ronnenberg
Walsh Downs Spunky Farley, 14-0
Scoring all its points in the first half, Walsh Hall downed a spunky Farley eleven, 14 to 0, on Oct. 27.
Shortly after receiving the opening kick-off, Farley attempted to punt from deep in its own territory on fourth down. The pass from center went over the intended kicker’s head and Walsh recovered on the Farley 12. On the first play, Tony Benkowski crashed through to the one-yard line before being halted. On the next play, he split guard and tackle for the touchdown. Don Jost converted to make the score 7-0.
Walsh scored again the next time they got their hands on the ball, going 52 yards in just seven plays. Benkowski climaxed the drive by going over standing up from 12 yards out. Don Jost made his second conversion attempt good to end the scoring for the day.
Farley’s attack just couldn’t get started because of. the hard-charging Walsh forward wall. Their deepest penetration of Walsh territory came on the last play of the first half when Dick Prendergast intercepted a Walsh aerial and galloped 52 yards down the side
lines to the Walsh 28 before being driven out of bounds.—Jack Meaney
Zahm Presses Lead; Edges St. Ed's, 2-0
In a tense and hardfought battle of defensive teams, Zahm scored a 2-0 victory over St. Ed’s.
The struggle between two fine lines resulted in a scoreless first half, although Zahm drove deep into the Saints’ territory with a beautiful end-around play. Zahm recovered a fumble on the St. Ed 38 at the outset of the second half and moved to the 13 on a tricky lateral with Gassick running the ball. St. Ed’s held, but a penalty set them back to the 1 yard line. There the Zahm forwards, headed by Bob King, broke through and dropped the ball carrier behind the goal for the lone score of the game. Zahm later went over on a sleep-
The play-by-play story of every ARMY-NOTRE DAME football game.
• Detailed descriptions of every game
• Complete statistics
• Rosters of all the players
• 32 pages of illustrations
• Forewords by FRANK LEAHY & EARL (RED) BLAIK
$3.00 at the college bookstore
JIM BEACH and DANIEL MOORE
' RANDOM HOUSE, N. Y.
er play, but it was called back.
The win kept Zahm in the title race. Coach Chamberland’s squad has won two and lost one whereas St. Ed’s has lost both its encounters to date.
—Bob Rubery
Dillon Sets Pace; Takes Lyons, 13-0
A fast Dillon eleven whipped Lyons, 13-0 for its third straight victory, all by the same score. Howard and Alumni were the first two victims.
In the first quarter, Zeke Lane intercepted a Lyons pass and raced 47 yards to pay dirt in a brilliant display of running. Fullback Jack McGroeder kicked the extra point. Then, in the second period, a double reverse and some beautiful blocking sent the speedy Lane fifty yards for another tally. The remainder of the game was spent with both teams fighting hard, but lacking enough power to push the ball over.
Although teir line gave an outstanding performance, especially on defense, the Lyons team was unable to muster a scoring punch.—Jack Varley
NEXT WEEK'S SCHEDULE
Nov. 10: St. Ed’s vs Farley Cavanaugh vs Walsh
Nov. 11: Morrissey vs Dillon Howard vs Lyons
ARMY vs.
NOTRE DAME
THE BIG GAME 1913-1947
26
The Scholastic
Names Make
News
A Notre Dame Alumnus of the 1930 class of the College of Arts and Letters, PETER J. WACKS, has been named to the post of personnel manager of Chance-Vought Aircraft. After taking post-graduate work at the Cornell University Law School, Wacks, who lives in Windsor, Conn., was admitted to the New York state Bar and practised law in Binghamton, N. Y., until 1938, when he was appointed a special agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He resigned from Government service in August, 1943, to accept a position as assistant director of plant protection for United Aircraft. He had received an appointment to the VAC Personnel Department the beginning of this year....
PETER I. WACKS
The Rev. JOHN H. MURPHY, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, will take part in a ten-day military orientation conference sponsored by the Department of Defense beginning next Monday. Leaders in industrial, business and professional fields have been invited to the conference, which is aimed at acquainting the group with current activities and problems of the armed forces. Father Murphy and the other members of the panel will visit military bases including Ft. Benning, Ga.; the Pensacola, Fla., Naval Base; and the Eglin Air Base at Valparaiso, Fla....
K. N. CAMPBELL, professor of Chemistry at Notre Dame, was among the twenty-six scientists from all parts of the country who attended the second annual Smith, Kline & French Labora
tories Research Advisors Conference which was held at the pharmaceutical manufacturing firms’ headquarters in Philadelphia the latter part of last month. The purpose of these conferences, which include guests representing nine different fields of scientific research, is to afford an opportunity for SKF Research Division personnel to discuss recent developments in the medical research field with top scientists from many of the country’s leading colleges and universities. . . .
Another ND alumnus to break into air-circle news is WALTER H. JOHNSON, Jr., of Tuckahoe, N. Y., who has been named regional vice-president of the eastern region of American Airlines. Johnson, who graduated from the College of Arts and Letters here in 1939, joined the sales department of American Airlines in New York City the following year. Formerly director of sales for the airline, he served with the airline industry’s first cargo sales and traffic staff and helped pioneer American’s cargo sales department....
MM5
White Is Right— But ARROW White Is Wonderful!
In our store there's a world of ARROW Collar styles to choose from with the contour following Mitoga fit, the Sanforized Label.
Drew — Low Band, Fused Collar..................... 3.65
Dart — Regular Style Fused Collar................. 3.65
Hull — Low Band, 3-inch point, Fused Collar........3.65
Dale — Regular Fused Collar....................... 4.50
Claridge — Soft Collar, French Cuff............... 5.50
Arden — Low Band, short point, Fused Collar........ 3.65
Gordon Doubler — Collar for Dress or Sport........3.95
Gordon Dover — Button-down Collar..................3.95
MEN'S SHOP . . . MAIN FLOOR
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, an alumnus of Notre Dame from Montclair, N. J., and president of the Manhattan. Refrigerator Company and of the Union Terminal Cold Storage Company of New-York, has been awarded the first Quad-ragesimo Anno Medal by the Association of Catholic Trade Unionists. Adams is the founder and first president of the Catholic Institute of the Food Industry, an organization to promote Catholic social principles in industry. Officials of the Association of Catholic Trade Unionists said the medal to Adams marked one of the few times in the history of organized labor in the United States that an employer had received an award from workers. The medal is awarded annually to “an individual who makes an outstanding contribution to the Christian solution of industrial problems.” Adams graduated from here in 1926. . . .
Highlighting the second in a series of political information meetings sponsored by the Junior Association of Commerce last week was a talk by Professor ALFRED L. SCANLAN, of the College of Law, on the topic “Political aspects of the (Presidential) campaign from the democratic standpoint.”
Nov. 5, 1948
27
Ernst Haindl
(Continued from Page 15)
Ernst had made his beliefs known to the Russians long before applying for his scholarship. He had been chairman of the academic section of the Austrian-American Society in Vienna. The object of the society is the building of greater understanding between the Austrian and American people. Once arrived in America, Ernst spoke three times over the Voice of America in New York to give his impressions of America.
Conversation with Ernst gives you a pretty good idea of what Europe—and particularly Austria—are like today. He learned a lot while working for APA, the Austrian news agency.
“Communism has a very weak hold on Austria now,” he declared. “Only two per cent of the students and four per cent of the general population are Communists. In a recent election in the Russian zone there were fewer Communist votes than party members. In one village there was one Communist but not a single Communist vote. He was later taken away.
“Most universities were heavily damaged by the war. At Vienna reconstruction is not yet finished, and students attend lectures in the winter in halls without windows or doors. Food is, of course, low. If the Russians seize the city, most students will have to leave anyhow.”
Concerning Russia’s future plans Ernst believed only complete refusal to yield an inch could stop the Reds.
“Appeasement will not work,” he said. “If you were near the Russians and could see them preparing for a new war —even before the last one ended—you would know that the only way to prevent war is to hold them back. Land concessions would give the Russians a marvelous starting point for their attack. Without initial successes they won’t be able to get started.
“Overthrow is not now possible. The Russian people are tightly controlled and will be as long as their masters can tell them they are working for world revolution. For this reason, the Russians must keep advancing. That is why they are preparing a war. They must be able to tell their people that their privations are caused by the conspiring capitalists who surround them. Marxism has failed to bring utopia, so an excuse must be found. There must be both a strict central system to prevent dissatisfaction and the great distant aim of world revolution toward which to work.
“But even there,” Ernst continued, “Communism has broken down. Revolu
tion no longer seems possible. Any advance Marxism makes must come through open military aggression.”
And what does this young Austrian think of America now that he has finally got here?
“One general impression I get of the United States,” he said, “is that it is like a great machine, working very precisely, in which you must find the right cog at the right moment or you are lost.”
“Your people are very friendly and helpful. You are comfortable and easy with others than Europeans. You have an agreeable informality in manners, while Europeans are usually very stiff and formal. I like your frankness about your problems and opinions. You talk freely and are not afraid to say what you think. In Europe such talk would be disliked; there we are restricted in voicing our opinions. You breathe easier here; you have a more optimistic outlook on life because you have more opportunities.”
Just What You Want for Fall Wear!
All Wool
SLACKS
10.95 Up
Rvsc 5 Katz
1 V FOR MEN AND 1 VrOtWG MEN
About Notre Dame?
“Your campus is beautiful. There is nothing like this in Europe. I like the close contact you have with your professors here. You co-operate with each other. In Europe we listen to lectures and take a test at the end of the term, and that’s all there is to it. One never meets his teachers.”
Such is the story of Ernst Haindl; what he’s done, what he thinks, what he wants. When his year at Notre Dame is finished, Ernst will go back to Vienna — if he can — to hope and pray and work for the day when everybody can talk and live as freely as Americans.— Bob Stock
You Got Big Feet
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.—(ACP)—The college male has broad shoulders, a narrow waist, and big feet according to the military department at Indiana University.
•i
28
The Scholastic
Radio
By VERNE KELLEY
Saw the man who invented football Saturday night — Harry Wismer. Harry was at the Uline posing as a Master of Ceremonies. Personally we thought Jungle Jim Martin gave a better talk accepting Emil Sitko’s trophy for outstanding player of the game.
The only thing these too-well-paid announcers have over a lot of people is a louder voice. Does anyone know definitely whether Wismer had a script for his brief visit? And whether Jim was ad libbing?
Our Boy Frankie
Affable, blond and crew-cutted Frank Cronan, Mr. WND, shouldn’t be so bashful. If only more people knew of his whistling talents. The kid has possibilities.
It’s too bad he won’t give himself an hour show. But then false modesty has ruined many a great man.
Hey, Tom . . .
Does Tom Logan, Sophomore class prexy, who had Elliott Lawrence handed to him on a plate with the name Eddie Makar stamped underneath, know of any way the Cotillion can get nationwide broadcasting.
We remember last year’s Soph dance. It was either WND or one of the local stations which had Bay McKinley on the air.
It would be swell if Notre Dame could get a little publicity by having the dance wired into every corner of the country. Might show some people that all social life at ND doesn’t end with each football game.
Check in Again . . .
... on the Dave Garroway show at 5:15 every afternoon. The horn-rimmed spinner plays the best music, period. He also says much in a philosophical vein which has always knocked us out. It’s later than you think, Tiger.
There is a spot in radio for one of the top comedians on campus. John “Beta-Million” Gaines can tell a joke like nobody. Ah, but he only does it on rare occasions. The pity of it all. Good night. ■
Nov. 5, 1948
Charles cNabickt’s
MARY ANN
DRIVE* IN
Sandwiches, Sodas, Malts, French Fries and Chili
Open 7 days a week — 11 a. m. to 12 p. m.
1711 SOUTH MICHIGAN
“South bend's Oldest Catering tfamilq”
601 North Niles Avenue
— for —
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
HOURS: 10 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. Re-open: 4:30 p. m. to 10 p. m. SATURDAYS: 10 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. Re-open: 4:30 p. m. to ll;30p. m.
Call 3-0978	James and Josephine Bamber, Proprietors
RUBIN CLEANERS
EXPERT REPAIRS AND
20% Discount to Notre Dame Students oh regular service.
ALTERATIONS
217 E. Jefferson
2 Blocks East of Kresges
29
Letters
(Continued from Page 3)
portunity to a young immigrant priest with the call of the missions in his soul and the dream of a fountain of learning in his heart.
The brotherhood of the Mystical Body blinds us to the little significances of social or professional fraternities.
Perhaps our greatest tradition is a sense of security in the pattern of Notre Dame, which makes every alumnus confident without expression of the continuing of the purpose and the basic content of his alma mater. It is this security that makes one Notre Dame man accept another wholeheartedly, without regard to year or to college.
It is the taking for granted of our real traditions which makes honest young men like “The Browser” overlook the May devotions at the Grotto, the blessings of our athletic teams, the prayers in the Hall Chapels, the almost hidden phenomenon of a daily communion record that revolutionized Catholic college life.	e
Winning teams are not the causes of any traditions at Notre Dame. But “The Browser” seems to be missing some proper analysis if he does not detect in the long record of Notre Dame athletic leadership a base of tradition that produces winning teams. Many schools have had good coaches, and good material. Few have equalled the long-range record of Notre Dame.
It may be wrong in essence to try to measure or define tradition, in the richness and power with which it enters the molding of men and the destinies of universities.
Maybe “The Browser” or the rest of the Notre Dame men in campus clubs and organizations should, to better advantage, pursue those customs—to identify and preserve them—which seem to come closest to embodying the deeper heritage of the Notre Dame man.
James E. Armstrong Alumni Secretary
Letter to a Rebel
Dear Editor:
Washington Hall’s motion picture program recently featured a short, “Letter to a Rebel.” By its appeal to patriotism it stacked the cards against its critics but I think it- is important that its showing at a Catholic college be criticized.
Sooner or later American Catholics are going to have to learn that Catholicism and capitalism are not synonymous. What was shown of the editorial written by the young “rebel” read like a quotation from Pius XI. Whether most Catholics know it or not, the social program outlined in Quadragesimo Anno is something quite different from tradition
al capitalism. The men who would applaud “Letter to a Rebel” would look with disfavor on the Pope’s plan for the working man’s participation in profits and management.
“Letter to a Rebel” was a perfect example of the kind of secular economics too often prevalent in this country, even among Catholics. No better example of this kind of thinking could be found than the quoting of percentage figures that illustrate the worker' is getting a greater share and management a lesser share. This is typical of the kind of thinking done by men who think there is a science of economics, consisting of immutable laws demonstrable by statistics, apart from human factors and moral law.
The important thing is not the cold percentages but whether or not the wage a man receives is enough to give him and his family the necessary food, clothing and shelter. The important thing is not the percentage of profits management keeps but how much are the profits.
The challenge of communism is not going to be met by the platitudes of a “Letter to a Rebel.” It is going to be met by men becoming radicals in the best meaning of the word.
Catholics must become radicals. Catholic educational institutions should be striving to create radicals; radicals who realize that the radical of all things is God; radicals who realize that the most radical thing in the world is to act in all things as if they see Christ in all men.
The plea for a world that will not disturb a status quo based on a belief of the importance of “Things” rather than the only “Thing” of importance has no place on a Catholic campus. “A Letter to a Rebel” has a place only where men are being taught that the world is as it should be; it has no place at Notre Dame where men must be taught to be radicals.	Dale Francis
Off-Campus
For the One and Only
Flowers by Williams
ORCHIDS & GARDENIAS
Specializing in Corsages
V
Williams, The Florist
219 West Washington “Just West of the Oliver” .
Learn to Sell
Upper classman with car and spare time afternoons and evenings to sell beautiful line of sterling silver in home by appointment. No canvassing. Our distributors average commission of $8 per call and college student must average 12 calls per week to hold contract. We are new subsidiary of a large national corporation interested in developing men for sales supervision after graduation.
Wriie: MR. V. O. RICE
130 S. Sullivan Avenue Gary, Indiana
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
arvr
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
Bowlers!
Be Sure to Start Your League Bowling Right! Get a Custom-Fitted MANHATTAN Bowling Ball Today
We carry a complete line of bowling shoes and bags. We will gladly give estimates on team bowling shirts.
SONNEBORN'S
SPORT SHOP 121 West Colfax Avenue
Phone 3-3702
30
The Scholastic
Third Degree
By VINCE GIESE
Seventy-five graduate couples joined with the married vets in an old-fashioned Halloween party Saturday evening in the Vets’ Recreation Hall amid a setting of witches and goblins, hay, corn stalks, and jack-o-lanterns.
The party was livened with the traditional broomstick races (won by Ray and Treva Munich — graduate physicists), apple biting contests, musical chairs (on bales of hay), mask marking and many others. Al Marrero won the door prize of two dinner tickets at the Philadelphia restaurant.
Cider, doughnuts, dancing, and hostesses all helped make the party enjoyable.
One of the leavening influences of the Graduate School on the life at Notre Dame is the presence of students from foreign countries on campus. For the present semester, thirty foreign students are pursuing courses in the Graduate School. They come from Hungary, Switzerland, Canada, China, Greece, Ecuador, India, Newfoundland, Austria, Norway, Mexico, Nova Scotia, the Philippines, and Poland.
Their participation in the life of the university brings to all students — undergraduate and graduate — contact with different cultures and ideas. Through association with them, students begin to break down national and . international barriers to a certain world vision which university education should bring. We begin to see our own particular field of knowledge in a clearer perspective. We begin to see where our vocation fits into world history.
Again this year, the Graduate Student Association hopes to schedule a series of lectures by foreign students on particular intellectual and cultural problems of their native lands. Several such lectures were well-attended last year.
From the office of the Dean of the Graduate School, Father Moore, comes the announcement of a series of education lectures which the university is offering for those graduate students looking forward to teaching as a career. The first lecture will be given by Dr. Bernard Kohlbrenner on Nov. 4 at 8:00 in Room 219 Main Building. The topic will be The American School System. Four in number this semester, these lectures are a service of the Department of Education for those students who have had no professional courses in education.
Chairman of the Athletic Committee, Louis Goretta, 314 Chemistry Building, urges all those who wish to have basketball teams represented to contact him as soon as possible in order that a league may be planned.
Two things Gf&y college man* should know!
This is a blind date. Note the Gnu Look. Exclusively hers. Don’t shudder. How do you look to her?
It’s a cinch to look mighty sharp when tvearing a handsome "Manhattan” repp tie
a
£
a
This is a "Manhattan” repp tie.
Comes in a multitude of distinctive stripings exclusively "Manhattan” Knots without slipping. Resists wrinkles. See these fine repps and other outstanding "Manhattan” neckwear at your favorite men’s shop today.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Coor. 1°48. T*»e Manhattan Shirt Co.
The Graduate Students’ Association held another short business meeting Thursday night in the Law Building, where the committee investigating the problem of recognition of the Graduate Students’ Association made its report.



85

Nov. 5, 1948
31
Look to
^GILBERT'S
for VAN HEUSEN
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.
Unimpressed With 'Cats (Continued from Page 21) tern rushing game, but he did manage to haul a kickoff back 53 yards through the aid of some tremendous blocking. His punting was excellent, per usual. Ed Tunnicliff ran often but not far.
In the line, Fatso Day, who is big but not fat, Chuck Hagmann and George Maddock played fine games, the latter booting some long kickoffs too. And Captain Alex Sarkisian still rates as one of the best linebackers in the midlands.
Although they had passed Wisconsin dizzy the previous week, the Buckeyes couldn’t hit in the Wildcat secondary. Star passer Pandel Slavic completed only one throw all afternoon, and they lost ground on that one.
The scout looks for Northwestern to tally against the oft-lenient Notre Dame defense, but the Irish should cross the goal line about four times. He predicts a 27 to 7 victory.
to the point
Short and
-------------------------------Dentis
Dr. Ralph A. Berman
105 W. Wayne St.
HOURS: Mon: 9-12	Fri: 1:30-5
Thurs: 9-12 & 1:30-5	Sat: 9-12
408 Plot! Bldg.	Res. Phone 2-6697
Adler’s
Youll find, college mens collar favorites in
0
Van Hensen
the world’s smartest
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP.,N. Y. 1, N.Y.
••VAN HEUSEN** IS A TRADE MARK REGISTERED IN THE U. S. PATENT OFFICE
! ! I
Perk up your shirt wardrobe with Van Preen, a beauty of a shorter-point, fused collar—one of Van Hensen’s campus-chosen collar classics. See it—wear it, on Van Heusen shirts famous for their fine, lab-tested, Sanforized fabrics ... a new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! §3.50, $3.95, §4.95.
The shorter-point Van Preen with “Comfort Contour collar
shirts I
Van Heusen
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
32
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARAGE
By JOE PIEDMONT
The Brothers James, who were the pride and joy of Missouri until Harry Truman (the people’s choice) went to Washington, were noted for certain acquisitive acts which endeared them to some of the populace. Indeed, it was their little traits which eventually led to Jesse’s untimely end at the hands of a certain Mr. Howard (the dirty little coward). Around these young lads there has grown up an aura of hero-worship and legend difficult to dispel. We wonder what would have happened if Frank and Jesse had gone to college. We think it would he something like this:
“Frank James, have you done your thermodynamics assignment?” asks the professor. From the back of the classroom comes Jesse’s voice: “Don’t you answer no questions, Frank . . . we ain’t got no mouthpiece.”
Frank growls at the professor, with one hand on his gun. “Mebbe I do, and . . . mebbe I don’t.” He throws a book contemptuously on the floor. It is bound in gray canvas and has a curious title printed across the front, “First National Bank.” The professor lets the subject pass, but decides to raise another point.
“I don’t like your coming in here late; you should have been here at nine o’clock.”
Frank, an avid reader of college publications, and so cognizant of the many jokes going the rounds, said “Why, what happened then?” Everyone roared with delight, except the prof. Jesse screamed, "Oh, Frank, you’re just mad!” and happily shot his neighbor through the head. In an instant, the class was in more of an uproar than usual. The professor protested this unseemly conduct. “After all,” he said, “you just can’t go around shooting people in the head. At least, not in my class. Go over to the Commerce Building, but don’t do it here.”
Jesse, never* on the most cordial relations with the faculty since the time he robbed the bookstore, said with a mildness that was admirable, “Shut up.” From all around came the envious voices of the students, all urging and advo
cating the early and swift demise of the professor. Cries of “Lynch him!” “Git him, Jess!” and other similar ejaculations were heard.
Suddenly, there appeared in the door a wild-eyed young man, dressed in the uniform of a phy ed major. In his hands he held a 50-caliber machine gun, and this he directed towards the professor with that careful coolness that only phy ed men possess.
“All right, Wistful (that was the professor’s name); look at me. Do you know who I am?” He laughed a hollow, mirthless laugh. “A year ago, you cut me out of four classes. I had to drop out of your engineering school. I took to phy ed. The rest was easy ... it always is.”
His voice rose to a shout. “Look at me, Wistful; you made me what I am today. Take that!” And the machine gun spat at the professor for a full two and a half minutes. When the smoke cleared away, the phy ed man had gone. Jesse was the first to speak.
“We better git out of here, men. The Prefect of Discipline will be investigatin’, I reckon. ... I guess they don’t like their professors bein’ shot up.” He gazed at the vista of Wistful on the floor.
“We didn’t do nothin’ wrong, Jesse,” said Frank. “It was that other feller.”
“Don’t make no difference, Frank,” said Jessie, sadly. “The rule book says ‘All those present at a shooting party are considered equally guilty, along with the culprit.’ Let’s go.”
They all filed out of the classroom, leaving their assignments on the desk, mounted their horses tethered on the quad, and galloped away to the west.
LOSE YOUR HAT?
On October 20 two students were driven to the University by Mr. Schneider of South Bend. One of them left his hat in the car. Mr. Schneider has the hat and may be contacted at 2-0634.
Irish Snatch First Slot From Michigan
After spending several weeks in second place in the Associated Press national grid race, Notre Dame used its superb play against the luckless Middies to ease into first place by three points. It’s Notre Dame versus the Wolverines of Michigan again this year as the two teams continue to swap the top position back and forth between them.
Michigan actually captured more first place ballots, but the Irish capitalized on a flood of second and third-place votes to sneak into the lead. North Carolina continued to be a menace by holding the number three position. Army and California held fourth and fifth, respectively.
WANT TO EARN f9000 A TEAR?
A career in life insurance selling can be both profitable and satisfying . . . with your income limited only by your own efforts. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more! We invite you to send for our scientific Aptitude Test, which measures your qualifications for this interesting work.
After taking the test, you’ll hear from our manager in or near your community. If you qualify, he’ll explain our excellent on-the-job training course and the famous Mutual Lifetime Compensation Plan, which provides liberal commissions, service fees and a substantial retirement income * at 65. Mail the coupon today!
THE MUTUAL UR MSUEANCE COMPANY of NW YCMt 34NksmSM Mir N«w Yotk5, NX FIRST IN AMERICA
PLEASE SEND APTITUDE TEST
NAME.
tnnPEW -	— ----
a-i'rr	— _ -
1104
Nov. 5, 1948
33
Browser’s Column
Cheer, Cheer
We don’t dare presume it was because of anything said here, BUT the Cafe bookrack is currently displaying such periodicals as Theatre Arts, The New Yorker and a brand new product of the intelligentia called Tomorrow. It is an encouraging sign.
The Sophs Are Stopped
We notice that the Northwestern game week end has been officially designated as the official Decorations week end. We understand it was selected by the student council with the approval of the Office of Student Welfare. We hold nothing against Northwestern University, their football team, the Student Council or the Office of Student Welfare but we just can’t see the reasoning. As we understand it,, the Sophomore Cotillion takes place the week end of the Washington game and that the sophs have, naturally, been trying to push this week end for decorations. This seems reasonable. It adds a lot to the dance and the whole week end. Why the Northwestern switch we cannot say.
That Blue Circle Again
There appeared in an earlier issue of this magazine a very excellent feature by Bill Lyman concerning the Blue Circle. According to reports, this feature was assigned and written to illuminate the student body on an organiza-
NEW
CHESTERFIELD
SMOKERS .
Since September 20, 1948:
AT NOTRE DAME:
123
ACROSS THE NATION:
3096
College Students, By the Score, Are Changing to CHESTERFIELD.
They Satisfy. Millions ....
They'll Satisfy You.
tion most of them are totally ignorant of. To a certain exte~t it must have accomplished its purpose. But there is one feature of the BC it didn’t break into, and that is, the method of selecting new members.
Readers of Tolstoy’s War and Peace will undoubtedly remember the Masonic initiation therein described. The Blue Circle doesn't go quite that far, but they are close to it. After we have gone into this a little further and have more facts, we’ll have more to say on this in this column. It may be we have a few sorority sisters on campus who like the idea of re-hashing the inquisition.
The Browser and the Editors cheerlul'y contribute the following space for those students having outside reading to use for notes.
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
1. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad. AH dues are in ad.
2. Submit answers on.Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this publication office.
3 First ten correct answers win one carton of Chesterfield Cigarettes each.
4. Enter as many as you like, but one Chesterfield wrapper or facsimile must accompany each entry.
5. Contest closes midnight, one week after this issue’s publication date. New contest next issue-
6. Answers and names of winners win appear in the next issue.
7. AU answers become the property of Chesterfield.
8 Decision of judges will be final.
LAST MONTH'S ANSWERS 4 WINNERS
A The word Milder which is underlined (end is in comparative degree) in the phrase “I enjoy Chesterfields because they’re really Milder.**
B The twenty-fifth letter of the alphabet is Y. Add a MAN and yon have Y-MAN, or WYMAN.
C Mac (or Me), and “a pin to join two pieces” (dowel) gives you McDoweU, with which name you may win.
34
The Scholastic
Ifs
Adler’s
for
ARROW
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
Look to
Gilbert’s for ARROW
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
Rvsc s Kaitz
1 N. FOR MEN AND I TRYOUNG MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
ARROW Shirts
do college men swear by but not at?
A. ARROW * SHORTS
WHY? Because Arrow's seamless seat and patented crotch construction prevent chafing and creeping and give ample sitting-room where needed. TRY Arrow shorts next time for real comfort. They come in oxford and broadcloth with gripper fasteners or buttons. Try Arrow undershirts too.
ARROW
?HIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • STOTTS SHIRTS
Nov. 5, 1948
•w®
IIESTEIIHELII
/ A\I WAVS M11 DIM -OfTTPR. TA«TI.W ^001,PR SMRKI l\I
a
A 20r“ CENTURY-FOX
s E E
They’re Milder-that’s whv I always smoke Chesterfields"
STARRING In' THE LUCK OF THE IRISH
PRODUCTION




i •
SO AULD they Satisfy Millions
SO MILD they'llSatisfy You
Copyright 1948, L>cgbt & Mras Tomcco Co.
Chesterfield Contest — see page 34