The Notre Dame Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $3.00 THE YEAR
May 19 1933
Prices Slashed!
Rolls Royce down to two thousand Ermine Coats down to a thousand And the Juggler down to 15 cents!
The
COMMENCEMENT NUMBER
Take it home instead of a degree!
Read it during those long summer months.
YOU’LL NEED SOMETHING TO READ!
HUMOR by Editor-elect Degnan, Woods, Dreux, and the Old Scripper.
SKETCHES by Becuar, Doyle, Singson, Prezebel, and Beaulaurier.
ALL FOR 1 CENTS!

May Iff, 1933
One
O. A. CLARK’S
RESTAURANT
104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
;> Catering to <
| NOTRE DAME MEN !
i; for over thirty years <
Complete Dinner - - 35c to 50c
For a Real Man’s Meal Drop in Any Time.
SOUTH SHORE LINE Bargain Excursion Sunday!
ROUND TRIP
South Bend to
— CHICAGO
One day rate good going on trains leaving South Bend at 6, 6:50, 8, 9, 10, 11 a. m. and 12 noon. Tickets good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. the same day. (Daylight Saving Time).
Week-end Rate
ROUND TRIP
South Bend to
CHICAGO
Rate good going Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. Monday night.	•
See James McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for Complete Information.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
BEFORE BUSINESS--WHAT?

> A distinctive advertisement that will remind the public ofyour establishment.
\ i
• ‘ i X	/7 ■■
TEIE NO’l'teE-OAME'SeEf^EASTIC
Two
The. Scholastic
Remembered Yesterdays
.<•

May 12, 1933
Three
&
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- ■f’l	k I	I I ,
I he Notre Dame Scholastic
scripts, 'may be addressed to ..	• ,	-r^•	»,
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Monturus
cations Office, Main Building. 1 ‘	FOUNDED 18 65	,	-
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance 'for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Octobers, 1917, authorized June 25, 1913.
Edmund A. Stephan
Editor-in-Chief.
James S. Kearns
Managing Editor
, Associate Editors •	. ■
F. GR’ANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON LLOYD TESKE . LESLIE RADDATZ
• WILLIAM DREUX ’	’
News Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY.:...... .News ' Editdr JAMES BYRNE........Assistant News Editor THOMAS PROCTOR.....Ass'stant News Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI- . ROBERT. ERVIN FRANK KELLY........MICHAEL WIEDL
JAMES A. HART	JOHN” WALKER
Desk Editors
PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
■ ' Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS............The Week
ROGER McGOVERN.......College Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL.......Staff Artist
Sports Staff
FRED MacBETH ALBERT L. McGUFF JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE HOWARD WALDRON EDWARD VAN HUISSELING
Features Staff
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD...Features Editor LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN PAUL DOYLE.	LOUIS GIRAGI
GEORGE LEYES JAMES FITZPATRICK
. Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY... .Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH.____Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER. .Circulation Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
JOHN F. SWEENEY ‘
Volume LXVI.
MAY 19, 1933
No. 27
S UMM ARIES
Pitt track team here tomorrow'in final home meet of
NEWS
Funny Fellow cuts final Juggler issue to 15 cents.... 5
Jenny, Rainey, and Carbine win Sullivan Scholarships.... 5
Six N. D. Scholarships established by will of A. F.
Meehan .........................................   5
1933 Dome will be distributed’ Monday............... 7
Cast of “Richelieu” announced....................... 6
Publications banquet held last night in faculty dining room ........................1.....................  6
Professor Casasanta names Glee Club traveling squad.... 9
Wranglers elect Arthur Sandusky new president........13
Last band concert will be given Sunday evening.......13
Complete commencement program released............,.16
Student art exhibit displayed in Library............16
FEATURES
Michael Leding is “Man About Campus”.............. 8
War and Washington Hall antics discussed in “Voice of
the Campus”..................................... 9
“News of the Week” by Paul Doyle.?..............  10
W. F. Fromm, Jr., describes Engineering Laboratories..!?
SPORTS
Bradley nine wins thriller from Irish, 4-3..............20
La Raza Club soccer team beats Michigan, 3-0............20
Army tracksters take meet from N. D., 74-52--------------21
Golf team defeats Illinois, 13^-4%; fifth straight win....21 Freshman hall leads Group I in interhall softball league ..............................-..................22
John Caresio wins University foils championship by defeating Leopoldo Brias.................................22
Tennis team loses three in a row........................23
outdoor season ...................................23
Introducing, Ralph Bower.........................    24
.	Splinters from the Press Box........................25
On Down the Line..................................   32
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, May 19.—Scholastic, staff meeting, editorial board, 6:30 p. m.; News, sports, and feature staffs, 7:00 p. m., Editorial'offices, Ave Maria Building; Tennis, Varsity vs. Michigan Normal, 2:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, May 20.—Golf, Varsity vs. Chicago, singles 9:30 a. m., doubles 1:30 p. m.; Engineer’s Picnic, 8:00 a. m.; Baseball, Ohio State on Cartier Field, 1:00 p. m.; Track, University of Pittsburgh on Cartier Field, 3:00 p. m.; Movie, “The Big Broadcast” with Bing Crosby, 6:30 and 8:30 p. m., Washington Hall.
SUNDAY,-May 21.—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00; Interhall Baseball games; Band concert, in Quadrangle at 6:30 p. m.
MONDAY, May 22.—1933 Dome to be distributed; Blue Circle Banquet, Lay Faculty Dining Hall, 6:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, May 23.—Saint Mary’s Alumnae dance, Niles, 8:00 p. m., campus time; Senior Examinations begin.
WEDNESDAY, May 24.—Senior Examinations continued; May Devotions, 7:00 and 7:45 p. m.
THURSDAY, May 25.—Ascension Thursday, No Classes; Masses, Sacred Heart Church; Tennis, University of Chicago at Chicago; Knights of Columbus picnic at Hudson Lake, 10:00 a. m.
Four
The Scholastic

THE WEEK
By Tighe Woods
T POKING at the senior ball from an impersonal point of view, we find that one can have just as good a time on eight and a half dollars as on twelve and a half. To go a bit farther one might have had a better time without the favors and a six dollar ticket. Favors are useless things as the Chicago Club found out. The Windy City Christmas dances used to be famous for their elaborate favors, but since the paternal pocketbooks have had an inferiority complex, they did away with the favors and still manage to get quite a crowd. The senior ball should be attended by every senior in the class. If necessary the Student Activity Council could make the Class of 1936 save three hundred dollars from their Cotillion proceeds next fall and do the same with their Prom next year. Then every senior could attend. And we’ve been in campus politics long enough to know the plan is not impossible.
V
^^OMEBODY once said that it is the divine right of tennis stars to be temperamental. With this in mind, and also remembering the story about the pretty American star who lost a Wimbledon match because somebody in the gallery had on a red hat, we thought the Michigan State matches might prove interesting. They were interesting, but not from the display of temperament shown by the contestants. They were interesting because everybody at Notre Dame can’t be a football star and because that squad, playing before a gallery consisting of a cement mixing machine crew and a handful of students, had as much pep as one could wish for in any Notre Dame team. They were interesting because they fought gallantly in spite of the criticism of a pack of morons who think a team has to win every game to be good.
V
E have an apology to make. In the last issue we spoke of the members of the golf team being kept from the doors of the Monogram club. Some of the critics began saying nasty things about the “Week” being down on the Monogram
Club. Now boys, is that charity? Can’t anybody read between the lines? The Monogram club hasn’t anything to do with determining who shall wear the gold and blue insignia of Notre Dame. The “Week” in an effort to avoid discussing “Notre Dame platitudes” all the time, just used a little figurative language. Or maybe we ought to ask Art Becvar to draw you a picture I
V
* J/ HE appointment of Jim Kearns as editor-in-chief of The Scholastic comes as a welcome answer to those who wonder why the bosses of Notre Dame’s publications are not chosen from the journalism school. Kearns is a journalism major and a good one. An editorship on a Notre Dame publication comes as a reward for three years of hard and faithful work on that publication, and not on a class average in journalism. If the school for prospective members of the Fourth Estate started in the freshman year, then they should be entitled to executive positions on the publications in their senior year, but it would not be just to appoint some one who has had one year of class-room experience, and nothing else save a clean record in the disciplinary department.
HEN the electrical engineering department had to put out the now seldom seen, Standing-Room-Only sign for a scientific demonstration, there must be some good reason behind it. Either the students were all in financial difficulties from a severe week-end, or all the engineers were required to go, or else the demonstration was just good. The first reason wouldn’t keep some of those present away from town on any night, except possibly sub-zero weather and four feet of snow. As for the second reason, there are not that many engineers in the University; so the demonstration must have been good. What clear logic! What cold, sparkling,.calculating reasoning! Well, it was good, and those who didn’t attend will blush with shame when their first-born ask about photo-electric “eye” tubes and they can’t tell them. Ah, the pity of it!
Five
May 19, 1933
LAST ‘JUGGLER’ ISSUE TO SELL FOR IS CENTS
Jenny, Rainey, Carbine Are Winners of Annual Sullivan Scholarships
HEERAN WILL FOUNDS SIX N.D. SCHOLARSHIPS
Funny Fellow, Under Pressure, Slashes Price.
The winners of the Roger C. Sullivan Scholarships for 1932-33 are Francis Joseph Jenny, senior in the College of'Engineering; Robert Walter Rainey, junior in the College of
A group of Wednesday aftemoon-ers cornered the Old Scripper the other day and pointed out to him that a quarter meant a date. Then some 3	off-campus lads convinced him that it
meant a meal. To cap it all he received a rather stiff-necked letter from the editor of the New Yorker, demanding to know if the Juggler was attempting to play to the moneyed classes.
o	So with the fire of determination
’	in his care-worn eyes the Old Scrip-
per slashed the price of the Juggler nearly in half. “I’ll show Benchley and the rest of them,” he said. “And I’ll make it my best number, too.”
So now it’s down to 15 cents. But *	though the price is down the size is
unchanged and the quality fully as high. It is Editor McCabe’s last run, and he has blown the whistle for full speed ahead.
'	Commencement Satirized
•	“There’s a long, dark night afore
us,” he said. “But I ain’t a-quittin’ till we git there. Where-all are we goin’, anyhow?” And he went on singing “Casey Jones” in his thrushlike voice.
Commencement is the subject for •	the Juggler’s last lampoon of the
' year. The speaking, bowing and scraping of these affairs are caricatured ably by the Juggler men. The cover is done with Art Becvar’s unparalleled cleverness and the art work throughout is up to the usual •	high standard. It is McCabe’s last,
and he hopes it’s his best.
Francis Jenny
To him the Senior Atoard.
Kansas City Club Elects Caulfield New President
»	Kansas City Club officers are next
year, elected at a special meeting on Thursday, May 11, are: president, Joseph A. Caulfield, Commerce junior; vice-president, John J. O’Connor, junior in Arts and Letters; secretary, Samuel DiGiovanni, Arts and Letters freshman; treasurer, Robert P. Pendergast, second year man in Commerce.
;	Five ballots were necessary to
!	break a tie in the presidential elec!	tion.
Commerce; and John Dugan Carbine, sophomore in the College of Liberal sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters. Because of some technical detail the official announcement of the awards had been delayed.
The Sullivan Scholarships, of $250 each, are awarded annually to three applicants from the senior, junior, and sophomore class, respectively, who show the greatest improvement in scholarship during the year. To be eligible to apply for the scholarship, the applicant must have entered either the sophomore, junior, or senior class of the current year without a condition or failure.
Rainey Junior Winner
Jenny, the senior winner, comes from Utica, N. Y. His increase in average was 48.9, and for three years in college his rating is 94.9. Jenny ranks third in the graduating class of this year.
Robert Rainey, who received the junior award, lives in Peoria, Ill. The increase in his average amounts to 43.03, and for the first two years in college Rainey holds an average of 82.1.
John Carbine, of Rutland, Vt., took the sophomore award with an increase of 58.8 in his average. For the first year in college Carbine has obtained a scholastic rating of 92.2.
(Continued on Page 10)
All Expense Awards To Be Tenable at University.
By Joseph Bulli
The will of the late Augustus Farnsworth Meehan, ’90, of Chattanooga, Tennessee, industrialist, an alumnus of Notre Dame, has created six scholarships at Notre Dame from the six states of Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, South Carolina, Alabama, and Georgia.
The scholarships are to be awarded from an annual income fund of $4,170, making approximately six allexpense scholarships under the present rates. Award is to be made on the basis of ability and character, irrespective of creed, to the high school graduates of the states named—one from each state. The scholarships, however, will not be available for at least two years because of a gradual liquidation of the late industrialist’s funds.
First In Scholarships
The Meehan foundations will rank first among the various scholarships listed by the University both in award and territorial application. Other scholarships usually restrict application to the donor’s home town or state. The Meehan bequests share honors with the Leonard N. Anson scholarship in being in the all-expense class. Other scholarships that approach the Meehan awards are the Samuel T. Murdock, Edwin Graves Rowley, Patrick O’Brien, and Matthew J. Carney scholarships.
Got M. S. Degree in ’26
Mr. Meehan, a native of Covington, Ky., was one of the most generous supporters of Catholic activities in Tennessee. Following his graduation at Notre Dame and Cornell, he engaged in the foundry and manufacturing business, serving as president of the Monterey Foundry and Manufacturing Company in Mexico. In addition to holding important positions in a number of other corporations, Mr. Meehan invented “Meehanite Metal,” a high-tensile cast iron. His discovery is now manufactured by many foundries in the United States, operating under licenses of the Meehanite Metal Corporation. Mr. Meehan was honored by the University in 1926 with an honorary degree of Master of Science.
Six
The Scholastic
Hold Annual Banquet For N.D. Publication Members
VETERANS, NEW ACTORS IN CAST OF ‘RICHELIEU’
OVER 100 PRESENT
4 Major Journals and “Santa Maria,” “Lawyer,” “Catalyzer,” Represented.
More than 100 members of the several Notre Dame publications attended a banquet held last evening in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall of the University. Beginning at seven the din-
Joseph McCabe “And that reminds me—”
ner ended just in time to permit Funny Fellow McCabe, toastmaster par excellence, and several others, to attend the Monogram Ball.
Besides the four major publications, Juggler, Dome, Scrip and The Scholastic, other Notre Dame journals represented at the affair included The Santa Maria, The Catalyzer, and The Lawyer.
Editors Speak
McCabe as master of ceremonies was introduced by the Reverend Lawrence Broughal, C.S.C., chairman of the Faculty Board of Publications, who first congratulated the outgoing editors, in the name of the University, on their work of the current year.
McCabe then called upon the other speakers of the evening in the following order: Edmund A. Stephan, Editor-in-Chief of The Scholastic;
George Shields Elected
President of S, A. C. For Scholastic Year 1933-34
George H. Shields, junior in mechanical engineering, of Grand Rapids, Michigan, was elected president of the Student Activities Council for 1933-34 by a unanimous vote, Monday, May 15, after having served as secretary of the organization this year.
Eli M. Abraham, of South Bend, junior in Arts and Letters, defeated James 0. Cole for the office of treasurer.
The second unanimous vote of the night’s balloting made Wililam J. Casazza, Arts and Letters sophomore from Albany, New York, Council secretary for next year.
This .year’s officers who are replaced by these new men are James J. Gerend, president, George H. Shields, secretary, and George H. Reilly, treasurer.
Committee appointees have not as yet been announced, and there is a possibility that they will not be made known until next September.
Desnoyers Elected Prexy of N. D. Adirondack Club
Harold B. Desnoyers, junior in the College of Engineering, was elected president of the Adirondack Club this week at a meeting of that organization. He succeeds James C. Munn.
John Coogan, Joseph Vaughan, and Francis Donovan, were elected for the offices of vice-president, treasurer, and secretary, respectively.
Desnoyers is treasurer of the junior class this year.
Arthur Sandusky, Editor-in-Chief of the Dome; Charles E. Sheedy, Editor-in-Chief of Scrip, the four incoming editors, James Kearns, Joe Degnan, Paul McManus and Louis Hruby, The Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., the Reverend Thomas Lahey, C.S.C., and the Reverend James McDonald, C.S.C., all members of the faculty board. -
Drama Will Be Presented For Students on May 29.
By Thomas Proctor
As one watched the cautious yet certain movements, heard the calm yet impassioned words of Professor Albert Doyle, playing the Cardinal, Gene Blish, as the Chevalier de Mau-prat, and Miss F. Theresa Chisholm, in the character of Julie de Mortemar, one realized the delicate shading, the depth, the perfection which, even in rehearsal, these and others of Professor Frank Kelly’s players are giving to that stellar drama, “Richelieu.”
Production is being speeded up for the first performance on Monday, May 29th, in the new and specially constructed stage in the gymnasium. The second and final performance will be given on Friday, June 2nd as one of the highlights of the 88th Commencement of the University.
Story Of Intrigue
“Richelieu” or “The Conspiracy” is a gripping story of artifice and intrigue centering around the stately figure of France’s Minister Cardinal Richelieu. In the year 1642, in Paris, Gaston, Duke de Orleans, brother of the weak monarch, Louis XIII, played by Charles Fiss, conspired for the dethronement of the king. Having enlisted the aid of the Duc de Bouillon, French general, Baradas, court favorite and arch-plotter, played by David Powers, Huguet, captain of Richelieu’s guard, played by James Boyle, and de Beringhen, played by John Sweeney, Orleans realized the necessity of putting Richelieu out of the way. Secret meetings are held in the home of Marion de Lorme, mistress to Orleans, but in the Cardinal’s service. Miss Margaret Burroughs is in the character of Marion.
Stritch Plays Francois
Joseph, a Capuchin monk, played by Joseph McCabe, and Francois, the Cardinal’s youthful page, played by Thomas Stritch, aid the Cardinal in bringing the conspiracy to a head, with certain ensuing results. The characters of the play are well-defined, the plot clever, the action vigorous, dramatic, and colorful. De Mauprat and Julie tender the love interest.
Costuming and scenery add much to (Continued on Page 27)
<
May 12, 1933
Seven
FR. CARRICO ANNOUNCES EXAMINATION SCHEDULE
Tests Will Be Held May 29 to June 1.
The semester examinations in all the colleges of the University will be held on the Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday morning, of May 29th to June the 1st, according to the following schedule:
Classes
S :00 on 0:00 on 10:00 on 11:00 on
1:15 on 2:15 on 3:15 on
S :00 on 9:00 on 10:00 on 11:00 on
1:15 on 2:15 on 3:15 on
taught at Monday Monday Monday Monday Monday Monday Monday Tuesday Tuesday Tuesday Tuesday Tuesday Tuesday Tuesday
will be examined at 8:00 on Monday 9:00 on Wednesday 10:00 on Monday 10:00 on Wednesday 1:15 on Monday 3:15 on Monday 3:15 on Wednesday 1:15 on Wednesday 8:00 on Thursday
10:00 on Tuesday 10:00 on Thursday
1:15 on Tuesday 3:15 on Tuesday 7:00 on Wednesday
Classes taught any day at 4:15 will be examined at 7:00 p. m. on Monday. Classes taught any evening at 7:00 p. m. will be examined at 7:00 p. m. on Tuesday. There will be no examination from 8:00 to 10:00 Tuesday morning (Memorial Day).
The time of the examination in any course not provided for in the schedule above will be fixed, by the teacher of the course. The period for each of the semester examinations will be one hour and fifty minutes. Any examination taken outside these four assigned will not be valid.
Monday in the left column of the schedule means Monday, Wednesday, • or Friday; Tuesday means Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday.
All students are to take their examinations with their proper sections. There will be no permission for anyone to shift to another section of a
course.
—Director of Studies.
Hero at Missouri College
Warrensburg, Mo.—Charles Childress is being hailed as this year’s hero at the Central Missouri State Teachers College here.
Suffering with a pulled muscle between the hip and the knee, Childress nevertheless bore the pain throughout the recent Kansas Relays at the University of Kansas, and took the decathlon title in two days of gruelling events.
Art Work, Make-up, Satire, Surpassing In 1933 ‘Dome’
“Dome” Cards Sent To Students Whose Accounts Are Settled Up To Date
The distribution of the Dome cards will be completed by this evening.
Only those students who have settled their acocunts with the University will receive a card. Those students who have not made a settlement will receive their card from the Secretary when the account has been properly arranged.
Those students whose accounts with the University have been settled and who have not received their card are to call at the Publications Office on Saturday morning.
Follow the instructions on the card. Present your card personally. Come on the day and hour assigned.
13th Annual Chemistry Club Banquet Held This Week
The thirteenth annual Chemistry Club Banquet was held Wednesday night at 6:30 in the Knights of Columbus Hall, South Bend. A Swiss steak dinner was served to an assembly of sixty-four members and guests, the largest number ever to attend this affair.
Daniel Nolan, of the Chemistry Department, presided as master of ceremonies. He called upon members of the graduating class, and several faculty members for speeches.
Professor H. B. Froning, head <?f the Chemistry department, gave the principal address of the evening. He discussed the growth of the University’s Chemistry and Chemical Engineering departments in the last five years, and hinted at prospective expansion. Professor Froning remarked that the freshmen registered for next year are the largest group to register for Chemical Engineering.
Junior Pin Notice
The Junior class pin committee announced this week that the final date for purchasing pins has been set at May 24.
BOOK OUT MONDAY
Stritch’s Writing, Beaulaurier’s Drawings Excel in Editor Sandusky’s Annual.
By Edmund Stephan
The Dome will be out the early part of next week. Unassumingly, and in a decidedly relaxed sort of way, Art Sandusky made the an-
Artiiur Sandusky He teas an organizer.
nouncement to The Scholastic yesterday afternoon. Nine months of minute, meticulous, trying labor were over. The editor-in-chief handed us an advance copy.
We have seen enough year books to know what to expect in the way of originality. Invariably and necessarily, the written content pertains to the same subjects. The same faculty faces, the same end runs, the same Sorin steps—they simply have to be there. Novelties must be sought in more subtle corners. And there lies one of the biggest stumbling blocks for the editor of any annual.
Sandusky must have realized all this when he rolled up his sleeves. He picked Leo Beaulaurier as his art editor, and an exquisite performance was the result. Choosing the countrywide character of the Notre Dame student body as his dominant motif, Beaulaurier makes his points with (Continued on Page 11)
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
LIGHT AND SOUND WAVES DISCUSSED BY ENGINEER
By William J. Kennedy
This is the story of a man with a 96.5 Average. Not an average average mind you, but a Special Capital A Average. Y’know, that sort of percent for four years’ work isn’t half bad; then when you consider that Mr. Leding plays varsity football — well, that makes it nothing short of marvelous. Yes, marvelous.
Michael John Leding is the full name, and he hails originally from the midwestern metropolis of Oglesby, Ill. Of course now he lives, more or less, in South Bend. There’s a tale concerning his younger days in Oglesby that he tells on himself, perhaps to save other people the trouble. It seems that one day a blizzard hit the town and young Michael was packed off to school with his lunch under his arm so that he wouldn’t have to trudge back again in the storm. Reaching the schoolhouse, he made the terrifying discovery that a shoelace was loose, and being a stickler for dress in those days, Mike immediately about-faced and shuffled off home to have it tied. Sounds silly, but it probably seemed like a good idea at the time.
Monotonous Hundreds
Leding, to get back to the present, is a football Monogrammer. A left tackle Monogrammer, to be explicit. Still he doesn’t allow that to interfere with little side activities, such as his course in Electrical Engineering. He goes right on passing quizzes, examinations, subjects and the like, day after day, month after month, and, of course, year after year. It must be terribly monotonous to get nothing but hundreds, but then that needn’t worry us.
The summer months usually find Mike supervising a bunch of children in a local playground, settling violent juvenile battles, organizing baseball leagues within the park, and all the rest of it. This year, however, the grounds will not be open, as the powers that be have decided that the kids enjoyed themselves too much.
Each Saturday morning Mike joins three others and they play handball, the loser paying five cents. These nickels are collected and used, eventually, to buy a new ball. The boys have the price of the new ball now, and there’s only one thing that’s
holding them back. They’ve forgotten who did the collecting!
And one more story: It happened in front of the Engineering Building
Michael John Leding Plays handball for nickels.
where a class was engaged in some open-air work. One chap remarked that the gym was such-and-such a distance away; Leding said it was not, and immediately started to prove his point by stepping off the intervening yards. He hadn’t gone far when he realized that the combination of three days’ rain and the grassless prairie wasn’t going to make his journey any more pleasant. So despite a constant sinking sensation (of one foot) and the encouraging cries from the rear, he kept doggedly on his way until he reached the gym. There the story ends. Whether Led-ing’s guess at the distance was correct, remains unknown. It’s doubtful whether Leding himself remembers.
No Lady’s Man, He
PERSONALISTICS: Mike, up to the time we went to press, hadn’t done much about this woman thing you hear people speak of, but he threatens to give in any day now . . . From all reports, he wants to wrestle everyone he meets, and that would never do . . . He holds onto a preference for blue, be it clothes or female singers . . . His favorite radio program has very unkindly left the air. It was a happy little quarter-hour, called “The Adventures of the Secret Three” .. . He drives the w. k Detroit (Continued on Page DM
General Electric Head Gives Secrets of Science.
By Edward Mansfield
A stiff white shirt front reflected a dull red beam on to a photo-electric cell, or “electric eye,” and the lilting rhythm of “Good Night, Sweetheart,” transmitted by the ray of light from a phonograph offstage, came undistorted from a loudspeaker—and John Bellamy Taylor, General Electric consulting engineer, went on unconcernedly to further amazing feats in his lecture on “Audible Light,” at the annual demonstration of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers last Tuesday evening, May 16.
Two Hour Program
Appearing before an appreciative audience which filled the Hall of Engineering auditorium, Mr. Taylor led his hearers through an absorbing two-hour program. From the opening demonstration in which he showed that an ordinary incandescent lamp will produce a roar when its beams are caught by a photo-eelctric cell and amplified, to his closing words of thanks coming from a movie film sound track, the wizard with wires entertained and instructed his audience.
Sound is a physical state of affairs, and not necessarily a human sensation following the reception of a vibration, the scientist explained at the outset. The new “Audible light” and that combination of light and sound found in thunder and fire are not the same at all, he further pointed out. The sound and light found in fire, for example, are merely exterior signs of the chemical actions taking place.
Electric Eye’ Magic
That lights of different frequency and intensity produce varying tones was shown by the range from the deep roar produced by an ordinary lamp to the varying siren-like pitch of a tiny lamp receiving its power from a hand-operated dynamo. These lights were held in the beam of the “electric eye,” and the sound they produced came from a loud speaker on the stage after passing through the necessary amplification equipment.
After the transmission of phonograph and radio music over a space of (Continued on Page 15)
May Iff, 1933
Nine
GLEE CLUB TO HAVE 32 IN TRAVELLING SQUAB
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Prof. Casasanta And Group Ready For Tour.
AZZ letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full. Initials icill be used upon request.
Thirty-two members of the University Glee Club have been selected by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta to make the summer trip. The tour, arranged by a private manager of artists and operatic stars, will include all the principal cities of the East and West.
The following students will comprise the group to make the trip: Edward Butler, Robert Butler, Robert Cahill, William Casazza, Laurence Chouinard, George Coady, James Corrigan, Thomas Downs, John Egan, Alan Feeney, David Feferman, W. T. Flynn, William Fromm, Philip Geoghegan, Norbert Hart, John Henry, Charles Jahr, John Kelly, George Menard, Robert Nesbit, Jerome Roach, Daniel Rolfs, David Ryan, John Ryan, Maurice Scanlon, Richard Shields, Russell Stemper, and Justin Tompkins. Robert Devaney, Williani Murphy, George Wenz, and James Wade have been placed on the reserve list.
May Sing In White House
The Glee Club will give concerts in all the leading theatres belonging to both the R.K.O. and Leow’s circuits. The club will spend three weeks in New York City where they will make several shorts for a movie company.
The first stop on the tour is scheduled for Washington, D. C., early in June. Plans are being made for the members of the club to sing for the President of the United States at the White House. After fourteen weeks of singing, the group will end their tour at the Chicago Theater, in Chicago.
W. H, Fromm is elected to
Chairmanship of A. I. E. E.
William H. Fromm, Jr., a junior in the College of Engineering, was elected chairman of the Notre Dame branch of the A.I.E.E. at the meeting held last Wednesday.
Other officers elected are: Mitchell E. Saleh, vice-chairamn; John B. Land, secretary; and Charles W. Mueller, treasurer. Saleh is a sophomore, and Land and Mueller are juniors in Electrical Engineering.
—AND MORE WAR
Editor of The Scholastic,
Dear Editor:
The developments of the past week in Europe throw some valuable light on the possibility of permanent world peace. When a man such as Hitler, palpably intoxicated with his newly acquired power, plans to scrap a treaty which many consider to be the sole insurance of foreign tranquility, what effect will all the resolutions, pacts, good intentions, etc., wield?
What somebody said in your ‘Voice’ column a week ago is incontestably true: As long as we have human nature we will have inevitable encroachments upon the rights of others. And as long as we have invasions of another’s liberty we will have war, war and more war.
The best of luck to the student newspaper at Brown in its campaign against a reeognizedly uncivilized, impractical, pre-historic practice, but also a word of advice: You are trying to make men, and by men I mean all men, reason in the face of a situation that is characterized by hyster-teria, selfish outlooks, conflicting rights. You are bucking the strongest instinct of human nature, that of self preservation; and try as you may, you are attempting to solve a problem that has no answer.
Sincerely,
J. A.
Ludevig Concludes Talks
Mr. Frank M. Ludevig gave the third and last talk of a series of lectures on art, May 11th, in Washington Hall.
For over an hour Mr. Ludevig spoke on the topic, “Art in Everyday Life.” He reviewed the methods of manufacturing throughout the ages, and pointed out the combination of beauty and utility in manufactured articles.
Methods of evaluating the art in paintings and modem advertising were discussed. Finally, slides and charts were used to illustrate practical examples of art in commerce and industry.
MISFITS
Editor of The Scholastic,
Sir: The weekly menace in Washington Hall is no longer a joke. The past three movies that I have attended have been completely ruined by the puerile whistling and jeering of some of our hair-brained men about. Any normal person who attended the “Cavalcade” production of last Friday evening must have left the Hall with the feeling that he missed about half of the meaning of the picture. The show was meant to be delicate, significant, stimulating; a goodly part of the audience was raucous, unappreciative, semi-civilized:
I haven’t the money to go to a show downtown and I like the idea immensely of campus entertainment; but I refuse to subject the little aesthetic taste that I have to the pandemonium that breaks loose once a week in the scholarly environment of a Hall populated by social misfits.
Sincerely, L. S.
CHURCH COLLECTIONS
Dear Editor:
Complaints in The Scholastic about the excessive lighting in Sacred Heart Church have resulted in a pleasant correction. The ushers, however, continue to take up the collection from the rear to the front. How many letters are necessary before something is done? T. F. L.
Engineers to Relax
Tickets are on sale in all the halls for the annual picnic of the Engineer’s Club, to be held at Christiana Lake tomorrow. The price of the affair, including transportation, the use of boats and slides at the lake, and the picnic itself, has been set te seventy-five cents for both engineering students and those from the other colleges.
Any student in the University may attend, but only those enrolled in the College of Engineering are to have the privilege of being excused from classes.
The lake-bound group will leave the campus at 8:00 tomorrow morning.
Ten
The Scholastic
ITALIANS BANQUET IN FACULTY DINING HALL
Prof Manion, Fr. Miltner, And Dr. McMahon Speak.
By Joseph Bucci
Culminating their activity for the year, the Italian Club held their annual banquet Wednesday evening, May 17, in the faculty dining room of the University Dining Hall. A number of prominent guests were present, some of which addressed the group. Fifty students attended.
Following the introduction of President-elect Emilio J. Gervasio by expresident Jerome Ferrara, Professor Clarence E. Manion, of the College of Law, toast-master of the occasion, spoke. Professor Manion’s humorous anecdotes and witty remarks proved his worth in that capacity and kept the spirits of the assembled members in a light vein throughout the evening.
Dr. McMahon Talks
Dr. Francis E. McMahon, of the Department of Philosophy, opened the speaking program with a discussion of the history and importance of Sienna in art and literature. Dr. McMahon was well acquainted with his subject, having spent some time traveling in Italy last summer, enjoying especially a three months’ stay in Sienna. Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, followed with a consid-ation of the advantages of foreign languages in the modem world of today. He stressed their importance in interpreting the various worlds of thought.
Tom Conley, captain of Notre Dame’s 1930 national champions, related some of his experiences while here at school and warned students against the spirit of cynicism toward collegiate principles and tradition which is prevalent today. The principal speaker of the occasion was Cavaliere Dr. A. La Penta, Royal Italian consul at Indianapolis. Dr. La Penta addressed the body in Italian, pointing -out the prominent positions held by Italians in all fields of progress, and urging the students to continue their work in their mother tongue.
During the evening, a program of Italian songs including, “O Solo Mio,’.’ and “The Prologrue From Pagliacca,” was rendered by RussellStemper.
News of the Week
By Paul Doyle
The spotlight of international interest shifted with rapidity last week. In the early part it was centered on Germany. The United States, England, and France were aligned against Germany because of its belligerent attitude. It was prophesied that Hitler would, on Wednesday, declare Germany’s right to rearm.
The attention of the world came next to the United States when President Roosevelt addressed the nations of the world with his policy for the preservation of peace. Besides backing the McDonald peace project, he offered a supplementary plan. Namely, that all nations, once disarmed, should enter into a non-aggressive pact—i. e. a solemn promise to send no armed force of whatsoever nature across their frontiers.
The world then waited to see what Hitler would say on the following day, so across the Atlantic once more flashed the beacon of interest. And Hitler, speaking before the Reichstag, pulled a clever diplomatic stroke—he did not ask the right to rearm; he promised cooperation with the Roosevelt policy. His plan for the equality of Germany fits nicely into the plans of Roosevelt. He pointed out that Germany was already disarmed, and all it desired was the equal disarmament of other nations.
Thus curiosity is now drawn toward France to learn what her policy will be in the adjusted situation. But France does not want the international interest and may attempt to deflect its light again toward Germany—by demanding proof from Germany that she will follow the outlined course. And again she may raise the question:—Are not the Nazi stormtroopers and the Steel Helmet organizations to be counted as military forces under disarmament plans?
Comparatively neglected with regard to publicity was the introduction into Congress of President Roosevelt’s Public Works — Industrial Regulation bill. Under its sections power is granted to carry out a $3,300,000,000 public works program. The money is to be spent for highways, public build-
N.D. TO ENTERTAIN 700 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS
Dept, of History Will Conduct Tours About Campus.
Next Tuesday, May 23, the University will be host to approximately 700 high school pupils of Northern Indiana. This group, consisting of students from Elkhart, Goshen, La Porte, South Bend, and surrounding towns, is visiting spots of historical importance in the vicinity and at the University.
A program for their entertainment has been arranged by the Department of History of the University. The Reverend John M. Ryan, C.S.C., will act as chairman of the activities.
The students will be escorted about the campus and then they will assemble in Washington Hall where they will be addressed by Professor Clarence E. Manion, of the College of Law, on “The History of Notre Dame and the part it plays in Indiana History.” Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, a representative of the State Board of Education, and Mr. Allen, Superintendent of Schools in South Bend, will also address the assemblage.
Music for the occasion will be furnished by Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa and the Department of Music of the University.
SULLIVAN AWARDS
(Continued from Page 5)
The Sullivan Scholarships were established in June, 1922, by a gift of $15,000 from Mrs. Leo Sullivan Cummings and Mrs. Thomas Sullivan Brennan, of Chicago, in memory of their father, the late Roger C. Sullivan, of Chicago. Reverend William H. Molony, C.S.C., rector of Walsh hall, is the chairman of the Committee on Prizes and Awards.
ings, improvement of slum districts, etc.
The bill also authorizes industries to come together in voluntary agreements for fixing minimum wages, regulating work hours, and stabilizing production. If necessary the President can compel such agreements.
May 12, 1933
• Eleven
FEIWIGER WINS FROSH ORATORICAL CONTEST
Defeats Five Speakers With Tariff as Subject.
William Feiwiger, Commerce School, won the Freshman Oratorical Contest and the ten dollar prize this week. Feiwiger, talking on the tariff, defeated five opponents in this contest held Wednesday afternoon in the Auditorium of the Law Building.
The winning orator discussed the vital problem of the tariff, advocating tariff reduction as a means to world recovery of prosperity. The speaker chose a problem that is on the lips of all world statesmen at present.
Justin Hannen, Bernard McCaffery, C.S.C., John Gairey, C.S.C., Matthew Leary, and Theodore Prekowitz were the other orators in this speech contest. According to the judges, it was an excellent contest, and each orator did a splendid piece of work.
The three judges were Professors Earl Langwell and David Campbell, and William Kirby, law student. Material and presentation were considered in the decision.
With this contest ends the forensic season for the University of Notre Dame.
“DOME” OUT MONDAY
(Continued from Page 7)
some admirable paintings of representative sights: The New York Harbor, a World’s Fair Building, a Rocky Mountain scene and a California Mission.
What is unprecedented about the motif of the 1933 Dome is the fact it harmonizes perfectly with the content of the book.
Of paramount importance in any annual is the photography. Moffet and Russell of Chicago have seen to it that everybody looks handsome, and in addition, have done some truly finished work on campus scenes.
The written material of the Dome is cared for with English major finesse. Write-ups of the halls and clubs are a bit changed; the sport section is quite adequate. Tom Stritch’s satire section is the apothesis of campus wit, and Gerry Doyle’s accompanying sketches of Notre Dame student life are masterful little bits.
Hasley Wins Recognition In Catholic Poetry Society
Louis Hasley, of the English Department, has again received recognition from the Catholic Poetry Society of America. His poem entitled Premature Epitaph—to e. e. c., won honorable mention in the May contest sponsored by that organization. In February he took first place in a like contest. ,
The poem might be termed a whimsical, satirical epitaph. It is addressed to E. E. Cummings, an eccentric poet and critic of the present day, who has gained something of a reputation for his odd typography and unusual forms of rhetoric and grammar.
Among other things he starts sentences with small letters, scatters punctuation marks throughout his composition with seemingly abandon, and signs his name, “e. e. c.” Hasley uses some eccentricities of the style of Mr. Cummings to make the satirical thrust in his work more effective.
Probation Grads Will Begin Field Work About June 5
The graduate students and seniors in the Probation Work curriculum who will complete their courses an-1 field work at the University, June 4, have received their field work assignments for the summer. Starting the day after commencement, these men will begin three months of full-time family case work experience with the following agencies: United Charities of Chicago, Children’s Aid Society of Detroit, Kansas City Provident Association, and the Catholic Charities of New York City.
This three months experience in family case work is a part of the nine months apprenticeship period required of all Probation Work graduates. The remaining months will be spent in probation or parole departments, or in correctional institutions. It is expected that nine students will be eligible for this field work experience by Commencement time.
We didn’t have time to see the Dome steadily or see it whole, but a few more things about it were instantly obvious: Its organization was careful and long visioned; its editor, observant and efficient; and his assistants well suited to their jobs.
The greater the effort, they say, the greater the satisfaction. If so, Editor Sandusky is an unusually happy journalist tonight.
N.D. LIBRARY RECEIVES NEW SUPPLY OF BOOKS
Field of History Prominent in New Shipment.
Again the University Library announces the addition of new books that may be obtained at the circulation Desk. Many books dealing with the current problems of the day have been secured, especially along the lines of history.
History of Germany, by Herman Pinnow proves of interest in reference to the recent political difficulties which are at the present time sweeping over Germany and its neighboring countries.
Roosevelt’s “Looking Forward”
Eddington’s Expanding Universe, which is referred to frequently by students in Cosmology, is also a new addition of note. This book has created interest in its specific field and is styled as being one that is easy to understand by those not familiar with the scientific phrases and methods.
From one of the most famous men in the United State there comes a book, Looking Forward. The author is President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. This book is listed under history and description and should prove of interest to students of history and economics.
A list of some of the most outstanding books received follows:
History and Description: History of Germany, by Hermann Pinnow; Looking Forward, by Franklin • Delano Roosevelt; Lonely America, by Theodore L. Stoddard, and Recent Social Trends in the United States, by President’s research committee on Social Trends.
Economic History: Profits or Prosperity, by Henry P. Fairchild.
Religion: Progress and Religion, by Christopher H. Dawson; Catholic Colonial Maryland, by Henry S. Spalding, S.J.
Fiction: Mutiny on the Bounty, by C. B. Nordhoff.
Civilization and Culture: Adventure of Ideas, by Alfred N. Whitehead.
Education: The Pedagogical 'Value of the Truefalse Examination, by A. W. Cocks.
Fine Arts: Arts for Schools and Colleges, by Peter S. Smyth.
Literature: Farewell Miss Julie Logan, by Sir James M. Barrie, bart.
Twelve
The Scholastic
PUBUSHERS OFFER $200 FOR LITERARY LETTERS
Contest is For Undergraduate Criticism of Fiction.
Mr. Thomas H. Uzzell, editor of Short Story Hits—1932, and Harcourt, Brace and Company, publishers, are offering prizes for the best informal undergraduate criticism of current American magazine fiction. The winning letter will be printed in the critical section of Short Story Hits—1933.
Requirements:
1.	The letters must be soundly critical, not impressionistic. None will be considered which does not give evidence of thoughtful examination and study of the magazines. No criticism, therefore, should be attempted without the reading of at least two big circulation magazines over a period of three months or more, and at least two of the literary magazines.
(For an explanation of these editorial groupings, see the Preface to Short Story Hits—1932)
2.	The letters must interpret this fiction in relation to the interests of the undergraduate reader group, specifically.
3.	The letters which are acceptable on the above points will be graded finally on effectiveness of presentation.
Conditions of the Contest:
Those eligible: Any undergraduate student in any American college or university.
Closing date: November 1, 1933.
Length: Maximum, 4,000 words.
The Prizes: First prize, $100; second prize, $50; third prize, $25; fourth prize, $25.
Further information as to the conditions of the contest will be mailed on request to anyone who wishes to participate. Address: Mr. Thomas H. Uzzell, 342 Madison Avenue, New York City.
Notice
The list containing the names of the Freshmen who are eligible to select rooms in the Sophomore halls for next year and the order in which they must appear to make their selections was posted Wednesday of this week. The assignment of the rooms by the Registrar will begin Monday morning at nine o’clock, at the Registrar’s office.
WINS AWARD
John Carbine,sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, given second year Sullivan Scholarship.
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Pajre 8)
four-wheeler . . . Reads Sabatini and that weekly nickel mag (Who are we to give free advertising) that’s first cousin to the New York Times in bulk . . . Serves in Dillon chapel every morning.
Varies his minor sports schedule by whacking balls aroung golf courses, tennis courts and ping pong tables ... Won a baseball Monogram at Central High d. t. (downtown, to you) . . . Got his greatest gridiron thrill in the last Navy game . . . Holds membership in Engineers’ Club and the A. I. E. E......Runs the movies on the campus . . . He’s Director of Sound Equipment . . . When the reel breaks, a different Sound Equipment is directed at him.
To Attend R. P. I.
Incidentally (although not for him!) Mike just completed his Thesis . . . Calls it “Designing Electrical Power Plant” . . . Next year he goes on the trail of a Doctor’s Degree from Rensselaer, in Troy, N. Y........Fellow students have acquired the habit of checking their answers by his paper ... He feels the responsibility and becomes greatly agitated when 100% isn’t in sight during a quiz . . . Rubs his hands fiercely on his knees and the magic Genii does the problem for him .... According to his Profs, when he encounters a strange question, he “puts meat around the dry bones of Mathematics” . . . Which, in plain words, means just about what you think it does.
K.C. PICNIC WILL BE HELD NEXT THURSDAY
125 Will Attend Annual Knights* Frolic.
Thursday morning, May 25, at 10 o’clock, 125 or more of the local Knights of Columbus will leave the campus via the Interurban for Hudson Lake where they will hold their annual picnic outing. This is one of the Council’s informal affairs.
Joseph D. Clark, senior in the College of Commerce, the general chairman of the picnic, reports that a light lunch will be enjoyed early in the afternoon with a Knightly supper in the evening. The supper will climax the events of the morning and afternoon.
To Attend R. P. I.
Sports, indoor baseball, tennis, boating, swimming (if weather permits) and other forms of recreation are under the direction of “Kitty” Gorman. Gorman will supervise several other interesting forms of entertainment.
District Deputy Grand Knight Louis Buckley of South Bend will attend the picnic as well as other prominent Knights from the South Bend councils and vicinity.
The various chairmanships for the picnic are as follows: Tickets—Edmund Moriarity, refreshments — Joseph Miller and James Lovell, gifts — Paul Kreuz, sports—“Kitty” Gorman, transportation —Warren Schwantes, arrangements — Francis Marley, and programs—George Len-nartz.
Graduates Notice!
All students who are to receive degrees on Sunday, the 4th of June, are entitled to ten invitations to the commencement exercises, and five tickets of admission to each exercise on Sunday, June 4th.
Invitations and tickets will be given out from the Alumni Office, on the first floor of the Main Building on Friday, May 19th, from 8:00 a. m. to 4:00 p. m., and on Saturday, May 20th, from 8:00 a. m. to 12.00 m. No tickets will be given out at any other time.
Rev. Charles A. McAllister, C.S.C., in charge.
May 19, 1933
Thirteen
SANDUSKY ELECTED NEW HEAD OF WRANGLERS
JUNIOR WINNER
FINAL BAND CONCERT TO BE GIVEN SUNDAY
John Logan Chosen Secretary; Banquet Next Week.
Arthur A. Sandusky and John Logan will be president and secretary of the Wranglers for the school year of 1933-34. Both men are at present members of the junior class and have been Wranglers for two years. They were elected last Monday evening.
They will fill the vacancies left by the departure of James J. Boyle and Thomas O’Meara who held these positions this year and who are graduating in June.
Sandusky will be particularly fitted for the position of president inasmuch as he is an excellent speaker. Logan served on several committees this year and became sufficiently qualified to carry the secretarial duties of the society.
Fr. Cavanaugh At Banquet
The new officers will be elevated to their offices at the annual formal banquet to be held sometime next week. Arthur Korzeneski, who is arranging the dinner, reported that plans were still indefinite as to the date or time it would occur. Members of the Wranglers are requested to watch for a notice to be posted soon, containing this information.
The banquet marks the official close of activities for this year, and at the same time permits the retiring Senior members to bid their adieu. Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., chaplain of the society, will attend the banquet and will speak.
Cincinnati Club Holds Its Last Meeting of School Year
On the evening of May 15, the Cincinnati Club held its annual farewell banquet at the Rose Marie Tea Room in honor of its graduating members, all of whom expressed their regrets upon the cessation of their school and campus club life.
Election of next year’s officers went to these men: Robert Chenal, president; Fred Sullivan, secretary; and Robt. Van Lahr, treasurer.
In order to boost its membership the club will engage in an active “Go to Notre Dame Drive” at home this summer.
Robert Rainey, a member of the present Junior Class, who is the recipient of a Sullivan Scholarship.
‘The Scholastic,* 50 Years Ago
May 9, 1883 — Last Sunday the First Communion boys took their promised trip to St. Joseph’s Farm. Accompanied by their worthy Director and a number of invited guests, they went bowling along through the rich farming country of Harris Prairie. The time on the road was passed pleasantly, jokes and laughter resounding through the circumambient atmosphere, to say nothing of the aesthetic delight created by the sight of the beautiful landscape. After dinner they separated once more, some to amuse themselves riding horses, others looking at the fine stock, beautiful fields, clear streams; and others, still, in playing different games, swinging, jumping, etc.
N. D. Band Participates in May Blossom Fete
Saturday, May 13, the Notre Dame Band participated in the annual Blossom Festival, at Benton Harbor, Michigan. Arriving at ten o’clock the personnel of the Band had dinner and made ready to form for the parade at noon.
“Victory March,” “Hike Song,” and “Irish Backs” were played during the three-mile march from St. Joseph to Benton Harbor. After the parade, the bandsmen were entertained at Benton Harbor returning to the campus at midnight.
Varied Program Arranged For Last Appearance.
The last of the open air band concerts will be given this Sunday evening from the front porch of the Main Building. The concert is scheduled to begin at 6:20, following dinner.
Prof. Casasanta and his bandsters will play the following numbers:
I.	Marches
a.	“The U. S. Field Artillery March,” by Sousa.
b.	“On the Campus,” by Goldman.
II.	Processional March
“Pomp and Chivalry,” by Roberts III. Motet
“Ave Maria,” by Bach-Gounod.
IV.	Cornet Solo, played by Paul Guarneri.
“Believe Me, If All Those Endearing Young Charms,” by De Witt.
V.	Military March
“Pomp and Circumstance,” by Elgar.
VI.	“OP Man River,” by Kern Solo by John Ryan.
VII.	“University Grand March,” by Goldman.
Professors Cooney, Farrell Home from Southern Tour
Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism, and Professor William E. Farrell, of the Department of History, returned from a week’s trip to Kentucky and Tennessee last Friday. They addressed high school assemblies and interviewed individual students at three schools in Nashville, Tennessee, two in Louisville, Kentucky, and two in Bardstown, Kentucky. Both public and Catholic schools were visited, and the two Notre Dame professors reported that they were welcomed most hospitably, and that the University was accorded much praise by the authorities of the southern institutions.
“A definite change for the better in business conditions, judging from what we saw and heard during our brief stay, is in evidence,” Dr. Cooney said in answer to a question concerning the state of economic affairs in that section of the Southland visited.
“Of course, things are bad there, as they are everywhere, but the main thing is that indications are favorable,” the journalism professor stated.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
4'
Monogram Ball Held Last Night
Thomas A. Gorman General Chairman
Two Hundred Couples Attend Final Dance of Year At Palais Royale;
Marty Ross' Orchestra Plays
James M. Harris
Monogram Club President
Miss Dorothy Hogan
Guest of the Chairman
Mrs. James Harris Guest of the President
Notre Dame’s social season officially closed last night when the Monogram Club. Formal, the final undergraduate dance of the year, was held in the Palais Royale ballroom.
Following the yearly custom of the club, the dance was strictly an invitational affair. Some two hundred couples, including club members, friends, and guests, attended. Marty Ross and his orchestra furnished the music for the dance between the hours of nine and midnight. .
Use High Jink’s Proceeds
The custom of sponsoring a strictly invitational dance has been possible for the Monogram Club because of the perennial success of its annual “Absurdities” production. The revue produced this year, the “High Jinks of 1933,” was staged two weeks ago and enjoyed unusual success, playing to capacity audiences at all of the performances.
In charge of this year’s formal were James M. Harris, ’33, president of the Monogram Club, and Thomas A. Gorman, ’34, general chairman of
the dance. All arrangements were handled by committees composed of monogram winners, members of the sponsoring club.
As guests of honor at the affair were Mrs. James Harris, of Bellaire,
Ohio, attending with President Harris, and Miss Dorothy Hogan, of Chicago, guest of general chairman Gorman.
List Of Committees
The complete roster of committees that aided in arranging the dance were as follows:
Music: Norman J. Greeney, chairman; Anthony W. Wirry, Joseph Kurth, Frederick MacBeth, Hugh J. Devore, and John Baldwin.
Arrangements: Nicholas P. Lukats, chairman; Edward W. Krause, Joseph Young, James McGrath, and Joseph Voegele.	■
Entertainment: Daniel Hanley, chairman; Raymond Brancheau, Lawrence O’Neill, James Leonard, Frank LaBorne, and Leo Cummins.
Tickets: Michael Koken, chairman; Dennis O’Keefe, Charles Jaskwhich, Lawrence Vejar, Paul Kane, and Wilr liam Powell.
fl
May 12, 1933
Fifteen
GLEE CLUB PRESENTS CONCERT TUESDAY EVE
Traveling Personnel Entertains Students with Songs.
The Notre Dame Glee Club entertained the student body in an informal concert on the main quadrangle Tuesday evening. Under the direction of Prof. Casasanta, with announcements by Roger Beirne, a 40-minute program was presented.
The following selections were sung by the gleesters:
I.	Motets
a. “Laudate Patrem,” by Guonod b. “Plorate Filii Israel.” c. “Ave Maria,” by Vittoria.
II.	Part Songs
a.	“Mascot of the Troop,” by Herbert,
b.	“Night March,” by Kuntz.
c.	“Czecho - Slovakian Dance Song,” by Krone.
III.	“Gloria” — from Second Mass “des Orpheonistes,” by Guonod. IV. “Victory March,” by Shea.
The Glee Club quartet featuring William Fromm, Tom Flynn, Justin Tompkins, and John Henry sang several popular selections at the close of the program.
LIGHT AND SOUND
(Continued from Page 8)
forty feet on a beam of light, Mr. Taylor showed how he had communicated with a ground station from the dirigible Los Angeles by means of a beam from a searchlight. This feat attracted much attention a year or so ago, for the sound of the engineer’s voice was picked up by a specially constructed ground station and broadcast on a national hook-up.
From a point in the rear of the auditorium, the lecturer’s voice was carried to the stage by a thin finger of light which pierced the darkened hall and was caught by the uncanny photo-electric cell on the stage. When the light was not focused, no sound could be heard, but the moment that contact was made, the words of the speaker came clearly from the loudspeaker.
An explanation of the modern sound film occupied the final part of Mr. Taylor’s demonstration. Several strips of film were run through a machine which made audible his own voice, thanking his audience for its attention, and expressing the hope that the demonstration had been enjoyable.
Dillon, Alumni Stations Made In Oberammergau
By Paul Doyle
They are unpretentious people, these peasant folks of Oberammergau, yet to them we are indebted for the skill which produces such artistic masterpieces of a forgotten skill as may be seen on the walls of the Dillon and Alumni chapels, for from the Black Forest of southern Germany come those wood-carved stations that have just been installed.
Oberammergau, a small town of less than two thousand Bavarians, is situated at the' foothills of the Kofel Mountains, sixty miles south and west of Munich. It was here in 1633, when threatened by a terrible plague that devastated the village, that the villagers made a solemn vow to re-enact the Passion of the Redeemer every ten years “for the rest of time.” The production of such a drama was not new to these people, for even prior to this time they had been instructed in holy plays by the religious of the community. But now the plays, instead of being optional, became an obligation.
Presentation This Summer
And ever since that time — while mystery plays were becoming less religious, more profane — this little village has remained faithful to its promise. And ever since 1850 when they were discovered by the outside world, great throngs have come to watch the eight-hour presentation of uie Work of the Redemption, three hundred thousand making the pilgrimage to the open air theatre in 1930.
In spite of the fact that the play was last presented only three years ago, the players are deviating from their age-old custom and are to present the play again this summer in honor of the Holy Year.
The religious activities of this small hill town are not confined, however, to the acting of the drama, for they also devote time to the making of religious articles, such as crucifixes, statues, and stations of the Cross. From these work shops have come the new Stations.
These Stations are the work of an art that is nearly forgotten, that of wood-carving. The earliest art work in this material goes back to about
the eighth century when the artisans of China executed their fantastic oriental art in this medium. The Egyptians, also, to some small extent worked in wood, and this custom finally came to Europe, where in its hands it received its greatest development.
Wood Carving Art
The fourteenth and fifteenth centuries saw the art in Europe one of the most popular of crafts. Up until that time workers in wood had merely copied the methods and designs of stone sculptors. They were a long time realizing that while stone must be worked in cubic blocks, wood is best -worked in thin rectangular pieces. But that point realized, the wood worker carved for himself a high place in the artistic world. Churches of the period were covered with wood-carved ornamentations; the doors of the churches, the backs of the kneeling benches, the rafters and beams overhead, the communion rails, everything in fact was a subject for lace-like designs and figures. One of the most beautiful examples of that art in this country is the interior of Bond Chapel on the University of Chicago campus.
The carvings of old were, of course, -turned out completely by hand tools. The pine carvings found in the chapels, however, were worked out first by machine and finished by hand. After the design had been laid out, a machine fitted with drills, cuts to the required depth in the block of wood. The wood-carver then finishes and polishes the work. This art will never die out if oui- local examples are any promise.
Sorry
The statement in the Knights of Columbus story last week that . the financial secretary’s post is now held by Frank McGuire, succeeding Eli Abraham,” was erroneous. Mr. McGuire is the new recording secretary, William Murphy is the treasurer for 1933-34, and Mr. Abraham retains the position of financial secretary for next year.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Commencement Program Issued In Complete Form
The following general program of the Eighty-ninth Annual Commencement to be held at the University on June 2, 3 and 4, was released by Notre Dame officials this week. All programs are on Central Standard Time.
V
Friday, June 2
ART WORK DISPLAYED IN LOBBY OF LIBRARY
Work of Becvar, Beaulaurier, Bednar, O’Connor Shown.
Alumni Registration, Alumni Hall, Dillon Hall, Howard Hall, for campus residence. Alumni Office for Seniors and non-campus registrants.
The Alumni Golf Tournament Will Open Friday on the UniversityWilliam J. Burke 18-Hole Course on the campus.
12:45 P.M. President’s Address to the Seniors, Washington Hall (Private.)
2:00 P.M. Baseball Game, Varsity vs. Alumni, Cartier Field.
4:30 P.M. Fourth Annual Meeting of the Council of Local Alumni Clubs, Faculty Lounge, Dining Halls.
6:30 P.M. Reunion Dinners (By Private Arrangement of the Classes)
7:00 P.M. Concert by the University Band, Main Quadrangle.
8:15 P.M. The University Theatre Presents “Richelieu,” Washington Hall.
Saturday, June 3
Alumni Registration Continues as Above.
Alumni Golf Tournament Continues.
8:00 A.M. Reunion Mass for the Deceased Alumni.
9:30 A.M. Last Visit to Sacred Heart Church, Class of 1933 (Private).
10:00 A.M. Class Day Exercises and Award of Honors, Washington Hall.
12:00 M. Luncheon.
2:00 P.M. Baseball, Michigan State College vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field.
6:00 P.M. Annual Alumni Banquet, East Hall, University Dining Halls.
(The Annual Business Meeting Will Follow the Banquet.)*
7:00 P.M. Concert, Studebaker Band, Main Quadrangle.
8:00 P.M. Concert, The Notre Dame Glee Club, Washington Hall.
V
Sunday, June 4
8:30 A.M. Academic Procession.
9:00 A.M. Solemn Pontifical Mass (Place to be Decided).
Baccalaureate Sermon, Rev. Charles E. Coughlin, Pastor of the Shrine of the Little Flower, Royal Oak, Michigan.
Music, Moreau Seminary Choir and the University Glee Club.
Mass Will be followed by the Blessing of the Senior Flag.
11:00 A.M. Raising of the Senior Flag, Main Quadrangle.	•
Music by the University Band.
12:00 M. Monogram Club Luncheon, University Dining Halls.
4:00 P.M. Awarding of Degrees, University Gymnasium.
Commencement Address, the Honorable Paul V. McNutt, Governor of the State of Indiana.	r
8:00 P.M. Presentation of the Laetare Medal for 1933 to Mr. John McCormack, University Gymnasium.
By Timothy Donovan
The spring art exhibit of student work at Notre Dame opened last Sunday in the University Library. This public showing of fine and com--mercial art work will extend until after Commencement.
One of the best paintings is that of St. Thomas Aquinas by John Bednar, C.S.C. The composition of the figure and the still-life is excellent, while the monastery background lends realism to the work.
St. Thomas Popular
The theses of Charles O’Connor and William Cannon depict the same study. O’Connor and Bednar pictured St. Thomas with pated head, while Cannon followed the model, giving the figure a full head of hair. The still-life work was different in each . case, one featuring a crucifix, while another gave • prominence to a skull. The background for Bednar’s painting is the wall of the Main building. One painting shows St. Thomas as an orderly worker; another pictures him at work at a disorderly desk.
Beaulaurier Featured
The art editor of the Dome, Leo Beaulaurier, exhibits a painting of a woodcarver. The man is working on a statue of the Blessed Virgin which is shown to the left foreground. A number of tools are visible about the pictured room, with a statue of a bishop in the background. Beaulaurier also has an exceptionally lifelike painting of an old woman, and his several other works include a portrait from life of Brother Canute. The shadowing in his picture is probably the best of any exhibited work. He also has four small paintings depicting divisions of the nation, and one picturing. the buildings of the University with a map of the United States as the background.
.The painting of Shakespeare’s “Seven Ages of Man” by Arthur Becvar, Dome and Juggler artist, drew much attention. Becvar’s portrait of a negro guard in oils and his head of a football player is carried out successfully.
James Shea, whose thesis is a dec-(Continued on Page 17)
May 19, 1933
ST. NARY’S ALUMNAE 10
BOLD DANCE ON NAY 23
N, D» Students Permitted To Attend Affair in Niles.
Special permission has been granted to all Notre Dame students wishing to attend the Saint Mary’s College Alumnae dance, by the Reverend Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., prefect of Discipline of the University.
The dance, sponsored by the newly formed Allouez club, will be given at the Four Flags Hotel in Niles Michigan, Tuesday evening, May 23, from 9 until 12, daylight saving time.
Music will be furnished by the Notre Dame Jugglers. The committee in charge of the dance are doing all in their power to make it a St. Mary’s-Notre Dame party.
By special arrangement with the Yellow Taxi Company of Niles, seven passenger cabs will be sent to the campus to take the Notre Dame students to Niles. The rate will be 25 cents each way. St. Mary’s girls living in the state of Michigan will be allowed to attend the dance.
Students wishing to purchase their tickets on the campus may do so from John Kennedy in Freshman Hall or in room 325 Walsh Hall. Tickets are on sale at a dollar a couple.
ART EXHIBIT
(Continued from page 16)

orative panel that is to be put into the entrance of Washington Hall, also painted a fine head of a football player. He also has a head of a young boy reproduced from life.
Two excellent still-life studies in pastel by Anthony Mulvany and an outdoor study by Bednar are features of the exhibit. Other of Bednar’s many contributions are a portrait of his mother and a painting of a young girl.
Good technique is displayed in the commercial art work of Joseph B. Hennion, whose posters won first prize in the recent “High Jinks” competition. Designs by William Dusch, Gerald Doyle, and Richard Prezebel of shields, personal monograms, and book plates are outstanding. Other promising work is being exhibited by Mulvaney and Edmund Switalski. An exceptional likeness of Jerry Roach by William Dusch is a feature of the charcoal drawings.
_________________________ Seventeen
Engineer Narrates Marvels Of Electrical Laboratory
By W. F. Fromm, Jr.
In the electrical laboratories on the second floor of the massive, rambling Engineering Building, neophyte engineers work with wonders, which, through continual association, seem commonplace to them. Yet it is truly a “house of magic” — a place where anything is likely to happen, and frequently does.
The general laboratory, which is housed in a long bright room, presents a bewildering sight with its array of apparatus of every kind, its dynamos crouching on their concrete pedestals like monarchs on their thrones. Here one finds such things as synchronous converters, rectifiers, transformers, circuit breakers, generators, and motors of all types, rheostats, and condensers. A multitude of sounds blend not inharmoni-ously into a symphony of rhythm and action—here the well-bred hum of an induction motor or the impudent buzz of a mercury arc rectifier, there the boastful crash of a circuit breaker or the blatant clang of an automatic switch. At the farther end of the room is seen a large black switchboard bristling with jacks, switches, levers, and meters; to the right of it is a high insulating fence to protect the careless or uninitiated from the hidden power passing through three huge transformers. A conspicuous sign proclaims in glaring red letters that 5,000 volts are present in these giants.
Instructor Starts Things
An obliging instructor demonstrates some of the apparatus. He connects, through a maze of wires, an automatic starting panel with a direct current motor. He presses a button, a relay on the panel snaps home, the motor starts slowly; after a specified time another relay closes, the motor gathering speed, then another and still another, and finally the motor is operating at full speed. He pushes another button, all the relays open, and the motor slowly comes to a standstill.
The instructor takes us to a motorgenerator set which has a horizontal white stripe painted on the shaft coupling. He starts the motor and runs it at a speed of 1800 revolutions a minute, and quite naturally the stripe disappears altogether. But now
he focuses a small neon lamp on the coupling, and immediately we see the stripe revolving very slowly; by varying the frequency of the current flowing through the lamp he can bring the stripe to an absolute standstill.
The Reversing Motor
Finally our mentor demonstrates an automatically reversing motor. He completes the necessary mysterious connections and, throwing a switch, starts the motor, which gains speed, comes to a quick stop and starts again in the opposite, direction. This procedure is repeated every few seconds. The instructor’s detailed explanation of its action leaves us cold, although we gather that a series generator and a counter electromotive force are involved.
At the far end of the lab, just to the left of the switch-board, is a fireproof door leading to a tiny observation balcony glued to the upper corner of the immense high-tension laboratory. One’s breath catches a little as he steps onto the small platform, for he stands two stories above the floor. The room is a huge square, as high as it is wide and long, and almost the entire southern wall is composed of windows which flood the room with light. As yet the lab is innocent of any apparatus, but it probably will not be long before machines for the production of extremely high voltages and frequencies are installed.
In The Telephone Lab
We return to the general laboratory and retrace our steps to the other end of the room, where, passing between offices and instrument room, we enter the telephone lab. It is a miniature central office complete in every detail, from switchboards to dial equipment. Here we see in actual operation the “magic operator” which responds to the commands of the dial, making the required connection every single time without error. It is absorbing to watch the little “finder” climb up until it can insert its lever in the proper space—and a bit awe-inspiring. One can’t help feeling that there is something uncanny in the action of this complicated mechanism; it seems almost hu-
(Continued on Page 32)
Eighteen
The Scholastic
I
IN THESE TIMES
The student who dons the cap and gown next month is facing a much different world than when he graduated from high school four or more years ago. For one thing, he, himself, has changed. He has grown in college.
History has been made in the eventful days since March 4. The changes that have taken place in our fundamental governmental structure have been so great, it is almost as though he were living through the period when the constitution was drafted. In addition, the changes in our economic structure and outlook have been so marked in the past few years, it is a changed world, economically and politically, that the senior steps into.
Walter Lippmann has said, “. . . we are entering an era of construction in which we shall have to call up from within ourselves the last ounce of patient and laborious, critical and tolerant thought which we possess. . . These are times of momentous change in the habits of men. Those who are privileged to live through the years ahead will see how history is made.”
Woodrow Wilson, one of America’s greatest idealists and practical thinkers, said, “A man does not establish his claim to an education merely by showing his diploma. His eyes must be lifted to some horizon which those less privileged than he have not been able to see.”
The college student who has been well grounded in the social sciences and liberal arts should be able to grasp the problems of the new day much better than the person who has not had that background. He should be able to understand the rapid changes in our economic and political structure, to act upon these changes, intelligently and with a deep consideration for economic justice and the rights of his fellow men.—Oregon University Emerald
SHEAR ENOUGH!
The captain of the boxing team at the University of Florida makes his way through school by running a barber shop — for coeds only.
TIME BRINGS ALL THINGS
At the University of Texas the only students free from fees are the veterans of the World War and the Spanish American War.
QUIZZICAL VENGEANCE
One of the professors at the University of Texas has a very effective way of punishing habitually tardy people. Every time he gets a victim in one of his classes he gives him an hour quiz.
JUST INCIDENTAL
To shine shoes,. to polish cars, to act as a solvent for garbage, to clean pipes, to be taken straight as a beverage, are some of the incidental uses Temple students find for mouth washes.
MINNESOTA JUSTICE
University of Minnesota coeds are liable to a fine of $10 or a jail sentence , of six days if they are captured wearing a fraternity pin.
NO REST FOR THE WICKED
A Colgate professor recently required his students to sleep in class so that he could determine the most effective pitch for an alarm clock.
▼
PAGE MR. WEBSTER
Senior members of the Williams Quarterly were asked to resign for printing such words as “gin, damn, rye, lousy, blonde, horticulture and pansy.”
▼
FOUR CENTS AMUSEMENT TAX
The average date at the University of Maine costs $2.49, according to an estimate made during- the course of a debate there.
May 12, 1933
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
EUROPEAN MUDDLE
Following Herr Hitler’s surprise address of this week, a well known American newspaper man reviewed the speech over a national hook-up. The Nazi lord, he said, had made momentous, powerful statements. They would have desirable effects on world trade, and quiet the troubled international mind. But, he asks, is Hitler sincere ? He proceeds to claim that he is not.
One does not have to hold a brief for the brown shirt to admit that the American in question is guilty of a rather one-sided outlook. • Does he not pre-determine the German Chancellor? If Hitler had asked for more arms he would have been excoriated as a mad belligerent. He asks for peace, and is said to be planning some sinister next move.
*	In such a time as the present, even if some
be inclined to impugn the integrity of the German, it is unquestionably the best policy to give him the benefit of the doubt. We talk about mutual trust as being the basis of inter-* national amity; we may as well start to practice it.
The spot where pressure seems to be most needed is in France. The French position, to , be sure, is different in many ways from any other. She suspects the Germans even bringing gifts. She may refuse to disarm unless the United States pledges its support in the event of a German turn of mind. We are accordingly placed in the embarrassing and paradoxical position of demanding peace and simultaneously making provisions for war. Many students of the world problem believe, however, that while such a pact with France would not be the last word in diplomacy, it would certainly be the lesser of two evils.
Whatever happens, it is a safe conjecture
that Mr. Roosevelt will play the leading role. From his performance to date, the United States can be sure of tactful, sober, but aggressive, statesmanship.
HAIL TO THE NEW!
To James Kearns, Joseph Degnan, Louis Hruby, and Paul McManus, The Scholastic proffers its best wishes for the coming year in Notre Dame journalism. Knowing the men as we do, we are certain that the University’s four major publications are in safe hands, and that progress and improvement will come inevitably.
It is our hope that, regardless of campus approval, which is by no means an unfailing criterion, the Juggler continue in its present tone. Many people who know their business say that the changes made in the magazine this year represents the biggest step forward in local journalism during the past three or four years. Even the cynics might keep their tongues in their cheeks for a little while longer. A good co-ed joke will unquestionably come along and- cheei* them up.
We would like to see more interest in Scrip. It is a plain, but somewhat inexplicable, fact that half the student body is convinced that only the most remarkable kind of contribution receives editorial attention. Such is the pathetic fallacy in the history of Scrip’s content. The Dome, a mass of detailed work, demands not a regiment of staff members, but a few exceedingly able ones. The newly appointed editor, fortunately, is one of the latter.
As for our own child, we know of nobody we would rather hand it to than Jim Kearns. Working sedulously under three editors, he has primed himself since his freshman days for his new position. To him we have but a few things to tell— and they are not for publication.
Twenty	The Scholastic
--------------------t--------—
I ATHLETICS |
Bradley Nine Beats Irish 4-3
Squeze Play In Tenth Produces Winning Run For Peoria Team
N.D. SOCCER TEAM WINS SECOND FROM MICHIGAN
Irish Outhit Victors But Fail To Make Blows Count; Rain and Wet Field Mar Game.
By John D. Carbine
In a fierce ten-inning struggle played last Monday in a drizzling rain, Bradley Tech of Peoria, Illinois, defeated the Irish baseball team by the score of 4 to 3. Bradley was able to gather but six hits off the combined offerings of Leonard, Smith, and Banas. The Keoganites collected nine safe hits which were mingled with six free passes issued by Daugherty, the Bradley pitcher.
Bradley, however, was able to hit in the pinches, whereas the Irish were totally unable to connect with the pitches of Daugherty when hits meant runs. The inability of the Keoganites to hit when the sacks were loaded was well illustrated in the eighth.
Rascher Stranded On Third
In this inning, Rascher, the first man to bat, hit a long triple to left, the hardest-hit ball of the game. Palmisani hit a foul fly to left which was not far enough to permit the runner to score after the catch. Dunn knocked a single to center, but Rascher, thinking the ball would be caught, held his base until the ball hit the ground, and then was forced to stay there by the clean fielding of Burdette. McGrath struck out, and Underkolfer who batted for O’Neill, sent a weak roller--to the third baseman to end the rally and leave what would have been the winning run stranded on third base.
Cunha, by excellent base running, scored a run for Notre Dame in the first inning. Dan walked to start the inning, and raced around to third on Kane’s bunt down the third base line when the Bradley third sacker came
in to field the ball and left the base uncovered. After Seidl had been caught stealing second, Cunha stole home, catching the Bradley pitcher flatfooted.
The Irish picked up their final two runs in the third. Kane opened the inning with a single, Seidl struck out, but Rascher sent Kane to second with a single. Paul then stole third, and scored a moment later in a double steal in which Rascher was tagged out. Palmisani singled and stole second. Dunn sent him across with a double.	’
Bradley Scores In First
Bradley scored one run in the first on a walk to E. Handley, an error, and a passed ball by O’Neill and a fly to left field. They did not score again until the seventh when Doris the first man up, singled, E. Handley walked, and L. Handley sent both runners home with a hard hit to right.
The winning run came in the tenth. E. Handley worked for a base on balls. L. Handley laid down a sacrifice, and E. Handley went to third when Dunn threw wild, to second. Handley scored on McDonald’s infield hit on a squeeze play.
Box score:
Bradley Tech (4) AB
Burdette, cf ......3
E. Handley, 2b .. 2
L. Handley, ss____5
McDonald, rf _____4
Daugherty, p _____5
Crowell, c ........4
Doris, If .........4
Stevens, lb .......3
Lantz, 3b .........4
R H PO A E 110 0 0 2 0 6 3 0 0 2 2 0 0 0 10 0 0 0 10 10 0 0 10 4 0 1 1 2 0 .0 0 0 8 2 0 0 0 2 3 0
34	4	6	30	13	0
Notre Dame (3) AB
Cunha, ss ........2
Kane, 2b .........4
Seidl, rf ........4
Rascher, rf.......4
Palmisani, 3b ... 3
Dunn, lb _____.... 5
McGrath, cf ......4
R	H	PO A	E
1	0	3 6	1
1	2	2 4	0
00100
0	2	10	0
10	0	10
0	2	15 2	1
0	2	10	0
(Continued on Page 25)
La Raza Club Takes Return Game by 3-0 Score.
By Roy Scholz
The return soccer game between the La Raza Club of Notre Dame and the Latin-America Society of the University of Michigan, played at Notre Dame last Sunday morning, resulted in another victory for the Notre Dame representatives. Two goals scored by Roxes and Brias near the end of the first half, and another by Brias in the last part of the game brought the final score to 3-0.
The visitors showed great improvement over the previous Sunday’s performance, but were still no match for the La Raza Team, which threatened the Michigan goal continually, and did not win by a wider margin only because of excessive passing by the Notre Dame forwards and their reluctance to shoot at the goal.
Brias Scores
At the play-kick Notre Dame advanced and forced several comer kicks against Michigan, one of which brought about the opening of the score. The second goal a hard boot by Brias, was only partially stopped by Jimenez, the lanky Michigan goalie. The third goal was beautifully executed, and followed a nice combination of passes by the La Raza forward line.
Lineups:
S. L. A. of Michigan: Jimenez; Tellez and Tellez; Florez; Jauregui; Daza; Florez, Lepage, Florez, Terrazas, and Ramirez.
La Raza Club: de Landero; Valdes and Creel; Bonet, Yriberry, and Sing-son; Hoyos, Arce, Roxas, Brias and de Landero.	-
Referee: Alex Mitchell; linesmen: Hallaner, Alcebo.

May 19, 1933
Twenty-one
ARMY SCORES 74-S2 WIN OVER IRISH TRACK TEAM
Epler Leads Cadets* Scoring N. D. Wins Five Firsts.
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
The Army trained its big guns on a squad of charging Irish thinlies at West Point last Saturday and after an interesting skirmish, the cannons proved superior to the shillalahs, 74 to 52.
In accounting for their fifty-two points, the Blue and Gold warriors registered five firsts, seven seconds, and a half dozen thirds. Army shut out the Notre Dame entries in the discus throw when Armstrong, Moller, and Kopsack scored a sweep.
Murphy Runs :09.8
Bruce Epler, with a first in the high . hurdles and broad jump and a second in the high jump, copped the individual scoring honors. Jimmy Fagan and Smith followed him over the hurdles, and Conley and Eddie Gough captured second and third in the broad jump.
In the 100 yard dash Frank Murphy reeled off a win at :09.8 for his best outdoor mark this year. Carver and Fuller of the Academy finished second and third respectively. In the mile run Eddie King continued his winning ways, covering the distance in 4:24.4. Army partially offset Eddie’s first when Graham and Ryan registered four points with a second and third in the event.
Fagan Wins Low Hurdles
A new Academy record was hung up in the pole vault when Cadet Martin cleared at 12 feet, 6% inches. Edwards and Howard tied for second for four points.
Jimmy Fagan put on a burst of speed to walk away with the low hurdles. Captain Fred MacBeth gave the Irish eight of a possible nine points with a second. Once again the high jump failed to bother the elongated Vince Murphy who won his event without much competition at 5 feet, 11 inches. A flock of Army men tied for the remaining points.
The other Notre Dame first was accomplished by Leo Dilling in the 220 yard dash with Fuller and Carver of Army close behind.
Jim Bowdren’s third in the 440 yard affair, Joe Young’s second in the two-mile jaunt, Krause’s third in the jav-
Golf Team Beats Illinois For Fifth Straight Win
NEXT WEEK’S SPORTS CALENDAR
(All times given are C. S. T.)
Friday: Tennis—Mich. Normal on University courts, 2:00 p. m.
Saturday: Golf — University of Chicago on W. J. Burke University course. Singles, 9:30 a. m.; Doubles, 1:30 p. m.
Baseball—Ohio State on Cartier Field, 1:00 p. m.
Track—University of Pittsburgh on Cartier Field, 3:00 p. m.
Thursday: Tennis — University of Chicago at Chicago.
elin, Finkel’s second and Freschi’s third in the shot put, Roberts’ second in the half mile run, and Grimes’ third in the two-mile event concluded the scoring for Notre Dame.
The summaries:
100-YD. DASH—Won by Murphy (ND) ; Carver (A), second : Fuller (A). third. Time. :09.8.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by King (ND) : Graham (A), second: Ryan (A), third. Time, 4 :24.4.
440-YD. RUN—Won by King (A) ; Lanning (A), second: Bowdren (ND', third. Time. :50.4.
220-YD. DASH—Won by Dilling (ND) : Fuller (A), second: Carver (A). third. Time, :22.1.
120-YD. HIGH HURDLES—Won by Epler (A) ; Fagan (ND), second: Smith (A), third. Time, :15.1.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Starbird (A) ; • Young (ND), second: Grimes (ND), third. Time, 9:47.3.
JAVELIN THROW—Won by MacWilliams (A) ; Martin (A), second: Krause (ND), third. Distance, 181 feet, 10 inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Moorman (A) ; Finkel (ND), second ; Freschi (ND), third. Distance, 45 feet, 10% inches.
HALF-MILE RUN—Won by Graham (A) : Roberts (ND), second: Howell (A), third. Time, 1:59.5.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (ND) ; Mooorman (A), second; Epler, Vanderway, and Kennerick (A), tied for third. Height. 5 feet, 11 inches.
220-YD LOW HURDLES—Won by Fagan (ND) ; MacBeth (ND), second ; Smith (A), third. Time, :25.
POLE VAULT—Win by Martin (A) : Howard and Edwards (ND) tied for second: Height, 12 feet. 6% inches. New Academy Record.)
BROAD JUMP—Won by Elper (A) : Conley (ND), second : Gough (ND), third. Distance, 24 feet. 6 inches.
DISCUS THROW — Won by Armstrong (A): Moller (A), second: Kopsack (A), third. Distance. 130 feet. 1 inch.
BANKS’ 74 BEST CARD
High Score on 16th Costs Irish Star Course Record; John Montedonico Second Low.
By James F. McKeon
As the end of the golf season approaches it appears more than likely that this year’s Notre Dame golf team will not be defeated. And if it is defeated, the opposing team will have to display more than the University of Illinois did last week or the Irish team will have to run into a slump. Last Saturday, in their sec-cond home match, the Irish had little difficulty in outpointing the golfers from Illinois by the score of 13%-4%.
N. D. Sweeps Doubles
With Johnny Banks shooting superb golf throughout the morning and afternoon rounds, there was little doubt as to which team would be the ultimate winner soon after the morning round had gotten under way. Notre Dame copped all of the points in the doubles, but Illinois did better in the afternoon singles play.
Banks enjoyed his best day of the season. He played nicely to register a 76 in the morning round, and for a bit of hard luck he might have broken the course record in the afternoon. He paired the first three holes and scored a birdie three on the 426 yard fourth hole. Starting with the fifth hole he made pars on all the holes through the fifteenth and he seemed headed for a 71, one better than the course record. But here something happened.
Drives To Bunker
His drive to the 16th went up the side of a bunker. It took a stroke to get out of that and his third was a brassie. His approach to the green was wide and the fifth did not reach the pin although it was on the green. He took three putts to get down for an eight, three over par for the hole. He returned to form to score pars on the last two holes.
Captain Johnny Montedonico played consistent golf to register a 78-75— (Continued on Page 25)
Tiventy-two
The Scholastic
Freshman Continues To Hold Lead In Group II
CARESIO BEATS BRIAS FOR N. D. FOILS TITLE
TWO TIE IN GROUP I
Championship Game Between Two Group Winners to be Played Next Thursday.
By Nick Connor
Of the twelve games scheduled for play last week-end only seven contests were recorded, the warm weather seemed to have taken effect on many of the hall athletes or maybe it was the rain. But the atmosphere had no effects on the spirits of the frosh from Freshman Hall, as they continued on their steady march to the championship by winning both of their scheduled games, thus bringing their total to five wins and no defeats.
Californian met Californian in the Freshman-Walsh game when Ream and Vejar, both natives from the sunny coast, opposed each other on the mound. From the final score one would naturally believe that the freshmen found little opposition from their opponents. If holding this belief, you are more than right as the diamond aggregation from Freshman won with ease 20 to 0. Incidentally this is the second shut-out game of the season pitched by Bill Ream.
Morrissey 5, Sorin, 0
The nine from Morrissey also scored a shut-out from Sorin as they won 5 to 0. A last inning rally staged by the freshmen from Carroll was cut short by some nifty fielding from the third year men from Howard, the juniors winning, 6 to 2. The Badin hall pastimers won a thriller from the senior hall from Corby 11 to 9. The Dillon-St. Ed’s game was played on Monday afternoon instead of Sunday, with the frosh from Dillon winning 16 to 10.
There were but two games played Tuesday, Corby won from Dillon 6 to 4. The senior hall massed enough runs in the sixth inning to insure their margin of victory. The other contest was between Freshman hall and Alumni. The freshmen won with little trouble 9 to 3.	-
The games scheduled for Sunday, May 21, will be between Brownson and Howard on diamond three.
INTERHALL BASEBALL STANDING
GROUP I.	W	L	Pct.
Morrissey .......... 4	1	.800
Corby .............. 4	1	.800
Sorin .............. 3	2	.600
Dillon ............. 3	2	.600
Badin .............. 1	2	.333
St. Edwards ........ 1	3	.250
Lyons .............. 0	3	.000
GROUP II.	W	L	Pct.
Freshman ........... 5	0	1.000
Walsh .............. 3	.1	.750
Alumni ............. 2	2	.500
Howard ............. 2	2	.500
Carroll ............ 1	3	.250
Brownson ............1	3	.250
Off-Campus ......... 0	3	.000
Freshman will oppose Off-Campus on field five and Alumni will tangle with Walsh on diamond four. Carroll drew a bye this week. All of these above mentioned teams are of Group two.
In Group one Badin will play against Dillon on field one and Lyons will oppose Morrissey on diamond two. Nines from Corby and St. Edward’s will fight it out on diamond six. The seniors from Sorin will be given a day of rest this week-end.
The two leading teams of the two groups will play for the championship on Thursday morning, May 25. The game is scheduled to get under way at 9:30.
Batteries and scores for last Sunday’s games:
Morrissey ________2 0 1 2 0 0 0—5
Sorin ____________0 0 0 0 0 0 0—0
Battei’ies: Nuss and Ferrell. Misterly and Up-richard.
Howard____________0 0 4 2 0 0 0—6
Carroll___________0 0 0 0 0 0 2—2
Batteries: Ferrari and Caserretta. Tobin and O’Brien.
Badin __0 1 4 001 200 1—11 Corby __0 0 0 4 3 1 0 0 0 3—9 Batteries: Kinney and Alberts. Mahoney and Levestick.
Freshman________1 0 0 3 11 5 0—20 .
Walsh __________0 0 0-0 0 0 0— 0
Batteries: Ream and Gannon. Vejar and Ackermann.
Dillon__________0 0 5 4 2 1 4—16'
St. Edward’s __0 0 6 3 0 1 0—10
Batteries: Heckler and Sheehan. Viviano and Simpson. .
Madden - de Landero Sabres Match Called Draw.
By James A. Hart
Johnny Caresio, the red-haired Chicago foilsman, turned in a remarkable performance last Monday night to win the University foils championship in a fencing tourney at Washington Hall. Several hundred enthusiastic fans watched the tourney, in which Coach de Landero’s proteges provided a brilliant exhibition of swordsmanship.
Overcomes Four
In winning the championship, Caresio. had to overcome four skilled foilsmen, who pressed and extended him every minute. After eliminating Darongoski, Grosso, and Telmo de Landero in the first, quarter-final, and semi-final rounds, respectively, he had to face the flashing blade of Leopoldo Brias of Barcelona, Spain. With superior strength Caresio disarmed twice and finally conquered his smaller but faster opponent.
With the exception of Caresio, the La Raza club of Notre Dame seemed to have a monopoly on the fencing honors of the school. The other three semi-finalists, Vincent Singson, Brias, and T. de Landero, are all members of that organization. David Ryan of South Bend, however, rated as a favorite by Coach de Landero, had to withdraw because of sickness.
Sabres Match Draw
Carlos de Landero, of South Bend, and Don Madden, another Chicago blade, fought a thrilling match in the sabres, which was declared a draw by the judges. Both men showed a willingness to mix that made the bout the closest and hottest on the card. Carlos later went on in a special match with his father, the coach.
Coach de Landero acted as referee and Robert Riordan as timekeeper. Roos, former intercollegiate and national amateur champion, and assistant coach of the Notre Dame team, was one of the judges. Harold May, rated as No. 1 man in sabres, but unable to compete because of sickness, filled the other judgeship.
Professor Norbert Engels of the English Department gave a fitting talk on the art of fencing before the (Continued on Page 23)
May 12, 1933
Twenty-three
TENNIS TEAM LOSES THREE MATCHES IN ROW
Track Team to Meet Pitt Thinlies Here Tomorrow
N. U., Illinois, and Michigan State Trim Irish.
By Howard . Waldron
Showing a woeful lack of practice, the netmen of Notre Dame dropped three successive matches over the past week-end. Inclement weather had hampered the Irish practice sessions for the previous two weeks and they, were far from their usual form. Northwestern and Illinois, and Michigan State, playing a return match, were the victorious teams.
Captain Louis., Chreist was the sole survivor of the Michigan State invasion, -winning his singles match, as the Irish suffered their fourth straight tennis reversal from State teams. The score of the contest, which was played on Tuesday, was 8-1.
Close Battling
The Irish gave a much closer battle to the Spartans than the score on some of the matches indicates. Playing on courts with which they were not familiar, Notre Dame time and again tossed away sure points by hitting into the net or sending up easy lobs to their opponents after they had worked them off balance. Their judgment was poor on easy shots, their timing was bad, and many easy “kill” shots were muffed. Michigan State, meanwhile, was playing too fast and stroking the ball too hard for Notre Dame.
Nick Lukats, playing the Number 1 singles for Notre Dame, met a tartar in Rex Norris of State, and succumbed by scores of 6-0, 6-3. Lukats’ hard, smashing forehand drives were returned by the steady Norris and his own placements were too much for Nick.
Lukats, O’Hanlon Good
Louis Chreist, Irish captain, came back strong after dropping the first set to Goodwin of State and won his singles matches by scores of 1-6, 7-5, 6-4 Dick Kelly lost easily to Guy Stonebraker, 6-2, 6-2, and Bill Loose of State downed Jack O’Hanlon, 8-6, 6-4. O’Hanlon won the first four games of the first set, and was leading Loose 5-2, when the State Player rallied to pull the set out of the fire.
Ed Power dropped a gruelling three set struggle to Merle Gee of State, after taking the first set. The scores
FENCING TOURNEY
(Continued from Page 22)
matches began. Practice for the fencing team will continue as before until the end of the school year.
The summary follows:
Foils:
First Round: Sebastian Bonet won from Bill Barrett. Vincente Singson won from Bill McDonald. Paul Mar-tersteck won from Bill Klima. Leopold Brias won from John Wynn. Telmo de Landero won from John Cox. August Petrillo won from Robert Wiele. Louis Grosso won from Carl Makorski. Johnny Caresio won from Cornell Darongoski.
Second Round: Singson won from Bonet. Brias won from Martersteck. T. de Landero won from Petrillo. Caresio won from Grosso.
Semi-finals: Brias won from Singson. Caresio -won from de Landero.
Finals: Caresio won from Brias. Sabres: Carlos de Landero and Don Madden drew.
were 2-6, 8-6, 6-1. Seton Staley w-as completely whitewashed by Link of State, 6-0, 6-0.
Notre Dame made a much better showing in the doubles, although the match was already won by State. The best playing was done in the Lukats-O’Hanlon verses Norris-Goodwin contest. They dropped the first set 6-3, but Lukats’ steady play and hard drives extended the second set to 10-8. The first nine games were taken by each server in turn, and Notre Dame led 5-4. But Norris took a hand and evened the score. Then, de- . spite the valiant efforts of Lukats, Norris and Goodwin took the set at 10-8.
Chreist and Kelly were beaten by Link and Loose 6-1, 7-5, and Staley and Power were turned back by Saxton and Stonebraker, 6-4, 6-3. In a previous engagement with State, Notre Dame had been beaten by the same score of 8-1, winning only a doubles encounter in that match.
Captain Earl Teiting, Northwestern’s ace, proved too much for Nick Lukats, of Notre Dame, and started (Continued on Page 27)
FINAL MEET AT HOME
Nicholson’s Squad Expected to Chalk up First Victory of Outdoor Season.
The field events of the Pittsburgh-Notre Dame track meet tomorrow will start at 2:30 and the track events at 3:00. The Notre Dame-Ohio State baseball game will start at 1:00 o’clock.
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Tomorrow will bring a squad of Pittsburgh track men here to compete in the final home showing of the Irsih 1933 track edition. With the Panthers out of the way, “Nick’s” men have only the state meet and the outdoor Central Intercollegiate Conference carnival on the regular schedule.
The chances for a victory tomorrow-on Cartier Field are the greatest barring overconfidence and other such maladies which often bring about upsets. A victory over Pittsburgh would be a rousing send-off to six Notre Dame men who will make their final appearance of their intercollegiate careers. Captain Fred MacBeth, Leo Dilling, Eddie Gough, Francis Murphy, Jake Bowers, and Bill Howard are the veterans who will step aside to make room for new material next year.
Keller Big Threat
Satisfied with the performance of his men at West Point last week, “Nick” is looking for big things tomorrow. The Panthers boast as their big threat, Keller, in the quarter-mile. They are also strong in the half mile run, the hurdles, and the weights.
The squad brought back a few sad stories from the East. The most talked of one involves Clyde Roberts. This dependable half miler was teamed with Jim Bow-dren in the quartermile against King, the Army ace. Rounding a turn, Roberts was un intentionally bumped off his feet by the Cadet and before he could recover himself, a pair of spikes had taken their toll. Clyde then entered the half mile, his specialty, thoroughly jarred and lacerated. Despite this great handicap Roberts was barely-nosed out at the finish line.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING	Ralph Bower
By John D. Carbine
We have heard numerous stories concerning radiators from upperclassmen who claim to have sold several of them to domestic but gullible freshmen. But try as we might, we were never able to find a fellow who ■would admit having been victimized in such a manner. That is, we had not met one until we interviewed Jake Bower. Jake not only admits it; he attributes his athletic fame to it.
Back in 1929, a lean Hoosier freshman, Ralph “Jake” Bower by name, came to Notre Dame from Brook, Indiana. When he arrived at Notre Dame, Jake had exactly twenty dollars in his pocket. He did not keep this money long. A couple of enterprising upperclassmen greeted him. A hasty interview followed, and after five minutes of conversation, Jake left without his twenty dollars but with the sole claim of two well-conditioned radiators for his room in Freshman Hall.
When Jake discovered his mistake, he was so ashamed that he refused to send home for money, and, as a result, was without financial means for a month. His three roommates were out for freshman football, and Ralph was slowly but surely dying of homesickness. Movies and other forms of ’
LEMONTRE^S
Optometrists 222% S. Michigan Street	102 W. Washington Street
diversion which required money were out of the question, and Jake seemed destined to pine away in his room.
One fine September afternoon, however, he got a brilliant idea. A bulletin had been posted calling for candidates for freshman track. Bower had never run in high school, but that was of no importance as the bulletin had specifically stated that no experience was necessary. So Jake went out for freshman track.
Wins Numerals
During his freshman year, Jake was, in his own words, “a second-rate five-minute miler.” He stuck it out, however, and at the end of the season, he was awarded his numerals.
In his sophomore year, Jake was a member of the varsity track squad but was not entered in any meet. The next season, he developed into a good cross-country man and placed third to Wilson and Howery in several meets.
This season Jake has done the best work of his career. In cross-country he was either the first or second Irish harrier to finish in every race. He won the two-mile event in the Ohio State meet and got “the biggest thrill of my life.” Jake was a member of the Irish four-mile -relay team
which was second at Drake, and a member of the two-mile relay team which ran at Butler.
During the course of the season, Bower has gathered enough points to be entitled to a monogram and is, at present smarting under the humiliations he has been subject to during the past week. “They were taking it easy,” says Jake, “until I got a haircut to go over to Saint Mary’s— and then!”
Jake, while in high school, was a forward for three years on the basketball team and first baseman on the baseball team for two years. Brook’s basketball team won the sectional tournament for two straight years, but was never able to get any place in the regional tournament at Gary.
N. D. Rifle Team Defeated By Gary Rifle Club
The Notre Dame Rifle team was defeated last Saturday by the Gary ' Rifle Club. The Gary team, one of the best in the country, ran up a score of 977 against the Notre Dame score of 966.	'
The match consisted of 20 shots, prone, using iron sights. Cissel, who was the Indiana State Champ last year, shot a perfect score of 200. McGrath was second high on the Notre Dame team with a target of 196.
Cissel, McGrath, and probably May, will shoot for the individual championship of the Tri-County League in a meet to be held Sunday in South Bend.
Scores:
Gary—Child, 198; Hopper, 196; Esmoer, 194; Stewart, 194, Burns, 195; Total, 977.
Notre Dame — Cissell, 200; McGrath, 195; Landmesser, 193; Bums, 190; Hostetler, 188; Total, 966.
Engineer** Club to Elect 1933-34 Officers Tonight
GLASSES . . .
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision land more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
□
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
Election of Engineer’s Club officers for 1933-34 will be held tonight at 8:00 o’clock in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. Originally scheduled for last Tuesday, the election was postponed to avoid conflict with the annual demonstration of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers.
Membership cards must be presented at the meeting before one is eligible to ballot.
Tiventy-five
May 19, 1933 1 .
GOLFERS WIN AGAIN (Continued from Page 21)
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
153, one better than Baker and Hoffman of Illinois both of whom covered the course in 154.
In the doubles, the teams of Monte-donico and Banks, and Fehlig and Veeneman scored clean sweeps. They defeated the duets of Hoffman and Prey, and Baker and O’Neill respectively.
In the singles Banks’ 74 was better than Hoffman’s score by three strokes and Montedonico’s 75 enabled him to lead Grunewald by six strokes. Cole and Smock halved their match, each having a 78. Baker outpointed Fehlig 3-0.
The individual cards in the singles
were as follows:
Banks: Out—4 4 4
In—4 4 3
Hoffman: Out—;4 5 4
In—4 3 3
Monte- Out—4 4 4 donico: In—4 4 3
Grune- Out—5 5 4 wald: In—5 4 4
Cole: Out—4 4 4
In—5 4 4
Smock: Out—4 5 4
In—6 4 3
Fehlig: Out—5 5 5
In—4 4 3
Baker: Out—4 5 5
In—5 4 3
3 5 3 4 4 5—36
4 4 3 8 3 5—38—74
4 6 3 3 5 6—40
4 5 4 5 3 6—37—77
5 4 4 4 5' 5—39
5 4 4 5 2 5—36—75
554 54 5—42
4 5 3 5 3 6—39—81
o 4 3 o 4 a—38
5 3 3 5 4 5—38—76
5 5 4 4 5 5—41
6 4 3 4 3 4—37—78
553 55 5—43 4 5 3 4 3 6—38—81
553 54 5—41
3 3 3 5 4 5—35—76
BRADLEY TECH WINS
(Continued from Page 20)
O'Neill, c .......2
xUnderkolfer, c . 1
Leonard, p .......2
xxWhite ......... 1
Smith, p .........0
zPowell ......... 1
zzVelcheck .......0
Banas, p .........0
0	0	3	0	1
0	0	3	1	0
0	0	12	0
0	0	0	0	0
0	0	0	1	0
0	10	0	0
0	0	0	0	0
0	0	0	0	0
33	3	9	30	19	3
xUnderkolfer batted for O’Neil in eighth. xxWhite batted for Leonard in seventh. zPowell batted for Smith in ninth. zzVelcheck ran for Powell in ninth.
Bradley Tech ......1 0 0. 000 200 1—4
Notre Dame ........1 02 000 000 0—3
Summary: Two base hits—Dunn. Three base hit—Rascher. Sacrifice hits—Lantz, Cunha, Kane, L. Handley. Stolen bases—Cunha, Kane, Palmisani, Burdette. Struck out—by Daugherty, 9; by Leonard, 3; by Smith, 1. Base on balls—off Daugherty, 6; off Leonard. 4; off Smith, 1; off Banas, 1. Wild, pitch— Smith. Hit by pitcher—Burdette by Leonard. Hits—off Daugherty 9 in 9 innings: off Leonard, 5 in 7 innings: off Smith 0 in 2 innings ; off Banas, 1 in 1 inning. Losing pitcher — Banas. Passed ball — Crowell, O’Neill. Double play—Cunha to Kane to Dunn.
By James S. Kearns
COURSE RECORD
Johnny Banks’ great round on the W. J. Burke University golf course last Saturday afternoon brought up the matter of the existing course record and of its whys and hows. Banks’ first fifteen holes, in which he was one under par, made it look as if he was headed for a new record.
On the present course, since its rebuilding in the fall and winter of ’31-’32, the best official score posted has been a 72, scored by both Larry Moller and Ed O’Malley in the alumni medal play tourney held during commencement weekend last June.
Moller also held the low mark on the course as it was in its original state. His 70, scored against Johnny
Fine for a late snack
ALONG about bedtime when you begin to feel a little hungry, enjoy a bowl of Kellogg’s Corn Flakes and milk or cream.
It’s just the treat. Easy to digest. Invites restful sleep. How much better than heavy, hard-to-digest foods. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
Montedonico in the semi-finals of the University championships on Decoration Day, 1931, was the lowest round on record. With the renovation of the links the next year, however, that mark could not hold, for the course had been made considerably more difficult.
Banks’ attack on the record last week was not entirely unheralded. Last October 16, playing in a foursome with Johnny Montedonico, Bill Veeneman, and .Vince Fehlig, the Western Junior champ raced around in 72 shots, unofficially equalling the record.
His card in that par- and recordequalling round was as follows:
Out—444 544 346—38
In—443 443 534—34—72
k$!mr
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
Keoganites Beat St. Joe A.C.
4-3 In Seven Inning Game
Notre Dame’s baseball team got back in the winning column last Wednesday with a 4-3 victory over St. Joe A. C. in a seven inning game played on Cartier Field. Banas started the pitching for the Irish and remained in the box for four innings. Huisking relieved him at the beginning of the fifth and pitched the final three innings. In addition to his pitching activities, Huisking knocked a long
STARTING SATURDAY
JOE E. BROWN
Spreading a smile across the face of the nation—See the man with the air-cooled tonsils doing blondes and
. baseball up Brown ... in
“ELMER THE GREAT”
ADDED FUN
“THE PEANUT VENDER”
'	Musical Novelty
MACK SENNETT	I	PARAMOUNT
COMEDY	I	SOUND NEWS
home run into deep left field in the sixth inning.
The Irish picked up a run in their half of the seventh to break up a 3 to 3 deadlock which had existed up to that time.
Detroit Election Tonight
Detroit Club elections are to be held tonight at 6:30 in the Law Building. Only those members whose dues are paid in full are eligible to vote; dues may be paid immediately before the meeting, however.
Campus Takes on New Air
As Grounds Are Improved
A survey of campus improvements completed and under way reveals that much has been accomplished since the work was begun six weeks ago.
The grass planted recently on the long expanse from the dining halls to the Engineering Building bene-fitted greatly from the recent rains, and with the coming of this week’s warm days and the application of fertilizer, the green covering is spreading at a rapid rate.
Here we have a summary of the improvements which are either finished or in the process of completion:
A new drive at the rear of Alumni and Dillon Halls from Notre Dame avenue to the dining hall; painting of the interior of the gymnasium; levelling of the once rutty parking lot north of the gym; planting of new grass plots behind Science Hall and • south of the gymnasium; removal of that part of Dorr road from the post office to Eddy street; a new driveway from Notre Dame avenue to Eddy street, on the south side of the Engineering building; completion of the golf course fencing; new lawns on the south front from Engineering to the Dining halls, and on the north side of these same buildings.
PALACE
STARTING SUNDAY
Nancy CARROLL-John BOLES
Better . . . more dynamic than ever before . . . in their latest smash hit . . .	-
“CHILD OF MANHATTAN”
ADDED — COMEDY - CARTOON - NEWS
------DON’T FORGET!-------------
SATURDAY, MAY 20th, IS ' COLFAX-PALACE Dollar Day YOU CAN PURCHASE
5 Colfax 35c Tickets for $1.00 (value $1.75)
6 Palace 25c Tickets for $1.00 (value $1.50)	'
BUY ALL YOU WANT . . USE THEM ANY TIME
SPORTS
Sport shoes bring the new and accepted style trend to a new season.
BLACK—Narrow toe genuine white washable pig-combination. Same in brown.
ALL WHITE Genuine Buck— The Season’s Best Bet.
$0.98
Boston Shoe Store
124 South Michigan Street
May 12, 1933 .
Twenty-seven
4
TENNIS TEAM LOSES
(Continued from Page. 23)
t
the Northwestern team on their way to a 5-0 victory, last Friday. Only one doubles match was played owing to rain which prevented the others.
Illinois handed out a thorough trouncing to the Irish, last Saturday at Champaign, Ill. Notre Dame was handicapped by the absence of its captain, Louis Chreist, but still didn’t have enough strength to win even a single set from the Hhni.
Summaries:
Michigan State 8, Notre Dame 1
Singles — Norris (MS), defeated Lukats 6-0, 6-3; Chreist (ND), won from Goodwin (MS), 1-6, 7-5, 6-4; Storiebraker (MS), defeated Kelly (ND), 6-2, 6-2; Loose (MS) defeated O’Hanlon (ND), 8-6, 6-4; Gee (MS), defeated Power, 2-6, 8-6, 6-1; Link (MS), beat Staley (ND), 6-0, 6-0.
Doubles—Link and Loose (MS), defeated Chreist and Kelly (ND), 6-1, 7-5; Stonebraker and Saxton (MS) beat Staley and Power (ND), 6-4, 6-3; Norris and Goodwin (MS) downed Lukats and O’Hanlon (ND), 6-3, 10-8.
Northwestern 5, Notre Dame 0
Singles—Tetting (NU) beat Lukats (ND), 6-3, 6-2; Sink (NU) beat Chreist (ND), 4-6, 7-5, 7-5; Laux (NU) beat Kelly (ND), 6-1, 9-7;
I
!<•
SOUTH SHORE LINE
Special Round Trip Rate From
South Bend to Chicago lor
World’s Fair Opening Saturday, May 27
HOURLY TRAINS DIRECT TO WORLD’S FAIR GATES
Special low fare to A Century of Progress Exposition opening is good on all trains leaving South Bend from 6 p. m. Friday, May 26, to 1 p. m., Saturday, May 27. Final return limit 11:45 p. m.. Sunday, May 28. Tickets must be purchased before boarding trains.
Chicago/ South Shore and South Bend Railroad
f
Combe (NU) beat O’Hanlon (ND), 6-2, 6-0.
Doubles—Tetting and Combe (NU) beat Lukats and O’Hanlon (ND), 6-2, 6-0.
Illinois 7, Notre Dame 0.
Singles—Bailie (I) defeated Lukats (ND), 6-3, 6-4; Siegel (I) defeated Kelly (ND), 6-0, 6-1; Crawford (I) defeated Staley (ND), 6-3, 6-3; Hands (I) defeated O’Hanlon (ND), 6-0, 6-1; Cookman (I) defeated Power (ND), 6-4, 6-4.
Doubles—Bailie and Siegel (I) defeated Lukats and Kelly (ND), 6-4, 6-4; Hands and Crawford (I) beat Staley and Powers (ND), 6-3, 6-3.
RICHELIEU CAST
(Continued from Page 6)
the presentation; and one can easily drift back through the centuries to
• that romantic, eventful period with the appearance of the supporting cast, a stalwart, well-armed, plumed company of gallants, characterized by Joseph Mansfield, Howard Fisher, Vincent Narisi, Harry Burchell, Tom Proctor, Mitchell Tackley, Roger Beirne, Francis Cawley, and many others.
. “Richelieu” was written by Sir Edward Lytton Bulwer, Lord Lytton, and was first produced in the Theater Royal, Covent Garden, London in
1839. It was first played in the United States in 1839 at Wallack’s Old National Theatre, New York. Since that time it has enjoyed great success, undergoing little change, though it was written for a period “more ear-minded than eye-minded.”
Norman Thomas Signs Peace Petition at Miami U.
Oxford, 0.—Norman Thomas, Socialist candidate for president, was at Miami University last week when the Brown Daily Herald’s anti-war petition began to be distributed. Norman Thomas affixed his name at the top of one of the petitions. The Miami Student, undergraduate newspaper, photographed the petition with Thomas’ name, and printed it on Page 1. At the last report, 246 students had signed the petition, 21 had refused.
BARGAIN
IN
VACATIONS!
FOLLOW THE "50 TIMERS"* *
to EUROPE
’People who have traveled across the Atlantic 50 times or more via the White Star Line.
IT’S a chance you may never have again...to take a European vacation at this year’s low costs... in Tourist Class on mighty White Star liners. Because they know the gay good times that White Star offers, veteran voyagers have chosen White Star 50 times and more.
Sail on the Majestic, world’s largest ship; famous Olympic; Georgie (new) and Britannic, England’s largest motor liners; or the favorite Adriatic.
$AA.5O«v>ToeristClass™;
90	*175
For sailings to Ireland, England and France, see your local agent — the travel authority in your community.
HOLY YEAR CRUISES
On famous and popular liners— swift connections direct to Rome
WHITE STAR
latematieBal Mercantile Marine lines
216 No. Michigan. Chicago. Ill.
•HOW IN THE WORLD DID
THE MAGICIAN MAKE THAT bird cage vanish in the MAGIC ACT W€ SAW TONIGHT?
c* ,
... THE CAGE WAS
COLLAPSIBLE , -AND ATTACHED TO A STRING
WHICH WAS JUST LONG ENOUGH TO GO UP ONE SLEEVE, ACROSS THE SHOULDERS
AND DOWN TO THE OTHER WRIST.
WHEN HE MADE THE THROWING MOTION THE CAGE FOLDED UP
AND WAS DRAWN
INTO HIS SLEEVE — BIRD AND ALL .
FU* know
Copyright. 1#33. R. J, Rcynoldi Tobacco Comping
MATCHLESS
BLEND
Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand. That’s why they give you more pleasure. It’s the tobacco that counts!
4fo	COfTVjSJl To^4CCO^
Thirty
The Scholastic
Massachusetts’ Sacred Cod is Back in Legislature
Cambridge, Mass.—The sacred cod of the State of Massachusetts is back in its place over the mantel in the chamber of the House of Representatives, and it came back in such a way as to cast grave suspicion on Harvard sophomores for its mysterious vacation into the outer world.
For 30 years the cod, symbol of the state’s fishing industry, had hung untouched by human hands. Shortly before its sudden disappearance three youths, distinctly collegiate in appearance, were seen in the legislative halls. One carried a box from which lilies protruded.
A few days later a Harvard janitor found the cod in his possession. Whence it came he knew not, but he lost no time in getting it back to the state capitol.
Maryland Paper Attacks Roosevelt’s Disarmament
College Park, Md.—While students in many colleges throughout the country were signing the anti-military petitions sent out by the Brown Daily Herald, the Diamondback at the University of Maryland in a strong editorial charged , the Roosevelt administration with wrecking the national defense.
Notre Dame
We appreciate the business that you have favored us with.
HECK& AKER
West Jefferson Blvd.” Just off Michigan
Featuring WILSON BROTHERS Furnishings '
Heck&Aker
“The recommendation contained in the Army slashes now being considered,” said the university paper, “leave but a,.single possibility to account for them; mild insanity on the part of supposedly intelligent men entrusted with the guidance and safeguarding of the government of the United States.”
In another editorial the Diamond-back pointed out especially that under the new program members of the R. 0. T. C. would be forced to buy their own uniforms, and asserted that this would have a damaging effect on the morale of the student body.
Mixed Reports About Hitler’s School Policies
New York City.—Just how the Hitler dictatorship in Germany is affecting education in that country which has been noted for its great educators remains somewhat obscure to the American collegians as a result of conflicting reports coming out of the Reich.
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
University Cafeteria and
Soda Grill
Daily Specials
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
Last week American college students began receiving direct correspondence from students in German universities protesting what they allege to be misleading information printed in American papers., At the same time press dispatches from Germany reported the ousting of 30 prominent professors in German universities.
From Munich came this letter to American students:
“The students of the German Academy of the University of Munich, giving courses for foreigners, herewith, unanimously, of their own free will and accord, declare that not one single one of them, irrespective of nationality, race, or creed, was, during the entire course of the German national revolution, molested in any manner whatsoever, either in Munich or any other German city . . . With the exception of one day, namely, the opening of the German parliament, their instruction was not interrupted for even an hour, and they lived their lives as peacefully in Munich as they would have at home.” •
May 12, 1933
Thirty-one
1
Speaker Urges System of Tutors For Fraternities
Five Jobs At Once! It Must Be Einstein
Check these points:
Workmanship Service Convenience
(JAnd that’s about all you could ask for in your laundry and dry cleaning work.
^At Notre Dame you’ll find superior workmanship. The service is as fast as is consistent with quality. And as for convenience—what could be simpler than the Notre Dame system? Just leave your laundry at the appointed place in your own hall.
<JSo, we tell you frankly that you are missing a bet if you fail to patronize the
University of Notre Dame
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING DEPARTMENTS
Columbus, 0.—Malcolm C. Sewell of Indianapolis, speaking before a joint meeting of college deans and fraternity secretaries here last week, recommended the maintenance of a tutorial system in the fraternity house as a means of stimulating the fraternity members.
Sewell said be believed the tutor should be an unmarried faculty member or graduate student who would help teach the freshmen how to study and give scholastic advice to all fraternity members.
Poor training, according to Alvan Duerr of Columbus, is responsible for the intemperances and irregularities of youth. He held that college fraternities held the key to developing better students.
“Youth,” he said, “today is idealistic as it ever has been and infinitely more wholesome and honest. The fraternity is the greatest social force in college life and you deans of men who have the opportunity to shape its career should apply its potentialities.”
Chicago May Lose Teachers* Convention By Not Paying
Chicago—Cleveland or some other large mid-western city, instead of Chicago, may get the annual summer convention of the National Education Association because Chicago has not paid its teachers.
This development was seen as Dr. John Dewey of Columbia University, honorary president of the association, and others have poured in protests against holding the scheduled convention in a city which apparently has so little regard for the teaching profession.
The convention was to have been held here in conjunction with the Century of Progress Exposition.
That the loss of the convention would be felt by Chicago hotels and business men is evident when it is realized that between 10,000 and 15,000 delegates usually attend its sessions.
During the Fifteenth Century, golf was prohibited in Scotland because the Scottish parliament said that the new sport was supplanting the old sport of fighting, thus discouraging Scotland’s means of defense.
Paris—Being an exile from Germany is not going to mean that time will hang heavy on the hands of Dr. Albert Einstein.
So far the famous German Jew has accepted professorships in five universities—the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, the University of Paris, the University of Madrid, the University of Brussels and the University of Glasgow.
Just how Prof. Einstein will divide his time between the five institutions is not known, but it is expected that the greater part of it will be at the Institute for Advanced Study in this country, which is to be opened next Fall at Princetotn, N. J., though not a part of Princeton University, it will ' use a Princeton building until it is able to acquire its own buildings.
This institute is to be for advanced scholars only, and will have none of the outside activities of the average American university.
The Notre Dame-Michigan Normal tennis match scheduled for the afternoon has been postponed because of wet courts.
It's a pleasure
-—to slice them at Coquillard
Notre Dame students are welcome.
Golf and after golf parties.
Food superb.
Coquillard Golf Club
McKinley Ave. end Ironwood Drive
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
After College WHAT?
Harry D. Watts, V. P. of James Stewart 8C Co., Inc., builders of famous buildings throughout the world, says: "World progress depends upon engineering. No wonder eager college men look toward this profession. But to succeed you must have a technical background, ability to take the knocks, and alertness to take advantage of the breaks.” -
"A BILITY to take the knocks.” And xx yet brains count above all. That’s why in engineering, as in college, a pipe is the favorite smoke. A pipeful of good old Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco clears the brain for those intensive problems that confront the engineer ... or the college man.
Of course most college men know Edgeworth.* They like its distinctive flavor that comes only from this blend of fine old hurleys. Perhaps you’d like to try before you buy. Then just write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va., and you’ll get a free sample packet of Edgeworth.
*A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready - Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. AU sizes— 15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
On Down The Line
Fred MaeBetk_>—
BASKETBALL has become so popular in CHILE that it is rated as a major sport ... a national tournament was held recently at SANTIAGO ... a bill has been introduced in the PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE to legalize dog racing ... license fees are fixed at $100 for each racing dog . . . the five major horse race clubs in New York State are valued at $17,000,000 . . . these five associations reported gross receipts of $1,531,155.29 for last year, and distributed $1,897,804 in purses . . . NEW YORK CITY, the leading motorboat port of the UNITED STATES, has 35,379 registered craft.
DESPITE TWO DEFEATS AT THE HANDS OF TUNNEY, JACK DEMPSEY RATES FIRPO AS THE TOUGHEST FIGHTER HE HAS EVER MET ... he gives BILL BRENNAN a close second . . . NEW YORK STATE now has a law that forbids the clipping of horsetails for show ring purposes . . . RALPH A.
• KENNEDY of NEW YORK holds the record for playing on more golf courses than any one else . . . during a recent trip to BERMUDA he played on EIGHT DIFFERENT COURSES IN TWO DAYS AND RAISED HIS TOTAL TO 1,084 . . . KENNEDY made an average of 85 on the BERMUDA courses . . . OSCAR MELIL-LO, second baseman of the ST. LOUIS BROWNS, insists he isn’t superstitious . . . but he always touches third base before he takes his position on the field, always walks through the chalked circle for the “on deck” batter, and moistens his right ■ forefinger with his tongue and touches it to the peak of his cap before going to the plate.
INSURANCE ON ATHLETICS, adopted last fall by the OHIO HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION, as more or less of an experiment, proved beneficial to 182 school football players . . . a total of $1,420.50 was paid out for major injuries and doctor bills . . • RAY THOMPSON, captain of the NAVY SWIMMING STEAM and member of the 1932 OLYMPIC TEAM, ranks fourth among the honor men at ANNAPOLIS .. . MILTON SUMMERFELT, ARMY LINE STAR, is one of the leading students at WEST POINT . . . but TACKLE MIKE LEDING of
NOTRE DAME is probably the outstanding student-athlete in the country ... up to the close of the indoor track season, SPRINTER' RALPH METCALFE of MARQUETTE had competed in 40 races (since becoming eligible for varsity competition) and broken or tied 19 world records.
- •
JACK KARSTENS (Fort Sheridan, Ill.) recently rolled the third perfect game in the 33-year history of the AMERICAN BOWLING CONGRESS . . . statisticians figure that in the period the A.B.C. has conducted tournaments some 1,500,000 games have been bowled . . . and in all that time only three were perfect, for an average of one out of 500,000 . . . perhaps POET JOHN MILTON was a champion bowler ... his “PARADISE LOST” (Book 2, line 738) contains the line, “my sudden hand prevented spares” . . . BILL KLEM is serving his 29th year as a NATIONAL LEAGUE UMPIRE ... he has officiated in 16 world series.
ELECTRICAL LABS.
(Continued from Page 17)
man, yet it is far more reliable than any human being could be.
Nearby is the radio lab, which completes the experimental ensemble of the electrical engineering department. A welter of apparatus greets the eye —amplifiers, vacuum tubes, microphones, condensers, transformers, speakers, and dozens of receiving sets. An interesting little gadget which typifies the kind of equipment found in this lab is a scratch eliminator, used in removing scratching and other extraneous noises in phonograph reproductions. It appears to be nothing more than a black metal box, but there are certain things inside which produce perfectly noiseless disc reproductions. And there are many other things of similar nature to be found here. •
As we conclude our tour of Notre Dame’s “house of magic” we begin to understand a little the strange fascination which caused men like Edison and Steinmetz and Bell to devote their entire lives to the study of electricity and its hundreds of marvelous uses.
Dean Konop To Speak
Thomas F. Konop, Dean of the College of Law, will address the Why Club, a group of professional men of South Bend and Mishawaka, Thursday evening, June 1, in South Bend. Dean Konop will, discuss his experiences as Industrial Commissioner of the State of- Wisconsin.
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
p, (Office 4-5661	X-ray
°ne | Residence 3-4041
DR. E. S. LUCAS
D entist
702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend,
Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana
Expert Eye Service
Glasses Properly Fitted at Moderate Prices
J. BURKE, Inc.
Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians
Established 1900
228 S. Michigan St.
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343
DR. B. A. KAMM
Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Sherland Building Jefferson and Michigan
10 to 12 m.
3 to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana
DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST
D entis ts
Phone 3-1254	. 405 Associates Building
Office Phone 3-2574'	Corrective Shoes Residence Phone 4-6354 DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.		Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers ROGERS Eyesight Specialists Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
		
Space Reserved		FRANK J. POWERS, M. D. University Physician Office at	Hours: University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
•t
Just two words • • • Yes, I have heard about two words; and now and then three words —but"They Satisfy** means "To gratify hilly.’*
Why do these two words "they satisfy** fit Chesterfields? Because Chesterfield Cigarettes are milder. Because Chesterfield Cigarettes