GCbe
Dotrc Dame Scholastic
OISCe-QVASI SSniPeR- VICTV^^	\/IVG -px/ASl- cras-imoritvrvs- •
Vol. D. .	NOTRE-DAME, INDIANA, June 2, 1917-	Nd: 33.
My Parting Soul.
J HEAR the voice of my parting soul As it crieS on the moorland of death;
Its piteous wail like the moaning wind Is chilling my life with its breath. '
I listen and wait for that echoing cry In the whispering vaults of the years. And my spirit clings to the rocks of hope
Which are beaten with thoughts a'nd with fears.
Alone I wait as the shadows creep
O’er time’s fast darkening shoal;
They bring the remembrance of buried wozs To frighten my fainting soul.
Hark! I hear a voice that is clear and low That calls- from the road I have trod—
Breaks a ray of light, and the deepening gloom Grows white in the face of God.
©
Brother Xavier, 'iq. ---------------------r— • *
' The Power of Hate.
’ ■ BY JAMES KENNETH BOYLAN, ’17.
HE prisoner stood very quietly ‘and straight before the judge. About him people craned their necks in an effort to get every detail of this thrilling
trial; he alone of" all the throng seemed composed and. unconcerned in what was going on. His gaze went beyond the judge and rested on a sweet-faced young woman who was crying softly. As her eyes met his he smiled, as though to. cheer her. But the words of the judge made him start, and the hand that had rested so firmly on the rail before him trembled slightly as he heard, “I therefore sentence you. to hard labor for fourteen years, the maximum for'the offence.”
While the court-room hummed with the comment of the crowd the prisoner remained
quiet and calm; he stood as one hypnotized. But the hysterical weeping of the woman came to him now and his strong frame shook in . r . response. “Some day it will be my turn; and ~ - J then watch out! I swear that as I am innocent	-
of the charge that you shall suffer for this, .
you hypocrite. I’ll get.you, sure!” And then reluctantly as though he realized that life .was” closing for him, he walked through the door \ , between the officers.
Twelve years later John Martin sat in the ‘ office of the warden of the state prison thinking. ’ A " of the time that had. passed since he had threatened Judge Hale. To him the years, .	■ - -
looking ' backward, seemed short enough, but-	-
the delay in the revenge seemed intolerably 7’ .V long, much had happened within those years: -	,
countless steps had he taken in the endless : .. lock-step line; millions of. times, it seemed, . A had he heard the cell door clang behind him as - - -. : the guard marched them to their cells for the :	;- y
night; a hundred.million hours had he spent y . gazing at the'Same cold stone. Outside the prison, too, things had happened. She had j died and the hope of the happiness they had ■ planned in the memorable days were gone with . - . ’' her. There was nothing left for him in the . J . J world now; it mattered little to him that he- V was one of. the honor prisoners and that he ..TV would receive the highest recommendations -when he was discharged the following week, y . y -y There was nothing for him now but the bitter	■
memories of what might have been—and the ..VT--T sweet revenge that he was to get at the first. . - ,-y opportunity. If he could only get a chance, he - TV thought, to put his many plans into execution^ ?VTa Through all these years as he had sat in his ';-yV ,1V cell and even in the little prison chapel, .he had '<T y formulated schemes for evening his score - with, the judge who had condemned him unjustly.: y -. • -	5
His jvas a mighty hate and it grew upon,his .V .	: <
mind until all of his superb powers 'were con- y; .. centrated in burning hatred against this, one ; j- 1
THE NOTRE-DAME SCHOLASTIC
546
man. -Revenge upon Judge Hale became the motive and the ambition that raised him from the ranks of the prison type to the shrewd, cunning intellectual class. When-he thought of the release that was to be granted him in a few days, he felt much as a hungry lion feels as he waits for bis prey.	.
With the few pieces of-silver that the warden ga.ve him.in return for the best }*ears of-his life, a friendly admonition from the chaplain and a ( firm hand clasp from the old warden himself, John Martin started out into the world and disappeared. The emploAunent agency to which he was directed heard nothing of him; as far . as anyone who knew him was concerned he had dropped out of existence.
Five years later John Martin was very different from the man who had left prison. He was now a man of affairs, popular, wealthy and esteemed by all who knew him. Yet there was to them something strange about him: he was retiring and uncommunicative, even to those who might have been called his closest - friends. He had no- intimate friends and there was an air of sombreness a|>out him which not even his business associates could penetrate. Men gave up guessing and were satisfied with . believing that in a life so filled with business ambitions there was room for neither domestic . attachments■ nor emotions. “One hundred per centbusiness” was the judgment^ of the street.
Though comparatively unknown, Martin was soon entrusted with the management of the finances of the Dover Corporation because of the striking ability he had displayed in several . instances. And when it was found that he had succeeded in bringing. order out of the chaotic condition of the business he was regarded as a . financial genius.
Hence it was no more than natural that Judge Hale'as the spokesman of a group of capitalists should'come to Martin and ask him to affiliate himself with the new railroad that was to be - built to the steel mills in the lower valley. Time had made so many changes in Martin that Judge Hale had no idea that the man who
~ sat at-the desk- was the man who had sworn .. revenge in the court years before. The years in the prison and the ambition; that had burned A ; in his breast had made him an entirely different - man. Martin congratulated himself at the man-J. ' , ner imwhich fortune was playing into his hands;
.it seemed as though liis one great purpose in ; J 4 - life; would how be easy of' achievement. J
By the' terms' of the agreement Martin and Hale were to furnish the greater portion of the funds, and the actual financing of the road was to be left in Martin’s hands. The project involved considerable money, and Martin realized that Hale would be ruined if the finances ' of the road could be juggled. But one thing ’ troubled him; he could not allow the other investors to suffer with Hale. Therefore he resolved to buy'up the• outstanding stock of the corporation and make the transactions personal ones between Hale and' himself. After a little effort he.succeeded in obtaining control of the greater part of the stock, and. he had Hale at his mercy.
From that time on things did not run so smoothly in the Midvale Corporation, and Hale became alarmed at the imminence of failure. As an emergency measure Martin suggested that they put- in more funds; and Hale was forced to give his note for 550,000. Things kept getting. worse and finally Hale was forced to borrow more funds without security from the bank that the interests controlled. The next bank . examiner . discovered the irregularity, and the judge became the subject of much undesirable publicity. To cover the note it was necessary to sacrifice the old mansion and country estate of which his family had been so proud.
When finally the Midvale Corporation was ’ forced into the courts to have its affairs straightened out, it was discovered that Hale had been guilty of several unlawful proceedings, all of them undertaken with the knowledge and advice of Martin. In the agitation that followed Judge Hale, was influenced ~by his friends to -yield to' the popular demand that he resign his office. At last Martin had his old enemy where he wanted him;, penniless, stripped of his honors and positions, broken-hearted and disgraced,- the old man was most pitiable. But the stony heart of the avenger was not satisfied; he knew that the Judge would ne verdose entirely tlie respect .of. his few friends while he lived, and therefore- he planned even direr revenge. -
One afternoon the broken old. man came to .Martin’s office .to confer with him about the future. Martin told him that., there was absolutely no hope that the Midvale could ever . be reorganized. in such' a < manner that the present, stockholders "would reap any profit from their, .investments.y And then the Judge broke, down, and wept, his proud head bowed . beneath the accumulated blows..' “I am nothing,
; -	’’’Vr X -"J" S'-' ty p --	- - -- '	, “ *
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
an outcast, a crook, a criminal—and this is the end of the life that showed so much promise. For me there is nothing left. What have I done ' that I should get this punishment?”
Martin rose from his" chair -and demanded, ‘‘Judge Hale, do you know who I am? I am Jack Martin, the cashier, whom you sentenced to prison eighteen years ago. this very day. I liave waited long and dreamed constantly of this day. When I sat in the silence of the prison those many nights, I heard • in my ears the ' rattle of your throat as I closed my hands around it; I saw in the bleakness of the prison walls the ruin and the emptiness that I would bring into your life even as you brought it into mine. I saw in every white hair that the foul ' air of the prison put on my head the promise of the troubles that should hound you to the grave. In every • death - chamber wail that haunted the grim prison walls, I heard the echo of your cry .of despair. It is my turn now.
. You robbed me of the best years of my life; you broke the one heart that had loved me; you spoiled the happiness that love had brought into my life; and as sure as there is a hell you shall pay for it. You are in.my power now; you cannot escape. Now I shall have my revenge.” •
The white-haired man rose from his chair /and grasped at the-table for support. “Martin, . you are not well; your mind is overburdened with worries—”	’	-
“Not worries,- but with the memories of the living hell that you made for me. Wait! Here are the copies of a story that will be handed • to the papers tonight: • it telte of an unfortunate part of your career that will make any respectable man blush to speak your name. You shudder; I don’t blame you; for that is something that one would not want published. However, it' is part of my revenge. There is only one thing that will stop* that story and that is in the top drawer of that desk.”
Like a drunken man Martin reeled to the window. He stood there listening to the slow " movements of the , other man. First the cautious sliding ' of - the drawer,—a startled exclamation—a rustle of the papers—a.pitiable sigh’that was almost a sob—a dull click,—and -then a- report that echoed through the stillness - . of the office! . -" :	. ' - ■ -	.
. ‘ With a horrible, laugh Martin turned around and looked at the heap in,the chairs He-picked - up the papers and threw1 them • into the fire, . then-flicked the ashes of his cigarette on the
hardening face of Hale. “At last I.have.beaten -J t-you, you old devil. I told you that I-would get / -T-T you, and I did.” He broke out into an unearthly : gurgle that would have frozen any heart with- -terror.- Then striding to. the window■ he threw . J open the casement and flung his arins out. / <_ “At last I am free to do asTwill.* I have the 'y whole of life before me. I am a new man with . nothing to live for?’ He laughed the horrible ■	. ?
laugh once more, and toppled head first out of T the window. ••	•	s	.
I ■ , * .	“	-
Spring: And You and I Together. ?	- .
The Vine,	- •
Whose ice-gloved fingers tap your sill	.	..	'	..
When Winter’s night-wind blows,	.'
So. drear and shrill, .	.
• And in the heat of Summer shields the threshold -of ; ”	-
your dooy,	'	-
Beckons to tell us that it knows	,	-•
The days are here whose journey we have .counted •	_
o’er and o’er. .	-	.	...	:
Whose heralds from the hilltop watched .with Jervent • praise.	; i. - N
The first, a screaming blue-jay in the wood.	' , ? L
Where hand in hand enraptured, first we stood	C •
Together, ’mid dying glories of October days.. - .
Now,	-	-	.	...' ? -
You whisper secrets tiny buds conceal, .	\ F
Expectantly attend.your timid crocuses .	, L
That through the grasses steal	.	• ■ T-
To-kiss the sun and hear the linnet sing,	_	'	‘
For soon, all will be Spring, .	. .	-
And you and I together.	V
Let us be happy, love, laugh, and play— ,	.	. /	-
Fierce war will take my love away,.	.	-
. But duty it will be, for I must go into the war of work	, J ‘
To fight, and win—	.
You, the rich reward;.	.	. . J?
No more I ask, when I have proven faithful to my task, But while we may,	.	.	, TiN
You and I together. .	..	. .. - y/y-.?:;.,-
' Love,	’	-	/ ■
My sweet, while I am far away,	. ,?yyy
You will have.faith, be true, and ever pray? .	, .
Your warm white prayers, before the feet .'	. t J'-TTy
Of Him who gives a love so sweet • -'	”
Will give me strength.	■	" .	"	"
Then, when the time of test is done, ‘	. //L
With out-stretched arms I’ll trail'the sun into the West,	f y
-I’ll call your name, Beloved, -	.	•	...... y'y
Then, you and I together.	J. U. Riley,
54S	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Ignatius of Loyola.
BY, THOMAS J. HANTFIN, ’19.
Ignatius was a soldiei and a scholar. His career as a soldier was as brilliant as it was brave. It is supposed that he first fought in the Italian campaign under‘Gonsalvo, but it is a certainty that he distinguished himself in the ■ War of the Comuneros. When the Castilian town revolted, he was dispatched to quell the uprising. He captured the town of Najera, and although he had valorously led his forces to . victory, he gallantly refused to accept any of the booty taken in the battle. When the French, under the command of Andrew di Foix, laid siege to Pamplona, the capital of Navarre, Ignatius was left there to encourage the soldiers of Spain. By exhortation and example, he sought to instil confidence into his men, but to no avail. At the approach of the enemy, the town was ready for surrender and the officers were readv to retreat. Although not in command^of the troops, the soldierly nature of Ignatius rebelled against these cowards, and he cried out in righteous indignation: “I do not think even Tineas worthy of admiration, when I see him escaping from the flames that consume his city, for to shun the common peril is the nature of cowards; to perish in the uni- versal ruin is the mischance of brave men. I should deem him worthy of immortal glory if he had died of his fidelity.”	'
Here is portrayed in Ignatius the stubbornness of the soldier, who is unwilling to surrender without a fight. His was an ardent - spirit, one that would not admit defeat before _ the. battle had been fought. The burning words of contempt, spoken by Ignatius to the crowd around him, gained, one loyal supporter to the Spanish cause, and together they retired into the citadel to give battle to the French. The garrison fought fiercely and bravely under . the encouragement and command of Ignatius, who directed them from that part of the fort . where. danger from the. attack of the enemy was the greatest. A stone, dislodged by a shot A struck his left leg, and the rebounding, cannon ball shattered the right. Ignatius and Pamplona felFon May. 20th, 1521. ■ . ■
For .fifteen days Ignatius was held prisoner by the; French,; and then he was removed to the. castle bf Loyola. He. suffered severely-frojn
his wounds, but bore all his pains with exemplary patience. After.his removal to the castle, the bones had to be rebroken in order do avoid a life-long deformity. The re-setting was followed by a high fever, but .Ignatius prayed to St. Peter ty intercede for his life, and he recovered. But the soldier’s right leg remained shorter than the left, and a bone protruded just below the knee. When Ignatius discovered that this last deformity would prevent him from wearing fashionable stockings, he ordered that the bone should be sawed off. Being neither bound nor held,.he suffered this most excruciating operation with his usual invincible fortitude. He- bore all of these pains in the cause of chivalry, so that his personal appearance would not be displeasing to his lady-love.	.	,
»Ignatius suffered mo'St keenly from his confinement. Being b}^ nature a man of action, his enforced idleness made him restless. In order to have the hours seem less wearisome, he asked for a book of romances, because tales of knight-errantry held for him a certain fascination. But instead of romances, he was given the'‘‘Lives of the Saints” to read. At -first he read the book only out of curiosity, but • afterward he began to relish the reading. One day while pondering over the austerities and virtues practised by the saints, he exclaimed: • “These men.were of the same framed am of;
why then should not I do what they have done? Henceforth we do not see him wielding the sword . in the army of Spain, but we see him carrying the cross in the peaceful soldiery of-Jesus Christ.	.	• .
Ignatius was full of the maxims of worldly honor, vanity and pleasure, and, for a time, he lost sight of his good resolutions. His passion . for glory, and his love^ for a certain rich lady in Castile, often filled his heart with worldly -ambition. Such - thoughts occasionally gave j Ignatius some sensible delight, but always left | in him a feeling of unrest and bitterness, while	J
the pleasure that he derived from meditating	]
on the lives of the saints was of a consoling’kind, -and .always left liis mind at peace and his spirit tranquil. Ignatius noted this, contrast, and then renewed his good resolutions, to which he ever after.remained faithful. He loved solitude and suffering in order that he might better serve God. He gave his cavalier'clothes-to a beggar, and himself put on a sackcloth gown and a hempen girdle. He preferred to listen rather. . than, to .talk. Like, a military. leader, . when .	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
he spoke his words were brief, plain and pointed. As organizer of the Society of Jesus, Ignatius insisted that his' subjects should excel all other religious orders in the practice of holy obedience. , He made this the characteristic mark of his order. ‘	\
Like gold covered up in the ground, sanctity in Ignatius was hidden in his-humanity.’ To . f illustrate this let me relate to you the story of his career as a billiard player. During his whole life he participated in but one game of billiards, and then he consented only after much entreaty on the part of his host, a French doctor of theology. Ignatius yielded on condition that should he lose the match, he was to '' act as servant to the doctor for a month, but in case he should win the game, the theologian " was to perform a single service requested by Ignatius that would be for the doctor’s own advantage. The Frenchman was confident of victory, for he was a fairly good player, while Ignatius never before had handled a cue. But Ignatius, much to the chagrin of the Frenchman, xwon every point. The defeated doctorgraciously fulfilled his part of the program which was to go through the Spiritual Exercises faithfully for a month. Hence Ignatius won . another soul for Christ. Had Ignatius lost that game' he himself would have been benefited in a spiritual way, for would it not have been humiliating, indeed, for a soldier and a scholar to play the role of servant to an inferior in both sanctity and learning?	-	’
On another occasion Ignatius remembered his cavalier days long enough to strengthen a faltering soul on the path to perfection. Ortiz, a former persecutor of the Jesuits, had been converted by Ignatius. The convert, while making a retreat in the abbey of Monte Casino, suffered a nervous breakdown and became despondent; Ignatius, ' always solicitous for the salvation of souls, danced before Ortiz the national step of old Biscay. 'He moved /about with the grace of a master-and with the . vigor of a youth, but not for personal pleasure.
He danced to encourage the down-hearted Ortiz, so that he would complete the Exercises, and thereby come nearer to God. Here Ignatius forgot his dignity and danced that he might save -a sinking soul from the quicksands of discouragement. This pious stratagem is but ' another proof of the soldierly nature of the man. ■
That/ same winter the .courageous soldier made "secure the salvation of another' sinner.
549
A certain young man had an unlawful love for another man’s wife. Ignatius knew this, and set out one mid-winter night to save, the libertine. As the youth approached a bridge over a pond, Ignatius plunged into rhe icy water up to his'neck and cried out to the illegal lover: “Whither are you going? Do you not hear the thunder of Divine Justice over your head ready to break upon you? Go your way, satisfy your sensual desires, but I shall stay here and do penance for you until God puts an end to my life or to your illicit love.”. The youth became filled with remorse at the grossness of his sin, and, repenting, amended his life. Here again is displayed in Ignatius that stubbornness of the soldier, that “stick-to-it-iveness” which wins battles. _	•
The example of the saints is the short road to Christian perfection. It is true that we. cannot all be great saints like Ignatius, but we . can, at least, strive to imitate his obedience and humility. We can all behave like Ignatius, the soldier, whenever we are confronted by an enemy, spiritual or physical. We can be brave in battle, humble in prosperity, and poor in'spirit. We can all be soldiers. And, finally, if we apply ourselves rigidly to our studies, we can all be scholars. If we learn to be obedient to God and to man, we can all be saints. Weare of the same frame as was Ignatius. So why can we not respond to grace and do what he has done?	, '	.
Varsity Verse.
Indian Love Song	‘
X -	-	-
All the forest is changing, and the trails are deep with leaves:	.
Misty red the day comes dawning, and it dies in purple glowing..	.
Today I heard the woodland echo; ’twas a moose that . called its mate;
In my swift canoe I searched the rushes where the brant arc happy nesting;	' -
While the sun was at the noon, in the pleasant heat I slumbered,	.	-
And I dreamed an eagle, mated with a pigeon, ruby-throated.	'
O my pigeon, laughing maiden, child of dawn the ruddy-misted; -
O my wild-bird, bright-haired songster, daughter of the silentJorest.	-	',	'
55°
THE-NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Keir the eagle at his mating, flee to mj- wild aerie;
I have strong wings,'"tempest-daring; I have swiftness
Just Letters.
like the stag;
List to. me, 0 wildwood pigeon. Come to me, O ’ . laughing maiden, .	"	.
With your eyes like smiling waters, with your voice
BY FRANCIS S. FARRINGTON, ’iS
.	- Long Branch, Wis., May. 20.
Friend Bob: *	.	•	'
like, wild birds singing.
G. H'aller, 'ig.
The Class of 1917.
Farewell, old-boys, until We meet again—in France.
Oir foreign battle ground, Beneath Old Glory we’ll be found In Honor’s corps—-in FraTice.
The chosen day will come;
We’ll meet again—in France.	, .
Our rendezvous’s across the sea— A class reunion let it be.
• We’ll meet again—in France.
Vincent Fagan/'20.
Alas!	.
' Last night I held her on" my knee, The little girl that I love best.
But I, alas, am sixty-three, While she in baby clothes is dressed.
. '	T. Dcker,
20.
.	Hoping Against Hope. '
When you see the little fairies a-ridin'" on canaries,
When the kangaroos are floppin’, an’ the fishes start a-hoppin’
Through the sea.
When the elephants are flyin’, an’ the people vote for
Bryan,—
You can start right in divinin’ that the faculty signin’ .	•
.	My degree.	.
"	.	’ John Reuss, '18.
is
./-	To a Skull.
O blanched and tongueless thing! What message dost thou bring . To mortat men?	.
Dost tell of stranger clime
- 'Where mortals spend their time And live again? .
Last week was the.longest seven days in the - history of the world, believe me. You know how Iwas turned down by the medical examiner when I tried to get into the summer camps, and that he advised me to get out of the city to some place where I could breathe, and get my hands soiled with some good clean dirt.
• It was up to me to do my bit, so I am out here.
I had heard that roosters crow early in the morning; but I didn’t expect them to wake ■ up at such an ungodly hour as four o’clock to do it. Farmers save on alarm clocks, at least. The boss never takes another nap-after the first ' call, and doesn’t expect me to, either. He gets up, hustles down to the lower pasture after the cows and then we milk them. Did you ever—but I know you never got that close to a cow. Due to a lamentable ignorance, big-game hunters consider cows to be domestic
•' animals. But just let one of them try to sneak up on a Guernsey, armed with a shiny tin pail and a one-legged stool, and extract ten quarts of the foaming fluid from her. You have to use equal quantities of patiei ce and profanity to do the trick properly. My fo: eaims have developed an inch in the last week from the old squeeze.
To properly hold a milk pail, a man needs to be bow legged, and should have learned, to balance 'on the hind legs of a chair. A pair of goggles would help a lot, for a cow’s tail switched across the eyes as-an old.heifer can do it surely does make you blink. The-boss, Herman, told me that cows used their tails to shoo pests away with./He appeared to be serious about it, too.
You are just about dressing to go out, I suppose, while I’m undressing to go to bed quick before I have to get up; but I’m sure-glad to. do it. " There isn’t -another solitary thing to do, as the; young ‘ folks aren’t very numerous around - here. To be back in town
Or wouldst.grave warning give . To'such as fain would live	.
-	. In sinful thrall? "	' -	*	-
A lesson that no tongue " - -;	’	.
Hag spoken.yet, or sung,	.
‘ : 7 Thou teachest all.	____
- :	- D. P. MacGregor, ’ig.
would just about suit me, but I’m going to t stick out a while longer just to. show myself
that I can.
Yours,
Frank. .
.. Long Branch, Wis.', June 7.
Dear Pal:	7 - . .. J
Thanks for.your kind invitation, but I can’t accept it .now. I’ve decided, . to stick here;
THE 'NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
am getting more used to it all the time. At first I had to crawl out of bed in the morning, I was so stiff and sore that it was impossible to get out any other way. Now I can get my arms above my head when I dress.- The day after I held the plow the first time I had to cut my blue cambray shirt down the front so I could get into it.	.	'	’
And there’s another reason why I’m going to stay,—a very cogent one. She lives on the next farm, wears print dresses, weighs 120— I lifted her over a fence one day—and eyes of such,—but what’s the use of trying to describe her. Boy, you have to see her to appreciate her.
Herman sent me over to the house one evening after the chores were done to borrow a pipe wrench. I saw her then, but as far as I cpuld tell from' her outside conduct she didn't even see that I existed. That’s the way with .these country, girls. You’ve got to produce your past history and pedigree before they .will so much as look sidewise at you. In town there— well, you know how it is.	-
Poor Herman—I borrowed a bunch of stuff for him in the next week that he never needed, and as a matter of course, had to return.it. In that time I was able’ to convince the girl’s uncle that I wasn’t the worst chap in the world. But how I did praise that old boy’s farm— an. d'got an introduction to her.
She’s never been in a big city in her life, is the most unsophisticated little thing ever, and such a relief from the girls in our crowd. What would Maud Gifford look like beside -Nell? Yet I used to think Maud was about the most perfect work of art ever created.
That’s just it—she was .too artificial. Nell never used a cosmetic in her life, and the mere mention of a highball, for which I sometimes yearn, would cause her to be suspicious of me. They look at those things differently out here, and; I’m getting to believe, in the right way.
Let me know how your fishing up North goes along. A month ago I would have gone with you if you had been going then,'but not’now. .	Sincerely,	Frank.
Long Branch, Wis., June 19.
Dear Old Man: .	.	- .
Youfellows must be enjoying yourselves tc the limit there on the Flambeau. No wonder j ou’re enthusiastic about it; it’s a wonderful river.
Don’t think, though, .that you have any ' monopoly on picnics. 'There’s a gem of a lake
55 L, T
about ten miles from here, with ■ a. nice sandjyYyy . .5 beach, shade trees, grass, cottages, and'every-YYY-a thing. - Nell and I went Over there'Sunday in. ; L.' Herman’s little car,—it was .a pesky dhing- to A YL~y keep in the road. Her aunt Mary sent a real • A < picnic dinner with us, and we also went fin ^ . - 7 bathing. I expected. Nell to come out-of the- . y little- bath-house with some queer costume, but ICC you should have seen it. A dream it was;; she attracted- more attention than anyone else .. Jy.y 'on the beach. Even the people from the big ffy summer homes stared and stared. .	. ; ■ PIC
She said that she-seat to'the city for the .. outfit, and she wondered if I would like it, and .	/ y
if it was the right thing to wear. She was . pleased as could be that she. attracted so much '	;
attention, but was rather abashed, too. . -	' j
If she was not so. naive, and so wide-eyed -’■:Y;y at the stories I tell her'of the city, I might think: 'L MI she was trying to play with me. But it’s as y'Y.Ly impossible to mistrust- her as to mistrust a . . v'. ' baby, and though she has a lot of book knowledge; IAN stored away in her curly head, she really doesn’t I-I A A know what life means.	v.-:	d-AY
• Your old friend, - ~	Frank.	/Y.yy
The Same Place, July 9.	y
Dear Bob:	■ '
How these simple country kids will surprise ' one. Though I’m head over heels in love with - . > Nell she keeps me at arm’s length without’ y.;ffyy appearing to do so.. She does it so unconsciously:' that I can’t say anything about it. I know .- J she mistrusts me because I have a lot of monev, ■ 'MM and. she’s a poor kid—will never have anything . J/ Y except the farm her uncle is going to leave her : "'AM when he’s through with it.	. ~ TyyF
Several evenings ago we went out to*the Yy Y; grassy old orchard back of the house. -Nell.
had on a simple white dress. I’ve never seen 1 MAM her wear a. colored one, and when I sat down- A ■ Y on the grass’ she ran away. Thinking she was ffy YY just fooling, I didn’t attempt to follow. Ima y ?--2^ few minutes she appeared from within the grape :>yYYM arbor, clad in a regular classic dancer’s costume, ’T
' with a robe over her shoulders and' her hair -bound up with a band. -	'.. .
At home, the aesthetic dances the girls put- yyyy on only made me yawn. But the dance-.Nell--. y did was so far beyond their efforts that I watched ; y MA. entranced. I’ve seen the best dances that y Y’yv Adelaide -Genee and Lady Richardson: and Y-Lff Pavowla could do, and she had them' all faded. i .\-:N She looked for all the world^like some sprite.y :
552
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
against the dark-green of the apple trees, her bare feet made not a sound on the smooth grass, and she disappeared as suddenly as she came.
When she came back and sat down by me, flushed and still breathing fast, I asked her where she had learned those dances. She laughed, said she danced because she liked it, and that no one ever taught her. It seems that she read a book about the Greek maidens dancing, and that’s where she got the idea of the dance and the costume.	’
Wouldn’t that fade you?
Frank.
Fong Branch, Wis., Aug. 2.
Dear Old Mau:
“ Goodbye, dear old Bachelor Days, ” has ■ been my favorite song for the past week or so, and I can’t be singing much longer. Next week will find me back in the city, getting ready, and you’re t'o be my best man. .	,
That’s really not the big news for you. Nell ■ - isn’t Nell Benjamin, the pretty little farm lassie, blit is really Viola Shaw, the finest dancer on the stage today, arid, I think, the most accomplished actress. You know, in the crowd ■ at home I’m not considered a total goof, but I do admit that she put it over me completely.
You may remember that Viola Shaw left the stage last winter because of a nervous breakdown, after that phenomenal run of “The Pink Slipper.” It was reported that she was in California, but instead she came out here, to her < uncle’s farm, -where she is perfectly at home, V When I sawj her dance, under the old trees in the orchard, -I should have known that no . one could have done that -without lots of practice ' and coaching. But it was so jiear perfection it looked simple. - She’s so simple herself,-that’s why she’ is such a marvelous actress. And what will be the biggest, surprise of all to -you, old man—we’re going to stay on the farm; no more . of . the stage life for Nell—guess -that’s what I’ll always call her,. I’m so used to it now..
- Dad lias enough money, so-it won’t make any difference if the farm doesn’t make anything.
' We’re to . have a regular place, fulLblooded
’ stock, autos, and the rest of the things a modern hayseed needs. Then next year you can visit
• us instead of going; north to .fish and canoe. .	_
. - - Nell has heard - so - much' of you. that she is sweetness of. reVenge.; To me it, is dearer than '
; anxious to'any name could be.,IWhat must ! do? - „	-
. arrive next week. Of course, we’ll have to have	Lieut.—It 'is simple enough; \ Is will explain.
^j£Fttle stag.to. celebrate theyrid of my bachelor West of the'village, is marching; a large .host of ' Geririans; the'main force on this .sector. They.
Says
Yours as always.
Frank
Somewhere in France.
BY JEROME J- MILLER, ’ 1/.
■ -Persona!. .
MADAME LOUISE BOURGEOIS	.
LIEUTENANT MANDRIEU
Time:—Present War.	v
Scene:—Small room of the house of Madame Bourgeois on the'outskirts of a French village.
(As the curtain rises Madame is sitting in a chair staring wild-eye& at a picture on the wall. It is a youth of some twenty years).	'
Madame Bourgeois.—Charley! (She pro- . nounces this name in a soft whisper. A knock is heard at the door) Come in! (enter Lieut. Mandrieu).	_
Lieut.—Do I have the pleasure of speaking to Madame Bourgeois? .	' -
Madame.—I am she.	-	,
Lieut.—I am Lieutenant Mandrieu, of the ' detachment that is camped just east of the village. Captain Ffessen tells me that your love for France is deep. You do love France?
Madame.—Yes, Monsieur; I do love France above everything on earth, above—above even life itself.	*	’
Lieut.—And you hate the Germans?
MadAme.—Hate them? With my whole soul I hate them! May I live to see the day when they wrill be crushed forever.
Lieut.—Madame, that day is not far distant. ’ In three months they will be rio longer on the dear soil of our country. -	'
Madame.—God grant it.
Lieut.—And it is in the plans of Fate that you shall help crush them.
Madame.—I?	\	'
Lieut.—Yes, you too shall play your part— that is, if you will. ’	.	-
Madame.—If I will? Oh, monsieur! I-will do anything, for my hatred of the Uhlans knows no bounds. I would gladly give my life, in the cause. ,They have taken more than that from me already. • ■ '	.	.	.
Lieut.—-I thought that you would be willing to help us. And your name will go down in our
beloved country’s page of glory.
. Madame.—(Indifferently)! I Edo not care for ' . that.;-It; isenough that ,T should taste the


THE NOTRE DAME- SCHOLASTIC
5'53
have sent a small scouting party ahead. These are to give the signal from’ the window of a house when and where the army should approach.
Madame.—Yes? (puzzled?)	■ . '	_
Lieut.:—It is very important that the army
• should cross this -meadow which , stretches ’ should befall me?
away for a mile from your house here and directly on a line with the road they are taking.
MaDAME.—And I—what part do I play?
Lieut.—It is simple enough, Madame. When the. clock strikes nine yon are to put a lamp in' ' that window, the signal that we know they have arranged. They will think it is the signal from
their scouting party and will doubtless take - the soldiers in the advancing German host; is"
. their way across the meadow yonder. We have that meadow well mined—and boom!—the whole detachment will be sent to—to their deaths, Madame. It cannot fail; it must not
' fail. I knew of your zeal for France and decided that you should be the-.one to direct them to ~ their death. Oh, and it means much; for our detachment is small and we could not possibly stop their advance otherwise. You will do it?
Madame.—Do it? Gladly! Germans! Oh, how I hate them! '	..
Lieut.—It is very imperative that they be stopped here, because they are going to the aid of Von Tretzer who is marching on our forces at the Marne. And they are the picked soldiers of the Emperor’s army. It is imperative, Madame!	.	,
Madame.—Oh, be sure that you can depend on me; it will be sweet revenge for what they * have taken from me.	••	.
Lieut.—For what they have taken from you?
Madame.—Yes,—my boy! Gladly would I see my boy die for France, dear France; but that he should fight for'the Germans—it is much'more than I can stand.	-	*
Lieut.—And is your boy really fighting for the Germans?	-
✓Madame.—Yes,-Monsieur! Before the war: started, we had' some.money and he would go
- to, Berlin to study there. Then -the war broke out. My husband was killed in the first months
Oh God! Hear this my prayer! .Grant that;
,	„	J	. Charley may have time -to make his peace
of fighting, and we lost all our property through ,	before is sent bare.solde(lynto;
the invasion of the enemy. My boy was crazed ‘ r	„	' , .	-	. ,
■ L -*	■	Your presence. Grant me this, my prayer,, and
bv the flattery of the Germans. He became T ... .	-
y	v .	___ _ I-will do penitence all the rest of my d ay s .
-possessed by the devils of the. Uhlans. - He forswore all allegiance to the land of his birth.
He renounced his native birth right sold it for	. eyes ]ier hand,- she screams
a mess of German porridge. He is now fighting .	sm> as ate curtain fcdGi?^.
somewhere .with them. ,	. . / y -	!
. LiSUT.—And you-have' not heard from him?	• CURTAIN -	• - :
Madame.—Yes; but not .a card for thej last six months* (Her saddened tone changes). But I do not care to hear from him. He _is forever out of my life. Oh, what have I done that God should let me live to see the day -when this1
*y ---Jr
Lieut.—I feel sorry for you; Madame; But I am happy that it is I whom fate has selected to show you the,way to revenge so dear ; toy ; your heart. Madame, I will leave you now; . It will soon be nine o’clock!—play your part welL . : (He walks to the door). And remember that you.; t are playing a great part for France, for among .
the FifteenthRegiment of the Emperor’s own Hussars, the scoundrels who have killed more J French men than all the rest of the Uhlans. (Madame Botirgeois grows pale? almost swoons.)-; Is Madame not well? "	-	- ? ?
Madam'e (Recovering herself). .It is nothing! Only a slight attack of dizziness. (The: lieu-) tenant leaves closing the door softly, behind him. i ■ Madame sinks into a chair.)	" j,
Madame.—The Fifteenth Regiment Hussars! T (In a whisper to herself). The very same regiment.. that Charley is in! ■ (Breaks into tears). This T is too much, too much! I would.give,my own / life gladlyl for France; but that I' should-be-the means of sending my own son to his death! Oh! ^shudders) but I will not falter. I- have.-; given my word to serve my country and I will. ; not be. a traitor. No, nothing shall stop me, not even my boy. (Goes to the picture of the boy that hangs on the wall). Oh, if I could only <
£
serve my country in some other way! But no! It has been ordered so. (The clock in the hallway slowly strikes nine. She picks up the lamp from the table and starts slowly ;to the window. She' stops and turns, tears coming to her eyes. Hesitating a'moment she goes on to the window, . placing the lamp on a stand between the curtains) .
For France it is done! (She drops on her.knees and begins praying aloud in fervent tones):



. (As she arises a loud explosion is heard. She
rushes to the window and- peers out into the night.


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.'
Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Noire Dame, Indiana
L.
JUNE 2, 1917
No. 33.
BOARD OF EDITORS
Howard R. Parker, ’17
Edward J. McOsker,' ’17
Michael J. Early, ’17
. Stuart H. Carroll, ’17
Delmar J. Edmondson, ’ i 8
F. Jennings Vurpillat, ’18
W. Breen McDonald,’iS Edward G. Lindemann, ’ 18
Speer Strahan, Harry E Scott, John A. Lemmer,-Charles W. Call,'-Thomas -F. Healy,
’17
long will the war last? How soon will the war end? It will probably last till we help effectively to put an end to it. With our allies it is not speculation of this'kind: all is work and grim purpose to fight simply to the finish whenever that will be.-	’
Go to the registration booth with patriotism in-your hearts and the proper faith, in the men who are at present controlling the destinies of our nation. Flace your services . willingly at the disposal of the government. It is impcra-• tive that we raise a large army. Whether that arm}’ will be-used on the battle front or not is
17 at present beside the point. We may have to -
18
18-
19
John Urban Riley, ’17 Michael A. Mulcair/i 7 Francis Farrington, ’18
fight: .yet peace may come sooner than we expect it. At all events, our country must be the potent force in forming plans, for a perma- . nent peace- Without -a standing army this is impossible. . With an army at his back, the President can take his seat at the peace tabi: and command the respect and honor of all ra'iors.
—Next. Tuesday is registration day. All
from twenty-one to thirty.years of age who have not already enlisted in some military branch . .	of the government must register
-Registration, for service in the new army of 500,000 men, to be raised under the ^selective draft law enacted by Congress, May i8t-h, 1917. It is estimated by .the census bureau that'there are 10,000,000 men who under., this law must register. Not all. of these, will - -	. o	.	_	_
be.called for service; there will be exemptions force can be. got ready for service, and still under , the .scheme of selection and for other - the only rational thing for us to do under the
—The expediency of sending an army to Europe is a much-discussed question at present. The French, and British embassies have made
"a , special-plea , for such a. Sending ah Army move; but so far the.Presi-
O verseas.	dent has given . no official
-. declaration of his intentions.
It is naturally the. hope of everyone that the situation .may be . solved before our fighting
reasons; but all must register- Registration should imply something more than the mere’ act of offering one’s name.. By.such an act do we give our lives also, if there be need of
circumstances is to prepare for the .worst in -all haste. It is quite reasonable • to expect that America will-have her soldiers on French soil if
the war .continues for. two more .years. At themy to the: cause of our country. No doubt., present France would, welcome a body of fresh,
• many will register merely because-they have well-trained- fighters^ If we are in this war to.
’ to do so. This is not the .spirit.. It. reveals, " end it "quickly,—this seems to be the only way of 'we. may say, a kind of cowardice/or anything, . doing sb. We are fighting against submarines—
. at least, but patriotism. It shows an indifference we must fight against those who are building which, is becoming somewhat of an American them. .We have pitted dur. democracy against
: characteristic. When.the first shot was fired, a menacing autocracy. To abolish the latter
. /in France.how c ifferentwas the effect.- The whole we, must. fight those whom’ it; represents: We < nation staggered for a second in surprise, but cannot do this with.the American dollar alone, answered-the call with an invincible ^spirit and almighty! as fit- may be.y We are- fighting ,an
- ,s brgamzed with maryelousjpromptn with una- extraordinary, - competent, . and. resourceful /./niimly T^ :ourv disposition is- top much enemy!most adej^	scientific warfare.
. Our. hfigenuity,: t our - ^enterprise-, - our concen-b
■where / there, should bey one '_c6rn.rh.on v mind— , tration, our pa triotism arb in solently . chall enged.
andWedwhoyt ear ^heybannerd; of ^freedom must f
'Tjthey^	wearefighting;,dprove-that-repdblicscam
k^for.kThe^ppp	-TIow.d:thaiF4utder^	A “ J <

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Jubilee Commencement Program. .
•	Saturday Evening, June Nine
The Conferring of thp- Laetare Medal on Admiral William Shepherd Benson
Address by the Honorable.Victor J. .Dowling, of .	New York
.	. Sunday, June Ten ' ’
Pontifical Mass of Jubilee in the University Church His Eminence James Cardinal Gibbons officiating Jufiilee' Sermon by the Most Rev. •	.
, George William Mundelein, D. D.
The Blessing of the New Library by the Right Rev. Thomas J. Shahan,-D. D.
Address by the Honorable W. Bourke’ Cockran . Sacred Concert by the Paulist Choristers \
. Sermon by .the Rev. Walter Elliott, C. S. P.
Benediction of the Most Blessed Sacrament, by the Rt. Rev. Abbot Obrecht
.	Monday, June Eleven -
Pontifical Mass, celebrated by His Excellency, . Most Rev. John Bonzano, D. D.
.	. Apostolic Delegate	-
' Memorial Sermon by the	.	-
'	' . Most Rev. Edward Hanna, D. D. .
Blessing of the Cornerstone of the New Chemistry Building by the Rt. Rev. Edward D. Kelly, D. D. -
Addresses by-
Governor Goodrich, of Indiana, and
Lieutenant Governor McDermott, of Kentucky
.	Bachelors’ Orations:
Elmer C. Tobin, Oscar J. Dorwin, Michael A. Mulcaire Address by the Honorable Joseph Scott ’
Valedictory by Bernard J. Voll -	-
Jubilee Commencement Address by the '	.
;	Right Rev. Joseph Chartrand, D.’D. .
.	. Memorial Day.	.
. Memorial Day was as .usual fittingly observed
. at. Notre Dame. ;At eight o’ clock The students assisted at the Holy Sacrifice, of the Mass ..for* the repose of the deceased veterans, after which
. a program was-presented in Washington Hal! under the ■ auspices of the Notre Dame. Post, No;- 569, Grand .Army of the Republic. The ? - University Orchestra furnished.the,music, and
the 1 audience sang several patriotic songs. . ' The newly appointed officers of the Notre Dame ’ Battalion received their, commissions, and -Company B its silver cup for winning the com- ; •?? '? petitive drill contest on inspection day and each. F.. member of the company a bronze medal.
The Carroll Hall 'company won the cup for . drill in extended order. Gold, silver and bronze < ‘ ; medals were awarded to those winning first, " second and third places, respectively, in indi- : vidual competition. In the St. Edward Company .	'
the. gold medal was won by P. Leoni, the silver	. -C
by-8. De Lorenzo, and the bronze by A; Peugnet.'	. i..;
In the Carroll Company Raymond Girardin . , ? was presented with the gold, Richard Corrigan-' \ . = with the silver, and Edward Bailey with the .	1
bronze medal. In the inter-company contest, J ’ , "J. F. Glahe won the gold medal, C. Overton..the . .. m silver, and C. Morrison the bronze. To Leo ' < . Vogel was awarded the gold medal donated by .: Adler Brothers for the highest score made by a , “ member of'the Notre Dame Rifle Team. Vogel won also the gold' medal awarded for the best ’. v < average shot, while Rodney Cullen won the silver medal, and H. Rivas the bronze. /	; V
The presiding officer, Mr. Arthur J. Hughes, - M depicted the glorious -deeds of our Catholic -L soldiers in past wars, and exhorted the present V-7?? generation to imitate their example. George /?? F. .Windoffer eulogized . eloquently Oliver P. \DAA Morton, Indiana’s War Governor, sketching? ; his life and work, and proclaiming, him an ?? ? exemplar of American manhood. The Gettys- t r-V burg Address was rendered by John P. Doyle, • iAD ’ in a manner that met with the approval of all. ?'	?. ■
present. Doroteo Amador, displayed real elocu- J '	? ■
tionary ability iri his delivery of “The Reveille” -	? V?
by Bret Harte. James D. Hayes, in speaking of . DIA “Americanism and Catholicity,” showed the	\
falsity of the statement frequently made, that :?V'F.F Catholics are not patriotic. In making his point . .7?-J? Mr. Hayes alluded to the spirit displayed by the . :?F?F7a students, brothers and priests of Notre Dame in
’61, to the work of the Irish Brigade at Gettys- . IAAAA burg,-and to the large, number of Notre Dame . ?. AAD /students—and students - of. other Catholic institutions—who are now in training eamps V?Tv? preparing for service in the-present war...	■.?-/ . \V?? 7?
After : the program in Washington Hall the. graves of-'the deceased members of the,’ MAD Notre Dame Post were, decorated as usual.	-MAI
In the . afternoon the Notre Dame Battalion / ? • marched in. the Memorial Day parade in. South \ v Ai F? -Bend,.	’?? : ;-."F?;7?
■7.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
556
Varsity-News.
—A telegram just received from Stephen McGonigle, of Belvidere, Illinois, student in St. Joseph’s Hall, reads: “Father died last ' night. Please make remembrance of him in your prayers.”
. —Leo Ward of Holy Cross Seminary won the prize in the preparatory oratorical contest which was held Monday afternoon in the Law Room of Sorin hall. The subject of his-oration was “Benedict Arnold.” -
—Excavation for the foundation of the new Chemistry Hall that will be btiilt -to the east and a little tQ the south of the old building is now under way. The cornerstone will be laid during commencement week. —
—Though nearly half of the members of the Glee Club have left for the training camps, rehearsals are being held regularly in prepara' tion for the celebration of the Diamond Jubilee, in which the club is to have an important part
—One of the first of the Notre Dame boys to . sail for France to take part in the world war is Charles McCarthy, of Minneapolis (Student 1912-15). Charlie is with the Norton Hafges .Ambulance Corps, with headquarters in Paris.
—-The -first Notre Dame man, so far as is known/to give his life in the great war is William J...Egan, of Cogden, Ontario, Canada. He is well-known to the younger priests of the Community. He was killed in action on the battlefields of France May 4th. R. I. P. ■
.—The Kentucky Club enjoyed a banquet at the Nicholson Inn last Monday evening. The Kentucky Colonels have-by far the most. ‘ active organization at Notre Dame, though it now numbers onty nine members. It is one of . the few social clubs that holds its meetings regularly.	.
—Thomas Duffy of Holy Cross Hall was - awarded first place in the Freshman Oratorical contest held, on Monday, May 21st. The . defeated contestants were William Havey,' Cornelius. Palmer, and Thomas Beacom. On Tues day, Maj’’ 22nd, Thomas Healy, also of - Holy Cross, was declared orator of the. sopho-
. more class, over John Reiley, Donald Mac;. Gregor, Thomas Hanifin, and Edwin Hufiter. ; 5 Holy. Cross won its third, victory on Thursday
when Matthew Coyle won first honors in the junior contest over Francis Boland and John Lemmer. . Each of the winners receives ten dollars in gold.	'
—When the students return to Notre Dame next September, a cafetaria will be awaiting them on the campus. It will occupy one of the wings of the new Badin Hall. This hall is now being erected and will take in St. Joseph’s Hall, which is being completely' remodeled. It will be a residence hall with private rooms reserved, exclusively for freshmen. Corby Hall will be reserved. for sophomores, and' Sorin for juniors and seniors.	•
—The Notre Dame Press Club was .enter- /
tained on May 27th with a Sunday evening dinner- at the country home of Leo Berner, a member of the club. Reverend Paul Foik, C. S. C., Professor John N. Cooney, of the department of journalism, and Mr. Richard Daley were the guests of honor. As many of the members of the club have gone to the Reserve Officers’ -Training Camps a complete reorganization has been necessary.	'
—The Notre Dame Club of Chicago expects to have a special car. on the-' train that leaves Chicago at 10:30 Saturday morning, June 9th, and would like to have all the Notre Dame me a from points south and west of Chicago who are going by way of Chicago to the Diamond Jubilee make arrangements to meet the Notre Dame Club of Chicago at this train. Anyone desiring further information concerning this special car, may communicate with Francis H. Hayes, 139 N. Clark St., Chicago, Ill. •
—The many students who have gone to the Reserve Officers’ Training Camps and also many others at the University are • extremely grateful to Dr. Bowers who so generously gave his services to assist the boys. in procuring speedy appointment.- Dr. Powers examined over one hundred and twenty-five students. Those students who wish to apply for the next camp will be obliged, to present themselves for examination to Dr. Perry Travers of South Bead, who .has been appointed by the government as examining physician for South Bend •and Notre Danie."
—The class of. 1920 established a new precedent this year when it replaced the annual freshman banquet by a dance. The committee
composed; of Harry Denny, president of the class, Barry Holton, Thomas' Beacom, Paul
«.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
551
Conoghan, Barrett Anderson, John Woodworth, John Ward, and Theodore Wagner, made' a success of the Freshman Frolic, which now takes its place beside the Sophomore Cotillion, the Junior Prom, and the Senior Ball. The dance was given on Wednesday evening, May 16th, at the Oliver Hotel. The freshmen ' were evidently happy as they beat time to the music furnished by the Ragpicker’s orchestra, for- was it not their dance?
—Students in the department of journalism have been given an opportunity to compete for. a prize this year. Earl Dickens, advertising ' manager of the O’Brien Varnish Company of South Bend, has offered twenty-five dollars in cash for the best two feature stories submitted on Notre Dame University, or on any person, object, custom .or tradition connected with, the
University. The amount will be divided into two prizes—fifteen dollars for’ the best story and ten for the second best. This is the third new prize added this year to the already large niimber offered annually to students of Notre Dame. The other two new ones are the Wood .medal for the best essay on any subject connected with the Northwest Territory, and the Fitzgerald Medal for the best essay on American foreign trade.	“ .
’ —On .the eve of. Decoration Day the Junior Class disported itself at the Oliver to the irresistible music of Benson’s Orchestra—-with -Sheetz at the piano, as advertisements for the affair had so widely proclaimed. The walls of the. Tapestry Room were bedight with flags, and on the last page of the program were the splendidly thoughtful words: “To the Juniors now in khaki.” The grand march, led by vice-president Lemmer and Miss Maude Perley, began an evening of heart-free gaiety, mirth and melody that ended at twelve-thirty with' the guests standing at attention for “The
■ Star Spangled Banner.” The committee, to whose activity the success of the dance is due, • was composed of John Reuss, Tom King, James Logan. John Lemmer, Maurice .Starrett, Leonard'Mayer, and Robert Hannan. The patrons and patronesses were Prof, and Mrs. Rockne, Prof, and Mrs. Tiernan, Prof, and Mrs. Smith,
• and Prof, and Mrs. Benitz.
—One of the most enjoyable events of the year at St. Edward’s Hall occurred last Sunday evening.' The occasion was the closing of their very -successful, athletic season. The “Big
Brothers’ Military Scouts” of South Bend,, ahC-organization composed of young boys, marched . from their city quarters to the St- Edward. . campus. All in full regalia, and under the supervision of Sergeant Campbell, did their military exercises on the campus. After the- march -the boys went to the refectory where ice cream, .. cake and other “goodies” were served. During the feasting the band of the Scouts played . -several selections. The distribution of gold <. N. D. pins.was also a part of the program. Forty-one school pins were awarded to the members of the three different baseball teams, likewise to six other boys who had shown good work on the field. Among the guests were:
Fathers Cavanaugh, Walsh, Finnigan and Bolger. Brother Cajetan acted as toastmaster-and, by request, gave a speech in which he talked about the work accomplished by his boys. Speeches were made by the several priests, and Ser- ■ geant. Campbell, expressed his great satisfaction with the excellent military work done by the boys. Master James Barry, Jr., responded in a few but well-chosen sentences. The event will be long remembered as one of the most pleasant . in the history of St. Edward's.	.
Bulletin of College Examinations.
For Seniors.
June 2, 4, 5, 6, 1917
College of Arts and Letters
June 4th, June 4th, June 5 th, June 5 th, June 6th,
2 :oo P. AI. 4:00 P. AL 2:00 P. AL 4:00 P. AI.
2.00 P. AI.
June 6th, 4:00 P. AI.
Latin English Greek Philosophy Economics History-
Room 1 rS _ Room-12 j Room 1 iS. -Room 117 A Room 116 -Room 117
College oe Law • '
June end, 8:30 A. AI. June 5 th, 3:00 P. AL June 6th, 3:00 P. AL
Written examination Oral examination . Oral examination -
For Juniors, Sophomores and Freshmen. ■
June 6, <7, S, 1917	'
June 6th. Classes taught at S:io A. AL and 10:15	:
A. AL will be examined at 8:30 A. AI. and-10:30' A. AL respectively.
Classes taught at 1:15 P. AI. and 3:05 P. AL will be • .. examined at 1:3c P. AL and 4:30 P. AL respectively. .
June 7th. Classes taught at 2:10 P. AL will be' examined at 2:00 P. AI.	.	. .. . . . .
June 8th.' Classes taught at 9:05 A. AL and irho 'A A..AI. will be examined at 8:00 A. AL and 10:00 A. AI. A respectively.	. AA A
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC '
Athletic Notes.
Notre Dame, 9; St. Viator’s, o.
This is all that George Murphy did in the game against St. Viator’s College last week: he allowed no hits, struck out sixteen batters, and walked just two men. Bourbonnais, Illinois, is an abject place in which to pitch such a wonderful game. That the town which contains an excellent college may not be singled out, Notre Dame, Indiana, might just as well be condemned as a stage for such a pitching feat. Comiskey Park or the Polo Grounds would have been appropriate spots as Murphy was feeling that way, and he would have gained much more fame for turning ‘ such a difficult trick. Notre Dame won 9-to o.
• The Tast Home Game.
It was at that critical moment with two out in the ninth inning so comfnon in fiction when “Pete” Ronchetti overestimated the distance from where he was playing in left field to home plate by about fifty feet in the game against St. Ignatius College of Cleveland last Tuesday afternoon. Of course the runner scored on the -terrible “boner.” But this is not fiction, and the situation mentioned above lacked one element—a tie score;. The count’ was eight to nothing in.favor of Notre Dame when Ronchetti turned loose his long-distance heave. It was the last bit of excitement in the last game on Cartier Field this year. Two games with M. A. C. at Lansing will complete the schedule.
“Swede” Edgren and “Pat” Murray divided the burden of pitching this time. After Edgren had sailed along serenely for five innings, Coach . Harper decided that Mui ray ought to
be given a chance. .Each pitcher was fathomed . for only two hits, arid the runs might have been equal but for a happening that ahead}* has
’ received too much.prominence. The visitors were outclassed throughout the game and it was
dents planning toAvork during vacation months.
“We have positions in Northern Indiana for a few students who are bright, clean and indus-
Captain Kline singled in the second inning, trious.dWe'want boys or men .who are sincere . and immediately stole second. This was the and will work during vacation—boys-who can sell. .: beginning .of persistent and wanton theft of Sales managers .will assist in closing your that 'base whidi .lasted all afternoon. .Wolf’s prospects without'.expense to. you. You will . single allowed. the home leader to score the -also receive co-operation from headquarters by first run. Four more were achieved in the third. newspaper- advertising,5; and direct by mail . Keenan hit and stole, then scored on Allison’s circularizing:--Write or call for full information .
; double. Sjoberg gpt to first on an error and to Alabama Land' and Oii.. Corhpany, Indian- ' ■EAhisdn Mound himse^	apdlis, Ind. • y M	Sec’y.”
merely. a question of how large the Notre Dame score would be. -
were purloined this time, Allisoh.’ scoring. Klihe singled again and Sjoberg tallied. Wolf’s muffed fly to left made it easy for Kline to count. ~	'	.	.
Allison tripled into the tall grass behind the football bleachers in the fourth inning, clearing the bases of Keenan and Dubois. Tn the fifth’ ’ Edgren “won his.own game” by a pretty single that scored Wolf. Why Notre Dame stopped scoring so early in the game is not quite plain,
■ but with su.ch a safe margin there little incentive to swell the total.
Notre ~Dame Keenan, cf____ Dubois, If____...... Ronchetti, If___ Allison, c_______ Philbin, c..______
Meyer, rb........... Sjoberg, rf..l.... Kline, 3b........ Wolf , ss........ Spalding, 2b..... Edgren, p—....... Murray, p........
Totals____'...•.
R
i o i.
o
o
o o
5
o o o
o
o o I
6
o
St. Ignatius Andrews, 2b.... Jordan, 3b.......... McKenna, If..... Sommers, ib..... Sommerhauser,' c. Nolan, cf.......... Poscdly, rf..._. Gallagher, ss...;
Brickel, p
was
The
PO
really score:
>4
o o o
4 o
o
. o o
i-
13
o p o o o o o o o o o
I
PO
I ,o o o
o o 'o ~S
1 o
9
II
1 o
o o o o o . o
I
- o
I
o o
E
R o
i
o
11
4
o o
4
o o
Totzl_..----------------------- 1	4 24 13	6
Struck out—by Brickel, 4; Edgren, 4; bj^
Murray, 2. Base on balls—off Edgren, 1; off Brickel, 5. Hit by pitcher—Meyers. Stolen bases—Keenan 3, Dubois 2, Sjoberg, Kline, Wolfe.. Left on base— • Notre Dame 7; St. Ignatius 3. Time—1:45. Umpire—
Schafer..
c. w. c.
'	Notice. -
The following letter may be of interest to stu-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
559
The following Alumni have signified their intention of being present at the 'Diamond Jubilee.Celebration on June 9, 10, and 11.	-	. ~
R. Adelsperger, ’90, College Station, Texas Timothy Ansberry, ’93, 504'Southern Bldg., Washington,. D. C. Rev. P. Barry, ’12, Burlington, Vermont.	.
Richard T. Braun, ’14. 711 Penn Ave., E. St. Louis. Illinois. Frank O. Bartel, ’15, 22S E. 1st St., Blue Earth, Minn. Rev. J. M. Byrne, 4007 Elm St., Dallas, Texas.	•	’
P. E. Burke, ’So, 307 Camp St, New Orleans, La. I. V. Birder, Park River, North Dakota.	-
Rev. J. J. Burke, '86. Peoria. Illinois,	v
fohn M. Bannon,
63 Oregon Ave, Crafton, Ta-.
. -Paul Barsaloux, ’1 1, 643S Dante Ave., Chicago. Ill.	.
William E. Bradbury, ’r6, Robinson. Ill.
Edward Brennan. '97, Butte, Montana..	-
James H. Brown, ’97, 67 Merrimac, St., New Bedford, Mass.' .
Stephen E. Burns, 128 E. Williams St., Fort Wayne, Ind.
Paul R. Byrne. ’13. Columbus, Ohio.	•
William A. Byrne, ’95, Covington, Kentucky.
Harry W. Carr. ’09, Minahan Bldg.. Green Bay, Wis.
Thomas Cavanagh, ’97. Chicago, Illinois.
Louis P. Chute, ’92, 7 University Ave., N. E., Minneapolis,- Minn."
Walter L. Clements, ’14, Louisville, Kentucky.
Harry V. Crumley, '03, Cincinnati, Ohio. •	'
John M. Culligan; ’15, 2069 Iglehart Ave., St. Paul, Minn.
J. L. Coontz, ’07. Vandalia, Mo.	-
Rev. Dennis A. Clarke, ’74. 584 W. Broad St., Columbus, O. William J. Corcoran, ’13, 2306 Calumet Ave., Chicago, Hl. , Gerald S. Clements, '15, Owensboro, Kentucky.	.	'
James J. Conway. '85, 117 E. Washington St., Ottawa. Ill. .
E. P. Carville. ’09, Elko, Nevada..	• .
Frank X. Cull, ’08, 711 Cuyahoga. Bldg. Cleveland, O.
Janies Curry, ’14, 647 Main St.. Hartford, Conn.
Thomas Curry, ’14, 647 Main St.. Hartford, Conn.	'
Leonard M. Carroll, T 6, 3117 Flora Ave., Kansas City, Mo. -„D. E. Cartier,.’92 Ludington. Michigan. ‘ Warren A. Cartier, ’87, Ludington. Michigan.	..
Edward P. Cleary, William E. Cotter. Hugh E. Carroll. ’
13. Momence, Illinois. *
13', 505 Fifth Ave., New York City.
16 Seminole Hotel. Indianapolis.
Captain J. E. Cusack. ’89. Toledo, Ohio.
Walter Duncan, ’12. LaSalle, Ill.	.
John V. Diener, ’09, Parmentier Bldg.. Green Bay, Eugene A. Delaney, ’99. Windber, Pa.
William M. Donahue, ’14. Route 4, Kokomo, Ind.
-Daniel C. Dillon, '09. 1523 Park Bldg.. Pittsburgh,
Ind.
Wis.
Pa.
William P. Devine, ’14, 14 W. Illinois St., Chicago, Ill.
.James E. Deery, 'it. 2036 Central Ave., Indianapolis. Ind. Rupert Donovan, '08, First National Bank Bldg., Chicago, HI. ' Robert E. Daley. ’16, 45 Falls St.. Youngstown. O.
Edward K. Delana, 'rr. 1215 Marquette Bldg., Chicago. Ill.
John F. Delph. ’16. 540 Parkwood, Youngstown. O. - t Rev. John R. Dinnen, !65, Lafayette. Indiana.	_	.
Paul J. Donovan, ’to, Woodstock, Ill.	- . '
A. F. Doi ley. ’00, 26 Sylvester Ave.. Webster Groves, Mo.
R. H. Downey. ’16, South Bend. Indiana. ■ Poyntelle Downing, ,’14. 110 N. Water St., Decatur. Ill. Mark Duncan. ’15, Portage Ave., South Bend. Indiana. John W. Ely, ’rr, 6or Germania-Bank Bldg.. Pittsburg. Pa. -J. W.~Eggeman, ’00. Fort Wayne, Indiana. ■	_
/Ulen H. El ward, ’16. 10 Durrell St., Methuen, Mass.	.
Robert L. Fox, ’or. Fort Wayne, Indiana. - '	"
C. Fitzgerald, ’94, Havana, Cuba.	.
Oscar A. Fox, ’07, Fort Wayne, Indiana.	' '
James P. Fogarty, ’00, 160S Finance Bldg.. Philadelphia. Pa. Mark M. Foote, ’75, 307 W. 65th St., Chicago, Ill. -James T. Foley, ’13, 133 W. Washington St., Chicago Ill.
John Farragher, ’07, 340 Federal St., Youngstown, O. _• G. A. Farabaugh, ’07, J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
Rzlph S. Feig. ’07, Mishawaka, Indiana.
Joseph P. Flynn, T6. 233 Tremont St.. Rochester, N. Y. Michael F. Girten, ’14, People’s Gas Bldg, Chicago. Ill. .William J. Granfield. ’13'; 145—10th St., Springfield, Mass. Timothy P. Galvin, T6, 62 Washington St., Valparaiso, Ind. Walter B. Golden, '97, 336 E. Jefferson St., Butler. Pa? -Thomas A. Havican, 'rr, 932 Frick Bldg.. Pittsburgh, Pa. Francis H. Hayes. ’14. 139 N. Clark St., Chicago, Ill.
James E. Hogan, T6, Tipton, Indiana.	•	■ .
George J. Hanhauser, ’or, 404 Market St.. Philadelphia, Pa. Thomas A. Hayes, T6J 402 Whitney O. H.Bldg., Detroit. Mich. Michael A. Hartigan, ’S7, Hastings. Neb.	.
Stephen H. Herr, ’10, Chatsworth, II).	*	•
James G. Henley, ’93, Jackson, Michigan^
Frank E. Hering, ’02, South Bend. Indiana.	<
Donald M. Hamilton, Tr, Huntington Bank Bldg., Columbus, O. Ira W? Hurley, ,’14, Harvard, III.	‘ "
C. Byron Hayes, ’13, Fort Wayne, Indiana.	.
H. G. Hogan, ’04, Fort Wayne, Indiana. - •	-
J. Frank Hanan, ’08, Lagrange, Indiana. ;	_
Frank Hassett, ’14, rO4 E. Jefferson Ave., Detroit, Mich. . . . Rev. E. J. Howard, ’rr, Convent Ave.,-Rutland. Vt.
F. N. Johnston, ’12, itO4 Busch Bldg., Dallas,-Texas. .
James' D. Jordan, ’07, 314 Connell Bldg., Scranton, Pa. •	'.
Vitus G. Jones, ’03. South Bend, Indiana. .	' _
William D. Jamieson, ’05, 1908 Selby Ave., St. Paul, Minn. , 'F. E. Kuhn, ’95, 215 Fifth Ave.,.N., Nashville, Tenn. -	■	-
F. J.-Kilkenny, ’ra, 39 Sr LaSalle St., Chicago, Illinois.	. _
W. A. Kelleher, ’15, Gambier, O.	\ __
Byron V: Kanaley, ’04, Chamber of Commerce, Chicago, Illinois.
. John B. Kanaley, ’09, 29 S. LaSalle St.,Chicago,Ill. -	' _
Francis C. Kelley,.’07, 750 McCormick Bldg., Chicago, Illinois.- , Louis W. Keifer, '16, 815 Collett. Ave., Terre Haute, Ind. . • Joseph-J. Kovacs, T6; 109 N. College St.. South Bend. Ind.
John J. Kennedy, ’09, 4409 Park Bldg., Pittsburgh,.Pa. . r - ’ Francis Kirchman, ’14, Winner, South Dakota.	.	.
C. I. Krajewski,-’16, 1S29 S. Troy Ave.. Chicago, Ill. '	’
. Joseph Mi Kearney, 5507 S. Racine Ave., Chica'go, Ill.
L: D. Keeslar, *15, 540 Parkwood Ave., Youngstown, O- .5 -4: Harry J. Kirk, ’13, 394 Schiller St., Columbus, O. ’. Joseph T. Lantry, ’07, 1614 S. Cheyenne St., Tulsa, Okla. '.". - ? Edwin J. Larney, ’14. 3707 S. Western Ave., Chicago, 111. -:	’
Jay L. Lee, ’12. 314 Putnam Bldg.. Davenport, Iowa. .
J. C. Larkins. ’83 Johnstown. Pa. ' -	.	" ' .
Raymond C. Langan, ’93, Clinton, Iowa. - .	.
. John M. Lilly, ’or. rro3 W. 12th St., Chicago, Ill. ■ Edwin J. Lynch, ’ro, 529 Spitzer Bldg., Toledo, O. -	"
John I. Mullen, ’or, Naturita,'Colorado. '	.	.
Samuel T. Murdock. ’86, Indianapolis, Indiana.-	.
James F. Murphy, ’99. Rock Island. Illinois. ;	.
Joseph T. Murphy, ’rr, 720 Reibold Bldg., Dayton, Ohio. . “J J. J. Meyers, Carroll. ’04, Iowa . ..	- -
Emmett P. Mulholland, ’r6, r522-2nd Ave. N., Fort Dodge,-la. P. J-. Meersman, ’13, Moline, Ill.	.	.
Patrick Malloy, ’06, 1115 S. Denver St.. Tulsa, Okla. -	\
Rev. M. L. Moriarty, ’ro, 1007 Superior St., Cleveland, ,O1 C. C. Mitchell, ’02, 69 W. Washington Str.'Chicago.'IlL ..
Grover F. Miller, T6, 1116 College Ave., Racine, Wis. - . ■ Rt. Rev. P. J. Muldoon, ’r6, Rockford, Ill.. .
W. J. Morrison,'90.-722 Independence Blvd., Chicago, III. .. ’ Sim Mee. ’r4. Sterling, Ill.	-	.	* ’
Paul R. Martin, '13, Wulsin Bldg. Indianapolis. Inda..	;
Joseph H. Miller. ’r6, 3439 Fir St., Indiana Harbor. Ind;-. Raymond Miller, ’r4, 1627 E- 93rd St., Cleveland, O. S R. A. Milroy, ’12, Aurora, Ill.	'	-	.
Justin J. Moloney, ’r r. Crawfordsville. Indiana. ‘	"
W. J..Mooney, ’15. Indianapolis. Indiana. -	-	..	-
J. P. Murphy,
Glasgow, Montana.

Joseph A. Martin. ’12. 412 S. 5th Ave.. Chicago,'Ill. ,	. .
Harold H. Munger. ’r6, Perrysburg. O’	/	-
T. Paul McGannon, ’oS, 149 Walnut St., Corning, N. Y.\ . -.; Charles H. McCarthy. ’15, 2652 Bryant Ave., S., Minneapolis, M. J. McEniry, ’Sr, Moline Hl. .	.	. , -.	;.7
A. D. McDonald, ’00, 165 Broadway; New York City. ?. > Rev. John B. McGrath. ’95. 262 W. 118th St.. New York.City. Thomas J. McKeon. ’90, 817 Torrey Bldg., Duluth, Minn. ’ Rev. Thomas McNamara, ’8r. Van Wert, Ohio. .
Dr.' F. B. McCarthy, ’07, 5536 Sheridan Road, Chicago, III. J. L. McPartlin ’oS, Oshkosh, Wis. ,	-	, - ' •
Joseph AI. McGrath. ’16. 3439 Fir St., Indiana Harbor, Ind. , John F. McCague, ’12,-504— rath' Ave., Munhall, Pa. • - . , Peter P. McElligott, ’02, 217 Broadway, New York City. ' ; ’ Martin P. McFadden. ’94. 1517 Jackson Park,'Chicago, HI.*- . A. W. McFarland, ’06, Madison Heights, -Va. ,-	; , j .
Very Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, '95, Clinton, Iowa. - .
William P. McPhee, ’95. Denver, Colorado. . ,	.
John Neeson, '03, 5116 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. -Charles P. Neil, ’oS. Washington, D. C. . ’ .	’	.	•'
Rev. J. T. O’Connell, ’06, The Cathedral, Toledo. O. ” -P. T. O’Sullivan, ’ir. 2500 E. 74th St., Chicago, Ill. ' J. . M. M. Oshe, ’12, Zanesville. O. .	'	' •	’
William-J. Onahan. ’76. Chicago. Illinois. ’	-	-
Hugh A. O’Donnell. ’94, 1610 Pine St.. New Orleans, La. 7 . Rt. Rev. Monsignor O’Brien, ’95, Kalamazoo. Mich.	'	.
Rev. William C. O’Brien,’ 95. Johnstown,"O.	’ '
■ W. K. O’Connell. ’87, Monticello. Indiana.
James W. O'Hara, 13, 56 N. Taylor Road, E. Cleveland, O. 4 P. L. O’Meara, ’74, Ashland Block. Chicago, 111.	,
Rt. Rev. T. C. O’Reilly, ’09, Cleveland, O.	, ’	- -
Frank O’Shaughnessy, ’00, 1252 Otis Bldg.. Chicago, III.- , Rev. John D. O’Shea. ’93.-Mt. Clemens, Mich.	' - -
John F. O’Connell, ’13, Chicago, Ill. _ Terrence O’Neill. '13, Detroit, Michigan. ’	- '	.
William P. O’Neill. ’06, Mishawaka. Indiana. '	.
Vamum A. Parish. ’oS. Momence, Illinois. • A. C. Paquette, ’95, Cincinnati. O. .	_ _	. , ,
Joseph A. Pliska, ’15, 652S Emerald Ave.. Chicago. III. .	■
R. Otto Probst, .’ii. 334 N.'Hill St., South Bend, Ind. " * R. E. Proctor. ’04.'Elkhart, Indiana. -	. .	’	'	■ .
Thomas D. Qtiigley, ’12. 22S N. Leamington Ave.. Chicago. IlL-E. J. Quinn, ’ir. 132 Blair St., Ithaca. N. Y. ’	. '	- ''
N. V. Robertson, ’16, South Bend, Indiana. -	.	- . .
' E. A. Roach. ’13, 1510 N. Mulberry St.. Muscatine, Iowa;
Peter M. Ragan, ’93, Maumee, Ohio.	'	- * -
James E. Roach, ’16, 4125 N. Kedzie Ave.. Chicago. III.. . . ; . Edward C. Ryan, ’16, 613 W. 79th St.. Chicago. III. . C
Dr. Jesse H. Roth, To, Cobb Bldg., Kankakee,-Ill. ’ -Robert L. Roach, ’15. Live Oak, Fla.	.	-	,

E. H. Schwab, .’06. S. Bethlehem, Pa.	~
- Rev. Michael J. Shea, ’05, St. Joseph Seminary, Yonkers,.N; YL;’-;
Dudley M. Shively, ’92, South Bend. Ind. .	_ J.-';-’
- James E. Sanford. .’15, 73 Griswold St.. Detroit, Mich. "
John C. Shea. Ti. Dayton. Ohio. - -	.	' • '
J. V. Sullivan. ’97. SoS Boland Bldg..-Chicago’.' Ill. -. ' , Fred J. Stewart; ’12, c-o M. G. Hall. Centerville, Iowa. . . L Fred L. Steers, Ti, 9155 S. Hoyne Ave.,.Chicago,'Ill.' ‘
.. Maximilian St. George, ’oS, 1217 Conway Bldg., Chicago,Tll. " . ' „ Joseph F. Smith, ’16, 525-Williamson Bldg., Cleveland, O. ”	,
John F. Shea, ’oS, 95 Lexington Ave., Holyoke, Mass. • ‘ -,.T- - L ’ Raymond J. Sullivan, ’15, McGregor. Iowa. .. * •; -7 ., 1. ;‘i
Paul J. Smith, ’16, 909 Fletcher Trust Bldg., Ihdianapolis,Ind.\
S. F. Scollard, ’14, Woodburn, Ore.	. •
George Schuster, ’15, 3510 W. Polk St.,.Chicago, Ill. ’-
John B. Sullivan, ’91, DesMoines, Iowa.	’ .. ’T
Rev. J". A. Solon,’92, DeKalb, Ill. — ’ J.	;
Norbert Savay, ’do, Battle Creek. Sanatarium, .Battle Breek, Mick D. J. Skelley, ’14, 62 Pearl Ave.', Oil City.'Pa. - .. ’
J. W. Stack," ’15, M. A. C., East Lansing, Mich’. .. . ~ . -j- s . ~ Sherman Steele, ’97, St. Louis, Missouri:	1 '. JT
*• T. J. Tobin,’07, Madison, S. D.	" .J...
W. W. Turner, T6, 453 Irving St., Washington, D. C.' -	‘4;;-
-John C. Tully, ’ir, 96.ParkRoad, LaGrange, III.
Leo L. Tschudi, ’16, 2126 Coulef Ave.. Dubuque, Ia. '
~—Charles L. Vaughan,.’14, Lafayette. Indiana.	.7-JSssY?;
4 Joseph M. Walsh, ’14, 326 W. Market St.‘..Scrant6n..Pa.' j
. William S. Wilken,.’15, i4O2-6th St., Bay,City,,Mich.
. John Wadden,’07, Madison, S. D. -	.
560
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Thomas J. Welch. '<>5. Kewanee. Ill.
John D. Willson. ’S5, Mason City, Iowa.
M. M. White, "SS. Ida Grove. Iowa.
F. II. Wnrzer. ’96. 426 Majestic Bldg., Detioit, Mich.
Dr. W. Burnett-Weaver, ’97, 4 W. Linden Ave., Miamisburg. O.
James Wasson, '13. 7S57 Eggleston Ave.. Chicago. Ill.
Edwin <1. Wood, *16. c-o Chevrolet Co., New York Citv.
Martin E. Walter, T6. Mt. Carmel. III.
V.	B. Welker, '01, Fort Sheridan, Ill.
Harry J. Zimmer, 'n, 205 North Ave . Millvale, Pa.
Old Students’ Hall.	.
’ Subscriptions to-June 2, 1917.	■
The following subscriptions for Old Students’ Hall were received by Warren A. Cartier, Ludington. Michigan, treasurer of the building committee.
$2000.00
Samuel T. Murdock, 'S6.	’
$1000.00
Thomas B. Fitzpatrick. P. T. O'Sullivan, '6S; Kight Rev. E. J. McLaughlin. ’75; M. F. Healy, ’S2; John C. Shea, '98; Clement C. Mitchell. ’02; Byron V. Kanaley,’04; Daniel P. Murphy, '95; John P. Lauth, '68; James D. Callery, '73.
S600.00
William P. Breen, ’77.
$500.00
Robert Sweeny, '03; C. A. Paquette, ’90; Rev. John Dinnen, ’65;
Warren A. Cartier, 'S7; Stephen B. Fleming, '90; Thomas Hoban, '99; Angus D. AIcDonald, ’00; William A. Afclnerny, '01; Joseph M. Byrne, '79; Cassius McDonald,' ’04; G. T. Stanford, '04; Student from Far West; Rev. I. E. McNamee, ’09; C. C. Craig, ’S5; Frank E. Hering, ’9S; Peter P. McElligott, '02; James J. Conway, '85; George Cooke, ’90; John Dowd, ’99.
’	$300.00
Frank N. Mass, '77; William A. Walsh, ’95: John Eggeman, 'on. $250.00
Fred E. Murphy, '93; John M. Flannigan. ’94; John H. Neeson, '03; Joseph B. Naughton,'97; Peter Kuntz,'98; John II. Feudrich, '84; M. P. Hannin. '93; A. A. McDonell. ’00; Eugene A. Delaney, ’99; R. A. O’Hara, ’89.
$200.00
W.	G. Uffendel, ’01; John O'Shea, T 1; James F. Kennedy, '9a; Louis C. M. Reed, '9S; Francis O’Shaughnessy, '00; Joseph J. Sullivan, ’02; G. A. Farabaugh, '04; Robert Anderson, ’S3; Joseph Lantry, ’07; Rev. F. J. VanAntwerp, ’14; L. J. Keach, ’08; Rt. Rev. Thos. F. Hickey, '03; Christopher C. Fitzgerald, ’94; F. A. Kaul, ’97; William Hoynes, '77; Edwin J. Lynch, 'to; T. D. Mott, ‘95; F. Henry Wurzer, '98; Paul R. Martin. ’13; Timothy V. Ansberry, '93; John M. Quinlan, ’04; Daniel Aladde’n. ’06; Fred J. Kasper, ’04; J. S. Corby, ’98; Thomas Steiner, '99; John F. Cushing. ’06; Francis H. McKeever. ’04; Daniel V. Casey, ’93; Arthur B. Larkin, '14; Edward Peil, ’14; L. C. Nash, ’00; John F. Fitzgerald, ’15; George A. McGee, '01; James F. Murphy, 99.
$150.00
Rev.-Michael Shea.’04; Ambrose O’Connell '07; William Byrue, ’95; James L. Tosg. ’94; W. A. Draper, ’06; James E. Deery. ’09; Charles M. Niezer, '98..
$120.00	•
Maximilian St. George, ,’oS.
Si 00.00	"
Oliver J. Tong,’73; Hermann C.R.Piper T 1; Rev. Edmund O’Con-nor1. ’94; J. L. Lamprej-,’03; Walter Joyce,’07; George N. Johnson, '95; William H. Boland, '88; William J. Granfield, ’13; M. O. Burns, '86; Rev. Michael Ryan, ’95; William P._ Higgins. ’03; James Frederick Coll, ’89; George-J. Hanhauser, ’01; James P. Fogarty, '00; Rev. John B. McGrath, ’So; John F. Fennessey, ’99; Cyril J. Curran, ’12; Ernest E. L. Hammer, ’04; Alfred J. Pendleton, ’97; Edwin Wile.’74; Francis C. Schwab,’02; Rupert F. Mills,’14; William IL McCarty, ’99; Edward J. Glynn, '11; Frank P. Crowley, ’09; Thomas B. Curry, ’14; James A. Curry, ’14; Harry V. Crumley, '03: Harry S. Cahill, 'oS; Walter V. Heekin. ’05; William McKenzie, '88;. Rev. Bernard P. Murray, Mark M. Foote, '73; Patrick J. Houlihan, ’92; E. J Maurus, '93; Thomas J. Swantz, ’04; H. G. Hogan, ’04; Harold P. Fisher, ’c6; John B. Kanaley, ’09; James F. Hines, '09; John B. McMahon, '09; Rev. John M. Byrne, ’00; J. H. Gormely, '03; Thomas O’Neill, ’13; Robert E. Proctor, '04; John F. O’Connell, ’13; Frank C. Walker, ’09; Rev. Gilbert Jennings, '08; George O'Brien, ’90; Vitus Jones, '02; W. A. Duffy, ’08; Rev. J. H. Guendling. '14; Fted C. McQueen, ’00; Charles J. Stubbs, ’88; Rupert Donovan, ’oS; Rev. Francis H. Gavisk, ’14; Rt. Rev. Frank O'Brien, ’95; Frank L. McOsker. '72; Chailes E. Ruffing. ’85; James F. Foley. '13; Rt Rev. T. C. O’Reilly. '09: Thomas J. Welch, ’05; William E. Cotter, '13; John C. Tully, hi; John F. O’Connor, ’72; T. P. O’Sullivan, ’02; G. M. Kerndt, '82; Dr. Frank J. Powers, '94; Rev. John Talbot Smith, ’07; Daniel C. Dillon, ’04; Thomas C. Butler, 'oS; Edward M. Kennedy, 'oS; John J. Kennedy, ’09; Peter M. Ragan, ’92; James D. Barry, ’97; Fred L. Steers, hi; Walter Clements, ’14; Edwaid J. Carlton, T6; Leonard M. Carroll, '16; Luke L. Kelly, ’16; Frank E. Swift, '16; C. P. Mottz, '16; Samuel Ward Perrott, T6; Edward C.-Ryan, '16; James Francis Odem, '16; Emmett P. Mulholland, '16; Thomas A. Hayes, ’16; Frank J. Hiss, T6; _ Joseph J. McCaffery, '16; Walter P. McCourt, '16; M. J. McEniry. ’81; Thomas J. Shaughnessy, '15; James F. O’Brien, ’13; Michael L. Fansler, '04; A. C. Fortin, ’01; Daniel J. O’Connor, .’05; M. H. Miller, To; William D. Jamieson, ’05; Grover F. Miller, T6; Thomas A. McLaughlin, '16; Edwin H. Sommerer, T6; Joseph O'Sullivan, T6; Jacob E. Eckel, T6; Vincent Mooney, T6; John T. Shea, ’06; Edward M. Schaack, ’93; Anton C. Stephan, ’04; Dr. F. B. McCarty, ’07; Harry F. McDonagh, To; Charles W. Lahey, ’13; Adam J. Kasper, ’95; George W. Kasper.
95' Robert A. Kasper, ’07; Charles Girsch, '94; Gerald A. Fitz-bigbon. ’07; John B. Fruechtl. 'oj- Hugh J. Daly, T2: Edward 47 Delana, '13; Harry Cuitis, '08:-Charles Cullinan, ’07; Daniel Cullinan. '07; Dr- W. P. Grady. '99; Edgar Crilly, '90; George S Crillv.'8S’ James V. Cunningham, ’07; M. IL Miller. To; Frank ' N. Culi. ’oS: Jesse E. Vera, To: Walter Duncan. '12; James W.
O'Hara, ’13; Joseph Collins, T i; Dr. II. G. McCarty, '12; James Dubbs, '06; Raymond E. Skelly, hi; William R Ryan, 'n; William A. McKearney, 'oS; Maurice J. Breen, 09; Raymond C. Langan,'93; Charles A. Grossart, '96; Edward J. Rauch. ’95; Wil-am I Moonev, Jr., T4; Tohn J. McShane. T4; Henry A. Wim -berg" '96- Gerald S. Clements, ’14; John G. Wimberg. ’96: Philip B. O’Neiil, ’02; Elmo A. Funk, 'oS; Rev. J. C. Scullin, ’09; Oscar A* Fox, '06; Dwight Cusick, ’12; Paul F. O’Brien, T2; C. P. Somers, ’15; F. W. Durbin, '13; Arthur W. Ryan, ’13; E. H. Savord, Tz; Robert L. Fox. '01; John McKeefrey. Harry J. Zimmer, ’09; Owen Murphy, ’13; Thomas A. Havican, ’09; Jacob W. Kraus, ’98: James Devlin, ’13; Thomas C. Hughes, ’09; A. W. Page. '03; J. W. Ely, ’09; John McCague, '12; In memory of Joseph T. Dixon, '12; Joseph P. Shiels, '00; George Attley, To; William W. O’Brien, ’00; Charles AI. Bryan,’97; Clement Ulatowski, T 1; John S. Corley, ’02; Joseph A. Martin, '12; R. Newton McDowell. ’06; M. J. Ney, '9S; Otto Schmid, ’09; T. Paul McGannon. ’07; Poyn-telle Downing, ’14; John J. E. Wertin; Dr. Jesse H. Roth, To; Will'am I'. Montavon, ’9S; Thomas T. Cavanaugh. ’97; L- A. Slum, '13; Rev. Henry A. Norman; John W. Dubbs. '03; Edward M. Baltes. '89; Robert L. Fox. 'oi; C. Byron Hayes, 13; Rev. William C. O’Brian, ’<>6.
$75-00
John W. Costello, ’12; A. F Dorley, ’00.
$60.00
Raymond T. Coffey, To.
'	$50.00
Albert B. Obeist, '06; Louts P. Chute, '92; William Fish, '12; J. Clovis Smith, ’14; Frank B. Cornell, ’00; Rev. John Schopp, ’94; A. J. Major, ’S6; Chailes Vaughan, ’14; Stephen H. Herr, To; J. N. Antoine, ’70; Rev. Thomas Cleary, ’09; Fred Stewart, ’12; Jay Lee, ’12; Albert F. Gushurst, ’09; Edward P. Cleaiy, '09; Rev. John J. Burke, 'S3; Rev. Al. L. Aloriarty, 'io; Rev. John P. Quinn, '83; Simon E. Twining, ‘13; J. V. Birder. ’13; Cecil E. Birder, '14; AI. Emmett Walter, '15; Ralph Eberhart, '02; Rev. John Al. Gerenda, '09; Timothy P. Galvin, T6; Ray M. Humphreys, '16; Hugh E. Carroll, T6; Jesse C. Harper; Ronald S. O'Neill, ’14; Louis P. Hari, T6; Joseph D. Kovacs, T6; Patrick Maloney. T6; J. F Delph, T6; Hugh O’Donnell, T6; James Sanford, ’14; Ira W. Hurley, ’14; Emmett G. Lenihan, ’15; Francis H. Hayes, '14; Raymond J. Kelly, '16; Ernest P. Lajoie, ’15; Rev. P. J. Crawley, ’95; Aithur Pino, ’06; William Milroy, ’13; Dr. Robert Frost, ’02; Eustace Berry, ’03; A Friend from the South; Daniel Shouvlin, '14; R. B. AfcConlogue, ’09; Thomas J. Jones, '03; Twomey AL Clifford. ’13; Cletus H. Kruyet, ’12; Dalton B. Shrouds, ’09; D. R. Shouvlin. ’09; P. W. Purcell, '12; Carmo F. Dixon, ’09; Joseph P. O'Reilly, ’03; W. B. Helmkamp, Ti; Rev. AT T. Griffin, ’04; Robert E. Daly, ’15; Ray J.Dasch-bach, '04; AI. P. Clinton. Jr., 'oS; Alatthew A. Campbell. '06; Dr. L. G. Duan. ’04; Dr. Joseph Kearney, ’94; Thomas D. Quigley, ’12: Di. John M. Lilly, '01; Robert C. Newton, 'So; Rev. Wm. D. Hickey. ’14; Alartin O'Shaughnessy, '00; Rev. D. A. C'arke, ’74; Alatthew Kenefick, ’07; Albert G. Feehey, ’13; Frank J. Gilmartin, 'ou; Eugene D. O'Connell, 16; Frederick Gilbaugh, ’13.
$40.00	" *
V E. Morrison, '89; Geraid N. Krost, ’04; Stephen A. Fazekas.
S30.O0
Alyron Parrott, ’15.
’	$25.00
John AL Culligan, • ’15; Joseph AI. DeLone, '02; Simeon T. Flanagan, ’14; W. B. AlcLain, ’04; Lawrence janszen, ’09; Rev. A. A. Lambing, '83; James AI. Riddle, '13; Henry Hess, '82; Dr. E. M. AlcKee, ’06; Robert B. Gottfredson, ’13; Rev. John II. Alullin, 'n; I. N. Mitchell, Sr.. ’92; Frederick Williams. ’13; Rev. Joseph Toth, Ti; Joseph AI. Walsh, ’14; Alax Adler, 'S9; John G. Alott, ’95; Rev. T. O. Alaguire. ’09; Paul J. Smith, T6; C. I. Krajewski, T6; Joseph P. Flynn, T6; John P. Conboy, T6; W. W. Turner, T6; Alfred Fries, T6; J. A. McCarthy, ’16; J. Harry Sylvestre, T6; Harold P. Burke, T6; Peter C. Yearns, ’16; Freil M. Pralatowski, T6; Francis J. Kilkenny, '12; Edward L. Figel, T 1; Thomas J. Dooley, ’97; Alark A. Devine, To; Daniel E. Coney. To; Fremont Arnficld, ’12; W. W. Harless, '86; Edward J. Walsh. ’00; Thomas Curran, T6; D, D. Alyers, Jr., '00; Dennis Moran, '14; Leo F. Welch,’12; Ralph A.. Reitz,’14: Lawrence Luken. '02; William L Beckham, Ti; Frank C. O’Rourke, ’12; Martin Hena-ban, ’15; Robert J. Dederich, ’09; Carl K. Roelands, ’06; Clarence W. May, ’06; J. S. Cangney, '12; George Rudge, ’74; Rev. Patrick A. Barry, ’12; William B. Akin, '88; J. V. Sullivan, ’97; Rev. William J. Dames, ’00; George .A. Lynch, ’13; Arthur D. Walsh, '12; Joseph M. Haley,'99; Ellsworth HutzelL’07; Oscar D. Hutzell, ’07; Gerald McKinnie; Drexel L. Duffy, T6.
$20.00
Gabriel Davezac. '94; James R. Devitt, ’13; Albert A. Glockner T6; JuliusM. Hack,'92; G. D. McDonald. '16; George B. Niezer.’03.
$15-00
Bernard Dutch, '13.
$10.00
P. J. O’Connell, '73; Paul T. Alarkey, 'oS; Edward J. Markey. ’06; Alfred Vignos, ’95; Andrew L. Shimp, ’91; Frank Niedecke. '09; Harry Kirk,’13; Louis Chute,’92; J. J. Deasey, ’06; H. King, T6; James E. Roach, T6; J. E. Hogan, T6; Frank Alaher, '02; Frank W. Bloom, ’84; George F. Pulskamp, '96; Joseph J. Hinde, '09; John A. Sawkins, ’13; Bernard Bannon, '07; LeGrand Ham— mond, '13; Robert Franey.
$5-oo
Robert D. Murphy, 'or; Alark Duncan, ’15; Hiram Halliday,'06; Claude S. AIoss, ’95; John Bell. 'oS; P. M. OAleara, ’09; A I. Strickfaden; A. K. Grimes. '14; Paul R. Byrne, ’13; Grandville Timmins.	-
•oi see-o\z k
Vol. L.
THOM.i
"J"he air is f In evej I he magic of > Memories that Nor be W hile flowers 1 Beauteous hen
Bair Mother, f In thy < Are treasured ■ Now all the set Have de Have borne th< Given .to thee 1 '1 hon art a hot!
A true a 01 holy song at Yea, even each
Its singii When from you And of the glor
Emanc
Br EDWARD
"SHE pre va i.l	status of
j. \	was on t
she holds on the part of hist condition of the ft days—-a silence fre inference that con essentially differe present. This fals ible by the referen ol their extraord