

the latest campus news and sports , in-depth coverage of campus issues reviews of campus entertainment off-the-wall humor 

7 
I PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOURSUBSCRIPTION LIST. SEND THIS FORM AND I 
$35.00 PAYMENT TO:I NAME: -,-------...;._;....________ SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE . I I 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER I 
NOTRE DAME, IN 46556
I ADDRESS: --,----..;..._----,-------I 
I ___;,;________;_______;_______;_______;__-'------I I I 
/ 



A R C H 
~ 

._-_-_-_ ·_ tableofcontents·-·_ 
----~ . -, -. -. 
08 

Scholastic explores the under­ground secrets of Notre Dame's tunnels. 
,.;:--:.::---·-----·-···----:-·-•--c:..... ~. -l 
{ Must Be The Money · I 14 
\"""-----·--_______ ?Y Sarah Childr~~~ -~~ 
COVER: On the heels of a success-I ful fund-raising campaign and a boom year for the endowment, why is tuition still rising? . 
{Net Gains 
ii 
26
'\\:,____ _ ...... _ by Gerard Meskill J 
The b_ottom line on the.. men's ba--s--_ I
ketball season. _ 
•. -­: -' 
j·====,./1/ 
1 
· Special 
Editorial Board 
Writing by Heart 
byKatie Freddoso 
i Something to Talk About 
f byJenniferMorgan _ ii On Track !~ ·by Lee Deleon and Jessica Daues 
ii. Bail a mos 
ii 
, byKathleen Corte 
Yeah, It's That Easy , by Carrie Sweeney , \l, 
,"'-.... --:'CC.•.·~--"~-=-~=-"-=··=--·~·====== 

03 10 
12 
24 
29 
32 


From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds 30 ND Notebook 4 Week in Distortion 34 Design by Mike Griffin 


Campus Watch 19 Calendar 35 
Photo by Jim Pastore 

Splinters 21 Final Word 36 
and Mike Griffin 


Vol. 142, No. 11 • 22 MARCH 2001 1------....,...__,.... -.---,----"""--------------1 
.... s9~o!c1stic~{(/ {)-/stc1ff. _____ 
Editor in Chief 
James J. Pastore Jr. 

Managing Editor Associate Editor 
Sarah E. Childress Michael P. Griffin 
News Katie M. Caspersen, editor Matthew C. Ziegler, assistant Campus Life Jacklyn D. Kiefer, editor Kristin A. Kramer, assistant 

Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor Jessica L. Daues, assistant ChrisE. Hamilton, editor emeritus 
Entertainment Kara S. Zuaro, editor 
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant Departments Cristin E. Fenzel, editor Design Matthew B. Barr, editor 

Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant 
Katie Browning, Brendan Condon, 
Crissy Manary, Katie Wales 

Photography Katherine A. Foster, editor Graphic Arts Caroline M. Woif, editor Michael M. delaRosa, assistant 
Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor Jessica L. Daues, assistant Jenny Wahoske 

Distribution Angela M. Polsinelli, manager Advertising Kyle Zuaro, manager Jessica B. Potish, assistant Online F. Brian Scofield, manager Jamie L. Moran, assistant Marketing Morgan K. Anderson, manager Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of 
Scholastic magazine is Copyright© 2001. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. 
Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Jimmy's officially kicked out -but we'll miss him. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed. The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
Well, it's official: I'm a law-school applicant and, in all likeli­hood, a future attorney of America. It was a daunting process­personal statements, letters ofrecommendation, the mysterious Law School Data Assembly Service. But the most intimidating facet oflaw school? The price tag. Incredibly, the bill for spending a year at some schools can approach the stratospheric sum of$47,000. Which leads me to wonder: Just where is all that tuition money going? At Notre Dame, the question seems to be a perennial concern of students and, perhaps even more so, the parents who pay the bills. It's clear from the rumors and legends surrounding Notre Dame's own finances that most undergraduates -and a good number of parents -are befuddled by the university's constant need for cash. With a boom year for the endowment and the extraordinary success of the Generations fund-raising campaign, many are scratching their heads about the latest tuition increase. Scholastic' s Sarah Childress set out to untangle the issue and figure out why tuition is on the rise. Her report is on page 14. 
End of the Road 
This is it -my last issue as editor in chief of Scholastic. It's been an absolutely fantastic year. When I reflect on my time at Notre Dame, I know that the hours spent working on Scholastic will be some of my most cherished; not because of the magazine, but because of the people I've had the privilege to work with. It's an amazing feeling to look up from editing a story and to see a group of people laboring through the early morning hours, to the detriment of health and grades, in a united effort to create something for this university. It's amazing to see in front of you people for whom you have great admiration and respect. And, after it's all done, it's amazing when your classmates approach you in the dining halls and the dorms and the classroom buildings to say, "I liked it" or "Good job." 
So I want to close my last letter as editor in chief by thanking the readers and the staff. I would be remiss ifl did not also thank Bob Franken for all of his guidance and advice, and Mary Edgington for her support. Finally, I want to extend my best wishes to the new editor in chief, Mike Griffin. With a young, talented and dedicated staff, Mike will no doubt lead Scholastic to bigger and better accomplishments during the next year. I only hope that the ties formed in the basement of a dining hall will not disappear with the passing of time. 
And now, ;f you'll excuse me, I've got to get to 17ok,._ 
r Jim Pastore Editor in Chief 
Correction: In our February 22, 2001, issue, the CD review carried an incorrect byline. Tim Bradley authored the piece. Scholastic regrets the error. 
The Te~r~r of Tenafly (N.J.~, Michael P. Gnffm, has won unammous ap­proval from the Scholastic editorial board and will become the magazine's next edi­tor in chief. New Jersey-born and -bred, "Griff," as he is more commonly known in the office, majors in biochemistry and has worked on Scholastic since his first semester at Notre Dame. "Though I loved seeing my work in print, I was very intrigued by the crazy atmosphere of the office," Griff recalls of his decision to join the staff. "It seemed that the work, while sometimes stressful, was a heck of a lot of fun." Signing on as a designer, Griff's talent and personality moved him quickly through the ranks. Serving as design editor his sophomore year and associate editor during the past year, Griff is ready for the challenge of editor in chief. "It will be a great honor to serve the rest of the staff and the University of Notre Dame in this fashion," he says of the posi­tion. Griff sees the readers' needs as the guiding force behind the magazine. "I want to be sure that Scholastic addresses the concerns of the readers .... mainly, the stu­dents of the University of Notre Dame." He hopes the strength of the incoming staff will help him accomplish this goal. 

"I think this is one of the most well­rounded, most enthusiastic and most tal­ented staffs to work for Scholastic ever," Griff emphasizes. Although he does not foresee any drastic changes for the maga­zine, Griff notes that he may amend the official title of the editor in chief. "I would . . . like to knight myself, sort of like the student-body president who named himself king [in the 1970s]," he says. "I think I might become a 'Sir."' 
The iron reign of Sir Griff begins today. Look for his first issue on April 12. D 


( ( Jim Pastore, editor in chief, graduates with an English and computer applica­tions double major. Jim is still stunned that this is over and wonders how he will fill up all the extra free time. He hopes that law school is even half as great as his undergraduate experience. 
Katie Caspersen, news editor, is an English and computer applications double major from Rochester, Minn. She has no plans yet for next year but hopes to find luck at the Arts and Letters Career Fair next week. ) ) 
( ( Carol Wolf, graphic arts editor, graduates as a BFA in industrial design, with a minor in Italian. Next year, Carol will pursue graduate studies abroad in Milan, Italy at the Domus Academy to further her design skills and also eat lots of delicious pasta -what more could one want? No more dining-hall ziti! 
Tina Zurcher, former campus life editor, graduated in January and will start law school in the fall. She loves to tell people, "I know the Gipp," and then she smiles sweetly-it's a great ice-breaker. ) ) 
( ( Morgan Anderson, marketing manager, is graduating with a degree in econom­ics and hopes to travel for a bit before starting work on the "real world." Kara Zuaro, entertainment editor, is an English and film major with plans to return home to New York upon graduation to start work or, at least, to start workin' in NYC. Kara would like to thank everyone who not only humored her and went along with her journalistic shenanigans but who also became f(iends in the process. · ) ) 
( ( Christopher Hamilton, sports editor emeritus, graduates with an English and finance double major. Chris will return back home to the San Francisco Bay Area, . where he will work as a financial consultant with Deloitte &Touche and will work even harder at just being a dude. 
Angela Polsinelli, distribution manager, somehow survived as a computer engineering major. After a long history of delivering pizzas and magazines, she is off to become a pilot in the United States Air Force. ) ) 

SCHOLASTICSPECIAL 3 


1 ' 
cd review ten questions judgment calls news listening in domelights years ago I r 
Ticket to Ride 
Story by Matthew Ziegler 

The administrative shuttle will take you to D2 for free Art by Michael delaRosa 
Next time your teeth are chattering and the wind is whipping in your face as you trudge out to D2000, 


take note of the United Limo bus whiz­zing by. That's the administrative shuttle, toting faculty and staff to and from their parking lots. It runs daily in three shifts of two hours apiece, stopping behind the Main Building, going by Stepan Center (servicing B16), then to the corner of Bulla and Juniper, and finally swinging down to Pasquerilla Center. 
The administrative shuttle has been go­ing since the early '90s, and has been used primarily by staff in the Main Building and Brownson Hall. But, says Chris Carlin of Administrative Services, anyone can 

! : 
ride the shuttle. That it services faculty and staff parking lots only indicates the intent behind it, but Carlin asserts that the bus will gladly pick up "anyone who's standing at the bus stop. We never put any restrictions on it." Although no official restrictions exist, the bus services staff­oriented locations only. 
Considering that the bus, contracted from Mishawaka-based Shoup Buses Inc., has a capacity of dozens more than are usually aboard, the question arises: Are 
our dollars being burned up in a puff of diesel fumes? Carlin assures that the shuttle is paid for by a "special transporta­tion fund" that does not come out of stu­dent fees or tuition. Unfortunately, there is no shuttle that ser­vices student parking lots, but you can still make some use of what is available. So if your feet are get­ting sore in your Army boots and you notice the administrative shuttle approach­ing, hop on and relax while it whisks you off to Pasquerilla Center. Don't worry­it's free, and there's plenty of room. 0 

>> 

· "Article I: God Bless Texas. The name of this organization is the Texas Club." So be­gins the Texas Club's constitution, one of Notre Dame's newest campus organizations. Although club founder Michael Newhouse may not initially screani "Texan" ifyou see him ambling on the quad (Where're the boots? Where's the hat?), Gov. Newhouse soon proved to Scholastic that he can talk the talk when it comes to his home state. 
How many flag-carrying members of the club do you claim as Lone Stars? 
There are about 65 dues-paying members and around 600 on our mailing list. Roughly one in every 15 students here is a Texan. 
Define 'Texanism.' 
It's impossible. It's ... everything that's good in the world. If you' re not from Texas, you just can't understand. It's like, Iflipped on Survivor one time and this guy brought as his one luxury item a huge-like 20-inch by30­inch-Texas flag, and he said, "Every morn­ing when I wake up, I thank God for two things: One, that I'm alive, and two, that I'm a Texan." 
What, pray tell, do Texans have to be so thankful for? 
It's like being an American, only better. It's the best ofall wodds: The best music, the best food, friendliest people, prettiest women. 


That's Your Fire 

label: Polyvinyl recent concert: Higher Grounds on March 17 Story by Kara Zuaro 
judgmentcalls 
~lWJ/?iil~~ 
A week off. Too bad we need another week to recover from it. 
(D~\1•,~·~.i~iHE;~~I~ 
Those Nittany Lions made sure Doherty didn't get farther than the team he abandoned last spring. 

,i ~r~~~~i~;Zl~M~R~~~ 
Afraid Hayes-Healy would re-open -early, the admin­istration rips up some sidewalks to further inconvenience us. 
8f0~!f~H!~~t~ 
Well, the women are still doing well .... 


You're going to want to stick around for this," I said to my newfound high-school friend, motioning to Aloha's Eric Koltnow as he unpacked his vibraphone. Higher Grounds, 
a coffee shop on Washington Street, was packed with kids smoking 

generic cigarettes. Theall-agescrowd huddled close as Aloha began to play. T"'m="'"=, 
Aloha's most •"' recent release, That's Your Fire, explodes with a staggering fusion of free-jazz and rock. Lead vocalist Tony Cavallario's lovesick lyrics complement the dreamy tim­bre of Koltnow' s vibraphone, grounded by the solidity of Matthew Gengler's bass line and Cale Park's untiring percussion. Call it what you will-experimental or post-rock -Aloha's sound is even more savory in live performance. But Aloha doesn't leave room for applause.Between songs, the band continues to play, its members turning away from the crowd and toward each other, im­provising interludes that aren't duplicated on disc. During "One Hundred Stories," the foursome sent out a cacophony of shouts to the center of their circle, raucous and deli­cate, loose on the microphone's reins. 

Some fans have debated whether Gengler' s habit of playing with his back to the crowd was pretentious or unpolished. But after talking to him, I was pleasantly surprised. The band tours on weekends only because Parks is still in school at Bowling Green, Ohio, the site ofAloha's conception, and the rest have day jobs to uphold during the week -no pretension detected here. 
The soft-spoken Koltnow apologized for his lack ofthings to say after the set. "Some­thing happens to you psychologically after a show," he said. Judging by the number of high-school kids who lingered, silently smoking their cheap cigarettes and smiling, Koltnow said it all. D 
For more information on the band, check oiit http://www.insomniaville.com/aloha/. 
>> 
In 30 words or less, is President George W. Bush a true Texan or an outlander? 
George W.? He's Ivy League-educated, butchers Spanish like it's his job ... I don't know. He makes an effort, but if you're a tme Texan, you know he's not the real deal. 
Are Texans secure with their position in the United States? Is there a chance of secession? 
No, we're perfectly at peace with our 49 colonies, 
What do Texans do at Texas Club gather­ings? 
Right now we're still just getting the club -rolling, so we'll go to dinner, go bowling, movies, etc. 

Texas vs. Canada. Who would win? 
Oh boy. I don't think Texas would bother because it'd be too cold, and Canada wouldn't be able to handle Texas because the food and the weather would be too hot. I'd say it'd be a draw ... unless oil was found up there, in which case we might have to annex it. 
Why aren't you wearing a cowboy hat? Don't all Texans wear cowboy hats? 
No, we don't all wear cowboy boots or hats, and if one more person on this campus tells me I don't talk like I'mfrom Texas, I'mgoing to slap them upside the head. 
The constitution says that the club is open to "all who nourish in their hearts a deep loveoftheLoneStar."Let'sbehonest-how many non-Texans are actually in the club? 
That's a fine, fine question. I actually have no idea. Once you're in the club, we assign you a hometown, so that doesn't become an issue, and we don't get into any class-stratifi­cation prnblems. 
What's your prophetic vision tor the club's future? 
_World domination. Actually, whatwewant to do is move Notre Dame to Texas. It'd cut down on the commute for us, and the school would jump from No. 19 to No. 1, no problem. 
-Kristin Kramer 



125 Years Ago 
Pay Up 
The following were among the fees and requirements listed in an ad that appeared in the September 6, 1876 issue of Notre Dame Scholastic: 

l 
Matriculationfee: $5.00 Board, tuition (languages, linear drawing, and vocal music included), bed and bedding, washing and mending oflinens: $150.00 per five-month session Instrumental music: $2.50 Telegraphy: $10.00 Elocution -special course: $5.00 Use of library (per session): $1.00 Use ofphilosophical and chemical apparatus: $5.00 
,i. 
Students who spend summer vacation at

I! I' 
the university are charged an extra: $40.00 Payments to be made invariably in advance. Students received at any time, their session beginning with date ofentrance. 
Received at any time? I think a self­imposed extra week of spring break might be in order .... 
-Cristin Fenzel 


"The test sucked, but I did my job: I brought down the curve, I took a bullet for the rest of the class." -overheard student 



Most of us spend endless hours in the library, but do we really know anything about it? Here's a chance to read up on the Theodore M. Hesburgh Library . 

Oldest article in special collections: Cuneiform clay tablets from the Sumerian . civilization, 2300-2100 B.C. Oldest printed article in special collections: a leaf from the Gutenberg Bible, 1450-1455 B.C. 
Sources: University Libraries and Christian Dupont, Curator for Special Collections . 

Q.LJ FREE
Jf 5 pieces of crab
½ ft 
'I rangoon with $20.00 

Golden Dragon I purchase 
I

CHINESE RESTAURANT 
I FREE
Eat In or Take Out 
I 5 pieces of teriyaki : chicken with $30.00 

Free Delivery 
I purchase 

(Min $15.00) I 
I Offer expires April 15 Under $15.00 Charge $1.00 r---------­
* No personal checks SPECIAL: 
Chefs recommend: Mon. -Thurs. 10:30am-ll:30pm 
crispy chicken with Fri. & Sat. 10:30am -12:30am 
garlic sauce 

Sunday 11:00am-12:00am 
full size for 
$5.95 
243-8800 
Offer expires April 15

fax 243-5898 


· .··. · : • ~i«~'t-1Ji;Jiiff:~ •~P«Elui .zi1~~,WJ" '<<f~2J;;:i.:zc.j
: ' ·.> ~ .',:' :_: .. -.·. ;~/ .•.. ',: -... '. > ; : .·. -_ ·. :-_·:., .-·_ .... _! ··• <, _.. _·\: ·__;~?',,::::::J 
ci;rii" : . (.. ,.y~efltJJl T?PMeJtiMJL (;}"'lfi •.• ,:./, • ~0~J.iiL:~; 
... . ,,. 



Carlos Gomez-Meade prepares
eart 
to release his third book 

KATI EFREDDOSO if they were written by my heart and my mind, not my hand. I guess that is when
Poetry and writing come to me as you really know it is a gift, when it comes very simple things," says Keenan to you that naturally." He has used his Hall Residant Assistant Carlos natural talents well -Gomez-Meade has 
Gomez-Meade. "I don't see a paper and published two books in two languages pen when I write-Ijust feel the words as and is now working on a third. 
Gomez-Meade grew up in Matamoros, 
Mexico, a small town on the coast of the 
Gulf of Mexico about a half hour across 
the border from Brownsville, Texas. He 
did not learn to speak English until the 
fourth grade, when he wrote his first book, 
a compilation of short stories entitled 
Cuentos Juveniles (Juvenile Stories). Af­
ter he was featured in a local newspaper 
for his literary talent, a publishing com­
pany expressed interest in his work and 
published it. 
Over the next few years, Gomez-Meade 
continued to compose stories and began to 
write poetry as well. In 1992, La Vida en 
Resumen -Poesia (Life in Summary ­
Poetry) was published by the same local 
company. The book became so popular in the 
Matamoros area that people in Brownsville 
asked for an English version, and the transla­
tion was published shortly thereafter. 
Throughout high school and his time at Notre Dame, Gomez-Meade continued to · write, including a book of short stories, which will be entitled either Treinta Centigrados y Descamizado (Thirty De­. grees and Shirtless), or El Principia, El Final y El Espacio Intermedio (The Be­ginning, the End and the Space In Be­tween.) He hopes to be published by a national company within the next year. The original version of the new book will be in Spanish, but Gomez-Meade says he will probably translate it into English as 
well. 
The themes in his next book will reflect 
a more mature outlook on life than that of 
his previous work. "The first [books] were 
experimental. . . . Mostly I wrote about 
friendships," he says. "My best friend is my 
cousin, Fernando, so a lot ofthe stories have 
to do with him and me, the things we went 
through, things like that. But now, my writ­
ings are a lot more complex." 
The central theme of his next book is 
appreciating what you have and not tak­
ing things for granted. Gomez-Meade says 
· A TALE OF TWO COUNTRIES Meade weaves his experiences from both Mexico and America into his stories and poetry. 
that whenever he is asked 
to elaborate on this idea, 
he tells the story he calls 
Thirty Degrees and Shirtless, which is based on an experience he had as a child on an unusually chilly morning in Mexico. The temperature was hovering around 30 degrees, which rarely happens in Matamoros, so he sat outside wearing two long-sleeved shirts and a jacket, complaining about the cold. Sud­denly, in what he says was "probably delirium brought on by the cold," he took off his jacket and his shirts and sat there, freezing, just to feel what it was like to be that cold. After a few minutes, he was turning blue and feeling numb, so he put his shirts and jacket back on. That made him feel very warm -almost hot. The lesson he learned? "I didn't really know how warm I was until I actually took it off," he says. "In other words, I didn't really know what I had until I lost it." 
His eye for detail and memory of small incidents from his past such as this one serve as a great source of story ideas for Gomez-Meade. "I notice everything and anything . . . and those are usually the things that I write about .... For me, it's like life is one big novel, and it's just a matter of writing it down," he says. "When you notice details in life, you notice there's a lot of symbolism ... to the 0way your life unfolds....Writing is not like a typical job -it is based strictly on spontaneous inspi­ration. I can be' sitting on a bus or walking to class when suddenly something will cata­lyze an emotion in me. Next thing I know, I'll be writing what I felt." 
When it comes to writing what he feels, Gomez-Meade says that he includes the bad as well as the good. "Depression is just as important as happiness in life, and they can bo_th serve as inspiration. I em­brace tragedies in my life as much as I do success ... they make my character more interesting and· they make my writings better. Any person can easily accept good things in life, but what makes a real person's character, and hence me as a writer, is that I can learn to accept diffi­culties as well. Those are the challenges that make life worthwhile." 

Although he is a dual citizen, he says, "Mexico is my identity and character -it is who I am. Admiration for my country of Mexico is not only what defines my everyday life, but also serves as inspiration for 90 per­
"Depression is just as important as happin~ss in life, and they can both serve as inspiration." 
-Carlos Gomez-Meade 

cent of my writing." Gomez-Meade says his country, as well as his family and friends there, have helped to form his unique perspec­tive on life. Hisbestfriendandcousin, Fernando De Leon, is a senior at Harvard University and edits all of his writing. 
Despite these strong ties to his country, Gomez-Meade chose to come to-school in the United Sates because of the quality of the education here. Coming from Matamoros to Notre Dame was a culture shock because of differences in every­thing from music to social interaction. But he says that attending college in the United States has been a great learning experience, both academically and cultur­ally. "You're a lot more on your own here. 
WHAT'S UP, DOC? Although Gomez-Meade loves writing, he plans on studying medicine at Mexico's Universidad de Autonoma de Guadalajara immediately after graduation. 
... But a pretty positive thing 
is that people around here 
want to learn a lot more 
[ about other cultures] ...The impression I've gotten is that most people here have lived in the same homogeneous ambience their entire life, so ... they are willing to learn." 
As an Arts and Letters pre-professional and Spanish major, Gomez-Meade has been able to devote time to both his writ­ing and his aspiration to become a doctor. He says that his talent and success in the literary arts have made decisions about his future a bit more difficult. "I have confidence in my writing," he says. "I know that I can probably make a living out of it, because it's a talent, and you know when you're good at something, and you know when things come to you easily and when they don't. [Writing] comes tome naturally ... andI'vedoneitmyentire life. So now, it's like, OK, do you really want to be a doctor or do you really want to write, and I love both." 
For now, it looks like medical school is in his future, but Gomez-Meade refuses to rule out more writing in the future. He jokes that if he gets his M.D., he could combine his talents and be the next Michael Crichton. "And ifljust write, I'll be the next Octavio Paz [a famous Mexican poet and Nobel Prize winner]," he adds. 
Gomez-Meade has recently been ac­cepted-to a program sponsored by the New York State Medical School that al­lows him to study medicine at Universidad Autonoma de Guadalajara. "It's a dream come true ... Mexico is my inspiration, so I feel so complete to have been ac­cepted to [this program] because it gives me a chance to give back to my country after having grown academically in the u.s:" . 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 11 




Something to Talk About 
A look at the dialects ofNotre Dame students 
. ! JENNIFERMORGAN 11 
11 Pop or soda? It's the eternal question . that can define who a person is-or at least where he comes from. At a national university like Notre Dame, there are bound to be some differences in dialect, and the debate over what to call soft drinks is often heated. Some call it "pop," others call it "soda," and some students choose to call it something different altogether. "I had never heard the term 'pop' or 'soda' until I came here," says Lianette Campos, a junior from Miami. "I thought it was funny because I call it 'Coke.' " Just about every­one on campus has an opinion on this question. It can of­ten be amusing when pizzas be­come "pies" and water fountains become "bub­blers," but most people have their pet peeves regard­ing other dialects. Mike Romano, a Dillon freshman from Poughkeepsie, N.Y., picks on the phrase "all y'all." "I just think 'all y'all' sounds a little silly and redundant," Romano says. On the other hand, "you guys" is usually a dead giveaway for a Southerner that they are talking to a Northerner. "I do say 'you guys' a lot," Romano admits. Notre Dame is a melting pot of dialects. Some students add syllables or letters to their words, and some students take syllables or letters out. Some have slow Southern drawls, while others talk so fast that people can barely understand their words. Most students fall somewhere in between. Not surprisingly, in a place where many dialects converge, many awkward misunderstandings can occur. Fresh­man Leanne Jochin ran into some trouble with the New York dialect. "Two of [the girls on my floor] are from Long Island, and they said 'mad' before certain words instead of 'really,' such as 
12 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
'mad cool,' " Jochin says . 
Suzanne Stryker, a freshman from Ne­braska, thought her friends were saying "man" until she asked the Long Island girls, and they explained that they were saying "mad cool," not "man cool." 
"They talk so fast, anyway," Stryker says. "I was trying to imitate the way they talked, and when they corrected me, I was the one everyone was laughing at." 
Although misunderstandings are often funny and may seem trivial, some are not easily resolved. 
"Dialects can be a serious matter," says Jacqueline Brogan, an English professor who teaches linguistics courses. The way a person speaks may say more about the per­son than he or she would normally think. "For example, people tend to privilege North­ern over Southern accents or white vernacular over black vernacular," she says. 
Brogan also notes that although Notre Dame students tend to be conscious of ethical values, "a lot of prejudices are completely unconscious," she says. "A student hears another student speak and immediate! y makes assumptions about that student's intelligence." 
Brogan performed tests in previous classes to show students how they re­spond to different dialects. When stu­dents listened to a tape of dialects pro­vided by Brogan, their reactions -both unconscious and conscious -revealed much about the way they perceived each dialect. Depending on what region of the country they called home, different stu­dents had different reactions to the voices on the tape. For some, certain dialects were easier to understand than other dia­lects, which many students met with looks of confusion. At times, also, students frowned, scowled, smiled or laughed ­
most often unconsciously 
-when certain words were said on the tape with dif­
ferent accents. 
Not only does Notre Dame host many indi­vidual dialects, but students also often develop a "Notre Dame dialect." For example, how many non-Darners know what "parietals" are? Students also tend to lose their accents and use words and phrases they pick up from friends with other 
dialects. 
"I think we do start to have a Notre Dame dialect," Campos says. "We start to use the same vocabulary, and we all start to sound the same." The Notre Dame dialect even transcends the campus. "When I go home, people tell me I have an accent," she adds, laughing. 
Brogan agrees that students start to sound similar, although the effect is usually only temporary. "Students lose their home ac­cents," Brogan says. "They go home for two days, though, and they have their home accent right back." 
The debate between Coke, pop and soda may never be settled, but, in the end, most believe that the diverse array of dialects at Notre Dame contributes positively, rather than negatively, to the atmosphere. "I think it is kind of cool," Campos says. "Dialects tell a lot about a P,erson, and it gives people something to talk about when they meet. Dialects open up lines of communi­cation." 



• • ~ ' • ,-,I • ~ ~ ' ~ • '~ 
·. . .... . . . . 
all new ... 


. ~--·Y.!:.W~~i\i\~1t.t~tt;;t•:6'J;,'Ji1··.-·­
tod 
;.mr-m 

version 3.0 
Bigger, Faster, Stronger 
• 
movie listings 

• 
picture galleries 

• 
new message boards 

• 
dining with Molly Kinder 

• 
and much, much, more ... 


ndtoday.com: More iadical · than Vatican II 

·~~Y~r 
sr1•,1•~rJ.¥tl1.1r~~1f•.··~••··•·.... 
·~ .·~ ·gues·acliUa in·_tl'le> : : ·~c par'lil"li rilacflinE!~ 
,-'. .., .. ,} 

Now you can share 
your favorite dining 
hall "recipes" with the 
rest of the _student 
body. 
Just send them to scholast@nd.edu or stop by the Scholastic office in the basement ofSouth Dining Hall. The best recipes will be 
featured in the April 12 issue. 


I• • • . -• ~ • -~......... ---~--~----~-L-L ---­
. . . 
~ 
-. ----­


must be 

The price ofa Notre Dame education just went up again. Why? 
An arm and a leg. That's what many students and their families feel it costs to attend Notre Dame. Even if the university's tuition ranks a few thousand dollars below most top private institutions, few think that the price is inex­pensive. Now, however, administrators say that one of their top priorities is to lower tuition -and with a growing endowment and a large influx of donations, they may have the funds to do it. But with yet another tuition hike approved for next year, some students might doubt the university's intentions. Are administrators really working to cut costs? If so, where is all the money going? Despite its top-20 ranking as a national uni­versity, Notre Dame's endowment has only recently experienced significant growth. Un­til 13 years ago, the university had leftinvest­mentoftheendowmentin the hands of a three­person staff. They invested the money in blue ch,ips -stocks from large, consistently prof­itable corporations. Although these stocks are relatively stable, they don't have a high yield. So for years, the $2 billion endowment saw relatively little gains. Enter Scott Malpass. A Double Domer, he returned to Notre Dame in 1988 as the assis­tant investment officer before rising to be­come the vice president of finance and chief investment officer, with full control ofinvest­ing the endowment pool. Malpass and the investment committee decided to make a few changes to the office's structure. He expanded 
BVTHE numbers 
COURTESY OF LINDA KROLL ' 



to a staff of 18 -all alumni-and reevalu­ated the university's portfolio. "Before, it was pretty plain-vanilla," Malpass says of the in­vestment strategies. "When you have every­thing in one market, that's risky, because there's no diversification." He expanded the university's portfolio to include overseas in­vestments and venture capital. 
The transition paid off. Within a year, Malpass and his team raked in $1.3 billion, making Notre Dame first in higher-education investment returns for the 2000 fiscal year. Suddenly, its endowment was worth $3.5 billion, and Notre Dame was on track to do some big spending -well, almost. 
Not all ofthe university's assets are avail­able for use. ''It's not like you have a checking account with $3.5 billion in it," says Linda Kroll, assistant director of budget and planning. The university's endowment is divided into threesections: restricted, temporarilyrestricted and unrestricted funds. Restricted funds are gifts to the university from donors who simply want to build the endowment. Neither the original donation nor the interest it earns may ever be used. The university may use tempo­rarily restricted funds only for the donor's specified purpose -often a scholarship or a building. Unrestricted funds are comprised of gifts, auxiliary funds-such as theuniversity's revenue from on-campus food operations, the Morris Inn, the golf course and rental property -and tuition. Many of these monetary gifts are solicited by the Department of Development, which 
FISCAL YEAR 2000 ENDOWMENT INCREASE 


$1.3billion $3.Sbillion 
handles university fund-raising. With one of the highest alumni-giving rates in the country at 48 percent, Notre Dame is well-supported. 
Dan Reagan, the executive director of de­velopment, says that the majority offunds are solicited three ways -through the phone center, direct mailing and personal contact. 
Groups of 10 students at a time work nights in the phone center, calling alumni, friends of the university and parents of current students to ask for contributions. For the Annual Fund -the departments' yearly pool of donations -Reagan says that the majority of those contacted are alumni, although Jane, a student caller at the center whose name has been changed, says that some _calls are "pretty ran­dom." 
· Students are given a script to follow when calling, which includes the potential donor's name, title and home information. ''The ma­. jority of times, you find that people aren't home or that people aren't interested in giv­ing," Jane says. But when she does reach them, she says that people have a lot to say about the university. "You get an earful, either good or bad," she says. When it's bad, stu­dents rely on pre-written responses for a series of typical complaints, such as "Child didn't get in," or"[The university's treatment of] gay and lesbian students." · 
Each semester, Jane says that the phone center sets a goal of$1 million "and we hit it." The department uses incentives to motivate callers, including membership in the Century Club, exclusive to those who receive$ I 00,000 in pledges in one semester. 
To distinguish the university's fund-raising 
CURRENT WORTH OF ENDOWMENT 
14 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 


EMILY CEROW 

AVERAGE VALUE OF ALUMNI GIVING RATE TUITION INCREASE FOR 2001-2002 FINANCIAL AID PACKAGE 
.48percent 4.9percent $11,000 
SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 15 
EMILYCEROW 


OF ATTENDANCE 
ND compares itself to several top universities divided into three groups. 
These are the averages of total student charges for 2000-2001. 
Top tier private schools: $33,165 Top six overlap schools (Boston College, Georgetown, Duke, Northwestern, Vanderbilt, Washington University): $32,559 US News & World Report top-20 national: $31,967 University of Notre Dame: $29,000 
AMOUNT BUDGETED FOR FINANCIAL AID 
million 
from a commercial telemarketing organiza­tion, the phone center works in conjunction with direct mailings. "We try very much not to do cold-calling," Reagan says. 
Before receiving a telephone call, most alumni are mailed a pledge card asking for a donation. Jane says the suggested amount on the card corresponds to past giving records and the potential donor's occupation. "Ifsome­one has a more prestigious job title, we're probably going to ask them for more money," she says. "It also depends on how long they've been out of the university. We usually ask for a three-year pledge, because that kind ofgets them committed." Jane says, however, that they rarely ask for more than about $15,000 over three years. 
Although pledges for a specific amount or purpose are generally solicited during cam­paigns -such as the four-year Generations Campaign, which ended in December 2000 -mostofthe department's fund-raising works toward receiving year-to-year, unrestricted donations. "The main focus is participation," Reagan says. · The department does keep records of con­tributors' donations,however. "We try to raise the sigh ts ofthe donors and ask them to move up," he says ofthe department's fund-raising. ''Basically;·we ·want to encourage them to become a member of one of the [giving] societies:" 
The university has four such societies. The Edward Frederick Sorin Society requires an annual, unrestricted contribution of$1,000 or more, and it has an inner "Founder's Circle" for those who contribute $3,000 or more. The Stephen Theodore Badin Guild was estab_­lished for those who make an estate gift to the university. The Order of St. Thomas More requires annual gifts of$1,000 or more to the Law School, and the key to the John Cardinal O'Hara Society is donations of $1,000 or more per year to the MBA program. 
Despite the societies' focus on unrestricted gifts, Reagan says, "In terms ofwhat we raise each year, most gifts are restricted." Although he emphasizes the importance of all gifts, he adds, "Unrestricted [gifts] can be the most precious, because the university can use the money for its most urgent and pressing needs." 
Jane says that the student callers' goal is to get unspecified donations. "Then the univer­
16 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
PROPORTION OF TUITION INCREASE DISTRIBUTED AMONG COLLEGES AND 
ASSISTED BY FINANCIAL AID THIS YEAR DEPARTMENTS 


students 
percent 

sity can use [the money] for whatever they want, including day-to-day operations," she says. "Most people don't specify. It's very rare that someone will ask for [the donation] only to be used for a specific thing." 
For larger projects, such as the construction ofanew building,Reagan says the department often relies on personal contact with donors. "We seek out an anchor donor and fill that around with various other leadership givers," he says. The Department ofDevelopment has regional offices scattered across the United States, which work on direct-contact cam­paigns and contact friends of the university who have contributed in the past or who might be interested in contributing. 
Tuition also brings a significant amount of revenue for the university. Each year's base amount -not including the yearly increase -is incorporated into the operating budget, and is used to cover general expenses, such as utilities. "So when we're looking at existing tuition, it's already committed to things we're doing today," Kroll says. Itis the sum ofthese unrestricted funds that essentially composes the university's budget each year. 
But who determines the yearly budget in­crease -and where does the new money go? 
The budget isn'tjust thrown together. Sev­eral committees and groups work year-round to establish an acceptable proposal. 
Each fall, colleges and departments on cam­pus submit proposals detailing their plans for using new money. Provost Nathan Hatch re­views the proposals and decides which ones would most benefit the students and the uni­versity as a whole. "The easy thing would be to say 'OK, let's fund everything,"' Kroll says. "If they were not to make those tough decisions, tuition would be much higher." 
Inthe meantime, the Budget Working Group assembles information on environmental fac­tors, higher education, historical trends and other factors that might affect the budget, such as improvements in technology and health care. 
Finally, the Officers' Budget Committee, composed of the university's top officers, receives both the working group's summaries and the provost's prioritized list ofobjectives to outline a budget with a calculated increase -for the next year. . 
The proposed budget must then be ap­proved by the Board of Trustees' Budget subcommittee and finally be ratified by the general board before it becomes official. 

Previous tuition raises have provided funds to build Rolfs Sports Recreation Center, oper­ate DeBartolo Hall and improve technology across the campus. 
Next year's 4.9-percent increase in tuition, combined with the rest ofthe new money, will fund several new and developing programs, includingtheNortheastNeighborhoodproject which was established to redevelop the north­east area of South Bend. 
The Office of Student Affairs will receive funds for the Office of Campus Ministry, the University Counseling Center and the Office of Student Activities to improve international and multicultural planning, alcohol and drug education, and security. 
The funds also will cover the opening ofthe Coleman-Morse Center. "Alotoftimes, we'll get gifts for buildings, but then we have to operate them," says John Sejdinaj, assistant vice president of finance and director of bud­get and planning. This requires extra dollars. 
In addition to helping its undergraduate students, the university has set aside some of the new money for graduate students. "The university feels they have fairly good support for career and placement sources for undergrads," Kroll says. "And they want to increase support for graduates," such as estab­lishing a better network ofalumni for contacts and career support. 
Fifty-fiveto 65 percentofthe money brought in from the tuition increase, however, will be distributed among colleges and departments to fund their proposed projects. "A lot of times, the students have this impression that the administration is just raking it in, but over half is going back to academic programs," Kroll says. 
Another factor that helps to determine tuition increase is educational costs at com­parable universities. "We're always mak­ing sure our tuition and fees are in line," she says. To do so, Notre Dame looks at 22 of 
U.S. News & World Report's top national universities to study trends in tuition in­crease. Last year, of those 22, all but three reported total student charges at or above $32,000. Notre Dame, at $29,000 was one of the three with reported student charges below the average. 
But the question still remains: Why doesn't the university draw on the endowment to cover the increase in funds? 
"People ask, 'Why can'tyoujustuse that?"' Kroll says. "We've made a conscious ef­fort ... but we don't want to just run and raid it." Because of the impressive returns this year, the university did approve a 20-percent increase in spending ofthe endowment, which allows for the 0.3-percent cutback on the rate of tuition increase -down from last year's 5.2-percent hike. "It means we can do a lot of things without raising tuition," Kroll says. "It offsets the costs for students." 
And why not a 40-or SO-percent increase in spending? Sejdinaj explains that although this year's investments were successful, there are no guarantees for the future. "We don't want to overspend just because of good market returns," he says. ''This year we have a 20­percent increase ....That's a huge increase, and we spend a lot of time trying to figure out what the potential impact will be." 
Malpass emphasizes, too, that the over­whelming success of the 2000 fiscal year, which provided returns approaching 60 per­cent, was atypical. "We probably won't see that again in our lifetime," he says. "It's a dream year in the capital market." In the2001 fiscal year, which ends in June, the endow­ment is projected to return only zero to five percent, which he says is "still pretty good, relative to our peers." But because of the potential for such a discrepancy in the future, Malpass stresses the need to exercise some caution. "We don't change our strategy ­we're investors," he says. "We're in this for the long haul." In other words, the university is treading-and spending-carefully, and students are still paying more each year. 
Luckily for them, the spending increase, spread across every part of the budget, also. reaches the Office of Financial Aid. "Finan­cial aid is something we're really proud of," Sejdinaj says; citing the $34 million set aside for aid this year. But this wasn't always the case. 
About seven years ago, the university pro­vided aid for 700 students at an average of $5,400 per student. "We weren't meeting the full need [ ofeach student]," Sejdinaj says. And only about 40 percent of students received 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 17 


scholarship assistance. 
Dissatisfied with the situation, Notre Dame 
decided to make financial aid one of its top 
priorities and began searching for additional 
funds to boost its budget. "We put [football] 
postseason revenue and extra money from the 
operating budget into the financial aid [part of 
the] endowment," Sejdinaj says. This year, 
enough money was available to aid 3,000 
students at an average of$11,000 per student, 
allowing the office to meet the demonstrated 
need for all undergraduates, and ensuring that 
no student pays the full costs of instruction, 
which includes faculty salaries and benefits as 
well as classroom utilities. 
Of the $535 million budget, $135 million 
comes from temporarily restricted funds, of 
which almost $34 million is earmarked for 
scholarships. Only $1 million comes from the 
unrestricted pool. Tuition, then, covers very 
little of students' financial aid, meaning that 
the university does not engage in tuition dis­
counting. This practice, which John Russo, 
director offinancial aid, refers to as the "Robin 
Hood Theory," takes money from students 
who can afford tuition and gives it as "schol­
arships" to those who need assistance. Under 
this system, ifa student receives a scholarship, 
the university loses money and must raise 
tuition to cover costs, forcing students who 
can afford full tuition to pay extra. Those who 
receive aid pay a "discounted" tuition. 
"The university does not do that," Russo 
says. "All of my scholarships are funded by 
income from endowment or annual gifts des­
ignated by donors. All my dollars are real 
dollars." 
Peer institutions that do discount tuition 
have been impressed by Notre Dame's sys­
tem, Sejdinaj says. ''That's really the right 
way to go about it," he says. "It took us longer 
to get there, but now we don't have to charge 
tuition and tum around and give it to another 
student." 
Despite having reached the goal of meeting 
demonstrated need, administrators say the 
university is far from finished when it comes 
to financial aid. 
Although the Generations Campaign sur­
passed its goal by millions ofdollars, the effort 
to raise money for financial aid fell short of 
expectations. The university had hoped to 
:;:: 
0 
a: 
w 


raise $190 million to support scholarship pack­ages, but missed the mark by $30 million. "The original goal was very lofty, but we are still working toward reaching that point and surpassing it," says Reagan. "We did very, very well in raising money for financial aid in the Generations Campaign, but that's only one major step." 
By keeping undergraduate scholarships a top priority, Reagan hopes to realize the university's ultimate goal-to eliminate all student loans. "I don't think anybody would tell you that they're satisfied with where financial aid is or with the rate of tuition," Reagan says. "We have to look for those non-traditional resources which can accel­erate financial aid as well, such as [football] bowl[-game] revenues and the NBC con­tract." 
Indeed, the athletic department makes sub­stantial contributions to financial aid. The de­partment generates $40 million but operates on a $28 million budget. Much of the remaining $12 million is spent on scholarships. 
Of the department's revenue, $4 million is donated to the general scholarship fund as part of the contract with NBC. The department also takes care of its own -it spends $8 million on athletic scholarships each year. 
Although the NCAA dictates the maxi­mum amount of scholarships allowed, Tom Nevala, assistant athletic director of business operations, says that Notre Dame certainly has not fully funded every sport. Plans to do so in four to five years are already underway, however, with 10 fully funded sports -six women's and four men's ­and two scholarships added to women's lacrosse this year. 
The athletic department also receives money from any bowl games the football team plays -revenue that is kept separate from the budget. After covering expenses from the game, the rest of that $8 million goes to financial aid. 
Another sector that benefits from additional funding and the spending increase is the in­structional faculty. Over the years, the average salary for full professors at Notre Dame has increased each year to allow the university to stay ranked between 20th and 23rd in faculty salaries among the top 190 institutions in the last decade. 
In 1999-2000, the average salary for full professors was about $100,000. "Across the board, measures show that we are com­petitive," says Assistant Provost Jeff Kantor. "Like any other university, we're challenged in areas that are supposed to be 'hot,' such as finance or technology, but across the board, we seem to be com­peting well." 
In addition to increasing salaries, the uni­versity is working to build on the almost 146 available endowed chairs in the colleges, add­ing 11 new chairs this fall through funds from the Generations Campaign, as well as from temporarily-restricted funds from the endow­ment. "This is a very, very solid number for a university of Notre Dame's quality," Reagan says. 
The university offers four types of chairs: 14 collegiate chairs to attract academia's "newer stars"; 188 university chairs-senior­level positions for established educators who have distinguished themselves overtime; four visiting chairs to attract professors for a short period of time; and 10 endowed directorships for directors of entities such as the Center for Social Concerns. 
This year, the university spent $660 million in chairs, which allowed it to fund only 150 of900 professors' salaries, ben­efits and research. "A very small portion of faculty is supported," Sejdinaj says. "What we try to do is make as much money available as we can." 
But in terms of increases for administra­tive purposes, the university has been fairly stringent. "The university has held all non­salary expenses for three years at zero­percent increase;" Kroll says. "They're try­ing to encourage people to be more frugal." 
Despite the university's attempt to cut cor­ners, the price of a Notre Dame education remains high. And as the university strives for higher levels of excellence, the price tag will inevitably rise, too. "There's a really diligent effort to weigh and really make focused deci­sions so they can do their best job for students to keep it affordable," Kroll says. But whether administrators can strike a balance between improvements and reasonable pricing remains to be seen. D 
FISCAL YEAR 2001 INCREASE IN 

(.) FISCAL YEAR 2001 TOTAL BUDGET ENDOWMENT SPENDING '.'.i 
w 

:11 $535million 20percent 
18 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 



TIP THE GIPP. GIPPER.l@ND.EDU 
(}>ffil!<ts 4tk~ 
IPa\c\" 
search (an effort to embarrass them out of 
the library), the boys replied bluntly, "Oh, 
we're not doing any library research." 
No, they're certainly not. Instead, they're looking up ... how shall the Gipp put this? . . . photos of "older" people. With their printouts in hand, the boys scurry to the basement bathroom to, er, take a long, hard look at their findings. (On a truly appalling side note, not all of the boys feel the need to -:relocate to the bathroom to continue their 
research activities.) 
Library officials are apparently aware of 
the situation, but privacy regulations pro­
hibit them from kicking the boys out of the 
library. Now, while the Gipp thinks this is 
absolutely disgusting (not to mention hilari­
ous), he is upset at how the library has 
decided to handle things. In typical Notre 
Dame fashion, library officials have chosen 
to take the easiest route out and punish the 
many for the sins of the few. Library offi­
cials recently barred Internet searches on 
the computers in the periodicals room. In­
stead, the computers now feature catalog­
only searches. While Notre Dame students 
have lost out on two more research options, 
the restriction seems to be having the de­
sired effect-the boys haven't come in the 
library since the change. 
Hur1gru Eue.s 

In a related tip, it appears that the high­school boys aren't the only deviants in the library. An older gentleman likes to set up camp to watch the female librarians re­shelve the books. Sporting dark sunglasses and a hunter's cap, this mystery man saun­ters into the library and grabs a newspaper. Pretending to read the paper, he waits until the librarians start stocking the shelves. When the women have to crouch to replace books on the bottom shelves or stretch for books on the upper shelves, the sunglasses­
~--· ------~-~------­
~­

. . 
concealed eyes pop up from behind the newspaper. Eventually, the guy puts the paper down altogether and simply stares at the women while they work. Maybe he shouldjust find himself a computer instead. 
Death b!J du Lac 
Old men aren't the only ones keeping an eye on the goings-on at Notre Dame. Ad­ministrators like to keep up-to-date on cam­pus events as well. In fact, some of our esteemed upper brass apparently rely on that most reliable of news sources -the Observer -to keep them informed about what's happening in the residence halls. When some folks in Res Life saw the paper's "best dorm rooms" feature, they noticed the rooms pictured had multiple violations, in­cluding microwaves and illegal lofts. The violators were duly contacted and told to clean up their acts. Look for the Observer's five-part feature next week entitled, "Pari­etals Violators Caught in the Act." 
AT&T: Reach Out ar1d Stomp Someohe 
We've all heard ~tories about money­hungry business majors and the heartless corporations they go to work for after gradu­ation. Well, the Gipp would like to report a tip that confirms his worst fears. During an interview with AT&T, one student was shocked by the interviewer's pitch. While most corporations at least pretend to care about you and discuss the "friendly work environment" at the office, this guy was brutally honest: 
"We want people who are motivated by money, who want to make a lot ofit quickly and who are willing to step over others to get it." 
Wow. 
Well, that's it for the Gipp this issue. Tune in next time, and remember to send all those scandalous spring-break tips to gipper.l@nd.edu. Until then, the Gipp sug­gests you keep your hands clean and stay away from the library. ! 0 


1 
) 
Stretch your arms, open your eyes and wake up to reality. That's right, spring break's over, and finals are lurking just around the corner. Whether you spent your week watching every episode of Saved by the Bell or ogling every piece of exposed skin in some tropical paradise, the Gipp hopes you enjoyed yourself and welcomes you back to the land of meatless Fridays. And to those sorry saps who spent spring break studying for the MCAT, the Gipp hopes you managed to sneak in a little fun between practice tests, and that you'll re­member the Gipp when you're obscenely wealthy. 
Lor1g, Hard Re.search 
While the Gipp can't vouch for the MCAT­takers, he knows that there are at least some people on this campus enjoying themselves -in the library. One tipster reports that a group of high-schooL boys makes frequent trips to the first-floor periodicals room to take advantage of the free Internet access. Unfortunately, they're not doing research for term papers. Apparently, the boys some­times show up two or three times in a single day. They also reap the benefits of free paper and ink, printing out; in full color, the results of their searches. Proving they have absolutely no sense of shame, the hormonal high-schoolers actually ask the library work­
ers for more 

paper when the supply in the printer runs out. In fact, when one fe­male library worker ap­proached the boys to ask if they needed help doing re­
~ . ~~ 
--------------~­

_, 
-' 

Jerry's Jabber 
The men's basketball team 
was eliminated from the 
NCAA Tournament just two days after winning a game in the tournament for the first time in 12 years. Troy Murphy scored 17 points and posted 1o rebounds and Ryan Humphrey added 15 points in Notre Dame's 59­56 defeat at the hands of Mississippi in round two of the NCAA Tournament on Sunday ••.• Meanwhile, the Lady Irish returned to the Sweet Sixteen after routing Michigan 88-54 on Monday. Ruth Riley scored 21 points and Kelley Siemon added 16 points in their final game· at the Joyce Center. No. 1 seed Notre Dame faces No. 5 Utah on Saturday •.•. Notre Dame men's lacrosse reached a new peak, reaching No. 2 in the latest USILA/STX poll. This highest ranking in school history is the result of a 5-0 start, including a 10-7 victory over No. 5 Loyola •••• On March 10, the Irish fencing team qualified the maximum 12 fencers for the NCAA Tournament to be held in Kenosha, Wis. starting today. Despite the absence of top sabreman Gabor Szelle and top sabrewoman Natalia Mazur, only the Irish and Saint John's managed to qualify a full squad •••• Track-and-field athletes Ryan Shay and Liz Grow earned All-American honors at the NCAA Indoor Cham-pionships held at ~he Uni-varsity of Arkansas on March 9 and 10. Grow 
ran .4 seconds slower than 
her school-record 53.3 en route to an eighth-place finish in the 400-meter run. Shay finished ninth in the 5000-meter run, falling 1 o seconds short of his school-record 13:52.66 in the event. D 
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 21 
'•.· 
; . .·r· 
~--i.i:.;·.~~{\~-· 
My favorite aspect of lacrosse is: playing with a team. It is a wonderful experience to have people depending on you and you depending on them. 
The biggest challenge the team faces this year is: our spring-break schedule, with three games in one week and our conference games. 
My most memorable experience is: upsetting Loyola in the first round of the [NCAA] Tournament last year. They had beaten us pretty badly earlier in the season, and it was a very rewarding experience to beat them. 
The hardest thing about being an 
athlete is: finding the time and energy to go to practice, study and do everything else I have to do. 
To prepare for a game I: try to go to bed early and go over in my head what I have to do in the game. 
My favorite class was: any computer applications class with Lou Berzai. 
My least favorite class was: 


job in finance, probably in Chicago or New York. There are also post-collegiate lacrosse opportunities that I might pursue, but none that would be a 
career. 
My feelings on being named a finalist for the Tewaaraton Award are: I am honored and surprised. I am not even sure ifI am the best player on our team! I do not expect to win, but I am very proud to have been named a finalist. 
-Jennifer Morgan 



. . . 
-. -. ­
1949 . . . . . 
. . 
BY JESSICA DAUES 
FROZEN 
MOMENTS 
O· 

~.
a. 
_J 
Overcoming injuries and 

I , struggling bats, the Notre Dame baseball team makes its first NCAA Tournament appearance in: Irish history. 
NOTRE DAME: 5 UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS: 1 
-~ . .-. . . -.. 
""•• , • , • • • •-• l 
The Notre Dame Fieldhouse was a legend in its time. Originally built in 1898, the structure, with its 
dirt floor, exposed rafters and room for 6,000 screaming Irish fans, was a terror to Irish opponents. By the late '40s, however, the Fieldhouse began to draw more than just opponents' blood. One by one, athletes on both teams suffered due to the hazardous conditions at the aging Fieldhouse, especially on the track. The Notre Dame baseball team fell victim to the track in March of 1949 when its starting shortstop, Pete Koblosh, suffered what appeared to be an ankle separation while running in practice. The loss of Koblosh, who had hit for the highest batting average among the team's regulars during the '48 season, was a big blow to an Irish team that was already considered offensively poor. 
"There never was much of a question about the fielding ability of the club," said Ray Fitzgerald of The Notre Dame Scholastic. "Hitting was, and is, the biggest problem." Hitting became an even-bigger problem when the Fieldhouse brought down Koblosh, a player on whom Head Coach Jake Kline had counted as one of the team's offensive leaders for the coming season. 
Kline knew that a team needed good offense as well as defense to play with the best, and he looked to spend considerable time working with his players on their batting. Kline's plans were thwarted, however, when the March weather in South Bend proved inhospitable to baseball practice. Two weeks before the season-opener against Indiana, the Irish still had not practiced outside. Although batting practice indoors in the Fieldhouse was better than nothing, as Fitzgerald pointed out, "Hitting in the windless, airless Fieldhouse is a little different from hitting under game conditions, with a 25-mile wind blowing in from center field and a fast left­hander on the mound." 
This indoor practice seemingly did very little to help the team's offensive skills. Notre Dame lost both of its first two games against Indiana and then went on to split a series with Iowa. After starting the year 1-3, this season looked to be a painful one for the Irish faithful. 
Out of nowhere, though, Notre Dame bounced back from its 1-3 record and won its next six games. Kline's team had finally learned to hit, and this translated into wins for the Irish. After a close loss to Michigan that broke their winning streak, the Irish faced their biggest challenge ofthe season as yet -the University of Illinois. Illinois, a perennially strong team, started the season 4-1 and, while playing a tough schedule, had only improved since then. 
Notre Dame came to Champaign, Ill. ready to fight and won the first game 6-1 behind an excellent performance by pitcher John "Soup" Campbell. Determined not to be swept by an upstart Irish team, the Fighting Illini kept the second game close, and by the top of the fifth they led Notre Dame 1­
0. The Irish tied the game up after a triple by first baseman Dick Giedlin and a sacrifice fly by shortstop Emil Garafolo. Illinois quickly fell apart soon after, walking four and committing three errors. When the game ended, the score read 5-1 in favor of the Irish. 
Notre Dame finished the second half of the season with a 9-2 record, earning a 20-8 regular-season record and a place in the District Four playoffs. There, the Irish beat both Purdue and Western Michigan to advance to the NCAA Tournament -the first team in the program's47-year history to do so. Unfortunately, the first round pitted Notre Dame against a strong Wake Forest squad, and the Irish lost two straight games 'to the Demon Deacons, 4-1 and 10-7. Wake Forest went on to advance to the College World Series, where it eventually lost to the champion Texas Longhorns. 
Still reeling from their first-round knockout, Notre Dame receded from the spotlight and began planning for next year's season. The future looked bright for a program that had risen from nowhere to earn Notre Dame its first~ever seed in the NCAA Tournament and national recognition of a school usually known for its football success only. After 47 years, Notre Dame baseball had finally earned the nation's respect. D 


Don't expect the Irish to have a problem disposing · of Utah. They continue their streak of crushing · opponents and dismantle Utah 84-56. 
-Jim Pastore Editor in Chief 

Thus far, the Irish have not been challenged in college basketball's elite competition. Top-seeded Notre Dame continues to 
roll in the NCAA Tourna­ment when it meets Utah on Saturday, winning 77­
61. 
-Gerard Meskill · Sports Editor Although the boys may have made an early exit, the Irish women show they are in it for the long haul. Seniors Ruth Riley and Kelley Siemon lead the Irish to victory, defeating Utah 
82-70. 
-Jessica Daues Assistant Sports Editor 



There's one great thing about going fishing here. 
There's no limit. 


The delicious BK.BIG FISH®Value~·Meal. 
.. . . . ._,,:· .­

.. Afte·r one. bite, you'll be hooked on our tasty fish fillet topped with fresh lettuce and tangy tartar sauce along with crispy fries and an.ice-.cold drink; And best of all, this is one fishing spot that never runs out . 
.. The·Huddle LaFort~ne Student Center 



I, 
I 
' 
I 
LEEDELEON & JESSICADAUES 

While many students left off the lycra-clad physical activ­ity with the onset of the South Bend winter, the Notre Dame men's track team began its winter indoor season -a season that, while successful, was a bittersweet one. Combating a lack of team experience and chemistry, Notre Dame completed the 2000-2001 season knowing that though they had achieved many great things, they were capable of doing much more. On paper, the team lived up to many expectations. Since joining the Big East in 1995, Notre Dame has finished as one ofthe top three teams in the conference for five consecutive seasons. The Irish continued the streak this year, finishing third in the Big East Championships behind Georgetown, which captured its fourth consecutive Big East title, and Seton Hall, which edged out the Irish 

Despite a strong peiformance, the Irish are still a few steps away from full potential 

Wilson Invitational, Shay ran his personal best in the 3,000­meter, posting a time of 8:05.44. This finish, although good enough to rank Shay 20th nationally among 3,000-meter run­ners, was not good enough to reserve him a spot in the NCAA championships. 
Looking back, Shay is very satisfied with how he performed this season. "I'm pretty pleased with my times this year," Shay says. "I really feel like I've improved a lot." 
Shay has improved -significantly. He put up amazing numbers this season, shaving a whopping 15 seconds off his lowest 3,000-meter time and an equally impressive 16 seconds off his best 5,000-meter time. 
Track Coach Joe Piane had nothing put praise for his senior captain. "He's the hardest worker I've ever had," he says. "He gets a lot out of the talent he has. Ryan has the fire in his belly to do great things." 

by only seven points. 

The track team members also fulfilled many individual expectations by posting some dazzling performances. Per­haps the most recognizable of all the track members, senior co-captain Ryan Shay, the only Irish All-American in track, finished first in the 5,000-meter race -marking his fourth career conference championship -and second in the 3,000­meter. 
Winning is nothing new to Shay, a nationally known track star who finished 10th in the Olympic Trials. His school-record time of 13:52.66, recorded at the Meyo Invitational earlier this season, earned Shay a place in the NCAA National Champion­ships where he finished ninth and earned his third consecutive All-American title. In the 3,000-meter, a mere second separated Shay's time from the qualifying time. In another meet, the Alex 
24 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
Other track members have earned high honors as well. Fresh­man triple-jumper Godwin Mbagwu finished second in the Big East Championships with a jump of 48-2 3/4 and also holds the honor of the longest triple jump for the Irish this season with a 50-3 3/4. Senior Andrew Cooper won the high jump at the Alex Wilson Invitational with an impressive leap ofsix feet, nine inches, an unexpected but not undeserved win for the high­jumper. 
"I was not the top-ranked guy," said Cooper after the meet, "but I was jumping really well and everything else just fell into place for me." _ 
Although the individual performances and the team's third­place finish were far frqm an embarrassment, senior co-captain Terry Wray was not quite satisfied with the team's performance during the winter indoor season. "We had a lot of promise coming out of the off-season, but things just didn't work out," Wray says. "We just didn't do as well as we had wanted. Finishing third in the Big East was actually a disappointment in my opinion." 


Many team members recognized the same potential Wray saw in the team. And while the majority of the team performed well in practice, its members admitted that they always seemed ·to under­achieve in meets. "Inpractice things went so well," Shay says, "but when it came down to the actual races, not everyone put it together." 
Sophomore Nick Setta agrees. "So many guys run workouts really well, but there's something missing during the meets." 
The missing piece, it appears, is team chemistry. Despite many persoval achievement~ and a respectable finish, track members still perform in relative obscurity, overshadowed by higher-profile sports such as basketball and baseball. This can sometimes be a . positive thing, as members perform for the sheer joy of their sport. ''Track athletes are like offensive linemen. They work incredibly hard, but don't get nearly the amount of recognition that they deserve," Setta says. 
This lack ofrecognition can also be detrimental to the spirit ofthe team. Lack of publicity leaves many talented track members unknown to the general public and even to other members of the te8.IJ1 itself. Track, a largely individual sport, features many distinct and specialized events, and many team members never communi­cate with other members who compete in different fields. Few track team members know anything about the events as a whole or other athletes as individuals, and many have complained that this has caused a lack ofunity in the team. No team meetings were held this year to combat the problem, nor were there many forums for members of the team to interact with each other. 
This lack of communication killed the team's chemistry before it even had ·a chance to form, and many members be­lieve the lack of unity to be the team's downfall. Even Shay admitted that there was "not as much of a team aspect this year as there has been in the past," and "not everyone knows each other ... there is a lack of leadership." 
Leadership has indeed been a problem for the team. At the end of the year, when asked who the captains of the team were, some of the track members still had no idea. Even Shay, a captain himself, admitted there was confusion surrounding the team's leaders, and that he "still [didn't] know who this year's track captains actually are." The problems surrounding leadership were perhaps especially troublesome to this year's team because of its youth and inexperi­ence. Out ofthe 63 members ofthe team, only nine are seniors, and 23 are true freshmen -freshmen who may have benefited from a strong senior presence. "We just need more experience," Setta says. 
While this inexperience put the team at a disadvantage this season, it may prove beneficial in years to come. No one believes this more than Piane. "The future ofthis pro gram is very bright," he says. "We aren't graduating many athletes, and I have a lot of outstanding recruits coming in. I think we will have a much better team next year." 
As the snow melts, the team will begin its outdoor season, and this year the Irish are hungry for more than just another third-place finish.-The team knows it has the potenti-alto do well -very well. It also knows that its success is dependent on the team's perfor­mance as a whole, and not simply as individuals competing in specific events. The members of the team recognize their past problems and refuse to dwell on them as they prepare for the indoor season. "I am just going to use this indoor season as a motivation for outdoor," Wray says~_ "I am not going to dwell on it. It will just serve as inspiration for me to work harder and do better." . 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25 


TRUE PLAYAS Strong performances by players like Martin lngelsby helped the Irish squad capture the title in the West Division of the Big East. However, many questioned the depth of the Irish bench. 
GERARDMESKILL 
his is a big day in my life, one that I 
did not see coming," said Matt Doherty. 
"I was just cruising along in South 
Bend, and then the phone rang, and here I 
am. Maybe a lot ofyou saw this coming, but 
I never did." 
Doherty was not the only one caught off­
guard. His departure was the last thing any" .of the Irish faithful could have predicted or wanted. After leading the Fighting Irish to a 22-15 record and a second-place finish in the NIT Tournament in his first year as head coach, Matt Doherty was leaving Notre 
Dame for North Carolina. 
Prior to the announcement, everything 
was heading in the right direction for the 
Irish basketball program: All-American for­
ward Troy Murphy had passed on the NBA 
draft to return for another year, All-Big 12 
forward Ryan Humphrey was eligible for 
play after transferring from Oklahoma to 
Notre Dame in 1999 and point guard Jimmy 
Dillon was the only graduation casualty to 
the team's nucleus. Irish fans smelled an 
NCAA Tournament berth looming. But just 
as the Irish basketball euphoria threatened 
to reach an unparalleled peak, coach Doherty . 
introduced a cruel dose ofreality. 
Athletic Director Kevin White, also new 
to· the Notre Dame scene, wasted little time· 
in beginning a full-fledged search for a 
replacement.. Within days, University of 
Delaware's Mike Brey was named the third 
Notre Dame men's basketball coach in three 
years. Unlike Doherty's inaugural season, 
Brey' s came with some major expectations 
and difficulties: Win the trust ofthe players 
-especially of Murphy and Humphrey ­
and return to the NCAA Tournament for the :first time in 11 years. Afterall, it was Doherty who convinced Murphy to stay and 
t 

Humphrey to transfer, and if the Irish were to have any hope of success in 2000-01, these two men had to be part ofthe formula. Brey understood this well. 
"I think you can be very clear saying that [Murphy] sticking around is the key for us getting back into the NCAA Tournament after an 11-year drought," Brey says. 
And so Brey made every effort possible to ensure that Murphy's stay this year would be pleasant. Due in part to Brey' s efforts, Murphy saw the change in power as a long­term positive experience on his career. 
"It was a learning experience meeting all these new assistant coaches," Murphy says. "It was difficult, but it made me a better basketball player." 
Humphrey's situation was even trickier, as he had never even played a game for the man who brought him to South Bend. After news of Doherty's departure, Humphrey had doubts whether or not to remain at Notre Dame but was reassured by his team­mates and the new coach. 
"[Remaining] was a tough decision," Humphrey says. "I think my teammates and everyone around here did a good job on helping me get through [the coaching change]. Everyone, including Mike Brey, knew I wanted to stay because of the team we have and just this coaching staff." 
When Humphrey and Murphy both bought into his plans for the 2000-01 campaign, Brey and his team were finally able to focus on basketball. After falling just short of an NCAA Tournament bid in 2000, everyone on the squad knew that it would take some­thing special to earn the right to play in basketball's premier tournament. 
"We all worked as hard as we could to be a good team [last year], but unfortunately we lost some games to teams we weren't supposed to lose to," says center Harold Swanagan. "We should have been in, but we didn't get there." 
Despite falling short, the 1999-2000 cam­paign was considered a great success for the Irish basketball program. But no one was shouting "encore!" The Irish began the.sea­son knowing that if they did not make the NCAA Tournament, many would consider the year a failure. 
Notre Dame's early response to this chal­lenge was extraordinary. For the first time ever, the Irish scored more than 100 points in back-to-back games to open the season. Notre Dame then defeated both highly touted Cincinnati and Vanderbilt on the road to post a 4-0 record and earn a No.10 ranking in the AP poll. 
Then the Irish pendulum swung. The unranked Indiana Hoosiers embarrassed the Irish at home, holding Notre Dame to 38­percent shooting from the floor and dominat­ing the Irish in front of a national audience. 
Things went from bad to worse for the Irish when Miami of Ohio rolled into town. Following an incident in which Troy Murphy was caught using a fake ID to enter a local bar, Brey opted not to start the All-American as punishment. Less than five minutes into the game, Murphy came off the bench, but in the end it was irrelevant. The Irish were reeling as Miami handed Notre Dame its second con­secutive loss to an unranked opponent at home. The defeats dropped Notre Dame to No. 21 in the AP poll. 
From there, the Irish coasted to four con­secutive victories against teams with ratings percentage indices (RPis) all above 100. Notre Dame then faced Syracuse on the road. For the second straight time, the Irish played poorly on ESPN, losing 79-70. Less than a week later, Seton Hall edged the Irish on 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 27 

! 
I 
ESPN and Kentucky trounced Notre Dame on CBS. In the eyes of the nation, Notre Dame was failing badly to make its case for an NCAA Tournament berth. The AP poll reflected the slide, dropping Notre Dame from the top-25 for the first time in the season. 
Nevertheless, forward David Graves in­sists that the Irish did not feel pressure to perform. 
"Pressure is what you put on yourself, so we just went out," Graves says. "We knew we were a good team. We just went out and played." 
This attitude wasjust whatthe Irish needed to swing the pendulum back to prosperity. Notre Dame rattled off eight consecutive victories, spanning from mid-January into February. Of those eight victories, two in particular caught the nation's eye: back-to­back wins over No. 11 Syracuse and No. 10 Georgetown. The marquis victories ended Notre Dame's four-week drought in the AP polls, earning the Irish the No. 23 ranking. More importantly, Notre Dame had gone from a likely NIT tournament bid to the No. 5 seed in most experts' NCAA Tournament projections. 
"That was a huge stretch for us," Graves Sl!ys. "A lot of people wouldn't win those two games [against Syracuse and Georgetown], but we did and we gave our­selves a cushion." 
From that point on, never again did the Irish fall out of the polls or the NCAA Tournament projections. By the end of the winning streak, the Irish had climbed back to No. 14 in the AP poll and had a solid lead for first place in the West Division of the 
-Big East. Seton Hall finally ended the Irish winning streak immediately before the Big East showdown between division leaders Notre Dame and No. 10 Boston College. In a game that became an instant classic, Mar­tin Ingelsby provided a heroic off-balance jumper with less than four seconds remain­ing to secure a one-point Irish victory. Three NCAA Tournament, citing that Notre Dame days later, Notre Dame clinched its first-hadnotwonagameinalmostamonth.Brey ever division championship in Blacksburg, brushed such concerns aside, assuring the Va. after massacring Virginia Tech. At the world that after an 11-year hiatus, the Irish end of a turbulent season, Notre Dame fi-would be ready for competition. nally had something tangible for its efforts: "I think momentum going into the NCAA a championship trophy. Tournament is overrated," Brey says. "Ijust 
"When you lock the league with three think that motivation and hunger and focus games to play, you've played a pretty good are going to take care of themselves." season," Graves says. Ifhungerwas scoring potential, then Graves 

Following the division-clinching victory, entered the first-round showdown starving. the Irish suffered a considerable letdown, · Gravesscored20pdintsona7-for-7effortthat · dropping their final three games, including saw the Irish shoot 63 percent as a team. a bad loss to Pittsburgh in the Big East Carroll scored 21 points and Murphy added Tournament. 19, despite shooting just 6-for-17. 
"I think if you look at conference tourna-After trailing early in the first half, the ments this week, it was kind of a little bit of Irish built a double-digit lead and never a rule of thumb where the teams that have looked back, winning their first NCAA Tour­secured bids maybe didn't play as well and nament contest since 1989. didn't play like their life was on the line," Then the Irish pendulum took a swing for Brey says. "I can certainly say that we the worse. Less than 48 hours after the Irish looked like that at times." won their first NCAA Tournament game in 
The letdown was irrelevant once Selec-a dozen years, they were packing for South tionSundayarrived.After 11 years ofwatch-Bend after a season-ending 59-56 defeat ing the NCAA Tournament, Notre Dame against Ole Miss. Notre Dame opened the was once again a participant, earning a No. contest 0-for-8 from the floor, setting the 6 seed in the Midwest and drawing an open-tone for a mere 29-percent shooting, its ing-round game against Xavier. worst performance ofthe year. Despite the 
"It is an honor to be a part of [the NCAA team's offensive woes, the Irish stayed with Tournament]," Brey says. "It has been a the Rebels until the game's final posses­long time for the young men that have been sion. Five-foot-5 Reb~I point guard Jason at this institution but also for Notre Dame Harrison'sthree-pointerwithunderarninute fans around the world." · to play sunk the Irish, giving Mississippi the 
Once again immersed in unfamiliar wa-lead for good. ters, the Irish looked to their new coach for With the defeat, serious concerns are once guidance in the postseason. again revolving around Irish basketball. Al­
"[Coach Brey's] been there before, coach-though Murphy's future remains uncertain ing atDuke and leading Delaware teams to the as he contemplates entering the NBA draft, NCAA Tournament," says team captain at least the Irish can be sure that Brey will Ingelsby. "He's just kind of showing us the stick around, and that no matter what hap­way." pens next season, nobody can take this year's 
The way to NCAA success for the Irish accomplishments away. D ran through Xavier. Going into HUDDLE The team's fraternity played a large role in its 
the contest, many analysts success during the past season. 
questioned whether the Irish 
could be successful m the . 
28 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 


KATHLEENCORTE 
. orget those Ricky Martin and Enrique 
F
Iglesias videos on MTV. You won't 
have to depend on TV or the radio for the infectious rhythm of Latin music when Notre Dame and St. Mary's students take to O'Laughlin Auditorium for the 11th annual Latin Expressions. 
The event showcases the musical and danc­ing abilities of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and Latino groups in the South Bend community. "It's almost like a talent show, but it focuses more on the Latino traditions," says Heriberto Rodriguez, president of La Alianza, the Latino student organization that sponsors Latin Expressions. 
Instead of spotlighting the culture ofjust one Latin American nation, the show will offer a variety ofdances and music. "We try to include all the different types of cul­tures,'' says Latin Expressions commissioner Vanessa Assad, a sophomore who coordi­nated this year's event. "Our decorations will include flags from every single Latin A1nerican country." 
The night's entertainment includes ev­erything from poetry readings to live band performances. Coro Primavera, a choir that performs at Spanish Masses on campus, and Mariachi ND are both slated to appear. 

A highlight of this year's Latin Expres­sions is the Oxib K'ajau Guatemalan Cul­tural Marimba Group, which will introduce the audience to marimba, a type of music unique to Guatemala. 
Although Latin Expressions focuses on Latino traditions, students and groups of all backgrounds will appear in the show. "Just take a look at our opening dance,'' Rodriguez says. "There's so many different cultures just in that." In keeping with its theme of diversity, Latin Expressions will also fea­ture performances by groups such as Troop ND and First Class Steppers. 
The event has grown and changed in presentation as well as in attendance since it began in 1990. "We used to have bands [come from off campus], but it went away from the mission, which is to present to the Notre Dame, South Bend and St. Mary's communities with what we have in our schools," Rodriguez says. "The Latin popu­lation here is so diverse. Before, it was so 
,. . . . 
smalland they all flocked together: No.w a lot more people are going to the events." 
The school's talent will be showcased mainly through dances performed by sev­eral groups and individuals. The two long­est dances -salsa and merengue -were choreographed by computer science and engineering professor Ramzi Bualuan and feature groups of eight dancers. 
Assad expects the current popularity of Latin music and dancing to draw people to the event. "I'vebeen to a lot ofdorm dances, and when we put on Latin music, people just go crazy,'' she says. "They're like, 'Oh, Vanessa, how do you dance to that?' " 
Perhaps the most important function of Latin Expressions is that it brings Latino cultures on campus into the spotlight. "It's really a great way for people to share part of their culture and also to show that people can appreciate other cultures,'' Assad says, "and it just gives me a chance to dance!" 0 
-Photo by Kate Foster Latin Expressions will take place Friday, March 30 at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are on sale at the LaFortwze box office. 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 

/:-:;:: ;c;.~::•\\/:-c://>/.(eJ;/MoJYT:i+;-;;·., 'i?::,J;i,/: -·r0:A/;I INTERVIEW ­
Yeah, It's That Easy 
Having the time ofhis life both musically and 
I I 
personally, G. Love makes it all look simple 
I 
CARRIESWEENEY 

GLove, the 28-year-old Philadel­phia-based musician, has always managed to be pretty cool in that 
iaid-back, do-your-own-thing, rock-star kind of way. Even before he was born, he was listening to pretty decent music -his first . concert, in utero, was a 1972RollingStones 
· performance. During his teenage years in the 1980s, a decade infamous for its "cre­ative" fashion trends and similarly ques­tionable music, he listened to classic blues artists. He started playing guitar at age eight and wrote his first song as a fresh­man in high school. Today, with his fifth album, The Electric Mile, set for release on April 24 and with a concert scheduled at Notre Dame on March 30, G. Love is as confident in his musical instincts and abili­ties as ever. 
Born Garrett Dutton, G. Love was hooked on blues early. After high school, he attended Skidmore College for a se­mester before dropping out and heading to Boston, where he met drummer Jeffrey "the Houseman" Clemens at the Tam O'Shanter, a local pub. After performing together a few times, the two added bass player Jim "Jazz" Prescott, and soon G. Love and Special Sauce were recording demo tapes. In May 1994, they released their self-titled debut album and followed it up with 1995's Coast to Coast Motel, 1997's Yeah, It's That Easy, and 1999's Philadelphonic. Each record signals an 
Easy. 
The original trio soon regrouped for a tour, which, although it brought in ap­proximately $300,000, actually cost G. Love $50,000, as he never received a dime of the earnings. However, the band persevered and went on to produce Philadelphonic. G. Love picked the title, which is a word he p.as long used to de­scribe what he calls "the sound of Phila­. delphia." G. Love epitomizes this sound, which encompasses "a little bit of every­thing -hip-hop, blues, funky beats, a . little bit of jazz, street-smart lyrics, 
reggae," he explains. 
G. Love also formed a label with the band's manager, Jason Brown, which he named Philadelphonic Records. "This is a great place for music right now," he told the Philadelphia Inquirer. "The whole next phase of rhythm and blues is here [in Philadelphia]'. It's a breeding ground whether we know it or not." G. Love and his label work to. support and promote many up-and-coming young artists, in­cluding the Princes of Babylon, which performed at Notre Dame in the fall. 
In addition to expanding into the pro­duction field, G. Love has managed to maximize his visibility as of late in other ways, with performances on Comedy Central's Turn Ben Stein On and with songs on last year's movie Whipped. He's performed on Late Night with David Letterman arid at numerous HORDE and MTV conce.rts'. The guy is obviously all advance in G. Love's career as he refines his sound with each release. 
Whereas his initial album paid tribute to cars, girls, summer and ball, by his third effort, he was addressing issues from slavery and drugs to gun violence and trust. And as his lyrics expanded and ma­tured, his sound evolved as well. Rolling Stone called his latest effort, Philadelphonic, "the breeziest album the band has recorded," and Entertainment Weekly said "G. Love takes a crazy vari­ety of styles -hip-hop, rural blues, '70s funk, '60s folk -and stirs them into a gumbo that somehow tastes perfect. Philadelphonic is sleeker and more streamlined than its three predecessors." 
G. Love anticipates that The Electric Mile will again break boundaries and bring his sound to a new level. "This album is still kind of our trademark hip-hop blues, but it leans a little more towards classic rock," G. Love explains. "It's us, just doing our thing, and it's the combination ofa lot ofmaterial we worked on last year. We feature some special guests, and it's just pretty cool." 
Things haven't always been so cool, however:, After Coast to Coast Motel didn't sell as well as the debut album, the group toured and nearly broke up over financial disagreements. Clemens and Prescott decided to take a break, and G. Love worked with three other bands, King's Court, All Fellas Band and Philly Cartel, on material for Yeah, It's That 
30 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 




,~~rmmf::~:::.·, ... .·/.'-:.:;:,.,,. -. <<] 
"WHEN WE MEET AGAIN" 
My friends they were few but to me th~y were true / All we was trying to do was just make it through / Always thought for the future, but we shouldn't have cared / All the best things in life we shared them right there. 
over the place. So why haven't a lot of people outside of the East Coast heard of him? 
"Our biggest problem is that MTVdoesn't know we exist," G. Love told the Inquirer. However, he deals with the band's some­times-frustrating anonymity gracefully. "You have to live with all the choices you make," he says. "I've learned that much about the business. The executives have other artists to focus on. I'm just me." 
The band hopes that its name will continue to spread with their currenttour, which covers the entire United States. "It's mostly a club tour, but we're hitting up a few colleges," he says. ''We're excited to see Notre Dame." 
Whetherornot they everbecome house­hold names, G. Love and his bandmates maintain an optimistic philosophy that spills back and forth between their lives and their music. "I have a thing I tell myself," G. Love ~ays. "When the waves get rough, I try to think like a surfer. You just ride through stuff. You fall off, you get back on your board quickly. There are bumps -the key.is how you ride them. If I'm"backstage ancFpeople are pulling ~n me, wanting things from me, I tell myself, 'Just surf it.' If I'm dealing with record­company problems, I just surf it. Nothing is that extreme." 
His evident self-contentment and his laid-back, worry~free outlook might stem from sources other than his ever-growing music career. "I have a lot to look forward to personally right now, as well," he says, ex­plaining that his fifth album is not this spring' s only cause for celebration. ''My girlfriend and I are going to have a baby in July, so that's obviously awesome," he says. "Right now I'mjust chilling, letting it all happen." 

Despite his busy upcoming schedule, 
G. Love refuses to forget his p~rsonal philosophy when dealing_with his hectic career. "The moral is, you have to chill out in a bad situation, go with what's in front of you," he says. 
"The real stuff happens when you im­provise. Besides all the crap you go through that you can'teven believe you're going through, to simply pick up a guitar and play -music is an incredible thing. I'm going to remember as long as I live looking up at the end of 'Stepping Stones' when we did Letterman, and seeing Dr. John [another Philly musician with whom 
G. Love worked during his break from Special Sauce]. 
"We let the last note ring out, and I looked over and gave him the respect, and he just nodded at me, both of us with a twinkle in our eye, just feeling this cool moment. I wouldn't trade that stuff for anything in the world." . 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 31 


. . 
I 
i j 
J 
r 
I 
. SHOW ME SOMITHINC 

Things Are Looking Up 
OOB survives a Big Easy spring break by Kara Zuaro 
Before I even begin to teH you about the alligator stew,_ the toothless tuba player, the floating graves and bicycles, the flaming fountain and the gas-station casinos, I've got to let you know that I'11 never get the whole story straight. YOU should talk to my two compadres, T-Bone and Slow Hand, because they might remember the stuff I forgot oi· snoozed through or erased from memory. They might even offer . up some· conflfoting versions of the same stories I'm about to tell, but my point here is that if you want the real Big Easy experience fofyourself; 
don't ask us: j~st take your ·o".Yn trip to New  _c ... ·.  
Orleans, the City that Care  -:­ 
· Forgot.  1  
The Big' Easy Tour was  
spring break's answer.to fall ·  
break's Southern Comfort  
outing. The cast or' cha:rac~  
ters  remains Joosely  the  
same. T-Bone and Slow Hand  
dropped fall~bre11.k frat-boy  

riioritkers for jaz'.l names, Nice _. · .. 
Gtiy Lenny.abandoned ship to kick?. __. 
,~i~iij~ 

.. -the fia_tlif~ in Florida, a~dwemet .D/1 ·. ~: · ·up with some new folks, namely a : · ~ '.).. · 
--~~!Iii 

. bilnch of post-Farley gals in 'an . . ; ,,.,..l~t~;;;:==.== suv with a: British dude. ninned : "'....'!o.....-~-'-_-_--===== Eur6"Toin. . . . ----~­. T missed most of the trip down to·.-. __llllliiiii;.::::'--,,:;,~Ila--•• 
local fare. Unfortunately, it being a Sunday, all the real restaurants were closed and we had to settle for some Gumbo Poopa at the Acme Oyster and Seafood House, a T.G.r: Friday's-like establish~ ment in the French Quarter. 
With Sunday evening came the heaviest downpour I'd ever witnessed. Standing forlornly under the hotel awning, we encoun­tered a peculiar family~ each member with a different accent. The · mother was Southern, the father ~ · sounded English, the son either Scot­~ \) -, . __ ~--· 1 tish or Irish and the daughter ; . )\' -~ had to be Eastern Eµropean. \ ;)-"It's great weather," quipped the dad, "if you're a duck."
) 
This inspired T-Bone and Slow 
,-, Handto don their swimsuits and 
sprint to the nearest liquor store; 
impervious to Mother Nature's as-_ 
_saiC On the way back, they stole 

· · · f sleek gla_sses from_ th.e: c_losed hotel ·
¼t~~~~~~:::k" ..r' bar; and one of them'-I won't say 

the Baydu, having fallen into aheavy ~-lst=!--•-r r.--=--ji\·:~t revamped factory on the edge ~f the sleep in the back seat, waking onlyto -.. ··-__ ·__..--... .a:. • . . .• .. · . : .-. _ · Quarte1:withhardwo6d floors and Marvin ht::arbits a:nd pieces of ethic~ld~bate]?etween the boys; to see· Gaye playing iri the Jobby: . · . -_·. . .. ·•-·· _ ..-• ·. _ -· _ . themshoutir1g at a vfotagelimousinewithalargerooster on Weloaded our stuffinto the carS-near the.old hotel, but we its roof and a bunch ofhigh~schoolgirls_within, to befold that· were too hurigry to move everything, so We .rounded up the . l taik: iri my sleep; and to filLup the tartk at every third gas~ -whole group and headed out fotsome Po' Boys, which are fried . 
. station stop. . . . . .. . . fish sandwiches to all you Yanks. When Euro Tom asked ifhe At sunrise we hit Cracke_r Barrel for breakfast~ and, when we . _· could smoke_ at_the table,the proprieto/saidthat he_ could smoke were done; my fellow ro-ad warriors fell into a post~hashed · cigarettes at the moment • but implied. that· he could smoke 
which -celebrated his-feat by peeing 
out the window'. ..
·_ 
This was only the beginning .. 
Since our first hotel was too experi­sive, I met up with a couple of the girls on Monday morning and checked.i11to 

..·the ·cheaper and cooler Amb_assador, .a-·_.· 
brown~casserolecoma,leavingmealoneatthewheelalltheway through Mississippi. . . . . So, leCs be honest here: We found New Orlean~, a. city fragrant with fried fish and urine, to be much more of a: tourist trap than expected. Right away, we; the refined travelers; de~ cided to find a restaurant off the beaten path (or some authentic 
whatever he wanted later. Good golly, New Orleans sure is a crnzy town. . . . . _. . . . AfterJunchweranthroughtheraintonearbyPatO'Brien's,apar famous for its Hurricanes. We got aro~nd0and got to chatting: We found ourselves right besi_de the raspy-voiced piano. lady, got 
•another round and sang fervently along as she play~d the Fight Song 


32 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 



for us. Nevertheless, when I journeyed to the courtyard for some rapped over the grooves ofa next-generation jazz ensemble, its fresh air; l was astounded to find that it was still light out and was members no older than us. spellbound by the courtyard fountain, which blazed with fire atop . Everything was pretty chill inside The Funky Butt, but on our the~ater. After we all had a look at the fountain, som~bodydecided way out, we were accosted by a rµan with a bucket. (This where it was time to go. my version of the story will diverge from the others.) Trinidad 
While the rest of the group strummed guitars and sang in one of . was one ofthose tall and lovely Cajuns whom you read about in the hotel.rooms, T-Bone and I decided to take a little nap. We New Orleans fiction. He had a magical rhythm to his speech, headed back to the Big Easy headquarters, put Blade Runner on the · crazy braids and a hazy cloud about him. He called himself the tube and set the alarm so that we could rise and rally in a couple of best street performer in N'Awlins, but I didn't like the looks of 
•· hours; ffwas 8 pJn. ·:. . him. I ~rossed my arms and glared at him; and he toldme to ..·· And then suddei;il.{(oops!) itwas niidnight and somebody was .Ioosei:ui.p:Hesaidwedidn'thaveto givellimmoneyifwedidn't · pounding on the door! It was the girls, and l was very,very .· likehistrick?butlknewhehad·abunchofcroniesinside,andwe 
. confused. Why· was the TV so loud? Why vvas Jt midnight? Why were standing.on a desolate street comer.away from the touristy · . couldn' tl turn offthe alarm clock and why did it s.ound like a river?. ·Quarter, an,cl I was sure we were going to dje. · . . 
. Apparently, the.alarmwas one of those gentle 'wake-up deals, .. When we Walked away, he' chased· us around the com~r. meaning that it started out quiet and slowly worked its way up to a . wielding his bucket high in the air and. beginning to sing into it, loud volume ..And instead of"buzzer" or "radio,"· the alarm had RKellystyle. I was not as amused bythis as the rest ofthe group. been set to the "babbling brook" function. So rather than rouse us, Once we gave him enough cash to buy a drink, he dashed back 
. the alarm deepened our sl.umbers and drowned out any attempt to . . into the bar, and I was reminded by my fellow travelers ofmy wake us, including multiple phonecalls and Slow Hand's incessant· . inability to have a.goo.d time. . ·poundfo.g on the door. . ' .. .. . . . ·. . Oh, where is Nice Guy Lenny when you need him? 
•< ".· , Having fallen asleep at 8 01i·Monday, an early Tuesday morning We retreated with the girls and Euro Tom to Eiiri'$ grandma's. 
··. :.wake,.uj:, for T-Bone.a~d len~iled. We enjoyed a breakfast of house for theresto{theweek. It was a beautiful estate tm the beignets and ca:fe au lait ~ coffee and doughputs, N'Awlins· 13tyle ..··· bayou, equipped with all kinds of water vehicles, like floating .:_atCafeduMonde,amongthe.touristsandlocalswhoflockthere, · bikes and·paddleboats and canoes. I'm a little afraid of the and then walked along the Mississippi River, which I had never outdoors, so T-Bone started calling-me City Mouse, and, along se~n before. We picked up a souvenir for Nice Guy Lenny -:-·the.· with Slow Hand, he tried to show me how to p~rty with nature. ugliest Mardi Gras beads we could find, festooned wi.th what Though this included paddling on the alligator-filled lake at ·· appeared to be copulating babies. . . . . ·. .· night, I di.d my best; without crying too much, and I survived; On .•... We.finally got the car and picked up.Slow Hand, who was s~lla bit. •..·. Friday afternoon, we.he~ded.back to South Bend ... · · . . 
•.·· ve~ed about the hight before, and all ofus in our day~old clothes took: With the sun hiotitface, the wind in om.;hair and the OBrothe,; .:, .:·'a.trip'fo a big cemetery.we'd passed on the way into flie city; .. WhereArtTh~usou~dtrack:onthestereo,theb~ys·sangalting.to ·. 
•. •· :ins(orically,sowelearned;therehaveheenscimeprobiem~buryingthe ·•. ~'Big Rqck Candy Mountains;'' and! watched.the(Jeltasail . . . :,,(:·deadalong the bayou. Sini:e thewaterleyelis so lngh,the coffins tend ••.· by, the :roadside trees· dripping witli wisteria'• and· 'the gas
i\, · :tofloatbackup,andsothecenietefyisacityofabove~groundcerilent-: · stations with·\1djQ~n;; • . . . . . . . • ... 1 · vault~{some ornate and others just broken down bricks. The guys . ing casinos.The green i\• · · pr9ceeded tolie on the ground and stick their faces into the places .. algae swirleel. d.11 ·. i ..: ..where the bricks had falleri thi:'ough; Super creepy ..· .. . . .. .· . · . brown water like. the·· 
I:•. : ..Afterwards, we had a tasty and µon-touristy meal at.Ugl~sicµ's; .•. bayou's own brand' of.. ' 
./ ::: ...arid:ey~nto got to saniple_some a,lligator stew. Wefollowedup..our . marble cake. I saw an ·; ·. ::: :~tj9Il'lnii.~1neal with s<>infgen~#1e e>ld':school jazz at l'r~seJ,'.\'ati,cn1.>abandon.~d c~lifch\ 
.. _·.; Ha~L After the frrst song, $ebat(dleader shouted, "NoVI'.yo~ can go. ·. engulfed .by\vines.: . . . '. ho~e and tell people you've been to New Odea.us," and, by the end . an.d ·. 'whispe:r~d: a· . . 
jL'½i~l5tt~;\?~1:s:::[t!"1t:···•••I;F.;::;!ti' 
! .''guy"bpped SlowHandoff ~o a place called The Funky Butt Ifthe · · and the· gods of. ·. ·. 

SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 33 


Sesame Street Invasions 
Can you tell me how to get rid ofthis monster? 
TONIPLUMMER 
My friend and I get together cer­

tain afternoons to share in one of 
our greatest delights: Sesame 

Street. We laugh, we shriek. And then, we 
are appalled. For every day, a serious crime 
is committed. The Sesame Street we know 

and love is interrupted by a little segment 
called "Elmo's World." You all know Elmo. 

He loves his goldfish, his crayon too, but 
does Elmo love us? Is he really our friend? 
Or is he, in fact, the enemy ofall that Sesame 

Street stands for? I realize that in saying 
this, I run the risk of debunking America's 

favorite red monster, but too much is at 
stake for me to remain silent: integrity, 
friendship and the psychological well-be­
ing of America's children. 

One thing "Elmo's World" lacks is com­munity. I can recall a disturbing incident that occurred during one ofthe few episodes in which Elmo actually interacts with oth­. ers. The theme of the day is hair, and 
Rapunzel is telling her 
story to Elmo. Elmo, 
imagining the tale, puts himself at the · center, wearing a wig oflong yellow braids. The handsome prince comes by and climbs up Elmo's hair. At first, neither is sure how to get down 
· again. ButElmo takes offhis wig, fits itonto the prince's head, and climbs down the braids himself, run­ning off and abandon­ing the prince in the tower. Now, not only is this not very funny, but it's also not very nice -not to men­tion what ithas to say 

about gender roles. If Elmo wants to put on a wig and talk like a girl (which he does numerous times in this episode), I have no problem with that But, undeniably, Elmo deceived the prince to get what-or, rather, where -he wanted, to shed the disguise 
34 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 
and to make like a tree. Without explana­tion, without a care. An innocent misunder­standing? I don't think so. 
Starring with Elmo is Dorothy, the gold­
fish. She is his excuse to retreat from the 
Street, but we don't actually ever see him feeding her or caring for her in any way. Dorothy doesn't speak, but she certainly 
has a lot of questions. Or, at least, that's 
what Elmo says. I think that Dorothy is a 
prisoner who will be cursing Elmo for the rest ofher days for putting scary objects into her bowl and asking such stupid questions as, "How do people brush their teeth?" 
attributed to her. 
Then there's Mr. Noodle, or, occasion­ally,Mr. Noodle's brother, Mr. Noodle. Mr. Noodle attempts to perform simple tasks, say brushing his hair or wrapping apresent. He is not the brightest of fellows, so these take him a while. As he ponders his task, Elmo and a chorus of children yell at him, telling him how to perform it correctly. There is definitely a right and a wrong way 
to do things in "Elmo's World." This is not 


the case on the Street, where mistakes are 
handled much more compassionately and 
creatively. 
This same thing happens every time, w~ch itself is a problem. There's always a differ­
ent, uninteresting topic, but the routine does 
not change. The World largely functions as a how-to manual. It does not allow any room for individuality or surprise or for any true learning. 
Each day, we are driven from the Street that we love and imprisoned within this poorly drawn alternate reality. On Sesame 
Street you might see a spotted, dancing 
letter "D," but at least that makes sense. All the objects in "Elmo's World" -the win­dow shade, the TV, the dresser -are mo­bile, shape-changing, and faceless. This can 
seriously mess with your mind. Perhaps 
Sesame Street, like a person, cannot be 
perfect. Perhaps there is always this dark, 
shallow being living alongside of us. But I say we have enough problems. Let's at least · strive for goodness where we can. 
I must admit that my dislike for "Elmo's World" does go back to an in­stinctual distrust of Elmo himself. He re­fers to himselfand to all others in the third person, as though he cannot fully acknowl­edge or accept anyone. He distances him­
self. This monster has serious is­
· sues. And this is how they are addressed! By giving him unsu­
pervised free rein. Sure he's cute, 
but don't let that fool you. Re­
member what happened to the 
prince. Besides, there's more to life than being cute, buddy. 
I challenge each of you, intelli­gent people that you are, to watch this program and to seriously con­
· -sider'the morals-cit"suppoits: If Sesame Street at all shaped you in your early years, think about how it must continue to shape children today; The very idea of one's own world brings up the problems of alienation and egotism. I mean, we fili:ght as well tell our children, "Lock yourself in your room, learn how to do this and this and this, and then die alone in your own little psychotic universe." I may justbe a 
phil9sophy major with a little too 
much time on my hands, but I think Elmo should consider changing his ways. In the words ofthe Count, one ofthe true residents of Sesame .Street: "I give you one, one 
warning,-Elmo! Ha ha ha!" 


Sure, you could go see Titanic (I personally have been boycotting the movie since it came out my sophomore year in high schooL My then­boyfriend promised me repeatedly that he would see it with me. We never went; he dumped me soon after. Sorry, Celine: my bitterness will go on and on), but why settle for Titanic's measly love triangle when you could experience the veritable love dodecahedron of Handel's opera, Xerxes, which will be performed by the Notre Dame Opera next weekend? King falls in love with girl and tells his brother, brother loves same girl, girl's sister secretly loves king's brother, foreign princess is betrothed to king and comes to court disguised as a man ... you get the idea. And it's in English, so you can focus all your attention on following the plot. 
-Cristin Fenzel 
movies 
• 
Thu 22 Forrest Gump 10:30 PM, 155 DeBartolo. 

• 
Fri 23 Bravelieart, 8:00 PM, 155 DeBartolo, 

• 
Fri 23 The English Patient, 10:30 PM, 155 DeBartolo. 

• 
Fri 23 and Sat 24 Bounce, 8:00 PM and 10:30 PM, 101 DeBartolo. 

• 
Sat 24 Titanic, 8:00 PM, 155 DeBartolo, 

• 
Sat 24 Shakespeare in Love, 10:30 PM, 155 DeBartolo. 


• Mon 26 Man with a Movie Camera, 7:00 PM, Snite. 
• 
Fri 30 and Sat 31 Requiem for a Dream, 7:30 and 9:30 PM, Snite. 

• 
Mon 02 April Breathless, 7:00 PM, Snite. 

• 
Sat 07 Bamboozled, 9:30 PM, Snite. 

• 
Mon 09 Trust, 7:00 PM, Snite. 


the arts 
• 
Thurs 22 and Fri 23 Notre Dame Glee Club Spring Concert, 8:bO PM, Washington Hall. 

• 
Sun 25 Sergei Babayan, piano, 2:00 PM, Annenburg Auditorium. 

• 
Fri 30 and Sat 31 Notre Dame Opera presents Xerxes, 7:30 PM, Washington Hall. 


student life 
• 
Thu 29 Belinda Womack, lead singer with Kool Reflections, 7:30 PM, Reckers. 

• 
Sat 24 Culture Fest, part of International Week, 


9:00 AM to 3:00 PM, first and second floors of LaFortune. 
• Sat 31 Hawaii Club Luau, 6:30 PM, Lafortune Ballroom. 



• 
Tue 27 Softball: ND vs. Western Michigan, 4:00 PM, Ivy Field. 

• 
Tue 27 Baseball: ND vs. Western Michigan, 5:05 PM, Eck Stadium. 

• 
Wed 28 Softball: ND vs. Valparaiso, 4:00 PM, Ivy Field. 

• 
Wed 28 Baseball: ND vs. Toledo, 5:05 PM, Eck Stadium. 

• 
Thu 29 Tennis: ND men vs. Illinois, 4:00 PM, Eck Tennis Pavillion. 

• 
Fri 30 Tennis: ND women vs. Iowa, 4:00 PM, Eck Tennis Pavillion. 

• 
Sat 31 Softball: ND vs, St. John's, 11:00 AM, Ivy Field. 

• 
Sat 31 Baseball: ND vs. Seton Hall, 12:05 PM and 2:05 


Field. 
• 
Sun 01 Tennis: ND women vs. William and Mary, 11 :00 AM, Eck Tennis Pavillion. 

• 
Tue 03 Baseball: ND vs. Ball State, 5:05 PM, Eck Stadium. 

• 
Sat 07 Track and Field: ND ·men and women, Spring Opener, 1 :00 PM, Loftus Sports Center. 

• 
Tue 10 Tennis: ND men vs. Indiana State, 3:30 PM, Eck Tennis Pavillion. 

• 
Wed 11 Softball: ND vs. Bowling Green, 3:30 PM, Ivy Field. 




; 
by Aswini Ramkumar 

Experiencing new traditions 
Fl,I20,IAP66,I94,I765,Jl ... are these FBI codes, state highways or the latest in parking­lot numbers? To most international students, 
they are just part of a new language needed to apply for a visa and to complete immigration documents for entry into the United States. They get travelers cheques in U.S. dollars, apply for Social Security Numbers, pack their belongings, bid emotional fare­wells to family and friends and prepare to embrace a new culture, a new education system and a new people. I shared their same concerns and apprehension when I embarked on my trip to Notre Dame four years ago. 
Since I was brought up in Bahrain, in the Middle East, I felt I had an advantage. The influence of Western culture back home -where, along with Lebanese falafel, American cheeseburgers had be­come part of life -was very dominant. However, freshman year definitely had its challenges, particu­larly cultural ones. 
Like many other minorities on campus, I felt that the diversity at Notre Dame needed to be increased. I was initially overwhelmed -I was often the only Southeast Asian in the classroom -but I slowly became accustomed to it. In a way, it turned out to be an advantage, since many of my professors remem­bered me by face if not by name. I discovered the American teaching style and the system of hands-on learning as almost a pre­requisite to lectures and 
The influence of Western culture 
reading. I have alsoback home -where, along with found education here to 
Lebanese falafel, American be more diverse: Leam­ing ranges from under­
cheeseburgers had become part of 
standing Euclidean theo­life -was very dominant. rems to practicing CPR 
Aswini Ramkumar is a seniorfinance and computer applica­tions major with a concentration in international business. She describes herself as "Jndianfed, Bahrain bred and U.S. ed." 

to being environmentally conscious. We learn how to be better people, not just better students. 
It has also been interesting to witness the Catholic tradition on campus. I am a strict Hindu, and my introduction to Christianity started out with reading the New Testament for my theology final. My fresh­man-year resident assistant encouraged me to attend the weekly dorm Mass at least once, and I went along out ofinquisitiveness. But the full impact ofCatholi­cism actually dawned on me when, on my rector's recommendation, I went to Easter Mass at the Basilica. The Mass will remain cherished in my Notre Dame memories, as I had an opportunity to experience the grand Eastc;:rdecor, the priest's sermon and hymns sung by the church choir. Most of all, I will remember praying in a different way, especially since my faith stresses the existence of a multiplicity of gods. 
I guess there are a few things I will never under­stand, like the American craze with fast food, foot­ball and certain prime-time television shows. I fig­ured my friends would never let me live if I never went to a Notre Dame football game, so I finally summoned the enthusiasm to go to one. It also became one of my cherished memories. I enjoyed taking in the spirit of the team -the unrivaled synergy of the cheerleading squad, the student body doing the Irish jig and the "We are ND" cheer. 
As I have sought to understand the culture here, American friends have tried to find out about mine. I have been asked about the legalities of an arranged Indian marriage-personal concepts ofsocial equal­ity, freedom and the practice ofdowry. Caram masala (Indian spices) and Lord Ganesha (the elephant God) have surprisingly become part ofsome Ameri­cans' vocabulary and are often the center of their curiosity. The "red dot" (bindhis) that traditionally signifies the Indian woman's marital status was even the topic of one of our performances for the Notre Dame community. I have had people ask me about how to dress in a sari, how to make naan or how to ask "What's your name?" in Hindi. Last year, there was a good turn out at Bhangra Nite, an event the India Association hosted that included lessons in the Bhangra, a northern folk dahce. I feel that all of these instan~es show that students here are interested in learning about foreign culture. And it makes me proud of my ethnic heritage to know that there is an overall appreciation for Hinduism, Indian cuisine, art, dance and music. 
As I became accustomed to life at Notre Dame, I felt it necessary to help students that were in my shoes four years ago. In retrospect, having worked with the Office ofUndergraduate Admissions, I have had the chance to talk with and wi:_ite_to prospective international students who are at the proverbial cross­roads of deciding whether studying 100,000 miles from home and spending $100,000 on an education at Notre Dame is really what they want. 
When they ask whatmade me choose to study in America and at Notre Dame, my answer is always the same: The strong feeling oftradition and community that reinforces the education and pursuit of excel­lence here. This week is International Week, and International Student Services and Activities is spon­soring events aimed at further strengthening this feeling of community. We can also do this year­round, by getting involved with other cultures on campus -not necessarily by learning to speak another language, but by learning the language ofthe traditions that have their basis outside Notre Dame and the United States-and the way they speak to all ofus. 0 
36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 




