SCHOLASTIC
PUBLISHED WEEKLY - FOUNDED 1867
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE, EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395
M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4060
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X- RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
405 ASSOCIATES BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON,
M. D.	M. D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose, d.o.s. Cyril F. Rose. d. d.s. Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
know this piece of apparatus as the 108-A Amplifier. It is an ^exploring amplifier,” developed by Bell System engineers to identify pairs of wires in telephone cables—some of which contain as many as 4242 wires.
The cable man explores this mass of wires with the pencil-like probe. A tone sounding in the headphone tells him when he has found the right pair.
Ingenuity—special equipment—attention to details—play an important part in making your telephone service the clearest and fastest in the world.
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST ASSOCIATES BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
Why not report "All's well" to the folks at home? Rates to most points are lowest any night after 7 P.M. and all day Sunday.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3
COLLEGE PARADE
— RAYMOND J. KELLY —	—
Good Sports
Not since Henry Wallace, by implication, indicted the Willkie Minute Men as a respectable auxiliary of the Bund has the Parade become as incensed as it was while reading an article by John Dietrich, the sports editor of the Ohio State Lantern, which dealt with the recent Cornell-Dartmouth game. When editorial writers from coast to coast were complimenting Coach Snavely for conceding the game after he had seen the movies of the game which showed clearly that the touchdown came on a fifth down, this Buckeye Pegler sneeringly asked whether cameramen or officials would work the future Cornell games, whether the price of a game ticket included admission to the movies on Monday, and whether the Old Grads would get orchestra or mezzanine seats. From where we sit, it seems that Snavely’s action was the only possible thing that he could have done. But, a school that laughed off the Maag incident and told the other team that it should be awake, couldn’t be expected to be able to properly evaluate the distinction between losing like a gentleman and winning like a heel.
Now That It's Over
Out of Indianapolis, each week, comes a political newspaper, as biased and partisan in its own small way as even the mighty Chicago Tribune. While it makes no claim to being “The World’s Greatest Newspaper” its banner does carry the impressive slogans “A paper which publishes the truth”; “Indiana’s different newspaper.” In the latest issue, Jay Franklin’s column listed a few reasons why we should have celebrated Nov. 5 as Thanksgiving Day. After all, Nov. 5 meant that:
Dorothy Thompson could go back to viewing Hitler with alarm and leave Willkie out of it.
Steve Early could be a man and not an issue.
The Republicans would cease to sell Roosevelt as national halitosis and Willkie as a new, powerful, yet harmless, antiseptic.
The Democrats would cease to sell Willkie as a compound of Hitler, J. P. Morgan and both Babes in the Woods, or to argue that Roosevelt is growing a halo and a pair of wings.
Wall Street again became a money market rather than an argument.
High Above Cayuga's Ditches
The latest issue of the Cornell Widow gives much of its space to a different survey of student opinion. It is different in that it sought to find out such interesting facts as the number of times a week the average Cornellian bathed, what he liked to drink, and what he thought of women’s clothes, instead of wasting time on those trite topics that Dr. Gallup uses, like “Who should win the Greek war?” or “Do you think that Frank Hague cheats at poker?”
Among the conclusions reached by those conducting the poll were that the average Cornellian shaves and bathes once a day, dislikes jockey shorts, believes that pants are the essential part
“I don’t care what they call you. You can’t wear that helmet!”
of his wardrobe, does not believe that the strapless evening gown is as far as fashion designers will go and prefers conscription. This latter preference, combined with the statistics which show that 46% of the student body list milk as their favorite beverage, might be significant, especially to those who are familiar with Cornell.
♦
War News
Among those who were drawn in that cross-country lottery were many members of the Seminole Indian tribe which is actually still at war with the government of the United States.... With the advent of a huge standing army we feel safe in predicting a marked increase in nail polish sales. It’s not that we want to cast aspersions on the masculinity of our troops but that we think that they will find out in short order what R.O.T.C. boys learned long ago, that buckles, bugles, and other such equipment keep that gleam five times as long if they are given a coating of colorless nail polish after cleaning.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
FRANK WEMHOFF^—
Epitaph of the Week
We mourn the passing of a great team.
Dear Dr. Hutchins
We have heard of your wonderful plans for making sounder minds in sounder bodies, or how to win through losing. Do you have a spare theory handy? I believe I have found a disciple for you. Sooner or later one realizes that there are greater things in life than mere victory. One begins to understand that—well, you know. Many have been converted to your school of thought and it is apparent that there are others who follow you in practice, at least. As a great, great man once said, “It’s not whether you win. or lose; it’s how you played the game.” This tear-wringing quotation contains all the gushy sentiment and moss-green wisdom of the centuries. I have it on unimpeachable authority that the man who uttered these eternally momentous words became High Notorious of the Notary Publics and there is an outfit that leaves its mark in the most important places. After all, what is victory without defeat? An impossibility! Thus, it is only right that those who tire of winning should pass along some of their good fortune. Shall we call this sporting socialism? Or better, share the wealth and save your health?
And how are your dear little six-man football teams coming along? Who knows, perhaps in time your movement may be able to work down to one man football teams such as the big colleges in northern Indiana have. And I think it is a splendid gesture to only charge a dime for admission. If I remember correctly, some chools charge as high as $5.50 for a seat. But now, thanks to you, 55 people can sit where only one sat before. This is a master stroke of metaphysical stuffing. Keep up the good work, more friends of the movement are developing.
Yours in spirit, Tutch Tackel
❖
Prominuts
The weekly Mulvey - Murphy “Scholastic of the Air,” as one simple soul so neatly put it, was shoved off the radio last Thursday afternoon to make way for Thanksgiving, in every sense....
Radio Stage has been improving lately under new management.... or rather, Radio Stage, under new management, has been improving lately... This may be somewhat due to the fact that the play is now considered as an important part of the program.... For those of you who like to see plays, the cast of “Outward Bound” is gesticulating wildly every night.... it is rumored that some of the players have just about achieved the title role.
Overrated
Recently something happened that has been often suspected.... Five professors met five students in a quiz contest and the students won easily___ without even the benefit of auxiliary devices............................ The contest was held by the not-so-punchy engineers a couple of moons ago.... Messrs, professors were: Jackson, Rohrbach, Ellithorn, Schub-mehl, and Collins.... The victorious students were: John Tormey, Joe Ryan, Tom Vincent, Bob DeMoss, and Tony DeSimon.... This leads us to consider that if the profs are mentally inferior when the odds are even and opposing such a crew of operators, think how condescending the students are to listen to a professor when the odds are as high as 30 to one.
Benchley
Work is only a form of nervousness.
Sediment of the Week
The book store has received numerous requests for Minnesota and Michigan stickers.... Joe Blow is personally angry at everyone on the team under 150 pounds.... It is rumored that Dillon Hall is learning Southern Cal. plays.... Two weeks ago this column had a horribly clever “Bottom of the Week” in case we lost to Iowa—with the accent on the second syllable._It was “Six Hits and a Miss.”.... This gem was ruined when the Sqholastic retired for a week of much needed rest.... This week “Six Hits and Two Misses” may be true, but it would no longer contain the diabolical cunning of its predecessor .... and there isn’t a single thing that can be done with “Northwestern”.... but then, that failing is now more or less common.
OPINION
The Question of the Week: Whom would you rate as one of today’s outstanding collegiate football coaches? (Elmer Layden would have had this column all to himself if everyone hadn’t taken a different coach for sake of variety.)
Zahm Hall, Don Stechschulte: “I think I’d pick Layden no matter where I went to school. He’s well-liked all over the country and is very popular with his players. He stepped in when N. D. football was beginning to ebb and has consistently produced teams that can take a tough schedule in stride.”
Cavanaugh Hall, Joe Taaffe singles out Clark Shaughnessy because he has taken practically the same team that rung up only one victory for Stanford last year and turned it into a thus far undefeated squad. “He lives football, studies films of games all winter,” says Joe.
Breen - Phillips Hall, Jack Hughes: “Bernie Bierman is certainly outstanding, because his Gophers rarely fail to shine in spite of then* being in one of the toughest conferences in the country. He shooses the tough way, using power plays rather than razzle-dazzle, and still cashes in.” ’
Sorin Hall, Edward Porten, says Dr. Eddie Anderson is due for a slice of limelight. “He seems to inspire confidence in his players and to accomplish more with the material he gets than many large schools do. A big part of his fame has come from beating his old Alma Mater.”
Howard Hall, William Spangler feels Carl Snavely is first-rate, and that the main factor in his success has been his policy of never sticking to one style of football but of alternating deception, power, and variations of the different systems.
Lyons Hall, Al Masters: “Coach Amos Alonzo Stagg will be remembered as long as football is. He has helped keep up the spirit of the game, has devoted his entire life to it, and even in his last years is giving College of the Pacific new fight.”
Morrissey Hall, Joe Mannion: “Fordham’s Jim Crowley has produced many great defensive teams in the past including the squad of ’37, whose line was known as the Seven Blocks of Granite. That team and also those of ’35 and ’36 held great Pitt teams to scoreless ties.”
—Carl Rohrer

Tk NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
NOVEMBER 29, 1940
Number 9
VAUDEVILLE — VARIETY IS ITS SPICE
serve as a send-off for the California-bound football squad. This dance is a different type of Victory Dance in that it precedes a game instead of following one.
Robert Sass has promised an enjoyable time to those who attend. He emphasized that the dance is being held to provide funds for a new church in the negro parish of South Bend.
Music will be supplied by Bob Richardson and his orchestra. Richardson promises that there will be a balance between the types of music played.
Ticket chairman Robert Doran of Alumni Hall has sold about 200 tickets, but there are still many left. Tickets may be purchased at the door.
Dancing will be from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m., and St. Mary’s girls may attend.
—James V. Cunningham
Knights of Coumbus Vaudeville Opens
Notre Dame Theater Season, Dec. 10
"On to Victory" Dance Tomorrow Night
Magic par excellence, hill-billy music, swing time, tap dancing, a stage full of boys who can make you laugh! All this jammed into two hilarious hours, spell Notre Dame’s best comedian-stew. The annual Knights of Columbus vaudeville will be held in Washington hall, Tuesday, Dec. 10, it was announced by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C;, faculty sponsor. So come on, boys, show your talents!
Those desiring to enter can do so by registering before next Wednesday with Chairman Tom Tearney, 162 Dillon Hall or with Bill Hickey, assistant chairman, 118 Dillon. Prizes of §30, §20, and §10 will be awarded in that order to the three best entertainers, to be chosen by a group of judges. The judging committee will be made up of prominent local stage personalities.
Present entries include Joe Kalten-bach, a French-harp playing, sweet potato buster from Walsh hall; Tom Delia,
guitar player with the Modernaires, who will combine his talents with Kalten-bach for several minutes of hill-billy musical entertainment; Reggie Flynn, of the Glee club, has entered his allsophomore swing quartet; and Jim McDonough and Jack Kinnare, black-face comedians, will make you laugh.
Others are Bill Scully, baritone in the Glee club, who took part in last year’s successful vaudeville; Ed Dunigan, playing a cornet solo; a trumpet trio made up of John Sheedy, Jo Hruby and Art Starr will blow sweet and swing.
Jack Whelan, the magician whose line of chatter and sleight-of-hand won first prize in last year’s show; will be master of ceremonies.
This is the second year in the current series of the show, since it was revived last year from the K. of C. vaudeville of Notre Dame’s earlier history.
With“On to Victory” as its theme, the Knights of Columbus informal dance tomorrow night at the Indiana Club, will
University Board Held
Campus Meeting Nov. 15
Members of the University Board of Trustees, many of them well known in industry and civic activities throughout the nation, gathered on the Notre Dame campus Nov. 15 for their annual meeting at which they discussed matters relating to the endowment portfolio of the University.
The Honorable Frank C. Walker, Postmaster General of the United States, from New York and Washington; John Moody, of Moody’s Investor Service, New York; John H. Neeson, Director of Public Works, Philadelphia; William C. Potter, chairman of the Board of the Guaranty Trust Company, New York; Edward J. Doyle, Chicago; C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis.; Grattan T. Stanford, vice-president of the Sinclair Oil Co., New York; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago; E. M. Morris, president of the Associated Investment Co., South Bend; P. C. Reilly, president of the Tar and Chemical Co., Indianapolis; and Frank Hering, eminent South Bend attorney, were' among those attending the meeting.
Representing the University as ex officio members were: the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial; the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president; the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president; Brother Albinus, C.S.C.V
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
treasurer; and Francis W. Lloyd, assistant treasurer of the Board.
Other members of the Board are: Angus McDonald, president of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, San Francisco; Matthew Carney of New York; Fred J. Fisher of Detroit; and Constantine E. McGuire, Washington, D. C.
—Bill Scanlan
Library Displays Unique Collection of Old Books
The University Library has had on exhibit during November an interesting collection of forgotten childrens’ books. These books are from the collection of Miss Elizabeth Ball of Muncie, Ind.
It is only in the last few years that collectors have shown interest in securing children’s books, and their value is increasing daily. A copy of the King and Queen of Hearts once sold for §1,500 and copies of “Alice” in various states of preservation have brought fabulous sums.
To the modern reader the children’s books of an earlier day are of great interest. The quaint dresses and the quainter attitudes, in the illustrations, the very formal and didactic style of writing, and queer bindings are all interesting and curious. The most interesting feature was that often the children were self-satisfied little prigs. The books mirror the family life, dress, and speech of the times. The standards of taste, morals, and education are reflected in these little books. Regardless of the topic under discussion the moralities and the properties were always observed.
Among the more interesting books in the exhibit are two hornbooks. One dated 1796 is of wood with an abece-darium set under a piece of transparent horn. The other is of ivory and includes only the letters of the alphabet, without numerals or the Lord’s Prayer.
Four editions of the New England Primer, each from a different press, are present together with a copy of the Protestant Tutor from which the primer was abridged. These were standard in all of the early American schools. John Nebery, who was the first publisher to make a specialty of childrens’ books, is represented with a number of books from his press.
About 1807 books began to appear were intended to amuse rather than teach children. Two cases of books of this kind are shown. The illustrations are in nearly all cases in colors which are as bright and cheerful as they were
when first put on over 100 years ago. Some German volumes are also included.
Among the books printed in the United States is a Blueback Speller of Noah Webster which was used for many years in American schools, and other books intended to teach.—Bill Welch
Dillon, Breen-Phillips
Win In Debate Contests
Chairman of Interhall Debate Thomas Grady has announced that the first round of debates is completed. The first debate was held on Monday, Nov. 18, in the Law Building. Dillon affirmative defeated the Wa 1 s h negatives; the question being: Resolved, “That the nations of the Western Hemisphere should form
Tom Grady a permanent union.”
Don Casey, Roger Young, and Jim McVay were on the winning team coached by Jack Hennessey; on the Walsh team, coached by John O’Loughlin, were Larry Walsh, Joe Callahan, and Fred Hall. John McCauley judged the debate.
On Nov. 19, Cavanaugh affirmative, was eliminated by Zahm negative; the winner coached by John O’Dea, the loser by Bill McVay. Milt Williams judged this debate. The same night Alumni, affirmative, under the tutelage of Milt Williams out-debated Howard, coached by Ralph Gerra. Tom Carty, Pat Mulligan, and Paul Vignos were on the winning team; Jack Donovan, Dave Bagley, and Jim O’Donohoe were the losers. Bill Meier judged the debate.
Last Monday the Carroll Hall negative, coached by Jerome O’Dowd, was defeated by Breen-Phillips affirmative, coached by Jack Burke. Gerald Hogue, Bob Nelson, and Bill Kellow were on the Brownson team; Bill Talbot, Harold Haley, and James O’Dea composed the Breen-Phillips squad. Last Tuesday afternoon Morrissey, affirmative, coached by William Cotter succumbed to Lyons, negative coached by Jack White. Charles Murphy, John Ryan, and Tom Cosgrove were on the Morrissey team; Joe Tracy, Mark Lies, and Bill O’Neil on Lyons. Ralph Gerra judged the debate Monday night; John O’Loughlin the one on Tuesday afternoon.
Teams beaten this first round are eliminated from the series. Sorin and St. Ed’s drew a bye the first round. The Wranglers sponsor these interhall debates.—Robert LeMense
Rehearsals Continue
For "Outward Bound"
Rehearsals of the University Theatre’s first production of the year, Sutton Vane’s three-act play, “Outward Bound,” continued at a faster pace this week. Two presentations will be made before campus audiences in Washington Hall, on Thursday and Friday evenings, Dec. 12 and 13. Direction and management of the play are being handled by the Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C.
All action in “Outward Bound” takes . place in one setting, that of a boat on some mysterious journey, with a strange group of passengers who eventually are identified as dead people. The set for the play, a smoking lounge on the boat, has been completed and erected on the Washington Hall stage.
The nine characters of the play are strong individuals, all necessary and important to the message contained in the play. Three feminine roles in the production are played by women from South Bend and St. Mary’s College. The remaining six masculine parts have been filled by local talent.
Cheer Leaders Display New Gold-Blue Uniforms
At the Iowa game the cheering squad paraded in new gold and blue uniforms. This innovation was the result of the efforts of Jack Burke, president of the S. C., and Al Perrine, head cheer leader. The new color combination is an effort to get away from the dark, drab uniforms that have been used in the past.
The squad this year consisted of five seniors, Al Perrine, Bill McJunkin, Dan Broderick, John Debitetto, and Paul Brownfield; two juniors, Ted McDon-nald and Ken Sheedy; and two freshmen, Bob Galvin and Dave Curtin. These men worked alternately at the games during football season and the present plans are for them to work alternately in threes’ for the basketball games.
—Joe Stephen
Jan Kiepura to Sing
The Civic Music Association of South Bend will present Jan Kiepura, well-known tenor, in concert on Monday evening, Dec. 2, in the new John Adams High School auditorium. After the concert the Chopin Fine Arts Club of South Bend will give a dinner for Mr. Kiepura . in the Bronzewood Room of the LaSalle j Hotel.	.
Tickets for the reception may be pur- | chased in the University Alumni office. i
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Freshman Side
By Elmer D. Silha
This column is dedicated to the Class of '44. It has been created for the sole purpose of keeping you informed of various freshman activities and coming events. We will try to bring a smile or two by publishing bits of gossip and humor; however, we will also strive for news and views that will go towards bettering the class of ’44. The only requirements necessary to make the column are, a freshman ranking, and a bit of something of interest.
—o—■
A pat on the back to Joe Dillon of Carroll Hall for his quick thinking when Bernard Stechschulte came staggering up the stairs clutching his side, his face twisted in agony. Joe recognized the symptoms of appendicitis and urged Bernard to go to the infirmary. However, Bernard refused saying the attack would wear off. Brother Patrick was summoned and Bernie was ordered to see the doctor. Within an hour he was at St. Joseph’s Hospital where at one o’clock that morning an appendix four times normal size was removed from Mr. Bernard Stechschulte. I had a pleasant visit with Bernard and his parents, and learned that while he had been in the hospital some one had broken into his locker and had stolen everything of value. However, he is able to attend his classes.
—o—
The freshman class led the student body .in the number of “pink slips” issued. Of the 1013 given out 38.5% or 433 were issued to freshmen. Not so good.
—o—
I suggest Frank Stumpf and Leo Burke take heed of the looming storm. The rest of the boys are debating whether to dispose of them or of the red-and-black checkered corduroys that they recently bought and are very courageously wearing in public.
—o—
After the movie Saturday night a few of the boys were rambling in the cafeteria, when who should stroll in but Jerry Welch. He was in high spirits because he was able to get away from St. Mary’s. It seems that working there all week becomes boring after a while. A vote disclosed that the majority of the fellows were in favor of being bored and were more than willing to relieve Jerry of his tiresome job.
—0—	.
Father Grimm and Father Trahey
CLOSED FOR THE SEASON
Joe Dieriechx, Stadium Caretaker
For 10 Years, Has Never Seen a Game
Joe Dieriechx has been working as foreman and custodian of the Notre Dame Stadium since it was built in 1930. “Stadium Joe”—as he is called— doesn’t become the least unnerved in answering all the questions people pop at him; for, as Joe says, he answers the same ones for over half a million visitors at the stadium every summer. Ninety percent of these, Joe rightfully boasts, say that the stadium is the best in the country. Ask him the measurements of the structure and he will rattle off, without hesitation, that the stadium is a half-mile around, 45 feet high (60 feet high where the press box is), and has a seating capacity of 55,621. As Joe says, the press box is a “dude”: it seats 274 agents, wireless operators, and scouts. It is equipped with radio booths and is well heated and ventilated.
Caring for the stadium is a year-’round job for Joe. During the football season he employs the help of seven assistants, while in the summer he has about 12 students helping him. Last summer was probably the hardest for Joe. He and his helpers put down three tons of grass seed and fertilizer and then for five straight weeks he had to water the new surface nightly. But then Joe always keeps the playing field in
have kindly consented to write articles and general hints to freshmen as to their behavior, — both spiritual and social.
—o—
' A serious upperclassman drew a laugh from some of the more frivolous fresh
the very best condition; he mows it twice a week and occasionally sods it— the midfield section is always the most worn. Joe says the few home games played each year have a negligible effect on the condition of the playing field. He believes that the field could stand an annual schedule of 20 games.
Joe never sees a football game though he attends every one. There is always work for him to do, even during a game. Perhaps his hardest work during a game is to keep the electric systems of the announcer on the sidelines and those which connect the assistant coaches in the press box to the head coaches on the field in good working order.
There have never been any serious accidents in the stadium or in the parking lot (which, incidentally, easily handles 15,000 cars). Policing every game are state and local officers, private detectives, and G-Men. Only once was this whole vanguard called upon for action; that was in 1934 when, following their victory, a riotous Carnegie Tech student body tried to raze the white wooden goal posts.
The first game played in the stadium was in 1930 when Rockne sent his team against Southern Methodist. That was one of the years the Irish were national champions.—Bill Talbot
men when three butter plates dropped out of his pocket as he left the dining hall last week. However, he treated it as an every-day occurrence by nonchalantly picking them up and proceeding merrily on his way.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By Russell L. Harris
In the course of human events it is only natural that traditions accumulate.
100 years battle against Indians, Indiana weather, and losing football teams has acquired her share. Almost every spot on the campus has its sprinkling of tradition, but the spot where tradition is concentrated most heavily is Sorin Hall. There among
the memories of stiff-collared Scholastic editors and long-bearded founding fathers, tradition runs rampant. It drips from the beams, it ooozes through the walls, it crawls along the floor, it rattles in the windows.
In the midst of all this lives Bill Clark. But he is not content just to live indiscriminately in the hall of tradition. He must live in the most traditional part of the traditional hall—the sub. At first it was a bit difficult for him to accustom himself to seeing the tops of flowers instead of the tops of trees, but after a few weeks he was able to adjust himself to the new world-perspective. At present his favorite trick is to identify by their shoe laces the people that pass by his window.
Living in. such mystic, mellow surroundings you would expect Bill to be a philosopher or at least an English major. But he scorns them both. His is the honorable calling of Hippocrates, his is the tradition of Paracelsus and Vesalius and Harvey, his is the job of cutting up kitty-kats in the biology building. Like all pre-meds his chief moan is that there isn’t enough time to do all the work. If it isn’t neurology, it’s histology, and if it isn’t histology, it’s physiology or biology or chemistry. On top of all that they even have the nerve to make him take metaphysics. Some people just don’t understand.
During whatever free time Bill might glean from such a schedule, he sings. Not from joy necessarily, but by profession. He is second tenor in the glee club. Then, of course, there are the bimonthly meetings of the Academy of Science which must be attended, for it would be rather conspicuous if the president were absent.
Like most college seniors Bill experiences the terror and the pain of watching all the girls back home get married one by one. Those that don’t get married enter convents. So what chance is there for a struggling, embryonic doctor? His friends cheer him by saying that his curly hair and rosy cheeks cannot be denied, but nevertheless the deflating psychological effect is always there.
To most people the “big push” would suggest the great Allied advance of 1918, but not so with Bill. To him it suggests the first summer of the New York World’s Fair. It was then that he furnished the power for one of the American Express push-chairs. The job, however, was not entirely a matter of blistered feet and sore arms. It also had its compensations, such as Myrna Loy and Mary Pickford. Then, of course, there was that sad day when he missed getting Madeline Carroll by only a “chair’s breadth.”
Mt. Vernon, Virginia, had its George Washington, but Mt. Vernon, New York has its Bill Clark. Long may he swab throats and distribute pills!
BOOK REVIEW
Mrs. Miniver, by Jan Struther. (Harcourt, Brace and Company; 1940; 288 pp.; $2.00.)
Mrs. Miniver is an extraordinary book. It is a leading best-seller and it doesn’t even touch on any one of the Ten Commandments or the Seven Capital Sins.
Mrs. Miniver is a fanciful Englishwoman with three children and a husband, who occasionally comes into the picture. She is a very sensitive, whimsical, and engaging person who manages to notice quite a few of the smallest things in this world. Over all her clever, little observations is spread a film of subtle, but kindly, humor and another, not too subtle, film of love-thy-neighbor philosophy. AU that Mrs. Miniver asks of life is a world devoid of murder and arson and the right for the uppermiddle-class Englishman to lead his comfortable life in a town house in London, to possess a country place in Kent, and to put his son through Eton.
Mrs. Miniver’s children are also very, very fanciful and very, very “nice” creatures. They even remind us of that very, very “nice” little moppet of the American cinema, Shirley Temple. Mrs. Miniver’s husband, Clem, makes an occasional appearance in the story hut he
is usually busy with a fat contracting job.
What is Mrs. Miniver doing this memorable year of 1940? She is buying an engagement book, attending a hunt on a country estate, celebrating Guy Fawke’s Day, visiting Scotland, or wondering what John Donne would write about her dentist. And, remember, all this time Hitler is threatening to destroy England. We wonder if Mrs. Miniver is the average Englishwoman of 1940? We even begin to wonder if she is a relative of Sir Neville.
But every once in a while the echoes of the impending war break in on Mrs. Miniver and her veneer wears thin. Then Mrs. Miniver is magnificent and memorable. One touching incident occurs when Mrs. Miniver watches her children being fitted with gas masks: “.... the look of sudden realization in Judy’s eyes before her face was covered up; the back of Toby’s neck, the valley deeper than usual because his muscles were taught with distaste (he had a horror of rubber in any form); a very small child bursting into a wail of dismay on catching sight of its mother disguised in a black snout; the mother’s muffled reassurances—‘It’s only Mum, duck. Look—it’s just a mask, like that Guy Fawkes, see? . . .’ They took what had been ordered for them—four medium size, two small—and filed out into the street. It was for this thought Mrs. Miniver as they walked towards the car, that one had boiled the milk for their bottles, and washed their hands before lunch, and not let them eat with a spoon which had been dropped on the floor.”
Altogether Jan Struther’s Mrs. Miniver, composed of a large mixture of whimsy and a small mixture of pathos, is a delightful sketch and will please most of its readers.—John Considine
Hold Pre*Registration For Classes of Next Semester
Pre-registration for classes next semester was held this week on Nov. 25, 26, and 27 in the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Science, and Engineering. The College of Law, having set no definite dates, hopes to complete its pre-registration by the end of this week. Upperclassmen taking electives are the only ones required to register in this college, whereas in the first mentioned freshmen also registered.
Seniors in the College of Commerce, whose program calls for electives, will register Thursday and Friday afternoons, ■ Dec. 5 and 6. They are the only ones required to register in this college.
—John A. Lynch
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
’’Dome" At Halfway Mark, Editor McCarty Announces
THE CAMPUS
With the completion of the individual portraits of Seniors and Juniors this
BY GEORGE MILES
week and the photographing of the va
Neil McCarty
rious campus clubs next week, the task of creating the 1940 Dome will be near the halfway mark, according to Editor - in - Chief Neil McCarty. There is still, however, a great deal of work to be done within the next few months before the annual year book is distributed in the late Spring.
As a respite from their labors, the entire staff, Juniors, Sophomores and Freshmen included, attended a smoker on Thursday night. In accordance with a suggestion tendered McCarty by the editor of the Wisconsin Badger, John Garvey, who has been on the staff as campus editor, assumes the title of photography editor also. Among the assistants to the Junior editors are Dick Pe-
desky, Tom Atkins, Joe Mannion, Bob LeMense and Bill Brady. Matty Byrne acts as assistant editor to Mr. McCarty. No definite decision has been reached as to the style of the cover for the Dome but several novel features to be used were revealed. With the assistance of Professors Stanley Sessler and Francis Hanley of the University’s art department, John Bermingham, art editor, plans to introduce a set of caricatures of the faculty members for the faculty
section.
Four picturesque views of the campus will be used in the senior section as backgrounds. Ed Steeb and Quentin O’Connell of the photography department are busy taking candid shots of Juniors which will add novelty to the Junior section of the Dome.
—Richard Powers
Chemistry Club Speaker
At the American Institute of Chemical Engineers meeting last Friday, Dr. George F. Hennion of the department of chemical engineering presented a survey of the rapidly growing field of synthetic rubber compounds. In his talk Dr. Hennion spoke particularly about the synthesis and properties of these compounds. After the meeting held in Chemistry Hall, refreshments, cider and doughnuts, were served as a “nightcap.”
—Bill Herzog
Mourners might also reflect on the plight of others, these days. Other people in other places are having their troubles, too. Not long ago we saw a letter in the Dorothy Dix column in the South Bend Tribune which made us think how selfish and narcissistic we are, always complaining about tiny difficulties. The young lady (her name was “Perplexed”) who wrote this letter had a real problem. “Dear Miss Dix,” she said, “I go out with a boy who kisses and smokes a cigar at the same time. What do you think?” In reply, Miss Dix, it seems to us, gave out an answer which was hardly adequate. “I think he is adroit,” she said. Well, yes, Miss Dix, yes. And he probably has a very large mouth. But what about poor “Perplexed”? Would it not be far more sanitary and safer if she started to go with a cigarette smoker?
♦ * *
Even though we were shocked to see the sweet potatoes passed around in a soup bowl, and the fresh garden peas handed us in a bread-tray, we thought that the Thanksgiving Day dinner was rather good. There was one (at least one) fellow, however, who, while realizing that it was almost an act of heresy to complain on such an important day, could not restrain himself. He said that he was thankful for one thing: that he still had the privilege to refuse to eat, and the power to continue to refuse.
* * *
Certain young men of the Commerce School have begun to infest the periodical room in the Library. As we understand it, they are seniors who are required to use the Library for an extraspecial assignment. The other day we heard them shouting such things as: “What’s it come under, debits or credits?” and “Do you discount them bonds first or just stick them in as they are?” Now and then, they huddled over statistical volumes and explained intricate points with vigorous gestures and expressive faces. The influx of the Commerce men is a movement which particularly pleases us. But we are surprised. Perhaps the recent cold spell has something to do with the anabasis. The Library is admittedly the warmest building on the campus — and Commerce men know all the important things to be known about the campus.
* * *
We shall be deeply grateful if some one can tell us what happened to the
“prayer for peace” which was to be said during the halves of the last home football game. Surely there is an anarchist lurking in our very midst. Who else would object to a harmless prayer for peace? What annoyed us especially that day was the manner in which the University band was .treated. The band members, like brave little soldiers, stood out in the middle of the field, while the frigid wind froze their best reeds, and waited to play the accompaniment to the prayer that was never prayed.
* * *
Winter has definitely arrived. If you need more than the frost and the cold wind and the dark skies in the morning to convince you, we suggest that you walk over to the largest bird hangout near the Main Building, and listen to the talk of our winged brothers. We went by the other day and heard two starlings shouting and screaming in a disgraceful manner. “I simply will not stay here for another winter,” said one bird. “Say,” said the other, “if the lake preserve is good enough for me it’s good enough for you.” “Well, it’s not; I nearly died from the cold last year. And this year I’m going to Florida,” said the shivery starling. “You’ll go by yourself if you do,” shouted the hardy one as he wrapped himself in a big oak-leaf and dashed off to the steam room.
* * *
During the excitement of the past weeks, the pink slips slipped in without much notice. The rectors let loose with all the pointed remarks they have been saving since last quarter, and the unfortunate students groaned, moaned and made resolutions. One fellow we know was in a peculiarly distressing position. He received a notice ■ of deficiency, hut he could not decipher the subject in which he was failing. He was wild because he did not know which professor to condemn. So he condemned them all.
* * *
A friend of ours was standing in the lobby of the Oliver Hotel last week, and as he admired the murals and a certain strange portion of humanity which frequents hotel lobbies, he was approached by a wild-eyed female. “Camel?” she asked. Then, while he was still trying to find a suitable answer, the woman reached out and passed her hand along the sleeve of his overcoat. “No, not Camel,” she said, and walked on through the swirl and the splendor to brighter and more blessed places.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
STUDENT FORUM
Religion and The Modern Mind
By Martin M. McLaughlin
The great problem that we have to meet today is the question of how to restore God and religion to a world which has denied the one and scorned the other — a world that has strayed from the courts of the Lord to worship Baal in the high places. Religion and God — the concepts are so intimately interwoven and so universally de-emphasized or ignored in this intellectual era- that we must despair of ever finding a solution to the dilemma, unless we can find a common ground for argument. We must understand that strange, inconsistent, uncertain thing that is the modern mind.
And such an understanding is not at all impossible. The first thing we can observe is that the modern mind conceives the universe as something entirely self-sufficient and recognizes, explicitly at least, nothing beyond the facts of an ever-changing experience. Tilings are altered from day to day — human experience changes from generation to generation; and the contemporary mind, true to the tradition of Heraclitus and Bergson, is impressed and engrossed by this chameleon-like reality. It is dynamic in thought, therefore, and this in two ways: in the first place, it bases its progress on this philosophy of change; and then, too, it exhibits a restlessness, a sort of longing search, that is never quieted or satisfied by the discoveries of the physical sciences.
There is, moreover, an all-too-appar-ent vagueness. Things are now defined descriptively; one never gets down to their essences. As a matter of fact, it is presumption to expect a definite statement, for the very obvious reason that the modem mind is never certain that physical science will not nullify the proven dictum of today by the brilliant discovery of tomorrow. Nevertheless, we have the interesting paradox that despite this fluidity, this tantalizing shifting of the borders of thought, the scientific world of today is shackled to the iron will of necessity, to the fickle and unpredictable pranks of a natural law grounded in blind chance. Everything is explained by the one principle, whereas it is clear that a greater, supernatural one is required.
And in spite of the avowed interest of modernism (using it as a blanket term) in everything human, it must of necessity confine itself to social or aesthetic
problems, never to those of the speculative order. In the realm of philosophy, it is predominantly relativistic and pragmatic; where it is moral at all, it considers anything good that works. Goodness and truth are conditioned by their practicality, and man becomes theii’ criterion. Carried over into the sphere of religion, we find this tantamount to reducing ethics, morals, and religion to the subjective level, asserting that one creed is as good as another, or that none at all is better than prostituting one’s unknowable destiny to any supernatural, positive lawgiver.
It is rather inconsistent with this great status of man as the criterion of goodness and truth, one might think, to hold at the same time the idea that he is an infinitesimal lump of mud in a monstrous universe that grins at his futile efforts to assert his puny freedom. One might even characterize as ludicrous the vague concept of God as a shapeless mass of cosmic “stuff,” inert, transcendent, and totally other. But that would not discountenance the proud possessor of a modern mind, because with all his other characteristics he is profoundly indifferent to the whole question of God, man, and religion. He acts as if he had free will and doesn’t stop to bother about philosophical implications. Any ideas which he gains must be implanted painlessly and without any argument.
Protestantism, resting as it does upon the shifting sands of private judgment and personal morality, has failed to meet this alarming situation; and Catholicism, much to our confusion, has attempted only half-hearted efforts, chiefly because her laity, especially the younger members of it, are not any more interested in the problem than the Godless young moderns. Our only hope is to begin by reawakening a new interest in our own ranks first, and then to proceed to the conquest of the world. To do this it is necessary to re-establish the concept of God as a person, of man as a person, and of religion as a personal relationship, a binding force, a friendship between God and man. We cannot reimplant this idea outside the Church until we ourselves have reached again the conviction not only of its truth, but of its implications, — until we realize that “Credo” is not a catchword and that the Apostles’ Creed does not end with “I believe in God.”
Gene Tunney Will Speak
At Grid Banquet, Dec. 16
The glory of its victories and the humiliation of its defeats meshed into after-dinner oratory, the Fighting Irish football squad will close its 1940 season at the 20th annual testimonial dinner in the East Dining Hall on Monday, Dec. 16.
Gene Tunney, former world’s heavyweight boxing champion, will be the principal speaker. While the program is still being completed, acceptances have been received from the following notables: Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University; Elmer F. Layden, athletic director and head football coach; Coach Lynn Waldorf of Northwestern university; Major E. E. (Swede) Larson of Navy; Harry Stuhldreher of Wisconsin; Manager Bill McKechnie of the world championship Cincinnati Reds; Irish Captain Milton (Moose) Piepul and the captain-elect of the 1941 team. Invitations have also been extended to a host of midwestern sports-writers to participate in the activities.
The affair is sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame Club. E. E. “Mike” Moore is program chairman. Frank E. Coughlin of South Bend is the general chairman.
Tickets are now available at the Notre Dame athletic association offices.
Upholds Medicine Plan In Science Club Talk
“Thirty-five to forty percent of the nation receive no medical care, yet four billion dollars are spent each year for all kinds of health service.” This was the situation Arthur Maddalena brought before the biweekly meeting of the Academy of Science in his paper, “The Case for Socialized Medicine.”
Under socialized medicine, Maddalena asserted, expense to the individual would be lowered, and doctors could devote more time to preventative medicine. Medical service would be available to all, and the personnel, operating under self-government, would be paid by the state. The system would be supported by funds collected through general taxation.
In the lively open forum that followed Maddalena’s paper, many phases of this important question were discussed. Objections to the system were voiced freely.
Since a large majority of the members are themselves preparing to enter the medical field, the subject under discussion proved to be of intense interest.
The next meeting of the Academy is to be a combined session with the Chemists’ Club.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Symphony Orchestra Will Give Concert Tonight
An excellent treat is in store for all music lovers on the campus. This evening at 8 o’clock, the Music Department of the University will present the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Mr. Frederic Ingersoll, in its first concert of the year. The reorganized orchestra has prepared a very delightful program which features a trumpet solo by Joseph Hruby, a freshman, whose father has played in the Cleveland Symphony Orchestra for 15 years. It may be noted that the opening number is the same as used by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra now on tour.
This is the first of a series of programs to be presented in Washington Hall. Arrangements are being made for a concert to be presented at St. Mary’s College before the Christmas holidays.
Tonight’s program is as follows:
12th Symphony, Allegro Movement—.Joseph Haydn Euryanthe __________________CM. von Weber
Solo by Joseph Hruby
Sound From the Hudson_____.Herbert L. Clark Fantasie __________________Mozart
Ballet Music from La Giaconda_Ponchielli
In a Persian Market______Albert W. Ketelbey
Richard Wagner’s Operas—Excerpts..Wagner
—C. S. Coco
Concert in South Bend
Opens Glee Club Season
The Notre Dame Glee Club opened its concert season with a “bang” last Friday, Nov. 22, when it presented a pleasant program at St. Patrick’s auditorium in South Bend. A concert for the benefit of crippled children, sponsored by the Kiwanis Club, was presented in Mishawaka last Thursday. Both these programs were very successful and given before appreciative audiences.
Preparations are under way for a program to be presented in Washington Hall within a very short time. This promises to be a special treat. A ten-piece orchestra, composed mostly of Glee Club members, will accompany the Glee Club and take part in the program. A medley, entitled “Progress of Song,” that shows the progress of music throughout the years, will be the feature number of this presentation.
—C. S. Coco
Kellys Lead Murphys In Student Directory
The annual University Directory of students and faculty is now on sale at the newsstand in the Cafeteria, for 25 cents a copy. The booklet contains the names and home addresses of 170 faculty members, and the residence halls
and home addresses of more than 3,000 students.
The Kellys nosed out the Murphys 34 to 27 in the annual battle for the longest family name list. The Sullivans with 22 are close behind and fourth are the O’Briens with 16. The Irish names take second place to none.
To Felix Abaldo of Detroit goes the distinction of being the first student listed in this year’s director, while Eugene Zupko of Perth Amboy, N. J. is the last listed. Also in the student section, one can find a Farmer, Singer, Fisher, Judge, Marker, Trunk, Shields, Winter, and Wishing. Fox and Wolf represent the animal world and Gray, Green, and White add color to the directory.—John Aselage
Dr. John Cooney Speaks At St. Joseph Banquet
Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism of the University, was principal speaker at a press banquet held at St. Joseph College,
Dr. John M. Cooney
Rensselaer, Ind., on Nov. 19. Master of ceremonies at the banquet was Edward Fischer, graduate of Notre Dame and student under Dr. Cooney several years ago.
On Wednesday, Nov. 20, the Rev. Sylvester Ley, C.PP.S., director of student publications at St. Joseph College, and Mr. Fischer, who is now director of publicity and journalism instructor at the Rensselaer school, returned to Notre Dame with Dr. Cooney. Both men spoke on the subject of managing student publications before one of the journalism classes in the library basement.
—John Casey
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
“Thy kingdom come.”... The familiar can so readily become merely mechanical .... The busy-ness of the moment obscures the real business of life.... The fetters of the flesh impede the flight of the spirit.... “I see another law in my members fighting against the law of my mind.” (Romans 7, 23).... Our defense is the armor of Faith which alone can bring peace to our warring natures.
“The kingdom of God is within you” (Luke 17, 21).... “Kingdom” in the Scriptures refers variously to heaven, the Church, or the soul. . . . Each implies the other.... Heaven is the destiny of the soul.... The Church is the Way to heaven.... The redeemed soul already possesses heaven in part.
“The kingdom of heaven is at hand” (Matthew 4, 17).... The first Christians around Jerusalem each year went in pilgrimage to the places made sacred by Christ’s earthly presence.... From these simple beginnings arose the organic structure of the Liturgical Year, the annual celebration of the mysteries of salvation.... They present in detail what the mass contains substantially.
“The kingdom of heaven is like to a grain of mustard-seed” (Matthew 13, 31).... Christ is the Seed of eternal life planted in the souls of men of good will .... Unlike the patriarchs and prophets, who longed to see the “salvation of all flesh,” we already experience it.
“Seek first the kingdom of God.” (Matthew 6, 33).... The Liturgy of Advent commemorates the twofold coming of Christ.... The first in obscurity in Bethlehem, the second in glory at the last Judgment.... If we make a manger of our hearts for the first, we shall not fear the second.... The readiest road to Bethlehem just ahead is the daily Mass and Communion.
“The kingdom of heaven suffereth violence” (Matthew 11, 12).... The text of the Masses for Advent is a call to renewed effort.___ The obstacle to forward progress in virtue is our own untamed nature.... The remedy is penance far past sins and the uprooting of evil tendencies.
(Mass Calendar on page 23)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper. Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM 0. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND.
Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, Newa Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER
Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building;
'	Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Concerto in Smoke
A dressed-for-a-weekend Notre Dame student rushed down the cinder-sodded middle lane of the main quadrangle. Weighed down by a bulging Gladstone, he plunged toward the cabstand and a lone taxi. Short puffs of cigarette smoke burst spasmodically from his mouth.
As he scrambled past a nonchalant, burly fellow-student, he heard, “Put out that cigarette! You’re in the main quadrangle!”
He dropped the cigarette (rather the cigarette dropped out of his astonished mouth), he dropped his Gladstone, and then he dropped.	’
Forgive the attempt at literary anecdote. The main point is that our potential traveler, now recuperating from the cigarette episode, had forgotten that it is a tradition around here to refrain from inhaling or even puffing on the proverbial white weed in our main quadrangle.
Silly tradition isn’t it; silly for bringing up the subject. But the Student Council doesn’t agree. The Student Council believes that possibly the students of this University do not take the slightest stock in tradition of any sort. That may not be true, but what else can the Student Council think? Butts of smoked white weeds practically grow on the grass of the main quadrangle.
Suppose there was a traditional kissing rock (a la West Point) beside the tennis courts at the main entrance— wonder how business would be? Take, for example, a traditional wishing well, a time honored “bridge where dreams
come true,” or a hallowed spot where one might “wish upon a star.” There would be pilgrimages, yea complete population movements to the spots.
There are other long-standing traditions at Notre Dame. The Caf, the Huddle, the Gold Coast are places the mention of which arouses the memory of Notre Dame in any alumnus. Rockne is a tradition. There are religious acts which connote the name Notre Dame— visits to the Grotto, Adoration during October and May, the innumerable Novenas.	..
But even these landmarks of Notre Dame are taken for granted or entirely forgotten by some students. Others know nothing of their existence. The Notre Dame men who remember and follow them keep them alive.
But, back to the smoke—
It is traditional not to smoke in the main quadrangle. Why? — because the main quadrangle is the heart of Notre Dame, because around the main quadrangle stands a University that has grown from seeds of sacrifice.
The Student Council wants everyone to make a supreme sacrifice. Without even considering that someone may collapse while refraining, the Student Council says, “Wait one minute; walk 100 yards; be out of the quadrangle; then let up and light up.” Of course, only men of steel will be able to do it. Even so, it is a tradition with a reason behind it, a tradition which says “give,” not “take.”
And so ends the first sermon of the year from student to student. Hope
abounds that it will be the last. In case the idea is vague, repetition may aid the uncultured — The Council formally announces that it is beginning a campaign to revive in those who have seemingly forgotten, a brand new recognition of the traditions of this school—number one ’ rally ’round meeting is to be held in the main quad—no smoking.
—John Patterson ■
The Good Is Now
The leafless trees snapped and shivered icily in a brisk, cold wind as I walked around St. Mary’s lake on the heavy, dark-gray afternoon of Nov. 5. Free from the buzzings and monotonous repititions of the radio returns in the Presidential election, my spirit rose in the bracing air.
The troubled waters of the lake brought to mind scenes which were taking place in all parts of confined and tom Europe, and I had stepped faster as the feeling of freedom, which is typical of the country in which I live, swept over and thrilled me.
Lights were glittering in the many windows of Sorin Hall which lay in the distance, and the only troubles of the students within were the mysteries of learning, and the status of their football team. In their hands were books of happy, progressive knowledge, not weapons of destruction.
Rounding the end of the lake I came to the candle-lighted Grotto of Our Lady. The cheerfully dancing flames threw a brief light upon several motionless, kneeling figures, and with a feeling of exhilaration I acknowledged the Mother of my God, a tribute which all Americans are free to express in their own ways. The only country in which complete religious freedom exists is the country in which I live!
As I moved along the uneven path towards my residence hall, the political issue of the day took on a new and different light. More clearly defined was the fact that no matter who had won the election, I was fortunate in living in such a free country—the land of free people and the great men whom those people were choosing to hold the nation’s highest offices. No longer was it a question of what this man had done wrong, or what that man had represented, but it reached a new point which said: “Whomever the people choose—he is the man to govern the nation.” The loud bickering and ceaseless chattering of political parties was quelled by the sweet silence of the lofty, Almighty God who rules over all men.	-
.	—Frank J. McDonough
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
European War Creates New Problems for Writers, Says Professor O'Malley
The present war in Europe has created new problems in art and literature. Totalitarian regimes have become more numerous, and their influences are affecting increasing numbers of artists throughout the western world. This is to -be deplored, said Mr. Frank O’Malley, professor of English at the University, in a
Prof. F. O’Malley recent interview, because literature needs a culture of freedom in order to grow. No government that has complete power over what is to be said can hope to see genuine literature produced. Instead it will produce an atmosphere of defeatism, pessimism and destructiveness.
“In Germany, for example,” said Mr. O’Malley, “writers who do not conform are rejected. If they do conform they are likely to produce works of pure propaganda. Thomas Mann would not conform to Nazi principles and left that country in order to work unmolested.
In the United States the war has also had its effect on literature. Many writers in the last few years have come to feel a new responsibility to youth, and regret what they call their “neglect” of youth since the first World War. Men like Archibald MacLeish admit now that their writing in the past might not have given youth the feeling that there are ideals or values in society generally. They do feel that they are responsible for what they regard as the instability of modem youth. “But they are assuming this burden unnecessarily,” said Mr. O’Malley, “because their work has not been so effective as they think, even in this negative way.” Mr. MacLeish, for example, has probably been neither a good nor a bod influence for multitudes of American youths simply because they are unaware of him. And Margaret Mitchell and Kenneth Roberts have surely been more widely read than Ernest Hemingway.
But Archibald MacLeish’s accusations against artists cannot be leveled against all of them. Certainly among some major artists there has been a genuine search for values in man and his so
ciety and these values have not been found only because modem society itself lacked them. In this group might be included men like J. M. Murry, Aldous Huxley, Thomas Mann, and Thomas Wolfe. They did seek “salvation” and did not take for granted that it could not be gained. They did strive for an ideal, even if some of them missed their goal. They did have a spirit of responsibility in spite of failure often to find the justice for which they sought.
A number of writers have proper truth, however, and their works give evidence of it. Mr. O’Malley mentioned, among others, Claudel, Chesterton, Sigrid Undset, and T. S. Eliot, as working within the Christian tradition and having complete and genuine concepts of man and his universe, concepts that underlie and underline their art. They have not neglected their readers by denying absolute values or by omitting all sign of them from their works; neither have they searched fruitlessly for them, emitting only a vaguely-defined responsibility or a dubious authority in what they have said.
A second problem is the immediate effect of the war on writers themselves. “War and the sense of crisis have inclined to make many writers sociological and didactic,” said Mr. O’Malley. “They are now more- ready to teach directly than to rely upon the recreation of their experience in art.” Before the war some writers had been concerned as artists with society, but now they deal formally and deliberately with the problems of the world. Murry, for example, has gone from literary criticism, as found in his Heaven and Earth, to the specific consideration of European society in his new work, Europe in Travail. The change is also somewhat apparent in T. S. Eliot. In such creations as The Wasteland and The Rock he dealt as an artist with his problem, releasing the tension he felt; whereas in The Idea of Christian Society he has offered a formal and cautionary discussion of the nature and the needs of modern society. “It is, however, not an unnatural. effect of the war,” added Mr. O’Malley. “These authors feel a sense of responsibility in explaining the cause of the crisis and in trying to solve the dilemma.
As a third consideration, there is the problem as to whether arts and letters can survive such a war as this. At pres
ent a great emphasis is being placed upon the physical and the technological; and correspondingly less on the intellectual and spiritual. In such an atmosphere it is hardly conceivable that arts and letters may flourish. Mr. O’Malley thought that “primitive and mechanical forces may attempt to destroy all expressions of the spirit and of the mind; and that in a state physically and technologically orientated, art may be tolerated only as an instrument of propaganda.” There is a chance that despair and pessimism may sieze the hearts of writers; that they may consider all creative effort to be neglible and rmimportant; that they may no longer feel like working as artists.
“Up to now,” said Mr. O’Malley, “there has been no sign of surrender on the part of artists, but having sensibilities greater and rarer than the average man, they must feel powerfully the dis- _ order of contemporary existence.” They may give artistic expression to this confusion — as Eliot did, after the first World War, in The Wasteland—but they may also feel like Sigrid Undset, who said in a recent interview, that she could not continued writing, that this is no time for literature.
But these times need not be entirely unproductive: this war may shock writers out of their complacency and triviality and direct their talents to the greatest and gravest themes. An era of revolution and ruin may also be an era of rebirth. In concluding the interview Mr. O’Malley drew on the 14th Century for an analogy. “That was the time,” he said, “of the Hundred Years War, and of very important revolutionary changes ■ and class conflicts. The old agrarian feudalism was disintegrating and social unrest was enormous. Yet even in that time of gigantic trouble there were great poets: Dante and Petrarch in Italy, and Chaucer and Langland in England did not live in peaceful societies. Holy persons, too, like St. Catherine of Siena and St. Bridget and Thomas a Kempis thrived in that same age. So. there is hope that the life of the spirit and of art and literature will not succumb because of the confusion of society and the disruption of the established order. It is not at all inconceivable that this epoch will have its great poets as well as its great saints.”
—William C.' McGowan
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Cagers Open Season
With Doubleheader Tomorrow
Monmouth and Kalamazoo
Try Two Keogan Lineups
The curtain rises on Notre Danie’s 1940-41 basketball talent tomorrow evening. Coach George Keogan, starting his 18th year at the helm of Irish cage destinies, will spring two fighting fives, one a veteran combination and the other a potent sophomore coalition, on the doubleheader opposition, Monmouth and Kalamazoo. The Monmouth game will start at 7:30 and the Kalamazoo contest at approximately 8:30.
A glance at the veteran line-up reveals: Captain Eddie Riska, embarking on his third and final campaign, and Jim Carnes, forwards; Frank Quinn, pivotman; and Bob Smith and Larry Ryan, guards. Included on the spirited sophomore quintet are: forwards, Ralph Vin-ciguerra and Chuck Butler; center, Jim Kelly; and guards, Jim Engel and Bob Rensberger.
Conspicuous by his absence from the line-up will be George Sobek, Riska’s worthy running-mate last season. In fact, the injured Sobek’s debut is still a matter of conjecture.
Kalamazoo is expected to employ a man-for-man defense and feature a fast, open style of play. Little is known of Monmouth except that they have turned out some formidable outfits in the past.
A 22-game schedule for the coming season was announced early last week by Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics. Traditional rivalries will be continued -with Northwestern, Marquette, Detroit, Butler, New York U., Pennsylvania, Syracuse, Wisconsin, Kentucky, Illinois, and Michigan.
Irish Lose to Wildcats and Hawkeyes
Last Saturday afternoon, the dreaded occurred before 48,000 fans at Dyche Stadium as a powerful Northwestern eleven downed Notre Dame, 20-0, handing the Irish their second consecutive setback. Unable to stop the hard charging Northwestern line and the furious onslaughts of big Don Clawson, the bulky Northwestern fullback, the Irish fought gamely throughout the game to put over a face-saving touchdown. Late in the second quarter, Clawson and Benson plunged through a game Notre Dame
The schedule follows:
Nov. 30—Kalamazoo at Notre Dame 30—Monmouth at Notre Dame
Dec. 7—Illinois Wesleyan at Notre Dame 14—Wisconsin at Madison 19—Michigan at Notre Dame 23—Illinois at Notre Dame 31—Northwestern at Evanston
1941
Jan. 4—Kentucky at Louisville 6—Wabash at Notre Dame 11—Butler at Notre Dame	_
18—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia 20—Syracuse at Syracuse 25—Michigan State at Notre Dame
Feb. 1—Marquette at Notre Dame 4—North Dakota at Notre Dame 8—Northwestern at Notre Oame 14—New York at Madison Sq. Garden 22—Georgia Tech at Notre Dame 24—Butler at Indianapolis _ 28—Michigan State at East Lansing
Mar. 8—Marquette at Milwaukee 12—Detroit at Detroit
All Home Games at 8:00 P. M., C. S. T.
—Frank L. Kunkel
Two for the price of one tomorrow
line and DeCorrevont circled its ends as Northwestern drove 82 yards to a touchdown. “Moose” Piepul led a belated Irish revival, as he returned the kick-off after touchdown 42 yards to midfield. Juzwik passed to Saggau and Saggau to O’Brien and the drive, which reached the Wildcat 21-yard line, was defeated by time.
As the second half opened Northwestern again tore through the N.D. line and on the tenth play of the period, Bill DeCorrevont dashed the last four yards into pay-off territory. Again “Moose” led
a bitter counter-attack with a- 30-yard runback of the kickoff and a subsequent 35-yard end run.
The previous week, an outplayed Iowa eleven, a poor second in the total of first downs and yards gained, employed daring and alert football to down a mightier Notre Dame eleven. Throughout the first three quarters Iowa was sparked by the great play of Captain Mike Enich at tackle as it bristled and hurled back five Irish sallies at the Hawkeyes’ goal. Finally in the closing quarter, a Notre Dame fumble set up the play whereby big Bill Green at fullback cut back over his own right tackle and went over standing up for the only touchdown of the day.
—Mark G. McGrath
St. Eds vs. Dillon Sunday For Interhall Grid Title
With the football season rapidly fading into the autumnal twilight, the Interhall gridders will put the finishing touches on a hectic campaign this Sunday, when St. Edward’s and Dillon, divisional titleholders, clash in Notre Dame Stadium for the University championship.
The old saying, “To the victor belongs the spoils,” can be rightly adhered to in this case, for the team that comes out on the long end of the score Sunday, will be the recipients of gold football charms, as well as a magnificent silver trophy, which is being awarded by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, to the -winning hall.
A tint of “Big Time” color will be added to the afternoon’s festivities, in as much as the teams will dress in varsity uniforms, and it is expected that a good portion of Prof. Joe Casasanta’s band will be on hand to strike up a few Irish tunes. The kick-off is scheduled for 1:30 p.m.
League 1
St. Edward’s 13, Breen-Phillips 0. In clinching the League 1 championship, St. Ed’s, ploughed its way through a four inch snowfall last Tuesday, to turn back a stubborn Breen-Phillips eleven by a 13-0 score.
Jesse DeLois, brilliant St. Ed’s halfback, literally “slipped” his way through the entire Breen-Phillips team on a 70 yard touchdown jaunt in the first quarter, while Bill Hartman, stellar center, set-up the second score in the final period on a 30 yard return of an intercepted pass to Breen’s ten yard line. Johnny Kilbane plunged over on two
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
plays, and DeLois converted, to end the scoring for the day.
Breen put on a great aerial show throughout with Johnny Baum and Kermit Roussev heaving to Leo Donati and Larry Grobela.
Other scores in League 1 are: Nov. 17: Badin 7, Cavanaugh 0; St. Ed’s 9, Carroll 0; Zahm 7, Breen-Phillips 6; Brownson drew a bye. Nov. 24: Badin 0, Brownson 0; Cavanaugh drew a bye.
League 2
Dillon 6, Morrissey 6. Battling desperately to stave off a last minute defeat at the hands of an aroused Morrissey crew, Dillon earned a hard fought 6-6 tie with the soph hall last
Interhailers — Finale is Sunday
Sunday, and thereby won the League 2 championship and narrowly averted a four way tie in that sector.
Both teams played inspired ball, and had Morrissey made good on the extra point, a four way tie for the championship of League 2 would have ensued.
Other scores in League 2 are: Nov. 17: Alumni 6, Howard 0; Morrissey 7, Lyons 6; Dillon 9, Sorin 6; Walsh drew a bye. Nov. 24: Sorin 6, Lyons 0; Howard drew a bye.
Since some of last week’s scores are not available at this writing, the final standings of the teams will be printed next week.
Probable starting lineups in the St. Ed’s vs. Dillon championship contest
are:	•
St. Edward’s	Dillon
Mallon ..............„.JL.E------------- Kelley
Shields _____________X.T.-------------- Burke
Ryan_________________L.G------------- McNulty
Hartman, Capt. G------------------------ Haller
O’Neal ..............JR.G____________ McNally
Cherney _____________-R.T------------- Miller
O’Brien _____________R.E------------- McCordt
Platt Q.B------------------------------ Byrne
DeLois ______________-L.H------------ Donlevy
Marcucci ____________R.H.-------------Daimler
Kilbane _____________-F.B------------ Landers
Jim Clemens and Bill Rogers
Splinters From the Press Box
■	—JAMES NEWLAND	.n"
Who said castor oil is hard to take?
Analogically speaking, and from all appearances, Notre Dame last month was a big frog in a little pool. Notre Dame now appears to be a little frog in a big pool. Next Saturday the Irish will have a chance to kill two birds with a single stone — snap out of a two-week slump and gain revenge for last year’s defeat at the hands of Southern California. Can the boys end this consistently inconsistent season next week as spectacularly as it was started?
It’s nice to find two sure things in Notre Dame’s puzzling pigskin picture — Milt Piepul and Bob Osterman. . . . One thing this season has taught us all — tons of ballyhoo definitely does not win ball games and once a team has a perfect record, it has to fight like blazes to keep it perfect. . . . What the matter with the local S. C.? . . . Not once this year have they concocted a successful pep rally for the team before departure to do battle on foreign fields. ... We couldn’t have made this statement last year, or the year before, or the year before that. . . . The old S.A.C. saw that it wasn’t necessary. ... A spiky thorn in the side of some local heat waves who think they know more about running the team than the coaching staff. . . . Lest we forget:
He who thinks a perfect team to see. Thinks ne’er what is, nor was, nor e’er shall be.
Always regard the coach’s end
For none can accomplish more than he intends.
Splinters salutes Tommy Harmon, of Michigan. . . . Sure, he had plenty of beef trust in front of his spectacular touchdown jaunts. ... At the same time, he had to be endowed with something more than a fighting heart to score 33 touchdowns in his amazing football career. ... If there was ever a point-getting specialist, Harmon is it.
The third term issue will once more be at stake a week from tomorrow. . . . Southern California holds two consecutive victories over the Irish. ... F.D.R. and Iowa came through. . . . They play for keeps on the coast, but anything can happen when Troy and N.D. lock horns. . . . Remember when Rockne took west what he made Southern Cal believe “a weak, injured, impoverished squad of weaklings”? The Trojans knew what hit
them. ... Gone is this staggering array of manpower: Harry Smith, Grenny Lansdell, Doyle Nave, Bob Winslow, Amby Schindler, Phil Gasper, Bill Fisk and Bob Hoffman. ... Howard Jones is a conservative gentleman though. . . . He has at his command a star-studded squad of depth-charges who specialize in providing a crescendo rhythm to the ominous roll of Trojan tanks. . . . Then Mr. Jones says he “expects another strong team,” you’ll be smart if you take him literally. . . . He is not a man to joke.
Gregory Rice, known to the late Coach John P. Nicholson as “the little bugger,” is keeping the track warm in the field house. . . . Greg, who has broken a number of speed records but who has never been arrested by a traffiic officer for speeding, is expecting another prosperous year. .. . The barrel-chested distance ace and Notre Dame’s outstanding track performer was originally a sprinter. . . . He took over distance duties after a colored lad in his home town, Missoula, Mont., continually beat him in the 100-and 200-yard dashes. . . . Modest Greg revealed to this department that Don Lash, of Indiana, could have been, the best two-miler in the land last year if he wanted to be. . . . “And Lash isn’t through, unless he chooses,” Greg said. . . . The Indiana State Policeman would be tops, according to Rice, if he had an opportunity to train. . .. The “little bugger” doesn’t feel right when he tries for records. . . . He runs according to his opposition.
Rice, at 138 pounds, held a pow-wow Thanksgiving Day and carried home the sixth annual Central A.A.U. Thanksgiving Day cross-country run. ... His time was 15 minutes three seconds for the three-mile 188-yard course in Chicago’s Jackson Park. . . . Greg reveals his greatest thrill' was his three-mile record run last year in 13:55.9.
The plot thickens in the interhall football story. . . . Dillon and St. Ed’s will play the final tournament game Sunday. . . . These teams definitely did not reach this final game gratis. ... We can all look forward to an outstanding inter hall spectacle in the Stadium Sunday. . . . A prediction: Notre Dame’s basketball team will play an interesting schedule, but it will not be an undefeated one. . . . We expect to see Coach Keogan use a number of sophomores this year. . . . Wonder when the Irish hardwood forces will play Indiana and Purdue. . . .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
- py ALBERT DEL ZOPPO
Consistent—that, in one word, sums up Phil Sheridan’s end play on this year’s Notre Dame football squad. From Saturday to Saturday no other lineman has displayed such sound, steady football as has this full-blooded Irishman from Rutherford, N. J. Phil’s game doesn’t sparkle; his play has not merited such newspaper superlatives as “sensational” and “magnificent.” And yet hardly a Saturday goes by without the radio announcers and
sports writers commenting on the excellent work of this Notre Dame left end.
Philip Sheridan is a fine end chiefly because of his alertness. He seldom makes mistakes. On defense he is a tough man to fool, seeming to possess that good football sense which tells him just when to crash and when to float. And on offense Phil is every bit as good in carrying out his assignments. He knows how to lay a good block, and he knows how to maneuver when going downfield to cover punts.
Phil’s best football efforts this season have been exhibited before out-of-town crowds. At Champaign, Ill., he alone, by his brilliant behind - the - line tackling, almost cut in half the rushing statistics compiled by the Zuppke men. And in Yankee Stadium the following week — though he had set his heart on catching a touchdown pass for the Jersey folks who had come to see him play—he had to be content with turning in the best individual defensive play of the afternoon.
Off the gridiron this Notre Dame end seems to be a reticent fellow. He’s not a “mixer,” and those who don’t know him might think him to be shy. But there is no evidence of his shyness when he gets into a football uniform. Phil works hard, loves to mix it up, and plays for keeps.
Sheridan is probably one of the best • all-around athletes ever to enroll at No
tre Dame. At St. Mary’s High in Rutherford, N. J. Phil Sheridan earned 14 letters, and merited the distinction of being the best athlete ever to graduate from that school. Phil also won football, basketball and baseball honors at Hun Prep school in Princeton. Since coming to N. D., however, Sheridan has confined his athletic activity to football mainly because he is interested in his courses in the College of Commerce. Be-
cause of an intense liking for baseball, however, it is not unlikely that in this, his senior year, Phill will try out for an infield position on Jake Kline’s baseball squad.
Phil Sheridan isn’t that type of fellow who points with pride at his own athletic accomplishments, but neither is he the type that will discredit the doings of others. That’s why he willingly admits that his uncle, Martin Sheridan, was three times crowned Olympic discus champion—1904-06-08. Phil also proudly acknowledges that Johnny Kelly, last year’s N. D. football captain, was his team-mate and chum in his prep school days.
Fencing Coach Explains Fundamentals of Sport
This is the first in a series of three articles on the fundamentals of fencing. It is the purpose of the series to enable readers to watch fencing matches with a greater appreciation based upon accurate knowledge of the art.
The sport of fencing is steadily becoming more popular in the United States. At present it is estimated that there are 100,000 fencers in our land. But spectator interest in this sport, though likewise on the increase, is re-tarted considerably by the difficulties at first encountered in understanding a fencing bout. These brief paragraphs will attempt to explain the most important rules and conventions as well as the basic technique of the sport.
The purpose in fencing is to touch the opponent with your weapon while preventing him from touching you. A “touch” is a valid hit made on a valid part of the body. Touches are scored by thrusting and lunging, and they are avoided by parrying or retreating. The validity of touches is determined by a director and four judges. The director watches the general action and two judges watch each fencer. At a signal from any judge, the director halts the action, makes an analysis of the play, asks each judge if a touch has been scored, and awards the point. Regarding the validity of any touch, a judge may answer yes, no or abstain.
The director also has a vote, used in case of disagreement among the judges, which may overrule the opinion of one but never of both the judges watching the same man.
Bouts are conducted on a rubber mat or strip about 40 feet long and 6 feet wide. At the beginning of each bout the contestants stand at opposite ends of the mat, salute, and advance to the center to begin fighting. A fencer who retreats from the mat during the action is warned the first time and loses a point the second time.
There are three weapons in fencing: the foil, the epee and the sabre. An intercollegiate dual meet will have 17 or 27 bouts—nine in foil and either four or nine in both epee and sabre. Though the basic principles are similar in the three weapons, there are certain differences in the weapons themselves, as well as in rules and technique.
Next week: Foil and Epee Fighting.
—Walter M. Langford
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
AS I SEE IT
By John Patterson
Carl Snavely isn’t much of a football coach! Howard Jones’ system is outmoded! Lynn Waldorf should he fired! Buff Donnelli (of little, but mighty Duquesne) has a pumpkin where his head should be! And Elmer Layden—wow!
How fickle are the football fans, and yet how infallible!
This is that time of the year when the turkeys and football coaches are ducking the axe. The aftermath has come, and no one but the poor coach is blamed for defeat. Less seldom is that same coach blamed for victory.
Little Duquesne down in Pittsburgh was touted to be the power of the East along with Cornell — the sports writers and fans all said it was too bad Duquesne had such a bum schedule — it was a great club. Cornell, of course, well Cornell was just too, too. Duquesne lost; Cornell lost twice. Or should it be said that Snavely University and Donnelli College were defeated?
Poor Howard Jones, out in the land where it never rains according to the Chamber of Commerce, sheds tear upon alligator tear every Saturday about sunset. The U.S.C. alumni body cries, too, but they also throw daggers — at Jones. Mr. Waldorf finally tasted sweet victory at the hands of a failing Notre Dame team, but sooner or later someone will remember that Northwestern has been kicked around aplenty this fall.
Never since 1930 has a Notre Dame team received such colossal praise after the first three games as this 1940 edition. Sports writers, students, the subway alumni, and the real alumni, said this was the team of the age. Every player was an All-American; the second team was worthy of All-American mention. Few even remembered there was a coaching staff.
Now — suggest that Elmer Layden didn’t play every position on the field against Iowa and Northwetsern and you’ll get an argument. Notre Dame’s team won the first six; Layden lost the last two. Bunk!
Something happened. Maybe the Irish were overrated, maybe the early season opponents were too easy, nobody really knows. But the second-guessers are having an elegant feast on the cake of criticism.
Methinks that most are saying Notre Dame has lost because there is no psychology used by the coaches. That’s like calling the players a bunch of infants
who have to be coddled into victory. No more need be said about that.
The intelligent answer is Iowa was the team that didn’t fumble on Nov. 16; Northwestern was the team that had the stronger line on Nov. 23.
Poor Schmidt of Ohio State!
St. Eds vs. Wildcats
At one time there were seven gridders from St. Edward’s hall in the Irish lineup when they played Northwestern Wildcats at Dyche stadium last Saturday. The seven were: L. E. Ray Ebli, L. T. Jim Brutz, L.G. Bob Maddock, R.G. Herky Bereolos, R.E. Johnny Kovatch, R.H. Steve Juzwik, and Q.B. Jackie Hayes. Right guard Joe Laiber and right half Steve Bagarus, both also of St. Ed’s, displayed their ability as the game progressed. A center, right tackle, left half, and fullback from St. Ed’s were all that was needed to complete a varsity eleven from that hall.
With the possibility of the interhall title going to St. Ed’s, and the fine representation of this hall on the varsity roster, it looks as though Father Gorman’s boys have a corner on the local grid talent this season.—Jack Dinges
Greg Rice Carries On
Greg Rice, former distance star and captain of the Notre Dame track team of ’39 won the sixth annual Central Amateur Athletic Union Thanksgiving cross country run at Chicago with a record-breaking 15 minutes and three second for the three mile run last Friday.
Rice, carrying the colors of the South Bend Athletic Association, ran the event nearly a half-minute ahead of the old mark established in 1938 by Mel Trutt of Indiana University.
He is scheduled to run in the Mid-
You know good cloth and cut when you see it — and you will see it in ADLER-ROCHESTER made-to-measure clothes.
Tweeds, coverts and Shetlands — in suits or topcoats . . . distinction in quality and style — at a price that will surprise you.
PARKER-WINTERROWD 1151/2 - 1171/2 N. Main Street
JOHN SIEVERT	CAPT. MILT “MOOSE’ PIEPUL	JOHN RYAN
234 Akimni	107 Ahunni	337 Walsh

State cross-country tournament at Plain-field, Ind. Dec. 9 in competition with such track luminaries as Dick Mehl and Don Lash.
Yesterday Greg ran in the National A.A.U. Cross Country meet at Detroit.
—Francis Carver
" Fighting 69th" Movie
For Saturday Afternoon
Saturday at 1 and 3:30 pan. the feature motion picture presentation at Washington Hall will be the Warner Brothers’ film, “The Fighting 69th,” starring James Cagney and Pat O’Brien. A color cartoon and an RKO news reel will accompany it on the program.
—Mark G. McGrath
ORDER NOW ....
There is yet time for you to order
CHRISTMAS PORTRAITS
from your DOME negative
At our downtown studio or in the office in WALSH HALL basement.
Any size — framed or in a folder — a gift that your family or friends will prize.
BAGBY STUDIO
PHOTOGRAPHERS
110 West Colfax Avenue
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SAM'L SPIRO & CO.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
'"Manhattan
Shirts, Pajamas, Handkerchiefs . . . Mansco Underwear
AlPINER lor your SIeep~Semester
Bed yourself down in surplus comfort for the third of your college life spent in sleep. Alpiner is the ski suit idea perfected by Manhattan for rumple-less slumber. Knitted, neat, and in rich dark colors, it’s also mighty right for lounging around before the shut-eye session. More good looks but no more cost than the usual sleep wear... $2—the Manhattan Alpiner.
The Manhattan Shirt Company, 444 Madison Ave., N. Y.C.
B Squad Men Carry on—
17 Receive A.A. Monograms
“They are the only unscored on, untied, undefeated, and ‘unrecognized’ group on the campus,” said William (Bill) Cerney about the “B” squad. “As a whole they are a resourceful group of individuals. Some, through hard work and determination, have developed well in the past and others will develop into fine players. Take this year, Bob Osterman, Paul Patten and John Lanahan are now varsity men, but they were on the “B” squad not long ago. And “Bunny” McCormick and Frank Biagi were just two of many who worked their way up in the past.”
“Bill” Cerney is coach of the “B” squad and No. 1 scout for the football coaching staff. During football season he is definitely not a man of leisure. His scouting work sends him all over the country on game weekends — this week he will be in California to see the Southern California-U.C.L.A. game. During the week he coaches the “B” squad and diagrams the plays of the teams he has scouted. Mr. Cerney, by the way, was known as the Fifth Horseman in the days of the famous Four Horesmen when he was understudy to the present head coach, Elmer Layden.
But to go back to the “Iron Men” of the “B” squad as Mr. Cerney calls them. What about all the different systems they must learn during the course of a season? Again we refer to Mr. Cerney:
‘Different systems are merely a matter of different spacing in the backfield and line. It’s something like building a house. No matter what type you build, Gothic, Colonial, or Modern, you always have to build a foundation first. Football is the same, the fundamentals, blocking, tackling, charging, and ball carrying are all-important regardless of the system used.”
At this time it is interesting to note that the “B” squad used plays from three different systems in their game with St. Benedict’s this year: Carnegie Tech, Georgia Tech, and College of Pacific plays. Notre Dame won this game, 7 to 0. The game was featured by an 82-yard return of the opening kickoff by Nick Pepelnjak for the winning touchdown.
Nick Pepelnjak, Ed Stelmaszek, Joe Postupack, Owen McGoldrick, Bill Lu-koskie, Ed Kopshever, and Roy Cestary received specific mention from Mr. Cerney as having fine potentialities towards making the varsity in the next year or two. Also, however, came the phrase, “and, of course, others.”
Seniors who have stayed out for foot-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
ball for four years though on the “B” squad, receive an Athletic Association monogram. These are men who have “stuck” for four years; some were kept off the varsity by injuries, others were hindered by their size, and still others had the spirit but couldn’t quite measure up to varsity calibre. Men who will receive their A.A. award this year are: Charles Farrell, R.H., Okmulgee, Okla.;
Select your
MEDICO PIPE
from the largest pipe stock in South Bend.
LET MEDICO BE YOUR NEXT PIPE The wisest dollar you ever spent
With its 66 Baffle filter, FRANK MEDICO accomplishes what no other pipe has ever achieved. Ask any man who smokes one.
'U ABSORBENT FILTFRSj
CENVINE FIITEBS FM HEMM PIKE MCmtNLYMTMS ■EP* BUCK Ml
Alfred Frericks, L.H., Marion, Ohio; Edward Hoyne, R.E., Dayton, Ohio; Martin Ingwerson, L.E., Sandusky, Ohio; Francis Laureman, R.H., Hammond, Ind.; John Maloney, C., Boise, Idaho; Clarence Marquardt, R.H., Oak Park, BL; John Mortell, C., Kankakee, Hl.; Vincent Sposato, F.B., Mt. Vernon, N. Y.; George Thompson, R.H., Katonah, N. Y.; Noel Wilkins, R.H., Milford, Conn.; Walter
Bruggner’s
Cigar Store
110 N. MAIN STREET
IN THE J. M. S. BUILDING
The Natural N. D. Hang-Out
Cronin, L.G., Detroit, Mich.; Thaddeus Cassidy, R.H., Altoona, Pa.; James Es-sick, Fairview, Pa.; Thomas Grimes, R.E., Birmingham, Ala.; Harry John, Tackle, Milwaukee, Wis.; and George Marcucci, L.H., Oak Park, Hl.
—Robert LeMense
University Archives Aids History Studies
In as much as there has been a growing interest in American Catholic history, the Notre Dame Archives has proved a necessity to students of history. Besides giving great help to the graduate students, the Archives have supplied important material which wiH be used in furthering the causes of beatification of Mother Elizabeth Seton and Bishop Frederick Baraga.
The University Archives are considered to be the most complete source of information existing on American Catholic history from 1800 to 1870.
A few of the books published in the last two years and which have drawn from the Archives’ material are:
Orestes A. Brownson, by A. M. Schlesinger; The Catholic Church in Indiana 1789-1834, by the Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., and In Winter We Flourish, by Anna S. McAllister. -	-
Studies forthcoming which will use Archive material are:
Centennial History of the University of Notre Dame, by Mr. James Corbett; History of the Diocese of Natchez, by the Rev. Henry Bergeron, C.S.C.; The Influence of Henry Thoreau, by Prof. Arthur Christy of Columbia University; Life of Charles Warren Stoddard, by Dr. Carl Strovan; and Life of Bishop John Timon of Buffalo, by the Rev. Ralph Bayard, C.M.—Bob Nenno.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to KOGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St Phone 4-8251
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Add Russell Schultz
To Infirmary Staff
F. Russell Shultz, R.N., a native of Fort Wayne, Ind., a former student at Notre Dame, in 1936-37 and a graduate of the Alexin Brothers Hospital in St. Louis, has recently been added to the nursing staff of the Student Infirmary.
Male nursing is a little-known profession, and one of the few in which there is relatively no unemployment. Part of this is attributable to the fact
HOW TO PLAN
YOUR TRIP
BACK HOME
The South Shore can help you plan your holiday vacation trip to and from home.
Whether you live in Montana, New Mexico, Alabama, any place in the U. S. A. or Canada, we can give you complete routing, take care of every travel detail.
The South Shore sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago . . . Come in now and arrange your trip back home.
For complete information see
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
TO CHICAGO
■r
ONE WAY FROM SOUTH BEND
that there are only between five and ten thousand registered male nurses in the country. There will probably be a large increase of their number in the near future, as the demand for their services far exceeds the supply. Several new schools of nursing have been founded recently for the sole purpose of training these “men in white.” A large proportion of them are employed in neuropsychiatric institutions where strength ■ sometimes is important as well as nursing skill, and many are with large industrial companies. —Bill Welch
Irish Will Leave Tuesday
For Battle With Trojans
One hundred thousand people will jam the Los Angeles Coliseum on Dec. 7 to see the Irish of Notre Dame battle the Trojans of Southern California. Though not the same crew that roared through two perfect seasons capped off by Rose Bowl victories over Duke and Tennessee, the Trojans still retain enough of their former power to make things interesting for the Irish. Their “dream” team of ’39 has been shattered by the graduation of such stalwarts as Grenny Lansdell, Doyle Nave, Amby Schindler, Harry Smith, Bill Fisk and Bob Winslow, but Howard Jones has found capable replacements in Mickey Anderson, Bob Peoples, Jack Banta, and Bob Robertson. “Antelope” Al Krueger, hero of the Trojan’s last second Rose-Bowl victory over Duke in 1939, is back at end as is ponderous Ben Sohn, Smith’s running mate at guard last season. These two are the bulwarks of a brawny, though inexperienced, forward wall
The Laydenmen, still smarting from the sting of last year’s 20-12 defeat, are anxious to prove to fans and sports writers alike that the Hawkeye and Wildcat “incidents” were far below the standard of Notre Dame football.
Benny Sheridan isn’t around to worry the Trojans any longer, but then “Dippy” Evans could make it a nice Christmas for Mr. Layden with a few long runs of which he is capable. Pete Kelly, Johnny Gubanich, Bob Osterman, Johnny O’Brien, Tom Gallagher, Milt Piepul, Bob Saggau, and a few others would like to round out their careers at Notre Dame with a victory over the troublesome Trojans.
With U. S. C. trying to salvage some of its lost glory (their lone victory being Illinois), and the Irish attempting to live up to their early-season press notices, it should prove to be quite a ball game.
The squad will leave the campus about 2:00 p.m. Tuesday and take a Southern Pacific train from Chicago leaving at 5:45. They will arrive in Tucson, Ariz.
at 7:15 (MT) where they will practice Thursday and Friday in the University of Arizona stadium. Scheduled arrival in Pomona, Cal. is 7:00 a.m. Saturday and arrival in Los Angeles at 11:50.
—Al Clark
SHOE DEN for MEN
New Polar Boots Lamb-lined for Snug Comfort Warm friends and cozy companions for winter work or play, these handsome adaptations of the custom-type chukka shoe. They snuggle up around your ankle — enfolding the foot in thick, yielding lamb’s wool, for healthful protection against chilling cold. Try on a pair today.
$7.50
I* As advertised ia Life, Esqaire, aad Tie Saturday Evening Post.
Other shoes in CAMPUS STYLES from $3.28 to $16.50
PAUL 0. KUEHN
120 So. Michigan'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21

Pack up your Christmas GIFTS from the N. D. Bookstore
More time to select your Gifts at leisure now . . . and more time to relax when you get home.
All Gifts wrapped FREE!
For Any CHRISTMAS CARD in the store — some scenes of the Campus included.
Suggestions:
N. D. LAPROBES N. D. PILLOWS PEN and PENCIL SETS STATUES PRAYER BOOKS ROSARIES
and many other items

Student Architects Win
National Design Contests
Since the beginning of the new schoolyear in September, students of_the department of architecture have maintained their past reputation for winning prizes in national contests on proficiency of original design work. Competing in nation-wide contests, Notre Dame’s neophyte architects have won in contests this fall over other college students from every part of the country.
In designing a ski-club to accommodate 200 members and have sleeping facilities for 65, Camiel Brache and John Carney obtained a “mention,” which is an award of merit in architectural contests. Donald McGrath received a “mention hold” which entitles him to the possibility of a higher award.
John J. Sherer received a mention” for his design of a wooden footbridge over a highway. Professor Montana pointed out the importance of this award, showing that only four awards were made out of 200 entrants in this contest.
Milton Paskin, John McHugh and Douglas Haley were awarded “mentions” for designing a consul’s office and residence for use in South America.
With emphasis on current events, the architecture students are concentrating their efforts on projects of national interest. Class B students, for example, are designing an officer’s training camp. Class A is designing an airplane base for defense purposes and use in the Pacific Ocean. Class C is working on a sales office for a residential development.
—Bob Nenno
Three Veterans Try Out
For Varsity Debate Team
First round tryouts for varsity debate were conducted this week by William J. Coyne, director of debate. Approximately 40 men handed in their names for the tryouts. Aspirants were required to give a seven-minute constructive speech and a three-minute rebuttal on this year’s intercollegiate debate question: “Resolved: That the nations of the western hemisphere should form a permanent union.” No teamwork was required. Those surviving the first tryouts will be informed and invited to participate in the final tryouts to be held in about ten days. Contestants will be required to change sides for the final tryouts.
Milt Williams, Bill Meier and Tom Grady are returning members of last year’s “A” squad entering the tryouts; John O’Loughlin and Jack Burke who have also entered the tryouts were members of last year’s “B” squad. This year’s “A” squad has before them the enviable
SWEATER TIME By WILSON BROTHERS
THE NEW "SKIPPER"
Just the sweater for these wintry blasts. All colors and styles.
Other Sweaters
$3.00 and $3.95
TWO WAY COLOR SHIRTS $1.65
In gabardine or poplin . . . two pockets . . . saddle stitched . . . for school or sports.
Others at $2.00
AT OUR NEW MEN’S SHOP
GEO. WYMAN
AND COMPANY
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MAX ADLER
"ON THE CORNER" . . . Michigan at Washington
record set by last year’s squad of 22 wins against 8 losses. Last year’s “B” squad won 10 and did not lose any debates. Last year the team successfully toured the East. This year’s schedule is not yet completed.—Robert LeMense
Where You’ll Find the Largest, Most Complete Assortment of Arrow Shirts, Shorts and Ties
It's Adler's for Arrows!
Politics Club Meets
At the Academy of Politics bi-monthly meeting last Tuesday night, associate member Jack Burke delivered a paper on the effects of the present conscription law. Burke endeavored to point out the inconsistencies of the law.
The business part of the meeting was taken up with a discussion of the club’s radio program, which is under the chairmanship of Harry W. Murray. After this discussion Lawrence Burns introduced a resolution that the Academy should provide appropriate keys for the members at the end of the schoolyear.
Thomas F. Carty, president of the academy, reported on the results of the debate on the third term issue, which was sponsored by the Academy of Politics on the evening of Oct. 29.
Nothing succeeds like Sussex
Campus bigwigs who corral most of the extracurricular honors without half trying, are usualpretty well dressed. It’s a addicts. Arrow shirts and ties do things for you.
Take that new Arrow Sussex shirt with widespread collar—a handsomer shirt was never designed for $2. It’s a honey!
See it today in the new candy stripes ... 5 diferent colors with ties ($1.) and handkerchiefs (35c) to aid and abet it.
ARROW SHIRTS
ly tne guys mat are cinch they’re Arrow
Villagers Club Plans Skating Party Dec. 6
A roller skating party, sponsored by the Notre Dame Villagers’ club, will be held next Friday evening, Dec. 6, in Melody Gardens, Playland Park, in South Bend.
Skating hours will be from 7:30 to 11 p.m. Tickets, now on sale at the cafeteria and by Villager members, are 25 cents per person.
Arrangements have been made to furnish bus transportation to and from the rink for Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students, who will be granted permission to attend.
Bob Schulz is general chairman for the party. Assisting him are Bob Simpson, John Lane, and Jerry Feeney, ticket chairmen; and Bud Russell, transportation chairman.—Bob Uhl
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE, O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D. E C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
Mass Calendar: Dec. 1-7
Sunday, 1—First of Advent. 2d prayer, the Blessed Virgin (in Advent), 3d, the Church.
Monday, 2—St. Bibiana, Virgin, Martyr. Mass: Me expectaverunt (in Common) 2d prayer, the Feria (from Sunday) , 3d, the Blessed Virgin, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Tuesday, 3—St. Francis Xavier, Confessor. 2d prayer, the Feria (from Sunday) 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, 4—St. Peter Chrysologus, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor. 2d prayer, the Feria from Sunday) 3d, St. Barbara, Virgin, Martyr, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
Thursday, 5—Ferial. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d prayer, St. Sabba, Abbot, 3d, the Blessed Virgin, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Friday, 6—St. Nicholas, Bishop, Confessor. Second prayer, the Feria (from Sunday), 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Saturday, 7—Vigil of the Immaculate Conception. St. Ambrose, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor. Second prayer from preceding Sunday, 3d, the Vigil, 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo. Last Gospel, of the Vigil. Alternate mass; of the Vigil, 2d prayer, St. Ambrose, 3d, the Sunday, 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Airline Official Speaks
Before Senior Engineers
Mr. Ealph S. Damon, American Airlines official, was guest speaker at the monthly meeting of the Notre Dame section of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences held last Wednesday. Senior engineers were required to attend this instead of their usual weekly lecture so that they would have the opportunity of hearing Mr. Damon.
Mr. Damon’s talk was on “The Operation of a Commercial Airline.” Probably the most important topic dealt with under this title was the maintenance of equipment.
Mr. Damon received an A.B. degree from Harvard University in 1918. He has worked as an executive in the aeronautical field since 1921. From 1921 to 1935 he served in various executive positions with the Curtiss Aeroplane and Motor Company. He developed the Curtiss-Wright “Condor” commercial transport in 1933. Since 1935 Mr. Damon has been vice president in charge of operations and director of American Airlines, Inc. He is at present located at LaGuardia Field in New York.
—Bill Herzog
When it Rains
with a new 1^
Makers of the Aetna Insured Hat... $3.50.
Not only a new color but a new band and a new edge. Khaki is the color—with a felt bind-ingofcontrasting color.
UNIVERSITY
S5.00
LEE HATS
358 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y. f*REG. U. S. PATENT OFFICE
WHY LOOK LIKE AN OCEAN FREIGHTER?
Wear ALLIGATOR
Presenting The ALLIGATOR
KNEE LENGTH COAT
We styled this coat for YOU_it’s short, full cut, has heavy stitching at bottom and cuffs . . . and has a water repellent finish that will give long lasting dependable service. Superbly tailored of Alligators new Stormwind cloth—light weight yet wind and dust proof! See it today!
$105°
(With Slide Fastener Front, $11 Jiff)
Other Alligator KatonaH SSJS to $26.50
AT BETTER DEALERS EVERYWHERE
THE ALLIGATOR CO, St. Lowi, Los Angola No* Y«fc
ALLIGATOR
because . . . IT S SURE TO R A i N
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Develop New Machine To Count Bacteria
One of the more recent machines to be developed and used in the Biology building is a new automatic counter which will count the number of bacteria in any given solution by multiples of ten.
A certain amount of the solution is placed under the microscope on a plate that revolves slowly. A beam, passing from below the plate up through the microscope to a photo-electric cell, is
l broken by the passage of bacteria. Each time the beam is broken the machine registers and a dial shows the exact number of bacteria in the solution.
Without the use of this machine it is necessary to count these bacteria by eye, which is a long and difficult process. With the machine, samples of milk or other material in which it is necessary to determine the number of bacteria can be quickly and easily tested. The machine was completely developed at Notre Dame with Prof. J. Arthur Reyniers being chiefly responsible.—Bill O’Neil
Romeo Coaches '44 Cagers
Anthony Romeo, senior from Bayonne, N. J., was recently selected freshman basketball coach by varsity cage mentor, George Keogan. Romeo succeeds Gene Klier, star on last year’s quintet, who had to give up his work with the frosh for duties as lab assistant in the metallurgy department of the college of engineering here at Notre Dame.
Reports indicate that prospects among Tony’s 2 0-some freshman charges will probably provide very good varsity material for the next three years.
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
A very capable company of actors, headed by Clifton Webb, will arrive in South Bend next Wednesday evening to play Kaufman and Hart’s “The Man Who Came to Dinner.” This is the same cast that pleased Chicago’s critics and audiences all last season. We’re lucky for the visit.
Clifton Webb plays Sheridan Whiteside. This world adventurer, towncrier, and friend to celebrities, breaks his hip
Bob Saggau
AND
George Rassas
(both in Alumni Hall)
. . . offering to help you make your selection from a large, well-chosen stock of clothing and accessories
at
HIS
Christmas Gift STORE
Any man on your list . . . father, brother ... or even your room-mate . . . will be glad to receive a gift from GILBERT'S.
MODERN
GILBERT'S
ZUKr
813 S. Michigan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
on the front doorstep of the home of Mr. and Mrs. Stanley in Mesalia, Ohio, and is confined to a wheelchair throughout the play. We’re made to think that the whole world is forced to revolve about that madly-used front room of the Stanley home, since the seat of the world is Whiteside. By phone, wire and radio he sends and receives his far-flung messages. His secretary (played by Sally McMorrow), beautiful and just as sharp as her employer, falls in love with a local newspaper reporter. Whiteside, fearing to lose the valuable side and somewhat in love with her himself, plots against the “moony” affair; this, of- course, in addition to broadcasting on Christmas Eve; receiving gifts from famous people (penguins from Admiral Byrd, a mummy case from Egypt, etc!); railing at his harried nurse, Miss Preen (done well by Ruth Sherrill); tongue-lashing his unfortunate hosts, the Stanleys; starting mutinies within the household and gloating prettily over the results; — all executed from the wheelchair!
We become good friends with Sheridan Whiteside because we wish we had his gall. Clifton Webb keeps the old gamecock on the level of high comedy and cuts a sharp impression into his audience, with a smart Van Dyke, graying hair, elongate cigarette holder, well-tailored clothes and a clever toss of the head.
Just as “Sherry” Whiteside is the authors’ caricature of Alexander Wooli-cott, so Beverly Carlton, actor and musical-playwright, is a friendly thrust at Noel Coward. When you see this play, watch a clever actor in the role. His name is James MacColl. And, of course, rah-dee-dah Hollywood is represented in the person of Whiteside’s beloved loudmouth, Banjo, played by Joey Faye.
Have a good time and prepare to laugh till tears!
THE MUSIC BOX
By Felix Pogliano
Woody Herman. . .
Decca continues its issue of consistently good albums this week with “Blues on Parade,” featuring Woody Herman and “The Band That Plays the Blues.” Twelve sides give excellent variety in the blues field, with every type from the catching swing of the title number and “Farewell Blues” to the hunch-and-peck tempo of “Casbah Blues.” You’ll hear the amazing “Laughing Boy Blues” (a novelty, if you want to put it gently) the short, short tragedy of the clickety-clack “Dupree Blues,” fine guitar work
in “River Bed Blues,” honky-tonk piano in “Peach Tree Street” and the rock of “Dallas Blues,” to mention several. Woody sings the vocal numbers in perfect taste, and the band never lets down. Don’t miss this one. Herman’s latest record, by the way, is “Beat Me Daddy” (he finally got around to it) and “There I Go.” Nicely done. (Decca)
Dick Jurgens’ Ex-. . . .
Maybe Eddie Howard’s ‘Stardust” isn’t what you expected of him, but did you stop to hear the other side? “Old Fashioned Love” gives him a chance to ham, and some of us like him better that way. Besides, Teddy Wilson’s band backs Eddie up on this record. Some people will buy it for that alone. (Columbia).
The Telephone Exchange Boys. . .
Artie Shaw and his Gramercy Five cook up some whipper-do jam on his latest release, “Summit Ridge Drive” and “Cross Your Heart,” both jinglejangle jazz from rim to label. John Guarnieri heads the boogie-woogie harp-

Tie Fleet-wood $5.00
1 op honors” go to Douglas Shoes, too. Snappy plateau models, brogues and other mellow tans in rich,grained leathers and antiqued finishes provide the college man with "stand out” style, comfort and long wear.
fynujlai Shoei
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET Open Saturday Evenings
sichord department, Billy Butterfield plays trumpet, and Artie, of course, rides clarinet clear through both sides. (Victor)
From Panama Hattie. . .
Leo Reisman pairs two more Cole Porter tunes from that production this week — “Make It Another Old Fashioned Please” and “My Mother Would Love You.” With Sara Horn singing the first and Mary Alcott the second, he doesn’t come up to the A-l mark he set last week with “Let’s Be Buddies” and “Fresh as a Daisy,” vocalized by Joan Whitney. But, for our money, he doesn’t have the same material to work with. (Victor)
Latest Hits. . .
Erskine Hawkins — “Norfolk Ferry” and “Put Yourself in My Place” (“Tuxedo Junction” tempo with controls turned to slow heat) (Bluebird). “I’d Know You Anywhere” and “lake the Fella Once Said”—Gene Krupa. (Okeh)
$3*95 - *5
Custom aad Normal-Trad series $7.00
Quality Hose, 4 pairs $1.00
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC
By John W. Larson
The department of music — which during the last few years has showed encouraging signs of proper development—is to be heartily congratulated
for having made possible what was one of the most phenomenal musical experiences this campus has ever known. I am speaking, of course, of the concert presented here several weeks ago by the Trapp Family Singers. Apparently their fame and a knowledge of their musicianship spread rapidly, for Washington Hall could not have held a better crowd had Don Ameche been scheduled. The most unusual Trapps were extremely well received, and I feel sure that the
L Get More Fun Out oHour Sports, Work, Social We-Chew Delicious doublemiht sum Daw
smoothness • • DOUBLEMINT GUM.	'''
Wseefoxyoviselfhowe^^ cheW_ ? . _ fj-eat adds fun to eVJr^?eyps xelieve youi tag DOUBLEMINT gUM y helps sweeten youi
k :	several	ow6 i
-J

volumes of applause which followed each work could hardly have been anything but sincerely spontaneous. And has a Washington Hall audience ever been so breathless, as when it heard some of those delicate polyphonic passages from Palestrina or di Lassus?
If I were compelled to judge which works on the program were the best performed, I think I should have to choose the first three—that is, the five-part motet of di Lassus, Victoria’s “Ave Maria,” and the “Agnus Dei” from Palestrina’s Missa Brevis. Unquestionably, all the superlative abilities of this group of singers were magnificently brought forth in these three compositions. Marvelous effortless breathing, incisive attacks which the intricate polyphonies weaving of voices demands, wonderfully clear and full-bodied voice tones, even on the most subdued passages — these admirable qualities could all be found within the compass of these first three works. I do not think I have ever heard anywhere women’s voices more suitable and appropriate for the singing of liturgical music than in the Trapp family. One would have to go far, I believe, to find women’s voices that sounded so nearly like the “frozen” and yet warmly clear tones you get in a crowd of good boy sopranos. These women are obviously from a musical and cultural tradition which knows nothing of that obnoxious hysterical tremolo to be heard in far too many women choristers.
It would have been more satisfying, I suppose, to have been able to hear the Trapp family sing in one of the hall chapels on the campus. They would have been more suited to the size of the group, as well as to the collection of early instruments which the family used. I do not see how the virginal could have been properly enjoyed beyond the first ten rows of Washington Hall. But we are glad to have heard and seen the Trapps. Their program, which covered 400 years of musical development, was admirably chosen and performed.
As persons, the Trapps are all fine representatives of the old Catholic culture of Austria which we think never can be crushed. As musicians, it is evident they may take their places on a stage before the most ill-tempered and demanding critic, and emerge victorious. We of Notre Dame extend best wishes to the Trapp Family Singers. We hope they will not be long in returning.
(The von Trapp Family asked Father Connerton to express their gratitude to the students and others who attended the concert, for their fine reception.
—Editor’s note)

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
These Tips From Layden Will Aid Your Punting
Probably one of the lesser known facts of Elmer Layden’s great playing as one of the Four Horsemen is that the present Notre Dame coach was a great punter. In every game in which he participated, Mr. Layden gained ground for the Irish by his fine kicking.
Elmer’s kicking reached its pinnacle in the Rose Bowl game of 1925, in which Stanford succumbed, 27-10, to a furious Irish offensive. The game was the final curtain call for the Four Horsemen. Time and again, Elmer Layden’s kicks drove Stanford back. His punts were like rifle shots, giving his ends time to get down the field and assault the safety-man.
Discussing the art of punting, Mr. Layden offered a few tips for the interhall and sandlot kickers:
1.	HOLD the ball with both hands well in front of you and not too high. The laces should be facing up. Place-the left hand on top of the ball, the right hand underneath the nearer end of the ball. The fingers should be spread out, with the middle-finger of the right hand on the under-seam. This finger is the guide when dropping the ball.
2.	STAND with a slight bend in your body, feet and shoulders forward. Your feet should be a few inches apart, with the right foot slightly in front of the left. Balance yourself on the balls of your feet.
3.	DROP the ball well in front of yourself. The ball should be dropped straight down, using the middle-finger of the right hand as a guide. If you wish to kick low, point the front end of the ball down and drop the ball in that way. If you wish to kick high, point the front end of the ball up and drop the ball in that manner, using the middle finger as a guide in either case.
4.	STEPPING must be done while dropping the ball. The right and left feet are still in position No. 2. First take a short step forward with the right leg; then the left leg must take a longer step, but not too long. All your weight is on your left leg which should be planted solidly on the ground
Stepping is important. It helps you to aim the ball in kicking it away from the safety man, and out of bounds.
5.	SWING your right leg in an arc, similar to that of a pendulum. The foot should be swung simultaneously with the dropping of the ball. Depress your toes and meet the ball with the arch of your foot. The foot should be swung toward the left so it hits the ball on the outside of the foot to produce a spiral kick.
If you have stepped too far with your left leg in No. 4, your right leg will not have enough swing in its arc to meet the ball with sufficient force to produce a good kick.
6.	FOLLOW THROUGH by continuing the forward movement of your body even after you have met the ball.
“A fellow should practice constantly,” said Mr. Layden. “All boys have latent ability.”
Of the kickers he has seen, Elmer
HnnDKERCHIEF TEST PROVES vmn zoniHnwinvs sraTusyp^
Always clean and free from goo no matter how often you smoke it. Challenging higher-priced pipes in briar quali-w^-^s B ty and value. \B.
WM. DEMMIN * OU NEW YORK
CISI18N sum
:jwmss IESS1N mil
^Oq
HE550D GUARD miLflno
After ne USC • Notre Dane Gone
iffKEMPS
MUSIC
at Hm AMBASSADOR’S warH-faaovs
•"“DiQiowwMtZ
World’s Greatest Pick-Pocket
danqeTappi lacoMparable Daaciag Star
BIDAY NIGHT $100, SATUftDAY $L50
3400 WILSHIRE BLVD. • LOS ANGELES

rates Bill Wood, present coach of Army, the greatest. Close behind Wood, Elmer ranks Shakespeare,' Stevenson, and Sag-gau, three Notre Dame men. Of the present team, Bob Saggau is the best according to Coach Layden. He says, “Bob has a wonderful kicking leg, and that extra snap of the knee which he has mastered has added many yards to his long punts.” Captain Piepul and Evans are also considered fine kickers.
—Bill Rogers
DO YOU SMOKE THE CIGARETTE THAT IT^ THE SMOKERS CIGARETTE
Make your next pack Chesterfield. They satisfy with their Definitely Milder, Cooler, Better Taste.
. MAKE YOUR NEXT PACK
nesterfiela
BETTE DAVIS starred in Warner Bros current hit "THE LETTER
CHESTERFIELD STARS A
MILDER
BETTER TASTE
Made for smokers like yourself
Its right combination of the best tobaccos that grow and its modern cigarette making methods, make Chesterfield a completely satisfying smoke, pack after pack. That’s why people call it