ENJOY THE HOUDAYS AHEAD IN A NEW IVY TUXEDO
■■■I
$42.50
Put Ivy smartness in the holidays ahead in a new After Six tuxedo that combines the comfort of featherlight tropical fabric with the smartness of satin shawl lapels, natural shoulders, unpleated trousers. In handsome blueblack. Select yours now in time for the holiday season . . . charge it the Campus Shop way.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
1
Get what you need now ... or for the holidays ahead . . . and charge it the Campus Shop way. You can pay one-third in June, 1960 . . . one-third in July, 1960 . . . and one-third in August, 1960. No finance or carrying charge, of course.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
December 18, 1959
fafWUMA&tonA
REPLY FROM BUTLER
1
during the Christmas holidays select your clothing and furnishings
AT OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP
In our New York, Boston, Chicago and West Coast stores, an interesting selection of good-looking suits, sportwear, evening clothes and outerwear awaits your visit... made to our exacting specifications in sizes 35 to 42... and all moderately priced for such fine clothing.
Suits, $60 to $70 • Tweed Sport Jackets, $45 Topcoats, from $75 • Outerwear, from $50
ESTAIUSHEOltlS
It is not the usual policy of the Scholastic to print letters of this?, length. In this particular case, hoivever, toe feel that the writer should be al-loived to defend himself.
Editor:	’
During the last few weeks, I have been tempted on a number of occasions to write you about a number of inac- i curacies that have appeared in Scholastic. I finally came to the conclusion that if I didn’t write soon the letter would be too long to mail with a 4-cent * stamp. I doubt if it is worth more than four cents to try and correct the many misconceptions the Scholastic has given its readers. It would probably be far /, cheaper and take less time to talk to them personally. At least the few who read further than the “Escape” column.
I might as well start with the latest x blurb, aimed at student government. As a matter of fact there were buses running to the train and South Shore stations at Thanksgiving. The same buses »■ will' also run at Christmas. They will run from the circle to the New York Central station and the South Shore station. Also the various geographical clubs m that are chartering planes will run buses to the airport. As you should know, Northern Indiana Transit has a franchise to run buses in South Bend. As * long as they are in business we cannot run buses on a regular basis and charge for them. With the help of Mayor Voorde of South Bend we were able to get permission from the bus company and the union run buses for 4 the students if they were free of charge. Mr. Penninger, who runs the Dixie Shuttle for the social commission agreed to shuttle the students downtown on these two occasions for free. The buses do not run on a regular schedule, as soon as they are full they leave. Student government is-very anxious to do v something about the transportation problem caused by the bus strike. However, since Northern Indiana Transit has an exclusive franchise there is nothing we '• can do on a regular basis. I hope that Mr. Penninger’s school buses will help the situation at the beginning of the Christmas vacation. Also, I might men-tion that Indiana Cab will have extra cabs and limousines in service to held the students catch their trains, planes, etc.
(Continued on page 24)	7
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO


The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second riass mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The ’ magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 t, Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Pub-lished weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors. Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic


; j| The Notre Dame ,

7 sf.‘

1
♦
F
I
s
X 1/
Vol. 101 No. 11
DECEMBER 18, 1959
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief 7	7
RONALD BLUBAUGH
associate editors <’’: ’-'
- E. (TED) THOMPSON CHARLES TAUSCHE
news editor and staff . , ROYRUBELI Wade Clark Arthur Graham
7 Thomas Weiss ; .
features editor and staff CHARLESRIECK
7 Francis Smith ; : Thomas Sullivan , : William Sweeney;
William Veeder •
sports editor and staff .
THOMAS ROSE /
1. William Cary , -X/ J. (Jay) Kilroy 7 > copy editor and staff <
< WALTER RUDGE
7 George Casey
.< \ Peter Geniesse 7'\7" ■ j Thomas Marciniak
art. editor? X?.X i?..t ?■. j JERRY FLORENT
pl^ogruj*^ "'7' X7? ; WALTER DALY, Jr.
businessmanager andsfaff
ROBERT HORN X) < 7 Joseph Finnigan - • TT ■?
- circulation manager 777.7.7
7 7XAy^^RL8AGHX moderator; £7 ? X 7 7'7XU7<
BSBSgS
3 jcl

$

•a

£
$
REV. CHARLES CAREY, c.s.c7
^Philiptlgrrab^^X^X^
”' jdteOk^a7X?XXXX
' th^ds7^eler^lXf7f| YfijiigmA^rte^^^
*« ' : 4 v r'v v . s"**A * ' a* . . ' s $■*> ."V A v x ^t'x^ *
v*V s

- ^Jiidftds'-Bolrt^^^
* “V.	5 v . x*^Sj^e»*vTi"A*s’** 0***	**>
V.
.V>»2
iJwy^lw^
IN KEEPING: Just about this time of year everyone is wishing everyone else a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. In keeping with this pleasant custom, we of the Scholastic would like to take this opportunity to extend our best wishes to all of our readers both on the campus and away. It is our sincere desire that this Christmas will find you with those you hold most dearly and that the new year will bring the realization of your plans and hopes for the future.
THE MAGIC NINETEENTH: Several weeks ago rumors circulated around campus to the effect that school would be dismissed on Friday, December 18. This was completely denied by University officials. In explaining the reason for the late dismissal, it was asserted that the opening date of Christmas vacation always occurs on the 19th of December. This is “traditional.” Perhaps this is true, but we cannot help but ask who set this tradition, and why must it be adherred to for all eternity? Would it not be better if Christmas vacation were the same every year, starting perhaps on the Thursday or at least the Friday before the week end of Christmas, in order to enable students to avoid the heavy week-end traffic? Not only this, but students would receive the same vacation every year, not having holidays which vary from 19 days (1956) to this year’s much shorter two weeks. Obviously nothing can be done for 1959, but perhaps a change for the future is in order.
“ROCKY”: An event of great significance took place on campus last week, although few students stopped to realize it. A nationally recognized political candidate, Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller of the state of New York, was honored at a fund raising dinner sponsored by the third distinct Republican committee. From the standpoint of the University, the most important aspect of this event was that it was held here on campus in the new North Dining Hall. This was the first time in recent history that such an event has been allowed to take place on campus. It is a good sign. Before the end of the school year and the national political conventions this summer, many other candidates, including the winner of the “Patriot of the Year Award” will come to the University. Most of them will give short talks. Governor Rockefeller’s Saturday night statement was somewhat less than earthshaking, but it did give those attending the dinner a good insight into a man who might possibly be running the country in future years. Actually, little more than this can be expected from such visits of prominent candidates. Nevertheless, they are of tremendous importance. Foi- every college student, a potential voter, these visits, the mock convention and the series of articles by well-known politicians now being planned by the Scholastic for next semester are of decided importance. Only by knowing the men and issues involved can he vote intelligently; only by.voting can he fulfill the duties imposed on him by citizenship in this most fortunate of countries.
“REVERIES”: For most seniors the second most important evening of the year will be the Senior Ball (the most important will be graduation). Plans for this all important evening are already being laid, the date has been set and the location has been determined. It is on this last point that we would like to comment. Last week, an election was held in the senior residence halls. The candidates: the Navy Drill Hall and the New Dining Hall. The Drill Hall won. The issue at point was where the Senior Ball would be held. The committee sent out a good deal of literature beforehand pointing out the advantages of both and their deficiencies. Although this material was somewhat slanted toward the Drill Hall, we feel that it had a right to be for certainly the Drill Hall offers the greatest potential foi- striking decorations. The ponds, waterfalls, bridges, etc., that are such a part of this senior week end are eliminated in the Dining Hall although it is a newer building. We feel that the committee has made a wise choice in pushing for the Drill Hall and we question the need of a vote. However, now that the selection has been made, let them not go back on it. No matter how many bids are sold, we do not want the Student Center.
MORE ROOM MORE OFTEN: Students will note that the third district Republican committee was able to rent the North Dining Hall of the University for a strictly partisan and commercial function last Saturday evening. The hall is large, spacious, new and clean, and thus is much in demand for all those who desire a large meeting place. It is most unfortunate indeed, that students are allowed to use it only once a year foi* their dances. Certainly there is some cost involved, but it appears that the hall can be made ready foi- people who are willing to rent it. With proper arrangements, perhaps more dances could be held in the new Dining Hall, especially if the students themselves agree to help in the removal of the tables and chairs which reputedly accounts for much of the cost. It is a shame to see such an ideal dance hall lie black and deserted while the most important dances of the year are being held in a crowded Student Center or the less-than-decorous Drill Hall. We hope something can be worked out. The sooner the better.	—B. T. & T.
Z^BED 0
BEE Q EQBE
3BE1E
ebseq □
a
v
IBEI no inn
3 0 917
□□□ 01
10 1
I M
IV
d
□QBS
N
favRlVN
oBHlslv

□□□
9
a s
□asi
s
BHEHB G3SBBEIIE
SBEnm amna
OlHlOl
tfi/WSNVTGDJl
Contents
Back Page ___________ 26
Campus Scene____________ 9
Commentary______________ 5
Critical Horizons_____ 13
Escape _________________ 7
Odds and Ends__________ 22
L. David Otte__________ 11
Repercussions __________ 4
G. P. Scarpia__________ 19
Sports Picture_________ 21
laaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaamaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiiaiaaaaaaiiiaaaaaaaaaaaiiaal
KQDL KROSSWORD
No. 11
ACROSS
1. Chorus girl
8. Opposite of a seeker
13.	Part of an airplane wing
14.	Almost remote way to act
15.	Likes blondes better, for instance
16.	Come all the way up to Kool’s
17.	Shape of diamonds or tones
18.	These boats take guts
20.	This can be constricting
21.	Sleepy gas 23. Gin____
24. Wrist operation 27. Dig it all—well, almost all
29. Guy in “Guys and Dolls”
31.	Take out, but not on a date
32.	Meanwhile, back at the Latin class
34. Proboscissed 35. Thunderbird’s
Papa 36. A kind of walk 38. Little Florida 39. It used to come 1 before plane 40. This is legal 42. A lot of sailor 44. This is how
Bardot comes in 45. de France 46. Classroom resting places 47. Kools are the
DOWN
1.	Li’l Abner’s creator
2.	What this gun is for
3.	Genus of olives
4.	Kool’s Menthol Magic leaves you more_______
5.	Cockney way of saying 2 Down
6.	Cold hand at bridge?
7.	Followed Sue?
8.	They hang on to skirts
9.	little teapot
10.	Mouthfuls of frankfurter?
11.	Bleach
12.	Remembered— her phone number?
19. Kind of iron
22.	Them_____hills
23.	Venus’ home town
24.	Cried in a ladylike way
25.	Oil from wool for your hair
26.	Magnetizes men
28. Mr. Autry
30. Kools have a very________flavor
33. Pop tune of the 20’s
37. Time for a change? Smoke
41. It rhymes with jerk
43. Alpha’s last
name
When your throat tells you its time for a change you need a real change
YOU NEED THE
oKODL -	C1959* Brown* Williamson
KGDL
MILD MENTHOL KING-SIZE
6
. The Scholastic
* by CHRIS FOLEY
that Christmas
feeling
Just as a special treat and in keeping with the yuletide season, I thought that maybe this week you would be interested in hearing the plans of some of your fellow students for the impending Christmas vacation. I felt sure there would be thoughts of family reunions, Christmas carols, Midnight Mass, eggnog and all the other wonderful things that make Christmas what it is, so I set off down the hall, pencil in hand, to record the expectations of fun and perversion of a few of my neighbors.
HERE’S TO THE JOY OF CHRISTMAS
First stop happened to be at the room of my good friend George Gripe, a lad loved by one and all for his cheerful manner and engaging personality.
“Hiya Georgie, how’s the—”
“I won’t lend you any money and I haven’t got any cigarettes, so will you please get out of here? Would you please?”
“Well gosh George,” I countered, “I just wanted to know what you’re doing over the holidays. I mean Christmas carols and family reunions and Midnight Mass and eggnog, and all the wonderful things that make Christmas what it is. You—”
“Look crumb,” he said, “I just got back from dinner, and you know how long I had to wait in that line? Sixteen lousy minutes I had to wait in that line, and now I got to be pestered by morons like you bustin’ in here to ask idiotic-^ questions about what I’m going to do on my vacation, which is none of your business anyway, so would you please if you don’t mind get out of here?”
“Aw,' Georgie,” I said, “think about tomorrow. You’ll be home, and there’ll be snow on the ground, and Christmas carols and family re—”
“That’s another thing that gets me. That snow!. Every stinkin’ year they gotta have Christmas in December, when its freezing cold and snowing all over the place. Why can’t they have Christmas in the spring, when we< can enjoy it? Oh, no, every lousy year they
got to have it" in December, just so we freeze.”
Perceiving that George hadn’t been touched by the true spirit of the holiday, I ventured further down the hall to the room of old Specs Junglebreath, the smartest kid on our floor. He was at his desk studying.
HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS
“Hiya Specs, got a few minutes to talk?”
“Well,” he said, “I wasn’t scheduled to take a break until 8:15, but I guess I can spare a few minutes.”
“Fine, fine,” I said, “I just wanted to talk about Christmas. You know, Christmas carols, family reunions, Midnight Mass, eggnog, all the wonderful things that make Christmas what it is. Guess you’ll be home this time tomorrow, eh?”	•
“Home?” he asked incredulously. “Why should I be home? You know yourself that you can’t get anything done at home. The atmosphere is simply not conducive to proper study habits. Why would I go home? That would be foolish. Don’t you realize that learning is a year-’round 24-hour-a-day job? You don’t just stop when a holiday comes along. You just knuckle down and get the work out, that’s all. Why should you go home? I can get twice as much done right here. I just don’t understand your reasoning. Herd’s an opportunity :for two solid weeks of review, and you' want to waste it. We’re here at Notre Dame for an education, not for frivolity. Don’t you understand that?”
“Gee Specs, I never thought of it that way. Maybe you’re right. I’ve never stayed around here during a vacation. How’s the food? Do they feed you pretty good?”
“Food? Why should I eat? Don’t you realize that every time you eat you lose study time? Why should—”
I figured it was time to move on. I decided to see what Charlie Goodtime was up to.
CHRISTMAS SPIRITS
“Hiya Charlie, how’s the boy? Ah, I see you’re getting all packed up and ready to go. Just one suitcase, Charlie? You’re traveling light.”
“Traveling light?” he said, “Not quite.
Kid, I’m traveling wet. Look in this ' suitcase — it’s pure liquid.”
He flung open the suitcase and I viewed an assortment of liquors that would put the Chicago club to shame. There were bottles of every description, each one bearing a tag. There was one marked Monday, one Tuesday, one Wednesday, etc., with an enormous ' tankard labeled New Year's Eve.
“Well Charlie, I said, you seem to he all ready to go. What’s this bottle with the timing mechanism?”
“That’s a little invention of mine. ~ You see, we get out of class at 12:20,	.
and at 12:30 that little clock releases a spring that uncorks the bottle and I pours the first one automatic-like.. Don’t : waste a second or a drop.”	.
“Pretty sharp, Charlie, I have to admit. But what’s this?” I said, as I picked up a slender black instrument ... that bore a small gold plate inscribed ' . To Charlie Goodtime, peerless leader and true inebriate.	.
Charlie brushed away a tear and said : . in sobbing tones,	.
“The gang back at Fenwick gave me . that. It’s a stomach.pump. When I was a senior I captained the drinking team	' .
that went all the way to the state finals. ... - , J. Let me tell you about that team — we . -; had a training table where they served nothing but —”	, J
“But Charlie,” I interrupted, “what about Christmas Carols and family re- h unions and Midnight Mass and eggnog ... V and all the wonderful things that make Christmas what it is? What about them, \ ' Charlie?”	; Z >
“I always like to lay down a beer ba«: J in the old stomach before I really get-;X' going, see? Then about three days?<^so after I get home I’m really in the groove — then I taper off a couple of days be- ' - 'pv fore we . . .”	. . ; 7'0*'^
December 18, 1959
IN YOUR FAVORITE PACKAGE DESIGN!
Bes* lighter offer yet! They re windproof, sturdy, handsome —and richly enamelled in full-color baked on! Just tell us which of the 3 great cigarette package designs vou prefer — and order as many of each as you want! But order NOW because offer expires January 31, 1960 —and time flies!
SIND ONLY 60c AND THf BOTTOM FLAP FROM 10 PACKAGES OF
SMART, TIMELY GIFTS — 3 Great Liggett & Myers Brands to Choose From
SPECIAL OFFER
Order as many lighters as you wish!
LIGHTERS, P.O. Box 85A, Mt. Vernon 10, N. Y.
I enclose 60c (no stamps) plus the bottom flap from 10 packages of KM or Chesterfield or Oasis, for each lighter. (Send money and bottom flaps by First Class Mail only.)
(Please Print Plainly)
BOTTOM FLAP
This offer expires Jan. <	31, 1960 and is not valid
i for shipment into states where prohibited, taxed or regulated.
NOTICE: If you are sending in for more than one lighter be sure you have provided sufficient postage to cover additional weight of coins and paper flaps.
_______UM LIGHTERS
CHESTERFIELD LIGHTERS
OASIS LIGHTERS
8
The Scholastic
Gampnd. Scene
MARDI GRAS TO OFFER CADILLAC COUPE
* Buddy Morrow to Play For Friday Night Ball
by JOHN OHALA
t Thirteen years ago Notre Dame celebrated Mardi Gras with a dance held on the Saturday before Ash Wednesday. Notre Dame’s 1960 Mardi Gras spans * five days and features among other things, a dance, a concert, a carnival and a raffle. The object of all this energy is charity. All the proceeds from k the pre-Lenten fete will contribute proportionately to the Charity Chest, the foreign missions and the Student Scholarship Fund.
* The raffle, which is the big feature of the celebration, offers a 1960 Cadillac coupe, series 60, for the grand prize, with a 1960 Pontiac convertible going to the winner of the student prize.
The hall presidents will give two raffle books to each student to sell over the Christmas holidays or by early February. Raffle books will be collected by the hall presidents Jan. 6, Jan. 20 and Feb. 4. Although two books are worth $15.00, the student need turn in only $10.00.
Single guarantee. Those who sell ten raffle books or more will receive a free ticket to the Ball, and due to the limited number of tickets available, this will be the only way to guarantee getting an invitation. It should be noted, however,
MARDI GRAS STUDENT CAR PRIZE
Long, low and up for grabs by a lucky student
that a free ticket will be offered only if the raffle committee is satisfied that the student sold the raffle books himself. The remaining tickets will be given out according to the new lottery system. Application cards for tickets will be provided previous to the drawing on Feb. 5. A list of those names drawn will be published in time for date arrangements to be made.
Enchanted opening. “La Nuit En-chantee.” The Mardi Gras Ball, will beg-in the spectacular week end Friday evening, Feb. 26, as Buddy Morrow and his “Night Train” orchestra provide the romantic mood. Soft, indirect lighting and a fountain of bubbling champagne (denatured) will transform the North Dining Hall into a scene of effervescent splendor.
Saturday afternoon at one o’clock the concert begins starring the well-known Dukes of Dixieland. The Dukes are famous not only for their dixieland music but also for their original between-number acts. The Fieldhouse will be made to accomodate about 4,000 people for this special show. Tickets will be available on the usual basis of first-come, first-serve.
Immediately after the Concert at 3:30, the annual Mardi Gras Carnival commences in the Navy Drill Hall following a brief opening ceremony with a local celebrity. A theme of “Old New Orleans” will.be carried out by re-creating a street scene consisting of a solid front of colorful booths offering games, food or prizes.
YOU WANT TO BE FINED?
The Christmas vacation will bring a number of changes in the normal procedure of borrowing books from the Main Library. Two-week books checked out December 17, 18 and 19 will be due January 4. Books already charged out, must be charged out again on December 17, 18 and 19 if they are to be taken home. Reserve books checked out December 17, 18 and 19 will also be due January 4. Journals, periodicals, reference books and similar material will not circulate.
During the vacation period the library will be open from December 21-24 and from the 28-31. On these days the hours of service will be from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. On December 20, 25, 26 and 27; and January 1, 2 and 3 the Main Library will be closed.
SMC vs. HCS. About 30 clubs and organizations, including the St. Mary’s girls, will sponsor the booths constructed to resemble such things as bars, dice counters or dead-end alleys. Other features of the Carnival will be a stage show by the student nurses from the Holy Cross School of Nursing (St. Joseph’s Hospital) and the display of the two shiny new cars.
Monday night from 7 to 11 is Gamblers’ Night. Sports will have their heyday with such games as Over and Under, Chuck-a-Luck, Black Jack, the roulette wheel and Big Six.
The climax and finale of Mardi Gras comes at ten o’clock on Tuesday night with the drawings for the cars. Three cash prizes will be awarded to the clubs presenting the most originally designed booth, and some St. Mary’s girl will win a round-trip plane ride to Chicago, where she’ll select a $300 wardrobe from Saks Fifth Avenue. Finally, the keys to the new Cadillac and Pontiac will be presented to two people.
Jim Wysocki, general chairman of the Mardi Gras is assisted by Frank Buzolits, ball chairman; Chuck Brieger, carnival chairman; Dick Hendricks, concert chairman; Bill Duma, publicity chairman; George Milton, raffle chairman and Ron Bukowski, executive secretary. Jerry Florent did the art work for the publicity folders and raffle books.
“The charity is the most important feature of this year’s Mardi Gras,” Wysocki said. “Publicity folders showing the need for funds in the foreign missions will be sent to the student’s parents, but it should be emphasized that only the students should sell the raffle books. We think we can expect a big return.”
December 18, 1959
9
Seniors Select Moy 10 Dote for Final Dance; Man-made Waterfall to Highlight Decorations
Although it’s a long time till spring the members of the Senior Ball committee, headed by Ted Dudley, are already planning for “the” social event of the year next May.
An eleven-man committee is well into the preliminary work of the Senior Ball, which is the senior’s last formal dance of his four years at Notre Dame.
The ball will be held on Friday, May 6 from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. in the Navy Drill Hall. The theme of the gala evening will be “Reveries.”
Play by poll. When the officers of the present senior class were elected last spring one of the duties they performed was to conduct a survey to determine which dance band the seniors would want for the ball. The committee contacted the four top bands in the poll; as of right now, Chairman Dudley was able to venture “We have one of the top four bands just about under contract.”
Another survey conducted by the committee indicated that 396 seniors were in favor of holding the affair in the Drill Hall, while 113 preferred to dance in the New North Dining Hall.
With this expression of interest, the committee immediately set to work. Dudley, a marketing senior from Newhall, Cal., expressing the thoughts of his fellow committeemen stated, “We consider this a vote of confidence as well as a challenge that we are able and willing to meet.”
The committee has “favors” in mind which can only be described as “new and original,” and “something never before given at a Notre Dame dance.”
Artists’ conceptions of how the Drill
Touring Players to Return Soon After First of Year
Soon after Christmas vacation one of the nation’s outstanding touring companies will return to the Notre Dame campus by popular demand. January 8 and 9 will see two fine productions by the Catholic University’s Players Incorporated. On the first Friday after the holidays the Players will give a new presentation of Macbeth, one of the best known and, in the opinion of many, the greatest of Shakespeare’s tragedies. The following night they display their versatility in Comedy of Errors, a consistently humorous comedy also by Shakespeare.
The following week end will bring the appearance of a truly distinguished and renowned artist, Sigurd Rascher. Recognized as the unquestioned master of the saxophone, Rascher has an unusual and interesting musical history. As a child he taught himself the instrument and later graduated from the State Academy of Music in Stutgart, Germany. He developed a deep interest in the saxophone while playing in dance orchestras in Europe and decided to become a concert saxophonist.
Hall will look on the evening of the sixth have already been shown to the senior class and work on the decorations is now in progress. The main decoration will be a man-made waterfall tumbling down the front wall of the Drill Hall behind the stage. The water will flow in a semi-circular course along the floor of the Drill Hall and end at the rear of an additional stage that will be built by the committee to serve as the bandstand.
The streaming water will divide the dance floor and the table area, and will be spanned by three rustic bridges. The ball will also be highlighted by special effects lighting apparatus. Also being planned is a fountain with “dancing waters.”
A dinner dance, details of which have yet to be worked out, will be held on Saturday night. The week end will close with a Communion Breakfast Sunday morning in the New Dining Hall.
Assisting Dudley as Executive Chairman is Norb Wiech; Business Manager, Jim Wysocki; Decorations, Bob Baca; Publicity, Guiness McFadden; Refreshments, Len Muller; Accomodations, Bob Nicolazzi; Entertainment, Joe Reynolds; Tickets, John Dorenbusch; Dinner Dance, Bob Toland; Communion Breakfast, Ken Bourgon.	,
Freshman Class Fills Quota During Recent Hall Elections
The quota of freshman class politicians was filled by elections recently held in the five frosh halls.
The final five senators were added to the Student Senate. They were: Tim Haidinger of Farley Hall, an engineering major from Arcadia, Calif.; Steve McMahon of Breen-Phillips, an arts and letters student from Rockville Center, N. Y.; Donald Mayeux of St. Edward’s, a commerce student from Mamou, La.; Peter Aylward of Stanford, a commerce student from Ellsworth, Kan.; and Jan Tabaka of Keenan, an AB student from Atlanta, Ga.
Other hall officers who were chosen are as follows: Breen-Phillips — James Leineweber, president; Kevin Quinn, vice president; Robert Mulcahy, secretary; Tim Brennan, treasurer.
St. Edward’s Hall — David Peters, president; Paul Tschirhart, vice presi-’ dent; Michael Donovan, secretary;
Jeremiah O’Grady, treasurer.
Stanford — Jose Reynes, president; Gregory Costa, vice president; Ray Kelly, secretary; John Jammon, treasurer.
Keenan — William Moran, president; James Carney, vice president; Leslie Renkey, treasurer; the office of secretary has not yet been filled.
Farley — only the president Gary Klausner, was elected since the other offices are to be chosen by the hall council from among its own members.
Sophomore Captures Oratory Contest First
“Our Constitution — Worth Having? Worth Defending?” With this oration H Charles McCarthy won the 1959 Breen Oratory Contest. He was selected from a field of six in the final round of the contest which was held in the Student < Center on December 9.
McCarthy is a sophomore in liberal arts, and is a native of Malden, Massachusetts. He will received the “Breen Medal for Oratory,” a gold medal awarded annually to the student who excels in oratorical speaking.
As a member of the University Theatre McCarthy last year played in Murder in the Cathedral. He currently has the part of Ajax in Tiger at the Gates. Participating in debate and oratory in high school, McCarthy won a trophy at a New England tournament, and reached the finals in oratory con- * tests sponsored by the Archdiocese of Boston CYO and the American Legion.
Other contestants in the final round were Joel Haggard, Thomas Banchoff, «-Maurice O’Sullivan, Dean Brown and Raymond Kelly. These six were selected from 12 who competed in two earlier preliminary rounds. Jack Martzell, a second year law student, judged the finals.
This annual contest dates back to 1902 when the Honorable William Breen, r LL.D., presented the first medal at the graduation ceremonies. It has since been donated by him. The medal was originally presented to a senior at graduation, and still is if won by one, but since that time the contest has been * opened to the entire student body.
Recent winners of the contest include Thomas Twardowski and Jerry Brady. No individual may win more than one medal.
orator McCarthy A Breen Award for Christmas
10
The Scholastic
Campaign Managers Chosen for Convention; * Senator Kennedy Garners Pair of Directors
7.
The campaign managers for the 1960 * mock Democratic convention have recently been chosen upon the merits of an application letter which they submitted.
* Each of the twelve candidates for nomination is represented by one campaign manager with the exception of Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts. Both Dick Corbett, a senior AB student from Rochester, N. Y., and Pat Nee, a junior* AB student from Roslin-dale, Mass, are running the campaign
* for Senator Kennedy.
“The eyes of Texas.” Bill Markwell, an oif-campus freshman from Hender-
V son, Ky., is directing the support for Senator Johnson of Texas. Recently, Markwell worked on the campaign for Bert Combs, the newly elected governor
* of Kentucky.
Senator Humphrey of Minnesota is being bolstered by Dennis Murphy, a senior commerce student. Murphy has
* had direct contact -with Senator Humphrey, receiving much information to support his campaign here on campus.
Peter Aylward, a freshman commerce * student, has taken the job for Senator Symington of Missouri. Pete should have some inside information since his
Yearling Debaters Grab First in Recent Tourney
In recent forensic engagements the Notre Dame debate team has boosted its awards for the year to ten trophies, one plaque, two medals and three certificates.
Last week end a freshman-sophomore team captured first place and a trophy at a tournament held by the University of Illinois at Chicago. The winning team, with a 7-1 record, consisted of Martin Gordon, Maurice O’Sullivan, Christopher Lane and Richard Meece. A second four-man team had a 4-4 record.
* At the same time Jay Whitney and Guy Powers attended the U.S. Air Force Academy National Invitational Debate Tournament. They won two and lost four debates, but Whitney ranked as seventh speaker. Brigham Young University won the tournament. On the same trip to Colorado, Whitney and Pow-zy ers debated before 1700 girls at Loretto Heights College in Denver.
On December 4-5, eight debaters participated in varsity tournament at North-
* western University, winning only five and losing 23 debates. This was their first tournament for five of the eight men.
At Purdue University’s tournament, November 21-22, O’Sullivan, Whitney, Meec and Po'wers placed second to Augustana College, and received a plaque. Whitney received a certificate for being second highest affirmative speaker.
father is the campaign manager for the Senator in his home state of Kansas.
Dennis Shaul, last year’s student body president and a senior from Akron, Ohio, will seek the nomination for ex-govemor Adlai Stevenson of Illinois.
Calif, here I come. Governor Brown of California will be supported by Gerald Hewitt, of Sherman Oaks, Calif., and another Western candidate, Senator' Morse of Oregon will have his campaign run by Jim Byrne, a senior from Washington, D. C.
Swinging to the Midwest, the campaign of Governor Docking of Kansas will be run by a senior Tom Kurt of Pratt, Kan. Governor DiSalle of Ohio will have Bob Ferris, a junior transfer student from Ohio State University, as his campaign manager, while Governor Williams of Michigan has Tim Carroll, a senior from Traverse City, Mich., working for him.
To round out the campaign managers there is Jerry O’Mara, a senior AB student, supporting Governor Meyner of New Jersey.
It is the duty of these men to secure the support of the state delegates for their candidate for nomination. This is done through an intense study of their candidate, followed by a series of speeches and debates. Since most of the campaign managers have received information direct from their candidate, the Notre Dame Mock Democratic Convention should have the realism and excitement which the actual convention will carry next year.
Potential Leaders Nominated For N.D. Young Republicans
Potential Republican campus leaders have been nominated for positions in Notre Dame’s new Young Republicans organization. The club’s voting members, on January 6, will select four of the following to head the GOP group on campus. For president, Terry Lamb or Tim Burns; vice president, Joe Beaver, Joe Baroody or Joe Novello; treasurer, Bill Reagan or Ed Arnold.
The elected officers will direct the group through a year which will focus on the coming national elections, the candidates and the problems the party faces. The club, now numbering 40 active members, is beginning its first year on campus. The first activity of the club consisted in ushering at the $25 a plate dinner recently held on campus for possible presidential candidate Nelson Rockefeller.
The Young Democrats will complete their nominations on January 17 and probably will hold their elections the following week.
What’s This?
Hoards of rapid budgets and quick appropriations, big-name entertainment talk, and five new freshman senators
composed Tuesday’s Senate meeting.
All this took just over one hour, proving that the remarkable motion-passing mill was operating at unprecedented rate. It also indicates that some senators have not been doing their
homework. I do not recommend that the
meetings should last longer. It is however, disconcerting to witness so many motions being passed in such a short time, quite without any obvious consideration. Oh well, it’s almost Christ
mas.
The Kingston Trio has definitely been scratched, partly because they upped theii' price to $5000 for a short concert, but especially because of their show’s proximity to the Mardi Gras week end. Louie Armstrong will appear for sure on April 2, but he now costs $3500, even after maneuvering.
The junior class had their budgets for the prom, dinner dance, and Communion Breakfast approved, with $150 being given as a loan.
Secretary John Keegan received $165.30 for his pet Student Discount Service, scheduled for next semester. The money came from the Senate’s Special Projects Fund, and will go for publicity, IBM cards, and membership cards. And the Mardi Gras people are in a bind for cash, so naturally the Senate loaned them $50 to help out until their income stalls coming in.
Ed Paulsen moved that the Senate accept 20 specific charities under the wing of the Campus Charity Chest, and dis^ tribute a total of $1925 among them. They range from individual missionaries in the Far East to groups dedicated to the eradication of leprosy. Ten other charities were rejected on the grounds that they had access to other funds.
Academic Commissioner Andy Lawlor moved that $100 be given as a Christmas gift toward the new library fund. The money comes out of the Distinguished Lecturers allotment as a token of thanks for Father Heshurgh’s lecture of last Monday evening. Then Bill Scheckler remembered $145 tucked away from last year’s Student Foundation Drive, and moved that this too be given to the.fund for the new library. Both of these motions were readily accepted by the aye-ing group.
That is what happened at the last Senate meeting of the calendar year. To some, it is nothing. To others, it is impressive. Despite my frequent barbs, I agree with the latter.
And to those about whom, and for whom, I maintain this stream of diatribe, Merry Christmas.
December 18, 1959
11
"Variety is the spice of life.” Enjoy
GOOD—WHOLESOME DELICIOUS & DIFFERENT CANTONESE FOODS
•
Steaks - Chops Fried Chicken Sea Foods
•
Reasonably Priced
MO
MARK'S CAFE SEN SAI GAI
134 N. Main St.
OnCanqxK MKfihuhan
(Author of “I Wa« a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
DECK THE HALLS
When you think of Christmas gifts you naturally think of Marlboro cigarettes, leading seller in flip-top box in all fifty states—and if we annex Wales, in all fifty-one—and if we annex Lapland, in all fifty-two. (This talk about annexing Wales and Lapland is, incidentally, not just idle speculation. Great Britain wants to trade Wales to the United States for a desert. Great Britain needs a desert desperately on account of the tourist trade. Tourists are always coming up to the Prime Minister or the Lord Privy Seal, or the Thane of Glamis, or like that and saying, “I’m not knocking your country, mind you. It’s very quaint and picturesque, etc., what with Buckingham Palace and Bovril and Scotland Yard, etc., but where’s your desert?”) Before I forget, let me point out that Scotland Yard, Britain’s plain-clothes police branch, was named after Wally Scotland and Fred Yard who invented plain clothes. The
this day still don’t have fingerprints. As a result, identification of babies in Swedish hospitals is so haphazard that Swedes flatly refuse to bring their babies home. There are, at present, nearly a half-billion unclaimed babies in Swedish hospitals— some of them well over eighty years old.)
But I digress. Marlboro is, of course, an ideal Christmas gift for your friends and loved ones who enjoy filter cigarettes. If, on the other hand, your friends and loved ones like mildness but don’t like filters, then you can’t go wrong with a carton of Philip Morris. If your friends and loved ones like a subtly mentholated cigarette that combines refreshing taste ■with high filtration, then buy a carton of Alpines. (Alpines, incidentally, are named after the late Albert G. Pine. Al Pine worked all his life to invent a cigarette that would combine light menthol and high filtration, but alas he never succeeded. As by-products of his research
1VIQ jnoA uo 0^9 ONSM uo USAS si 4[ 'Aduoj. jnoX ipjoo U3A3 Aoui 4| *4! Aoi -us 4q6itu nox T'E wojj. oisnui 4$nl 04 uojsi] 4tuo(j
American plain-clothes force is called the F.B.I. after Frank B. Inchcliff, who invented fingerprints. Before Mr. Inchcliff’s invention, everybody’s fingers were absolutely glassy smooth. This, as you may imagine, played hob with the identification of newborn babies in hospitals.
From 1791 until 1904 no American parent ever brought home the right baby from the hospital. This later became known as the Black Tom Explosion.
(But I digress. England, I was saying, wants to trade Wales for a desert. Sweden wants to trade Lapland for Frank B. Inchcliff. The reason is that Swedes to
he did manage to invent the atom, the gooseneck lamp and the cocker spaniel, but the lightly mentholated high filtration cigarette, alas, never. Now this dream is realized, and what could be more fitting than to pay tribute to this „ gallant man by calling this cigarette Alpine?)	© 1959 Max Shulman
We, the makers of Marlboro, Philip Morris and Alpine are now enjoying our sixth year with Max Shulman. Obviously, we think he is a funny fellow. We think you’ll think so too, if you look at his television series “THE MANY LOVES OF DOBIE GILLIS”—and read his latest book, “I WAS A TEEN-AGE DWARF.”
12
The Scholastic
QfuiiCGl


University Fili Series
t
t'OR those tired of watching a worn-out Lana Turner at-■T tempting to play the role of a 21-year-old femme-fatale, t the cinema 60 has provided an alternative. The University Film Society, in its second year of organized activity has selected for showing a series of eight truly entertaining artistic works which certainly should be appealing to any college stu-t dent, no matter what his background or knowledge of films be. Although a relatively young club, it is hoped that the response will be such that in future years the number of films can greatly increase, correlative with the interest that is gener-* ated on campus. For that reason an appeal has been sounded for subscribers to a worthy aim: namely, the projected interest on campus for the film as a work of art. The films to be presented this coming year- include the following: The Informer, r Chaplin Festival, The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari, The Open City, Man of Aran, Ten Days that Shook the World, and A Nous la Liberte.
The Informer is John Ford’s masterpiece dealing with the * 1922 Irish Rebellion. It is a classic of betrayal and punishment, a taut psychological study of a man who has betrayed his best friend to the English, of his friend’s subsequent execution and of the punishment meted to the betrayer.
What can one really say about the genius of Charlie Chaplin without soon running out of superlatives? In this Chaplin ‘ Festival are presented some of the most amusing of all Chaplin’s films. Included are The Cozmt, One a.m., Behind the Screen, and The Immigrant. Perhaps the best known of the 4 lot is The Immigrant which deals with Charlie’s troubles with the immigration officials at Ellis Island.
The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari is one of the early experimental films that has drawn a great deal of praise for its „ surrealistic settings which express the mental state of the narrator. And the surprise ending might well make one wonder if Alfred Hitchcock wasn’t a pupil of Robert Weine, who directed this masterpiece.
► The Nazi occupation of Italy is the subject of The Open City, the film that made the great Italian director Roberto Rosselini famous. It tells the story of the people of Italy during the occupation with a leader of the resistance movement as the central figure and a Catholic priest as his aide. The film captured an amazing number of grand prizes at such famous film festivals as Venice, Cannes, Zurich and Rome. It also offers an opportunity to see Anna Magnani while she was ' still thin.
Once again Hibernian lovers should flock to see Man of Aran, which deals with the people of the Aran Islands, of their race, their skills and their prowess. One of the most moving documentaries ever filmed, it is the best work of Robert Flaherty.
Ten Days that Shook the World, by Sergei Eisenstein, is the historical re-creation of the turning point in modem his* tory: the Russian Revolution of 1917. It considers the European War and its effect on the country, the Kerensky regime and its inadequacies, and the final ten days after eight months of indecision, conflicting plans and ambitions that have shaped the modem age.
One of the greatest satires ever filmed is Rene Clair’s A Nous la Liberte. It is one of the funniest social spoofs that
has been put on film, and is considered to be one of the ten best films of all time. (Having not viewed this myself I can only take the word of fifty-thousand Frenchmen who saw it — and liked it.)
Another feature of cinema 60 will be the two seminar discussions that will be open to all subscribers. The two books to be discussed are Agee on Film and Amheim’s Film as Art. James Agee was probably the most respected of all movie critics, and until his death a few years ago was considered to be the leading authority on the film. The seminars should enable those who already have some knowledge of film as art to further enhance their appreciation.
That should give an idea, briefly, as to what kind of films are planned this coming year. All are enjoyable both in themselves, and as great works of art. And the University community, as the home or ai-tistic criticism has the duty thrust upon itself to examine and judge the films acclaimed by decades, while the student body and faculty must submit its own artistic sensibility to the discipline of viewing those films seen and enjoyed by decades of critics in order that the individual might be better positioned to render legitimate criticism upon one of the largest vehicles of mass communication.
Subscriptions may be obtained by stopping at 334 Badin or 328 Dillon, or may be obtained at the Engineering Auditorium before the first showing, for the price of three dollars.
CHANNEL II
Due to technical difficulties the distributed program guide for Channel II will go into effect after the Christmas vacation. The subscription rate will be one dollar for the remainder of the year. Subsequent issues will contain features and art work in addition to program listings.	-
.December 18, 1959
13

... RECENTLY
REV. PHILIP HANLEY, O.P.
Department of Theology
Naked to Mine Enemies, Charles W. Fergueson. A somewhat verbose but fascinating and well-documented study of Cardinal Wolsey in his environment and plagued by his subconscious “drives.”
Hawaii, James A. Michener. The fiftieth state, from its beginnings long before Columbus, and in its beginnings of interest as an emigration of pagans for freedom of worship.
The Shanghai Item, Mara Gardner. Short stories with 0. Henry endings of daily problems in the life of Orientals guided by gods and superstitions into joy and sorrows.
Mary in the Documents of the Church. A small handbook of Mary in the mind of the Church from B.C. 250 to A.D. 1950 for those especially who wonder whether only recently we have become preoccupied with Mariology.
What Is the Bible, Henri Daniel Rops. Brief, precise exposition in the light of modern biblical scholarship for the reader who has wondered how the Bible lives up today with science and history. ’
La Sainte Bible. The Bible for expert readers in French who want the results of modern biblical scholarship both in text and abundant notes for comparison with confraternity edition — translated under direction of L’Ecole Biblique de Jerusalem.
The Devil’s Advocate, Morris L. West. A novel of “fringefolk” clergy and laity in the spirit of Waugh and Mauriac in Satan and Sin though quite without their subtle artistry.
WALTER D. GRAY
Department of History
The Coming of the New Deal, Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. This work is the best biography yet published of the greatest American statesman of the twentieth century. This book should be read by all who are interested in contemporary American politics and history. Schlesinger discusses the formative years of the New Deal.
Triumph in the West, 1943-1946, Arthur Bryant. Arthur Bryant has written a history of the war years based on the diaries of Field-Marshall Lord Alanbrooke, Chief of the Imperial General Staff. In recent reviews it has been acclaimed as the best memoir of World War II. Alanbrooke is frank, candid, and sincere in his judgments of men and events. His diaries should be read by anyone interested in the Second World War.
The Stones of Florence, Mary McCarthy. A brilliant, sensitive description of Florence, profusely illustrated with Florentine art treasures.
The Armada, Garrett Mattingly. A superb historical study but one that is also a literary masterpiece.
Memoirs of a Renaissance Pope, The Commentaries of Pius II, Pius n. A sensitive, yet revealing, description of the problems encountered by Pius II in the mid-fifteenth century.
The Movement of World Revolution. An excellent series of essays discussing the spread of Western revolutionary ideologies to Asia and Africa.
14
The Pledge, Frederich Duerrenmatt. A provocative and stimulating mystery story which describes with great delicacy a series of sadistic murders.
The War Memoirs of Charles de Gaulle, Unity, 19421944, Charles de Gaulle. De Gaulle recounts these crucial years convincingly and brilliantly.
The Complete Greek Tragedies, Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides. David Grene and Richard Lattimore have edited this handsomely printed and boxed edition of the Greek tragedies. The translations are new and readable. This four t volume edition should be in every student’s private library.
JOSEPH W. EVANS
Department of Philosophy
The Degree of Knowledge, by Jacques Maritain. Maritain’s masterpiece, a book of profound wisdom, fortu- v nately available now in an excellent new translation. Maritain takes issue with the epistemological monism that captivates so many modem philosophers and scientists, and vigorously defends the existence and proper prerogatives of different ' ways of knowing the real. For Maritain, not only mathematics and the experimental sciences,, but poetry, philosophy, metaphysics, theology, and mysticism as well, are functions of truth and real knowledge; and, what’s more, all these dif- * ferent ways of knowing are meant to grow up together. This book is the best tonic I know for intellectual myopia.
Thoughts in Solitude, by Thomas Merton. One of Melton’s finest books, containing passage after passage of deep insight and rare poetic beauty. To my mind, Merton is . among the top spiritual writers of our day.
Happiness and Contemplation, by Josef Pieper. Another fine book from the pen of Josef Pieper, not exactly of the stature of his now classic Leisure, the Basis of Culture, but still good Pieper, and therefore with much of the sparkling vitality and freshness he invariably brings to his re-thinking of the permanent acquisitions of Greek and Christian wisdom.
Tides of Crisis, by A. A. Berle, Jr. This is an absorbing and penetrating analysis of America’s place in a revolutionary world. What is so impressive about Berle, in addition to his vast erudition and his high sense of moral values, is his great * sense of the complexity of life, in particular of economic and political life, and his ever-present sense of movement and history.
Stride Toward Freedom, by Martin Luther King, Jr. King gives us a fascinating and poignant account of the courageous struggle of Montgomery Negroes for racial justice during the celebrated bus strike in Montgomery, Alabama, four years ago. One of the most interesting features of this book is the author’s showing the use made of Gandhi’s concept of “non-violence” as a powerful technique of social and political action.
Report from Palermo, by Danilo Dolci. A gripping report of the incredibly abject poverty and misery of the slums of Palermo, consisting largely of first-person accounts by the unemployed, the prostitutes, the thieves and the desti- * tute of the city — many of them gathered by Dolci himself when he was in prison. Dolci too, in his work for social reform, is a practitioner of “non-violence,” and he is also a man of wide scientific culture particularly skilled in the techniques of sociological investigation. Aldous Huxley, in his Introduction, calls Dolci “a new Gandhi, a modern St.
The Scholastic
Francis,” and adds: “It is only by making the best of both worlds — the world of the head no less than the world of i i the heart — that the twentieth-century saint can hope to be effective.”
r
Reflections on America, by Jacques Maintain. Maritain gives us some wonderful insights into the greatness — and some weaknesses, too — of a country he loves. He sees now an affinity by anticipation between ideas he expressed over twenty years ago in his True Humanism and certain essential trends he finds characteristic of American civilization; and he even goes so far as to say: “... if a new Christian civilization, a new Christendom is ever to come about in human history, it is on American soil that it will find its starting point.”
Religion in America, edited by John Cogley. This book of essays by distinguished American thinkers of different faiths really comes to grips with fundamental problems posed t by the great diversity of spiritual families within the American body politic.
Human Nature and the Human Condition, by Joseph / Wood Krutch. A most stimulating and provocative analysis of the condition of contemporary man, particularly notable for its defense, in opposition to the Relativists, of the validity of moral and aesthetic value judgments.
► The Philosophy of History in Our Time, an anthology selected and edited by Hans Meyerhoff. Searching essays by Herbert Butterfield, Isaiah Berlin, Raymond Aron, Reinhold Niebuhr, Karl Jaspers and Arnold Toynbee, among others, * throw much light on the nature of the study of discipline called history, and assist the reader to better* situate this discipline in the universe of human knowledge.
v JOSEPH M. DUFFY Department of English
Lady Chatterley’s Lover, D. H. Lawrence. For the professional literary person, the publication of this novel was the important event of the year. Finally, a famous work by a master artist could be circulated in the United States. Lady Chatterley’s Lover is a silly and sentimental, not an important novel, but now, at least, sensible people can come to this conclusion first hand.
James Joyce, Richard Ellmann. Every young Irish 4 Catholic writer imagines himself to be the reincarnation of James Joyce (or of Stephen Dedalus at any rate). A reading of this brilliant monumental biography should disillusion i many of these dreamers. To be a great artist requires heroic qualities and immense talent; to be James Joyce requires heroic qualities, immense talent, and much caddishness.
The Evolution of a Conservative, William Henry Chamberlin. This bad book is recommended for those who still re-► gard conservatives as serious human beings. Irritable, illogical, and semi-literate, Mr. Chamberlin is a trumpeting wanderer from dinosaur* country. Such a typical conservative exhibit should be viewed by a modern audience — possibly for A its own safety.
Gardens of Japan, Tetsuro Yoshida. In these days when two million dollars are regularly blown up on missile launch-• .4 ing pads, the best a good man can do is cultivate his own garden. And the best man, perhaps, will cultivate a Japanese garden of the kind described and pictured in this beautiful book.
** Giovanni’s Room, James Baldwin. A poignant and delicate novel representing a variation on the eternal triangle theme. An American and an Italian man and an American girl discover in Paris the complex treachery of human emotion.
The Pledge, Friedrich Duerrenmatt. The work of a Swiss writer, The Pledge is one of the few first-rate novels of recent years. On the surface a detective thriller, The Pledge is really concerned with the ambiguity of such concepts as justice and truth.
The Reign of George III, J. Steven Watson. This volume on the years 1760-1815 maintains the competent thorough level of the Oxford history of England series.
The Greek Myths, Robert Graves. For those who feel out of tune with existence a return to classical legend is always a consoling process. And after reading from these two volumes they might even have sight of Proteus rising from the sea or hear* old Triton blow his wreathed horn.
Life Studies, Robert Lowell. Despite the disappointing falling off from Lord Weary’s Castle, this collection of new poems and autobiographical fragment is, nevertheless, evidently written by the best American poet in the generation after Eliot.
REV. STANLEY PARRY, C.S.C.
Department of Political Science
Order and History, Eric Voegelin. Vol. I, Israel and Revelation; Vol. II, World of the Polis; Vol. HI, Plato and Aristotle. These three volumes offer an intellectual experience no one can afford to miss. They are difficult books, demanding books. But their treasures are well worth the work of mining them.
Therapfja, Plato’s Conception of Philosophy, Robert E. Cushman. A profound analysis of the Platonic conception of philosophy as a way of life. A way of such nobility that Christ could correct Plato only by saying “I am the way.” Written while Voegelin was writing his masterpiece, this work extends Voegelin’s treatment of the same subject.
The Human Condition. A Study of the Central Dilemmas Facing Modern Man. Now available as an Anchor paperback. Hannah Arenot. A study of the modern distortion as profound as it is disturbing. The true correction to the exaggeration of the economic man.
The Silence of St. Thomas, Josef Pieper. Written with Pieper’s moving intellectual passion, this work demonstrates how deeply, in his hands, the concept of Creation illuminates problems Plato dimly felt but could not plumb.
Thoughts on Machiavelli, Leo Strauss. A typically profound and complex analysis of the meaning of Machiavelli.
The Lord of History, Jean Danielou, S.J. In our day all the significant problems concerning human life are discussed against the background of a philosophy of history. These two works — the final a slender volume — the second much longer in size, are a must for the man who wishes to avoid the intellectual traps of secularism in his thought.
St. Augustine. A collection of articles on Augustine of uniform superiority, it constitutes an excellent insight into the meaning of Augustine. Since Augustine has suddenly become modem — now that the barbarians are once again at the walls — it is a good idea to get acquainted with him.
R. CATESBY TALIAFERRO Department of Mathematics
The Judge is Fury, Cunningham. A good antidote to a lot of Dylan Thomas nonsense.
Le Systeme du Monde T. 8, Duhem. A learned account of the revolt against peripatetic physics in the University of Paris in the fourteenth century.
Commentaries on Mars, Kepler. This is the great classic of the downward dialectic; the working out in detail, with empirical corroboration, of the revolutionary theories already announced in the Mysterium Cosmologicum. No other work did more to usher in the glorious Baroque period, the new* physics, and the new world.
Discours de la Metaphysique, Leibniz. Here the greatest of the Baroque systems is given as symbolically manifested by the experiment of Huyghens and Wren.
(Continued on page 17)
15
December 18, 1959
A HAPPY i CHRISTMAS
ladies’ high heels; she could feel the vibrations of organ music ?: move through her body.	-	.	' - :
And then she saw another display. She walked up slowly . ??■ and gazed intently at the colored figures. She pulled off her brown mittens and with her little hand, gently stroked the. : solemn figures. Tears once again came to her eyes and knelt down and began to cry softly. She was crying because it was so beautiful and so peaceful. For the moment she forgot her own sadness. She could only think of how peaceful \ it was here.	-: =? ?
Suddenly someone was behind her. It was a woman.: 2;: “There you are, darling,” she said loudly and the little stiffened and turned slowly. “We’ve been 'looking all over for " Af? you. You must have gotten lost in the department store. Well come now, we must be getting back.” The woman reached . " down and grabbed her hand and guided her toward the back : of the church. The little girl tried to catch another glimpse . ■ ' of the pretty figures, but the woman tugged at her and said, ; “Come, we’ll be late for supper.”	j
They walked slowly from the church and were soon en- 2 veloped by the moving crowds. Car horns; buses shifting _ X their gears; the hum of people busy and happy: the noises	?
of the city filled the streets. But the little girl was thinking	- 2 ’
only of the cold, quiet figures left behind at the church. .	-
by JOHN CASARINO
THE little girl pressed her nose to the cold window. Her hands too, she held against the thick, transparent panel ' as if by this she would be closer to the beautifully colored toys which were on display. The reds, the blues, the whites, the dolls, the little piano, the fire engines. All these danced before her searching eyes and glistened too, for she viewed them through thin sheets of salty tears. Slowly the forms became less distinct and the colors merged, reds with blues, like the kaleidoscope she had looked through once but could not remember when. She shut her eyes to squeeze out the multi-colored tears, but could not stop crying. Light sobs forced their way , from her tightened lips and frosted the glass; it was cold there, on Fifth Avenue in front of Saks.
The little girl turned quickly from the window, searching the throngs of evening shoppers to see if they had noticed her tears, heard her sobs. But they hadn’t; they simply walked noisily by bundled up in furs and scarfs, their gloved hands caressing gaily wrapped packages. She sighed, perhaps from relief, perhaps from disappointment.
h A gust of cold breeze startled the little girl and she tightened the maroon scarf about her head. She walked slowly up the Avenue, eyeing the busy people, wondering at their haste and their smiles. She saw another little girl holding a woman’s hand. The little girl was singing and laughing, pointing to the windows, tugging at the woman’s coat. The woman said, “Now be good Cathy, or Santa won’t come tonight.” Cathy’s eyes danced and she put her hand to her mouth trying to calm herself, trying to be good for Santa.
The little girl turned sadly from Cathy and began running. She crossed Fiftieth Street and stopped only when she collided with an elderly, fat man. The man glared down at her menacingly; suddenly the little girl felt afraid ... as if everyone were looking at her. She had to hide herself from them. She whirled about and quickly ran through the open doorway of the church on the corner.
The little girl was still out of breath when she realized where she was. It was a big church, all lit up and decorated with green Christmas trees with blue lights on them. Beautiful red flowers were fastened to each pew. ■ She looked down the long aisle, enchanted by the flowers mirrored in the lusterous marble floors. People were kneeling and praying; others were . walking down the aisles. She could hear the loud echo of
December 18, 1959
Q. P. Saa^pia
BREATH OF CHRISTMAS
O’Laughlin auditorium was the scene of another Christmas concert Monday night performed by soloists, chorus and orchestra jointly representing Saint Mary’s College, and the University of Notre Dame assisted by members of the Per Musica Society. Conductor for the entire evening was Rocco Germano, and guest soloist was Bernard Izzo, baritone.
Corelli’s Concerto Grosso Opus G, No. 8 was quite enjoyable except when one was able to hear the harsh plinking piano rising above the mellow strings. The recitative Thus Saith The Lord and aria But Who May Abide The Day of His Coming from Handel’s The Messiah introduced Mr. Izzo whose somewhat piercing tone and careless runs were contrasted with his pleasant pianissimos and all to infrequent phrasings.
The Stradella Christmas Cantata Most Holy Birth of Our Lord, presented for the first time since 1682, the year of the composer’s death, was interesting and had its moments. Whether it will be performed again within the next three centuries is a debatable question, but the significant point is that it was rerived and Dr. Dietz of Saint Mary’s College is to be congratulated for his work.
Mr. Izzo, and the Misses Cicciarelli, Murphy, Pearson and Koehnemann handled their respective roles with taste. Especially enjoyable were Mr. Izzo’s interpretation in the opening recitative and aria and Miss Cicciarelli’s aria announcing the Christ Child’s Birth.
The Notre Dame Glee Club, with its very capable director*
Daniel H. Pedtke on the podium, presented its annual Christmas Concert last Sunday to a standing-room-only audience in Washington Hall. The largest glee club contingent
which I have yet seen on stage may have been a disadvantage from the viewpoint of preciseness, but was an advantage as far as depth of tone and rigorous interpretation are con- । cerned.
Opening the first section with Witt’s familiar Ave Maria, the chorus went on to a delicately shaded Angelus Ad Pastores by Sweelinck. This was perhaps the most sensitively performed number in this grouping which closed with a vociferous Handelian Alleluia.
The choruses from Berlioz’s Damnation Of Faust could do with a little more polishing as evidenced by the insecure <> moments of the double chorus, but the number was given a lusty, robust interpretation which was well received. Tschaikovsky’s Pilgrim’s Song was done with taste as well as reverence and exhibited many subtle colorings and nuances. * ’ Old Mother Hubbard done in the baroque style, and Italian Salad which sounded like the chorus of Accademia Di Santa Cecilia vocalizing to Webster’s Dictionary of Musical Phrases were both quite amusing. I just wonder if Dame Hubbard 1 and Chef Boy-ar-dee would have made a more coo-some two- 1 some in another section of the program.
The third section presented songs of a much lighter nature, most interesting of which were ft Was A Lover And His Lass ' by Morley, and All Through The Night. Two rousing Negro spirituals brought us to the fourth and last section of the program devoted to Christmas Carols, both traditional and . modern.
One of the contemporary Christmas works, Birthday Of A King by Neidlinger was majestically interpreted and had moments of sheer beauty in its reading. Christmas Day, a -• potpourri of traditional English carols, also had its colorful moments.
The soloists for the evening were Michael C. Ritschel, tenor, and John S. Oliver, baritone. Mr. Ritschel, tense and * strained in the Faure Duet, seemed a little more relaxed in his other solos, while Mr. Oliver, who also accompanied, handled his assignments effectively. Both are to be commended for their splendid efforts.
Want OUT on big car costs?
Can’t get IN new 0 small \ cars? s
GET THE BEST OF BOTH: k	.
2. Small car economy and handlingpGo Rambler for 60!
Smartest Rambler ever ... beautifully new for ’60! Save on price, gas, resale. Room for six 6-footers. Easier entry, exit. Easier to park. At your Rambler dealer’s now—6 or V-8!
SEE THE MEW STANDARD OF BASIC EXCELLENCE
By Popular Demand! New for *60 100-inch wheelbase una menu 4moi saia *1844
Suggested delivered price at Kenosha, Woe,tor Vdoor de leu indan at ML Stile and local taxes,if any. aatooatic traramision and optional eqeipmenL extra.
SEE YOUR NEARBY RAMBLER DEALER

The Scholastic
Christmas Books
|	(Continued from page 15)
Life of Wolsey, Pollard. A scholarly study of the cardinal who taught Crom-f well and Henry VIII how to confiscate monastic property.
Mechanics of Deformable Bodies, y Sommerfeld. Full of interesting historical perspectives in nineteenth century physical theory some of which are surprising and little known.
ir
JACQUES CALLAHAN
Department of Metalanguages
-j. The Phenomenon of Man by Pierre Teilhard de Chardin. Outstanding product of the contemporary attempts to elevate traditional theology to the level , of the empirical sciences. The book’s only fault can be excused by the fact that Teilhard ds a practicing scientist. I am referring to the author’s lack of w literary and speculative imagination — especially as seen in his detailed, em-pirio-schematic account of the paleontological evidences determining the nature
• of Omega.
Up from Liberalism by William Buckley, Jr. The brilliant, young po--r litical theorist’s analysis of American society in terms of the dynamism of personalities united for and striving toward that common goal of the temporal order, the full human life, which is the all-important factor of political life. This is » surely existential Christian Humanism at its richest.
The Papers of Benjamin Franklin. The spiritual basis of American civilization expounded by its first and still most penetrating prophet.
y Twixt Twelve and Twenty by Patrick Boone. Here is a “how to” book about that twentieth-century American phenomenon, the teenager, by one who ► not only was once a member of this group but also has been profiting by it for years. In fact he is profiting with every sale of this book.
A Pictorial History of Philosophy and Lord Bertrand Russel’s The Wisdom of the West. Both are essential * to students and teachers. The first as a visual aid, absolutely necessary for a comprehensive understanding of these thinkers. The second as a history of their thought minus the cumbersome metaphysical baggage and accompanied by clarifying criticisms by a contemporary philosopher.
4
Pornography and the Law by Drs. Eberhard and Phyllis Kronhausen. At last a scientific attempt to disinguish banal pornography from legitimate vicarious sexual experience. Since it is well documented for both sides, buy it before it is banned.
NAMCHT CAFETERIA
★
Savory Food Since 1897 REASONABLE PRICES
★
1415 Lincoln Way West
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT Optometrist
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED ■
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
GO WHILE THE GOING IS GOOD on a 1960 American Express Student Tour! Right now, while you can still look forward to a long summer vacation, may be your once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to see, enjoy and study Europe. And the “going is always good” on an American Express Student Tour... where experts arrange everything perfectly for your travel convenience. Tours are comprised of small groups, conducted by distinguished leaders from prominent colleges. Itineraries can include England... Belgium... Holland... Germany... Austria. Switzerland ... Italy . .. The Rivieras . .. and France. Ample time allowed for full sight-seeing and leisure, too.
Choose from: 10 interesting, educational Student Tours ... from 14 to 54 days ... by sea and air... from $765 and up. Member: Institute , of International Education and Council on Student Travel.
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service. Or simply mail the coupon.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL SERVICE
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. c/o Travel Sales Division Please send me complete information about 1960 Student Tours of Europe.
Name....................................’.........
Address...........................................
City....................Zone....State.............
Holy Cross Brothers TEACHING YOUTH WORK, farming clerical work done by Brothers are tn great need today in rhe U.S and foreign missions
For information and literature ■write:
BROTHER EYMARD, C.S.C.
11 Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
THIS WEEK'S CbVER	.
The anxious expectation that for freshmen precedes each vacation fades into somewhat impatient resignation as we grow older, not because it means less to us, but perhaps because we, as the student on the cover, sooner or later realize that Christmas, 1959, will eventually arrive, and that it will not last forever. To all of you, whether this may be your first Christmas home from ND, or your fourth, we want to wish a happy and blessed holiday season. Cover by Jerry Florent.	<
20th CENTURY ROMANCE 378-379
Techniques in handling women
No academic credit, but who cares
Professor Romeo M.
The effects of well-groomed hair on romantic success in the mid-twentieth century. Laboratory demonstration of 'Vaseline’ Hair Tonic, its effect on hair and women. Disastrous action of H2O on hair. Salutary effect of H2O plus 'Vaseline’ Hair Tonic on hair. Term Paper: Unfavorable reaction of females to male’s use of alcohol tonics and hair creams (Stikkywig’s Law of Diminishing Returns). Students taking this course are advised to stock up on 'Vaseline’ Hair Tonic and keep week ends open.
Materials: one 4 oz. bottle 'Vaseline* Hair Tonic
it's clear, it's clean, it's Vaseline" HAIR TONIC ‘Vasdiat' it a retisttraa trataark af Ctaaknagk-PaaTs he.
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
20
The Scholastic
Picton
RAMBLERS BATTLE IRISH HOOPSTERS TONIGHT
, Cagers Return Home From Successful Trip
v	--------------
Beginning with the Loyola game this evening, the Irish play seven games before the next Scholastic issue comes T out January 15. Thus we preview these seven games which will be very important in deciding the fortunes of the 1959-60 basketball team.
' The Loyola game tonight will be the first home contest for the Irish since their western swing to Nebraska and the . Air Force Academy. The Ramblers, coached by the former Notre Dame i player and coach, George Ireland, have • one of their strongest teams in years. ;w They feature the talented Clarence Red, i a jump shot virtuoso. Red is a 6-6 ; junior from New Orleans.
; The other big man in the Loyola front line is Jim Gorman, a 6-6, 220-pound senior who sat out last year due to a knee operation. John Cronjak, a 6-4 sophomore, Ron Schwingen and 5-7 Paul Mini form the nucleus of a Rambler team which has beaten Wayne State, Western Ontario and Creighton. They lost to Wisconsin at Madison last Saturday, 85-67. The Irish defeated the Badgers, 77-59.
Hoosier classic. On Dec. 22-23, the Irish are entered in the Hoosier Classic. This tournament annually features * Purdue, Indiana, Notre Dame and the host school, Butler. The games are ; played in the Butler Fieldhouse in Ini dianapolis. Last year the Irish lost to
EMMETT McCarthy
Answers many Irish problems
Purdue in the championship game, 71-56.
Indiana is probably the strongest of the four contestants this year. They are led by Walt Bellamy, the 6-10 giant, and Herbie Lee, the slick playmaker; Gary Long, Leroy Johnson, Frank Radovich and Bob Wilkinson are some of the Hurryin’ Hoosiers who will bear watching in the tourney.
Purdue, coached by Ray Eddy, faces a rebuilding task this year after losing most of last year’s team. The bright spot so far has been the Boilermakers 6-6% sophomore center, Terry Disch-inger. He has been Purdue’s leading scorer and rebounder this season. However ,the Boilermakers still have a long way to go to match last year’s fine team.
Butler is coached by the graying veteran, Tony Hinkle. They seem to have another fine team this year. The offensive spark is supplied by Kenny Pennington, Larry Ramey and Orville Bosse. Jim Jones is another reliable hand for
OVER THE HOLIDAYS
Since this will be the last issue of the SCHOLASTIC until classes resume after the holidays, the following is a schedule of the Irish basketball games up through January 9.
Hoosier Classic
Dec. 22—Indiana at Indianapolis Dec. 23—Purdue at Indianapolis Jan. 2—North Carolina at Charlotte Jan. 5—Butler at Notre Dame Jan. 9—Detroit at Notre Dame
the Bulldogs. Last year Butler went to NIT where they were eliminated by Bradley, runner-up to champion St. John’s.
McGuire and company. On January 2, the Irish play probably the best balanced team in college basketball today when they meet North Carolina at Charlotte. The Tar Heels once again are loaded this year. Coach Frank McGuire has a veteran crew that can do it all and do it well. Doug Moe has been lost until semesters bacause of ineligibility but Lee Shaffer, Dick Kepley, York Larese, Harvey Saiz and Ray Stanley are back. Add to this the fact that the Tar Heels freshman team of last year was one of the best ever and it is easy to see why the Tar Heels are ranked among the countries finest. The game, incidentally, will be played in Charlotte Coliseum which sports the world’s largest unsupported dome.
The Jordanmen return home on Tuesday, January 5, to entertain Butler in a regular season game.
On Saturday, January 9, the Detroit
DON McGANN
Finally gets his chance
Titans offer the opposition for the Irish. Bob Callihan’s team is one 'of the top independents in the Midwest this year. They are sparked by a 6-5%, 224-pound . sophomore in the person of Dave De Busschere. DeBusschere was headed for Notre Dame until the Detroit alumni took a hand in the matter and “persuaded” him to pursue his education in his hometown Detroit. Charlie North is a junior college transfer who stands 6-4 - and is a great jump shooter. Some say he is even better than DeBusschere. George Heger, Bob Alexy and Pete Corbett give the Motor City quintet good height under the boards. Ray Albee, a 5-9 senior guard, and 6-4 junior Larry Hughes start in the backcourt. Albee is rated Detroit’s best guard ever by his coach, a Detroit grad himself.
Traditional rival. On Tuesday, January 12, the hoopsters travel to Chicago where the DePaul Blue Demons host the Irish in Alumni Hall. At the time of this writing, the Blue Demons are undefeated. They are sparked by 5-10 jump artist, Howie Carl, a native Chicagoan who pepped at Von Steuben. Teaming with Carl at guard is the dependable Billy Haig. Both of these fine guards are juniors. Jim Flemming, a 6-6 junior, holds down the pivot for Ray Meyer’s club. The forward positions are manned by veterans McKinley Cowsen, a 6-4 jumping jack and either Paul Ruddy (6-5) or senior Bill Coglienese (6-6).	.
On their recent road trip, the Irish defeated Northwestern, the Air Force Academy and Nebraska. Mike Graney was the leading scorer on the trip with 62 points. The Irish now have a four-game win streak.
December 18, 1959
21
ODDS and ENDS
Jerry Lucas showed he can meet the challenge of a rival big man when he outplayed Bob Nordmann in the recent St. Louis-Ohio State game played at St. Louis. Nordmann, who is known around the St. Louis area as “King Bevo,” is a 6-10, 275-pounder. Many thought he would be too much to handle for the OSU phenom. But “Big Luke” outscored Nordmann. 30 points to 17. He also outplayed his taller and heavier opponent under the boards. The Bucks have won four straight this year and now many fans are looking forward to a possible NCAA playoff battle in the re-gionals between the Bucks and Cincinnati, paced by the fabulous Oscar Robertson.
Three athletic teams here at Notre Dame which don’t get too much credit started their seasons last week with good success. The wrestling team won two of three matches, defeating Navy Pier of Chicago and Wayne and losing to a very strong Findlay outfit by a 17-13 count. The swimming team defeated St. Louis 69-25 in the Rockne Memorial pool. The fencers won a triangular meet, defeating Case Tech, 19-8, and Indiana Tech, 22-5. The match was held in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse as were the wrestling matches. The performances of all three teams is very encouraging to winter sports fans here at Notre Dame.
The Interhall and Interclub basketball leagues held an organizational meeting last Friday to make plans for the 1959-60 season. Once again the respective winners of each league will play off for the campus championship, probably sometime in March.
The holiday season is upon us and with it goes the usual schedule of holiday tournaments. The big one, as usual, is the Holiday Tournament in Madison Square Garden Dec. 26-30. Such highly-regarded teams as Cincinnati, St. Louis, Providence and St. John’s will be vying for honors in the Garden. Other prominent tourneys are the Dixie Classic at Raleigh, N.C., on Dec. 28-30, the Kentucky Invitational at Lexington, Dec. 18-19, the Big Eight Tourney Dec. 26-30, the Motor City Tournament at Detroit on Dec. 28-29, the All-College meet at Oklahoma City, Dec. 26-30 and the Christmas Invitational at San Francisco, Dec. 28-30. It might not be a “white Christmas” but there certainly will be an abundance of fine basketball teams in action around the country during the upcoming holiday season. . . .
Paul Hornung, the Golden Boy of Notre Dame and everybody’s All-America in 1955 and 1956, racked up 22 points Sunday as the Green Bay Packers whipped the San Francisco Forty-Niners 34-14 in the season finale for both teams at Kezar Stadium. Paid finished the season with 94 points, his best total in his three years in the NFL. Paul was the Packer’s bonus pick in 1956 and reportedly signed a $60,000 contract stretching over three years. The contract terminates this year and you can bet that the illustrious graduate of Louisville’s Flaget High will remind the Packer front office of his 94 points and other accomplishments this season. Paul seems to have found himself this year and should continue to be one of the best. . . .
Harriers End Season WHh Fourth in NCAA f Prospects for 1960 Runners Appear Bright
Imitating its more publicized big brother of the fall sporting scene, the crosscountry squad managed to stage a big finish to an injury-spoiled season when coach Alex Wilson’s patched-up crew placed fourth in the NCAA championships at East Lansing, Mich. Coach Wilson thought his men did very well in the NCAA considering a discouraging season caused by a wide variety of
GALEN CAWLEY
Captain of 1959 harriers
injuries. The Irish harriers took their vengeance in the nationals by beating every one of the teams who had beaten them during the fall except Michigan State, the national champions.
Gregory 17th. In the NCAA championships, against all the collegiate longdistance runners in the country, the Irish were led by Ron Gregory who finished 17th in spite of an injured leg. after him came sophomore Tom Dempsey, a consistently strong performer all season who finished 29th at East Lansing. Two places behind him came Dave Cotton, who has just recovered from the flu.
The runner-up to MSU for the NCAA crown was Houston, followed by Iowa and then the Irish. Western Michigan, who had beaten Notre Dame twice during the, regular season, was fifth. Also finishing further down the list was Indiana, who had taken the state crown from a Cotton-less Irish crew, and who had also triumphed in a dual meet between the two schools.
When the season began back in the early days of October, Coach Wilson had only three lettermen returning and one
vacancy created by graduation. The three returnees were Gregory, Cotton, and Galen Cawley, senior team captain, and the vacancy was filled by Dempsey. On paper it seemed to be a strong contender with its experience and proven strength.
Physical handicaps. However, in the *’ week before the first meet, Gregory, who was then the number one man on the squad, hurt his knee in practice. The injury caused him to miss the first meet r and continue to bother him for the rest of the year. Cotton came through in | fine fashion in the opening meet though, * taking the blue ribbon to lead the Irish *■ to a 26-31 victory over Marquette at Milwaukee. Cawley came in third, followed by Dennis Johnston, a junior, fifth and Dempsey in eighth place.
Gregory returned the following week and took first place. However the Irish lost to Indiana, 21-35, at Bloomington. Cawley was third again and Cotton took seventh. Notre Dame came home the next week to host a five-team contest which saw Western Michigan triumph ( in spite of another winning run by I Gregory. This time Cawley was fourth, » Cotton had fallen back to fifth and Dempsey to sixth.	v
For the fourth meet, the Irish hosted Michigan State, losing by a score of 1742. Gregory took fourth, followed by Dempsey placing seventh and Cawley eighth. Then came the Big State meet, and Cotton hurt his heel in practice 1 right before that contest and ND had to settle for a second place to Indiana. Gregory took third behind a recordbreaking performance by Wabash’s Warren Hall who toured the four-mile course in 20:19.8 through a light driving snow.
1
Second in CCC. From here the Irish went to Chicago for the Central Collegiate Conference meet, and took second to Western Michigan as Gregory finished third, Dempsey fifth, and Cawley seventh. The following Monday, in New York for the IC4A contest, the Notre , Dame runners placed fourth, in spite ** ' of the fact that Gregory’s leg injury forced him to drop out of the race, and Cotton still wasn’t running, but now for a different reason — the flu. Finally with everybody back in near-running condition, though without much practice, the Irish took fourth in the NCAA.
Coach Wilson’s outlook for next year is quite good, although he will be losing the service of two top men in Cawley and Cotton. Dempsey has come along h quite well this year, and at least one man from the frosh team, Bill Yaley, has shown great promise. These two, plus Gregory,. Johnston and several other juniors and sophomores should give the Irish a powerful nucleus next fall.
22
The Scholastic
ND Bowling Totals Top t Midwest College Teams
Notre Dame’s entry in the Midwestern Intercollegiate Bowling Conference * moved a step closer to first place by sweeping all five games in a match with St. Joseph’s last Sunday. The intercollegiate team now boasts a record of * 24-9 having beaten Valparaiso 7-4 and DePaul 6-5. There are no more scheduled matches for the varsity until after Christmas vacation, but there will be a * non-conference match with Illinois Institute of Technology tomorrow at 1:30 in the Notre Dame Alleys.
The Geographical Club League will meet for the first time this Sunday night at 6:30. At present the league has teams representing the Kentucky, Cleveland, New Jersey and Pittsburgh Clubs. ' The league is composed of four man teams and is designed to provide competition between the campus geographical clubs. Any other clubs wishing to * enter a team in the league may do so by contacting Ed Silliman at the alleys or by having a team appear at the alleys Sunday night.
Due to considerable renovations which will be started December 15, the Notre Dame Alleys will be closed from De-» cember 15 until the end of Christmas vacation. Consequently, the Kampus Kegler Leagues will be suspended until January 6.
1 Since some of the league secretaries failed to turn in scores for this week, the Stars of the Week will be replaced this week by the statistics for the intercollegiate bowlers.
Tyler Jr.'s Basketball Picks
DECEMBER 18
« Pittsburgh over Boston College Bradley over Boston University Kansas State over Brigham Young Ohio State over Butler
t California over Colorado Kansas over San Francisco Notre Dame over Loyola
r Purdue over UCLA
Maryland over Wake Forest DECEMBER 19
. Northwestern over Boston University Butler over UCLA
Cincinnati over Louisville
Indiana over Detroit k Georgia Tech over North Carolina
State
Illinois over Ohio U.
LaSalle over Niagara
* Marquette over Wisconsin
Michigan State over Wyoming Missouri over Minnesota
4 St. John’s over Providence Seattle over Xavier
JANUARY 2
North Carolina over Notre Dame
JANUARY 5
Notre Dame over Butler
ND Swimmers Top Billikens; Face Central Michigan Next
Notre Dame’s swimming team amassed a total of 69 points last Saturday to defeat the St. Louis University tankers 69-25. This was the first dual meet of the season for coach Dennis Stark’s men who copped eight firsts out of a possible eleven.
A spectacular personal duel developed between Irish divers Paul Chestnut and Jim Carroll. After the two had completed their dives and their points tallied, only two-tenths of a point separated them. Chestnut won the event with a total of 264.5 points and Carroll came in second with 264.3 points. The top St. Louis diver was far behind with 154.5 points.
The ND 400-yard medley relay team, composed of Gene Jordan, Dave Witch-ger, Tony Haske and Gene Witchger won that event in a time of 4:18.5. The Irish also won the 400-yard freestyle relay. The time was 3:39.7. This team is made up by G. Witchger, Chris Lund, George Kane and Joe Meany.
Lund and Meany finished first and second respectively in the 50-yard freestyle event. Lund’s time was 24.7 sec-
WATER SHOW
On the evenings of January 1617 at 8:30 p.m., the swimming team plans to put on a water show in the Rockne Memorial Pool. Further details will be announced after Christmas vacation. On the afternoon of the 16th, the swimmers will meet Northwestern in dual competition.
onds. This duo was reversed in the 100-yard freestyle event. Meany’s winning time was 56.2 seconds.
Jim Grever won the 220-yard freestyle race for the Big Green in a time of 2:24.9. Ray Stephani finished third in that same event. Haske took top honors in the 200-yard butterfly event with a time of 2:35.6.
The Irish tankers also chalked up a first in the 200-yard individual relay event. D. Witchger placed first with teammate Jordan right behind him. Witchger’s time was 2:30.2.
In the three events that St. Louis won, the Irish took both second and third places. Paul Zika and Jim Lowe finished second and third respectively in the 200-yard backstroke. Billiken Tom Crosby’s winning time in this event was 2:31.5.	.
Stephani followed Sid Holthaus of St. Louis who won the 440-yard freestyle event in 5:21.3. Grover finished third for the Irish. In the 200-yard breast stroke, St. Louis’ Dave Doering bested ND’s Steve Sauer and Joe Biacco in a time of 2:49.1.
A new varsity record was set in the 400-yard freestyle relay. The winning time of 3:39.7 smashed the old mark of 3:44.4.
Dennis Stark’s Irish tankers resume a tough schedule again in January.
Wrestlers Win Two; Show Good Strength
Notre Dame’s wrestling team started the 1959-1960 season in an auspicious manner, posting two victories in their first three meets. On December 8, Coach Tom Fallon’s grapplers opened the season with a 20-6 victory over Illinois (Navy Pier) in Chicago. Led by Jim Kane and Sophomore Tom Slater, the Irish took six of eight matches for an easy victory. Slater won the first match of his career by pinning Ken Vianello in the heavyweight division, while Kane, a junior who also is on the Irish football team, took his 177-pound class by defeating Vic Gouletas, 13-2 .
In the 123-pound division Irish Captain Jerry Sachsel defeated Tom Koenig, a victory that was quickly avenged by Illinois’ Bob Nordby’s defeat of Carmen Belafonte in the 130-pound division. Illinois surged ahead with Myron Nash’s win over Larry Bunchek in the 137-pound class.
The turning point of the match was Dick Sapp’s defeat of the Illini’s AI Walkei* in the 147-pound class. After Sapp’s victory, the Irish went ahead to win the remaining four matches, cinching their first meet. Besides the Slater and Kane victories, 157-pound sophomore John Chunetski beat Carl Huett, and Gene McFadden won his match for the Irish in the 167-pound division, defeating Illinois’ Charlie Pulliam.
Last Friday in the Fieldhouse, Findlay College handed Notre Dame their first defeat of the season by taking the final match of the afternoon .on a decision, edging the Irish 16-14. The highlight of the meet for Irish fans was 123-pound Captain Jerry Sachsel’s pin of Jim Bates, extending his dual meet record to 21 matches without a Joss. Early in the match, Findlay’s Sedlack and Macaluso registered two pins over Dick Nielson and Larry Bunchek.
Notre Dame’s Dick Sapp, Gene McFadden and Jim Kane all posted vic-toi-ies for the Irish, but Ted Dudeck and Frank De French defeated Notre Dame’s John Churnetski and Tom Slater, pulling the victory out of the fire for Findlay.
The day after losing to Findlay, the Irish rebounded fiercely to smother Wayne State 22-6 in the Fieldhouse. The Ii-ish almost made a clean sweep of the afternoon, losing only the 177-pound and heavyweight divisions.
Jerry Sanchsel continued his phene* menal dual meet streak by a forfeit over Wayne State, extending his record to 22* straight victories, leaving little Jerry undefeated in three years of college competition.
Dick Nielson added his victory over Gordan Autio to the long Irish string-on this Saturday afternoon. Bunchek added the second forfeit victory of the day to the Irish collection. Sapp, Chunetski and McFadden added three more-tallies to this impressive Irish list, completing it for the day.
December 18, 1959
Shirts Expertly Laundered 5 for $1.00 RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
New Catholic Prayer Books.
1QUUS USURY ui BOOK SHOP
Books, Missals, and Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend A Nonprofit Organization
DIAMONDS
JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
For: Hamilton - Elgin Butova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Mam St
IMS. Bldg.
Km HOW of FUN!
Travel with LITA
Unbelievable Low Cost
SJfJLDV^
Europt mL*m>$675 Orient
up. Sooth Aswriai SM*«p. Hawaii Study Toor SM* op and
WORLD TRAVEL
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
The Scholastic, a few weeks ago, had a discussion of the meeting that the student organizations director called for the presidents of the geographical clubs. I feel that there were some misunderstandings on the part of both the Scholastic and the club presidents as to the purpose of this meeting. I asked Mr. Rafferty, the student organizations director, to call the meeting. I hope that an organization of the presidents of the geographical clubs or their representatives can be established. However, this is not an attempt to govern the clubs any more than they are now being governed. As you may know, many of the regulations that are in the student government-student organizations policy are required by the administration. The club president’s organization that is proposed could possibly take over some of administering of these regulations.
Another very good reason for such an organization, I think, is that it could serve as a suggestion center for ideas and activities that the clubs could use. This is where the loan fund comes in. In many cases the clubs do not have enough money to hold activities they would like to hold. The loan fund would be available to underwrite such activities. The fund would be administered by the president’s organization. If such a fund exists I have never heard of it and I think the same is true of many of the club presidents.
Lastly, I think that it is necessary to say a few words about the Frankie’s incident in the senate. Article I, Section 4, of the student government constitution states: “The Student Senate shall be empowered ... to make rules for the government and regulation of student conduct.” I feel that this should answer the question of whether it is any of our business. As a matter of fact I feel that it is not only our business but our responsibility. The preamble of the constitution says, “We, the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac, recognizing our responsibility to God, Country, and Notre Dame, in order to better provide for the student welfare, ensure the necessary cooperation and understanding between the student body, the faculty and the administration, and to create an awareness of the obligation for responsible leadership which has been placed upon us as recipients of a Catholic education, in accordance with the power granted us by the administrative authorities of the University of Notre Dame. ...” My definitions of responsible leadership as Catholics includes such things as guarding against unnecessary “temptation to intemperance” as Frankie’s Rathskeller.
I personally feel that there are some legitimate arguments against my method of attack. I feel that the best way to handle the situation was to put Frankie’s off-limits. I was disappointed by the motion that the Senate passed because I felt it was an ineffective compromise.
I hope that this will clarify some of
the feelings I had on this matter. I might mention that this was not an attempt to have any individual or group of individuals punished for any particular act. This isn’t the senate’s business and I certainly don’t consider it any of my business.
I have been very disappointed with the job the Scholastic has been doing this year. I certainly am not opposed to the Scholastic taking sides, and/or criticizing student government. This is not only the Scholastic’s job but also a necessary part of student government, if it is to represent the students. I am disappointed in the way this job has been done. The Scholastic in many cases has been ignorant of the facts of things it has reported. I am sure that these facts could be found with a little effort. It is certainly necessary for any good reporter or even editorial writer to know the facts before he goes off half-cocked on an editorial campaign.
If the reporting that the Scholastic has done this year, is any indication of the way the administration’s policy has been researched and reported in the past, the University was certainly justified in the policy that it imposed on the Scholastic last year. Should the type of reporting that has appeared in Scholastic the last few months continue, I, for one, feel that maybe this University does not have people mature enough to publish a newspaper. Possibly the 1960-61 policy should abolish the Scholastic and replace it with, say, the Catholic Boy, which has at least as high an intellecual content and is at least intellectually written.
1 f
V'
r
I

If I could get my money back I would cancel my subscription, but since I can’t I’ll continue to send the Scholastic to » my little brother, who at least gets a kick out of Ivan Osorio’s drawings. On second thought I am not sure what I will do with it next semester.	*' 1
Student Affairs Comm. Edward Butler, Jr.
WONG WRONG?
f
Editor:
It seems that the Scholastic’s movie reviewer looks at a title alone and sees the whole film. Not satisfied with the plot of August Strindberg’s drama adapted for the screen in Of Love and Lust, Mr. Wong felt the creative urge — new drama unfolds.
If our movie reviewer honestly believes that Of Love and Lust “makes Erskine Caldwell seem like Louisa May Alcott,” the Confessions will soon join his list of condemned literature. To degrade Hie “Art-istic” quality of a recognized work because of a suggestive title belies a confused mind.
We suggest that Mr. Wong should see more movies, temper his rhetoric, or write “nothing more.”
Bill Bowman 228 Fisher Paul Kusbach 221 Fisher
24
The Scholastic
Fencers Win Opener; Next Foe in Cleveland
In their first and only outing1 of 1959, the Irish fencers opened the season with two solid victories last Saturday, conquering Case Tech, 19-8, and Indiana Tech, 22-5, in the Fieldhouse.
The first of these two wins, besides being the initial triumph of the 1959-60 season, also marked the 200th victory against 44 defeats in 23 years of fencing at Notre Dame. The twin triumphs boosted Coach Walter Langford’s record here at Notre Dame to 133-27.
The Irish came through strongly in all three divisions of the meet, doing their best in the foil, where they whipped Case, 7-2, and then came back to make a clean sweep of the finale from Indiana, I 9-0. Co-captain Jim Russomano led the way in these matches with a five-for-five performance, followed by Co-captain Jerry Johnson, who took four out of his five bouts.
In the sabre, the event that Coach Langford has worried about most due to a lack of returning lettermen, the new , men came through quite well, winning their opener, 7-2, over Case, and then whipping Indiana, 6-3. Senior Ted De-Baene was the big man here, winning foui* out of four bouts, and he was followed by John Wursta, with a 3-1 mark for the afternoon.
The Irish barely won the epee match with Case, 5-4, but closed out the afternoon on a stronger note, dropping Indiana, 7-2. Seniors Jim Radde and Pete Giaimo each collected perfect 3-0 scores.
In the third dual meet of the triangular competition, Case Tech edged Indiana Tech, 15-12.
After the holidays, the Irish begin an 11-week schedule in Cleveland, where
a Swingline
SWINGLINE "TOT
(Including 1000 staples)
Millions now in use. Unconditionally guaranteed. Makes book covers, fastens papers, arts and crafts, mends, tacks, etc. Available at your college bookstore.
LONG ISLAND CITY, NEW YORK. N. Y.
For opportunities in the Central Soya Company Write Paul E. Hensel, Vice President—Personnel
they meet Fenn College. Then they move to Buffalo for a tri-meet with Buffalo and Syracuse. Two weeks after that, the Air Force Academy’s Falcons — the team that snapped the Notre Dame fencers’ 25-meet winning streak last year — will be here to face ND, along with Michigan State.
From there on, it’s a tough nine weeks to the NCAA Fencing Championships at Champaign, Ill., for the schedule includes Illinois, Wayne State and Wisconsin.
The Notre Dame fencing team, since its organization in 1936, has compiled one of the best athletic records in the history of the University as has its coach, Walter Langford. Langford has been the fencing instructor here for the last fourteen years.
Yet posting such an outstanding record as they do each year, the Irish fencers do not receive the plaudits and the praise that they should; the reason being that fencing is known as one of the “minor sports” here at Notre Dame.
However, the strength of the local fencers is not entirely forgotten, because each opponent the Irish meet count this match as their biggest of the season.
Eat at Our Own
$1.50
STEAK SPECIAL Tuesday and Thursday
SPECIALS EVERY NIGHT
1003 N. Notre Dame Ave
ATTENTION ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS!
You are invited to attend . . .
The Central Soya Company's Career Opportunity Conference
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1959, 9:30 a.m. (CDT) Oak Room — Hotel Van Orman Fort Wayne, Indiana
SEE . . .
HEAR . . .
MEET . . .
BOBBY MORROW
Olympic Sprint Champion
December 18, 1959
25
Bach Pap
a beatnic manifesto
-
by RICHARD DISTEL
V
Richard Distel, writer of this week's "“Back Page,” is a junior English major from Grosse Park, Mich. This article ■marks his first contribution to the SCHOLASTIC.
In this particular discussion of that group of individualists known as Beat-nics, Distel brings out some of the reasons why these nonconformists should be admired and not so readily condemned.
YOU poor, shivering, production line men! Afraid to be men; not men at all. Perhaps you all wear Ivy League clothes, all carry black umbrellas, all have nicely cut, short hair so that all your heads look like so many b-b shot as you all congregate at the same place and use the same words: fabulous, terrific, tremendous, great; talking about, and only about, the things you all like (and if it were something different you would still all like it because everybody did).
Thus the Beatnic accosts you. And thus he cries to our society: Americans from the great American mint, you who have lost all discrimination by feeding your minds at the stagnant and stylized “food fairs” of television, union meeting, newspaper, fashion magazine and buyer’s guide. You whose God given reasoning power and power of discrimination have been buried under the floods of ready made opinion which bathe the American continent; whose individual manhood has been coerced into the common mold of the “current man,” has all but lost its personal and individual shape in the change of form, following fashion.
MASSES ARE RISING
Come now and awake! Again the mass is arising to a new movement, but a ■different movement. Not a new atheism, nor new romaniticism, nor rationalism, nor revivalism. It is a movement, the end of all movements; it is the destruction of the mass, the breaking apart ■of the clot of men numbed with the pressure of purposeless conformities. It calls at last for the sure advance of society, tor it would make men each be himself, to think of and for himself, to suggest, Judge, and fight; each with a personal ■vigor arising from his own intellect. It would make men free to contribute where before they had only accepted, to form ■themselves rather then to he formed.
This is the spirit and the goal of the Beatnic movement. It is an intellectual
26
movement which would use emotional stimuli to bring men to realize that they have free wills and choice, and can reason. And that the exercise of these powers, although difficult, is rewarding both to the alert individual it produces and to the society it advances by setting to work the millions of dormant free wills and reasons which are presently following the mass. This movement has been named Beat, and its participants, Beatnics; the name has been established, so let it reside.
The proponents of the movement have been called “angry” and “rebellious,” and rightly so. They are angered because their individualism has been called rebellion when it has tended to violate some of the meaningless conformities of society. They are truly rebellious because they are angered and because they are aware of the evils of a group which discriminates without reason, which lives a form of prejudice and uses it as a shield for the evil works of prejudiced men. They see the mob rule, the racial strife, the evil done and the pain caused and harm inflicted; they see that these deeds are made easy by the lesser prejudices and blind followings of daily life. The habitual and blind conformities in minor acts, in dress and habit, lead to the following of a cause in greater things, without thought of personal belief and morals. The Beatnic is angered by, rebels against, and condemns both these prejudices, and in turn is condemned by them.
The movement is already underway. On this very campus, literature such as this is being written, the appeal is being made (a recent “Back Page” has already condemned the “nothingness” of conformity and lack of opinion), a few can be seen dressed as their individual taste dictates. In the matter of dress, the Beatnic would have men make their own evaluations and act accordingly, conformity to current style being only - incidental.
Unfortunately the actions of those few who have, by their extremes, forced their way into the press, have discredited the entire movement. Dangers lie in the path of any good cause, and dangers have become apparent too, in the Beatnic movement. Because the mode of appeal of the movement is basically emotional— what else could shake the mor-phean hold which conformity has on men’s minds?—it is in the danger of sensualism; of holding as the prime purpose the emotional stimuli which are meant
only as a means toward the rebirth of reason. Because it attacks what has become a law of society, although certainly an artificial law; superficial standards; r it is in danger of overthrowing also the true, natural and supernatural laws and standards of society: morality, rational good taste, sincerity, Godliness and the like. And finally, because it is and must be a mass movement itself, Beatnicism risks the danger of falling prey to the very conformity it condemns. All too * easily, as experience has shown, may it become a cult of senseless non-conformity, a lauding of different but superficial ~ acts for their own sake, and not for the sake of the man who has chosen them.
MALADY OF THE MIND	<
Some or all of these maladies, as we have said, practiced by a group of extremists, have caused active minds to be r turned away. Those who object to the movement on the grounds of its errors must be made to understand that the errors are but perversions of the end and do not comprise the end itself. The true Beatnic is a man of conscience and « not a radical, by the standards of truth. He is seen in church frequently and in jail rarely, unless the cause has led him to disregard some conformity so deeply 40 adhered to that it has falsely gained the prestige of a valid and moral law.
Closely allied to the Beatnic movement is a literary movement which serves the dual purpose of stimulating minds with the emotional appeals, the freedom and daring of thought which the Beatnic may adopt in the spirit of his individuality; and of formulating a distinct literary style which has become termed “Beat” and which is exemplified by the writings , of Kerouac and other authentic poets of the Beat Generation.
In conclusion and in the light of the above appraisal of the Beatnic movement, I believe that a long needed force has been brought to bear on the American people. It is a force supplying new ideas and energy to the art, music and ' poetry, and especially to the minds of Americans. It is arousing them from the torpid sleep in which they have been indulging their divinely given reason and individuality; while the forces of the profiteer, the selfish politician, and overreligious and antireligious gods of fanaticism and atheism have brainwashed them, for the most part into a society of the intellectually dead.
The Scholastic
<	while you’re home on vacation,
invest a few minutes in your future...
’	j
SEE IBM .
If you’re a Senior or Graduate Student, make this a productive holiday as well as a happy one. Take time to investigate career opportunities at IBM. You’ll receive a warm welcome at any of nearly 200 branch offices. Just call the manager and ask for an appointment. He is expecting you. He will tell you what sort of company we are . .. what the people are like ... what we do ... how rapidly the data processing industry has been expanding. And he will tell you what we offer qualified college graduates in career training, job satisfactions, prestige, earnings, and opportunities for promotion.
’ I
We need men and women for a variety of careers in direct and indirect sales, applied science, business administration, programming, manufacturing, engineering research and product devel-k	opment. We want men and women with imagination, ambition, and unusual ability.
. Please call me for the location of the office nearest your home: Mr. W. F. Wahl, Branch Manager International Business Machines Corporation 618 N. Michigan Street, South Bend 1, Indiana Telephone: Central 2-8251
4	If circumstances prevent you from accepting this invitation,
please ask me or your College Placement Officer for the date of the next IBM interview on campus.
data processing
IBM.
have a merry Christmas and a happy new year!
New 1960 brings you taste...MORE TASTE...
THE MIRACLE TIP
FILTERS
LIGGETT & VVERS TOBACCO CO
New, free-flowing Miracle Tip unlocks natural tobacco flavor! That’s why KM can blend fine tobaccos not to suit a filter... but to suit your taste! They said it couldn’t be done ... but DM has done it again! ■^1959 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.