The Notre Dame
Scholastic
October 5, 1956
"But I got a 9:30..
Refreshing new idea in smoking
Take a puff, it’s springtime! Refreshing as this spring scene looks—that’s how new Salem tastes. Full rich tobacco flavor with a new surprise softness. Try all-new Salem... first cigarette of its kind. A wonderful new experience!
Salem refreshes your taste.. .you’ll love ’em! »
NORTH AMERICAN HAS BUILT MORE AIRPLANES THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY IN THE WORLD
Engineers, scientists, physicists, mathematicians...
LIKE TO HELP WITH THE NEXT ONE?
The North American airplanes of the future will come from the creative potential of today’s young men. Possibly you— or members of your graduating class— will help to engineer them. One thing is certain. They will have to be the best to merit the space reserved alongside the famous North American planes pictured in this ad.
Designing the best airplanes to meet the demands of the future is the challenging work North American offers to graduate
engineers and to specialists in other sciences. If you want to work on advanced projects right from the start... enjoy recognition and personal rewards... live and work in Southern California... then join North American’s outstanding engineering team.
See your Placement Officer today to arrange for an appointment with North American Engineering representatives ... they will be on campus on:
OCTOBER 17
If you are not available at this time, please write: Dept. Col, Engineering Personnel Office, North American Aviation, Inc., Los Angeles 45, California
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, INC.
October 5, 1956
3
A GOOD APPEARANCE WILL OPEN ANY DOOR
LOOK at the successful men you know. They LOOK successful, too, don’t they? And, clothes are an important part of this appearance. In preparing for your career, the wardrobe you build, the good judgment you acquire for clothes will help you immeasurably in your future life ... to open those important “doors.” Let the Campus Shop help you build this wardrobe now ... to help you “Dress Right—you can’t afford not to!”
4
The. Scholastic
YOU ARE INVITED TO USE
YOUR CAMPUS SHOP CHARGE ACCOUNT
Use the same convenient charge account that so many young professional men, junior executives and students use at Gilbert’s store in South Bend. With a Campus Charge Account, you can, if you wish, enjoy the advantages of extended credit without interest or carrying charges. A Campus Charge Account is always available for your use . . . come in tomorrow!
Home of HICKEY-FREEMAN. SOCIETY BRAND. EAGLE. BOTANY a500a. GGG. ALPAGORA. AND BURBERRY SUITS AND COATS ... McGREGOR SPORTSWEAR DOBBS HATS... FLORSHEIM SHOES... ARROW AND WILSON BROS. SHIRTS
OFFICIAL
Class Rings
University of
Notre Dame
Manufactured exclusively by the L. G. Balfour Co.
the AUTHENTIC mark of a Notre Dame Alumnus
available
ON LY at the
Notre Dame Bookstore
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 98 October 5, 1956 No. 2
Disco Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Charles McKendrick
Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON
Associate Editor
JIM STEINTRAGER   .News Editor JAMES McDonald    Copy Editor DAVID KUBAL .........Feature Co-Editor JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS......Assistant News
JIM DULAN ........  Assistant	News
JOE HEIMOSKI .....  Assistant	News
BOB VONDRASEK .........Assistant News HARRY McKEE.........................Assistant Copy MARSH PIDGEON..........Assistant Copy
DON STUHLDREHER.__Circulation Mgr.
HARRY CONLON ................Business Mgr. JOHN GLAVIN.......................Sports Editor BOB EARLY..............Assistant Sports
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated. Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
INVENTORY
Page
Escape _______________________    7
View ..........................   9
Campus Scene ..................... 11
Features ...................     15
Movies ________________________  22
Irish Scene __________________   25
Time Out......................   28
Back Page ....—................  34
»
University of Notre Dame BLAZERS
•	Lightweight Wool
•	Custom Tailored
•	Full Range of Sizes

Just the thing to wear at your Dances and Parties
Notre Dame Bookstore
The Scholastic
by Bryan Woods
By this time you freshmen have had so much advice, helpful counsel, and just plain ordering around that you are ready to pack up again and leave. Don’t leave now, wait till after the Oklahoma game and then leave. It’s not that we don’t want you, it’s just that you make the lines 'over at the dining hall too long.
You may have gotten the word on every thing they’ve thought up the word for yet, but here for the first time ESCAPE brings you the real scoop. Forget all that jazz you read in your ^freshman orientation book. The guys that wrote it fell for the same line when they came here and now they’re taking it out on you. But you have an ally. Let the Blue Circle throw their acid; ESCAPE marches on. So. . .
GIRLS
First off, girls. By now you’ve been to a whole mess of mixers and a real old-fashioned Sunday School type outing at Pottawattomie* Park, complete with uncooked hot dogs and a moth-eaten ’ Buffalo. That was your chance to check this year’s crew. If you talked one into ’ going steady you’re set. If you didn’t you’ll 'have to make like a Braves’ fan - (wait till next year.) Believe me, they’re all gone by now. So what do you do for- dates? Send in your ideas and the best one will receive a cash 'i prize. None of us have solved that one Ii yet either.
Just fooling gang. All you need to f be a success trans-Dixie are good looks, v money, good personality, money, per-\ t sistence, determination, money, and maybe a cousin over there.
CARS
Next on the list of the freshmen worries is the matter of disciplinary regulations. They’ll tell you not to take a chance on keeping a car. Don’t be a sucker. When I was a freshman I knew a number of classmates who kept cars in South Bend and Mishawaka. They never got in any trouble. Of course they lived there, but still it just goes to show.
DRINKING
They’ll also say don’t take chances drinking. That’s okay if you’re a natural-born George Goodheart. But you and I know that classes and studying can’t make a “College Man.” You gotta drink! Right? Right. (Why it’s almost as important as smoking a pipe.) That’s where ESCAPE once again comes to your aid.
We just happen to have a limited number of Saudi Arabian Desert Legion Identification Cards on hand. Believe it or not the 21 is printed in large Arabic numerals. How’s that for being official? When you send in for yours you will receive a package containing a) a bus token; b) a map of St. Joseph’s county; and c) your- own personal S.A.D.L. Identification card. Is that a value or is that a value? What does it cost? The infinitesimal, minuscule, atom-sized price of One (?) dollar. Hurry up though, this offer may be withdrawn at any time without notice.
PLANES
There are a number of other regs but if you want to fly a plane on the sly or play hide-and-go-seek in the steam tunnels you’ll have to figure out your-own methods. I’m afraid I can’t give you too much help there.
facts for freshman
BOOKS
Now that we’ve got the really important things out of the way, I guess we can say a few words about studies. First of all, you don’t really have to spend all that money for books. Save it for really important things. Like that trip to the Hofstra-Lehigh homecoming game that you’ve always wanted to make. Let the other guy buy the books. Like your room-mate. Of course, if he’s Commerce and you’re pre-med this may be a bit impractical, but then you don’t expect me to do it al! for you? Solve your own problems.
DEAN’S LIST
Finally a word that will come in handy in the future. There’s a hard way to make Dean’s List and an easy way. Being a Dean’s List man is handy if you’d like to start your Christmas vacation about Dec. 1. But working for an 88 average is the sucker’s way of making it. There’s another way. Find out where the list is posted, swipe it, type your name in at the bottom, and put it back There you are, on the Dean’s List. Now that you see how easy it is, hang in there, Class of 1960.
PICK OF THE WEEK
Although the rugged, but inexperienced East Potomac State Teachers squad will make it a battle every minute, the “Erasers” of the Erasmus Jones College of Business and Commerce, despite their recent de-emphasis of football, are just too tough. ERASMUS JONES COLLEGE OF B. & C.

* Named -for G.eorge. Pottawattomie, one" of the founding fathers of South Bend.
October 5, 1956
7
Pay4Times the Price* YOU STILL CAN'T MATCH HOLIDAY PIPE MIXTURE
Custom Blended tor MILDNESS
More men every year switch to Holiday, because it contains these five famous tobaccos from all over the world skillfully blended into a mixture of unequalled flavor, aroma and mildness. Each tobacco adds its own distinctive flavor and aroma, to make Holiday America’s finest pipe mixture. Try a pipeful—enjoy its coolness, flavor and aroma—and see for yourself why more and more men who smoke mixtures are switching to Holiday as a steady smoke.
from an EXPERT
A sample of Holiday Pipe Mixture in a plain wrapper was shown to the custom blender in a nationally famous tobacco shop. “Canyou duplicate this tobacco?” he was asked. After careful examination, he said, frankly, that he couldn't. Although he could identify the types of tobacco used and could supply them in a $6 a pound mixture, he couldn't guess the secret of the blend!
GOLDFISH BOWL TEST
PROVES HOLIDAY’S FRESHNESS
If moisture can't get in, naturally freshness can't get out. Holiday's heat-sealed wrap-around pouch is flavor-tight— for a fresher, cooler smoke. Easy to carry, too—no bulky corners.
IARUS & BROTHER CO., INC. RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
FACILITIES
The Library: Mon. through Fri., 8 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.; Sat., 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sun., 1 p.m. to 9 p.m.
The Rockne Memorial: Mon. through Fri., 8 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.; Sat., 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sun., 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Swimming periods: Mon. ■) through Fri., 3:30 to 5:30 p.m., and 7:15 to 8:30 p.m.; Sat. and Sun., 1 to 4:30 p.m.
Gilbert’s: Mon. through Sat., 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
The Barber Shop: Mon. through Fri., 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sat., 8 a.m. to 12 noon.
Laundry and Dry Cleaners: Mon. through Fri., 7:30 a.m. to 4:45 p.m.
The Huddle: Mon. through Fri., 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Sat., 8 a.m. to 12 noon and 4 to 10 p.m.
Treasurer’s Office: Mon. through Fri., 9 a.m. to 12 noon, and 2 to 5 p.m.
Western Union: Mon. through Fri., 8:20 a.m. to 12 noon, and 1 to 5 p.m.
Billiard Room: Mon. through Fri., 9:30 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.; Sat., 9.-30 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sun., 12:30 to 5 p.m. and 7:15 to 9:30 p.m.
Post Office: Mon. through Fri., 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Sat., 7:30 f a.m. to 1 p.m.
Railway Express Agency: Mon. through Fri., 12:30 to 2:30 p.m.
The Book Store: Mon. through Sat., 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
The Bowling Alleys: League Bowling: Mon. through Fri., 6:45 to 11:30 p.m.; Sun., 6:45 to 8:45 p.m. f Open Bowling: Mon. through Fri., 2 to 5 p.m., Sat., 1 to 5 p.m. and 6:45 to 11:30 p.m., Sun. after 8:45.
Golf Shop: Mon. through Fri., 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Sat. and Sun., 6:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
AMERICA'S FINEST PIPE MIXTURE... Canada's RnastTooI
ON THE COVER are two members of® \ the freshman class in the midst of a weighty discussion. Schedule conflicts are not confined to the classroom alone as indicated by this photo. Our subjects are Claude Pomerleau (left) and Jim Doherty. Photograph is by Gerry Trafficanda.	'
8
The Scholastic

advisory program
For a university to maintain a high academic standard, it must exercise a good deal of arbitrary severity in ^handling its first year men. It must do so out of fairness to itself for obvious reasons. In some universities, where enrollment is so high that it prohibits any workable form of individual consideration, a student who registers a certain amount of deficiencies at a given time is unsympathetically dismissed from the school by the belch of an IBM machine. The mortality rate among freshmen is inevitably a high one at any respectable institution of learning.
While most universities are too large to do much about this problem, administration officials at Notre Dame feel that out of fairness to the parents of the boys who come ®here, and the boys themselves, an effort should be made to keep them in school. No standard is to be compromised • or tampered with in any way; it is rather an effort to help I the new men adjust to their academic programs and thereby ! keep themselves out of danger.
i Further along in this issue, Dr. William Burke, Academic Student Advisor at Notre Dame, explains some of the ordinary pitfalls that menace a college freshman and points out some ways of avoiding them. Dr. Burke’s office of Student Advisor was established a few years ago with one of its ^main objectives the cutting down of freshman mortality There at Notre Dame. In a few short years his office has ’ achieved remarkable success and much of his program : is still in the developmental stage.
t In addition to Dr. Burke’s office, the various colleges : at Notre Dame, in conjunction with the Blue Circle service ■ society, have initiated a Freshman Advisory Program whereby juniors and seniors are selected to contact freshmen and help them over the rough spots. The mechanics of the program are not complex; one junior or senior goes to see three or four freshmen, gives each one a few words of # constructive advice regarding the year ahead, and offers himself as a general counsel for whenever he may be needed.
■ The advisor revisits his freshmen at a later date to see if J they have run into any difficulty. The mechanics are । simple—but the results can be notably worthwhile.
j The only real difficulty can come from the freshmen i themselves. The advisors are willing—they prove it by -I taking the trouble to contact their freshmen. And they are ) also sincere, since all they gain for themselves is the personal • satisfaction of having helped someone struggle through
, his first year at Notre Dame. If there is difficulty to be 1 found in the program at all, it will arise from freshmen I taking the attitude that they are being assaulted by pennant I wavers and snow shovelers who have everyone’s business I to mind but their own.
J Undoubtedly a few freshmen will resist the program and | short-change themselves, but it is expected that the majority , ! will cooperate and benefit.
•	-7. N-
local hospitality
Each fall in hundreds of college towns over the nation residents batten down the hatches for the yearly assault of the student body. But at the same time, however, merchants, restaurant owners, and tavern keepers in these same towns make ready for the boom season. ‘
This same situation prevails every September in the city of South Bend. Perhaps the influx of Notre Dame students does not affect the local community as much as it might a smaller city, but the changeover is great nonetheless. When over 5,000 extremely active youths descend on any town, large or small, a very noticeable transition is bound to occur.
Naturally, many disturbing incidents ensue when the student body invades the community on weekend nights. Many times seemingly harmless horseplay develops into wanton vandalism which demands quite severe punishment.
Such damaging pranks create further animosity between the town residents and the student body. Each side usually issues a blanket condemnation of the other thereby aligning themselves into uncompromising camps.
Where does the initial blame fall in this problem? What solution, if any, can be offered to promote goodwill between student and resident?
In answering the first question we must first briefly examine the backgrounds of the two groups. The residents usually have not been exposed to the same educational processes as have the students. They naturally feel a resentment to the young men for whom life has held many more opportunities. At times this ill-feeling is easily aroused— particularly when the town resident observes the student damaging property or disturbing the peace.
The student, on the other hand, looks at things from the opposite side of the fence. Because he has had more extensive schooling, he often tends to look down upon the less educated person. Taken away from the friendly environment of his home town he frequently cries out against the shortcomings of his new home—usually within earshot of the year-long resident. He feels his position as a “college man” grants him a license for the practice of egotism, rowdiness, and scorn.
Both parties are at fault. South Bend residents add fuel to the fire when they shove a cold shoulder in the student’s face on the sidewalk, in the store, and in the restaurant. University employees create discord when they become curt and domineering to the well-meaning individual. Such action lessens the student’s respect for those in offices of authority at the University.
The student is wrong when he degrades himself by vulgar language on the street comer, by rowdy conduct in South Bend dining places, and by rude demonstrations in downtown movie theaters.
How can goodwill be promoted? As you might suspect there is no one concrete cure-all for the problem.
Both the South Bend dweller and the Notre Dame student could do much to alleviate the situation by trying to understand the other. The local person could do this by warmly accepting the student as a guest in his city and by treating him accordingly—with hospitality and sincere offers of friendship. The student could do his part by behaving as an adult, not a perennial delinquent, by ceasing the cunplaints about the weather, the girls, and high school kids, and by trying to be a constant credit to himself and his University.	•	—C. McK.
October 5, 1956
9
10
The Scholastic
GampuA SceM
'COMMERCE ‘AFTER HOURS’ THEME OPENS SOCIAL SEASON TONIGHT
Fred Dale to Provide Music for Country Club Motif; 'Hoosier Holiday,' Breakfast to Complete Weekend
“After Hours” will set the theme tonight as 350 Commerce men depart from their desks and enjoy an evening of dancing with their dates in a country club atmosphere. Fred Dale and his orchestra will play for the couples from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Student Center.
Miss Emmy Bishop, from Grosse Pointe, Mich., will reign over the activities for the weekend. Miss Bishop at present is attending Detroit Com-
Student Trip Plans Set For Nov. 10 Pitt Contest
I Five-hundred members of Notre Dame’s student body are expected to accompany the “Fighting Irish” to Pittsburgh on the annual student trip, according to Chairman Emmett Malloy. They will attend the Notre Dame-Pitt game Nov. 10.
The Notre Dame men will board a special train in the South Bend station Friday at 4:30 p.m. and arrive in Pitts-।burgh at 12:30 a.m. There they will stay at the Penn-Sheraton Hotel.
Saturday they will attend the game, followed by a dance to be held in the Pittsburgh Room of the Penn-Sheraton. Those attending the dance will be provided with dates from Mount Mercy College.
Sunday the students are invited to Mass at Mount Mercy College. The Mass (will be followed by a brunch and a mixer.
The return train will leave Pittsburgh at 9 p.m. and will arrive in South Bend at 6 a.m. Monday morning. All those on the trip will receive excused cuts.
Cost of the trip will be $27. This will ^include: transportation, meal, hotel, game 'ticket, and green derby.
mercial College, after completing two years at St. Mary’s College. She will be escorted by Jack Murray, general chairman for the activities and a senior in the Program for Administrators, from Detroit, Mich.
Tomorrow afternoon the Commerce students and their dates will attend the first home game of the season, against Indiana. In the evening there will be a victory dance in the Drill Hall, from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Ed Pistey and his Lettermen will play at the “Hoosier Holiday.”
There will be a private Mass in Alumni Hall Chapel at 8 a.m. Sunday morning, for those attending the dance. Afterwards will follow a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn, at which Moose Krause, athletic director for the University, will be the guest speaker.
Assisting Murray are: Paul Heer, business manager; Gerry Pastula, publicity; Tom O’Donnell, entertainment; Phil Tannian, ticket chairman; Frank Hennessey, football tickets; Jerry Burke, Communion Breakfast; Stu Richardson, hotels; and Dave Roemer, decorations.
Late permissions for those attending the ball ■will extend until 2 a.m. There will be no admission to the dance after 10 p.m. The usual car permissions will extend until 2 a.m. tomorrow morning.
COLLEGE DANCE PICTURES
Pictures taken at all college dances this year will be delivered the Thursday following the Ball.
Two personalized folders, two satin finished portraits and the negative will be included.
In keeping with the Student Senate agreement, the full price will again be $2.
EMMY BISHOP
Country club queen.
AFROTC Schedules Trips To Three Air Force Bases
The Air Force ROTC unit plans three off-campus field trips this year, designed to give the cadets practical, first hand knowledge of Air Force operations.
The first trip, to the Air Research and Development headquarters at Wright-Patterson Air Force base in Dayton, O., was held this past week. Engineering students in the AFROTC program will have priority in making the trip.
In Decembei- another group of engineering and technical students will visit the Arnold Air Development base in Tennessee, while an excursion designed for the non-engineering students is scheduled in February to Elgin Air Force base, Florida. While there they -will visit the air proving grounds where Air Force planes are flight-tested.
Plans of the unit this year include the acquisition of an Air Force “Navi-on” plane which will be used by the local unit to orientate cadets to flying. The planes will be kept at St. Joseph County airport in South Bend.
Also this year, the unit’s debate team will participate in the national AFROTC debating tournament.
The month long summer camp attended by the seniors, took them to Air Force bases throughout the East, South and Midwest, from New York to Florida to Texas. Included in the training camp program was a 45-minute flight in a “T-33” jet training plane.
11
October 5, 1956
PREMIERE PERFORMANCE
Mozart’s ‘Figaro’ on the SMC Campus
NBC's Opera Tour to Premiere at St. Mary's; Mozart's 'Marriage of Figaro' Set for Oct. 11
The NBC Opera Touring Company’s premiere production of Wolfgang Mozart’s “The Marriage of Figaro” will be presented Thursday, Oct. 11 in O’Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary’s College.
The occasion will also mark the formal opening of Moreau Hall, the newly erected fine arts building at St. Mary’s.
In addition to the Thursday performance, a full dress rehearsal will be held Wednesday evening for students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
For one week preceding the premiere, the entire company, comprising a personnel of 100 members including cast, directors, managers, orchestra and technicians, will be on the St. Mary’s campus. During that time, the company will present two dress rehearsals of “The Marriage of Figaro,” and two of Puccini’s “Madame Butterfly” for high school students from South Bend, Mishawaka, and surrounding areas.
Part of Trilogy
“The Marriage of Figaro,” a comic opera, is part of the Figaro trilogy and is intended as a sequel to Rossini’s “Barber of Seville.” It was chosen for presentation at this time in order to commemorate the bi-centennial of Mozart’s birth in 1756.
The opera takes place in the 17th century palace of Count Almaviva. Figaro, who has become the valet to Count Almaviva, is planning to marry Susanna, maid to Countess Almaviva. Numerous obstacles arise to thwart Figaro but, through several comic sub and counter-plots, the opera ends happily for all.
12
The NBC Television Opera Theater was launched in 1949 to bring opera-in-English to the American people with singers who “look the parts” they are playing.
NBC founded the touring opera company this year, and it will embark on its first nationwide tour- with the Thursday performance at St. Mary’s.
Officials of RCA and NBC, in addition to other celebrities, will join members of the St. Mary’s alumnae association and citizens of South Bend at the premiere performance.
The company will return on Dec. 1 to present a second evening performance of “Figaro” and a matinee performance of “Butterfly.”
Prof. Maritain to Initiate Lecture Series Monday
Prof. Jacques Maritain, one of the leading philosophers of the United States and France, will begin a fall lecture series in the Department of Philosophy next week. This year Prof. Maritain has chosen “The Dialectics of Hegel” as his topic.
Following his resignation as French ambassador to the Vatican, Prof. Maritain lectured at Princeton University. More recently, he has lectured annually here at Notre Dame.
These lectures, designed primarily for graduate students in philosophy, history, English, and political science, and faculty members, will be given at 4 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Lounge, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday.
Upperclass Elections
Set for Thurs., Oct. 11
Election of all upperclass hall officers and senators, and off-campus senators will be held next Thursday, Bernie McGowan, chairman of the Blue Circle election committee, announced recently^
Balloting will take place between noon^ and 1 p.m., and from 5 to 6:30 p.m. in all upperclass halls, including St. Ed’s. Off-campus upperclassmen can vote in ■ the Bus Shelter from 11:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.
i J
Frosh Vote Later	’
This year, election of freshman classy officers and hall senators will be held inV the middle of December. This is to give the freshmen time to get acquainted with more of their classmates and also i to enable potential nominees to familiar- 1 ize themselves with the problems and responsibilities of student government. ] j
Nominations Close Sunday
Nominations for all offices, which® opened last Friday, will close Sunday at ; midnight. Nominating petitions are : available in the Student Center office or J at 1 Sorin Hall. According to McGo- i wan, nominations have proceeded veiy 1 slowly. The elections committee is en- 1 deavoring to eliminate some of the one- | candidate elections of last year.	s
All nominations for hall officers and senators must contain a minimum o^^ 25 names and addresses. Each candi”; date must possess a satisfactory dis- j ciplinary record, be able to serve one j full school year, and have a minimum | scholastic average of 80 percent. In | some cases this last provision is depend- | ent upon the various hall constitutions, j
Off-campus students will elect three | senators. One will be elected by the 1 upperclass Villagers, one by sophomores j and juniors, and a third by the senior
Sample Ballot	|
Wednesday morning, a sample ballot | will be posted in all the halls. Any | complaints about omissions or misspel- | lings by candidates must be made by g 7 p.m. Wednesday in ordei’ to have the I actual ballot corrected in time fo^i voting.	|
The preferential ballot to be used in | the election requires the voter to choose : in order of his preference by placing ■ “1” before his first choice, “2” next to i his second choice, etc. for all candidates. I The winner will, therefore, receive the^/] majority of the votes.	W|
The Scholastic fl
> •O'Donnell to Hoy 'Death of a Salesman' Lead; Donahue, Ferrone Receive Supporting Roles
t George O’Donnell, senior speech major > from Cleveland, O., has been selected for the part of Willy Loman, the lead role in Arthur Miller’s Death of a Salesman. The play will be presented from ^Nov. 14 through Nov. 18. This will be the first theatrical production to appear in the newly re-decorated Washington Hall.
O’Donnell has had previous experience । with the University Theater. Among ; his other roles are those of Captain ■ Southard in The Caine Mutiny Court Martial; Senator Rawkins in Finian’s ! Rainboiv; and Lieutenant Monoghan in ^Jetective Story.
Donahue to Play Biff
. Phil Donahue, senior in PFA from Canton, 0., and Dan Ferrone, AB sophomore from Newton Centre, Mass., will appear as Biff and Happy, Willy’s two sons. Donahue has acted before in the Caine Mutiny Court Martial and Seventeen.
Carol Ann Cruise, a St. Mary’s sophomore, will take the part of Linda, ^Willy’s wife. This will be her first appearance in the University Theater.
The two important character roles of Charlie and Uncle Ben, will be taken by Bob Sasseen, political science major from Rockville Centre, N. Y., and Mike ■ Sophy, AB senior from Tucson, Ariz. I Reginald Bain, speech major from Phoe-' nix, Ariz., will take the role of Bernard, , Charlie’s son. Bain portrayed Willie i £ Leith in The Caine Mutiny Court Martial, and Face, the butler, in the Alchemist.
Others in the cast include: Paula Lawton; Jackie Baumer; Georgia Ann Weber; Betsy Finneran; Gene Leyval;
I and Mike Kennedy.
Subscriptions to the University The-
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CLUB
Anyone interested in joining the International Relations dub may submit a letter of application to Conrad Hubner, 133 Pangborn, or Joseph Marino, 235 Dillon, to be postmarked not later than Wed., Oct. 10.
The club holds weekly meetings on Thursday nights to discuss topics of current interest in international or economic affairs.
Applications are to include the name and address of the applicant, his scholastic average, college, major course of study, and a list of extra-curricular activities.
ater can still be purchased at the Washington Hall boxoffice today from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m., and from 6 to 8 p.m. The boxoffice will also be open next Monday, Wednesday and Friday, at the same times. Season subscriptions may be also procured anytime in the office of Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., located in the back of Washington Hall. The regular ticket sales will not open until Mon., Nov. 12.
Students, faculty members, and Uni-
GEORGE O’DONNELL
This is Willy, ‘The Salesman.’
versity personnel can purchase tickets for preferred seat locations to each of this year’s three plays. The subscriptions will cost $2.50 for orchestra seats and $2 for balcony seats. Tickets bought on this subscription plan can be purchased for Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, or Saturday evening performances and may be exchanged at the boxoffice any day prior to the date of perforance.
Bridge Players Reorganize Campus Tournament Action
Campus bridge players resumed their weekly games last Sunday in the Student Center. Winners were William Loetscher, Wilfred Joncas, John Madigan, Ronald Vardiman, Robert Funder-lic, and Martin McGinn.
Duplicate bridge is played every Sunday at 1:30 pan. in the Student Center. Fractional master points and prizes are awarded at each session. In addition, a monthly master point session is held each month on the second Sunday. The first such event is scheduled for Oct. 14.
Offer Cotillion Bids Sunday in Fieldhouse
Bids for the Oct. 26 Sophomore Cotillion will go on sale- Sunday in the Fieldhouse from 2 to 5:30 p.m. and from 6:30 to 8:30 pan., according to John Boyce, general chairman of the dance. Each of the 490 bids to be sold will cost $6.50 and include admission to the dance, a favor, and refreshments.
Besides acquiring a Cotillion bid on Sunday, the sophomore can make a room reservation for his date and purchase a ticket for the Oklahoma game out of the block reserved by the Cotillion committee. The game ticket will cost an additional $5.
Charlie Spivak and his 17-piece orchestra have been engaged to play for the formal dance. Spivak will also bring both a male and a female vocalist with him.
The LaFortune Student Center, scene of the activity, will be decorated with the theme of “Showboat.” Each room in the Centei- will be emblazoned in different colors and designs, each depicting various aspects of a Mississippi River town.
Other features of the weekend include a bonfire pep-rally immediately before the dance, the Oklahoma game, a Saturday night victory dance, and car permissions extending from Friday noon to Sunday noon.
Seniors Vote Tuesday To Select Top Patriot
Balloting by the Senior Class for the fourth annual Patriotism Award will be conducted on Tues., Oct. 9. A ballot box will be placed on each floor of the senior halls between 10 and 12 pan. The ballots will be distributed on the day before the balloting is to be held. Off-campus seniors will be mailed a ballot and a return envelope, to be postmarked no later than Wed., Oct. 10.
The Annual Patriotism Award is presented to ’ an outstanding American patriot who exemplifies integrity and service to our country. Nominations of men deemed worthy of the award were opened in May and there will be space on the ballot for write-in votes.
The award will be presented by George Strake, Senior Class president, to the man chosen, at the Washington Day exercises to be held on Feb. 22.
J. Edgar Hoover was the first recipient of the Patriotism Award in 1954. Bishop Fulton J. Sheen was chosen in 1955 and last year the award was given to Gen. Curtis LeMay.
The chairman of the 1957 Patriotism Award is John Cusack. Bob Premo, Tom Judge, Frank Reilly, Jim O’Niell are the other committee members.
October 5, 1956
13
Rivco Foundation Grants University $25,000; Morrissey Memorial to Assist Student Loan
Five Awarded Grants $ In Dept, of Chemistry
Mrs. John Morrissey, acting in behalf of the Rivco Foundation of Bellwood, Ill., will present a check for §25,000 to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University, representing Notre Dame and the student loan office, at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in the amphitheater of the Student Center.
The check will set up the John A. Morrissey memorial fund, a grant to the Student Senate to be used “for the purpose of making loans to needy and worthy undergraduates and law students of the University to service then* emergency needs during any academic year.” After a period of -50 years the loan -will revert to the University’s permanent endowment fund to be used for any ■worthy purpose, or may continue the fund for student loan purposes for an indefinite period at the University’s discretion.
Also present at the presentation will be Mr. John A. Kelly, secretary-treasurer of the Rivco Foundation, Rev. Jerome Wilson, vice-president for business affairs, Rev. James Norton, vicepresident for student affairs, and Pat Logan, student body president.
A Memorial 'Mass said by Father Norton at 8 a.m. in the Pangborn Hall Chapel will precede the presentation. The student body is invited to attend both the Mass and the presentation.
This new fund ’will replace the University loan fund starting 'Monday, Oct.
Nominations to Open Today For 30 ‘Who's Who' Posts
Nominations from Notre Dame for “Who’s Who in American Colleges” for 1956-57 will open today and extend until Oct. 25 according to Committee Chairman Vick Clesi.
All students are eligible to make nominations, but only seniors and graduate students may be nominated. In order to nominate, one must send a card or letter to “Who’s Who” Committee, 36 Pangborn Hall. The name of the nominee, his classifications, and qualifications must appear on the nomination.
Notre Dame has openings for 30 men to be selected for the honorary list of “Who’s Who.” The elective board will be made up of twelve juniors, representing major campus organizations. These organizations include: Blue Circle, Student Senate, Dome, Juggler, Scholastic, WSND, Student Law Assn., YCS, and the advisory boards of the Colleges of Commerce, Arts and Letters, Engineering, and Science. Representatives are chosen by their respective organizations.
14
8. Any student wishing to take advantage of this loan should go to the student loan office in the basement of the Student Center, Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 3:30 to 4:45 p.m. and cn Tuesday and Thursday from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m.
Only two conditions are required to obtain a loan. There must be an urgent need, and the applicant’s former loan office record must be clear. The applicant fills out a form, then is asked to return the next day to see if the application has been approved by the loan committee. The committee this year is composed of Pat Conway, loan administrator; Jerry Brady, Student Senate secretary; Harry Wasoff, Student Center treasurer; Bob Dunseath, Student Center manager; and Bob Duffy and Dave McMahon, assistant managers.
JIMMY RICHARDS
To lead ‘Singen und Tanzen’
Science Men Await 'Singen und Tanzen'
“Singen und Tanzen” will be the theme of the Science Ball, which will be held next Friday night in the Student Center from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. A German motif will prevail at the ball.
Jimmy Richards and his orchestra will play for the science students and their dates. Richards and his orchestra have played throughout the midwest, including a three-year engagement at the Congress Hotel in Chicago, and a two-year engagement at the Blackstone Hotel, also in Chicago.	•
A Communion breakfast will be held
Four new fellowships and a scholarship have been established in the department of chemistry, according to an announcement by Dr. G. F. D’Alelio, department head.
Sponsors of the fellowships are the® Foster-Grant Co., Leominister, Mass.; the Dow Chemical Co., Midland, Mich.; the Research Corporation, New York, N. Y.; and the Toni Co., Chicago, Ill. The Lubrizol Corp., Cleveland, O., is the donor of an undergraduate scholarship in the chemistry department.
Dr. Conrad Bruschweiler, Bern, Switzerland, has been named the recipient of the Foster-Grant postdoctorate fel-® lowship. Awarded his doctorate by the’ University of Bern, he will conduct research in the field of polymer chemistry.
The Dow fellowship has been awarded to Francis X. O’Shea, Glendale, N. Y., who will specialize in acetylene chemistry. He is a graduate of St. John’s University, Brooklyn, N. Y.	:
John A. Kreuz, Orchard Park, N. Y., will engage in organic and biochemical^ research on the Toni-Gillette fellowship-during the coming year. He was graduated from St. Bonaventure College, Olean, N. Y.
The Research Corporation grant has been awarded to James Dadura, Atlas, Pa., who will study the pyrolysis of organic compounds. He received his un- ' dergraduate training at St. Vincent Col- ! lege, Latrobe, Pa.
Edgar W. Day, New Albany, Ind., junior in the College of Science, is the recipient of the Lubrizol scholarship.
Sunday, Oct. 14, in conjunction with the dance. This will be the first time since the initiation of the Science Ball that a Conununion Breakfast has been included in its list of activities. Moose : Krause, athletic director of the Univer^B' sity, will be the guest speaker.
The game with Purdue, Oct. 13, the victory dance that night, and the special I Mass Oct. 14 for the ball-goers, will add ' to the weekend.
Bids will .be available Monday and Tuesday evenings, from 6:30 to 8 p.m., in the Rathskeller of the Student Center. Bids are $4.	'
General chairman for the dance is Bill Bauer. Assisting him are: Jim Butcofski, publicity; Bill Scanlon, entertainment; Manny Rivas, publications; Pat Williamson, Communion Breakfast; Frank Pugliese, business manager; Ron Sables, decorations; Pat Kavanah, Science senator; Ray Miller, hotel accom^ modations; and Pat Logan, favors. g
The Scholastic |

They Keep the Center Running—Bob Duffy, Bob Dunseath, and Dave McMahon.
The Student Center Story
by James Loeffler
f TT e was a freshman and with an all-1 1 knowing look, he scanned the Notre Dame campus. First the freshman halls, their fresh, neat appearance moderately pleased his discerning glance. Then the “Huddle,” but the inside was a little crowded with ROTC students buying shoe polish so he shrugged his shoulders, and gave his roommate a “It could be worse,” look. Next Washington Hall, 9 “creeps,” he said, and swung his foot, hoping to hit the key brick.
Partially satisfied with his tour, he wandered toward the Administration Building. Suddenly, he stopped, punched his roomie in the ribs and asked, “Say, where are they holding the parties?” Had the freshman arrived on cam-0 pus a few years ago, any nearby worldly
senior would have immediately called for a straight jacket for the inquisitive one. Now, though he might be greeted with a few head shakings, he can find an answer foi- his ill-phrased question by merely turning around.
For between the “Huddle” and the Commerce building stands Notre Dame’s long sought answer- to its housing problem for extracurricular activities—the LaFortune Student Center. College and class dances, mixers, club conferences, Senate meetings, almost any conceivable activity has been held in the LaFortune Student Center in its three years of existence. And besides the facilities for such larger gatherings, the Center provides rooms for card playing, TV watching, studying or just plain loafing.
Yet with all the multitude of activities that have been staged in the Center, its possible uses are far from exhausted. For by the start of the second semester, the rest of the Old Science Hall will be incorporated into the LaFortune Student Center and with this added space will blossom forth opportunities almost undreamed of a few years ago.
Built and decorated along the same modernistic and functional lines of the rest of the Center, the basement and two floors of the Science Hall will contain the same ideas of flexibility that characterize the frontal structure. Not only will the additional space be able to be included with the rest of the Center for large affairs, but it can also be separated from the main body of the La-
October 5, 1956
15
New Addition Made to the Court This Summer.
Fortune building and, if necessary, divided by partitions for smaller and more individual activities.
With this expansion into the Science Hall, an older structure on the ND campus will lose its identity. The “Huddle” with its refreshment bar, store, pool tables and other sundry facilities will be moved from its standing room, line forming quarters into more spacious, modern, and comfortable surroundings in the Student Center.
Across from the “Rathskeller,” in the revamped Science Hall the pool and table tennis rooms will be located, with the table tennis section in front and the pool quarters in the back. As an added feature, dictated by the original structure of the building rather than architect’s plans, the two pool rooms will be situated on different levels, the rear section slightly higher than the other.
Also in the basement will be the
16
campus press, a stock room, a work area for the Center employees and an office. In the corridor between the newer section and the “Rathskeller” will be lockers for the off-campus students.
The service part of the “Huddle” will be moved to the first floor of the new area, but there the resemblance between the two ends. The refreshment bar and counter section will take up approximately two-thirds of the length and the complete width of the revamped section of the Old Science Hall. And, in the remaining portion of the first floor, to the right of the service area will be the oft-desired booths, arranged in the form of an almost closed letter, “B”.
At opposite ends of the second floor The Scholastic and Dome offices will be located. The area between the two will consist of a combination loungedancing room similar to the one on the second floor of the main structure. Three large arches, one centrally located in
relation to Caron Court and flanked by j the other two, wall provide access to the lounge.	[
Chief advantage of the new lounge ’ area is its dance floor. When used alone l with the corridor, it can be used for j small parties, similar to the “Rathskeller.” But for the larger dances this new portion can be connected to the i main dance floor by merely taking down ! the partitions in the side rooms, thus j creating a circular dance floor around i Caron Court and adding two-thirds more ,
dancing space.
Music will flow not only from the main dance floor by means of the side rooms, but also directly across Caron Court through the newly installed French doors located in the opposite wings of the Court. This will enable
the bandstand to be moved from its present position with back to the Court ' '
to a situation along the stairway and facing both the main dance floor and the new addition in the back.
The final touch on the second floor in the new plans are the two balconies, which were constructed this summer and overlook Caron Court.
By second semester with the addition of the rear area of the Old Science Hall, the LaFortune 'Student Center will thus present the form hinted at during the original planning. And it will be many times larger and more modem than was considered when Rev. Theodore Hes-burgh, C.S.C., first announced the building of a student union at the Pittsburgh rally in November of 1953.
This announcement which came in the midst of many wild rumors of a coming student center was the result of two recent occurrences on the ND campus. One was the building of the Nieuwland Science Hall, whose construction made possible the vacating of the old Science building. The other was the bequest
Caron Court—Resting Area
The Scholastic
i

I


REV. JAMES E. NORTON, C.S.C.
A Helping Hand
of Elmore Smith, a 1951 graduate of ND killed in action in Korea. This donation, approximately $1100, was presented Ato the University to be used as the ^administration best saw fit.
Early plans called for only a slight remodeling of the Old Science building; but when the problem was presented to the student architects to find the most practical use of the building, the winning sketch called for far more drastic measures. It proposed a complete revamping of the building, including the filling in of the well on the second floor. 0 Such a plan, however, far overshot the original financial estimates. A special grant of $135,000 by Mr. and Mrs. Joseph LaFortune of Tulsa, Oklahoma, proved the answer to the problem and work on the Center began in 1953.
Aided by special gifts by Mrs. O. J. Caron, Rochelle, Illinois and Mrs. George W. Strake, Houston, Texas, the work of Frank Montana and Robert ASchultz of the architect department, the ^Woman’s Advisory Council, the interior decorating of Mrs. Laura Jenkins and the proceeds of the Mardi Gras, the LaFortune Student Center was ready for opening in the fall of 1953.
Functional was the key word in describing the construction of the Center when its doors were opened unofficially for the first time for the Sophomore ^Cotillion on the night of October 23.
The deep-toned, contemporary furnished main lounge offered both the facilities for a fairly large scale meeting and for individual use.
It was flanked on one side by the offices of Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., and student officials and on the other ^side by multi-purpose rooms. These rooms, exclusive of the game room and
the TV (Smith) Auditorium, contained movable walls which enabled them to be made smaller or larger, depending on the meeting.
Besides the main dance room the second floor contained two auxiliary lounges and numerous partitional rooms similar to the two downstairs. Five hundred couples could be accommodated on the floor and, when a band was not playing, a sound system originating from a room on the second floor would play recorded music.
By 1955 enough money had been collected through the Mardi Gras receipts and a corresponding sum donated by Mr. LaFortune to make possible the building of a less formal area in the basement. In the fall of 1955, the “Rathskeller” with its modern, functional and more informal environment opened to the public.
Surrounded by a student mural, the main room of the basement furnished available room for small mixers and parties. As in the other two floors, two smaller lounges flank the center room and off to one side an off-campus lounge with eating facilities was formed. Also included in the “Rathskeller” were a refreshment bar and several offices for the off-campus chaplain and student officials.
With the new floors being added in the Old Science Hall, the LaFortune Student Center of today can hold almost
any notable activity on the Notre Dame campus. There are available three separate dance floors; one in the “Rathskeller,” one on the second floor and the third on the new second floor. All three can be employed for a large scale dance.
Also available in the Center are two TV rooms, one containing a color TV set, a card playing room, eating facilities, numerous lounges, and eight different conference rooms, so constructed as to vary in size as dependent on the meeting.
Almost as unique as the functional design in the LaFortune Student Center is the manner in which the building is managed. From the very first the Center has been operated solely by students undei- the auspices of the Student Senate Physical Facilities House Committee.	■
Mainly responsible for the management of the Center is Robert Dunseath and his two assistants, David McMahon and Robert Duffy. These three handle all the operations necessary for running the Center throughout the day, a job that includes maintenance of the Center, with the help of janitor and maids, handling the financial activities and, what is probably the most prominent, arranging for the proper use of the LaFortune Center by various campus organizations.
(Continued on page 33)
October 5, 1956
17
-lb
Meet Ciccino
by tony speranza
Tony Speranza is a junior majoring in English. Ciccino is merely a product of his imagination, and he sincerely hopes his story will offend no one.
Our readers will “meeif Ciccino in future issues of The Scholastic.
IN A decaying Eastern American city, in a flat with a front door and glass windows, in a bedroom furnished with a picture of Marilyn Monroe and little else, Ciccino scuffed along a bare wooden floor peering into drawers and closets. His mother sat on a large iron bed while her index finger- pushed the corner of a sheet against her eyes..
“Han me da socks, Ma.”
“My boy, my littilla boy!”
“Da socks, Ma. Han me the socks.” “Mia Bambino!”
“Aw righ, I’ll get em myself.”
“You loveva you momma, doneta you, Ciccino?”
“Sure I love ya. Whatiya go askin stupit questions like dat fir?”
He stood at his cardboard box, hoping the scotch tape at the seams would not give way before he reached school.
“I justta wanna makeka sure,” she answered.
She dropped her finger and the sheet onto her sprawling lap.
“Ciccino, why you gotta go so far away fromema you momma? Wha canna you momma do wittoutta you elp?”
“Whatiya talkin abou? I neva helped ya a day in my life.”
“Justta when you near me, you elppa me. You makeka me appy!”
“Baloney.”
“Singga for me, Ciccino. Before you go, singga for you momma!” And she extended her ponderous arms to him.
“Aw come on, Ma. Ya know I only sing when I’m bombed.”
“Bombed? Whatssa dees bombed?”
He looked at her as if she were a creature from another world. “Stoned, plastered, stewed . . . drunk,” he said impatiently.
“DRUNK!”
She leaped from the bed pulling, the
sheet onto the floor. She grasped his shoulders as he poked through a dresser drawer in search of his dice.
“Momma mia. Ciccino, plees, you promissa you momma, tella you momma now, thatta you no drink when you go to dee colelege!”
He shook himself free and went on searching for the “cubes.” She leaned over him as he bent to the drawer. Since he felt her heavy breath on the back of his neck, he thought he had better say something.
“I wone drink.”
“Swear eet.”
“I wone swearit.” He looked up from
Cheech
the drawer. “I’m tellin ya I wone drink! Ya gotta truss me.”
“Momma Mia. How can I trustta you? So many times you say you no gonna drink no more, and denna onena night the policaman or the priest, he takeka you home by the hand!”
Everything that had been in the drawer was on the floor. Ciccino turned cold eyes to his mother.
“Aw righ, what ya do -wid em?”
“I no understandda whatta you say.” 7
“The squares, the red squares wid da f tiny dots all over em! As if ya didn b
know.”	|
She looked down at the floor. “Trow > dem away,” she said softly.	b
He threw up his arms in disgust, and I went back to the cardboard box.	|
“Ya know,” he said without lookings | at her, “I spen more money buyin cubes dan I do playin wid em. It juss ain | smart money.”	J
“You no play wit does teegs in dee 1 colelege, Ciccino. Itsa no goot witta 8 dose teegs.”	|
“Yarigh, Ma. Fir me, no drinkin, no 11 craps, an no cards. I’m gonna live like a monk. I migh evin shave my head!” 3
A mental picture of himself with a^ f beard and without his jaw-length side-’#| burns and ducktail sweep	made	him	|
wince and then laugh.	|
“You a goodda boy,	Ciccino.	You	I
my littilla bambino.”	g
She tried to kiss him, but missed. She || went on talking.	||
“You gonna makeka you momma an | poppa proud. You gonna be a smartta £ man. Maybe you meet a nissa girl, and | you takeka her home witta you. We i-makeka dee beeg party for you.” * |
He smiled. “If I bringa a goil home, | I’ll make my own party. Ya done g havetta do notten.”	g
Until he finished his packing, they were both quiet—the silence broken oc

casionally by a moist whimper or a rustling sheet. When the box was bulging, he asked his mother for a cord. She found one, and he tightly bound the box.
Then it was time to leave. He pulled down on his zippered trouser legs, insuring a smooth fit around the ankles, and allowed his mother one kiss. Finally he said: “I gotta mee my parole officer at da train station,” and pulled himself from her Amazon grip. She fell on the bed as he left the room, and he felt a brief pang of pity as he heard the springs groan for mercy.
When he opened the door of the flat,* he was surprised to find his father with a bottle of homemade annasette. He squeezed past the tottering figure.
“See ya, Pop,” he said.
As he came to the head of the stairs, he was stopped by a familiar grunt. It was his father.
“Ciccino. Where you go?”
Ciccino whipped his neck around with'^ such a proud jerk that a vaselined lock of hair was pried loose.
“Notre Dame, Pap,” he said. “The University of Notre Dame!”
No sooner had the last word left his lips when the cord snapped, and the box went thumping down to the next landing, spouting articles of. clothing with eachr -bounce. -	- -	*
The Scholastic
18

THE FROSH SHUT
by Dr. William Burke
DR. WILLIAM BURKE
Dr. William Bzvrke, a professor of English, is the Freshman Advisor for the Colleges of Liberal Arts and Commerce. Three years ago, Dr. Burke began his program to combat the high mortality rate of incoming freshmen. In this article, he outlines the three main causes of academic failure.
Approximately two years ago, the University of Notre Dame established the Office of Academic Student Advisor. One of its multiple responsibilities was to aid the freshmen in the College of Arts and Letters and College Wof Commerce to get off to an effective academic start at Notre Dame.
Consult Deans On Problem
Before setting up any policies of its own, this office first had to find out what major problems were faced by the Deans of other American colleges and universities. Approximately 75 College Presidents and Deans were contacted by ^personal interviews and through correspondence; they were specifically asked why freshmen at their institutions failed. Amazingly, all of these men emphasized three major reasons why too many of their first year students became academic problems.
First, too many freshmen invariably get off to a poor start. That is, the ^serious business of daily preparation for each course is temporarily postponed by overly eager freshmen, because of the social pressures of college life. The fascination and the excitement of being in college momentarily blinds these first year men to the fact that their main reason for being in school is to take ^advantage of the multiple academic op-™portunities offered them.
October 5, 1956
They consider college 'as the 13th grade of high school, and go on the assumption that like high school they can cram at the last minute to prepare for their examinations. Unfortunately, these are not the college facts of life. As a matter- of fact, out of 100 boys in academic difficulty at Notre Dame last year, well over 90% blamed their troubles on getting off to a poor start. In summary, daily preparation is the best way to lick this “off-to-a-poor-start” problem.
Recognizing this fact as a major reason for a high freshman academic mortality, we at Notre Dame with the excellent co-operation of the faculty members teaching freshman courses, run a preliminary grade check of all Arts and Letters, and Commerce freshmen after they have been at Notre Dame for one month.
At that time, the professors of these young men send in to this office a list of students failing courses. In this way, we know by Oct. 24, who is failing, how many subjects he is failing, and why he is failing.
Hall prefects are alerted, parents of students failing two or more subjects are contacted, and all students with two or more subjects below 70 or one subject below 65 are interviewed by this office.
In this manner, Notre Dame takes positive steps to alert freshmen in academic difficulty at least two weeks before their scheduled first major examinations —the mid-semesters.
Limit Your Activities
The second major reason for freshmen failing out of universities is their tendency to become “joiners,” to spread themselves too thin. We have known freshmen who were potentially very
capable students to fail one or two subjects because their free time was taken by their joining five or six campus activities.
Perhaps, the best advice a freshman might follow on this point is to limit himself to one or two campus activities, at least until after the mid-term examinations.
A third and a most important reason for academic failure is the inability of young men fresh out of high school to budget intelligently their free time. In short, they have no set pattern for study, and as a consequence, hours each day are literally wasted because of this lack of intelligent study planning. A time-budget schedule is the best answer to this fault.
The main purpose of this article is to alert freshmen to the academic problems common to all first year men in our leading American colleges. At Notre Dame there are numerous groups vitally interested in the welfare of you freshmen. Those who have reading difficulties may turn to the Developmental Reading Program.
Advice Available
Those who wish to explore possibilities of future areas of concentration may check with the Testing and Guidance Department. At all times, freshmen having difficulty may seek advice from their professors and from their hall prefects.
Also at all times, the office of Academic Student Advisor, 104 Main Building, is open to freshmen in the Colleges of Arts and Letters and Commerce who may feel they need some additional help.
19
It’s Easy—Just Kick.
Ain’t
We
Got
Fun!
- '5
5
1
3
3;
J
Lookout, or I’ll Break Your Neck!
They Call Me Hard-Hearted Hannah!
20
The Scholastic
I *
1
! •
photography by
Chick Martin
Where’s the Gin?
The “Roaring Twenties” invaded the “Fabulous Fifties” for an evening last Saturday night, and when it left some were rather sceptical about that era. The short shirts . . . the painted faces . . . the dime store beads, and the ’20’s version of the “Dior” look didn’t quite fit in with the recognized “dream girl” of the times.
P Loud music blasted through the LaFortune Student Center, and along with piercing screams of “23 Skido” and “O, you kid” it all added up to a roaring evening.
Some of the troops refused to submit to any such tom-foolery, and were promptly stamped as “squares,” or whatever the appropriate word was 30 a years ago.
w Gilbert’s had a run on awning blazers and knickers, while the gals from SMC busied themselves at the sewing machine
shortening skirts to the flapper style.
Dick Miller’s Sugar Stompers played a real jumpin’ session, and everyone was leaping around slapping their knees— they called it the “Charleston,” but an authority claimed that some of the cats were doing the Rock and Roll Charleston.
The coke was served in coffee-cups, and our friend “Joe” placed himself at the front door behind the peek-hole, but it wasn’t any fun like in the old days— everyone knew his name for some reason.
We were just starting to enjoy ourselves when someone yelled, “The bulls!” or maybe it was “the bus,” and the place cleared like a dry speak-easy. So we pulled up our knicker-socks and got out the back door. It was just in time too, for right out in the back of Farley they were loading the clientele into three long paddy-wagons.
Just Give Me Some Room, Boy!
October 5, 1956
21
At the Movies
COLFAX
The Poiver and the Prize. (A-2) Robert Taylor, Charles Coburn, Burl Ives, and Elizabeth Mueller.
The plot is the faintly familiar one of conflict between heart and humanity on one hand and ruthlessness and greed for power on the other'. Handsome Robert Taylor is a young executive struggling to make his first million dollars. His boss, Burl Ives, sends him to England to get control of a British company. While in England Taylor learns the importance of truth and sincerity in business. Hollywood naturally rewards him for his actions, and he becomes president Of a big corporation, marries a beautiful woman, and wins the $64,000 Question.
Summing up: Burl Ives should have sung his lines.
AVON
Storm Center. (Special) Bette Davis, Brian Keith, and Kim Hunter. The center of the storm revolves around Miss Davis who is a small town librarian. When the town fathers learn that she is keeping a book on her shelves which sympathizes with the Communist philosophy she is fired, because Hollywood knows that small town people are narrow minded and intolerant. The highlight of the movie takes place when a small boy burns down the library.
Summing up: There is nothing so lovely as a brightly burning book.
Co-hit: 1984. (A.-2.) Edmond O’Brien, Michael Redgrave and Jan Sterling. Edmond O’Brien is cast as an Outei' Party member who is secretly plotting to destroy “Big Brother.” Michael Redgrave is an Innei' Party member who is secretly plotting to destroy Edmond O’Brien. Jan Sterling is a member of the Anti-Sex League and secretly plots to destroy the Anti-Sex League.
Summing up: Destruction accomplished.
GRANADA
Toward the Unknown. (A-l) Oct. 5-11. William Holden, Lloyd Nolan, Virginia Leith. To the experimental rocket pilots, who climb aloft into the unseen, the unconquered and the unknown, and who are probing not only outer space but also the outer limits of man himself—This picture is dedicated. So if you’re an experimental rocket pilot be sure to see it.
War and Peace. (A-l) Oct. 11. Audrey Hepburn, Henry Fonda, Mel Ferrer and May Britt. Tolstoy’s epic of Russia in the early 19th century comes to life on the snowy meadows and in the marble halls of that vast country. The War, as all A.B. men know, is Napoleon’s invasion of Russia and his eventual downfall. The Peace, for the most part, concerns itself with the love affairs of the nobility of Czarist Russia. In the end, after Napoleon burns and sacks Moscow, Audrey and Henry emerge to a future of happiness.
Summing up: 3% hours of epic.
PALACE
The Naked Hills. (A-2) David Wayne, Keenan Wynn. The story deals with one man’s detennination to strike it rich no matter what the cost. David Wayne, after numerous trips into the California hills, learns that there isn’t always a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.
Summing up: No wonder they lowered prices.
Co-hit: Satellite in the Sky. (A-l) Kieron Moore, Lois Maxwell. There are 14 libraries on campus.
RIVER PARK
The Last Frontier. (A-2) Oct. 5-6. Victor Mature, Guy Madison.
Co-hit: Hot Blood. (B) Jane Russell, Cornel, Wilde.
Rebel Without a Cause. (A-2) Oct. 7. James Dean, Natalie Wood, Sal Mineo. James Dean is back again, but he is still in the same movie. This is an excellent chance for all the members of the James Dean Fan Club to pick up their 1957 membership cards.
Co-hit: They All Kissed the Bride.
Rock ’n’ Roll * Invasion
Rock and Roll seems to be getting into everything. It’s invading the movies and the best television show^ One-shot magazine biographies of Roci^ and Roll artists are big sellers. Many of the top popular song stylists have turned to it for a quick buck. Realizing that their usual catchy jingles were too low to be audible to the ears of Rock and Roll fans, advertisers have waxed their commercials to a Rock and Roll beat. Where it will end lies with the teenagers.
Practically every music style has beei> used by the Rock and Rollers. Popular* recording stars are making Rock and Roll records which doesn’t seem to be hurting their reputation any. Other song stylists sing a combination of western music and Rock and Roll. Classical music has been relatively untouched, although we did have “Roll Over Beethoven” not so long ago. And Count Basie’s band, voted the best big band iw contemporary jazz, was a regular feature on Allan Freed’s CBS “Rock and Roll Party” until the audience or the musicians rebelled.
You remember the top hit titled “Rock and Roll Waltz”; the next item may well be titled “Rock and Roll Hymn.” Bad taste you say? What about Don Cornell’s “The Bible Told Me So.”? Many adults consider this to be a good record for our teenagers. I* was just fine to have the kids plunk their dimes into a jukebox for such decent and wholesome music—so much better than “that disgusting Rock and Roll.” Many people honestly believe that it’s a good thing to have commercialized religion in hopped-up hymns brayed over the airwaves.
We wonder where it will end.
WANTED
The -feature staff of the Scholastic is holding a meeting for all freshmen, who are interested in photography, art work, and feature writing, in the Student Center, nex’^ Wednesday Oct. 10 at 3:30 P.M.
Also, anyone who is interested in writing fiction, satire, and humor should send their manuscripts to the ' Scholastic, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
-----------------------------e
The Scholastic
22

SHW5R
That First
by Frank Spiering
This aricle, written by Frank Spiering of San Francisco, depicts the first day of a freshman on the campus. It must be understood, though, that these vietvs are only those of Mr. Spiering, and not necessarily that of his class.
£ If the upperclassmen think that our author treats some matters which they feel own a special part in their heart, too harshly; we must remind them that this man has never spent any amount of time away from home. Spiering will echo more freshmen sentiments in subsequent issues.
< he cab screeched to a stop at the w curb, and I quickly got out, clutching my suitcase and golf clubs. I had no sooner paid the driver, when I was surrounded by a group of ivy leagued individuals wearing large tin badges. I stood facing them for a moment, as my mind began to conjure savage images of Frosh hazing. Their spokesman, a tall fellow with a shaved head, and wearing a yellow and purple striped ^tie, advanced toward me. I braced my-wself, and then an odd thing happened; his lips palled into a red faced grin. He shoved a hand in front of me.
“Heh, heh, my name is Shultz . . . Fred Shultz . . . heh, heh, welcome to Notre Dame.” The others joined him in unison, “Yes, welcome to the school of the fighting Irish, once the home of such greats as Knute Rockne, George Gipp, the Four Horsemen, and Myron ®Koznnofski.” I reached timidly for his still outstretched hand, but too late, he ' had already grabbed mine in a viselike grip. I tried not to grimace as he crunched the knuckles of my third and fourth fingers.
“What hall are you in?”
“Cavanaugh,” I managed to mumble.
He motioned toward a grove of trees in ^the distance, and then blowing his whis-^tle, departed, followed by the other members of the group. At that moment another individual came walking up, clad in. levis and a sweatshirt. I watched, as he too was surrounded.
“Welcome to Notre Dame, Home of Knute Rockne. . . .”
Just then he interrupted them, “I ^only want to know where I can get a
Day
ticket for the Purdue game.”
The smiles faded, and one by one the “receptionists” moved away . . . they weren’t prepared for anything like this.
I finally arrived at Cavanaugh Hall, via the log chapel and the laundry. I opened the front door, and walked inside. Too late I saw him coming toward me, hand extended . . . another man with a badge!
I didn’t have a chance to run, and so again I stood there as he related the full history of Cavanaugh Hall, and then proceeded to sing four bars of the Notre Dame “Fight Song.” This completed, he picked up one of my suitcases and led me down the hall.
Stopping in front of a door he again extended his hand. I remember saying, “Yessir, you Blue Cross Men are really on the ball,” as I tipped him a quarter.
When I entered my room, I felt the embarrassment rise in me. What a practical joke, I thought, this is the broom closet. I ran into the rector ■ coming down the hall.
“Could you tell me where my room is, Father?” I asked.
“That’s it there,” he replied, pointing to the cubicle from where I had just emerged.
“That is my room?”
“Yours and your room-mates; we are all members of the Notre Dame family.” With that epitaph upon my grave marker, he smiled benevolently, and walked away.
I again entered the room. In one corner of the dark chamber was an iron bunk bed, apparently issued from the army surplus, after* the Revolutionary War. “Well,” I thought, “at least there are no bars on the windows.” I opened them and looked out. There, just above me was the dome, with the Golden Lady on top. She was smiling reassuringly at all below. “Well,” I thought, “at least she understands what I’m going through.”
It was time for supper when I walked over to where the one man public relations bureau said was the dining room. In front of the building was a line stretching out the main door and half way to the Rockne Memorial. I asked someone if this was the line for supper, and he replied most seriously that he
was still waiting to get in for breakfast.
In a little while, however, the line began to move, and before 10:30 pan. I made it inside the door. Walking toward the service counter I grabbed a napkin, a tray, a knife, and a fork. A tall individual scrutinized my movements, and then marked a chart on which he was leaning. The first lady on the assembly -line probed into a garbage can-like container with a long fork. After fishing around she speared a rather tasty looking piece of roast beef, the edges of which were lined with fat. She placed the slice on a scale, and proceeded to cut away the excess waste until the scale balanced. At last satisfied with her calculations she threw the meat back into the bucket and gave me the fat.
The next person on the line was a doll. She was busily piling mashed potatoes on every plate that went by. Here was my big chance to make a good first impression.
“Hi,” I ventured cautiously. She looked up from the mashed potatoes and stared at me with two beautiful eyes ... and then she spoke, “One scoop or two?” I took two and proceeded to the next course. Here a rather wild-eyed fellow was churning a kettle of gravy. He dipped deep into the pot with a spoon and completely buried my food, with a deluge of the thin liquid.
I started walking toward the table, when suddenly an alarm shattered the air. A girl screamed and immediately a huge monster in a white coat charged out of the kitchen. The fellow in front of me started running toward the exit. He just about made it when the individual in white threw a flying tackle and smashed him against the wall.
“Alright buddy,” he demanded, “where is it? You’re only supposed to take one pat of butter and you took two.”
The rest of the evening went quickly. After a smoker in the lounge and a fiery talk in the chapel, bed time came at last. I pulled down the covers, and jumped in. A sharp pain went up my spine. Even the mattress felt like it had been made of iron. Slowly, however, I went to sleep, thinking of what it would be like to be home.
In the wee hours of the morning I heard the door creak open. Suddenly two hundred pounds of luggage hit the floor next to me, shaking the entire building. I leaped from the bed and stared at the bleary shape in the doorway.
He was tall and he wore a bright plaid sport jacket.
“Hi ya pal, I’m your roommate,” he bellowed.
“Gung ho,” I replied wearily, and sank back into bed, half-conscious.
“Well, I’m at Notre Dame,” I whispered, closing my eyes, “at least until tomorrow morning.” .
October 5,1956
23
I ?! i
r
2 t 5 £
& 5 i
s
f 4 J r
i
i
24
The Scholastic
Jfdik
INDIANA VETERANS SEEKING IRISH UPSET
Center Joe Amstutz . . . Quarterback Chick Cichowski . . . End Brad Bomba
•IRISH FACE INDIANA ELEVEN IN HOME OPENER
Keglers Begin Oct. 10 With Added League
The Kampus Kegler Leagues will begin their 1956-57 bowling season next ^Vednesday on the newly refinished bowling alleys in the basement of the student shopping center. Due to rapid growth in popularity of bowling on campus in one short year, a fifth league has been added. As a result of this addition, two of the leagues have been scheduled to bowl on Wednesday, two on Thursday, and the fifth on Friday.
Officers of the Keglers who were fleeted last week include Dick Torda, president; Jim Trino, vice-president;
Tom Crowe, treasurer; and Louis Solomon, secretary. In addition, the club organization includes a secretary and a treasurer to head each respective league.
The regular schedule will come to a close a week or two before Easter vacation begins, whereupon tournaments to ^letermine the champions will be held. After the tourney, a banquet will be held for the Keglers, during which trophies will be awarded to the victorious teams and individuals.
Mr. “Speed” 'Sheehan again will manage the bowling department as he did last year. ABC regulations are enforced in all of the organized campus moowling.
Locals Face Hoosiers in Stadium Tomorrow; Brennan Juggles Line in Seeking First Win by JIM MERZ
Tomorrow the Irish eleven will open up the ’56 home season against Indiana before a sellout crowd in the Stadium. This will be the twenty-sixth game of the series between the two schools. Coach Terry Brennan will be leading a young squad that has quickly aged—a, squad that will be out to whip the Hoosiers after its first opening day loss since 1934. Indiana’s coach, Bernie Crimmins, was an All-American guard and former assistant coach for the Irish.
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
INDIANA	NOTRE DAME
Maglish .......  LE	—......  Toth
Rabold ......... LT	   Geremia
Hamilton ......  LG	  Hedrick
Amstutz ........ C	   Sullivan
Howell ......... RG	   Ecuyer
Sobczak ........ RT	  Nagurski
Craft .........  RE	  Meyers
Cichowski .... QB _______ Hornung
Jones .........   LH	    Lewis
Powell ......... RH	  Morse
Fee ...........   FB	   Just
Kickoff—2:00 p.m. C.D.T.
Both teams list a raft of sophomores and crippling injuries. Three starters were injured in the Irish-Mustang contest. Left tackle George Groble will miss action tomorrow, while center Ix>u Loncaric and fullback Norm Odyniec are nursing wounds. Also, Angelo Mosca has been sidelined for three weeks with a wrenched knee. For Indiana, Crimmins’ crew was hit hard in mid-September workouts, with 18 Hoosiers sidelined at one time. The number of injuries, though mostly minor, cut Indiana’s effectiveness in readying for their Iowa opener.
“Chick” Cichowski will spearhead the Hoosier attack. The senior quarterback will run his team around a basic Split-T, with straight T variations in both running and passing. In last week’s 27-0 loss to Iowa, Cichowski starred for the Hoosiers, completing eight passes for 73 yards. After harassing the Irish pass defense last year, Indiana’s hopes rest on Cichowski’s ability to crack a sharpened aerial defense.
The big gaps to fill will be in the line, where Indiana lost a starting end, both starting tackles, and both starting
October 5, 1956
25
BRONKO NAGURSKI
Starts against Hoosiers.
FRANK GEREMIA
Replaces injured Groble
TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Army over Penn State Navy over Cornell Colgate over Holy Cross Baylor over Maryland Yale over Brown Vanderbilt over Alabama Duke over Tennessee Mississippi over Houston	£
TCU over Arkansas
Wake Forest over Virginia Oregon St. over Iowa Michigan State over Michigan Purdue over Minnesota SMU over Missouri Notre Dame over Indiana Stanford over Ohio State Oklahoma over Kansas State Southern California over Wisconsin Pittsburgh over California	™
Illinois over Washington
LAST WEEK:
17 Right; 3 Wrong. Pct. .850.
guards. Big Brad Bomba is a sure bet at right end. Coached in high school by Brennan himself at Mt. Cannel, Bomba has been Indiana’s leading pass receiver for the last two seasons. Opposite Bomba will be Del Gales, a speedy and deceptive runner who was out with a broken wrist early last year.
Filling in one of Indiana’s problem spots will be Bob Sobczak and Conney Kimbo at tackles. Kimbo is returning after a two-year hitch in the army.
Guards Present Problem
The guards present another imposing problem, since Coach Crimmins lost Tommy Hall and Ted Karras via graduation. Korean war vet and past Marine wrestling champion, Tom Cou-sineau, could plug the right hole if his leg holds steady after* last year’s break. If not, sophs Sam Congie and Don Noone, and. senior Don Howell will battle for the starting berth. On the left side, Dan Holland, Joe Bicek, or Lou Kollias will start.
The Hoosiers are strong at the center position with a trio of returning letter-men. Joe Amstutz ranks high in the Big Ten with quick reactions and solid blocking. Joe also stars in his linebacking defensive role. Behind him are Ed Wietecha and Arnie Steeves.
Although the Hoosiers have lacked a breakaway threat for four years, the long gains look promising this season. A swift backfield trio of Dave Whitsell, Willie Jones, and Jerome Ward hope to build a scoring punch for Indiana. Last season the Hoosier backs failed 16 times within the enemy 20-yard line, and were halted by the Irish at the Notre Dame four, seven, eleven, and 15-yard lines. However, despite Coach Crimmins’ optimism toward his backs, they could not break loose against the Hawkeyes last
26
Saturday. Bob Fee, converted from end to fullback, sparked one of the few I.U. drives of the afternoon.
Terry Brennan has had two weeks to work on his inexperienced line. After a maximum of scrimmaging to toughen up the sophs, he has made several major changes in his squad.
Jim Just and Chuck Lima have moved past injured Norm Odyniec at the fullback slot, and are battling for the starting assignment. On the line, soph Bon Toth may replace left end Dick Prendergast. The left guard position is still a ■toss-up between two juniors, Bob Gay-dos and Gene Hedrick, but Hedrick got the nod in last Saturday’s scrimmage. Ed Sullivan •will probably take Lon-caric’s place at center. Al Ecuyer will be at right guard, and Bronko Nagurski will move in at right tackle in place of Bob Wetoska, another soph. However, the only definite starters are soph Frank Geremia, left tackle replacing Groble, and soph Gary 'Myers, right end.
Studer Back in Action
Back in action after a thigh injury is speedy Dean Studer, who will help Jim Morse at the right half post. Captain Morse caught three passes against S.M.U. for 99 yards. Dick Lynch has been switched from left to right half, while Aubrey Lewis will handle the left half starting role.
And, of course, at quarterback—Paul Hornung. In the S.M.U. game, Hornung led the squad in rushing, passing, punting, kickoff returns, and scoring.
This year Indiana will be returning to Notre Dame with a squad half composed of sophomores. Indiana is a squad judged by the Irish of ’55 as ranking with any opponent in blocking and tackling. The Hoosiers could be a solid test for Notre Dame’s home opener.
Interhall Teams Preparing For Coming Football Opener
Football will inaugurate the interhall^ athletic program for 1956 when twelv® teams swing into action during the third week of October. Once again the teams have been divided into an Eastern division, consisting of the four freshman halls, St. Ed’s, and last year’s runner-up, Off-Campus, while Sorin, the four sophomore residences, and defending champion Dillon will battle each other in the Western league.
Gold and silver medals have onc^ again been designated as the prizes t? be presented to the two teams which compete on the Cartier field gridiron late in the fall for the championship. The game conditions and eligibility rules are the same as in previous years.
■Teams in the same division "will meet each other once, with games being scheduled by the week, the particular day being set by the opposing coaches^ Kick-off time will be 4 p.m. with a 15® minute waiting period before a forfeit is declared.
FROSH SWIM MEET
The freshmen swimming meet will be held next Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the “Rock.” There will be seven events, including diving, with medals to be awarded to®1 the winners.
Gil Burdick requests that dive optionals, of which there will be two, be turned in on the day before the meet.
Also freshmen turning in the best times will be able to try out for the swim club.
The Scholastic
Hoosiers Have Their Day
This is the first in a series of articles by Joe Bride, assistant to Charlie Callahan, Sports Publicity Director, giving some of the background on the games of the past betzveen Notre Dame and the opponent of the week. This week the author highlights the Indiana game of 1950.
A fired-up Indiana eleven, led by the swift feet of Bobby Robertson and the sure arm. of Lou D’Achille upended a favored Notre Dame team, 20-7 here today.
® So spoke Midwestern football writers on Sunday morning, Oct. 21, 1950. This 1950 Indiana-Notre Dame game will go down as the most memorable in the long rivalry between the two schools.
Tomorrow afternoon the Irish and the Hoosiers will meet on the gridiron for the 26th time. The first interstate battle between the two schools took place on Nov. 11, 1898, and LU. was «ie victor, 11-5. Indiana has won five _ames, Notre Dame 19, and one ended in a tie.
But, four of those Hoosier victories came in the opening years of the series, between 1898 and 1906.
Thus, the 1950 game was the first time Indiana had beaten Notre Dame in 44 years. Even more, it was the first
HOOSIERS EN ROUTE TO UPSET VICTORY
Robertson breaks into clear with Bob Kapish in pursuit
time the Hoosiers had scored two touchdowns against Notre Dame since their 12-0 victory in 1906.
The early part of the 1950 football season was rebuilding time for Notre Dame coach Frank Leahy. The ’47, ’48 and ’49 teams had built up a streak of 38 consecutive games without a loss.
Ten of the ’49 starters were lost, but Coach Leahy moulded a team that topped North Carolina, 14-7 in the season opener. The following week Purdue amazed the football world by ending the Notre Dame victory streak at 39 games.
The big question in the minds of football fans was: Can the Irish bounce back? They did against Tulane -with a 13-9 victory.
Indiana hadn’t fared too well in its initial starts, and had lost to Ohio State, led by Vic Janowicz, 34-6, the week before.
In the week prior to the game, sportswriters, sportscasters, and football experts across the country picked Notre Dame by a touchdown, although many of them were more conservative. Some rated the game a tie, and Jerry Liska, now Midwestern AP spoi-ts editor, picked I.U. by a 14-13 score.
According to the experts, the big difference between the two teams would be their quarterbacks, Bob Williams, Notre Dame’s All-American senior and Lou D’Achille, Indiana’s vaunted sophomore.
‘LET GO OF IT’
Del Gander tripped up by Byers.
Some 34,000 fans were seated in Indiana’s Memorial Stadium when Notre Dame won the toss and elected to receive. An inspired Hoosier line stopped Notre Dame cold and the Irish were forced to punt.
Indiana halfback Gene Gedman took a Bob Williams punt on his own 20 and raced to the Irish 19 yard line.
A fourth down penalty against Notre Dame gave the Hoosiers an extra try for the first down. Two plays later, D’Achille lofted a pass to Don Luft for a TD. The Hoosiers missed the extra point and led 6-0.
The Irish fought their way to the Indiana 40, hut two passes by Williams fell incomplete.
On the ensuing drive by Indiana, the Hoosiers scored again with Robertson cracking over for the score. D’Achille converted and Indiana led 13-0 at halftime.
Notre Dame kicked off to open the second half and on the first play Bobby Robertson, a Hoosier from South Bend, raced 84 yards for the score. D’Achille converted again and Indiana led 20-0.
The Irish were able to come back and score once in the third period to trail 20-7. Three times in the final period Notre Dame moved deep into Indiana territory, but the fired-up Hoosiers turned the Irish back.
Thus, through many an Indian summer evening, will proud Hoosier grand-pappies tell their young of the wonderful deed Indiana’s warriors wrought on this glorious afternoon.
The only unfortunate aspect of the 1950 game from the Hoosiers’ viewpoint was that they were scheduled to open the 1951 Notre Dame season. They did. The score: Notre Dame 48, Indiana 6.	—Joe Bride
27
October 5, 1956
TIME OUT
Terry Brennan’s Fighting Irish return to the friendly confines of the Stadium tomorrow to open up four successive weeks of home football which promise to provide more thrills for the local spectator than have been experienced in the last decade. Indiana followed by Purdue, Michigan State and Oklahoma will make visits in hope of doing what Southern Methodist did two weeks ago.
last two weeks for
TERRY BRENNAN
Right now though, there is only one game left on the schedule and that one is slated for tomorrow afternoon. The locals have been preparing the Indiana and Indiana alone. No one will accuse this club of looking ahead on the schedule to a couple of weekends late in October. Mr. Brennan has seen to that.
After the SMU upset, he juggled his lineup so that no one was assured of a starting berth. The result has been two weeks of the most spirited practice since Brennan took over the helm. He and his aides have pulled out all the stops in order to get the Irish back on their feet. There may be wholesale changes in tomorrow’s starting lineup but that may not be all. Look for a few surprises in the offense and you can also bet that the Irish secondary has been well briefed on how to stop the aerial circus
which may show up in the personage of Chick Cichowski.
One doesn’t have to study the situation too long to guess the outcome of this one. We’ve got to give the Irish a four touchdown margin. Notre Dame 34, Indiana 7.
Tyler Hired As Forecaster
Before we went to press last week, I ran into a fellow who answers to the name of Tyler. He took me to lunch and I soon found but that he had a group of about 100 men gathering scouting reports throughout the country. Having the interest of the Scholastic at heart, he agreed to compile these reports and predict the outcome of the week’s top football games exclusively for the Scholastic.
Well, last week he hit 17 out of 20 but Tyler strives for perfection. The result was that he fired the scouts at Syracuse, Indiana and Stanford for missing the games in which these teams were involved. I heard they were quickly hired by Herman Hickman and Oscar Fraley. It seems too bad that these gentlemen are the victims of circumstance but Tyler claims these men were on their way out anyway. All three had picked Milwaukee to win the National League pennant.
Speaking of the Braves, they get my vote as the “Choke-up Artists of the Year.” All year long the experts claimed that Haney’s youngsters would fold and that Walter Alston’s Old Pros would come through. The pitching staff all but collapsed in September. Buhl and Burdette were shelled from the hill time and time again and it was Warren Spahn who kept the Braves from losing out sooner. AU they had to do was sweep the three game series from Frank “The Horse Trader” Lane’s Cardinals and they would have had the pennant no matter what the Dodgers did. The Cards had been cousins to the Braves all year but two untimely errors in the first game just about put out the fire.
So the series returns to the same old place again with the same bld teams. By the time we come out on Friday three games wiU have been played barring a postponement. This article goes to press on Wednesday so if we predict an outcome, we might really be in a hole by Friday. But I’ll put my trust in Tyler again and give the Prediction of the Week: Brooklyn pitching to overcome New York hitting and the Dodgers to win in seven games.—J. G.
Sailors Visit Wayne • For Ten-Team Meet
The Notre Dame sailing team sails f in the Wayne Invitational tomorrow and । Sunday after a heartbreaking defeat last week at the hands of Wisconsin. The regatta will be held at Orchard Lake, Michigan.	_
Last weekend in a meet with WisconW sin, Cincinnati, Marquette and Wayne the Irish sailors were nosed out by % of a point by the Badgers on a technicality. Lou Morgan was sailing in the fourth race in the “A” division for the Irish when he port tacked the Marquette dinghy. The Warriors protested and Morgan was disqualified. The disqualification cost Notre Dame six points so instead of going into Sunday’s race^j’ with an eight point lead they were down to two.
On Sunday the best the Irish could do was two seconds while Wisconsin ran wild to ■win the meet 51% to 51. The Badgers got their % point on Saturday when one of their boats broke down.
For Notre Dame Ron Meissner started fast in the “A” division grabbing two firsts and a second for 17 points, the “B” division Ray Nelson got four’ firsts on Saturday and a second on Sunday for 29 points. .
In the regatta Morgan crewed for Meissner and Dave Wyllette crewed for Morgan’s one race in the “A” division. In the “B” John Gaziano and Mike Murray alternated crewing for skipper Nelson.
The regatta tomorrow will include beside Notre Dame and Wayne, PurdiU Hillsdale, Wisconsin, Marquette, Detroit, Michigan State, Cincinnati and Michigan. The Wolverines rank as the i slight favorite although Wisconsin and Notre Dame are rated highly.	1
The regatta will not be run according I to divisions as is usual but will be of | the round robin type. Also Y-Flyers will be used instead of dinghies. They are considerably faster boats and near^ twice the size of the regular dinghies.
Lou Morgan, who sailed in sea scows this summer, will be one skipper since it is a similar boat to the Y-Flyer. None of the other Irish sailors have sailed in a Y-Flyer.
PUBLICITY
Campus club representatives, as well as chairmen of special events, who desire home-town publicity for their activities, should call at the Department of Public Information, Main Building, for necessary information and forms.
-----------------------------------4
' The Scholastic
28

CAPTAIN JOHN MICHNO Leads Irish thindads.
Irish Harriers Strong Despite June Losses
Despite the loss of Bill Squires, one of ^Totre Dame’s greatest track stars, trough graduation, and Dick Di Cam-millo who pressed Squires for the top position on last fall’s undefeated squad through ineligibility, this year’s crosscountry team should turn in a very creditable season. Also missing from the lineup will be Jim “Spike” Daley, captain of the 1955 harriers. Coach Alex Wilson is depending on team balance to power the team through a figged six dual meet schedule followed by four big meets that close the fall campaign.
When the Irish open their season at home on October 13 against Marquette over the four mile layout on the University golf course, Captain John Michno, Ed Monnelly and Dale Vandenberg will be expected to lead the Blue and Gold.
Michno, a senior from St. Leo High School, Chicago, battled Monnelly for ™e No. 4 spot on last season’s team. Monnelly is a junior from De Paul Academy in Chicago and will probably be the best miler when track season rolls around. Junior Vandenberg showed steady improvement through the crosscountry and track campaigns last year and-is Notre Dame’s top half-miler. He is from Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Other runners who Wilson is hoping will give these three winning support are Neil Wallace, senior, Billy Newell, junior and two other juniors, John Bums and Stan Wegrzynowicz. Most promising graduate of last fall’s freshman team is Mike Haverty, from Oshkosh, Wisconsin. Also bolstering the sophomore crop is Bud Doba, from Neighboring New Carlisle, Indiana and
October 5, 1956
Flanagan Captures Open Golf Championship; Edges Grace by Two Strokes in Thrilling Match
by BRUCE HUOT
One good player won it, and another good player lost it.
Christie Flanagan Jr., a first-year swinger from Port Arthur, Tex., reached for the old golf adage, “Drive for show and putt for dough,” Tuesday to score an exciting decision over varsity cocaptain Joe Grace in an 18 hole playoff for the Notre Dame Open Golf Championship. Flanagan, who in twelve rounds across the University’s layout has never scored over 72, fired a 71 while Grace stroked home in 73.
This, the 26th of such outings, was sent into overtime when Grace and Flanagan finished the scheduled 72 hole meet with three under par 281’s. Flanagan’s three stroke lead at the half-way mark was quickly erased when Grace compiled a marvelous 66 in the third round to Flanagan’s 72. Flanagan, however, regained the three strokes on the last day of play, shooting a brilliant 69 to Grace’s 72.
It was Flanagan’s sizzling putter and ability to come from behind that gave him the victory. He was three strokes behind with only nine holes to play in last Sunday’s final round. At the end of 71 he was only one stroke back. On the 72 he holed a 15 footer to
John Buck from Carrolltown, Pa.
Freshman hopefuls with the most impressive high school times are a pair of 4:25 milers, Dave Cotton and Galen Cawley. From Canada is Andy Crawford, who has done the half-mile in 1:56.
After the Marquette encounter, on October 19, Indiana, a victim of ND last fall, plays host to the Irish at Bloomington. Here, on the 26th, Bowling Green, Loyola and Central Michigan are paired with Notre Dame in a quadrangular affair. Michigan State, the 1955 NCAA champions but who were defeated by Wilson’s charges in a dual meet during the regular season, journey down to Burke Memorial Golf Course to meet ND on November 5.
The Indiana State meet, with Indiana and Purdue expected to provide the major opposition, holds the spotlight on November 9 in Indianapolis. Notre Dame is the defending champion. The Irish then are entered in the Central Collegiate’s on November 16 in Chicago where they defend another crown. The big IC4A meet, with the East’s best representatives, including1 Villanova with Ron Delaney, will be run off on the 19th. On November 26 at East Lansing, Michigan, is the national championship or NCAA meet. Last year the Irish tied for third.
send the tournament into extra holes.
The 18 hole playoff match went twelve holes before either of the two made a move. Finally on the par three twelfth Flanagan slipped to a bogey four and Grace had a one stroke lead. The lanky Detroiter lengthened his lead to two strokes at 13 with a bogey five, when Flanagan three putted for a six.
It was on 14, however, where Flanagan made his determined bid. He dropped a six foot birdie putt at 14, and followed it with a 23 footer for a birdie two at the 15th. Meanwhile, Grace could do nothing better than par. Flanagan took the lead for the first time at the pai- five 16th when Grace stumbled to a bogey.
With a one stroke advantage Flanagan played safe at 17 and hit his tee-shot short of the fairway traps. Grace gambled successfully and layed his drive less than two yards from the green— 293 yards off the tee. Flanagan chipped to within ten feet and Grace to three. But once again the methodical putter from Port Arthur drilled it home for a birdie—his third in four holes. Grace missed his putt to go two strokes back with only one hole remaining. Both scored four’s on the 18th.
The win gave Flanagan a clean sweep in fall Notre Dame golf. He had previously won the Freshman Tournament. It was also the third time in as many years that Grace has finished as runner-up in the Open Championship.
For the victory Flanagan received a silver medallion, while Grace accepted one in bronze for second. The trophy has been donated by Mrs. William Burke, wife of William Burke who donated the University’s course, since 1935.
THE BURKE MEDALLION
Awarded to Flanagan for Open win.
THE BIG DITCH
Soon A Remedy For Dining Hall Lines.
Two Rectors Transferred; O Hall Prefect Changes Made
Rector changes in two campus residence halls were disclosed with the opening of the 1956-57 scholastic year. Rev. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., was named rector of Morrissey Hall, to replace Rev. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C., who was appointed rector of St. Edward’s Hall.
Many changes also took place among the floor prefects. New prefects are: Rev. Wilfred Menard, C.S.C., 3rd flooi-Fisher; Rev. Daniel O’Neil, C.S.C., and Rev. Frank O’Hara, C.S.C., 2nd floor Dillon; Rev. Rudolph Carchidi, C.S.C., and Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C., 3rd floor Dillon; Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., 2nd floor Sorin; Rev. George Baldwin, C.S.C., 2nd floor Howard; Rey-Thomas Barrosse, C.S.C., 4th floor How^ ard; Rev. Roland Soucie, C.S.C., 4th floor Lyons; Rev. Donald Siebert, C.S.C., 3rd floor Morrissey; Rev. Thomas Bill, C.S.C., 2nd floor Breen-Phillips; Rev. James Doll, C.S.C., 3rd floor Cavanaugh; Rev. Matthew Miceli, C.S.C., 3rd floor Farley; and Rev. Patrick Maloney, 4th floor Zahm.
University's $4>300,000 Construction Program
Scheduled for Completion in Early Part of '58
The University’s $4,300,000 construction program, which includes two residence halls and a dining hall will be completed within a year and a half, it was announced this past week by University officials.
The residence halls will be located between the Biology Building and Zahm Hall. The dining hall also will be situated in the northeast section of the campus near- Farley Hall.
The new dormitories with glazed tile corridors and acoustic panels lining the four stories, will be connected by an air-conditioned chapel. The halls will accommodate about 600 men.
The new dining hall will seat 1,500 students in three separate rooms. The building will be air-conditioned and also contain a cafeteria for public use. During the summer months, the new dining hall will be the only one open on campus.
Keenan Hall
Mr. and Mrs. James Keenan of Fort Wayne, Ind., are the donors of one of the new residence halls. The building, to be named Keenan hall, will be in memory of their son, James Keenan, Jr. who died in an accident in 1941 prior to beginning his college years.
The elder Keenan, a hotel executive for nearly 50 years, is president of the Keenan Hotel Co. in Fort Wayne.
30
Donors of the other hall have not yet been announced.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, in acknowledging the Keenans’ benefaction, paid tribute to their “keen insight into the needs of private educations” as well as to their “remarkable charity and generosity.” Keenan Hall, he said, will help achieve “the cherished tradition and goal of Notre Dame to have all of its students residing on campus.”
Construction work completed during the summer included the redecoration of Washington Hall and the painting of the interiors of St. Edward’s and Dillon Halls.
Six basketball and ten volleyball courts were built at various points throughout the campus, and $10,000 worth of asphalt sidewalks were constructed.
COMMERCE FORUM
The Commerce Forum is currently accepting applications for membership. Sophomores, juniors, or seniors may apply by submitting a letter to Faculty Moderator Thomas P. Bergin, Box 72, Notre Dame. Ind.
Applicants should list their class status, scholastic average, extracurricular activities, and reasons for applying.
Justice Harlan to Hear Moot Court Arguments
Supreme Court Justice John M. Harlan will be one of the three federal judges presiding in the seventh annual Moot Court Competition of the Notre Dame Law School Oct. 24, it was announced today by Dean Joseph O’Meara
Also hearing arguments during tl# final round of the campus competition will be Judge Charles E. Whittaker of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, Kansas City, Mo., and Judge Charles J. McNamme of the U. S. District Court of Northern Ohio. These men were chosen because their experience covers all three levels of the United States judicial system.
The question before the court w^> concern the problem of insanity as a defense in criminal cases.
Students arguing the hypothetical case before the federal jurists will be K. Wayne Kent, Evansville, Ind.; Patrick J. Berrigan, Lewiston, N. Y.; Lawrence A. Kane, Cincinnati, O., and William C. McLaughlin, South Waymouth, Mass.
The two students rating first and S^-ond in the competition will receive the Manion Award, established in 1950 by Clarence E. Manion, former dean of the law school. They will also represent the Notre Dame Law School in the regional round of the National Moot Court Competition in Chicago in November.
The Scholastic
Students Support Yearly Senate Activity Fee; ' Committee Studies Independent Court Plans
The 1956-57 Student Senate, with j Student Body President Pat Logan pre-; siding, opened the fall session with . committee appointments, general plans ^or the year and the announcement of Overwhelming student support for the once-a-year activity payment.
According to the financial statement of Treasurer Hany Wasoff, $10,268 was collected in activity fees during the f period of registration, a total return of 99% of student participation.
One-half of this sum, or $5,134 will be placed in this semester’s bank account, and the other held in reserve for the second semester. This return, coupled with the TV football receipts . of $2,540, gives the Student Senate a working capital of $12,808 before the official financial report of the year is presented for approval.
Senate Loan Fund
In his president’s report, Logan announced several changes in student Wffairs for the coming year. The first . of these is the new Student Senate loan policy, a result of the $25,000 fund for student loans contributed by Mrs. John A. Morrissey.
Another change this year* will take place in the hall council system. All halls with the exception of the freshmen will elect officers on Oct. 11. Until an undetermined date, the freshmen halls $ill be governed by YCS men for the purpose of better organization of the halls. When the date of freshmen elections is set, all candidates will be screen-
ed to help prevent possible scholastic failure among freshmen officers.
In conjunction with the elections, a new leadership training program will be installed to prepare future leaders. The program will consist of lectures, conferences, and a workshop.
Court Changes
One of the most wide-sweeping changes of the year will take place in the Student Court. After the committee has investigated judicial proceedings, a new constitution will be drawn up and the court made into an independent body. Chief Justice for the year is Conrad Conway and the associate judges are John Reardon and Bert Millen. Two more judges are still to be appointed.
In an attempt to keep the student body better informed, the agenda for each Wednesday’s meeting will be published in the halls on the preceding Tuesday. It is also hoped that this will speed up the Senate meetings and lead to better organization.
Coming this year with 4 issues
Zhe Juggler Notre Dame’s Famed Periodical
Subscriptions: $i year 35c per issue at 213 Walsh Hall
University Press Publishes Textbook by Rev. Schlitzer
A’ second edition of Redemptive Intimation, a college religion textbook by ‘Rev. Albert Schlitzer, C.S.C., has been published here by the University Press. The book emphasizes the use of primary source materials in the discovery of
CIVIL SERVICE EXAM
The United States Civil Service commission recently announced that a new engineer examination is now open for filling positions in the Bureau of Reclamation in the western states and in Alaska. The entrance salaries range from $4,480 to $6,115 a year.
Appropriate education and/or experience is required. Full information regarding the requirements, and application forms may be obtained at post offices, or from the U.S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D.C., by asking for Examination Announcement No. 10-1-6(56).
Applications will be accepted by the Central Board of U.S. Civil Service Examiners, Bureau of Reclamation, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colo., until further notice.
A New Classified Section will soon appear in the SCHOLASTIC for the convenience of readers who wish to buy, sell, rent, etc.
Please watch for further notice.
D*KWTURB0W
\OPTOMETRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced
Broken Lenses Duplicated
“Bring in the Pieced'
— EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 44TTI
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
what faith teaches. It is one of four volumes in the University religion series which has been adopted by more than one hundred Catholic colleges and uni-^rsities throughout the country.
Father Schlitzer, an assistant professor of religion at Notre Dame, has served the University faculty from 1937 to 1939 and since 1946.
A specialist in sacramental theology, Father Schlitzer was educated at Notre Dame and the Gregorian University in iome where he received doctorates in philosophy and sacred theology.
SPECIAL! TODAY — EVERY DAY!
■	CHOICE T-BONE
■	BEEF TENDERLOIN
■	ONE-HALF FRIED CHICKEN
■	FRIED SHRIMP
99c
at MILTS GRILL, 206 North Main Street
“NEXT DOOR TO THE CITY HALL”
October 5, 1956
31
For Coming Proms . . .
Louie’s Tuxedo Rental
222 Laurel
Special Student Rates
You bet rm in a hurry . . . I'm going to tell the gang about Frankie's Dinner Steak Special every Tuesday and Thursday for only
$1.25
1QUIN1S USURY aid BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Victory Dances Head Fall Social Calendar
The Social Commission recently announced its plans for the coming social season. Gep Durenberger, social commissioner, emphasized a program which will include the traditional social activities and also many new ideas.
The home football schedule will highlight the fall social calendar with a major dance preceding each game, in addition to the Saturday night Victory Dances.
Outside entertainment for the Victory Dances will include: the Indiana Belles, a choral group, the Glee Club’s Octet, Dick Miller and his Sugarfoot Stampers, and Ed Pistey’s Lettermen.
Tickets for all Victory Dances will be sold each Thursday before the game from 6 to 8 p.m. in the basement of the Student Center as well as at the door.
Inaugurated last year was a joint Social Commission with those commissions of the Holy Cross School of Nursing and St. Mary’s College. Durenberger stated “that the joint Commission greatly helped to develop a feeling of understanding and cooperation among the schools.”
The Social Commission will hold monthly meetings with the social chairman of each hall “to develop a greater interest in hall activities and to foster more closely-knit, better-planned, and more varied social calendar for the coming season.”
Political Academy Sets Mock Campus Election
A Mock Presidential Election will be held on campus on Tuesday, Oct. 23, from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., it was announced this past week.
Registration for those students who wish to participate in the Mock Election will take place on Thursday, Oct. 11. Students who do not register at this time will be contacted in their rooms from Oct. 13 through Oct. 19. Only one precinct worker will contact each student, in order to cut down confusion and annoyance in the halls.
For the purpose of the election, the campus will be divided into five precincts. There will be a voting machine at each precinct, together ■with seven members of the Academy of Political Science, who will act as election officials.
Campaign managers for the candidates will be Frank Draine for Stevenson, and John Ryan for President Eisenhower.
Anyone who wishes to work on the campaign for either candidate can contact Thomas Hawekotte, president of the Academy of Political Science, in 116 Fisher.
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO THE FACT THAT HE$ IN CLASS!
KEEP ALEUT FORA
BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Don’t let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re “hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake . . . alert! Your doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
“Phi-Beta" i pack j
35 tablets A
In handy tin
noqoz
AWA K E N E RS
r
1
®
Here he is
THE
Sandwich
at
ALBANO
Restaurant
415 No. Michigan
arvi
126 N. Michigan, South Bend CE 2-12* The Scholastic',
mm............iii
I
32
U i'
SPECIAL STUDENT
RATES
Serving ND Students and 1 W Faculty for the Eighth Year
-J--...............
•	1,000 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $55.50
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
New Recrui+s Swell Army ROTC Ranks
A total of 316 new recruits for the Army ROTC unit has increased the size of the regiment this year to an all-time high of 736 cadets, it was reported by Cadet Col. Burton Lesh this past week.
Lesh also announced the names of the senior’ cadets who ■will serve as regimental and battalion leaders. They are: Cadet Eugene Kuecks, major; Cadet Thomas Shehan, major; Cadet Donald Barr, major; Cadet Fred Bell, major; Cadet Edward Weinman, major.
The Army band, with a total of 39 members, will be led by Cadet 1st Lt. Gerald Vitztum and 'will play at all reviews and presentations during the school year.
Cadet 1st Lt. Don Calcagnini has been named head of the drill squad which will number 55 members. Thiity-six new recruits are undergoing a two-week trial period with the best to be accepted as permanent members. The drill team will make its first appearance during the half-time ceremonies of the Notre DameNorth Carolina game Nov. 17.
The rifle team has 32 candidates trying out for the 13-man squad. Ten of the 13 participate in actual competition. The team leader has yet to be chosen.
FOREIGN SERVICE
On Mon., Oct. 8, an officer of the Department of State will be on campus in connection with recruiting for the foreign service.
Students, especially seniors, interested in applying for the foreign service exam, should get in touch with him. He will be at the Placement Bureau from 10 a.m. until 5 p.m. Additional information is available from Prof. John J. Kennedy, Ext. 475.
Student Center Story
(Continued from page 17.)
Also included in the student management of the Centex- are a labor foreman and foux- assistants, a bookkeeper, a member of the social committee, a house committee member, and an advisor for dance committee. Final division of the Centex- organization is the work crew, composed of students who are employed during the year to do various jobs around the Center.
Probably the most descriptive phrase about the LaFortune Student Centex- was employed by the Sophomores when they named the Cotillion that opened the Center in 1953. And the addition of the rest of the Old Science Hall makes the Centex- even more worthy of the epithet used by Buddy Morrow, “Fashioned in Fantasy.”
“I WON’T WEAR A THING BUT TOWNE AND KING!”
says HECTOR LIBERACHI, pogostick champ.
SNOWBANK. ALA.. May 28Rated the fastest man on a pogo stick since St. Vitus. Hector circled his old man’s barn on his bouncing broomstick in 7.3 sec. flat, a new record. Hector’s hobbies are taxidermy, fiddlin’ apd girls. When interviewed, he said modestly. “’Twarn’t nuthin’. I had a dry track? Hector, a 7-color sweaterman, says Townella Sweater Shirts are his four season favorite.
Townella Sweater Shirts: premium quality imported fibres. 6 California colors; S-M-L-XL—10.95. Crew length sox in matching colors: 10V&-13—1.95.
Towne and King, ltd.
Coordinated Knitwear 595 Broadway, Redwood City, California
King Size Cheese PIZZA
A Special for
$1.00
■ at
N.D.
Students ONLY
Uhdiie Restaurant
415 No. Michigan
NO EXTRA CHARGE Air line reservations and tickets anywhere. Convenient location. LaSalle Hotel Open Saturdays Mitchell Travel Service CE 2-2253—Phones—CE 3-1181
October 5, 1956
33
Hack Patf/c
by Joe Taft
that white’ innerglow
THE FACE of America is constantly changing. In the last decade, it seems, Miss Liberty has unofficially traded her crown for a curious looking hat, a pointed hat ... a television antenna. The typical antenna has marched to the rooftops of the American public in the characteristic democratic style— it has not discriminated—it has invaded the homes of all economic strata. The great white innerglow has created a storm in the factories, a storm in the advertising agencies, a storm in the booking agencies and a storm in the house. Let’s try opening a typical door, any door, in Anytown, U.S.A.
A turn of the dial -will bring a variety of visitors to our living rooms. Today housewives can boast, “I had breakfast with Arthur Godfrey and His Friends, cleaned house with Arlene Francis, had lunch with Search for Tomorrow, did my ironing with Guiding Light and ate dinner with Kukla, Fran and Ollie.”
The programmed visitors bring entertainment and companionship to many lonesome people. 'Their greatest trait, unlike real visitors, is their facility to be undecorously escorted out of the house by a twist of the fingers. Let’s try taking a look at their “house work.”
There was a time when mothers complained that it was impossible to round up their energetic herd from the innumerable playing places—places like the backyard battlefields, places like construction sites (where a variety of clods made ideal ammunition dumps)— places ^ere the creative imagination worked up the dinner appetites. Today mothers have to electrically halt the stampedes of the Range Eiders if they want to have dinner. “Aw Mom, why can’t you wait until the stampede maims the rustlers,” scream the absorbed children, “we’re not hungry anyhow!” This home education enlarges the twentieth century child’s vocabulary; phrases like “dis joint is bugged,” “step back or I’ll give you a taste of lead poisoning,” “let’s knock off dat wise D.A.,”—ad
34
infinitum. Hank Ketchum, a clever spokesman, seems to grasp this feeling with his character Dennis the Menace. Dennis once exclaimed, “What in the world can I do — the ‘telebision’s’ busted?” After the young rustlers strap on their six guns and go to bed, the real trouble begins.
Mother, father and you have a large quantity of programs to watch but the quality of these programs is debatable. The first category of programs is the Giveaways—you know the type I mean, the type that are geared to make the contestant sweat, cry, moan and occasionally think ... to get the cash. Besides having a GIANT JACKPOT, these programs are loaded with gimmicks. According to last week’s Time, the $64,000 Question has an audience of 13 million innerglowers. What do they see? Joe Gotts, American, enters the spotlight and the quizzing begins. “Did you sleep very well this week?” the master of money asks gleefully. “No, I had my phone disconnected on Tuesday and I had to move on Thursday,” answers Mr. Gotts. “Wonderful!” gloats the announcer—“the more we torture you the more you enjoy the CASH! Now Mr. Gotts, will you please step into our sound-proof, water-proof, air-tight booth and prepare yourself for the DOL-LAE DOLLAE QUESTION?” People across the nation glue their eyes on their new hero ... on trial. Why are these programs—programs like Break the Bank, Beat the Clock, Tic-Tac Dough, Challenge, and Big Surprise... unhealthy? They are unhealthy, I believe, because they twist people into doing ABSOLUTELY ANYTHING for money. Subconsciously they tend to deify money. Why don’t we rename them, “Joe Gotts, American versus Money”?
The second category of programs and perhaps the most morbid is the “Who Has the Most Trouble” type. The big offenders are Strike It Eich, This Is Your Life and The Big Payoff. All
types of people weep and wail thei^| way through your antenna. “My husband hasn’t been able to work for ten years, my five sons are in the pen, and. I just can’t seem to make ends meet,” moans a contorted face.
'The camera flashes on the weeping , audience. The master of tears, God, bless him, the generous soul that he is,; shouts, “The phone is literally ringing?; off the wall. Heartline! Heartline k. Hello, Mark Hanna. Wonderful . . ™ a trip to Elba for seven! Oh! you’re, just too kind. But only two can travel. . . . you’ll fix that . . . grand! Nice talking to you.” He looks into the' camera . . . aren’t Americans WON-; DERFUL!” Then you watch a Kleenex? ad. These emotional marathons are?’ pretty tragic. When someone has top break down publicly in order to create^ ENTERTAINMENT and jobs, thing^ are pretty sad. But they break down^ for you . . . the viewer.
The last and perhaps the most danger-^ ous is the Down With Father type pro-f? gram. The “head” of the family is|. currently the victim of a lethal satiriz-J? ing-
On the positive side of this television^ schedule, mother, father and you have aj limited choice. Most of the playhous^ type programs present interesting andg intelligent material. Programs like the|* Alcoa Hour, Robert Montgomery Pre-^ sents, Omnibus, and the U.S. Steel Hourfd compliment the viewers . . . they pre-S suppose that the audience has an intel-0 ligence . . . the equipment to judged good entertainment. The panel pro-fl grams, What’s My Line and I’ve Goj^ a Secret are crisply entertaining. The^R positive programs are not contrived nori are they overly emotional. What can the viewer do about this great white faced monster’s invasion? The viewers can discreetly pick their programs and attempt to make intelligent judgments on the thoughts behind their monster’s white face.	Mi
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESSS
Triple threat in any league
Any way you look at it, this Arrow University shirt is an eye-catcher. Collar buttons down trimly at three separate points, front and center back. And the back sports a full box pleat.
Comes in subtle colors galore ... 6 plus white in oxford and 5 crisp broadcloth checks. Team it up with this smart, all-silk repp tie.
Shirt, $5.00; tie, $2.50.
ARROW
—first in fashion
SHIRTS * TIES
Want to get in a high-scoring habit?
Add up all the points of this Arrow University shirt, and you can’t help scoring on campus and off. Buttondown collar, front and center back. Full action box pleat for comfort. And we have them in a wide range of favorite patterns and colors. Can we get you in one soon?
Shirt, $5.00; all-silk repp tie, $2.50.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS (Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend

COMP4AfY
OCTOBER 19
Placement Office
Boeing has many positions open for graduating and graduate students. These opportunities are in all branches of Engineering (AE, CE, EE, ME and related fields). Also needed are Physicists and Mathematicians with advanced degrees.	,
Fields of activity include Design, Research and Production. Your choice of location: Seattle, Washington or Wichita, Kansas.
Personal interviews will cover the details of openings, the nature of assignments, Company projects currently in work, and miscellaneous information about the Company.
Come and learn about the excellent opportunities with an outstanding Engineering organization—designers and builders of the B-47 and B-52
Multi-Jet Bombers; America’s first Jet Transport, the 707; and the Bomarc IM-99 Pilotless Aircraft.
For personal interview appointments—consult your
BUE/A/C