
of famous
brand, university-styled
TOPCOATS ■ SPORTCOATS - SUITS
NOW
OFF
The emphasis is on quality during this event . . . choose from our regular stocks of fine fabrics, styles and colors and save exactly one-fourth! Now is the time to fill out your wardrobe . .. stop in and browse through our top-quality values.
^GILBERT'S
JULY
&
J:
£
JUNE
AUGUST^
NO CARRYING CHARGE
WE REPEAT
NO CARRYING CHARGE!
It’s true . . . when you purchase the Campus Shop Way you pay no service or carrying charge of any kind for this convenient way to buy. You select the apparel you want now, wear and enjoy it now . . . pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in Au-
oust 1
We’ve already opened your account.
why not stop in and look over our fine selection of university-styled apparel.
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS
^GILBERT'S

3
OnCupK MKfMman
(Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” and “Barefoot Boy With Cheek”)
SCHOLASTIC
The Student Weekly of the University of Notre Dome
Founded 1867
Vol. 105 February 21, 1964 No. 14
EVOL SPELLED BACKWARDS IS LOVE
They met. His heart leapt. “I love you 1” he cried.
“Me too, hey!” she cried.
“Tell me,” he cried, “are you a girl of expensive tastes?”
“No, hey,” she cried. “I am a girl of simple tastes.”
“Good,” he cried, “for my cruel father sends me an allowance barely large enough to support life.”
“Money does not matter to me,” she cried. “Aly tastes are simple; my wants are few. Just take me riding in a long, new, yellow convertible and I am content.”
“Goodbye,” he cried, and ran away as fast as his little stumpy legs would carry him, for he had no yellow convertible, nor the money to buy one, nor the means to get the money—short of picking up his stingy father by the ankles and shaking him till his wallet fell out.
He knew he must forget this girl, but hung on his pallet at the dormitory, whimpering and moaning, he knew he could not.
At last an idea came to him: though he did not have the money to buy a convertible, perhaps he had enough to rent one!
Hope reborn, he rushed on his little stumpy legs (curious to tell, he was six feet tall, but all his life he suffered from little stumpy legs) he rushed, I say, to an automobile rental company and rented a yellow convertible for S10 down plus ten cents a mile. Then, with many a laugh and cheer, he drove away to pick up the girl.
“Oh, bully!” she cried when she saw the car. “This suits my simple tastes to a ‘T.’ Come, let us speed over rolling highroads and through bosky dells.”
Away they drove. All that day and night they drove and finally, tired but happy, thev parked high on a wind-swept hill. ‘	'
“Marlboro?” he said.
“Yum, yum,” she said.
* *
Marlboro Cigarettes, good as they are, should not be smoked backwards. We, the makers of Marlboro, most earnestli urge you to light only the tobacco end. Otherwise you; smoking pleasure will be substantially diminished.
They lit their Marlboros. They puffed with deep contentment. “You know,” he said, “you are like a Marlboro—clean and fresh and relaxing.”
“Yes, I am clean and fresh and relaxing,” she admitted. “But, all the same, there is a big difference between Marlboros and me, because I do not have an efficacious white Selectrate filter.”
They laughed. They kissed. He screamed. ■
“What is it, hey?” she asked, her attention aroused.
“Look at the speedometer,” he said. “We have driven 200 miles, and this car costs ten cents a mile, and I have onlv S20 left,”
“But that is exactly enough,” she said.
“Yes,” he said, “but we still have to
drive home.”
“Oh,” she said. They fell into a profound gloom. He started the motor and backed out of the parking place.
“Hey, look!” she cried. “The speedometer doesn’t move when you are backing up.”
He looked. It was true. “Eureka!” he cried. “That solves my problem. I will drive home in reverse. Then no more miles will register on the speedometer and I will have enough money to pay!”
“I think that is a smashing idea,” she said, and she was right. Because today our hero is in the county jail where food, clothing, and lodging are provided free of charge, and his allowance is piling up so fast that in two or three years he vail have enough money to take his girl riding again.
© 1964 Max Shulman
*
Tom Hoobler
. . . editor-in-chief
Dick Stranger
. . . managing editor
Brian Barnes
. . . business manager
Mel Noel
. . . news editor
James Morgan Callero
. . . features editor
Terry Wolkerstorfer
. . . sports editor
Larry Sicking
. . . layout and art editor
Jack Pope, Joe Wilson
. . . copy
Pat Ford
. . . photography
E. Brian Graham
. . . circulation
John Souza
. . . advertising
Frank O’Malley
. . . faculty advisor
David Barrett, Jim Clare, Al Dudash, Robert Haller, Brian Jorgensen, Jeremy Lane, Frank McConnell, Bill McGuire, Bill Smith, John Twohey, Mike Walusis
. . . contributors
Al Basso, Pat Bauer, Tom Bettag. Jim Billiter, Jeff Blackwell, Jim Boland, Brian Cass, Lee Cass, Bill Cragg, Larry Dietz, Bob Edler, Geary Ellet, Jim Finch, Sam Goodwin, John Gorman, Dave Grophear, Mike Hoyt, Jim Komasinski, Rex Lardner, Carl Magel, Bill O’Grady, John Phillips, Jack Rowe, Joe Ryan, Gary Sabatte Pete Siegwald, Frank Smith, Rick Weirich, John Whelan
. . . staff
4
The Scholastic
Foul-up
Mr. Mike Smith’s letter on page 7 was not the only one we received questioning the scheduling of two lectures on the same day, at the same time and in the same place. Aside from the fact that this in itself indicates what has often been described as questionable handling of the new library facilities, it would appear that a great disservice was done one of the foremost Negro educators in the United States — a man who was a distinguished guest of the University — Dr. Luther Foster, President of Tuskegee Institute.
According to Jack Harty, Student Senate Academic Commissioner, the reservation of the Library Auditorium was requested and confirmed by letter on November 8, 1963, from the office of Victor Schaefer, Head of Libraries. This letter stated that the Auditorium was definitely reserved and implied that no further confirmation was necessary from the Academic Commission. Apparently, this was not the case because the people of the Economics Department received confirmation that they also had the Auditorium reserved for them.
This situation was first discovered when the posters announcing the talks of both Dr. Foster and Mr. Leonard Tennyson were displayed. As Mr. Harty explains, he sought to have this cleared up but to no avail. On the library calendar, the Auditorium was listed as having been reserved for the Economics Department, and no amount of rhetoric could change it. The earlier letter of confirmation was explained away, even though none of the explanations refuted the
documented fact that the Auditorium had been reserved by the Academic Commission in early November. The issue was finally resolved the day of the two programs: the Economics Department would have the use of the Auditorium and the Academic Commission could have their speaker wherever they could find space. As it was, they moved Dr. Foster’s talk to the Law Auditorium, forcing the Pan-American Club to move a program they had scheduled to 127 Nieuwland.
The shame of this situation is that the use of the facilities most proper to a man of Dr. Foster’s position and reputation were denied him. At present, the Library Auditorium is the University’s most appropriate hall for programs of this sort. The Head of Libraries has established an unwritten policy regarding the nature of programs that will be presented in the Auditorium. In general, the program must be one of academic interest; it must draw an audience of no more than the 300-person seating capacity; the audience must be drawn primarily from the “Notre Dame Family”; the speaker must be of some renown. The Auditorium is to be kept as “a nice spot held in reserve for special events.”
If there would be any doubt regarding the prominence of Dr. Foster, a look at the people present at a dinner with him before the program will give an indication of the regard the University holds for him. Those present were the Reverend John Walsh, C.S.C., head of the Notre Dame Foundation; Dr. George N. Shuster, Administrative Assistant to the President; Reverend Chester Soleta, C.S.C., Vice-President of Academic Affairs; Dean Broderick, of the Law School; Dr. Kertesz, of the Political Science Department; Dr. Strickler, Head of the Department of Education. Apparently the University thought more of the visitor than did the Head of Libraries.
The audience for Dr. Foster’s speech was estimated at 300, while that of Mr. Tennyson was only a handful. Certainly some consideration should be given the extent of use of facilities before an arbitrary decision is made to force one group out in favor of another.
We would, then, apologize to Dr. Foster for this incident and at the same time suggest that the direction of the Library Auditorium be taken from the hands of library officials and handled through the office of Student Affairs as are the facilities in the other buildings on campus. This will solve the problem of duplication of reservations and prevent future embarrassment.
February 21, 1964
5
This is no weak-sister deodorant!
... it’s new


deodorant
MANPOWER
New Man-Power Deodorant has what it takes to do a MAN’s job. Gives you the stepped-up penetration power, the staying power a man needs. Covers in seconds...controls perspiration... stops odor. And it’s absolutely non-sticky. Try it...the new deodorant that does a MAN’s job. New Man-Power. 1.00 plus tax.
EXTRA Bonus — the clean masculine aroma of OLD SPICE I s h u l. t o n
COVER
Art editor Lawrence Sicking depicts the bloody verbal infighting in the debate tournament to be held at Notre Dame February 28th and 29th.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second-class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 18 East 50th Street, New York 22, N.Y. It receives its covers including the four-color back-page advertisement from College Magarino Inc., of New York City. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues of the academic year and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). The special subscription rate for St. Alary’s students and faculty is $3.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
CONTENTS
Editorial ................... 5
Letters ..................... 7
Senate....................... 9
Campus at a Glance.......... 11
On Other Campuses........... 15
Uncontested Election........ 16
The Jai Alai Team .......... 17
The British Elections....... 18
Nelson Rockefeller.......... 20
Barry Goldwater............ 21
Privilege, Property, and Discrimination............. 22
The Trial and The Leopard .. 24
A Matter of Conditioning .. 26
Voice in the Crowd.......... 27
Scoreboard ................. 7J	I
i
Hugh Devore................. 28	!
The Last Word............... 34	.
6
The Scholasti'
Letters ...
CHALLENGE OF CHANGE Editor:
Last week it was brought to my attention that Luther Foster was to speak on race relations on Wednesday evening at 8:00 in the library auditorium. This lecture was publicized in The Voice, on WSND, in the University Events Calendar, and on posters put out by the Academic Commission. When I got to the library auditorium, I found out that the lecture was to be given in the Law auditorium. This was an inconvenience to me and, I am sure, to many other students. If Mr. Foster was to speak in the Law auditorium, why didn’t the Academic Commission’s posters and The Voice announce the change? If he was to speak in the library auditorium, why was Mr. Foster’s lecture suddenly changed to the Law auditorium? And why weren’t we notified far enough in advance to realize the change had taken place? I would appreciate it if you would clarify this for me.
Mike Smith 219 Walsh
(Re: This week’s editorial —Ed.)
COMMUNICATION FAILURES Editor:
In regards to the article on Gov. George W. Romney that appeared in last week’s Scholastic, I think it is necessary for me to clarify a few of the misconceptions of the actual events that were expressed in your article. Specifically, I would like to mention the so-called “legislative failures” referred to in that article. I think that a quick rundown of the major legislation of Governor Romney’s first year in office will be adequate to disprove any idea of legislative failures.
In his first year in office Governor Romney has succeeded in securing legislative approval for over 90% of his program — a much greater margin of success than most new governors are able to obtain — a program which included: the passage of a revision of unemployment compensation rates, the establishment of a new unemployment compensation commission, the authorization of a new 100,000-seat stadium for Detroit, the passage of a legislative re-districting plan, the establishment of a strong civil rights commission, the passage of legislation for the Aid to Dependent Children program, a revision of the executive branch, and expanded programs of support for educational and mental health needs.
During the same period the Governor has established a government re
February 21, 1964
organizational study commission, an advisory committee on mental health, and won the fight for the adoption of the new state constitution he had helped to author. I’m afraid this doesn’t sound like “legislative failures” to me — and I doubt it will to anyone else who takes the trouble to examine the Governor’s record.
In your article while referring to “legislative failures” (in the plural) you did mention the governor’s tax reform program and here I will have to admit he suffered a setback — but it was his only setback — and this could only be termed “ a legislative failure,” not “legislative failures” and a careful examination of the facts would have dulled the thought of referring to this as a “legislative failure,” as it was only the first step in a long and difficult battle the governor is carrying on to further his program of giving Michigan the strong financial footing it needs.
The Governor could have taken the easy way out — as Governor Scranton did in Pennsylvania, which by now has the highest sales tax in the nation — by asking for an increase in the sales tax — but he felt to continue his program of restoring fiscal responsibility to Michigan (under Romney Michigan had a budget surplus last year of $62.6 million, bringing it back from years of red ink) much more was required and this he was striving to obtain and will continue to strive for until Michigan has what it needs — for this is the kind of man George Romney is.
E. Brian Graham Chairman
Romney Campaign Committee 310 Walsh
RANKING RANKED Editor:
Who are you trying to kid anyway? Are you really trying to convince us, as well as anyone else who might read your publication, that we are super-intellectuals ?
It seems very evident from your ratings of the Ten Best Films of the Year that you are definitely on an impression campaign when you chose Fellini’s 8% as best film of the year.
I do not know the narrow group that the Scholastic is deriving its opinions from, but it certainly is not from the general student body. It might be better if we said that the general opinions were taken from outside sources, or reviews. (If we wanted to read these publications, we would have.)
I for one do not consider myself an intellectual and, as such, did not really understand the picture, nor have I yet found anyone, when honest
with himself, that did. I will further venture to say that not more than 1/3, and that being generous, of the Scholastic staff understood the picture. How could a picture such as this even be considered as best film of the year?
I will not bother to comment on the other films or awards for I feel the above is sufficient.
With these thoughts in mind, it might be well if the Scholastic got back to doing the job it was designed to do, that of gaining and reporting the news and views of the students, and leave other worthwhile publications, which are more than adequately doing their jobs, alone. (In others words, either do your job or stop wasting our money.)
Raymond F. Fox 252 Dillon
The editors of the Scholastic have respectfully taken Mr. Fox’s perspicacious remarks under consideration and agree with him in every respect. With proper deference to our latest critical genius we issue this revised list:
1.	The Cardinal
2.	Dementia 13
3.	End of Desire
4.	The Three Stooges Meet Hercules
5.	4 for Texas
6.	Bachelor Tom Peeping
7.	My Bare Lady
8.	Girls on the Rocks
8^. Revenge of the Virgins
9.	The Chapman Report
10.	Career Girl (seasonal) Sic transit gloria Fellini.
LIBRARY ADJUSTMENTS
Editor:
After reading the two letters in this week’s Scholastic complaining about the library, I decided that I should write and give an explanation of what is being done.
However, first I believe that it is interesting to note that the disciplined atmosphere of this University has fostered such self-discipline in some students that they consider it “Chinese torture” to be in the same room with members of the sex that constitutes over one-half the population of the world.
Nevertheless there was a very legitimate complaint about the overcrowding of the library due to the presence of many outsiders, hi my position as chairman of the library welfare subcommittee of the Senate I have spoken to Mr. Victor Schaefer, director of libraries, about the problem. He has assured me that all but Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students
(Continued on page 32)
7
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: TOM HAMILTON
“I’ve known quickly on every job what was expected. Then it was pretty much up to me. with help as needed,” says Northwestern Bell’s Tom Hamilton (B.S., Business, 1960). Tom is Manager of his company’s Clinton, Iowa Business Office, and has a staff of seven to help him service his 35,000 telephone customers.
Toni’s promotion resulted much from his impressive records in two other company areas. He had been an Assistant Marketing Promotion Supervisor helping develop sales promotion when he was selected by his company to
attend the special business seminar at Northwestern University in Chicago.
Then, as Communications Supervisor in Ottumwa, Tom was both salesman and supervisor — two other salesmen worked under him. On this job he showed the versatility that paid off in his Clinton promotion.
Tom Hamilton, like many young men, is impatient to make things happen for his company and himself. There are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY
TELEPHONE MAN-OF THE-MONTH
8
The Scholasi -
Last Monday’s Senate meeting could be judged as one of the least significant gatherings during the term of the present Administration. At least this judgment is sound if one only looks to the usual “significant” characteristics that have made past meetings newsworthy, such as the presence of good humor, the presence of poor humor, or the unenviable ability of the body to tie itself in parliamentary knots. In fact, one of the main themes of this column has always been that those aspects of a meeting often point to the incompetence of a senate rather than to its ability. Although the mentioned indicators of incompetence have often overshadowed any positive aspects of Senate activity in the past, however, the meeting last Monday was strangely devoid of them, and for once the Senate can be judged using the merits of the measures passed as a basis.
Viewed in this way, the meeting resulted in some positive legislation that can be of real benefit to the University if properly implemented. On the surface, however, the gathering of the campus leaders showed only a smooth flow of rhetorical efficiency. No name-calling took place, no Senators slept through any major activity, and events moved rather quickly for the Senate, with adjournment coming at about 10:30.
The President’s Report told of the Academic Council’s decision that “too many commitments had been made” to change Easter vacation dates. Mr. Ellis also told of plans being made for the revival of the Student-Faculty-Administration Board of last year. It appears that the students may once again have the chance to bend the ear of the Administration regarding aspects of campus life that they wish to change.
A financial statement presented by the Treasurer was admitted to be “not entirely conclusive,” but the report did bring some interesting specifics to light, even though the general position of student government finances remains in the dark. The debt of $13,000 has now been cut to “about $10,000,” and it appears that two to three thousand more may be repaid by the end of the year if this administration adheres to its proposed budget. Student government has
February 21, 1964
SENATE by Al Dudash
also been held liable for $1447 in summer storage claims, although this sort of loss is expected to be avoided by turning the project over to a nonstudent group next year.
Much of the financial uncertainty of this year has evidently been due to double entries of things such as income credited and bills sent as second notices by organizations to whom student government owed money, and the resulting problems have not been entirely resolved. The report in toto was therefore anything but adequate, and the need for the coordinating effect of the finally proposed business manager of student government is still evident; however, the report does represent a good effort by Larry Beshel and Co., and if its limitations are recognized, represents a first step toward more systematic financing.
The rest of the reports were passed over rather swiftly, and in fact several bills were rather summarily approved. Included were measures allocating the $4200 of Charity Chest to the various organizations to which student government contributes, providing for a $200 loan to the Freshman Formal, and approving the budgets for the 1964 Freshman Formal and Senior Ball.
However, a number of the measures dealt with included more than routine approvals and appropriations.
Even if you are a beginner ...You’ll
Dance after 3 hours at the
ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIO
You can go dancing after only three hours -when you put yourself in the hands of an Arthur Murray teacher.
At our gay studio parties, free to all students, you will thrill to the wonderful adventure of dancing the new steps in the Fox Trot, Cha-Cha, Twist, etc. You'll gain poise, develop your personality as you make new friends.
Join the fun; accept a half-how:	h' h'
Trial Lesson............. x
ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIO 120 East Wayne Street CE 2-3339
The Student Center’s main lobby will now be open for students and their guests on all days including Sundays until 6:00 p.m. This will fill the need in the past for a place to entertain weekend guests while the rathskeller and the second floor are being used for mixers. The much-debated Transportation Policy also provides an important service for the students in its final passage. It provides at least a degree of price control on off-campus trips run by campus organizations, and insures that non-members of such organizations will receive fair treatment by stipulating a similar price on these events for both members and non-members.
Early in the evening the Senate passed a revised Dance Policy, which establishes control over the expenditures of organization dances, with a view to avoiding debacles such as last year’s Senior Prom which lost an estimated $4000. The Policy provides for a controller appointed by the SBP to countersign checks and approve orders, i.e., to keep the organization within their budget. In addition, the bill provides machinery to enable the collection of outstanding debts for which the groups are liable, thus tending to insure more financial responsibility.
The Senate seems to have realized to some extent that any judgment of its effectiveness can only be measured with the merits of its final legislation as a standard. Beyond the surface last Monday, important measures were enacted, and these represent further steps along a path to student service and concomitant financial responsibility, a path along which the Senate now shows stronger signs of being aimed.

BEAUTY and the BEARD
(YOU'LL LOVE THE BLENDING)
When an irresistible force like Ann-Margret meets an immovable object like Al Hirt... POW! Yon know she can sing but wait 'til yon hear him! And with Al on his horn for extra good measure, "Beauty" and "The Beard" make a most happy "Bill Bailey," "Just Because," "Personality" and many more. Get this joyous album today. You'll love it. It's the blend.
RCA VICTOR A
^The most trusted name in sound
10
The Scholastic
campus at a glance
FORENSIC FORAY TO BEGIN
Notre Dame will play host to fifty-four schools for the Nineteenth Annual Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament on next Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. The topic for debate is resolved: the federal government should guarantee an opportunity for higher education to all qualified high-school graduates.
The debaters will register at the Morris Inn Thursday evening, Feb. 27, and on Friday morning the elimination rounds will start. At the end of six of these rounds the top sixteen schools will enter the octa-finals. The winners will continue on to the quarter-finals and semi-finals. The final round will be held at 4:00 p.m. on Saturday in the Library Auditorium.
Trophies are to be given to the best four teams and to the two best individual debaters. For the first place team is a traveling trophy which must be won three times for a school to keep it. Both Northwestern and Notre Dame have won it twice. Last year Georgetown defeated Brandeis in the finals.
Debating for Notre Dame will be Larry Petroshius, a junior political science major, and Jim Cavnar, a freshman physics major. They are coached by Professor Leonard Sommer. The tournament is under the direction of Dick Jaskunas, a senior in chemistry.
Some of the more prominent debating schools in this year’s tournament are U.C.L.A., University of California at Santa Barbara, Northwestern, Vermont, Miami, South Carolina, Boston College, Pittsburgh, Georgetown, San Jose State (California), University of Redlands (California), and Brandeis. WSBT-TV will videotape parts of the tournament.
In the Notre Dame team’s last tournament at Springhill College in Mobile, Alabama, Larry Petroshius and John Roos took first place in debate over twenty-four other schools. Larry received the top-speaker award and was a finalist in the impromptu February 21, 1964
speaking event. John was the third place speaker and a finalist in the persuasive-speaking event.
TENNYSON ON EEC
Mr. Leonard Tennyson, Director of the U.S. Office of the European Economic Community, delivered a lecture Wednesday evening in the Library Auditorium on the subject of the European Community. Mr. Tennyson’s lecture focused on three aspects of the European Community: organization, activities and goals, and its particular problems.
After the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty Alliance, six European countries which fared badly in the war decided to establish a grand economy among themselves so that their products could be sold in a common market. The three Benelux countries, West Germany, France, and Italy, were the member nations; Great Britain had declined to join. The alliance is headed by a ministry of representatives from the six nations. With headquarters in Brussels, thirteen standing committees — prodded by over 200 special-interest groups — discuss Europe’s problems. The first action of this quasi-federal alliance was the formation of the European Coal and Steel Community soon after the war. Thus, a common market was created for the rich coal and steel enterprises of France and Germany.
This Coal and Steel Community set the model for the Common Market. Several events led up to its formation. Nasser’s activities in the Suez was the main motivating force, for it made the six member nations aware that they could be cut off from the all-important supply of oil in the Suez region. The Hungarian revolt led them to the belief that an atomic-energy alliance as well as an economic alliance was necessary. Thus in March of 1957, both the Atomic Energy Community and the European Economic Community were formed,
Great Britain again declining membership.
The European Community faces two main problems. First, Mr. Tennyson indicated, the executive branch — consisting of parliament and a court — is not given enough authority to effect immediate changes. A policy of slow transition is the keynote, however, as the Community is moving towards its goals of elimination of internal tariffs, the establishment of a stable external tariff, and modification of tax and fiscal policies. Second, the Community — in particular, General de Gaulle — has been subjected to heavy criticism for its refusal to admit Great Britain on her recent bid for admittance. But this criticism has failed to stifle the progress of the Community. The six have now lowered internal tariffs 60% towards their goal. The first four anticartel laws have been passed, and monetary and fiscal policies are now being established. By the end of 1966, leaders predict elimination of internal tariffs and establishment of a stationary external tariff. At present, formulation of an agricultural policy is foremost in the minds of the six member nations.
Mr. Tennyson emphasized that members of the Community are not strictly European-minded. The members realize that Europe’s very life depends on the “spill-over” into the economic interests of other countries. The political unity of Europe is another goal of the Community, since all its members conceive of a single Europe within the foreseeable future.
USEFUL MYTH
“A couple of months ago I attended a movie . . . entitled It’s a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. ...” Although an unusual approach to the topic “Happy Land: The Myth of American History,” this was exactly the way Professor Oscar Handlin addressed a full house in the Law Auditorium February 13.	-
Professor Handlin believes that this picture — the story of a group of individuals in quest of a fortune not rightly theirs (something for nothing) — points up the belief in a great myth of our history. He believes the American people as a whole have two striking misconceptions: first, that since the Declaration of Independence states that all men are entitled to the pursuit of happiness, every man must necessarily become happy; second, that American history has been one continual story of success and progress.
According to the professor, these two views might be disproved by some specific examples. The first, the
11
more personal misconception, might easily be proved false by citing examples of those Americans who might seem successful but who, in fact, were not really happy. He cited the Presidents, only six of whom he could consider to have left office with any degree of happiness, and Andrew Carnegie, who despite his wealth, was never really happy and who felt compelled to get rid of his sign of success by giving his millions away. As evidence against the second, the more social misconception, Professor Hand-lin pointed out that the frontier — that great romantic example of American success and progress — was not so wonderful after all, that the conquering of the frontier was accomplished only at great cost in human lives.
But the discussion of these misconceptions brings the question, “Why the myth?” Professor Handlin explains it in this way: the myth allowed Americans to see a reason for the hardships and sacrifices they were compelled to make and which without the myth they would not make.
What about the relevance of the myth today? “The myth is a myth, and as a myth has an important role in the past and the way we understand ourselves, but in order to understand the importance of the myth we must keep it distinct from reality.”
OF WING-DING, SING & THINGS
On Saturday, February 22, Notre Dame will be host to a folk and jazz wing-ding. Sponsored by the Social Commission, the program, organized by the Ford Motor Company, will begin at 8:00 in the Stepan Center. All tickets for the wing-ding are $2.00.
Representing the jazz field are Nina Simone and Herbie Mann with his sextet Miss Simone is a well-known vocalist in both the jazz and pop fields, with several albums to her credit. Herbie Mann is also well-known in jazz circles. Both performers have appeared on the television show, “The
Lively Ones,” sponsored by Ford.
Less well-known are the representatives from the folk field, the Moonshiners and Ron Eliron. The Moonshiners are a folk trio, and Eliron is a folk singer and satirist.
At the performance, 50 record albums will be given away as door prizes, courtesy of Capitol records. Later in the year a drawing will be held for several new Ford cars, with admission tickets serving for this drawing also.
SORIN WEAK?
Consternation reigned in the halls of Sorin when that “revered institution” failed to put a float in the Homecoming parade. Was Sorin spirit dying? NO! said the Super-Sorin men, and they set about to destroy that hated hypothesis.
The result of their work was “S-week,” complete with buttons and the symbolic Superman T-shirt. Starting the day after Mardi Gras and continuing through last Sunday, Sorinites began reviving their “lost” hall spirit.
Early Tuesday night coach Erin O’Parseghian was featured in the first February football rally, only “the first of the firsts for the first hall.” At a stag party later that night, newly imbued with the spirit of tradition, the Sorinites imbued themselves with the spirit of Bacchus. The un-coubtable purpose of this was to enable them to give up drinking for Lent, which they did the next night at the Grotto.
Thursday night was the first time the rest of the student body could join S-week activities, the first time three movies were shown at one time, resulting in the first four-hour campus spectacular and finally, the first time popcorn was available at an on-campus movie.
On Saturday those Sorinites that survived the Friday night date party formed a cheering section in the Fieldhouse for the Notre Dame-St.
Louis University basketball game. The week ended Sunday morning with a Communion breakfast.
S-week was only a mild prelude to another such week in the spring. Say the Super-Sorin men — spirit is not dying at Sorin.
HESBURGH IN NEW POST
Father Hesburgh has been named a trustee of the Eleanor Roosevelt Foundation by President Johnson. Formed by an act of Congress during the Kennedy Administration, the Foundation will be nominally chaired by the President of the United States. Upon reception of $25 million in contributions, the Foundation will begin studies on problems faced by the United Nations, civil rights groups, the European Community, and other notable organizations. Presently the actual chairman of the twenty-member foundation is Adlai Stevenson; vice-chairman is Mr. Thomas Watson, president of IBM.
Fr. Hesburgh has also been chosen president of the Federation of Catholic Universities, an educational organization composed of 45 larger Catholic universities located throughout the world. It was organized under the Congregation of Seminaries and Universities and works in close cooperation with UNESCO.
PANAMANIAN PANEL MEETS
On Wednesday, February 12, the Pan-American Club presented a panel discussion giving both sides of the current situation in Panama. Participants were Giles Martin and Jim Mc-Gloin from the Canal Zone, and Jose Fabrega and Miguel Brumas of the Republic of Panama. The panel was moderated by Dr. Shapiro of Notre Dame’s history department. In their account of the flag riot of January 7, the Panamanian students emphasized that the display of the American flag alone at Balboa High School was contrary to an American agreement, and that the Panamanian delegation had
12
The Scholastic
Panelists Consider Canal Problem
Mr. Erwin Graham
had permission to cross into the Zone to hold their own flag-raising ceremony. They also accused the American students of desecrating their flag and said American police fired on a group of Panamanians who were trying to cross the Zone border.
The American students held that since the Panamanian delegation was surrounded by American police, the American group could not have torn the flag they brought with them. They also held that the police had fired only at the ground or over the heads of the crowd, not directly at them.
In discussing what the Panamanians feel should be done about the Canal situation, Mr. Fabrega asked for official recognition of Panama’s sovereignty in the Canal Zone and outlined a five-point plan for rectifying what the Panamanians feel are injustices in their treaty arrangements with the U.S.: the Canal annuity paid to Panama should be raised from the $1.9 million provided by the revision of 1956, and, in addition, a certain percentage of the Canal’s income should go to Panama; Lands acquired over and above those of the Treaty of 1903 should be given to Panama; Panamanian citizens should receive preferential employment in Canal facilities; Panama should be able to sell its products within the Canal Zone itself; Panama should be given ports of entry at both ends of the Canal for the collection of duties.
They stated that Panamanian President Chiari was not insisting on a promise of eventual control of the Canal as a basis for negotiations with the U.S., but requires that Panama could reasonably expect to take over the Canal at some future date.
DELEGATIONS PICK REPS
About half of the state delegations for the 1964 Mock Convention held meetings Sunday. One of the more important items on the agenda was the appointment of a member to the
platform committee and one to the credentials’ committee. The platform committee will form the party policies, so there was considerable politicking as each man tried to see that someone with views similar to those of his favorite candidate got the position. In most of the delegations the appointments were made by the chairman after the delegates had voted to appoint a liberal, conservative, or whatever. In others the delegates elected the committeemen individually, and in others the chairman appointed the man, without consulting the delegation.
After these appointments had been made, the delegations turned to their internal business, settling meeting dates and other business. They then settled back to listen to the campaign managers (or their representatives) of several candidates, who attempted to win over the delegations both with an objective statement of their candidate’s qualifications and by answering questions. Most campaign organizations have also started issuing pamphlets, buttons, and pens.
One item of interest was a straw poll taken in several of the delegations at the start of the meeting. Though the results are inconclusive, they are quite surprising: Scranton first, followed by Lodge, Goldwater, and Nixon, in that order.
FORUM PLANS PROGRAM
Erwin H. Graham, Comptroller of the Chrysler Corporation, will be one of the featured speakers at the Sixth Annual Finance Forum, February 2527. He will speak on “The Chrysler Story” at 10:30 a.m. next Wednesday in the Student Center. In all, seven speakers have been scheduled for the three-day session. On February 25, Robert C. Liebenow, President of the Chicago Board of Trade will keynote the banquet at the Morris Inn at 6:15 p.m. with his talk on “Commodities Trading.”
Three speakers will be heard on Wednesday, February 26. Speaking in dual sessions will be Graham and Richard N. Allen, Secretary and Controller of Central Soya, at 10:30 a.m. on “The Applications of Cost Accounting to the Marketing and Finance Functions.” W. Wendell Reuss, Manager of the Transportation Securities Department for W. E. Hutton and Company, will speak at 1:30 on “Railroad Securities as an Investment.”
Thursday’s sessions will feature Fergus J. McDiarmid, Vice-President in charge of security investments for the Lincoln Life Insurance Company, speaking at 10:30 a.m. on “Investment Avenues for Life Insurance Companies”; Donald H. McGannon, President and Chairman of the Board of Westinghouse Broadcasting Company, speaking on “The Economies of Broadcasting” at 1:30, and Donald O’Toole, Chairman and President of the Pullman Bank and Trust Company who will close the sessions at 3:30 p.m. with a talk on the “Management of a Bank."
Tickets to the banquet and the sessions may be purchased from club members, the committee chairman, or in the lobby of the Commerce Building betweeen classes, starting Wednesday, Feb. 19. Chairman of the Finance Forum for 1964 is John Cook.
Sessions will be held in the Student Center and all faculty and students are invited; cancelled cuts will be given to those attending.
N. D. GOES BAROQUE
Through the efforts of Mr. John Howett, Curator of the Notre Dame Art Galleries, and Mr. Eugene Leahy, an Associate Professor of Music at Notre Dame, a symposium, “The Baroque Age: Art, Music, and Poetry,” was held in the Memorial Library auditorium on Thursday, February 13. The first in the day’s series of five lectures was presented by Mr. John Meagher of Notre Dame, speaking on “The Metaphysical Poets in
February 21, 1964
13
Michigan’s Baroque Musicians
$ the Baroque Age.” Mr. Ernest Brandl, $ . also of Notre Dame, then spoke on J	“Austrian Baroque Architecture.”
3	In the afternoon session, Mr. Wolf-
|	gang Stechow lectured on “The Old
Testament in Baroque Painting.” Mr.
ii	Stechow has been associated with
1	Oberlin College for more than 20
-	years and is considered by many to
1	be one of today’s most qualified art
3	historians. Currently, Mr. Stechow
J	holds the position of a visiting pro-
fessor at the University of Michigan.
$ The second guest lecturer of the day i was Mr. Hans David, a musicologist 1 on the faculty at the University of | Michigan since 1950. Mr. David, who 3 has written much on the life and work of Bach, lectured on the topic, “Music Printing in the Baroque Age.”
J The symposium concluded at 8:15 ■] that evening with a lecture-recital, j “The Baroque Style of Music.” Mr. I David was again the speaker, and I music was provided by the University I of Michigan Baroque Consort.
j According to Mr. Howett, the sym-| posium had several purposes. He be-| lieves that the Notre Dame student ] body is among the most capable found 3 in the United States today; yet we are I pitifully underfed in the humanities. 1 It was Mr. Howett’s intention to pre-j sent, through the lectures of a group | of distinguished experts in their re-j	spective (although specific) fields, a
।	portion of this knowledge. Each
। speaker concerned himself only with j his own topic, leaving it to the listener ।	to coordinate the various fields of
,1	Baroque art. In so doing, it was
| hoped that each would gain an overall | view of the Baroque Age.
Interdepartmental cooperation j	played a large part in making the
j	symposium the success that it was.
| Through the combined efforts of the English Department, the Music Department, and the Art Galleries, the conception and development of the plan was accomplished. It is now hoped according to Mr. Howett, that many such programs will be under-
taken by various departments in the near future.
FOSTERING CIVIL RIGHTS
Dr. Luther Foster, president of Tuskegee Institute, was on campus the evening of Lincoln’s birthday to speak on “Race Relations in the South.” He was able to present an excellent firsthand picture of the Negro’s position and sentiment in his own part of the country.
Dr. Foster proposed that the basis of the race problem is the failure of the people to fully accept the Emancipation Proclamation. At first there was open rejection, then the strategy of “separate but equal.” The Negro, has, all the while, been merely struggling to obtain the rights he is entitled to. Negroes never were satisfied in the past with less than complete equality, any more than they are today, but in the past they relied on legal actions and informal negotiation, with the idea that justice would triumph. But of late the Negro has been supported by courts and legal actions, and yet is still not able to obtain the measure of freedom these courts affirm he should have. The result is the demonstrations and protests. A social revolution is under way to implement court-granted rights.
The position of the present-day Southern Negro must be considered in light of the economic, cultural, and social forces at work in the South. According to Dr. Foster, the fastgrowing, progressive urban centers, such as Atlanta, have the best race relations. Although there are demonstrations in these cities, he sees them as growing out of good relations; direct action is required to get at the heart of many issues, and progress is being made. The areas which are the real tinderboxes are the stagnating repressed cities, such as Birmingham, and the rural areas. Here the attitudes are negative rather than positive, characterized by a fright
Dr. Luther Foster
ened clinging to the status quo. The people, often poor and uneducated, fear the upset of long-established customs, no matter what they be. In these areas the Negro has found it necessary to complement negotiations and economic pressures with direct action. The need for action is evident; for example, only one-half of one per cent of the Negroes in the South were in integrated schools in 1963. Those Negroes who have worked themselves up to better incomes and a higher standard are leading the others and supporting their efforts. One instance of the success of this effort is the fight to get the ballot in Tuskegee. After much work and about $100,000, there are now 2,000 Negro voters, as opposed to the 800 whites. There will be marked changes in the next elections.
The Civil Rights’ bill now in Congress holds a dual promise for the Negro, according to Dr. Foster. It will enable him to break out from under the power of local strongmen in Southern politics and allow him to take his cases to the Justice Department. But even more important, he sees it as a necessary national acknowledgment of America’s goal of equality for all. From Dr. Foster’s remarks, one gets a hint of a third possible goal: discrimination for the Negro. Although Dr. Foster would not allow it to be stated that way, he maintained that, since over the last 100 years, the neglect and repression of the Negro have accumulated and now put him at an accumulated disadvantage, there should be an effort to give him extra help, in the way extra tutoring is given to a reticent child.
From Dr. Foster’s remarks, one can form a good picture of the mind of the Southern Negro. He wants in actuality the liberty he has held in theory for 100 years. He wants to see an extra effort made to bring the Negro up to the level of the privi-
(Continued on page 33)
14
The Scholastic
on other campuses
• A recent ruling by Columbia President Grayson Kirk extends visiting hours for women in men’s dorms. The ruling permits residents to have female guests in their rooms from 7 p.m. to midnight on Saturdays. Student reaction to the extension was mixed. Many were indifferent; those who favored it felt that the entire plan was spoiled by a provision requiring room doors to be left open. Some expressed displeasure at the necessity of wearing something to their Saturday night showers. A few students indicated that they did not plan to make use of the new regulation, and one said that he wouldn’t want any girl to meet his roommate. Scoffing at the whole idea of entertaining female guests one said, “What difference does it make to me? I’m sexually immature anyway.”
• A controversy has evolved at Indiana University over a ban placed on kissing in the lounge of one of the women’s residence halls. The ban was imposed in Sycamore Hall by the hall’s counselor, Arden Miller, and was later ratified by the members of the hall council. This made Sycamore the only woman’s dorm with such a restriction. .
If the ladies took the rule in stride, the gentlemen didn’t. By a 16 to 2 vote the student senate condemned the ban as a “usurpation of student government responsibility.” One of
the senate sponsors of the resolution, Bill Vukowich, said, “Happiness of pursuit — or should I say pursuit of happiness? — is guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution.” And a graduate student warned, “In 3^ months we’re going to see the things now going on in the lounges going on in the grass.”
• Fraternity hazing at Northwestern University has been spiced with alleged extralegal activities. Five Sigma Nu pledges were arrested in Aurora, Illinois, for stealing twenty stop signs, while another pledge returned with a mannequin in tow. Other reported incidents included herding students into a phone booth where they had to smoke cigars, and forcing pledges to sit on cakes of ice.
John Aldock, President of the InterFraternity Council, said that “no evidence has been found that any pledge had been frozen, drenched, or submitted to any brutality.” However, he asked all fraternity houses involved with hazing to submit written reports on the incidents. Aldock added that “pre-initiation week leaves much to be desired. There are students at Northwestern that are immature, and the fraternity system has no monopoly on them.”
• The student senate at the University of South Carolina passed a bill calling for an investigation of the activities of the student newspaper,
The Gamecock. The bill, sponsored by Senator Larry Kline, charged that The Gamecock is the personal opinion poll of a small segment of the student body. Kline asked that the paper become a university function instead of a private enterprise supported by university funds. Later, in debate, Kline admitted that he knew nothing about journalism and said that more time should have been spent on the bill.
• A Minnesota state senator has called for an investigation of subversive activity at the University of Minnesota. Senator Donald O. Wright of Minneapolis, who in the past has accused the university of radicalism and softness towards the Communist line, this time accused the students of subversive activity and the university of hiring professors with “Communist tendencies.”
Wright cited three incidents at the university which he claimed supported his charges: a debate on the nature of academic freedom at the university between Mulford Q. Sibley, a political science professor, and Milton Rosen, St. Paul’s commissioner of public works. Students booed at Rosen’s references to God, and cheered Sibley, called a leftist by Rosen; the printing of Communist-inspired articles in a student publication; an apology made to the Soviet Union by the university president for a burning of the Soviet flag on campus, which Wright said helped the Communist cause.
feiffer
I wic Of Life t6-0H,I ROOT W-MORE OR LESS OF A JU06LE-
IM W 6Ut ICAMT A6REE.I life
FERHAPS.WTIM	ICEUAIUM
OJROWMLdAtfS	HOFU €0-I
ARE WE NOT	ALWAH6 THlNC
SW6 THE	THE £I6N OF
filMSO-AIOP 10 THAT ■ RE6ARP AM I AGSRKSl^ BECAUSE IM ANXIOUSOR AM I ANXIOUS BECAUSE I FEAR W IM A66RES5<
OOITE THEOFroscTE. "I AM, THEREFORE I FEAR? THAT'S WHAT IM 5AW6-
Og, CD THINK 50? WELL, « CWT WESTER INTO MH CAI/EANP PISCUSS THIS OTER PINNER- /
ELAmWE ARE SEVERAL KCTAt WITS I FEEL WK OVERtOOKWE. FOR INSTANCE,
THEENVIRON-
NOW DIP I DO THAT g£AU5EI
I HOPE ANOTHER SMALL ANIMAL COMES ALOAiS SOOAL HOW ELSE CAN ONE LEARN ?
February 21, 1964
15
REFLECTIONS ON
AN UNCONTESTED ELECTION
WHILE HAVING AN UNCONTESTED race for SBP is “lamentable,” it is understandable and does not mean there is no interest in Student Government or that next year’s Student Government will not be successful. Because I have closely associated with SBP’s Hart and Ellis and was a candidate for that office, perhaps I can (1) present some of the reasons why a person would choose to run for SBP; (2) discuss the “job” of SBP in terms of its day-to-day activity; (3) give some reasons why even a “logical candidate” might choose not to run; and (4) discuss the effects of an uncontested race.
To decide to run for the office of Student Body President a person would have to be all these things: be convinced that he is the best qualified person to perform the duties of the office; be willing to sacrifice his time, his average, his peace of mind, his privacy, his freedom, and much more in the hope that he can improve the University and himself (through the prestige, power, experience, contacts, and opportunities of the office); be convinced he is temperamentally, physically, intellectually, spiritually, and emotionally capable of conducting an exhausting campus-wide campaign (which is also expensive) and serving in the position for a year. All of these
Tom O’Brien is presently VicePresident of the Student Body and has served in various other Student Government positions, including Floor Representative, Hall President, and College Senator. An unsuccessful candidate for Student Body President last year, he presents here his views on this year’s uncontested race for SBP.
16
bv Tom O’Brien must be present if one decides to run for the office.
There is a saying, “The position of SBP is great, but it’s one hell of a job.” It is one of the few sayings I know to be true. The job requires 30 to 40 hours a week of active work as well as being constantly available to the problems, questions and gripes of students. It means worrying about many things at once; incessant meetings; going to bed each night with a million things undone; skimping on study time; being constantly on the move; directing the activities of hundreds of others; having to know all the details; becoming discouraged and never being able to “take a day off”; bargaining, cajoling, threatening, advising, reasoning with everyone; being “damned if you do and damned if you don’t.” It is a very trying job and men have broken under its strain.
Perhaps it is understandable, then, why even a “logical candidate” might choose not to run. In fact the better a person knows what the job entails, the more surprising is the decision to run. A student who chose not to run would not necessarily be afraid of all the work. He might not be convinced he is the best man for the job; he might feel he could make a better contribution in another realm; he might not think the possible rewards are worth the sacrifices he would be forced to make; he might not feel he could win; he might feel he would do himself or the University a disservice if he did win.
If any of the qualities needed to run are not present, they would constitute an impelling reason not to run. The “combination of ingredients” must be fully present.
The idea that the new election rules are an impediment to people running for SBP does not seem to be a viable one. In the first place, a defeated candidate is less “dead politically” now. The Class and College offices are still open to him whereas this was not true under the old system. Secondly, the opportunity still to run for Vice-President would rarely (if ever) have been a consideration in the mind of a potential candidate for SBP. The Senate, which elects the Vice-President under the old system is aware that erstwhile candidates for SBP have
often been the worst Vice-Presidents. Too often in the past, the polemics of campaigns have not been easily forgotten and the Vice-President has not been able to subject his will to that of the man who defeated him. For such a situation to be workable, a very genuine bond of mutual trust and respect must exist if the Vice-President is to take orders and perform his tasks well.
The main implications of the uncontested race are two: the voter interest generated by a contested race is not present and the bargaining position of the SBP is weakened. The fact that an SBP elected in a contested race can say, “I was elected by all the students and am the only person who can make such a claim,” does not necessarily mean that in fact he does represent the views of all the students or that his view is necessarily the correct one. But the claim does carry a good deal of weight and Dave Ellis’s ability to remind people of this fact at judicious moments has been an important factor this year. Kevin Hart, through no fault of his own, could not make such a claim and it weakened his position. It should not be a factor, but yet it is.
To ask someone to step forward to “create a race” would be still worse. There was an abortive attempt to create a race against Hart; it did more harm than good. The admitted “apathy” which existed under him was not simply the result of an uncontested race or Hart’s inability to claim a mandate. The obstacles presented by an uncontested race can be overcome by drawing good people into student government and conducting an active realistic and conscientious administration. This last depends most on what one does while in office and the performance in office is what has differentiated Ellis’s administration from Hart’s. Ellis has not become “fed up” even when temporarily opposed. Through his efforts and his leadership cordial and workable relationships have been established with the Administration and most student organizations. If I know John Gearen, he is capable of the task as well. The student body can assist him by voting in large numbers and taking an interest in his proposals and in him.
The Scholastic
The Jai Alai Club
by Peter Holman
NOTICE
TIRED OF THOSE RUN-OF-THE-MILL SPORTS LIKE FOOTBALL, BASKETBALL OR BASEBALL?
Come to the Organization Meeting of the
NOTRE DAME JAI ALAI TEAM
Tuesday, February 18
8:30 P.M.
Room 204, O’Shaughnessy
(Editor’s note: For those who missed this sign or were unable to attend this meeting, the Scholastic was able to procure a copy of the minutes. They follow:)
The organization meeting of the Notre Dame Jai Alai Team was held February 18, 1964, in room 226 O’Shaughnessy. The meeting was opened with a prayer to St. Carlos Merinda, patron saint of all jai alai players. Christopher Johnson, jai alai team captain, led the prayer.
This was followed by a short introductory speech in which Mr. Johnson welcomed the students to the organization meeting. He apologized for the mix-up in the room in which the meeting was held. Mr. Johnson explained that when he arrived at room 204 O’Shaughnessy about 8:00 p.m. he was met at the door by a crossed pair of cricket bats which prevented his entry. As he walked down the hall searching for another open room Mr. Johnson found room 208 to be occupied by the Notre Dame Indian Wrestling Team, and members of the Notre Dame Polo Team were grooming their horses in room 215. Mr. Johnson finally arrived at room 226 where the Wranglers were holding a discussion. After some persuasion they were convinced that the organization meeting was more important than the discussion of literature.
At this point Mr. Johnson asked the men in the back of the room discussing The Phenomenon of Man to kindly keep quiet and put out their pipes or leave. Following this introduction, the business portion of the meeting began.
The first order of business was the selection of athletic jackets and emblems for the team. After much dis
cussion, it was decided to get Notre Dame blue athletic jackets with crossed cestas and the words “Jai Alai” embossed on the left front of the jacket.
Mr. Johnson asked if anyone had ever played jai alai before. There was no recognition from the floor. He then asked if anyone had ever seen a jai alai game before. Sam Eliot, a sophomore from Zahm, acknowledged that he had seen a game on television some years ago. It was moved, seconded, and unanimously passed that Mr. Eliot be made coach of the Notre Dame Jai Alai Team.
Mr. Johnson brought up the fact that there would be some difficulty in practicing. It seems that Administration has been very lax in providing facilities for playing jai alai. There was some talk of using the east side of St. Edward’s Hall; it was pointed out however, that the Notre Dame Frisby Team had already spoken for this area. It was further pointed out that the area directly in front of the Administration Building was also out of the question since the Notre Dame Hop-Scotch Team practices there every evening. The main entrance of the Computer Center was ruled out as a possible site when it was mentioned that the Notre Dame TiddlyWinks Team practices there. Someone asked about using the golf course. The recent report of the death of a member of the Notre Dame Archery Team however, eliminated this suggestion. It seems that during practice the archer was hit by a flying object thought to be a golf ball, and before he could get off the course, he was trampled to death by a contingent of harriers. The possibility of using Washington Hall on alternating weekends was put forth, and Mr. Johnson said he would speak to Fr. Harvey about the feasibility of such a move.
The need was then expressed by Mr. Johnson for a few committees. A social committee was the first consideration, because of the problem of securing a place to hold the various team social hours. The first social hour has already been tentatively set for March 6, 1964, at the Dog House. The event is to begin about 2:00 a.m. The lateness of this first social hour was explained to be due to the fact that the Notre Dame Jacks Team is having a party there from 10:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m., preceded by the Notre Dame Pond Jumping Team’s
bi-weekly banquet from 6 to 10 p.m. A committee headed by Max Snell was formed to remove the horns around the Dog House, making it more feasible to have one of those inevitable scrimmages with the patrons.
Finally, there was formed a can-celled-cuts committee. It was mentioned that there would be no trouble in getting cuts for the away games. However, securing cuts for the morning after the team social hours may be a bit of a problem. Emory Gluck was appointed chairman of this committee.
The question was raised from the floor as to just what kind of competition the team might play. Mr. Johnson said that matches had already been arranged with the professional jai alai team in Miami over the Easter vacation. Although these men have been groomed to play jai alai since they were eight or nine, Mr. Johnson said that he felt certain the team could put up a good showing, “if every member of the team puts his whole heart into it.”
At this point a student entered the room seeking the meeting of the Notre Dame Water Polo Team. He was invited in and a discussion of water polo ensued. It was learned that two or three people at the meeting had previous experience in this sport. Water polo seemed to offer several advantages. Once St. Joseph Lake opens up in the spring, practice could begin with some assuredness, since only the Notre Dame Sailing Team and the Notre Dame Long Distance Swimming Team now use the lake. The report of the formation of the Notre Dame Crewing Team proved to be only an idle rumor.
It was moved and seconded. and unanimously passed that the name of the organization be changed from the Notre Dame Jai Alai Team to the Notre Dame Water Polo Team. The first practice is to be held when the ice clears off St. Joseph Lake. (The social hour at the Dog House was not, however, cancelled.)
The motion to close the meeting was made by Rodney Gluck — cochairman of the cancelled-cuts committee — seconded by Emory and unanimously passed. The meeting was duly adjourned at 10:00 p.m. with a prayer to St. Hydra Aquis, patron saint of all water polo players.
Respectfully submitted on this 18th day of February, 1964.
February 21, 1964
17
This year, perhaps as late as the month before our own Presidential election, British voters are expected to turn away from thirteen years of Conservative government. Present indications are that the British electorate will give the Labour (Socialist) Party7 a parliamentary majority and the opportunity of forming a government to last possibly as long as five years. Conservative (Tory) fortunes are so low that the Tories now principally cling to the hope of a great change in world and domestic political tides. (Readers of David Copperfield will recognize the origin of the technical term, Micawberism, for this profitless but confident hope that something helpful will turn up.) A more sober self-appraisal appears in the Tories’ recent fight about the methods used in naming Sir Alec Douglas Home as Prime Minister.
For the Tories a public intraparty quarrel at any time is indicative of bad morale. The Tories think of themselves as constituting the special party of government. Their object is to be available for forming a government. In doing so, their belief goes, they can best protect the major interests of themselves and their country. Their capacity for government is revealed in the functioning of the leadership and in the response of the party. Divisions and quarrels, ill auguries of effective government, are in Tory eyes characteristic of the Socialist Party. Thus the recent quarrel involving Iain Macleod, Randolph Churchill, and others shows the Tories, as it were, twisting their own image.
Before attempting to explain how the British Conservatives reached this low estate, I should add that there is very little relationship you can draw between the British Conservatives and the American Right. The former are mainly pragmatic, primarily interested in survival and power. They talk about issues of domestic and foreign policy in terms of immediately practical action. The American Right is doctrinaire, given to Walter Mitty attitudes, and, finally, afflicted with whatever is the opposite of the Tory will to survive and to power. A reasonably close parallel, however, may be drawn between the fortunes of the Eisenhower-Modern Republicans (won 1952 for 8 years) and the British Conservatives (won 1951 for 14 years of power).
The Tories won a narrow victory in elections in October, 1951. This was their return to power after the over-18
M. A. Fitzsimons:
whelming Labour victory of 1945. The Labour (Socialist) government (1945 -1951) established National Health Insurance (also called Socialized Medicine), extended other social services, and nationalized a number of basic services (water, electricity, gas), the Bank of England, and several principal industries and enterprises. For the coal industry the government became, in effect, the receiver of bankrupt capitalism. The years of Labour governance, then, were not years of revolution. Labour first of all had to concentrate grimly on the recovery of the British economy. As the economy was based on world trade (not on the domestic market which indeed did not provide the raw materials for an industrial power), the economy and currency were subject to erratic, tidal pulls. To guide the economy and distribute goods in short supply, the Labour government maintained and extended the wartime rationing system. True . to itself, the Labour Party extended the area of social reform and broadened the opportunities of many laboring people. Also, true to itself, the party did more than meet the anticolonial demands of the postwar period. Labour presided over the transformation of an Empire into a Commonwealth of self-governing equals, among them such former dependencies as Ceylon and India. Finally, Labour in its governance had had to meet the postwar expansionist bid of the Soviet Union. In spite of the party’s sentimental belief in Leftist solidarity, the Labour government generally joined with the United States in major responses to the Cold War.
For Labour, postwar officeholding was taxing and a number of its leaders either died or retired in weariness. The experience of governing had disappointed some party members and divisions in the party became quite customary. The policies of rationing and controls decreased the party’s electoral appeal. Elections, early in 1950, drastically reduced Labour’s parliamentary support.
The Conservatives, meanwhile, planned and achieved their political revival. Shortly after the Tory defeat in 1945 the present Deputy-Leader, R. A. Butler, was entrusted with the task of modernizing the party’s ideas and programs. To this work he attracted an unusual number of bright Tories. In the course of the next five years the Tories made it clear that they would accept the
major legislation of the Labour government. This was no novelty or shocking decision; the English Tories historically have been the trustees of their opponents’ revolutions. To have done otherwise would have been antiConservative; and would have upset the British economy as each swing of the eccentric political pendulum brought back a nationalizing or denationalizing government. Their course is designed to gain new Conservative recruits from the satisfied beneficiaries of the last round of legislation. Finally, this purloining of opponents’ programs may, in time, leave the opposition without a program.
Having accepted so many of their opponents’ ideas, the Tories argued that they would administer the nation’s affairs more efficiently and economically, with winning inducements to Britain’s friends and with a firmer countenance turned to enemies. The Tories, in short, pledged themselves abundance and freedom for all. In the 1950 elections, Churchill advanced the idea of a summit meeting
The Scholastic
THE BRITISH ELECTIONS:
PARTIES, PERSONALITIES, AND ISSUES
which thereafter has generally played a major role in Conservative electoral strategy. This is not to say that the Tories crudely play politics with foreign policy. It is to note that official British policy to the Soviet Union is essentially flexible and does and did envisage summit meetings. The advocacy of summit meetings had two further advantages: taking the sting out of the Labour charges that Tory concern with preparedness was warmongering and that the Tories were excessively responsive to American leadership.
Eden had not been entirely happy about Churchill’s advocacy of a summit meeting. When, however, Churchill retired and Eden led the Tories in another election (1955), he found the prospect of a summit powerful ballot magic. Economic planning, also, added to Conservative electoral power. The Conservatives generally tried to take early action to deal with abuses and difficulties. Their hope was that by the government’s fourth or fifth year, election time, prosperity would be general and a relaxed, taxcutting budget would be in order.
The classic example of the effectiveness of this combination appeared in the election of 1959. This third successive Conservative victory was all the more surprising, for the fall of 1955 had revealed the Tory budget of early spring as a near electoral hoax. By early 1956 Eden found almost all things going against him. In the Middle East he was eventually faced by the challenge of Nasser’s nationalization of the Suez Canal. Eden determined to reply forcefully to this challenge. His determination finally meant the divergence of Britain’s from America’s wavering course. The Suez Expedition was a calamitous political failure condemned by the United Nations, Russia, the United States, and the whole anticolonial world. Eden was replaced as Tory leader and Prime Minister by Harold Macmillan who for more than six years sought, generally successfully, to reassure the electorate by demonstrating his imperturbable control.
Oince 1961 SuperMac has had rather bad luck. First of all, his dependence on American missiles was made the occasion of political embarrassment to him. The manufacture of certain American missiles to which
February 21, 1964
M. A. Fitzsimons, Editor of The Review of Politics.
British defense planning had been adjusted was cancelled by the American government. Secondly, it appeared that the Tories could preside over affluence rather than expansion. Whenever expansion developed, threats of inflation also appeared. Then, the Tory counter-measures of high interest rates and reduced investment had more than the desired effect. The result at best was a greatly curtailed expansion which did not keep pace with a growing population. Thirdly, Mr. Macmillan’s hopes of bringing Britain, originally opposed to European Economic Union, into the booming Common Market ran into the firm veto of General de Gaulle. The veto in effect stamped failure on a major Macmillan enterprise. Finally, the Tory government appeared to have sunk into the irredeemable decay of political old age. The Minister of War, John Profumo, was found to be in a sex scandal involving “a society chiropractor” as procurer, a selection of tarts, and a Soviet agent. Even without the latter the case raised security issues. But, and properly in politics, Profumo’s unpardonable sin was that he lied in denying his misconduct to the House of Commons. By midsummer the Tories electoral prospects were low. Macmillan was reluctant to quit without a further foray of leadership; ill-health, however, compelled him to resign. Butler, the most obvious heir apparent, was passed over as he had been in 1957. Lord Home, the Foreign Secretary, was named as Prime Minister and, thus, became Macmillan’s successor in the leadership of the Tories.
The by-passing of Butler and selection of Home highlighted an oddity in the Conservative Party’s arrangements for naming a leader. The Par
liamentary Labour Party elects its leader and, on occasion, the bitterness of elections allows the Tories a good deal of self-congratulation. For their part the Tories do not elect a leader; the leader emerges and is recognized. Harold Macmillan consulted all sections of the Tory Party and presumably concluded that no candidate for the leadership had majority support but that Lord Home was universal second choice. Some supporters of Butler, however, are understandably bitter, for the talents of Butler undoubtedly outclass those of Home, Home’s leadership is likely to compound the prospective Tory defeat, and there is a well-grounded suspicion that Macmillan would in any case not have recommended Butler as his successor.
The new Tory leader, in his past, has revealed but a mild dedication to politics. His present passion for politics, the passion of the dutiful husband, happily exemplifies aristocratic leadership and noblesse oblige.
Under Lord Home the Tory Party is less persuasive than it might otherwise have been in presenting itself as the advocate of a streamlined, efficient, and superproductive economy. Both parties are agreed upon the necessity of this development and to that end each has to turn against its sources of inefficiency — privileged classes and capital as well as trade unions. Each party is concerned with the fostering of British talents and, to that end, with the creation of equality of educational opportunity.
The Labour government’s decision to make the atomic bomb, Churchill once charged, was a case of doing good by stealth. The Labour Party, in short, found credit for the bomb embarrassing. Similarly, in recent years, the Tories have smoothly presided over the liquidation of Britain’s African Empire. But before their own supporters at home the Tories are more than a little fearful of making their anti-imperial achievements the subject of their boasting.
In foreign policy Lord Home has shown himself quite resolutely aware of the Soviet threat. His rhetoric with respect to the Soviet Union has been suitably incredulous and adamant. But it is equally true that he, too, in his fashion will follow the flexible British policy.
(Continued on page 30)
19
CAXBIBATES ’64; Part II:
NELSON ROCKEFELLER *

Nelson Rockefeller’s determined drive for the Republican Presidential nomination caps a career which dates back to 1940, when he was appointed first director of the new Office of Inter-American Affairs. In 1944 he was made Assistant Secretary of State for American Republics Affairs. A year later, helping draft the United Nations’ charter, his main contribution was article 51, which allows for the formation of regional pacts (such as NATO) within the framework of the U.N.
Back in private life in 1946, he founded the International Basic Economy Corporation, which aims at helping underdeveloped countries in Latin America through private enterprise. The program has since been expanded throughout the world.
Under President Eisenhower he received a great deal of experience in domestic and foreign affairs. He was called to lead an Advisory Committee on Government Organization, and a similar one on Defense Organization. When the Department of Health, Education and Welfare was • formed, he was made its first Undersecretary. In 1954 he was made the President’s special assistant on foreign affairs. After this post, Rockefeller returned to New York and spent the next two years studying the New York state constitution. Declaring himself a candidate for governor in 1958, he surprised oddsmakers by defeating incumbent Averell Harriman by over five hundred thousand votes.
His first goal being the balancing of the state budget, Rockefeller combined a tax raise with the introduction of the withholding system. Together they brought in enough revenue to wipe out a $700 million deficit inherited from the previous administration. There was enough left over for the governor to grant a 10% across-the-board tax refund. New York has remained on the pay-as-you-go basis throughout his administration. But many felt Rockefeller was to blame when, midway through his first term, a major scandal developed around the state liquor authority. Investigations by the attorney general’s office revealed widespread corruption in the department. Several high-ranking appointees were forced to resign under fire. Rockefeller cooperated fully with the investigation, and in fact fired one man who refused to
20
give up his immunity from prosecution. Although Rockefeller was in no way connected with the scandal, some people feel he was negligent, and it has left a bad taste in the mouths of many New Yorkers.
The over-all picture was better. The business climate improved in the state, reversing the trend of 1957. Gains were made in the area of civil rights regarding housing, job-train-
ing, public accommodations, etc. Education was given more attention than ever before. State scholarships were tripled, state aid to local school districts doubled during his first term.
Despite his divorce he was reelected by over % million votes. But one of his campaign promises, not to raise taxes, caused another blot on his record. In his 1963 budget, he asked for a sizable increase in auto registration fees. The attempt drew loud cries of promise-breaking from state Democrats. Although the raise would have left the fee below the national average, many Rockefeller supporters in the state and around the country were disillusioned.
Realizing that he might never have a better chance for the nomination than 1964, he declared his active candidacy before any other Republican leader, and has been making extended speaking tours throughout the country. Rockefeller has had to repair a badly damaged public image. He further has had to prove that his programs are consistent with Republican philosophy, contrary to the state
ments of those who claim he would feel more comfortable in the Democratic Party. And in fact, an analysis of his record in New York and his stand on major issues reveales that the charge is somewhat exaggerated.
For example, on the question of federal-state relations he has said repeatedly that the preservation of states’ rights depends upon the exercise of states’ responsibilities. He has made consistent efforts as governor to bring about increased interstate cooperation in solving problems of common interest. A constitutional amendment was adopted in 1963 granting local governments more strength. It was widely hailed as a “Bill of Rights for local government.”
Outside these areas, Rockefeller’s views seem more consistent with his “liberal” reputation. He has called for a medical-care program under Social Security, although he feels that the individual should have a choice between the federal program and a private voluntary health plan.
Rockefeller’s stand on labor also disagrees with the conservative position. He opposes Right-To-Work laws, which would permit open-shop bargaining contracts. The conservatives are worried about the strength of the big unions; Mr. Rockefeller is concerned with the weakness of the small ones. But he does agree with conservatives in objecting to any federal intervention in labor-management relationships.
On the civil-rights issue he has taken a stand which will alienate conservatives but few others. “The right of equal opportunity for all citizens is the responsibility of all levels of government, but if the states refuse to accept their responsibility, then it is incumbent upon the federal government to protect the rights of the individual.”
But his liberal views and his remarriage make it doubtful that party pros will want to take a chance on him. They feel the American voter has made up his mind that the remarriage is evidence Rockefeller would not make a good President. Recent events in New Hampshire and California, however, have stirred up a lot of speculation. Rocky’s political image seems to be coming out of the coma into which it had sunk. He is an underdog, as he was in 1958, but this time the odds are only 100-to-l.
The Scholastic
BARRY BOLD WATER
TA egardless of the many similarities stemming from a common heritage, the American people hold in common certain notions which are peculiar to them in essence or degree and which are representative of their unique beginnings as a nation. The only people in the English-speaking world to have successfully revolted against the oppressively paternalistic colonial policies of Great Britain, they have a persistent distrust of the withdrawal of governing power from the individual citizen. The question of whether the increasing powers of the federal government implies such a withdrawal will assume great importance in the political campaigns of 1964. For on the hope that the public will answer with a decisive affirmative, rest the aspirations of Presidential candidate Barry Morris Goldwater.
Barry Goldwater was born and reared on the old frontier of the Arizona Territory, the son of a successful pioneer merchant. He spent a restless youth which involved changes of schools and near-failing marks until the death of his father in 1929. At that time young Barry left school to take his place as head of the family. He quickly worked his way from junior clerk to president of the family store, as he showed himself a remarkably competent businessman. Returning to private life after distinguished war service as a fighter pilot in the USAAF, he became active in local civic affairs and in 1949 was elected to the Phoenix city council on a reform ticket. After a single term in this, his first public office, he ran for the U.S. Senate in 1952, and won election on the coattails of the victorious General Eisenhower.
During his two terms on Capitol Hill, the Senator has developed and preached the body of beliefs which have come to be known as “Goldwater conservatism.” His criticisms of the expanded role of government in American life are well known. They are without a doubt the central features of both his rise to prominence and his position as the most controversial Presidential hopeful. But while such emphasis on this theme may be useful in the statements of an individual Senator, it is unlikely that this issue would be sufficient grounds to win Goldwater the GOP nomination in 1964. Realizing
February 21, 1964
this, Goldwater has sought to delineate his stand on a number of vital issues.
Appointed in 1953 to the Labor and Public Welfare Committee, Goldwater has acquired a distrust of labor unions to match that for centralized government. He favors action to curb labor abuses, and has particularly promoted the cause of right-to-work laws. But because of his aversion to extending the scope of federal power, he opposes a federal right-to-work law. Instead he will urge states to enact such legislation.
In the national crisis over civil rights, the Arizonian finds himself in
a difficult position. Having once been denounced as a segregationist, Goldwater has been at pains to establish himself as a friend to the Negro. And though he has maintained the principle of equal rights, Negro support can hardly be expected, since the candidate frankly admits that a Goldwater administration would not “meddle” in civil rights. For, in keeping with his opposition to big government, he views civil rights as a matter of strictly local concern. However admirable this consistency, the effect is such that even William Buckley, Jr., editorializing in his staunchly conservative National Review, concludes that Goldwater may be termed a seg
regationist in effect. It is doubtful that even membership in the NAACP (which Goldwater once held) could neutralize the effects of such a position on the Negro vote.
The same conservatism affects the Goldwater stand on the perennial farm problem. He advocates getting the government out of agriculture, that is, an effort toward removal of price supports. Thus, devotion to his doctrine could endanger Goldwater’s status in the consistently Republican plains and mountain states.
Because of these and similar replies, Goldwater’s position has been characterized as wholly negative: simple dissent consistent with his criticisms of recent administrations. Vigorously denying that he lacks a positive domestic program, the Senator asserts that it will consist in the repeal of laws passed during the last three decades. There- is need, he claims, for this thorough realignment of legislation with Constitutional principles, and the laws he opposes are those which, he declares, “do violence to the Constitution..”
Goldwater realizes that foreign affairs tend to be the decisive issues in national elections. Less experienced in matters of foreign policy, he has nonetheless been a vociferous critic of recent handling of our relations with the Communist bloc, neutrals, and our allies as well. His dissatisfaction stems from what he considers our refusal to take the risks which alone can insure our safety. With few exceptions, he complains, recent administrations have been unwilling to take the necessary risks. Yet, paradoxically, he objects to the test-ban treaty precisely on the grounds that he realizes “the risks involved.”
It is plain that by a “clear choice,” Goldwater does not mean taking an unequivocal stand on all controversial questions. In the view of professional politicians, he has been frustratingly, though perhaps prudently, silent on, e.g., an integral foreign policy. And even Bill Buckley himself would not have been caught straining for favor as Goldwater did in stating that he did not know of a single bad member of the John Birch Society. But Buckley is not running for national office; Goldwater is, and realizes the impossibility of succeeding without appeal to a broad segment of the American public.
21
PRIVILEGE, PROPERTY AND DISCRIMINATION
by Pat Bauer
Notre Dame Law Professors Thomas Broden and Conrad Kellen-berg, and South Bend Attorney Thomas Singer have presented an ordinance to the South Bend Community Council, which would correct discriminatory housing practices against the Negro in this area. The proposal, called the Fair Housing Ordinance, would prohibit discrimination in real property transfers by commercial owners, sellers, renters, and lenders.
Professors Broden and Kellenberg have done considerable investigation to substantiate the charges of discrimination that the ordinance is intended to remedy. There are 14,000 Negroes in South Bend, about 10% of the population. They live primarily in four sections of the city: north of Western Avenue; Sample Street west of Prairie Avenue; in the neighborhood of Ohio and Keasey Streets; and on the northeast side along South Bend Avenue. This concentration of a people of similar origin is not unusual in South Bend.
The professors, along with Dr. Dale Grayson, conducted a hearing in the Law Auditorium last March 19. The wife of a Notre Dame professor, Mrs. Helen Arnold, testified of her difficulty in purchasing a home here. During her search, that lasted over a year, she was not allowed to see the interior of any home she sought. Realtors, when discovering she was a Negro, told her the owners did not want to sell to her race. She finally bought a home from another N.D. professor. She had been told by this realtor that he did not wish to sell to
her. When the professor did sell the realtor refused to be a party to the transaction because he didn’t want to be known as a “block-buster.”
A popular South Bend high-school athlete, upon returning to his home town after higher education, was unable to purchase a home and finally built his own outside the city. A white woman testified that, after showing her home to prospective Negro buyers, her home was bombarded with bricks and her little boy beaten up.
The majority of the interviews emphasized that realtors followed a segregationist policy and would not sell to Negroes in all-white areas. Those Negroes interviewed were in fair and above-average economic situations, such as electricians, professors, and doctors.
In South Bend there are segregated schools as a result of the segregated living pattern. Can a bill like Open Housing help? It is doubtful that there will be any immediate impact. You can educate man in ideas; to legislate ideas is a different and often difficult matter.
Civil-rights legislation similar to the Fair Housing Ordinance is not uncommon. Such ordinances have been adopted by New York, Chicago, and Toledo. Twelve states have accepted similar housing restrictions. The purpose of such legislation, as stated in the report on fair housing to the Chicago City Council, is “to allow all segments of the population ... to have equal opportunity to purchase or rent housing which would otherwise be unavailable to them.”
In those states where Open Housing
is in effect, all complaints have been mediated so the penalty has never been assessed. Thus, such an ordinance is more of a warning device. It . gives a reluctant realtor an alternative choice, that of not wishing to be a “block-buster,” or of being officially declared a “Negro-hater.”
Professor Broden explained that the bill is a long-range educational instrument, hopefully devised to cause public embarrassment for the discriminatory realtor, and is by no ' means the entire answer to the problem, but a necessary step. Councilman J. Chester Allen was quoted in the South Bend Tribune concerning the bill, “Professors are sometimes too idealistic.” Allen is a Negro. He also said that the bill should be applied only to commercial housing.
Nationally, according to a Newsweek poll, 55% of white Americans would object to having a Negro live near them. Wallace Mendelson, in Discrimination, p. 115, states that prejudice is most common in housing. Notre Dame sociology professor, John J. Kane, in his text, “Social Problems” asserts, “The Negro who wishes to rear his children in a decent residential area generally faces a dilemma. If he moves into a white area, he may place the lives of his family in jeopardy, or be subject to the destruction of property. If he remains in the slums, he may see his children exposed to the vice that exists there.
Opposition to such a bill finds its chief complaint in its constitutionality. It is said that such a bill would restrict the rights of a person to private property.
22
The Scholastic
i j
J
A commercially oriented bill, however, would not seem to infringe upon ; private rights. The Supreme Court will no longer support the restrictive | covenant, a clause in a contract in | which the owner agrees not to sell to I Negroes and other minorities. Govern-J ments have long held the right to reg; ulate commerce, for instance, the i zoning restrictions that are placed i on specific areas, including residential ! sections. Both of these circumstances ; support the constitutionality of the \ bill. A great number of realtors of the ; nation, who are a principal opposition group, claim that a fair-housing ordinance would hurt their business. This is said with justification. In some areas it may take the citizens time to accept such a law, and they could conceivably bypass having realtors sell their homes to avoid the bill. This has not been a widespread practice in those areas that subscribe to the bill, j However, there have been cases, as • implied previously in the realtor’s
fear of being labeled a “Block-buster,” where individual realtors have lost income because of indiscriminatory practices.
Valgeen Dickinson, of the NAACP, explained his organization’s position on a Fair Housing Ordinance. The NAACP definitely supports such a bill and in many cities has been the prime mover to install this legislation. He further explained the realtor’s opposition stand. Since segregated housing has been established in the past, it is the wish of the public. From this viewpoint they determine that it is not their responsibility to desegregate housing. When I confronted Mr. Dickinson with questions whose essence was private rights and one’s duty to protect his neighborhood, he replied, “A man has a right to private rights. However, he does not have the right to prohibit another person to acquire these same rights.” As to the constitutionality of the bill he pointed out the cities’ right of police powers. Also city government has the right to legislate on matters that are not prohibited by Federal and State law. The Housing Ordinance, he feels, does not
February 21, 1964
offend such legislation. The NAACP leader remarked that Open Housing legislation seems to be more effectual in New York than Chicago. This may be because people are more willing to move into new neighborhoods in Chicago, and it may be that in Chicago, it is not so necessary to use such means to obtain housing.
Moral aspects of discriminatory housing is a much-discussed topic among Catholic leaders. Their views are generally an extension of Pope John XXIH’s statement that racial discrimination can in no way be justified. St. Thomas Aquinas defended the right to private property but ruled against indiscriminate use. Father Daniel Lowery, assistant editor of the Lnguorian, uses the above as arguments in determining his position in the February, 1963, issue. He asserts that discriminatory housing is immoral, but uses an interesting point. He says, “it sometimes happens in human life that circumstances
place us in a position where we must tolerate moral evil, at least temporarily.” He continues that there is good reason to believe that realtors will suffer substantial business loss by refusing the wishes of anti-Negro clients. If this condition is true he believes a realtor “would be temporarily excused from the demands of social justice and charity.”
This article also discusses the issue of a seller’s responsibility to the community he is leaving, to sell to people suitable to his neighbors. It may not enhance his popularity to leave a Negro household in an antiNegro community. Father Lowery proclaims that a person is responsible to his community to maintain its standards. However, he discounts race as a determining factor or a reasonable factor.
Many Americans have impressed in their minds a stereotype of the American Negro. This stereotype is to them a person of below average intelligence, dirty and thus keeps an untidy- home. This is not their impression of some Negroes, but all Negroes. What opposition they have
to integrated neighborhoods is not as substantial as the evidence presented by those favoring such. This may be due to the fact that their arguments stem from personal feeling and not from objective reasons or it may be that they have not yet taken the opportunity to organize and formulate their ideas.
Some of those who hold an opposing view have further developed the “separate but equal” argument. “If Negroes want better homes why don’t they develop their own neighborhood with such homes?” They appeal to the humanitarian feelings of man by stressing the danger of moving into an all-white community.
An interesting aspect of introducing a housing bill in Indiana or any of the other states with a law against miscegenation is that it presents a distinct conflict. A fair housing bill would bring together, in the intimate association of the neighborhood, the two races which are forbidden to marry. Those who approve the law against racial intermarriage (and the Catholic Church, which permits it but frowns upon it) say they do so to protect the children of such a marriage from the inevitable problems they would face. Why then cannot one oppose integrated neighborhoods for the same reason?
America long ago decided to be a land of many different races. Through constitutional amendments, legislation, and court decisions, it has specifically declared the right of one particular race, the Negro. Consequentially, the role of the lawful American is taking on deeper meaning. He has private and personal rights so far as they do not prevent others in enjoying theirs. The individual must sometimes change or sacrifice his values or prejudices for those of a more universal opinion. If we have decided, in the majority, to follow an integrated course, and it seems we have, then we must follow it as a whole to avoid needless division. But what of those who are against it? Force seems ineffective in getting them to change their system of values, as seen in the violence in the South. Education appears to be the key of the integrationist. Thus the effectiveness of a Fair Housing Ordinance lies in its importance as an educational instrument, its importance in the advancement it accomplishes toward a common value system. The question is becoming one of reasonably complete integration, as epitomized in a housing ordinance. Pope John XXHL saw this need when he condemned discrimination of any kind. As long as there is a significant breach, there will remain differences.
23
MOVIES
by Robert Haller
The ML
Franz kafka^s The Trial is a nightmare allegory that has been seen as a description of the logic of human society, a picture of divine justice, a prophecy of totalitarian dictatorship, an essay on guilt, and a manifestation of madness or a meaningless comedy. The Trial of Orson Welles retains the nightmare quality of its source, but its allegory is heavily weighted on the side of madness and dictatorship, and it is magnificently Wellesian with unorthodox photography, mystery figures, baroque style, and an emotionally exhausting power.
Like the book, the movie is divided into a series of loosely connected episodes that begin in reality and at some vague point wander away into an unsettling different world. Kafka’s city is a dreary crumbling microcosm that Welles has illuminated with cameras hurtling down corridors, tracking through vast offices, and creeping along the dingy streets and low-ceilinged halls that connect the cell-like rooms of Joseph K and the prosecutors of the Law.
Routed out of bed in the early hours of the morning, Joseph K (Anthony Perkins) learns he has been charged with some crime, but he is not detained. Searching for a reason behind his “arrest” he is summoned to a hearing where he makes a defiant but ineffectual speech before a packed courtroom. K’s unde (somehow learning of his impending trial) retains an Advocate (Welles) who apparently sits around doing nothing. K deserts him and tries to find help elsewhere, but fails, and in the end two big plain-clothes men carry him away to an abandoned quarry where he is dynamited.
The world K discovers is an insane, futile, vicious, and suddenly passionate one. Reason is out of place and K’s attempts to find it in the logical-sounding but meaningless words he hears are hopeless. One sequence has a crippled wom
an dragging a huge trunk to a deserted highway. She repulses K’s offers of assistance and at the same. time berates him for not helping as he walks beside her in the ominously threatening night. Welles achieves this sense of dread and immensely irritates the audience by setting his protagonists on a desolate roadside and following the woman for almost 170 seconds. The average duration of a shot (time between changes in camera position) is some 10 seconds; by following K and the woman for this unusually long period of time Welles disturbs, frustrates, and depresses his audience in a way they cannot usually detect; and gives to them an affinity with K’s feelings. This atmosphere of dread and subdued violence materializes in his last meeting with the police who in their initial interrogation had tried to steal K’s shirts. This time they are being ruthlessly beaten by the “whipper”; Welles has them whimpering in real agony, and his shadows and sudden close-ups evoke a disturbingly authentic sense of horror.
Equally well handled are K’s encounters with women who, he is told, are attracted to condemned men. Miss Burstner (Jeanne Moreau) invites him into her bedroom, but is panic-stricken by the possibility that his crime may be political. Leni (Romy Schneider), the Advocate’s nurse and mistress, is a web-fingered nymphomaniac who tries to make love to K in a sea of legal papers. K is frustrated again when Hilda (Elsa Martinelli) is carried away to the Court’s examining Magistrate, and following them K gets lost in the maze of the Court’s hallways that include the studio of the Court’s painter, Titor-elli. Leaving the studio, K has to race down a slat-walled hall surrounded by a shrieking, giggling crowd of depraved young girls; this scene was not in Kafka’s book, but it does embody the intense sexuality Kafka
wanted to portray, and does so in a supremely Wellesian manner.
In some ways The Trial is similar to Alain Resnais’ Last Year at Mari-enbad (a film Welles personally dislikes). In addition to the rococo structure of both films (as well as the architecture depicted), Joseph K, like the narrator of Marienbad, may be describing his own guilt-induced delusions and desires. K’s environment and the characters he meets may be only projections of his mind. When he is in the pit he ritualistically removes and folds his shirt, making a pillow of it; perhaps he is just going to go to sleep. But his hysterical laughing ceases when the dynamite explodes. K is guilty of something (again perhaps), but what? He cannot trust his own senses — “If your thoughts are not 100 per cent pure, you feel guilty of everything . . . .”
At the Advocate’s house K meets another defendant, Bloch (Akim Tamiroff), whose fawning and pleading with the Advocate have only delayed (and at best can only delay) his trial. Bloch is the incarnation of the man the Advocate described to K; in his story a man seeks entrance to the Law but is denied access through a door made only for him. The mam waits, dies, and the door is closed; K refuses such a fate, but dies anyway. In the beginning of the picture Welles says of the fable that it explains the story, but, like the Advocate, he doesn’t say how, and all its possible meanings — predestination, madness, death, damnation, etc. — are left hanging in the air.
This element of paradox and mystery is a trademark of Welles, one that has recurred throughout his films. Citizen Kane is about the mystery of a dead man, Mr. Arkadin about the secret of a live one; and in The Trial Welles has raised a grotesque monument to man —• an imperfect and incomprehensible creature whose institutions and explanations are as paradoxical and confused as he is.
24
The Scholastic
The Leopard
T uchino Visconti's The Leopard is also derived from a book (by Giuseppe Tomasi, Prince of Lampedusa) and like Welles, Visconti and his writers tried to keep the flavor of the original. Burt Lancaster plays an aging aristocrat, the Prince of Salina, who refuses to oppose Garibaldi’s revolution (1860) because “Everything must change if we want things to stay the same.” An aloof observer, the Prince watches his world shifting as the bourgeoisie penetrate it and his nephew Tancredi runs off to join Garibaldi; undaunted the Prince continues the formalized movements of the past, recognizing them as such, and sadly witnessing the end of an , age. More than an hour has been edited out of the original Cannes Grand Prix version and the dubbing is often inadequate; but Visconti’s vision of Sicily and the uniformly excellent acting of an international cast still retains the intended power.
Producer Goffredo Lombardo gave director Visconti everything and everyone he asked for (and almost ,	went broke in the process) but, un!	like the financiers of another spec-
taele situated on the Nile, Lombardo !	received in return a film that has
■	been described as the Gone With the
'•	Wind of Italy.
' The Leopard is a lush and breath’	takingly beautiful description of
i	Sicily at midcentury one hundred
I	years ago. Giuseppe Rotunno has re-
peatedly captured with his Technicolor cameras the blazing pastel colors of sun-drenched villas, rolling green plains, dust-covered hills, and ; the cloudless blue Mediterranean ’ skies. The opening sequence is a rich
ly orchestrated composition of languidly beautiful images — camera approaching the villa, shots of terraces, curtains blowing in a light breeze, the drone of the Prince’s family at prayer, and then the family kneeling on handkerchiefs before the priest — all accented by Nino Rota’s moving musical score adapted from an unpublished Verdi waltz.
The film then opens with a dead soldier: it will close with the execution of four more; and in between Visconti and Lancaster have composed a figure that is at once vigorous and declining as death approaches. The Prince belongs to an unlucky generation, but is able to see what is coming and accepts it. Accurately described in Sight and Sound as a representative of “an exhausted race,” he allows Tancredi to marry Angelica Sedara, a middle-class-girl-on-the-make sharply played by the versatile Claudia Cardinale
THEATERS
AVON—I. "Condemned of Altona," 9:00. Review next issue. 2. "Girl of the River," 7:00.
COLFAX—"Strait Jacket," 1:20, 3:20, 5:15, 7:15, 9:10.
GRANADA—"Tom Jones," 1:20, 3:50, 6:25, 9:00.
Review next issue.
STATE—"Love with the Proper Stranger," 1:20, 3:15, 5:10, 7:05, 9:00.
(also of Visconti’s Rocco and His Brothers, Fellini’s 8%, Zurlini’s Girl With a Suitcase, and the forthcoming Pink Panther by Blake Edwards). Tancredi (Alain Delon of Rocco and Antonioni’s Eclipse) is rakishly good, and the half-love, half-money (he), half-status (she) romance between the two representatives of the new age is convincing if slightly overlong. The minor characters are just as good, from the Prince’s hysterical wife and their grubby Jesuit priest to the clanking military men and the giggling girls at the ball. Visconti has illuminated history with this large and varied cast and when the Prince’s tired and dust-covered family arrives at church one day they sit motionless in their pew like a frieze of painted marble, figures out of a lost and noble past.
The grand ball which occupies the last quarter of the film is in many ways a summary and repetition of what had gone before. But it is not superfluous as a whole, for it is here that the Prince grows tired of life and verbalizes his feelings more explicitly.
The Leopard isn’t a perfect film, but it aimed very high and struck most of its goals. Its occasional tedium must be attributed to Visconti, but its technical imperfections are the fault of the distributors, 20th Century- Fox. The film was photographed in Technirama, but Fox converted it into CinemaScope, and lost some of the original high quality. The English dubbing was worse, and these two imperfections tend to distract the audience from the beautiful images on the screen.
February 21, 1964
Wrestling: Story of a great star and a poor record

Conventional wrestling theory dictates that the coach do everything possible to build up his wrestler’s confidence, that he prepare him psychologically as well as physically for the coming match. And Notre Dame Coach Tom Fallon is usually an adherent of this strategy.
But in the recent Wheaton Invitational tournament, Fallon made an exception. His only instruction to Dan Manion, the Notre Dame 177-pounder, was “Just go out there and wrestle.” Considering that Manion had drawn Fred Johnson of Augustana College, last year’s 177-pound champion, the instruction must have seemed a drastic oversimplification at the time.
But for reasons which will never be entirely apparent, it worked. Immediately after being tackled, Manion struggled to his feet, reversed Johnson, and pinned him. The time was 2:40, and Manion had scored one of the biggest upsets in the Wheaton tournament’s history.
Psychological experiments aside, however, Fallon’s training program for the Notre Dame wrestling team
is purely ordinary. Since physical conditioning is the most significant single factor in a wrestler’s performance, Fallon concentrates on it almost exclusively. The Irish matmen run the gamut of calisthenics: their daily program consists of 300 jumpingjacks, 200 pushups, 100 situps, and 35 “burpies.” And after this “warmup,” the squad actually wrestles — usually between ten and twentyminutes per man per day. And, because weight control is so important, Fallon provides a special training table to help individual wrestlers gain or lose weight as needed.
Statistically, however, all this physical and mental conditioning has yet to pay off: the squad is only 1-3 in dual meet competition, and has yet to face the toughest part of its schedule.
But a few individuals have provided bright spots and surprises. In general, Al Goodrich, Bob Carey, and Captain Jack Barry have performed well; in particular, heavyweight Dick Arrington has been magnificent.
Barry, a champion at Wheaton last
year, took second this season in the 147-pound division, losing his final match, 4-3, on riding time. He is 3-1 in dual meets.
Goodrich, a 123-pound senior, and Carey, a 137-pound junior, have also been consistent winners; Carey adapted surprisingly well after being moved up from 130 pounds because of injuries to 137-pounders Phil Morrow and Ken Manning.
Arrington, though, has been the wrestling team’s whole show, and quite a show at that: to date, the Magnificent Mauler boasts an unbeaten, 8-0-2 record. In the Wheaton Invitational, he pinned all four of his opponents, three in the first period, and won the heavyweight title for Notre Dame for the fourth consecutive year. (Buffalo Bills’ halfback Ed Rutkowski won in 1961-62-63.)
•Arrington wrestles cautiously, attacking only when he feels he can gain an advantage on his opponent; he prefers to await opportunity, and destroy his foe’s confidence with a baleful, Liston-like glare. His favorite weapon is the bodypress-pin.
A graduate of Pennsylvania’s Erie East High School, Arrington there won eight letters, four in football and four in wrestling, and earned AllAmerica status as a tackle his senior year. As a high school heavyweight, he lost only two matches — both of them to Jim Nance, the Syracuse fullback who is the reigning NCAA heavyweight champion. This season the two may meet again — in the national collegiate championships at Ithaca, New York.
Fallon calls his heavyweight “catquick,” but believes that Arrington — with his great size and strength, and excellent moves — could afford to be more aggressive. “He has the greatest potential of anyone I’ve ever coached,” says Fallon, “and with added experience, he could be one of the top heavyweights in the country.”
Why, then, hasn’t the team’s overall performance been better? First, graduation of two monogram winners and the failure of two others to turn out for this year’s team has been a crippling blow; second, injuries to possible starters Morrow and Manning worsened the situation; and third, the weight-watching and the strenuous physical conditioning involved have discouraged many prospects, and made team depth an impossibility.
But his team is composed mostly of sophomores, and with Arrington as a nucleus, Fallon may yet this year mold a sound squad. He can, almost certainly, be optimistic about the next two seasons.
—Steve Arnold
26
The Scholastic
SCOREBOARD
BASKETBALL: Walt Sahin scored 33 points on 13 field goals and seven free throws, pulled down 21 rebounds, and was generally the whole show as he led the Irish to a badly needed win over St. Louis, 82-73. Larry Sheffield had 29 points and Jay Miller 25 in the 89-83 victory over St. John’s.
TRACK: Bill Boyle and Frank Carver were the only winners for Notre Dame in an otherwise disappointing triangular meet with Michigan and Indiana. Boyle, just off the plane from New York after taking a second in the NYAC Games 500, broke a 22-year-old Yost Fieldhouse record in the 440, and Carver collected the only other Irish first with a victory in the two mile.
FENCING: The Irish swordsmen boosted their season record to 7-1 with four wins in two days. Foilers Bill Ferrence and Steve Dreher turned in the best individual performances of the weekend (8-1), but Co-Cap-tain Sam Crimone is still the leading dueler with a 17-4 record.
SKIING: Larry Reynolds took first place in the slalom and second in the downhill to help the Irish to a second-place finish in the Invitational Alpine Championships at Houghton, Mich.
SCORES Basketball
Notre Dame 82, St. Louis 73
Notre Dame 89, St. John’s 83
Notre Dame 90, Butler 73
Fencing
Notre Dame 14, Wayne State 13 Notre Dame 18, Iowa 9 Notre Dame 18, Detroit 9 Notre Dame 23, Chicago 4
Track
Michigan 98, Indiana 36, N.D. 35
SCHEDULE Basketball
Feb. 22, Bradley at Chicago Stadium Feb. 25, Evansville at Notre Dame
Track
Feb. 22, Pittsburgh at Notre Dame Wrestling
Feb. 22, Miami of Ohio at Notre Dame Feb. 25, Wheaton at Wheaton, Hl.
Swimming
Feb. 21, Miami of Ohio at Oxford, O.
Feb. 25, Purdue at Lafayette, Ind.
Fencing
Feb. 22, Michigan State and Ohio State at Columbus, Ohio
Hockey
Feb. 23, Valparaiso at Valparaiso, Ind.
Skiing
Feb. 22, Midwest NCAA Championships at Duluth, Minn.
February 21, 1964
Voice in the Crowd
T am not, as most people know, a fan of Johnny Jordan’s, and I A could scarcely have imagined myself defending him. In fact, after reading the Wednesday morning Sun-Times article entitled “ND Cage Coach Tells Why He Quit,” I was ready to devote this space to a scathing, 750-word denunciation of Jordan and his indiscretion.
But, personal feelings aside, Jordan deserves equitable treatment from the press just as much as the next man, and the simple truth is that the Sun-Times story by Edgar Munzel was a classic misrepresentation.
Some of the quotations were correct, but in a false context; other quotations were simply false. Munzel began, “Johnny Jordan, who will quit as Notre Dame basketball coach at the end of the season, confessed frankly Tuesday that one reason he’s getting out is that he just couldn’t get any team effort from the Irish,” and then quoted Jordan as saying “We have some good talent at Notre Dame, but for the first 18 games we struggled along merely as individuals. ... I just couldn’t reach these kids and, therefore, I seized the opportunity at the DePaul game to announce my resignation.”
Jordan said no such thing. The assembled basketball writers asked why Notre Dame had not lived up to expectations, and — without making personal excuses, without even mentioning his reasons for quitting — he replied that he believed the major reason was a lack of team effort (which, obviously, is true).
Then, in an altogether different context, Jordan — as the retiring Notre Dame coach — was asked to name his greatest players. He responded with a list of thirteen, Bill Crosby and John Tully the most recent, and added that it is still too early to evaluate the greatness of players of the past three seasons — that time will tell. This came out in the Sun-Times sounding like this: “Indirectly, he indicated that he didn’t absolve any of them [his current players] when he spoke of his all-time Irish team. . . . ‘You’d notice a big blank for the past three years. And there’ll be a blank again this year, because they just don’t measure up to these fellows. Oh, yes, the boys this year want to win, but they just don’t want to make the sacrifice.’ ”
Jordan, obviously, was the victim of an irresponsible press.
T>ut his analysis of the basketball situation — that the big problem -■-* was a lack of team effort — was essentially correct. The question, of course, is where does the blame lie — with players, coach, or both, and in what degrees? It will probably remain a moot question.
Regardless of who was to blame for the team’s poor showing through the first 18 games, however, it has taken hold with three straight victories over St. Louis, St. John’s, and Butler. The reason is, as Jordan said, a significantly improved team effort. Against Butler, Larry Sheffield had 27 points, Jay Miller and Walt Sahm had 21, Larry Jesewitz 11 and Bucky McGann 8. It was a balanced scoring effort, and a consistent effort, as Notre Dame shot 53 per cent from the field. Sahm with 26 rebounds, Miller with 10, and Jesewitz and McGann with seven and six, dominated the boards.
The key may be McGann, who has definitely established himself as Sheffield’s running mate at guard, and who is finally playing every bit as well as he was expected to before the season. But whatever the reason, the Irish have begun a genuine comeback. By winning their last three games — against Bradley, Evansville, and Creighton — they can finish an even .500 — a very disappointing season, true, but not a disastrous one.
— Terry Wolkerstorfer
27
Hughie Devore: The New Job
Hugh Devore, alas, is a man rapidly slipping back into the obscurity from which he emerged for a single year to coach Notre Dame’s 1963 football team. In relinquishing the spotlight to Ara Parseghian, he has been assigned to a new post, that of assistant athletic director.
Without predecessor — or, for that matter, precedent — in his new position, Devore freely admits that “it will be some time before we can say exactly what the duties of an assistant athletic director are.” He notes, however, that he doubled as athletic director while coaching at St. Bonaventure and Fordham. Currently occupying an office in the Rockne Memorial, Devore is again involved in many of the same activities which have occupied him at this season for years — chief among them football recruiting.
After such lengthy tenure in coaching, Devore has developed numerous contacts, especially among high school
coaches, which enable him to keep track of promising high school stars and which give him an advantage of sorts when the player starts looking for a college. Since none of Coach Parseghian’s assistants are as well known as Devore in the East, particularly in the Boston area, the assistant athletic director will continue to head the recruiting program in that part of the country.
The man who has guided Notre Dame football teams of two different eras to a 9-9-1 record is, as before, eager to discuss football, his life work. He muses “I had no intention of ever coaching again once I left Philadelphia” (he is a former Eagle head coach). But he took the job as freshman coach at Notre Dame because, “unlike Eastern schools, the freshman teams in the Midwest don’t play inter-collegiately. There is no competition.”
When Joe Kuharich resigned suddenly last March, Devore accepted the head coaching job “to help the Uni-
versity out.” The next few months are history. Asked if he could sum up the 1963 football season in three or four words, Devore offered several suggestions, but first emphasized the disastrous effect of Don Hogan’s loss due to an auto accident in December, 1962.
“We needed an offense,” he began, “and the loss of Hogan coupled with that of Lamonica left us with an inexperienced team.” This, in retrospect, is quite evident to all who saw the team play in ’63. But Devore is quick to point out, “I didn’t see any routs,” and attributes this mainly to the outstanding showing of the defensive team. He adds, in the tone of a man long since grown tired of explaining the inexplicable, “We lost the first few, which we certainly didn’t expect, and then we had a bad game at Stanford. . . .
“The biggest single problem we had was the failure of our quarterbacks.” The Huarte and Bonvechio of the latter half of the season could not pass effectively, and the Budka of the first half, in sharp contrast to the Budka of two years ago, would not. This handicap, together with the absence of a “whole Hogan” or any back of similar drive and determination, spelled defeat in 1963.
With the problems of the football future now the burden of his successor, Devore notes that though the 1964 Fighting Irish will be relatively experienced, Ara Parseghian too is faced with a quarterback problem, something he hasn’t had to deal with since Tom Myers donned a Wildcat uniform. The problem is a biennial one and every college coach with any experience at all has faced it. By the Old-Timers game, it should be evident just how well Parseghian is handling the difficulty.
Now, rather totally removed from what he labels “a crash program,” Devore is beginning to settle into a more relaxed pattern. His aim has always been to serve his University and he is delighted that he is continuing to do so in the athletic department. Even from a position of relative obscurity, his personality is such that his presence will be recognized and respected.
—Joe Ryan
28
The Scholastic
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 22 8:00 P.M. — STEPAN CENTER
Nolte ^batne. Social CommUtiM. nteienti
FORD CARavan of Music the folk & jazz wing ding Stavuna THE LIVELY ONES
NINA
HERBIE
SIMONE MANN
AND HER QUARTET SEXTET
The Moonshiners/Ron Eliron
ALL TICKETS: $2.00
On Sale at the North and South Dining Halls—Phone: 284-7308
DOOR PRIZES • 50 Record Albums courtesy of Capitol Records
February 21, 1964
29
‘British Elections’
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
February 24, 1964
ENGINEERING SCIENCES
ALL DEGREE LEVELS
•	ENGINEERING PHYSICS	•	ELECTRONICS
•	MATHEMATICS	•	MECHANICAL
•	STATISTICS	•	INDUSTRIAL
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
• COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY Hardware Design Software Research
• COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS Propagation Research Complex Design
Engineers, Mathematicians, and Physicists should contact their COLLEGE PLACEMENT OFFICER for an appointment with an NSA representative. No test required.
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY WASHINGTON. D.C. area
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
(Continued from page 19)
For most of the years of Conservative ascendancy (1951-64) the Labour Party was not impressive. Elections in May, 1955, went sharply against Labour which, also, failed to profit from the failure of Suez. Attlee, the veteran leader, retired. His successor, Hugh Gaitskell, led the party to a third successive defeat (1959). Later, Gaitskell attempted to revise the party’s constitution. Essentially, this meant getting rid of the party’s emphasis on nationalization, an issue which appealed to but a small part of the electorate. The present Labour leader, Harold Wilson, did not assist Gaitskell in this doomed venture but was concerned to improve his position within the party. Gaitskell, also, had to face a challenge that might have rendered the party unworthy of receiving wide electoral support.
The annual Party Conference in 1960 passed major foreign policy resolutions in favor of Britain’s unilateral nuclear disarmament. Gaitskell as party leader refused to be bound by the resolutions and after a year of controversy again regained the support of the Conference. Here, again, Wilson did not seriously aid Gaitskell’s fight. Curiously enough, the fact that he did not appears to have gained support for his succession as leader upon Gaitskell’s death in January, 1963. At the moment Harold Wilson appears as the residuary legatee of many of the party’s long feuds. In some matters he has had his cake and eaten it as well. For example, he gained popularity from the unilateral disarmers and at the same time acquired such an ascendancy over the party, supported by the prospect of victory, that the 1953 Labour Party Conference did not discuss the divisive subject of foreign policy at all. The grounds given were that the subject had been well aired in earlier conferences. Amen! But Hugh Gaitskell should have lived so long!
In appearance Harold Wilson is a tall, stocky man. Intellectually, however, he is not a “sleek-headed sleeper” but a calculating Cassius. This was also alleged of his predecessor, who could on occasion argue with passionate conviction. On his relatively quick ascent to room at the top Wilson has not revealed similar spontaneity of passion. Wilson, an economist gifted with a phenomenal memory, is an effective, wounding rather than irenic, debater. He has not been a doctrinaire socialist but he has opposed those who attacked doctrinaire
30
The Scholastic
. socialism. Within the party he has } veered to the left. The immediate future will reveal whether this is his ; permanent disposition or, as I am in-• clined to guess, the tactic dictated by . his desire to secure the party leadership. In his quest for office and, then, . the highest power, Wilson has at . times yielded to a harsh and inac-:	curate anti-Americanism, as I heard
in attending some of his 1955 elec. tion meetings. But, on the whole, his political will, drive, and diplomatic . resources are reassuringly abundant and strong.
For the coming elections he has stressed, so far more clearly and per-■ suasively than the Tories, Britain’s need for a transformed economic plant, and for a new corps of planners, managers, and engineers. Wilson has sought to extend the appeal of , his party beyond the trade unions and working class which support the Labour Party up to 70%, and beyond ; the radical intellectuals and reformers, to the growing numbers of technically and scientifically trained workers, experts, and managers. In foreign policy, unless, perhaps, the . German government passes under socialist control, a British Labour government is likely to be very ready for a Russian deal on Germany. Wilson is less firmly committed to NATO than Gaitskell was, and may be more ready than his predecessor to adopt neutralist behavior or to yield to the pressure of neutralist members of his . party. At any rate, I expect the inter, national situation to be unusually fluid for a year, all the more because President Johnson’s search for “spec, tacular” achievements will help make ’ it so.
Events change so fast and unexpectedly that projections into the future are soon made to look foolish. :	I shall not hazard a guess about the
; course of a British Socialist govern-[ ment except to say that its principal task, increasing the productivity, effi-:	ciency, and world sales of Britain’s
;	economy, is one for which British So;	cialism has no theoretical answers
and for which British capitalism has not been notably fertile. But I shall „ settle for the projections that Labour ! will win the next election, that Harold ’ Wilson will prove a tough, surprising, j and resourceful Prime Minister in his first two years, and that the international situation will be fluid for at least a year. I always doubted the staying power of Sir Anthony Eden. | I am inclined to think that Wilson’s | is better grounded and stronger than I Eden’s. But I would not want to haz-j ard a guess about Wilson’s endurance \	and creativity after several years of
;	political crisis.
; February 21, 1964
1. I’ve been giving a lot of thought to the future—career-wise and goal-wise.
I’ve been pretty busy working on my hook shot.
2. As recipients of a college education, I feel it is incumbent upon us to work in areas which allow us to make a contribution to society.
Watch me dribble right around you.
3. Material reward is important, too —so long as the job is one of profound significance.
I’m a terror off the boards.
4. What’s more, the company I work for must be forward-looking and encourage initiative.
Notice the feather touch on the ball.
I’d like to score 30 against Tech.
o
6.1 mean after graduation.
Oh, I’ve got a swell job with Equitable. They’ve got everything you’re looking for. And they’re a good team to work with.
Make an appointment through your Placement Office to see Equitable’s employment representative on March 5 or write to William E. Blevins, Employment Manager for further information.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home Office: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019 ©1964
31
Letters
(Continued from page 7) are going to be excluded. Possibly even the belles from across the road will be excluded during exam periods. Although I do not feel that the latter is either necessary or desirable, I do feel that Notre Dame students ought not to have to compete for study room in their own library with students from South Bend high schools and Indiana Extension.
But there was another point in the letter “plea” that also merits comment. The writer decries the prohibition against using the tower as a place to “hide away ... to study” in the same breath with his complaint of overcrowding. The tower portion of the library was meant for research, and the lower two floors for regular study facilities. It is this attitude of using the tower as a hideaway that led to its overcrowding and the subsequent restrictions on undergraduates. This seemed to be necessary to assure the graduate students sufficient working space. However this restriction has also caused a good deal of inconvenience to undergraduates doing research.
There is a good possibility that juniors and seniors will be given free access to the tower with the stipulation that it be used only by those engaging in research. In order for this to work out, the student body must be willing to give the same consideration to the graduate students working in the tower that they
themselves expect in the rest of the library.
Gene Ostrom
Senator, Fisher Hall
LET LAITY SPEAK Editor:
The fact that Thomas Mammoser feels that Dr. D’Antonio’s talk on birth control shouldn’t have taken place here at Notre Dame is evidence enough that his viewpoints are truly archaic. Today the Church needs laymen as well as priests who can face and talk about problems which are no longer veiled under ignorance and superstition. The Church today realizes that it must modernize to some extent in order to fit into the modem world. Many of the teachings of the Church, instead of being held within an individual, are looked at as an outside directive. Such a view, I believe, the Church would like to correct.
Being so alarmed about some viewpoints that could have been derived from Dr. D’Antonio’s talk is hardly necessary. One last point: the ends of marriage are not clearly defined in the Church today and I don’t believe talking about individual regards to the subject is going against the teaching authority of the Church.
Howard E. Borck 201 Lyons Hall
"TO” TOO MUCH Editor:
Thanks for demonstrating the power of the preposition “to.” In my letter to the Scholastic (No Longer
Synonymous) two issues ago, the closing sentence reads, “It is our responsibility to adjust to the institutions of Notre Dame.” My original statement was that we have a responsibility to adjust the institutions themselves, rather than to submit passively to those institutions which served admirably the student body of 1935.
This is not to say that, in the Spirit of 1789, we all ought to hurl our typewriters at the Administration Building. The “we” in my statement refers not only to students but to administration and faculty as well. The hope is that all of us, as a community at Notre Dame, will be conscious with Durkin Manning of the breakdown of the traditional N.D. spirit — that all of us will come together as men to solve through mutual cooperation the problems that face both groups in this great educational endeavor.
I would like to add that my letter is not a slam against football. I did not imply that it is meaningless and ought to go, or that we should be satisfied with anything less than victory. My only assumption is one which we all admit, that the most important goal of any university is education. My letter is a response to Mr. Manning’s argument that winning football will bring back the old Spirit of Notre Dame and solve the major problems that face us. My observation was meant to say that, while I am as disturbed as anyone about a season like the last one, I don’t think winning football will ever serve adequately as the unifying fac-
1964 ACCOUNTING AND ENGINEERING GRADUATES
The Inland Steel Company, East Chicago, Indiana, invites you to investigate our many career opportunities. Our representatives will be on your campus on Thursday, February 27th. Consult the specific job descriptions in pocket of our brochure. Contact Father Louis J. Thornton for an appointment.
INLAND STEEL COMPANY
East Chicago, Indiana
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
32
The Scholastic
tor again — even if it did so in the past.
Minch Lewis, 229 Lyons (We apologize to Mr. Lewis for the misprint and thank him for his correction — Ed.)
BELLS Editor:
Each evening just after 9 p.m., the Alma Mater is played on the bells of Sacred Heart Church. The version presented, however, is unique: it omits the two lines whose words are “And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame.” Would it be possible for those who ring the bells to present us with the correct, traditional version?
Larry Dwyer, 228 Walsh
Campus
(Continued from page IJf) leged whites, to see the accumulated disadvantage of his repression wiped out. And he will use any means he finds effective to achieve these ends. He is tired of waiting.
One question we asked Dr. Foster was what our role should be. Along with the usual cliche about being a good citizen he did have an unusual
Juniors, Seniors ...
Career Opportunities In All Phases Of Marketing
• Advertising
•	Sales Management	• Merchandising
•	Sales Promotion	• Market Research
Join Vick Chemical Company’s Programs for Career Development this summer. Schedule a campus interview with the company representatives now.
Seniors... Permanent employment. Gain extensive experience in all 5 phases of marketing.
Juniors... Summer employment. Get a head start on your career before graduation. Gain valuable sales and marketing experience.
Both programs provide car, good salary and pay all expenses seven days a week.
Contact your Placement Director for full details.
Interviews on February 26
Vick Chemical Company
Manufacturers ofVicks®VapoRub®,CoughSyrup,Cough Drops, Nasal Preparations, Cold Tablets, Lavoris®and Clearasil®.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
suggestion: try to become acquainted with a few Negroes in circumstances similar to your own. Try to find out what they are really like, and lay the foundations for better relations in the future, when we will be the ones faced with the problems of race relations.
PLAN PARENTS WEEKEND
The Junior Parents-Son weekend will be March 6, 7, & 8. The annual weekend has been planned with the intention of familiarizing the parents with the campus and the officials of the University.
On Saturday morning, tours of the campus will be conducted, and continuous (not to say interminable) showings of The Notre Dame Story will be offered in the Student Center. In the afternoon, each college will have a reception for parents and faculty, and afterward the parents will progress to the President’s Reception in the Student Center. That evening, Father Hesburgh will speak at a dinner in the Stepan Center at which the freshmen of the Glee Club will entertain.
The weekend will close Sunday with a special Mass for parents and sons, and breakfast for all in the North Dining Hall.
The DOME is sponsoring a photo contest for all undergraduate students of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame. The deadline for entries is midnight, March 6, 1964. Pictures may be black and white or color or transparencies. Prints must have a minimum surface area of 80 square inches. Further information on rules and prizes is available in the DOME office, second floor, LaFortune Student Center.
THE HUDDLE WILL BE OPEN FROM 2:00 - 9.00 P.M. ON THE FOLLOW-
ING SUNDAYS OF THE SPRING SEMESTER:				
February	9,	16,	23	
March	1,	8,	15	
April	5,	12,	19,	26
May	3,	10,	17,	24, 31
June	7			
THE FOOD SERVICE VENDING MACHINE UNIT LOCATED IN THE BASEMENT OF THE LIBRARY NOW IS OPEN TO SERVE STUDENTS COFFEE, HOT CHOCOLATE, CANDY, ICE CREAM, MILK, SANDWICHES, CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS AND PIES. HOWEVER, LIBRARY POLICY STATES THE ABOVE MENTIONED FOOD, BEVERAGES AND CANDY MUST BE CONSUMED IN THE VENDING MACHINE AREA.
Gilbert P. Volmi
For Sale — TWO OVERCOATS
Camel Hair & Blue
ONE SUIT
Call evenings
CE 4-0256
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pitot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL BEPAIBS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
February 21, 1964
33
I Tom Boobier, • •
The Last Word
Two weeks before the Mock Convention begins, William Scranton, governor of Pennsylvania, appears to be the front-runner on the Notre Dame campus. (Scranton’s lead is hardly overwhelming, however, and in a race with five other serious candidates it is hard to see how it could be.) The Scranton boom is likely due to the experience and skill of his Notre Dame campaign manager, Pete Clark. Clark, one of last year’s unsuccessful candidates for student body president, is reported to have talked personally with Scranton for two hours last fall and received his moral support — not publicly, because of Scranton’s position as an “undeclared candidate” — for the Notre Dame campaign. The sight of Clark’s workers passing out ball-point pens suggests that financial support as well must be coming from the friends of Scranton.
That Scranton is actually the choice of Republicans nationally seems doubtful. The bulk of the publicity and support for Scranton has come from typically Democratic sources— the Alsops, Newsweek, and Walter Lippmann. This is the same kind of support that got Wendell Willkie the 1940 nomination, and then left him high and dry after the convention. Lippmann & Co.—who have been informing their readers more and more often of what little concern Goldwater is as a serious candidate — appear to have adopted Scranton as the Republican candidate least likely to beat Johnson, and therefore as the one most appealing to them. Stewart Alsop in his Saturday Evening Post column perhaps expressed too candidly his opinion of Scranton when he called him “a likable fellow with, the face of an intelligent and rather Handsome frog” — the only question then being whether a frog can be elected President of the United States.
At Notre Dame, it appears that he can at least be nominated, thanks to Pete Clark’s skillful campaign and the additional factor that many of the convention delegates are Democrats.
It’s been said before, but it still holds good: the library fines are piratical. The situation wasn’t so serious last year when the folksy atmosphere of the old library seemed to pervade the staff, and the fines were
seldom seriously enforced; this year, the library staff seems dedicated to squeezing every quarter from the hapless student who forgets he has a book due.
The quarter per book per day fine is possibly the highest for any library in the country. Certainly, fines here have mounted to incredible levels: one student of our acquaintance ran up a bill of over $75.00, and neither his friends nor his roommate had ever before suspected that he was a hardened criminal. The fact that the due date of his books fell during Christmas vacation was not sufficient to elicit mercy from the library staff.
This is not an isolated case; everywhere students are being hounded with threats to write their parents and finally “turn the whole matter over to student accounts.” We hear from students who have exhaustedly paid their fines but resentfully plan to “get it back” through various revenges against the library. The situation is not healthy. Perhaps Mr. Schaefer had better be content with a reasonable three or four cents per day. The twenty-five-cent standard isn’t worth the bad relations with the students.
One last minor irritation with the library: we wish someone would inform the late-night employees that the closing time is 11:30. The little elves have been turning off the lights a few minutes earlier every night, and by now a student on the upper floors cannot expect to be undisturbed after 11:00.
The editors of the Dome have told us that work is progressing on schedule, and that on the present schedule, they may have the earliest-appearing yearbook within recent memory — possibly by mid-May.	j
The editors of the Leprechaun, after a sold-out first issue (which gives them one issue and two editors for the year), are now shooting for the first week in March for their next appearance.	;
t'T’ r-' V.	|
We noticed that the Blue Circle this year is requiring a picture from applicants for membership in the Circle. Besides everything else, do the Circle members now have to be handsome as well?
34
The Scholastic
Grow with Us
At Xerox, you become a part of one of America’s fastest growing corporations; a dynamic, well established company which is a world leader in the exciting and expanding field of graphic communications. More than 85% commercially oriented, Xerox enjoys constantly increasing operating revenues with which it can explore dramatic new applications of electricity and light. For example:
□	Total operating revenues for the first nine months of 1963 reached $116,100,443; up 56% from 1962.
□	Expenditures for research and engineering ($5 million in 1961; $13.5 million budgeted for 1963) have kept pace in a program of planned growth extending far into the future.
In five years, the number of Xerox employees has grown from 1500 to more than 6000, and it’s constantly gaining momentum. Such a growth pattern constantly creates key job opportunities in many technical and non-technical areas, for applicants with exceptional abilities.
Many facets of our growth include:
□	157 new products marketed since 1950.
□	47 new patents were issued in 1962 alone.
□	A new manufacturing and research complex situated on 1,000 acres of campus-like setting to which more than 800,000 square feet of modern facilities have been added since 1956.
Among the exciting projects presently underway within the broad discipline of graphic communications are:
□	Information storage and retrieval systems
□	Information transmission
□	New product concepts in the medium of electro-photographic copying equipment
If you would like the satisfaction and challenge of working for such a company . . . and have the potential and desire to grow .. . there’s a place and a future for you at Xerox.
Opportunities exist in the following areas:
□	Research and engineering	□ Finance
□	Manufacturing	□ Marketing
□	Control
Contact your placement office to arrange an interview with a Xerox representative who will be on your campus ...
February 26
or, write: Xerox Corporation • Dept. 64 • College Relations Box 1540 • Rochester 4, N. Y.
XEROX
an equal opportunity employer
SCH-?
A lot revolves around GTE
Today, it takes the efforts of many people in many diverse fields and professions to build an active corporation such as GT&E.
Because, at GT&E, we’re involved heavily in research, manufacturing and telephone operations.
For instance, we have telephone operating companies in areas of 32
states. And in manufacturing, our subsidiaries produce a wide variety of products for business, industry and the consumer.
A diversified program such as this calls for the best administrators, operating personnel, scientists, engineers and production managers. And unity of purpose.
With so much revolving around GT&E, it is small wonder that we have become one of America’s foremost corporations.
As a young and aggressive com-J o	oo
pany with no limit to its growth, GT&E is an organization vou mav
O	J	J
wish to think of in the light of your O	J
own future.
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS
730 THIRD AVENUE. NEW YORK 10017
GT&E SUBSIDIARIES: Telephone Operating Cos. • GT&E Laboratories • GT&E International • General Telephone Directory • Automatic Electric • Lenkurt Electric • Sylvania Electric Products