IMPORTANT FACTS
ABOUT A TOUCHY SUBJECT
Real touchy. Touchier than what may have occurred to you, even. It’s the problem of How To Get A Job, and it’s touchy because nobody in the history of employment has ever figured out a solid, cut and dried formula that anyone else would agree on. The truth is that often there isn’t any formula, because you can’t measure many important qualities by a slide rule, and even experienced employers admit they have to rely on their own impressions to guide them.
And mister, whatever you do, don’t underestimate the power of your appearance when it comes to making a first impression. The way
you take care of your appearance indicates how you’ll take care of other things. We sell hats. We know hats make you look better. We know, because we’ve taken the trouble to find out, that bosses want their junior executives to wear hats. And while your hat is only one part of your appearance, it’s as important as anything else you wear. So when you hit the road for your first job, dress to make that good first impression.
Incidentally, even if you never get a job, that hat will be a good friend. It protects your head, and that means protection for your hair and your health.
"Wear a Hat—Its as Healthy as Its Handsome!"
Divisions of Hal Corporation of America—Makers of Fine Hats for Men and Women

I
“A World-Beater For Comfort" Students Say Of Arrow Bi-Way
Special STUDENT Rates
Senior Ball
Recent surveys on America’s campuses show that Arrow Bi-Way is gaining in popularity every day. The reason: the low-setting, no-neckband collar that gives extra freedom at the throat for extra comfort. Available at all Arrow dealers.
ARROW SHIRTS
w---------■-----------
— SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS —
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
•	Over 600 suits to choose from.
•	All styles and sizes
•	Boys’ 2 to Men’s 56
•	No deposit for ND students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. Due to large demand please place your orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell. Come in today for your fitting.
LOGAN’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel Bldg.
May 1, 1953
By Mort Luby
Top of The Week
The Student musical will have music supplied by Don Gels, his school band, and student musicians. . . .
No Comment!
When some earth-shaking event transpires, it is the custom of most newsmen to corner public figures and get their learned opinions and views on the subject. Having nothing much else to de this afternoon, we decided to see what a few famous people had to say about the Senior Ball next week.
Senator Wayne Morse (famous afterdinner speaker) said-.
“As long as there aren’t any offshore oil deposits in St. Mary’s Lake, it’s 0. K. with me. That’s all I have to say now, even to the voters in Indiana, because I have to check the mileage on my vocal chords.”
Joseph McCarthy (famous investigator) said:
“Reports have reached my sub-com-mitte stating that the dance committee may go in the RED on the dance. I am dispatching Mr. Cohn and Mr. Schine to investigate this obviously subversive activity.”
Adlai Stevenson (world traveler) said:
“If I knew you great custodians of our great democracy were going to have a dance with such a great jungle theme like “Shangri-la” I would have sent my new blow gun.”
Douglas MacArthur (general) said:
“I have a plan . . .”
Comrade Vishinski (boy delegate) said:
“Vetoed 1”
No Help Wanted
Under the stairs of the Main Building there are several bulletin boards which provide general information for the people who have class here’. All day long the traffic surges by, eagerly snatching the scraps of data that are posted every minute.
On the left, as you go out, is an ultrageneral bulletin board which has layer upon layer of vital information. It is a kind of old-fashioned general store, through which you can get prom bids, rides to Bad Axe, Mich., off-campus rooms, slightly used tuxedos, definitely-used cars, and never-used text-books. To the right is the prefect of Discipline’s billboard, with pretty pastel-colored no
4
tices tacked neatly in a row under a locked glass door.
In the center is the Student Employment bulletin board. Although most ND men have the common collegiate aversion towards work (in any manner, shape, or form), this board always gathers the biggest audiences. Let us go inside the head of the typical undergraduate' (if there be such an animal) and follow his reasoning as he examines the employment notices.
“Gosh, ansivering the telephone for 75c an hour. I sure could use the money. I got plenty of time for it, with this schedule of mine. I might just give them a call. Yessir. I might just' do that.”
Our hero then goes to the Huddle, gets a cup of coffee’, fastens himself to the center pole, and forgets his dream of employment. The next day after class, he walks under the stairs, scrutinizes the employment notices again, and then goes to the Huddle to complete the cycle.
The same guys every day. Watch and see.
To Error is Human
The only trouble with Spring is that the golf course gets so crowded that there just isn’t enough room for everybody. When confronted with this state of affairs, most Notre Dame Sports join their hall softball team and head for the diamonds.
At the beginning of the season, it’s pretty hard for everybody. Less than forgivable errors are committed by all, and aches appear in every nook and cranny of winter-softened physiques. But even as we get into the thick of softball schedules,’ there remains one group who just never seems to improve; the outfielders.
Most hits are made off misjudged flyballs. The other day we interviewed a more-honest-than-most outfielder from Sorin Hall. His philosophy about fielding fly-balls may get us into the nub of the matter.
When confronted by a rising linedrive, an outfielder may:
(a)	Scream “I-got-it, I-got-it, I-got-it,” and then pretend to lose the ball in the sun.
(b)	tie his shoe-laces together.
(c)	make an honest try, and make a fool of himself.
Curtain
Tonight (before an assorted audience, ' including students who begrudgingly paid real live money to get into Wash Hall) : the student musical will hit the stage’. ; Southern belles are promised exhilara- . tion of the highest order when a drawling, fair-haired, Virginian leading man f: sings and tells all about “typical” college life. The college life presented by ? the show may not be like Notre Dame, < but it looks like fun anyway.
Bottom of The Week . . . at union wages.
YMCA DANCE
A Community Dance, sponsored by the South Bend YWCA and YMCA, will be held tomorrow night from 8:30 until midnight in the YMCA gym on South Main Street. Music will be furnished by The Spotliters and admission will be 75? per person.
How to Wrap Up
OR There's More Than One Way to Skin a Competitor

Once there was a Sophomore fortunate enough to have a Fairy Godmother. Anytime he got into a Dilemma, he’d call on her for Counsel. As he did two weeks before the Big Spring Formal.
“Look, Old Girl,” he said, “you remember that Knockout from Mi=s Witherspoon’s Academy who cut such a Swath at Winter Carnival? Well, I want to invite her up for the Forthcoming Festivities — but at least seven other guys are Working on the Same Project. What do you suggest for Beating Out the Competition?”
His F. G. eyed him reprovingly. “Don’t be naive,” she said. “There’s only One Possible Approach. Whip right down to the Western Union office. Put in your hid by Telegram.”
“You recommend it?” asked the Sophomore.
“My boy,” she said, “a Telegram can do anything." She sighed reminiscently, “I remember a weekend I was invited to by Telegram back in 1913—but that’s another story.”
Did it work for Our Boy? You should have a Weekend so good!
You can, too—if you just remember that any invitation becomes Practically Irresistible when it comes by Telegram. Theie’s a special touch to the Yellow Blank that makes your words Mean More . . . whether you’re Betting up a Date, making Reservations, or just Saying Soft Words on a Suitable Subject. To test it—just call Western Union.
£
s
fcn

105 N. Main St.
Telephone	3-6101
The Scholastic
WHY LUG THAT TYPEWRITER HOME .. .
When you can store it FREE OF CHARGE at the OFFICE ENGINEERS? Your typewriter is covered by insurance while in storage.
We can put your typewriter in top condition during the slack summer season at the special student repair rates. These special storage and repair rates are offered to the students at Notre Dame.
----------------OFFICE ENGINEERS--------------------
116 South Michigan Street	Phone 3-3118
Whether you are a seasoned player, or one who aspires to a better game, put your faith in the Spalding KRO-BAT or the Spalding-made Wright & Ditson Davis Cup
These are the traditional favored rackets wherever fast tennis is played. Made in over-all weights, grip sizes and flexibilities, to fit every player with custom-like accuracy.
They are perfect companions to the Twins of Championship tennis balls...the Spalding and Wright & Ditson.

Editor:.
After reading your Feb. 20 issue, I was a bit dismayed at the snide remarks made in reference to the local jazz enthusiasts.
Admittedly, some of your schoolboys cavort about town in bell-bottom khakis and their prided ND emblem jackets.
Someone should inform them that a NOTRE DAME student does not need to wear a jacket with ND emblazoned across the back. You can spot them a mile away with their bell-bottom trousers flapping in the wind.
Now as to the subject of pegged trousers, they are not called “kig kams” or “wig warns.” Intelligent people refer to them as tapered trousers. However, I do not think that would include the NOTRE DAME rods.
In reference to duck-tail haircuts, South Bend gents do not insist on wearing their baby curls forever.
In conclusion, these so-called jazz enthusiasts at least wear “respectable” suede shoes, not filthy “white” bucks.
This letter will no doubt never be printed, but we have had the supreme satisfaction of expressing our opinion. If you insist on ridiculing South Bend teen-agers, try doing it in some other offensive way. You have great talent in that line.
Anonymous
The Scholastic breaks its traditional policy to print this one, for ordinarily no anonymous letters will be printed. We make this exception to let our poor, misguided felloic students in on the dope of “what the well-dressed cat will ivear to the soda fountain after school.”
Also it is offered as a hint to those of you who intend to marry and settle in South Bend: be sure your firstborn's diapers are pegged or he’ll never make the “LUI Abners” or the “Buccaneers,” and will be a social outcast like his untapered daddy was.
Aiv, now we’ve gone and been offensive again. Don’t get all shook up, anonymous. We really wish your teenagers all the best, and may all their cuffs be six-inched, and all their ducktails a foot long.—Editor.
■
Crusader Wants Chow Hall Action
Editor:
Indiana is a land of many surprises, the weather being the best example.
(Continued on page 33)
5
May 1, 1953
MAY 1
ROCKNE MEMORIAL (9 till 1)—For some reason the Frosh are holding their Frosh Frolic “Serenade in the Sea” above the “Rock” pool. Bob Kirk will play, as the first-year men get to stay out till 2 without a semester’s campus.
SOUTH BEND COUNTRY CLUB (9 to 1)—While the young ’uns cavort in the “Rock,” the campus elders will be enjoying the “Spring Law Refresher” with Don Gels’ music.
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30 p.m.)—According to some previewers, Brute Farce is all-too-aptly titled, but we’ll reserve judgment till we see it. Only critics and other unfortunates attend first-night performances of a student musical.
AVON (over a week)—Hans Christian Andersen (A-l), with Danny Kaye in the title role. A not unpleasant picture, if you forget it’s a “biography.”
COLFAX (through the 6th)—Ethel Merman may be loud, but she still makes a better lady ambassador than Perle Mesta, at least in Call Me Madam (A-l).
GRANADA (through the 7th)—For some unfathomable reason, Member of the Wedding (A-2) gets second billing to The Last of the Co-manches (A-l). Hollywood gave the latter a higher rating, but Julie Harris and Ethel Waters can still outact any Comanche you can name.
PALACE (through the 7th)—She’s Back on Broadway (A-2), except for the tunes, should have been a silent movie; except for Virginia Mayo, it shouldn’t have been at all. Co-pic White Lightning, a hockey meller-drammer, has one major asset: it’s only an hour long.
MAY 2
STADIUM (3:30)—The not-so-Old Timers, fortified by an ancient All-American or two, will test the new one-platoon varsity. Your ID card will get you in.
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30)—Brute Farce is bound to be better.
INDIANA CLUB (8:30-11:30)—The Student Senate Dance will not be held in the 'Rock’ tonight, for some reason or other.
GREAT PLAINS (south of the tennis courts—1:30)—Some of the 1,635 cadets and middies will win medals, all will get blisters, in the annual President’s (ND, not U. S.) Review.
MAY 3
MORRIS INN (10 a.m.)—With Father Broestl, Moose Krause, and Don McNeil running the show, the Freshman Communion Breakfast will seem more like a picnic with the Marx Brothers.
SACRED HEART CHURCH (3:30)—Music Senior Hal Tomkins will present an all-Bach organ recital.
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30)—Well, Brute Farce has outlasted some Broadway plays.
STATE (two days)—Two wild and woolly westerns, Best of the Bad Men and The Las Vegas Story (B).
MAY 4
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30)—Still Brute Farce.
GOLF COURSE (afternoon)—The Spartans of Michigan State are back again and it’s time for the Irish to get teed off and take ’em.
RIVER PARK (three days)—With a title reminiscent of a mustachioed villain of the Harriet Beecher Stowe era, Beware My Lovely (A-2) is actually a psychological “thriller.” Peking Express is just a plain, dimestore variety “thriller.”
MAY 5
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30)—For the 1953 student musical, the day of the last judgment.
Students...
TRAVEL and STUDY in
EUROPE Economically
The Institute of European Studies makes it possible for you to study at the University of Vienna and travel through nine different countries: Spain, France, Portugal. Italv. England. Holland, Belgium, North Africa and Austria.
A variety of courses is offered in English with special advantages for learning languages, art and D O O
music.
Three programs:
1.	One semester program, 5% months, Sept, to Feb. $985
2.	Two semester program, 10 months, Sept, to July. $1100
3.	Spring semester program, 5^ months, Feb. to July. $985
Price includes complete room and board while in Europe. All travel expenses through nine countries and round trip ocean transportation on a tourist class boat. Also all tuition and regis-tration expenses at the University of Vienna and at the Institute.
If you really want to see what makes Europe tick: compare the cultures, social and political trends, art and other aspects, then we invite you to join our community of students in Vienna.
For application and further information, please write to:
Clarence E. Giese, Director
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES
7325 South Maryland Ave.
Chicago 19, Illinois
The Scholastic
t
Vol. 94 Moy 1, 1953 No. 23
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1317. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ..................News
FRED C. ECKART ..........Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE .........Features
JOHN F. SAND .................. ...Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass't. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY _____________Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN .......________Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bosse, Dick Callaghan, Jerry Campbell, Irv Carrig, Doug Cole, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Tom Hartzell, Jim Mason, Bill Moore. Henry O’Bryan, Peter Sturtevant, Mike Ward, John Manion.
SPORTS STAFF: Emin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh. Tom Caplet. John Cywinski, Bob Ettle-brick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Tom Welly.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, Bob Swanson, Dana Weithers.
PHOTOGRAPHY COORDINATOR: Dick Hairsine.
FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Malison, John Slavick.
ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier. CIRCULATION: Don Doland.
Chow Hall: Charge and Countercharge
Two Scholastic articles in succeeding weeks concerning student abuses in the Dining Hall, on both sides of the serving tables, have unleashed a deluge of comment. The eaters have charged the servers with many offenses, and the workers have retaliated with an accusing finger of their own.' Many indictments seem to be the product of an early rising on the wrong side of the bed, but others have a valid base, and everyone would be happier if some action were taken on the latter.
In the first place, the Dining Hall does actually exist for the purpose of feeding the students, and not to provide a remunerative outlet for the extra-curricular energy of a few. On the other hand, the Dining Hall could not perform its function without the workers, so they are entitled to more respect and consideration than they sometimes receive.
Often the worker’s life is made difficult merely because a “customer” just finished a rough test or doesn’t like the menu. The patron feels he must vent his rage on someone and the server is handiest, although he had no part in causing the other’s poor disposition. But also evident at times is slow, disorganized service, and an attitude on the part of the workers that the troops are invading the privacy of an exclusive little club merely by asking for food.
Many students will never be able to figure out why, with seven empty tables awaiting the next stream of eaters, their silverware must be snatched away from them almost before they are finished. Also, however, people have been seen to sit and talk when tables are filling up right behind them, giving the table-cleaners no chance to get ahead of the crowd.
Every offense on one side has its counterpart on the other. The above-mentioned items, and many similar ones, are by no means majority actions, on either side of the table. The few are causing the discomfort, and the blame, of the many. Pious platitude or not, it seems that the only solution at present would be more courtesy, consideration, and application of the old Golden Rule, and less griping and chips on shoulders. As the sign in the bus says, “Courtesy is contagious.”
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame, Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: This is one of the many scenes and musical numbers you’ll see if you hop over to Washington Hall tonight to see the opening of the 1953 student musical comedy. The musical is designed to be just what the name implies: Brute Farce. The pre-first night story is on page nine.
—Photo by Bill DeCrick
This Is Your Chance
If it is even difficult in national elections to induce people to vote, no wonder it is so difficult at Notre Dame. Yet every one has certain pet peeves and projects which he would like to see eliminated and carried out, respectively. Members of the administration will not come around to your room to learn your personal opinions, but they will listen to good proposals presented by your representatives. Also, to have good class dances and other undertakings, good class leadership is necessary.
An individual’s vote might not seem important, but one of this year’s class presidents was elected by the margin of two votes. The individual is always important, so be sure you vote, and cast your ballot for the best man, in the class elections coming soon.
An Apology
There is never any excuse for anybody to talk or write about something when only one side of the story is known. We find to our dismay that we are guilty of just such action in last week’s editorial entitled “Dilemma of the Dances.”
We have since learned that the coat check service is supervised entirely by the Palais, and also that the scarcity of buses was due completely to our old friend, the NIT. Also we discovered that these dances have steadily lost money since the end of the football season, as they do every year, and the profit then on hand is needed now as a cushion. The dances, by the way, haven’t received a cent from the money collected for activity cards last fall.
While we still feel that the Saturday dances leave something to be desired, there was no justification in building a case the way we did, nor in pointing it in the direction we did. Our humblest apologies to those concerned.
May 1, 1953
This is our HORIZON
This is the “radiant energy spectrum” — the horizon for the 1600 professional engineers engaged in research and development work at Sylvania’s more than a dozen laboratories.
The research and development under way at Sylvania’s laboratories reaches, in some way, into virtually every phase of this spectrum. In the broad fields of lighting, radio, electronics, television, Sylvania engineers are constantly finding new challenges to stimulate their imagination, new opportunities to further their careers in a steadily growing company.
Sylvania offers college graduates expanding opportunities to build a truly successful and challenging professional career.
For information on Sylvania’s program for graduating engineers, see your Placement Office today — or you may write directly to Sylvania’s Supervisor of Technical Employment.
FREE copies of the Radiant Energy Spectrum, illustrated in greater detail and full color, are available by writing to Dept. “C”.
SYLVANIA
Electric Products Inc. 1740 Broadway, N. Y. C.	J;
LIGHTING . RADIO . ELECTRONICS • TELEVISION
&
&&
8	The Scholastic fe-
A Sylvania scientist uses a micra-mani|Hilator to adjust a transistor.
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 94, NUMBER 23
MAY 1, 1953
Brute Farce7 Stages Premiere Tonight
Blood Drive Begins As Country Watches
Punctured veins will be badges of merit next Monday through Friday as Notre Dame men heed the Red Cross call to “Give a pint and save a life.” Red Cross doctors, nurses, technicians, and aides will be on hand all day throughout the week at Children’s Hospital to help students bleed to a possible national record. However, the blood drive is still short of its quota, and a five-hour WNDU show is scheduled for tomorrow morning to help push it over the top.
Most of the blood will be processed by the ODM and sent to Korea as whole blood or as plasma. In addition, some of it will be converted into gamma globulin, a blood derivative which is science’s best weapon against polio.
As we go to press, only 2,800 signed pledges have been received by the blood drive committee, and only 2,200 of these are ready in all respects for donation.
The donation schedule for the first two-and-a-half days has been completed and the scheduled donors have been notified of their appointments. However, the committee is energetically digging for men to fill the remainder of the five-day period, for the present list has exhausted all ready donors.
As an aid in acquiring the needed volunteers, WNDU will broadcast a five-hour marathon blood show tomorrow morning, beginning at 8 a. m. The special program will be aired from the Huddle, and the campus station’s best announcers and disc jockeys will take part.
All are invited to drop in to the Huddle during the show, either to sign pledge cards or just to watch. Freshmen and their Frolic dates are extended special invitations. Also, anyone in possession of any signed pledges can turn them over to the committee at the Huddle tomorrow morning.
The donation schedule has been amended by the Red Cross so that provision
‘BRUTE FARCE’ GRIDNAPPERS
Call Peabody Caper Signals From ‘T’
is made for handling 630 donors a day. Ninety will be taken every hour except between 11:30 and 1:30. During these hours, in which workers will be eating lunch in shifts, 45 donors will go through the line.
The Red Cross again wishes to emphasize that no fatty foods should be eaten within four fours of donation. Everyone should eat a normal amount before giving blood, but care should be taken to avoid fried foods and milk, butter, eggs, and the like. Cancellation of cuts will be taken care of at the Hospital.
Regarding those who have not signed up yet, the drive committee will man a table at the circle every day, weather permitting, till the quota is obtained. Anyone may sign up at this table between 7:45 and 9:15 a. m. and also from 11:15 to 1:15 p. m. Pledge cards are also available at 411 Walsh at any time, day or night.
Off-campus students will be notified by postcard of their scheduled donation times, and anyone wishing to change his appointment for good reason may do so in 17 Sorin.
Choice Seats Go Fast For Football Fraud
Tonight at 8:30 campus first-nighters will besiege Washington Hall for the opening curtain of the new student musical, Brute Farce. The show, which culminates seven weeks of rehearsal for the 75 members of the cast, will present a whimsical outlook on crime and the activities of a mob of kidnappers.
The plot for the production revolves around a “typical” American college, Peabody U., which suddenly finds its football eleven being spirited off, primarily due to the efforts of four toughlooking but soft-hearted gangsters who have a large stake on a forthcoming game.
Liberally sprinkled throughout the show are some 15 tunes, ranging from the ballad, Face to Face With Love down to Mamma’s Coming Home to Roost. The fonner is sung by Wilma Burke in the romantic lead and is expected to be an instantaneous hit with the campus audience.
A bit of irony will be introduced into the show when a stoical and rather non-committal Indian makes his appearance. The part is played by Conversationalist John Campagnone.
Supplementing the Marriage Institute in a rather indirect way will be the song Let Alotta Line Out which offers a surefire method of trapping, the unwary male. Along with the other Becker-Rossiter creation, Face to Face With Love, Let Alotta Line Out will highlight the 16-scene comedy.
A new lighting effect, innovated by Script-Writer and Director Walt Swift, will be used for the first time tonight. With the use of numerous colored spotlights, certain scenes will become considerably more outstanding.
Costuming for the production has been simplified since the setting is modern. One difficulty was encountered in ob-
(Continued on page 32)
May 1, 1953
9
Freshmen Dive Into Festive-Filled Weekend Tonight at Bob Kirk's Undersea Serenade
From 9 until 1 tonight in the Rockne Memorial some 400 freshmen and their dates will glide to Bob Kirk’s melodies, engulfed by the serene “Serenade in the Sea” theme of the Freshman Frolic.
Her majesty the queen, Miss Peggy Tyne, will preside over the main room with its under-the-sea motif, featuring a giant sea shell bandstand and other simulated marine life.
Miss Tyne, whose home town is Oak Park, Ill., is a senior at Trinity High School in River Forest, Ill. She will be escorted by Dance Chairman Nick Mav-igliano.
A shadowed fish will overhang the main entrance, tossing carbonated bubbles to the couples. Treasure chests and other remnants of Davey Jones’ locker will decorate the two refreshment rooms.
Kirk, who recently took over the baton of the Griff Williams orchestra when its leader retired, will launch the first-year men with “America’s Most Danceable Music.”
Prior to his present job, Kirk put his musical talents to use in the ensembles of Charlie Straight, Barney Richards, Jim Garrigan, and Charles Gaylord.
Freshman Class President Mike Van Huffel and his date, Miss Delores Kramer of Fort Wayne, Ind., will get the coronation ceremony underway by leading the grand march at intermission time.
Frolickers will have a 2 a.m. curfew, while car permissions will also expire at that time.
Don Gels and his combo will provide the tunes for the Student Senate dance Saturday night.
Tonight’s doings will raise the curtain for a busy Frolic agenda this weekend. Tomorrow afternoon the Varsity-Old Timers football contest in the
Department of English Stops
It has been announced that no more Department of English-sponsored movies will be shown in Washington Hall this year.
T. S. Eliot’s Murder in the Cathedral, the last department presentation, was viewed with much restlessness by the students. This restlessness included mid-picture stampede walkouts, door slamming, and vocal discontent.
Many representatives of the Department of English are sympathetic with the student attitude, for they point out that this particular work of Eliot’s was
10
Stadium will be in the spotlight. In the evening the annual student musical, Brute Farce, will go through its second-night paces.
Father Broestl will say the Freshman Mass at 9 a.m. in the Dillon Hall Chapel. The Communion breakfast at the Morris Inn will follow the Mass. Tom McNeill, chairman of the event, has engaged his father, Don McNeill of “Breakfast Club” fame, to be toastmaster. Father Broestl and Edward “Moose” Krause will be guest speakers.
Other committee heads assisting Ma-
MISS PEGGY TYNE Queen of Undersea Court
vigliano for the 1953 version of the Frosh Frolic include: Tom Caplet, hotel reservations; Jack Casey, blind date bureau; Bob Morsches, decorations; Dave Granger, business; Mike Kiley, tickets; Walt Peeney, refreshments; and Bob Hilger, publicity.
Movies Following Eliot Film
very difficult to present in the form of a movie. Other faculty members have expressed the fear that the students are “missing the bus” in the field of courtesy and good manners. One faculty member said that “one does not come to school to learn what is in the books, and let it go at that.” Another member of the faculty thought that a line in the movie typified the conduct of the students: “Their manners are like their fingernails.” He added, “. . . Short, stubby, and when long, dirty.”
Moot Court Finals Feature Cash Prizes
The 1952-53 Moot Court will climax its year of activity on June 13, when Wilbur Pollard and Jack Bradshaw will argue their case against that of Carl Eiberger and Joseph Helling.
Their case will be tried in the imaginary “Supreme Court of Hoynes” on that date before three visiting justices to be selected from the College of Law Alumni Association. The stakes will be great as the two teams vie for cash prizes totaling $150 and inscription of their names on the Dean Manion plaque that is kept permanently on the College Library wall.
These four men, survivors of four rounds of argumentation that started in October, will also be trying for the honor of representing Notre Dame in the Regional Moot Court sessions in Chicago next November. If successful there, the winning duo will move on to the final arguments in New York City.
Subject matter of the ND finals will be announced in the near future by Prof. Edward Barrett, faculty advisor of the Moot Court.
Local participants are judged individually even though the men work in pairs. It is possible, therefore, for one plaintiff attorney and one defendant attorney to move on to Chicago in November. The men are judged on the basis of their oral presentation, prepared briefs, and ability to answer questions.
Pollard graduated from Northwest Missouri State College and acted as captain of the grid team his senior year. Now residing in Kansas City, Mo., he was honored in Who’s Who in American Universities and Colleges. Helling did his undergraduate work at Duquesne University, where he won laurels as a debater.
Eiberger and Bradshaw are combination law course students here. Eiberger recently was named co-director on the Moot Court executive board. Bradshaw is active in Blue Circle activities on campus.
OLD TIMERS GAME
Students will be admitted to the Varsity-Old Timers game in the Stadium tomorrow at 3:30 upon presentation of student ID cards. There will be no admission fee for students.
Admission by ID card will be at Gate 15 only. No seat is reserved.
The Scholastic

SENIOR BALL BID SWAPS
Seniors who sell their Senior Ball bids must notify Tom Hamilton, 421 Walsh, of the changes, so that the names of all those attending may be given to the rectors for late permissions. No senior whose name is not registered with the ticket committee will receive 3 a.m. permission the night of the Ball.
Deadline for bid exchanges is May 4.
Mulrooney Receives Top Senator Award
Pat Mulrooney, president of Walsh Hall and a commerce senior hailing from Eagle River, Wis., was rendered the “Most Outstanding Senator of the Year” award by a popular vote of the Student Senate at their regular Monday meeting.
He will be presented with the award at the annual Senate banquet at the Moose Club on May 12. Officers of the administration will be* tendered invitations to dine with the members at the affair. Plaques of merit will be awarded to each delegate during the evening’s festivities.
Mulrooney conducted the Student Center cake contest during the first semester in addition to his regular committee duties. Upon Floyd Blair’s midterm graduation, he assumed the responsibilities of the vice-president of the Senate and the presidency of the Hall Council System.
Active in Campus Activities
In these two positions, he has coordinated the efforts of his various committees in an efficient manner to assist in the blood drive, to plan Spring-recreational activities for the halls, and to aid in revamping the Hall Council constitution.
The award, initially presented this Spring, will become an annual presentation of student government at Notre Dame.
Jim Richards and Tom Field were elected as the two upperclassmen Stay Senators by their colleagues in the Senate. Richards and Field acted as secretary and AB senator, respectively, during the past school year.
Joe Saunders, president of Morrissey; Tom McNeill, president of Farley; and Rick Hicks, president of Lyons, were the three underclassmen selected to complete the five-man nucleus of the
May 1, 1953
Anthony's Songstress One of Many Attractions To Highlight Senior Ball Weekend May MO
The young lady pictured on this page is just one of the many attractions that await the men of ’53 next weekend. Vocalist Jo Ann Greer, along with Ray Anthony and his orchestra and Croonei-Tommy Mercer, will provide the melodies for the Senior Ball next Friday evening in Shangri-la, formerly known as the Navy Drill Hall.
To allow the seniors ample time to adjust their studs, bow ties, and cowlicks, dancing won’t begin till 10 o’clock. Four swift hours later Maestro Anthony, disc jockey’s pick as the nation’s best, will tuck away his baton for the year. The seniors will divide the next hour between fighting the Drill Hall traffic and saying goodnight, then sprint back to their halls before the 3 a.m. curfew tolls. ’
Saturday will be devoted in part to recuperating from the long night before. After morning classes—or sleep, for the fortunate few—the men will hunt up their boy scout manuals, the girls their cookbooks, for the traditional afternoon of picnicking.
It’ll be back to the Drill Hall that evening for most of the couples as the seniors share with the underclassmen the oriental atmosphere left over from their Evening in Paradise. The informal Student Senate-sponsored dance will begin at 8:30.
Then Sunday morning, following 9
1953-54 Student Senate.
From this group of Stay Senators, supplemented by the class officers to be elected Tuesday, next year’s president and cabinet will be selected at a series of future meetings.
Richards, Field, and Saunders will travel to Columbus, 0., in late August for a four-day session at Ohio State University in conjunction with the National Student Association Convention.
The Student Senate announced that a total of $50 has been allocated to Rev. George J. Baldwin, C.S.C., for distribution to the top four prize winners in the annual Notre Dame fishing contest.
Extending from April 27 to May 31, the contest will offer* cash awards of $20, $15, $10, and $5 for the four contestants who land the longest fish from either St. Joseph’s or St. Mary’s Lakes.
Although the contest period extends through May, a catch must be registered with Father Baldwin or his representative in Corby Hall within 24 hours.
o’clock High Mass and Communion in Sacred Heart Church, a hundred couples will breakfast together at the Morris Inn.
Not all the weekend’s attractions have been revealed. Held back as a “surprise” have been complete details on the dance decorations and program, both of which claim considerable originality. Even rumors have been scarce about the biggest surprise of all—the favors. Chairmen Higgins and Pfohl just aren’t talking.
Although the weekend doesn’t start officially until dance time Friday night, many seniors actually began it yesterday—with a novena for good weather.
Catholic Oriental Students Plan Seminar at Seton Hall
A seminar for Catholic Oriental students of colleges and universities throughout the nation will be held at Seton Hall University, South Orange, N. J., from June 8 -to 13, the Office of Academic Affairs has announced.
The topic of the six-day conference will be “The Responsibility of the American-educated Catholic Oriental Student in the Religious and Civic Life of His Country on His Return Home.”
Oriental students of Notre Dame have been urged to attend this seminar. A charge of $10 will cover all expenses except personal and traveling costs of each student.
Information and arrangements for attending the seminar can be made through Monsignor Edward Frecking, 5100 Shattuck St., Cincinnati 26, Ohio.
FREE EVENING IN PARADISE
Thirty-five men, preferably seniors, are needed May 8 for the Senior Bail as waiters, coat checkers, and parking lot attendants. The latter will work only from 9:30 to 11 p.m.; the others will be given late permissions.
Those interested should see Ed Condon, 235 Alumni, by May 4. * * *
Workers are also needed to assist the decorations committee in the Drill Hall every day at 1 p.m. and also Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday evenings of next week.
H
BOB BERNER SWINGS
Bogball Bystanders Wonder—Hit or Strike?
Badin Bog Interpretation of National Pastime Intrigues Seasoned Sultans of Swat 'n' Swish
BY PAUL LA FRENIERE
Spring is sprung; and with it returns that old campus bug—the one that carries Bog Ball fever.
So it goes every year at Notre Dame. The advent of fairer weather brings out en masse those red-blooded American youths, known as the Bog Ballers. It’s that time again when the fancies of the sports-lovers in Walsh, Badin, and vicinity turn to thoughts of . . . Bog Ball, that ND parody of the national pastime.
In its most rabid form, Bog Ball is a combination of pants-soiling slides, long flies lost in the left-field maples, and circus catches by seasoned veterans.
Time-worn Badin Bog, the scene of such antics, is at the mercy of Hoosier weather. Its condition may range from a squishy quagmire to a wind-blown dust bowl, and the stone-infested infield .is most unpredictable. But this is the cradle of Bog Ball, and the sport goes on.
The Bog has its advantages, too. Where else can be found a more stationary home plate than the protruding steam-pipe joint provides? It has been alleged that other makeshift equipment even includes a few Walsh Hall pillows for the remaining three bases.
The typical Bog Baller is attired
rather simply. Currently, some of the less conservative have been seen cavorting about in oversize jockey caps, among other odd garb. Innovations like these make for a colorful spectacle, and thus attract a larger crowd.
The opposing teams vie for the support of the spectators, and these devoted fans take delight in heckling the Bog Ballers with a well-chosen assortment of Bronx cheers.
Bog Ball has other complications. Lapses in mental scorekeeping invariably cause trouble. A dispute as to whether the score is 36-9 or 39-6 can only be settled by a compromise of either 36-6 or 39-9. The imaginary foul lines are also a source of controversy. Close drives along the strip invariably arouse shouts of “fair,” “foul” —leading to heated “discussion.” And so it goes—until darkness settles over the somewhat lopsided diamond.
But Bog Ball lives on and its devotees ardently prefer it to the less strenuous forms of recreation found on campus.
Perhaps Bog Ball’s real appeal lies in the challenges it affords. No one can resist the dare made by a true Bob Baller: “Hey, Joe, if you can slap one by me, I’ll buy ya a Navy grog!”
Luncheon, Review Highlight 'President's Day' Tomorrow
Tomorrow afternoon at 1:30, 1,635 cadets and midshipmen of the Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC units here will participate in the annual presidential review, honoring for the first time Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., in his official capacity as president of the University.
A luncheon given by Father Hesburgh at the Morris Inn will precede i the ceremony. Guests and their wives will be Rear Admiral Francis P. Olds, commandant of the Ninth Naval Dis- " trict; Col. Roy N. Hiller, headquarters i Air ROTC, Montgomery, Ala.; Major | General Walter L. Weible, deputy com-	f
mander of the Fifth Army; and Hon.	\
John A. Scott, mayor of South Bend. ■ The three ROTC commanders, Col. £ Melie J. Coutlee, Lt. Col. George M. 1 Cookson, and Captain Frank P. Luongo, ;; will also attend.
Midshipman Odilio M. Diaz, Naval | Science student, will be regimental com- p mander of the cadets and midshipmen. | A total of 37 awards will be presented by Father Hesburgh and the officers to 32 students in the three ROTC’s in f recognition of outstanding perform-	£
ances by the students in class work, v ROTC subjects, and leadership.	i
Those who will receive awards from	|
the Army ROTC will be: Cadet Lt.	|
Col. William W. Amundson; Cadet Col.	(
Donald Senich (2 awards); Cadet Lt. ■ Col. Donald A. Beck; Cadet Major	g
Mark R. McCabe; Cadet Major Robert	|
J. Howard; Cadet First Lt. John T.	L
Giambruno; Cadet First Lt. John P.	k
Boland; Cadet Corp. Forest E. Brown;	|
Cadet Francis H. Boos; Cadet John H.	I
Brady; Cadet Walter T. Wold, and Cadet Thomas C. Forsman.	‘i
i
Recipients of Air Force ROTC med- I als will be Cadet William N. Jackomis; V Cadet Paul E. Braunlich; Cadet Har- j rison G. Tavis; Cadet Richard A. Cot- l-ter; Cadet Patrick J. Riley; Cadet | John J. Yankiss; Cadet Edward R. Byrne (won in inter-unit competition);	|
Cadet Thomas F. Field; Cadet Thomas £ F. Carey; Cadet John H. Goetsch; f Cadet Benedict J. Zajeski, and Cadet Michael P. Mallardi.	f
Navy ROTC awards will go to Mid-	|
shipman William P. Dudine, Jr.; Mid-	|
shipman Roger 0. Zoelner; Midshipman I Robert G. Finney; Midshipman Odilio M. Diaz; Midshipman Richard Lee Ehr; g Midshipman James H. Mayer; Midship-man Henry Paul Krienke; Midshipman James Massey; Midshipman Gerald Mas-sey, and Midshipman John T. Mullen. M
The Scholastic
12
Spring Dance Tonight To 'Refresh' Lawmen
Tonight the South Bend Country Club will be the scene of the Spring Law Refresher, where approximately 100 of Notre Dame’s future barristers and their dates will trip the light fantastic to the rhythms of Don Gels and his orchestra from 9 till 2.
General Chairman William MacMillan is confident that tonight's affair “will be as successful as in past years.”
Theme of the Lawmen’s dance is that of a refresher course for seniors who will be facing bar examinations. Robert Maley and Walter Clements, co-chairmen of the program committee, have announced that a “Study Schedule” motif will carry out the theme of review and study.
Following through on this idea, the dance program itself is dotted with brief intermissions. During these respites the various professors will take part in skits which will be in the form of lectures on various points of law.
Some of the timely topics that will be caricatured are divorce laws, alienation of affections, and breach of promise.
Although the Spring ball is the second affair of the yeai- for those aspiring to the bar, it has always been the big social event of the year.
Other committee heads for this year’s edition of the Lawmen’s dance include: William Roche, locations; Dick Globen-sky, favors; Bill Fleming and Don Be-benek, dates; and Bob LeMense and Joe Gargan, publicity.
DON GELS
Melodies Refresh Lawmen Tonight
Independents, Party Slates Vie For Class Posts And Senatorships in Elections Next Tuesday
Elections of the Sophomore, Junior, and Senior class officers and the AB, Commerce, Science, Engineering, and Off-Campus Senators will be held next Tuesday.
Voting will take place in the basement of the Dining Hall from 11:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Each student’s school identification card will be checked before he can vote. He will be allowed to cast his ballot only for the senator representing his college and his class slate.
It will be impossible to vote a straight party ticket. The choice for each office must be marked individually or the ballot will be rejected.
The election is being handled by the Blue Circle, which expects the results of the election to be known before WNDU goes off the air on Tuesday night.
The independent candidates for Senior class offices are: for president, Henry Clancy, John Reidy, and William Hank; for vice-president, Otto Hilbert and Donald J. McLaughlin; for
WNDU Marathon Set
To Push Blood Take
The last big push of the Notre Dame Blood Drive will reach a climax tomorrow morning when The Student Voice will run an all-morning radio marathon for blood pledges from the Huddle.
The Marathon will start at 7 a. m. and will run to 1 p. m., but the first and last hours of the marathon will originate from the station’s studios, since the Huddle will not be open at that time.
Features of the Marathon will include guest disc jockeys from the downtown radio stations, celebrities on the campus for the Old Timers game, and an unidentified feminine interest.
The main portions of the program will originate from the Huddle, and will be MC’ed by the most popular announcers on the station. The blood drive committee will be at the broadcast booth to take pledges. Those who pledge will be interviewed and everyone will be able to see a radio program being produced.
The goal will be to garner the 1,500 pledges necessary to put Notre Dame over the top in its current blood campaign and set a new high for a single blood collection in the country.
secretary, William A. Meyer, Sam Tiano, and Thomas Parsley; and for treasurer, Louis Tabit and Robert Wallace.
The All Independent party’s slate is William Guilfoile for president and Carl Eck foi- vice-president. In the usual order the Shamrock party is running Raymond H. Moran, Jack Rosshift, Daniel S. Noonan, and Patrick O’Malley.
Key party candidates are Fred Paxton, Richard Braun, Hugh Bray, and William Cavanaugh. On the .ticket for the Representative party are John Sullivan, Raymond Tierney, Daniel Kennedy, and Paul Kraus.
Clem Devine and Paul Fullmer are the sole independent seekers of Junior class posts. They are campaigning for president and vice-president respectively.
Running on the Foursight ticket are Richard Hicks for president; James Barry for vice-president, James Ehret for secretary, and Thomas McIntosh for treasurer.
Two unnamed quartets will also be seeking the Junior class administrative jobs. The first is composed of William Byrne, James O’Shea, George Carhart, and Jerry Hughes. James Sherer, Frank Conklin, Dick Capka, and Ted Bintz comprise the other group.
Competition for the Sophomore offices will be limited to the two parties and i one independent candidate who placed themselves in the running.
Edward Spengeman is the Ambitious party’s hope for the presidency. He is supported by Thomas Crehan, running for vice-president; and Donald Shaefer, who aspires to the secretarial post. The Toppers party has entered Tom McNeill, Dan Devine, Dick Lewis, and Tom Caplet for the respective positions.
James W. Price is an independent running foi* vice-president.
Arts and Letters aspirants for the job of senator are Thomas Moore, Justin L. Moran, James J. Cannon, William Moore, and Fran Meaney.
Running in the race for Commerce senator are Roy Belknap, Walter V. Bernard, Jr., Thomas W. Stubler, Jr., Joseph Giovanini, and Joseph Ziemba.
Eyeing the Engineering senatorship are William T. Carson, Jerome Brainerd, and Leon Blank.
The lone candidate for Science senator is Joseph C. Daley.
13
May 1, 1953
Fate Deals Ironic Blow to Bud Lewis, Cover Man For '42 'Scholastic/ Killed in World War II
BY CARROLL DOWDEN
The proverbial irony of fate was forcibly brought home in “Notre Dame’s War Years,” a feature article appearing in the March 13 edition of the Scholastic.
In the article a picture of the cover of the Dec. 11, 1942, Scholastic was captioned “Sign of the Times.” The picture showed a senior, replete with cap and gown, looking thoughtfully at a poster in which Uncle Sam pointed a beckoning finger and announced, “I want you for the U. S. Army. Enlist now.” It was sometime later when the Scholastic learned who the pensive senior was.
His name was Charles T. Lewis. He was a popular, blond haired youngster from Philadelphia. Just one of the many caught in the swirl of war, he
CHARLES ‘BUDDY’ LEWIS
A Senior Who Read A Sign
was swept along by the tide of men going to fight for our country, going to fight when most of us were just kids at home in grade school.
Scarcely a month after his December graduation, “Buddy” Lewis was learning his way around the army. The chance came to get into Officers Candidate School and he took it. As a second lieutenant he was attached to the 101st airborne division as a medical administrative officer.
And it wasn’t long until Uncle Sam made good with his promise of seeing the world. Buddy was soon in Europe heading for the front, one of many replacements for the battered Americans
who had just stemmed Von Runstedt’s savage drive at Bastogne.
It was in his army days that Buddy wrote in a letter to a priest here at Notre Dame: “Certainly was sorry to hear of so many friends who won’t be at that first reunion our wartime class of December ’42 will have.”
The war had taken its toll of his college companions. He remembered his days on the freshman baseball team and the various interhall athletic squads. Buddy was genuinely attached to Notre Dame. He used to serve Mass often while he was here.
In February, 1945, shortly after Buddy entered the front lines his parents back in Philadelphia were told that their son had been “killed in action.” Buddy was dead, but like the many unsung heroes, not yet forgotten. He had spent his Summers at the family’s small place in Wildwood Villas, New Jersey, and in 1946 the Charles “Buddy” Lewis Post of the Veterans of Foreign Wars was organized there in his memory.
Ip the Spring of 1948 Buddy’s body was returned to the country which had needed him and which he had served. His funeral was held at a Solemn Requiem Mass in his hometown and then his remains were borne to their final repose by pallbearers from the “Buddy” Lewis Post of the V.F.W.
Regular Status Awarded Six Middies From NROTC Here
Six ROTC contract students have been selected for regular status in the NROTC program here, it was recently announced. They are Francis X. Bey-tagh, Jr., John C. Polking, Carl Rohloff, John J. McMahon, James P. O’Malley, and Charles F. Vandergrift.
The selections were made on the basis of a competitive examination and the records of the competing students.
The navy will provide tuition, books, and retainer pay of $50 monthly for the regulars. Upon graduation they will be commissioned ■with the rank of ensign and assigned to active duty for three years. Graduates of the regular program will remain in the reserve for five years after completing their tours of active duty.
The six selected for regular status will take part in the training cruises this Summer.
FOREIGN STUDENTS
The Immigration Office has announced that it will no longer issue foreign students warnings 60 days before the expiration of their authorized stays here. Extension application forms (Form 1-539) will be supplied by the Office of Academic Affairs in the Main Building, but it will be the responsibility of the student to secure, complete, and submit this form to the Detroit Immigration Office 60 days before his authorized stay expires.
Blue Circle Announces New Members For '53-'54
After sifting through a throng of more than 100 applicants, the Blue Circle, campus honorary society, has announced its new members for next year.
The following are the new members: Freshman John Navin, Paul LaFren-iere, Jon Konzen, Jim Price, Karl Mar-tersteck, Dick Lewis, George Krembs, and Tom Caplet; Sophomores John Connaughton, Jim O’Shea, Jim Broughton, Forst Brown, Don Gels, Bill Byrne, and John O’Meara; Juniors, Ron Mazzoli, Jim Maclnnis, Jack Pittas and Tom Moore.
The select group of 19 was chosen after a final second-round interview by five boards composed of Blue Circle members. Selections were made on the basis of initiative, leadership, and interest in Notre Dame.
Assisting Duke Rank, chairman of the interviews, were George Carhart and Jim Sherer. Chair-man Rank encourages those not selected to apply again at the next induction which will take place next Spring.
Misner Awarded Fellowship;
Fisk Receives Scholarship
Charles W. Misner, graduate student in physics from Pittsburgh, Pa., was recently awarded a National Science Foundation Fellowship. Physicist Misner will pursue advanced theoretical physics at Princeton University during the 1953-54 scholastic year.
Honorable mentions were awarded seven other Notre Dame students who also competed for the National Science Foundation Fellowship.
Also honored was Milton Fisk, a senior chemistry major from Lexington, Ky., who received a Woodrow Wilson scholarship. He will study philosophy at • Yale University next year.
The Scholastic



ENGINEERS DEMONSTRATE ATHLETIC PROWESS
(L.) Aeronautical Men Off to Fast Start; (R.) But E-E’s Wilczynski, Si dor, and Wagner Cop Trophy.
'Ben Hur' Sidor Cops Chariot Races During Engineers' Annual Springtime Extravaganza
BY JOHN MANION
By virtue of his glorious victory in the Engineers’ Annual Chariot Races last Saturday afternoon, diminutive Ray Sidor is the pride and joy of the Electrical Engineers on campus.
Although he barely qualified for the championship bracket in the contest, he rode the sturdy “E-E” chariot to the finish line in first place. Of course, some honor- and glory should be given the “steeds” that powered the winning vehicle. According to their registration certificates, the “horses” were Bob Wagner and John Wilczynski. Bernie Luthman designed and built the chariot.
Mrs. Laurence Stauder, wife of the AIEE-IRE counselor, crowned Sidor with a realistic laurel wreath, guaranteed not to be poison ivy. Dean Karl Schoenherr presented the championship trophy.
Runnerup to the victor was the aeronautical engineers’ chariot. Third place went to the mechanical engineer-built vehicle which outsped the one constructed by the metallurgical men. The “Met” chariot won the time trials handily, but in the semi-final go the rider was literally left at the post. The bar on the three-and-a-half-foot chariot came off as the two “horses” jolted at the start and caught the rider off balance. Result: the chariot finished, but was disqualified for lack of rider.
A freak incident materialized in the time trials as the civil engineers’ chariot, which was built out of an old
wheelchair and many fond hopes, moved several yards, began rocking, and finally lurched to one side as a wheel came off.	4
The absence of the civil engineers’ coach left it up to the chemists and architects to vie for the dubious consolation-bracket honors. The prize, a small laurel wreath, was presented to the architects’ ace driver by a blushing, anonymous feminine onlooker.
Dick Lyons announced the races and was in charge of the afternoon’s proceedings. Judges were Dean Schoen-herr and Assistant Dean Raymond Schubmehl.
A small gold trophy was presented to the Department of Aeronautics for having the best all-around chariot.
An overflow crowd greeted Dean Schoenherr last Friday in the Engineering Auditorium as he officially opened the Second Annual Open House festivities.
He was introduced by Jim Noonan who also did the honors for Mr. Cyril Hoylen, head of RCA’s research lab in Princeton, N. J., and conductor of the interesting science novelty show that featured demonstrations of color television.
Immediately following the RCA show, guided tours were held. This year’s throng more than doubled last year’s crowd, despite scattered showers. Visitors attended from several Midwestern states as did a group repre
senting the Young Engineers Club from Niles High School.
A display award went to the civil engineers for their spectacular display depicting a scale model of a highway, road, and street intersections built up with actual road construction materials, featuring cross section views of the earth and rock bed supporting the roads.
Chorus Chooses Tom Short As Prexy For '53-'54 Season
In a recent ballot, members of the Notre Dame Glee Club elected Tom Short to the presidency of the organization for the ’53-’54 year. A junior in the College of Arts and Let-tei-s, Short will succeed Gene Fanning as head of the club.
In his speech of acceptance, Short pledged himself to “uphold the spirit and traditions which have made the Glee Club what it is today.”
Assisting Short, in the capacity of vice-president, will be Joseph “Buzz” Helfrich. He succeeds outgoing Joe Conwell at this post. Tom May and Webster Arceneaux were elected as secretary and treasurer respectively. Last year Gene Gorski and John Porta were in charge of these departments.
The elections were under the supervision of Al Eilers, who served as chainnan of the election committee, Art Midili, Jack Gorman, and Bob Berner.
The posts of business manager and publicity manager are appointed by the incoming officers and will be announced at a later date. Joe Costanzo and Joseph Gores headed these departments during the recent season.
May 1, 1953
15
Six Named to Receive Honorary Degrees At O'Shaughnessy Dedication May 15, 16
Six distinguished Americans will be awarded honorary degrees by the University of Notre Dame at a special convocation marking the dedication of the new I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts on May 15 and 16, it was announced today by the Rev
erend Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., university president.
George F. Kennan, former ambassador to Russia, and Gordon K. Chalmers, president of Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio, will address a University convocation and receive honorary doctorates pn May 15 at 8 p.m.
Degrees also will be conferred on Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., noted poet and president of St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame, Indiana; Jerome G. Kerwin, professor of political science, University of Chicago; Daniel Sargent, South Natick, Mass., author and educator; and the Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., president of Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C.
Samuel Cardinal Stritch, archbishop of Chicago and an honorary Notre Dame alumnus, will be the celebrant of a Pontifical High Mass on May 16 at 9:30 a.m. The sermon will be delivered by Father Kenna. Music for the Mass will be provided by the Moreau Seminary Choir.
Immediately following the Mass, Notre Dame’s 1,700 Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC students will lead a colorful procession to O’Shaughnessy Hall. Included in the procession will be many visiting college presidents and deans and members of the University’s faculty and administration. Cardinal Stritch will preside at the blessing of the building and is expected to speak briefly to the assembly.
Father Hesburgh and Mr. I. A. O’Shaughnessy, donor of the building and president of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees, will address the University’s guests at a luncheon in the Notre Dame Dining Hall at 1 p.m.
O’Shaughnessy, a St. Paul, Minn., oil executive and philanthropist, was the 1953 recipient of the Laetare Medal for his generous benefactions to the Church, Catholic higher education, and medical research in the United States.
Among those attending the luncheon will be the University trustees and members of Notre Dame’s advisory councils for the Colleges of Science, En
gineering, and Commerce which will convene for business sessions in advance of the dedication ceremonies.
O’Shaughnessy Hall, a magnificent S2,300,000 building of Tudor-Gothic ar-
Ban+ering Helicopter Buffets Campusites
All eyes turned skyward April 21 and 22, as the first helicopter ever to appear on the Notre Dame campus maneuvered perilously close to buildings, swooped down on groups of students, hovered within a few feet of the ground, and otherwise demonstrated its tremendous versatility.
At the controls of the Hiller helicopter was Lt. Commander Norris of the Glenview Naval Air Station, Glenview, Ill. His one-man aerial circus was designed to dramatize one of the fields available to Naval Air Cadets.
The helicopter appeared in conjunction with a Naval Aviation Cadet procurement team headed by Lieut. Nelson. While the helicopter was being put through its paces over the campus, the procurement team was discussing the Naval Aviation Cadet program in the
Photo Courtesy South Bend Tribune
HELICOPTER HOVERS IN FRONT OF DINING HALL Recruiting Stunt Draws Crowds
chitecture, will be the new home of Notre Dame’s College of Arts and Letters, oldest of the University’s five colleges. It provides 35 classrooms as well as offices for department heads and faculty members. Galleries in one wing of O'Shaughnessy Hall will house the University’s art collection and another section of the building contains classrooms and studios for music, painting, and sculpture.
Dining Hall with interested students. The team has been touring the Northern Indiana area to procure applicants for the program.
The appearance of the helicopter caused quite a stir on campus as classes were momentarily interrupted by the roar of engines, and professors as well as students crammed classroom windows to stare up at the air craft.
Workers pouring cement for a new sidewalk near the new O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building weren’t too happy about the helicopter’s show. The plane flew so close to them that the wind from its rotors blew dirt and leaves over the newly-laid cement.
Another reaction was voiced by a local “bopster” who pointed at the ’copter and said, “Dig that crazy fly.”
16
The Scholastic
ABOVE: Anticipation mounts as the Juniors search for their tickets and dates in the confusion of busy “Rock/*
Serenade in Rain
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON
It had rained all day Friday and the evening sky was overcast. But inside the Rockne Memorial it was a warm summer night. A little rock fence and two old-fashioned street lamps showed the way to a “Lamplighter’s Serenade.” To convey the proper atmosphere, there was a flower-canopied bandstand, crepepaper walls and a fountain that sprayed a tiny stream of water into a rock pool.
Although it was an 1890 atmosphere, the music was 1953’s best. Everyone at the prom agreed that Buddy Morrow could play a very danceable tune and
May 1, 1953
showed their appreciation by crowding the dance floor most of the evening.
Saturday afternoon’s drizzle didn’t keep prom-goer’s from their picnic parties at the dunes. And they danced the night away, too, at the South Bend Country Club or at the Student Senate Dance.
Sunday meant raincoats—for the 10 a. m. Mass and the walk to the Morris Inn for Communion Breakfast. Then came the goodbyes—and more rain. But by this time' no one really seemed to mind.
BELOW: It was the “Pink Room” or the “Blue Room” for the intermission.
to
band. The lights were low, but the bright
BELOW: Dan Motz, Mary Hoffman, John Da Gene Sawan admire a unique part of the dec<
LEFT: A little refreshment and a little talk was the order of those taking a short rest from the crowded dance floor.
ABOVE: Buddy promising band
Morrow, “the most leader of the year,”
ABOVE: It didn t take the Juniors long ing to the steady beat of the Morrow
sets the
mood
for the
Serenade.’
“Lamplighter
BELOW: The long-kept secret is thrill of anticipation, and then
out, and it’s
time to
a smile of approval
pick up the favors. A little for the Committee’s choice.

get in the mood. Soon they were swirl-
Rock” almost
unrecognizable. Old-fashioi “Lamplighter’s S
s S

The view is of Notre Dome at the turn of the Century. In the foreground are Walsh Hall and a tower of Sorin Hall. The background provides a clutter of maintenance shops, dorms and stables and proof that Badin Bog once had grass.
“This I Remember"
Text by FRANK GOERG
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON and BILL DeCRICK
Badin Bog Ball was a popular sport then as well as now. One might assume that football was of the rougher variety with headgear and pads as ample evidence. That s Corby and Sorin in the background with the usual critical crowd watching.
A few lines in Who’s Who in America relate in cold outline the record of Mr. Cecil E. Birder, professor of speech and music at the University of Notre Dame. Those few lines in no way tell the full, warm life of a man who has helped build the tradition of Notre Dame and who has passed it along to our youthful generation.
Mr. Birder came to Notre Dame in 1908 as a high school student. After his graduation he entered Notre Dame’s Law School and in 1914 received his LLB. As a student during these years, Mr. Birder can recall the growth of Notre Dame from a small mid-western college to a nationally known University.
The Past in Review
One of the first Notre Dame men to live in Walsh Hall, Mr. Birder remembers the rigid restrictions that were placed on students in the early days of the University. For example, a student couldn’t leave' the campus during the day without permission, or smoke on the campus. In those days, the disciplinary method was called the demerit system. Each student received 400 points at the beginning of each year and for every offense points were deducted from the original balance of 400. Such things as leaving campus or smoking on campus (pipes were permitted in the rooms) brought a heavy fine and confinement to the campus.
“There was one way to get around the system,” recalls Mr. Birder. “You could use a technique known as ‘skiving’ — simply skipping into town when out of merits, and then slipping back into the dorm late at night.”
Mr. Birder’s fondest memory of “skiving” concerns an incident at South Bend’s old Orpheum Theatre. South Bend was celebrating its Fall Festival and had crowned a lovely young lady and her court of six for the occasion. As the week-long celebration was drawing to a close, the manager- of the Orpheum contacted a local group of students and offered them a job of impersonating the Queen and her court at the last show on Saturday night.
Rockne ‘Skived,’ Too
Mr. Birder, as a member of the group, remembers “skiving” down to the Orpheum in disguise and performing a humorous skit that delighted the large au-
' ' I • The Scholastic

20
dience—with two exceptions. In the audience were two priests from Notre Dame and both recognized the imposters as ND students. The result was an interview with the late Father John Cavanaugh, then President of Notre Dame, and the students were campused for the rest of the year. Since the group consisted of five football players, student opinion was aroused and a petition circulated about the campus with great success. The seven students were acquitted, much to the delight of Mr. Birder and two other gentlemen in particular— Knute Rockne and Gus Dorais.
Mr. Birder likes to recall the first Army-Notre Dame game in 1913 when the same Rockne and Dorais unveiled a new play called the forward pass.
“There were no crowds on the train to West Point on that day,” said Mr. Birder, “and no admission charge once we got there.”
Accompanied by one other colleague, Mr. Birder thinks that particular trip to West Point was perhaps the first student trip at Notre Dame.
From Law to Speech
However, Mr. Birder made other contributions to Notre Dame. He was a member of the Notre Dame track team for which he received monograms in 1911, 1912 and 1913. A member of the' 440-yard relay team, he had the distinction of running ahead of his famous classmate, Knute Rockne.
“I ran the first race and Rockne the second,” joked Mr. Birder as he clarified the situation.
Mr. Birder left Notre Dame after his graduation from Law School to enter the Alviene Dramatic Speech School in New York City. While entering a speech school after obtaining a law degree seemed rather peculiar to many of Mr. Birder’s associates, it was for him a fulfillment of a life-long desire—to appear on the stage. His background in the theatre at Notre Dame included more than his performance at the' Orpheum Theatre. While at Notre Dame he appeared in the student productions As You Like It, The Prince- and the Pauper and eight Gilbert and Sullivan operas—one each year. “All were well-received,” commented Mr. Birder.
A Career in Opera
Mr. Birder’s work in music and speech at Notre Dame and at Alviene' and later Blackrock College in Dublin, Ireland, brought him rewards that fulfilled his dreams of the stage. Despite a tour of duty with the Army during the' First World War, he secured a singing role with the New York Light Op-
Professor Cecil Birder of the Departments of Speech and Music graduated from ND in 1914.
era Company. Then came employment with the Repertoire Company of Gilbert and Sullivan Operas and many appearances on the National Broadcasting system.
Mr. Birder continued to sing in opera and radio until his appointment as instructor in dramatics and music at the University of Minnesota. In 1940 he returned to Notre Dame to serve in the' same capacity. It was during his first year at Notre Dame that he directed the Gilbert and Sullivan opera Gondoliers. That was just the beginning. Seven more followed—one each year. Included were such productions as Pina
The scene is a room in Sorin Hall and a party that would horrify any rector and probably did. The wall decorations show that South Bend had some lively entertainment in those days—even at the old Oliver.’ ’ ’	.
fore, Trial By Jury, and Mikado. “AH were well received — so well received, that special performances were demanded by the people of South Bend,” said Mr. Birder.
“This I Remember”
Today his office' in the rear of Washington Hall is crowded with notices and pictures of the men and events that helped give this University its name. If you talk to Mr. Birder, he’ll tell you that he feels something like Edward R. Murrow, commentator on “This I Believe.” He thinks he would be well qualified on his own show known as “This I Remember.”
“I remember,” said Mr. Birder, “when Father Sorin’s statue was the beginning of the campus—when Washington Hall held the entire student body—when we had class boat races on St. Joseph’s lake—when the study halls were in the present-day Foundation office in the Main Building, the dormitories on the second floor and the dining hall in the basement—when I broke the ice in the lake in the winter months so Father Lange and John Fordyce could dip in the icy water in fulfillment of a bet.”
“These things and more I remember,”’ quipped Mr. Birder.
So whether it’s a speech lesson, a few tips on singing or just an enlightening talk about Notre Dame during the “good old days,” Mr. Birder will gladly spare a few minutes of his time to help you. And you’ll come away feeling that you have been shown a hidden and almost forgotten side of Notre Dame life by one of the men who helped create it, both as a student and as a professor.
May 1, 1953
21
The Juggler:
The recent Spring Issue of the Juggler turned out to be a fitting tribute to the late Father Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., who for many years, as head of the English Department, showed deep interest in helping to .guide this publication to its present place of merit. We feel that he would have been proud of this issue.
The first story, “Maria and Her Brother,” by Joseph Gores, set a fine pace for the rest of the contributors to follow. His work is a sensitive portrayal of a delicate topic in which two American boys violate a young Mexican girl. The rest of the fiction was ■contributed by: John Steele Hellman, James Mitchell and John Dilenschnei-der. Their stories, unlike those of our modem pulp magazines, were essentially real and demonstrated a true grasp on life. Both Dilenschneider and Hellman wrote about children and confined their work to the action of children, not abnormal little monsters. James Mitchell’s fiction was again characterized by his excellent use of description.
By far the most outstanding essay was contributed by Pete Stavroulakis (better known as Pete Stavis). His “The Spirituality of the Orthodox East” was a penetrating analysis of the separation between the Roman ■Catholic and the Eastern Orthodox churches. He sought to point out that the basic difference between the two was found more in nationalistic reasons than in disharmony of doctrine. By drawing a genuine statement of the beliefs of the Orthodox Church, he demonstrates how Eastern tradition, although more mystical than that of the West, is just as truly Christian.
The second essay by Joseph Imbriaco traced the poetry of Dylan Thomas from “Darkness to Light.” He divides the poet’s work into four main parts which begin with his narrow, worldly view of the individual and ends up in the spiritual rebirth and regeneration of the soul. The final essay by Milton Fisk deals with Virgil as a theologian. Titled, “Virgil: Fate and Freedom,” it presents Mr. Fisk in his usual deep penetration and somewhat esoteric style.
Easily the best book review was done by F. P. Jackman on a book called the Shores of Light. His unburdened style
contributed as much as his keen understanding of the work.
John Burns again handled most of the creative poetry, while Dennis Moran submitted some worthwhile translations from Ranier Maria Rilke.
We feel that this issue had some flaws, but they were confined almost entirely to disturbing typographical errors which detracted from the consistently fine quality of this spring issue.
Spring is here: *
Tonight Notre Dame’s annual original musical comedy opens for a five-night run, and definitely proves to Once Over Lightly that Spring is really here. The show entitled Brute Farce is chock full of new songs and supposedly new jokes. Our best to a two-hour show, which represents more than a year’s hard work for quite a few people connected with it. (Rumor has it that three Swedes masquerading under the names of Begley, Brennan and Brennan are definitely show stoppers.)
Portrait of the Columnist As a Sack-Rat . . .
And so here I am. Where? Oh, nowhere in particular—just lying here in a small expanse of hard bed, gazing at the ceiling waiting for sleep to overtake me. Now, don’t get me wrong, I have a good excuse for being in bed; I think better there! Right now I am thinking about what or rather who to write on for an English paper, which is due in about an hour.
How long have I been in bed? Well —let’s say maybe three hours. On second thought I, think it was four. Two o’clock in the afternoon and I’m as wide awake as I was at lunchtime! I don’t even feel drowsy, much less tired. I must admit that I tried to get to sleep, but after the first two hours I relinquished all hope of natural slumber and commenced to apply the known artificial methods. I began by counting sheep. But after the first two hundred or so the mathematics became too involved so, as a final resort, I turned to mental puzzles. I listed all the states beginning with “M”, enumerated the state capitals, and counted from 1000 back to one, but all in vain. Finally, in desperation, I held the pillow firmly against my face while beseeching God
for immediate suffocation but all He gave me was a mouthful of feathers.
Who am I and what was that? I’m no different from anyone else around here! Oh, but I am! I slink and slouch around just as you do and I also go three and four days at a time without shaving. My levis are as tight on me as yours are on you and I “crab” and “complain” just as much and as loud as you do. Did you say, “What’s the difference between you and me?” Well, I’ll tell you, I think better when I’m in bed!
Announcement . . .
Mr. Hal Tomkins, the poet laureate of Sub Sorin, warned us the other day that he is about to make another genuine contribution to art on campus. This Sunday Hal will play a selection of Bach’s works on the organ in Sacred Heart Church at 3:30. Ah, yes.
Walt Werner Gerry Voit
WMW Mie Chatter
Over the course of this year I’ve written hundreds of words about some of our top shows, most of which fall in the evening hours, but have apparently neglected the programs in the “early” hours from our sign-on at 11:45 a.m. to about 7 p.m. Most of the shows in this period are programs that we used to air in the evening hours, but had to move up to make room for the ones we have in the later spots now.
A classic example is the program we used to have as our evening “feature” three nights a week, but now air two afternoons at 2 o’clock: “Music by Roth.” This is one of the best, if not the best program out of the Thesaurus library, and has “Class A” time on many commercial stations. We just don’t have time for it any more at night.
The noon news and the Lopez show at 12:15 are about the same as you’ll find on many large stations, and then we have a couple of “exclusives” later in the afternoon. The first of these is “Showtime” at 2:30. We have what is probably the largest collection of complete shows in the area, and never have to repeat a play or movie in any one semester. Most of these are by’ the original cast, and we play the entire show without interruptions. It has been one of our best programs for a

22
The Scholastic
couple of years, though it hasn’t received much attention in its present afternoon spot. Following “Showtime” is the “Afternoon Concert” in which we play some of the best music in our collection.
On the lighter side is “One Minute to Curtain” at 1:30 in the afternoon. Here we feature one orchestra and one vocalist each day. Nothing outstanding about this one, but it is all music if you want to study, and no marches, polkas or folk music. Nice and neutral —that’s all.
The entire afternoon schedule is built around music with the idea in mind that if you are in your room at that time you want to study (or sleep) and music is all you want on the radio. The only exception is the capsule news at 3:25 for those who missed it at noon and haven’t seen the paper yet.
* * *
We want to see you at the Marathon in the Huddle tomorrow morning. We might be able to get you on the air, but more important, you’ll be able to volunteer your blood. It’s a matter of life and death.—Bryan Coughlin
Srad cNotes
.Sunday witnessed a small but “elite” group attend the Communion Breakfast in Morris Inn. The small attendance we can hopefully attribute to the confusion caused by the introduction of Daylight Saving. On the other hand, we hoped for a little more privacy than the main dining room afforded and the background of a gloomy golf course gave no solace either. Men and nature conspired against us, but thanks to Father Beichner, who said the Mass; Father Moore who addressed the group, and Lou Glunz who introduced the speaker so eloquently and made all the arrangements, assisted by Art Raymond and Jim Sturm; the gathering was a success . . .
All those wishing to be relieved of some of that excess poundage which the winter months tend to produce as well as to indulge in the spirit of the sport are requested to assist in forming departmental teams for some lively softball competition. Rollin Hughes in charge of the tournament may be reached in the biology building, ext. 121. It takes ten to tangle! . . . The Chem department’s ping-pong tournament is near its end. Jim Sturm and Bob Souffle reached the semi-finals . . ,
... For the ‘Phcntom Four’ Platform
Class election time is again at hand, and candidates are busy polishing up their platforms and shaking hands. For the aid and edification of these candidates, the “Phantom Four” platform is hereby offered as a guide to mental coercion of voters.
This platform appeared on the walls of the junior halls last year at this time, and apparently was designed as the platform to end all platforms. Their names were listed on the circular as Phantom No. 1 for president, Phantom No. 4 for vice-president, Phantom No. 2 for secretary, and Phantom No. 3 for treasurer. They were not registered with the Blue Circle and didn’t win, but I’m told they did get a few write-in votes on the first ballot.
Here is the Phantom Four platform as it appeared in its entirety:
No Vague Promises:
No Pious Platitudes:
Read our platform and then write in the Phantom Four for Senior Offices.
PLATFORM
Dining Hall
1.	Breakfast from 6 to 6:15, to
We were asked to dispel certain rumors in regard to last week’s candidacy party in the Vet Rec Hall. Contrary to all rumors: Norm MacArthur did not have his water gun with him; Bruce MacGowan did not say anything derogatory about the Midwest; Tony Verbiscar did not argue with Art Ober-ster; T.V. did not argue with Bob Majewski; T.V. did not argue with anybody; Ed Cochran did not slip away early because he was lonesome; Bob Kane did not talk about the Yankees all night; Lou Glunz did not play poker with Jim O’Brien. On the other hand we were told that during the game that was played the Prince of Wales lost something and nobody could find it. Well, better than dominos, we guess. And de gustibus non est dis-putandum . . .
Our own Top of the Week: some lucky ones are gonna have a party . . . Our own Bottom of the Week: . . . thanks to the historian who did not leave us after all.
Bob Wray
Ivan de Huszovsky
eliminate students gulping breakfast to make 8 o’clock classes.
2.	In order that Mr. Ford will know exactly how many meals to prepare, tickets for dinner and supper will be given out at breakfast.
3.	So everyone can meet his fellow students, students being served in the West Dining Hall will eat in the East Hall, and vice versa.
4.	To alleviate crowded conditions, freshmen and sophomores will eat only on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays; upperclassmen on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. To show no favoritism, no one will eat on Sundays.
Classes ■
1.	Since so many students have overcut classes, the present system is unsatisfactory. Next year—no cuts.
2.	Next year we will introduce a special course for all students on the History and Culture of Notre Dame, taught Saturday afternoons from 3 to 5.
3.	We guarantee everyone 6 eight o’clock classes, preferably phy ed, . which will be taught all four years.
4.	To eliminate rushing between classes, no one will have two consecutive classes.
Social
1.	We are against the present caste system among classes; seniors will have the same privileges that freshmen get.
2.	Rigid enforcement of out of bounds regulations.
3.	Suggested social events: (a) Weekly walks around the lakes with faculty members; (b) In lieu of the present softball games and to allow wider participation, calisthenics in Badin Bog every evening.
Laundry
1. The laundry has guaranteed us that they will continue their high standards. We can see no room for improvement. Keep up the good work, Laundry.
Already two of our proposals —12 o’clock classes and curtailment of weekend privileges—have been adopted. Think what we can do for you with the power of the class offices behind us.
GO PHANTOM
—Bob Finney
May 1, 1953
23
Maintenance Crew Exercises Green Thumb To Make ND Home of Every Bloomin' Thing
Sowing grass seed, rolling the lawn and spading the garden is a Springtime Saturday chore for most householders. But tending the lawns, flower beds, and shrubbery on Notre Dame’s beautiful 1,700-acre campus is a fulltime job for 16 men.
The campus gardening crew currently is sowing more than 600 pounds of Kentucky bluegrass seed. Six thousand tulip, hyacinth, and gladioli bulbs, carefully tended in the greenhouse during the winter, soon will be blooming in dozens of flower beds spotted over the campus. To help nature along, the Notre Dame gardeners have spread 15 tons of chemical fertilizers.
“This year we have more to do than I ever remember,” says Head Gardener Mike Mozer, who has been manicuring the Notre Dame landscape for 18 years. "Tn addition to our regular Spring work, we have to landscape three new buildings,” Mozer said. He was referring to the Nieuwland Science Hall, Fisher Residence Hall, and the O’Shaughnes-sey Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts, all completed since last Fall.
In addition to caring for grass and gardens, Mozer’s crew has more than a thousand trees and countless bushes and shrubs to trim and spray. Trees which Mozer planted as saplings in the mid-thirties have now matured and add new beauty to the campus. His special pride is 78 matched trees lining the new quadrangle from the Rockne Memorial to O’Shaughnessey Hall.
The Spring planting and cultivation is only the beginning of the season’s work. With the arrival of warm weather, four men are occupied full-time cutting grass on the campus. Three more of the garden crew spend all their time trimming, edging, and weeding around the flower-beds and trees. Late in May, 450 petunia and geranium plants will be
COMING NEXT WEEK
In conjunction with the Senior Boll weekend, the Scholastic will present a ‘Salute to the Seniors’ next week. This special issue, the first of its kind, will include information about the Ball, past and present, a four-year review, and results of the senior poll, plus many other features in an 11 -page senior section.
—Editor
set in flower-boxes at the entrance to the Morris Inn.
It’s no accident that the Notre Dame campus is regarded as one of the most beautiful in the country. Those buds and blossoms are the result of careful planning and plenty of hard work.
Cisco Kid and Pancho Rustle Student Throng
While running between classes, Notre Dame students stopped, stared, then stared again as a shiny yellow Cadillac came to a stop at the circle. For out
PANCHO, FATHER MENDEZ, CISCO “Zees Gun For Hire?”
stepped none other than the Cisco Kid and his accomplice, Pancho.
The “Robin Hood of the West” was immediately besieged by a horde of autograph seekers who sought to gain publicity by being the first on their floor to get the hero’s signature.
Known as Duncan Renaldo and Leo Carrillo .in real life, the Cisco Kid and Pancho are currently seen every Tuesday night from 7:30 to 8 p.m. on channel 34.
The two heroes of television and cinema stopped off here briefly Monday afternoon while enroute from Puerto Rico to Chicago for a public appearance. While here, they visited with Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., whose brother is an old friend of the Kid’s.
Aside from creating ogling crowds and signing numerous autographs, the Kid fired a volley of shots .outside the Law Building in .a demonstration of his ballistic ability.
Seven Thousand Converted
In Door-to-Door Canvass
Rev. John A. O’Brien, C.S.C., reports on the effectiveness of lay recruiters in the Catholic convert movement in an article entitled “Lay People Win Converts,” featured in the May issue of the Messenger of the Sacred Heart.
Father O’Brien reviews the methods used and success attained in a diocesanwide drive launched by Bishop Buddy in San Diego during which door-to-door canvassers in each parish recruited 1,900 non-Catholics for instructions and won back 4,800 fallen away Catholics.
The canvassers met with a friendly response in almost every instance, the article asserts, and many non-Catholics were pleasantly surprised to find Catholics interested in them. One housewife contacted in the campaign is quoted as stating, “I’m surprised and delighted to learn that we non-Catholics are welcome to attend Catholic services and forums which explain Catholic teachings.”
In his article, Father O’Brien declares that “Bishop Buddy’s success in securing the largest turnout of lay campaigners in the history of the' American convert movement convincingly demonstrates that great numbers of converts can be gained by enlisting Catholic lay men and women as recruiters.”
Macy's Looks For Execs; Durkin Advises Seniors
Macy’s Department Store', New York City and Detroit, will have a representative in the Main Building next Monday, the Placement Bureau has announced.
The interviewer from Macy’s will be seeking interested and qualified June graduates for executive posts. Anyone interested should register at the Placement Office in the basement of the Main Building as soon as possible.
Seniors in business administration appear to have' a bright future in the business world according to Secretary of Labor Martin P. Durkin.
Durkin advises that a person’s first post-collegiate job should fit into a plan based on relationships between his own interests, abilities and training, and lon§-range economic opportunities.
Secretary Durkin continues by informing June Graduates that those specialized in management and in such business techniques as accounting, advertising copywriting, and personnel management are particularly sought. Those who combine leadership qualities with technical skill will have the best opportunity for selection by large firms recruiting for potential executives.
24
The Scholastic
Old Timers Pit Lujack Against Leahy
r
JOHNNY LUJACK
Old Pro With New Plays
Linksmen Top Valpo; Face Bradley, State
After chalking up their third victory of the season last Saturday, Father Holderith’s linksmen will compete in two dual matches in the next week, tackling Bradley at Peoria tomorrow before returning to their home course where they will play host to Michigan State on Monday.
The Irish scored their second home win of the year last Saturday, turning back Valparaiso, 10-8, during intermittent showers. The four-man match play was limited to 18 holes. Notre Dame has been tied once.
Notre Dame swept the singles matches 7-5, but the two doubles matches were halved, l%-l/2.
Valpo’s Ron Gother captured the medalist honors with a five-over-par 76 defeating “Slats” Terry, who followed close behind with a 77. Irish Captain Tom Matey shot a 79, good enough to
(Continued on page 28)
Irish Greats of the Past Provide Stiff Test For '53 Varsity as Spring Practice Concludes
BY TOM WELLY
Tomorrow afternoon, Notre Dame’s Varsity football squad tabbed as a top contender for national honors, tackles the Old Timers in the annual windup of the spring training drills. The contest is under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley.
Leading the Irish grid greats of the past will be All-American Johnny Lu-
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS
VARSITY	OLD TIMERS
Don Penza (CJ.. LE .....Bob O’Neil
F. Varrichione.... Sam Palumbo		LT .. LG		Tom Murphy 	Tom Seaman
Jim Schrader.		C ...		Jerry Groom
M. Mavraides...	RG	Jack Al’sandrini
Art Hunter		RT .	...Virgil Bardash
Walt Cabral		RE .	...Jim Weithman
R. Guglielmi		QB .		John Lujack
Joe Heap 		LHB	....Jack Whelan
John Lattner		RHB		Dave Flood
Neil Worden			. FB .	...Ed Buczkiewicz
jack who will handle the reins for the air-minded Old Timers. Lujack, who was Notre Dame’s finest in a long line of outstanding quarterbacks, starred on Frank Leahy’s 1946 and 1947 national champions and captured the Heisman Trophy as the country’s top footballer of 1947. After four years with the Chicago Bears where he won all-league honors, Johnny Lujack returned to Notre Dame as quarterback coach under Leahy.
Groom’s Return to Test Linemen
Another All-American in the Old Timer lineup will be Jerry Groom, Captain and "center of the 1950 team who has starred as linebacker for the Chi
cago Cardinals for the past two seasons.
In addition to Lujack and Groom it is anticipated that the usual number of former stars will appear unannounced to rejoin their former teammates in the gridiron wars. The contest will also mark the termination of the collegiate careers of this year’s senior gridders. Captain Jack Alessandrini, Dave Flood, Al Kohanowich, Bob O’Neil, Tom Mur-, phy, Tom Seaman, Virgil Bardash, Jim Weithman, Ed Buczkiewicz and Jack Whelan are among those listed for tomorrow’s action.
Coach Leahy plans to split this year’s Varsity squad into two groups so as to strengthen the Old Timers and to provide a greater majority of men with game experience. Of added interest will be the first opportunity to view next year’s varsity under the new controversial two-way rule. With the
JERRY GROOM
Biggest Threat to Varsity Line
May 1, 1953
25
elimination of the two-platoon system, the players must go (both ways) on offense and defense because a substitution will eliminate the man from further competition in that quarter. In order to compensate for the change, last year’s offensive starters will see defensive action and the Irish stonewall defense will try its hand at offense.
Veteran Backfield in Operation Again
The Fighting Irish will start last season’s offensive backfield as it remains intact for the fall campaign. Ralph Guglielmi and Tom Carey will vie for the quarterback slot while AllAmerican Johnny Lattner and Joe Heap will be at the halfback posts. Neil Worden will complete the quartet, operating from the fullback position. With twenty-odd letter men returning and a host of promising but untested freshmen bolstering the unit, the Varsity should provide plenty of opposition for the Old Timers.
With the game marking the end of the NCAA allotted 20-day spring practice session, the adaptability of the Irish towards the new substitution system looms as the number one concern facing Coach Leahy and his staff as they prepare for another treacherous schedule.
The schedule:
Sept. 26—Oklahoma at Norman Oct. 3—Purdue at Lafayette Oct. 17—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame Oct. 24—Georgia Tech at Notre Dame Oct. 31—Navy at Notre Dame Nov. 7—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia Nov. 14—North Carolina at Chapel Hill Nov. 21—Iowa at Notre Dame
Nov. 28—So. California at Los Angeles Dec. 5—So. Methodist at Notre Dame
ALL-AMERICAN LATTNER Johnny-On-The-Spot
Winds, Rain Hamper Thinlies; Missouri Next
A three-way tie for first place by the Irish’s pole vaulter Jim Harrington was the best Notre Dame could do in either meet as the Wilsonmen split their forces last week-end between the Drake Relays at Des Moines, Iowa, and the 59th annual Penn Relays at Philadelphia.
Other Irish places included a twoway tie for second by ND’s other reliable vaulter Joe Springer, a third in the 480-yard shuttle hurdles, and a fifth in the 440-yard relay. Both meets were held under adverse weather conditions. The Drake Relays were run in a driving rain, and winds ranging up to 25 miles hampered the events at Philadelphia.
Springer Outvaults Teammate
Harrington, the only Irish emissary to the eastern meet, tied with Bob Linne of Rhode Island State and Van Zimmerman of Penn at 13’4”. Springer vaulted higher than his mate Harrington at Drake; however, he had to settle for a tie with Dave Kenly of Arizona State of Tempe. Winner Jerry Wel-bourn of Ohio State cleared the bar at 13’9”, topping Springer and Kenly by three inches. Both Irish vaulters performed below their usual season average.
As expected, Illinois dominated the 44th annual running of the Drake classic gaining six firsts, two seconds and two thirds. The Illini have now won the Drake title more than any other individual school.
Individual stars, rather than a team, were outstanding at Philadelphia. Distance runner Len Truex, former Ohio State star, and Art Bragg, Morgan State (N. J.) sprinter, shone in their individual events. Truex won the Ben Franklin mile in 4:10 while Bragg figured in three Morgan State victories. He anchored the 440 and 880-yard relays, and clipped off the 100-yard dash in :09.7.
Shuttiers Finish Third
The Irish shuttle-hurdle team of Capt. Ed Powell, Jim Baker, John Campagnone, and Harvey Newquist finished third behind winner Illinois and second-place Michigan State. The Illini broke the tape after 60.5 seconds had elapsed. In the 440-yard relay Notre Dame finished fifth behind Illinois first, Oklahoma second, Houston third, and Marquette fourth.
Norm Feltes 440, Dick O’Keefe 880,
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
May 1 TENNIS — Northwestern at Evanston
May 2 TRACK —Missouri at Missouri
May 2 TENNIS—Iowa at Iowa
May 2 GOLF—Bradley at Peoria
May 2 FOOTBALL—Old Timers ,	at N. D.
Stadium
May 4 GOLF—Michigan	State
at Notre Dame
May 6 BASEBALL—Michigan State at Lansing
George Helfenstein %-mile, Jack Alexander mile, and Harry Snyder two-mile, were Wilson’s other distance runners. In the field events, both Jack Shea and Jack Sassano represented the Irish in the discus.
Tomorrow the Irish travel to Columbia, Mo., for a dual meet with the University of Missouri. Both Harrington and Springer will be out to top the 14-foot mark for the first time in the outdoor season.
Irish Skippers Out to Upset Favorites at East Lansing
The Notre Dame Sailing team turn their eyes towards Michigan State tomorrow and Sunday in the Sailing Re-gionals and their second straight victory in as many weeks. Purdue and Michigan rank strong favorites. The Irish won the Indiana State Championships in their last outing.
The two top teams in the regionals will then move over to Columbus, Ohio, on May 16, 17 to compete in the Midwest Championships. Other East Lansing entrants include Toledo, Detroit, and the host Spartans.
Last week’s victory on Whitmore Lake near Lafayette marked the second straight year the Irish captured the coveted trophy. In breezing to an easy win Notre Dame compiled 38 out of a possible 40 points.
Skipper Bill Streeter crossed the fin-, ish line first three times to lead the Irish as they copped six firsts and two seconds behind a favorable wind. Other ND helmsmen were Commodore Ed Rodgers, Bob Gervais, John Steger and Jim Rosenheimer.
Both Purdue and DePauw finished in a dead heat for second place with a total of 32 points, while Indiana came in last with 26.
The Scholastic
26
ND Basebailers Hand Wisconsin First Loss; Take on Michigan State Spartans Wednesday
BY ERWIN ALFONSUS
On Wednesday, May 9, the Notre Dame baseball team travels to East Lansing, Mich., to face the Michigan State Spartans. The Spartans are coached by John Kobs, head diamond mentor at State since 1925.
Although the team fared very poorly on its spring training jaunt through the southland, indications are that brighter prospects are in view for the Spartans. One victory in nine starts is the best they could do on their 27th annual trip. That was the worst preseason mark ever compiled by a Kobs-coached nine.
Pitching Problems Brighten
Pitching was the major problem, but the present mound corps seems to have improved considerably. Chuck Gorman, a letterwinner two years ago, was off form down South and had to be satisfied with an 0-2 record. Bob Dangl, also with an 0-2 record, turned in a brilliant 4-hit job against Duke but fell 1-0 in the last half of the ninth after- spotty fielding got him in trouble. Bud Erickson seems to be the Spartans’ number one fireman, for although he saw little action last season, he became the workhorse of the Spartans down south and got the lone win in relief.
In the batting department the Spartans are weak, hitting the ball at a meager .219 team average. However, sophomore Stan Turner, first Negro ever to play varsity baseball with the Spartans, is hitting the ball at a .333 clip and appears to have nailed down the shortstop job. Wayne Lawrie, who took over at second base in the second game of the trip, stayed there throughout and hit .292 in eight games.
Yewcic Behind the Plate
Catcher Tom Yewcic, football quarterback, and outfielders Bob Dilday, Jack Risch, and Dan Brown should prove very valuable to the Spartan attack. Captain and right-fielder Dilday was the top RBI man down South with eight and also clouted a double and two home runs. Brown can also be used as a catcher.
Ken Stanick and Bob Powell also are outfield prospects, and Dick Edin and Stanick could possibly see action behind the plate.
At second base Lawrie will be backed up by Chuck Bodary, Bill Hopping and
Jack Hofstetter. Hopping could also fill in at short. Jack Zeitler is the No. 1 man at third base. At first base Bob Williams is available to challenge the capable Chuck Matthews.
This game marks the season’s first meeting between these two clubs. They will meet again on May 27 here at Cartier Field.
LEN LERose Hot Corner Guardian
ND Hands Badgers First Loss
On May 22, the Irish nine avenged an earlier 6-4 loss at the hands of Wisconsin, and snapped the Badgers’ winning streak at ten in a row with an 8-4 win. The effective pitching of Stan Konopka and the heavy hitting of his teammates gave Notre Dame the decision on their home grounds.
Both teams collected eight hits apiece, but the Irish bingles seemed to come at more opportune times. Centerfielder Mark Tremblay was the leading Irish batter as he drove in three runs with two singles in four trips to the plate. Stan Krysa, the Badgers’ centerfielder, more than matched Tremblay’s achievements as he collected four hits in five times at bat and made six putouts in the outfield. However, his erratic throws accounted for several Irish scoring opportunities.
Sophomore Bob Burger toiled seven innings for Wisconsin and was charged with the loss. Tuttle came on to relieve him in the ninth, but the damage had already been done.
Konopka moved into the eighth inning on the long side of an 8-1 decision, but the Badgers capitalized on Irish miscues to gain three unearned runs. One of Notre Dame’s four errors was Dick Colloton’s first miscue of the season. The junior second baseman had handled 71 chances in 12 contests before he threw wildly to second in the Wisconsin game.	.
A single by shortstop Hal Reilly was (Continued on page 31)
NeHers Nip Badgers; Face NU. Hawkeyes
With a close opening-match victory over Wisconsin under their belts, Notre Dame’s tennis team takes to the road this weekend for matches with Northwestern and Iowa. The Irish vie with the Wildcats at Evanston today and the Hawkeyes at Iowa City tomorrow.
Coach Langford’s team registered wins over both foes last season, edging NU, 5-4 and whipping Iowa, 6-3. The all-time ND tennis record stands at seven wins, 16 losses with Northwestern and two wins, one loss with the Hawks.
In their opener on April 22, the Irish netters had to go all out to defeat highly-rated Wisconsin, 5-4. The match was played on the Irish courts. Notre Dame chalked up four victories in the single ■ matches and one in the doubles.
Wally Clarke, ND’s sophomore star, came from behind to whip the Badgers’ Jack Vincent in the first match of the day. Vincent won the first set, 6-4, but Clarke blasted his way to two 6-3 triumphs in the second and third sets.
Bob Ryan of Wisconsin evened matters by beating Irish co-captain, Ken Angyal, 2-6, 6-3, 7-5. In the third match, co-captain Ray Smith put Notre Dame ahead again by topping Jack Schmidtman, 0-6, 6-0, 6-2, but Wisconsin’s Bill Rudelius tied it again by beating ND’s Matt Tuite, 6-2, 6-3. Maurice Reidy and Don Crowley gave the Irish a 4-2 advantage by sweeping the final two matches in straight sets. Reidy took the measure of Bill Rom-ery, 6-2, 6-3 while Crowley beat Bob Hentzen, 6-4, 6-0.
In the doubles, Wisconsin copped the first two matches but lost the all-important finale. Vincent and Schmidtman of the Badgers beat Clarke and Reidy 3-6, 7-5, 6-2; Ryan and Rudelius topped ND’s Angyal and Smith, 15-13, 2-6, 6-3. Tuite and Crowley were the winning Irish duo in the third doubles match, defeating Owen Roberts and Don Peterson of Wisconsin, 6-1, 6-3.
May 1, 1953
27

By Jack Sand
The Day of Reckoning
Roughly 25 years ago,
the late great Knute Rockne inaugurated a
football game between the
Notre Dame varsity and the Irish stars of
previous seasons to give some incentive for the winding up of spring practice. Thus, the traditional Old Timers game came into being, with all the color and attractiveness of a regular season contest, in addition
JOHNNY LUJACK
Old Stuff to Him
to the familiar sound of All-American feet.
Tomorrow’s fanfare, before an expectant throng of approximately 15,000, will no doubt hear the pitter-patter of these same feet, with particular emphasis placed on the pair of dogs worn by an old All-American who’s not so old after all—the incomparable Johnny Lujack. There’s little need to tell of Lujack’s exploits on the gridiron because almost every football fanatic knows them. What they probably don’t know is that Johnny has never lost a game in the stadium, a record he hopes to keep intact when he faces Lattner and Co. tomorrow.
Whether he knows it or not, Lujack is undertaking the most difficult quarterbacking task of his 10-year career. Those who remember the 1948 Old Timer brawl, recollect that Lujack almost single-handedly directed the vets
Rod Duff fo Captain Fencing Squad in '54
Rod Duff, junior from Peabody, Mass., holds the distinction of being the first epee man in five years to captain an Irish fencing team. After a four year monopoly by foil and sabre, Duff, a Political Science major, was named captain of the 1954 Notre Dame squad.
Duff won 24 matches and lost only 12 in individual competition the past season to help the Irish through another record season of 13 victories and one defeat. A flip of a coin, won by teammate John McGinn, cost Duff the chance to represent the Irish in the epee division in the NCAA Fencing Championships at Philadelphia.
Besides being the first epee fencer in five years to become captain, Duff also holds the honor of being the only sophomore on last year’s squad to win a monogram. He compiled a 6-3 record as a first year man in varsity competition.
He credits inuch of his success to his brother Brian, a monogram-winning epee fencer on the 1951 and 1952 Irish team.
to a 20-14 win over the varsity. But things were different then. He had bulldozers like George Connor, Ziggy Czarobski, and Joe Signaigo out in front of him, and a couple of speedsters named Bob Livingstone and Billy Gompers carrying his handoffs. Most of the Old Timers on that squad were graduates of the 1947 National Champs, just as most of the veterans in the 1950 Old Timer victory were members of the 1949 championship team.
But the glorious post-war grid days are mere memories. Tomorrow is May 2, 1953, a fact that even Lujack can’t deny. Nor can he deny that when he fades back to throw his first pass, he’ll be throwing it against an outfit that can be compared with the 1947 varsity he once led.
ROD DUFF
Langford’s No. 1 Blade
Prediction of the Week
The obvious conclusion is that Lujack is going to lose his first football game in the stadium. If he doesn’t, then Coach Frank Leahy, and Coach Lujack himself will really have something to worry about. The score: Varsity 34, Old Timers 7.	.
Stan the Man
When Stan Konopka stopped Wisconsin’s 10-game winning streak by pitching the Irish to an 8-4 win over the Badgers, it was his fourth straight victory of the 1953 season without a loss and his third over Big Ten opposition. With Konopka on the mound the Irish have downed Memphis Naval Air Station, 11-1, Indiana, 11-3, and Illinois, 13-2, in addition to the Wisconsin win.	*
The six-foot-two, 200-pound senior right-hander also pitched 81/3 innings of the 4-4 deadlock with Iowa, and three scoreless frames to save Notre Dame’s 6-5 win over Mississippi. In 471 /3 innings Konopka has allowed only 36 hits, walked 27, and struck out 24.
As a sophomore .in 1951, Konopka won five games and lost four for an Irish team that won only 11 contests. Last season the Jersey City, N. J., hurler had trouble with his control and finished the year with a 2-2 record.
Golf
(Continued from page 25) beat Valpo’s Alan Holmes of South Bend.
Summary of the matches: Singles: Tom Matey (79) Notre Dame, defeated Holmes (81) Valparaiso, 2 to 1; Gother (76) Valparaiso defeated Terry (77) Notre Dame, 2% to /s, Joe Moresco (77) Notre Dame defeated Berning (79) Valparaiso 2% to /s, and Paul Minnick (80) Notre Dame defeated Vaughn (84) Valparaiso 2 to 1.
Doubles: Matey and Terry, Notre Dame, and Gother and Holmes, Valparaiso, halved match, 1% to 1%; Moresco and Minnick, Notre Dame, and Berning and Vaughn, Valparaiso, halved match, 1% to l/>.

28
The Scholastic
"Meet Mr. Callahan"
Early in December of 194-5, the late Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., then President of the University of Notre Danie, received a letter from Bob Considine syndicated sports columnist for the New York Journal-American, recommending a gangling, gravel-throated young man of thirty to the Sports Publicity Department of Notre Dame. “Charlie knows more sports editors and radio broadcasters in more cities than anyone of my acquaintance,” Considine said, referring to Charle's Martin Callahan, who today may be numbered in the ranks of the nations leading press agents.
Always A Big Name
Charlie has always been a publicity man, for one thing or another, since the days he' left the campus at Notre Dame with a sheepskin under one arm and a typewriter under the other. He has also been a publicity agent for some of the greatest names the realms of sportdom has ever produced. Since the latter part of 1944, the name Callahan has been synonymous with outstanding athletic figures.
It was during this year when the war was slowly terminating that Callahan and three other service pluggers extolled the glories of the Second Air Force Superbombers football team, which any gridiron student will probably remember as a team composed of such brilliant performers as Glenn Dobbs, Ray Evans, Frankie Sinkwich, Tom Fears and Bulldog Turner. Callahan seemed destined to be a promoter of only the best.
Within a ■ year’s time after his discharge in 1945, Charlie Callahan became the leading drumbeater for a football team that was envied by all. . . . Notre Dame', an unconquerable bunch of brawn that won 39 consecutive games between the time Charlie bought his first civilian hat in 1946, until the second game of 1950 when Charlie finally disposed of it.
An example of how the demands of Notre Dame fans keep Charlie hopping can be cited from an article published a few years ago by one of this countries leading magazines. It stated as follows, that upon arriving home bone-tired one night after- twelve hours of struggling with syndicates, radio executives, sports writers and several indignant small town publishers who didn’t like their 30-yard line seats, it was a relief for him to fall into bed. Callahan shortly was asleep when all of a sudden the phone rang.
“Hey, tell me this,” asked a bemused
fan over the long-distance wire, “what do football players dream about?”
Actually Callahan is seldom home long enough to be aggravated by such perplexing nightmares. He may be in Chicago today, Boston tomorrow, or winging his way to New Orleans the next morning. Normally Charlie will spend a week or so before a football game telling how good the team he represents is. At the same time he pessimistically will spend just as much time convincing the skeptics that the opposing team has a pretty fair chance of beating Frank Leahy’s Irish come Saturday afternoon.
Around the clock football publicity has alone proven that sports salesmanship is the fastest-moving business in the whole field of public relations. For Charlie, it is probably even faster than most other colleges or universities carrying on an average amount of football since football publicity alone starts about two weeks before the opening of spring practice.
Fast Moving Business
From-then on it’s touch and go. News reels and still photographers must be summoned to catch the captain and the mascot dog crashing through a paper sign. Stories and short personality sketches of each player must be sent to each of the home town papers from where each boy on the squad has come from. Personal interviews with the top 10 or 15 players must be taken care of, just as visiting reporters and photographers must be' given advance information that will appear on the newsstands come late August and early September.
Finally, the long awaited summer vacation arrives. Baseball, track, tennis and golf are' over. But what about football, which provides Charlie with little or no time off for a vacation. Information now has to be gathered from the questionnaires that were filled out by the gridders in the spring. Interviews with the coaches are necessary, in order to complete the football dope book that must be mailed to the press and radio all over the country before the start of fall practice on Sept. 1. At the same time pictures and mats must be’ sent to approximately 1,000 newspapers, radio and TV representatives. Mailing this itinerary alone takes almost three full days.
Now that the big mailing list has been completed, editorial matter, and feature stories that are read on the football Saturdays of October and November-must be written. Nine-tenths of the pro-
CHARLIE CALLAHAN Drumbeater Deluxe
gram work also has to be over in preparation for the start of fall practice'.
With the arrival of game time, also arrives the personnel that belongs to Charlie’s favorite abode, the Pressbox. Here, some 60 feet above the playing field, cram 400 people in various working capacities, all under the charge of Mr. Callahan. Of all the available 264 seats, three sections are set aside for dailies and wire' service representatives. Another section is reserved for newspapermen in this vicinity, while a third is allotted to the scouts from other schools.
ND’s Amazing Statisticians
After the opening kickoff another type of work gets underway, that of the statisticians, who at halftime and after ■ the final whistle distribute the statistics they have compiled. Within two minutes after the game is over scoring and substitution summaries are mimeographed and given out. After 10 minutes have elapsed, team and individual statistics are furnished thus completing one of the most impressive pressbox systems in the country.
Charlie points out at this interval that during the season you are' always under a constant bit of pressure. Everyone whom you’ve ever met in your life has their eye on you for a pair of tickets. But the topper of them all comes on the Friday night before the game when you host a press party for the visiting pressmen. The chances are things will be running smoothly enough that you can have a bottle' of beer, when inevitably someone will look at you and say, “Gee, it must be a soft life, attending parties likes this, and traveling around the country with the team.” So, you count to 10 slowly and ironically say, “Yeah, it’s a soft life.”—J. S.
May 1, 1953
29
Three European Trips Offer Summer Studies
Three complete European studytravel programs and two Summer travel programs have been announced for 1953 by Mr. Clarence E. Giese, director of the Institute of European Studies, Inc., of Chicago.
Study programs are specifically for students, while the travel programs are not restricted.
Besides traveling in many countries, the students participating in the study programs will live in Vienna throughout the duration of their five to ninemonth terms, taking special courses at the Institute and at the University of Vienna. All courses are taught in English.
Leading the travel programs is the Nine Country Tour. It will include visits to England, Holland, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, France, Spain, and North Africa.
Highlighting this 61-day sojourn will be a week in Austria—Vienna, Salz-bourg, and the Alps; 18 days in Italy —Venice, Rome, Naples, and Florence;
“Then I said—Give me the ball, Ralph!”
two weeks in Spain—Madrid, Barcelona, Toledo, and Seville; one week in North Africa—Spanish and French Morocco; six days in Paris; and three days in Germany — Heidelberg and Cologne.
Flights will depart from New York on June 17, 24, and July 1 and 8. They will leave London Aug. 17, 24, 31, and Sept. 7. Student price is $760, while the non-student rate is $860.
A second program—the European Highlight Travel Program—will include stops in France, Italy, Austria, Spain, Germany, England, and North Africa.
The 35-day exodus will depart from New York on Sept. 15 on the new Italian liner, Andrea Doria, and will leave Southampton, England, Oct. 15 on the Cunard Lines’ Queen Mary. Price will be $695.
Transportation to and from Europe will be strictly tourist calibre.
The full academic year of 10 months —September to July—will run $1,100. The Fall semester program of five and one-half months—September to February—will cost $985, as will the Spring semester program from February to July.
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, May 4—Feast of St. Monica, Widow.
Tuesday, May 5—Feast of St. Pius V, Pope and Confessor.
Wednesday, May 6—Feast of St. John the Apostle Before the Lateran Gate.
Thursday, May 7—Feast of St. Stanislaus, Martyr, Bishop.
Friday, May 8—Apparition of St. Michael, Archangel.
Saturday, May 9—Feast of St. Gregory Nazianzen, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor of the Church.
Language Students to Attend Summer School in Mexico
For the seventh successive year the Department of Modern Languages here will send a group of students to study at Mexico City College during the Summer quarter from June 16 to Aug. 26, 1953.
Emphasis is placed on work in Spanish and in Spanish American culture and customs, but standard undergraduate courses in the humanities, the social sciences, and the natural sciences are offered as well.
Information can be obtained from Mr. Walter M. Langford, head of the Department of Modern Languages here. Mr. Langford is a member of the board of advisers for this program which promotes better inter-American understanding.
RO's to Join South Benders1 Armed Forces Parade May 9
On May 9 the Notre Dame Band, Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC units will join 56 other patriotic groups to help South Bend celebrate Armed Forces Day with an annual parade and official ceremony.
Originally set for May 16, Armed Forces Day in South Bend has been moved up a week so as not to conflict ■with the dedication ceremonies of the O’Shaughnessy Building on May 16. The slogan for this year’s ceremony is “Power for Peace.”
In addition to the ND contingents, the parade will include delegations from the South Bend schools, veterans’ organizations, and the services.
Representing Notre Dame on the re
■	The Scholastic
30
viewing stand will be Mr. Robert O’Brien, band director; Lt. Col. George M. Cookson, PMST Army ROTC; Capt. Frank P. Luongo, Naval ROTC; and Col. Melie J. Coutlee, PAST Air ROTC. Guest of honor will be Brig. Gen. V. J. McCaul, USMC, director of public information for the Marine Corps.
The route of the parade will be North on Michigan to Colfax, West on Colfax to Main, and South on Main to the courthouse. At the courthouse there will be a memorial service and an address by General McCaul. A crowd of 20,000 is expected to watch the parade and ceremony.
TWA Sponsors 25 Summer Travel-Study Tours Abroad
More than 25 combination travel and study tours for students and teachers have been announced for this Summer, by Dr. John H. Furbay, manager of Air World Education of Trans World Airlines.
The tours cover nearly every free nation in Europe, and some include the Middle East. All tours have the services of a qualified conductor. Certain tours also include a choice of four-week seminars at leading European universities.
One of the seminar tours, lasting six weeks for the inclusive price of $1189, visits France, England, and Switzerland, and includes a four-week seminar in International Education in connection with the International Education Conference in Geneva. It is specifically designed for teachers who desire to study international affairs in Europe.
Lafayette College, in cooperation with TWA, will sponsor a globe-circling tour, leaving San Francisco the first week of July, returning from Paris six to eight weeks later. The inclusive price of this toui- is approximately $2095.
Full details on these tours are available at any TWA office.
WUS-Sponsored Seminar In India to Begin June 7
World University Service committee of India and Canada is sponsoring a seminar on “The Human Implications of Development Planning,” this Summer in India. American students and faculty members are eligible to participate in this study and analysis of the economic, social, and political situation in Asia and North America, with particular reference to South Asia and Canada.
Over 100 delegates will attend the five-week seminar, which ■will begin on approximately June 7 at a Hill Station in India. Following the seminar, participants will split into small groups, tour Asian universities and visit development projects in Southern and Southeast Asia.
Delegates will represent such countries as Pakistan, Thailand, Indonesia, Ceylon, Burma, and Malaya, as well as Canada, India, and the United States.
Participants will be chosen for their intellectual calibre and record of participation in extra-curricular activities. Expenses will be partially subsidized by the WSSF from a Ford Foundation grant.
Application blanks may be acquired through the student governments of National Student Association member schools.
Baseball
(Continued from page 27) followed by a double by Catcher Dick Gaberik to give the Irish a 1-0 lead in the second inning. The Irish tallied again in the third when Len LeRose, fiery third baseman, was safe on an error, moved to third on a wild pitch, and scored on Colloton’s fly to center. The Badgers countered with one run in the fourth inning on rightfielder Gust Vergetis’ walk and Ron Barbian’s long triple, but only one Wisconsin
“Boy, this blind date was really a Knockout.”
player reached the base paths during-the next three innings.
Tremblay Hits in Clutch
In the Irish half of the sixth a four-run spurt boosted the lead to 6-1, and two more tallies in the seventh inning-clinched the verdict for ND. First sacker Dick Rosenthal led off the sixth with a single, and moved to second on left fielder Roger Braun’s hard hit off Burger’s toe. Reilly then walked to load the bases. Tremblay then singled to center, scoring two. Krysa’s wild throw allowed Reilly to score and moved Tremblay around to third base. Ron Pavlik, Badger shortstop let Dick Gaberik's grounder go through him and Tremblay scored for the final run of the inning. In the seventh the Badgers handed the Irish another pair on walks to Rosenthal and Reilly, Tremblay’s single and another wild throw by Krysa.
This victory gave the Irish a record of nine wins, three losses, and a tie. Konopka has accounted for four of these wins and was the pitcher in the 4-4 tie with Iowa.
Roger Braun continues to spearhead the Irish batting attack. He leads the team in hits with 20; in doubles with five; in runs with 15; in RBI’s with. 20, and in triples with three. The Athens, Wis., senior’s .350 batting average is also high among the Irish regulars.
May 1, 1953
31
'Brute Farce'
(Continued from page 9) taining four “zoot suits” for the quasi gangsters, but local flashy dressers surrendered their suits in order that the show could go on..
In addition to the two romantic leads, played by Gerry Boehling and Wilma Burke, there will be a multitude of character parts which include: two energetic freshmen, Johnnie and Janie, played by Jim Kinnane and Gayle Baumer; Gerry Godwin as Homer, who finds
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
PIZZA SPAGHETTI FRIED CHICKEN Every day but Sunday You’re always welcome at.. .
ROCCO'S
537 N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line
“A Rose is a Rose is a Rose..
So said Gertrude Stein. But poor Gert never got a chance to see the roses and other flora species South Bend Floral has to offer your date for the Senior Ball’s “Evening in Paradise.”
South Bend Floral offers you perfect taste in corsages . . . the freshest, most fragrant flowers obtainable, expertly corsaged to put that sparkle in your date’s eye without putting a dent in your wallet.
We’ll be glad to assist you in choosing the perfect corsage for her dress.
114 S. Michigan St. Ph. 3-8227
women revolting; and Dionella, portrayed by Denni Egry, who finds Homer throughout the two and one-half hour play; the four gun-toting hoodlums, Frank and Marty Brennan, Fred lonata, and Joe Sassano; their pistol packin’ mama, Joan Crawford; the athletic-minded president of Peabody U., Mrs. Rollingstone, Mary Jane Paden; and her private secretary played by Hildegarde Vargyas. Miss Vargyas sings Let Alotta Line Out late in the show.
Les Zaczek, business manager for the show, has announced that choice seats for the opening night and Saturday have been sold out, but that good seats are still available for Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday.
Scenery for the production was designed and constructed by Dave Hayes with the aid of Marion Leszczynski, Edward Sexauer, Don Rathgeb, and Charles Stepp.
Walter Stuhldreher, James Patterson, and Jack Fink are supervising the programs, while John Dwyer and Mike Grozier are handling tickets. Pat Riley is handling publicity.
Brute Farce succeeds Mr. and Mrs. Broadivay and Stay Tuned to Addleman
BOTH NICE!
Chrysler and Plymouth at
MOULDER MOTOR CO.
215 S. La Fayette
A Suggestion — Why not drive a new car home for the folks. The purchase price in South Bend is probably much less than at home. See . . .
Jack Moulder, Class of ’38
FRANKIE LANE
made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti Chicken
Ravioli Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 btks. N. of South Shore Station
of the past two years and is expected to set a precedent in musical comedy for the campus.
Mr. John Tumpane of the University Theatre has served in an advisory capacity for the show.
ROTC Officials Here Submit New Program
Lt. Col. George M. Cookson, professor of Military Science and Tactics of the Army ROTC unit, and Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C., director of Military Information have submitted a revamped program to the Civilian Panel on the General Military Science. If adopted, the program will be used in the 51 schools of the General Program in the country.
The new program has already been authorized for use at Notre Dame next semester, and recommended to the member schools for individual decision.
The meeting was held at the Pentagon Building in Washington, D. C., to discuss any recommendations for improvement in the ROTC program as presented this year. Colonel Cookson, through the official delegate, Father Woodward, submitted the plan that would eliminate many subdivisions of study and present a more unified and dynamic instruction curriculum.
During the past year the ROTC at Notre Dame has operated under the General Military Science Program, which was adopted in 1952 as an experiment in an effort to improve presentation of material. The program was designed to produce junior officers who would be thoroughly grounded in those principles of military art necessary to every army officer.
The new Notre Dame suggestions will simplify procedures, while retaining the points of original emphasis.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
SHRIMP IN THE BASKET $1 with all the trimmings
B-M HAMBURGERS
25 < with or without
Complete Home-cooked Meals at all times
BOWL-MOR GRILL Across from South Shore
The Scholastic

Michigan State Will Conduct Foreign Student Institute
A special Institute for foreign students who desire to participate in programs of technical cooperation sponsored by Point 4, United Nations, local governments, and private industry, will be conducted by Michigan State College, East Lansing, Mich., from June 22 to Aug. 7.
Full expense scholarships will be provided for selected foreign students by the U. S. Technical Cooperation Administration. The Institute of International Education and the National Association of Foreign Student Advisers are giving active support to this pilot project.
Objectives of the program are better understanding of the purposes and programs of the various projects of technical cooperation and a study of ways in which technically trained students can best utilize their knowledge and skills in the service of their home countries.
Interested foreign students should contact Rev. R. J. Lochner, C.S.C., at the Office of Academic Affairs.
Letters
(Continued from page 4)
But the letters in last week’s Scholastic on the chow hall were also unique. They typified this region well and set it apart; for where else could one find people seriously sitting down to write a formal defense of grumbling? Only in the Midwest where it seems so common and essential a part of life.
A start to remedy the current dissatisfaction with the Dining Hall-could be made if our student representatives would agitate for it, or if the adminis-
Aquinas
Library and Book Shop HAS Mother’s Day (arts
BOOKS FOR MARY’S MONTH ■
110 E. LASALLE ST.
tration would deem such efforts a worthy and important endeavor.
But this is not likely to come to pass because of what evidently is the prevailing attitude in these two groups. The only two attitudes that would excuse their present inaction are: it is good enough or as good as could be expected; under the circumstances a better job cannot be done. The fatalism embodied in these views is not very convincing.
How about it? Why don’t you force the issue?
A fellow sufferer,
Mike Costello 276 Dillon
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Welcome to
128 W. WASHINGTON
FREE
The thousands upon thousands of men who use precision tools will tell you that there are none better than Lufkin. AU Lufkin precision tools are the product of years of fine tool-making experience combined with the very latest design features. Experienced engineers know Lufkin tools are the most accurate they can buy. See the complete line of Lufkin tapes, rules, and precision tools at your hardware or tool store.
u,
-
buy tUPiCKM TAPES *RULES *PRECIS,ON TOOIS 0> yOur hardware or tool store
THE LUFKIN RULE CO., SAGINAW, MICH. 198
132-138 Lafayette St., New York City • Barrie, Ont.
e THE LUFKIN RULE CO., Saginaw, Michigan Please send me the interesting illustrated booklet, j "Micrometer Reading Made Easy!”
NAME____ ADDRESS.



now ABOUT WURHO6?
• Many a vacation is ruined just because of poor dancing. Don’t let this happen to you. Come in to Arthur Murray’s now and learn all the latest steps. You’ll find it’s quick and easy to learn at Arthur
. Murray’s. So don’t wait
another minute— enroll today and be all set for good times. Studios open 10 A.M. to 10 P.M.
Delightfully air-conditioned
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE
Call 2-3339
for Appointment
.STATE.
May 1, 1953
33
By Paul Zalecki
Within a few days the election post-■ers, platforms, and promises will have faded into the background, as the underclassmen go to the polls to choose their class officers and college representatives for next year.
For the successful candidates the rest of this year probably will be the easiest time they will have. Once the votes are tabulated they will be able to enjoy the prestige of their positions without being overly burdened by any of the duties which will fall upon them next year.
The Scholastic editorial of March 13 brought out the unrewarding aspects of student government. Now while the campaigning is in full swing, it might be worthwhile to quote a few sections from that editorial.
Frustration, Work, and Talk
“To begin with, we think the predominant emotion of your term of office, if you are elected, will be frustration. You will work and work, and talk and talk, going back and forth between administration and students. You will finally convince all necessary people that what you are proposing is -correct- and should be done. Then you will find out that most of your classmates won’t even notice what you’ve done, or if they have they will just shrug it off . . .
“Your main function, it would seem, will be that of a buffer and a scapegoat. You will be a buffer between the student body and the administration. You will take orders from both sides, try to keep both sides satisfied, and, if you have any time left, try to carry out worthwhile programs and activities ...”
Frustration is a good phrase to use. Even though this year’s Senate has been fairly productive and sound in their undertakings, there have been times when they wanted to act, but •could not get anywhere.
The well-known affair of the NIT is a case in point. Though the NIT did make some sort of a concession by laying forth its troubles before the Senate, the company refused to lower its Tates. They were as adamant as the administration probably would be if
faced with a proposal to eliminate night check.
Administration and the Senate
Strangely enough, the Administration is more respectful of the Senate than the students themselves. It was not too long ago that the President of the University took the trouble of appearing before the Senate in a closed session to explain the school’s disciplinary policy to them.
The students themselves usually have little regard for the Senate and often look upon it with indifference. Perhaps the administration tends to be more appreciative because they have a better idea of all the work which the Senate manages to do.
After all, unless a student happens to attend a Senate meeting, he seldom gets to know all that they are doing. Probably the one Senate action which all students clearly remember is the way in which they collected $1 from 97 per cent of the undergrads at the September registration.
Looking over the gloomy aspects of working on the Senate, one might very well ask if it is worthwhile. One of the ways to find out would be to ask the Senate members; in their more serious moments, they usually say that a student is not wasting his time to work on the Senate.
As Kerwin Fulton, the senior class president, commented, “There are a lot of thankless time-consuming tasks. But every once in a while you have the opportunity to do something which makes you feel as if it has been worthwhile.”
Of course what you can do depends upon a lot of things. It depends upon the Administration and its willingness to listen to your ideas. The Senate cannot do much if it does not have the authority to operate effectively. It also depends upon the student body. Little, if anything, of significance can be accomplished without their support.
The college senator, for example, can do a lot to foster the academic ends of a University. In the college of Arts and Letters, the creation of the Liberal Arts Student Advisory Board was largely the work of its Senator.
Earnest and Capable Men
Basically the effectiveness of the Senate obviously depends upon the men who serve .in it. It is not enough that they be earnest; they also have to be capable — capable of getting along with people, of organizing programs, of putting words and ideas into action.
Those running for this year’s offices would do well to review their own qualifications and make sure that they can do a good job if elected. They would do well to look over the record and men of this year’s Senate, for it has been a good one. Its members have not lost sight of the fact that they are not a select group set off from the rest of the students.
They have not suffered from any grandiose illusions about leading theii* brothers to the promised land of a school run and directed by the student government. On the whole, they have restricted themselves to their own field of activity and have been more concerned about making sure the class dances are run well than about the theoretical rights of student government.
If those who go to the polls next week are able to elect a group of men similar to the ones serving this year, they will have done well.
CANOE TRIPS into Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only H .85 to $5.40 per person per day. For free information write, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, BILL ROM, Box C, Ely, Minnesota
DRRWTURB0W
^OPTOMETRIST
--OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring In The Pieces” --EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel	4-5777
HEALTH | SP2T | S H O F
For Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
34
The Scholastic

McDonnell aircraft corporation
Graduate Study Plan FOR MASTER OF SCIENCE DOCTOR OF SCIENCE DEGREE
. . . The Plan in Brief . . .
PURPOSE—The purpose of the Plan is to assist B.S. Engineering Graduates in obtaining their advanced degrees while employed in industry, gaining valuable experience, and contributing to the national defense effort.
ELIGIBILITY—Candidates for the Plan must have a B.S. degree in one of the following fields:
Aeronautical Engineering Electrical Engineering Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering Electronic Engineering Physics
PARTICIPATING UNIVERSITY—Washington University of St. Louis, Missouri, will participate in this Plan, effective September 1953. Candidates must be U. S. Citizens and meet the entrance requirements of this university. Tuition will be paid by McDonnell Aircraft Corporation.
COMPENSATION—Candidates will work part time during the Plan, but will be compensated according to their demonstrated ability on the same basis as full time engineers and can earn approximately 85 per cent of a normal year’s salary.
SELECTION OF CANDIDATES—Candidates will be selected by officials of McDonnell Aircraft Corporation and Washington University. To be considered for this Plan, candidates must have submitted a formal application and a transcript of grades by May 1953. For more information about the Plan write to:
TECHNICAL PLACEMENT SUPERVISOR Box 516	- St. Louis 3, Missouri
MCDONNELL
4, F
r KING-SIZE
GAPXETTE<
LIGGtTT I MVFPS TOBACCO CO
LIGGETT € MYERS TO9ACCO CO
First cigarette to offer
PREMIUM QUALITY in both regular and king-size
a Beat fat
YOU!
WHEN you are asked to try a cigarette you want to know, and you ought to know, what that cigarette has meant to people who smoke it all the time.
Fora full year now, a medical specialist has given a group of Chesterfield smokers thorough examinations every two months. He reports:
no adverse effects to their nose, throat or sinuses from smoking Chesterfields.
More and more men and women all over the country are finding out every day that Chesterfield is best for them.
CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
enjoy you/t
Try Much Milder Chesterfield with its extraordinarily good taste.
Copyright 1953. Ligceit & Myers Tobacco Co.