Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morituras.
Vol. XV. .
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 27, 1882.
No. 37.
Now Beginneth the Hot Spell. •
My languid forces fail,
Relaxed my muscles are, unstrung my nerves: r?he heated gale
Blows from the South: a fan’s of no avail;
Straight from the South it blows, and never swerves,— I pant, I sink, I die, And thus I sigh—
Thus do I make my moan:
“ O Torrid Zone,
O land between the tropics, near the sun, Say, do thy sweltering millions passive lie? Or tell me how their work in life is done: What strengthens them,—what keeps their courage up? What braces up their nerves, and fills the cup ( '
Of life with joy? Tell me, O Zone!”
The haughty Zone replied not to my moan, But Echo, lingering in a grotto near, Answered in accents clear:
“Ozone!” .
Carry Meout.
Joseph Fuhrich.
In the year 1800, a simple peasant of Kratzau,in Bohemia, earned a modest subsistence for his family by the labor of his hands. This honest, indefatigable father was an artist; that is to say, an artist as far as a man can be, when the question is only to. satisfy the rare demands of a.populace equally ignorant of luxury and wealth. He had, however, other branches of industry; he was an engraver and a gilder, as well as a painter, and in his leisure moments he cultivated a little field, the produce of which was not the least resource of his family. His wife, a model for housewives, was always calm, always mild, and always occupied. On the 9th of February, in this same year 1800, a son was bom to them, whose name, in baptism, was Joseph, after the carpenter of Nazareth, whose humble lot he seemed destined to partake. Scarcely had the early infancy of the future painter merged into childhood, than he began with all his little means to help his father, and to familiarize himself, if not with art, at least with the accessories of art, the trade and the mechanical part; for the ideal was yet to follow in its own good time. One day Joseph began to consider, with more than childish interest, two engravings after Rubens, and a pictorial Bible which his father possessed; he had often
seen them before, but it was the first time that he had considered them, and for him it was the first revelation of art. After this his dreams were long and ardent; the artistic spirit had been awakened within him, and it could not lack nourishment in such a mind as his. The life of young Fuhrich was, as will be readily believed, simple enough. After the great feasts of the year, which, long before he understood their sense, had always filled him with enthusiasm, his greatest delights were confined to a walk in the country with his father. In proportion, however, as the child advanced in age, his knowledge and his labors advanced also. Sometimes he went to paint a wardrobe or a bedstead for a cabinet-maker; sometimes he followed his father into a neighboring village to ornament the chamber and furniture of some young bride; anon he learnt to decorate with angels’ heads the cradle of a new-born infant, or to trace in som- * bre colors the image of the Crucified upon the coffins of the departed.
“I felt then,” he says, “the sweet consolation inspired me by the conviction that I was of some use to my family and of some help to my father. Such an artistic education as mine would make one of our beaux esprits shrug their shoulders for ■ very pity; but I return thanks to Heaven, and my good father who gave it, for I know what it has been worth to me.”
But in devoting himself to these humble occupations, it must be remembered that Fuhrich never lost sight of that aesthetic perfection which seemed to hover before his eyes and to surround him with its mystic rays. Towards the end of a summer which had brought little employment, his father granted the happiness his son had so long sighed for; he confided to him the care of a little flock.
“How happy was I then!” cries Fuhrich; “stretched upon the grass, I admired all day the rich and varied landscape, which spread itself beneath me, and the floating clouds, whose mysterious shadows were prolonged upon the valleys and the mountain-tops. I listened to the voices of the winds and the forests; to the distant chant of the shepherds, the bleating of the flocks, the tinkling of their little bells, and the-murmur of the rippling brooks. Then I peopled the empty space with fantastic creations, taken from the dreams of my childhood; wonderful images floated-in and around me; solitude spoke an elegant language to me. Then, it is true, I understood it
5<58	THE NOTRE DAMT SCttOLAsTlC.
not; but now, in my riper years, it becomes intelligible to me.” _	.	’
Such was the nature amid which Fiihrich’ grew up; But this is hot all. Those happy countries faithful to Catholicity have preserved with their faith the naive poetry of their religious worship, the grandeur of which is so mysterious, and the effect so irresistible, in the midst of solitude.
“ I can still recall with emotion,” says Fiihrich, “ all my enthusiastic feelings, when, on going out With my father at break of day, I perceived across the golden mists of morning the myriads of brilliant pearls which strewed the mantle of Nature, and glittered upon her trembling flowers. A cross by the wayside would present itself, and suddenly, my father on his knees, and with uncovered head, pronounced a prayer. At this period I hardly appreciated the impression these scenes made upon my mind; it is only of late years, when the world and my studies began to carry me away, that they came back to my mind and recalled me to myself, like some cherished friend, whose loved voice would say, ‘Beware!’ Sometimes they appeared in the midst of a joyous society, or on the return from a party of pleasure, in some place of amusement or diversion. Then I thought of my father, of his conversation always simple and instructive, of our walks in the valley, of our evening’s rest, and of the peasants, peacefully seated before their cottages, who greeted us with the beautiful welcome, ‘Jesus be praised!’ To which my father’s reply was ever, ‘ In all eternity!’’ Then the distant pealing of the Angelus bell was heard, and we walked along, reciting the Angelical Salutation. Soon the spire of our little town rose before us, dim through the summer evening twilight; a light glittered here and there in the distance, and we were folded in the arms of my mother, who came affectionately to meet us. Once arrived at home, it was my turn to be spokesman; proudly seated before our evening meal, I related the adventures of the day. Such were the little incidents, such the reminiscences of my childhood, which have frequently rushed to my mind, under very altered circumstances, and in very opposite positions.”
Thus did young Fiihrich’s simple education prepare him to become the religious and inspired painter of whom Germany is so justly proud. All that he undertook during these years of calm and holy youth was directed to some pious end. Each division of the year was confounded in his mind with the corresponding feasts of the Church. From his earliest childhood he was accustomed to make a little crib at Christmas-time, and the first essay of his budding talent was a roughly-sketched cradle. It was not possible that so rare a devotion to painting as Fiihrich’s should pass unnoticed: accordingly we find that, in 1818, he was admitted in the Academy of Prague, upon the recommendation of Count Christian de Clam-Gallas, Lord of Kratzau; and that he immediately commenced the study of historical- painting, under Professor Bergler, director of the Academy. About this time, a work of Wackenroder’s upon
the effusions of a religious lover of art fell into his hands, and the picture it gave of the lives of the ancient German painters, together with an extract from the journal'of Albert Durer, inspired him with an ardent desire to know more of the works of the severe Christian school, especially the productions of his own countrymen. For six months he longed, without being able to gratify his desires; at length, however, as he one day exr. pressed his great wish to learn something of the early German masters, he was overheard by a librarian, who promised1 to lend him a large book full of. engravings from Albert Durer. The joy which Fiihrich felt at this offer, and the eagerness with which he accepted it, stamped the moment in his memory as one of the most decisive of his artistic life. .	'
“It was upon Twelfth-day,” he tells us, “towards evening, that I received this book, which was to be to me the very book of destiny. Abroad, the night was a dreary one; the wind roared, and the snow fell; within my little room, all was calm and peaceful. I sat down in recollection and solitude; with a sort of thrill of pious veneration I opened the volume. At first I gazed, and scarce dared believe my eyes; Llooked and looked again, an unknown world sprang into life before me. ‘ Behold,’ I exclaimed, ‘ Painting in its infancy! Art in its cradle!”’
Besides other engravings from Durer, this book contained his great picture of St. Christopher, at the moment when, spent with fatigue, the Saint comes from the water, leaning upon his staff, and bearing upon his muscular shoulders the precious burden of the Infant Jesus. The impression produced upon Fiihrich by this engraving must have been of the deepest kind; and the traces of his meditations upon it may be discerned long afterwards, in a painting he produced upon his return from Rome, called St. Christopher Carrying the Saviour. To return to the autobiography, from which we have been quoting, “ I was prepared to find great defects in the form, if not in the ideal of ancient art; and to my astonishment there rose up before me a form in complete harmony with the moral sense it was charged to represent; this sense, based on one side upon religion, on the other upon nationality, and the personification completed by the union of the two. It is true, this form was directly opposed to that admired by the calumniators of our great ancestors, whose ideal of beauty was an insipid uniformity, an awkward imitation of classic antiquity; whereas the strength of ancient art lies in its strict truthfulness and its deep expression. . . . As yet,- I had never studied draperies, for those exaggerated ornaments which without grace or imagination just cover the members, and fall in regular folds about the body, barely deserve the name of drapery. The Christian angels I now beheld in the place of winged Cupids and of the bastard world of unclothed nymphs and spirits, appeared to me like messengers from heaven; sent to denounce our depravity. Each holy personage preserved the saintly dignity and gravity of his char
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	5G9
acter; even down to what we call accessories, there was nothing- out of keeping-, nothing- unnecessary. Through the study of ancient plastic art,.I was led to that of architecture, and the riches Prague possesses in remains of this kind furnished me with a new proof of the profound religious spirit of our national antiquity. All these impressions,, all these dawnings of knowledge, which I directed my most strenuous efforts to perfect, soon formed themselves in my mind into one single image or personification of the Middle Ages, in all. their strength and piety; a personification which the miserable shortcomings of the modern school only served to color with brighter hues. To celebrate, then, by music and painting, these glorious days of old, to rekindle among our contemporaries some desire of reviving their ancient grandeur, seems to me the noblest mission of art in our days. With these feelings I grew romantic, and my compositions for the history of Bohemia, lithographed partly by myself, may be considered in several different lights as the first manifestations of my new tendency.”
At this time, Fiihrich’s pictures of St. Bernard’s Dream and St. Catharine in the midst of the doctors at Alexandria won him great renown, but his designs for the Pater Noster and for Tieck’s Genevieve were still more admired. All the elegant world of Vienna went to see them, and a number of the highest Austrian aristocracy subscribed to furnish the artist with the means of studying at Rome. He went there towards the close of 1826, and almost immediately contracted a close friendship with Overbeck. His sojourn in Rome was, as might be expected, an uninterrupted succession of intellectual conquests; nothing escaped him. The sublime beauty with which the , entire existence of the Church is clothed, and particularly the celebration of her Sacred Mysteries, for which she calls in the co-operation of art, deeply impressed him with the seal of her univer-\ sal character. And this principle he recognized as fully beneath the slender ornaments and humble services of the village church as in the splendid ceremonial worship which surrounds the seat of St. Peter. “Albeit there,” to use his own words, “in the heart of Christendom, the pulse beats quickest.” Rome, in fact, became to Fiihrich a second country; when the time arrived for quitting it, his emotions were profound and his resolutions grave and fervent. “ The indescribable majesty of Rome,” says the autobiography, “in its glorious tout ensemble, as in its least details, appeared to me as it had never done before, in one last coup cP ceil. And was I to tear myself from it all? Alas! it was even so. To retrace what I then felt would be now impossible. It seemed to me, nevertheless, that in quitting the Eternal City ' I. did not lose it like an infidel. ‘ Be constant to thy faith,’ I said, inwardly; ‘ live according to the precepts of thy religion, and thou shalt carry Rome in thy ..heart whithersoever thou goest. Dost thou not return, too, into thy own Catholic country, subject to a Catholic king? Rome, then, is thine; it belongs to thee still, in the highest sense of the word.’
In the spring of 1834 Fiihrich was called to Vienna and placed under the protection of Prince Metternich at the Academy of that city, as second custode of the Lamberg Gallery. He afterwards received the title of Professor of Historical Painting, and in that capacity gathered around him a . group of young pupils some of whom have won fame nearly as great as their master’s.
The Abbey of Fulda.
Among the great foundations of the illustrious Benedictine Order, which, during the middle ages, exercised so much powerful influence over European civilization, the celebrated Abbey of Fulda holds prominent rank. In the solitude of this olden sanctuary was enkindled, by the hands of the great apostle of the Allemanian nation, that sacred fire which for centuries flooded with its pure light the lands by the Rhine and the Danube. From the shadow of the cloisters of Fulda went forth the devoted bands of pious and learned missionaries, who diffused throughout the remotest parts of Germany the blessings of the Christian faith and the germs of true civilization, progress and refinement.
The Abbey of Fulda was founded by St. Boniface, whose Saxon name was Winfrid, in 746. Fired with apostolic zeal for the salvation of souls, he _had left the quiet monastic retreats of his native land, to plant the standard of the Cross in the midst of the barbarian nations that dwelt in the heart of the distant forests of Germany. Traversing Bavaria, Thuringia, Saxony and Franconia, he converted entire tribes of idolaters by the fervor of his preaching and the still more touching eloquence of his heroic virtues. Everywhere he passed, the gloomy- rites of paganism were abandoned, and on the ruins of the heathen temples altars were raised for the celebration of the spotless Christian Sacrifice. To aid him in his glorious mission, Boniface had summoned companions from his native country; and amongst the number of those who generously responded to his call, we find the name of St. Wigbert, St. Burchard, St. Willibald, and the apostle’s favorite disciple, St. Lullus.
The Sovereign Pontiff, Gregory III, rejoicing at the astounding success of the heroic missionary, constituted him Primate of all Germany. Pope Zachary, who succeeded Gregory in the chair of Peter, not only confirmed the privileges accorded by his predecessor to Boniface, but moreover appointed him Papal Legate in France and Germany. In 745 Boniface fixed his primatial See at Mentz; and early in the following year laid the foundation of the Abbey of Fulda, distant some twenty-leagues from the former city, and situated upon the frontiers of Hesse, Franconia and Thuringia. The Abbey was the parent-house of the Benedictine Order in Germany, and became a nursery of piety, and one of the most renowned schools of' .the mediaeval centuries,	. .
THE XOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Among the number of distinguished doctors whom it produced was the illustrious Rabanus Maurus. He had been.placed in his tender youth under the care of the monks of Fulda, and there early embraced the monastic state. Having been sent to study, under the direction of the great Alcuin, at Tours, he became one of the favorite scholars of that famous’, preceptor, from whom he received the surname of Maurus, it being the custom of the savants of the age to distinguish their talented students by some special appelation. Recalled from Tours, Rabanus Maurus took charge of the monastery school at Fulda, and the fame of his learning- soon attracted thither students from all parts of Europe. Among his writings is found that sweet and sublime hymn, the “ Veni Creator" He was raised to the archiepiscopal See of Mentz in 857.
St. Boniface, departing to the scene of his final mission to preach to the infidels in Friesland, foreseeing that he should not return, wrote to his disciple, St. Lullus, entrusting to him the care of the churches he had erected and the completion of his beloved monastery of Fulda, adding,- as a last request, that his remains should be transferred thither for interment. The venerable missionary, then in his seventy-fifth year, having, with a number of companions, suffered martyrdom at the hands of a band of infidels on the feast of .Whitsuntide, A. D. 755, his body was conveyed to Utrecht, whither St. Lullus sent a number of monks to conduct the precious remains to Fulda. When arrived at Mentz, the people thought to detain the body of their beloved pastor in that city; but they yielded out of reverence to the saint’s last request, and the corpse was borne by his brethren to Fulda, where it was interred with the most solemn pomp. The tomb of St. Boniface at Fulda became for centuries the most noted place of pilgrimage in all Germany.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—M. Munkaczy, the eminent Hungarian painter, is engaged on a picture of the Crucifixion, intended as a companion to his celebrated painting of “ Christ Before Pilate.”
—A valuable collection of autographs by Beethoven, Mozart, M. Hayden, Schubert, Weber, Liszt, Chopin and Mendelssohn is to be sold next month in Leipsic.
—The substitution of a “ b ” for a “ p ” in the Boston Advertiser's otherwise beautiful account of some Emerson memorial service made a line of a poem appear, “We brayed and sang together.” —N. T. Sun.
—Two magnificent libraries, the Barberini and the Massimo, are announced for sale in Rome. The Italian Government has declined to purchase them, not thinking it desirable- that they should become State property.
—Gen. Meredith Read, since his resignation of
the post of United States Minister at Athens, three years ago, has employed Iris leisure upon two volumes entitled “The Society of the Eighteenth Century on the Banks of the Lake of Geneva.” They are founded upon unpublished letters and other documents.
—Messrs. MacMillan & Co. are about to publish a new prose translation of thirteen satires of Juvenal; also a translation, with essays, of the “Jugurtha” and “Catiline” of Sallust, by Mr. W. Pollard, of St. John’s College, Oxford. The same firm announces Prof. Sayce’s edition of the first three books of Herodotus and other important translations.
—The endeavors by the German population of the Austrian Empire to stimulate their poets to the production of a national hymn more suitable to German wants and aspirations in that-country than the « Wacht am Rhein" has caused a call for a conference of Hungarian writers and artists, with a view to getting up inspiration sufficient to produce a new Hungarian national hymn.
—It is singular that “Mad Anthony ” Wayne, one of the most picturesque figures in our revolutionary struggle, has. never had a real biographer.-This want will, it is thought, soon be supplied by Joseph J. Lewis, of West Chester, Pa., who, as literary executor of Col. Isaac Wayne, has become possessed of a great part of the correspondence, and private papers of the hero of Stony Point, and is preparing them for publication.
—The gaps in the history of Greece during the Middle Ages will soon be filled up. Under the auspices of the Greek Chamber of Deputies, M. Sathas is editing the Monument® Histori® Hellenic®, which will consist of ten volumes divided into two series. The first will contain the Venetian dispatches; the second will be devoted to documents in the Greek language, ranging from the introduction of Christianity to the Fourth Crusade.
—In Palermo, where Wagner passed the winter with his family, one of his daughters, Blandina, was betrothed to a noble young Sicilian. The marriage will take place in a short while. The truest affection inspired this contract. We cannot say that the young gentleman is a lover of the music of the Maestro—but! The groom came with the Wagner family to Naples, and will return to take his bride to Palermo where they will reside. Wagner wished his daughter to embrace the Roman Catholic faith, having himself at once recognized the necessity under the circumstances. Before the affianced departed, Wagner made them kneel before him, in the car he had engaged for his family, and addressed them in very tender and affectionate terms, and gave them his fatherly advice and blessing, which called out tears from all present. With his hands resting on their heads, he instructed both on their duties and obligations towards each other, in a solemn and almost-inspired tone. In this address, which has demonstrated how Wagner throws his whole heart into everything he does, the Maestro had touched the finest chords of the human heart, aryl ended by invoking upon .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the couple who knelt before him the Lord’s blessing.-^-American Art Journal.
Books and Periodicals.	-
—Although we have not finished the perusal of. the Quarterly (it contains nearly 200 large and handsomely printed pages), time has drawn apace since we received it, and we feel it oui* duty to call attention to the store of excellent things with which it is laden. The opening paper, “ The Religious Rights of Catholics in Public Institutions,” is from the pen of John Gilmary Shea, LL. D., and of absorbing interest. It is a sad reflection upon our boasted freedom of conscience, in this nominally free Republic, that the Catholic inmates of many of our eleemosynary and penal institutions are not allowed to worship God according to the dictates of their conscience, and this although the Catholic public are taxed for the support of such institutions. The Catholic sinner in their inclosure is forced to die unshriven, to meet his God without making his peace with Him as his religion dictates and his heart desires. Surely humanity should suggest a remedy for this evil. “ Modern Spiritism and Christianity,” by the Rev. F. X. Hoefler, S. J., throws much light on Spiritualism, so-called, and, being upon a question of the hour, is worth reading. The Rev. J. Ming, S.J., gives the concluding paper on “ The Existence of God Demonstrated—On What Grounds does the Atheist deny the Existence of God ? ”—the different schools of philosophy being put to the test. In an article entitled “The New French Minister of Public Instruction” we have a “Reply to the Harpers’ Latest Calumny,” by the Rev. A. J. Thebaud, S. J.,—said calumny being a partial reproduction of the infamous' M. Paul Bert’s charges against the Moral Theology of Rev. F. Gury, S. J. The Harpers showed a great want of sagacity in placing any confidence in the assertions of such a notorious infidel as M. Paul Bert. Although Father Thebaud’s paper bears evidence of great hurry in writing, the proofs he adduces that Bert falsifies Gury are clearly beyond a doubt. „ John Boyle O’Reilly contributes a second paper on « An Irish Government for Ireland,” and this time effectually prevents further misconception of his views. The article is written clearly and forcibly, and the subject treated in . a masterly manner. The Most Rev. Chas. J. Seghers, D. D., contributes a paper on “The Practice of Shaving in the Latin Church.” The large number of references and quotations evince a careful study of the subject. We shall refer at length next week to Mr. MacCarthy’s admirable essay, “The Papacy and the European Powers.” Having already far overrun- our space, we can only mention the other papers in this number of the Review, they are: “The Monks of Old,” by the Rev. F. X. McSweeny, D.D.; “England’s Return to the Faith,” by John Charles Earle, B. A., Oxon.; and an editorial on “ The Cincinnati Pastoral* and its Critics.”	'
College Gossip.
—Commencement honors are to be established at Cornell.	•
• —The valedictory address at Brown University has been assigned to William Henry Pomeroy, of Springfield, Mass.
—Oliver Wendell Holmes has been professor in the Harvard Medical School for thirty-five years.—Harvard Herald.
—It is announced that Rev. Dr. Pepper has accepted the presidency of Colby University, Waterville, Me., and will be inaugurated at commencement.—Ex.	‘
—A committee has been appointed by the trustees of Rutgers College to secure an endowment of $100,000 before commencement. The project is a very modest one.—Ex.
—It is expected that before long a professor will be appointed to the newly-constituted Celtic chair in the University of Edinburgh. Prof. Blackie has collected $70,000 for its endowment.
—The boys of Beaumont College gave Prince Leopold and his bride a grand reception en route from Windsor to Claremont. Splendid arches were erected, and a thousand roses were cast into the carriage.
—Georgetown College has received a legacy of $10,000 from the late Daniel J. O’Connor— making $30,000 lately received by that institution. The College Journal says, “ it never rains but it pours.” May the rains continue!
—There is a college at the University of Oxford, England, in which all the professors are pronounced Agnostics. This is a big change from the days of old, when that institution was Catholic in its students, its teachers, and its course of studies.—Catholic Mirror.	.
—Very Rev. Dr. Byrne, President of Mt. St. Mary’s College, Emmittsburg, Md., announces the resumption of studies, which were suspended some time ago at St. Mary’s on account of the prevalence of scarlet fever. The college buildings have been thoroughly disinfected, and the physicians declare that all danger is past.
—Prof. Comfort, of Syracuse University, in a lecture said that Princeton College allowed more disgraceful conduct in the class-room than any other college in the country. The professor said this after having been an instructor there for a short time, and added that Dr. McCosh and the rest of the faculty remained there only at the sacrifice of their manhood.—Sun.
—A musical and dramatic entertainment was recently given by the boys of St. John’s Cathedral school, Milwaukee, which proved so attractive that between 400 and .500 persons were unable to gain admission to the hall. One of the city papers says:
“ Apart from the histrionic impression which the boys made upon the audience, most of the music was also furnished by the class boys, aided by Brother Philemon, who is himself a musician of no mean attainments.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ihnnt
Notre Dame, May 27, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with tiie University' of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $z • 50 per Annum. Postpaid.
K&Atess. EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early' application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—Would a student of the Junior department that chews or smokes tobacco be likely to “ come in ” for a First or Second Honor?
We think such a student’s chances for honors at Commencement would be pretty slim, and for plain reasons. It is absurd to suppose that the Faculty would award collegiate honors to one who had seriously violated any rule of discipline during the year; and it ought to be known—there is no excuse, in fact, for not knowing—that the use of tobacco is allowed only to students of the Senior department Even with them the permission is not general; none are permitted to smoke except those who have obtained the express consent of their parents or guardians. As for chewing, it is out of the question altogether. It will be a long time before the college authorities tolerate it, not until it ceases to be a loathsome habit and is no longer considered the most injurious form of the use of tobacco. Smoking is a social practice and can be reprehensible only when it is positively prejudicial to health, as it undoubtedly is for those who have not attained their growth or are of a delicate physical organization. Hence the rule to which we have alluded.
If there are any among the Preps, addicted to chewing, our advice is to eschew the habit at once. And we can say that any student of the Junior de
partment (any one under eighteen years of age) given to tobacco in any form is simply building castles in the air when he indulges the hope of receiving an optime merenti at the close of the year.
—One of our amateur scientists has been lately amusing himself in taking a series of observations with a quadrant, with mercury as an artificial horizon, and finds that a material difference occurred between these and observations with water as an
artificial horizon, both taken on the same day. A double meridional altitude on the 1st of January, to ascertain the latitude of Notre Dame, taken
with mercury as a horizon, was 50°! o', while with water as a horizon the double altitude was 5o°28', a difference of 9' or miles, showing clearly that notwithstanding the prevalent opinion to the contrary, water cannot be relied upon for an artificial horizon. ' The result of the observations gives the
latitude of Notre Dame University as 4i°42'25" N.; longitude, 86° 14'15" west, by chronometer time at the Tribune office, Chicago. The course and distance of various prominent places' from Notre Dame, by air line, or “ as the crow flies,” with the variation a point easterly, was calculated with
the following result:
Lat. Long. Course Dist.
Boston State Hse. 4i°22N. 71’03 West. N.68°44E. 684 miles N.York City Hall, 4o°42N. 74°oo West. N.83°47E. 554 miles Philadelphia, 39°s6N. 75’08 West. N-78’o3E.5i2 miles
Baltimore, San Francisco, Chicago,
39°i7N. 65°36 West. N.7i°34E-462 miles
37°48N. i22°2iWest. N.8i’59W. 1678 “ 41’52 57 87°37 30 W. 81’06 W. 65 miles
The longitude of Notre Dame can- be ascertained twice a day—forenoon and afternoon—by. double altitudes of the sun, with mercury as artificial horizon; the latitude once on any day in the year, by a single meridional altitude of the sun, and from the 1st of October to the 1st of March by double altitudes with an artificial horizon— mercury, when the sun is at the meridian.
—The day par excellence in the calendar of college festivals is the one set apart for the First Communion. The great Napoleon, when asked what day he considered the happiest of his life, promptly replied, “ The day I made my First Communion.” And certainly it is the greatest and happiest day in the career of a Christian. For this reason the occasion is celebrated at Notre Dame with all possible solemnity.
After months of thorough preparation and a well-conducted retreat of three days, the young communicants of this year, to the number of thirty-two, dressed in dark blue suits with white ties, gloves and boutonnieres of Pearl de Jardin roses, assembled in the University drawing-room on the morning of the Feast of the Ascension. They were met by the President of the University, clergy of the Faculty, and sanctuary acolytes in cassocks of black purple or cardinal red and white lace surplices. Emerging two by two from the drawing-room, they were joined in the grand corridor by.the members of the Archconfratemity of Our Lady, in full regalia, jnembers of the Cornet
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
573
Band, and upwards of four hundred students, with banners or lighted tapers. The procession, headed, by thurifer, cross and torch bearers, advanced down the College steps round the parterre toward the church, to the strains of a sacred march rendered by the Cornet Band, while the chime of twenty-three bells sent forth its most joyful peals, and the sol-' emn booming of the mammoth bell sent a thrill through the hearts of all. When the procession entered the church, the grand organ with its. thousand tubes took up the strains of the march, and sent the notes reverberating in swelling tones around the pillars, down the aisles through transept and niche, into dome and vault, until the very atmosphere seemed impregnated with heavenly harmony. Solemn Mass was celebrated by the Rev. President of the University, assisted by Fathers Stoffel and Steihl as deacon and subdeacon. At the Offertory the communicants advanced to the altar and deposited in the hands of the celebrant the written form of the good resolutions they had taken to lead a life in accordance with the Gospel. The solemn moment having arrived when they were to receive the Body of their Lord for the first time, all ascended the altar steps, and in unison repeated distinctly and devoutly the words of the acts of contrition, faith, hope, love and desire. After receiving, all returned to their places with countenances beaming with holy joy, to give. thanks for the great happiness they enjoyed.
At the close of Mass the organ, bells, Cornet Band, and at least fifteen hundred voices, young and old, gave expression to the soul-stirring Te Deum. At Vespers, after an eloquent address by the Vice-President of the College, the young communicants renewed their baptismal vows. x
The ceremonies of the day were the most impressive, and edifying we have witnessed anywhere. Messrs. Sullivan and Irman, who conducted the ceremonies, deserve much praise for their efforts to render the occasion the most notable of the year, which it certainly was.
—Our sprightly contemporary, the Harvard Daily Herald, has the following leading editorial in its issue of May 3d :
“A petition was recently sent to the faculty of Cornell by the students requesting that a course in phonography be established in the college. Bogus names were affixed to the petition by some person who wished to be funny, and defaced as it was, as the Era says, the probabilities of its being granted are greatly lessened. We do not wish to comment upon the foolish action of affixing the bogus names, for that has already been handled severely enough .in a very sensible editorial in the Era, but would observe that a course in - phonography—an elective to be taken as regular college work by those who desired—would be very-useful at Harvard, certainly as useful as the study of Chinese. Everyone knows the value of a practical knowledge of short-hand, and with the growing demand for instruction in this art, it seems strange that Harvard, so liberal and so ready to establish new and instructive courses, should not have already undertaken to supply the demand among her own pupils. Many think that short-hand is of value only to newspaper reporters; but the truth is, that there is no man engaged in literary work, whether he be lawyer, minister, editor, or author, who will not find, and repeatedly prove, a practical knowledge of short-hand writing of great use,
“We would humbly suggest the value of such a course at Harvard, and feel convinced that opportunity for learning a better and readier way of taking notes would be quickly utilized by a large percentage of the students.” Which shows that the Scholastic was right in urging this study a year or more ago. At that ‘ time the subject was thought foreign to the province of a college paper—at least the college press seemed to regard it in that light,—but events have proved the justice of our position. The petition at Cornell was presented by the Senior students— a fact that shows they had not looked to their best interests in time. Phonography taken up during the Senior year cannot be made available for note-taking during that year—a great loss to the student. It would be much better to take it in the Freshman and Sophomore year, thus enabling the student to attain a sufficient command of the . art of “winged words” to make it of service in the lecture-room and library, during the Junior and Senior years.
Of the great benefit of phonography both to the student and professional man, there can be no question. It saves both time and labor. The wonder is that it had not come into general use years ago. It takes a year to attain anything like a thorough command of it, but for the year spent in learning it it may save ten. Col. Thomas H. Benton said a knowledge of it would have saved him twenty of the most valuable years of his life.
Phonography has for many years been taught at Notre Dame, and from our observations in the class-room during the past year, and our own personal experience, we see no reason why it should not form a part of every student’s course of study. Although not by any means difficult, it takes time to become familiar with the stenographic characters, simple though they be, and, like music and. kindred arts, the sooner the work is begun, the better. We have known students to take up the “ Manual ” of an excellent and not difficult method, and after a little while become discouraged and give up, simply from the dry, crude, and unsatisfactory arrangement of the lesssons, * while with other books no difficulty at all has been experienced, and the study of phonography became a pleasant pastime instead of a labor. This is why we have so often descanted upon the excellencies of Isaac Pitman’s “Phonographic Teacher” and “ Graduated Exercises,” the primary text-books used here with so much success and satisfaction during the past year, and by students attending half-a-dozen other classes.
Exchanges.'
—TheWilliamsAthenaum has passed into the hands of a new editorial board and comes out in a new and handsome dress of type and paper. The contract for printing has been given to a Boston firm noted for their handsome work, and the Athe-nceum makes an unexceptionably fine appearance. The Athenaum has hitherto held a place in the front rank of college papers, and the present number is iri nowise below high-water mark.
574
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Queen's College Journal keeps up to its former high standard. We are glad to notice that the wholesome reaction in favor of literary articles is working its way even into Canada. Hitherto the Scholastic was found fault with by many for devoting so much space to them; now a majority of the best Eastern college papers are offering prizes for literary articles, a fact which inclines us to believe it was the want of the articles and not any insuperable objection to well-written ones that accounted for their absence. The Queen's College Journal has, we regret to say, no exchange department in the present issue—a drawback to an otherwise excellent paper.
—The Princetonian has also donned a new dress, of the aesthetic order, and comes out with battered headlines that look as if they had done good service in the time of Caxton and Wynkyn de Worde. Well, everyone to his taste; we feel confident that no one can object to that of the editors of The Princetonian, even though it may not coincide with his own. The Princetonian editors offer two prizes, of ten and five dollars respectively, for literary contributions, prose or poetry, which shows that they are praiseworthily determined to elevate the standard of their paper. They have cut down the advertising department and will hereafter devote more space to exchange notes and clippings—a sensible idea. The literary department will also receive more space and attention, while, as hitherto, and very properly, athletics will not be neglected.
—The Penman's Art Journal for May, is, if possible, an exceptionably good number. We say “ if possible,” for every number of The Penman's Art Journal is a clearly cut and polished gem, and it would, therefore, be difficult to make an exception in favor of any issue. We can readily agree with Mr.- C. B. Burdett, a teacher of writing in Boston, Mass., when he says: “ I see the usefulness of your Journal more and more each day, not only in my own labors, but as a promoter of enthusiasm among pupils. I think that the generons columns of your paper are doing more good for good penmanship than all other forces combined'' We say he must be a lazy, good-for-nothing student who reads The Penman's Art Journal and is not excited to enthusiasm by its practical lessons, its beautiful pen-sketches, and the untold advantages it gives the student for the formation of correct habits and the acquirement of a beautiful and legible style of handwriting. Prof. Henry C. Spencer begins in this number a series of “Lessons in Practical Writing” which we advise all students to secure by an early subscription. When such an authority says that “ any person who has good common sense, one or two eyes, and five fingers on either hand, can, under proper instruction, learn to write well,” there is, manifestly, no excuse for poor penmanship from a student. The price of subscription to The Penman's Art Journal is only $i a year. Published by D. T. Ames, 205 Broadway, N. Y.
—Mr. Andrew J. Graham’s Student's Journal, devoted to phonography, music, hygiene,
philology, bibliography, etc., is to hand. This— the May number, continues the Reporter’s List of brief contractions and word and phrase signs, of which six pages are given. The other stenographic matter of the number is a continuation of “The Lady of the Lake,” in the corresponding style—neatly and clearly printed. The readingmatter is in the form of hyphenized exercises for phrase-writing, very useful for those who write •Graham’s modification of the Pitman stenography, and contains many interesting scientific and other notes,—making, altogether, a well-edited and instructive publication. The only objectionable feature in The Student's Journal is the soft letters from softer correspondents, who, inflamed by fiery partisan zeal, seek to depreciate all other methods of stenographic writing but the one they use, and in this betray their own ignorance. Elias Longley, of Cincinnati—one of the best stenographic reporters in America,—Mr. Munson, ditto, Mrs. Burns, and the Benn Pitman advocates, are lashed without mercy, and said to be good for nothing. Even Isaac Pitman and the inverted vowel-scale are not spared, but both of these are strongly intrenched and comfortably beyond the reach of harm. The inverted vowel-scale is undoubtedly more logical than the old one—both are the product of the same author, Isaac Pitman-—and the new scale must eventually prevail, even though it possess no very great advantages over its wrathy predecessor and we think we could show that it does. The Student's Journal is published monthly; subscription, $2 a year.	.
—The Harvard Daily Herald, in a recent editorial on the attitude of the press in regard to col
lege hazing, says:
“ College men are just beginning to realize the folly and harmfulness of longer indulgence in hazing. A growth of tolerance in public sentiment in this matter is greatly to be desired, but any further laxness in college sentiment in the same respect is a result far more to be deplored. The college student can bring himself to forego hazing very easily, if he sees the advantage of so doing, and the very manifest advantages of such a course must become more and more evident to him as he sees the really harmful results that so often follow the practice.”
The same number of the Herald has an article
on “ Earlier Harvard Journalism,” in which interesting quotations arp given from The Lyceum, a paper which, had to be suspended for want of support, i. e., of subscribers,—not of writers or talent. The editors say in the closing number:
“ The deficiency of our subscription list has made it convenient to our publisher, that the present number be the last of the Harvard. Lyceum. . . . After the laborious exertions of nine months, such a conclusion is a mortifying recompense for the devotion of time, and the pains of composition.”
Alas! little the outside world, nay, even the college world at large, recks of the “ pains of composition ” of a college paper. The Lyceum editors had not simply to deal with neglect from outsiders. They add:
“ In a place, too, where the bad passions should never come, in the sacred groves of Academus, we have witnessed the ineffectual and contemptible emotions of an envious spirit, which has shown itself a foe to its literary seniours.” [The paper was published by the senior class.]
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
They conclude:
u The world without cares for nothing but politics and commerce and news; it is a money-making, quarrelsome world of vandals; it cannot understand our Latin nor our Greek; and it thinks our English not worth reading; it scorns our literature, and, if it have any regard for our science, it is because it teaches to steer ships and to print newspapers.”
Personal.
—-James Noonan, ’80, expects to return to Notre Dame next year, to study law.
—W. Grant Jones, ’81, holds a position in the National Bank, Columbus, Ohio.
—Park Perley, of ’78, is at his home in Arkansas. His health, we are glad to learn, is much improved.
—J. Arthur H. Hatt, of ’77, is head designer for the U. S. Tile Co., Indianapolis, Ind. We are pleased to hear that Mr. Hatt will soon pay us a visit.
—We regret to learn that our friend John R. English, ’79, Columbus, Ohio, has not been improved in health by his winter’s stay in Florida. He is now stopping at the Grand Hotel, Columbus.
—Joseph E. Marks (Commercial), of ’75, has retired from the responsible position of cashier in Slaughter’s Bank, Chicago. He will accompany A. O. Slaughter, Esq., to Europe, in the capacity of private secretary.
—Visitors this week: Dr. and Mrs. Rose, Evansville, Ind.; Mrs. Dr. Gall, Master F. Gall and Miss Carrie Gall, Indianapolis; Mrs. Charles Pick and Mrs. Albert Pick, Chicago; Mr. Henry J. Monsch, Louisville; Mr. and Mrs. Heneberry and Mrs. Bergan, Peoria, Ill.; The Rev. H. J. McNally, Augusta, Ga.; Mr. T. W. Johnstone, South Chicago; Mr. Matthew Ryan: Leavenworth, Kansas; Mr. J. D. Hammond, New York.
Local Items.
—Oh, horrible!
—The Band is improving.
—Prof. Tong has our best thanks for kind favors this week.
I	—The Senior baseball nines have got their new
f suits and are rejoiced thereat.
—Master Pick, the seventy-eighth Minim, arrived last week from Chicago.
,	—The urns in front of the College have been
filled with beautiful flowers of various kinds.
—The boats ordered by the Lemonnier Boat Club are on their way from Burlington, Iowa.
____________The Philopatrians had the distinction of giv-| ing the last entertainment in old Washington Hall.
—It was only when reinforced by the Juniors that the Seniors were able to pull the old walls down.
—Rev. Father Corby has promised to be at
• the Commencement, He may count on a warm reception.
—Mr. Raphael Becerra has the thanks of the infirmarians for a beautiful silver pitcher which he has presented them.
—Work on the new boat-house is going on with vigor. Everything will be ready for the reception of the new boats.
—Something is said elsewhere this week on. the use of tobacco in connection with honors, that may be of interest to the Preps.
—The Senior students are indebted to Master E. Gall, of the Junior department, for a donation of flowers for their study-hall.
—Master Smeeth, who has been ill for the past few weeks, is around again, to the joy of his many friends of the Junior department.
—Very Rev. Father. General arrived here on Friday morning, and was received with the usual demonstrations of respect and affection.
—The work of demolishing the old Exhibition Hall was begun on Tuesday. It was found impracticable to remove it. A new brick building 150 by 60 feet will be erected for a gymnasium.
—A game was played between the Star of the East and University baseball nines, last week. It was not as interesting as the game played the week previous, owing to the chilliness of the weather.
—How is the new Hall to be lighted? This seems to be a point on which authorities differ. Sometimes we hear of the electric light, and again gas is spoken of. The time is short, and probably before our next issue a decision will have been reached.
—The Columbians have been the recipients of many compliments since their late entertainment. President Walsh, we have heard, was particularly pleased with the speech delivered by Mr. Steis, and the able essay read by Mr. J. Farrell.
—We beg to remind certain parties that the Scholastic is a college paper, that what might be appropriate enough in a periodical published elsewhere would be out of place in these columns. What some persons would have us do is precisely what we are trying to avoid. Have patience a few weeks longer.
—One of the most hotly-contested baseball games ever witnessed on the Junior grounds was played-on the 2 2d inst. between the nines led by Baca and Sells. The result was a victory for the latter, the score being 12 to ’ 6. Echlin’s fly catch received much applause. Dolan and Gallagher also distinguished themselves respectively for heavy batting and excellent pitching.
—Owing to the want of a suitable hall, the St. Cecilian Exhibition, which was intended to be complimentary to Very Rev. Father General on his return from Europe,’has been postponed. If the Cecilians enjoy the privilege, as it is expected they will, of opening the grand new College Hall, their efforts will, we trust, be worthy of the occasion and of the old-time reputation of the Association.
—A special meeting, of the officers of the Sorin.
576
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Literary and Dramatic Association was held on the 21 st inst., at which some important private business was transacted. The usual regular meeting was held on Wednesday. A number of compositions were read, and declamations delivered. Mas-, ter Pick, of Chicago, was elected to membership. The meeting closed with a speech from the President.
—Prof. Unsworth delivered an able lecture before the members of the Columbian and Mignon Clubs last Sunday night. Poetry was the subject selected, and so skilfully and attractively did the lecturer handle it that the attention of his audience was held from the beginning to the end. At the close of the lecture a hearty vote of thanks was tendered the Professor, in the name of both organ--izations, and a wish expressed that he would soon favor the members with another literary treat. \
—A few members of the Scientific Association, accompanied by their President, Rev. Father Zahm, spent a part of this week in inspecting the principal manufactories and industries of Chicago. They speak in the highest terms of the kindness and attention shown them by everyone, and allude to their trip as one of the greatest interest and profit. To those interested in mechanics, metallurgy, industrial chemistry, and other branches of applied science, the excursion was of special value.
—Mrs. Zaehnle, mother of Master A. Zaehnle, of the Junior department, has extended an invitation to all the Juniors to take part in a little fete, cham-petre at her beautiful residence, some time before the close of the session. Needless to say that the invitation has been enthusiastically accepted. The auspicious day will be, it is said, either Thursday, June ist, or Thursday, June 15th; and without claiming to be a prophet we consider it safe to venture the prediction that the Junior department will not be largely represented in the Infirmary on the occasion. Mrs. Zaehnle’s generous kindness will, we are sure, long be remembered by the one-hundred and forty merry youths who have shared it.
—The Minims and some of their friends spent a most happy day at the St. Joseph’s farm last Sunday. The weather was delightful. The party left Notre Dame a few minutes after breakfast. On reaching the farm, Rev. President Walsh said Mass and preached a most interesting sermon. 'After Mass the party lunched, and then repaired, some to the woods, others to the prairie, to enjoy themselves as best they could. The President of the Sorin Association, and other grown folks, seemed to enter as heartily into the athletic sports as the Minims. At one o’clock the ringing of the farm bell announced dinner, which, it must be said to the credit of the kind denizens of St. Joseph’s, was gotten up in first-class style. The afternoon was spent in the same pleasant manner as the morning. A trip to St. Joseph’s farm is always something that the boys enjoy; but the Minims say that the one of Sunday last was exceptionally pleasant.
. . Roll, of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students : whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anderson,* Arnold, Armijo, Bailey, Barron, Blackman, Bryant, Browne Bell, Bolton, Becerra, Burns, Cullin, Clements, Carroll, Conway, T. Glarke, W. Cleary, J. P. Delaney, J. Delaney, Dorsey, Donegan, Drury, F. Ewing, Eaton, Fitzgerrell, T. Fenlon, Farrell, Fleming, M. Falvey, Fishburne, Garrett, Grout, Gallagher, Galoriski, Gray, Grever, Halthusen, M. Healy, Henoch, Jones, Johnson, Kinsella, Kuhn, Kuntsman, Kerndt, Kavanaugh, Murphy, McErlain, Minnis, Marlett, McCarthy, McGinnis,' Millett, McIntyre, McDevitt, Morse, W. McGorrisk, Me-Eniry, Mason, Nash, H. Noble, Noonan, O’Reilly, O’Connor, O’Rourke, Orrick, Otis, Peery, Paquette, Pierson, Pillars, Ryan, Rasche, Saviers, Steiger, W. Schofield, B. Schofield, Solon, E. Smith, C. Smith, Steis, Sturla, Tinley, Thompson, Tracey, Wheatly, White, E. Yrisarri,- Zettler, Lipman, Livingston, Zahm.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
> Masters Archer, Browne, Bacon, Barron, Barnard, . Bowers, Colyar, J. M. Courtney, Castillo, A. Coghlin, ' Devoto, Deschamps, Dolan, Drendel, Danielson, N. Ew-■ ing, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel, Freyermuth, Fendrick, French,' Fisher, Florman, M. Foote, H. Foote, Friedman, Graham, Grever, Gerlach, E. Gall, A. Gall, Guthrie, Hoffman, Hess, Hibbeler, Hurley, Halligan, Johnston, Johnson, Jones, Kolars, Kitz, Livingston, Lund, Laumann, Lewis, J. Mc-Gordon, Metz, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, McPhillips, McCarthy, Mahon, Meyer, Neeson, J. P. O’Donnell, Osborn, Orsinger, C. Porter, Peery, Pick, Quill, Rose, Rhodius, J. C. Ruppe, Roper, J. Ruppe, V. Rivaud, L. Rivaud, Ryon, Smeeth, Sells, Taggart, Vernier, Taylor, Tappan, Williams; C. Warner, Wilbur, Wile, Zeigler, Zaehnle.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Adams, Beall, Berthelet, Brandom, Chaves, Curran, Coad, Chirhart, P. Campau, C. Campau, Cummings, Devitt, R. Devereux, J. Devereux, Dirksmeyer, Dwenger, W. Devine, A. Devine, Davison, Fehr, Frain, Graham, J. Garrity, F. Garrity, Howard, Hynes, Hewitt, Hopkins, Johnson, J. Kelly, A. Kelly, J. T. Kelly, Kellner, Masi, McCawley, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McGordon, Miller, Metz, Nash, J. Nester, F. Nester, Norfolk, F. Otis, A. Otis, O’Connor, Papin, D. Prindiville,' C. Pick, Peters, J. Pick, Piatt, Powell, G. Price, E. Price, Quinlin, Roberts, Roper, Rose, Rebori, Stange, Sommer, Schmitz, Studebaker, Thomas, Tong, Vosburgh, Walsh, Winsor, Whitney, C. Young.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Latin—Messrs. Otis, N. Ewing, O’Connor, Bailey, Donahue; Greek—N. Ewing; English Composition—Messrs. McEniry, Fishburne; Rhetoric—Messrs.Johnston, Cleary; English Literature—Messrs. Healy, Ewing, Fleming, McIntyre, Solon; Criticism—J. O’Neill; Algebra—R. E. Fleming; Geometry—Messrs. Porter, McEniry; Trigonometry—J. Solon; Surveying—Messrs. Fleming, McIntyre; General Geometry and Calculus—T. Healy; Mechanics—Messrs. Orrick, McGorrisk; Astronomy—C. McDermott; Physiology—N. Ewing; Zoology—E. Otis; Physics—Messrs. McDermott, Donahue, Zahm, Kuhn; Chemistry—Messrs. Kuhn, Zahm, Donahue, McDermott; Geology—E. Orrick; History—Messrs. Healy, Farrell, O’Reilly, Fleming, McIntyre; Moral Philosophy-----;
. Logic-----; Botany-----.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
STi

One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—On Saturday evening, at the May devotions, the Rev. Father Steil, of the University, delivered an eloquent sermon on the Third Sorrow of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
—Miss Catharine Danaher (Class ’81), of Ludington, Ill., made a short visit to Alma Mater last week, and was welcomed by the numerous friends to whom her sojourn at St. Mary’s had warmly endeared her.
—The visit which our esteemed friend Judge Fuller, of Marysville, Cal., was so kind as to make to the Academy, will long be remembered and cherished. Prosperity and every blessing, terrestrial and celestial, attend him wherever he may be.
—A rich treasure to the Botany Class was received from Marquette, Mich., in the shape of a large box of beautiful trailing Arbutus. The flowers are as fresh, as if just culled. Miss Laura Pool is entitled to many thanks from the delighted recipient. ■
—At the distribution of notes in the Junior department, on Monday evening, “ Paganini’s Generosity,” from the Notre Dame Scholastic, was read by Mary Paquette; “Bring Flowers,” Mrs. Hernans, by Ada Clarke; and “My May Offering,” from The “ Ave Maria,” by Catharine Lancaster.
—On Ascension 'Day, at six o’clock Mass, celebrated by. Rev. Father Shortis, the following little girls received their First Communion: Felicia Castanedo, Agnes English, Mary Otis, Alice Sawyer, Sarah Campau, Eliane Rigney, and Teresa Haney. At High Mass, sung by Rev. Father Saulnier, Rev. Father Cooney preached an excellent sermon on the feast of the day.
—On Sunday evening, at the Academic reunion, Miss Mary Reutlinger read a fine extract from Father Faber’s “Styrian Lake”; “Little Titian’s Palette,” by Mary J. Preston, was read by Miss Catharine Campbell; “ E Ordre du Monde est Admirable, malgrelesDesordresqui nous Choquent” Bossuet, by Miss Mary Feehan; and “The Legend qf Blessed Egidius,” Mother Raphael Draine, by Miss Annie Cavenor.
—The pious and time-honored custom of singing the Litany of the Saints in procession during the Rogation days is always observed at St. Mary’s. The shrine of Our Lady of Peace forms the first terminus of the march. Here the chanting of the litanies is suspended, and a hymn to the Blessed Virgin is sung. The procession then resumes the litanies and goes to the altar in front of Loretto, where the Regina Coeli is sung, and all return to the church and the chanting of the litany is completed where it was begun. Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday were exceptionally beautiful Rogation days.
An Apostrophe to Trifles.
Pdor little despised trifles, sc unimportant in yourselves, yet so powerful in the hands of the wise and observing for reading and determining character! Ah, no one can guard himself against your influence and your logic, it matters not how circumspect he may be!
You are as unerring as the magnet to the pole in pointing out defects of character, omissions of duty and base principles; in fact, everything poor, weak human nature would be glad to hide. The more surely do you accomplish this, because, as a general thing, you are not suspected in your occupation.
Some of you make me think of a worm, or the insect which produces it, called by the scientific, “ Terrebella,” but in common parlance, “ the Borer.” It will commence its little perforations on the trunk of a majestic tree, and carry on its work of destruction until that tree dies through such a seemingly insignificant cause.
Thank God, many of you are not perverse! Indeed, some of you are sublimely useful in your delicate exquisiteness. Were it not so, life on this earth might well be compared to a desert without one solitary oasis to relieve its dreariness.
Oh, trifles! you go farther than anything else to make up the sum of our earthly joy, our earthly woe! Observe, for instance, your effect in a school, where, perhaps, there is more note taken of your presence, or more importance at-s tached to your power than elsewhere, especially by teachers. They know those under their fostering care are as wax to be moulded; hence trifles must be watched to determine upon the best course to be pursued in order to “ remove the tares from the wheat,” as it were, or, on the other hand, to develop the good, which ever buds out in trifles.
Then, among the pupils themselves, what do not trifles tell! Who cannot decide to a certainty the bias of each character by them? They often foster prejudice, but as often do they nurture friendship; hence to be beloved, such should be cultivated as will render one winning before the angels; then man must revere, and what is better than all, God be pleased.	M. E. S.
Partings.
Life is an ever shifting kaleidoscope; we are the many-colored grains, now resting for a moment to complete one figure, then hurrying on to take our places in the next, but always changing. Our hearts, like the clinging ivy, have persistent tendrils. If we rest for a time, these tendrils twine around some pleasing object, till it would seem that to transplant the ivy would be to leave it, tom and unsupported, to die.
We are continually parting with something. Unfortunately, almost the first thing is our spotless baptismal robe; .then our happy, sinless days of childhood, our teachers and affectionate companions. Each minute we are parting with an oppor-
578	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tunity of making others happy, of pleasing God, of meriting heaven. But these are not the most bitter separations. We are sometimes left for awhile by force of circumstances where we cannot always remain. We forget the. weakness of our poor hearts, and the tendrils of the ivy unconsciously grow stronger and faster in the sunshine of friendship.
Old Father Time strides on, heedless of the bitterness he is preparing, till we find ourselves on the verge of an important change. We are no longer needed to -fill our places in the scene, we must; go to complete some other group. The angel of partings hides his face for a moment, then softly whispers “ Farewell! ” and it is over.	.
Another pause, like the sweet, cool calm after a summer shower, then another and more cruel change. We must leave our places in the family circle. God did not create us to remain always on the parent tree, and, like the melow, ripened fruit we fall to earth. This separation comes sharp and keen, for it is only the wild, unmelodious prelude to the last parting.
But these harsh vibrations grow fainter and softer, till time almost deprives them of their discordant tones, and wafts them back to us like the sweet sound of music on the water.
Another sudden turn of the kaleidoscope, and we stand by the bed of death. All these long, years the good God has been preparing us for this parting; but still we stand with a sea of bitterness flowing in upon our souls, almost praying that we might accompany the loved one across the river of death. A short time elapses, the last sound of the falling earth has died on the air; we stand by the new-made grave, while the soft wind comes through the cypress breathing a dirgelike “•Farewell.”	;
We can imagine all these partings. Indeed, they are and have been realities for us all our lives; but how can we picture to ourselves an endless separation? No! That day of terrible justice, of unutterable pain, when the Valley of Josaphat shall resound with eternal “ farewells,” is too awful, so let us spare ourselves the contemplation of such a scene, and as an antidote for other partings, let busy memory guard the treasure of our hearts.
N. G.
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	-
Par Excellence—Misses Cavenor, Claffey, Galen, Hanbury, Walsh, Clarke, Dillon, Fox, Feehan, Bland, M. Campbell, E. Chrischellis, Donnelly, Heneberry, R. Fishburne, L. Lancaster, Ave Price, Rasche, Simms, H. Van Patten, L. Van Patten, Wall, Craine, Edie Call, Etta Call, Coryell, M. Fishburne, Hackett, Legnard, Leydon, Mc-Gordon, Owens, Margaret Price, Mary Price, K. Rosing, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, Rul-ison, Thompson, Chirhart, Sawyer, Wallace, Bremond, Fleming, Behler, L. English, Mulligan, M. H. Ryan, Reut-linger, Williams, Adderly, Clifford, Wagner, M. Newton, Metzger, Foster, Hughes, B. English, Gavan, Mulvey,
Smith, Northrop, Ives, Eldridge, M. Watson, ad Tablet— Misses Wiley, Beal, C. Campbell, Fendrick, McKenna, A. Nash, Maude Price, M. A. Ryan, Vander Haden, Barlow, Black, Keenan, McCoy, Mowry, E. Todd, Waters, Tho-mann, Pease, Fenlon, Harrigan, Green, Castanedo, H. Hicks, N. Hicks, Pampell, Parker.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Ginz, C. Lancaster, Ramsey, Spangler, Semmes, Chirhart, Considine, Coogan, Robertson, F. Castanedo, Hibbins, McGrath, Wilkins, Sullivan, Coyne, Chaves, Schmidt, Mary Otis. 2d Tablet—Misses Eager, M. Dillon; Heneberry, G. O’Neill, Martin, Morgan, Rodgers, W. Mosher, Krick, A. Welch, Condron, Mattis, Otero.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses Burtis, Barry, Campeau, J. English, A. English, McGrath, McKennon, Martha Otis, E. Rigney.
. CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED FOR THE MONTH OF MAY.
Special Course—Miss Galen.
Graduating Class—Miss Fendrick.
ist Class—Miss M. Campbell.
2D Div.—Misses Hackett and Wiley.
2D Class—Misses Beal, J. Reilly.
2D Div.—Misses Bland, Coryell, Donnelly, J. Heneberry, Maude Price.	•
3D Class—Misses Barlow, Chrischellis, M. English, Ryan, Wallace.
2D Div.—Misses Maude Casey, Claffey, L. Fox, Fenlon, Keenan, Leydon, Ave Price, A. McGordon. .
4TH Class—Misses C. Campbell, A. Dillon, Garrity, Rosing, Shickey, H- Van Patten.	'
2D Div.—Misses Behler, Casey, M. Ducey, L. English, Fleming, Feehan, M. Fishburne, Ginz, A. Gavan, Lancaster, Morgan, N. McGordon, Margaret Price, A. Rulison, Simms, Todd, L. Van Patten, Vander Haden, Wagner.
5th Class—Misses Adderly, E. Call, Ducey, Dillon, L. Lancaster, McKenna, A. Nash, Reutlinger, Rarnsey, Rasche, Robertson, M. A. Ryan, Thompson/Waters.
2D Div.—Misses M. Chirhart, M. Clarke, F. Castanedo, A. Clarke, Fehr, H. Hicks, B. Legnard, Metzger, Northcote, Newton, E. Papin, V. Reilly, L. Williams.
6th Class—Misses Black, E. Call, Coogan, B. English, Fisk, Hibbins, B. Hackett, -McCoy, Mulvey, H. Nash, G. O’Neill, Owens, Smith, Thomann, A. Watson, Wall, M. Wilkins.
2D Div.—Misses M. Chaves, Davenport, R. Fishburne, Heneberry, Krick, Martin, Mosher, Mattes, Otero, Pease, M. Richardson, A. Richardson, E. Wright
7TH Class—Misses Coyne, Condron, Eager, Eldridge, Green, Harrigan, Mulligan, Otis, Rodgers, K. Sawyer, Schmidt, M. Watson, A. Wright
8th Class—Misses Browne, M. Barry, Alice Sawyer" 9th Class—Misses Best, Ives, and Welch.
ioth Class—Misses S. Campau, Agnes English, J. English.	,
organ.
. Miss Claffey.	■	•
guitar. '
Miss Chrischellis.
.	harp.	'
Miss Galen. ' •
sth Class—Misses L. Coryell, Dillon, N. Keenan, M. Price.
6th Class—Misses E. Hicks and Otero.
HARMONY.
Misses Fendrick and H. Hackett.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2D Class—Miss Hackett.
2D Div.—Miss J. Reilly.
3d Class—Misses H. Hackett, Wallace, Coryell, Reutlinger.
4TH Class—Misses Fenlon, Rasche, Waters, Wall, Campbell, Beal, Maude Casey, M. H. Ryan, M. Ducey, K. Ducey, Mary Casey, Robertson, Ramsey, M. Fishburne, M. A. Ryan, Rulison, Simms.
5th Class—Misses B. English, A. Nash, H. Van Patten, Gavan, L. Bremond.	-
