THE NOTRE OAME
SCHOLASTIC
In This Issue:
NEWS
DuBos Joins Faculty . . . Plan Drama Activities . . . Lunn Concludes Lectures . . . The Week . . . Man About the Campus . . . College Parade.
DR. CHARLES DU BOS
SPORTS
Notre Dame at Evanston tomorrow ... Fencers Hold Tournament . . . Keoganites Prepare for Opening . . . Introducing . . . Splinters.
November 19.1937
MEH THE ASTONISHING D.D.McINTYRE
He put Broadway on the newspaper map... and from the top of his column you can see Beowawe, Nevada, on a clear day. He talks to many millions of people every day, but he won’t answer his own telephone. He lived for years at the Ritz because they let his dog ride in the elevators. His “Thoughts While Strolling” are composed in a Rolls-Royce. What manner of man is he? Where does he. get his 300,000 words a year? For a word picture of the incredible “Odd” McIntyre, see
Gallipolis Boy Makes Good


by I. BRYAN, III
THE SATU

Al

7^-'

H
IT

a O. MCINTYRE-By J. BRYAN, HI

I50-P0IIND FOOTBALL IN YOUR COLLEGE ?
At Princeton, Yale, Rutgers, Penn, Lafayette, Cornell and other schools a new kind of football is coming to the fore. It’s fast, spectacular. You can’t play if you weigh more than 150 pounds. Speed and brains count more than weight. With no big stadiums, no big training tables, no big injuries, the pigskin peewees have made their sport exciting to watch, popular to play. Let Arnold Nicholson tell you why it’s sweeping the colleges, in Little Men—Here’s How. ,
by ARNOLD NICHOLSON
AHU Y0U ^N’T ™E GOVERNMENT. Stanley High real RI II ports on the world’s biggest publicity campaign, and how it ^IlwUr sells the New Deal to America.
“SOCKING A CROOK,” said young Larry Wayne, “is definite! moded.” So he went after the cop-hating Carmichaels his Leslie T. White tells how, in The Last Wayne.
AN AMERICAN DOCTOR IN CHINA. Victor Heiser, M.D., relates the deeply human story of China’s battle against disease.
TROUBLE, TROUBLE. Ten hours to finish Highway 721. Then, mysteriously, the 40-ton digger started to slip. A short story by Karl Detzer.
NEWFOUNDLAND SPENDS ITS WAY INTO BANKRUPTCY. Bertram B. Fowler tells how it happened, and what they tried next, in Government by Receivership... Read also Hospitals Are for Sick People, by Hannah Lees, and Tish Marches On, by Mary Roberts Rinehart.
>y out-
own way.
THE
POST I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as seeond-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z188
Vol. 71	November 19, 1937	No. 8
ADD DR. DUBOS. FAMOUS FRENCH CRITIC. TO FACULTY OF ENGLISH DEPARTMENT
By Graham Starr
Dr. Charles DuBos, eminent French critic and writer, arrived here from Paris recently to join the faculty of the English department of the University. Although he is the grand-nephew of Senator James B. Eustis, the first United States envoy to France to bear the title of ambassador, this is Dr. DuBos’ first
visit to America.
“I have eagerly anticipated this opportunity to visit America for many years, chiefly because as a boy my grand-uncle so vividly impressed me with the democratic distinction of America and of American institutions during his stay at the embassy in Paris from 1893 to 1897,” Dr. DuBos said.
At Notre Dame, he has just started teaching new elective courses in English: Pascal and His Work, The Philosophy of Literature, and Studies in Some English and American Writers. The last course named includes readings in Shelley, Keats, the Brownings, George Eliot, Edith Wharton, and others. These courses are to be offered in the second half of this semester, and will be continued throughout the second semester.
Early in his youth DuBos became a figure of note in the literary, artistic, and intellectual centers of France, Germany, and Italy. He was the associate and intimate friend of such satellites as Andre Gide, Paul Valery, Maritain, Edith Wharton, Mauriac, and Gilson.
In the near future, Dr. DuBos plans to give a series of public lectures on his friend, the late Edith Wharton, whose novels he translated into French.
It was literature that eventually led Dr. DuBos back to Catholicism.
“I found,” he said, “in my search for the explanation of genius, that a deeper study and understanding of real literature brings one invariably to the spiritual. I could find no explanation of genius in human reasoning. Finally, in self-analysis of talent, I found that fundamentally I am a mortal being and not an intellectual one—a moral being who applies all his forces to intellectual objects and preoccupations.”
Dr. DuBos’ published writings number eleven volumes. lincluded in these is his lengthy study of Byron.
(Continued on Page 23)
President Brosius “Accountants do Big Apple.”
Hear Polish Music
•
The Cracow Club met at eight o’clock Friday evening Nov. 12, in the recreation room of Cavanaugh Hall to discuss important plans for their activities of the coming year. Forty members were present. The presiding officer was the Reverend S. F. Lisewski, C.S.C., professor of Polish.
Edward Alexander, of Cavanaugh Hall, entertained his fellow members with a rendition of popular Polish folk ballads through the medium of his piano-accordion. Vernon Wood-kowski, also a Cavanaugh Hall resident, added interest to the meeting by contributing a detailed report on the present critical European situation.
The club seriously considered arranging with Mr. Lewis Hammer-schmidt, prominent South Bend attorney and long-time friend of Notre Dame, to present the movies of his trip last summer, which covered a great portion of Poland and Russia, and to present his views and observations of the present critical situation in Europe today.
FORUM RUSHES PLAN FOR FIRST DANCE
•
The Notre Dame Commerce Forum will have its first dance on the night of the Southern California football game from 9 to 11:30 o’clock at the Columbia Athletic Club in South Bend.
Frank Delaney is general chairman, and Jack Zerbst is in charge of arrangements. Henry Theis has been appointed chairman of the music committee. Tom Reardon will take care of the tickets, and David Bilger is chairman of the patrons’ committee.
“Any future Forum dances depend upon the success of this first one,” President Brosius stated.
At the first meeting of the newly organized Discussion Group of the Forum, last Tuesday, a paper “Tax Exemptions,” was given by Frank Fitch. Those who wish to join the discussion group are asked to see Dick Scannell at 107 Sorin.
On Thursday of this week, a general meeting of the Forum was held in honor of the new faculty members. Refreshments were served.
Announce New Award
Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, announced this week the establishment of the John C. Doarn scholarship for the assistance of students in financial need.
John Doarn played football under the late Knute Rockne and won his athletic monogram as a varsity tackle in 1927. He received his LL.B. degree two years later.
Early in 1935 Doarn succumbed to a heart attack after a handball game in his home town, Omaha, Nebraska.
The scholarship is the gift of the Notre Dame athlete’s mother, Mrs. A. J. Doarn of the Conant Hotel, Omaha.
Mass for *35 Grad
Alfred Capitell of Belmont, Mass., a graduate in the class of 1935, was killed instantly in an airplane crash at Kelly field in Texas. Mr. Capitell was killed instantly. At the request of the Boston Club, a mass will be celebrated by Father Gartland, club chaplain.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
YEAR'S PREMIER ISSUE OF "SCRIP" FEATURES CRITICAL ESSAYS AND SHORT STORIES
•
The Notre Dame Scrip, literary quarterly, edited by Charles B. Nelson, junior’ in the College of Arts and Letters from Decatur, Ill., made its first appearance of the 1937-38 school year on the campus last Friday afternoon. The initial issue, which has won favorable comment among the student body,
includes some high standard fiction, addition to some excellent contributions of poetry and verse.
The new white cover with its imposing red letters, designed by Ed Kort, junior in the College of Arts and Letters from West Palm Beach, Florida, possesses a tone of simplicity and brightness. Other art work of Kort’s appears in the magazine, and his drawings will also be included in succeeding issues.
“The Shack,” by Harold A. Williams, is an interesting and entertaining adventure of four youngsters who build a clubhouse and then attempt to brave one night’s sleep in it. Another story, with a boyhood background is “Waterfront,” by John Meaney, in which he described a day at fishing by a group of anxious boys.
“The Apoplectic Turkey,” by Andrew Frederick Wilson, depicting the antics of a self-conscious gentleman and an impatient little boy in a barber shop, provides humorous reading. “Liars,” by John L. Barry, is entertaining.
A vivid character sketch of an old Confederate soldier is “Old Ritchie” written by Phillip Record North.
The three critical essays are enlightening and comprehensive. They are: “The Poet of the Universe,” an exposition of the theocentric Francis Thompson, by Fred J. Digby; “The Perception of Coventry Patmore,” by Francis Cunningham; and “The Tidings Brought to Man,” by Thomas Cassidy, a discussion of the French Catholic playwright, Paul Claudel.
Poetry contributions include the “Sonnet for an Astronomer,” by Chester Soleta, C.S.C.; “Water Colours,” by Costigan Curry; “Stirring,” by John Prescott; and “Song of the Geese and the Snow,” “The Color of Rain,” and “A Single Star,” all done by Oliver Kimble.
The freshman sketches show an increasing amount of interest and are deserving of much favorable comment. These clean-cut miniatures, written by the first year men, are growing increasingly popular each year, •
Assisting Editor Nelson with this year’s Scrip are associate editors: Fred J. Digby, Francis E. Cunningham, and William A. Donnelly.
Two prizes are offered annually for the writers of Scrip. A $25 award is given for the best prose contribution and there is an equal award for the best work in poetry.
note-worthy critical essays, in
Prof. Louis Hasley
His Literature Featured.
Hasley Writes Articles For Several Magazines
Various nationally - known magazines have recently published several works of Louis L. Hasley, associate professor of English at the University.
In the Catholic World for November, 1937, appears Mr. Hasley’s article, “The Stream of Consciousness Method,” which briefly explains this modern literary device and answers several of the most important objections that have been made to its use.
Columbia for November, 1937, carries Mr. Hasley’s article, “Poetry and Stuff,” an analysis of the reasons why the average citizen avoids the fine arts, with poetry as the special concern of the article. A short poem, “After Confession,” also appears in this issue. In addition to Mr. Hasley’s contributions there is a football story, “Sub Quarter,” by Haarry Sylvester (Notre Dame ’30), a classmate of Mr. Hasley.
Ave Maria for Oct. 23, 1937, carried a poem by Mr. Hasley entitled “After Baptism.”
Besides previous contributions to the above-mentioned magazines, Mr. Hasley has contributed poetry to a number of other magazines, including America, Spirit, Poetry World, and The Lyric.
Mr. Hasley received his Bachelor
HALL DEBATES REACH SEMI-FINAL ROUND
•
Morrissey Hall versus Zahm Hall: that is the bill for tonight in the interhall debate series’ semi-final of the lower bracket; the seminar room of the law building at 7:45 mark the place and time.
Chairman Frank Fitch will be ready to announce in the next issue of the Scholastic the participants in the title round that is scheduled to take place within the fortnight. St. Edwards’ Hall competed with Dillon Hall last night in the semi-final of the upper half of the draw.
Zahm’s three-man team successfully debated the affirmative of the semester question — Resolved: that, “The National Labor Relations Board shall be in power to enforce arbitration in all industrial disputes”— against Lyons Hall on last Monday evening to clinch a berth in tonight’s semi-final competition.
It is likely that present rules will prevail for the debate finals. This means that five minutes will be allowed for the presentation of argument with the rebuttal being limited to three minutes.
The fifteen campus resident halls were arranged to form 13 teams at the outset of the series. Old Infirmary Hall reinforced the St. Edwards’ orators and Brownson dormitory Each of the 13 members of the Wranglers’ club was appointed to coach one of the competing teams.
First Degree to Twenty
At the meeting of the Knights of Columbus last Tuesday 20 candidates were given the initiation of the first degree. This degree was presented by the council officers.
A committee was appointed to attend to the renovation of the chambers in Walsh Hall. It is planned to have the entire room painted and to install opera seats.. The committee in charge of this consists of George Foss, William Fish, and Tim King.
The plans for the annual Christmas party were discussed and the committees in charge will be appointed by Grand Knight Quinn at a later date.
The official publication of the Council, The Santa Maria, was issued last week and was mailed to over 1,000 members. The mailing list included every state in the union, the insular possessions. It was also mailed to two members in England and to one in France.
of Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1930 and his Master of Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1931. He has been a member of the University faculty since 1931.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
S
LUNN MAKES FINAL TALK OF SERIES
FRANCIS GARVAN, ORIGINATOR NIEUWLAND FOUNDATION, DIES OF PNEUMONIA
By R. J. Anton
“Catholics are carrying a tremendous responsibility in the world of today. With the rapid rise of Communism and atheism, Catholics must be ready at all times to give and explain reasons for their faith.” With these words Arnold Lunn, English Catholic apologist, terminated his discussion on “The Joy of Controversy” given in Washington Hall, Thursday evening, Nov. 11. This topic marked the sixth and last in his series of lectures on the “Spanish Situation.”
As he outlined the tactics involved in public and private controversies, Mr. Lunn urged his student audience to learn thoroughly the correct value of argument. Man is naturally a controversial animal, he said, but a recent prejudice against controversy has resulted from a cynical mistake between it and quarrel.
An opponent must be convinced that there exists such a thing as objective truth. Arguments should be met by arguments. Self-confidence can be asserted only after a complete knowledge of your own case. If a psychological technique is used, you must employ your opponent’s tactics by answering his objections and appealing to his vanity.
Mr. Lunn stated that it was difficult to lecture to an audience which agrees with you, because the lack of objections tends to weaken old arguments and prohibit the introduction of new ones. “English audiences are radically different from those in America,” he said. “In England it is customary for persons to get up and heckle the speaker. This provides for quick thinking, as the speaker has both his opponent and the audience to reckon with.
“Atheistic societies are wonderful organizations to speak to for the Catholic volunteer who wants to polish up on his arguments. The Metropolitan Secular Society in London is one of the most famous for this type of work, where a Christian ‘Daniel’ is supposed to provide the English ‘lions’ with an afternoon of fun. Here will be found a relic of an old decaying and non-conforming Puritan stock that has turned to atheism.
“Here will be found the true test concerning a Catholic’s knowledge of his faith, for this one-sided group is always ready to pour numberless arguments on the lone speaker. Frequently semi-apostate Catholics will be found among the audience. Being lukewarm in belief and slack in faith, they can be best approached by the volunteer crusader. If the speaker is successful, the debate will end
(Continued on Page 22)
Francis Patrick Garvan, founder of Notre Dame’s Nieuwland Memorial Foundation, died Sunday morning, Nov. 7, at his home in New York. Mr. Garvan expired after years of ill health which culminated in pneumonia a few days before his death. Mr. Garvan’s death is mourned by the nation and especially by Notre Dame. He became well known for his patriotic
Francis P. Garvan R. I. P.
Press Club To Begin New Survey Soon
Mr. John M. Cooney, Ph.D., professor of journalism, told the Press club at its first smoker of the year Tuesday night how well the people of Virginia appreciated the club’s $1000 monument to Rev. John B. Tabb, which was completed a year ago.
The Press club sponsored the entire project itself, although it received financial aid from several benefactors.
One of the new projects of the Press club is to find the percentage of popular authors who once were in journalism. Letters are to be sent to about 1,000 authors throughout the country asking them if they had any journalistic experience before they began writing short stories and novels.
The purpose of the survey is to show just what part the study of journalism plays in the development of popular writers. The club will welcome any lists of authors which the students read. Such lists may be turned in to Jack Freedy, Alumni hall.
work in a scientific field. One of the first Americans to recognize the possibility and importance of establishing an independent chemical industry in this country, Mr. Garvan abandoned a brilliant career as a lawyer and political figure to devote all of his time and energy to fulfilling the ideal of economic independence for the United States. At the suggestion of President Woodrow Wilson he organized the Chemical Foundation. The purpose of this foundation was to perform research and establish scholarships to spread scientific education. Mr. Garvan visioned a “Che-murgic Utopia” which he said was the answer to the nation’s economic needs and the sole way to “an economy of abundance.”
This positive interest of Mr. Gar-van’s in stopping foreign monopolizing of products vital to American industries caused his intense interest in the work of Father Julius A. Nieuwland, the discoverer of the basic elements of a synthetic rubber. A material proof of this interest was established when Mr. Garvan founded the Julius A. Nieuwland Memorial Foundation for Chemistry and Allied Sciences.
The outstanding virtues of Mr. Garvan were the fervent loyalty which inspired his notable patriotism, and his ardent devotion to his family and his church. He was the only layman ever to receive the Priestly Medal of the American Chemical Society and the Mendel Medal, awarded annually by Villanova College to the Catholic who has most signally advanced the cause of science. Notre Dame invited Mr. Garvan to lay the cornerstone of the new biology building. He accepted the invitation and performed the ceremonies in the early part of June, 1936, not long before the sudden death of his friend, Father Nieuwland.
Notre Dame was very grateful for all the benefits conferred upon her by this man. Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, attended the funeral of Mr. Garvan in New York. Two days after his death the student body united to offer up their prayers and Holy Communions at a Solemn Mass of requiem for the repose of his soul.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PLAYS. VAUDEVILLE SHOWS. PLANNED FOR NEWLY ORGANIZED DRAMATIC CLUB
By Donald A. Foskett
Active work in University dramatics got under way at eight o’clock on Tuesday evening in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, with the initial meeting of all students interested in the formation of a dramatic club on the campus. Professor Thomas E. Mills, of the Department of Speech, who is in charge of all dramatic activities this __________________ year, presided ovex- the meeting.
The first step in organizing student dramatics will be the formation of a student players' club, which will be chiefly in the nature of a “workshop,” a place for experimentation. The members of this club will direct and produce six or seven one-act plays in the course of the first semester, and of these one or two of the best will be presented before the student body in Washington Hall. It was indicated that the first to be presented will probably be “Moonshine,” a story of life among the mountain folk of the Blue Ridge. The aim of this players’ club, according to Professor Mills, is to give the student not only practice in acting, but in addition to enable them to acquire a certain amount of skill in the actual work of directing and presenting stage productions.
If Professor Mills’ plans materialize, dramatic activities for the second semester will be even more extensive than those for the first, branching out into, regular full-length productions to be given before the student body in Washington Hall. It is planned not only to present the more serious type of drama, but also to give one or two light, fast-moving vaudeville shows. These vaudeville productions will be held in connection with the observance of some significant day or event. One will be held sometime during the week of March 17, and will have for its theme the observance of St. Patrick’s Day, with appropriate songs, dances, and skits fresh from the Emerald Isle. Just what the second vaudeville performance will concern itself with has not yet been decided. One or two plays will also be given, and one of these will be the annual commencement play. Among those being considered for use are “The Last Mile” and “Journey’s End.”
The next meeting of the players is to be held on next Tuesday evening at eight o’clock in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. Applications for membership will again be received.
A brain institute which will make Washington the world capital for the study of the brains of animals and humans is being established at Georgetown University.
James Raaf
Aids the Schism.
Missouri Club Divides Into Two Groups
•
For the second time in its history, the Missouri Club has split into two branches, the Greater St. Louis, and Greater Kansas City Clubs. Five years ago the two separate campus organizations united to form the Mis-ouri Club. Now, as before, each club ■will be independent of the other and have separate plans.
At a meeting of the Greater St. Louis Club held last week in Badin Rec., plans for a smoker were formulated. It will be held Monday, Nov. 22, with Norvall Hunthausen acting as chairman, assisted by Warren Hellrung, Jack Scherer, and Dick Carr. A banquet is under consideration and will be given before the Christmas holidays.
The Greater Kansas City Club is planning for a smoker but it will not be held until December. The date for the Christmas dinner-dance has been selected as Dec. 28 with the Southern Mansion Supper Club as the probable location. Dick Bowes, Alumni Hall, is president of this group.
Although these clubs are independent of one another, it seems that there will be considerable rivalry between them in the future as their plans are both running along the same lines. The clubs expect to hold several joint meetings.
TOWN BOYS SET FOR TURKEY DAY TRUCKIN'
•
Next Thursday night the Villagers Club with “anticlimax” the Thanksgiving dinners with their annual “turkey-day” dance. Completing plans for this feature of their program at their last meeting, the Villagers announce the selection of the Palais Royale as the site of this dance.
These annual dances held by the off-campus students have been very successful in the past, and this year’s dance promises to be one of the finest yet held. The music committee, headed by John Reider, will procure the finest orchestra possible within the means of the club. To insure the success of the dance, President Paul Howard has selected committee chairmen and their assistants. These selections are as follows:
General Chairman: Edward Scheer.
Tickets: James Lahey, chairman; Ed Ettel, Charles Gerard, Robert Wilson, William Prekowitz, Joseph Hartzer, Donald Hickey and Alexis Coquillard.
Music: John Reider, chairman; Robert Bryan, James Jodon, Gerald Fisher, William McInerney, Walter Sweitzer and Donald Hosinski.
Publicity: George Elmore, chairman; Frank Kroeger, Francis Fergus, Richard Barbier, Frank Wukovits, Eugene Kochanowski, and Thomas Marker.
Decorations: William Myers, chairman; Richard Towne, Edward Merrill, Joseph Mason, Richard Phillion, Walter Lewicki, and Aubrey R. Boyd-Snee.
The dance will start at 8:30 p.m., Thursday, Nov. 25, and will continue until 11:30 p.m. Tickets may be purchased from James Lahey, chairman of the ticket committee, any of his staff, or may be obtained at the door of the Palais Royale, Thursday night.
Met Club Inaugural
The Met club held its first meeting Tuesday night, Nov. 9. The freshman were acquainted with the club’s aims and business and presented to the officers of the club.
Plans for a Communion breakfast were discussed and Bill Arnold, senior from New Rochelle, was appointed chairman of a committee to make arrangements. The Christmas dance ■was also discussed.
President Ed Condon announced that the next meeting, to take place Tuesday night, Nov. 23, would be a Freshman smoker. All members of the Met club and all Freshmen living in the Metropolitan area are invited to attend.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
COMMENCE TRYOUTS FOR DEBATE SQUAD
SCHEDULE TWO PROMINENT LECTURERS FOR DECEMBER APPEARANCES HERE
The first try-outs for the varsity debating team will be held Monday and Tuesday evening in the auditorium of the Law Building. A try-out schedule has been arranged from the list of applications submitted to Prof. Coyne, director of debating.
The first trials will consist of a five-minute speech followed by a three-minute rebuttal. The question undei- consideration is, “Resolved: That the National Labor Relations Board should be empowered to enforce arbitration of all industrial disputes.”
William Coyne
Continues to search.
From the groups listed below, two or more will be selected from each section to participate in the finals which will be held early in December. On Monday at four o’clock an affirmative team of Callan, Flynn and Wall will oppose Brame and Crandell. In the evening at 7:45 Fitch, Hogan and O’Loughlin will vie with Blake, Parks and Williams.
The second day of the trials will see Johnson, Murray and Pavelio oppose the negative team of Alexander, Mulligan and Tobin. The final preliminary tryout will be held Tuesday evening when Funk, McWilliams and Osborne will oppose McVey, Neumann and Pettigrew.
It is important for the participants to be present for their first trial. If anyone who has handed in his name has not been scheduled, he should see Prof. Coyne immediately and arrange for the required trial.
Love, on the basis of Dr. Kelly’s findings, affects the judgment of women more than that of men. The women were inclined to over-rate their men’s handsomeness, but the men came closer to the mark in judging the beauty of their women.
In connection with the University’s annual policy of securing eminent speakers for Washington Hall, two famous lecturers will deliver a series of talks during the month of December. This was the announcement made by Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C., director of the lecture program for Washington Hall. ■ ............... ■■------—— ——-
Leonard Casassa First Death of Schoolyear
•
It was Saturday. The students were through with classes for the week. Leonard Casassa was through for life. He had died that morning, November the sixth, of peritonitis. He met death courageously as he had prepared for it by the reception of the sacraments.
Leonard was universally popular with the students, and they eagerly watched the bulletins for the news of his condition. They had offered prayers and Communions for his quick recovery. The news of his death spread a certain sorrow over the campus.
Leonard was buried the following Wednesday in the Church from the Church of the Holy Redeemer at his home in Freeport, Long Island. The Reverend Father Mahon celebrated the Mass, assisted by the Reverend Father Daly as deacon, and the Reverend Father Madden as subdeacon. Reverend Father Cavanaugh, C.S.C., represented the University.
Leonard is sui-vived by the members of his immediate family including his father, mother, two brothers, and two sisters. As he had been a high school basketball and football star, his former’ teammates served as honorary pallbearers. A solemn high Mass was offered on the campus Monday for the repose of his soul.
Father Burke Speaks
Club meetings, “bull” sessions, and extra curricular activities in general are the things that we will remember in the years to come long after we have forgotten our book learning, according to the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., member of the department of English faculty.
He was speaking to the members of the Servers’ club at their regular meeting last Monday night in the sacristy of the church.
Father Burke backed up his statement by telling of the conversations of alumni when they come back to the University after many years have elapsed. Then, in a laugh-every-
On Dec. 5 and 6, Countess Clara Longworth de Chambrun will deliver two lectures on “The Romance of Shakespeare’s Sonnets” and “The Poaching Incident.” The Countess, who is acknowledged as the greatest living authority on Shakespeare, arrived in New York from France this month and has since spoken at the universities of Columbia and Johns Hopkins.
Countess de Chambrun, whose maiden name is Clara Eleanor Longworth, is a native of Cincinnati. She is the wife of Count Jacques Aldebert de Chambrun, general in the French army, and sister of the late Nicholas Longworth, for many years speaker of the house of representatives. During her 64 years she has written many literary works, among these being 16 pieces in which she has accomplished more than any other scholar on the Catholicity of Shakespeare.
A series of five lectures on “The New Samaritan” will be given during the second week in December by the Most Rev. Francis C. Kelly, D.D., Bishop of the Oklahoma City and Tulsa diocese. Bishop Kelly is one of the founders and the first president of the “Catholic Church Extension Society,” which for 32 years has gathered funds to support Catholic churches in rural communities.
His Excellency was the first editor of the national Catholic monthly magazine, The Extension. This publication works in conjunction with the Extension Society in providing funds for the maintenance of churches in rural districts containing few Catholics. Bishop Kelly is a former pastor of Lapeer, Michigan. He also served as mayor of that city.
Arnold Lunn, who delivered six lectures in Washington Hall during his six-weeks term as assistant professor in the department of Apologetics, left Saturday for a short trip to California. Mr. Lunn planned to render several discourses on “The Spanish Situation” while in California and then return to Switzerland to continue his coaching duties with the English Olympic Ski Club.
minute talk he told of some of his own reminiscences.
For service on the altar, the University treated the servers to a feast of coffee, cigarettes, cigars, sandwiches, ice cream, and cookies after Father Burke’s talk.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CANVASS HALLS FOR DRIVE AGAINST FILTH
•
The movement to clean up the magazine stand has started at Notre Dame.
Either tonight, or by Monday night at the latest, canvassers will visit each room on the campus seeking signers for cards pledging the signer not to patronize news-stands that make a habit of disposing of pornographic literature. All students are asked to cooperate by signing the card and then observing the pledge.
Rev. John F. O’Hara, president of the University, was the first signer of the pledge cards on the campus. He is very much interested in the movement and hopes to see it a success both on the campus and later, nationally.
This movement was originated by the N.C.C.W. of South Bend, and is being carried on undei' their auspices. There are both negative and positive sides to the drive. Negatively, it is hoped that the sale of filthy literature will be stopped; positively, to encourage the reading of good literature.
Talk is Radio Feature
Professor Francis J. O’Malley will open the radio week with a talk on recent war books. Among the authors to be discussed on this broadcast will be such writers as Maxene Van Der Meersch and David Jones. This program, the fourth in the regular series of faculty talks, will be presented Monday evening at 7:15.
Tuesday evening the “Modernairs” will again make their appearance on the “Little Jamboree” program. In addition to the swing orchestra the program will have several campus personalities as guests of honor.
Other regular programs of the week include: Wednesday at 4:15, “Man in the Tower” with Redmond Duggan; Thursday at 7:45 the department of music program featuring the University symphony orchestra; and Friday at 8:00 the sports program with Steve Miller.
Several interesting new programs are now in preparation. These programs will be used to fill vacant periods in the afternoon broadcasting schedule. Among the proposed programs are: Campus Parade under the direction of Norbert Alexis; Preview of the News with Edward O’Connor as commentator; and a freshman tryout program.
Harold Anthony Williams, Jr., born somewhere in the wilds of Wisconsin, won’t say where. Became adopted son of the east, and now thinks Baltimore is the Utopia of America. Received three big boxes of goodies and Elgin watch for his 21st birthday last spring, and maintained open house with eats for everyone for a week— it happened to be the week before class elections. Williams was elected secretary without effort.
Attended Calvert Hall in Baltimore before coming to N. D. Was editor of his school paper, and won gold medal in English. Became reporter for The Scholastic in his freshman year, and worked up to authoi* of the “Week.”
Went out for track in his freshman year, thinking everyone should take part in extra - curricular activities. Won interhall medal for coming in first in the 100-yard dash. Attends most away-from-home games using railroad pass. Will tell you about his trick play which he says is a sure touchdown getter. Plans to let Layden use it for the Southern Cal.
game.
Wrote high school composition entitled “Shack,” used it for Practical English, gave it to Scrip, and now dramamatizing it in a one-act play. Intends to put it in verse before he is graduated.
Has lived with same roomie all through school, but roomie says he has to put up with plenty. If he doesn’t get to bed first, he loses his night’s sleep because Junior snores so loud. William says it’s due to Indiana weather.
President of the Bookmen. Denies that you can tell a Bookman by looking at him.
MUSIC NOTES
By Paul R. Locher
Last Tuesday evening in South Bend, Ted Shawn introduced his own group of male dancers in an original American saga, “O Libertad.” The dances were created by Shawn in three major divisions to characterize the past, the present, and the future in American life. The ballet music was composed and arranged by the accompanist, Jess Meeker.
The first series of dances began with an Aztec sacrifice, progressing rapidly to symbolize the advent of the Christian religion, its conflict with the ancient sun worship, the peonage ■ system under the Spanish conquerors, Spanish influence in California, and a descriptive account of the activities of the “Forty-niners.” Perhaps the most effective number was “Los Hermanos Penitentos,” in which the members of a fanatic cult would scourge themselves unmercifully and then select one of their group to be crucified in imitation of Christ’s sufferings.
In the second sequence, a typical college campus was depicted as a locale. A call to arms marked the transition to No Man’s Land, accompanied by Shawn’s characterization of insidious propaganda then filtering through the world. This dance was his best of the evening. Kipling would haev enjoyed the satirical return of the wounded soldier as a hero who met with subsequent disillusion-mene and neglect. The jazz age was ushered in with the figures masked grotesquely to denote the artificiality and inserity of that period. Imitation of modern swing and rhythmic dances showed a potential beauty of expression lost in cabaret exhibitionism.
A special suite of sports dances, created by indiivdual members of the troupe, was perhaps the most pop-ular group on the program.
The final act was a succession of abstractions from the future, such as strife, opposition, resilience, surge, and ending with apotheosis. The finale was effectively done, although Shawn’s solo work in this part came more as an anticlimax to the splendid work of his troupe. This criticism could be made quite general throughout the program with certain notable exceptions. Perhaps the fact that his interpretations were more symbolic and subjectively overdone accounted for the lack of enthusiasm surrounding his efforts. They were also characteried by obvious mannerisms which detracted from the originality of the numbers. His chorus were gifted with much more spontaneity, Barton Mumaw being especially agile in his solo sequences.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
THE WEEK By Harold A. Williams
MAHONEY GIVES AIMS OF SCHOOLMEN CLUB
Memorial
When Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, president of the Board of Lay Trustees, jabbed the gilded shovel in the fairway of the ninth green and lifted out the biggest divot that has ever been taken from the course, we knew that the Rockne Memorial was finally under way. There were many impressive things at the ceremony, but the most impressive, it seem to us, was the cheer for Rock. It was more than just a cheer and more than a perfuctory tribute.
After the speeches, Mr. Kanaley patiently lifted the same hunk of sod three times for the “still" men, and Father O’Hara graciously repeated his speech for the newsreel sound track. When it was all over we tried to find out what they were going to do with the gilded shovel. Nobody knew. We suppose it will be put away in a vault until resurrected for the ground breaking of the New Freshman Hall.
As we left we noticed a groundskeeper carefully place the piece of sod back in the fairway.
Bonfire—almost
The Thursday afternoon before the Pitt game, trucks from downtown stores began to unload near the new tennis courts old packing cases, cardboard boxes, wrapping material, orange crates, kindling wood, and anything else that would make a good bonfire. They had gladly contributed this at the request of the goold old S.A.C. You see, the good old S.A.C. was going to have a big bonfire before the Pitt pep meeting.
Friday morning the trucks were back. The men, to the surprise of the good old S.A.C., were loading the same material they had unloaded yesterday. By two o’clock it was all gone.
We can’t figure it out. We guess the business men from South Bend suddenly decided they needed the old packing cases, cardboard boxes, wrapping material, orange crates, kindling wood, and anything else that would have made a good bonfire. And it was too bad they did. It would have been a swell bonfire.
•
Compliment
November 14 to 20 was National Milk Week, so we better say something about milk. We think we have just the thing. A fellow over in Chemistry hall, we heard, recently tested some of the dining hall milk. It had a butter fat content of 4.5. Now we don’t know much about butter fat or what 4.5 means, but the fellow also tested milk from South Bend, Chicago, and his home town
and that ranged from 3.6 to 4.3, so we suppose that makes our milk better than the rest. We think this is pretty good, especially for National Milk Week. When you go home at Christmas (32 more days) don’t forget to mention the 4.5 butter fat content of our milk when you tell the folks what a great place this is.
Incidentally, we think we made history in the above paragraph. It is the first time-that we can recall anything favorable being said in a student publication about the stuff the dining hall dishes out.
Roommates
A few days ago a fellow named George from Alumni had occasion to telephone Miss Rockne of St. Mary’s. When the telephone was finally answered, George asked to speak to Miss Rockne. There was the usual three-minute delay.
“Hello?” said the girl at St. Mary’s.
“Hello!” said George. “Is this Miss Rockne?”
“No,” said the girl. “Miss Rockne is busy right now. Can I take the message? I’m Miss Rockne’s roommate, Miss Warner.”
•
Invitation
Our editor, Gene Vaslett, received a letter from the Managing Editor of the Daily Northwestern. It said, in part, “To guarantee that the Gamma Kappa Delta dance will be a victory celebration regardless of who wins the game, the Gamma Kaps are anxious to have a large turnout of N. D. men. The girls at Willard hall have offered to furnish as many as 50 dates for men with no previous connections on this campus. All that ies required is that the man send his name, height, and his specifications for the girl to Miss Jane Cline, Willard Hall, Evanston.”
All we can say is that we are sorry that it was Scrip’s turn to hit the street last week, otherwise we could have tipped off you fellows a week earlier.
See you at the dance, Gene.
“Although there is a much-lauded American tradition of ‘working one’s way through college,’ the frequency with which students have actually been able to earn their maintenance during the four-year period in which they completed the Bachelor’s degree is so small that to attempt to do so may. . . be considered poor judgment —C. L. Murray, registrar, Ball State Teachers’ College, Indiana.
A demand for more interest in group meetings was the theme of William P. Mahoney, senior in philosophy and president of the Schoolmen, in a talk before that club at
Schoolman Mahoney Wanta Argue?
their regular meeting last night. He cited the group on the philosophy of communism as an example of what was desired. This group, under the leadership of George Keenen and the guidance of Professor Francis E. McMahon, has been particularly active in discussion and research work.
Possible activities of the club for the future were mentioned by the Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C. Chief of these was a plan for a disputation among representatives from the various groups. Such a disputation would be held sometime near the Feast of St. Thomas'Aquinas, patron of the club.
Father Brennan also urged members of the club to submit essays in competition for the Dockweiler medal. This medal is awarded annually to the senior in the College of Arts and Lettei-s who submits the best' essay-on some philosophical subject.
Another feature of the meeting was the establishment of an archives department for the club. This will form a permanent depository for papers delivered before the club as well as records of other activities of the club.
Tovorich to Play Here
What will probably be the highlight of the all too limited theater season in South Bend will be the presentation of the Robert Sherwood adaptation of the play “Tovarich,” sprightly story of the days of the czars of Russia. The play wilt be presented Saturday evening, Nov. 27, at the Granada theater.
The leading role of the story is played by Eugene Leonivitch, star of many successes of the contemporary American stage.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NAME RILEY AS HEAD OF CHICAGO DANCE
COLLEGE PARADE
CALENDAR
The Chicago club through President Buckley announced a new high for Christmas dance sites. The Drake has been acquired for the annual Christmas formal to be held on the Dec. 27. Simultaneously President Buckley announced that William Riley, a senion in the College of Commerce, would be the chairman of the dance.
The bids will be three dollars ($3.50 at the door) and they are obtainable from the president or the chairman.
Chairman Riley Points to the Drake.
Of interest to those Notre Dame men attending the Notre Dame-Northwestern game in Evanston this Saturday is the announcement that the University of Notre Dame club of Chicago is holding a formal supperdance at the Knickerbocker hotel. Walter Ehlert and his orchestra will furnish the music for the occasion. Any additional information may be obtained from Johnny Buckley at 245 Alumni hall.
A club breakfast will feature the activities of the week ending Dec. 5.
Movie Schedule
Movies scheduled for Washington Hall till Christmas vacation are as follows:
Nov. 20—Three Smart Girls.
Nov. 24—Green Light, also March of Time.
Nov. 27—Gorgeous Hussy.
Dec. 4—Bom To Dance.
Dec. 7—Adventures in Manhattan, also March of Time.
Dec. 11—Valiant Is the Word for Carrie.
Dec. 18—Theodora Goes Wild.
January 22, 1887—All the material for the band this year is good except some of the instruments.
By one of those strange coincidences that sometimes happen, “ponies” are in great demand and simultaneously with impending examinations.
By John A. Callaghan
Purty Purtry
Caesar sees her seize her scissors
Sees her eyes Sees her size Caesar sighs.
—Northeastern News.
Digest
According to the Purple Cow, here is how the Reader’s Digest would boil down Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address:
“Eighty-seven years ago this country was bom. Today we are dedicating a cemetery on a battlefield of the war in which many have died for this country. This is a splendid idea of ours.
“Since nobody will remember what we say here, we are the ones that should be dedicated to the job that was begun by these dead who did not die in vain. God save the people’s government.”
Headline
SWEEPERS WISH YE SWISHING SHTOPS
—Duquesne Duke.
Amateurs
When they say that they are “deemphasizing” football at the Johns Hopkin’s University they really mean it. The problem has been taken care of, much to the delight of the fans, by allowing everybody to go to the games on passes, Hereafter, a “guest card” will allow anyone to the game. The cards are available to all askers and cost nothing. Each card will be good for bearer and all comers. The owner of the card can play host to his relatives and friends at will.
Under this plan, unique in the history of the modem university, Johns Hopkins will never pay nor accept guarantees, will finance its own trips away and expect the visiting teams to do the same.
—o—
“Kindergarten”
There is a school in Oklahoma city which trains “boys” and “girls” over the age of seventy to live on their insurance dividends — the School of Maturates. Dr. W. A. McKeever, head of the school, presides the following as prerequisites to reaching the age of 100:
1.	Eat -three light meals a day and only, alkaline foods.
2.	Have a job you like.
3.	Have lots of friends and read the newspapers for current affairs.
4.	Stop grumbling and don’t talk about old age or pains. Don’t preach against the younger generation. Get
Friday, November 19
Scholastic meeting, editorial staff, 6:30, general staff, 7:00 p.m.; Semifinal round interhall debate, Law building seminar room.
Saturday, November 20
Mass for the team, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a.m.; Football game, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, at Evanston; “B” team game, stadium, 2:00 p.m.; Movie, Washington Hall, “Three Smart Girls” with Deana Durbin.
Sunday, November 21
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6, 7, 8, 9, p.m.; meeting, St.' Vincent de Paul Society, Knight’s of Columbus Chambers, Walsh hall, 11:00 a.m.
Monday, November 22
Meeting, Economic Round Table, Rose Marie Tea Room, South Bend, 6:00 p.m.; Radio program, 7:15 p.m., Prof Francis J. O’Malley.
Tuesday, November 23
Meeting, Knight’s of Columbus, Walsh Hall chambers, 7:45 p.m.; radio program, 7:45 p.m.
Wednesday, November 21t
Meeting, Wrangler’s; Radio sports program with Steve Miller, 8:00 p.m. and also music program, 7:45; Movie, Washington hall, “Green Light” and “March of Time,” 6:40 show for freshmen only, second show 8:20.
Thursday, November 25
Thanksgiving Day, no classes; Mass, Sacred Heart Church, 7:25 a.m.
out with the young people. Dance a jig-
5.	Don’t sleep more than six hours a day. Have so many interests that you need the extra time to pursue them.
—o—
Jottings
Squelch: “Have you a cigarette?” “Lots of them, thanks.”. . Want Ad: “Lost: $100 bill. Sentimental value.” . . . Proverb: He who sews rips. • . Joke: Then there’s the two-faced guy who enjoyed his double features. . . Calendar: Oregon State Agricultural College has a woman student enrolled whose name is June May March. . . Advice: The doors of opportunity are not marked “pull” or “go slowly.” They are marked “push.”. . . Puzzle: A sensible girl is not as sensible as she looks because a sensible girl has more sense than to look sensible. . .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
II
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
Another College Town
Gertrude Stein, sans punctuation, had this to say about the site of Harvard—“We went to Cambridge over night and I spoke in Radcliffe and at the Signet Club at Harvard. It was funny about Cambridge; it was the one place where there was nothing that I recognized nothing. Considering that I spent four years there it was sufficiently astonishing that nothing was there that I remembered nothing at all.”
(South Bend leaves an impression, at least)
Some Nutty Definitions
A raincoat is something you wear all day hoping the weather will be and it never is.
A blotter is something you look for while the ink is drying on the letter.
A golf ball is that which when struck goes sw-i-i-i-sh!
A tennis racket is that with which when you strike a"ball it goes plop!
A couple of twists in this story
The phone in Walsh rang and was answered by one of the gentlemen of Walsh. (Which is unusual enough) The feminine voice on the other end of the wire asked for a friend of his. He pulled the usual fake of standing outside the booth for a couple of minutes and then returned to the phone to say that the friend was not in. He engaged the young lady in conversation and finally inveigled her into a date. He would have to bring a friend, however, for a friend of hers. This he consented to do. The friend he asked to come along was another gentleman of Walsh—the one she had asked for in the first place.
It’s Futile
What does it get you to master St. Thomas and Descartes? Bing Crosby, sponsored by a cheese company, croons tunes over the air like, “He Ain’t got Rhythm,” and gets himself a Ph.D.
Tsk, tsk
In the Regina (Sask.) Leader-Post this slipped through editors, proofreaders, and two editions: “The best man was gowned in blue moire and wore a corsage of roses.”
Perhaps Don can clear it up
That picture of Don Hickey’s that has been staring at you from Bagby’s window for some time now has started a mild controversy here. One side claims the photographer wants to show what photography can do for even you. The other side is equally certain that the picture is there only
because the window space had to be filled up some way.
In lieu of Maureen O’Sullivan
Over Fred Shellogg’s desk in the Old Infirmary is a picture of Fred Shellogg with the inscription, “From Fred Shellogg, as ever, Fred Shellogg.”
Coat Tale
Those four camels-hair coats, with the faint pinkish stripe, being worn around the campus are owned by the Messrs. Callahan, Gleason, Wardell, and Kelly. The first to appear was Gleason’s, purchased at Gilbert’s for the tidy sum of §34.00. Callahan’s, Wardell’s, and Kelly’s made then* appearance after the fire sale at Gilbert’s and were purchased for §10.50 each. Imagine “Red” Gleason’s feelings to know that he spent enough for his coat to put its counterpart on the backs of three other lads.
This Machine Age!
In the Colfax theatre is a weighing machine that will answer a certain set of questions. You insert a penny, indicate the question you wish answered by turning a knob, and the phychic mechanism whirls around. One of us asked the question, “Which is my lucky day?” and the answer popped up, “Your birthday.” The
“So Barry sent you, Good-bye.”
last quote deserves two question marks.
Short Ones
We resent the pun on Paul Mallon’s column “News Behind the News” that this page should be called “The News ’Way behind the News.” . . . The “Sons of Mayors” club has taken in another member. Bob Egan’s pater has been elected mayor of Dunkirk’s (N. Y.) 17,802 (1930 census). When questioned on the mayor’s salary, Bob reiterated with the basis of good, American statesmanship, “The salary is immaterial.” . . . This from the radio, “He had a head so small that he got his hair cut with a pencil-sharpener.” . . . and “That little six-year-old asked for a nickel so often that, to his pop, he looked like a slot machine.” . . . Vic Ruggiero has recently moved to St. Mary’s to take care of the soda fountain there but he can’t escape this. He still gets letters signed “Baby Shoes.” . . . Ted Husing gave us something to think over when he closed his announcing of last Saturday’s game with the Army by saying, “Well, there goes the final gun and Notre Dame has licked the ‘Fighting Irish’ by a score of 7-0.” . . . “Speedy” Arboit was all right but “Casper” Arboit is something to take issue about.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C______________Faculty Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT_______________________Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA____________________________Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams The Week
John Callaghan College Parade
John F. Clifford Splinters from the Press Box
Thomas Healy____________________________In the Juggler Vein
Netus Staff
Vincent DeCoursey_____________________________Nevis	Editor
George Haithcock________________________Assistant Netvs Editor
Frederick Sisk_______________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard______________________________________Vernon	Sneider
Joseph Miller________________________________________Thomas	Marker
James Dempsey__________________________________John	Kohn
William C. Fay____________________________________Fructuoso	Barreda
James Gorman Richard Anton
James Hufnagel
. Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli_______i______________________Sports Editor
Frederick Digby_______________•_____-Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto---------------------------Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe---------------------William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson------------------------Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan____________________:Ed Brennan
Eddie Huff
Ari Staff
George Elmore_________________________________Art Editor
Tom Powers_______________________________________Ed Kort
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 237 Walsh Hall. Notre Dame, Indiana.	'
publications. Catholic conventions are likewise invaluable to Catholic papers but the national meetings cover a broader field and an exchange of ideas between nonCatholic and Catholic representatives is a healthy and thought-provoking procedure, often resulting in a leveling off process that affects both classes. Some Catholic papers are inclined to go too far one way and nonsectarian papers are inclined to go too far another way. Meeting on a level ground and exchanging ideas has often seen far better products on the part of both parties concerned.
Two weeks ago Mount St. Joseph College in Ohio, disappointed at the number of Catholic delegates to the Associated Collegiate Press Conference held in Chicago in mid-October, started a “Catholic Press Crusade.” Letters were sent by them to editors of all Catholic college papers asking national aid in this movement to make the Catholic collegiate press a prominent part of national collegiate picture. These letters urged delegates to “wake up,” become vitally interested in other press endeavors besides Catholic. In other words go out and mingle in the collegiate press world.
Representatives from Notre Dame attended the Associated Collegiate Press conference. Like the Mount St. Joseph students they noticed the scarcity of Catholic college representatives. They also noticed that the Catholic College press was ignored at the meetings. This, however, is the fault of the Catholic College press itself. It didn’t try to distinguish itself in any way. In fact the very few Catholic delegates there did not warrant the attention that a great many such representatives would. That is the purpose of the “Catholic Press Crusade” started by the students down in Ohio. The Scholastic joins up, along with other Catholic papers in a concerted effort to make the Catholic collegiate press nationally prominent in the collegiate world.
Vol. 71	November 19, 1937	No. 8
Catholic College Press Lethargy
IN THE last few weeks a movement on the part of
Catholic college papers has been rapidly reaching a prominent place in the eyes of the collegiate press throughout the country.
Seemingly the student publication of Catholic colleges have at last refused to take a back seat when talk gets around to college papers. Formerly the Catholic collegiate papers have been relegated to dim corners in national collegiate press conventions, passed over with a short paragraph in writings on the collegiate press, and, most important of all, hardly heard from when representatives of non-sectarian college papers dominate any press gathering.	.
Reasons for such actions on the part of students in charge of publications at Catholic schools can be briefly . explained. Heretofore only certain Catholic colleges have sent delegates to national press conventions. Other Catholic institutions have been content tb send delegates only to the Catholic conferences and have completely ignored the national conventions. Why? We don’t.know. Na-, tional conventions are of invaluable aid to . all college.
Topsy Turvy
A LITTLE note from across the seas last Armistice Day makes one wonder at the sanity of the world. Flashing across numerous illustrated pages on the morning of November 12 was a photograph of a man being subdued by a group of London bobbies. To the rear of this scene stands the King of England.
The caption beneath the picture makes reference to a madman who disturbed the London exercises to the World War dead with an outcry to stop all this hypocrisy while the country is seemingly arming for another war. What is so pertinently interesting about the whole thing is that the man is termed mad.
It seems proper to inquire just how mad is the man —or is he insane? Isn’t there some truth in what he says? One simply must wonder. And the wonder seemed to disappear after overhearing a student in the cafeteria. He was poking fun at a thin-faced fellow slumped forward in his chair across the way. Nodding significantly at his neighbor, the student said: “He thinks everybody is crazy, but not himself.”	.
. “Oh,” his neighbor replied, “I’m not crazy, but you
•.are. Is that the idea?”	‘ '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Notre Dame Boys at St. Mary's
By Frederick E. Sisk
Notre Dame has within its rank at least ten students who estimate that they walk approximately 1,250 miles during the school year, going to and from school. These “walking marathoners” at the same time are earning their way through Notre Dame by working in another college. Almost paradoxical you might say, but not so when you consider that a girls’ school has need for masculine labor just the same as a boys’ school.
Thus, it comes about the neighboring institution of St. Mary’s sends out a call each year for ten boys from Notre Dame to wrestle around dishes, “jerk” sodas, and attend a greenhouse. This same group of so-called “preferred” laborers have formed themselves into an organization of their own, which has within it controlling members to see that the scholastic ends of their college work is not neglected and that discipline is present among the members.
As an introduction to these persons, we present a man who washes silverware at St. Mary’s three times a day, has worked there two and one-half years, and despite this long period of service still thinks Notre Dame is “swell”—Louis Somers. Louis is “Dean” of the N. D. laboring organization at St. Mary’s. In a fashion he waves the big stick of power over the group. Disputes and conflicts arising from other departments of the club are referred to the Dean for consideration and settlement.
While not attending to his duties as bus boy in the college located one and one-half miles to the west of Notre Dame, Robert “Chubby” Fish is the Director of Studies. His function is to remind his companions that there are such things as pink slips at Notre Dame and that one should not neglect to have his average above 77%.'
The Prefect of Discipline’s duties are handled by John “Pal” Kelly, who racks dishes in the St. Mary’s kitchen. Besides seeing that all lights are turned off at 11 p.’m., John’s program of discipline also demands that he punish any offenders of the group-who leaves a “ring” in the bath-tub after taking a bath.
Extending their plan of organization smilar to that used here, the St. Mary’s “boys” also include a Prefect of Religion. This title belongs to . Paul Hughes, the assistant cook, who
makes out a schedule for serving Mass in the St. Mary’s Chapel.
The remainder of the community of ten comprise John Verdonk, who earns his way through Notre Dame by “soaking” food superfluities from the dishes in the St. Mary’s kitchen. Another John—this time John McMahon—joins the Dean in washing silverware. Contributing to the evolution of a dirty plate to a clean one is John Delaney. This John, in kitchen phraseology, “unracks” plates, saucers, and other dishware accessories.
Still, a fifth John belongs to the group—-John “Baldy” Troskosky who administers to the needs of the St. Mary’s girls in their “caf,” the Oriole. In partnership of such chores in the Oriole is Thaddeus “Ted” Ku-kula, who would like to have one forget “Thaddeus” and remember him as “Ted.”
In relation to the final member there is whispered a strange tale concerning Bill Hambley. As a sophomore last year, Bill was pointed out as a promising fullback and had good potentialities for future service on the varsity. These bright hopes, however, were extinguished when Bill was named to work in the St. Mary’s greenhouse, and this year he can be seen planting and picking posies every afternoon instead of lugging a football up and down the field.
Among their particular jobs, the entire group sees that overcoats, top hats, and derbies are properly checked and cared for whenever there is a dance within the portals of St. Mary’s.
After all, a girl at college is much like a boy at school according to the five Johns, Louie, Robert, Bill, Ted, and Paul. For example, there is the question of mail at St. Mary’s as there is at Notre Dame. At St. Mary’s the situation is handled in a room, known as the “sub-station,” on the first floor of the college where there is a separate compartment for-the mail of each student. Morning and evening the highly valued mail is sorted and distributed to the respective boxes. Then as soon as the door to the sub-station is opened, there is a grand rush by each girl for that letter from home or possibly to see what Tom, Dick, or Harry has written in his best penmanship.	’
Some people call it superstition; others good luck, but such as it may be St. Mary’s girls have an odd formula for improving the chances of getting a letter. Custom dictates that each morning some of the girls make a habit of going to the entrance of the college and kiss one of the two pillars; the idea of the whole affair being that the higher they can reach on the pillar, the more of a possibility there is for receiving a letter. Some have been seen to touch their fingers to their lips and dab a touch of lip-stick on the post as high as they can jump.	_
In the college there is provided a “rec” room with two ping-pong tables. Most of the “rec” room adherents, however, prefer bridge,, and have been known to trump their partner’s ace.
At the Oriole one may find soft drinks as well as all the rest of the confectionery items. In addition the menu of the Oriole lists ham sandwiches and tomato soup. In regard to the last tw*o mentioned culinary products, the soda fountain attendants are sometimes puzzled when the girls order a “haam” sandwich or “tomatoo” soup.	. .
The food served in the dining hall of the college is prepared by a chef who learned the rules of good cooking in Switzerland. The baker comes from the same country. In the dining hall fifteen waitresses serve the food.
This year a St. Mary’s girl prefers cocoa—or hot chocolate—as her breakfast drink. Milk, however, is not overlooked, because it is estimated that forty gallons are consumed daily by the St. Mary’s girls.
When one is making conclusions, it appears that the one chief objection to working at St.. Mary’s is the thought of Indiana winter. In that respect it is more or less a sure guess that some of the ten boys working there will have frosted ear or nose before the winter is over, incurred while walking the one and one-half mile stretch to and from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. But while they are attending to school work at one end and manual labor at the other, one or more of the ten will in all probability be carrying ’ a letter, which missed the mail, from one school to the other., ►	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ATHLETICS
IRISH MEET WILDCATS AT DYCHE STADIUM TOMORROW IN TRADITIONAL BATTLE
TWO VETERANS FORM FENCING NUCLEUS
By Bill Donnelly
Although the Northwestern game always has been a tough one filled with fire works, Notre Dame had been "winning with monotonous regularity until a big rugged Wildcat team jolted its National Championship hopes in 1935 with
a 14-7 defeat. The Irish returned the compliment last year when they played
their best game of the season to slash # out a 26-6 victory over the previously v undefeated Big Ten Champions. Although neither team has very much to gain this year beside the traditional rivalry of the game itself, a defeat might mean the difference between a good and a bad season for either team because each already has reached its expected quota of losses for the season.
Both Northwestern and Notre Dame are better teams than their records indicate. The Irish, who had a momentary aberration against Illinois, lost to Carnegie Tech because the field was too long and to Pittsburgh because the game was too long, but showed their true power in beating Drake, Navy, Minnesota, and Army.	.	-
Northwestern, after a 33-0 opener against Iowa State, has evenly divided three victories and three defeats among six Big Ten opponents. The Wildcats have defeated Michigan, Purdue, and Wisconsin, but they have been held scoreless in three of their last four games by Ohio State, Illinois, and Minnesota. Each of these Conference games has been won by a one touchdown margin, while no team all season has scored more than one touchdown against the Wildcats.
Northwestern has lost most of last year’s starting line men but with the exception of the two powerful fullbacks, Steve Toth and Don Geyer, they have kept their brilliant backfield intact. Although 215 pound Fred Vanzo, the quarterback, never carries the ball himself, he is one of the best blocking backs and one of the very best defensive backs in the country. Don Heap, a slashing type of runner, and Bernie Jefferson, a hard-driving very fast runner, are each triplethreat veteran halfbacks, while Bob Swisher, who starred in 1936 but was out for ineligibility or injury last year, is a capable replacement for either of them. The shiftiest openfield runner on the team, he took Bernie Jefferson’s place in the startline-up against Minnesota, and although it was the first time he had
Five in a row.
played right halfback in three years, he was the leading ground gainer until he was injured and forced out of the game while returning the second-half kickoff 41 yards. Clarence Hinton, who like Jefferson, the man he understudies, is colored, and Jack Ryan, son of a former Wisconsin football coach, complete the array of ace halfbacks. George McGum and Jay Laskay are two promising sophomores who alternate at the fullback position.
Northwestern has a very good and very tough team, but if Notre Dame can add scoring punch to the potential power it showed against Army last week, it should win the game.
Tn an effort to supply competitive experience to his green 1938 fencing squad, Coach de Landero has been running his weekly practices according to this schedule: exercising and drilling in the fundamentals of lung. ing, retreating, parrying, on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, and roundrobin or intra-squad tournaments on Thursday and Friday.
Two tournaments have already been completed. Senior Vic Mercado excelled in the foils, winning nine of his ten matches. Leising, a junior, won seven and lost three; Sayia, a sophomore, won five bouts out of nine; and McEnearney, also a second-year man, won three out of eight. ' Captain Jack Zerbst swept through his five sabre bouts victoriously, defeating Sal Scarlata, junior letterman, Graham, Gavan, Donovan, and Michelson, a good freshman prospect. Gavan showed up well with four victories, losing only to Zerbst. Jim Graham led in the epee-bouts, with Charles Colgan, Captain Zerbst, Mahoney, and Guerin behind him.
The Irish are facing their latest fencing schedule, which will begin sometime after Christmas, with the smallest group of veterans in four years. Zerbst and Scarlata are the only minor monogram winners in the group, and of the rest, only Mercado, Colgan and Graham have had varsity experience against outside opponents. Both Zerbst and Scarlata are sabre-' men, and thus in the sabre-bouts Notre Dame will have its greatest strength. But even here there is difficulty, for a heavy afternoon class schedule has kept Scarlata away from frequent practice and slowed the return to his usual form.
Natural development on the part of the sophomores is expected to bring up the general team level of skill and enable the Irish to give every opponent a severe battle. Professor de Landero, in seeking to encourage such development, has been getting valuable coaching assistance from Frank Dart, a graduate student at the University who gained’ his fencing experience at Oberlin, and Telmo de Landero, a three-weapon ' man who fought through Notre Dame’s perfect seasons of 1935 and 1936 and became team captain last year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IS
HALL SOCCER GROWS TOUCHBALL LAGS
•
The Interhall Touch Football tournament is still in the first round. All the contests were postponed on the last two Sundays due to the many visitors on the campus and the unkindness of the weatherman. On the first occasion the team members were acting- as hosts to their many relatives and friends who had attended the Pitt game. Last Sunday a combination of rain and snow, which fell throughout the da.y, kept the contestants under cover and made it necessary to postpone the day’s activities Mr. Scannell and the coaches of the respective teams are making every effort to complete the first round on Sunday and the cooperation of the participants will be a great source of satisfaction to them.
The Soccer League enjoyed its usual success. The boys from the Brownson Dorm blanked the Cavan-aughites, 4 to 0. The Zahm outfit dropped from the top of the standings when they ran up against a Freshman Hall crew which gave them a 3 to 0 shellacking. Last Friday Zahm nosed out Cavanaugh, 3-2, and moved into second place along with the Brownsonites. This was the second defeat of the week and the third in as many starts for the lads from Cavanaugh. The Sophomores kept their record unblemished as they easily disposed of their upperclass rivals, the Juniors, 6 to 2.
LEAGUE STANDINGS
TEAMS	G	W	L	PCT.
Sophomores 			 2	2	0	1.000
Zahm 			 3	2	1	.667
Brownson 			 3	2	1	.667
Freshman 			 4	2	2	.500
Juniors 			 1	0	1	.000
Cavanaugh 			 3	0	3	.000
INTERHALL SOCCER SCHEDULE
Friday, Nov. 19, 3:30 p.m.—Freshman Field: Cavanaugh vs. Sophomores.
Monday, Nov. 22, 3:30 p.m.—Freshman Field: Juniors vs. Freshman.
Wednesday, Nov. 24, 3:30 p.m.— Freshman Field: Brownson vs. Sophomores.
Friday, Nov. 26, 3:30 p.m.—Freshman Field: Juniors vs. Cavanaugh.
Monday, Nov. 29, 3:30 p.m.— Freshman Field: Juniors vs. Cavanaugh.
Monday, Nov. 29, 3:30 p.m.— Freshman Field: Zahm vs. Sophomores.
Wednesday, Dec. 1, 3:30 p.m.— Freshman Field: Juniors vs. Brownson.
NOTRE DAME BATTLES TO DEFEND SHILLELAGH WON FROM NORTHWESTERN LAST YEAR
By Nick Lamberto
Who’s going to get the Shillelagh tomorrow? Purdue and Indiana have their Old Oaken Bucket; Minnesota and Michigan vie for the Little Brown Jug; and now Northwestern and Notre Dame fight for the Shillelagh. Last year and the year before the possession of this traditional “little” item was ___________________________________ removed to the background.
MEET THE WILDCATS
By Ed Brennan
Notre Dame’s football association with Northwestern, opened in 1899, is the oldest series in Notre Dame history, still active today—
Northwestern lost 16 out of 28 lettermen from last year’s squad by graduation—
Coach Lynn Waldorf is the son of Bishop E. L. Waldorf, of the Chicago area of the Methodist church, and is the oldest of four brothers, all of whom played football. Lynn graduated from Syracuse in 1925, after a brilliant career in football and rowing, and came to Northwestern as head coach in 1935—
Bob Voigts, 193 pound junior, is the only letterman returning at tackle—
Cleo Diehl, right end, is the regular first baseman on Northwestern’s baseball team—
In his prep school days, at St. John’s Military Academy, Mike Cal-vano, lineman, won 16 major letters —four each in football, baseball, basketball, and track—
Nick Cutlich, giant 235 pound sophomore tackle, was Indiana high school heavyweight wrestling champion. Nick hails from East Chicago, Indiana—
John Goldak, right guard, won the St. Louis district Golden Glove light heavyweight title in 1936—
Captain Don Heap didn’t enter Northwestern until three years after his graduation from Evanston high school. In addition to his ball carrying, he directs the Wildcat attack, kicks, and passes—
Tom Irving, 192 pound junior, played end on the freshmen squad, tackle on last year’s championship team, and now finds himself shifted to guard—
Iggy Mesec, reserve full back and letterman in 1936, has been moved over to right half back—
Jack Ryan, 186 pound half back, is regarded as the most promising sophomore on the squad. His father is a former University of Wisconsin football coach—
Bob Swisher, half back, has ironed out the scholastic difficulties that ruled him ineligible last year—
Against Minnesota, Northwestern’s ten punts averaged 36 yards. In the same game, the Wildcats attempted ten passes and completed four for 67 yards—
In 1935 the Irish had bowled over — all opposition and had only the Wildcats and Army left, but Northwestern spoiled the picture by thumping the Irish, 14 to 7. In 1936 the Wildcats were on their way to a National Championship and victories over all and sundry including Minnesota. This time the Irish handed the Wildcats a 26 to 6 nightmare instead of the expected Rose Bowl dreams.
This year there is no National Championship at stake. The Irish have been beaten twice and tied once; the Wildcats have been defeated three times. So turn the spot light on the genuine Irish Shillelagh, for at last it won’t be lost in the National Championship shuffle and will get some well-deserved recognition.
The Shillelagh was presented to Hugh O’Donnell of the Notre Dame Club of New York by William Cosgrave, then president of the Irish Free State. Mr. O’Donnell received the trophy while on a visit to Ireland. The Shillelagh takes its name from the Barony of Shillelagh of the County of Wickford, which is noted for its oaks.
Originally the Shillelagh was a primitive war weapon used by the Irish against their invaders because they lacked more adequate weapons. It was fashioned from a thick piece of oak or blackthorn with a round large knob at one end and tapering down at the other so that it could be swung by the hands. Later it came to be applied to any walking stick of black oak or blackthorn.
„ No’ tourist to Ireland could feel that his visit was authentic unless he brought home several to distribute among his friends. The Shillelagh, presented to President Cosgrave as an authentic trophy, was mounted with an inscribed silver band. Upon arrival at Notre Dame the rival picked to share the trophy was Northwestern because the Wildcats are one of our oldest and most formidable foes.
Notre Dame gave it up for the first time in 1935 after the Wildcats had won, 14 to 7. Last year the Irish won it back with a 26 to 6 triumph. Tug Wilson, athletic director at Northwestern, hastened down to the Notre Dame dressing room to give the “dern Shillelagh back to the (Continued on Page 21)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
By Mark J. Mitchell
TEN GOOD MEN MAKE KEOGAN HAPPY
This week to appease our enemies, whose numbers seem to be legion, we will try to confine ourselves to straight facts about Joe Kuharich, and leave the opining and editorializing to them. Joseph Lawrence (“Fat”) Kuharich, was born in South Bend on April 14, 1917. The nickname would seem to be a
misnomer. For he weighs only 193 pounds when he is in condition, and that is
&OE KUHE1SICH
distributed over a six foot frame (5 feet 111-4 inches, to be exact).
Joe has been around South Bend all his life, and has been playing football most of it. He attended the James Whitcomb Riley High school where he captained the football team in 1933. That year he played against Joe Ruetz, Erwin Wegner, and John Ko-vatch of Central. Tomorrow he will team up with Ruetz to oppose the other two lads who are regular center and end respectively on Waldorf’s Wildcats.
Following in the footsteps of Ike Voe-disch, Harry Wunsch and other local boys at Notre Dame, he did not have to wait very long before recognition practically hit him between the eyes. His first year on the Varsity, the Irish played Ohio State at Columbus, and the second half of that game is where he and Ruetz, the anti-touchdown twins, got their start. Playing the whole second half they piled up the Buckeye running attack so badly that the Columbus lads found themselves owing yardage as well as points when the final gun sounded.
Last year he played practically all the time, always when the varsity was .in the game. Until this year neither he nor his mate, Ruetz, had ever been injured with the exception of the time when one of them pulled out the wrong way, and they collided, knocking each other out. Then Ruetz was badly cut in the Carnegie Tech game and failed to play against Navy, leaving Kuharich alone with his perfect record.
Joe’s biggest thrill in high school came when he intercepted a lateral pass and sprinted 60 yards'for a touchdown. Only for the referee who had sadistic tendencies and claimed the ball had touched the ground before Joe caught it, the score would have been allowed. He remembers most vividly that field goal kicked by another guard, Johnny Baker of Southern California in 1931 which turned defeat into a 16-14 victory for the Trojans.
During the past two summers he has stayed very close to Notre Dame, as close as anyone in fact.; For he worked in 1936 as a laborer on the Biology building and in 1937 on the new Zahm Hall. Joe is another whose major is - Physical education, arid:who hopes to coach football when he ends his playing days next week.
Probably no small measure of his success at the game is because of the keen interest which led him to study, yes study the game since he first kicked a football around a sand lot. He even read sports story magazines, mostly about football.
Besides the Ohio State game mentioned, one of his outstanding performances was against Minnesota three weeks ago. Like the Buckeyes, the Gophers found their running game being thoroughly manhandled by the middle of. the Notre Dame line, and the anti-touchdown twins, especially Kuharich, had much to say about that.
We hope that our critics will like this column. But more than this, we hope that Joe will like it so that he will show such people as Mr. Wegner, Mr. Heap and even Mr. Swisher that the things the Scholastic said about him are universally true, everywhere and always.	.	-
George Keogan is smiling broadly these days, and for a good reason. Never were prospects brighter for an undefeated season than they are this year. Optimistic? Well, let’s take
Cager Tom Wukovits Unassuming, Cool, Adroit.
a look at the reasons for George’s smile:
1.	Johnny Moir. The all-time Notre Dame high-scorer gives every indication of establishing a new scoring record and making more secure his status as the best all-around basketball player ever to perform for the Irish.
2.	Paul Nowak. Hampered by an appendectomy early last year, Paul still played a commendable game. This year, in excellent physical condition, he should push Moil- for scoring honors.
3.	Mark Ertel. This big, strapping sophomore will provide Keogan with something George lacked last year: a capable reserve center. Mark is especially adept at the post position.
4.	Capt. Ray Meyer. The fiery forward is ready to continue where he left off last year. Aggressive Ray gets the points in the “clutch.”
5.	Tom Wukovits. Unassuming Tommy is the smoothest and coolest performer on the squad. His adroit actions are unspectacular, so much so that many do not realize his true worth.
6.	Earl Brown. Last year Earl gave the team the spark it needed so badly. With this experience Earl is all set to keep his .first-string guard post as soon as the football season is over.
7.	Ed Sadowski. This junior forward plays the same smashing game as that of Ray Meyer and is the best
(Continued on Page 19)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
N. U. SERIES HISTORY HAS TRADITION
•
By Clarence T. Sheehan
When the Wildcats of Northwestern invaded the campus last November they were hailed as the number one team of the nation. The Notre Dame engagement was their final one and they were expected to win without a great deal of difficulty. A victory would have given them a national championship. The Irish, on the other hand, entertained no such hopes, but they were reminiscing. In 1935 the Purple had come to town and defeated Notre Dame by a 14-7 score. This time it was the Irish who were heading for the National Crown, but when the game was over they were not to be in the undefeated column. With the memories of this upset still in their minds the wearers of the Gold and Blue showed their followers the brand of football that they had expected all season, and sent the Wildcats back to Evanston on the short end of a 26-6 score.
The 1935 game was the first Northwestern had won from Notre Dame since 1901, when they eked out a 2 to 0 victory. The two schools met for the first time in 1889. The Irish won this game 9 to 0, and came back in 1899 to win again, 12 to 0. After the 1901 game the Irish never lost to Northwestern until 1935, though there were two ties, one in 1903, and one in 1931. The record shows sixteen games played, with the Irish winning twelve, losing two, and tying two.
Tomorrow’s game will have no bearing on the national title. Both teams have tasted defeat on more than one occasion. It is not a matter of clearing the records or of evening up a long series. However the outcome of this contest will go a long way to make the difference between a successful and an unsuccessful season- for both elevens.
The record of Notre Dame-Northwestern games of the past follows:
1889—N. D. 9; Northwestern 0 1899—N. D. 12; Northwestern 0 1901—N. D. 0; Northwestern 2 1903—N. D. 0; Northwestern 0 1920—N. D. 33; Northwestern 7 1924—N. D. 13; Northwestern 6 1925—N. D. 13; Northwestern 10 1926—N. D. 6; Northwestern 0 1929—N. D. 26; Northwestern 6 1930—N. D. 14; Northwestern 0 1931—N. D. 0; Northwestern 0 ' 1932—N. D. 21; Northwestern 0 .1933—N. D. 7; Northwestern 0 .1934—N. D. 20; Northwestern 7 1935—N. D. 7; Northwestern 14 1936—N. D. 26; Northwestern 6
SIMONICH CRASHES THROUGH TOUCHDOWN; BEATS ARMY 7-0 BEFORE GOTHAMITES
The Army Cadets again failed in their attempt to defeat the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame last Saturday afternoon at Yankee Stadium when they were completely outplayed by the Irish to lose, 7 to 0. Though the margin of victory seems slight, Notre Dame was a vastly superior team. But, as in most
INJURED VARSITY MEN MAY PLAY CATS
Like Columbus in his maiden journey across the Atlantic, the football season for the Fighting Irish goes “on, and on, and on.” Drake, Illinois, . Carnegie Tech, Navy, Minnesota, Pittsburgh, and Army have been encountered. There is no one climax game on the Notre Dame schedule. Rather the Irish play a string of climatic struggles one week after another. Navy, Minnesota, Pitt, and Army are behind ,but not yet can they let down. They must go “on, and on, and on,” until the final whistle of the Southern Cal contest two weeks hence.
On Monday the regulars were excused from practice, but on Tuesday the whole varsity went through a stiff session in preparation for the Northwestern tilt Saturday. Hard workouts were held again on Wednesday and Thursday, but this afternoon things were more or less restricted. In most of the sessions, stress was laid on passing. Against Pitt, with the exception of the touchdown heave from McCarthy to Pu-plis, the Irish could not get their aerial attack functioning. In New York, last week the weather prevented much pass work. Therefore, this may be the game that the Irish will shine as of old in their aerial attempts. Halfbacks Jack McCarthy and Harry Stevenson, pass-throwers of teams one and two respectively, were given plenty of target practice all week.
Ed Simonich and “Bunny” McCormick, both of whom left the Army game with injuries, are expected to be ready by Saturday. “Babe” Marshall, right guard, w'ho missed the last two contests because of an injured ear may also be in condition to see action. Len Skoglung, first string left end, Jack Fogel, second string center, and Jerry Clifford, third string left end, are the other injured members on the varsity, and. they, too, are expected to be in shape. These last three are especialy intent upon playing in the North- : western struggle, as all are seniors and from Chicago.	. ~ "
of the pre-Army games, the Irish lacked the scoring punch inside the ten yard line and failed five times to score from inside this point. The Irish brought the ball down to within six inches of the Army goal line and were still unable to tally a second time.
Fullback Simonich
More Poiver than the Army Mule.
The only factor which kept the score down was the courageous fighting of the Army team when Notre Dame seemed almost sure to score. They consistently staved off Irish threats. Except for their resistance at these times, however, the Cadets showed little against the Irish, getting past the 50-yard line only twice in the whole game.
The Irish struck swiftly, scoring midway in the first quarter after Ed Beinor had recovered an Army fumble on the Cadet 14 yard line. From here Chuck O’Reilly called on Ed Simonich to carry the ball for five yards on his first try, six on his second, and then plunged through right guard for the touchdown on the third. O’Reilly converted for the extra point- -
It was the second string backfield, composed of the aforementioned Chuck O’Reilly, and Ed Simonich plus Ennio Arboit and Sophomore Harry Stevenson—playing behind the first string line—which gave the Irish their victory. Stevenson sparkled at left half with his kicking and passing. It was he who punted down to the Army eleven just before the Irish • recovered and scored, and it was he - who was. mainly responsible for the kicking average being raised to 43 yards per: try.
Further indication of the superiority of the Irish lies in the fact that they / scored. 13 first downs to the
' (Continued on Page 19)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By John F. Clifford
The razzle-dazzle, dipsie-doodle type of football is gradually and quietly expiring from the nation’s stadia. So say many of the game’s most famous protagonists, claiming that the lateral pass, two years ago hailed as the new type of offense, is too dangerous a weapon to be used to any great extent. In place of this lateral legerdemain the leading elevens have resorted to power and more power, while efforts to hide the ball' and the point of attack have been redoubled. Spinners and fake spinners, single, double and fake reverses are being employed this year with the greatest abandon. But above all power is the thing. Nothing has been more apparent in the last two Notre Dame games than this extensive use of power. Pitt had it—plus. And Notre Dame showed the Army the more practical side of warfare when power is involved. It is this intense emphasis on man strength that has made unbeaten and untied teams almost non-existent this fall, and kept the race for the Rose Bowl still wide open.	.
-;	V
Reposing on the official shelf for the past two years, cross-country is again out to show the sporting world in general, and Indiana in particular, that lack of good material was not the reason for its discontinuance at Notre Dame. Every Central Intercollegiate Conference meet has always been the goal of the great distance runners in the country, and Monday’s grind over the Michigan State campus course has again attracted the best the country has to offer— including our own Greg Rice and Steve Sumachowski. In bringing the Notre Dame team to the annual C.I.C. meet “Nick” will enter five men who have not yet been tested in intercollegiate competition, but who in their daily jaunts around the lake have established themselves as the strongest club in Irish history. Repeatedly they have broken records for the five- and four-mile courses with Szumachowski looking very nice indeed. We first heard of Steve in 1933. . At the time he had been undefeated in cross-country competition. Van Courtland Park in New York was his favorite stamping grounds for smashing records, and the one he set there in 1933 for two and a half miles is still good. . Only once in his running career has he been beaten at hare-and-hounds. On Monday afternoon he, together with Rice, Francis, Gormley, Donnelly, and Payne, will have to step plenty fast to outdistance the Indiana trio of Deckard, Smith and Trutt, Fenske of Wisconsin, and Feiler, of Drake. Nick “ain’t sayin’,” but we think his boys can do it.
:/	V
Over in the gym another Notre Dame quintet is priming itself for a typical Irish schedule. But George Keogan’s All-American basketeers find goings-on not quite so easy as they perhaps had anticipated. With a strong sophomore bunch pushing the regulars in scrimmage already it looks as though Notre Dame will be represented by two equally strong teams. In eliminating the tip-off the nation basketball rules committee has nullified any height advantage a team has and these sophs are plenty rangy. Keogan claims the game will become a monotonous affair as a result of the innovations. Maybe that’s why he installed that red-light gadget—just to add a little color to the game.	’
.	V
Football “guessperts” emerged from last Saturday’s games in fairly good condition. After their victory over Minnesota, Notre Dame finally made the list of teams considered as the ranking elevens for the season. One team that has not received sufficient recognition in the poll of sportswriters is Holy Cross. The Crusaders have kept their slate clean through a reasonably tough season, and yet they receive only an “also-ran” rating. The scribes have found it impossible to ignore the fine generalship and punt-returns of Andy Puplis and have included him among the week’s all-star roundup. But to get back to that great American pastime again we have for you:
NOTRE DAME 14, NORTHWESTERN 6
Illinois over Chicago	- Baylor over Loyola (L.A.)	.
Purdue over Indiana	. Fordham over St. Mary’s
Duquesne over Marquette ; V. .	7 . Yale over Harvard
Villanova over Temple	? Holy Cross over Carnegie Tech -
PITT CRUSHES IRISH
IN HARD GAME
•
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish of the gridiron were defeated by the University of Pittsburgh a week ago Saturday 21-6, when Pitt rushed from behind during the final quarter to amass three touchdowns and as many conversions after Notre Dame had spurted to a 6-0 margin in the penultimate period.
The defeat, plus a win over Army last week, left the Notre Dame ’37 record virtually parallel’with that of last season when two losses and a tie game were posted in nine battles. This year’s team score is better than that of last season because the opposition has been much stiffer.
- Pittsburgh’s coach, Dr. John B. Sutherland, admitted after the fracas that Notre Dame’s unexpectedly strong showing against the powerful Panthers, Rose Bowl champions last year, yras minimized by Pitt’s last quarter offensive. This spurt consisted of a long pass and two touchdown runs against a fatigued Irish line that had withstood nearly sixty minutes of ball on each successive Saturday against Navy, Minnesota, and Pitt.
In a “series” play that caught the Pitt secondary with its claws filed down to surprise, Jack McCarthy rifled a pass to Andy Puplis from the Pitt 46-yard line; Andy gathered the throw on the 20 and weaved a fast path to the end zone, five minutes after the start of the third quarter.
Pitt was punishing Notre Dame for three quarters but its men were left on base. Early in the final period Marshall Goldberg, most dangerous runner of the afternoon, floated a pass from mid-field to Fabian Hoffman, and the former Pittsburgh Central Catholic end raced to the Irish four-yard line where Harry Stevenson bumped him out of bounds after a diagonal chase across the turf.
After two plays, Frank Patrick, Panther captain, dove over a pile-up at right guard. When Frank Sbu-chak place-kicked the first of his three extra points the Pittsburgh eleven went ahead to stay.
Harold Stebbins* dash of 27 yards on a delayed reverse for the second Pitt touchdown, and Patrick’s gallop for 22 yards on a spinner play, were anticlimactic occurrences.
Ohio State over Michigan Minnesota over Wisconsin Nebraska over Iowa Duke over North Carolina State Oklahoma over Oklahoma A & M Pitt over Penn State Navy over Princeton ' California over Stanford
. Army over St. John’s (Md.)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
On the Enemies’ Trail
TO DATE:
NORTHWESTERN has defeated Iowa State 33-0, Michigan 7-0, Purdue 14-7, has lost to Ohio State 7-0, has defeated Wisconsin 14-6, and has lost to Illinois 6-0, and Minnesota 7-0.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA h a s defeated College of the Pacific 40-0, has lost to Washington 7-0, has defeated Ohio State 13-12, and Oregon 34-14, has lost to California 20-6, has tied Washington State 0-0, has lost to Stanford 7-6, and has tied Oregon State 12-12.
THIS WEEK:
NORTHWESTERN plays Notre Dame.
ARMY GAME
(Continued from Page 17)
Cadets’ three. The yardage also hears witness to the same fact since Notre Dame gained a total of 217 to Army’s 89.
Coach Layden used 37 men in the game, substituting freely in spite of the closeness of the score.
With Saturday’s victory the Irish raised their total over Army to 17 games. The Cadets have only been able to win five games and hold the Irish to two ties during the series.
CAGE SQUAD
(Continued from Page 16)
ball-hawk on the team. He makes a fine replacement for Meyer.
8, 9, 10. Mike Crowe, Ed Ober-brennan, and Gene Klier are ready to plug any holes. Crowe won his letter last year, while Klier and Ober-brennan are the best of last year’s freshman prospects.
Too optimistic? That’s better. Take a national championship tea, add three good new players, and there you have the reasons for Coach George Keogan’s smile.
Notre Dame Team Wins First of Rice Awards
•
The tournament of roses contestants have not yet been chosen—but Notre Dame is the first gridiron eleven to win a new national award “for outstanding excellence on the field of sport.” The award is made by Grantland Rice’s Huskies Board, in behalf of Robert L. Ripley’s weekly “Believe-It-Or-Not” radio program.
Notre Dame was selected to receive the initial award for its recent thrilling victory over Minnesota,, it was . announced on the “Believe-It-Or-Not” program Saturday, Nov. 6. In the opinion of Grantland Rice and
77. TRAVEL TO TURKEXJ
GREYHOUND
his board of sports experts, this victory stamped it as the best team of that week.
As an emblem of the award, Coach Elmer Layden was presented a handsome bronze trophy, in behalf of his team, and Joseph Zwers, Notre Dame end and captain, was awarded a 14-carat solid gold wrist watch. Each award bore the name of the recipient and of the awarding board, with the inscription that it is “for outstanding excellence on the field of sport.”
Five other aggregations received honorable mention by the athletic board as outstanding teams of the week. They are Rice, Pennsylvania, California, George Tech and Purdue.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8211
You’ll be thankful for the saving!
XZOUR trip back home over Thanks-"*• giving week-end will be fun for all concerned—except the turkey. Even your pocketbook feels no pain—Greyhound fares are easiest on the allowance—only 1/3 the cost of driving a car. And there’s an extra 20% reduction on the back-to-college portion of your round trip ticket! Get going—in warmth and comfort by Greyhound.
UNION BUS DEPOT 133 S. Lafayette Blvd.
South Bend, Indiana
GREYHOUND
Bill of Fares
. RouadTrip
New York _____$22.05
Cleveland _____ 7.50
St. Louis _____ 8.30
Boston _______ 24.75
Buffalo ______ 12.90
Washington ___ 20.55
Pittsburgh ___ 11.10
Detroit _______ 6.30
New Haven ____ 22.90
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Club Hears Massart
Rev. Edward Massart, C.S.C., who recently returned from Bengal, India, was the principal speaker at the first meeting of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade held recently in the auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering. Father Massart spoke of the work of the missionaries among the savage tribes, Hindus, and Mohammedans in India.
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., spoke
BAG THIS TRAVEL VALUE FOR thanksgiving
• 2c a mile fares are merely the thrifty part of the South Shore Line travel bargain — the real meat is in the extra speed, safety and dependability you get when you travel by South Shore Line. Every hour from early morning until late at night you can take advantage of this sensible way to travel — going or coming from Chicago.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
briefly on the work of the early missionaries who labored in this section of the middle-west. Rev. John R. O’Neil, C.S.C., offered suggestions for the coming year.
Pat Bannon, who represented the Notre Dame unit at the national gathering in Cleveland this past summer, gave a report on the activities of the convention.
Jerry Green, president, announced that the unit will collect cancelled stamps for the benefit o fthe missions and asks that students turn over their used stamps to some member of the society. He also urges that any students who would like to join the crusade to be present at the next meeting.
Southern Cal Tickets
Dates for the distribution of tickets for the Southern California - Notre Dame football game, Nov. 27, are as follows:
Seniors—Monday, Nov. 22
Juniors—Tuesday, Nov. 23
Sophomores—Wednesday, Nov. 24
Freshmen—Thursday, Nov. 25
All tickets may be obtained from the Notre Dame ticket office at any time during the day upon presentation of athletic books.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
1002 Tower Building
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
This new way of burning tobacco gives you a better, cooler, cleaner smoke. Updraft of air from bottom cools smoke, keeps bowl absolutely dry, takes rawness out of any tobacco, improves combustion. Carburetor Yello-Bole also gives you the famous honey-treated bowl. Nothing else has its flavor. At dealers’ now.
CARBURETOR U. S. Pat. No. 2,082,106	—
YELLO-BOLE ’|«
LATEST DISCOVERY IN PIPES
Fay Talks on Socialism
The features of the Economic Round Table meeting Monday evening was a paper given by Tom Foye in defense of Socialism.
The speaker dwelt upon the points which are really important to the Socialist party in this country. Under their program there would be industrial plant schools and position rotation to do away with the narrow range of training and monotony which now prevails in factories. Excessive speed in production would be cut down and a minimum wage would be enforced. The speaker pointed out how balanced production under Socialism would overcome the cycle of depressions. There moreover would no longer be the individual consciousness but consciousness of the particular group to which the individual belongs.
The dependence on minor bosses for promotion would be in the hands of a democratic administration which would control all‘the means of production and distribution. The narrow range of favorable social opportunities would be changed through a reduction of social distances. Any stultification on the worker’s family would be removed by cultural approach to the mass mind.
Finally there would be no uncontrolled nepotism because there would be a national democratic administration of production equipment. The requirements for a successful social military revolution as laid down by Lenin were cited by Mr. Foye also.
Three new members were elected into the club at the business meeting. It was also announced that there may be a few openings at the semester.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
DEFEND SHILLELAGH
(Continued from Page 15)
Irish.” A junior manager (now a senior) spotted him and hurried over to put the “hee” on him for trying to crash the Notre Dame dressing room. No amount of identification or explanation could get Mr. Wilson past the bellicose manager (It must’ve been Condon). So the disgruntled Mr. Wilson mumbled something about “managerial efficiency” and walked away. Eventually Mr. Wilson received retribution by being allowed to give the Shillelagh to Mr. Layden at the football banquet.
In case the Irish lose the Slillelagh tomorrow (just a supposition) we hope that the Northwestern managers will allow Mr. Layden to penetrate the inner* sanctum of their dressing room so that he can give the Shillelagh back to Mr. Wilson. Meanwhile “our efficiency experts” might take a look at one of those football programs they get for nothing and
OVER 5,000,000 JWzX MEDICO PIPE SMOKERS AGREE WITH DR. MILLING, m.d.
SEE NEW SHAPES & FINISHES
&rwpfU££
FINEST EP ■ BRIAR ■ MONEY
CAN BUY
DNHEBRD OF VALUE
MEDICO
HLTER*COOLED
ONLY PAY’D FILTER COMBINING MOISTURE-PROOF CELLOPHANE EXTERIOR AND 66 BAFFLE ABSORBENT MESH SCREEN INTERIOR, RESULTING IN GREATEST PIPE SMOKING INVENTION EVER KNOWN
on one of the front pages they will find Mr. Wilson’s likeness. Although the “likeness” may flatter Mr. Wilson, it will resemble him to some degree at least. The managers should get their stereotype memories working on the picture—it may come in handy, though we hope not!
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
DR. CHAPMAN J. MILLING
2142 BULL BTB2BT
COLUMBIA. S. C. Feb> 10,	193?
S. M. Frank & Co., Inc*.
New York, N. X.
Gentlemen:-
About eighteen months ago I was forced to quit smoking a pipe because the tarry products in the heel kept me chronically nauseated. Too bad, but it couldn’t be helped. No use feeling miserable every time I fired up. So I stayed off tobacco for over a year.
Then one day I saw a few Frank’s Medicos in a druggist’s showcase, and half-heartedly decided to try one. So many ’patented filter systems on the market. But I’d risk a dollar on one anyhow,-just in hopes .. •
For six happy months, now I’ve been smoking that Frank’s. This afternoon I bought my second one, and have it sending up incense as I write. I want to tell you - in case you don’t.already know it -that you’re one of the benefactors of so-'ciety. Lol the poor Indianl Lol Sir Walter Raleighl Lol everybody who died before you brought out a filter that really works. I’m-tolling my friends by the dozen, but not fast enough.
Zou may use my name if you care to, and add that this letter is absolutely unsolicited on your part.
Very cordially yours,
IT'S ALWAYS "EXAM WEEK" for DOUGLAS SHOES!
The Douglas Torture Wheel* never lets up. That’s one of the reasons why Douglas Shoes never let you down! The rotating wheel (and other ruthless testing machines) are an unfailing safeguard of Douglas high standards of quality.
Your own eye tells the story of Douglas style. Drop in and see how Douglas craftsmen combine smart looks with low prices (don’t miss those sturdy, storm-proof “Extra-Drys”). You’ll find the shoes you want—at your price.
$ A40 ST40 SZ40^ MeinT u
Normal-Treds
J V $7.40
Dcuqfai ShoeA W. L. DOUGLAS STORE in South Bend
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET OPEN SATURDAY EVENINGS
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three and one-quarter years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
STETSON
A HAT FOR EVERY MOOR by Stetson
Wear this Stetson gaily... in town over the week-end or just knocking about the country. Its smart lines are right in any company.
Stetson Hats
Patronize SCHOLASTIC Advertisers
LUNN'S TALK (From page 5) with the lukewarm Catholic heckling the confused atheists.”
Mr. Lunn concluded his talk by appealing to his listeners to bring up religious questions in their private controversies. Ordinary private conversations concerning evolution, the existence of God, the Resurrection, immortality, and the like, will always help a Catholic in strengthening the reasons for his faith.
“The Catholic Church can either be unmilitant, unaggressive, and retrogressive, or be aggressive, militant, and progressive.”
SPANISH CLUB PLANS FOR ACTIVE YEAR
•
Already plans have been laid for an extensive round of interesting events concerning the members of this year’s Spanish Club, as announced by Edward Quimby, a junior in the College of Commerce, secretary of the Spanish Club.
The group, under the leadership of President Charles Kolp, senior from Canton, Ohio, in conjunction with Professor Pedro de Landero, faculty advisor of the group, has been invited to again attend a Spanish play given by the Santa Teresa Club of St. Mary’s on Dec. 12. The Notre Dame organization, however, plans to return the favor, by presenting a program featuring their own talent, for the benefit of the- St. Mary’s group, some time after the first of the year.
Various outside speakers and members of the faculty have been scheduled to discuss the Spanish-American countries, in the near future. A suggestion that intra-club and inter-club sports activities be introduced at this time, was readily accepted by the club members. Numbered among these activities will be: basketball, pool, ping-pong, and bowling. It is hoped that the other language clubs will also take up these inter-club sports activities, so that various games and events may be scheduled between the different groups.
Rev. Peter Forrestal, C.S.C., was recently elected by the Spanish Club to act as their chaplain. This is the first time in the history of the club, that a chaplain has been asked to serve as an honorary member. Walter M. Langford, professor of Spanish, will deliver a lecture on “Back-
TOBfN says:
IRISH MIXTURE
CORKTOWN
COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
110 North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
ground of Anti-clerical Development in Mexico,” at the club’s next meeting, Tuesday, Nov. 23, in Badin Hall Rec. This will be a combined meeting of the French and Spanish clubs, and all students interested in Spanish and History of the Church in Mexico, are invited to attend.
Other club officers assisting President Kolp with arrangements are: Vive-president Eugene Dolan, Secretary Edward Quimby, Treasurer Robert Laughlin, and Sergeant-at-Arms Joseph Valantiejus.
DU BOS ON FACULTY
(Continued from Page 3)
A definitive statement of what a Catholic novel should be is found in his brochure on the work of the illustrious academician, “Francois Mauriac et le Probleme du roman-cier catholique.”
The outstanding critic of the Catholic Renouveau moment in France, Dr. DuBos said that for the first time in many decades the really great French writers are Catholic and that their lives and works bear the imprint of their acceptance of spiritual values. ‘
Accompanied to American by Mrs. DuBos and their daughter, Primrose, Dr. DuBos now resides at 305 Peash-way St., South Bend.
College Men's Headquarters for
ARROW Shirts . . Handkerchiefs Ties . . . Underwear
MAX ADLER
We predict for Saturday’s game . . .
Pro Football Grows
Pro football, the kid brother of the collegiate pastime, is slowly coming into its own as a popular Sunday P.M. sport—both from the point of view of gate receipts and keen rivalry. The New York Giants of the National League in their game with the Chicago Bears drew 40,000 fans into the Polo Grounds on Oct. 31.

Devoted exclusively to the exam ination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.

THE WINDSOR
Intelligent service
Reliability
34 years' experience are our endorsements.
Optometrists
Est. 1903
ARROW SHIRTS
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
An Arrow shirt with a newly designed smart tabless tab col-
band front and bach; square jaunty points.
That the best-dressed spectators will be wearing tabless-tab collar shirts. Watch this important style develop on your campus.
Mitoga fit and Sanforized
f
as Wclconic as mail from home
-f

AncAoreJ 41 miles off shore, the Nantucket Lightship guides traffic $ on the Atlantic Coast. Mail and supplies come aboard once a month —one of the most welcome arrivals : is the supply of Chesterfields. j
>
Chesterfields give more pleasure to smokers wherever they are ...
ChesferfieM
On land or sea or in the air Chesterfields satisfy millions all over the world. They’re refreshingly milder . . . They’re
a taste that smokers like
Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.