The Notre Dame Scholastic
[Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
November 30, 1934
No. 10
CLEVELAND CAMPUS CLUB BATTLES ALUMNI GROUP
STUDENT THEATRE WORKS ON FIRST
PRODUCTION SET FOR DEC. 11 AND 12
“What is so rare as a Campus Club without a Christmas Dance?” is the question Ed Caldwell, President of the Cleveland Club is asking.
In accordance with the University regulation passed last year stating that all campus club dances during the holidays must be sanctioned by the Alumni group in the district where one is organized, President Caldwell has been seeking permission for the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland to run the annual Christmas Frolic.
Although Caldwell and the Cleveland Club of Notre Dame have asked no more than the right to participate in the committee work and proceeds of the dance, they have been refused and a dance committee has been organized in Cleveland under the guidance of Clayton Leroux.
The trouble, according to Caldwell and Alumni officials on the campus, has been brewing for some time and has reached a head in the matter of the dance.
The Cleveland Club, contrary to general trend, has been successful in all of their past entertainments. Last year’s Christmas dance, under the guidance of students, having proved a great success socially and financially.
Ed’s Kick Seems Legitimate
“We point to our campus activity as ample proof of our ability to carry out these functions,” Caldwell stated. “We have had three meetings and a smoker so far this year. Our first meeting brought out a response of 52 members from our total enrollment of 58, the next session had 53 present while the smoker had the same number. The Notre Dame Club of Cleveland has asked for more campus activity from our unit but has seen fit to cut us off from the only possible means whereby we can raise the funds to sponsor these activities.”
The Alumni side of the story was pointed out by James E. Armstrong, Secretary of the Alumni Association, who expressed himself as being entirely neutral in the matter and is interested only in harmonious relations between the campus and the local groups.
(Continued on Page 6)
Cheering Students Turn Out At 5:45 A. M. To W e 1 c o m e Back Team
On street cars whose windows had been kicked out in the Saturday celebration, rode some 2,000 students, the band, and various South Bend wellwishers to pay tribute to a truly great Irish team that arrived at the Union Station at 6:42 Monday morning.
That the students had not yet breakfasted and had risen at 5:45 a.m. had little effect on the exuberance of the cheering crowd. Old-timers maintained that this year’s reception rivaled the now famous one of 1931, when the men of Notre Dame so well exemplified the famous “Notre Dame Spirit" — when a defeated “Fighting Irish” eleven was given the greatest reception accorded any team anywhere.
Capt. Dominic Vairo, George Melin-kovich, and “Dynamite” Dan Hanley, who scored the winning touchdown, addressed the cheering crowd. Don Elser, Bud Bonar, Jack Robinson, Bill Shakespeare, Andy Pitney, and Rocco Schiralli also took a bow before the team began the parade back to school.
PRE-REGISTRATION
Pre-registration for Juniors and Seniors in the College of Arts and Letters, will begin Monday, December 3. It is imperative that registration be taken care of by the students as soon as possible.
SOPHOMORES
Sophomores intending to major in Journalism should pre-register for the course, “An Introduction to Journalism,” which is a required course for Journalism majors. This course is also open as an elective subject to Sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters not intending to major in Journalism. It is the only elective course presented in the Sophomore year.
TO PRESENT AN OPERETTA
By Roy O. Scholz
With many wild gesticulations and high tenor notes such famous stars as Giovanni Ryan, of St. • Edward’s, Marco Finnochiaro, and Frederico Zaberosky will appear in their oper-
Reverend Arthur Hope, C.S.C. Co-director of operetta.
atic debut at the first performance of the Student Theater to be given in Washington Hall, on the evenings of December 11 and 12. An opera written and directed by the Reverend Arthur Hope, C.S.C., and the Reverend Thomas Burke, C.S.C., will have its world premiere on those evenings. It is entitled, “Five Nuts in Two Acts,” with apologies to Gertrude Stein. The music was written by such world-renowned musicians as Gonnod, Verdi, Wagner, and Chaminade, who under the guiding hand of Father Hope have collaborated in the opera.
Goldman Has New Act
Several other acts are being rehearsed and still others have signified their intention of making an appearance on the program. The Theater Committee feels assured that this show, the first to be presented by the newly formed Student Theater, will present a good variety of excellent talent.
Bud Goldman has an outfit already to spring a new and highly entertaining performance. An ensemble of the Collegians and the Glee Club, in (Continued on Page 2)
November 30, 1934
One
S. MacManus, Noted Author, To Lecture In Washington Hall
FR. BURKE AND O’GRADY WILL SPEAK AT SHOWER
WILL TALK ON IRELAND
Notre Dame will be host to Seumas MacManus, the prominent Irish poet, lecturer, and author, on Dec. 3, at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall. Although this wall be his first appearance at Notre Dame, Mr. MacManus is well-known throughout the United States for his appearances at leading Universities, Colleges and Clubs.
His intimate knowledge of Irish folk-lore and legend is rich and seemingly inexhaustible. His lectures have been acclaimed with unstinting praise by his contemporaries. Personages, such as Percy MacKaye, James Whitcomb Kiley, and Jessie B. Rittenhouse have contributed sincere, admiring accounts of his many works.
One of the reasons for Mr. MacManus’ success has been his ability to maintain the unfailing interest of his audiences by the simple dignity and human feeling of his theme. On his visit here, he will read from his latest books, and will talk on the events of importance occurring in Ireland in the last decade.
Mr. MacManus has been a contributor to Dublin and London newspapers and magazines under the signature “Mac.” Some of his more famous works are: Yourself and the Neighbors; The Story of the Irish Race; A Lad of the O’Friels; Ballads of a Country Boy; In Chimney Corners, and Donegal Fairy Stories.
STUDENT THEATRE
(Continued, from Page 1)
recent popular college numbers, will produce some things altogether novel, the nature of winch is not being revealed at the present moment. The Notre Dame Tumbles will also present a startling and breath-taking exhibition of then' art.
If there are any persons on the campus who have not as yet submitted their acts they are requested to do so as soon as possible so that they may be included in this first show.
Notre Dame Philosophers at Regional Meet in Milwaukee
Three philosophers from Notre Dame attended the All Day Regional Conference of the Catholic Association for International Peace last Sunday, November 25, in Milwaukee. The affair, to which the public was invited, was sponsored by Marquette University.
Doctor Emmanuel Chapman, a new member of the philosophy department of Notre Dame, presented an excellent paper on “Europe and the United States.”
Professor Casasanta Announces Band Program For Basketball Game
Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta announced this week, the program for the first concert appearance of the University band at the opening game of the basketball season, Dec. 7. The concert band, numbering 80, has been carefully selected from the larger marching band which performed at many football contests this season. Thirty-five new faces will be seen in this year’s version of the Notre Dame concert band.
In submitting the following program Prof. Casasanta encouraged the student body to join with the band in singing, humming or whistling the tunes which will be played. Besides the well-known school songs, several popular numbers have been included, which should meet with vigorous vocal response.
The concert will begin at 7:30 p.m., sharp, and will consist of these numbers before the opening whistle: March (from “The Desert Sons”) ....Romberg March—“King Cotton” Sousa Selections (from “The Student Prince”) ---------------------------------Romberg . Introducing: “The Students’ Marching Song Deep in My Heart, Dear, sung by John Ryan Entry of the Officers
Just We Two
Golden Days
Drinking Song	_
Battle Songs:
“Hike! Notre Dame!” _________..Casasanta
“Down the Line” _______________Casasanta
“Victory March” ____________________Shea
Humorous March—“The Jolly Coppersmith”
_________1__________________________Peters Waltz—“Man on the Flying Trapeze”....Seredy Comedy Football Song—“Cross Eyed Kelly”
_____________________________.Brockton
Knights of Columbus Initiate Forty Men Into First Degree
Forty new members of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus -were initiated into the first degree last Monday night. Another group will be initiated into the first degree before the date on which the entire group will receive the second and third degrees.
These candidates are the first of two or more such groups that will be initiated during the year. The Knights of Columbus now have an excellent start toward the fulfillment of their original aim of doubling their roster.
Business was temporarily suspended during the initiation but will be renewed at the next meeting. The motion for a change of the amendment of the by-laws concerning the method of electing officers is still before the house and will be acted upon.
The committee in charge of the Senior Class Meeting and Smoker have obtained for their speakers: Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., head of the Department of English and until this year editor of Ave Maria;
Michael Saleh
Chairman of arrangements.
and Doctor Daniel O’Grady, of the department of philosophy. Both Father Burke and Professor O’Grady are noted for their exceptional ability as humorists and their splendid cooperation with the senior committee will prove to be a high-light on the smoker program.
Because of the classic game played with Army last week, the program chairman, John Breen, is endeavoring to obtain the pictures of the gridiron battle to show at the senior meeting. Should his negotiations prove successful the men attending the affair will be among the first to see the actual full length picture of the game.
Outstanding among the other numbers on the program will be selections by the Glee Club’s tenor soloist —John Ryan; numbers by the Glee Club quartet as arranged by Eugene O’Brien; and piano duets by Tom Bott and James Keough who made rhythm history in the Linnet shows of last season.
Though some suggestions for business discussion have been received by the committee, as requested last week, it is again brought to the attention of the men in the senior class that more topics for discussion are desired.
K. G> Merril To Adress Villagers at Next Meeting
K. G. Merril, President of the N. B. Skinner Company of South Bend, will be the guest speaker at the monthly meeting of the Villager’s Club which is to be held next Monday evening at 6:30 in the Club Pierre, South Bend.
Following the club banquet and the speech of the evening, Dan Younger-man, Villager’s president, will open discussion of plans for the Christmas formal dance to be held in the Jefferson Plaza during the holidays. The choice of dance orchestra and the price of tickets for this annual affair will be determined at this meeting.
The Scholastic
Two
» MRS. MASIE WARD SHEED CHARMS BIG AUDIENCE
New Post Office Opens Today;
Equipment Transferred Thursday
Mrs. Masie Ward Sheed, distinguished English author and lecturer, charmed and entertained a student audience in Washington Hall, Thursday evening, November 22. Mrs. Ward’s talk on “Writing My Parent’s Biography,” dealt with the effect of the Oxford movement and of the changing social conditions in the lat-
Mrs. Masie Ward Sheed An excellent lecturer.
ter part of the 19th century on the lives of her father and mother.
Citing examples of social usage which were frowned upon in her youth but which are today perfectly 6- acceptable, Mrs. Ward went on to declare that such a drastic transformation in society could not but have significant effects on the thought of the day.
“The latter part of the 19th century was a period of turmoil and restlessness” she declared, “and the story* of my parent’s lives is, in some measure the story of that period.”
Prof. John Miller Given The Third Award For WGN Radio Station Plans
Professor John E. Miller, of the department of architecture, was awarded third prize of $250 in the Chicago Tribune’s nation-wide WGN theatre design contest in which there were 189 plans submitted.
The note of Professor Miller’s design is in keeping -with the trend in modern designing: simplicity and lack of unnecessary ornamentation. The design is simple almost to the point of severity, with ceiling of ivory and gold, walls of pale gray, and upholstery and floor covering of powder blue.
The sketches, with the aid of Pro-fessor Miller’s students, were completed in four days.
Plans for the contest were submitted by 189 contestants from 14 cities.
S. A. C. Issues Charter
To West Virginia Club
Through the efforts of Walter Schrader, a charter has been issued by the S.A.C., giving its permission for the organization of a West Virginia Club. Approximately twenty - seven men from the Mountaineer State are residing on the campus.
At a meeting, held last week, the officers elected were: Robert P. McDonough, a junior in the College of Ai-ts and Letters, President; Victor J. Wojcihovski, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, Vice-President; and, John N. Cackley, Jr., a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, Secretary-Treasurer.
The plans for the coming year, although not yet complete, will include smokers, Communion breakfasts, and entertainment of various kinds. A basketball, team, that will accept challenges from other aggregations, will be sponsored by the club.
WILL MOVE OLD BUILDING
By Robert Grogan
The new post office for the community of Notre Dame, Indiana, opened its doors to the general public for the first time this morning.
Notre Dame’s New Postoffice Minus one brick.
An unusually large number of outgoing letters were mailed today by students who wished to see the interior of the edifice for the first time.
Although dedicated two weeks ago today during a ceremony which was attended by the officials of the University and government representative, the new post office was not completely furnished until this week.
Taking advantage of the fact that yesterday was a holiday, the local postal employees moved part of the equipment from the old building, which has served Notre Dame students as the main medium of communication with their homes for nineteen years.
All the equipment not already transferred and the old building will be abandoned in favor of the new unit. The old building will probably be removed intact to another location in order to clear its present site.
Establishing of Date Bureau Vetoed At Syracuse U.
Servers’ Club
6) The Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., addressed a large meeting of the Server’s Club on November 19. He spoke of the purpose of the organization and reminded the members that they are a chosen group who are allowed to “act as co-minis-ters of the Mass together with the priest.” After a brief business session refreshments were served.
The next meeting of the society will be held Monday evening at 6:30 in the sacristy of the Sacred Heart _ Church. The Reverend Eugene Burke, •)	C.S.C., will be the guest speaker
there.
Norember 3 0, 1934
Commerce Club
Last Monday night, a meeting of the Comerce Club was held in the , Commerce Club room of the Commerce Building. Mr. J. E. Meff spoke on “American Investments Abroad.” From now on, all meetings of the club will be held in the Commerce Club room.
Father Hoever Ill
Owing to ill-health, the Reverend Hugo H. Hoever, O.Cist., Ph.D., instructor in Scholastic Philosophy at Notre Dame, has been granted leave of absence for the remainder* of the present semester.
Apparently there are few “lonely hearts” on the Syracuse University campus after all. A vote taken today on a proposal to establish a “date bureau” resulted in only 64 of the 5,000 students giving their opinions. Fifty-six favored the plan, eight of whom said they would not use it if adopted. Eight others were against it.
“Dr. Eugenia A. Leonard, dean of women who outlined to the students the procedure by which they could petition for recognition of the right to operate such a clearing house, was pessimistic over its future.”
—Knickerbocker Press
Three
R. A. KIRKPATRICK TELLS
OF NATIONAL PARKS
By Irwin Goldman
Mr. R. A. Kirkpatrick, representing the Union Pacific Railroad, gave a lecture on, “The National Parks and Boulder Dam,” last Monday, November 26, in Washington Hall. Mr. Kirkpatrick is being sent all over the country by the Union Pacific in cooperation with the efforts of the Federal government to urge the American tourist to visit the beauties of the National Parks.
This is National Park Year—when all the vast numbers of travelers board their automobiles and drive north, east, south, and west to see what their government is doing and has done in the parks, forests, valleys, and deserts of the United States. For this purpose good roads, tourist camps, lodges, and hotels have been built to aid the tourist.
Utah And Arizona
After explaining National Park Year Mr. Kirkpatrick described very vividly certain outstanding canyons in the region of southern Utah and northern Arizona.
The walls of Zion Canyon in Zion National Park, Utah, are 4400 feet high and become narrower as one passes through the canyon. Through the Grand Canyon of Colorado flows the mightiest river west of the Great Divide—the Colorado River. The entire canyon is filled with mountain ranges.
From here Mr. Kirkpatrick went over into the state of Utah where is to be found Bryce Canyon and Bryce Canyon National Park. The canyon was formed thousands of years ago by what was a mighty sea flowing over the mountain tops. The canyon is 25 miles long, 7 miles wide, and from 1400 to 1600 feet deep.
Boulder Dam Described
The last canyon picturesquely described by Mr. Kirkpatrick was the Cedar Breaks Canyon in the central part of Utah. This is the largest in North America and perhaps the largest in the world, being 10,400 feet across the top of the rim.
The remainder of Mr. Kirkpatrick’s talk constituted his explanation of the progress of the construction of the Boulder Dam which is on the border line of Nevada and Arizona, and which when completed will provide 2,000,000 acres of irrigible land.
Mr. Kirkpatrick accompanied his talk with beautiful, colorful slides showing the multi-colored formation of the walls of the canyons, and different scenes taken at odd angles of the Boulder Dam.
Four
PRESIDENTS’ COUNCIL IRE THREATENS CAMPUS CLUBS
Edward J. Van Huisseling, president of the Presidents’ Council, in a statement issued this week announced that unless all the campus clubs which have not as yet submitted a financial statement of their solvency, together with an outline of a program for the year do so immediately drastic action against them will be taken by the S. A. C.
Philip Purcell He sells jewelry.
The various organizations have had since Oct. 25, more than ample time to organize and prepare the required statement for rechartering. Many of the oldest and most prominent clubs on the campus, however, have neglected to cooperate with Van Huisseling and the S. A. C. That this laxity on the part of the officers would be seriously treated, Van Huisseling promised.
The clubs that have submitted statements but have not called for their charters are: A.I.E.E., Akron, Commerce Forum, Cracow, Detroit, Irish, Pittsburgh, and Wranglers. The charters should be procured from either Van Huisseling, 117 Walsh or Phil Purcell, 106 Walsh as soon as possible.
Following are clubs that have not as yet submitted statements: Academy of Science,’ Chemists, Cleveland, Connecticut, Fort Wayne, German, Italian, Military, Philadelphia, Reserve Officers, St. Vincent de Paul, and Spanish Club.
Unless a club be rechartered under the plan outlined by the President’s council it will be forbidden to use the name “of Notre Dame” in connection with any of its activities. Te new charter also calls for a closer relationship for City Clubs in activities with the Alumni Organization. Other provisions in the charters stress an active and intelligent interest in Freshman members, a total active membership of at least 10 members, a definite date for elections, and the submitting of annual reports to the S. A. C.	.
The most interesting innovation is contained in the section that decrees that the City Clubs keep in touch and communicate with the secondary institutions of learning in the vicinity of the homes of the members.
DOYLE AND GABRIEL READ SCIENCE PAPERS
Two closely related papers were presented at the Academy of Science meeting in Science Hall Monday night. Paul Doyle, a junior in chemistry, gave the first paper entitled “Osmosis and Filtration,” in which he explained the process and theory involved in these two methods of separation. He showed several applications of the process of osmosis in the body, stressing particularly the hemolysis and crenation of red blood corpuscles, and the exchange of liquids between the blood tissue and the tissue fluid.
Pick Describes Organs
Before Fred Gabriel, a junior in science, read his paper “Formation and Excretion of Urea,” James Pick described the uriniferous tubule organs in the kidneys which play a vital part in the processes discussed by Gabriel. In his paper, Gabriel traced the course of urea from its formation in the liver to its final excretion through the ureter. He stressed the importance of these uriniferous tubules in their control of the different concentration of the blood such as hydrogen ion, blood sugar, and urea. There are approximately 9,000,000 of these tubules in the kidneys.
Critics for the first and second paper were Charles Hufnagel and Walter Demer respectively. An open discussion followed in which both guest professors and members of the Academy took part.

I
Bookmen Hold Dinner in Honor of Prof. Campbell
I
As an acknowledgment of their appreciation for the helpful guidance of their moderator, Professor T. Bower Campbell, the Bookmen held a dinner-meeting in the private diningroom of the Jefferson Plaza, Thursday evening, November 16. President Edward Kilmurry expressed the gratitude of the club for Professor Campbell’s active interest in the University’s literary club.
Professor R. W. Rauch gave greater importance to the event by presenting his much discussed paper on the outstanding modern poet, T. S. Eliot. He expressed the growth of Eliot as a poet, his importance, his influence, and his philosophy.
At the last regular meeting of the Bookmen in the University Library, November 24, Ben Beyrer read his first paper of the year, “An Estimate of the Novels of John Galsworthy.” It was an interpretation of the influence of the late English novelist upon his contemporaries. A special comparison was drawn between Galwor-thy’s characterizations and Dickens’.
The Scholastic
1
»
COACH COYNE REDUCES VARSITY DEBATE SQUAD
The eliminations for Varsity Debating were held on Monday and Tuesday of the past week in the Law auditorium. Three judges selected the following men from a group of twenty-five applicants: In the Monday afternoon debates, Thomas Malloy, John Locher, and Joseph Becek; in the Monday evening debates, Robert Schmelzle, Richard Meier, and Jolin Heywood; in the Tuesday after debates, James Burke, Franklyn Hochreiter, George Krug, and John Weppner.
These men will reverse their side on the question, “Resolved, that the nations should agree to prevent the international shipment of arms and ammunitions,” and will debate again before the Christmas vacation.
As a result of the next contest four to six men will be chosen to represent the first Varsity team in debating this season.
Connecticut Club
The recently reorganized Connecticut club met last Monday night with George O’Brien, newly elected president, presiding. President O’Brien is securing, as far as possible, the cooperation of the alumni for a dance.
0
SCENE OF FR. SORIN'S FIRST NOTRE DAME MASS
It was here, in the Log Chapel, that the Reverend Edivard Sorin, C.S.C., first president of the University, celebrated his first Mass at Notre Dame ninety-two years ago today.
FRANK DUFFY, FAMOUS AS LABOR LEADER, HERE TUESDAY
Mi'. Frank Duffy, first vice president of the American Federation of Labor, will speak to Professor Louis Buckley’s labor problem class, on Tuesday afternoon, December 4, in the auditorium of the Law building, at 1:30. The subject of his lecture will be “The History of the American Federation of Labor.” The lecture is open to all who wish to attend.
Mr. Duffy has been active in the American labor movement for over fifty years, and has been vice president of the federation for the past twenty years. Following the World War, Mr. Duffy accompanied President Woodrow Wilson to Europe as the representative of American labor. Several years ago he presented a large collection of books from his personal library to Notre Dame.
Mr. Dick to Lecture
High lights of English school life will be given by Mr. Walter J. Dick in a lecture before the Educational Class at the University, on Friday morning. Mr. Dick, who is preparing for the priesthood, is a member of the Rosiminian order, and is studying this year at Notre Dame. He is giving the speech at the invitation of Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C.
FOUNDER SAID HIS FIRST N.D. NASS 92 YRS. AGO
November 30, the feast of St. Andrew the Apostle, marks the ninety-second anniversary of the first mass celebrated in the little log church on the banks of Lake Saint Mary, by the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University.
The story of the founding of Notre Dame is truly a saga of the West. The Right Reverend C. de la Hailandiere, Bishop of Vincennes, offered the grounds of Ste. Marie des Lacs, the center of the Indian missions of Fathers Badin, DeSeilie, and Petit, to Father Sorin, on condition that he build and maintain a college. The task was to be accomplished within two years. Father Sorin and a band of missionary Brothers were at that time established at St. Peter’s, a missionary station in Daviess Coun. ty, about twenty-seven miles east of Vincennes. It was here that they had first settled after crossing from France the year previous.
Arrived November 26
Father Sorin, accompanied by seven Brothers left Saint Peter’s on November 16, 1842, and headed for the scene of their labors. For many days they struggled on, over ice and snow through the interminable forest, some on horseback and some with the ox team, which hauled their modest store of supplies. .
At length, on the 26th of November, they had the happiness of standing on the ice-bound shore of Saint Mary’s lake and of looking upon the site of the college which they intended to found. Father Sorin, in a letter to friends in France, wrote of this occasion: “The lake, with its mantle of snow, resplendent in its whiteness, was to us a symbol of the stainless, purity of Our Aiigust Lady, whose name it bears, and also of the purity of soul which should characterize the new inhabitants of these beautiful shores.”
Mission House Small
The little mission house was not large enough to accommodate the new missioners, so they put up for the night in South Bend. On the 29th of November they returned to Notre Dame to begin at once the work of building a college in the midst of the wilderness. The following day, November 30, in the Log Chapel where Father Petit had so often offered the Holy Sacrifice over the tomb of Father De Seille, Father Sorin celebrated his first mass at Notre Dame.. Kneeling at the altar railing that memorable day were his companions in the heroic attempt to establish Our Lady’s university on the shores of Saint Mary’s lake.
November 30, 193 4
Five
FR. CUNNINGHAN WRITES ARTICLE ON EDUCATION
Is corecreation to be a new trend in Catholic education?
Rev. W. F. Cunningham, C.S.C., instructor in the Education department, thinks so, and as a leader in this field, he has challenged the adequacy of older educational theories in an article which appears in the November issue of the Catholic Educational Review.
Corecreation, Father Cunningham declares, may be defined as the process of “teaching our young men and women how to live their leisure time together—by providing for common participation in all those social activities not strictly curricular—as part of a school’s educational process.”
Believing firmly that a successful educational system must include “social leisure” training as well as intellectual training, Father Cunningham suggests that non - coeducational schools cooperate, wherever possible, in providing a regular program of joint social activities for the young men and women students of conveniently located but “segregated” schools.
■	Magazine In Library
Development of this, principle of “recreation together” in colleges and secondary schools is the real basis of this new educational theory suggested by the author.
The long time results to be achieved by this Corecreation process are summarized by Father Cunningham as he concludes.
“If such opportunity to practice living is offered as the normal thing, part of a continuous program—along with supervision that is kindly and sympathetic — we have some foundation for the belief that we are leading our young men and women forward to the time when self discipline will have become a habit and self control a reality. That is education.”
The Catholic Educational Review for November, which contains Father Father Cunningham’s article, may be secured in the periodical room of the library.
Father Nieuwland Speaks at Indiana Academy of Science
Four Notre Dame men, three professors and a student, addressed the Indiana Academy of Science in session at Indianapolis Nov. 15-17. Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., professor of Chemistry, in his retirement address as president of the Academy, spoke on “The Story of Synthetic Rubber.” Father Nieuwland is an authority on this subject, having been personally connected with its discovery.
5 ix
vabout the cdmPus
Did you ever hear of a place called Lockport? Probably not—that is why Dapper Bill Miller always says that he is from Buffalo. Maybe upon second query he will admit that his home is not exactly in Buffalo, but it isn’t at all far. The day that he left for Notre Dame the mayor would undoubtedly have been down to the train
to see him off, if Lockport had a mayor—we forgot to check with Bill on that.
Dillon was a bit different from -Upper- New York State but it did not take Dapper very long to become acclimated, and begin making the host of friends which he has now. It was in the first of his sophomore year that he an one of the hardest fought, and most successful political campaigns that ever put a junior class officer into office. Bill insists that he is not a campus politician, and rightly so, for he was merely putting his executive ability into practical use. This accomplished he turned toward plans for the Junior Prom. He need offer no excuses for the weekend as the class pronounced it a huge success.
Even a prom chairman must have his informal hobbies. Bill’s is pocket billiards. After a hotly contested tournament last year, Bill was proclaimed champ of the school, and we understand that he is planning to defend his championship this year, and has already gone into training. Dapper says that the eye isn’t as good as it might be, but we all have faith in him because he certainly knows the game.
Bill was still not satisfied so he turned to his true love, debating. Here he has been the pride and joy of Mr. Coyne’s heart. It was in his junior year that he tried out and made the team, and now they will rely many times on his silver tongue (Continued on Page 15)-
POLISH CLUB JOINS NATIONAL ORGANIZATION
President Arthur Korzeneski has received word that the Charles Phillips Cracow Club has been accepted into the “Polish Students Association of America.” The National Association was formed for the purpose of uniting Polish collegiate clubs, societies, fraternities, and sororities of the United States, and to help perpetuate the more noble trends of leaning of things Polish.	'
The organization is non-sectarian, non-sectional and non-partisan. Some of the clubs that are members of this - Association are the University of Chicago Polish Club, Northwestern University club, Pi Mu Phi of Loyola, Mundelein College Polish Society, De Paul Polish Club, Pi Tau Gamma, Lewis Institute Polish Club, and others in practically every university in the country.
Member Of District One
The Association is divided into districts. Notre Dame’s club is a member of the first of these districts which includes Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, and all Western territory. The second district extends through Michigan, Ohio, and Western Pennsylvania. The third includes New York, eastern Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, and the Atlantic seaboard.
Mr. Thaddeus J. Lubera, president of the first district, -wrote to Korzeneski, and said in part:
“It gives us great pleasure to welcome you as members of the Polish Students Association of America. Your application for membership was forwarded to our national headquarters in Pittsburgh, and was accepted. We are happy to welcome Notre Dame’s Polish club into the Association.”
CLEVELAND CLUB
(Continued from Page 1)
“The Alumni Clubs in the various localities are being called upon as never before to aid the activity of the University,” Mr. Armstrong said. “We are attempting to provide a method for aiding deserving students through the various Alumni groups, the only possible way these things can be done is to allow the Alumni Clubs to hold dances to raise the necessary revenue. When the University and the Alumni Board of Directors recommended the rule, of Alumni consent we were aiming only at securing maximum co-operation, that is our only desire, harmony between the groups.”	'
,	.	‘The Scholastic
0)
a WRANGLERS HEAR PAPER ON CHURCH TAXATION
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
FINAL SURVEY PLANS MADE BY COMM. FORUM
“Taxing of Church Property,” was the topic presented by Franklyn C. Hochreiter to the Wranglers at their regular meeting last Tuesday evening in the Law Building. The speaker commented that there has been for
President Arthur Korzeneski He listened to Hochreiter.
some time a growing desire to tax Church property to replenish the State funds at the expense of charity carried on by the Church. He said, “there are those who would see in such a move a new stream of gold for public use; while the more rational individuals are prone to realize that the work accomplished by the Church far surpasses anything that might be endeavored by the State.”
The following report was submitted by Robert Schmelzle, chairman of Interhall debate, on debating results:
Brownson negative forfeited to Lyons affirmative.
Badin negative over Corby affirmative. Freshman negative over Sorin affirmative. Walsh negative over Carnoil affirmative. Alumni negative over Lyons affirmative.
Schmelzle announced the following schedule for the semi-finals:
Monday, December 3 at S p.m.
Dillon affirmative vs. Freshman negative in Court Room.
Badin affirmative vs. St. Edward’s negative in Recreation Room.
Tuesday, December 4 at 8 p.m.
Alumni affirmative vs. Walsh negative in the Court Room.
To determine the above schedule lots were drawn and the three teams, Alumni, Dillon and Badin, drew affirmative; Walsh, St. Edward’s and Freshman remained negative. This procedure was necessary as six negative teams survived the preliminaries. The debates to follow will depend on the outcome of the program outlined above.
The Wranglers next week will hear John Kavanagh.
November 3 0, 1934
NOTEWORTHY
From New Rochelle’s Tatler comes an editorial, timely and incisive, which strikes the flaw in the Armistice Day celebrating. “The Unknown Soldier has been duly honored; yet we sometimes wonder whether he would appreciate the form in which the respect of the nation is shown. Would he not prefer us to turn our sympathies not backward to an irreparable past but forward to a possible future in which a repetition of the horrors he endured would be impossible?
Pacifist demonstrations in colleges thruout the country last spring revealed that American youth as a whole are behind the peace movement. It is to be regretted that Catholic college students were conspicuously silent when the opportunity to denounce war presented itself: Cowardice—the fear of being branded unpatriotic—influenced many ...”
OTHERS ADVANCE
Head Librarian at Northwestern objected to the Daily’s suggested establishment of a smoking room in his castle. . . Indiana II is fostering a Music Series, bringing to students, distinguished concert artists and musicians. . . A dramatized news broadcast is presented weekly by the Minnesota Daily over WLB. . . Successful has been the campaign by Williams College Record to abolish the student council and intrafraternity council. Students will no longer be required to report each other for violations of college rules. . .California debaters sell tickets to their home wranglings to raise funds for a trip east. . . Georgia Tech faculty members write articles urging students,, in the interest of the ‘‘TECH-TO-CHURCH” program, to attend church regularly!
AT LAST!
Louisiana State students have appointed a committee to eject from the stadium all hiccoughing revellers, who refuse to behave at the games. The majority of these violators are “old grads,” according to the chairman of athletics at the Baton Rouge university, who says: “It is the history of football in American Universities that alumni and friends mistake such occasions as opportunities for displaying undue hilarity. Freouently their drinking leads to disturbance resented by sober enthusiasts.”
Hearts Aflutter
"Last night I held a little hand.
So dainty and so neat;
Methinks my heart would sudden hurst. So wildly did it heat.
Little hand I held last night. It was a wondrous thing
O, little hand I held last night— Four aces and a king.”
Daily Illini.—
The advertising survey questionnaire prepared by the Commerce Forum will make its appearance on the campus during the early part of next week President Shay announced at the board of directors meeting held Tuesday night.
It is expected that the first 10ft questionnaires will be distributed and tabulated before the Christmas holidays, the remainder of the 500 to be released will be complete sometime duinrg the early part of January.
Wednesday, December 5, has been definitely chosen as the date of the first Forum smoker it was announced at the director’s meeting. The affair will be held in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall with speeches by campus figures, refreshments, and entertainment in the form of skits to be presented by the recent radio try-outs.
Dean McCarthy To Speak
Dean McCarthy, of the Commerce school, will deliver the principal speech, and President Shav expressed the hope that Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., -will be in attendance.
Besides plans for the questionnaire and smoker the Forum board of directors handed down decisions regarding membership in the Forum. It was announced that the rule for entrance is that a student must be enrolled in the College of Commerce for at least one semester and have maintained during that semester an average of 82 per cent or more. It was also decided that onlv Senior and Junior members of the Forum are to be eligible for Forum keys.
The Commerce Forum, under the combined guidance of the revived board of directors and President Shay, have already brought several outstanding speakers to the campus, among them Mr. Stacey Baumann, advertising manager of the South Bend Tribune.
William P, Murray Elected President of Spanish Club
The election of officers for the Spanish Club took place last Monday evening, November 19, in Carroll Rec. The following officers were elected: President, William P. Murray; Vice-president, John F. Baker; Secretary, Anthony F. Dunning; Treasurer, Orlando Scafati; Sergeant at Arms, Roberto M. Benavides.
Meetings will take place on the first and the fourth Mondays of every month. The next business session of the club will be held on December 3, in Carroll Rec, at 7:30.
Seven
QUILL OFFERS PRIZE FOR COLLEGIATE STORY
Dome Dust
By William Toumcy
W.J. PATTEN TALKS TO ENGINEERS ON GASOLINE
The Edwin M. Hopkins Quill Prize of $50 has recently been announced by the American College Quill Club. This prize is awarded for the best short story submitted by an undergraduate in any American college or university.
All manuscripts must be sent to the High Chronicler of Quill, Mrs. Ethelyn M. Hartwich, 511 Broadway, Tacoma, Washington, by midnight on Feb. 15, 1935.
Three copies (two of which may be carbons) of each story must be submitted in type, double-spaced on 8% by 11 inch paper and mailed flat. Stories of fewer than 3,000 words will not be accepted. Each story must be plainly marked •with the author’s pen-name and accompanied by a sealed envelope enclosing his real name, class and the certificate of the school registrar stating that the student is a regularly enrolled undergraduate of that school.
No manuscript will be returned unless accompanied by a stamped, self-addressed envelope. Stories will be judged by authors or critics of national repute.
The prize-winning story will be published in the Parchment, the Quill magazine. Announcement of the winner will be made as soon after May 1 as possible. The first ten ranking stories will be available for publication by Quill.
Dr. Volwiler Addresses Local American Chemical Society
Dr. E. H. Volwiler, vice-president and director of research at the Abbot Laboratories, Chicago, was the guest speaker for the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society at its meeting in the Engineering Building, November 21. The title of the talk was “Chemistry’s Contribution to Medicine.”
Using slides to illustrate the chemical formulae, Dr. Volwiler discussed the constituents and uses of many modern medicines, both those of synthetic and natural origins. Hormones, vitamines, antiseptics, anesthetics, hypnotics, and antiparasitics were a few of the types of medicinal agents which the speaker used to explain the importance of chemistry in medicine. In conclusion, Dr. Volwiler stated that the greatest need in medicine today is to have more good wholesome pharmacologists to test the many new compounds being developed for medicinal usage.
Eight
If it’s a plain and simple little tale you’d be wanting to read; if it’s pious and honest folk who have never been exposed to the blase sophistication of the day you’d be wanting to meet; and if it’s a story devoid of long and detailed explanations of defense mechanisms and complicated rationalisms you’ve been looking for, then let me introduce you to Nano, and Davey, and “The Bog.”
They all lived north of Dublin, in the dairy country of Ireland, and the best time to meet them is about 1916, when .they grew tired of England’s iron rule and decided to fight for the native land they tilled, and loved, and which some of them died for.
With the exception of Davey, they spent their nights in surreptitious drilling, in damp hollows and rockbound niches where they had cached the treasures of their boyhood games, hiding from the ‘peelers,’ the native born and British commanded police of the Empire.	.
Davy had his own battle to win before he could join his chums in the national struggle for freedom. But when his girl, Alice, who loved him deeply and understood his troubles, was insulted in his own house, he gained faith in the scapular medal Nano gave him, and tamed his father, “The Bog.” Released from these 22 years of parental tyranny, he went to join the Cause.
It was to John Conway, the school teacher, affianced to his sister, Nano, that he went with his gun and innate loyalty, patriotically ambitious to defeat the Black and Tan forces that England had sent into Ireland to ravish the country side and crush out the revolt.
The first thing they destroyed was the “Bog’s” stables and barn, which were set afire one night when they were particularly brave with more than a patriotic fervor and chagrined to discover that again their quarry had escaped. Then Davey and his friends had two enemies instead of one; for The Bog blamed his son and upon him placed the responsibility of inciting the soldiers of the Empire who were only performing their duty.
But Davey, and Nano, and John pressed deeper their thorn into the side of the British prime minister. And Nano and Alice Farley, convent-bred loves of their men, took up the rigorous duties of nursing, in surroundings that were not always accorded the neutrality of war time hospitals.
I’d like to have you meet Father Healy their parish priest, who fought
Headed by the interesting talk of Mr. W. J. Patten, of the Chicago office of the Standard Oil Company, the Engineer’s Club of Notre Dame heard three speakers at their regular meeting on Friday evening, November 23.
“The Story of Gasoline” was Mr. Patten’s topic,-and with the aid of
President Jerome Cushing His men discussed gasoline.
motion picture views of methods and machinery in use by the larger refineries he wove an instructive, entertaining lecture.
“A liquid is the ideal fuel for motors,” Mr. Patten pointed out. “A solid substance is too bulky and ineffective in energy production since it permits so much waste product. A gaseous fuel is, on the other hand, too highly volatile to be practical—gasoline meets all the requirements for the ideal motor fuel.”
The comparatively easy process necessary to transform gasoline into an efficient fuel was also listed in the category of its advantages.
Besides the talk of Mr. Patten the engineers heard papers nrepafed and presented by students. Charles Mahr, a senior in the department of civil engineering, talked on the development and dangers of modern warfare in a paper called “Is War Dangerous.” John Ward, a freshman, rounded out the speaking program with a talk on the new international wireless system.
Plans were tentatively formed for a Club smoker to be held after Christmas.
their spiritual battles and helped Davey to manage The “Bog.” But he is gone now, along with many of Davey’s friends in the Cause.
But if you should happen to meet Father Carroll hurrying to or from his Ave Maria office, stop him; ask him about these friends of his. He’ll be glad to tell you of the faith that sustained them and the rewards they received. ..
And if you don’t know this former Notre Dame poetry professor, get yourself a copy of The Bog. 'There he’ll spend two or three hours with you, having you meet Davey, and Nano, and Alice.
r
'■ The Scholastic
Voice of the Campus
LAKE PARTIES
Editor, The Scholastic:
The old spirit flares. In the middle of the night, it seems, practically the whole student body shook itself loose from bed and went down to meet the team.
True, a few remained between the sheets, but if they are not graduated this year they will be among the first up to meet the team next year.
It is a long time since such a wholesale ducking took place at Notre Dame, and if experience means anything, it will be a long time before it happens again. Those who were • thrown upon the waters, and those who were fortunate enough to have been missed by the vigilantes, will set their alarm clocks 15 minutes ahead of the deadline when a similar occasion arises for meeting the team. That lake is pretty cold of a wintry morning! Ask Mulvey. . .
There is but one thing that marred the spirit with which this old campus tradition was carried out: it ended with squabbles between the vigilantes and the halls which refused to allow their victims to be “dunked.” In doing so, the main issue was lost sight of— the protection of the “honor” of the hall replaced the original intention of awaking the late risers with a morning bath.	M. D.
(Ed. note: The publication of any letter in The Scholastic does not mean that this publication agrees with the views expressed. For the ■ opinion of The Scholastic on this matter see the editorial on Page 10.)
Calendar
Friday, November SO
Scholastic meeting, editorial room, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00. Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, December 1
Movie, “Little Miss Marker,” with Shirley Temple, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:15.
Szmday, December 2
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m. Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, December 3
Preregistration for juniors and seniors in the College of Arts and Letters. Servers club meeting. Lecture by Seumas MacManus, Washington Hall, 8:00.
Tuesday, December 4
Wrangler meeting, Law building, 6:30 p.m. Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 7:00 p.m. Lecture by Mr. Frank Duffy, Law Auditorium, 1:30 p.m.
November 30, 1934
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
As We Liked It
For the first time, as fai' as we know, a professional Shakespearean company has skipped across the Washington Hall boards. There’s no need in running over the whole thing —most of you were there, and if you weren’t you can go right home and bang your head against the wall.
To put it plainly, we thought they were good. And we havn’t found anyone who didn’t. In fact, there are abundant rumors to the effect that the company will be back for a week’s stay, to play through their entire repertoire. These rumors, no doubt, will be news both to Notre Dame and the Globe Theatre Productions, Inc. Nevertheless, it indicates the trend of campus opinion.
Although personally, if and when they return, we would like to see a little less “streamlining" to their offerings.
We were not surprised to see and hear the audience receive the play in the best of Globe Theatre style. They did not, however, throw oranges, which pleased us immensely, inasmuch as we were quite close to the footlights ourself. But you hilarious youths might as well know — you caused great uneasiness in the temperamental pulses of Rosalind and her fair cousin, Celia. Not to mention the assorted foresters, pages, country half-wits, and the girl with the freckles who looked (and still does, we presume) like Jeanette MacDonald. They were all nonplussed as you sat there and laughed in the wrong places. But then, you laughed in the right places, too, and that made them happy. We don’t think the bond salesman who played Touchstone was affected.
And those apples they were always munching? We tried to get one after the show, but no luck. They had ’em packed.
See you in Chi, Celia.
Back Again
In the somewhat cockeyed world of journalism, there are certain news items that are as sure and certain and predestined to make their appearance, as is the next day. The departures and arrivals of “World’s Richest Heiress," the Easter Sunday eggrolling on the White House lawn, Rockefeller’s birthday, and so on.
The same thing applied to collegiate journalism, only on a smaller scale. Even before the year is begun, you can be comparatively certain of such events as the Washington’s birthday exercises, the Commencement, exams, and the deficiency lists.
And as certain as you can be of the appearance of the deficiency lists, the more certain you can be that Lyons Hall will head them.
For a while last spring, that Lyons crowd went into a pretty bad slump, and as a result Carroll nosed them out for the number one position. But now they’re back again, and with -plenty of points to spare, too. By a technicality, the Presbytery is really first with 50% deficient, but there are only two men in the place. Of the orthodox halls, Lyons simply has no competition, 48.5%—and the runner-up is ’way down in the thirties. Who says they never come back?
•
Noise
Apropos of the campus-wide war now being waged against the rowdyism in Washington Hall (“The Week” Sept. 21), we would like to call attention to two disturbances that complement the vocal activities of the aforementioned hilarious youth.	-
Number one position goes to the ventilator shutters on the back wall, which clatter simultaneously with the performance or lecture, but which stop silent and dead in their tracks when the show has ended and we go over to investigate a means of throttling them. Again, something should be done. . .
Distinct Annoyance Number Two is the Brownson Rec radio, which bellows and blares and whines and sings, to the utter disregard of the upstairs presentation. The crowning point, the ne plus ultra of inappropriateness and confusion, came last week when Professor Gilson’s lecture on mediseval Scholasticism became entangled with Brownson Rec’s radio version of “Sweetie Pie.”
•
Welcome Home
Most of you know as much about the Monday riots as we do, if not more, so there wouldn’t be any point in our printing a recapitulation of the various incidents that occurred from five ayem on. The one who went in the lake in pajamas, the one who went in the lake without pajamas, the one who went down fighting, and and the several who just went down —these are all old stuff to the big, bold, hairy-chested oafs who got up just in time themselves to assist in the duckings.
We saw one victim come dripping across the campus, and a friend accost him.
“Been in the lake?” said the one.
“Yep,” said the other.
The perfect conversation. ,
in e
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hail, Notre Dame, Indiana.
John D. Carbine_________________________Editor-in-Chief
Edward J. Van Huisseling______________Managing-Editor
Associate Editors JOSEPH A. BUCCI____________________Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN____________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY O. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors WILLIAM A. KENNEDY____________________________The Week
VINCENT A. GORMAN Jr_______________________College Parade
WILLIAM V. ELLIS, II__________________________Art Editor
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY.____________________Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN_______________________________News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN_____________________Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL____________________-Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN----------------------JOSEPH RATIGAN
JOHN W. WALKER------------------------HARRY A. BALDWIN
LINDSAY PHOEBUS_________________________.FRANK KELLY
PAUL FOLEY----------------------------IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONL---------------------------------FREDERICK	SHANLEY
PHILIP F. WELSH----------------------JOHN A. GILLESPIE
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST__________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER------------------Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER---------------ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN I. FLANAGAN---------------JAMES A. WALDRON
JAMES MCMULLEN
Business Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY--------—..........—Graduate Manager
member
Associated ^bUeeiate 33rcss
-=1934	"fyigtst 1935 s-
M*DIS0••	WISCONSIN
November 30, 1934
OUT OF HIS FIELD
For years one Paul Gallico, former sports editor, former outstanding sportswriter, now a quibbling, obscure columnist on New York’s tabloid Daily News has bemoaned the fact that there were but few Irish on the famous Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. For years he has worn this theme threadbare in his own little bigoted way. Once in a while Mr. Gallico, with a flash of momentary mental greatness, would find another topic to write about on the eve of the Notre Dame-Army game. Once in a while he would deign to remark that many of Notre Dame’s so called synthetic alumni were poor Irish cops, bricklayers and ditchdiggers. This he seemed to think very comical.
All lovers of clean sportsmanship have consistently ignored Mr. Gallico’s jittery mumblings. In last Sunday’s Daily News, however, Mr. Gallico violated even the wide boundaries of good taste which his tolerant readers have set for him. Possibly Paul had bet on Army; possibly he was irked because an ‘Irisher’ Pilney had thrown the van
ning pass to ‘Irisher’ Hanley and thereby ruined his favorite theme. At any rate it is quite obvious that Mr. Gallico’s team had been beaten.
It would, however, be foreign to Mr. Gallico’s character to accept defeat with a sporting gesture. He couldn’t do that. This brave Gallico, untouched by any degree of sportsmanship, sat down to his typewriter and after what must have been, for him, a tremendous mental effort, wrote “This pass carried on it several Hail Marys, not to mention the special blessings of Rome. It was fired with devout faith. . .” Now we make excuses for Mr. Gallico. We admit that he is a sportswriter on his way down a ladder on which he never climbed too high. Such remarks as these, however can have only one meaning. They are a sarcastic appeal to a prejudiced public. If Mr. Gallico must attack religion he has a right to do so. He has no right, however, to bring religious prejudice into an alleged account of an athletic contest marked by unusually fine sportsmanship.
We suppose though that we should say no more. That rather we should congratulate Mr. Gallico upon definitely ending his career as a respected sportswriter. Judging solely upon the tone of his writing, he has been trying to do that for years.
SCHOOL SPIRIT AND ROWDYISM
School spirit is one tiling; rowdyism is another. Notre Dame men had a perfect right to celebrate the victory of Elmer Layden’s men over Army. The Scholastic believes, however, that things were carried too far Monday morning when several students, who did not have enough spirit to get up and greet the team, were hoisted from their beds, and clad only in pajamas, were thrown into the frigid waters of the lake. Such duckings cannot bring school spirit; they are likely to bring pneumonia. It is better to let alone those unfortunates who are too stupid to see the whole point in getting up to meet the team.
If the Blue Circle carried on these proceedings—as the Blue Circle certainly did not and should not—their acts would have been at least defensible. The duckings are absolutely inexcusable, however, when inflicted by a mad crew of self authorized freshmen who know little or nothing of Notre Dame’s traditions.
These duckings hurt no one but the students themselves although some of the Chicago papers did give the incident some obnoxious and undesei-ved publicity. By their even more reprehensible antics on Saturday afternoon and evening, the rioters did considerable damage to several South Bend theatres. This was outright .and conscious destruction of other peoples’ property. Such plundering has no place in a Notre Dame celebration.
•
AT LAST—ACTIVITY
For three years The Scholastic has watched the Presidents’ Council, with a new president each September, come into an annual autumnal glory. For three years we have watched it slide into a November oblivion from which it never emerged.
This year things are different. The Presidents’ Council, after a three year slumber, is not only finally living up to the purposes for which it was founded, but it is practically forcing, under the threat of charter nullification, every club on campus to straighten up its accounts, hold meetings, remain active throughout the year and in general assume the appearances of a club rather than a dance sponsoring organization.
Ten
The Scholastic
♦ SPCCTS »
--- — - ~ - ---
Notre Dame Upsets Army 12 to 6
I
Hanley Snares Pilney’s Pass To Score In Final Minutes of Game
By Edward J. Van Huisseling “SOUND AND FURY”
We were about ready to drop the discussion on the sleeper play of the Northwestern game and write this week about the splendid performance in the Army game. Our plans were changed shortly after picking up a copy of The Daily Northwestern. In one of the late issues we found a column headed “Sound And Fury.” Therein we noticed a few cracks, the kind we aggressives can’t and will not swallow. The greater part of the column was devoted to the now famous sleeper play with Andy Pilney carrying the ball for a touchdown.
Among other things, this columnist accuses the unshifted row of Irish backs of every type of action except those involved in supping afternoon tea. We haven’t seen movies of the game, or that play in particular, but if our powers of observation are not totally crippled, the wager is that Mink, Pilney, and Miller were excellent examples of statuary. One of the Notre Dame linemen was also accused of illegal motion. Now the gent doesn’t say in so many words that he saw the ball game so we’re rather dubious as to whether he really did. Perhaps he was listening to Pat Flanni-gan’s broadcast. Under those conditions it is possible to see how he could write with such soundin’ fury.
It so happens that it was the duty of the head linesman to render a decision on the legality of the play. This offiical was Joe Lipp. Concerning him, the columnist writes, “Joe Lipp, the head linesman we have been talking about, is a Notre Dame man, by the way.” There can be only one meaning of that statement. Lipp is accused of calling the play in favor of the Irish merely because he is a Notre Dame man. At its best such a statement is unsportsmanlike. We’ve always thought a great deal of Wildcat elevens; complimented them on their ability and spirit, but our impression of Northwestern journalism (Continued on Page 15)
Jack Robinson The best of the better.
UNIVERSITY GOLF COURSE NOW UNDERGOING CHANGES
Extensive repairing is being undergone by the University golf course, that will take practically the entire winter to complete. It is hoped, by March, to have quite a few improvements that will be of immense benefit to those who patronize the local links.
The work so far has included the enlarging of the fifth tee, so that it is twice as big as the original. The seventh tee has been entirely rebuilt, with more smoothness and compactness, besides increasing its size over the old one. The fifteenth driving spot is going to be remodelled around the edges, while new traps will be erected and the present ones repaired. A large assortment of trees are going to be planted, with the prospect in view of adding to the beauty of the links.
This reconstructing is made because the course, donated by William T. Burke, an alumnus, has been subject to much wear and tear. The . remodeling will also serve to keep up its reputation of being one of the finest links in the mid-west.
Irish Take Early Lead
By Joe Prendergast
The stubborn army mule again yielded to the hard riding lads from Notre Dame last Saturday afternoon in the giant home “that Babe built.” This time the score was 12 to 6.
Just as the- shadows from the huge bulwark were throwing their dreary canopies over the turf made famous by the doings of the “four horsemen” exactly ten years previous, Dan Hanley, the player that came back with a boom that was heard even to the Academy on the Hudson, snared one of Andy Pilney’s passes on the ten yard line zig-zagged his way through a host of Army tacklers and scored to cinch the ball game for the Irish.
Notre Dame tallied first in the opening period after play had just about gotten under way. Wayne Millner kicked off for the Laydenmen and purposely booted the ball short. Notre Dame recovered the ball on Army’s 36 yard line on an onside play. Two line plays failed, losing ten yards in the attempts. Bill the Bard Shakespeare whom metropolitan sport scribes have so ably termed “the poet in a sweater,” booted a quick kick into the end zone. Buckler kicked back for the Pointers and Shakespeare returned the compliment with a beautiful lift that went out on the sevenyard line. Buckler again pulled the Army out of this dugout by kicking to Notre Dame’s 45.
Vairo Scores On.Pass
A line smash by Elser netted three yards, then the lightning struck on this cloudless, ideal day. Bonar called for a pass. Instructions were followed to every detail. Bill Shakespeare threw the pigskin, a tremendous heave, from his own 30 yard marker to the opponents 20 where Captain Dominic Vairo seemingly enclosed by the gold - helmeted Army players hauled it to rest and drove or flew the latter being more appropriate, the last 20 yards for the Irish’s initial (Continued on Page 16)
November 3 0, 1934
Eleven
Keoganites Polish Attack For
Opener With Kalamazoo Dec. 7
MOTOR CITY ELEVEN FALLS BEFORE IRISH
SHOW WELL AT CLINIC
By James A. Waldron
Minus the services of its two football-playing stars, the Notre Dame basketball team will officially open its 1934-35 season against Kalamazoo on Dec. 7. Until three years ago the “Kazoos” had built up the enviable record of 14 championships in 20 years of Michigan intercollegiate competition. Notre Dame has won the last three meetings between the two schools. Coach Barnard, of the Michigan school, is out for revenge and will duplicate last year’s hard-fought contest which the Irish in a last half spurt won 30-22.
With the graduation of two stars of that game, Joe Voegele and Leo Crowe, and the absence of Marty Peters and Don Elser who won’t be back from the Southern Califirnia football classic, the Irish scoring power has been reduced. Coach Keo-gan hopes to work Elser and Peters in the second game with Albion, and regardless of their short preparation, will send them into the Northwestern contest on Dec. 18.
Showing plenty of promise and smoothness, the 1934 Irish court machine played an informal game against the All-Stars as a feature of the South Bend Tribune’s basketball clinic last Wednesday night. Coach Keogan started O’Connor at the centerpost Johnny Ford and Joe O’Kane, the “speed bovs,” at the forward positions, and Captain Johnny Jordan and George Ireland in the guard roles. In view of their good showing Wednesday night, these men will probably get the starting posts in the Kalamazoo game.
A distinct feature of Notre Dame basketball games this winter will be the new 82,000 public address equipment. It was an invaluable aid to the people listening to remarks made by the group of exnerts invited to participate in the Tribune basketball clinic.
Notre Dame’s Rifles Win From Mishawaka Shooters
Notre Dame’s Rifle Team defeated Mishawaka Conservation Club thereby kept a clean slate, unmarred by defeat. Minarich again took high point individual honors with 178. Captain McGrath trailed Minarich by 10 points. Connell Maher and Flood formed the remaineder of the squad. Notre Dame garnered 826 points against Mishawaka’s 815. Roberts of the Conservation club scored 172 points while his team mates followed close behind. R. and C. Makielski each shot 170. Longfellow’s and L.
T w elv e
Larry O’Neill, 1934 Baseball Captain, Is Coaching High School
Butch O’Neill is just another one of the Fighting Irish who is making good in a big way. Larry, captain and catcher of the ’34 baseball team, is now assistant football coach and head basketball mentor at Philip Schuyler High School in Albany, New York.
Larry “Butch” O’Neill He didn’t bunt.
Having for his first instructor, Mike Devine, famous old time backstop for the New York Giants, Butch came to Notre Dame, well-schooled in the manner of diamond tactics. For two years he held down the varisty catching position, and last spring batted .329. During the past summer O’Neill stepped out in major competition, playing with the Brownies, Troy county league champions, and clouted the ‘ole' apple for an average of .524. Johnny Evers, one of baseball’s immortals, is planning on sending Butch to St. Petersburg in February, for a tryout -with the Boston Braves. O’Neill is probably best remembered, when in 1931 against Michigan he had orders to bunt but instead took a swing and knocked a double that won the game, for George Keogan’s proteges. Besides baseball, the Albany flash was a member of Keogan’s cage souad for two years and also turned his. attention to football.
Makielski’s total fell 11 points short of Notre Dame’s total.
The Irish shooting squad has received a challenge from Columbia University and Captain John McGrath has accepted. There will be two meets, with results determined by telegraphing the scores to the other school.
In two quick thrusts by land and aerial routes, Notre Dame’s “B” squad bowled over a lighter but game “B” team of Detroit University at Shelby, Ohio, last Saturday. In the first quarter a 45-yard dash by Happel set the stage for the first Irish score which came on a line buck by O’Brien. The Notre Dame attack flared up again in the third period when O’Brien whipped a pass to Al-worth* who ran fifty yards for a touchdown.
A crowd of 4500 townspeople, including two bands, composed of high and grammar school boys, saw the green-shirted boys of Notre Dame outplay but never outfight the scrappy red and white from Detroit. Notre Dame kicked off and Detroit was forced to kick back as their offense was bottled up. With the ball on the Notre Dame 42-yard line, Happel, behind perfect blocking, slipped through a hole and was away to the 13-yard line before he was run out of bounds.
Three short plunges netted a first down on the two-yard line where O’Brien went off tackle to score. Al-worth’s attempt to convert was blocked. For the remainder of the half the Irish settled down to an overhead attack with Jimmy Smith doing some fine passing to Crotty and Hoban.
George Carey, left end for the Notre Dame “B” team, caught the kick-off at the start of the second half and almost broke away for a counter, being tackled from behind on the Titans’ 38-yard marker. The Notre Dame offense, however, slowed down and lost the ball. A hurried kick, which went out at midfield, provided the break which gave the Irish its second touchdown. O’Brien faded back and shot a beautiful pass to Al-worth who made a great catch off the fingers of a Detroit player. With Johnny Straeter giving good interference, he covered the distance to the goal line without an enemy hand touching him. Alworth’s try for extra point again failed.
The battling Titans fought back and produced a sustained drive of forty yards to the Irish ten-yard stripe. The big 200 pound Detroit fullback, Greskowiak, was the spearhead of the attack. He was given fine support by Farkas who played a marvelous defensive game all afternoon at his halfback position. At this point, however, the power went out of their offense as the “Fighting Irish” tightened up. The green shirted grid machine, inspired by news of their team-mates’ great victory over Army, started to roll another score when the game ended.
The Scholastic
» CROSS COUNTRY SQUAD CLOSES LOSING SEASON
Cadet Conquerors Make Final Preparations For Trojan Game
The Notre Dame cross country-team, in spite of the fact that it won but one of the four meets in which it competed, had a reasonably successful season, and Coach Nicholson is satisfied with the performances of his men. Meeting some of the strongest teams in the country, the Irish harriers gave a good account of themselves at all times and proved that in spite of inexperience, they
John P. Nicholson His team met the best
con hold their own with the best in the field.
The team opened its season with a meet with the Loyola thinlies on the » Notre Dame course. In this meet the Irish took the first four places, the best time being 19 minutes flat. The following week, the squad traveled to Pittsburgh and were thoroughly beaten by the Pitt runners who captured the first six places on the hilly course.
Run Fourth In C.I.C. Meet
In the Indiana meet two weeks ago, the Irish met what is probably the best cross country track team in the United States and the results were ' disastrous. The Central Intercollegiate Conference meet at East Lansing last Saturday brought together the best runners in the Middle West, but the stiff competition was not too much for the local harriers. The Irish placed fourth in that meet, doing the best running of the season.
The team was greatly handicapped this year because of leg injuries sustained by Captain McFarlane and Francis. Nick had counted on these two men for many points, but their injuries kept them out of the run-(Continued on Page 14)
Sports Writers Awed By Great Notre Dame
Victory Over Cadets
“Andy Pilney, of Chicago, playing left halfback for Notre Dame, whips a 27-yard pass and then a shorter one to his team pal, Daniel Joseph Hanley, of Butte, Montana, late in the fourth period this afternoon to settle the hash of the Army. . . The spirits of the 1,200 future “Second Looeys” in the right field stand sink to zero as Hanley’s big feet pound the turf beyond the Army goal line, though they muster up a few remaining cheers as Army charges furiously, but futilely, through theremaining moments of play.”
—Damon Bunyan, N. Y. Amercan
“Two far flung passes, both of them caught amid the encircling arms of Army backs, carried Notre Dame to its third consecutive victory over the West point Cadets yesterday at the Yankee Stadium. . . . The largest crowd to witness a football game on any gridiron this season, numbering close to 80,000 spectators, saw Elmer Layden’s first Notre Dame team score a well-earned victory in a struggle that was featured pre-eminently by the defensive play of the lines and the remarkably fine kicking of Shakespeare and Jack Buckler of Army.”
Allison Danzig, New York Times
“A typical Notre Dame varsity football team, willing, hopeful, sturdy and resourceful, paid the nation’s largest city, which has adopted the Fighting Irish for its very own, an annual visit this perfect afternoon, and produced a 12-6 victory that made it three Notre Dame triumphs in a row in the bristling series with Army. . . The latest Irish conquest in the football series that has so fired the imagination of fans along the Atlantic seaboard might well be titled, “The Besurrection of Dan Hanley,” For Hanley, one of the last of the football players to be fashioned by that master craftsman, Knute Bock-ne, proved to be the fellow who scored the winning touchdown.”
J. Earl Chevalier, Springfield, (Mass) Repbublican.
“Notre Dame snatched victory from the sunlit skies that canopied 80,000 spectators at the Yankee Stadium yesterday. . . Two high heroic heaves, one flung by Bill Shakespeare and greedily grabbed by Dominic Vairo, Notre Dame captain; the other hurled by Andy Pilney into the far-reaching (Continued on Page 15)
LEAVE CAMPUS MONDAY
By Cy Stroker
After their decisive win over the West Point Cadets last Saturday, the Notre Dame football team began this week the prepaartion for the coming game with Southern California. The team leaves for the coast next Mon-
Tom Conley He makes ends meet.
day, and Coach Layden has been giving his men the major part of their workout during this week.
The team took a well earned rest Monday when Layden called off practice. The gruelling battle with the Army took a lot out of the men, but Monday’s respite put them back in shape and most of the squad seem to be in excellent condition. The coming fray with the Trojans necessitates the putting, to use of the best work that the Irish can produce. Although Southern Cal has not had as successful a season as usual, they are, nevertheless, a strong aggregation.
The Layden men are blessed with but a small number of injuries. Fred Solari is still out of the game with his leg injury, but Johnny Michuta is back after the accident sustained in the Yankee Stadium. It is not known at this time whether or not George Melinkovich will be in good enough dition to play a week from tomorrow. Mink’s knee is coming along all right, but it may take time for it to heal completely.
The work of Dan Hanley in the last three quarters of the Army game was nothing less than sensational, and it was satisfying to know that the last (Continued on Page 14)
November 30, 1934
Thirteen
INTRO DUC ING
FOOTBALL PRACTICE
(Continued from Page 13)
By Joe Prendergast
Thousands of dollars are spent by our Hollywood niaestros trying to create the illusion for something different, out of the ordinary. Story writers sit up nights to think out some striking variation of the theme.
Army vs. Notre Dame some how always supplies the reality.
Big George Melinkovich is injured shortly after the game has started. Coach Layden calls out, “Hanley for Melinkovich” and the situation is created. The mainstay of the powerful Notre Dame backfield has been injured and Dan Hanley is to have his big moment. “As Thousands Cheer” becomes a reality, there are 80,000 sitting in to witness the spectacle while other uncounted thousands crouch over radios all over the land.
Dan for the remainder of this period and for the duration of the next blocked like the right half backs of Rock’s great elevens. He carried the ball for brilliant gains but it was not until the second half and more specifically the last seven minutes of play that Dan came into his own.
About midway in the third period Dan grabbed an Army fumble and raced to a score. Old Lady Luck was
still on the wrong side of the fence for Dan because the referee called the play back. In the last quarter with the melee taking on its characteristic see-saw hue and most of the 80,000 adherents resigned to the inevitable
deadlock it was for Hanley to rise to the heights of greatness and inspire his mates to victory. With the Irish hopes becoming dimmer through a 15 yard penalty Dan nabbed one of Pil-ney’s throws on the 25 yard line. A minute later he took another pass from Andy Pilney, this time on the ten yard line and fought, squirmed and sprinted by six possible Cadet tacklers to win for Elmer Layden and for Notre Dame. As he crossed that goal line a smile of gratitude lit his countenance and your correspondent imagines he said, “Here’s another for the Gipper,” for that’s the kind he is—a fighting Irishman, the last of Rockne’s proteges who is in there battling all the way and all the harder when things are not going right.
Thus did Dan Hanley come into his own. He justified the confidence placed in him, the hopes held out for him to take his place with Elder,
of “Rock’s” boys still has the ability to carry out the Rockne tradition of hard, clean playing. Although originally a fullback, Hanley’s blocking ability makes him first-class right halfback material.
The line defense of the team last week was superb, and the Army
plungers made no appreciable distance through any part of it. If the Irish can continue their performance on the line they have little to fear from Warburton and Company.
The team has been going through some vigorous pass defense practice during the last few days as this is the only weak point in their entire defense, and it is thought that Southern Cal will resort to a heavy aerial attack when in Irish territory. The inability to break up the completion of passes has been responsible for some of the scoring by opposing teams this year, notably Navy and Army.
Notre Dame has little to worry as fai' as offense is concerned. The team seems to possess the faculty of making the most of its opportunities. Most of the scoring, on the part of the Irish, has been accomplished through sudden bursts of genius at crucial moments and the yardage gained at these times has always been very great.
CROSS COUNTRY
(Continued from Page 13)
ning during the entire season.
There remained but three men who had had any previous experience, Lee, McDevitt, and Donovan, all of whom are seniors. The remainder of the
squad was comprised of Sophomores, McKenna, McGrath, Gott and Kenyon. All of these men will be on hand for next year’s competition and Nick hopes that it will be a successful season.
La Raza and Hibernians Battle to Scoreless Tie
Gaining a moral victory, the Hibernians’ Soccer team held the La Raza Club to a 0-0 deadlock last Sunday, on Freshman Field. Playing with a combined organization, including the Irish club and his own mates, Maxwell and his crew held the Spanish lads at bay and allowed only two or three shots during the entire procedure. It was very few times that the La Razas managed to get past midfield, except on punts, while no less than three goals were missed by a margin of a few inches, in the last few minutes by the Hibernians.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
SO THEY SAY
(Continued from Page 13)
SPLINTERS
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 14)
arm of Dan Hanley, enabled the South Bend Cyclone to strike down the Army 12-6, in their 21st meeting in 22 years. The vast throng took away memories of a Notre Dame team that took time to get started, but dominated the second half of the game and came through with seemingly impossible achievements when the pressure seemed greatest.”
Rich Vidmer, N. Y. Herald-Tribune
‘‘Shakespeare’s all-round back field play, with the pass receiving work of Vairo and Hanley and the sensational defensive work of Schiralli and Jack Robinson, center, featured Notre Dame’s performance. . . Hanley, hero of the winning touchdown, advance, rose to the occasion as a substitute for George Melinkovich, star Rambler back, who was hurt in the first period and carried off the field. . . Hanley snagged two decisive passes after > Captain Vairo and Marty Peters, a substitute end rushed into the game strictly for pass catching purposes, had failed to connect with Pilney’s long heaves.” — Cincinnati Enquirer
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Page 6)
to help them out of many a tough spot.
This year came the culmination of all his extra - curricular endeavors when he was appointed chairman of the Blue Circle. It seems to have been an exceptionally difficult thing to arrange these pep meetings this year but Bill has done an excellent job. Though Notre Dame spirit is • said to be on the wane Bill has certainly done more than his part to bolster it up to the standard which was evidenced by the number of students who were present Monday morning to welcome the team back from Army.
While Bill is not a Finchley, his appelation of “Dapper” is not unearned. How he can maintain that crease over the whole weekend is a mystery, but he shows up at that 9 o’clock Monday morning with a ( press that you could sharpen a pencil on. He has a penchant for stiff collars and wears them as though he actually likes them. While Roomie LaLonde claims some of the credit for those ducky ties his room-mate wears, Bill insists they are all his.
Let’s sum up Bill (apologies to Goldsmith) with
In arguing, too, the Dapper owned his skill. For, even tho’ vanquished, he could argue still; While words of learned length and thundering sound
Amaz’d the gazing rustics rang’d around; And still they gaz’d, and still the wonder grew, That one small man could know all he knew.
November 30, 1934
(Continued from Page 11) has tailspinned since reading such childish comment.
J. P. also makes reference to Captain Al Kawai as setting a new record for calling officials all sort of tilings and still remaining in the game. Really, we’re not at all surprised at what Mr. Kawai would do. It’s rather phenomenal that he didn’t swing at the head linesman instead of limiting his protests to unprintable English. Beyond this, Kawai figures in two more records. He shares with our Butch Pfef-ferle the distinction of being the only player known who goes into action with one arm strapped to his side. No one challenges Kawai’s other record. He’s the only gridder that plays football with one arm strapped to his side, swings at opponents with both, and kicks prostrate opponents with either foot equally well.
In the same issue the sports editor has the following to say: “The Irish scored their second touchdown on an old trick. They worked up to that deception play all afternoon and pulled it off in great style, catching our r'en and all the fans by surprise. We don’t see why the team, and especially Captain Kawai, got so steamed up about the play.” After reading “Sound And Fury,” which is furious but not sound, you see this paragraph staring at you in bold face type. It leaves you high, dry, and bewildered—such contradictory opinions in the same issue of the same publication. Oh, my!
WE PICK
Those that we lost last week, seven in all, can all be classed as upsets. To offset the seven defeats we have 20 wins and two ties. The totals for the season (not including Thanksgiving Day games, the results of which we will publish next week,) are 185 for us, 49 for you, and 13 that went for snatchy grabs. That leaves us with percentages of .749 when ties figure as defeats and .791 with the ties brushed away. This week there are only ten games to predict. WE PICK:
Navy over Army
Holy Cross over Boston College Georgetown over Western Maryland Washington State over Detroit Rice Institute over Baylor Georgia over Georgia Tech. Louisiana State over Tulane Mississippi State over Miami Southern Methodist over Texas Christian Washington over Southern California
0 Brien, Gipp, Chevigny and other Notre Dame gridiron heroes who pulled victory out of disaster against the Army.
Back in the fall of 1930 Knute Rockne had his boys a-rolling on to a national championship. Joe Savoldi and Moon Mullins were the regular fullbacks, and Daniel Francis Patrick Hanley was a struggling sophomore fullback striving for recognition. This was the setup on the eve of the Drake game. Rockne decided to ease up on the Bulldogs by starting a composite eleven of second and third stringers. In the middle of the first quarter, Dan Hanley, fullback who was playing his first game shot over left guard and raced 35 yards for a score. A few minutes later he ran 25 yards to set the stage for another Irish tally.
Rock didn’t see this game being in Chicago scouting Northwestern but when he heard about his new star, Dan Hanley, he said: “I thought the ‘Butte Beauty’ was about due and he certainly was.” Against Northwestern that year in what was billed as the game for the national championship, Rock’s “Butte Beauty” intercepted a Wildcat pass in the furious fourth quarter and carried it to the 15 yard line. Two plays later he plunged over from the two yard line to put Notre Dame out front 13 to 0 and keep any national championship honors then in circulation right in the Irish school. Later in the Army and Souhtem California games Dan showed his previous startling runs were not just flashes in the pan.
The Irish’ lad from Butte, Montana is 23 years old, weighs 189 pounds and is six feet two inches tall. He rooms in a single in 232 Sorin but claims it has turned into a triple because of Bart Cataline and Bill Tourney who invariably can be found there and who were present and assisted your correspondent immeasurably at the time of this interview.
During his high school days Dan excelled in basketball and football, captaining both of these teams in his senior year at Butte Central High. Bart Cataline swears to the fact that he read a headline in the Butte Standard to the effect: “Hanley 20, Butte Tech 0.” Dan idolized Rockne while in high school so there was no question in his mind about the school to further pursue his studies. After his great success as a sophomore, Dan dropped out of school for two years, returning in 1933 as a Junior.
His pet peeve is Bearskin whom he challenges to a word duel anywhere. He holds the distinction of being the only player to serve under three different head coaches during his three years on the varsity at Notre Dame. This will stand for a good long while.
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By James M. McMullen
The IRISH will have tough sledding against the BUCKEYES of Ohio next year . . . only CAPTAIN MONAHAN graduates from the starting eleven. ... A granite monument to the memory of the master, KN UTE ROCKNE, is being erected at Cottonwood, Kansas, near the spot where Rock met his death . . . EVERETT MARSHALL, of grunt and groan fame, has met and been defeated by JIM LONDOS exactly 23 times . . . Another new all-time record . . . GUY ZIMMERMAN, of Sac City, Iowa, recently threw 28 consecutive double ringers in an exhibition horseshoe match . . . REGGIE McNAMARA has competed in 112 six-day bicycle marathons and soon will reach his 150,000th mile on the wooden saucers. . . . GEORGE WASHINGTON’S football team has a water boy . . . and he’s a native Indian, who wears a turban at every game. . . . Two of St. Mary’s biggest linemen, MEISTER and KORDICK, are crooners in an orchestra . . . the partnership of Murphy and Djermanovitch own the horse Watch In . . . Better tab this one. . . . JOE E. BROWN’S adopted son, MIKE FRANCOVIC, is Serbian and speaks five languages. . . . He quarterbacks U.C.L.A. ... Al Lippe, man-aber of boxers, gets around quite a bit . . . has crossed the Atlantic 100 times and circled the globe twice. . . . Attendance at the Irish-Middie pigskin battles has averaged 70,000 over a period of eight years.
•
If anybody tells you they saw Ohio State play MICHIGAN, you better doubt it. . . . They collected twelve barrels of empty liqour bottles in the Buckeye stadium after the game. ... The Bambino may grow a beard. . . . HOUSE OF DAVID is offering him $35,000 to play with them next season ... bill McCullough, sports writer, has organized a Chinese basketball team in BROOKLYN ... “A Chinee in old chinee town” ... Here’s a trick shot for you fairway walkers to try . . . GUST KUPKA, Cleveland pro, used the tip of the Washington Monument for a tee and drove a ball into a 60 mile gale of wind . . . for practice you might use the church steeple . . . BATTLING LEVINSKI, former lightweight champion, once fought 57 times in one year ... The KENTUCKY DERBY has been set for decision May 4 . . . and the purse has been hosted to $40,000 ... Colgate’s ANDY KERR used to be a mathematics prof . . . The forgotten man, ART SHIRES, bobs up with the announcement that he is done with baseball as a player, and will turn to umpiring . . . MAXIE BAER is 30 pounds overweight . . . DAVID CHAMBERLAIN, Princeton tackle, wears 94 on his jersey be-
Sixteen
cause his father was a member of the class of ’94 . . . Has anybody played hul-che? . . . It’s the new game where women compete on equal terms with men . . . has to do with arrow tossing ... A towering bronze statue is to be erected in a public park in Macon, Georgia, in memory of the late W. L. (YOUNG) STRIBLING, one time heavyewight title contender.
•
Upward of 35,000 football games are played in these United States every season . . . Australia has produced some of the greatest boxers of all times, including BOB FITZSIMMONS, Peter Jackson, and Les Darcy . . . SIR GILBERT, fine old hackney show horse, is very versatile . . . He has had experience in the hunting field, been before the plow, is no novice between the shafts of a hay wagon, and has performed in the finest of jumping circles . . . 1,000,000 more people passed through the AMERICAN LEAGUE turnstiles in 1934 than in the previous season . . . In 1927, the YANKEES played before 1,800,000 at home . . . this is the biggest yeai- ever enjoyed by a major league club . . . Over in ENGLAND cross-country racing is all the rage with the schoolgirls ... A single deck of cards provides the material for 733 different games . . . More than 50 former students of St. John’s Prep. School in Danvers, Mass, played on various college football teams this season . . . Rumor has it that the boys in charge of the CHICAGO CARDINALS are bickering for the service of Noble Kizei- next season . . . There’s no Indiana in that pro league Noble . . . Speaking of the pros, the DETROIT Lion’s management reports a loss of $60,000 at the conclusion of the first ten games . . . JIM LONDOS is the world’s richest athlete, they say. . . .
•
He’s been averaging 150 matches per annum . . . and wrestlers often remain active till they are 50 . . . STANISLAUS ZBYSZKO reached his peak at 60 . . . Each of PRINCETON’S six football coaches formally acted as a head coach at some college . . . yet none of ’em can figure that YALE disaster . . . T. TRUXTON HARE made WALTER CAMP’S allAmerican four years in succession, while knocking over for old Pennsylvania . . . CAPTAIN ABODEELY, Boston University, has seen service under four different college coaches. . . . MARYLAND’S football team traveled in airplanes for its game with Bo McMillan’s “Scrappin’ Hoosiers” ... YALE brags about its present iron men . . . why back thar in ’88, when their team was playing Amherst they agreed to forego the intermission at the half because it was raining so hard . . . yet nary a substitute ran up minutes ... There are 11 major race tracks in JAPAN that hold only 4 day meetings in the spring and' summer . . .
ARMY GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
touchdown. The place kick by Wayne Millner was blocked.
So with the contest only six minutes old Notre Dame had the Army six points down. The caissons from the heights had not yet started to roll. Late in this first period they began to gain momentum. Buckler showed his -wizardry punting ability by kicking to the one yard line. Shakespeare returned a boot to his own 36. Texas Jack from up the Hudson threw a pass on the next play that was good for 15 yards, Shuler, left end doing the receiving. The period ended the advance but on the first play of the next period Buckler and Shuler dittoed their performance- to complete another pass, this time for 16 yards and a touchdown.
Captain Joe Stancook’s place kick was blocked by Rocky Schiralli. The old punting duel between Buckler and Shakespeare was now revived. The half ended with neither outfit really threatening seriously.
The third period was uneventful. Notre Dame reached the Cadets’ 32 yard line through some neat running by Hanley and Shakespeare but the Army line halted the inertia of the Layden eleven at this point. Both teams kicked when there was the least chance of not making a first down and played defensive ball waiting for the breaks to appear.
In the final canto of this “even Stephen” affair things began to pop. Six minutes to go and the ball on the future lieutenants 37 yard stripe in Notre Dame’s possession. A 15 yard penalty against the Irish set it back on the 48. Andy James Pilney, the speed merchant, had been sent in to relieve Bill Shakespeare. With the impossible staring him in the face and with the Army’s pass defense tighter than a Scotchman’s purse on the first of the month, Andy passed. Dan Hanley leaped high in the air and snagged the ball out of the hands of two surrounding Cadets being downed immediately on the 25 yard line. The rest of this Irish spurt is repetition. Andy passed again and Dan Hanley received and scored.
Make no bones about it the big feature of the game was the play of Dan Hanley. Jack Robinson and Rocky Schiralli in the winners’ line were enormous. The entire Notre Dame team functioned as it should. Buckler and Shuler were the bright lights in the otherwise sad defeat of the Kaydets. The crowd numbered a bit over 80,000 which incidently was the largest football gathering of the year in the U. S. A. Notre Dame made six first downs to Army’s four and the former averaged 45 yards on its punts while the latter averaged 48. It was the 15th victory for Notre Dame in 21 engagements with one tie existing, 0 to 0 in 1922.
The Scholastic