Refreshing new idea in smoking

[Tfaran;
Created by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Take a puff, it’s springtime! Refreshing as this spring scene looks—that’s how new Salem tastes. Full rich tobacco flavor with a new surprise softness. Try all-new Salem... first cigarette of its kind. A wonderful new experience !
Salem refreshes your taste...you’ll love ’em!
I
STUDEN'
WE CAN'T PROMISE YOU THE WORLD.
I ■ a
■
i ...but
I ■ ■
I
I R
I I
I
1 I I ■ B I I
I I
I J 1 I I
1 I I A 1
1
HAMILTON STANDARD will be here:
Oct 25-26
See your Placement Officer for time and place
we can offer you a genuine career opportunity with the leading jet aircraft equipment manufacturer.
Hamilton Standard’s tremendous rate of expansion alone is evidence enough of the obvious opportunities now open at this beautiful, modern plant. However, there are numerous other “plus” values which you will want to consider:
1)	the opportunity for further, tuition-assisted study at R.P.I. Graduate Center.
2)	the exciting, challenging projects dealing with fuel controls for both jet and nuclear engines, air conditioning systems, jet starters, and turbo-propellers.
3)	the tremendous variety of openings, so that you may select the field which interests you most.
4)	the ideal location, in beautiful Connecticut, within easy travel distance to Boston or New York.
These are just a few of the reasons it is essential for you to talk to Hamilton Standard.
If you cannot attend an interview, please send your resume to Ted Fisher at
! HAMILTON STANDARD
i	A DIVISION OF
i i UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
200 BRADLEY FIELD ROAD, WINDSOR LOCKS, CONNECTICUT
October 19, 1956
(
GILBERTS REPUTATION FOR DRESSING
N.D. MEN WELL IS BUILT ON ACHIEVEMENT
Notre Dame men. have been buying- at Gilbert’s: for many, many years. You “second-generation students” are probably already familiar with us through your fathers. Although the Campus-Shop is new, we are old-timers - . . and old friends ... of Notre Dame. Here you will find quality clothes that are comfortable, have individuality, and are in good taste. Here you will be fitted properly . . . and profit from our years of experience in. selecting the right clothes for men of all ages.
4
The Scholastic
SMOKERS EVERYWHERE ARE DISCOVERING WHY
Viceroys
ARE SMOOTHER
1
x
In printing this letter The Scholastic deviates from its normal policy of not publishing anonymous correspondence. The editors feel however, that the problem broached here is a serious one and deserving of consideration, since it . •reflects on the character of Notre # Dame students and the reputation of Our Lady’s University.
COMPARE! How many filters in your filter tip ? (Remember—the more filters the smoother the taste!}
Twice As Many Filters
AS THE OTHER TWO LARGEST-SELLING FILTER BRANDS
Brand B
Brand C
viceroy
’ filter
Viceroy
The exclusive Viceroy filter is made from pure cellulose—soft, snow-white, natural!
A FOUL BREEZE
Editor:
This afternoon I watched a great Irish team bow to a stronger Purdue eleven. We lost, but the team still receives my congratulations for its spirit.	„
It’s the spirit of the student body^ which should be scrutinized. On the whole, the students had the true Notre 1 Dame spirit, but a few of the students I preferred to get their “spirit” out of a ' bottle. They (approximately six — all j juniors) completely downed two pints ’ during the game. They weren’t satisfied to spill whiskey all over the students around them, they had to smash the two bottles into small pieces and kick them down into the next row. They® spent the entire game, not in cheering for their team as they should have, but in getting themselves so drunk that they didn’t care what they said or how they ; acted.
I am a junior here at the University myself, and feel highly insulted, just as those sitting around me did, that these students have the nerve to call themselves Notre Dame men. They’ll never^ really be Notre Dame men. They only ' pay their tuition and attend classes at the University. They aren’t really a part of it.
They seem to have forgotten two . very important things: 1) that the laws of the school and the state forbid those . under twenty-one to drink and 2) that they were all given voices to serve God and to communicate with their fellow -. men. These voices were not given to^' them for the kind of vulgar and obscene f language which they displayed today.
Tonight .1 attended one of the local . theaters. I say attended because I can’t ? honestly say I saw the movie, thanks to । three completely drunk students who put ; on their own private show. The elderly couple sitting next to me left without ; completely seeing the show because ofi^ the almost unbearable smell of alcohol and the foul language used by these £ students. Maybe it will make the “Big | Three” feel good to know that I over- • heard the lady say to her husband, “I used to think Notre Dame boys were so nice, I hope they aren’t all getting like those three.”	1
(Continued on page 34)	® f
The Scholastic

by Bryan Woods
a little bit of nothing
Jim Kiwus, acclaimed World’s Foremost Authority, announces that he is now temporarily residing at 212 Alumni and is open for consultation. Hours by appointment only. . . . Koger (Scarface Al) Kiley just wants to see his name in print. . . . They finally got around to fainting the fire-escape on Walsh. lit was about time. . . . Have you heard the new Gilbert’s method for test passing? “One Man Tells Another.” . . . I’ve been asked to say something nice about St. Mary’s for a switch, so . . . “St. Mary’s girls are milder (Made of sugar and spice and everything nice, with twenty thousand tiny micronite filters) as well as being scientifically ^approved. So whether you prefer them Regular or king-sized, St. Mary’s girls are the thing for you—live modern, go St. Mary’s.” . . . Walt Smith, publicity man for the Student Trip to Pitt, says there are still a few thousand tickets left for the trip but the rate they’re going, they’ll be gone by Easter. So hurry, hurry, hurry, while they hold out. . . . Attention Mouseketeers: Mickey Mouse club headquarters on campus are located i£n the Sorin Sub. Could it be Room 41? . . . My room-mate Pat Dugan is now accepting dates for dinner, dances, or even movies. So if you can pass the rigorous qualifications, girls, and can prove financial responsibility, i.e., show you have enough money to cover expenses, you now have your big chance. But I warn you, Dugan may change his r^mind and withdraw the offer at any ^noment. . . . Number 1 tune on the Sorin hit parade this week: “who pushed the locker down the second floor stairs? . . . I’ve been asked if I would accept contributions and print letters. That’s like asking if Terry Brennan could use Palumbo and Varichione back again this year. . . . Send it to me, 231 Sorin, ^or Escape, Box 185, local. ... In con-
October 19, 1956
elusion, just remember that “Half a loaf gathers no moss.”
LETTERS LAURA DOESN’T READ
In addition to my other activities I also dabble in the advice to the lovelorn bit. You know, a la Anne Landers of Sun-Times fame. Here is one that may interest you. From time to time others will also appear.
Dear- Bryan,
I am a senior at a girls’ High School here in Chicago. Recently I met a Notre Dame sophomore who invited me to come up to ND for the Cotillion. I accepted because it has always been my heart’s desire to go to a dance -with a real live Notre Dame man. I am coming up for the dance in daddy’s Cadillac and staying at the Morris Inn. I am also bringing the $50 expense money which he told me was customary. Oh, yes, I also had daddy get us tickets in a box seat on the 50-yard line for the game Saturday. But here is my problem. A week ago he (my date, not my daddy,) told me to send $7.50 at once as he needed it to pay for the dance ticket. I wrote back and asked him if this wasn’t a bit unusual. I got his letter and in it he seems to imply that I am a gold-digger. What can I do to convince him that I’m not? He says he doesn’t want my $7.50 if I’m going to be so cheap about it. You must help me.	Misunderstood.
Dear Misunderstood,
If you write him a letter and apologize I think he will forgive you. Better still call him long distance. Why not compromise too and send him $3.75 as your share of the ticket price. It’s true that we ND men are not rich, but I think he can swing the other half. But
ask him sweetly. You have probably hui-t him deeply. Good luck, misunderstood.	Bryan
P. S. Do you have a date for the Junior Prom next spring? And what year is daddy's Cadillac? If you would like to go, I think that by saving my pennies I will be able to scrape up money for a ticket all by myself.
TIME MARCHES ON
If you bother to read the Sport’s pages of Scholastic, you may notice something missing. Yes, it’s true. That beloved dean of Notre Dame sports, genial John Glavin has temporarily given way to a Wildroot Cream Oil ad. Could it be that the hard-hitting prose Of the old tiger of the typewriter has angered the mysterious “iMr. Big” of the campus? That didn’t stop Humphrey Bogart though, who was impervious even to the spine chilling snarls of Rod Steiger. Or could it be that someone has decided that the fans are better off finding out about Wildroot than the inside scoop on the cross-country track picture? To find out the answers to these and many other perplexing matters come around again at the same time next week when the makers of Mrs. Muiphy’s Sheep Liver Concentrate for Hungry Kittens (made from one of Mom’s most treasured recipes) again brings you Escape.
However, we notice that though John is missing, the mysterious Tyler is still very much in evidence. The real identity of Tyler is a closely guarded secret which I could not possibly be persuaded to reveal for less than 50<. Can you top that, Tyler? Just kidding, T., they’ll never find out from me that in reality you are Freddie Freeman, crippled newsboy. Shazam!
7
SPECIAL STUDENT
RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
•	1,000 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $55.50
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 98 October 19, 1956 No. 4
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
CHARLES McKENDRICK Editor
JOE NORTON Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON Associate Editor
JIM STEINTRAGER    News Editor JAMES McDONALD .........Copy Editor
DAVID KUBAL ..........Feature Co-Editor JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS.......Assistant News JIM DULAN ............ Assistant	News
JOE HEIMOSKI.................Assistant	News
BOB VONDRASEK..........Assistant News
HARRY McKEE..................Assistant	Copy
MARSH PIDGEON..........Assistant Copy
DON STUHLDREHER....Circulation Mgr. HARRY CONLON ...........Business Mgr. JOHN GLAVIN.............Sports	Editor
BOB EARLY....................Assistant	Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK .......Assistant Sports
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated, Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during, vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
INVENTORY
Escape .......................... 7
View ..........................   9
Campus Scene.....................11
Features ..................      14
Movies ........................  21
Irish Scene .................... 27
Time Out ....................... 30
Back Page....................    38
University of Notre Dame BLAZERS
•	Lightweight Wool
•	Custom Tailored
•	Full Range of Sizes
Just the thing to wear at your Dances and Parties
Notre Dame f Bookstore
8
The Scholastic
View

frosh manual test
Last week as I was leaving Farley Hall I happened to notice a sign posted at eye level on the door. The bulletin stated that all freshmen would be tested on the rules and regulations set forth in the Student Manual. The test, administered this past Monday night, would place particular emphasis on the sections dealing with disciplinary regulations. As a final note, the bulletin, issued by the Office of the Prefect of Discipline, stipulated that no freshman was to be excused from the examination.
e To my knowledge, this is the first test of its type to be given at this University. I cannot help saying that I hope it will be the last.
There are several reasons why I believe that a test on the j University’s Student Manual is unneeded and undesirable. i When a student first comes to Notre Dame he is accepted without regard to his race, creed, or national origin. He is given a copy of the rules of this community and is told to :	abide by them. He is welcomed as a mature person who
has come here to complete the moulding of his character J through mental and moral advancement.
i e Before the freshman turns to the first page of his new Manual, he sees the words printed very plainly on the cover: “The student is held responsible foi’ violations of any regulations found in this manual. Ignorance does not excuse.”
It seems paradoxical that the University would deem it necessaiy to test men on regulations for which it already holds them responsible. In effect, this test indicates to me that freshmen are not regarded as bona fide members of the Notre Dame society until they have been examined on the University’s rules.
A second reason why this examination seems unnecessary to me is that I don’t believe a test on rules promotes good will between the administration and student body. The student tends to feel that the rules are being jammed down Iris throat. He loses the true perspective on why the rules are imposed—“to protect the common good of the group, j and to make as remote as possible the influences detrimental | to the intellectual and spiritual development of the student.” This last sentence is taken from the Manual itself. True, rules are important to any society, but even more essential >to he welfare of any society is the faith placed in its niles.
The Student Manual is not a text book. It should not be regarded as such. To penalize a student for failing this test is indeed harsh. I cannot help but believe that the disadvantages of this exam far outweigh whatever good could o	o	o
come from it.
I sincerely trust these statements will not be misinterpreted as a condemnation of the University’s disciplinary ’ ^system. It is an attempt to point out a situation which ; ®seems to me to be unnecessary at this time.	—C. McK.
picking the best
The fall dance season is now in full bloom. Tonight the engineers and the lawyers and their ladies will dance. Last week it was the scientists and their dates. Next week it will be the sophomores.
Tonight there will be one of the largest turnouts for the Engineering Ball in recent years. Not all dances are this way, though. The fault does not lie wholly with the students for lack of dance support.
Traditionally the chairmen for the college balls are seniors. And very rarely does a student serve as chairman for his class dances more than once. The dance chairman is not like the politician who has to please the people while in office to get re-elected. The dance chairman is through with his part when the dance floor is cleaned up. The fact that the chairman is rid of all his responsibility when the dance is over explains why some of them have turned out to be financial fiascos.
Losing heavily on a dance doesn’t worry some of the chairmen. It has already gone down on his permanent record that he was a college or class dance chairman while at Notre Dame. That’s what counts with him. This isn’t the case every time. Not every Joe Doakes who serves as dance chairman is out for the honor and glory of Joe Doakes. But it has happened, this glory seeking, and it will happen again unless those selecting the chairman take more care.
Recently one of the college dances here was on the verge of going deeply in debt. It was only by a last-minute splurge of ticket sales that kept the dance from losing heavily. The prospect of a big loss on the dance didn’t bother the chairman. He took a “don’t-give-a-dam” attitude. The dance committee next year could take care of the loss he said. It didn’t hurt him, but it was unfair to the committee for the next year.
What can be done to remedy the situation? Possibly part of the fault lies with the selection committee. They should examine all of the applicants for the chairmanship more closely. The committee should try to find out what the applicant’s motives are—whether he wants the job for his own personal glory or whether he wants to make the dance a success. The selection committee shouldn’t let friendship or prejudice enter into the selection. The man for the job should be the most capable and able worker, not the most popular applicant.
Finally, the dance chairman himself should take care in choosing his assistants. This was not the case at a recent dance here. The chairman picked many of his home town friends to help him with the arrangements.
The man he put in charge of publicity for this dance sent out letters to all prospective dance goers during the summer. Many of the students made plans to attend the dance, but when they got back to school they found that the publicity man had given them the wrong date. This same publicity chairman had a special interest in one of the mediums of communication around campus. He used only this medium, and ignored the others until it was too late. As a result the ticket sales were very poor—just three days before the dance over 100 tickets had to be sold for the dance to break even. Thanks to the publicity chairman the ticket committee never did reach this goal.	•
If the selection committees take more care this situation can be eliminated.	'	—D. T.
October 19, 1956
9
Take a 2-minute preview of your path to RCA engineering
Specialized training program
Earn a regular professional engineering salary as you work on carefully rotated assignments giving you a comprehensive view of RCA engineering. Your individual interests are considered and you have every chance for permanent assignment in the area you prefer. Your work gets careful review under RCA’s advancement plan and you benefit from guidance of experienced engineers and interested management. Following training, you will enter development and design engineering in such fields as Radar, Airborne Electronics, Computers, Missile Electronics. For manufacturing engineers, there are positions in quality, material or production control, test equipment design, methods. You may also enter development, design or manufacture of electron tubes, semiconductor components or television.
Direct hire
If you are qualified by experience or advanced education, your interests may point to a direct assignment. The RCA management representative will be glad to help you. Many fields are open ... from research, systems, design and development to manufacturing engineering ... in aviation and missile electronics, as well as radar, electron tubes, computers, and many other challenging fields.
... and you advance
Small engineering groups mean recognition for initiative and ability, leading on to advancement that’s professional as well as financial. RCA further helps your development through reimbursement for graduate study under a liberal tuition refund plan.
Now... for a longer look at RC*
See your placement director about an appointment with an RCA engineering management representative who will be on campus...
Monday, October 22
Talk to your placement officer today ... ask for literature about your RCA engineering future! If you are unable to see RCA’s representative, send vour resume to:
Mr. Robert Haklisch, Manager
College Relations, Dept. CR5-23 Radio Corporation of America Camden 2, New Jersey ® RADIO CORPORATION of AMERICA
10
The Scholastic
ENGINEERS DANCE TONIGHT 4N CENTER ‘STREET SCENE’
Russ Carlyle's Music Sets Metropolitan Atmosphere; MSU Game, Victory Dance to Complete Weekend
More than 350 engineers and their dates will dance in a “Street Scene” jetting tonight from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. Russ Carlyle and his orchestra will provide music for the Ball, whose decorations will depict the atmosphere of a metropolitan city.
CONCERT AND LECTURE SERIES
Season tickets for the Concert and .. Lecture Series will go on sale on 6 Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, of next week in the Washington Hall box office. The box office will be open from 3:30 to 5 p.m. and from 6 to 8 p.m.
Prices for students and faculty are $4 for balcony and $5.50 for lower floor. Prices for the general public are $6 for balcony and $8.50 for lower floor.
The first Concert and Lecture 9 series performance will be given by the Julliard String Quartet on Oct. 30.
a	POLITICOS ON INAUGURATION NIGHT
* Pause before storm of the governmental year (Story on page 12) i October 19, 1956
Miss Clare Ann Malarkey, a junior at Manhattanville College and date of general dance chairman Edward Lynch, will reign as queen of the Ball.
The Carlyle hand records for ABC-Paramount and features Miss Fran Clarke as vocalist. Carlyle himself does comic imitations of well-known vocal artists.
Dancegoers ■will be serenaded during interludes in the evening by members of the Notre Dame Glee Club octet.
On Saturday afternoon, the engineers and their dates will attend the Michigan State-Notre Dame game in the Stadium. Plans for Saturday evening include the Victory Dance in the Drill Hall.
Members of the Ball committee are: David Klocke, Gregory Conron, William Lennon, Robert Norris, Albert Mooney, Desmond O’Connell, Guy Weismantel and Ronald Harron. Honored guests at the dance will be the entire Engineering College faculty.
The usual car permissions and 2 a.m. residence will be available for the engineers attending the Ball.
CLARE ANN MALARKEY
Engineering Queen
Moot Court Finals Set For Wednesday Night
The Law School will conduct the final round of arguments in the seventh annual Moot Court Competition Wednesday evening in the Engineering Auditorium.
The four men who will argue in the final round are the survivors of a series of preliminary rounds which began last October.
Jddges for the final round have been announced as the Hon. John M. Harlan, associate justice of the Supreme Court; Hon. Charles E. Whittaker of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit; and Hon. Charles J. McNamme of the U.S. District Court of Northern Ohio.
Counsel for the petitioner will be Lawrence Kane of Cincinnati, O., and William McLaughlin of South Weymouth, Mass. Counsel for the respondent will be Patrick Berrigan of Lewiston, N. Y., and K. Wayne Kent of Evansville, Ind.
Following the arguments, the Student Law Association is holding a reception in the Law Lounge for the members of the court. The members of the Barristers’ Wives club, composed of the wives of law students, will be hostesses. In addition to the three members of the federal judiciary, Dean Joseph O’Meara and the faculty of the Law School, George Eichler, president of the St. Joseph County Bar Association, the four contestants, and students of the. Law School will also be present.
11
Campus Hall Officers, Senators Inaugurated; Senate Announces Annual Election Results
Ceremonies were held last Sunday night in the Student Center for the inauguration of the newly elected senators and hall officers.
Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of business affairs and guest speaker at the ceremonies pointed out several areas where student govern-
YCS Opens Program For Student Tutoring
A new campus-wide undergraduate tutoring program has been established by the YCS, according to Paul Krapp, YCS president. Chairman for this program will be Jerome Slawik, Commerce senior from St. Paul, Mimi.
This is the first time that tutoring facilities have been offered for all four undergraduate colleges, replacing the former program in which only underclassmen in the colleges of Liberal Arts and Commerce were covered.
Any student who is on the dean’s list or has a 90 or better average in the course he would like to tutor is eligible. Anyone interested in tutoring can have his name placed on the list by stopping in at the YCS office in the Student Center any afternoon between 4:30 and 5:30 p.m.
Students desiring tutoring assistance must obtain written approval from Dr. William Burke, student advisor, or from their professor or dean and then apply at the YCS office during afternoon office hours. Dr. Burke is the faculty advisor to the program. All tutoring will be on a long term basis and use of the tutoring services for preparation for one test or term paper ■will not be permitted. Before tutoring sessions are begun the tutor will meet with the professor of the course to lay out the program of tutoring to be offered.
STATE FAIR
“State Fair" will be the theme of tomorrow night's Victory Dance to be held in the Navy Drill Hall from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Ed Pistey and his Lettermen will provide the music. Tickets can be purchased at the door for $1 per couple.
Advance sale of tickets for the Homecoming Victory Dance after the Oklahoma game will take place in the basement of the Dining Hall on Thursday between 5:30 and 6:30 p.m.
ment can work in aiding and leading the student body.
Following a selection by the Notre Dame Glee Club, Pat Logan, student body president, spoke on the subject of student government. Then Conrad Conway, chief justice of the Student Court, administered the oath of office to the new senators and hall officers.
NEW OFFICERS
Elected officials in the senior halls were: Walsh, president, Gerald Geisler; senator, Albert Mooney; Fisher, president, Bill Gerardo; senator, Dan Bergen; Alumni, president, Pat Sheerin; and senator, John Cusack.
In the junior halls those elected were: Sorin, president, Tom Maloney; Dillon, president, Bob Pivonka and senator, Bob Schwenker; Pangborn, president, Dave Link and senator, Vick Clesi. The Sorin senatorial race was a tie which was run off last Wednesday.
Sophomore hall presidents elected were Gerry Webster, Morrissey; Jim Just, Badin; Joe Harrison, Howard; Mike Halpin, Lyons; and Dan Drennan, St. Ed’s.
Sophomore senators are Frank Cahill, Morrissey; Martin Kelly, Badin; Tom Cahill, Howard; F. William Graham, Lyons; and Dick Donovan, St. Ed’s.
Joe Slade was elected off-campus village senator while Vince Campbell was elected off-campus senator.
Elections in the freshman halls will take place sometime after midsemester reports are given out.
AB Men Choose Theme For Annual Ball Nov. 16
“In Modem’’ has been selected as the theme for the AB Ball, which will be held Nov. 16 in the Student Center. Al Gelente and his orchestra will provide music for the annual affair. Gelente, a widely known band leader, recently took over the Dick Jergens Band.
This year’s theme will be carried out in original and unusual decorations. Tickets for the semi-formal dance will go on sale Oct. 29 through 31. North Carolina game tickets will be available along with dance bids.
Chuck O’Neill is chairman of the Ball, and will be assisted by: Ray Lescher, business manager; Tom Judge, publicity; Jack Simmerling, decorations; Dick Allen, hotel accommodations; Ron Francis, 'Communion Breakfast; Jerry London, entertainment; Jack Bure, refreshments and Frank Brophy, tickets.
Nobel Prize Winner ’ J To Deliver Lectures
Prof. Vincent du Vigneaud, 1955 Nobel Prize winner in chemistry, will deliver the annual Nieuwland lectures in the Nieuwland Science Hall on Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., it was annuonced today by Dr. G. F. D’Alelio, head of the department oJ, chemistry.
The internationally recognized bio- , chemist, who received the Nobel award “for the first synthesis of a polypetide . hormone,” will lecture on “The Hormones of the Posterior Pituitary Gland.” Since 1938, he has been head of the department of biochemistiy at the Cornell University Medical College, New York City.	I'
Prof, du Vigneaud has received several major honors in addition to the t Nobel prize. Among them are the ' Lasker Award of the American Public | Health association, the Borden Award f for research in the medical sciences, the | Mead-Johnson Vitamin Award of the f American Institute of Nutrition and the Hillebrand Prize of the Chemical Society of Washington. He is a former president of the American Society of Bio-1 , logical Chemistry and is a member of . several scientific societies.	.
Educated at the University of ; Rochester, Prof, du Vigneaud formerly ; taught in the schools of medicine at the [ University of Pennsylvania and at = George Washington University.
The Nieuwland lectures at Notre Dame were established in 1943 in mem- r ory of Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C..p the Notre Dame priest-scientist whose* research led to the development of synthetic rubber.
Alumni, Lay Trustees Slate Board Meetings This Week
Members of the University’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees and directors of the Notre Dame Alumni association willp convene on the campus for their fall' meetings during the Coming week, it was announced today.
John P. Murphy, president of The Higbee Co., Cleveland, O., is president of the trustees group which consists of 21 nationally prominent business executives. Board members, who will begin a series of meetings next Friday are charged with the responsibility of hold-p ing, investing and administering Notre Dame’s endowment funds.
The Notre Dame alumni board is headed by Joseph I. O’Niell, Midland, Tex., oil operator. Scheduled to open its meetings on Thursday, the twelveman board will consider alumni job placement as well as alumni aid in Uni-.. I versity enrollment procedures.	'
The Scholastic

12
Sophomore 'Showboat' to Sail Next Friday; Spivak's Orchestra to Furnish Dance Music
A capacity crowd of some 490 couples is expected to attend the annual Sophomore Cotillion which will be held next Friday evening in the LaFortune Student Center from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. All W)ids for the formal were sold out two weeks ago.
“Showboat” has been selected as the theme for the dance. Each room in the Center will be emblazoned in different colors and dsigns, each depicting through silhouettes various aspects of a Mississippi River town.
Music will be provided by Charlie Spivak and his 17-piece orchestra which ^dso features Miss Shirley Jones as vocalist. Spivak has appeared at the
WSND Slates Debate For Sunday Broadcast
A debate between Republican and Democratic leaders from the Notre Jlame student body will be broadcast on Student radio station WSND this Sunday night.
Participating in the debate will be Frank Draine, Democratic chairman for Stevenson, and Jack Ryan, leader of the Eisenhower backers on campus.
The debate over issues in the presidential campaign will be featured on “Editor’s Notebook,” heard every Sunday night at 9 p.m. on the campus station. The program, a half-hour presentation of the WSND news department, is designed to review campus and national events and personalities that should be of interest to the Notre Dame student, according to George VanKula, station news director and producer of the program.
VanKula said that WSND has planned other features to provide coverage ^of the presidential election, including Reports on returns from the campus mock election next Tuesday.
Fred Corkill, station manager, has announced the combining of the continuity department at WSND with the traffic department. The function of continuity is writing commercials. The discontinuance of the department as a separate entity will result in greater cooperation <^rnd efficiency, Corkill said.
Jim Zilles, a PFA junior from Green Bay, Wis., will continue to head the traffic department under the new arrangement.
Don Ziefang, chief announcer, has stated that auditions for freshmen who have applied for announcers’ positions ^on the station, will be held after the football season.
Paramount Theatre and Hotel Statler in New York, the Palladium in Hollywood and other top spots beside appearing in two motion pictures.
Spivak himself is billed as “The Man Who Plays the Sweetest Trumpet in the World.” He got his big break in the musical business when he joined the
SHIRLEY JONES
Sings for sophs
Dorsey Brothers band and became acquainted with Glenn Miller, who helped Spivak organize his own band.
Other features of the weekend include the bonfire pep-rally Friday evening, the Oklahoma-Notre Dame football game and the Victory Dance in the Drill Hall on Saturday, and a Communion Breakfast in the Dining Hall on Sunday morning.
General chairman of the dance is John Boyce, who is assisted by Tom Carroll. Boyce’s date, Miss Susan Tripp, a senior at Dana Hall in Wellesley, Mass., will reign as queen of the weekend.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS
The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus is now conducting its annual membership drive which will continue through Oct. 26.
This year, first degree initiations will take place on Oct. 29 and Nov. 26.
Those interested in joining may call the K. of C. offices in the basement of Walsh Hall anytime between 4 and 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday.
Tuesday's Balloting To Preview Election
Some 4,000 students are expected to vote in the Mock Presidential Election to be held on campus this Tuesday, it was announced this past week by Thomas Hawekotte, president of the Academy of Political Science and general chairman of the event. Registration for the election ended yesterday. All those who have registered will vote from 12 noon until 8 p.m. on Tuesday.
The campus has been divided into five precincts. The first precinct consisting of Alumni, Fisher and Walsh halls, will vote in Fisher; the second precinct of off-campus, Pangborn, and Vetville, will vote in Room 103 of the Law Building; third precinct, Sorin, Dillon and Cavanaugh halls, will vote in Dillon; fourth precinct, Morrissey, Howard, Badin and Lyons, will vote in Morrissey; fifth precinct, St. Edwards, Zahm, Breen-Phillips and Farley, will vote in Breen-Phillips.
Campus chairman for President Eisenhower’s campaign is John Ryan while Frank Draine is serving as Stevenson’s campaign chairman.
Anyone interested in working on the election boards in cooperation with the members of the Academy of Political Science may contact Hawekotte Sunday afternoon in 116 Fisher Hall.
Officers Elected at Meeting Of Economics Round Table
The Economics Round Table, composed of economics majors, held its first meeting of the year on Oct. 10 to elect officers. Those chosen by the senior members of the club for the coming year were Terry Byrne, president; Norm Keying, vice-president-in-charge-of-pro-grams; Chuck Doherty, vice-president-in-charge-of-public-relations;. Pat Murphy, secretary-treasurer; and Joe Brennan, recording secretary.
These men, along with two junior members to be selected later, will form the Board of Governors, which will plan and direct the club’s activities. The purpose of the club is to foster social contact between economics majors, facilitate cooperation with the faculty, and stimulate interest in economic affairs. The faculty moderator is Prof. Christopher Fagan of the department of economics.
Several proposed activities were made to the newly elected officers. These included plans to have guest speakers to address future meetings and for a field trip to an industrial plant in the area.
A smoker is planned in the near future to receive junior members into, the club.	■
October 19, 1956
13

Social Cifc Can Sc beautiful
by ANGELA FAZIO and PAULA LAWTON
r k
DO WE detect an air of smug anticipation in that knowing smile which just came over your face when you spied the title and byline? “Aha,” you may be musing, “Here’s where some poor joker gets his,” or possibly, “Now those ten to one odds get quoted in all the romance languages,” or maybe even, “Whoever heard one of those belles start ringing without making a lot of meaningless noise?”
These pages will do little to immortalize any Joe and reference to any ratio will be completely deleted. If you really believe in a woman’s prerogative — and we’d like to give you credit for that creed—you’ll have to take this article in the spirit in which it was intended: a good natured view of the Dome from the other' side of the Dixie.
GONE WEST
Since that moment at the dawn of history when the first tongue-tied N.D. male decided to obey his impulse and “go west, young man,” the route this-a-way has become well traveled, if not well paved. The brawny type (watch him vault that fence), the brainy type, the poet (“Ah spring ...”), the scientist—all come, with One laudable object in mind: the promotion of a happy social order.
Recalling those firsts visits in view of today’s travels, it seems that history ■will repeat itself; so will tire opinions of the femme fatale be repeated by her “admirers.” When there’s nothing else to talk about, griping begins; social life is a favorite scapegoat. Idle talk builds a lot of false ideas. We’re convinced that the complaints about ND-SMC relations are simply chatter. Hackneyed and trite, they’ll soon be out of style; we’d like to strike them from the record right now. The gates to greener' pastures have been opened. Let’s tour the open spaces “out west” with an open mind!
Enter Normie Wends, freshman, wearing white bucks, clean shirt, pressed chinos, and an engaging grin. Normie has heard stories before he boarded the train for South Bend about the trials of many freshmen, including the dearth of dates. But Norm’s modern. He has formed only one previous Opinion: to form his own opinions. During the first week of orientation, Norm’s upperclassman counsellor tells him he’ll , have
14
to be on his argyle toes if he wants to date. Norman therefore goes to the first mixer and despite the handicap of crowds, mixes.
Only one difficulty: he meets too many girls to ask one out. On the last day of freshman week—by now those bucks are a soft gray—Noun goes to the picnic. After volleying what seems like an infinite number of volleyballs, he spots one of the girls he met at the mixer. She, too, looks about volleyed out so he ambles over and coyly begins a conversation with “Ahem . . . are you —uh—busy Saturday night?” She isn’t and Norm congratulates himself.
The next day, lapping an ice cream cone, he is joined by some of his frosh cohorts. The conversation turns to the picnic. His cronies have a few choice remarks about their hard times. Normie interrupts with, “Well I had a great afternoon. Let me tell you guys, its all in your attitude. It’s like this, see . . . .”
THE SECRET PLAN
Behind the picnic, the mixer, the orientation activities and all the social gatherings of the year lies a plan authorized by the Blue Circle, the N.D. Social Commission and the SMC Social Coordinating Committee. The hardworking members of these groups plan parties, dances, open houses and so on all year- long. Not a week goes by that the year hasn’t provided for.
The entire success of any party, though, doesn’t depend entirely on good planning: the execution counts too. The guests must take advantage of the opportunities presented them. A mixer is like cooking: assorted ingredients that don’t always blend without the proper seasoning and a little effort. But look what happens when you add a lindy, bop, or fox-trot. Voila, m’sieur, a dish fit for a king.
An N.D. soph was asked what he thought of the mock political convention last spring. His reply, “Best darn mixer we’ve ever had!” He’s only echoing the feeling of many. The usual formality was relaxed. People met and were able to avoid those deadly “questionnaire” conversations. They had a common interest in politics and therefore had a common medium for Some worthwhile conversation. We’re not suggesting a monthly convention, just a few more
We must warn you that this article is serious and constructive and not a humor, satire, or fiction piece. Anyone having such work, however, is cordially invited to submit it to The Scholastic, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
r attempts at group fun based on grour* interests.	j
Norm’s “big brother” was watching | him plugging with a bit of his own | unofficial orientation. Finally he took a ' tip from the upperclassman when Norm told him how glad he was to find a girl who could talk intelligently. Big brother—let’s call him Senior Sam— had always restricted his conversations to the latest-in-Eddie Fisher-records amj-which movie is playing at the Palace level. One evening, by sheer accident, j he entered into a conversation that ? actually bordered on the intellectual, j His girl amazed him pleasantly; lo, she j too occasionally harbored a constructive 1 thought! What happened to the usual ' stream of stilted nonsense? It wasn’t the course in conversational Ethiopian or Prof. Slapdinkle’s new theory on j whether the rain will hurt the rhubarV that got the ball rolling, but a mutual discovery that college students do know | more than who won last Week’s game. | WHAT BROCHURE?	|
Say, has anyone seen our college • brochure lately? Someone obviously ' hasn’t because that someone was operating under a grossly erroneous impression. He really believed that we adp vertised. SAINT MARY’S COLLEGE i FOR WOMEN — LOCATED ONLY I 1,240,000 IN. FROM THE VERDANT N.D. CAMPUS. COME ONE! COME ALL! B.A., B.F.A., B.S., M.R.S. DEGREES OFFERED! Hunh-uhn. Reread it. Oh, sure, oui- motives in coming to college are often the subject of good-natured kidding—we can take it. And if a beau comes with the degreip who’s to complain? But credit it or not “Earnest Edna” does manage to balance the boys with the books, and realizes her chum across the way isn’t playing the role of “Carl Countryclub.” This consideration and exchange of “Maybe we can make it another time; ’ that course in 20th century harpsichord-. ! really has me stumped,” many timek <
The Scholastic
•.elps to promote a better understanding of study problems.
Ever hear the story of “Party Pete?” He preferred to be dubbed “Pauper Pete.” “How in the world,” he puzzled, “Could I ever afford to date over at St. Mary’s? After all, I’m not heir to a cool million and I’ve heard ...” To his surprise he found that he could . manage a real fun time for the pi-ice of ^.our bus tokens. Where else could you have Ed Sullivan, restful atmosphere, nice date, and an enthusiastic crowd for eighty coppers? Pennies Pete knows now that a boy doesn’t need a chubby wallet to have a good time on a date.
When you have something worthwhile at your front door human nature being as unappreciative as it is, you usually over-look it. Like the four leaf clover tn the song, the Student Center has too often been overlooked. Sure, everybody goes there for the big affairs, the scheduled events. But how many stop in
, । at the Student Center on a Friday eve! ning or Sunday afternoon, when there’s i no elaborately arranged agenda just to chat, play cards or dance. That clever freshman we told you about before appreciated the Student Center at first glance. His eyes haven’t been dimmed i % by too much looking but not enough • seeing. Good old—or rather, good young ■	—Norm rallied three of his friends to
[	his cause and the four couples spent
I their date at the Student Center. (Nor-| man could have compared notes with thrifty Pete who found out that simple
। evenings were fun.)
।	. In the process of righting his ideas
> F * on financing dates, Pete learned another | October 19, 1956
lesson, too. The big-man-on-campus stuff doesn’t appeal to many, either boys or girls. Both sides of the Dixie are happily free from fraternity-sorority complexes; no one needs a pedigree to be popular. Pete discovered that being gung-ho can be a good thing when it means enthusiastic support and loyalty for his university.
Nobody pretends that South Bend is entertainment Eden, but have you really looked around? There are usually two or three good flicks at the local movies. Or how about a bit o’ bowling? The K. of C. hall affords some good opportunities for-what-to-do-on-a-date. Or sometimes just a walk and a stop at the Phil for a milk shake flavored with good humor can solve that same puzzlement.
The lassies over here are trying to emulate Lola in Seventeen when she sang that catchy number: “Reciprocity.” We’d like to do our share of hostessing, too. While we don’t have your Student Center, we plan to use our clubhouse more and more for small parties. One of the best last semester was a pizza party. Top on the invitation list is usually one of the kids who’s another “Crazy Otto” or who can at least romp through “Chopsticks” like Chopin. Group singing is the kind of enjoyment that never- gets worn out. A walk on the campus can be fun and good relaxation. At present there is a small but growing effort to arrange a system of P.E. credits for campus walking. The twenty-four minute mile. Or how about a canoe ride on Lake Marion—you know, a boat on the moat.
ALWAYS THE PARLORS
Our parlors are our “living” rooms, and we're trying to promote an atmosphere there conducive to recreation, especially group recreation. No one will hush you if you raise your voice above a whisper; in fact there’s even a piano in one of the parlors that is meant to be used.
Smart as he was, even dauntless Norman had a few worries when he stopped dating that first girl. They got along very well together, but they got along better apart. They decided to limit ther correspondence to Christmas cards and Norman fixed the young Miss up with one of his pals. At a subsequent mixer, he met a new friend. Dilemma: dare he ask her out without incurring the everlasting wrath of all Saint Maiy’s?
Armed with all the fortitude he and his roommate could muster (Roommate by now was a convert to the “Get out and Socalize School of Thought”), Normie took the big step. Might be better to call it the long walk.
. He found that a fella can bid farewell
to one fair lady and still set his saddle shoes in this direction, without the wheels of an intricate and diabolical spy system commencing to turn. There’s Pot much chance that shadowy figures will trail him from doorway to doorway taking note of every girl to whom he speaks. His picture doesn’t provide a target for the dart board in our Recroom and his name isn’t tacked on some bulletin board under the caption, “Hate this man!”
We’d like to have it clear that when a boy and girl call it a day, it doesn’t mean that a foggy night will ensue. If the beautiful castles in the sky are suddenly crumbled into oblivion, the social order still is solidly there. Betty Belle appreciates a situation which doesn’t have her tagged after only two dates with the same boy, “Beware of Boy friend!” After all it’s a mite discouraging to receive an “about face” and a whispered, “That’s Alfie Schooks’ girl----”
From September to June our schools tiy to complement one another. Football games, the Christmas parties for Charity, dramatic productions, Mardi Gras, the spring musical, and this year the opera. These are only a few of the activities in which we participate jointly. Oui- aim is to keep these relations
devoid of occasions for the gripes we’ve labelled “well-worn” and “worn-out,”
Well lads, two lassies have tried to show you the truth of the dictum that social “life can be beautiful.” We’re convinced of it! If you think the status quo can be improved, well then, how about it?
15
p
I?’
Freshman Frank Spiering continues his life and hard times. He will obviously be enlightened by the preceding article.
Her name was ginger and she was a pretty brunette that I had met at a mixer. I ran into her in the Rathskeller, sitting in a corner, apparently all alone. I went up and introduced myself and we began to talk. I had been talking to her for about five minutes when a tall, muscular individual with a head shaped like a football helmet walked toward us, holding two cokes. Ginger smiled as she saw him. He growled as he saw me, so I left.
The following Saturday I traveled the long path to the college across the “Dixie.” Walking through the front door I was confronted with a sternlooking woman, who was writing in an appointment directory.
“Yes?” she grunted as I approached.
“I would like to see Miss Ginger Larkin,” I replied hesitantly. She then proceeded to ask me a battery of questions concerning my name, age, where I was from, my marital status, and if I had any Communistic affiliations. I answered all questions as best I could and was about to roll up my sleeve for the blood test when she motioned toward a doorway,
^South Parlor,” she said, without looking up. There was already a line of other boys waiting in the South Parlor when I entered; so I waited . . . standing up.
16
Just a Little Sick
After about half an hour Ginger walked in, looking like the last act of “My Fair Lady.” In her hand she held a stack of file cards. She looked at the top one.
“Mr. Spiering?” she asked quizzically.
“That’s me,” I shouted, running across the room.
“Well now what can I do for you?”
“Well . . . ah . . . you can ... ah . . . don’t you remember me Ginger? I met you at a dance ... in the Rathskeller . . .”
“Ah yes, now I remember,” she said. We then sat down and talked about such timely subjects as the Suez Crisis and her ability to play contract bridge. Gradually, I worked up enough courage to pop the question.
“Ginger . . . would you like to go to the show tomorrow evening?”
“About what time?”
“Well I don’t know ... I ... ah .. . thought we could leave about six.”
She pulled a small green book from the pocket of her blouse and began to thumb through it. After a few moments she looked up at me.
“Oh, I’m sorry John, but I am only available tomorrow between the hours of three and five.”
“My name isn’t John,” I answered, “it’s Frank.” -•
She smiled, “I’m sorry, but I might be able to get you a date with my roommate. She’s a very nice girl, but for some reason she nevei’ goes out. All she does is raise frogs.”
I frowned, “In the sink?”
“Oh heavens no,” she laughed, “Gertrude keeps them under her bed.”'
Before I could say anything else Ginger pulled a paper out of her pocket and had me sign it, just as a bell rang. Ginger jumped to her feet.
“Time’s up! Gertrude ■will meet you out in front tomorrow at six. . . . Goodbye, Fred.”
With business-like precision she shuffled my file card to the bottom of the stack and read the name that was on top, “Mr. Harrison ; . .”
I watched with unbelieving eyes as she took the arm of a tall boy who had been standing in line, and walked with him to the other side of the room. My interview was over.
The next evening at six I was in front of the hall. After a few minutes I heard what sounded like a voice. “Yoo hoo, are you the boy that Ginger told me about?” I looked up and got out of the way, just as a short, fat little thing in horn-rimmed glasses came bouncing down the stairs. * • ' .	5.%	•
“Well, I’m - Gertrude, ■' Gertrude
by FRANK SPIERING
i
Schwartz,” she bellowed in my ear.
“Well, I’m Paul Hornung. I just । came over to pick up my football that I left here yesterday,” I retorted.	.
With that she began to giggle. Her^ ! face turned bright red and her glasses^-slid down to the end of her nose. The bus came and she took me by the arm. !
“I think I’m a little sick,” I ventured j faintly. She only giggled again and ( yanked me inside the bus.	■
It was on that bus ride that I first -learned to know Gertrude Schwartz. Looking across the short space between us, through her telescopic horn-rimmed^ ! glasses, which were somewhat shaped . like the bottoms of milk bottles, I could ; almost see her eyes.	[
After arriving downtown we roamed the streets for an hour before Gertrude g finally decided on a show that she | wanted to see. She picked Men From	|
Mars as a likely opus, and we went in. | As we walked through the lobby I got away from her long enough to buy a bag of popcorn.	... ,
We sat down in the first row, as Ger^ i trade said that she liked to feel as if ; she were in the picture. After a while i as I watched a band of ten tiny green £ men destroying the earth I sensed that I Gertrude was staring at me. I turned I my head. She had removed her glasses, ■ and for the first time I saw her as she I really was. With her glasses off Ger- i trude was not half bad looking. She | continued to stare into my eyes, and j felt a rather warm feeling inside of me." 6 I knew what she was waiting for ... । so I handed her the popcorn.	|
After the show we went for a pizza. | Sitting there over a cremated anchovie, l watching slide films on the wall we I talked for the first time about her frogs. She told me that each day there seemed to be more of them, and that pretty soon she was going to have to give some^ away. She offered me her prize speci-	■ |
men, a ten incher named Lotus. I de-	! j
clined the offer, explaining that I al- J ready had a roommate.
“Do you smbke?” I asked as I lit J up a “Lucky.”	I
“Only cigars,” she answered.	1
For some reason I believed her.
We eventually made it back to St^ Mary’s via the bus. Getting off we* stood beneath the porch. She bid me goodnight and shuffled up the steps.
“Would you like to go out next weekend,” I called to her as she reached the door.	,
“We’ll see Chuck, just leave your name at the desk,” she answered as she^ flung open the door and went inside. *
The Scholastic
The Ivy Look For This Fall
by Rich Kaniewski
The editors would like to thank Esquire magazine for the invaluable advice, and Gilbert’s Campus Shop for the use of their clothes. Without their assistance, this article would not be possible.
The college man has been setting his own fashion styles for many years. In fact, we may even say that it is his £ mark of distinction. How many times have you been told that you look like a college student by people, frankly mostly girls, who did not know what school you were attending?
Whether we like it or not, we are stereotyped individuals. He who departs from the fashion style set by the majority is forced to join a leper colony.
GENE LEYVAL >	The all weather short model
i	October 19, 1956
Fortunately, this feeling is not as prevalent in the Midwest as it is in the East.
The trend in campus fashions has been set by the eastern universities for quite some time, and has been generally adopted by students in universities throughout the country. There are many who will dispute this point, but we must face it, the Ivy League is setting the pace even though we dislike giving the Ivy League credit for anything. It has gone so far that the latest in campus fashion is called the Ivy look. Pick up any fashion magazine for men and you will see that the Ivy look is the keynote in college fashions. ’
In the world today, you are judged by your appearance. Because of this, you owe it to yourself to dress well at all times. Since the life you lead on the campus is training for your future life, now is the time to begin grooming your appearance. The good habits you now form in choosing your wardrobe will carry on through your later life.
Just what is this Ivy look? What is the trend in the Ivy look this fall? These are the questions many of us are asking. In brief, it may be summed up as the Ivy suit, the pork pie hat, the Chesterfield topcoat, reefer neck sweaters, the toggle topper, and whip cord slacks. Emphasis for the college wardrobe is placed on the three C’s: color, casualness, and comfort.
We all know what is meant by the Ivy suit—the three button suit jacket with natural shoulders, flaps on the pockets and a center vent with a straight hanging line effect. Trousers are pleatless with a strap in the back and have a trim tapered leg. The medium grey flannel suit is almost a “must” in every college wardrobe. Runners-up in the suit department include: diagonal striped tweeds and glen plaid cheviots. It’s smart to have more than one suit in your wardrobe.
Even the standard pork pie hat has been given a revamping this fall. The new pork pie hat has very low crown
and sports a very narrow brim, two inches wide. Around the crown is an extremely thin band of crossgrain or leather. The best shades to harmonize with the fall topcoats are medium brown, grey, and blue.
The Chestei-field topcoat with the velvet collar is back, along with the ever popular camel’s hair. This coat (the Chesterfield) lends an air of casual sophistication to your wardrobe.
Stripings are the trend in sport coats. The BDMOC (best dressed man on campus) will be wearing a sport coat of group stripings in soft shetland tweeds with grey or brown flannel slacks. ' The new look in the linings of sport coats is Stripes or small all-over designs in bright colors.
Naturally -the slim repp and challis
CLARK REARDON The tweed jacket for casual wear
17
B. J. WILHELMS
The Tweed Jacket and Flat Top Hat

ON THE COVER—This week we take you about the campus to view the latest in college fashions. Introducing our article from their vantage point on the cover are: Jerry Hornback, the Ivy League yodeler, (I), Bill Grant, in the role of the intellectual barrister, and Vince Dooley, (r), as the best-dressed Phy. Ed. major on campus.
tie and narrow matching belt, which come in an almost limitless assortment of color combinations, are items which cannot be disregarded. '
For casual campus wear, whipcord slacks are the perfect choice. The new whipcord have a touch of leather at the corners of the pockets. . Since whipcord is a fabric noted for its sturdiness, it is a natural for wear to class or for lounging in your room. They are now available in neutral shades of tan and grey that will harmonize well with colorful sweaters or sport shirts.
In the sport shirt department tartan plaids are the main feature. The collar buttons down in back as well as in front. Most Ivy sport shirts have an added feature in the pleated back. The Ivy dress shirt is made in the same theme as the sport shirt. These are available in the new soft pastel shades.
All-weather coats have been revamped
18
to sharp new short models. These come in the traditional trench coat model or raglan sleeves with military collar. The most popular fabrics are poplin or gabardine in beige, black, or navy. Here as in the sport coats, look for a bright lining in either plaid or stripes.
An international idea taken over by the casual campus set is the reefer neck sweater. Its V-neck collar overlaps to give a muffler effect at the neck. The crew neck sweater is still with us along with its traditional rival—the plain V-neck.
Another item for your casual fall and winter closet is the washable nylon jacket waist length, with a zip-front and slash pockets. The lining is nylon fleece which comes in a wide assortment of bright colors. Many of these jackets are reversible which, in effect, give you two jackets.
A fabric which has been around since
the days of the European monarchs is making a strong bid for a return to the limelight in collegiate fashions. What is this fabric? Corduroy—Not only is it^ a very functional fabric but with new9 sensible tailoring styles, easy washability, and a wide variety of colors, it is making a grandiose comeback. You can pick up suburban coats, suits, vests, slacks, and caps in corduroy. Many manufacturers are trying to push corduroy with ribs running horizontally, but the wise buyer will stick with the standard vertical variety.	) ■
In this fashion article, we haven’t de
parted from the “good manners and
bad football league,” but like it or not
this style is IT on the campus throughout the country. Naturally, the styles
vary from one section of the country
to the. other, but the Ivy look is setting the pace in collegiate fashions.
I
The Scholastic
JACK DOYLE
Camel's Hair, et al
*
October 19, 1956
9
20
The Scholastic
*WSND Schedule
WEEKDAYS
4
9:30 a.m.—Music
12 Noon—High. Noon News
12:15 p.m.—Serenade in Blue
12:30 pan.—12:30 Club
1:00 p.m.—Just Music
• 1:55 p.m.—World Reporter
2:00 p.m.—Just Music
2:55 p.m.—News
.	3:00 p.m.—Afternoon Concert
t	4:30 p.m.—Daily Express
5:00 p.m.—Five Star Final
5:15 p.m.—Sports Report
5:30 p.m.—Relax
6:00 p.m.—Invitation to Music
7:00 p.m.—News
• 7:15 p.m.—Forward March;
'	Tues. Take 15
7:30 p.m.—Best of Broadway
8:00 p.m.—Requestfully Yours
8:55 p.m.—News
9:00 p.m.—White Plume, MWF., Spins and Needles, TT
(	9:15 p.m.—White Plume, MW;
|	Fr. Boarman, Tues.
I	Spins and Needles, Thurs.
9:45 p.m.—Sports Desk
•10:00 p.m.—Penthouse Pops
11:00 p.m.—Sign Off.
SATURDAYS
9:30 a.m.—Music
After football game—Musical Scoreboard
5:00 p.m.—Five Star Final
5:15 p.m.—Relax
6:00 p.m.—Invitation to Music
1	7:00 p.m.—News
* 7:15 p.m.—Forward March
7:30 p.m.—Jazz Unlimited
8:30 p.m.—Spins and Needles
11:00 p.m.—Midnight Moods
12 Midnight—Sign Off
SUNDAYS
7:00 a.m.—Wake Up to Music
7:55 a.m.—News
. 8:00 a.m.—Wake Up to Music
'• 8:55 a.m.—News
9:00 a.m.—Sunday	Morning Band-
wagon
11:00 a.m.—Sizing Up Sports
11:15 a.m.—Top Tunes
11:30 a.m.—Hour of the Crucified
12 Noon—High Noon News
12:15 p.m.—Guest Star
12:30 p.m.—Fine Arts
Q 2:30 p.m.—Afternoon Show 4:00 p.m.—Sunday Showtime 4:30 p.m.—Fiesta
|	5:00	p.m.—Music
■	7:00	p.m.—Adventures in Sound
|	9:00	p.m.—Editor’s Notebook
|	9:30	p.m.—Letters from Home
।	10:00	p.m.—Dixie Concert
„ 10:30 p.m.—Night Moods
j •11:00 p.m.—Sign Off
]: October 19, 1956
At the Movies
COLFAX
The Solid Gold Cadillac. (A-2) Paul Douglas, Judy Holliday. One of { the funniest plays to ever hit Broadway has been made into one of the	i
best movies released by Hollywood this year. Judy Holliday, as a dumb part-	j
time actress who attends stockholder’s meetings in her spare time, puts some i very embarrassing questions to the board of directors. In order to quiet her, the directors make her the representative of the small stockholders. She takes her new job seriously and the result is hilarious.
Summing up: A 24 karat picture.
PALACE
Rato Edge. (B) Oct. 19-20. Rory Calhoun, Yvonne De Carlo. Rory is cast as a cowhand pitted against corrupt forces in an Oregon frontier town.	|
Unfortunately the corrupt forces lose so there really isn’t much sense in	j
seeing it.	1
Summing up: About as interesting as the movies of Saturday’s game.
Co-hit: Fighting Trouble.
AVON
Lisbon. (B) Ray Milland, Maureen O’Hara. Ray Milland is cast as a rich American who smuggles jewels for the thrill. Maureen O’Hara engages him to smuggle some jewels into Russia to free her husband, who is serving a 20 yeai- term for poaching. Although the plot is left standing for a long time it never thickens.
Summing up: A poor man’s TO CATCH A THIEF.
Co-hit: No Man’s Woman.
RIVER PARK
The Girl in the Red Velvet String. (A-2). Oct. 19-20.
Co-hit: Foxfire. (A-2)
Johnny Concho. (A-2) Oct. 21 - 24. Frank Sinatra, Phyllis Kirk, Keenan Wynn. Another example of Frank Sinatra’s ability to do almost anything. The Voice plays a coward who lives on his brother’s reputation as a gunslinger. What happens aftei- the brother dies provides 84 minutes of topflight entertainment.	I
Summing up: It’s worth the money just to see Keenan Wynn for his	!
3 minute part.
Co-hit: The Proud and the Profane. (A.-2) William Holden, Deborah Kerr.
The Private War of Major Benson. (A-l) Charleton Heston, Julie Adams. Highly recommended for Army ROTC men.
Co-hit: Kettles in the Ozarks. (A-l)
STATE
Silver River (A-2) Oct. 19-20.
Co-hit: Haunted Gold.
The King And I. (A-l) Oct. 21-24. Yul Brynner, Deborah Kerr. The songs are tremendous but not the way Deborah Kerr does them.
Co-hit: The Last Wagon. (A-l) Richard Widmark, Felicia Farr. A i western to end all westerns.	i
Francis In The Haunted House (A-l) Oct. 25-26. Mickey Rooney, and ' a jackass.	i
Co-hit: Congo Crossing. (A-2) Virginia Mayo, George Nader.	!
GRANADA
Toward the Unknotvn. (A-2) William Holden, Virginia Leith. This picture may be shown next week if WAR AND PEACE ever ends. William Holden plays a crazy mixed-up test pilot. In the end Holden regains confidence in himself, and you lose confidence in the guy who brought you.
Summing up: This one is no PICNIC.
21
An Intelligent Vote
by
Frank Draine
On Tuesday, October 23, you will cast your votes for the next President and Vice-President of the United States. This year as never before you will be called upon to vote intelligently. To aid you in arriving at an intelligent decision. The Democratic Party presents the facts on basic issues and asks the question: "Where in light of these facts has Eisenhower displayed true presidential leadership for all the people.” Ike tells us he is running on his record, and here is that record.
FARMER
Under Ike’s “leadership” farm income went down $3.7 billion, farm prices down 18%, and farm mortgage debt up $2.4 billion. But the President told us that these drops in farm income were due to Democratic policies. Yet, the Department of Agriculture reported that farm prices are still dropping.
WELFARE
Eisenhower opposed the new Democratic social security law which lowers the retirement age for women to 62 and for disabled persons to 50. Eisenhower’s tax bill of 1954 gave 91% of the tax relief to corporations and wealthy families, and only 9% to families of $5000 or lower who represent 80% of the population. In 1954 Democrats in Congress proposed raising the personal tax exemption from $600 to $700. Republicans in both houses vetoed this proposal.
For veterans, Eisenhower opposed a Democratic measure to raise compensation for disabled vets, ended the G.I. Bill of Rights, and opposed a bill for added medical care for vets in V.A. hospitals.
The Housing Act of 1949 contemplated building 135,000 low cost homes a year to aid in slum clearance. But, in 1955 appropriations allowed for only 45,000 units—and Eisenhower threatened a veto because that was 10,000 more than he recommended.
A Congressional committee reported in October 1955, “There are 25 to 30 million people in the United States living in poverty.” But, in the recent Congress a Democratic proposal for relief to stricken areas was defeated by 63% of Eisenhower’s Republicans in the Senate.
22
EDUCATION
For two years Eisenhower had no program for the schools. He has talked about the urgent need for prompt action in this field. Yet, when the school bill was being debated by Congress Ike did not send a single word to Congress. The school bill was killed by 61% of House Republicans. Recently the Department of Education reported that we need over 247,000 classrooms.
CIVIL RIGHTS
Eisenhower had no civil rights program until April of this election year,
ADLAI E. STEVENSON
The intelligent vote
and then ignored his 1952 platform promise of anti-lynch and anti-poll-tax legislation. Nixon claimed that the Supreme Court decision banning segregation was a Republican victory. However, the Supreme Court is a non-partisan branch of the government.
CORRUPTION
Ike promised in 1952 a “great crusade” to cast out the “crooks and cronies” in government, and “I can promise you that we won’t wait for Congressional investigation. The prodding will come from the top.” Here is a record of Ike’s so-called clean-up: Wesley Roberts, GOP National Chairman, got $11,000 for selling the State of Kansas a building it already owned. Ike gave him a silver tray and praised him for his “tireless efforts.”
Secretary of Air Force, Harold Tal<; * bott, allegedly pocketed $132,032 in ; profits while Secretary. He received the Defense Depaitment’s highest civilian award and the President’s “warm wishes for success.”
On July 6, when asked whether Adolphe Wenzell, Budget Bureau Consultant on Dixon-Yates, had conducted himself properly in the Dixon-Yates deal President Eisenhowei- replies, “Indeed yes.’'J This reply came five months after Senator Lister Hill had exposed Wenzell’s improper activities, and the Justice Department finds the Dixon-Yates deal “unlawful, null and void.”
There was also the mess of the Public Buildings Commissioner, the General Services Administrator, the perjury charge against Murray Chotiner (VicePresident Nixon’s campaign manageiy and political consultant to the GOP National Committee, also the still unanswered mystery of Nixon’s “Secret” fund of $18,235. Keep this in mind: Ike never fired any of these officials or asked for their resignation.
Gentlemen, this is the Eisenhower record. Ask yourself, “Is Ike the leader >, he tells us he is.” In light of this cinemascope view of Ike’s record, our answer must be—an emphatic NO! -9
We must put our sentimentality in our hip pocket and go into this election ; as intelligent voters and cast our Votes for Adlai Stevenson whose record on both levels of government, State and Federal, shows “Great qualities of mind and spirit.” As governor, he was noted for reducing inefficiency. Mr. Stevenson cleaned out corruption, balanced the Illinois budget, raised teacher’s salaries, increased state aid to education, and" the aged and blind.
Adlai Stevenson also served as special counsel to the Department of Agriculture in 1933, as assistant secretary of Navy in 1941, as head of the special Economic Mission to Italy in 1943.
Mr. Stevenson went on a War Department Mission to France, England and I Belgium in 1944, and was special assistant to Secretary of State Stettinius ii^ 1945. Mi*. Stevenson served as head of the U.S. delegation to the United Nations Preparatory Commission. In 1946 and 1947 he was an alternate delegate to the U.N.
His broad scope of domestic and foreign problems, and his leadership in , government is why we Americans believe that Mr. Stevenson should be th^ next president of the United States. ~
In his own words, “History’s head- . long course has brought us, I devoutly believe, to the threshold of a new America—to the America of the great ideals and noble visions which are the stuff our future must be made of. . . . What this country needs is leadership and truth. , And that’s what we mean to give it.” *
The Scholastic
Why Ike Twice?
by Jack Bure
Recently, John Marshal remarked in The Scholastic that “He doesn’t vote for issues but rather for the best man because it is the man that stands for the issues.” True, and unfortunately for Marshal the record proves that Dwight D. Eisenhower stands head, ^shoulders, and shoestrings above his po-^litical opponent. Let us turn to his record, the light of experience, and see what President Eisenhower and “the party of the future” have brought to our government that was so lacking during the 20 years that had gone before?
First of all, as President of the United States, we have a man who gives dignity to that high office. A man who knows how to win the respect of other people in other lands.
HIS NATION’S INTEREST
A team player who knows how to enlist and use the help of some of the most able people in America. An executive who listens to the opinion of others but who makes his own decisions. I ask you, on what basis do frantic Democratic leaders picture Eisenhower, the five-star general who made the lonely '^ind awesome decision of the Normandy invasion, as a pathetic victim of grasping Republican politicians? Mr. Eisenhower is nobody’s pawn—his only mandate is our nation’s interest.
Secondly, our President has firmly placed us on the road toward an honorable peace. The guns over Korea and Vietnam have been silenced. West Germany and Austria are no longer ter-^itories of military occupation. Today, wthey are free—strong—and joined with the West. Trieste, is at peace for the first time since 1945. Iran, long tormented by Soviet threats and Communist subversion, stays free. The Communist control of Guatemala in this hemisphere was met and repelled. There has been no Red seizure of Quemoy, Matsu, and Formosa. We have been (^kept out of shooting wars. The Soviets have been stopped and forced to renounce some of their old tactics and leaders. We have begun the fight for peace.
President Eisenhower has shown that his only interest in war is avoiding the next one. At the Geneva conference, Ain 1955, he had no illusions as to the ^Communist insincerities, but he made
October 19, 1956
clear to all nations that ours is a nation dedicated to peace. According to the Sept. 28 edition of U.S. News and World Report, “President Eisenhower is the prime mover in restraining England and France from taking any forthright action in the Suez canal dispute. The President is determined to avoid any open conflict.”
Thirdly, our President, from a working class family in Abilene, is the sym-
PRESIDENT EISENHOWER A respected statesman
bol and master architect of our greatest peacetime prosperity ever.
According to figures compiled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, living costs rose 2.5% between July 31, 1953 and July 31, 1956. For the same three year period, the weekly wage-rate advanced 19.4%. We have likewise had a 7.4 billion dollar tax cut, two-thirds of which was given to individuals. We have record high employment, 66.8 million jobs in August and unemployment is down below 3%—almost a record in our entire history. All of this means more purchasing power which is the key to a higher standard of living.
Social security has been extended to an additional ten million Americans; unemployment compensation to an additional four million Americans. The minimum wage has been increased even though Ike’s recommendation for its
wider coverage was not acted upon by the Congress.
The farmer is now benefitting from the soil bank plan, which likewise preserves our national resources. Foreign markets for U.S. farm commodities are being expanded. During the year ending June 30, 1956, shipments of farm products to foreign countries were 11% higher than in 1952-53. Investigations have already commercialized over 100 new uses for farm products. Price-depressing' surpluses have been drastically reduced. What has all this meant? Prices are 7% higher than last December. Today farm income is at one-billion dollar rate above last year.
When have we ever before had peace accompanied by prosperity? In the past, we have had peace without prosperity and prosperity without peace. Under Ike, we have both—and the prosperity is the greatest we have ever known.
Finally, President Eisenhower stands for true progress. Our great government programs are based upon principle rather than upon shifting political opportunism.
SEGREGATION ENDED
Sympathetic understanding has been fostered; and intelligent progress has been made, in civil rights: Segregation ended in restaurants, theaters, hotels, and schools in the District of Columbia —ended in government departments, the Armed Forces, Veterans’ hospitals.
In the first three years of this administration, there were more single family homes built in America than in any previous three-year period.
Corruption is no longer heard of in our Federal Government. Favoritism and cronyism are something of the past.
The St. Lawrence seaway is now under construction. For 20 years the Democrats talked about the seaway.
The federal budget has been balanced.
The American farmer today can once again look forward to raising his crops for markets instead of for government warehouses.
Our government is being returned to the “grassroots” of our society. The 20-year trend to centralization of power in Washington has been reversed.
Under President Eisenhower, labor receives a larger share of a much larger national income than ever before.
Yes, we have made progress. And the question before the nation today is: Do we want a change? Shall we continue to base our governmental operations on sound principles that work, or shall we retreat back toward expediency and chaos? You are to answer that question in some two short weeks. A vote for Ike and Dick is a vote for respected statesmen who symbolize peace, prosperity, and progress.
23
।
N.D. Marines Organize Semper Fidelis Society
Campus members of the U.S. Marine Corps will be brought together for the first time this fall in their own organization, the Semper Fidelis Society.
Up until this time, the various Marine programs at Notre Dame have had little in common. The formation of the society will bring together all of these groups for academic, social, spiritual, and service purposes.
The society will hold its first activity of the year on Nov. 10, the Marine Corps birthday. A banquet commemorating the event will be held in the Morris Inn. Afterwards there will be a Birthday Ball.
Any student who is in the Marine Corps reserve, Platoon Leaders Corps, Officers Candidate Corps, or the NBOTC Marine unit is eligible for membership in the Society. Meetings will be held on the first Monday of each month at 8 p.m. in the Drill Hall.
ONLY PEN WITH A BUILT-IN SPARE REFILL!
cNew BiperbMate
YOU HAVE 2 POINTS
2 INK
supplies!
ANDTHEVRE PIGGYBACK!
only $195 at
Monday, Tuesday Scheduled For Student Trip Ticket Sale
Tickets for the Student Trip to the Pittsburgh game ■will go on sale next Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 21 and 22 in the Rathskeller of the Student Center from 4-6 and 7:30-9 p.m.
The price of the trip is $27. This includes transportation, game ticket, hotel accommodations and two meals. Alternative types of arrangements may be made. The cost of transportation and the game ticket alone is $21. Transportation alone is $16.50.
The trip will leave from the circle, Friday, Nov. 9 at 3:30 p.m. on buses which will provide transportation to the train. The train will arrive in Pittsburgh at midnight. The evening after the game, a dance "will be held at the Pennsylvania Sheraton Hotel.
Sunday afternoon there is an optional mixer and brunch at Mt. Mercy College. The train for the return trip will leave at 10 p.m. Pittsburgh time and arrive in South Bend at 6 a.m. Monday morning.
(tllMUUlua
*	• WB WBI MATS COMPANY, MM
Notre Dame Bookstore On the Campus
city	zone state
Classified Advertising
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
BURROUGHS CO., Tuesday, Oct. 22—Placement Office.___________________________________
CREOLE PETROLEUM CORP., Monday, Oct. 22
—Placement Office.___________________
RADIO CORP. OF AMERICA, Monday, Oct. 22— Placement Office._________________________
SIKORSKY AIRCRAFT, Tuesday, Oct. 23—Place-ment Office.______________________________f
HAMILTON STANDARD, Thursday and Friday,' Oct. 25 and 26—Placement Office.__________
DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT, Monday, Oct. 29—Place-ment Office.______________________________
CROSLEY, Thursday, Oct. 25—Placement Office.
MOTOROLA, Wednesday, Oct. 24—Placement Office._____________________________________
STANDARD OIL OF CALIFORNIA, Monday and Tuesday. Oct. 29 and 30—Placement Office._
ROOMS FOR RENT
SLEEPING ROOMS for rent close to town and bus. Use of phone. Reasonable. Inquire at 606 North
Scott Street after 4:30 P.M. or all day Saturday and Sunday. •	-
STUDY IN EUROPE
Spring Semester 1957
5 months for
$1195
INCLUDES:
*	Selection of 25 English taught courses at the1.? U. of Vienna.
*	Special German language instruction geared to a speaking knowledge.
*	Social and cultural activities, lectures and forums while studying at the U. of Vienna.
*	Study tours lasting a total of 2 months. England, Belgium, France, Italy, Yugoslavia, Switzerland, Germany, Austria.
*	Living in a Viennese home.
*	Balanced, home-like meals with IES.
* Personal orientation and advisory service from IES office.
* Round trip ocean transportation.
Group sails February 8, 1957, on Cunard Line ss. Saxonia.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: Dec. 28, 1956
Mail coupon for free brochure.
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES
35 East Wacker Drive, Room 1376
Chicago 1, Illinois
name
address
school
2*
. The Scholastic
•Symposium to Study Catholic Action Work
The fourth annual Advent Symposium, sponsored by the National Catholic Action Study commission, will be held here from Dec. 7 through 9. Attending the symposium will be students and ^faculty members from Catholic colleges throughout the Midwest.
The theme for this year’s symposium will be “Unity and Diversity in the Apostolate.” This topic is aimed at investigating Catholic Action.
On Saturday morning, Dec. 8, the Rev. Joseph Fichter, S.J., an authority on parish sociology, will discuss parish life. His talk is intended to enable the -student apostolate groups to formulate ™the goals and devise specific techniques to better prepare the student for future duties as a parishioner.
Panel discussions and workshops will be held that afternoon in which each of the seven participating groups will have representatives give short talks on his group’s relationship to the topic. These groups are: the Sodality; Young Christian Students; Confraternity of Chris-^tian Doctrine; human relations; martriage institutes; literary; and liturgy.
In the evening, a program of skits and demonstrations by foreign student groups at Catholic colleges will be given.
ATTENTION SENIORS
The Senior Class will hold a family rosary at the Grotto every third Sunday of the month at 5 p.m., beginning Nov. 21. All seniors are urged to take advantage of this spiritual opportunity.
The Class Religious Chairmen: Dave Valaik, 158 Alumni, and Joe Sullivan, 259 Alumni, would like to have all seniors report to them anytime a close relative passes away in order that they may compile a class spiritual bouquet for the deceased person.
First Master Points Given For Sunday Play in Center
The first monthly master point duplicate bridge session was held last Sunday in the Student Center. North-south winners were Pete Volante-Steve Barrett, .663; winners of the east-west division were Marty McGinn-Bob Funderlic, .672.
Oither high scorers in the north-south division were Tom Lee-Burke Curley, .571; and Ron Blake-Mike Joyce, .647. Scoring high in east-west were Pat Snyder-Pat Bradford, .539; and Bill Hawkins-Bob Vondrasek, .533.
The regular weekly bridge sessions will resume next Sunday at 1:30 pun.
Watch Repair
•	1-Ycar Written Guarantee
•	All Watches Tested Electronically
•Specialists in Automatics, Chronographs and Waterproofs
•	Indiana Registered Watchmaker— 11 Years Experience
121 W. Washington Ave. CE 4-1311
DR. N. HZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Employment Opportunities in VENEZUELA with
Creole Petroleum Corporation
An Affiliate of Standard Oil Co. (N. J.)
Representatives of Creole will be on the campus
Monday, October 22 to interview unmarried graduates with majors in ENGINEERING and GEOLOGY
See your Placement Director for interview schedules
October 19, 1956
25
jl
/

Walsh Scouts the Spartans
The Irish Line Coach
Gives a Detailed Report On Michigan State
by COACH BILL WALSH as told to Mike Fitzpatrick
As I have watched Michigan State for the past three weeks, they have shown an unbalanced line both right and left, and in the backfield have lined up in the straight-T, the winged-T and the single wing. They will line up in the T and shift to the single wing or they line up directly in the single wing.
When running the T formation plays, £ State will use single wing blocking up front which gives them the speed and deception of the T and the power blocking of the single wing.
They will also use, from the T, a direct snap through the quarterback’s legs, the ball going to their fullback, Gilbert, who will then spin, giving either to the tailback Peaks, going off his
LET’S GET TOGETHER FELLOWS
Hornung dives for first down.
tackles, or will keep it himself and go into the middle of the line.
State uses a buck-lateral series from both the winged-T and the single wing, in which the ball is snapped directly to the tailback or to the fullback, who charges up to the line. They in turn will give it to the quarterback, Wilson, who will either pitch it out or fade to pass.
From the single wing, State will inn both to the inside and outside and will use a wingback reverse with Kowalczyk coming- back to the weak side. When State is in the single wing, they line up with Peaks at tailback and Gilbert at fullback as their deep men. Quarterback Wilson will be at blocking back and
THE AUTHOR
Kowalczyk will be at the wingback spot.
Probably the best back they have is Clarence Peaks, their left halfback. He hits hard inside and also runs the flanks very well.
Unlike Purdue, Michigan State does not send out many backs but keeps them inside for use as key blockers in their running plays. Again Peaks is the best blocking backfield man that they have.
In the first two ball games that they played this year, they didn’t pass much at all but preferred to grind out the yardage. However, in the Indiana game last week, they threw twelve times and completed ten, three for touchdowns.
All of their quarterbacks throw well as does fullback Peaks. Incidentally, each of the eight touchdowns scored by State last weekend against Indiana was by a different man, which gives some idea of their depth.
The Michigan State line is the best that we have faced this year. They have great speed and more size than ' State has had in recent years. They show great pursuit on defense, every man following the ball carrier until he is stopped.
This State team shows great desire and never lets up. Thus we will have to be on our toes every minute Saturday.
The Michigan State team that we will face tomorrow is a very, very good football team. In fact they are probably the best team that we will face all year. However, they can be beaten. The only way to do this is to outhit them and out hustle them on every single play from the opening kickoff to the final gun. The coaching staff is speaking sincerely when we say that we really believe that we can beat the Spartans tomorrow afternoon.
October 19, 1956
27
Locals Assume Unfamiliar Underdog Role As Mighty Michigan State Invades Stadium
by JACK GRADY
“Duffy” Daugherty leads his Michigan State gridiron warriors into the Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow afternoon to face the twice-defeated charges of Terry Brennan in a game which has been sold out since early summer.
Tomorrow will mark the 23rd time the two elevens have met in the course of a rivalry which dates back to 1897, and one in which the Irish have accumulated a 16-6 advantage. State, however, has annexed four of their six victories in the last five seasons, their dominance of the Irish being interrupted when the Irish eked out a 20-19 win in the mud of the Notre Dame Stadium two seasons ago.
Michigan State comes into South Bend sporting an eleven game winning streak, with all the intentions of making it an even dozen, and possibly paving the way to a national championship. This season State has trampled Stanford, outlasted Michigan, and pasted the same Indiana eleven, 53-6, that proved so stubborn for the Irish two weeks ago.
Complex is the best term to describe the “Munn system” offense which the Spartans have employed in the past and undoubtedly ■will use again tomorrow. This offense has as its basis both the T and single wing formations, but includes elements of the split-T, double wing, winged-T, and short punt.
Directing the State offense 'will be Pat Wilson, one of the 25 returning lettermen, who has proved himself quite capable as heir to the quarterback position left vacant by the graduation of All-American Earl Morrall. Besides
SPARTAN TROUBLEMAKERS
Captain John Matsko and Clarence Peaks.
being an honor student and president of his class, Wilson is a good passer, fair runner, capable ball handler and poised field general. The 6-1, 190-pound senior averaged five yards a cany last year in addition to completing four of twelve passes for a total of 79 yards.
Lining up behind Wilson ■will be two ballplayers more than familiar to N.D. fans in the persons of 210-pound halfbacks Clarence Peaks and Walt Kowalczyk.
Peaks, who was moved from right to
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP MICHIGAN STATE NOTRE DAME
Kolodziej ......L.E........... Royer
Burke ..........L.T......... Geremia
LaRose .........L.G.......... Gaydos
Matsko .........C.......... Sullivan
Matsos .........R.G......... Hedrick
Jones...........R.T........ Lawrence Hinesly ...................R.E. Meyers
Wilson .........Q.B....... Hornung Peaks ....................L.H.................................... Lewis Kowalczyk ...................R.H... Morse
Gilbert ........F.B............ Lima
KICKOFF—2:00 p.m., C.D.T.
left half during the spring drills, rates as one of the all-around greats in Spartan history. His powerful running, good passing, strong punting, excellent blocking and tackling and good football sense induces his coach to regard him as the best player on the club. His career record at State shows 753 yards netted in 148 carries for a five-yard per try
FORMER N.D. PLAYER Dave Kaiser
average, in addition to accounting for six State scores.
Switched from fullback to right half, Walt Kowalczyk provides the other half 1 of this dynamite duo. Dubbed the “Sprinting Blacksmith” by Red Sanders because of his work in January’s Rose(»-Bowl, junior letterman Kowalczyk piled up 584 yards for a 7.1 average during the regular season to lead the team in that particular department.
Rounding out what could be the most potent backfield in the nation ■will be fullback Don Gilbert, a 5-10, 190-pound junior. Last year Gilbert carried 14 times for a net of 50 yards and scored a touchdown against Standford this year.
Holding down the end spots on a line,* which averages 195 pounds will be returning lettermen Tony Kolodziej and Jim Hinesly. Hinesly is a speedy, deceptive right end who caught six passes for 99 yards before being sidelined "with an injury last season. Alternating with him will be Dave Kaiser, ex-N.D. man and hero of the Rose Bowl. At the left end Kolodziej will probably get the starting nod although Bob Jewett should see« quite a bit of action.
Juniors Pat Burke and Joel Jones will hold down the starting tackle slots. I Burke is a defensive ace who last year ’ saw 339 minutes of action. Jones has been switched to tackle from end because , of his size and line playing abilities.
Cliff LaRose, a sophomore and Arch Matsos, a junior, will pose as formidable blocks in the Spartan line. Both boys arej* j in their first full year as starters at » the guard posts.	■
Senior center and team captain John | Matsko has proven himself a tough,	|
rugged linebacker and good offensive	I
man. Along with All-American Dick ' Tamburo of several years ago, Matsko 1 rates as the best pivot-man in moderns > State history.
28
The Scholastic
* The ^Heaper’s” Greatest Day
On October 16, 1954, a Notre Dame team which, had been a prohibitive two touchdown favorite, battled back through the rain, cold, and mud of Notre Dame stadium to defeat Michigan State, •20-19.
An extra point attempt by the Spartans’ Gerry Planutis, barely tipped by Notre Dame lineman Pat Bisceglia, was the final margin of victory, but the Irish had to fight from a 13-0 deficit to whip the Spartans.
Preceding the contest, ND seemed to have both the psychological and physical advantage over the Spartans.
NINE VETERANS IN LINEUP
Notre Dame had a starting lineup which included nine veterans, led by AllAmerican quarterback, .Ralph Guglielmi.
Michigan State was expected to have four sophomores in the starting lineup, and their backfield star, Leroy Bolden, was a question-mark performer.
Psychologically, the advantage was all Notre Dame. Eight Irish senior regulars—Co-captains Dan Shannon and Paul Matz at ends, Frank Varrichione and Sam Palumbo at tackles, Jack Lee at right guard, Dick Szymanski at center, Joe Heap at left halfback, and Guglielmi at quarterback—had never been on a Notre Dame team which defeated Michigan State.
They were freshman members of the squad in 1951, and the Spartans were 4? 5-0 victors. This game, incidentally,
was the last time a Notre Dame squad was held scoreless.
As sophomores in 1952, they lost to the Spartans, 21-3. The two clubs did not meet in 1953, when the Irish were undefeated, and thus the stage was set for the 1954 game.
Notre Dame won the toss, and hoping to take advantage of the weather conditions, they elected to kick off.
Spartan Johnny Matsock, a converted quarterback subbing for the injured Bolden, returned the kick-off to the MSU 39.
SPARTANS MARCH FOR SCORE
Showing no concern for the inclement weather, MSU started to move, and 12 plays later the Irish strategy backfired as Clarence Peaks circled his own left end for four yards and the touchdown. Planutis converted and the Spartans had a 7-0 lead with only five minutes gone in the game.
Following the kickoff, the Irish marched to a first down, but then fumbled, and the Spartans had another shot.
On the third play, State drew a 15-yard holding penalty which set them back to the ND 47. Spartan quarterback Earl Morrall was undismayed. He dropped back and pitched a 17-yard pass to John (Thunder) Lewis, who raced for the touchdown. Planutis’ placement was wide. With ten minutes gone in the first period, underdog Michigan State had a 13-0 lead.
Before the end of the half, Notre Dame got its first score. Deep in their own territory, the Spartans were forced to punt, and Dean Studer returned Mor-rall’s boot eight yards to the MSU 31.
HEAP SCORES FOR IRISH
Eleven plays later, with a fourth and one situation, Joe Heap barrelled into the end zone for the score. Don Schaefer converted and ND trailed by six at the half.
State drove back following the kickoff, with Matsock carrying 58 yards to the ND nine. Matsock was hit by the left side of the Irish line and Joe Heap recovered on the eleven.
Notre Dame punted out, and when Morrall tried a forward pass, Dick Szymanski picked it off. Heap led the way as Notre Dame moved to a first down on the MSU one.
Then, the Irish received a 15-yard penalty for illegal shift, but Heap was equal to the occasion. He broke over his own right end for 16 yards and the score. Schaefer’s boot was again perfect and Notre Dame led for the first time in the ball game, 14-13.
The Irish began to play more cautiously, but the Spartan offense marched to the ND nine, but Morrall missed the field goal attempt.
Guglielmi fumbled on the third play and MSU again had the ball deep in ND territory, this time on the 15.
(Continued on page 30)
IRISH-SPARTAN RIVALRY IN THE MUD Matsock off and running.
I October 19, 1956
'Nappy' Returns From European Boxing Tour; Held Clinics in France, Germany and England
Dominic J. Napolitano, Notre Dame’s director of interhall athletics, and supervisor of the Bengal Bouts, has just returned to the campus from a month and a half tour of Europe, where he assisted in the operation of a boxing clinic for the United States Air Forces in Europe.
Mr. Napolitano left this country on September 21 and flew via military air transport to Frankfurt, Germany. He then journeyed to Wiesbaden where the clinics were to be held.
Representatives from U. S. air bases throughout Europe attended the clinic which lasted from September 24. to September 27. Classes were conducted each day in such phases of boxing as rules, conditioning and training, refereeing, judging, timing and administration of tournaments.
Following the clinic, the Air Force conducted a tournament to select a boxing team to represent the United States in the Britannia Shield Competition. From Wiesbaden, Mr. Napolitano travelled to London with the team to help prepare them for the competition.
The Britannia Shield Competition was originated in 1946 to connnemorate the spirit of comradeship exhibited by England’s Allies during the Battle of Britain. Four sports are competed in by the nations, including boxing, swim-mingj-shooting, and fencing. The United States Forces in Europe won the Shield in 1950, and since then the Royal Air Force has won it four times. The boxing competitions were held in London’s Wembley Stadium, which was donated for the occasion.
“Nappy” also visited France and
“NAPPY” NAPOLITANO Boxing clinic a success.
Scotland where he talked with many people connected with boxing, strengthening international relationships. Nappy said that he was greatly impressed by the sportsmanship that is demonstrated by all of the amateur boxers in Europe, a thing that he has tried to achieve in the Bengal Bouts. He remarked that boxing in those countries is practically free from holding or clinching, which is much in evidence in our type of boxing. He added that there exists magnificent cooperation between all of the people connected with amateur boxing. As an example of this cooperation Nappy said that the officials all donate their services for such tournaments as the Britannia Shield Competition.
He expressed many words of praise for the U. S. Air Forces sports program. He said that the Air Force has already placed the amazing total of 77 athletes on the U. S. Olympic team. Many military people from these foreign nations have stated that sports clinics do more to strengthen international relations than do many of the politicians.
Nappy, who was accompanied on his trip by Ben Becker, another' boxing coach who has handled AAU teams on the east coast, added that he was thrilled to have been able to make the journey and that he enjoyed himself greatly throughout the tour.	—Pat Defoe
TYLERS PICKS OF THE WEEK
Navy over Cincinnati Pennsylvania over Brown Yale over Cornell Pittsburgh over Duke Georgia Tech over Auburn Maryland over North Carolina SMU over Rice Tennessee over Alabama TCU over Texas A & M Iowa over Hawaii Oklahoma over Kansas Michigan over Northwestern Minnesota over Illinois Notre Dame over Michigan State Ohio State over Penn State Stanford over Oregon Oregon State over Washington State Syracuse over Army UCLA over California Williams over Bowdoin
LAST WEEK:
16 Right; 3 Wrong; 1 Tie.
SEASON:
45 Right; 14 Wrong; 1 Tie.
Pct. 763.
Heap's Greatest Game
(Continued from page 29)
► )
Following a vicious tackle by Pat Bisceglia which threw Morrall for a four yard loss, Planutis attempted a field goal which was low and wide.
The determined Irish played even more cautiously, and a Heap punt was downed on the MSU 12. The alert^ Irish line held and ND took over on -their own 37 midway in the final period.
With Schaefer and Heap sprinting' for 20 and 30 yards, the Irish moved to the nine where Paul Reynolds took a pitchout from Guglielmi and skirted into the end zone for the score.
With 4:39 seconds left in the game, Notre Dame had a seven point lead. The Spartan cause shone brightly as Matsock returned the kickoff 25 yards* 1 to the MSU 42. Morrall faded, and threw 44 yards to Lewis, who was downed on the Notre Dame 14-yard line.
Twice in the second half the Irish defense had turned back State, but on the first play from scrimmage, Bert Zagers spun off his own right end, cut for the goal line, dodged three Iiish defenders, and scored.
With one minute and five seconds remaining the stage was set. A remark- -able Michigan State comeback had put the Spartans in a position to tie a Notre Dame squad which had fought back just as valiantly. But, Planutis’ point was barely tipped and the Irish victory was preseiwed.
Joe Heap had torn the Spartans’ line apart as he ripped off 110 yards and two touchdowns as well as recovering a Spartan fumble deep in Irish land. *
After the game, Irish coach Terry" Brennan said: “Things like that could turn you gray, but it’s much nicer to remember Heap’s greatest game.”
—Joe Bride
A SPARTAN MUDDER
Matsock stumbles for three
The Scholastic
30
MICHNO, SENGLAUB AND HAVERTY Early finishers in cross country meet.
Irish Harriers Seek Ninth Straight at Indiana;
Marquette Falls Easy Victim to Wilsonmen
Ml
w This afternoon Notre Dame’s crosscountry team’s string of eight straight dual meet victories lies in serious jeopardy as the Irish face Indiana’s harriers in Bloomington. Though the Irish handily defeated Indiana last fall, the Hoosiers now have at their disposal a fine sophomore studded team. This new
component, as their freshman squad last year, was ranked as one of the finest in dhe country. Another obstacle Notre Dame will have to overcome to keep their winning skein intact is Indiana’s hilly course. The team is accustomed to running on the relatively flat four mile course around Burke Memorial golf
course.
Indian summer weather prevailed on the University’s golf course last Saturday morning when Notre Dame’s cross-country team opened their 1956 ®beason with a 24-37 victory over visiting Marquette. Captain John Michno of the Irish led the pack from the onset, was challenged by Marquette’s Mike Seng-laub in the final stretch, but pulled away to win quite comfortably in 20:56.
After another Marquette runner finished in the third spot, Mike Haverty, a fast-improving sophomore, came in a surprising fourth for ND. He was fol
MICHNO ROMPS HOME
Marquette becomes eighth victim.
lowed by Ed 'Monnelly and John Burns who tied for fifth. Dale VandenBerg took eighth place and Neil Wallace finished ninth. Other Irish runners who placed in the first 15 were Bob House, Bob Huetz, Billy Newell, John Buck and Stan Wegrzynowicz.
J. Paul Sheedy* Was A Lone Wolf Till Wildrool Cream-Oil Cave Him Confidence
"I’m starved for affection”, wailed Sheedy, "but the girls think I’m just a cur. Whenever I paws to talk to one she makes tracks for the tall timber and hides.” Poor old Sheedy felt so lousy he wanted to pack up and flea. "Don’t be sucha shaggy dog”, said his Den Mother. "Get yourself some Wildroot Cream-Oil and spruce up.” Now J. Paul’s the most popular wolf in the forest, because his hair looks healthy and handsome, the way Nature intended ... neat but not greasy! Try Wildroot Cream-Oil yourself in the bottle or handy tube. You’ll soon be a howling success with the girls.
* o/131 So. Harris Hill Rd.. Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Cream-Oil gives you confidence
Perbenda Paces Bowlers After Second Week's Action
With two weeks gone by in the Kam-pus Keglers bowling league, the standings remain unsettled as to team leaders. However individual scorers are posted.
Frank Perbenda of the Student Law Association team leads the 8:45 Wednesday league with a 601 high series and a high game of 233. Bill DeBot of Wisconsin Club is second with a 563
high series and 211 high game. Bill Braun of Aesculapian “A” is third with a 531 high series and a 223 high game.
John Kuhn of the Washington, Maryland and Virginia Club, leads the Thursday 8:45 league with a high series of 486 and a high game of 192.
In the Wednesday 6:30 league, Lesch-er leads with a 540 series and a 198 high game.
Jim Trino leads the Thursday 6:30 league with a high series of 550. Steve Janus of the Irish Club bowled a high game of 234.
LANOUM
M nut
NUtVtS CtTMH ttaom lOOUBMM&f
October 19, 1956
31

Do VbuJfaua Howto HiweaGoodlimt?
CAROLYN BISEL Law Ball Queen
If you really want to get more fun out of life... to enjoy the thrill of meeting new people . . . making new friends, then decide right now to pay a visit to Arthur Murray’s. Learn about our exciting Student Parties at which j’ou meet new people, dance with many different partners in a gay, informal atmosphere. Learn, too, about our new quicker way to improve your dancing, the Arthur Murray Magic Step method. You’ll be surprised how quickly and easily you catch on to the latest popular steps. You start dancing right away, at the very first lesson.
So stop passing up good times. Come in today and see how much more fun and new popularity can be yours when you learn to dance the Arthur Murray Way. Arthur Murray Studios,
"It’s fun for us, too, to help shy people quickly develop into popular dancing partners with complete confidence,” says Joyce Lyons.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne St	CE 2-3339
STANDARD OIL COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA
CALIFORNIA RESEARCH CORPORATION AND OTHER SUBSIDIARIES
Representatives will be on the campus
at your Placement Office
to interview
October 29 and 30
for career employment in California and other areas
Lawyers Hold Dance ’By Moonlight' Tonight
“Lawyers by Moonlight” will be th(^ setting tonight at the South Bend Coun-' try Club as more than 100 law students and their dates sway to the melodies of Ken Morris and his orchestra at the annual Fall Law Ball.
The dance, sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Law association, is a semi-formal affair from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
Miss Carolyn Bisel, a registered nurse from Wapakoneta, O. and date of gen«* eral dance chairman Bob Mihlbaugh, will reign as queen of the event.
The Morris orchestra plays regularly for dances at the South Bend Country Club in addition to outside dates in Chicago and surrounding areas.
On Saturday the law students and their dates will attend the Michigan State game and a luncheon will be held following the game in the lounge of th£ Law Building.
On Sunday morning, a special Mass will be held for the ballgoers at 9:30 a.m. in the Alumni Hall chapel, with Rev. Edward Murray, C.S.C., assistant chaplain for the Law School, as celebrant.
Honored guests for the Ball include Paul Butler, chairman of the Demcw cratic national committee; Alwin FT Frany, president of the Colorado Fuel and Iron Co.; Henry Barnhart, executive vice-president of the Baldwin Locomotive Co., Lima, O.; and Rudolph Halley, corporation lawyer who gained national recognition as counsel for the Kefauver crime investigation committee in 1951.	r
The Scholastic
IKORSKY AIRCRAFT
* s,mMm W raS w
10 *
<7^/1
TUESDAY
OCTOBER 23
CAMPUS ENDORSED
Honor Winners for Collegiate Fashion
M. GILBERT & SONS
BATES SHOE COMPANY. WEBSTER, MASS.
Hand-Sewn Loafer
Cordovan Blucher
Cashmere Grain Blucher
Awarded 1955 “Key of
Achievement Award’* by Student Marketing Institute.
Fashions that are authentic. ■. comfort that is genuine.
Most styles $11.95 to $19.95.
Slipper-Free Where Your Foot Bends (Style-concealed roominess across the ball of the foot)
SEE THEM AT
October 19, 1956
33
MOTOROLA
(Leader in Electronics) invites you to interview for positions in PHOENIX, ARIZ. RIVERSIDE, CALIF. CHICAGO, ILL.
Our representative will be on your campus
OCTOBER 24
See your placement office to arrange an appointment
MOTOROLA
Repercussion f
(Continued from page 6)
In the October 5 issue of The Scholastic the View talked about local hospitality and how the students could get along better with the people from rown. How can we expect them to respect us and treat us like adults when they can’t even enjoy a movie without being distracted by a few immature students# (and I use the word very loosely) who think the fact that they are away from home gives them the right to step on anyone who gets between them and their bottles.
... To the students as a whole I say, “Keep up the good work” and don’t let a few ruin the good reputation that has been built up by Notre Dame men in the past.
A Disgusted Junior. ~
A REFRESHING BREEZE?
Editor:
Your editorial “Senate on the Spot” was, indeed, most enlightening. It demonstrated beyond any shadow of a doubt .that there is an apathetic and uninformed element on campus. However, it is not our opinion that this element is in the majority. Rather, we poin\< the finger of apathy at the writer of said editorial. It would seem that if the writer were really sincere concerning the function or mal-function of the elected Student legislature of the University, he would have taken the proper steps to check the performance of the “old senators” who took office last spring.
Let us refresh the memory of the author as to what has been accomplished in the Senate since last spring. A rather small core of 12 Senators and a Senate President found themselves faced with a conglomeration of misplaced records, ill-founded legislation, a partially revised and virtually unworkable constitution, and a generally lethargic atmosphere lingering in the Center Amphitheater. The Senate has met as a body for seven weeks . . . has thi^ atmosphere changed? Records are up to date as of Oct. 1, a completely revised ' constitution is awaiting the approval of : the University Council, legislation and \ laws have been clarified and codified so that even the most uninformed and apathetic student can realize the applications and implications of the same. Was it the “rank 'happy little boys”^ who cowered in the pleasant confines otp the Senate Center that spent upwards Of 20 to 30 hours a week searching for a basis of Student Government that might earn the respect of the Student Body and the Administration? We think not!!
We have had the privilege of attending all these Senate sessions and mo;^ ,
The Scholastic
®»f the late hour committee meetings. However, we have not noticed the presence of the author of this editorial at any of these gatherings. The author’s inherent influence on the Student Body demands that he have objective facts to back up any of his views or opinions, which brings us to a very important point.
_ Granted, the new Senators are on the ^o-called “spot,” for they are responsible for $10,000 entrusted to them by each student who paid his two dollar activities fee. On the other hand, the student
electorate has expressed a vote of confidence in these men. Let that confidence enkindle a true spirit of cooperation on their part in the Senate, a full sense of obligation toward their constituents, and a belief in their own capabilities. Don’t send them into the Senate with a negative attitude. Rather give them the chance to breathe a little of that healthful air that has been built up since last May.
Bob Pleus
Bob Kiley
Walsh Hall
Order a full year's subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
126 N. Michigan, South Bend CE 2-1202
arvt
croslot
v GOVERNMENT PRODUCTS
DIVISION,
avCO MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
CINCINNATI, OHIO
On Campus INTERVIEWS
eor	—
ELECTRICAL R
AfRONAUTKAL engineers
Openings at all levels of
Research, Advance Development
and Product Engineering in the follow'
ing fields: Guided Missiles, Air Navigation,
Radar Systems, Communications, Gyros, Magnetic Amplifiers, Servos,
OCTOBER 25

Computers, UHF, VHF, Printed Circuitry, Transistor Circuitry, Circuit Design,
Fire-Control Systems, Infra-Red Radiation, Detection Nucleonics,
and Human Engineering.
October 19, 1956
35
»*kWTURBOW ^Optometrist
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Looms Duplicated "Bring in the Pitett” — EYES EXAMINED -----
207 W. Washington (Mirer Hotel Phone CE 4-6777
AQUINAS UBIttY ul INK SUP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
Naval Institute Holds First Official Meeting
The Naval Institute society held its first official meeting of the 'semester last week in the Drill Hall.
Highlight of the evening was a panel discussion based on an article entitled: “Special Trust and Confidence,” which appeared in the May issue of the Naval Institute Proceedings.
The theme of the article was concerned with the degeneration of the officer corps of the armed services, as shown by the lack of trust and confidence exhibited in them. The article mentioned the causes of this state, and proposed solutions to the problem.
After the formal presentation of the theme by the panel, the discussion was opened to the rest of the members, who offered various practical solutions which could be applied within the NROTC unit.
The Society informally opened the year by holding a “Shoe and Smoker” on Sept. 27. Colored slides from the various midshipmen summer cruises
were shown to the men at this time.
The objective of the Society is the advancement of professional, literary, and scientific knowledge of naval affairs.
Meetings are held twice monthly in the Drill Hall. They consist of talks given by guest lecturers and discussions of current topics in the Proceedings.
Prof. Kertesz Opens Series 1 ' Of Foreign Policy Lectures ;
Last Tuesday evening in the Rockne i Memorial Lounge, Stephen D. Kertesz, I professor of political science and chairman of the committee on international I relations, delivered the first of a series of lectures On “American Foreign Policy ' in the Postwar World,” sponsored b; । the committee.
Prof. Kertesz’ topic was “Challenges j and Responses of American Diplomacy.” The next scheduled lecture is set for Oct. 31 at 8 p.m. in the Rockne Lounge, with M. A. Fitzsimons, professor of history, as the lecturer. His topic will be , “American Diplomacy in the Middle, i East.”	J
36
The Scholastic
^Debate Team Opens Tourney Competition
The debate team will compete in at least ten major tournaments during the school year, according to debate coach Prof. Leonard Sommer.
The team made its debut Wednesday, Oct. 10, before the South Bend Business ^end Women’s Club dinner at the Oliver Tlotel.
Last Monday, eight freshman and three varsity debaters journeyed to Chicago where they engaged in a series of debates with the University of Illinois and Chicago University. Freshmen Tom Banchoff, Ernest Mores, Jerry Goudreau, Dick Barrett, Mike Phenner, Bill Bowman, Bob Dempsey and Tom Scanlon represented the University. Varsity debaters Paul Coffey, Jack Martzell and Jerry Brady accompanied the freshmen.
The two teams debated on the resolution that: “The present House should condemn the Republican farm policy.”
This past Wednesday, the team appeared before the Niles Lions Club, debating this year’s question. The four members representing the University were Tom Clusserath, Ed Kearse, Bill ^ohr and Carl Noelke.
™ The annual Notre Dame National Invitational Debate tournament will be held on the campus April 12-13. The Varsity will participate in tournaments at the University of South Carolina, Nov. 9-10; University of Wichita, Nov. 16-17; Butler University, Dec. 1; University of Pittsburgh, Dec. 7-8; Purdue University, Feb. 9; Case Institute, Feb. 16; Boston University, Feb. 22-23; the University of Kansas, March 14-16;
and the National Tau Kappa Alpha tournament at Butler University, April 15-17.
style no. 84670-TAN 84630-BLACK
DECORATIONS CONTEST
The annual hall decoration contest will be held next Friday evening, according to Jerry Murphy, head of the Hall Presidents' council. 0 Each hall is restricted to an appropriation limit of $30.
As in previous decoration contests, the halls are expected to depict in some way the manner in which the Irish will take charge of the visiting Sooners during the next day’s game. The faculty judging committee will especially look for — originality, workmanship, and de-®sign in exhibits.
The decoration trophy and a $30 prize will be awarded to the winning hall at half time of the game. Prizes of $10 will also be awarded for the best exhibits in each of the three phases of judging. No hall may win more than one prize.
man of the hour?
The time...the place...the girl. And no matter what time or what place, the girl expects you to dress for the occasion. You’ll meet her most finicky fashion ideals in these three smart City Clubs for dress, leisure, and everyday wear! Priced right, too...$9.95 to $19.95.
—ChyChrtr
by Peters ■ distinctive shoes tor men
PETERS DIVISION INTERNATIONAL SHOE COMPANY ST. LOUIS 3, MO.
SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS IN ENGINEERING,
PHYSICS AND MATHEMATICS
The Douglas Aircraft Company invites you to
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
OCTOBER 29 and FEBRUARY 14-15
Find out about the interesting positions, assistance in furthering your education and outstanding promotion opportunities with the world’s largest manufacturer of aircraft and missiles. Get facts on living conditions, research facilities and opportunities to
’ advance professionally at the various Douglas locations.
* Reserve your career decision until you have talked with the Douglas representative. It may be the most important interview of your life.
SEE YOUR DIRECTOR OF PLACEMENT
FOR YOUR INTERVIEW APPOINTMENT
। i i
October 19, 1956
37
Back. Patfc
by Joe Taft
a criterion for, ostentatiousness:
A hand full of years ago our parish installed red and green lights on the confessionals. This innovation was greeted by many irate comments—“just look what Father has done now—he’s debased a sacrament into a traffic sys-
“I WON’T WEAR A THING BUT TOWNE AND KING!”
says FRANK AUGUST, high hurdler
MOSCOW, IDA., August 28 -The Soviet track coach choked on his caviar when told of Frank August's sensational form in tryouts for Olympic high hurdles. In the 2-mile event, over 6-ft. hurdles, Frank finished the race without ever leaving the ground. Longlegged Frank has a “king size” stride. “Ever since I was 6 ft. high;’ he says. “I’ve had trouble getting sweaters long enough. Now I’m all set! T&K’s KING Size fit like they’re made to order?
Exclusive___KIAMA-CAPE im-. ported lambs’ wool... long sleeve V-neck pullover; California colors. KING Size, for tall men (40-46)... 13.95. Regular sizes (36-46) ... 11.95
Towne and King. ltd.
Coordinated Knitwear
595 Broadway, Redwood City. California
tern!” “Father, I'll grant you they’re efficient but aren’t they just a little harsh and cold?”, “the next thing that young pastor will do is have some seminarian with a whistle in his mouth!” These and other derrogatory comments were uttered by many displeased parishioners. An intelligent individual may ask himself, “just how am I to weigh these innovations without passing unwarranted judgment upon their effects?” If this measuring stick does exist there must be some way of adding it to our material and spiritual tool kits.
WHY ARE THESE PEOPLE OFFENDED?
Many people are offended by a few of these innovations, I believe, because they consider them ostentations or overly showy. They provoke mental friction because of their conflict with the individual’s tastes. This is the type of person who believes his faith should be expressed in a more low-toned manner. Often his concepts are abused. Offended by the distraction of televising midnight Mass, I discreetly asked my pastor if he believed the good effects of the telecast warranted its distraction toward the ceremony. He replied that perhaps ‘I could practice a little self control. Many of his parishioners, myself included, have gradually accepted the lighting system of the confessionals and have commented on their practicality.
These two innovations have proved themselves in time but others have replaced them as being offensive—offensive to the tastes of these toned-down types of individuals. These new sources of irritation have taken form in the replacement of vigil candles with electrical money-timed lights, the pasting of “Pray the Rosary” stickers on automobile windshields near the “Safety Checked” badges, the placing of plastic statues on automobile dashboards, the selling of luminous statues and crucifixes, the practice of extensive picture taking at religious ceremonies, and the installation of tables for acquiring collection change
at the entrance of churches.
Let’s take a look across the ocean and. Jr try to find some sort of an insight into the solution of this touchy situation.
A LOOK ABROAD
Many visitors, myself included, have registered adverse comments concerning the atmosphere of certain shrines and churches in Europe. Some of our visits | have been disappointing in respect to I their empty impressions. St. Charles.^ Cathedral in Milan has the remains of its name-sake in its basement. To see St. Charles’ body you must pay a monk 50 lire to open a cage-like gate that leads to the basement. Then you are led down the stairs to a dark mysterious room. Suddenly you heal' a cranking noise from the corner. Slowly a light seeps through the base of an altar. When the monk finishes cranking open( the altar, you may see the clothed, pros-* trate body of St. Charles.
This same ceremony is repeated in Rome’s St. Peter of the Chains Church — a church that has three chains sealed in its altar. These chains are reputed to have held St. Peter captive in three different countries. My first reaction was to ask the guide the purpose of this display. He replied that this was a. common question among English anc* -American visitors. We should not, he continued, feel offended by this display —we should try to understand the Italian character and traditions before , judging their tastes.
AND NOW . . .
Perhaps the words of this often^ pestered guide can provide an intelligent measuring stick. Why don’t the people who are offended by abuses of their personal tastes make more of an attempt to understand the reasons behind these innovations instead of bursting their emotional thermometers? This is, to me anyway, a different ’but practical solution.
38
The Scholastic

’09 Grads at the Penn Relays?
NO this isn’t a new kind of relay race for the old timers. It’s the familiar scene of passing the flag to signal the other lane to come through a road building project. It’s a time for horn blowing and top blowing. Yet, these delays are far shorter than they used to be.
Even with the enormous highway building programs now being undertaken by state and federal authorities, you lose less time at detours. Why? Because today’s road building machinery gets more done in one 8-hour shift than used to get done in two days.
Today’s road-building machinery works around the clock to hurl high-speed roads across a whole state. And they seldom break down. They’re built for heavy work—and they do it—hour after hour—day after day.
Helping these miracle-making machines of today take the heavy loads imposed on them, keeping them on the go are-Timken® tapered roller bearings. Timken bearings are made to last the life of the machine they’re
in. They virtually eliminate friction. Mean longer'life, less maintenance. They keep the machines rolling that keep America on the go!
The vital role Timken bearings, steel and rock bits play in making America’s machinery better keeps us moving up. And because up is a good way to go, you may be interested in what the Timken Company can offer college graduates. For details, write for our booklet: "Career Opportunities at the Timken Company”. The Timken Roller Bearing Company, Canton 6, Ohio.
TIMKEN
TRADE-MARK REG. Ui S. PAT. OFF.
TAPERED ROLLER BEARINGS
Timken beorings keep America on the 60... and you keep going up when you go with the Timken Company
[jive \ | odern
...smokemodern LM
1
Free Yourself of old-fashioned ideas.


Let your taste come
ahve *
Enjoy the richer flavor of modern living.

Get full, exciting flavor through EM’s Miracle Tip
-
FREE UP!
FRESHEN UP YOUR TASTE!
Only the modern miracle of L&M’s pure-white Miracle Tip brings all that flavor through to you.
No other cigarette . . . plain or filter. . . can match it.
L&M tastes Richer . . . draws Easier. . . smokes Cleaner.
Today—America’s fastest-growing cigarette.
d•	tobacco co
©Licceft a A!ieks Tobacco Co.