Enjoy both sides of smoking pleasure!
[tel that hvJdu&a XiRtte tiatlfojn
JMolOmI^I

Graduate to Cavaliers! Light up and feel that Cavalier mildness—so light, smooth and easy! Try a pack of Cavaliers today. See if
you don't agree with thousands of smokers who compared king-size Cavaliers with the cigarettes they’d been smoking. Yes . . .
You can’t help but notice — on campus and off — smart smokers are shifting to king-size Cavaliers. Try them and find out what a pleasure smoking can be when the smoke feels so mild and tastes so good!
Cavaliers give you the world’s aristocratic tobaccos blended in an extra length. There is no better natural filter! There is no finer source of delightful flavor! Today’s the day. Get Cavaliers... get extra mildness where it counts — in the feel of the smoke!
CAVAUER9 ARE KING-SIZE yet priced no higher than leading regular-size cigarettes!
See why, among thousands of smokers interviewed ... 8 OUT OF 10 SAID
CAVALIERS ARE MILDER!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem. N. C.
e-
^Mastic
Vol. 96 MARCH 4, 1955 No. 15
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
7 he ARROW points to
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Headquarters for Your Arrau) Shirts
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
JOHN ADAMS ...............   News
ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ........  Copy
Charles McKendrick................
.................... Assistant Copy JOSEPH CONNOLLY ..........Features KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager PETER STURTEVANT ...... Photo Editor
JIM FITZGERALD ...................
............. Photography Coordinator l^ilM GULDE ...... Head Photographer
JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
JNEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Buck Harriss, Jerrold Hilton, Jack Hough, Francis Hurley, Ed Joyce, David Kubal, James Lenox, Jim Loeffler, James McDonald, John McMahon, Joe Mocarski, James Murphy, Arthur Price, Thomas Quinn, Dick Rust, Jim Steintrager, Paul Underkofler, Ray Walsh.
SPORTS STAFF: Dave Davin, Bob Early, Kit Eckl, John Glavin, Jim Goethals, Jack Gueguen, Ray Lescher, Joe Madigan, Bob McDonald, Joe Norton, and Bob Parnell.
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon and Loran Sheffer.
IF YOU OWNED ONLY ONE SHUT...
You’d make it the BRAND NEW Arrow Gabanaro.
Brand new, is right. Gabanaro gives you wonderful sportshirt softness in a year-round weight of rich rayon gabardine. And every one of these fine shirts has the famed Arafold collar that stays neat and fresh-looking, day after day.
Get yourself the new Gabanaro. They come in a wide range of colors... in your exact sleeve length and collar size.
The moment you experience Gabanaro’s flawless fit, you’ll know why no man would go through 4 years of college without one.
And, Gabanaro is only §5.95.
OUR COVER: You shouldn’t have to ie told who she is—but just in case one *f you (we don’t think there are more) doesn’t take in the flickers, Grace Kelly is the name. For some time now she’s been a real favorite around campus, as evidenced by pictures in many rooms. The reason for her appearance in the Scholastic is explained by a feature done by John O’Brien and John V. Ryan. Just turn to pages 18 and 19. Credit for topnotch photographs goes to staff photographer O’Brien.
ARBOW
CASUAL WEAR
also
SHIRTS & TIES UNDERWEAR HANDKERCHIEFS
£
3
Enjoy yourself...
refresh with Coke
SOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY Or THE COCA-COLA COMPANY IT
COCA-COLA PRESENTS
THIS WEEK’S
JOE HARRIS
BASKETBALL FORECASTS
FRIDAY, MAR. 4
Tulane over Louisiana State UCLA over Oregon State Utah over New Mexico
SATURDAY, MAR. 5 Alabama over Auburn Harvard over Yale Indiana over Ohio State Kentucky over Tennessee Marquette over Notre Dame Minnesota over Wisconsin Missouri over Kansas Niagara over Canisius Northwestern over Illinois Michigan State over Michigan Oklahoma over Iowa State Princeton over Penn St. Louis over Oklahoma A. & M. UCLA over Oregon State Utah over Denver
Coca Cola Bottling Co. of South Bend
MONDAY, MAR. 7
Iowa over Michigan Princeton over Brown
tetters
Forced Allegiance
Editor:
The Scholastic, while praising the ! Washington Day ceremonies, did not 1 mention the penalty for non-participa-' . ’ tion.	*
A letter from the committee, accusing the person of lack of cooperation and patriotism, is to be sent to the person, i and a copy of this letter attached to his ‘ permanent record. This record, when requested by universities, business firms, or other organizations, would naturally include the letter.
The implication is clear: to cast a J permanent blot upon the person, wit?<" F the intention and hope of hurting his ; character and career in the future.
I regret that such a group has taken it upon themselves to use this method to force and judge allegiance ...
I
Patric M. Sweeney	|
107 W. North Shore	Drive	|
South Bend.	.
V RENT a ROYAL TYPEWRITER FROM ROYAL
DRRWTURB0W
\pPTOMETRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
- EYES EXAMINED —
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chickea
At Prices You Will Appreciate
☆
Our Specialty “Chicken In the Rough" % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes
Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
#1.30
Joe Na bi chi’s
Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
I Zut! So! South Bend	:
•	t;
Editor:	|
Upon reading Mr. Arthur James । Perry’s letter of defense	I	am inclined	I
to believe that Art	is,	to	use	an	old	|
cliche, way out in left field without v a glove. I have never had the pleasure of meeting either Mr. Perry or Mr. fi O’Shea, so this is not intended as a defense of anyone or anything.
Moving to Mr. Perry’s first point r J criticizing and condemning and com- [ plaining. We shall omit the discussion | of St. Mary’s as not being relevant. | First, I must say that I have attended | college in three different cities so I know J something of where I speak. Now, why i must Mi*. Perry, undoubtedly a gentle- ; man above reproach, take issue with our criticizing, condemning, and complaining? Does he realize it is a good old- j fashioned college intramural sport?jO Please Mr. Perry, do not judge us s<ri^ harshly. We, unlike you, have not had f the benefit of being reared in such an intellectual environment as South Bend. I
The second point: concerning South Bend not being a second (or even third) New York, Los Angeles, Boston, or Las Vegas, or any other fast-living or faststepping, night-clubbing town. (This is the understatement of the year.) Art, (Continued on page 23)
The ScholastiC
the week
by Jim O'Shea
Top of the WEEK
YOU are required to do penance during Lent . . .
Sing a song of sickbeds
I had occasion to spend the last weekend in the Infirmary. It is now my firm opinion that everybody who wants to complete his education at ND should spend at least one weekend in the Infirmary. You never really get to know people until you’ve been able to listen to ten different pairs of lungs wheezing in the night. It’s quite an experience. You have never really practiced the art of communication until you’ve talked

lunate I shall always remember as “Methogl Flug-glp-flurgle”. I never was
able to get him to translate, because I never saw him without the thermometer.
The Infirmary is also good for curing people of the desire for luxuries. I, for one, shall never want breakfast in bed again. I shall never want lunch or dinner in bed again. In fact, I don’t know if I’ll ever want to eat again.
v^Well goodness, gracious me!
It really looks as though I’ve been taken to task by my critics, doesn’t it? I speak, of course, of the little article I wrote on south bend a couple of weeks ago. I spell south bend with small letters because, judging from the nasty epistles I received, it is obviously full of small people. I do not say this out of t contempt for the entire population of % south bend—I am merely irked at the Ismail segment of that population which r is totally bereft of any sense of humor.
I shall take a little space here to defend myself against one critic who had his two columns of comment published in the Scholastic.
To begin with, old buddy, there is not one fact that I stated in that article that is not gospel truth—and I defy you to find one false statement in it. I > even went a little easy on your town in \spots, because I was afraid of the reflections I’d get if I told people like you ' what some historians really think of Schuyler, Colfax & Co.
Secondly, whenever I wrote something that was my own personal opinion, I set it down as personal opinion, and I did not try to disguise it as fact. You are entitled to your personal opinion, and I am entitled to mine. I am not angry because our opinions differ. I am irked because you want to deny me my opinion.
inarch 4, 1955
■with another guy when you both have thermometers in your mouths. In fact, I made a lifelong friend in the ward-
In your letter you state that “a joke ’ is a joke.” You obviously cannot take a joke. You say that my joke is stale. You’re dead wrong" there. The Scholastic has never before published a humorous article on the history of South Bend. (By the way, I did not use a “comic historical source book.” I used three source books from the Notre Dame
library. They were not comical.) If you thought that my article was a joke (which it was), and if you thought it was comical (which I hoped it would be), you should have taken it as a joke. You should have laughed. But you didn’t. People aren’t supposed to cry about jokes even if they are stale. When a person cries about a joke, it shows that that person has no sense of humor.
I have never “criticized” or “condemned” eithei- St. Mary's or south bend. I have poked fun at both. My job is to poke fun at things. The difference seems to be that St. Mary’s can take it, while you can’t.
In conclusion, may I say that I don’t give a hang whether or not Notre Dame men many ugly, skinny, fat, mediocre, or strange girls from south bend. I don’t even care if they many pretty girls from south bend. The object of my article was not to stop ND men from dating south bend girls. My object in writing the article was to entertain people. The article, if it was taken in fun, as it was meant to be taken, would do nothing to ruin relations between south bend and Notre Dame. It isn’t guys like me who ruin those relations. It’s guys like you who ciy “wolf” every time somebody kids you and stir up the animosity. I get a little bit angry when somebody from south bend calls me an imbecile and a hypocrite, and I imagine a lot of other guys do, too.
P.S. I, for one, will always think of south bend as “the city next to Notre Dame.” May I say, too, that I’m terribly sorry that nasty old ND split south bend and Roseland in two. Goodness me, what a horrible thing to do!
Chazz and Jack . . .
Are back. All seniors will remember the days in freshman year when Charley Schubert and Jack Hines put on one of the funniest programs WNDU has ever scheduled. Now, the hilarious pair has returned, and “Out of the Sack with Chazz and Jack” will be heard daily on WHOT. The WEEK welcomes the return of two of Notre Dame’s finest comedians. It’ll be good to hear the adventures of Randy Cornball, Space Cadet, as he uses his disintegrator ray against the Gazoi-tzmen once again.
Flub of the WEEK
The WNDU announcer who introduced recordings of the poetry of Edgar Allen Poe, stating that the poems would be read by “Rasil Bathbone.”
Ah, and we have a sub-Flub
The St. Mary’s girl who mistook a guy she had never met for the man she was out with the night before. (I have wtinesses for this one. It’s one of our “Student-Center-Mixer-Flubs.”)
Marriage
The Marriage Institute is now in full swing. It started last WEEK with a lecture on “Why men will never understand women.”
My anti-women correspondent, Jerry Burns, advises me that after all the Marriage Institute lectures are over, the first impulse is to go out and propose to someone. Burns, I am told, intends to start a “Freedom Institute” which will instruct all who wish to join on the basic methods of avoiding the wiles of women.
Get set for the “high life” . . .
Eveiyone is frantically preparing for the last basketball game- of the season against Marquette tomorrow night. I’m told that the trip to Milwaukee offers even more than basketball for entertainment, however. Several Commerce Clubs are already preparing “field trips” to examine the industries of the city of Milwaukee. In fact, even A.B. men and engineers and science students and grad students and—everybody is getting in on the act. Never before have I seen such a tremendous interest in the manufacturing processes of any city. If you ask me, great things are brewing in Milwaukee!
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . You can do this, of course, by eating in the Dining Hall on Wednesdays and Fridays.
5

muo;
YOURSELF
Enjoy Eating and Relax with T.V. Entertainment
ALBANO’S
• Tuesday and Thursday Steak and Spaghetti French Fries, Coffee, Bread, Butter $1.25
■ Friday—Fish Night Shrimp .95 Perch .95 Pizza .95
“Saturday—Cheese Pizza Night .95
“ Sunday—% Fried Chicken $1.35
ALL THIS WEEKLY AT ALBANO’S
415 N. MICHIGAN ST.
Watch the Fights on T.V. Friday Nights
Serving Your Favorite Beverages
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
calendai'
MARCH 4
STUDENT CENTER (8 p.m.)—SMC, St. Joe’s and the Local shut-ins get together for a mixer. A Coat and Tie and quarter will get you in.
AVON (through March 8)—One of the great pictures your Mom and Pop thrilled to in their “thrilling days” comes into town so we moderns can get into the tableside conversations on the merits of the oldies. Camille, starring the great Greta Garbo and Robert Taylor, brings passions and trials of the roaring twenties to life on screen. Truly great stars in a truly great movie.
GRANADA (for another week)—The saga of characters continues as Battle Cry stays on to accommodate the crowds. It’s the same old story, just a war.
RIVER PARK (ends tomorrow)—Two good ones come back for your edification. One is the potential Academy Award winner On the Waterfront with Marlon Brando and Eva Marie Saint. The co-feature is Phffft, which isn’t really that hard to pronounce. All you have to do is fill your mouth with water, stand erect and unflexed, and let your roommate bust you one in the esophagus. As the water comes spurting out, bite your lip and you have it. That also sums up the movie.
PALACE (ends tomorrow)—These two couldn’t have been more appropriately matched for a single showing. Two Guns and a Badge with two relative unknowns, Wayne ’Morris and Beverly Garland, leads to an off-beat prison “concept” Unchained, starring “Crazylegs” Hirsch and Barbara Hall. The latter is set at California’s Chino, an experimental prison without bars. It tells how the positive concept of captivity came into existence. I wonder if it reveals the escape route, (if there is such a thing?)
MARCH 5
WASHINGTON HALL (at the regular times)—With Jack Webb’s ringing remarks and the steady beat of Dragnet still sounding in the rafters of the hallowed theatrical habitat, local enthusiasts should get a bang out of Valley of The Kings, starring Eleanor Parker and Robert Taylor. (Bobbie sure gets around, doesn’t he.)
AQUINAS UBBABY art BOOK SIOP
We Sell Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and. Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
MARCH 6
STATE (through March 8)—If you get that lonely, unwanted feeling you can hop down to the local house of Westerns and get some consolation out of Spencer Tracy’s plight in a town called Black Rock. No need to mention how bad the day was when he arrived. I would suggest a little exercise before you try to duplicate Spence Babe’s feats on your roommate. Golden Idol plays a far-from-close second on the doublebill.
PALACE (through March 12)—For those who appreciate the fine arts in life, for those who are capable of feeling the much mentioned “esthetic experience”—stay away from these! Smoke Signal and Down Three Dark Streets present an evening chock full of . . . well er, smoke signals and dark streets.	_
ANARCH 8
WASHINGTON HALL (7:30 p.m.)—Lecture number three keeps the Marriage Institute going with Dr. Louis B. Leone, M.D. giving “The Doctor’s Point of View.”
Question and answer period will follow and the usual coffee hour in the Center will cap the evening. See you there.
The Scholasti^
Edi tot's Page
problems... problems...
Progress in the University’s building program is moving steadily onward. Right now the Romy Hammes Shopping Center seems near completion, insofar as the structure itself is concerned. Construction of Pangbom Hall shows rapid progress since its beginning last fall.
For two weeks a new American flag has been waving o	o
over the campus. It was placed on the highest point of Pangbom Hall by the workmen when that part of the building was completed. It is a symbol of progress.
That symbol of progress holds different meanings for different groups. To Thomas W. and John C. Pangbom it means that the building they gave to Notre Dame is becoming more and more a reality. To the University it means that another needed residence hall will be ready next September, as well as being another concrete symbol of someone’s friendship toward the University. To the student body it should mean the feeling of more gratitude for buildings and other things donors have given to Notre Dame. To the workmen it means achievement despite adverse weather conditions . . . and other things . . . o
For months, braving numbing cold weather, they have worked to raise what will be a beautiful structure from what used to be a muckhole. When finished, they’ll leave, unsung, unhonored and unremembered. Yet sometimes one hears scornful remarks about the knowledge and occupation of these men. Most of us pity such an attitude as this—for the importance of their work is self-evident. Without their work, nothing could be achieved, no matter how much money was available.
It’s the same with every building that goes up; into each goes money, technical ability and labor, each having its value. Into each building go technical and o	o o
human problems.
Human problems . . . there may be broken fingers or frozen fingers or something else for the workman. Or like the problems of some students in Fisher Hall. The addition of third and fourth floors to one wing was not supposed to begin until May, according to statements made by officials last fall. The new floors would have been ready for occupancy in September, they said. Since then, it was decided to start the first week of the spring semester. Air hammers pounded and the noise reverberated through the hall; officials said it would last only a week. It did—the first time. This past week, the daylong noise echoed again.
Human problems . . . distracting noise and falling plaster dust for the students under the work. Content with
4, 1955
the declaration that the loud noise would cease after the. first week, some awaited cessation, some moved off-campus. According to others, later requests to move off-campus were refused because they were “too late.” Noise of varying types is likely for the rest of the semester— from a job that was originally conceded to require only four months (in the summertime) and still looks like it could have been done completely in four months (in the summertime). Nothing can be done now but to endure the conditions—irritating to those in the hall and not conducive to a residential or study atmosphere. . . .
Financial problems, technical problems, human problems . . . there’s a lot in a building that won’t be remembered in the histories of Notre Dame.
'unjust/ 'directive'
At the last Senate meeting came rumblings that could easily develop into a man-size quake. A bill by the President of the Senate seeking ratification of the “resignations” of three incumbent Activities Court judges and appointment of three new ones came under fire. Only one resignation had actually been submitted (it verbally), and this justice was considering withdrawing his resignation and joining the other two in fighting the President’s proposal as “unjust” and “directive.”
The action of the President really called for a new Activities Court “concept” which he felt could be more capably initiated by his appointees. The new concept changed some of the functions of the old court and called for a change in personnel.
The point of contention—and this started the rumblings—is that the incumbent judges had not been asked to put the new concept into action; they were approached with the idea and asked to resign. The judges, two of whom are law students and the third a sophomore, were appointed by the President last year and approved by the Senate.
Since the judges have not been proven incapable (they were not asked to initiate the new concept), they cannot in justice be removed because the President feels others to be more capable. They should be given every opportunity to voice their desires to stay in office. If they resign, then the new appointments cannot be questioned; if any one of the incumbent judges wishes to continue in his post, however, he should be retained.
Appointments motivated by the personal opinions and whims of the executive can set a dangerous precedent. The Senate should give careful consideration to the principles involved before acting.—Fred C. Eckart, Associate Editor.
- 7
CONVAIR
(SAN DIEGO)
is coming to Notre Dame University,
March 14 and 15
TO INTERVIEW
ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, AERONAUTICAL
ENGINEERS ABOUT TO GRADUATE

At Convair, in beautiful, smog-free San Diego, California, you will find the diversity of challenging, far-reaching projects that offers you the unlimited career opportunity you seek.
This is young country, beautiful, exciting country —the very heart of the busy, vital aircraft and missile industries. And good, young engineers are needed now to grow with new, long-range aircraft and missile programs.
You will find the Convair Engineering Department a genuine "engineer's” engineering department — imaginative, energetic, explorative. You will discover rhe very latest engineering equipment, excellent working conditions, salary, personal job advantages, and opportunities for continuing education.
Remember these facts about Convair: Convair was awarded the Nation’s first production missile contract and the first production contract for supersonic all-weather interceptors.
Convair has the greatest diversity of aircraft engineering projects in the country, including high performance fighters, heavy bombers, large flying boats, transports, trainers, seaplane fighters, vertical takeoff aircraft and guided missiles.
Convair has a completely integrated electronic development program devoted to advanced development and design on missile guidance, avionic projects, radar systems and special cathode ray tubes.
Now you are invited to get full information about your career at Convair. Talk it over with our Convair Engineers on your campus soon. GRADUATING CIVIL ENGINEERS interested in the field of aircraft structure are also invited to apply
Graduate degree candidates in Engineering, Mathematics or Physics are invited to discuss Convair opportunities in the general field of advanced engineering analysis and design
CONVAIR ENGINEERS WILL INTERVIEW ON YOUR CAMPUS
March 14 and 15
Arrange your personal interview through your Placement Bureau.
CONVAIR
A Division of General Dynamics Corporation
Sunny, smog-free San Diego on the coast of Southern California offers you a way of life judged by most as the Nation’s finest for year-round climate, beauty and indoor-outdoor living. Sailing, fishing, swimming, golf, skiing, mountain and desert resorts, Hollywood and Old Mexico are all within minutes.
8
The Scholastic^
scholastic
Volume 96, Number 15	Notre Dame, Indiana	March 4, 1955
^’BATTLE OVER JUSTICES FLARES INSENATE • j
Daley's 'NewConcept' Rocks Activities Court
By ED JOYCE
The nomination of three new judges to the Student Activities Court failed to gain the approval of the Student Senate Monday night as the legislative body postponed action on the measure that promises to split the law-making body into a flaring battle field.
Joe Daley, president of the Student Senate, nominated Jerome Hughes, Dick Beeman, and Tom Armstrong, all se-iors, to fill the top judicial posts, supposedly vacated by the alleged resignations of present judges Bert Millen,
John Houck, and Jack Rosshirt. Millen and Rosshirt, however, claim they submitted no resignation, while Houck has withdrawn his verbal resignation.
New Educational Program
k President Daley, while submitting the nominations of his candidates presented > to the Senate his version of a “new
concept” for the Activities Court. The plan calls for an extensive educational program activated by extensive function , of the Court.
I Furthermore, Daley’s plan calls for the interpretation of the relationship between the numerous branches of the Notre Dame student government.
i A third point of Daley’s “new con-cept” aims at making the court better \ known and better qualified to assume authority in student affairs.
Daley, pressing for the resignation । of the present judges, maintained that i his program can become functional only with an active court, a court heretofore unrealized this year.
The present judges, Millen, Houck, i and Rosshii-t, maintain that the court’s i job lies in the intei-pretation of the Sen-, ate legislation, and not in the procurement of judicial cases for their body j to judge. Millen and Rosshirt hold that I & March 4, 1955
any action on the part of the court to secure cases upon which they would sit in judgment would be a pre-conviction on their part.
Millen and Rosshirt plan to contest their removal on the basis that an important and harmful precedent could be established at this point.
Upon the decision of the court on an important issue, contrary to Senate
JOE DALEY ... a new concept?
majority, the Senate could use expulsive methods upon the judges, thus destroying the system of checks and balances guaranteed by the student government constitution.
Daley will ask the resignation of the present judges at next Monday night’s meeting. If they fail to submit their resignation, as Millen and Rosshirt say they will do, Daley will ask the senate to resort to the two-thirds vote method to remove them. Members of the Senate last Monday appeared to be split over the issue which thus resulted in its postponement.
The entire controversy hinges upon
the proper interpretation of the Senate constitution, a job that is primarily the task of the Student Court.
Millen, Rosshirt, and Houck contend that their term of office is for one academic year and that they cannot be removed ‘for no reason at all.’
Daley, however, maintains that the president of the student body can remove the justices at any time, with the approval of the Senate.
Senate Vote Only Solution
Since the judgeship for this court is in contention, a cut-and-dried solution cannot be found within the Senate constitution. A two-thirds vote by the Senate offers the only other possible solution.
Daley in urging his ‘new concept’ said, “I sincerely believe that student government can be improved by adopting the ‘new concept’ of the Student Court. I know these new men are the best available to do the job, but of course it’s up to the Senate to decide; my job is only to bring it to their attention.”
Hughes, Daley’s appointment for chief judge, is the current AB senator. Majoring in political science, he is from East Patchogue, Long Island, N. Y. He served as a class officer for two years, and presently is a member of the wing staff of the AFROTC.
Dick Beeman, a journalism-speech major, from River Forest, Ill., has been nominated to assist Hughes as judge. Beeman, presently station manager for WNDU, is a member of the AB Advisory Council and active in Senate publicity.
Tom Armstrong, also a nomination for judge, is a native of Spartanburg, S. C. Armstrong, a PFA senior, acted as co-chairman for the recent Mardi-Gras carnival and presently holds an office in the Knights of Columbus. He also holds a position on the AFROTC wing staff.
Dr. Leone Will Give 'Doctor's Point of View' At Tuesday's Marriage Institute Conference
The Marriage Institute will introduce Dr. Louis B. Leone to speak on “The Doctor’s Point of View” next Tuesday in Washington Hall. Dr. Leone, the third speaker in a series of seven, will include in his discussion the preparations for marriage, the honeymoon, and pregnancy. The usual question-and-answer period and informal coffee break in the Student Center will follow the talk.
Dr. Leone is a member of the PreCana speakers, a group of well-informed men and women who devote much of their spare time to helping young people in preparation for marriage.
He attended the Premedical and Medical School at the University of Illinois, where he received degrees in A.B., Chemistry, B.S., Medicine, and his M.D. Both
Indiana Student Eligible For Harvard Law Grant
The Harvard Law School has notified the University of its annual Walter Kessler Scholarship for next term. A $1500 stipend has been set up for the 1955-56 school year, and an additional sum of $1100 is provided for each of the two succeeding academic years, provided the recipient maintains the scholastic record required by the scholarship standards of the Law School.
The scholarship is restricted to Harvard Law School students who are residents of Indiana, and who intend to return to Indiana for the practice of law. The primary emphasis in the awarding of this scholarship, lies in the applicant’s interest in public affairs, rather than scholastic achievement alone.
Application for the Walter Kessler Scholarship must be made, along with the application for admission to the Law School, to the Director of Admissions, Harvard Law School, Cambridge 38, Mass. Candidates are required to have submitted the applications before May 1.
The scholarship will be awarded by a committee of the Harvard Law School Association of Indiana, after personal interviews with the candidates whose applications have been approved by the Law School.
Additional information and application blanks may be secured at the office of Father Moore, on the first floor of the Main Building.
The scholarship award will be announced on or before June 1, 1955.
his internship and part of his residency were served at St. Francis Hospital, Evanston, Illinois.
After his marriage in 1946 Dr. Leone served as a captain in the Army Medical Corps for two years. The positions which he now holds are Associate Attending Obstetrician and Gynecologist, St. Francis Hospital; Adjunct Obstet-
DR. LOUIS B. LEONE
M.D. Views Marriage
rician, Chicago Maternity Center; Prenatal Physician, Chicago Board of Health.
The doctor is also associated with the following medical societies: Chicago Medical Society, Illinois State Medical Society, American Medical Association, and American Academy of Obstetrics and Gynecology.
Aside from being a member of the -Cana Conference movement, he is also active in the Holy Name Soicety, the Christian Family Movement, and the Knights of Columbus.
Besides participation in all these activities, Dr. Leone has raised a family of four children ranging in age from three to eight.
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, spoke last Wednesday on “Finding -and Winning the Girl” to the more than 800 seniors attending the sessions.
At the first institute, Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd spoke on “Male and Female Psychology.” They are both leaders in the Christian Family Movement and Cana Conference in Chicago.
Mrs. O’Dowd, a Chicago housewife and mother of five children stated that
the three basic needs of every woman are “acceptance, appreciation, and affection.”
Mr. O’Dowd, a lumber sales manager, in commenting on the caricatures of husband and wife so familiar in the comics, said that, “If we rid people of the idea that Casper Milquetoast or Dagwood are average husbands or normal husbands, and that oppressive, domineering women are average . . . wives, we will return the function of husband and wife to its proper and healthy level.”
Irish to Represent U.S. At LUNA Conference
Five Notre Dame students will represent the United States at the Little United Nations Assembly, LUNA, to be held at Indiana University today, tomorrow and Sunday.
Colleges from all over the Midwest will take the part of a member state of the United Nations. Each nation will send delegates to committees of the assembly where political, economic, legal, trusteeship, and social questions will be debated. These committees will later bring resolutions before the whole assembly for final consideration. In these debates, St. Mary’s College, representing Colombia, is expected to work for ; the support of other Latin nations for^ the proposals of the United States delegation.
International Nature
The three-day assembly will include socials of an international nature, and will feature several distinguished speakers: Mr. Benjamin Cohen, under-secretary, Department of Trusteeship and In- J formation from Non - Self - Governing Territories; Dr. Walter C. Laves, former | Deputy Director General of UNESCO; I now heading Indiana U.’s Department | of Government; and Dr. Henry Hope, I U. S. Advisor on Cultural Activities at I UNESCO’s recent Montevideo Confer- ■ ence.	’
Notre Dame’s delegates were chosen from campus clubs concerned directly with international affairs. The delegation is sponsored by the U. S. National, J Student Association on campus, in co-<W operation with the Student Senate.
The delegates include Chairman Walt Clemens, NS A; Steve Shimazu, International Student Committee; Joe Saunders, Debate Club; Phelan Thompson, International Relations Club; and Pat McCartan, Academy of Political Science.
The moderator of the group is Dr. । Stephen D. Kertesz, director of Soviet studies at Notre Dame.
10
The Scholastic^
' Solid Growth Gives NSA World Recognition: F Five Commissions Function in ND Chapter
One of the chief complaints of the American student is that he belongs to an unrepresented class. When the discussion turns to politics, he points out, “I go to war, I fight; but I can’t vote. I don’t have any voice in our government.” . Even among his fellow students he seems unrepresented. When the World Student Congress met in Prague, Czechoslovakia in 1946, country after country sent representatives except the United States.	,
In place of a well organized body was a group of 25 American students without national affiliation. On their return they called for a conference of students in Chicago, Ill., out of which emanated the United States National Student Association.
Since its inception in 1946, the NSA democratically-elected student government, with membership of over 350 schools, has so well represented the college student in both domestic and foreign affairs that President Eisenhower has remarked, “By making possible ever greater opportunity for the exercise of democratic responsibility on the campus, and by enabling American students and students of other lands to work to->'■ gether toward the solution of their com-$ mon problems, the United States National Student Association is rendering a significant service to the people of this country and to the world.”
The NSA is a confederation of student governments which represents college student bodies through their own democratically-elected student government. It strives to improve individual student . governments, develop better educational la.........................................
Department of Philosophy To Give Dockweiler Award
The Dockweilei- Award will again be presented this year by the Department of Philosophy on May 6 to the writer of the best essay covering an aspect of philosophy.
Since its innovation in 1949 by Isador L Dockweiler in memory of his father, it has been the most coveted award given by the Department. Competition for the prize is open to all senior A.B. students.
The winning essay will be the one which most thoroughly discusses some aspect of philosophy. The essays will be judged by a committee chosen by Rev. Herman Reith, C.S.C., from the Department of Philosophy. The Dockweiler medal will be awarded on graduation day to the winner. Deadline for the submission of entries is April 18.
^''March 4, 1955
standards, promote international understanding, and foster the recognition of the rights and responsibilities of students to the school, community, humanity and God.
NSA carries out its aims on three different levels: national, regional, and campus. The National Student Congress, composed of delegates from
GORDON DiRENZO . . . So we Can Vote
among its 300 members, carries out the national functions. Fox- regional purposes the United States is divided into 20 geographic sections each under a regional organization whose main purpose is to maintain direct contact with each of the member schools.
The campus affiliation of NSA functions through the Student Senate. At Notre Dame the NSA coordinator, Gordon DiRenzo, has established five commissions to carry on its work. These commissions serve as an auxiliary to the Student Senate. The NSA coordinator also serves as a Senate member.
The Educational Affairs Commission is presently planning a series of lectures by prominent educators on the value of education and what is expected of the educated man.
Also formulating a plan for the students’ benefit, the Student Affairs committee is investigating the possibility of a student discount service. This service arranges with leading South Bend stores for the issuance of a discount card for Notre Dame students so they may obtain a price reduction on merchandise.
Another plan being studied by* the group is the inauguration of a “gripe week.” Any student gripes could be brought to a committee which would judge the validity of any of them, for
warding them to the proper authority if they are justifiable.	,
At present the Commission on Student j Government Affairs is examining the ' Student Senate Constitutions and com- . paring them with those of other schools ' to see if any revisions could be pro- . posed.
Concerned also with laws is the National Affairs committee, which is interested in the study of federal laws which deal with taxes. Through its efforts the committee has been able to notify the students on any new laws affecting collegians which will save money for the men : of Notre Dame.	;
Most familiar to the men on the cam- -pus is the work of the Commission on International Affairs. Through it the . Foreign Student Club was formed which . has taken great strides in promoting the ' American forms of democracy among foreign students. Of current interest is the summer-trips-to-Europe program, ’ offering to students opportunities to work, study, and travel in Europe at the lowest possible cost.
Notre Dame has gained a prominent position in the affairs of the United States National Student Association. At the last NSA national convention, Gordon DiRenzo, Tom Crehan, John Adams, Joe Daley, Walt Clemens, Bill Byrne, and John Bendel brought added prestige to the University in the international or- . ganization. The excellent standing of Notre Dame was brought out this year -when this University was chosen to rep- J resent all Catholic men’s colleges to the touring students from Israel,	.
Deans* Conference Ends;
Lay Plans to Fight Secularism	•
Liberal Arts Deans from 150 of the nation’s leading Catholic colleges closed a three-day conference this afternoon J in the Morris Inn.	<
Over the three-day session attempts ■ were made to find remedies for the ex- i isting faults in liberal education. The ? “New Plan of Studies” in the Liberal .! Arts College at the University was also < discussed.	-
The recent writings of Christopher ? Dawson, noted Catholic historian, pro-	J
vided the theme for the conference, j which aimed to combat secularism	by	-
promoting Christian culture and Cath- I olic liberal education. Rev. Joseph	M.	1
Marique, S.J., of Holy Cross College, i gave the keynote address on this topic. 5
Other lectures were given by Rev. | James M. Campbell, dean of the College | of Arts and Sciences at the Catholic I University of America; Rev. Charles 1 Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of 1 Arts and Letters at Notre Dame; and { Rev. Paul L. O’Connor, S.J., dean of the j College of Arts and Sciences of Xavier 1 University, Cincinnati, O.	I
•	11 , I
A SCENE OF THE INTERNATIONAL REPERTORY BALLET GROUP ‘Nutcracker Suite’ among evening’s selections
Famed American Ballet Troupe to Perform In Classical Dance Routine Here March 25
Promising to be one of the highlights of the 1954-1955 Concei-t and Lecture Series, the International Repertory Ballet Company will appear for a single performance in Washington Hall on Friday, March 25, at 8:30 p.m.
Starring Lois Rubin, prima ballerina, and Alfa Liepa, who toured with the Agnes de Mille Dance Theater last season, the ballet company has received wide acclaim since its inception in 1953. The group has performed throughout the East and at this moment is the official ballet for the Pittsburgh Opera Company. Last summer in commemoration of the death of Serge Diaghilev, the ballet company danced Swan Lake, The Nutcracker Suite, and Les Sylphides in 30-minute telecasts and received enthusiastic praise.
Over 20 ballets, classical and modern, are included in their repertoire. For the performance in Washington Hall, the company will present four of its most popular—Les Sylphides, the Spanish Pas de Deux, from ..Don Quixote, L'Amour Au Musse, and The Nutcracker Suite.
The opening ballet, Les Sylphides, with music by Chopin, centers around a plot that is simplicity itself. It.deals with the story of a young poet, Chopin, who in wandering through the woods comes upon a grove of sylphs and is enticed into dance.
After a 15-minute intermission the dancers will return with the Spanish
Pas de Deux from Don Quixote. Miss Rubin and Mr. Liepa will dance the exciting classical ballet.
Third ballet of the evening will be one of the company’s modern productions, L’Amortr Au Musse—a comic ballet based on the music of Poulene, the contemporary French composer. It tells the story of a day in the museum from the scrub woman in early morning to the closing pas de trois. The artist, the professor, the students, and the young believer-in-dreams pass through dancing before evening and the miracle.
Tchaikowsky’s Nutcracker Suite will conclude the presentation of the ballet company. All the original dances but Danse Arabe, which is seldom used today, will be performed. The Nutcracker Suite is an authentic Arabian dance.
Francis Mayville, one of the founders of the International Repertory Ballet ■Company, serves as managing director. Frederic Franklin, leading dancer and ballet master for the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, is the choreographer for the classical ballets.
Ten-Lesson Dance Course To Get Underway Tuesday
A series of Arthur Murray dance instructions is scheduled to begin Tuesday, March 15, on the second floor of the Student Center. The series, to be run through the combined efforts of the hall councils, will consist of ten dancing
lessons. The lessons will be given on Tuesday and Thursday for five consecutive weeks making a total of ten lessons. Sessions will be held from 6:30
to 7:30 in the evening.
The Arthur Murray Studios will supply an instructor and four assistants to carry on the lessons. The series is to begin with ballroom dancing steps, and should the class progress rapidly, it will be given additional instructions in any dance routine that is wanted in the J time remaining.	■
Girls for dancing partners have been J invited from St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s. Between 125 and 200 Notre Dame students are anticipated.
The price for the Arthur Murray ten-lesson series, which normally ranges between $20 and $50, will be $5. Girls will be charged $1. Coats and ties are necessary. Any additional information can be obtained from the hall presi- J dents.	J
-----------	€' I
Prof. Buck Leaves University To Assume Post at Syracuse
Carson P. Buck, associate professor of engineering drawing at the University, has been appointed chairman of the Department of Engineering Drawing at Syracuse University, Syracuse, N. Y., officials of the two schools announced recently. Prof. Buck will assume his new duties in September.	, ।
A member of the Notre Dame faculty ! since 1938, Buck is a specialist in de- ** i scriptive geometry. He is co-author of Basic Problems in Descriptive Geometry and Basic Engineering Drawing.
Prof. Buck, a native of Fort Warren, Mass., took his undergraduate work in civil engineering at Clarkson College of Technology, Potsdam, N. Y. He was awarded a master’s degree in education . by St. Lawrence University, Canton, A N. Y. He is married to the former Martha Elizabeth Clark of Canton.
They have a son and four daughters.
Thirteen AROTC Cadets Get Distinguished Military Awards
At the Army parade last Monday 13 cadets were designated as Distinguished Military Students and two received the Chicago Tribune awards.
The seniors designated as Distinguished Military Students are Forst E. Brown, Walter K. Cabral, John G. Cuddy, Donald M. Gallagher, Rudolph E. Hammond, John W. Houck, Anthony G. Lapasso, Thomas P. May, Patrick J. McAward, Charles D. Mears, Charles F. Muckenhirn, Paul R. Reed, and Alfred T. Schoenig.
The Chicago Tribune gold medal was given to Cadet Burton A. Lesh, a sophomore. The silver medal was given to Freshman John C. Hershfeld.
. 12
The Scholastic^
f
'Most Girls Wont to Be Friends, NOT Steadies,' Say St. Mary's Girls at Joint YCS Discussion
By JIM LOEFFLER
The need of a better cooperative spirit between St. Mary’s and Notre Dame is certainly evident these days. Recently when a joint meeting between the freshmen sections of the YCS of both schools took place at SMC, steps were taken to correct this deficiency.
The joint meeting was a climax of the social inquiry conducted by the branches during the past months and for two hours the members discussed the social problems that have arisen this year. As part of Philips “66” groups they tried to find out just what could be done to better the relations of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
After introductory remarks about the accomplishments and organization of the YCS, the strangely even distribution of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s freshmen were divided into “66” teams with six boys or girls in each for the purpose of finding the general attitudes between the two schools and the causes of them.
t
V
Four Major Points
The viewpoints of the Notre Dame members on the causes of the somewhat superficial relations of the two schools can be condensed into four major points: (1) many of the boys were discouraged at the beginning because of the enormous number of boys in relation to girls; (2) most of the joint gatherings are too formal; (3) there aren’t enough things to do; and (4) when there are things to do they aren’t well planned.
Both groups agreed on the inadequacy of the mixers. As a St. Mary’s girl said, “The mixers are a great place for Notre Dame men to meet more Notre Dame men and St. Mary’s girls to find out all about St. Mary’s girls. The boys stand on one side and the girls on another and they don’t mix.”
The girls felt that much of the blame for the “pessimistic” attitude between their two schools is the “grapevines” and some misconceptions Notre Dame boys have of them. It seems that the “grapevine” has spread the idea to Notre Dame that SMC girls came here because of the great number of Notre Dame men. This, they insist, isn’t true.
Another fallacy, they claim, is the attitude that the St. Mary’s girls have plenty of money and want boys to show them a good time, actually they aren’t gold diggers; they live on a budget too.
To the Notre Dame men who think the odds are insurmountable, they point out that there are plenty of girls who
don’t have dates. (A survey taken last year showed that about 300 girls didn’t have dates on Saturday night.) There goes one excuse.
The girls also gave some tips to remember while dating: (1) good manners are always important; (2) most girls want to be friends, not “steadies”; (3) down with the “clinging vine” type; and (4) don’t take a girl to a show on the first date, it is one of the worst places to get acquainted.
Ideal Community
The YCS members were divided again into Philips “66” teams of three girls and three boys for the purpose of finding possible ways to improve the present means of association. They based their proposals on the suggestions given by Dick Clark on the “Ideal Student Community.”
Clark stressed that a community is held together by a common purpose and the common purpose is carried out by mutual interests. In the case, of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, this common bond is a Christian education. At the moment the present relations between the two schools have little to do with Christian education.
Using the idea of similar interests, the freshmen proposed the following suggestions for improving the present conditions: more joint organizations emphasizing similar interest groups; better planning for mixed activities; less formality (the additions to the Student Center are being made with that object in mind); smaller mixers, like hall dances; and more activities where you make your fun, like the well-received Christmas Caroling.
Because a lot of the comments concerned the mixers, Tom Crehan, secretary of the Student Senate, explains the possible reason they aren’t successful. “You cannot focus the light on mixing and expect people to mix. It just won’t work.” It was further stated that the trouble isn’t with the number of activities, the calendar bears this out. . The real trouble, according to the findings of the meeting, is with the general apathy of the students. Apparently, the problem is to conquer this apathy.
At the conclusion of the joint meeting it was generally agreed that the discussion had succeeded in one of its aims —it developed in those who were there a better appreciation of the other’s viewpoint.
Contemporary Art Work On Display During March
Sculpture of Nina Winkel, contemporary American artist, will be on special exhibition in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries during the month of March, it was recently announced by Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., of the Department of Art.
The exhibition will include terra cottas and carvings in wood and alabaster. The Neiv York Times and other publications have used the work of Miss Winkel as material in their columns. Examples of these and other papers will be on display in the University galleries.
In commenting on the sculptor, Father Lauck said, “She adheres to the old traditional ways of working. Her works are more likely to live on than other modem works because of their grounding in traditional fundamentals.”
Art Digest commented: “Nina Winkel continues her consistent development of a personal style which is emotional, classical, and modem at the same time.”
Won Watrous Medal
Bom in Germany, 'Miss Winkel began her work in art at the Staedel Art Museum in Frankfort. Later she moved to Paris, and from there she came to the United States. She has lived on Long Island for the past ten years, and has shown her works at the Clay Club and Sculpture Center’ in New York City, and in a number of national and regional exhibitions. She won the Watrous medal at the National Academy of Design a few years ago.
NINA WINKEL WORK Adheres to Fundamentals
March 4, 1955
13
PLACEMENT BUREAU
Thirty companies will be on hand to interview prospective graduates in the Placement Bureau, Monday through Friday of next week. Those eligible for interviews are bachelor candidates expecting to finish at Notre Dame in June or August of 1955, and graduate students. Only those officially registered in the Placement Bureau in the Main Building are eligible to sign up for the interviews.
MONDAY, MARCH 7
Stewart - Warner Corp.—Meeh. E., Elec. E., Metallurgists, Physicists, Mathematicians and Bus. Ad., Accounting, Economics on all degree levels.
American Bridge (Division of U.S. Steel Corp.)—B.S., Civ. E., Architectural engineers and Mech.E. interested in structures.
Chrysler Corporation—B.S., Elec.E., Mech.E., Chem. E., Indus. E., and Metallurgists for the Chrysler Institute of Engineering.
National Bank of Detroit—A.B., Commerce and LL.B.
Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery (Chicago)—Accounting Majors.
American Radiator and Standard Sanitary Corporation—B.S., Mech.E., and Bus.Ad. majors for sales.
Bell Aircraft Corporation—B.S., M.S., Elec. E., Meeh. E., Aero. E., Chem. E., Physics and Math.
TUESDAY, MARCH 8
Bell Aircraft Corporation—B.S., M.S., Elec. E., Meeh. E., Aero. E., Chem. E., Physics and Math.
America Fore Insurance Group—A.B., and Commerce.
Hazeltine Electronics Corporation— B.S., M.S., Elec.E. Mech.E., and Physicists.
Cutler-Hammer, Inc.—B.S., Elec.E., Mech.E. and Indus.E.
B. F. Goodrich Chemical Company— B.S., M.S., Chem.E. and Chemists.
Collins Radio Co. (Cedar Rapids, Iowa)—B.S., M.S., Meeh. E., Elec.E. and Indus.E.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9
The National Lead Company of Ohio —All degree levels in Chem.E., Mech.E., Indus.E., Metallurgists and Chemists.
Wyandotte Chemicals Corporation— All degree levels in Chem.E., Mech.E., Elec.E., Chemists. Bus.Ad.majors.
The Kawneer Company—A.B. and Commerce for sales. Mech.E., Indus.E., Civ.E., Arch.E. and Aero.E.
Corn Products Refining Company— B.S., Chem.E., Mech.E., Elec.E. and Indus.E.
Commonwealth Associates, Inc.—B.S., M.S. Elec.E. and Mech.E.
Piasecki Helicopter Corporation—B.S.,
Elec.E., Mech.E., Aero.E. and Civ.E.
Philadelphia Naval Shipyard—B.S., M.S., Elec.E.and Mech.E.
Burroughs Corporation — A.B. and Commerce for sales.- B.S., M.S., Mech.E., Indus.E., Chem.E., and Elec. E. Accounting majors.
THURSDAY, MARCH 10
Burroughs Corporation — A.B. and Commerce for sales. B.S., M.S., Mech.E., Indus.E., Chem.E., and Elec. E. Accounting majors.
Air Research Manufacturing Company—All degree levels in Mech.E., Aero.E. and Physics.
Marathon Corporation — Commerce and Economics majors. Mech.E., Chem.-E. and Math.
Public Service Company of Indiana—
PLACEMENT BUREAU ANNEX
Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., head of the Placement Bureau, has announced the addition of a new annex for the use of students interested in job opportunities.
Students can now arrange future appointments with personnel men from the many firms using Placement Bureau facilities in Room 120, Main Building, adjacent to the present Placement offices. All literature containing job information from these firms will also be placed in Room 120 and may be consulted at any time.
B.S., M.S., Elec.E. and Mech.E.
National Lead Co. (Titanium Division)—B.S., M.S., Chem.E. and B.S. M.S. and Ph.D. Chemists and Metallurgists.
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
Boeing Airplane Company — B.S., Aero.E., Chem.E., Elec.E., Mech.E. and I^ndus.E. M.S. and Ph.D. Mathematicians and Physicists.
General Electric Company—Advertising and Public Relations Program; Any student regardless of degree who has a long term career interest in marketing, selling, advertising, sales promotion and public relations. Chem.-Met. Program; B.S. and M.S. Metallurgists, Chem.E. and Chemists. Business Training Course; A.B. and Commerce for accounting and financial management. Engineering & Manufacturing Training Program; Elec.E., Mech.E., Indus.E. and Physicists.	•
FRIDAY, MARCH 11
Arthur Young and . Company—Accounting majors. Group meeting March 10th—(for further information see Mr. Dincolo.)
Northrop Aircraft, Inc.—B.S., M.S., Aero.E., Civ.E., Elec.E., Mech.E. and B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. Physicists and Mathematicians.
Automatic Electric Company—B.S., M.S., Elec.E. and Mech.E.
Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corporation—B.S., M.S., Aero.E., Mech.E., Civ.E. and B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. Physicists.
Two-Day Program to Mark Feast of St. Thomas Aquinas #
A discussion of asceticism in modern life will take place at the Student Center at 3 p.m. Sunday in accordance with the St. Thomas Day program sponsored by the Department of Philosophy.
Sunday and Monday have been designated as days celebrating the feast of St. Thomas Aquinas.
Speakers of the afternoon from St. Mary’s will be Ann Eljenholm, theology major; and Agnes Osei-Konadu, a social science major from South America. Representing Notre Dame will be John J. Hartigan, accounting major; Edward F. Kelly, political science major; and Gerald J. Massey philosophy major. After the discussion there will be a question-and-answer session.
Monday morning at 8:30 Solemn High Mass will be celebrated in Sacred Heart Church. The celebrant will be Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president „ of Academic Affairs. Assisting at the Mass will be Rev. Francis D. Nealy, O.P.; Rev. Glenn L. Boarman, C.S.C.; Rev. Herman Reith, C.S.C.; and the Moreau Seminary Choir. Rev. Martin D’Arcy, S.J., will deliver the sermon on “The Wisdom of St. Thomas.”
Press Club to Hold Meeting For Prospective Journalists
The Press club will sponsor an introductory meeting for underclassmen interested in majoring in journalism next Wednesday in Room 2-C of the Student Center.
The purpose of the meeting will be to acquaint students with the faculty and curricula of the department. It will be especially designed for sophomores who must choose their major in the nearfuture, but freshmen are invited to attend.
Mr. Thomas Stritch, head of the department, will be on hand to outline the courses, and a number of outstanding students will talk on other aspects of the department.
A question-and-answer session will follow the regular meeting, and refreshments will be served.
Plans to admit underclassmen to the Press club will also be discussed.
14
The Scholastic^--
Battle-Toughened Leathernecks Transform Green Collegians to Rugged Marine Officers
By RAY
“I always like to visit with a Marine because it helps me to understand better that wonderful ‘esprit de corps’ that makes them such a unique fighting team. f I feel that the essence of it is this: no Marine will ever let his buddy down.” Such were the words of the former Notre Dame football coach, Frank
Leahy, at a Pep Rally during the year preceding his retirement.
Were it not for the few small rooms in the Navy Drill Hall appropriately adorned with pictures and posters of olive-green uniformed men, one might suppose the Notre Dame campus to be untouched by the United States Marine Corps. The “fighting Marines” are very much here and have been ever since World War II. Official designation places them within the confines of the well-known Navy Program on campus.
No Uniforms Required
Under the present Marine Corps setup it is not surprising that so little is known of the Marine detachment at Notre Dame. Members of the Platoon Leaders Corps are inconspicuous beX cause of the fact that they pursue no . military courses and do not wear a uniform.
These men, usually sophomores or juniors, have agreed to spend six-weeks training periods at Quantico, Va., in the summers following their sophomore and junior years.
Following graduation they will be commissioned and assigned to active !, duty beginning with an additional five-\ month “hitch” at Quantico.
- This Platoon Leaders Class has been a Marine organization for 18 years, and provides the Marines with some of the best fighting men in the unit. It is appealing to college men for obvious reasons to those who have braved Indi-
ana’s famous winters on the drill-field.
Men cavorting our campus in NROTC uniforms may be really prospective
Marines underneath. These men follow the regular naval program during their freshman and sophomore years, and then are incorporated into the Marine ranks. The Marine Corps now has 37 potential officers in the unit with 17 of these attending the University on Navy scholarships.
Closely aligned with the PLC setup is the Officer’s Candidate Course, offered | to seniors and recent graduates. Candidates receive a ten-week course and on completion are awarded commissions.
Military studies, commence with the
March 4, 1955
WALSH
junior year. These future Marines delve into the study of the evolution of warfare, beginning with the crude strategies and attacks of the early Greek fighting units down to modern-day beach-head landings under close support with our advanced air and sea fighting arms.
Since the Marines operate primarily
as an amphibious unit, seniors concen-
DAVE FRISKE
. . . Typically Tough
trate on a detailed study of the complexities of such attack combined with recent developments in amphibious equipment. A review of the Uniform Code of Military Justice constitutes the Senior’s final phase of study at the university military level.
Though every Marine is primarily an infantryman and undergoes a rigorous, “under combat conditions” training, he may be assigned to a number of varied
fields, including personnel administration, intelligence, supply, engineering, electronics, artillery, and many others.
“Leatherneck” Instructors
It should be understood that every Marine is a man prepared to fight in actual combat with the enemy. A future Marine at Quantico is taught practical and theoretical military instructions with emphasis on tactics of squad and platoon. Weapons and firing are also an integral part of the summer trainee’s program.
Two typical “leathernecks” capably instruct our future Marines at the University. Capt. William D. Kelly, USMC,
chief instructor, has been a Marine for 13 years and saw extensive duty in the Pacific theatre during World War II. He was Amphibious Warfare Advisor with the Korean Marine Corps and company commander with the 1st Marine Division in Korea.
His assistant, Sgt. Earl N. Heacock, USMC, is a veteran of 19 years’ service who saw combat duty throughout the Pacific in World War II, and whose tours of active duty were numerous.
Marines have always prided themselves on being a compact, personalized, fighting group capable of courageous, “above and beyond the call” type duty. Their success as a World War II fighting unit is known by all; “esprit de corps” is synonymous with the Marine fighting machine; it has been immortalized by the six figures raising the flag at Iwo Jima. Notre Dame may well be glad to have them aboard.
Experts to Speak At Civil Engineer Meet
Three top-notch business executives and the Building Commissioner from South Bend are slated to address the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers during the coming weeks it was announced recently by Richard Jacob, program committee chairman.
The Civil Engineers Club, meeting twice monthly, will hear Verner L. Lane, Building Commissioner for South Bend at its next meeting Wednesday, March 9. Lane will speak on some of the problems and functions of his municipal office. The club meets in Room 212 of the Engineering Building at 7:45 p.m.
William A. Dundas, general superintendent of the Chicago Sanitary District, will talk to the club on March 23.
J. R. Cooper, engineer of bridges for the Indiana State Highway Department, will discuss the state highway program in Indiana at the meeting on April 20.
On May 18 Frank E. Miller, president of the Elkhart Bridge & Iron Co., will speak to the civil engineers on the workings of a steel fabricating plant.
The chapter will journey to Purdue to attend a joint meeting of the Indiana section of the A.S.C.E. on May 4. Purdue and the Rose Polytechnic Institute will also attend this meeting. The speaker will be William Glidden, president of the American Society of Civil Engineers.
John Massman, a junior from Kansas City, Mo., is president of the Civil Engineers Club, while Richard Meagher, also a junior, from Elgin, Ill., serves as vice-president.
13
Females Foil Irish Bid Senate Clamps Down on Campus Club Policy; For Initial 'Bowl' Win Action Taken to Standardize Social Practices
In the latest battle of the sexes last week, the Notre Dame College Quiz Bowl team lost a see-saw battle to a quartette of girls from Mt. Holyoke College, South Hadley, Mass. The intuition of the girls proved too much for James Cantrill, Pat Di Pasquale, Chuck Doherty and Frank Newman who too often listened to the girls interrupt Quizmaster Allen Ludden to give an answer. The final score was 190 to 175.
The questions ranged from what 19th century presidents came from Tennessee to what island’s name sounds like a kind of an evergreen tree, from quoting Kipling to identifying Marilyn Monroe from her original name.
Second Holyoke Win
The program originated from New York City, where Ludden fired his questions, from South Hadley, and from Room 2 of the Student Center. Charles Chan of station WMAQ Chicago and Jim Strong of NBC affiliate WTIC Hartford, Conn, stood by sounding a buzzer which activated a light in New York identifying which team signaled to answer first, even by a split second.
The Mt. Holyoke team copped its second straight win. The previous week the girls upset Oberlin College which had stopped the University of Minnesota’s winning streak at twelve. For each victory, the winning college is given $500. The losers are presented with wrist watches.
Next on the docket for Mt. Holyoke is Columbia University this weekend.
DI PASQUALE, NEWMAN, DOHERTY, CANTRILL
Chaucer Would Have Turned Over in His Grave.
The Student Senate, acting on a motion made by Campus Clubs Committee Chairman Dick Norton, outlawed the charging of admissions to club-sponsored movies and approved five other changes in campus club legislation at its Monday meeting.
The Senate outlawed the charging of admission to club movies on the ground that the use of movies as a moneymaking effort was contrary to the spirit of most club constitutions. Membership in the club will be the only qualification for admission to these movies under the new regulation. The Senate recommended that membership cards be issued by the clubs.
The Senate also limited the showing of movies by campus clubs to the Engineering Auditorium, Rooms 123 and 127 of the Nieuwland Science Hall, and the Student Center. Special permission to show movies in other places must be obtained in writing from the vice-president in charge of student affairs, the secretary of the Student Senate, and the campus clubs chairman.
Other campus club legislation passed Monday requires all clubs to register with the Senate on or before Nov. 1 of each school year, empowers the Student Activities Court to revoke charters or administer other punishment to clubs failing to comply with campus club regulations, and makes the secretary of the Senate an ex officio member of the Campus Clubs Committee. Club activities must be registered with the secretary of the Senate and the vice-president in charge of student affairs.
The Senate also heard a report on the 'Student Center from the student managers, John Rogers and Paul Hanlon. They reported the Center’s income for the first semester was $2779.36 and that its expenses were $2775.26.
Other business included the establishment of committees to award the photography concessions for the last three dances and to study Blue Circle finances, the approval of a motion requiring nominating petitions to be used in Senate elections, and the appointment of Butch Hickman to take charge of the Senate-sponsored dance lessons.
&
1956 GRADUATES
Appointments for Dome pictures for those students who will receive degrees in January, June and August, 1956 can now be made in the basement of Walsh Hall.
The pictures will be taken on March 7, March 12 and March 14-18 from 1 to 5:30 p.m. and 6:30 to 9 p.m. Appointments can be made at this time.
Make your appointments early; don’t be left out.
Jaunt to St. Mary's-of-Woods Slated for Mar. 12 Weekend
Plans are now complete for a Notre Dame excursion to St. Mary’s of the Woods at Terre Haute, Ind. March 12 to 13, announced Dick Reamer, chairman of a Blue Circle committee sponsoring the event. Between 150 and 200 tickets will be available to members of all classes.
The program of events will feature a big social Saturday night, a Communion Breakfast Sunday morning, and an informal mixer Sunday afternoon. Reamer reports that this is not a mixer in the sense currently entertained by the Notre Dame man but will be a mixer “par excellence”. He further indicated that over 180 of the girls are already signed up for the blind-date affair.
Tickets will cost $8 and will be sold in the Dining Hall basement from 5 to 7 p.m. on Monday and Tuesday. The price will include $6 for round-trip transportation via Greyhound bus and $2 for rooms at the Terre Haute House.
The intinerary will leave the Circle at 1 p.m. on March 12 and will return by midnight on the 13th. The group will stop on the way Saturday night for dinner, since no provisions have been
made for a meal in Terre Haute.
The Scholastic
16
mu
MIKE CHATTER.
I Although many of us have been re-J ceiving CARE packages during the past , several months, the barren tundra re. _ gion of Michiana is not really as deso-• late and remote as it so very often J seems to be. Besides the usual entertainment devices, i.e. Russian Roulette, one-armed beer wrestling, etc., there is I always that godsend of modern man and i Proctor and Gamble—radio.
“Radio Free Notre Dame,” as it is J known to the outside world, attempts to I serve up a schedule of programs of as* sorted and sordid interest to all listen- ing tastes. At this time of the year, / when the Lenten entertainment menu becomes sparser and sparser, WNDU really comes through with some wireless hot-cross buns.
Chief among the newer programs is 1a fifteen minute stint that appears each Sunday evening. Going under the nom de plume of “Red Man,” it sounds more f like a chewing tobacco program than I the interest-packed commentary of Dixieland Jazz that is the format of the show. Written by Bob Caira, a veritable encyclopedia of data on this field of Americana, and narrated by * John McCullough, one of the better
NSA Officer Will Discuss

Harvard Summer Seminar
Jack Reichard, a national officer of. the United States National Student Association, will visit Notre Dame Monday, according to campus NSA coordinator Gordon Di Renzo.
Reichard was appointed by the NSA inteimational vice-president to the post of International Campus Administrator. He will visit here in this capacity. The position entails promoting international •programming on NSA campuses throughout the country.
At the University, Reichard will meet with students desiring to learn more about NSA at a meeting scheduled for 5 p.m. Monday in the Student Center. There he will describe NSA’s third annual International Student Relations Seminar to be held next summer at Harvard University. Fifteen scholarships to the seminar are available to students with demonstrated ability in
international studies and campus activities. Reichard will also address the Student Senate and talk with University officials.	’
March 4, 1955
voices of the WNDU announcing staff, this program virtually exudes the shuffle and the stomp of * the King Oliver and Louis Armstrong tradition.
A big prestige factor for the sports staff of the Student Voice is the fact that Notre Dame’s final basketball game of the yeai- will be carried exclusively by WNDU. With Bob Hutchinson and Joe Daley giving the play-by-play of the Marquette-Notre Dame contest in Milwaukee tomorrow night, WNDU puts the wraps on what in many respects, has been its most complete coverage of Irish sports events.
A rather depressing factor enters in also this season as WNDU loses one of its oldest and most reliable announcers in the person of George Vosmik. The “Vos” leaves the Student Voice after having served as the host on the “Career Hour,” for the past year. WNDU will miss his smooth delivery and glib comments.—Bill Byrne
Father Fitzgerald Named Steel Case Arbitrator
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., associate professor of economics at the University, has recently been selected by representatives of the Armco Steel Corp, and the United Steelworkers of America to serve as sole arbitrator in a grievance case.
The case involves employees of Armco Steel plant in Ashland, Ky.
Father Fitzgerald is a member of the national panel of arbitrators of the American Arbitration Association. During World War II he served as a public panel member of the National Wai-Labor Board for the Mid-west region.
Father Fitzgerald was chairman of the Union-Management Conference held here last weekend under the auspices of the Department of Economics and the College of Law, in cooperation with the American Arbitration Association.

I GU^SS HE’S SHORTSIGMTEP • -	!
Work Begun on TV Station; Completion Set For Summer
Construction began Feb. 22 for WNDU-TV, the commercial television station to be operated by the University of Notre Dame. Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., University president, officiated at ground-breaking ceremonies on the campus. Father Hesburgh said that Notre Dame’s resources for education, information and entertainment, largely limited to the campus until now, “will be extended to the community and the northern Indiana-southern Michigan area through WNDU-TV.”
Studios and offices for the UHF station will be located on the campus while the station’s transmitter and tower will be situated south of South Bend. The Notre Dame station will operate on Channel 46 and will be affiliated with the NBC television network. Officials expect the station to go on the air in mid-summer with a formal dedication scheduled for September.
Experimental Student Paper Begins Seventh Year Today
The first of four editions of the 1955 Journalist, the experimental publication for junior journalism majors, makes its initial appearance today.
This newspaper is published by the students in the field of journalism in order to acquaint them with the various aspects of putting out a publication. The paper, in its seventh year, has a circulation of about 200, comprising faculty members and other journalism majors.
So that all students will know all the steps of publishing a paper, the staffs and the positions on the staffs are changed with each publication. Dave Davin acted as managing-editor of this first Journalist. He was assisted by Bob Ruhl, city editor, and Curt Matthews, copy editor. Jack Gueguen was sports editor and Fred Devoe, photo editor.
17
t
Hardly a Country Gir^
BY JOHN S. O’BRIEN AND JOHN V. RYAN
Photos by O’BRIEN
Men Crowd
Around for Autographs
“You know where I’d like to be at 5 o’clock this afternoon?” said Ryan to O’Brien.
“No . . . Where?”
“In the Ambassador West Hotel in Chicago . . .”
“The Ambassador West . . . What for?”
“ ’Cause Grace Kelly’s going to be there . . .”
And that’s how this story began . . . a quick call to Grace in her suite . . . a short talk with her agent . . . and the date was set for five.
'Miss Kelly was a picture of Grace as she made her grand entrance into the t* Assembly Room for the formal cocktail party in her honor. Many of the top names of Hollywood and Chicago were there. . . . Greeting each one in turn, Grace Kelly showed the poise and charm that have made her stardom unique. The final moments of the afternoon were devoted to this exclusive Scholastic interview.
“Miss Kelly, we have a little gift here for you ... a little token of our . esteem.”	*
“Oh I love him! He’s such a darling little dog!”
“Could you turn this way just a bit?”

“Miss Kelly, do you follow Dame football? Have you ever game?”
“Yes, I follow the team. . . seen them play in Philadelphia .
Notre seen a
I’ve . but
as you know, Penn doesn’t do very well against them. . . . My brother went to Penn and my sister Lizanne is graduating there this year. . . . She’s president
follow the
. . you mean they’re ALL lonely?'
Irish . .
But I wish Penn could do better
course I

of her sorority. . . . But I’m still a fan . of the Irish.”
“Miss Kelly, do you take any particular pride in being Irish?”
; “Why, yes, of course I do . . . naturally . . .”
“Do you really enjoy being in movies?”
“I like the movies very much . . . but I have a part in	a Broadway play next
।	season . . . I’m	looking forward to it
1	immensely. . . .	I’ve enjoyed all my
l'	movie parts so far, with the exception
| of one . . .”
- “What was it?”
“I’d rather not say . . .”
1 “You really don’t have to. ... We saw Green Fire and it seemed to us that you weren’t quite thrilled with the part.”
“Oh, I didn’t know it was obvious.”
“Do you have any words of cheer for the five thousand lonely guys down at Notre Dame?”
“You mean they’re all lonely?”
“Well, no, I guess not.”
“I don’t have anything special to say except that I love my little dog and I’ll ! " have it with me on every set. Thank
* you so much.”
“Miss Kelly, we would like to have you come down and visit Notre Dame.” • “I’d love to come for a visit and perhaps later, when I have some time, I’ll be able to make it.”
After the interview, Grace Kelly hurried off to a dinner engagement . . . leaving your reporters rather breath-A less. ... It is impossible in reproducing only a part of the interview to convey k the impression this poised, Philadelphia
star leaves on those who meet her. . . . Her exquisitely fluent diction and expression . . . the modulated, soft tone of her voice make the reporting of direct quotations relatively ineffective. . .. The words in print give only a shade of the meanings she expressed. The accompanying pictures may help to show why this rising young Catholic star is a favorite at Notre Dame.
I
300,000 BOOKS, PLEASE!
by Duke Rank
HE PUSHED away from his desk and closed the history book in front of him. It was nearly 9 o’clock. He put on his jacket and walked down the hall past the leaky water fountain and out the dooi- towards the library. The reserve book was due at nine and George wanted to be there on time.
He flipped his cigarette towards the grass as he jogged up the front steps of the building that looked vaguely like a bank. Once inside he shoved the book across the desk. No one noticed him. Most of the library crew were busy with the pneumatic tubes, making whooshing noises with their hands passing over it and dropping catalogue-card paper airplanes into its mysterious recesses. On his way out, he stopped to sharpen his pencil at the only pencil-sharpener that he had ever located during his years on
the campus. It was there that the germ of an idea struck him.
A GRADUATE student was standing at the main desk with an enormous load of books in his arms. Can I check all of these out, said the grad looking pleadingly through his bifocals. Oh yeah, sure, there’s no limit on the number of books you can take. Just as long as they’re back in two weeks. The student librarian was talking mechanically as he was going through his ritual of stamping and sorting books and cards.
When George heard this he suddenly perked up. He walked over to the desk where the librarian was still playing with the cards and books.
You mean there isn’t any limit at all on how many books you can check out?
Naw, you can have all you want. & They made the rule that way so if you’re doing research or something you won’t have to keep coming back here.
You mean if I wanted to, I could check out every book in the library?
Well, I suppose so. What’s the matter, you got a thesis due?
Naw, I was just kidding. Say, what time are you open in the morning anyhow. . .
(jrEORGE raced across campus back to his room. A group of fellow students had collected there and were discussing the intellectual possibilities of their future Easter vacation. One was just relating the esthetic values of Fort Lauderdale when George burst into the room.
He could hardly wait to tell his idea. It was going to be the greatest stunt ever pulled off at the school. It would ~ be talked about for generations to come. It would be a history making event. George was visibly excited. We’re going to check out every single book in the whole library! Can you just imagine that. A huge library without any books in it for two weeks. Gee, can’t you just see the head librarian wandering through the empty shelves. It’s the greatest, man. And we don’t have to worry about a thing. Everything’s entirely legal and within the rules.
When the full implication of the idea of a library without any books sunk in, the rest of the guys were sold on the scheme. There were difficulties to be ironed out, they knew for sure, so they sat up until three that morning, aided by candlelight, and they mapped out the whole strategy of removal, transportation, and storage.
The books had to be stored somewhere in a safe place so they wouldn’t be damaged. Since there was no place on campus safe from water, termites, or students, it was finally decided to get a storage company from town to do the job. It would cost some money, but after all this was going to be the greatest prank in the history of the school and some sacrifice had to be made for it. ,
The next morning at nine o’clock they met the huge moving-truck at the cir-
20
The Scholastic ..
of the papers and the news services were flocking to the campus. Life was preparing to run the story as a cover feature. Reports from all over the country proved the prank had a greater popularity than the ancient antics of panty-raids, etc.
George was a campus hero., practically a nation-wide hero. He was the center of attention everywhere he went.
Two weeks later, the morning was a typically rainy windy example of midwestern climate. The huge truck lumbered up to the college road where George met it and hopped into the cab.
At the road gate the guard stopped the track. Behind him was the school’s disciplinarian.
Sorry, you won’t be able to drive in
cular driveway in front of the college. The storage company had responded quickly to their “emergency” call.
The track had no difficulty in getting by the guard station at the campus road. It looked important and official, so the guard merely waved it by.
' They drove up to the front entrance of the library where they were met by their fellow conspirators. By now, most of the dorm had heard about the plan and they were willing to cut a few classes in order to boast latex- that they were in on the greatest trick evei- pulled at school.
£ The librarians, of course, were shocked as the guys merely disregarded filling out the usual cards and just asked for the books a section at a time. By noon, the library was in a panic. The librarians in an effort to stop the deluge had insisted that each book must be separately checked out. All the reading rooms were filled with volunteers who were writing George’s name on the call-cards. The massed effort of the throng of stu-£ dents was slowly winning the battle against the librarians.
As the work progressed, George who was now directing all of the operations, • realized that there was a flaw in the plan. The reference room books could not be taken out of the library. This was a serious problem, for then it would appeal- to the average library-go’er that i nothing had happened at all.
Ironically, this problem was solved by the librarians. For George had reW membered seeing a sign in the stacks, “A Misshelved Book is a Lost Book.” ■ While all the librarians were busily occupied, George and some of the boys took armload after armload of reference books downstairs and stacked them in the far corners of the basement, far out of sight. To make sure they couldn’t be useful during the next two weeks, k they carefully mixed up every volume they moved, so that the tenth volume
of the German Encyclopedia was next to the 1942 edition of Time. Now, anyone who needed a certain reference book would have to search ages to find the right volume amidst the confused stacks in the basement. George was pretty satisfied at his ingenuity here.
Late that evening the track was loaded fox- the last time and evex-y book that could be checked out was off the stacks. It had taken many trackloads, but as the boys put the last books in, they felt that they had finished a job well done.
The college officials stood hopelessly watching the loading. A few of the oldex- profs on campus were almost caught smiling while watching the his-tox-ic event, and the swax-ms of students it had attracted were milling about everywhere.
For THE next two weeks, the school, and fox- that matter, the town, talked of nothing else. Pictures were in all
Cartoons By BOB SWANSON
here today. The road’s being fixed and I got ordex-s, looking ovex* his shoulder, that no heavy trucks get in.
George jumped out of the track and walked over to the discipline master.
But we got a trackload of books for the library. They’re due today and if I don’t get them back there, I’ll have to-pay a nickle a day on evex-y single one of them.
The enox-mous total of 300,000 times a nickle jumped alarmingly into George’s mind.
The disciplinax-ian was fixmx. No tracks allowed.
George looked at the library, hardly visible in the rain. No one was around, the campus was deserted because of the intense rain. He sat in the track for a. long time looking at the empty campus and. that awful distance between the-truck and the far-off library.
At last, he put the first stack of books under his raincoat and stax-ted ranning-towards the library.
k March 4, 1955
2r
The Big If
By HARRY NIEMANN
In past years the men of Badin Hall enjoyed choice seats for the never-ending softball games on Badin Bog. The now extinct Bog has given way to a modern Shopping Center. Though the vieiv has changed, the spirit of Badinites may never change.
Today, Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., hall rector, and the 150 juniors who call Badin home are proud of their hall despite claims by jealous students that the entire building would collapse if the “key” brick were pulled out.
The pride of this year’s residents is evident in everything they do. Last fall, for example, Badin fielded an interhall football team for the first time in many years. They knocked off all the league’s traditional “giants” to cop the coveted title; and not a single point was scored against them all season.
Badin Hall, in name at least, is relatively new. In 1844 the old Bog was the site of another building, the Manual Labor School. In Father Sorin’s words, that school supplied “a good English education” to boys who could not afford to spend four years at Notre Dame. Holy Cross Brothers taught the boys a useful trade. Shoemaking, carpentry— such was the curriculum. The Manual Labor School was destroyed in 1897 when the University replaced it with St. Joseph Hall.
St. Joseph Hall was constructed on what now comprises the middle section of Badin Hall. Students who found it necessary to work their way through
Badin Hall—solid pride
retained in a shaky frame.
Notre Dame as waiters in the dining hall were the only men permitted to live in St. Joseph’s. One of these men, Rev. J. H. O’Donnell, C.S.C., became president of the University of Notre Dame from 1940-1946. Father O’Donnell lived in St. Joseph’s for three years prior to his graduation in 1916.
The activities of the residents of St. Joseph Hall were supervised by their rector, Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., who is now chaplain at St. Mary’s College. When Father Schumacher’s duties as Director of Studies at Notre Dame demanded a great deal of his time the jovial Brother Florian directed the St. Joseph’s men.
In 1917 two wings were added to St. Joseph Hall, and its name was changed to Badin Hall. Badin’s namesake is Rev. Stephen Theodore Badin, who was the first priest ever ordained in the United States. Father Badin was also responsible for the purchase of the present Notre Dame campus and is now buried in the Log Chapel.
The first cafeteria on the campus was erected in the basement of Badin in 1920; it occupied the space that is now . the laundry room. It seems the comment on the meals in the dining hall ~	<
wasn’t all favorable even in those days, so when the gourmets of the student body had some spare change they ate in Badin’s new cafeteria. When the present dining hall opened in 1927 the I Badin cafeteria was closed.
Ever since those early days, Badin Hall has retained its popularity among V the student body. Today’s Badinites point to the fact that their hall has the most suitable location on campus.
The Notre Dame book store, barber shop, ® , • laundry pickup office and the watch repair shop are found in its first floor.
The dining hall, library and post office are only a short distance away.	1
And the convenient location of the new Shopping Center will make rooms in Badin even more desirable in the	>
future than they are now ... if that	Ik
“key” brick stays put!	1
REV. ROBERT PELTON
A Trio of Hard-working (?) Badinites.
22
Letters
(Continued from Page 4) have you been living under a rock all your life?
“South Bend is an industrial city suitable for those who want to work hard, honestly and decently and enjoy theii- friendships without a skyline of neon bulbs.”
Is Arthur insinuating that neon “bulbs” are dishonest and indecent? If they are, and Mr. Perry speaks so authoritatively, let us storm that bastion of iniquity, General Electric, and demolish the neon “bulb” division.
The third point: seeking a party town in South Bend.
Really Arthur, we certainly didn’t expect South Bend to be a party town but with a 120,000 population we did | expect more than the Palace, Granada, etc. Where is your Civic Auditorium? Surely such a prosperous “industrial” gL town can find no good excuse for lack of a large meeting place for big time entertainment. (John Adams notwithstanding.) The lack of a city athletic team of any sort is conspicuous unless you consider the feminine efforts in the person of the South Bend Blue Sox. No Art, we didn’t expect a party town and we certainly didn’t get one.
। The fourth point: South Bend as the • city next to Notre Dame.
! Arthur, if you should tear yourself from the Michiana area and travel •W through the rest of the country, upon asking a native of one of the wicked cities of neon “bulbs” where South Bend is you will be surprised to find that many of them will answer dubiously, “Isn’t that where Notre Dame is?”
I am very happy to know that South Bend and the University of Notre Dame । are on friendly relations and I hope that ( they will always remain so. I do not _ wish to alienate the city toward the Uni" versity and I am not pretentious enough to believe that I have the power to do so. However, I should like to ask two questions.
They are: Why, Art, does South Bend insist on preserving its horribly paved (?) streets? Surely a town as prosper-
LENTEN DEVOTIONS
Lenten devotions are currently being held Monday through Friday " in the Sacred Heart Church. The service consists of adoration from 10 - a.m. to 5 p.m.
Hall councils are now contacting each resident for one-half hour adoration each week.
Bob Marr, a freshman, is chairman of the Religious Committee on : campus which is sponsoring the
March 4, 1955
ous as this could afford a street department. Secondly, being an off-campus student I appreciate this following more than most students. Why the phobia toward shoveling snow off the sidewalks? Some cities have ordinances ordering walks to be shoveled within six hours following a snowfall. By the way, Arthur, do you shovel your walk?
John Fitzenz
917 N. St. Louis South Bend
Sophs Journey to Milwaukee For Saturday's Warrior Tilt
The Sophomore Class, 146 strong, will descend upon Milwaukee tomorrow to witness the basketball game between Notre Dame and Marquette in the Milwaukee Auditorium.
Chartered Greyhound buses will leave the Circle at 1 p.m. to arrive in ample time for the game at 8:30 p.m.
Hotel accommodations will be provided for those who desire them.
Sunday afternoon there will be a party for the sophomores at Mount Mary, a Milwaukee girls’ college.
Two rectors from the residence halls will accompany the students on the trip.
The excursion, sponsored solely by the Sophomore Class, is being arranged under- the chairmanship of Mike Thompson, an AB-Engineering student.
The buses are scheduled to return to the Notre Dame campus Sunday evening.
WNDU Weekly Program Schedule
WEEKDAYS 11:50 Sign on; Almanac 12:00 High Noon News 12:15 One Night Stand 12:30 12:30 Club 1:00 World Reporter 1:05 12:30 Club (cont.) 1:30 Showtime 2:30 Coffey Break 3:25 World Reporter 3:30 Afternoon Concert 4:30 Daily Express 5:00 Five-Star Final 5:15 Sports Report* 5:20 Relax! 6:00 Invitation to Music 7:00 Lucky Strike News 7:15 ** 7:30 Penthouse Pops 8:30 ** 9:00 Requestfully Yours 9:55 World Reporter 10:00 ** 10:15 Lucky Strike Sports Final 10:30 Career Hour 11:00 Sign off
* “Dixie Special” is heard at 5:15 Tuesdays and Thursdays by St. Mary's listeners.
** These programs vary from day to day according to the following schedule:
Monday 7:15 Speaking of Books 8:30 White Plume 10:00 Fran Warren Sings
SATURDAY
10:50 Sign on: Almanac
11:00 Masterworks from France
11:30 This Weekend
12:00 High Noon News
12:15 Music in March Time
12:30 12:30 Club
1:00 World Reporter
1:05 12:30 Club (cont.)
1:30 Don Gels—Sounds
2:00 Request Marathon
3:25 World Reporter
3:30 Request Marathon (cont.)
5:00 Five-Star Final
5:15 Glenn Miller’s Music
5:45 Festival of Waltzes
6:00 Forward March	.
6:15 Here’s to Veterans
6:30 On the Town
7:00 Lucky Strike News
7:15 Let’s Go to Town
7:30 Saturday Night Record Party
9:00 Club 640
9:55 World Reporter
10:00 Here’s June Christy
10:15 Lucky Strike Sports Final
10:30 Xlusic ’til Midnight
12:00 Sign Off
Wednesday Knights in
Review White Plume Date in
Hollywood
T uesday Student Senate on the Air Pops Concert Musical Guide
Thursday Let’s Get
Going Focus Musical
Guide
Professor Seegers to Speak At Biology Seminar Tuesday
Walter H. Seegers, professor and chairman of the Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Wayne University College of Medicine, will discuss “The Coagulation of Blood,” at the Biology Seminar, March 8 at 4:30 pan. in Room 107 of the Biology Building.
A well-known authoi-ity on blood coagulation, Doctor Seegers has published nearly 100 papers on the subject, as well as lecturing extensively on it both in the United States and abroad.
At the International Physiological Congress in Montreal in 1953, he served as chairman of the section on blood coagulation. Doctor Seegers also served as chairman on the Panel on Blood Coagulation at the National Research Council.
Straub Announces Changes In Vetville Political Wards
Joe Straub, mayor of Vetville, recently announced the election of ward representatives to his council.
Leo Despres was elected from Ward 2. Kent Wokersien replaces Bob Brown from Ward 4. Joe O’Neill takes over for Frank Petrella in Ward 5, and Bud Nicholson is replacing Jack Thelen, who resigned, in Ward 6.
Each member of the Council is elected for a period of six months. During this time, they meet with the mayor to discuss problems of Vetville.
SUNDAY 6:50 Sign on; Almanac 7:00 Wake Up to Music 8:00 Sunday Morning around the World
8:15 Wake Up to Music 9:00 World Reporter 9:05 Dreambuster
11:00 Sizing Up Sports 11:15 Serenade in Blue 11:30 Guest Star 11:45 Join the Navy 12:00 High Noon News 12:15 Music by Castle
1:30 The Pennsylvanians 1:30 Foreign Students Speak 2:00 Sunday Showcase 3:00 World Reporter 3:05 Grand Opera 6:00 BBC Presents
7:00 New Dimensions in Poet 7:30 Paris Star Time 8:00 The World This Week 8:30 Letters from Home 9:00 Night Watchman 9:55 World Reporter
10:00 Red Man 10:15 Sports Final 10:30 Nothing 11:00 Sign Off
Friday Broadway in
Review White Phone Melachrino
Musicale
23
Graduating Engineers
Research, development and production activities at Northrop Aircraft, Inc., create a continuous demand for young men who are building careers in the fields of engineering and science.
Ij you have had training that qualifies you for:
Boundary Layer Research	Aeronautical Engineering
Aerodynamics	Mechanical Engineering
Thermodynamics	Electrical Engineering
. . . if you want to build a permanent, successful career in one of America's foremost research, development and production centers . . .- if you want to locate in the Los Angeles Metropolitan area . . . please contact University of Notre Dame Engineering Placement Office.
Interviews
Campus interviews will be conducted by Mr. E. J. Noonan, Engineering Personnel Representative of Northrop Aircraft, Inc., on March I I at the University of Notre Dame Engineering Placement Office.
Please make appointment in advance so your interview may be scheduled for your convenience.
NORTHROP AIRCRAFT, Inc.
HAWTHORNE, CALIFORNIA
24
The Scholastic^
; Scholastic Sports

TOP MIDWEST THINCLADS INVADE FIELDHOUSE
1 • Tracksters Host CCC Meet Here Tomorrow In Attempt to Take Second Successive Title
| The Irish thinclads will wind up their 1955 indoor season by hosting the Central Collegiate meet tomorrow in the Fieldhouse. Top midwestern competi-- | tion, excluding the Big Ten Conference i teams, will appear in this indoor finale.
- The Irish go into this meet with a 2-2 W record, and will be trying to carry off the crown for the second straight year. Preliminaries will be held in the afternoon at 1:30. The finals will be run off at 7:30 p.m.
Michigan Normal, Bradley, Marquette, Western Michigan, Wayne, Drake, and Central Michigan will com-/ pete against the Irish in the meet.
' There will be a special AAU freshman one-mile race, with the outstanding first year men of each school running un-£ attached.
Last season the Irish thinclads froze out the opposition by winning either first or second in almost every event. Coach Alex Wilson believes the keynote to this swamping triumph was “depth,” and although being cautious, he expresses a confident attitude toward the । outcome of this year’s meet. “We are the defending champions,” the coach exclaims, “and lacking evidence of other £ teams, I’ve got to stick with the champs.”
Irish Co-Captains Al Schoenig and Jim Pitcavage will participate in their last indoor meets for the Blue and
Gold. Schoenig is the leading light in the half-mile field, while Pitcavage will be competing against Central Michigan’s broad-jumping specialist, Bill Podoley. y The two-mile run will be highlighted j by an individual contest, as Jim Daly / and Jack Gits will be pitted against 1 0 Bob Soth of Drake.
The high-jump event will be focused upon Dick Richardson of Bradley and Bernie Allard of Notre Dame, two heated rivals trying foi* a meet record.
Notre Dame should dominate the field in both the one-mile relay and shot put events. Sophomore sensation Byron Beams will be heaving the steel ball in I an effort to smash his own record of I	52 feet, 1 inch. Bill Squires will be seek-
I	ing to regain a prominent position
r to March 4, 1955
among collegiate milers. Squires has suffered two straight setbacks and is out to better his 4:10.7 time.
Last week at Bloomington, the Indiana team, possessing one of the most powerful squads in the Big Ten, hung
AL SCHOENIG AND BILL SQUIRES
Distance Runners Pace Irish
a stinging 70-34 defeat on the Irish, despite a record shattering shot put by Beams. The Hoosiers snatched nine of
a possible twelve first place awards and humbled the Irish by sweeping all honors in the 60-yard dash and 440-yard high hurdles.
Beams, who the previous week set a new dual meet record, bested another mark by pushing the iron ball 52 feet, 1 inch.
Indiana’s Olympic star Milt Campbell launched the best single performance of the afternoon by covering the 60-yard cinder path in :06.4, and then erasing the I. U. 70-yard high hurdles mark.
Aside from capturing the shot put, the Irish won only two other events in the entire meet. Al Schoenig sprinted the 880 in 1:56.6 for first place. Bernie Allard took the high-jump, with a leap of 6 feet, 5% inches.
Irish Meet Warriors For Basketball Finale
Coach Johnny Jordan’s Fighting Irish invade Milwaukee tomorrow night for their last encounter of the season against the red-hot Warriors of Marquette, who now hold an unbeaten string of 22.
Still smarting from the defeat suffered on their home court at the hands of Marquette, the Irish will be attempting to gain revenge by knocking off the Midwest’s most phenomenal independent and N.C.A.A. title aspirant in this last game.
The Irish will carry into their final tilt an unimpressive 12-10 record. They lost to DePaul last Saturday night 81-77, but retaliated in the Fieldhouse Tuesday with a 72-61 win over the Demons.
The game will also be the last for all-time scoring leader Jack Stephens, who will be out to increase his total at the expense of Marquette. Steve Kebora is the only other senior on the squad.
The Warriors hope to carry a record blemished by only one loss into the N.C.A.A. tourney, but the Irish almost succeeded in dumping them in their last
PAUL HORNUNG
Second Half Pacesetter
25
encounter and will be, looking for the “big” upset. Paul Hornung and Lee Ayotte have continued to give Jordan good reserve strength. Hornung’s jump shot has proved deadly recently. Ayotte’s floor play has been steady, if not brilliant.
Bill Weiman and John Fannon have shown flashes of scoring form.
The last meeting of the two rivals provided one of the season’s most exciting contests, the Irish having Marquette on the ropes for most of the game. The Warriors’ depth, finesse, and ability to come from behind, however, enabled them to chalk up their 21st straight triumph, a string which they have since extended to 22.
Walczak Big Threat
The cool-headed ball handling and sharpshooting of sophomore guard Bob Walczak tightened the Warriors into a smooth unit after they had gotten off to a shaky start. Walczak, the playmaker of the Milwaukee outfit, spent four years in the Air Force before coming to Marquette. His experience and ability to score from the outside label him as the Warriors’ big threat. '
The Irish succeeded in bottling up 6-9 center, Terry Rand, Marquette’s top scorei- last season, but Warrior coach Joel Nagle promptly responded with 6-6 Russ Wittberger, a terrific rebounder and hook-shot artist, evidencing Marquette’s great surplus of talent.
Bespectacled forward Jerry Hopfens-perger proved to be more versatile than he appeared on the Irish court as he handled the ball expertly and grabbed his share of rebounds. His 28 points against Valparaiso last Saturday night are evidence of his added ability as a scoring threat.
Rounding out the Marquette main line are Bugs Bugalski and forward
'Sports lllustrated's' Schulberg to Receive Award as Bengal's Annual 'Man Who Did Most
Budd Schulberg, noted boxing columnist for Sports Illustrated and long time boxing enthusiast, has been named recipient of the 1955 annual Bengal Bout Award as the “man who has done the most for boxing in the last year.” Schulberg will receive the award March 16, the night of the finals, and will
present trophies to champions.
In his work for Schulberg covered
the Bengal Bout
Sports Illustrated, the Kid Gavilan-
Johnny Saxton welterweight title fight in Philadelphia, and, in conjunction with this fight, wrote an account exposing the Palermo-Carbo undercover rackets. The article, which received nation-wide attention, demanded an immediate investigation of the underworld elements seeping into boxing.
Two of the first steps in this direction
LEE AYOTTE
Steady Sophomore Reserve
Rube Schulz. Bugalski, a hawkeyed guard, rarely misses an opportunity on
offense
or defense. He is one of the
team’s leading scorers and more than a few of his points are the result of stealing the ball from opposing guards.
Baby-faced Schulz is Marquette’s top rebounder and a specialist in tip-in shots and at the foul line. Like Bugalski, Schulz is not spectacular but is consistent, and the two are 40-minute regulars.
Giving added strength to the warrior squad are Pat O’Keefe and Bobby Van Vooren, two high caliber guards. O’Keefe is a 5-10 dead-eye who Nagle inserts into the lineup when several quick buckets are needed.
BUDD SCHULBERG
The Man Behind The Story
occurred as the Governors of New York and Pennsylvania established boxing commissions designed to make close examinations of underworld influence in boxing, and to determine what action could be taken to eliminate these influences.
Although he has tried to educate the public to occasional mismatches, fight fixes, and the like, he steadfastly main-■ tains that “boxing is a fundamental, classic sport soundly based in man’s instincts of courage and self defense.” With this thought in mind he has always opposed movements to curtail or in any way hinder the advancement of boxing. Schulberg is a strong advocate of amateur boxing, and also has tried to re-0 juvenate a more active interest in the lighter weight classes.
Schulberg has worked for boxers’ welfare, especially after they have retired from the ring. He has recently suggested a plan to institute a memorial hospital wing for former boxers.

Wrote ‘On The Waterfront’
Schulberg is the author of On the Waterfront, which has been nominated for an Academy Award, and he worked with director Elia Kazan in its filming. Such boxers as Tony Galento, Lee Oma, and Abe Simon were employed as actors in the film since Mr. Schulberg makes it a general policy to help in the postboxing careers of former ringsters.
He also published The Harder They Fall, a best seller novel, which was called the most authentic novel written on boxing by such men as Gene Tunney and Jimmy Cannon.
26
The Scholastic
Dick Shulsen Skips Rops
Pete Noznesky Punches
Bob Williams Drills
Dick Wing Jabs Hugh Boyle
Than
More
g

It takes guts to sign that entry sheet, but it takes a lot more to get over to the Fieldhouse every day and sweat off that suet in preparation for the big ring debut.
Coach Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano has his boys near fighting shape now and he is confident that 1955 will provide some of the top Bengal thrills.
Individual drills, group calisthenics, sparring, and road work comprise the average Bengal workout.
All the sweat will be worth it on March 16 when the winners are crowned.
an Entry Blank
“Nappy” Puts His Boys Through Their Paces in Daily Drills.

Dominic “Nappy”
Napolitano

Fencers Hit Top Form With Three Rood Wins •
pfesshn
A red-hot Notre Dame fencing team will be host to its third and possibly toughest Big Ten rival, Illinois, next Saturday afternoon in the Fieldhouse
Smyth and Aubrey have been
SMYTH AND AUBREY
by Paul Fullmer
The Notre Dame two-three punch of Lloyd Aubrey and John Smyth has been alternately hot and cold all season, but when they were at least tepid the Irish were on the long end of the final score. Jack Stephens has carried the brunt of the Irish offense and the opponents defense, but Junior still managed to break the all-time scoring marks.
called everything from “sensations” to “left tackles” to “hatchet men” by sports writers across the country, but when the chips were down the two big men came through in their first season as regulars for the Blue and Gold. ND has always been noted for its strong board strength, and Aubrey and Smyth were the backbone of this power. Both managed to score their share of the points as they easily came in second and third in the scoring column.
Aubrey, a junior, cracked the 30 point mark twice this year, exploding for 32 points against Northwestern at McGaw Fieldhouse. His 14 field goals in this contest erased the previous ND record and he came within three counters of the individual scoring total. Lloyd also drew a bead on Butler’s Bulldogs as he poured in 30 points. Aubrey’s weak start in the first three games hurt his season average, but after hitting 25 against Loyola in the fourth game, he has kept his average well over 17 points.
Sophomore Smyth has kept his shots to a minimum this season, but has found his eye on occasion to lead his mates to victory. John, who looks more like the All-American kid than Jack Armstrong, found himself in the Sugar Bowl tourney and battled both Holy Cross and Loyola of the South off the boards as the Irish easily took the crown. His 18 points against Loyola and 23 scores against Kansas State wenTvital highlights in the spotty Irish season. “The Kid” experimented with glasses for a few games, but the improvement wasn’t noticeable. After hitting the 23 against Kansas State without the specs, Smyth now operates without the optometrist’s aid.
A Unique Irish Sickness
Aubrey and Smyth -were the key to the boards and the boards were the key to the 1955 Irish successes and failures. Four of the first five averaged nearly four fouls this season and this spelled certain defeat in every game that a starter went out early. The Irish didn’t make the polite society of the NCAA or NIT through this “foulness”. This malady has been a troublesome disease since the first tipoff against Wisconsin, and it has become irksome to see certain victories slip through “foul” hands.
Tuesday’s 72-61 win over DePaul was assured when the starters managed to hang around until the final gun. Both Smyth and Aubrey really got rough off the boards in the second half and with Lloyd firing in seven fielders in the last half, the Demons saw their chances go out the window. The cocky, smart, and ever-smirking Chicago outfit used their plays to perfection, but the Fieldhouse jinx and a poor DePaul percentage helped the Jordanmen. The Irish teamwork, obvious for the first time this year, jelled early and held the ship together at the finish.
A Challenge For The Senate
It seems strange that every hamlet in America sees the “Notre Dame Football Highlights of 1955” except the 5,000 loyal troops who sit through ■wind and rain to root the team on. Any one of the six circulating films could easily be obtained for local consumption. The bureaucrats in OUR Student Senate might schedule a showing during Lent, when the fare is rather slim. The film could be shown with the regular movies in Washington Hall on Saturday, or a special showing could be held, with the proceeds going to the Olympic Fund. Let’s see a little action by one of the many committees.
at 2 p.m.	|
Having Avon five of their last six | matches and their last three in a row, the Irish swordsmen will match talents with an opponent that Coach Walter Langford rates “one of the best fenc-^ ing squads in the midwest.”	i
Consequently, Coach Langford’s lads | will have their hands full in striving r for their tenth win of the season against t three setbacks. These three defeats J came at the hands of Iowa and Wis- •: consin earlier in the season. And oddly i enough, all three matches were one ’ point, 14-13, losses.	i
Going into the Illini battle, Don f Tadrowski and Jerry Isaacs lead the^ P powerful epee team with individual won- I lost records of 28-5, and 24-5, respec- h tively.	|
Gene Gasse, 23-10, and Co-Captain ■ Jim Waters, 26-8, boast top individual -records in the foil division, and CoCaptain Tom Dorwin excels in the sabre.	1
In their most recent contests, the	,
Irish fencers made a clean sweep of their Motor City opponents, Detroit	I
Wayne, and Lawrence Tech.	£ (
Last Friday night an inspired Notre w / Dame crew handed the University of | Detroit fencers their first loss of the | season to the tune of 14-13. The Titans, I previous to this match, were the lone I unbeaten squad in the entire Midwest. |
Furthermore, Detroit was dealt a | double blow in the match. Not only were they knocked from the ranks of the unbeaten, but also their highly-touted I foil team was defeated, 5-4, a feat no • I other team has been able to accomplish | this season. It was this victory that | cinched the match for the Irish stal- t r warts.	|
John Brogen in epee and Co-Captain	|
Jim Waters in foil each Avon three bouts without a loss for Notre Dame	1
On the folloAving Saturday afternoon, Notre Dame’s fencing team made a complete SAveep of its two day visit by defeating Wayne University, 15-12, and ^ LaAVTence Tech, 23-4.	"
Don TadroAvski and Jerry Isaacs each contributed four bout victories toAvard the winning cause in epee, thus enabling the Irish epee team to cop its 30th straight meet Avithout defeat over a period of three years. In the foil, Co-Captain Waters again came through by Avinning five without a loss. Gene Gasse won four and lost none in the sabre.
28
The Scholastic^ '
Irish Grapplers End Season; •Lose Finale to Marquette
Last Saturday, the Notre Dame Wrestling Club absorbed a close 17-13 defeat by (Marquette. For the second time in the last three matches, the Irish saw a victory slip from their grasp in the final match.
Notre Dame victories came on a forfeit in the 123 lb. class, a pin by Bob Pivonka in the 137 lb. class, and a ^decision by Jack Armstrong in the 177 lb. class.
The largest crowd of the season witnessed the last home match. The loss leaves the team with a record of two victories, four defeats, and one tie.
Terry Crowley, speaking for the entire team, thanked the student body
for their fine support which increased with every home match. Crowley paced the squad all season with his clever tactics. He lost his first match against Marquette.
Bowling Team Meets St. Joe's After Losing Match to DePaul
The Irish bowling squad takes to the alleys against St. Joseph’s College tomorrow at the Palais Royale.
Last Saturday the Irish dropped four out of five to the high-flying DePaul team. DePaul leads in the Midwestern Intercollegiate Bowling Conference and reversed the only defeat handed them this year.
Jim 'McLaughlin had games of 205 and 201 and a five-game total of 952
for the Irish. DePaul’s Pat McGuigan was red hot on the alleys and took individual honors with a five-game total of 1,001, including games of 211 and 225.
Zahm Noses Out Farley To Win Interhall Relay
A narrow two-point margin gave Zahm Hall a first place over Farley in the Interhall relay swimming meet held recently at the Rock pool. The Zahm mermen amassed 70 points, while Farley’s swimmers garnered 68.
Badin Hall placed third with 66 points. Morrissey finished fourth with a 60-point total, followed by Dillon, Breen-Phillips, Howard, and Alumni with 40, 16, ten, and four points, respectively.
Always Welcome at
ROCCO'S
Pizza Our Specialty
SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI
STEAKS and CHOPS Open 11 a.m. to 12 midnight Open Sundays 5 to 9 p.m.— For Student Convenience.
537 North St. Louis
Want to travel and study abroad?
Take a university-sponsored tour via TWA this summer and earn full college credit while you travel
Visit the countries of your choice . . . study from 2 to 6 weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour via TWA. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TWA’s economical Sky Tourist service.
For information, write: John H. Furbay, Ph. D., Director, Air World Tours, Dept. CN, 380 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y Be sure to mention countries you wish to visit.
arch 4, 1955
WHS mOMillllHIt
Gives You True Tobacco Taste
And Real Filtration, Too!
op j
PRODUCT OF
29
N. D. STUDENTS ONLY Tuesday and Thursday T-Biiiic Steak
I—, *1.25
Also Tiesday Spaghetti Dinners $1 Pork Chops $1.10
These are complete dinners with second cup of coffee
FLAMINGO Morant
610 N. Michigan
OPEN SUNDAY
DR. N. FIZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to Si-Howr Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
There arc two important reasons wThy the Martin Star is rising...and why your career can rise along with it:
...The finest aircraft plant, engineering, electronic, nuclear physics and research facilities on the eastern seaboard.
...An entirely new management concept in Advanced Design and weapons systems development, embracing creative engineering ranging upward from nuclear powered aircraft to anti-gravity research and tomorrow’s satellite vehicle.
There are exceptional opportunities for dynamic young engineering talent at the Glenn L. Martin Company in Baltimore, Maryland.
See the Martin representative visiting this campus MARCH 14. Contact your placement office for appointment and further details.
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition “Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles Avenue
30
The ScholastiC
Upsets Mark Kegler Action • As Teams Swing Into Stretch
The Kampus Keglers move into their final five weeks with both league titles still undecided.
Upsets were the order of the day in the Gold League last Sunday. The Met Club took all four points from La Raza and jumped all the way from third to first place. Toledo, last week’s leader, could garner only one out of four from Wisconsin and dropped to second.
™ A.LE.E. dropped from second to third as they lost all four points to Milwaukee. Cleveland also dropped four to Delaware Valley, but retained fourth.
Jim Haering of A.LE.E. had high three-game total with 542 pins and also a 211 game which tied for high single game score for the day. John Aquilla of Cleveland also rattled the pins for a 211 game.
In the Blue League, the Air Cadets moved back into first place, taking three out of four from California. Detroit fell from the top rung, losing three out of four to the Chemical Engineers, who moved into third place.
Tom Crowe of California rolled 539, which was good enough for high three-game total. He had a 200 game, but Rudy Cender of the Chemical Engineers took high single game honors with a 203.
Gymnasts Challenge Chicago At Home Tomorrow Afternoon
The Notre Dame gymnastic team will face the University of Chicago tomorrow at 2 p m. in the Fieldhouse.
Last Friday night, the Irish lost a 62 to 34 decision at the hands of Navy Pier in Chicago.
The Irish won the trampoline and horizontal bar events, but the overall
balance of the Navy Pier team proved too much to overcome.
Evie Hatch led the Irish scorers with eight points, closely followed by Dan Healy with seven and one-half, Reg Grim with six and one-half, and Rocco Tannone with six. Navy Pier won all five first places with Grim, Tannone, and Healy picking up second places.
EDDIE'S for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
March 4, 1955
31
Engineering Graduates • ADVANCED DEGREE
AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERS
AERODYNAMICS
•	Configuration Design
•	Performance
•	Stability and Control
•	Maneuverability and Loads
•	Propulsion
•	Pressure Distribution
•	Thermal Characteristics
•	Experimental Testing
•	Research and Development
STRUCTURES
•	Structural Loads Calculations
•	Static Loads Analysis
•	Dynamic Loads Analysis
•	Loads and Criteria Studies
•	Project Structures Analysis
•	Weights Analysis
PROPULSION
•	Design
Preliminary Design
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS
ELECTRONICS
• Research, Design, Development Guidance Systems Instrumentation Telemetering Beacons
Amplifiers Receivers UHF Antennas Computers Coders, Decoders Transmitters Power Supplies
SERVOMECHANISMS
•	Research and Development Inertial Guidance Systems Missile Autopilots Helicopter Autopilots
•	Design •
Electronic Design Component Evaluation
•	Product Engineering Missile Servo Systems Helicopter Autopilots
•	Laboratory
Analogue Simulation
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
ROCKETS
•	Design and Development Rocket Engines Thrust Chamber Turbines and Pumps Pressure Vessels
•	Research
Materials and Propellants Heat Transfer Fluid Mechanics Combustion
•	Development Testing Power Plants Pumps and Components
GENERAL LABORATORIES
•	Electro-Mechanical
Equipment Evaluation Equipment Test
•	Hydraulics
Leakage Tests
Flow Tests-
Pressure Drop Studies
Pressure Vessel and tank evaluation
•	Vibrations
Shock and Vibration Tests Fatigue Studies
MATHEMATICIANS AND PHYSICISTS
DYNAMICS
Flutter Vibration
Dynamic Loads Analysis of Systems Kinematics
•	Mathematical Analysis Applied Mathematics Operations Analysis Manual Computation Information Processing Analogue & Digital
Computations
• Data Processing and Analysis Data Reduction Analysis of Test Results Statistical Analysis
AERODYNAMICS
•	Performance
•	Stability and Control
•	Maneuverability and Loads
•	Propulsion
•	Pressure Distribution
•	Thermal Characteristics
•	Experimental Testing
32
The Scholastic 9
...HERE'S WHAT BELL AIRCRAFT OFFERS YOU
•	Rocket Engines
I	Turbines and Pumps
•	Development Engines Thrust Chambers
•	Research
Heat Transfers
Fluid Mechanics
W	• Development Testing
Power Plants
Pumps and Components
TESTING
•	Bell Test Center
Missile Acceptance Testing Test Cell Instrumentation
•	Components Checking
®	Test Equipment Design
Quality Control
•	Flight Test Instrumentation Installation
•	Holloman Field Test Base Missile Guidance Test Equip & Instrum.
•	Service & Training Field Service Represen. Operational Training
e
•	Static Test Load Tests of
Airframes, Components
SERVOMECHANISMS
•	Design and Development Servo Valves
Hydraulics
™	Instruments
Experimental Inertial Guidance Systems Missile Autopilots Helicopter Autopilot
ELECTRONICS
•	Instrumentation
•	Test Equipment
•	Measurements
•	Circuit Devel.
SERVOMECHANISMS
•	Inertial Guidance
•	Analogue Simulation
ROCKETS
•	Fluid Flow
•	Thermodynamics
Bell Aircraft Corporation — Pacemaker of Aviation Progress — is also a world leader in elec-tronics. Constant searching beyond the frontiers of present scientific knowledge has made "Bell Aircraft” synonomous with the newest, most advanced concepts in aeronautics, electronics and related sciences.
Bell Aircraft has always emphasized research and development as a major instrument for strengthening our nation’s air arm. Our engineers are pioneers and leaders in the fields of supersonic flight, jet aircraft development, guided missiles, missile component development and systems engineering of all types. As a result, they have climbed to new heights of professional recognition and technical advancement. Through application of thorough research, advanced engineering and sound production techniques which distinguish Bell Aircraft’s products, Bell Aircraft engineers are making major contributions to science, industry and commerce for today and the future.
For complete information about a rewarding career at Bell Aircraft, make an appointment through your Placement Office.
Our representative will be on campus
March 7 and 8
or write Afgr. Eng. Personnel
POST OFFICE BOX 1 BUFFALO 5, NEW YORK
> } March 4, 1955
33
the Mt
by Don Yeckel
Last iveek I tried to indicate a problem that today faces both civilization and the Catholic Church. For Cardinal Suhard this problem is a “crisis of growth,” for Christopher Dawson a “crisis of culture,” and for Charles Peguy a “Holy War.” This iveek I asked Dick Clark, a Junior General Program student from River Forest, Illinois, to make this problem more explicit by outlining the nature and responsibilities of Catholic Action. Dick is well qualified to do so. He is presently co-chairman of YCS here on campus, and is also active in the National Catholic Action Study Committee. Read what Dick has to say. Catholic Action is one of the vital streams of Catholicism. It cannot be shrugged off without serious thought.
The Mission
Recent decades have witnessed a growing concern within the Church over the problem of forming a competent laity, a laity that will assist the Church in her mission
of reconstructing the modern age. The present Holy Father has repeatedly stressed the need for a strong lay apos-tolate in every area of society. The Church is more and more becoming aware of her role within the temporal order.
If we were to ask ourselves why this has become such an imminent necessity, we need only reflect for a few moments on the present condition of society in order to find our answer. Whether we like it or not, the present age is one shot through with confusion, depravity, mistrust, and brutality. Within the space of one generation, a totalitarian force has arisen that threatens to subject all mankind under its control, the rise of which has been paralleled by the discovery of military weapons capable of destroying the entire face of the earth. A profound change is taking place within the very fiber of existence, a change that has no counterpart in the entire history of the world.
The condition of contemporary society has variously been described as atheistic, materialistic, and secularistic. Whatever we choose to call it, it has become abundantly clear that man has been almost totally cut loose from his moorings, that he is no longer aware of any spiritual dimension to his life. Christian values have either been cast aside' or simply ignored, displaced by new codes of conduct that are completely alien to the nature of man. The great majority of institutions and forces that affect our lives today are thoroughly devoid of any Christian inspiration. In short, we are living in an epoch where God is dis
missed without a word, and where the fundamental realities of human existence have been forgotten.
In the face of this challenge, the Christian layman is being called upon to introduce into contemporary society the values which man has so ruthlessly rejected. Only through an apostolate that is directed to every level of society —economic, political, cultural, ethical— can the modern age be redeemed and restored.
The accomplishment of this is the unique task of the layman. For it is the layman who lives and breathes and moves within the temporal order. It is here that he expends his energies, and molds his life for good or for - bad. Politics, the family, education, industry —all the spheres of the temporal order are governed and ruled by the layman. They are his domain, and are therefore shaped by him. Christianity will be restored to the market place only when a strong and militant Christian laity has faced up to the great tasks before it.
For the past 400 years, the Church has gradually withdrawn herself from the manifold areas of the temporal order. Ever since the time of the Protestant Reformation, she has been forced to assume a defensive position, rather than vigorously engage herself in the temporal concerns of man. And during this long period, a whole new age was created. The direction of history was radically changed during this time. Great revolutions of all types characterized this period, as man was slowly and oftentimes painfully shaping a new world for himself. The result of this is that we now live in an historical moment that developed almost complete
ly outside the context of Christianity.
Thus, the task of Christians today is to incarnate into the stream of history Q the unchanging Truths of the Gospels. Since Christ died to sa.ve all men, all races, all civilizations, the truths of Christianity are as valid and meaningful today as they were 2000 years ago. The redemptive act of Christ demands completion and fulfillment in each historical moment in time. Through His Church, Christ redeems all men for all times. The Church, which is the permanent incarnation of Christ in time, carries out the act of redemption through her members.
When we ask ourselves how this tremendous work of redemption is to be accomplished, we may find ourselves at a loss for words, unable to articulate a definite and precise answer. It is easy enough to speak in broad terms, stating what should be done and what steps might be taken. But the real test of oui' apostolate will be found not on paper Q nor in theoretical discussions, but in the ’ existential arena of human life and human society. Labor unions, assembly lines, academic institutions, newspapers, political structures, the family—it is from these areas that Christ has been removed, and it is into these areas that He seeks to re-enter, that He may join the humanity He suffered and died for. And He will enter these areas only through the members of His Church, through the apostolate efforts of those who desire “to restore all things in Christ.”
This job is too great for any one man to do alone. The complexity and magnitude of modern society is such that group effort becomes a necessity. The job ahead of us is a communitarian one. The apostolate of the laity must be an organized apostolate, competently equipped to grapple with the highly complex institutions of modern society. Only inr^ this way can the influence of Christi-' anity be felt in the many areas of modern society. The action of individuals, no matter how noble, is no longer sufficient. Such an organized apostolate is known as Catholic Action, which Pius XII has defined as “the participation of the laity in the apostolate of the hierarchy.” What this means is that the laity, under the guidance of the clergy, carry out and complete the apostolic mission of the Church.	.-k
The needs of our times make this ~ mission absolutely indispensable. As Christians in the modem world, we are being asked to undertake a job of the utmost importance: the re-Christianiz-ing of the world in which we live. We no longer have the prerogative of accepting or rejecting this challenge. For as last Sunday’s Liturgy tells us, “Now is the acceptable time, now is the day of salvation.”—Richard C. Clark
34
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS



$

“Old Timer” Shows Young Pipe Smoker Reason
EDGEWORTH SMOKES COOLEST
Compare the Cuts of
Pipe Tobacco
Shows Meaning of “Ready-Rubbed”
Old time smokers knew the secret of cool, even burning. They carefully “hand-rubbed” their tobacco into chunks of just the right size. Now
Others give you fine-cut shreds - good . for cigarettes, but not so good for pipes.
I
Only Edgeworth gives you j slow-burning i ’chunks" made for pipes and pipes alone.
FOR A COOL MIXTURE TRY HOLIDAY
A “custom” blend of five tobaccos selected for mildness and aroma. The only mixture in the Seal-Pak pouch.
Some brands give you shorts and bits which bum like tinder-fast and hot.
Edgeworth does all this before the tobacco is packaged. An exclusive process ‘‘ready-rubs” Edgeworth into chunks that pack right for a cool smoke without a touch of tongue bite.
Made Right...Cut Right and Packed Right!

Three Weeks Above a Hot Stove
■ ^^ual,£D

Your true tobacco expert will tell you that white burleys are the world’s coolest smoking tobaccos. Edgeworth is a blend of white burleys only—aged for years. It leaves our plant with just the right moisture content for a cool, no-bite smoke and reaches you in the same condition because only Edgeworth has the Seal-Pak pouch. Air-and-water tight, it promises you fresher tobacco than any other
Friend of ours put his Edgeworth of Pocket pack. No bulky above a hot stove, then forgot it! corners in your pocket, either. Three weeks later he found it—still moist and cool smoking!
YOU RE SMARTER SMOKING
Edgeworth
Name.
I
Address.
City____
Get this new polished aluminum stem “Park Lane” pipe with interchangeable imported briar bowl and exclusive “dri-dome" moisture trap—along with 2 full-sized pouches of EDGEWORTH tobacco. If your dealer cannot supply you, use this handy order blank.


ilJAEOMt OFFER $50
1 I
.State.
AMERICA S FINEST PIPE TOBACCO FOR OVER HALF A CENTURY
Mail with SI-50 to Park Lane, Larus & Brother Company, Inc., Richmond, Virginia
CM-3
I