It's JEAN SABLON S
C*M&
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
Wlnston-Salom, N. C.
oRMet,
u u
0 I
THE


UNE fyu HUMMING
(RCA Victor)
IN ENGLISH or French, his singing is terrific!
His fans range from bobby-soxers to the lavender-and-old-lace set.
Why, he even lights his Camels with a Continental charm. Takes a leisurely puff and says: "Great!”
Yes, Jean, and millions of smokers agree with you about Camels. More people are smoking Camels than ever before!
Try Camels! Discover for yourself why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the "choice of experience”!



CIGARETTE ' THAT SUITS ME j
CAMEL
And here's another great record
Mote people ate smoking
LETTERS
TRADITION OR MORE ROOM?
Dear Editor:
I see that the Junior Prom Committee has decided to break a little tradition with the forthcoming J.P. That tradition being closing the dance only to members of the Junior and Senior classes. There seems to me to be very little tradition left at Notre Dame. That might be for the good or for the bad but I feel that we should keep some.
Last fall the Sophomore Cotillion was open to the same group of students that the J.P. is open to now. The Cotillion seemed more like a store that was giving away free beer with each purchase than a dance. There were so many at the dance that you had to wait almost a half hour to check your coats. What is the number of the “limited number of bids”? As many as want to come? That seems to be what is generally meant by that statement.
Let’s keep tradition. If we do, I am pretty sure there will be enough room to dance. If not we might have a repeat of last fall’s squeeze play.
Tom Hynes
Off Campus
THE SCORNER UNDER FIRE
Dear Editor:
Notice is taken of an article that appeared in the Feb. 27 issue, in the column “Scorner’s Seat.” Mr. Wilcox says in one line: “Even if the Taft-Hartley bill is constitutional, etc.,” thereby, by implication, he concurs that the act could be constitutional. However, despite this statement, in a later sentence he emphatically states that this act of legislation is basically immoral. From the two premises stated, the logical conclusion would be that it is possible to have in this country a law that is constitutional and at the same time basically immoral.
These statements were somewhat of a surprise to me, as I was led to believe that the founding of this country and the constitution were based on the natural law.
Assuming that Mr. Wilcox has been extensively exposed to the intricacies of moral theology, could it be possible that he was carried away by his own personal political views and as a result thereof misstated basic tenets of constitutional law and/or morals?
A. J. Frericks
Dillon Hall
What’s back of that name for YOU?
Back of the name Western Electric are 130,000 men and women who help make your Bell Telephone service the world's best—at the lowest possible cost.
Where are they? What do they do?
They’re in factories in 18 cities, making vast amounts of telephone equipment designed by their teammates at Bell Telephone Laboratories.
They’re all over the map, buying all kinds of Bell System supplies from other manufacturers.
They’re at 29 distributing houses, filling orders from Bell Telephone companies for apparatus and supplies.
More than 31,000 of them are in mobile crews installing intricate central office switchboards and equipment.
In doing this huge job—one of the most complex in industry—Western Electric people are contributing daily to the efficiency and economy of your Bell Telephone service.
Western Electric
k UNIT OF THE BELL	SYSTEM SINCE 1882
3
{Ry dloberl Stock

WND description of the Marquette game) . . .
Question of the week: How will Al Capp go about “giving the chair” to a chair?
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Why doesn’t somebody fix this lousy typewriter.
That’s enough ruminating for this week, boss.-
TOP OF THE WEEK
The Lenten retreats move to Dillon tomorrow. For a solid foundation in the things that matter, don’t miss ’em.
MAGNIFICO
Cavanaugh Hall’s Tom Murray was busy this week quietly refuting the argument that students lack initiative. Already more than a hundred ND men and several St. Mary’s girls had signed up for the Easter bus ride to New York and New Jersey. Tom, a Law freshman from Dunellen, N. J., was running the trip on a non-profit basis, entirely on his own initiative, with no help from either of the geographical clubs concerned. Only one hitch had developed: the bus company could supply just two buses, restricting the number of trip-makers to about 66. Murray starts making collections today on a first-pay, first-go basis. The smart people who kick in first will save about $17 on a round-trip railroad fare, and about §5 on a round-trip bus fare.
Private initiative and energy was nothing new to Murray. It’s a habit with him. Besides belonging to the Met and New Jersey clubs, he’s a member of the Inter-American Affairs Club, the La Raza Club, and the Law Club; a former member of the Glee Club, the band, and the Student Council; the holder of two offices in the NFCCS, and a Scholastic reporter. He also sells stationery and magazine subscriptions, and delivers newspapers.
Who said anything about apathy?
RUMORS
Rumor has it this week that John Brennan, one of Mr. Krause’s better basketball players, won’t be around next year. Brennan is supposed to be taking his superlative pre-med avearge to an eastern medical school. On the brighter side, Vince Boryla, the slick Irish center of 1946, leaves the Army this month. The question is: will he come back here?
NOTES FROM AN LD. CARD
The Student Council was hoping for better football seating, more telephone booths, student-sponsored lectures, and coke machines in every hall. After the success of the Arnall lecture, more of the same appears to be a definite possibility and a terrific chance to revive the dozing ND spirit. Let’s hope we get more than the coke machines . . . The Journalist, Scholastic’s clean-lined, limited-circulation little brother, was out again, with several SCHOLASTlC-journal-ism majors torn between two loves. Phil Shea, one of this magazine’s staffers, edited the journalism sheet this week. . . . And speaking of the Journalism Department, we wonder if a few more tickets might be issued for showings in its film classics series. Parts of the Engineering Auditorium were as vacant as my roommate’s head last Thursday night. . . . That same roommate, by the way, got a package the other day. I drooled in anticipation. He opened the package. It was a brand new slide rule. I killed him. . . . Line of the week: “John Goonen received an elbow in the nose on that play.” (From Frank Tripucka’s
CAMPUS CLUBS
<3>"VAXDYKE" eberharp faber.
VAN DYKE HI-DENSITY LEADS
for Greater Opacity
TTiere’s a vast difference in drawing penal leads. Hie HI-DENSITY Microtomic “VAN DYKE” is made of
ROUND LEADS
18 DEGREES
pure crystalline graphite in flake form—it’s finer, more compact, smoother and fleer from all grit and impurities. MUHD FUEL
Round leads from 9Hto 7B.
Chisel shaped leads with the same HI-DENSITY quality are available in six degrees.
De CASTRO NEW LaRAZA PREXY
From the recent LaRaza club election meeting emerged a new set of guiding hands headed by Eric Rey de Castro who moves into the president’s spot for the present semester. Louis Pallais was elected vice-president and James Pinto treasurer, while the secretarial duties were taken over by A. Villavicenio and G. Burbano. New committees including social committee, sports committee and cultural committee were named.
At the last meeting of the club Mr. Jaime Velez, instructor of Spanish at Notre Dame spoke on Latin American literature.
CENTRAL ILLINI VIEW PIGSKIN FILMS
Notre Dame Football Highlights of 1947 were shown at the last meeting of the Central Illinois Club and refreshments were served. It was the club’s second meeting of the semester following a trip to Chicago for the ND-DePaul basketball game. At the first meeting plans were formulated for a chicken dinner, and Art Owens was named secretary for the balance of the year.
ELECTIONS FOR CLEVELAND
Under a revised election set-up, the Cleveland Club will select their new officers within the next few weeks, followed by a banquet to welcome and install the new leaders. The new rules were adopted so that the incoming officers would have time to become acquainted with their duties in order to carry on the summer and fall activities. In keeping with the new system, candidates will become eligible one semester earlier than formerly decreed.
At the last meeting, plans for a spring Communion Breakfast and the Easter vacation were discussed. There was also a suggestion .that the $50 prize annually awarded by the Cleveland alumni be apportioned among the newly elected officers rather than granting the entire sum to one member.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
JOHN A. O'CONNOR. Editor
Associate Editors EDWARD J. SNYDER JOSEPH A. DOYLE
JOSEPH WILCOX Features
PETER BROWN Sports
SHAUN McDERMOTT News
ROBERT T. STOCK Assistant News
JAMES FERSTEL Photography
Editorial Associates
HARRY MONAHAN BUZZ WRIGHT	KEN THOREN
JOE HERRINGTON	VIC DORR	GREG HALPIN
WILLIAM GORMAN Librarian
JOHN CLARK Circulation
GEORGE KORHUMEL Circulation
B. T. KYSER Advertising
JOHN S. BRENNAN Faculty Moderator
taaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaBBaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiiaaaaaffaaaaaaaaaai
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertisina Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Don't Miss — In This Issue
FEATURES	Page
ROBIN—Red Breast is only a Thrush 13 STATION WND—Student Outlet on Beam --------- 14
BEER—Suds-Sipping Veteran Vanishing _________ 15
COLUMNS
SCORNER'S SEAT—Party Recaptures Henry _______ 6
OVER THE GOALPOSTS—Costin's Dream Team_______ 22
SPORTS
TRACK—Title Chances Slim 18
HOCKEY—Irish Icemen 20 BOWLING—Vetville and Romans Lead 22
COVER
Scene at Twelfth Station during outdoor Way of Cross closing last week's Retreat. Photo taken by Joe Hipp.
CALENDAR
MARCH 5
GRANADA, Odd Man Out, with James Mason, Robert Newton and a cast of brilliant character actors. Dublin’s bobbies pursue a wounded Irish revolutionary through Dublin’s glistening cobblestone streets to a tragic end. Robert Newton is believably mad as a loony artist and there’s a bar-room brawl that will delight every two-fisted dreamer from Sweeney’s to the Strat. Add a new Irish colleen with a wistful smile and you have a combination that offers tense and exciting entertainment.
WHOT, Gus Lesnevich versus Billy Fox, for the lightheavyweight championship of the world. 9 p.m. on your dial.
STATE, Dangerous Venture, cowboy ripsnorter, with Hop-along Cassidy and Horse. Probably the best show in town.
MARCH 6
WHOT, Metropolitan Opera matinee, straight from the N. Y. Met. Today it’s Tannheuser, the story of wayward kraut. Music-lovers will reap an afternoon of good listening to The Pilgrim’s Chorus, Fest March, Elizabeth’s Prayer and the moanful O Evening Star. Begins at 1 o’clock.
PALAIS ROYALE, Roy Eberle and his orchestra.
NOTRE DAME versus MARQUETTE, basketball, last game of the season, at Milwaukee.
MARCH 7
GRANADA, Heaven Only Knows, with Robert Cummings and Brian Donlevy. Companion feature Scared to Death, exhibiting, for your horror, Bela Lugosi, the slick-pated ogre. Leave the children at home; Bela is beastly in this one.
STATE, Deep Valley, with Ida Lupino and Dane Clark. Companion feature, Gunfighters, with the former Rose Bowl queen, Barbara Britton. She’s nice to look at and the bawling, stream-fording herds are believable; otherwise it’s the standard Saturday pemmican.
MARCH 9
WASHINGTON HALL, Alaskan Adventure, travelogue in color. Film takes you by rowboat, auto and pack mule over the Alaska of today, featuring curious life of the natives, scenes of Yukon beauty, rare shots of Alaskan caribou and other wild life. Should prove to be enlightening to those who think Indiana is still frontier territory. Also should serve to prime, or discourage, those interested in taking off for the far north following mid-terms.
MARCH 10
STATE, Road to Rio, with the two old cronies, Crosby and Hope. Companion feature, Under the Tonto Rim. Sounds like an expose, but actually it’s Tim Holt armed to the teeth and lookin’ for that sidewinder, Black Rufe.
FIELDHOUSE — Opening round of Knights of Columbus Annual Bengal Bouts, which will continue March 11 and 12. Plenty of sweat and leather for avid ring fans.
5
SCORNERS SEAT
Old Party Recaptures Hybid Henry;
Revenge Motive Gives Him New Award By Joe Wilcox
AWAKE, DORMANT POSIE!
Now is the time of the flowering of the political candidate. Blooming most noticeably at the moment, his petals awash with the dew of victory, is one Henry, of the strain of Wal-1 a c e. Hybrid Henry’s budding third party popped open in the Bronx a couple of weeks ago by electing its Commie-backed ALP candidate.
I suspect Henry of allegiance to
Republican party. At any rate, he is doing everything he can to elect the Republicans in 1948. Nobody but a complete non compos, which Henry is not, would be of the opinion that his outfit had a chance for the palm come next November. Wallace must realize that almost every vote he gains is lost to the Democrats, not the Republicans. His desire for revenge, or perhaps his rage at what he thinks is a foolish foreign policy, have driven him to Taft’s bosom. If there is an annual award given for the most muddled man of the year, Henry should get it in 1948.
JOURNALISM A LA DRIP ... .
American newspapers gave an exhibition of how- puerile they can be when some divorcee latched on to a Rockefeller and married him. All the sob sisters and sob brothers in the country poured out their hearts in a gush of nonsense about America’s “Cinderella Girl” and the “Greatest Romance of the Century.” Even high-and-mighty Time, which usually looks down its adjectived nose at such yellow-sheet goings on, gave about three-quarters of a page to the sticky details. If it is the custom of the American press to behave in this wise, that custom is better honored in the breach than in the observance.
PANDEMONIUM DEPT.
One beneficient effect to be achieved from J. Petrillo’s quashing of canned music may be the eventual restriction of
that bane of the public place, the juke box. If there was ever a perversion of an invention, the juke box, with its blatant chords of cacophony, is it. The things are incapable of being tuned down to a loud roar, they scream in your ear like a buck sergeant at 5:30 a.m.
I have no great objection to juke
exams getting you down?
You’re the man
most likely to succeed in
Van Heusen's own laboratory experts take yarns, fabrics, and finished shirts through fade tests, strength tests, laundry tests, microscopic examination—1500 times ’ each month. All this to assure you that every Van Heusen Shirt will give you more style and value for your money. A new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! $3.50, $3.95 and $4.95. Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
0 Van Hensen
TIES • SPORT SHIRTS
Shirts
PAJAMAS
boxes, nor do I wish to impose my personal distaste for them on the general public. However, I do think that some device should be arranged so that one who craved solace and peace could get it without being subjected to Roy Acuff or some hysterical swing band which ought to play in the Sahara, alone. I was nearly driven neurotic in an Army camp when some idiot insisted on playing “Pistol Packin’ Mamma” on the PX juke box nine times in a row. An exception, I admit, but enough to make me want all juke-boxes shipped behind the iron curtain for all time.
PAEAN AND PRAISE:
Many garlands on the head of Notre Dame’s Department of Journalism for (Continued on Page 26)
Van Heusen Shirts take 1500 every month!
6
7

Station WND — Four Bells
For more than a month Station WND has been generating four hours of pleasing listening five days a week to the Notre Dame campus, and gaining new members to its audience each day.
It has been a mere matter of months since the thought of a campus radio station seemed destined for the very distant future. Everyone was full of ideas on how to establish such a station, yet nobody jumped toward fulfilling their ideas. Thus, it is to the credit of the men behind WND for completing an extremely difficult task.
High on this list is Frank Cronan, WND’s chief engineer and program director. Under his capable direction, the engineering problems were solved and lines were laid in stifling steam tunnels. Cooperation from the Administration produced a modern set of studios above the old gym, and then an above-par set of announcers headed by George Murphy, were handed the ball, which has since been carried with superb precision.
Where WND has scored heaviest is in the choice of its program material, namely, pleasant music, so yearned for by commercial students. Is it any wonder that more students are daily abandoning the local, plug-happy outlets for WND’s soothing menu?
Which may explain why the Rev. Archibald MacDowell, c.s.C., has been wearing a broader grin than usual of late. He has good reason to beam with pride at his Radio Clubbers’ success.
Most Valiant
Many years ago there lived a carpenter. He worked with saw and plane, hammer, nails, and the scented lumber that came from the woods near his home.
He was the Illustrious Son of David, and he lived in the same house with the Eternal Truth. Yet he held no master’s degree, and, had he lived today, it is doubtful if this gentle, small-town laborer could gain entrance to some of our leading American universities any sooner than he gained entrance to an ancient inn.
He was the Zealous Defender of Christ. He wasn’t a namby-pamby, an appeaser, or a compromiser. He did straight-forward what he knew was right, and without regard for .village gossips or tyrannical soldiery. Had he lived today he probably would be an energetic lay-leader, ardently crusading for justice in spite of seemingly impassive obstacles and entrenched evils.
His name was Joseph, and March is his month.
Homicide Highway — 'Thirty'
After four dreary months the problem of Homicide Highway seems to be solved. The state has conceded the purchase of floodlights, which the University and St. Mary’s College have agreed to maintain. It has also promised to stripe the road at the crossing.
Scholastic trusts that these measures will be completed in the very near future.
There are some who may still believe that adequate protection has not been given. Nevertheless, what is most practical has been accomplished.
To the administration of both schools, particularly our Fathers Kehoe and Barry, and to those students and organ
fl
izations who have labored so zealously and tenaciously to bring the matter to completion a vote of thanks should be tendered. Scholastic firmly hopes that it may now write “thirty” to the matter of Homicide Highway.
Good Films Are Possible
It is possible to bring good films to this campus. RKO has a mile-long list of old movies that include some honeys. For example,
Abe Lincoln in Illinois
Giinga
Citizen Kane
Ganga Din	’
The Great Man Votes
The Informer
The Magnificent Ambersons Hunchback of Notre Dame
The Museum of Modern Art Film Library in New York has an even greater catalogue, including old-time comedies, foreign masterpieces, classical films, and American pictures of memorable merit. Included are these samples: Mutiny on the Bounty, The Good Earth, Captains Courageous, Ten Days That Shook the World, All Quiet on the Western Front, a raft of rollicking old-time rib-ticklers, a carload of Fairbanks films, a slough of Swedish reels, a stack of German works, and a hundred more besides.
These motion pictures are educational and entertaining. They can be had for a nominal fee, and with only a little work, such as correspondence and handling. We should have them here.
The Spirit Never Dies
The spirit of Notre Dame is not dead. It is not dying. The men on the west , side of the campus gave ample proof of this by their attendance at last week-end’s retreat. More than 300 fellows saw the chance to gain the quiet enlightenment that only a retreat can bring. These men came, jammed themselves into Morrissey chapel, sat on the floor, stood in the entrance, but best of all they kept coming. At every session it was the same story. They proved that Notre Dame men are, above all, Catholic men.
The retreat series continues; the challenge has been thrown at the men in the other halls. Let’s make Notre Dame men realize that this spirit can never die.
No Picnic at Pokagon
■ When it comes time for dances here at Notre Dame, there it a time-honored — but unnecessary — tradition that says freshmen should go their way in peace and forget the whole thing. It is time to throw out that tradition and to return to a common sense attitude. The largest class in school is the first year men, and their spirit is unbounded. It is time that these men are made a complete part of the University. With their numbers, their spirit, and their interest in campus affairs, the only thing that could result from such an undertaking is one of the best dances of the year. The Seniors have their ball, the juniors their prom, the sophs their cotillion. The poor frosh are left with a picnic in Pokagon Park. Let’s give the freshmen a dance. When traditions are out of date, they are useless.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 19
MARCH 5, 1948
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
OPINION POLL
Council Is Woefully Weak, Students Say
Finally getting back to home ground the Scholastic opinion poll this week ,, made its first enthusiastic contact with the student body. To the question: “What do you think of the Student Council and what should it do?” responses came thick and fast and the resultant chorus sang. in harmony. Everyone thought the same thing and said it in just about the same way.
It seems the average Notre Dame man believes his council to be woefully weak and able to do very little along constructive or independent lines. He blames this partially on inactivity with-
QUESTION OF THE WEEK What do you think of departmentalization?
in the council itself but pointed a much longer finger at the administration. He felt the N.D. hierarchy wasn’t throwing enough support behind council projects to give them substance nor was it giving the council power to act on its own.
This view was succinctly stated by John Ankenbruk of 36C Morrissey. “The Student Council should act or disband. They apparently have neither the ability nor the authority to accomplish anything.” In a calmer tone Bill Marshall of 160 Morrissey said, “Before the Student Council can do anything, it must obtain the power to do it, which power it at present does not have.” “Unless the Student Council can have some real power to act and represent the student body it should be abolished,” was the way Robert Duffy of 246 Sorin carried on the same theme.
A bridge-playing quartet in Walsh consisting of Jim Farley, Maurice White, Paul Hudak, and Jack Fitzpatrick interrupted their activities long enough to rechant the same tale of student woe. Said Hudak: “The backing
of the faculty is needed before it can work. As it is now, they can’t do anything of importance.” “The voice of the Student Council should be the voice of the students to the faculty, not of the faculty to the students as it is now,” chimed in Farley. And Fitzpatrick topped the whole discussion off with: “We had more power in our high school student council than there is here.”
Nick Rott of 205 Dillon pulled a little switch on the general concensus by saying: “Personally, I think we should not have a council unless it has good backing by the students. It doesn’t mean anything around here now.”
But it remained for Steve Krapac of 371 Dillon Hall to hit the essence of the, whole question. Said Krapac: “We definitely need a Student Council.”
Announce Tentative Pairings For Bengal Bout Opener
The following pairings for the opening night of the K. of C.’s Bengal Bouts is tentative to the weigh-ins which will be held Wednesday morning.
165 Pounds
Jim Carroll vs. Tom Kenney J. D. Durkin vs. James Engel Pete Varda vs. Paul Pukish Geo. Dickson vs. Charles Mattingly Dick Cordasco vs. Bill Carew Jim Brennan vs. Bill Hopke Joe Harmon vs. Dan Finn
155 Pounds
Walter Evans vs. James Smith Dick McGoldrick vs. Ed Dailey A. J. Jones vs. Tom King Lou Almasi vs. Frank Fahey Jim Driscoll vs. Robert Wagner
FOLLOW THE FIGHTS
Tickets for the forthcoming Bengal Bouts go on sale Monday in the Cafeteria. Details can be found on Page 21. Also in this week's magazine, on Page 17, are Sportswriter Harry Monahan's long-range predictions of the winners. Throughout the fights, SCHOLASTIC will give its readers up-to-the-minute coverage, with action-packed stories by Monahan, sidelights by Sports Editor Pete Brown, and overall photo coverage by Jim Ferstel and a corps of other SCHOLASTIC photographers.
Relief Drive Profits Set at $35,529.39: Council Accepts NSA
A long Monday night session of the Student Council was climaxed by the announcement of a $35,529.39 profit from the Foreign Student Relief Fund campaign.
The Council voted to approve affiliation with the NSA. The student body had already voted for participation in the NSA. Present plans call for a general election of delegates sometime after the Easter vacation.
Lou Burns gave the report of the successful drive to aid foreign students. A breakdown revealed a $25,666.96 take from award donations, $4,086 from the Carnival, $1,520 subscribed by the students, and a profit of $504 on the Tulane victory dance.
A freshman meeting and dance received approval from the Council, but final permission must come from the University board. After a heated discussion, another motion, forbidding membership to more than one geographical club, was passed.	.
Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., moderator, said that a study was being made by school officials on the allowances given to students for cafe books. Bill Braun gave a report on NSA details and Lou Burns promised for the next meeting a reason for Notre Dame’s withdrawal from the regional NFCCS.
Amendments to the constitution will be proposed at the next meeting with the general election of Council officers ranking high on the list for consideration.
A conflict with classes has caused the resignation of John Sweeney. Dick Kaiser has also left as the College of Engineering representative and will be replaced by Donald PopseL
An interesting note was brought up by Ed Flaherty in his account of the conference of Indiana colleges held in Bloomington recently. Others in attendance told Flaherty that they read the Scholastic often and followed with interest the recent flurries in the Student Council here.
9
FATHER BARRY AND RETREAT-GOERS DURING SUNDAY STATIONS For the first retreat — a record turnout
300 Students Attend First Lenten Retreat
A record turnout of more than 300 students jam-packed themselves into Morrissey Hall chapel last weekend for the first in a series of Lenten retreats. Students from Howard, Badin, Lyons, and Morrissey participated.
The second in the series will start tomorrow night in Dillon Hall chapel with Rev. William Robinson, C.S.C., conducting the opening conference at 8:45 p. m. After the conference, Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., will lead the group in the rosary and the singing of hymns at the Grotto. Confessions will be heard at 9:30 in Sacred Heart Church by the Revs. Frederick Goddard, M.M., John Coholan, M.M., Francis Nealy, o.p., and Edmund Murray, Charles Doremus, Theodore Hesburgh, Norton and Robinson, all of the Holy Cross Congregation.
Father Norton will offer' the Retreat Mass at 7:30 Sunday morning, and will preach the sermon on the Blessed Mother. Father Robinson will speak on “The True Notre Dame Spirit” in the Dillon Hall chapel at 9:30. At 10:00 Father Hesburgh will conduct a marriage forum in the Cavanaugh Hall reading room, followed by the Holy Hour in Cavanaugh chapel at 11:00.
“Comradeship on the Campus” will be the topic of Father Robinson’s 1 p. m. conference. The stations of the
cross and renewal of Baptismal vows, conducted by Father Norton, will close the retreat.
Next week, March 13-14, students in Cavanaugh, St. Ed’s, and Zahm Halls will open their exercises in the Cavanaugh chapel with Fathers Cady and Cussen conducting the services.
—Al Laporte
- ■ ■ -------
Cashman to Present Fugue At Joint ND-Rosary Concert
The glee clubs of the University of Notre Dame and Rosary College will share the spotlight at a concert to be given next Sunday in the Grand Ballroom of the Stevens Hotel in Chicago.
Notre Dame’s principal contribution will be the first performance of a fugue from “Archangel Mike” written by Ed Cashman of “Meet the Missus” fame. “Archangel Mike” is still in the writing stage but will be given in its entirety later. Jerry O’Neil will sing a solo from the second act of “Lohengrin.”
The concert is being presented for the second consecutive year on Laetare Sunday.
Miss Dorothy Wolf is president of the Rosary College Glee Club and Ralph Thorson occupies that position at Notre Dame. The Glee Club will be under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke. Margaret Papin and Mary C. Feeley, of Rosary, are co-chairmen of the concert.
—Richard Rosengarten
New Religion Courses Open in Grad School
Inauguration of advanced religion courses in the Graduate School will be made during this year’s summer school. The announcement was made by Rev. Howard Kenna, c.s.c., Director of Studies.	'
Although restricted for the present to the summer courses, the Religion Department plans to extend the program into the regular scholastic program in the near future. Graduate students following the religion program may receive the Master of Arts or Master of • Science in Education degrees.
Father Kenna said that the aim of the graduate program in religion is threefold: to present basic courses in the principles and methods in the study of Christian tradition, the sacred scriptures and theology; to apply these principles and methods to the study of certain periods of Tradition, selected books of sacred scripture, and various subjects of Catholic doctrine; and to give the student as broad a coverage as possible of the content of Catholic doctrine, without jeopardizing the quality of scholarship required for graduate work.
The Religion Department, in addition to the general requirements, requires as prerequisites for graduate work a reading knowledge of Latin for students who intend to follow the course of studies leading to a Master of Arts degree, and sufficient knowledge of Christian doctrine, philosophy and Christian culture to make adequate graduate work possible.
Carroll, Boyne, N.D. RO's To Attend Annapolis Classes
Two of Notre Dame’s NROTC students will journey to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis March 25 where they will attend regular midshipmen classes and participate in all drill and other actvities with the Middies for three days.
The two men selected to make the trip are: T. W. Carroll, from Long Beach, California, and R. D. Boyne whose home is in Brooklyn. This is part of a new program which will send two regular’ NROTC students from each of 52 colleges and universities throughout the country to Annapolis for the three day period.
The purpose of transferring these men is to acquaint them with the activities of the Naval Academy. It is hoped that by next fall semester Notre Dame will be able to have Annapolis students attend classes here for a similar period of time.—Robert J. Savage
10
RAYMOND AND MANNING For $6.75 — Carmen Cavallero
Prom Plans Solidify; Cavallero To Play
Whereas trees grow from seeds, realities grow from rumors. Such is the case with the rapidly advancing Junior Prom and speculations concerning the services of Carmen Cavallero and his orchestra. Ed Raymond and Jim Manning, co-chairmen of the approaching Prom, announced this week that final contracts have been signed with the tinkling master of the eighty-eight keys and that he will definitely supply the music on the night of April 9 at the Palais Royale.
The Rhythmaires will supplement Cavallero’s smooth and danceable aggregation in order to offer continuous dancing throughout the evening. Bids, which are on sale daily during the meal hours in the Dining Hall basement, are priced at $6.75. The annual dance will be held from 9 to 1.
A tea dance will be sponsored Saturday afternoon from 3 to 6 for the enjoyment of the Juniors and their dates. A local combo will provide the tunes from the Palais bandstand at this extra added attraction. The weekend’s activities will end officially with the 10:10 Mass on Sunday morning.
The standing committee for the Prom includes George Giragi, Frank Finn, Bob Hurley, Joe Rozier and Bill Kennedy.
ABEND TALKS TONIGHT
The Aquinas lecture series will be continued tonight at 8:15 in Central High School auditorium, with Hallet Abend as lecturer. Mr. Abend has been Far-Eastern correspondent of the New York Times, for 15 years and a recognized authority on the problems of that area.
Student Council Will Initiate Forum Series To Prepare For NSA Convention In Summer
Len Boykin, president of the newly revamped Student Council, has realized that Notre Dame’s presence in the National Student Association will be of importance in future years. In a campuswide election last December, the student body, by a vote of 1703 to 245, officially recognized the NSA, and it is now established as a committee of the Student Council.
Prexy Boykin has initiated a series of talks and forums by last year’s national delegates to prepare qualified students for participation in the forthcoming national convention this summer.
A short meeting will be held as a first step in making the NSA a workable unit at Notre Dame. The purpose of the meeting will be to bring all those interested up to date on the status of the regional and national committees, and to assign reading matter to those who wish to qualify as candidates for the coming national convention in August.
A positive and promising program of activity has been offered by the Association for the benefit of student bodies throughout the country. A permanent committee for the betterment of student governments has been formed under the guidance of Bill Gale, of Indiana University, and has successfully held its first affair, a student government conference, at which 100 delegates from throughout the state met at Bloomington to study the basic principles of student governing bodies. Our representative was Ed Flattery, law student from Badin Hall.
Widespread need of getting incoming college freshmen- off to a good start necessitated the formation of a committee on a survey of student orientation programs. Some colleges have already begun to perfect orientation systems for their incoming freshmen, similar to the YCS and Blue Circle function here this past fall, while others have little or no method at all of welcoming their new students.
The major item on the NSA agenda for the coming year is a study of transfer of college credit. Its purpose.is to attempt to establish, first within the state of Indiana, and later nationally, a method of equal exchange of college credit for the transferring student. This would eliminate the usual one- and two-semester time loss that is suffered by a student who is forced to change colleges.
Through the efforts of Rev. John Cavanaugh, Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, Dean Clarence Manion and Judge Kiley, the great books movement, promoted by
NSA, is already thriving on the Notre Dame campus. This movement is the extension of Dr. Mortimer Adler’s plan, which prescribes study under a syllabus of all time great books, which when read undei' proper supervision will constitute for the reader a complete education in al! basic knowledge.
With the purpose of raising and wherever possible equalizing the system of education, a committee has been formed to study and to evolve a program concerning faculty rating and evaluation of grading methods. It is not the primary idea of this activity to effect a radical reform but rather the hope that regardless of where a man studies he will receive the same opportunities.
Frosh Guinea Pigs Beat Commerce Tests
Freshmen in the College of Commerce, with their contemporaries in other prominent commerce schools throughout the country, recently acted as guinea pigs in a new testing program for accountants.
As a result of this preliminary work the Amercian Institute of Accountants, which is the national professional society of certified public accountants, announced last week that it will make these tests available to any school or business firm. The purpose of these tests is to help the student decide if he has the capacity and qualifications to enter the field of public or private accounting. The accounting firms may utilize them to judge the ability of prospective employees;
The orientation test taken here is essentially a measure of intelligence slanted toward business situations. The results of this test showed that the marks made by N.D. freshmen were well above the “norm” or national average established.
Two other tests—one for sophomore accounting majors and one for seniors near graduation—are also available. These measure the student’s actual ability to apply the principles and procedures of accounting to concrete and representative problems.
Because the new system is still in the “toddler” stage, the Accounting department of the University has not yet decided on its wide-scale utilization here, but Professor Dincolo, head of the department, has further information for any perplexed commerce student.
—L. P. Stanton
11
Talk, Dancing, Food Mark Frosh Social
Leap year warnings didn’t seem to faze a hearty group of fifty freshmen last Sunday afternoon when they attended the first of a series of get-togethers with freshmen St. Mary’s girls. Purpose of the afternoon social was the promotion of better relations between the schools.
The freshmen YCS and class did a neat job in their inaugural endeavor. Tom Carroll, class president, was chairman of the affair and was assisted by Ed Sullivan, John Haley and Tom Wolff. In cooperation with a St. Mary’s committee, they arranged an afternoon’s entertainment which lacked nothins.
In attempts to get away from the frills and stuffiness of a formal social affair, the committee planned an afternoon that consisted of an interesting lecture and an informal dance in the seldom-used St. Mary’s cottage. Col. Robert Duncan Brown, history professor at N.D., gave an account of his experiences in Europe before and during the early part of World War II. During a discussion period that followed the talk, Col Brown answered questions and gave his opinions about current problems confronting international relations in the world today.
As soon as the chairs were pushed back and the rug rolled up the frosh took advantage of the spacious cottage’s dance floor. Dancing and chatter were supplemented by a plentiful supply of cokes and an open hearth with a cheery fire for roasting marshmallows. The witching hour came at five. The stalwart males made tracks for home, bubbling about the success of what they hoped would be a recurring event.
Announcement of the combined recreational - intellectual afternoon aroused great interest in the freshmen class with a great demand for tickets being the result. The committee plans a better method of distribution to facilitate the next program. Several more of these informal, friendly and well-received mixers are planned for the remainder of the year.
ND Foundation to Publish New Magazine—'Notre Dame1
The Notre Dame family of publications is scheduled to have another addition this month. The new arrival, published by the University of Notre Dame Foundation, will be a quarterly entitled, appropriately, Notre Dame.
. With an expected circulation of 20,000, it hopes to introduce Notre Dame to outsiders as well as to impress students and alumni with the needs of the Foundation.
Bill, The Kindly Cop, Rules Ga+e 14 Years; Wins Many Friends
His name is Bill Zerbe. He watches more people come into Notre Dame, perhaps, than Father Sorin hovering about the entrance in some mysterious way. He can be stern; he can be friendly. And many who have unconsciously met him have also met both attitudes.
Bill’s job is a responsible one. The gateway to learning is narrow. Confusion could result unless direction reigned, which it does when Bill is on duty.
BILL ZERBE From blackface to bluecoat
He knows human nature like a psychologist. Even better—his is from experience and not from a book. He sees sad faces, happy faces, and bitter faces. From his little wooden shanty with the thermometer tacked on its side he stops vehicles with an upraised hand, allows some to pass with the same hand, still upraised. The president of the University receives his official permission to enter the same as the milk track delivering cow juice to the dining hall. '
His most important days are on football Saturdays. He has never witnessed a game, but he makes it possible for others. Some try to outwit him in hopes of reaching the inside. Many try; few succeed because this is his pet peeve. Angles, alibis, and excuses are never new to him, since he has heard them all. Most cars are left in the parking lot while the owners walk to their destinations. This is his rule: too many cars on the roads encircling the campus proper would only cause congestion.
He likes his job. He has held it for fourteen years. Despite the winter weather of which students complain, he keeps smiling, an example to all who would accept it from him. If you haven’t talked to him of such everyday occur-ences as temperature or bus schedules, next time you pass his shack nod and say hello. A hello has been known to start a conversation before.
There are many things most students don’t know about him. For example: he was born and raised in the Pennsylvania coal-fields; he played blackface in vaudeville until the talkies came; he was elected sheriff of Logansport county for two terms; he was among the many whose life savings were destroyed in the crash; his wife lost her beauty parlor in the Palais Royale explosion years ago; and he has a son in the Navy in Puerto Rico.
He also has more jurisdiction than a South Bend policeman. Though he is appointed by the University, he is recognized by the county which allows him more power than a city cop.
As we said before, his name is Bill. Not every gateman can be called Bill by his friends. Not every gateman has as many friends.—Verne F. Kelley
ND 'Concord' Contributor Is Ex-Resistance Leader
Claude N. Julien, a leader of the French resistance in World War II, and now a graduate student at the University of Notre Dame, is the author of an article entitled “Who Will Save the World?” which appears in the March issue of Concord, a national student magazine published by the Young Christian Students.
The current issue of Concord also features an editorial on “Federal Aid to Education,” written by Martin M. McLaughlin, a graduate student in the department of political science at Notre Dame, and an article entitled “It’s Your Ball, Professor,” by Joe Wilcox, feature editor of the Scholastic.
Other contributors to this month’s Concord include Edward Corbett, of Chicago University, Henry W. Briefs, a graduate student at Georgetown University, and Richard P. Hayes, of St. Peter’s College, Jersey City, N. J.
Students Form Seminars For Great Books Study
The study of Great Books, the movement recently inaugurated by Dr. Robert M. Hutchins of the University of Chicago, gained momentum this week on the campus with two groups announcing that they will hold seminars in this field.
A series of discussions will begin tonight in the Vetville Rec Hall at 8:15 p. m., under the leadership of Ed Dixon and Professor John Broderick. Last Tuesday law school freshmen and sophomores started a seminar series, and will consider the books from the viewpoint of legal thought and government. There will be four meetings during the semester, and each will be led by a professor of law and a law school senior.
12
Tradition A Myth— Robin Really Likes Meat—Not Crumbs
By AL LAPORTE '
When the weatherman officially announces Spring is upon us, and that traditional harbinger of the season, the bird with the “red breast,” is found sitting on the Quadrangle grass, don’t believe your roommate’s happy exclamation, “I just saw the first robin!” That bird you just saw was no robin, my friend, but just another member of the thrush family. The real robin, a smaller bird than this fellow on the lawn, is a resident of Eastern Europe, and has never been seen on this side of the Atlantic.
The Rev. Bernard Lange, C.S.C., the head man of the corps of muscle builders in the weight lifting shed, says that the bird commonly known in the United States as a robin looks a great deal like his European counterpart, but his bosom coloring is not red. The robin has a bright crimson breast, while his American counterpart is trimmed with a reddish tan vest. Father Lange also says that the “American robin” is not the sweet, innocent bird story writers paint him to be. He is basically a meat eater, and not at all interested in the crumbs that are scattered for his consumption. When he plops down in the midst of a feeding group of sparrows his motives are not the honest ones of filling his stomach, but rather just a plain cussedness to drive the little fellows away. His appearance in a cherry orchard does not mean that he is going to feast on the ripe fruit, but rather that he is after the worm-laden cherries not fit for any other purpose. The bird just doesn’t care for the conventional belief that he is guileless — he would rather chase sparrows all day than quietly sit and eat the proffered bread of an ecstatic housewife.
According to Father Lange, this “Jekyll in Hyde’s feathers” is rarely seen west of the Mississippi, and almost never in the deep South. He prefers to terrorize the birds native to the north central part of the country instead of taking his oft spoken of migration to the Gulf.
And the popular conception that the “robin” is an abused bird is a lot of bird talk. The “robin” isn’t smart as birds go, and as a consequence he relies on the maternal instincts of the American female for his reputation. Often, when the bird has located a delectable worm,
FATHER LANGE AND FURRED FRIEND The robin turned out to be a thrush
he will pull the animated string out of the ground only to see a fast flying sparrow peel off and sail past his beak, grabbing the worm on the fly. Though this happens too often to suit the “robin’s” stomach, the harrassed bird will sit and gape at his little enemy, wondering if there ought to be a law. Though our “red breasted” weatherman delights in routing the sparrow, the little fellow comes out on top when the food is laid on the table.
Ornithologists have kept their secret in the dark long enough, it appears, to aid the pseudo-robin in his highly successful fraud. Even though the facts are out, still this highwayman will prey on the spirits of those unbalanced by the magic date March 21, who can never harden themselves to believe that this sweet little thing is laughing at their fond attentions. Anyway, he looks so lonely out there all by himself. Hey, Mac, where’d you say the robin was?
Name Biology Library For Two N.D. Scientists
The 7200-volume Notre Dame Biology Library was christened in an announcement by the Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies. It is now known as the “Wenninger-Kirsch Zoology Library” in honor of the outstanding work of two former Notre Dame priest-scientists.
The Reverends Alexander M. Kirsch,
C.S.C., and Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., were both former heads of the College of Science at Notre Dame and had much to do with the origination and development of the college. Father Kirsch was the first professor of bacteriology here, was director of the College of Science from 1874 to 1918, and head of the Division of Biology from 1895 to 1919. Father Wenninger was head of the Biology Department in 1918 and was Dean of the College of Science in 1923. It was under Father Wenninger’s guidance that Notre Dame became -a center for biological research.
'Defeat of Race Tension Greatest American Need'
Dr. Joseph Lohman, educational director of the Julius Rosenwald Foundation and lecturer in sociology at the University of Chicago, said in an address last week in Washington Hall that the future of American Democracy hangs upon our success in minimizing the internal strife provoked by racial and cultural tension.
At the invitation of Notre Dame’s Department of Sociology, Dr. Lohman spoke in connection with the University’s observance of National Brotherhood Week. He cited three major situations which have contributed to minority group tensions: competition for jobs, competition for adequate housing, and the intermingling of groups seeking recreation and personal services.
13
STATION WND
Cronan and Co. Put Student Outlet on Beam
By KEN THOREN
The second hand on the large wall clock jerks closer and closer to six. 5:58, 5:59—and then with the swiftness of a nonexistent gazelle boy, the engineer flicks a few dials, points a finger at the glass partition and the announcer in the next room says, “A good good evening to you lads, this is . . .” WND is on the ail* again.
Monday through Friday this opening procedure is repeated and is then followed by two hours of entertaining music and patter. The station can be-heard at 630 kilocycles. The new studio is comprised of two modern, sound-proof rooms. All broadcasting takes place in one, while the feats of engineering wiz-ardy are handled in the other.“j .
Although under the aegis of the Notre Dame Radio Club, station WND owes much of its success to Frank Cronan, a junior mechanical engineering student from Waterbury, Connecticut. It has been under his persevering guidance that the station has reached its present high level of operations. He is now acting as chief engineer and program director.
The chronological history of a program is started by the allotting of its specific airing time. The scriptwriters then sharpen their pencils and make with the clever words. Miss Jo Carol, a St. Mary’s student, writes the transitional patter for the Moonlight Serenade slot. Charles Mattingly takes care of Sack Time while Frank Whalen pounds out the chatter for the recently inaugurated
ENGINEER COLLINS GIVES 'ON THE AIR' SIGN TO ANNOUNCER MURPHY The labors are tough . . .
Band Stand. Tom Hanifin has the dual task of the Winter Theater and the Scholastic concert. George Murphy is in charge of all special shows as Walt Garrity completes the scripters’ staff by writing his own Jump time program.
Step number two is production. The finished scripts are handed over to this staff who first make out four copies of each program. Then they line-up the records called for in the scripts, relying on the studio’s 400-record library. It is also their job to buy new records and pick up spot commercials from downtown stores. Charlie O’Donnell and John Dunlevy, two energetic and capable freshmen, have been operating this branch of the station with noteworthy skill. The station is avidly seeking a business manager.
Frank Cronan assigns the announcer to the program and the show is ready to hit the air. Prolific George Murphy is WND’s chief announcer. His staff includes Frank Whalen, Walt Garrity, George Engler and Felix Jaurez.
The sports staff, which handles its own programs, production and- broadcasting, is headed by Frank Tripucka, with Bill Halligan and Vince Doyle assisting.
Perhaps the toughest and most exacting job in putting the show on the wave lengths is that of the engineers. Cronan and John Jones are supervising this mammoth task alone, but are looking forward to the introduction of several new men in the near future.
A maze of dials and switches serve as
CRONAN (CENTER) AND ENGINEERS . .. but the fruits seem worthy
the mechanical gateway between the plush studio and the radios in the halls. The labors are tough but the fruits seem to be worth the cost.
Harrington Named Bid Chairman of Ball
Months have a scurvy way of descending upon a project before its arrangements have been completed. The Senior Ball committee, however, has thought of this and is already formulating its final plans for the annual spree which will be on May 7 this year.
George Burns, class treasurer and one of the three chairmen of the dance, named Jack Harrington as chairman of the bid committee. Harrington, who recently handled the Washington Birthday exercises, hails from Brooklyn and has been an active member of the Met Club for four years.
Larry Ryan, secretary of the class, has been working on the general arrangements for the affair. No orchestra has been engaged yet. The matter depends upon what bands will be nearby at the time of the dance. Ryan said, “It is not known for sure just what bands will be in the midwest by early May, and I don’t want to engage someone now, and then in a week or two find out we could have done much better. In any case, we will have a good one.”
Advance work on several weekend activities has been started but, according to the committee, it. is too early for any definite announcements.
14
Every year about this time the signboards sprout magnificent goats’-heads, heralding the flood of bock beer that will inundate the local taverns, froth up in great amber waves at the lips of thirsty imbibers, and later return in yeasty burps of contentment. Whenever Notre Dame men gather for such rounds of foamy pleasure the discussions sooner or later lead to the question: How about seiwing beer on campus?
The proponents of a beer hall on campus are many. They see it as a desirable thing. Last year a movement spurred on by the Veterans Club (R.I.P.) sought official action on the subject. But the Administration thought it not feasible. Difficulties sprung up immediately: Where would you put it? How would you keep out those under 21 years of age? What would happen when the veteran goes, and the great bulk of the student body is once more in the 17-20 group?
For South Bend bartenders know, as they snap the caps off fast-selling Schlitz and Bud, that they are reaping the harvest of brew money now, but the honeymoon will shortly be over when the vet packs up and leaves.
Now as never before, and never again probably, the great mass of students at Notre Dame are 21 or over, and shrink not from stopping in every now and then for a short one. Largely vets, they received their first dunking in the stuff while away at camp, or cultivating a craving for it while doused in GI coffee at some overseas field-kitchen. Beer, they found out, could be a quenching beverage. Having been won over, they find relaxation now in dropping in at nearby
Suds-Sipping Veteran A Vanishing Kace---NO Beer Ball Unlikelg
spots for a brew, or downing a cold one just before lastbus-time.
The beer that ND men buy in the South Bend area, as in most of the United States, is actually lager, a flavored kind of beer which has been allowed to brew longer than ordinary beer and has been carbonated during the brewing process. Of late it is artificially carbonated, at which process the old-time tipplers snort and complain. Lager is a lighter and more sparkling beer, consequently, and represents about 95 per cent of the suds sold in the U.S. Pilsener, honoring the Czech brewery center, Pilsen, is the most popular variety of lager.
At one time it was possible for ND men to purchase stout, a dark, heady beer, usually imported from Ireland. However, the agent forgot to let the State of Indiana in on
how many cases he was dragging across the line every month, so the Hoosiers clamped down on him. Now you’ll drink Drewry’s and like it.
Advocates of a beer hall on campus would be surprised to know that once beer was served at Notre Dame. It was during the summer of 1933, right after repeal, and the dining halls featured foamy goblets of cool beer with the summer school luncheon menu. How it effected drowsy audiences at one-o’clock lectures has not been recorded.
This was the closest beer interests came to invading the campus, although beer has been in this country since about 1630, when the first brewery was established in the Colonies.
Outright opponents of beer for ND men ally themselves largely with the drys who view the amber beverage as the polluter of youth and the destroyer of the home. They see a raft of trouble ahead if it were to be served on campus, but go along with the present policy of leaving it up to local tavern keepers to serve the stuff, and take the headaches, too.
Although a campaign was pursued by the vets on campus last year, most find the present policy very satisfactory. The vets argued that a beer hall would be a profitable business. They forget they would soon be gone, and the number of men in the over-21 group would be reduced to an unprofitable minimum. They argued that beer was a favorite among the men. They soon realized that those who want it know where they can find it.
So, with the coming of March and the brown tankards of bock that bring a glint to the weary eye and unloosen the
15
OLD-TIME QUAFFER Ever since 1630
tongue, ND men may well stand to their glasses ready: for the days of student imbibers are fastly slipping away. They’ll practically vanish when the vet pulls up stakes. Right now the average Notre Dame man can knock off after a busy week and stop in for a shoi-t one. He finds that he can speak wisdom once his lip is wet.
In the Spring a young man’s fancy might likely turn to bock. The Irish parliament, so the story goes, having had no bock beer for some time, recently passed a resolution, to wit, “Come, Bock, to Erin.”
'Press a Child of Materialism' —Wrangler President Greene
The latest paper to be presented before the Wranglers was delivered by James Greene, president of the society, a senior English major from St. John’s, Newfoundland.
The paper was entitled “The Press— the Creature and the Voice of Man.” Mr. Greene first treated the growth of the press, in size and in influence, and showed the relationship of its growth to that of capitalism and finance. He considered the rise in the power of the press as a product of materialism, and showed the results which followed from this.
He continued to a discussion of the obligations resting on the press, and then listed some of the serious defects now evident in journalism.
Several problems were then considered, including the freedom of the press and the dangers which confront it, and the problems of truth in journalism, violation of privacy, sensationalism, and “tabloid thinking.”
Ve+s Pronounce Vows; Assigned To Dujarie
Vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience were recently pronounced by 28 novices of the Brothers of Holy Cross at St. Joseph’s Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Indiana. Dujarie Hall, the Scholas-ticate of the Brothers of Holy Cross, for further study, was assigned to 21 of the newly professed Brothers. The remaining seven were sent to various houses of the Congregation. Of the 21 who arrived here, seven are ex-G.I.’s.
Brother Cornelius Corcoran, C.S.C., from Philadelphia, served in the Navy for three years and was attached to the air transport squadron. Brother Edward Hagus, C.S.C., spent four and one-half years in the Naval Reserve and acted as an engineering officer in the amphibious assault unit of the Pacific area. Brother Hagus, who was discharged with the rank of Lieutenant Commander, hails from San Francisco, and is continuing his studies for a Master’s degree.
Brother Franklin Cullen, C.S.C., served in an Armored Division of the Army for over four years, with time spent in the Ardennes, Rhineland, and Central European campaigns. His home town is Alameda, California. He is also taking courses for his Master’s degree.
Brother Gerard Hagemann, C.S.C., from St. Louis, spent 37 months in the amphibian engineers of the Army and saw action in the Philippines, New Guinea, and New Britain. Active duty for 55 months in the Central Pacific is the record for Brother James Gorman, C.S.C., a native of Milwaukee. Possessing a ph.b. in journalism, he is now continuing his studies for a Master’s degree.
The Army claimed Brother • John Doran, c.s.c., for three years and four months, with service in Newfoundland included in that time. Claiming Kansas City as his home town, he has a b.s. in philosophy and is also working for his M.A. Coming from Niagara Falls, Brother John O’Laughlin, C.S.C., spent four years in the Army with three and one-half years in the Pacific.
Red Cross Swimmers Train In Rockne Pool Classes
Forty-three students are enrolled in the American Red Cross Senior Life Saving class, which was inaugurated recently in the Rockne Memorial pool. Student instructors in charge of the class are Paul Jackson, Louis Twardzik, and Ralph Holmes.
Nineteen successful candidates were awarded the American Red Cross In
structor’s Badge recently. The class was under the supervision of Robert Duddy and John Jablonka.
Information concerning the institution of future Red Cross swimming classes may be obtained from Mr. Gil Burdick, of the Physical Education department, in the Rockne Memorial Building.
—Tom Adams
Pegis Lectures Begin Monday in Law Bldg.
Dr. Anton C. Pegis, President of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto, is scheduled by the Mediaeval Institute to deliver a series of lectures on Illustrations of the Decline of Mediaeval Philosophy beginning Monday, March 8, and continuing through Friday, March 12. These lectures will be held in room 101 of the Law Building at 4:30 p.m. on the dates listed.
This Sunday, March 7, the Rev. Gerald Bernard Phelan, Director of the Mediaeval Institute, will discuss A Thomistic Approach to Historical Knozvl-edge at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. This lecture is in honor of St. Thomas Aquinas, patron of Catholic schools, whose feast is Sunday. Father Phelan believes there is no philosophy of history, but that there is a theology of history, and that the latter should be the basis for- all historical knowledge.
In the latest series of lectures sponsored by the Mediaeval Institute the Rev. A. J. Denomy, C.S.B., traced the origins of mediaeval drama from its earliest beginnings through the evolution of the Mystery Play, the Miracle Play, and the Morality Play.’ Father Denomy, professor of history and vernacular languages at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Institute Studies in Toronto, in general pictured the rise and growth of dramatic writing in the Middle Ages in his series.
FATHER DENOMY Ever since drama
16
SCHOLASTIC SLCLTT
Fists to Start Flying on Wednesday
Jim Martin Favored To End Fallon's Reign
By HARRY MONAHAN
Can Jack Fallon successfully defend the Bengal Bout heavyweight crown which he has held for two years? Will Billy Roemer add another blue ribbon to his collection of trophies. Next Wednesday night Notre Dame fight fans will begin to get the answers to these two big questions. With the opening bell of the 17th Annual Bengal Bouts about to sound, even the smart lads around the ringside are scratching their heads trying to call these shots.
The unpredictable element in Fallon’s title quest rests in the condition of his legs. The champ had to bow out of the pigskin campaign last fall because of them and this is a severe test for a shaky pair of props. Even more threatening to his crown, however, is a trio of beefy challengers which has volunteered to stop his third march to the title.
The scrapping ex-marine from Cleveland, Jim Martin, will make his first
HEAVIES MIKE BUSH AND JACK FALLON LAND SIMULTANEOUS LEFTS . . . Martin is the man to beat
JACK FALLON PUMPS HEFTY LEFT INTO BAG HELD BY DICK McGOLDRICK Out of a crop of heavyweights .. .
Bengal appearance this year. This 207-pound contender from Frank Leahy’s grid machine will bring his speed and punch in from Cartier Field to give Fal
lon a lot of trouble. Zahm’s Russ Skall, weighing in at 192, is in the number two slot of this triumvirate of title seekers, while Howard’s 230-pound contribution, Gus Cifelli, fills out the heavyweight threesome. The wise money always says “Stay with the champion until he goes down,” but we are forced to launch our own life raft and pick Martin over Fallon in the St. Patrick’s Day finale.
The lethal left of Billy Roemer is the biggest vote getter among the lightheavy candidates. “Zip” ran into a little bad luck in the Gary Golden Gloves recently, but Bengal forecasters might note that one of his opponents was floored four times by the Roemer right. Dick Cotter, 1947 finalist, will be aiming for the 1948 finals and another chance to solve the Roemer sleep-producing technique. Moving up from the 165-pound class, Jim Carroll will attempt to slip into the light-heavy winner’s circle. Sorin Hall’s Paul Boulous will also be out to stop the title-grabbing South Bend slugger. This time we' stay with the champ; it will be a 1947 repeater, Roemer over Cotter.	.
From the flurry of flying gloves in the Fieldhouse training room rings a serious frosh threat for the 147-pound crown (Continued on Page 26)
17
N. D. Spikes+ers' Title Chances Appear Slim At Central Collegiate Indoor Meet Tomorrow
SPLINTERS
By JIM HOWARD
from the Pressbox
Notre Dame trackmen will compete in the 21st annual Central Collegiate Conference indoor championships tomorrow at East Lansing, Michigan, with slim hopes of regaining the title they surrendered to Michigan State last year.
The Irish, who kept the team crown from the Spartans for a period of 13 years, will be forced to surpass not only the powerful Michigan State group, but also Kansas State and Syracuse University, which are considered strong title contenders. Coach Handy is concentrating his hopes for team scoring on the mile run, two-mile run, 880, mile relay, and the field events. If Jim Kittell recovers from his leg injury, the ND squad may score heavily in the mile and halfmile.	.
The Notre Dame cindermen will be defending four individual championships in the Jenison Fieldhouse battle. The mark of :31.7 whch Dave Murphy set last year in the 300 appears to be in danger of falling. Greg Rice’s record of 9:19.6 in the two-mile is apparently safe since Horace Ashenfelter is not running in the contest. There is a possibility that the mark of :49.3 in the 440 set by Wilson of ND in 1932, and the high jump record of 6 feet 7% inches established in 1935 by Vince Murphy may fall.
Several other records are in danger of being lowered, some by Irish spike-sters. The mile relay mark of 3:21.5 is within the reach of the Notre Dame aggregation of Steve Provost, Capt. Ernie
McCullough, Paul Schwetschenau, and Ray Sobota. In the broad jump, Ray Es-penan of the Irish may challenge the record of 22 feet 11% inches set last year by Wright of Wayne University. Both the high and low hurdle marks are in danger of being broken, but John Smith, the Notre Dame star of last season, has not shown any promise of being one of the contenders.
The record which is almost certain to fall is the half-mile mark of 1:55 set in 1935 by Rosenkrantz of Michigan Normal. Bill Leonard is conceded to have as good an opportunity as any at this record-smashing attempt. The mile time of 4:15.8 is also within Leonard’s reach, but it is doubted if he can double in two events with any degree of success.
A new shot-put mark is in the offing, and if John Helwig had not been declared ineligible this past week, the Irish might have gained many points in that event. George Sullivan won the shot last year with a toss of 49 feet, 9% inches, the best of his track career. Jim Miller is improving in the pole vault with every meet, and tomorrow may take the title with a vault of 13 feet or better.
Next week Notre Dame will compete in the Illinois Tech Relays in Chicago, and then the week after will enter certain outstanding men in the Cleveland K. of C. games and the Chicago Relays. The indoor season will end March 27 with the Purdue Relays at Lafayette, Indiana.
By JIM BUTZ
The short, grey-haired little man in the center of the room was demonstrat
ing how to jab twice with the left and then bring home a right cross to some seventy-odd prospective Bengal Bout champions in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse.
“Try it yourselves now,” he said. Then he went around to each group individually, showing them what they were doing
wrong, how their footwork was at fault, or how they could speed up their jab. He kept moving around giving advice as fast as the call “Hey, Nappy,” was sounded.
Dominic Napolitano finally stepped to one side and let his assistant take over for calisthenics. “I can’t take it any more — getting to be an old man,” he added, grinning.
Since 1933 Nappy has been official trainer for the Bengal Bouts, Notre Dame’s boxing championships. Before that he was unofficial trainer. He has been at the job ever since except for the
MARQUETTE AMBUSHES BARNEY Gene Berce and Melvin Peterson gang up on NJ)/s Barnhorst during recent game here
DON'T TOUCH IT—ITS HOT!
NJ), and Michigan State eagers veer away from ball (left) as if it were a hot potato
IB
HIT THE DIRT!
Tom Coccitti Puts the tag on Jim Gillis during indoor diamond practice
May 18—Michigan	there
May 20—Michigan	here
May 22—Michigan State	there
May 25—Purdue	here
May 26—Northwestern	there.
May 28—Michigan State	here
June 4—Western Michigan here June 5—Western Michigan here
According to the schedule, 14 games are slated with schools in the Big Nine conference. This is apparently not in keeping with their methods of arranging football games. Grid encounters with the Fighting Irish are skillfully avoided by most of their teams.
Also of interest are the two games with Michigan on a home and home basis. Although the rivalry which resulted from the recent football season will not be as strong between the two nines, indications are that the Irish led by Coach Kline certainly don’t want any disparaging remarks made about their abilities either in football or baseball.
—Verne Kelley
1943-44-45 tournaments. During those years he left his post in the Physical Education Department at Notre Dame and enlisted in the Navy, serving as boxing instructor at Iowa Naval Pre-Flight school.
“The finest crop of champs I can remember was the one of 1932. We had three boys who were CYO champs in Chicago and also three Chicago Golden Gloves winners. They all won Bengal titles. One of them, Max Marek, won the Chicago Golden Gloves heavyweight championship, beating a fellow named Joe Louis. Max was the best big man we ever had here in the Bengals.”
Of course there were also some other boys in the lighter weights who stuck in Nappy’s memory. “Rod McGuire fought in 1936 or 1937. He was the best of the lighter boys that I remember. He was an honor student taking a pre-med course, but he found time to "win the 145-pound title. He’s a doctor now.”
Napolitano’s proudest boast is that no boy has ever been seriously injured either in training or the actual fights in the Bengals.
“We fight under inter-collegiate rules, not those of the AAU,” he points out. “We use 12-ounce gloves instead of the 8-ounce ones, and rounds are two minutes long—not three. Any open cut stops the fight immediately, and the boy who is leading on points at that time is the winner. The referee has full power to stop the fight at any time he thinks the competition is becoming unequal. We do our best to protect the boys.”
Nappy steers clear of the question of how the present champs would compare with those of the past.
“I will say that the calibre of the average fighter today is improving. Each year I can tell that the boys are getting a little smarter.”
“Hey, Nappy,” someone called from the ring.
The short, grey-haired little man leaped into the ring and began showing a perspiring heavyweight how to feint an opponent into an opening.
He didn’t look too old.
Big-9 Basebailers Hog ND Horsehiders Card
As news of major league baseball teams fills the daily newspapers, Jake Kline is unpacking boxes of baseballs and bats to give to his youthful, energetic aspirants. These gentlemen have begun preparations for their coming season by working out in the Fieldhouse every afternoon, and poring over the schedule of games recently released by Coach Kline.
The schedule lists 18 games, nine at home. The first game is with Iowa at Iowa City April 23. This is followed by another Iowa contest the next day. Three days later Jake’s boys travel into Michigan to swing at the offerings of the Western Michigan squad, after which they return home for the first game of 1948 on Cartier Field with Indiana, May 1. The rest of the schedule
follows:
May 4—Northwestern	here
May 7—Wisconsin	there
May 8—Wisconsin	there
May 11—Purdue	there
May 14—Ohio State	here
May 15—Ohio State	here
MARVIN JEWELERS
(Inc.)
126 N. Michigan St.
. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
THANKS to the
SCHOLASTIC
For the privilege of re-establishing ourselves as advertisers in your splendid publication.
It is our desire to continue serving Notre Dame men with quality clothes, either ready to wear or tailored from imported and domestic fabrics, each garment being distinguished by super craftsmanship. Moderately priced.
Parker-Winterrowd
(Inc.)
1IS1/*-! 17*4 N. Main, Upstairs (North of Oliver Hotel)
19
Braun and Brady don their armor
IRISH ICEMEN
Elkhart Merchant Backs Notre Dame Pucksters
By BOB LEANDER
Payette, Sommers, Ganor, and Murphy, aided by Coach's son, tape their war clubs
We’ve got a hockey team at Notre Dame!
While crusading journalists burn their torches and bleat of the decline taken by minor sports at Notre Dame, a rotund 46-year-old Elkhart merchant is quietly endeavoring to spark the cause. Ed Bentley, gas station operator, NYC conductor, and father of two, has organized what sounds like a Ladies’ Aid Society, but isn’t. His “Saints of St. Joe Valley” are a fast-skating hockey sextet composed primarily of Notre Dame amateur puck chasers. The Saints’ starting line-up has Art Brady of Lyons Hall in the nets, Bill Braun (Badin) and Bob Payette (St. Eds) defensemen; the first line features Alumni wingers Charlie Murphy and Bill Heywood, centered by Bill Hoene of Sorin. Until Bengal Bout training called him away, Jimmy Brennan filled in at defense. Another collegian, Jack Summer of Sorin, four Elkhart men and three South Benders complete the outfit. It isn’t often that sport fans have the opportunity to root for or against corporation executives, railroaders, or everyday working men, yet that’s the complexion of the Saints’ substitutes, some of whom, like Bentley himself, are pushing middle-age rather strenuously.	.
The team first skated together 3 weeks ago so their record is a shade less than impressive, but that hasn’t fazed the exuberant Bentley. Hockey’s the thing with genial Ed. He’s been playing since he was ten and can’t get the game out
of his blood. Every Friday night he travels 90 miles to the Chicago Arena to put in five minutes with the Chicago Hornets’ first line. When his legs begin to tire he skates over to the bench, descends to the dressing room, puts his uniform on a hook and watches the remainder of the scrap with his family.
For the local hockey cause Bentley is akin to Moses’ manna. From his own meager resources he has purchased twelve complete sets of uniforms, arranged a patchwork schedule, lined up private automobiles for transportation and even offered to grab the meal checks. The latter move was stymied by all concerned so the other day Bentley dropped off two dozen hardwood hockey sticks for the boys.
He envisions South Bend as possessor of a top-flight indoor rink and the hub of midwest amateur hockey. “It’s a natural,” says Bentley, “since amateur clubs pass through town on either of two routes: Indianapolis-Detroit or Chicago-Toledo. All four of those cities sponsor classy amateur leagues.”
Presently, the only problem to the stu-dent-pucksters is the owlish hours the games are played. Since everyone works or attends school, evenings are the only logical time excepting Sundays, but all indoor rinks have public skating to finance refrigeration and keep the owner’s family in groceries. Consequently, the hockey players coming in meet everybody else going home. Against the Chicago Hornets the face-off was at 11:30
Charles Murphy (second from left) and Bill Hoene (right) skate through the Chicago Motor Club's defense in attempt to score
At right: The team gets its pre-game pep talk
20
BRADY AND COACH BENTLEY Moses' manna
p.m. and the final horn didn’t sound until almost 1 in the morning.
Organized only three weeks ago, the Saints lost three months’ play and find themselves pitted against opponents with 25 or 30 games behind them, but they’re polishing off the rough spots and rounding out an able team. Everybody’s enjoying the board-checks and bruises, especially irrepressible Ed Bentley, who’d rather play hockey than sleep — and often does.
Irish Fencers Cross Blades With Badgers
The fencers will try to make a clean sweep of Big Nine fencing competition tomorrow afternoon at 2:00 in the fieldhouse when they entertain the rapidly improving Badgers of Wisconsin. Ohio State, Northwestern, Illinois, and Wisconsin are the only Big Nine schools sporting fencing teams, and the first three have already fallen before the blades of the Irish.
Wisconsin started slowly this season, but they have been steadily improving, a fact shown by their 14%-12% loss to Illinois last week. The Illini were figured to win in a breeze.
Notre Dame must be given any prematch favorite’s role. The lads of Coach Herb Melton have won seven and lost one, a 15-12 decision to Chicago. The foils squad is the best in the University’s history. Mike DiCicco, Newark, N. J., junior, leads in that department with 23 wins in his 24 bouts this season. Capt. Lou Burns has a 17 and 7 record in the
foils. Ralph Dixon leads the epee men with 16 victories and a tie in 24 bouts. A lack of depth in this event has been Notre Dame’s chief obstacle all year.
The University of Detroit proved to be victims No. 7 on the Irish schedule, falling 17%-9% last Saturday. DiCicco and Burns were the big guns for Notre Dame, each sweeping their three foils bouts. The issue was never in doubt after the foils men had secured an 8-1 lead. The usually reliable sabre squad lost to the Titans 5-4, but the epee team won six of their nine bouts to increase the victory margin.—Jim Butz.
Fight Ticket Sale Opens Monday in Cat
Tickets for the fistic fare to be served up in the 17th Annual Bengal Bouts sponsored by the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, will go on sale in the Dining Hall basement Monday, March 8. Sales will continue daily during meal hours until the evening of the finals, March 17. The preliminaries are scheduled for the evenings of March 10, 11 and 12. The semi-finals will be on the 15th.
Special ticket prices will be available to students in this advance sale. The price of the preliminary bouts is 25 cents per evening, with a special 50-cent price for all three evenings. Semi-final ducats will be priced at 25 cents and a 50-cent tariff will be required for the finals. Students are advised to procure their tickets in this advance sale or they will have to pay the slightly higher gate charges. Tickets purchased at the gate on the evenings of the bouts will be: preliminaries, 25 cents each night; semifinals, 50 cents; finals, 75 cents.
The Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., and his promotion manager, Joe Dillon, have been driving a committee of associates to make this year’s tourney a money-maker for its Bengal missionary beneficiaries as well as a punch-packed set of fight cards for the campus and South Bend spectators. Trainer Dominic Napolitano and his assistant Frank Lombardo have been working hard with the beef that will provide the entertainment. At the same time Don Brady and Bill Bradley have been flooding the campus and South Bend with publicity to draw the paying customers into the Notre Dame Fieldhouse when the leather starts to fly. Ticket sales are in the hands of Jerry White and Larry Turner, while Bill Shine and Bob Welch are preparing the program. The demands of thirsty ring fans will be attended to by committeemen Dick Keen and Bill Soos.
In addition to the usual Bengal awards, President Ted Dwyer of the Central New York Club has announced that his group will donate a trophy to be presented to the outstanding fighter as determined by vote of the student body. Jim Farrell and Bob Gaffney will direct the distribution of ballots, and the tabulation of the results, which will be done after the final bout on St. Patrick’s Day.—Harrii Monahan.
Irish Cagers Invade Marquette For Finale
By DAVE WARNER
In what will be the season’s finale for both teams Marquette and Notre Dame will tangle in their annual basketball game in the Milwaukee Auditorium tomorrow night before a 5,700 sellout crowd.
The Irish and Hilltopper basketball meetings at the Auditorium always have been thrillers, with advance predictions and comparative scores thrown to the wind. Marquette has won only twelve of the 44-game series, but it has invariably risen to great heights in this final game of the season to upset favored Irish quintets. It is recalled that Marquette won its home games of 1944, 1945, and 1946 after having previously been defeated at South Bend. Those weren’t just ordinary Notre Dame basketball teams either. Last season the Milwaukeeans lost at Notre Dame by a onesided 87-61, then just fell short of avenging that setback in Milwaukee later, 73-68.	’
The contest will be the last in collegiate competition for Gene Berce, Marquette’s brilliant forward who has been averaging 17 points a game and who holds every Marquette individual scoring record. For Notre Dame, Buster Hiller and Johnny Goonen will be wearing the Blue and Gold for the last time on a basketball court.
There is a possibility that John Brennan, the Bedford beanpole who led the club in scoring last season, will start at center tomorrow night. Brennan’s play in the Canisius and N.Y.U. victories was a great factor. He hadn’t even practiced since he was injured in the Denver game over two months ago. But that New York Donnybrook was more of a team performance than any particular . individual affair. You could say it was the Kentucky game all over again with only that miracle performing student rooting section missing. Notre Dame put a show on in the Big Top that even blase New York won’t soon forget.
21
Keglers Keep Rolling As Final Round Begins
By BOB CASURELLA
The first round of the Kampus Kegler league ended last week at the Bowl-Mor alleys. The race tightens as the Notre Dame bowlers take the turn and head for the wire. The leaders have to maintain or increase their leads to ward off contending teams. The runners-up have to make their moves now or never.
In the Blue League Pittsburgh took two of three games from Vetville to move into third place. Papa’s 537 series was the straw that broke Vetville’s back. Toledo swamped the Met Club for three games to move into second place two games behind the leading Vets.
Blue League Standings
	W.	L.	Pct.
Vetville 		21	6	28
Toledo 		19	8	26
Pittsburgh 		16	11	21
Chemists 		15	12	20
Fox River Valley		14	13	19
Monogram 		13	14	17
Aero 		12	15	16
Met Club 		12	15	15
Milwaukee 		10	17	15
Syrian-Lebanese 		11	16	14
Texas 		10	17	13
Columbus 		9	18	12
Schedule for March 7 Monogram Club vs. Texas Pittsburgh vs. Milwaukee Syrian-Lebanese vs. Chemists Toledo vs. Columbus Fox River Valley vs. Vetville Met Club vs. Aero Club
Gold League Standings
W. L. Pct.
Italian Club_____________ 20	7	28
Rochester ________________16	11	22
Inter-American Affairs___16	11	22
Villagers-----------------16	11	21
Boston 15	12	21
Detroit 16	11	20
*Buffalo 12	12	16
ASME ---------------------11	16	14
*Rockford_________________11	13	13
St. Louis----------------- 9	18	12
Youngstown 9	18	12
Jet Propulsion 9	18	11
* Will play off deficient games this week
In other Blue League tussles, the Monogram Club rolled a 2775 three-game team series while they swept three from the Chemists. The Syrian-Lebanese bowlers held a Tom Simon day and rocked the maples and the Columbus Club for three games. Fox River Valley nabbed three from the Aeros. Texas took three from Milwaukee.
In the Gold League Gene Angelini
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
1948 Gridmen Poised To Outdo Costin's All-Time N. D. Dream Team
By Pete Brown
On February 22, Jim Costin of the South Bend Tribune authored for the
Boston Sunday Post one of the most ar
bitrary pieces of journalism ever to come from his type writer. He picked an alltime Notre Dame football team of 11 men. Even with his 39 years of exper i e n c e watching Notre Dame foot ball teams, Mr. Costin left himself
a wide margin of error in attempting to pick the 11 best out of the hundreds of good and great players Notre Dame has had. Costin admitted at the start of
the story, however, that the team was his and open to argument. He then proceeded to back up each one of his selections with sound reasons.
The team is listed below by position and year of graduation.
Position	Player	Class
End__________Wayne Milner________1936
End__________Chuck Collins_______1925
Tackle_______Howard Edwards______1910
Tackle_______Ted Twomey__________1930
Guard________Tack Cannon_________1930
Guard________Bill Fischer________1949
Center_______Adam Walsh__________1925
Back_________John Lujack_________1948
Back_________Creighton Miller____1944
Back_________Marty Bill__________1931
Back--_______George Gipp --------1921
paced the Italian Club with a sizzling 567 series to three wins over Rochester in a crucial series. It was Rochester’s chance. They were only one game behind the league leading Romans — now they are four games back in a second-splace tie with the Inter-American Affairs Club. The I-AA lost two to Boston. Jet-propelled Johnny O’Brien was at it again with a 585 score as his JetPropellers grabbed two of three from St. Louis. Youngstown took two from ASME. Detroit nabbed a pair from the Villagers..
For a few sidelights, Costin listed other “all-time” combinations. He calls the starting eleven with Angelo Bertelli at the helm the greatest Notre Dame team; the Four Horsemen—Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden—the greatest backfield unit; the 1946 squad the strongest and best; and puts Frank Leahy and Knute Rockne on the same plane as the greatest coaches.
Enough of the all-time stuff, let’s take a good look at the present. Spring practice is less than two weeks away. Captain Bill Fischer and his teammates face a ten-game schedule next season. In depth the squad will be about the same as this past season, but the superb individual skill of last season will be gone.
The ends will be unchanged. Jim Martin, Leon Hart, Doug Waybright, Bill Wightkin and Ray Espenan, last season’s monogram winners, all return. Only three monogram winners at tackles return—Gus Cifelli, Ted Budynkiewicz and Ralph McGehee. After a year’s rest of his bad knee, Jack Fallon might be back in the lineup, but there is a good possibility that he will graduate in August. From the freshman squad comes Dean Thomas who has a reputation as a powerhouse.
Capt. Fischer and Marty Wendell top the guard list. The rest of the monogram winners returning are John Frampton and Bob Lally. The center spot remains unchanged with Bill Walsh, George Strohmeyer and Walt Grothaus returning. Jerry Grooms from the freshman squad, has size and power and looks promising.
At quarterback the list is long. Frank Tripucka tops it followed by Bill Heywood, George Dickson, Gerry Begley, - and Roger Brown. Bob Williams, a freshman, looks like potential varsity material. The rest of the backfield was riddled with the loss of Livingstone, Ashbaugh, Clatt, Gompers, and Simmons. However, one E. Zalejski returns. There also seems to be some doubt about whether Terry Brennan’s knee will hold up for another season.
It looks very much like Notre Dame will have a representative team next season.
22
KRAUSE AND FATHER McSORLEY
Inspiration came from without the gates
Lyons Cagers Seize West Campus Lead
Lyons Hall retained its dominance of the Western Division this week with a
convincing 53-17 win over Morrissey Hall. The victory marked Lyons’ third straight in league competition.
Ray Fitzgerald, whose last minute basket sunk Off-Campus last week, led a well-balanced attack with 11 points. Close behind were Tom Hanifin and Zeke Lane with nine and eight points respectively. Powers and Mulligan garnered 13 of the losers’ 17 points.
Lyons	Hall B	F	p.	Morrissey	Hall		
					B	P	p
Lane	2	4	1	Alexander	0	0	1
Samarin	1	1	3	Cordaseo	0	0	0
Landolt	2	2	0	Johnson	0	0	2
Fitzgerald	5	1	0	Kreuz	2	0	3
Cianchetti	2	0	0	Stewart	0	0	0
Hanifin	3	9 M	1	Farrell	0	0	3
Loos	3	0	0	Powers	3	1	3
Spangle	1	0	0	Mulligan	3	0	2
Reutz	0	0	0				
Fahey	2	0	2				
Over in the eastern division Barrett
with seven and Klug with ten points
piloted Zahm to a Farley.
Zahm Hall
B F P
Barrett	3 10
Klug	3 a 3
O’Keefe	0 10
Savaski	132
Ogburn	10 0
Sheedy	10 0
Mouck	10 2
Thornton	2 0 0
Weber	10 1
Savage	100
In other interhall
37-21 victory over
Farlen Hall
Tonti	2	0	2
Whiteside	3	0	3
Schwartz	3	0	2
Hennessey	12	2
Betafucco	0	11
Soisson	0	0	2
contests Cavanaugh
defeated Sorin 47-17, and the Howard lightweights whipped the Cavanaugh lightweights 47-23. In the graduate league the Clergy team down the Chemistry squad 25-24, while the Physics team edged out the Engineering students 21-14.
The New Jersey and the Aesculapian Club teams won close decisions over the Villagers and the St. Louis Club in the club league, 35-34 and 50-46.
Results of the open league competition follows: Alumni (blue) 94, Lyons (blue) 32; Alumni (gold) 24, Howard (gold) 41; St. Ed’s (gold) 84, Lyons (orange) 29; Lyons (red) 35, Morrissey (blue) 32; Morrissey (red) 59, Dillon (orange) 32.—Tom McNally
Interhall Tankmen Splash In Second 1948 Meet
The second interhall swimming meet of the spring semester will be held at 7:30 p.m. March 9, in the Rockne Memorial pool, it has been announced by Mr. Gil Burdick. Unlike the previous meet which was confined to relay events, this meet will consist of five individual contests, two relays, and a diving exhibition.
Each hall is eligible to enter two men in each individual event, three men in the 150-yard medley, and four men in the 200-yard relay. Contestants may enter two individual events and take part in either the medley or relay events. Participants in the diving event must subscribe to four required dives and three of his own choosing.
Medals will be awarded to the first three who place in each individual event, and also to each member in the winning relay team.
Last year the interhall swimming championship was shared by Lyons Hall and the perennially powerful Off-Campus squad.
Founder of 5 N. D.s Visits Inspiration Site
A strapping, big, smiling priest who looks as if he might be an ex-Notre Dame blocking back dropped in on the campus last week for a look around at the University that had inspired him to found five Notre Dames on the island of Mindanao in the Philippines.
He’s the Rev. Francis McSorley, a ruddy-faced Irishman from Philadelphia, and he stopped by to bat the breeze with Rev. Louis Thornton, registrar, and his old friend, Ed Krause.
It was the Moose who, as a Marine officer in the Philippines, had outfitted Father McSorley’s Cotabato basketball team with tee-shirts and mattress cover shorts back in 1945.
Cage Catches on Fast
Since the founding of this first Catholic high school in the Mohammedan sphere of the islands, four more- high schools, bearing the name of Notre Dame, and the city in which they are situated, have been established by Father McSorley and his fellow Oblates.
“We’re O.M.I.’s,” grinned Father McSorley. (That’s Oblates of Mary Immaculate.) “And it’s interesting to note that we have all been inspired by a university which none of us attended.”
Besides Notre Dame of Cotabato, the Oblates have founded Notre Dame high schools at Midsayap, Lagao, Marbel, and Jolo. Next year Cotabato stretches a notch to include first-year college courses. Enrollment has grown from 31 students in 1945 to 2000 today.
“Basketball catches on over there fast,” Father McSorley offered. Football and baseball found it tough going, however. The Filipino youngsters go more for the court game and softball, as well as track and field.
Some New Students—Maybe
Father McSorley thought that the time might come when some of his high school graduates might enroll at the University here, but he observed that parents are reluctant to part with their children for any length of time because of the ticklishness of the international situation, which appears especially jumpy to the Filipinos because of their recent trials and their shortage of up-to-the-minute news. He reminded that Filipino girls, attending universities in this country, are being called home by their parents who live in fear of separation through another world war.
Father McSorley left for Philadelphia after his visit and said he was heading back to the islands come June. -
23
NOTRE DflME NAMES MAKE NEWS
In High Regard
Notre Dame’s official tub-thumper, JOHN V. HINKEL, director of the department of public information, was elected last week to the presidency of the Serra Club of South Bend. The Serra Club is formed of Catholic professional and business men and is concerned particularly with the development of a better informed laity on international, national and local problems relative to the Catholic Church. PAUL E. McLANE, Professor of English, was voted into the second vice-president spot and WILLIAM J. BRODERICK, comptroller at Notre Dame, was named treasurer . . .
GEORGE F. DRISCOLL, Instructor in Civil Engineering, was notified recently that he has been named on the Committee for the Advancement of Highway Engineering, an exponent of the American Road Builders Association. The primary purposes of the committee are to interest civil engineering students in the highway engineering field to assist in maintaining the high standards of the profession . . .
BERNARD J. KOHLBRENNER, associate professor of education at Notre Dame, attended the annual meeting of the American Association of University
BEV. EDWARD A. KELLER For the rich—a smaller share
Professors in St. Louis last week. Professor Kohlbrenner, who is the vice-president of the local chapter, was the sole delegate from Notre Dame . . .
In the new Look magazine (March 16) Rev. EDWARD A. KELLER, C.S.C., assistant professor of economics and director of the Bureau of Economic Research at Notre Dame, has published an article summarizing his new study of the national income and its distribution. In his article, “Who Gets Our National Income?” Father Keller effectively relates the facts and shows that today’s “rich” are getting a considerably smaller share of the United States’ wealth than in the past.. .
On the Platform
According to FRANCIS J. HANLEY, Assistant Professor of Art at Notre Dame, the professional theatre in America is dying because of the increased production of the so-called “problem play.” While speaking at a meeting of the Catholic Theatre Guild in South Bend last week Professor Hanley, who himself has had a wide background in the theatre, suggested further that we may even be entering a period where the stage will disappear as an art form due to misdirection and bad management . . .
Stocky, lantern-jawed EMIL SITKO, speedy backfield star on last season’s undefeated grid squad, was the main speaker last week at a teen-age interfaith program in the observance of National Brotherhood Week. The program was arranged through the cooperation of the South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table of Christians and Jews of which sociology prof LOUIS A. RADELET is executive secretary. . .
With his lecture last week on “The Poetry of T. S. Eliot” RUFUS W. RAUCH, professor of English literature, inaugurated his series of lectures for the student body and faculty of St. John’s College. Mr. Rauch, who is on leave of absence from Notre Dame this year to be guest tutor at St. John’s, is also conducting a course in classical literature and a seminar in the “great books” . ..
In South Bend last week the Altrusa Club was entertained by three Notre Dame students: NELSON LOWE, DAN NORANDER, and TOM DOOLEY. They appeared on the La Raza Club panel program for the occasion as an innovation in place of the “Latinos.”
At a meeting of the South Bend-Mishawaka Board of Realtors recently Dr. BERNARD WALDMAN, professor of physics, asserted that it is highly probable that Russian scientists have developed an atomic bomb. Dr. Waldman, who helped in the research on the first A-bomb and who participated in the raids on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, expressed doubt, however, that the Russians would be able to produce the bombs in quantity because of the immensity of organization required . . .
At Home
After a month away from the campus Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, c.s.c., returned to his office last Monday. Accompanied by the Director of Public Relations, J. A. HALEY, Father Cavanaugh spoke at a number of alumni meetings in the South. Among the other members of the party was FRANK W. LEAHY . ..
Married to JOE MOERSCHBAECH-ER, Jr. of Chicago, Ill., Miss Gerry Stack, of Oak Park, Ill., Jan. 31, in St. Giles Church, Oak Park . . .
EMIL SITKO For the oppressed—brotherhood
24
CIIIKE PARADE
By JOHN ARMSTRONG and JIM O’RIELEY
PHILOSOPHERS TAKE NOTE
The Auburn Plainsman reports that the main difference between a gum-chewing co-ed and a cud-chewing cow, is the thoughtful expression on the face of the cow.
The Purdue Exponent carries a fine expose of chivalry in a recent edition. It is given from the male side of the question of whether chivalry is dead or not. They maintain that chivalry was founded on a basic falsehood in the first place — that women are the weaker sex. The article goes on to claim that men are willing to go along with the farce, but that women themselves have killed chivalry by their incessant campaigning for equal rights in the last 40 to 50 years. To prove his point, the writer of the article stood outside the Purdue Student Union building for two hours and twenty minutes opening the doors for any female who passed. He found that only fifty per cent at most were able to mutter “thank you.”
Dr. F. S. C. Northrop of Yale University, speaking at Purdue, claims that the conflict between Communism and Democracy is not one of a political or economic nature, but is a battle between Eastern and Western philosophies. We do not, however, see how that affects the price of bird-nest soup in Shanghai.
B.M.O.C. S MOVE OVER!
Down at Southern Methodist University an Ugly Man contest is being conducted to determine, by vote, the ugliest male student on the campus. But it’s not as bad as it sounds. This lucky fellow will receive an impressive cup and will be feted by various sororities among other things. He will be driven to school in an impressive automobile by one group, taken to breakfast by another, and given mid-morning coffee by a third.
In the afternoon of “his day,” he will be taken to a movie, then to dinner, and will have a date complete with a corsage and box of candy in the evening.
The Sall State News reports that a poll taken at the school showed only four of nineteen women to have becoming hair styles. They recommend that something be done quickly. As they say, the women had better “wisen up.” A poll was then taken among the women with the result that Ball State men had better use combs in the future.
BRAVO.
The board of publications at Northwestern should be commended for its action in forcing the resignation of the coeditors of the Purple Parrot, campus humor magazine, because of its emphasis on sex and liquor in the cartoons and quips. The board stated “new editorial direction can achieve a truer reflection of campus life . . . The board also feels that this action presents a challenge to those who have in the past indicated their belief that humor and good taste can be combined.”	-
Former ND Students Offer Research and Art Awards
Not too long ago, a mere three years this spring, in fact, Harry Berliner and Joe Lanigan were running their Eric Gill press over in the basement of the Law Building. Great promoters of Catholic Action literature, they carried this idea ■with them when they graduated in ’45. Determined to do something to further that ideal after establishing their own printing company in California, they announced last week that they would award two prizes of $250 each, one for art and the other for research, to the student of a Catholic college who demonstrates the effect a Christian educated man can have on society by the use of those talents. They hope by this competition to encourage Christian culture and make it an integral part of our present day life.
Entries will be accepted anytime during the three month period preceding April 15. Those interested can obtain entry blanks, rules, and full particulars at the library or direct from Berliner & Lanigan Printing Company, Nevada City, California. Although the student cannot claim the award for himself, he has the prerogative of naming the department he wishes to receive the prize. If you would like some added details that are not given here, look up Joe Lanigan who is here on campus now, working for his M.A.—Dennis O’Neill
Carleton H. Davis* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked the Finger Nail Test
ACID INDIGKSTION, Brother Hippo? Feeling mentally mildewed? Wallowing in grief? What you need is a tonic. And your best bet is Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. It’s “again and again the choice of men who put good grooming first!” Just a touch of Wildroot Cream-Oil grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that plastered-down look. Relieves annoying dryness and removes embarrassing loose dandruff! And Wildroot Cream-Oil is the nonalcoholic hair tonic containing soothing Lanolin. Get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil at any drug or toilet goods counter today. And ask your barber for a professional application. See for yourself how it helps you pass the Fingernail Test!
4c of 120 Forest Drive, Orchard Park, N. Y.
25
Cavanaugh Concerts
MARCH 8 a
Chopin—Les Sylphides
De Falla—El Amor Brujo
Ippilitow—Nos. 2 and 4 from “Caucasian Sketches
MARCH 9
Beethoven—Symphony No. 3 (Ero-ica)
MARCH 10
Rachmaninoff—Piano Concerto
No. 2
Lecuona—Malaguena
Mozart—Marriage of Figaro
Overture
MARCH 11
Tschaikovsky—Piano Concerto No.
1 in B Flat Minor
Rossini—Selections from Barbiere Di Siviglia
Verdi—Selections from the Masked Ball
Puccini—Selections from La Tosca
First to Start Flying
(Continued from Page 17)
has arisen. A newcomer to the Ben-gals, but certainly not a novice, John O’Brien of Green Bay, Wisconsin, will be backed by four years of high school boxing experience. In fact, we are going to abandon another title holder and pick O’Brien to best Klockenkemper in the finals on March 17.
Having worked the crystal ball for three fights we might as well draw a few more names out of the hat for the other weight classifications. Based on present tonnage we’ll take George Dickson and you can pick your own 165-pound slugger to come in second. The 155-pound crown will go to Dick Mc-
ARE YOU
Goldrick in a slugfest with Jim Smith. Greenwell will be abe to pick his own finalist in the 142-pounders.
The 135-pound classic will be another repeat from the 1947 card with Mike Conley again taking the measure of Russ VanKeuren. James Sullivan, 1947 titleholder, will be edged out in a fast close fight by Don Ewing for the 127-pound title.
Mr. Dominic Napolitano, Bengal Bout trainer, will weigh in his fighters on Tuesday and then will make up the pairings for the first round of bouts scheduled for Wednesday evening. These will continue on Thursday and Friday with the semi-finals to be staged on March 15. The finals will end the conflict on the evening of March 17.
UNAWARE OF UNDERWEAR?
Alaska Comes in Color
To Washington Hall Screen
Big, brawny addicts of the great, wild outdoors will converge on Washington Hall next Tuesday night for the screening of Harry R. Reed’s “Alaskan Adventure.” The coloi* film will be shown at 8 p.m. for the student body.
Mr. Reed, well-known woodsman, naturalist and avid student of animal life in their natural habitats, recently directed and produced the color film during an extensive trip through Alaska. It features interesting shots of the Alaskan highway, wild game, the midnight sun, natives and the Yukon River. Mr. Reed made the trek by rowboat, river steamer, train, auto and for great distances on foot. Members of his expedition actually lived among the natives in order to better understand the North and its people.
Scorner's Seat
(Continued from Page 6) bringing back ancient volumes of forgotten lore to the Engineering Auditorium. For my money (an academic phrase at this particular time of the month — I write this on February 29), “The Strong Man” was the funniest thing that I have seen since “Hellzapoppin.” The beauty of things like that is that one can supply one’s own dialogue without interfering with the sound track. Harry Langdon, who played the lead, had more humor in his facile fingers and eyes than the modern comic has in his whole wired-for-sound body.
If you’re laughing on the outside —dying on the inside (from creeping shorts with a cruel center seam) you’re not aware of the wonders of Arrow underwear!
Switch to Arrow shorts and relax. Arrow shorts (with the patented seamless crotch) come in a variety of styles with either gripper fasteners or buttons and are Sanforized labeled, guaranteeing less than 1% shrinkage. SI.25, $1.50, and $1.75.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES »------------------—:-----------
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
26
Parke r"51
C°Mri««“ IMS by The P„kr ~ „ ' "!n Company

^Xa,ZT.^ Ml ■	_
Av^ti ArMLea^^
WASHINGTON'S FAREWELL ADDRESS
Here, in our First Presi-dent’sown handwriting,is part of the far-sighted speech he delivered to the American people 152 years ago. The spirit of the doctrine still applies. It calls for a firm unity among our people . . . emphasizing, above all, the need for "every citizen to take pride in the name of an American.” Theoriginalisnowaboard the “Freedom Train”— a traveling exhibit of the most significant docu^ ments in our history.
9t£^ tff^uti. Xaa^reTBa^, ^e-^d<f/erKA^a^ia^^
£e jiroud of what you write and the way you write it!
Naturally you’re proud when you own a Parker . “51”. For this is the world’s most-wanted pen. It glides with satin-smoothness .. . gives new freedom to your thoughts and fingers . . . makes
■' writing more fun! Whether it’s an exam—a theme—a letter, this is the pen that will always show you at your best. Ask for the v “51” in either the regular or new demi-size. Choice of points. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin, U. S. A., and Toronto, Canada.
Copyright 1948, Lgmtt & Mms Tomcco Co.