
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
Who's It Going to Be? 
Scholastic rates the 2005 student-election candidates and their issues 
James Leito Dave Baron 
Mark Healy Craig Brede
Will Marra Alec White
Jordan Bongiovanni Lizzi Shappell
Bob Costa Vijay Ramanan
Pete Harig Erik Powers 



~~· 
~ 

,. 






NEWS 04 
STUDENT-BODY ELECTION 2005 
Scholastic Staff Staff members review the candidates and highlight our favorite planks. 
SCHOLASTIC DECIDES 
We recommend our top pick for student body president and vice president. 



VOICES,AGAINSTVIOLENCE. 
Katie Solan 
"The Vagina Monologues" will be performed on campus this month for the fourth consecutive year. 
ENTERTAINMENT 24 

A PLAY ON WORDS, LOVE AND SCIENCE 
Dana Ergas & Katie Galeone 
Tom Stoppard's "Arcadia" combines intellect and emotion in this FIT production. 


RECRUITING A GOLDEN CLASS 
Bryan Lowery Scholastic takes a look at the next generation ofIrish athletes. 
From the Editor . . . . . . . . 2 Snapshot . . . . . . . . ....18 ND Notebook ......... 4 Campus Watch. . . . . . . . 29 Strew For You . . . . . . . . .15 Freshman Reflection . . . . . 35 Cribs •.............16 Scholastic Interview . . . . . 36 
3 FEBRUARY 2005 SCHOLASTICMAGAZINE 

Vol. 146, No. 9 • Feb 3 2005 



SCHOL8STIC 
Editors In Chief Mike Borgia Annie Robinson 
Managing Editor 
Jennifer Osterhage 
Executive Editor Meghan Gowan 
Executive Design Editor Nick Abrams 
General Manager Christopher Kelly 
News Emily Paladino, editor Alisa Finelll, assistant 
Campus Life Lauren Wilcox, editor Kade Solan, assistant 
Sports Christopher Meskill, editor 
Entertainment • Nick Kolman-Mandie, editor Beth Murphy, assistant 
Departments Erik Powers, assistant 
Design Nell Ryan, assistant David Redenbaugh, assistant Tekla Sauter Amy Meyers Jana Stewart 
Illustration 
Christine Graham 
Photography 
Phil Hall, editor Brenna Mannion, assistant 
Copy Mo Ertel, chief Jennifer Wadkins, assistant Dana Ergas Kacie Galeone Doug Schlarman 
Distribution Bryan Lowery 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
COVER DESIGN 
11 
• ~ 
NICKABRAMS


~·-~... 
Disce Quasi Semper Vim,rus Vn1e Quasi Cras Muritllrtts. 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed atAve Marla Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556.The entire contents of Sch·olostic Magazine Is copyright 2004 University of Notre Dame. All rights reservect. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be· reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not assume llablllty for ·· 
., unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. Issue of the down arrow.All letters must lndude the writer•• name, address and phone number.All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request In certain Instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space'. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days a~r publlc:adon· cannot be guaranteed.The subscrlpdon rate Is $35 per·year.Available back Issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Coples of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed In Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
3 FEBRUARY 2005 


Lifetime service opportunities~-with· · multinational organization · for graduating seniors. 
ANSWER~ 

THECALL'<f:>' 



Judgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 
0 
SCABIES 
Yes, it is a parasite requiring 
many expensive treatments. But at least the outbreak brings a bit of excitement to our dull lives. 
WALKING BILLBOARDS 
The newest trend: selling your forehead for advertising space on eBay. Looks like Arts & Letters seniors have financial futures after all. 
-
J ',
O 
That's right, it's not a mistake. 

0 
ROLFS' SPRING-BREAK 
CHALLENGE 
It's as if this campus just wasn't quite obsessed enough with working out. Personally, we're more likely to sieep our way to Cancun than to run the necessary miles on the treadmill. 
0 "FORGETTINGTHE BC -GAME" ---Made for a good story, didn't it? 



Own Right 
Women's sports should not be judged by their subjective entertainment value 
SCHOLASTICEXECUTIVE STAFF 

As The Irish Rover, Notre Dame's conservative campus publication, has made clear, the mild, passing interest in Notre Dame women's sports lags far behind many students' passionate enthusiasm for men's sports. With its headlines lamenting that the women's soccer team's national championship had n(?t been won in football and proclaiming that attending a women's basketball game is "like watching paint dry," The Rover called into question the significance that women's sports bear on-the uni­versity community. Entertainment value is a subjective evaluation, and a person should not be thought of as ignorant because he or she finds women's sports to lack excitement.Neither should students feel obligated to attend women's sporting events simply because they feel badly about poor attendance -female athletes should be treated as athletes, not as charity cases. However, the determined significance ofwomen's sports on this campus and around the world should not be dependent on an analysis of the sports' enter­tainment value. Such a standard is insulting to the athletes who dedicate themselves to athletic excellence and ignores the broader importance of sports -particularly women's sports -in our society. Athletes decide to take up their sports out ofmuch more than a desire to entertain; most sports -men's and women's alike -draw few spectators below the professional levels, and even some professional leagues are poorly attended. Most athletes also are driven by desires for competition, team unity, and/or personal challenge. Sports can instill important virtues in those who play them. Regarding female ath­letes especially, these values are important for girls' and women's self-confidence and sense of achievement, and for greater gender equality in our society. The growth of women's sports across the world has helped to break down gender stereotypes and allowed women and girls the opportunity to achieve in areas that were once off-limits to them. On a college campus, particularly one with already-unbaianced gender relations, the presence offemale varsity athletes is essential to furthering gender equality. Notre Dame, which Sports Illustrated rated in 1999 as a top-20 university for women's sports, should be proud to take part in this tradition as a collegiate leader in women's athletic achievements. Regardless of whether students find women's sports entertaining or choose to attend women's games, they_should respect women's athletics as a valu­able part of the school community and honor the recent successes of our women's teams. . 
4 SCHOLASTICNEWS 3 FEBRUARY 2005 

j..'f#l:t•lt41-iii@l~_E~SJ---------------------~ 

Doubting th.e DegreeAudit 
Why is the online guide often flawed? 

DARICSNYDER 
In theory, it should be a Notre Dame student's most dependable academic ally: an online degree audit that keeps tabs on an individual student's completion of his or her course requirements. Espe­cially for those with multiple majors, the degree audit provided on IrishLink was implemented in 2003 to act as an online tool for students and advisors. While this tool proved useful for many, a number of students have told Scholastic that,•often times, the degree audit is out­dated and inaccurate. Although the degree audit screen appears with a disclaimer warning that the information might be inaccurate, it still causes headaches for many. These audits display the list of courses taken by a student, the credits earned toward a student's intended degree, the degree requirements currently being filled and the requirements a student has yet to complete. Senior Alissa Mendoza, an economics major, recently experienced difficultywith the degree audit when it showed that her 400-level Spanish poetry class did not fulfill her university literature require­ment, although the registration booklet stated it would. A College ofArts & Let­ters dean told her that the degree audit is used only as a guide when periodically checking on students' academic progress and acknowledged that the guide is often inaccurate. "So why do we use a guide that has a reputation for being false?" Mendoza asks. Senior Katie Laskasky, a management and math double major, also says that advisors have told her the degree audit is just a rough estimate. "You just have to talk to your advisor to make sure you're on track," she says. 
DougMcKenna, degree audit specialist at the Office ofthe Registrar, explains the problems with the online degree audits are the result of the limited scope of the system. "The degree audits are online as a tool only; they're neither intended or designed for full advising," McKenna says. He told Scholastic that maintaining and updating the auditing system is more complex than it may appear to the average student. The current structure requires that classes and degree requirements must be entered manually. Each school year, requirements are modified, classes are changed, and more Notre Dame stu­dents enroll in study abroad programs, taking courses that do not always transfer easily. The class numbering structure can also create difficulties for the system, as · a variant ofa course -like ANTH248A instead ofANTH248 -may not get en­tered into the system. Unless an academic advisor specifically requests that the audit system is updated, changes are made only a few times a semester. 
In order to fix these persistent pro­gramming flaws, McKenna says a new degree audit system is slated to go online this fall as part of a large information technology upgrade. . 
... Ball State University. 
4. 
Board ofTrustees 
composed entirely of students. 
3. 
Sharks with freakin' laser 
breams attached to their heads. 
2 An end to parietals. Members • of the opposite sex are free to mingle at all hours in the Scho­lastic office -so long as they're slaving in front of a computer screen. 
· I A Scholastic on every 
• doorstep. 

3 FEBRUARY 2005 SCHOLASTICNEWS 5 



Outgoing President and Vice President 


ALISAFINELLI
Last April, Adam Istvan and Karla Bell began their term as student body president and vice president, respectively. For both, it was their first time holding any position on student government. Now, with more than half oftheir term completed, they have proved that experience is not a prerequisite for making progress in student govern­ment. Puring l~st year's election, Istvan and Bell developed a platform with three ma­jor goals to accomplish as president and vice president. First among them was an effort to get SYRs back in the residence halls. While this w:as one ofthe first issues Istvan and Bell addressed once in office, it was not considered for discussion by the administration. Istvan says that pressing the issue would have potentially destroyed stuclent government's relationship with the administratioi;t_. Rather than 
6 SCH0LASTICCOVER.STORY 




ADAMISTVAN KA~LABELL 
risk losing support for future proposals, Istvan and Bell decided to drop in-dorm SYRs from their agenda. 
Istvan and Bell saw much greater suc­cess in achieving their second goal of making DVD rentals available to.students at an on-campus location -LaFortune Student Center. Over the summer, Istvan and Bell researched and planned the de­tails of implementing the reµtal. system ancl· had it re_ady for :use b.y the start . of 
the school year. · · · · The third major goal Istvan and Bell set during their campaign was the ~reation ofa late-night transportation system for students to use when going off-campus on the weekends. It is expected ·to reach completion in the coming weeks, but not as originally planned. In early .Qctober, Is.tvan and Bell presented their Safe Bus proposal to the Boarc:i ofTrustees. After meeting with the board ai;td_l)earing thei_r potential concerns regarding Safe Bus1 Istvan _and Bell continued working with stu_dent government to .~xplore different options for providing transpor,tation to 
students. They considered S.outh Bend\; 
T.ranspo bus service as a p<>ssibility. 
Now Istvan says :they hav:e founcj an alternativ~ soh,1tion :that will still accomplish the goal ofproviding stu­dents with transportat;ion on weekend nights. Though details of the arrange­ment have yet to be settled, a private bar owner has purchased a bus for die 
purpose of bringing students home from the bar late at night. 
Istvan says he is pleased with how he and Bell tackled their m~jor plat­form goals. They hav:e had success with several other student-,.govern-· 
ID.ent projects during their term in office. Though they originally had not planned on working for the Fair Trade coffee initiative, Istvan and Bell say the decision to support and work for the cause was an easy one. As a result of their help, Fair Trade coffee was made available throughoutcampus. Istvan says heis most proud of this a~complishment because it reflects the great values .of the Noti;:e Dame student:b_ody. 
Most recently, the president _and vice president have.been planning t.heir second presentation to the Board of Trustees. They chose to devote the presentation to issues of equality and diversity on cam­pus. Istvan says this .decision sprung from recent campus events that indicated the presence ofracial insensitivity on campus, 


Ev~rything we worked on we<clid wholeheartedly. 
-Karla Bell, student body vice president 

including the r~action to former Head Coach Tyrone WiUingham's firing. 
In order to pres_ent an accurate report, student government sponsorec:l several focus groups inviting students to discuss issves· .of e.quaHty and .diversity regar~­ing race, ge,nder and sexual orientation on campus. Is,:vap. and Bell believe that many students are reluctant to admit there are inequalities .that exist 011 campus. Is.tvan says that merely holding the focus groups is a step toward addressing the existing problems. They plan to publish ,1:heir re­port for the entire student body to read. 
As their term comes to a close, in ad­dition to working on diversity issues, Istvan and B_ell hope to make some improvements .to s_tudent government. Both believe the new structure of stu­dent government that was created last year has p);oyen to be an effective system. However, .as Istvan points out, "There is always going to be flaws to any system." Specifically, they hope to improve the transition _between old and new admin­istrations. Student government also now is considering moving the changeover date to the ,la:;,t clay ofdasses. 
So far, Istvan and Bell have no regrets about their term as president anci vice president. ''.Everything we worked on we did wh9Jehearteclly," Bell says. Heradvice to next year's student leaders is simple: "Stay passionate." D 
3 FEBRUARY 2005 



,~,~;x· . 
" ·;_;:>}'. 

.. ..-.--.-_,..-.. 
Scholastic sat down with 
·the. six tickets and grilled 
--.. . 

.. them,on their platform promises~ Each ticket is profiled ctn<:I we chose our . own t:o endorse on Pg~ 14. To trulytest their . · intelligence, we also asked 
· the aspiringpoliticos to use the word below in a .·sent.ehce without giving i'·themthe definition.What
. . . -. . . . 
· would you have said? 
ster•nu•ta•tor n. a substance, esp. poison gas, thatcauses nasal irritation, violent coughing, etc. 

l'&l!!alifl!lllllilllilllililllliilll 

@•t4=i:JSTCfRYJ 

uOne student voice,
DAVEBARON uzz1SHAPPELL eight thousand strong." 

ALISAFINELLI
Candidates Dave Baron and Lizzi · Shappell believe they have a unique vision for student govern­ment. "The focus of student government needs to be uniting the student body and mobilizing [it]," Baron says. Between the two candidates, Baron and Shappell have a significant amount of experience in student government. As a freshman, Baron served as the president of the class of 2006 and has participated inMorissey Hall government for the past two and a half years. However, serving as the chief executive assistant to the current president and vice president, Adam Istvan and Karla Bell, is by far his most notable experience. By the end ofhis term as chief 
. executive assistant, Baron will have met three times with the Board of Trustees, something no other candidate may claim. As the chief executive assistant, Baron says he is constitutionally mandated to attend more meetings than the student body pres­ident. As aresult, he has athorough under­standing of all the various groups within student government. Baron's running mate has had her own share of experience this past year, serving as the Badin Hall senator and the senate Gender Relations Chair. 
In addition, Shappell is a member of the Sophomore Class Council. . 
Their platform includes many ideas for improving student life. One priority is improving on-campus programming through the devel9pment of the concert endowment that the current student gov­ernment has discussed. Baron and Shap­pell propose using $100,000 from student government to form the endowment and seeking additional donations from alumni. The endowment money would be used to bring big-name concerts to campus. Baron and Shappell also propose creating a rally fund thatwould provide student clubs and organizations with the necessary money to sponsor rallies and demonstrations on campus. Baron says the student group would have to be one officially recognized by the university. Ideally, the fund would encourage activism from students repre­senting a wide range of opinions. 
Another program Baron and Shappell propose is a speaker series, entitled "the Catholic Think Tank of America." The series would feature prominent Catholics and non-Catholics and would aim to increase the level of student discussion regarding aspects of spirituality. Other priorities for Baron and Shappell include a project to put a printer in every dorm on campus and a bookstore alternative to buying and selling used books. 
Baron and Shappell also plan to devote increased attention to diversity issues on campus. They hope to do so by creat­ing a minority affairs committee on the student senate. Gender issues are another concern for the two candidates. This past year, working on the gender relations committee, Shappell played an active role. in planning and organizing the campus­wide sexual assault awareness week that took place in No,vember. She and Baron believe the projectwas a success and plan to make it an annual event, along with an eating disorders awareness week that will take place later this year. Theyalso believe improved resources for sexual assault and eating disorders are needed on campus and hope to work with Health Services a:nd the Counseling Center to address these issues. 

Official recognition ofthe Gay-Straight Alliance [Alliance ND]is also important to Baron and Shappell. "There seems to be interest in attacking [recognition of the alliance] in a new way and we want student government to support it," Shappell says. 
Another important goal for Baron and Shappell is to improve Notre Dame's rela­tionship with the South Bend community. Theybelieve there are "too many incorrect stereotypes on both sides." Having grown up in the area, Shappell is particularly in­terested in addressing the issue by creating a student senate committee on community relations. The candidates also hope· to improve off-campus students' transition into local communities by encouraging student participation in neighborhood coalitions and by providing services such as off-campus safety seminars and secu­rity alerts sponsored by the Notre Dame Security Police and the South Bend Police Department. 
If elected president and vice president, Baron and Shappell plan to visit every dorm at least once during their term in order to get as much student input as possible. These visits and other efforts to expand communication with the student body would be a primary focus for Baron and Shappell to ensure they fulfill their vision to unify and mobilize the student body. . 



PRESIDENT 
Name: Dave Baron Class: Junior Major: Political Science and Economics Dorm: Morrissey Hometown: Kankakee, Ill. 

VICE PRESIDENT 
Name: Lizzi Shappell Class: Sophomore Major: Political Science and Peace Studies Dorm: Badin 

PERSONALITY 
Use the word "sternutator" in a sentence: "The FDA wouldn't approve the new Howard Sternutator drug." 
Combined SAT Score: 2810 


IDEAS 
Most Feasible: Creating a Com­mittee for Community Relations Least Feasible: Gynecologist on campus 


CRAIG BREDE VIJAYRAMANAN uLeaders, for a change." 
MOERTEL of the Gay-Straight Alliance [Alliance one's best interests," the ticket says. or Craig Brede and Vijay Ramanan, ND]," the candidates have proposed to While the Brede-Ramanan ticket sees both residents of Alumni Hall, all meet monthly with representatives from an influx of money issued to the univer­F
that it takes to serve the campus' needs is a simple formula: Well-re­searched intentions plus careful prepara­tion will equal implementation, leaving a remainder of student satisfaction. Al­though the duo has set numerous lofty goals for its potential tenure as student body president and vice president, they emphasize the overt practicality of their propositions. "[Everything on our cam­paign] is entirely feasible," Brede says. Brede, a junior finance and economics double major, and Ramanan, a junior math and philosophy double major, have spent a lengthy amount of time research­ing the achievability of their platform. For example, Brede and Ramanan have marked the creation ofa "young trustee" -anundergraduate student selected by a thorough application process for a three­ye!\r term on the Board ofTrustees -as paramount to their ticket. The idea was sparked by similar practices of the student governments at universities comparable to Notre Dame, such as Duke Univer­sity, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Boston College. 
Despite their limited collective experi­ence in student government, Brede and Ramanan still conceived a platform that reflects the commitment the pair has made to representing the entire student body, especially groups that often are overlooked by the university. In fact, the Brede-Ramanan ticket has devoted a por­tion of its platform to celebrating diversity at Notre Dame. Aside from their desire to "express strong, official endorsement the university's Diversity Council. 

Brede and Ramanan also pledge to commission formal reports on diversity and gender relations at Notre Dame and to hol~ a campus-wide Mass to begin the week dedicated to Martin Luther King, Jr. According to the Brede-Ramanan '05 Platform, "Too many opportunities have been wasted where student government, in the name of the student body, could have taken a clear and definitive stance to help our peers." 
In an effort to provide students with courses and instructors that best suit their preferred method of learning, Brede and Ramanan have proposed the creation of a Student Course Evaluation (SCE) system. Similar in form and function to the Teacher Course Evaluation (TCE) that students are asked to complete as the semester draws to a close, the SCE will include a set of approximately 10 to 15 multiple-choice questions designed to gauge students' impressions of the mate­rial and instructors of their courses. 
Brede and Ramanan also would like to expand the academic resources available to Notre Dame students. Of particular interest is the pair's desire to curb the sometimes outrageous amount of money students spend on textbooks for classes. According to Brede and Ramanan, · they will attempt to "take into account the dif­ferences among various colleges and aca­demic programs" to allocate the maximum amount that can be spent on books for a single class. "Spending hundreds of dollars for books that are used sparingly is in no sity through various mediums, the duo has voiced concerns about the university cutting funds for the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). Aside from pushing for additional university funding, the candidates also want to collaborate with the CSC to better publicize the service opportunities that are available to stu­dents via the CSC. Brede and Ramanan want to get the message across that the CSC is "an ideal venue for service and unity," with break seminars and summer service projects that can be described as the "crown jewels of the university." With student government's help, Brede and Ramanan hope that the CSC will be able to re-establish its importance on Notre Dame's campus. 
Despite the width and breadth oftheir campaign, Brede and Ramanan feel that all oftheir proposals are attainable. Both candidates believe that they bring strong leadership abilities to their respective offices, which ultimately will bring about positive results. The pair adds: "Leadership . . . accounts for the differ­ence between mediocrity and excellence. It is what we will bring to the offices of president and vice president of the Stu­dent UnionofNotre Dame." . 

PRESIDENT 
Name: Craig Brede Class: Junior Major: Finance and Economics Dorm: Alumni Hometown: Bloomfield Hills, 
Mich. 

VICE PRESIDENT 
Name: Vijay Ramanan Class: Junior Major: Math and Philosophy Dorm: Alumni Hometown: Granger, Ind. 


PERSONALITY 
Use the word "sternutator" in a sentence: "The hot and spicy sea nuggets upset my sternutator." 
Combined SAT Score: 2920 

IDEAS 
Most Feasible: Creating SCEs Least Feasible: Student on the Board of Trustees 
Class: Sophomore a sentence: "Boy, Erik, Mr. Major: Math and Spanish Potato Head sure has been a Dorm: Sorin sternutator here." Hometown: Atlanta,.Ga. 
Combined SAT Score: 3110 
VICE PBESIQENT IDEAS 
Name: Erik Powers Most Feasl&le: Women's Class: Junior suffrage at ND Major: English and American Least Feasible: Replacing the Studies Golden Dome with platinum , Dorm:Sorin Hometown: Evergreen Park I 


Powers also says that he is so commit­ted to the campaign that he is willing to change drastically his hairstyle. He shaved patches of his head bald and ar­ranged long strands over the bald spots to create a look commonly referred to as a "comb over." He says he was aiming for the Dick Cheney look, although the hair­style also resembles those of Chester A. Arthur and Martin Van Buren. "The way I see it," he says, "male pattern baldness is a symbol ofmale pattern leadership, and that's something that's very important tome." 
Although I'm not bald,"· White adds, · "male pattern leadership is also important tome." . 

WILLMARRA PETEHARIG 
EMILYPALADINO 

Will Marra and Pete Harig are serious about one thing: making sure the concerns of freshmen are represented in student government. The current Zahm freshmen say that, even though they'll be sophomores next year, they believe that they will be able to represent the interest of the youngest Darners better than any other ticket in the race. Although they have very little experience in student government, Marra and Harigsay their main strength is their optimism. "We have a more pure view of student government than a lot of people who've been here for awhile and might have pessimistic views about what student government can do," says Marra, Zahm's 
ALEcWHITE ERIKPOWERS 

Freshman Class Council representative. "We've never seen things not get done," he says. 
Marra and Harig also want to bring Hi-C Ecto Cooler to the dining halls. Their Web site promises that, ifthey are elected, the student body's "cravings for green 'juice' that tastes like oranges will not go unquenched." 
The freshmen also want to institute a safe program to facilitate campus traffic. 
Such a program would involve divid­ing campus sidewalks into lanes, one of which would be designated as an "express lane." 
Marra and Harig's platform is small, but they say their goals are large. "We want to bring together not only the 
EMILYPALADINO 

ophomore Alec White and Junior
S

Erik Powers are the tallest candi­
dates for student body president and vice president. And, according to them, that is reason enough for Notre Dame students to elect them. 
l 
Showing off shirts that read "Size? Does. Matter!," the Sorin residents said 
-! 
., 
that their height would be beneficial if a heavy blanket offog ever descended upon campus. Such weather might hinder the leadership obligations of other, much shorter candidates, White and Powers say. "They would also be much more susceptible to attack by minotaurs hid­ing in the bushes," Powers notes. 
If elected, White and Powers say that one oftheir top priorities would be replac­ing the gold on the dome with platinum. White and Powers also want to increase the wattage ofevery indoor light bulb on campus. They say their Campaign for a Brighter Tomorrow cannot apply to outdoor lighting, as it would hinder the abilities ofcampus astronomers to see the stars. "Light pollution is a problem on this campus," White says. "We have to be cau­tious about those kinds of things." 
White and Powers also are concerned that the bookstore is not making enough of a profit on their goods. They believe that higher prices would be acceptable if students were able to shell out alternative methods ofpayment. "Liters ofblood, ap­pendages or digits would be acceptable as compensation," Powers says. 
White and Powers say one ofthe most important things they plan to do ifelected is give Notre Dame women the right to vote. "Women have been voting in this country for 79 years," White says, "but not at Notre Dame. I think it's time we change that." 
While concert programming has been a major issue in this election, White and . Powers say that ·the university doesn't need to look very far to find a good band. "We need to tap into our own band re­sources," White says. "Plus, they don't only play; they also march." 
Powers says that opposing candidates Will Marra and Pete Harig's idea to place Hi-C Ecto Cooler in the. dining halls is dangerous. "You could be just sitting there enjoying your drink when, all of a sudden, Slimer comes through the wall and attacks you. You'd lose a meal, too,"· he says. "As we all know, once you've swiped your card, that's it." The duo also is against Kool~Aid, he says, because.they don't like the implication that Notre Dame students need aid in being cool. 

10 COVER STORY 03 FEBRUARY 2005 


MARKHEALY sosCOSTA uNo-nonsense solutions." 
DARICSNYDER. 
ophomore Mark Healy and fresh-' 
man Bob Costa belxeve that to get
S
things done, it is important to lcnow the right people. Whether these people are university officials, high profile pet­formers or members ofthe student body, the Healy-Costa ticket believes these relationships ate the building blocks for progress. 
Healy a.iready is fa:milfar with the presidential race; he fart fot studenthotly president last year. ''I;in a nian ofactiont Healy sa:ys. "lf somethinifs not getting done, I've never been afraid to jump in/; He has served as a student senator on the Committee for Residence Life a:nd as Ideas and Issues programmer ort the Student Union Board (SUB). As pro"' grammer, Healy helped cootdina:te the appearance of Gideon Ya:go ""-'-a news reporter for MTV-on ca:mpuS prior to the November election. Currently, Hea:ly serves as the director ofprogramming on the SUB. He also sits on the SUB Execu­tive Board and the Student Government Executive Programming Board. 
Costa first met Healy through mutual friends in Zahm Hall. "People kept teil­ing me, you've got to check this guy out," Healy says. While at his la:tge Pennsylva­nia high school,. Costa Served oil strident government and worked as a reporter for several local newspapers, reporting on teen issues; po1frics a:n:d music. Usfo.g the lliany c6fiiieGtfons he made inthe mu­sfo industry, C:dsfa atrartged for a: couple offamous musfoal acts to perf6fm free cdncetts athis sthooL He says one ofhis greatest a:chievemertts wa:s bringingJohn Mayer to perform at his senior prom. '1If tock music has troght me anything, it's that artything is fea:siblet Costa: says. 
WithHealy's experience irtstudent pro­gratnmfri:g an:ci Costa;s record of bringing in big petforrrters; better programming is the pti:tnaty issue of their campaign. 11We're a:11 a.bout better concerts and big­ger names, more often. We;re the ones that can do it/' C6sta says. "We have the connections. I have the number of the manager of the Dave Matthew's Band in rrty cell." They argue that the talk of creating an endowment to support larger concerts is unrealistic. "A lot of bands have expressed interest in playing here for free; it's just about doing it the right way," Costa says.1-Iealy and Costa vow to focus on cutting through the red tape that complicates bringing in performers and to lure A-list performers with service­and charity-related concerts. 
The Healy-Costa ticket also seeks to improve aspects of student life beyond programming. Healy has played a role in the push for the Flex 10 meal plan and wants to improve other aspects of Food Services, such as an enhanced Grab 'n' Go system. "There's certainly some things 

to be looked at when ice sculptures Show 
up outside South Dining Hall," Healy 
says. The platform also is interested in 
bringing cable television to the dorms 
and the Safe Bus program to campus, 
as well as reforming the process of pur­
chasing textbooks at the Hammes Notre 
Da:me Bookstore. Healy and Costa want 
the bookstore to publish a list of books 
and theft buy...;back prices in order to 
promote more competition with other 
book~exchange services. 
Technological enhancements are an­
other aspect oftheir campaign platform, 
Healy and Costa would like to see the Of­
fice ofinformation Technologies' (OIT) 
new dorm-printer program extended to 
all dorms. They plan to create a commit­
tee that will explore what improvements 
can be made to WebMail, as well as to 
the 1:1niversity's online search services. 
Wireless Internet is an integral aspect 
oftheir goal to improve techndlogy, and 
they aim to bring wireless Internet to all 
24-hour lounges by the start of the fall 
2005 semester. "There's no good excuse 
for it, really. Itwouldn't be that expensive 
or difficult to implement," Healy argues. 
"Ifthe OIT is unwilling to get this done, 
I'll personally go around and install it." 
Healy and Costa believe that all student 
government meetings should be open to ·interested students; theywill seek to cre­ate a more accountable student govern­ment. The best way to accomplish this is through greater accessibility, they say. "You just can't fix student apathy. Yet when they do care, you've got to make it easier for them," Healy says, "that's your best bet." . 
PRESIDENT 
Name: Mark Healy Class: Sophomore Major: Engineering Dorm: Zahm Hometown: Orlando, Fla. 
VICE -PRESIDENT Name: Bob Costa Class: Freshman Major: American Studies Dorm:Zahm Hometown: Yardley, Penn. 

PERSONALITY 
Use the word "sternutator" in a 
sentence: "Monk Malloy is such a total sternutator." 
Combined SAT Score: 2750 


IDEAS 
Most Feasible: Better concerts, bigger names. Least Feasible: Getting the dining hall to cut back on uncessary ex­travagances, like ice sculptures.' 

7
I 

JAMEsLEITOJORDANBONGIOVANNI 
I , 
DAVEPOELL ames Leito and Jordan Bongiovanni
Jwant to make sure that the concerns of 
students come first. Both are confident that they can reach out effectively to stu­dents and implement a full slate ofissues that they believe have gone unrealized for far too long. By stressing the impor­tance ofcommunication between student leaders and their constituents, Leito and Bongiovanni hope to preside over an ad­ministration that will listen attentively to student input in order to improve the negative perceptions some students have about student government. 
Leito, a junior who ran for vice presi­dent last year with current senior Charlie Ebersol, is currently a student senator from Siegfried Hall and chair of the Campus Life Council Task Force. He and junior Bongiovanni, who has served as Cavanaugh Hall's student senator since her sophomore year, believe that their consistent involvement in student government makes them the most experi­enced and battle-tested ticket on the bal­lot. "Our experiences cover every facet of student government," Leito says. 
Leito and Bongiovanni hope to com­bat student apathy toward student gov­ernment by stressing the importance of accessibility and accountability. "Making ourselves easily accessible to students is the best way to get student input," Leito says. In order to make themselves more accessible and the encourage a free flow of information between student leaders and the student body, the candidates plan to provide office hours -which will be 
PRESIDENT 
Name: James Leito Class: Junior Major: Accounting Dorm: Siegfried Hometown: Fort Worth, 
Texas 
VICE PRESIDENT 
Name: Jordan Bongiovanni Class: Junior Major: Accounting Dorm: Cavanaugh Hometown: Guilderland, N.Y. 
open to all students -in popular on­campus locations. In addition, Leito and Bongiovanni would like to encourage stu­dents to voice their student government concerns by consistently writing letters to the student body that could be published in The Observer and Scholastic. 
Leito believes that the students recently have not had ample opportunities to ex­press critical issues to student leaders. 

"As far as students holding government accountable and student leaders hold­ing other leaders accountable, that's something that's been completely absent this year," Leito says. Both candidates are confident that they can turn this trend around. "You can talk to students as much as you want, but until they see results, they're not really going to think you do anything," Leito says. 
Bongiovanni echoes Leito's sentiments: 

"I refuse to believe that students don't care about anything on this campus." She cites the three years she has spent listening to student input as evidence of this. Ulti­mately, she says, the pressure falls on the student leaders to address the list of student grievances and do something about it. 
Keeping with their overall theme of communication, Leito and Bongiovanni pledge to do everything they possibly can to secure a spot for a student representa ­tive on the Notre Dame Board of Trust-. ees. Currently, the only method of com­munication between students and trustees is a series ofthree one:. hour presentations that the student government makes to the . board annually. Leito and Bongiovanni 

PERSONALITY 
Use the word "sternutaior" in a sentence: "Schwarzenegger is the 'governator.' We want to be the sternutator.'' 
Combined SAT Score: 2780 
IDEAS 
Most Feasible: Head Coach Charlie Weis' welcoming tour Least Feasible: Pre-football game fundraising 
uStudents first." 

see this system as terribly inefficient. To remedy the problem, they propose hav­ing a permanent student on the board who would attend every meeting. "Ifwe want the highest body of the university to constantly have student opinion, this is the way to do it," Leito says. "I know this can happen. It's just a matter of two student leaders going forth, asking for it, and making a good presentation to the Board. This is, without a doubt, a priority I promise we will make." 
Leito and Bongiovanni believe that one of the strongest aspects of their vision is the fact that all but one of their platform ideas have been presented to student gov­ernment prior to this campaign -the exception is a welcoming tour for Charlie Weis, the new head football coach. Leito believes that student government's fa­miliaritywith their platform will make it much easier to implement new endeavors that have been tabled in the past. . 
! I 
i 


13 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 3 FEBRUARY 2005 
f 



SCHOLASTIC ENDORSEMEN·T 
VOTE BARON -SHAPP.ELL .. t wasn't easy to pick a ticket to en­more than just vague promises to "advo­as Reckers andLaFortune and hope to com­
dorse; the majority of the tickets had cate resources" or "form a committee." municate with the student body by writing 
platforms thatwere hardly distinguish-Leito-Bongiovanni was a close second letters for publication in The Observer and able from one another. When it came to for Scholastic's endorsement, as the two sena­Scholastic. the small things, most of the candidates tors bring a great deal ofexperience and en­Brede-Ramanan addresses several im­were in agreement: Get Gurley Leep out thusiasm to the election. Like Baron-Shap-portant issues, but many ofthe other goals and TRL acts in. However, one ticket -likekeeping Decio Commons open late, 
I 

was able to win us over with its serious 
encouraging the repair ofD6 and installing and sincere approach to two topics that security camera!? near the dining hall lock-Scholastic believes merits unwavering ers -seem thinly researched. But Brede attention: gender issues and diversity at and Ramanan's proposals to take control of
The Baron -Shappell ticket

Notre Dame. That ticket is Dave Baron­NDBay -an online book market for the 
Lizzi Shappell. ultimately separates itself Notre Dame community-andto increase . Like their opponents, Baron and Shap­funding for the CSC are worthwhile objec­' pell focus on many of the everyday con­from the others by tackling tives. 
cerns ofNotre Dame students-such as · Healy-Costa has a broadly-defined
serious issues that have long 

installing printers in dorms and creating platform with good ideas but little proven a Wish List for LaFortune improvements lacked serious attention from research. The candidates' purported con­-and· also address broader issues that nections with big-name bands is attrac­
student government. 

are common points of student conten­tive, and their commitment to service and tion -like pushing for a student on the religious diversity is commendable. But the Board of Trustees and an endowment to 
bookstore reform and proposed-Flex 10 fund concerts by A-list performers. But planks do notseem feasible. this ticket ultimately separates itself from White~Powers provided a welcome the others by tackling serious issues that pell, this. ticket promises to promote issues break from the seriousness of the other have long lacked serious attention from of diversity on campus, but their strategies • candidates with ideas like a labyrinth on student government. are slightly more vague. Their most unique God Quad, the procurement ofa minotaur 
While the majority of the tickets -planks promise to help increase the visibility and replacing campus light bulbs to provide with the exception. of Marra-Harig and ofstudent government. To accomplish this, for a brighter future. Though a few oftheir White-Powers -specifically addressed they plan to hold office hours at such venues many ideas seem implausible at best, they the dire need to increase diversity and ex­., · gave us a laugh, most ofthe time. amine gender issues at Notre Dame, only · ~~ Marra-Harig is a· difficult ticket to 
' Baron-Shappell has concrete plans to do ~ '· •:· · &~ react to, as they seemed to portray a so. Baron -the current chief executive .},Dfli. \.r\ split-p~rsonality. 0~their.campaign assistant to the student body president and ;: i' I.,;;:-::' :., ·;; \: Web site, both candidatesJOke about vice president-and Shappell-who has :;j;;i;;1>~/:t,· t,;.. ·.! their presidential potential and of­a proven track record of conceiving of . ,. · · / :; ·\j fer two ill-researched planks: Ecto and implementing activities such as last Cooler for the dining halls and a 
fall's Sexual Assault Awareness Week fast lane on campus sidewalks. -clearly bring the experience During their formal inter­necessary to inact their ideas. view, however, laughs were With this spring's Eating Jew and far between, as Disorder Awareness Week "the pair stumbled over -organized by Shappell answers to serious ques­-and pledges to push ·tions and claimed to be for the unlikely but freshmen necessary on-campus without providing any gynecologist, Baron and details. Shappell show that they tackle tendentious ideas optimistically and with 
advocates 
. 
14 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 
3 FEBRUARY 2005 

-----------------------·.·;,t::Vi?l2~JITT(sOPINION;---------------------, 
God, Fre~dom, Liberty, Godl 

An abridged rough draft of Bush's inaugural speech 
,vice President Cheney, Mr. Chief Justice, President Carter, President Bush, President Clinton, reverend clergy, God, liberty, money, cash, hoes: 
On this day, prescribed by law and marked by to wicked parties, that cost some $40 million, we revise the durable wisdom ofour Constitution and recall the deep commitments that unite a pretty big part of our country. 
We are led, by events, common sense and the Christian Bible to one conclusion: The survival of liberty in our land increas­ingly depends on the success of liberty in other lands, besides Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, China and Uzbekistan. The best hope for peace in our world is the ex­pansion offreedom and Christianity and Wal-Mart. 
America's commercial interests and our Christian beliefs are now one. From the day of our Founding, we have proclaimed that every man on this earth has rights, dignity and matchless value because they bear the image of the Maker of Heaven and Earth -except for, you know, black people, for a little while there. Man, yes, then woman, eventually. Across the gen­erations we have proclaimed the impera­tive ofself-government-except, well, in Iran or Chile or wherever. Details. 
So it is the policy of the United States to seek and support the growth of demo­cratic movements and market capitalism in every nation and culture, with the ultimate goal of ending tyranny in our world. Russia, of course, doesn't count. Or China or Pakistan or Sa~di Arabia. No democrats there. 
We will encourage reform in govern­ments not called "Pakistan" by making clear that success in our relations will re­quire the decent treatment of their own people and conversion to Christianity. 

Some that I know personally -I'm looking at you, John -have questioned the global appeal of liberty, though this time in history, four decades defined by the swiftest advance offreedom ever seen -is an odd time for doubt. Veryun-American, 
.not to mention 
u n ­

Christian. Americans, of all people, never should be surprised by the power ofour Christian ideals. Especially if, like me, you avoid newspapers. 
The rulers ofoutlaw regimes can know that we still believe, as Abraham Lincoln did: "Those who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves; and, under the rule ofa just God, cannot long retain it." No, Alabama is not an outlaw regime. Segregated schools, poll taxes? That is just liberal rhetoric, all right? 
And all the allies of the United States can know: We honor your friendship, we rely on your counsel, and we depend on your help. Division among free nations is a primary goal of freedom's enemies. Come on, though; that inspection process was just molasses-slow. 
From all of you folks without private 
ROQUESTREW 

jets, I have asked patience in the hard task ofsecuring America, which you have granted in good measure. For the rest of you, enjoy those tax cuts, and those sweet jets. Because we have acted in the great liberating tradition ofthis nation, tens of thousands oflraqi civilians lost their lives. And as hope kindles hope, millions more will find it. By our efforts, we have lit a fire as well -a fire in the minds ofmen . Ignore that National Intelligence Council report about that whole Iraq as breeding ground for terrorist nonsense. Because it is liberal nonsense. Two plus two equals 
five, now, by the way. 
In America's ideal of freedom, 
the public interest depends on 
private character -on integrity, 
on tolerance for fellow God­
fearing heteros, and on the 
rule of conscience in our own 
lives. Self-government relies, 
in the end, on the governing of 
the self, unless you have a womb. 
That edifice ofcharacter is built in 
families, supported by communities 

with standards, and sustained in our 
national life by the truths of the 
Christian Bible. 
Americans, at our 
best, value the life we 
see in one another, and 

always must remember that even the unwanted have worth. Some­times you have to execute a lot of the unwanted, though. Personally, I'm a fan of the electric chair. Zap! And our coun­try must abandon all the habits ofracism, because we cannot carry the message of freedom and the baggage ofbigotry at the same time. Alabama, again: not an outlaw regime. Doesn't count. 
History has an ebb and flow of justice, from thesis to antithesis to synthesis, but history also has a visible direction, set by liberty and the Author of Liberty. I'm talking about God here. 
May God bless you, and may He watch over the United States ofAmerica. God, freedom, liberty, God, freedom, God. (Note to editor: scan and delete refer­ences to Iraq.) D 
3FEBRUARY 2005 SCHOLASTICNEWS 15 
! i 
·' 
Exploring a dorm rendition with tradition 
LAURAMARRS 

In this edition of"Cribs," Scholastic re­turns to a classic dorm room with decor firmly rooted in tradition. The men of 369 Dillon Hall have lived out the motto "God, Country, Notre Dame" with their eclectic and :fitting design theme. This spacious triple offers superior amenities and a collection ofcaptivating decorations that reflect each aspect of the theme of the room and the personalities of its inhabitants. This featured triple has three rooms, shared by junior roommates Brett Bren­nfleck, Joe Rehmann and Mike Rehm­err. The first room -said to be three times the size ofa typical Dillon double -is set up like a founge. It is easy to see why it has become a popular place for the roommates and their friends to relax after class or before dances and football games. There are three large couches, a dart­board and a surround sound system to be enjoyed. Each aspect ofthe "God, Coun­try, Notre Dame" theme is represented on the walls by a cross, an enormous American flag and, of course, the requi­site Notre Dame paraphernalia. There are two televisions as well, which, according to Rehmerr, are "necessary for simultane­ous television watching and video-game playing." 
This room boasts not only luxuries, but also a timeless collection of decorations that pay tribute to the room's past. The common room is home to the memory wail, where four large portraits of the room's previous inhabitants have been hung. 
"Sometimes the room just feels empty, and we look up at the memory wall, and it reminds us ofthe good times," Rehmann says. "Sometimes we catch Brett talking to them." 
NEVER A "BOAR" IN 369 The residents present ham it up in this spacious Dillon triple. The framed photos on the back wall are tributes to residents past. 

-Like most of the furniture in their room, many ofthe decorations have been inherited from the previous inhabitants 
. or been given as gifts from friends. The walls are covered in movie posters, and another wall is adorned with an European license plate and an Egyptian wall-hang­ing. Decorative lights hang from the walls and the ceiling. The dorm pep rally repre­sentative -a javelin head -also resides in this room. 
Past the cdmmon room is a bathroom with its own shower, as well as, a bed­room decorated in the same manner as the lounge. The roommates say that they do not know how they ended up with such a great room, and that it just must have been luck. Brennfleck says, "My favorite part ofthe room has to be the convenience of having our own bathroom; and my two roommates, ofcourse." . 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
3 FEBRUARY 2005 


J:::JJ=·E~I----,---------------------, 
:~~:.··,.,',·:·,:.•\",­


-j
-'1 
:;
I 
•, -' ' -~­
-~ ._:.;.:­;ft;·; i :j• :,,.1 . 2-~: •\::(;:, }, , 
SEEING DOUBLE 
Two televisions maximize viewing time and video­game tournaments during down time. There's no need to fight over the remote in this 
room. 
IT REALLYTIES THE ROOM TOGETHER 
Sticking to the theme of the room, a giant flag sets the backdrop for the 

3 FEBRUARY 2005 ·· SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 



FOOD COURT 

.··~ 
.. HUDDLE 
V_IDEO 

• NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 

i-·-' _i _ r~::J 
-~-1 ! _:__ __ J [ 
_:-::::] 




Q&A 
With the Igloo Architects 

Anyone can build a snowman or make a snow angel, but building an igloo takes real talent. This January, Notre Dame was bombarded by snowstorms, dumping piles ofthe iry, white precipitation on campus. Some resourceful do1ners have become igloo-building experts. Alumni sophomore Matt lvfedlock (above) initiated this phenomenon, bringing his Alaskan roots to South Quad. Here are his thoughts on the arctic 
endeavor. 
What possessed you to build an igloo? 
My brother and I always used to build igloos out of huge snow banks when we were little. In more recent years we have built them for overnight winter expeditions ... My friends and I built our icy crib here on campus partially because it is absolutely ridiculous to see a giant igloo in Indiana. It is also fun to just get out and build something with the guys. 
What do you keep inside this humble abode? 
Our igloo could comfortably hold 18 people and sleeps 10 people. We used candles for lighting and about 20 blankets for warmth. We tried to get our 36-inch TV inside, but the door wasn't big enough. Our igloo also came complete with air conditioning and a freezer. 

Has anyone slept inside the igloo? We had three guys sleep in our igloo this year: Adam Lacock, Johnny Mospan and 
I. For the most part it was just us, with the exception of the random disoriented visitors that wandered through during the night. 
How has the student body responded to your new dwelling? For the most part people on campus really like the idea ... On the other hand, the day after I built the igloo I saw three guys aggressively stomping it down to the ground. 
Stanford Hall sophomores Jesse Batsche, Grant Cmmnings and Dave Zychinski (bottom right) couldn't let South Quad have all the fun. They decided to bring the craze to North Quad, and here are their thoughts on some pressing questions. 
What possessed you to build an igloo? 
After a while, living in a 1960s cinderblock bomb shelter with the architectural inspiration of a cardboard box gets a little old, and we decided to take matters into our own hands. 
How does one go about constructing an igloo? 
We shoveled snow into a pile about seven 
feet high, compacted it, watered it down to strengthen the walls, and then used an advanced Inuit construction tool called a Frisbee to hollow it out. We added some finishing touches with a drink dispenser, some shelves and a small chimney. 
Have you thrown any sweet parties inside the igloo? Let's just say that with natural refrigeration, room for eight and no parietals, rectors or RAs, good times can be had by all in an igloo. 
How has the student body responded to your new dwelling? Due to the high demand for more igloos on campus, we're considering forming our own igloo construction company. 
Any new opinions or thoughts on the Eskimo nation after dwelling in an igloo? 
No, but we do have some questions we'd like to ask them. Is it a bad idea to take a bite out of the igloo ifyou're thirsty? Do Eskimos ever get smashed inside igloos (from cave-ins, of course)? Where do you go to the bathroom? -Claire Sobczak 

SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 21
3 FEBRUARY 2005 



Vagina fervor has already begun; opinionated letters can be seen highlighting the Viewpoint section ofThe Observer, opposition Web sites con­demning the play have rooted themselves on the Internet, and posters advertising the controversial production cover the aged brick walls of O'Shaughnessy Hall. As the campus crosses the first days of February off the calendar, Notre Dame knows that V-Day and "The Vagina Monologues" are not far away. Junior Kaitlyn Redfield is this year's organizer of Notre Dame's V-Day cam­paign, and senior Carole Kennelly will serve as the director for Notre Dame's 2005 performance of"TheVagina Mono­logues." Despite the controversy that sur­rounds Notre Dame's involvement with V-Day -an international campaign to raise money and awareness to stop vio­lence against women and girls-Redfield and Kennelly are fully behind the effort to raise consciousness on campus about female abuse. An arrayofevents designed to empower women will be included in the 2005 Notre Dame V-Day campaign. For example, the Clothesline Project, which will appear in O'Shag from Feb. 7 to Feb. 18, provides a medium through which women ~ho have been victims ofsexual assault or rape can express their emotions. These women are asked to decorate a shirt to be hung on a clothesline and viewed by others to testify about the violence to which they have been subjected. The V-Day Cam­paign also is planning to hold the Red . Shirt Campaign -which asks members of the Notre Dame community to don red shirts on a specified date to express their support ofV-Day and its message -as well as "Project Black: Confronting the Silence." As part of Project Black, Notre Dame's V-Day campaign is organizing approximately 120 female demonstrators who will dress inblack and silently march from DeBartolo Hall to South Dining Hall on Feb. 10. 
Those associated with the play and the other V-Day activities anticipate the an­nual uproar over the play's presence on campus. The most consistently debated of these events is "TheVagina Monologues" itself, the play that prompted the creation ofthe V-Daymovement. Thisyear marks· the fourth consecutive year that the play -written in the mid-90s by Eve Ensler, who will be visiting campus for this year's performance ~ has been performed at Notre Dame. Although "The Vagina Monologues" has been performed both nationally and internationally, it will find a new setting on campus this year in the Leighton Concert Hall of the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. · 
The show is a mixture ofblunt humor 

. and sincerity, featuring women speaking frankly about their sexuality and, specifi­cally, their vaginas. All the accounts are based onthe stories ofrealwomen-En­
. sler wrote the play after conducting a se­ries ofinterviews with women ofall ages, races and socioeconom.ic backgrounds. "The play ex1>,resses the gamut offemaie experiences," Redfield says. Redfield urges those who are skeptical to approach the show with an open mind. "I would ask people to be willing to listen to stories of their peers and ofwomen ofthe world and to accept a different perspective and point ofview," she says. · 
"TheVagina Monologues" is sponsored by the Department of Filin, Television, and Theatre, the Gender Studies Pro,. gram, and the Department of English. 

22 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 3 FEBRUARY 2005 
The three academic bodies rotate primary sponsorship each year, with FTT serving as this year's primary sponsor. Because of FTT's central involvement, the show will be performed in the PAC -FTT's home base -FTT Acting Chair James Col­lins explains. "We think it's an important work," Collins says. "Controversial, but it inspires debate." 
Indeed, since its first performance on campus in 2002, the production of "The Vagina Monologues" at Notre Dame has been :fiercely debated. Opponents cite its sometimes-graphic depictions ofsexuality as a major concern. The conservative cam­pus publication The Irish Rover recently described "The Vagina Monologues" as "vile," and last year Bishop John D'Arcy of the Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese is­sued a public denouncement of the show. 
Senior Christina Dehan and sophomore Anamaria Scaperlanda-Ruiz were simi­larly dissatisfied with the way in which V-Day and "The Vagina Monologues" chooses to raise awareness about violence against women. Dehan and Scaperlanda­Ruiz created the Maria Goretti Project in order to educate the campus on the topic "in a way by which all women could feel uplifted and empowered," Dehan says. She emphasizes that this project is not a direct response to "The Vagina Monologues": "We just wanted to provide students with another option that is true to the Catholic identity of the university and to a holistic understanding ofwomanhood," she says. 

This year, the Maria Goretti Project took place the week of Jan. 24, and included talks from female law professors on the Catholic understanding of womanhood, presentations on global violence against women, and a prayer service. 
Although the cast members of "The Vagina Monologues" are aware that the show is controversial for a Catholic university, they counter that it should be viewed as a theatrical and artistic piece, and that it should not be judged from a strictly Catholic perspective. As Casey Stanton, a sophomore involved with the show, says: "People get wrapped up in the graphic parts of the show, but they forget that it's in the form of a play. Art is sup­posed to be controversial." 
At a 2003 workshop for V-Day College Campaign organizers, Redfield spoke on the challenges ofpresenting "The Vagina Monologues" at a Catholic university. In response, Ensler volunteered to visit Notre Dame during V-Day 2005 with the hope of promoting further discus­sion on the issues raised by "The Vagina Monologues." During Ensler's brief visit to South Bend, she will take part in a panel discussion that will debate the play and its resultant V-Day campaign. She also will be available for a book signing after ap­pearing at a fundraising luncheon, whose proceeds will go toward this year's two V-Day beneficiaries: Sex Offense Services (SOS) -the rape-crisis center for Saint Joseph County -and the Saint Joseph 

, NO SKIRTINGTHE ISSUE Above:The girls of i "My Sheri: Skirt" strike a pose during rehearsal. 
I:
I. 

i . . : 
\ BYTHE BOOK Bottom Left: Producer junior i Kaitlyn Redfield (left) and Director ls.enior Carole IKennelly look over the script of"The Vagina. 
! Monologues:• 
i 

County YWCA. SOS provides confiden­tial counseling to rape victims, as well as support in handling the legal difficulties of sexual assault; YWCA focuses on a mis­sion of equality for and empowerment of women. 
Since 1999, V-Day has raised $6.5 mil­lion through its College Campaign and $4.9 million in 359 communities world­wide. At Notre Dame alone, Redfield says that V-Day has raised $15,000 in the last two years. Thisyear, lOpercentofV-Day's proceeds will be donated to V-Day's 2 005 national spotlight effort, called "Women oflraq, Under Siege." The money raised will go toward resources for Iraqi women who have been displaced by the current war or have been sexually abused. 
Redfield says that she is not daunted by the constant controversy that surrounds V-Day and "The Vagina Monologues" at Notre Dame. She focuses instead on the good that V-Day has done in raising money for worthy charities and raising awareness on what she feels to be the pressing issue ofviolence against women. "['The Vagina Monologues' and V-Day are] about giving women the ability to regain ownership and control of their bodies," Redfield says. "I think we're do­ing a good thing," she adds, "so we'll keep doing it." D 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 23
3 FEBRUARY 2005 





. -~;\
~--~ 
. 
"°''"".'' l 
---·"--,..,..._,, ..._ --~---·-;:;o 

Down, but not Out** * * t? 
Accolades for Ani DiFranco's acoustic aptitude CD REVIEW 

"Knuckle Down," and she_ alternates lyrics with an upbeat orchestration of her own. . 
Madison Oyster Bar * * * *1:J 
A self-proclaimed "beautiful bar for beautiful people" 
MOERTEL

It seems likely that, with 17 or so albums to her name, Ani DiFranco should be slotted into the category of old musical pro. However, in her latest release, "Knuckle Down" (Righteous Babe Records), DiFranco delivers a 12-track musical first; although 
she has been writing songs and man sitting on her bed. DiFranco's producing records since the age title track paints an all too-fa­of18, "Knuckle Down" marks miHar scenario for hopeless the first time 34-year-old romantics, with the DiFranco has collabo­lyrics "I think I'm done rated with another mu­gunnin to get closer I To sician -Joe Henry-to some imagined bliss/ I gotta produce an album. But age-old knuckle down / And just be DiFranco fans need not fear; the OK with this" serving as the 
.result of the new combination infuses 
DiFranco's characteristically acoustic­
driven charisma with fresh studio clar­
ity that, until "Knuckle Down," has not 
been heard in DiFranco's albums. 

The "little folk singer," as she has coined herself, brings her soulful lyrical ability to the table yet again in 
JESSICAWHITE

With its soft lighting and cozy tables, the Madison Oyster Bar is the quintessential date spot. This multi-level restaurant and bar serves a wide array of appetizers, sand­wiches and seafood dinners, all at very affordable prices. Upon enteri:p.g, you'll find a welcom­ing staff waiting to usher you into a casual dining area that is situated di­rectly across from the establishment's well-stocked bar. Lined with dark wood paneling, the low-lit restaurant area ere-ates an intimate ambiance that is ideal scenario and instead are looking for a for deep conversa­place to relax, the big-screen tions with friends, ·television.at the far end ofthe or longing looks i:oom is perfect for watching exchanged between the game with a beer and a lovers. Try the side ofhot jalapeno poppers. appetizer plate of Added bonus: Show up early a dozen oysters, on weekdays and receive free which -we might chips and salsa. add -are known For dinner, Scholastic rec­aphrodisiacs. But ommends the seafood plat­for those who decide ter. Though not straight out to forego a romantic of Cape Cod waters, the between such brightly spirited songs as the folk-punk "Modulation" and such chilling, eerily captivating tracks as "Parameters," a spoken-word poem that recounts the fear one woman experiences when she walks into her bedroom and discovers an unfamiliar 

backbone to the methodic guitar sequences and cello undertones of the song. 
Love lost is the underlying thread that weaves the seemingly disparate songs of "Knuckle Down" into a com­
plete, exquisitely composed tapestry. In · . and ferociously telling the story ofher "Manhole," DiFranco offsets resigned life through song, on no one's terms but 
piano, banjo twangs and the whistling of fellow musician Andrew Bird. The song also provides the explanation for the almost-yearning tone of her album; "Knuckle Down" is the first CD DiFranco has released since sepa­rating from her husband, and the lyr­ics of "Manhole" make the separation abundantly clear. 
Although "Knuckle Down" is copro­duced with Joe Henry and grandstands cameos from such artists as Noe Ven­able and aforementioned Andrew Bird, the sound of the album is distinctly DiFranco. All of DiFranco's albums possess the innate ability to relay to the listener ~omething about her at the time during which the record was pro­duced. In 2005 with "Knuckle Down," DiFranco tells her fans that -even if she lives to be 100 years old -nothing will stop her from grabbing her guitar 
24 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
3 FEBRUARY 2005 


Groove to the soulful piano-playing of Rob Gonzalez 
Ifyou're findingyour nerves frayed by the first month ofclasses, some music therapy may be just what the doctor ordered. Check out at the LaFortune Ballroom on Thu, Feb. 10 at 10 p.m., and unwind to the sweet, soulful sound of Rob Gonzalez. This singer-songwriter and pianist has delighted students at over 100 colleges nationwide and has impressed critics at-many national showcases. He has been compared to Norah Jones in musical style and appeal, reaching out to diverse audiences through his versatility and charm. Come let your mind be set at ease by the captivating chords of Gonzalez's piano-playing. 
Chicago celebrates another New Year 

It's February in South Bend, and that means one oftwo tliings: snow or more snow. Luckily, Chicago is offering an escape from the winter doldrums. On Sun, Feb. 13 at 1 p.m., celebrations for the Chinese New Year will kick off in the heart of China­town. The Year ofthe Rooster will be rung in with firecrackers, marching bands, dragons and floats in a parade route running 
down Wentworth from Cermak to 24th Street. 
Romantic Valentine's Day dinner 

For those whose dates simply won't settle for Sbarra, Tippe­canoe Place offers fine dining in an elegant atmosphere. Set in the picturesque historic district of South Bend; it occupies two floors of the Studebaker mansion, which was constructed over a century, ago and lends a Victorian charm to the restau­rant. Visit www.tippe.com for more history, menus, directions and information on making reservations, which are strongly suggested. 
Music a la Michigan 

Shake things up with a trip to The Whitehouse II, a hotspot in Niles, Mich., for local bands •. Nivium, hailing from Saint Joseph, Mich., will be taking the stage on Fri, Feb. 4 at 10 p.m., along with northern Indiana bands Stan and Signal. Each band's sounds fall mostly intmthe genres ofmetal and hard rock, but Signal displays an iinpressive variety of styles that defy clas­sification. In addition to great music, you can enjoy a round of billiards in the back lounge-area or, for those over 21, a round of drinks at the side bar. Visit www.thewhitehouserocks.com for updated show times and upcoming entertainment. 
Send some chocolate-covered love 
Even ifyou don't have heaps ofmoney to burn, you can still show that special someone you care with the sweetest gift known to (wo)man: candy. The South Bend Chocolate Company is offer­ing a multitude ofdelectable gift baskets, scrumptious chocolate assortments and the ever-popular heart-shaped boxes brimming with sweets. So treat friends, family or even yourself to the delectable chocolate delicacies. You can order straight from the Web site, www.sbchocolate.com; orvisitthe company's Chocolate Cafe downtown, next to the College Football Hall ofFame. 
Art from the Inside 

"Art From the Inside: Drawings by Chicano Prisoners" is an exhibit that will run through-Feb. 27 in, the Snite Museum. Included is a collection of 120 petite pieces of art drawn on handkerchiefs by prison inmates in the southwestern United States. The unconventional yet powerful art blends Latin American imagery from both pre-colonial' and 20th-century Mexican and American cultures. Narrative Hy nature, they give a raw and riveting view of prison from behind bars. 
-Compiled by Nicole Hitrias 
. 'i 
I 
! 
! 
still-tasty fried oysters, shrimp, scallops and cod are served atop a warm pile of homemade french fries, complimented by ketchup, cocktail and tartar sauces. Another recommended dish is the bread­ed scallops. Even if you're not a fan of food from the sea, the Madison Oyster Bar offers many ham, chicken and beef alternatives, such as the 11-ounce New York strip steak, the Madison club and the french onion soup. 
Though the intimate atmosphere and friendly service are the highlights ofdining at the Oyster Bar, it offers carry-out items for those on-the-run. But with its kitchen al­ways open, the bar is a great place for pre-or post-drink snacking. Also, for a restaurant and bar, the facilities are cleaner than most. So, when considering. taking the new love­of-your-life out for some good food and drink, venture downtown to the cozy and classy Madison Oyster Bar, and give your date .a real culinary treat. D 

h9North Mahi St, ·· .. (next to Fiddle1''s Hearth)·· .. · .. . . 
•·fiours:Mon..-"Sat,.3p:mi ~3a.m; .··. 
_Appetizers:$L75to$6}5 ..··· . . Enirees·: $6.75 to $9.95 ·· · · ..· · · · · .·. Oysters on th~ halfshell: $f7Sihalfdoze~. 


3 FEBRUARY 2005 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 
,SG1-:10l!JXST:IG ENTERTAINMl;:.!Si:I'i--------------------­
Artistic and Foreign, but on Familiar Ground 
BETHMURPHY 
·1 t's hard to argue that the Marie P. Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts has been anything but a fantastic addition to the Notre Dame campus, offering a wide variety ofmusical and theatrical perfor­mances. Yet one of the center's several venues seems to deserve more attention --'---the Michael Browning Family Cinema. This lavish entertainment venue seats 200 moviegoers and sh9wcases a wide variety of foreign, inde­pendent and wide-release films. It is also the only cinema in all of Indiana with a THX-certi­fied sound system. Jon Vickers, who manages the cinema, is proud of this year's scheduled events and is currently programming the spring semester's grow­ing film list. Once every few weeks, Vickers meets with -Executive Director of the PAC John Haynes and Ted Mandell -associate profes­sor in the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre ­~ to select and schedule films that they believe will appeal to students, faculty and the surrounding community. Vickers says the cinema · will show 60 titles this spring, averagirtg four per week. He admits this is "pretty ambi~ tfous" since it is unlikely that arty other tra­ditional single­

screert movie theater would attempt such a lofty goai. Vickers, however, is no stranger to the movie theater business, since he also has owned a quaint but impressive film house located in Three Oaks, Mich. f<?r the past 10 years. 
Senior FTT major John Hibeyis thrilled with the new cinema oii campus and gives much credit to Vickers and his associates. "After running Vickers The­atre inMichigan all these years, [Vickers] has added a new level ofsophistication to ND Cinema," Hibey says. "He and Ted Mandell have brought some of the most critically acclaimed films~ national and international-that otherwise could only be viewed in Chicago art houses." 
Jacqueline Schmidt (ND '01, '03) -event manager at the PAC ~ agrees wholeheartedly. "I wish something like this had been here when I was a student. Every once in a while, there were foreign films shown, but it was in Debartolo 101," she says. Technically speaking, DeBartolo 101 is not up to par with the Browning Cinema with its THX sound system. 
In addition to bringing wide-release films to the big screen -such as "I (Heart) Huckabees," "Saved!" and "Be­fore Sunset" -ND Cinema frequently collaborates with the Nanovic Institute for European Studies to bring in various international films. The Nanovic Insti­tute is allotted several dates per semester to show films from countries all over the world.. This semester's selections include: "The'SpanishApartment" (France, 2002), "Bloody Sunday" (Ireland, 2002), "La Mala Eclucacion/Bad Education" (Spain, 
2004), "Rosenstrasse" (Germany, 2003), 
"Captains of April" (Portugal, 
2000) and 
3FEBRUARY 2005 


SIT BACKAND RELAX The Michael Browning Family Cinema is equipped with a state-of-the-artTHX sound system. 
"Soldiers of Salamina" (Spain, 2003). 
Associate Director of the Nanovic Institute David Mattern is pleased with the opportunity to feature foreign films in the new Browning Cinema. Films at Hesburgh were shown in DVD-or VHS­format, but the Browning Cinema uses 35-mm film. "The quality of our screen­ings has gone way up," he says. "It's a huge leap, and that's been exciting." Mattern also stresses how important it is for such films to be available to students. "It's a great way for people to experience other countries, cultures and languages. You can't always go there, but you can learn a lot through film. It's a way oftransporting yourself into other places and times and really opening your mind." 
The series of foreign films is not the only non-mainstream series to be held in the Browning Cinema this year. In November, in conjunction with a Shake­speare conference held on campus, nine Shakespeare-related films were played in the course of one weekend. This semester 

the Browning Cinema hosted the An­nual Student Film Festival and also will present the second ·annual ND Queer Film Festival as well as movies chosen to be part of the Spring Arts Fest. 
Another exciting new project Vick­ers is presently working on is called the PAC Classic 100: a series of 100 classic films. Each year, 25 of the greatest mov­ies ever made will be shown at Browning Cinema -movies such as "Casablanca," "Citizen Kane," "Jaws" and "Gone With the Wind," to name a few. The idea is that, over the course of four years, Notre Dame students will have the opportunity to view all 100 films. The series began this past month with showings of Federico Fellini's "8 1/2" and Alfred Hitchcock's "Vertigo," and will continue throughout the semester. The "master list" ofthe 100 classic movies is actually a compilation taken from several different lists that rank films, and it includes 70 American and 30 international films. 
For more information on the film schedule for the Browning Cinema, call the ticket 
office at 631-2800 or visit the Web site: 
http ://performingarts.nd.edu/film.shtml. 

··>· ..~· 

_t~_::.:¼ ­HONING THE CRAFT Junior Cameron Rains (left), senior Caito Rohn and graduate student John Schwenkler rehearse for "Arcadia:• 
A Play on Words, Love and Science 
DANAERGAS & KATIEGALEONE 

·to· move toward chaos, the transition ay Skelton -a visiting assistant pro­from· one historical period to another,
J

fessor in the Department of Film, the piecing together of the past and the 
Television, and Theatre -faces a tragedy ofdeath. Above all, it is about the 
unique challenge. As the director of the power of human emotions. "No matter 
play "Arcadia," Skelton must try to convey how many facts you have, you can never 
poignant human emotion using the intel­count the role that human behavior plays 
lectually-driven language of playwright in an event," Skelton says. "You can never 
Torn Stoppard. formulate human behavior." 
Stoppard often is criticized for creating The play presents this idea by reveal­
plays of an overly-cerebral nature, em­ing events that take place a century apart 
ploying complex concepts of quantum -all within the same English country 
physics that surpass the knowledge of house. The first storyline occurs in 1809 
the average theatergoer, while not delv­and follows the relationship ofa 13-year­
ing deeply enough into emotions. For this old mathematical prodigy, Thomasina, 
reason, many of Stoppard's plays never and her tutor, Septirnus, who is nearly . 
have enjoyed a major U.S. production. a decade older. As they speak about 
"Arcadia," however, is one play that has complex equations and concepts, their 
been well-received. Stoppard did not dialogue soon takes on a double meaning 
"dumb-down" "Arcadia," but he did and reveals a deeper, sensual connection 
make it more emotionally-charged, with forming between them. 
the play culminating in a heartrending After witnessing the occurrences of the 
waltz danced by two couples. past, the audience then watches present­
"I'm a big fan of 'smart' plays," says day researchers try to reconstruct those 
senior T.J. McNally, who plays the char­same events utilizing the evidence that 
acter Valentine Caverly. He describes his has been left behind. The same implicit 
first read-through of the script: "It was unrequited love story, which we first see 
such a smart play, so witty, but still alive 
and pumping with emotions and guts that 
I knew I wanted to do it." 
BYTHE BOOKJay Skelton,

Although the play is flooded with 
a visiting assistant professor, 

mathematical theorems and scientific 
reviews "Arcadia" with students. equations, its true aim is love: "the at­traction that Newton left out," as voiced by McNally's character. "Arcadia" is about many things: the tendency of the world 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
between Thomasina and Septirnus, is repeated between Hannah -who is do­ing research at the house -and a much younger character, Gus -who lives there with his older siblings. 
This story is much clearer when per­formed, and Skelton is confident that Notre Dame students will easily compre­hend the play's more intellectual concepts and ideas. Even though Skelton has no doubt about his audience's academic ca­pacity, his worries lie with their ability to accurately understand the complex emo­tional side of this story. "The challenge with Stoppard,'.' he says, "is what is really behind these people using these particu­lar ideas and this particular language to convey their thoughts, their needs, their hopes, their dreams, their loves (and) their hates." The challenge to clarify the emotions of the play falls in the hands of the director and the actors. "The charac­ters are full and complex," McNally says. "It's a challenge, and that's what I look for when I audition for a show." 
To obtain tickets call the PAC ticket office at 631-2800, or visit the ticket booth rightinside the main entrance anytime from 12 p.m. -6 p.m., Mon. through Sat. 
The themes presented in ''Arcadia" will be discussed by guest lecturers on April 22 and April 23 at the McKenna Centerfor Continuing Educa­tion. 
C 


'I ' 
3 FEBRUARY 2005 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 29 



. -' ' . .-·· . . .· . 
Athletes in Politics 
Iwas inspired by the upcoming student­body presidential elections to take a look at the athletes who have entered the world of politics. It seems that a number of prominent athletes -from former-President Gerald Ford to Min­nesota Senator Jesse "The Body" Ventura -have taken their acts to Washington. Why do athletes gravitate toward the political scene? The answer lies in their past careers; in sports, these men have made names for themselves making them easily recognizable to the voting public. For instance, I don't know who the other Kentucky senatorial candidate was, but I knew baseball-pro Jim Bunning. I remember when I see the name that Bunning pitched a perfect game for the Phillies and, because ofthat non-political factor, my vote is swayed. The idea of athletes in politics can be seen both negatively and positively. On the negative side, we have all heard the jokes that stereotype athletes as "not exactly being rocket scientists." Some­times, however, athletes in a political position are seen as a breath of fresh air. In an era when so many politicians are plagued with scandals, an athlete's clean slate is well received by the public and the media. 


CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
Whatever your opinion may be about the presence of athletes in the political arean, the bottom line is that athletes can succeed in politics. After all, former Michigan center Gerald R. Ford climbed to the highest possible office in our politi­cal system. Even our current president has a connection to sports as he is the former owner of the Texas Rangers. No matter what your opinion ofthese two men may be, you cannot argue that they have been successful on the campaign trail. 
,~---·,i,f . . :,: 
~( --~--'§:,: 
. '-~!' !,,I !d 8 

..·lo-/\·.,., '# ~-·--.-1 ~ 0 
l-i~--\,\~_-,. ~~ 
'J ~,,_ ~~ 
... ·_ J_:.,, --'1o~ 
-,.i.i. l ~ -4' -1'-'i o o., ·~~t ·/ -r~~~
----·,"·~---~\ . ;::;:: 
• . .;~~~ { '.:. . : ~ ~ ~ .,_,_......=...,......._, 
Not all athletes have used their reputa­tion in the athletic world to become presi­dent, but instead many have gone on to fill other important political positions. One example is former Notre Dame football player and Irish All-American, Alan Page ('67) who served on the Minnesota Supreme Court. While I am not imply­ing that his character or intellect did not merit his election, his Hall of Fame sta­tus with the Minnesota Vikings certainly didn't hurt. 

Page is not an aberration. One year be­
fore he was elected to the football Hall 
of Fame for his legendary career with 
the Seattle Seahawks, Steve Largent of 
Oklahoma was elected to the House of 
Representatives in 1994. 
The list goes on: 1964 Olympians Ben 
Nighthorse Campbell and Judy Martz 
served as U.S. Senator and Congress­
woman, respectively. The late Paul 
Wellstone, who tragically died in a plane 
crash while campaigning for re-election, 
was the ACC Wrestling Champion for 
North Carolina. Even football coaches 
have been seen on the campaign trail; 
Tom Osborne, former Oklahoma coach, 
was elected to the House of Representa­
tives for Nebraska. 
Perhaps, the most notable athlete to 

compete on the campaign trail in recent 
years is former New York Knick Bill 
Bradley. Bradley, a Princeton University 
graduate and a three-term senator from 
NewJersey, ran for the 2000 Democratic 
•presidential nomination against then­Vice President Al Gore. Keep this in mind ifyou consider run­ning for class president next year. IfBrady 
· Quinn or Mariel Zagunis run against you, don't write them off too quickly-there is a good chance they'd win. D 
STATZONE 
Mike Laskey brings you ... 
Women's swimming 
The No. 25 Fighting Irish will look to rebound from a 161-138 loss to the No. 17 University of Michigan when the team squares off against Oakland in its final meet of the regular season on Sat., Feb. 5, in Rochester, Mich. In Friday's loss to the Wolverines, sophomore Katie Carroll earned an NCAA B-cut designation in the 200-yard individual medley, posting a race-winning time of 2:03.75. The B-cut time means that Carroll will be consid­ered to participate in the 200 IM during March's NCAA Championships. Carroll, who was named Most Outstanding Swim­mer at the 2004 Big East Championships, was swimming in just her second 200 IM after a season beleaguered by injuries. Following the squad's meet with Oakland, the Irish will head to East Meadow, N.Y., 

30 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 3 FEBRUARY 2005 

N ~;:~[•!~,,~••9~ l---1%-,-,-.,-.f-~~-,-,-~-~(-il~-r.-<,~.,11
I ISHEYES 
Since hitting a game-winning three-pointer againstWest· f Virginia in round one of the Big East t6urnament last year, 
~gr:~~i~l1~]Jtti~t1i;~}fJf. 
1,:1,•:1l,~,1-.~~-~·.·.:.~.·-~.;b.:_·.·.·_J_;;_:1_•_·_-_•.,_1 

is leading the teamin three-point field goals and three,-point -.~ /1/... percentage ..$cholastichad a chance to sit down w:ith FaUs and talk about what he has been up to both on .and off the court this season. 
How did you ,devel()p your amazing shooting ability? 
I don't know, really. It w:as j:us,t one .o.f those things in high _sc.hool that developed with repetition; once you get yo:ur stroke down, i,t just kind of comes to you. 
What skills ha.ve you _been W()rking on since the beginning ofthe.s,eason? 
I think I've just been impro;ying defensiveJy .and trying put .tlie ball on the .floor more; and not being justa;St:J:aight-11p shooter. 
What do you think ofbeing conzpt!r.edto fornzer_Irish guardM_att Carroll? 
Th.at is a lofty c.ompa#son.: Jthink p.e accomplished a lot here, .and I hope that I can get to the _point tha_t he w:a.s at. Right now, I don'.t think it's fair to compare. 
Do you ~ave any superstitions?· 
Yeah: I we.ar n1y grac:le school ba_sketball jersey un_der my Notre Dame jersey for every gani~. 
ifyou didn't play basketball,pere,·71Jhat sport wouldyou wa»tto play? 
Football: Growing up, ,that was always my second,..favorite sport. 
What are some ofyour.interests ou_tsid~ ofbqsketball? 
Justhanging out wi_th my friends_. That's really all that Ida, is pl;:i.y basketball, hang ou~ w_ith my friends, and _do schoolwork. It's pretty siIIlple. · 
Who is the .~est professor yott ,have _hadat Notre Dame? 
Best professor? :Professor Drevs for Intro to Marke.ting. He's a fun teacher and makes class interesting. 
What is yourfm;orite pmfessional sports team? Favorite player? 
Chic:ago C~bs. heally don'thav;e .a favorite player on the .Cubs. 
Ifthe Iris/1 were .to go all the way, who _would you want to p?ay in _the champi()ns.hip? 
It really doesn't watt.er to me. We'll play whoever is there, so it really doe~n't matterat all. . . .,,,,.. Christopher Meskill 
where they will look to win their ninth consecutive title at the Big East Champi­onships from Feb. 16-19. 
Men's tennis 
The Fighting Irish squad became only the sixth Division I team to reach 1,000 all-time victories on Sat, Jan. 29, when Notre Dame upset No. 18 North Carolina atthe Eck Tennis Pavilion. The winning continued for the Irish when they beat No. 

41 Florida State on Sunday. This week­end's victories improved the Irish record to 6-0 for the season and to 1001-428-4 overall in 83 years of men's varsity tennis. The Irish last started a season so well in 1996-97, when the team finished the year ranked 16th in the nation. 
Women's tennis 
The No. 21 Irish won their second con­

•--•--···-·"-· · · · · ·-· '·"-'-'·--.J.JL '-'-·•·· ..,.~'-­
...di 

Our Calls 
Basketball 
OPPONENT: PITTSBURGH 


WHERE: PITTSBUGH, PENN. WHEN: SAT, FEB. 5, 2:00 P.M. EST 
Notre Dame continues its week in Big East competition, taking on Pittsburgh on Saturday. Notre Dame will win this game simply by keeping to its playbook and taking high-percentage shots.The Irish will be victorious, with a double-double by senior forward Jacqueline Batteast highlighting their win, but it will be closer than most expect; 75-69. 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
SPOITTS EDITOR 

The Irish need to keep up the 
intensity level after victories against 
No. 14 Boston College and No. 
9 UConn. Notre Dame needs to 
control center Mercedes Walker 
inside the key on defense and 
continue to feed Batteast on offense. 
Strong scoring in the paint and a solid 
defense will lead to another win for 
the Irish; 73-62. 
BRYANLOWERY 
ASSISTANT SPOITTS EDITOR 

KEYTOTHE GAME: 
Getting Out Early 
Pittsburgh comes in a heavy 
underdog, and rightfully so. No. 6 
Notre Dame just needs to get off to 
a strong start. Once they get the lead, 
the Irish can run a textbook offense 
and feed Batteast and junior forward 
Courtney LaVere at the post. 
secutive match against a top-30 opponent on Sunday, knocking off No. 30 vVake For­est at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Sunday's victory came on the heels ofan impressive win•over the No. 20 Michigan Wolverines, in which the Irish won every set en route to a 7-0 victory. On Fri, Feb 11, the Irish will attempt to improve their record for the season to 4-1, as they travel to Cambridge to take on No. 35 Harvard. 
3 FEBRUARY 2005 
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 31 

~SGR01.!ASTIG SPORTSl,--------------------­
Recruiting a Golden Class 

BRYAN LOWERY

The recruiting season is. a vital time for every college sports program; coaches get an idea of what their programs are going to look like in the following year, and students familiarize themselves with the names they will un­doubtedly hear in the following season. While football recruiting isgetting the most attention at Notre Dame, many other athletic programs also are looking for the perfect fits for their teams. Scholas­tic highlights the recruiti~g achievements of football, as well as some of the other sports looking to increase• the depth of their teams. 
Football 

Since Notre Dame traditionally empha­sizes football, itis fitting to begin with the team's recruiting to date. Overall, Weis and his staff have a recruiting class ranked 23rd nationally and 15th in recruit rating 
-a ranking for classes determined by the average rankings of individual recruits 
-by Scout.com. These rankings are an improvement from last season's recruiting class, despite the coaching changes that have occurred. 
One impressive member ofthis new re­cruiting class is Joey Hibben from Waco­nia Senior High School (Waconia, Minn.) 
, who will join Notre Dame's already solid group oftight ends. Hiben, who is ranked 14th in the country among tight ends, is equally talented as a blocker and receiv­ing threat. Of his decision to commit to Notre Dame, Hibben said: "I've talked to some Notre Dame players and some former players, and you can really sense the pride they have for Notre Dame ... I just wanted to be a part of that." 
The Irish also have recruited a new re­serve quarterback to play behind sopho­more Brady Quinn next season. Evan Sharpley from Marshall High School (Marshall, Mich.) is rated 18th in the country among high school quarterbacks by Scout.com. Sharpley has started for his high school for the last two seasons and has thrown for nearly 3,700 yards and 45 touchdowns. 
Wide receiver D.J. Hord from Rock­hurst High School (Kansas City, Mo.) is one of the most recent commitments to Notre Dame. He has the speed and finesse to be a threat with both the short and deep ball and is ranked as the 12th receiverin the country. Horde announced his decision to attend Notre Dame during halftime ofthe U.S. ArmyAll-American Bowl in San Antonio, Texas. 
Notre Dame also has received commit­ments from several recruits for its offen­sive line. New additions, which include Paul Duncan from East Paulding High School (Dallas, Ga.) and Michael Turkov­ich from Valley Forge MilitaryAcademy (Wayne, Penn.), will help improve Irish pocket protection. 
Men's Basketball 
In addition to successful football recruiting, the men's basketball team capped its recruiting season by filling some key spots in its roster. In Novem­her, Head Coach Mike Brey signed four players for the class of2009: Ryan Ayers, Zach Hillesland, Kyle McAlarney and 
Luke Zeller. 
Luke Zeller from Washington High 
School (Washington, Ind.) is one of 
the most heralded recruits for the Irish. 
The 6-foot 11-inch, 230-pound player 
is ranked by Scout.com as one of the 
top six power forwards in 'the country. 
Street & Smith's magazine named Zeller 
an All-American. In addition to his on­
court success, Zeller also is an academic 
standout and will be valedictorian of his 
graduating class with a 4.0 grade-point 
average. 
Ryan Ayers from Germantown Acad­
emy(Haverford, Penn.) is a 6-foot 5-inch, 
195-pound shooting guard with a good 
perimeter shot; he averages 48 percent in 
his three-point shooting. He is the son of 
former Ohio State and Philadelphia 76ers 
Head Coach Randy Ayers. "He has a great 
understanding ofthe game and possesses 
a high basketball IQ," Brey said. 
Kyle McAlaraney from Moore Catholic 
High School (Staten Island, N.Y.) -a 6­
foot 1-inch, 180-pound recruit-is the 
13th-ranked point guard in the nation. He 
is a veryeffective ball handler, passer and 
prolific scorer who averages 35 points per 
game. "Kyle is an old-school point guard 
and a real gym-rat who works extremely 
b,ard to be the best player on the floor," 
Brey said. "His game is going to be a great 

fit for our systems here because ofhis out­side shooting ability and how well he runs . the floor. Kyle has a certain toughness 
about him when he is on the court and 
plays with a great deal of passion." 

32 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 3 FEBRUARY 2005 
"'

. -. ·_ ' --. .. ' . ·-. '. . 

Baseball and Softball 
Notre Dame's best recruiting class this year might be on the diamond. Team One Baseball has ranked the Notre Dame base­ball program's recent group ofrecruits as the nation's seventh-best recruiting class in 2005. Head Coach Paul Mainieri has assembled an excellent group of players, many ofwhom are considered the best in their position in their respective states. 
Recruit Eduardo Mendiola Palmer of Trinity High School (Miami, Fla.) is rated one ofthe top three third baseman prospects in the country. Mendiola is a solid hitter and runner who had a .406 batting average, 27 RBIs, eight doubles and 12 stolen bases in 20 games during his junior year. When asked, Coach Mainieri said in a press interview, "Eddy is the next great player in the long list of Irish players that we have landed from the state of Florida. We are very excited to have Eddy as a member of this year's recruiting class." 
David Hum from Catholic High School (Little Rock, Ark.) is considered the fourth-best catcher prospect in the country and also is one of the best hit­ting catchers in the country. As a junior, Hum was awarded all-state honors and had a .476 batting average, 23 RBIs and six home runs -the most runs by any player in his class in Arkansas.. "David is a very physical and offensive catcher who has the ability to control the bat well," Mainieri said. "Both as a hitter and be­hind the plate defensively, David is a very polished baseball player." 
Softball also has signed a highly-skilled recruiting class. Head Coach Deanna Gumpfhas signed seven players to replace this year's graduating seniors in what is arguably the best softball recruiting class in the country. Gumpf's recruits include two pitchers, two infielders., two outfield­ers and a catcher. 

One ofsoftball's top recruits is infielder Linda Kohan from Westminster High School (Westminster, Calif.), who is the two-time defending Orange County batting champion. Kohan maintained a 
.654 batting average last season and was 
selected to the Los Angeles Times all-re­
gion softball team. She was also honored 
as the Westminster High School Athlete 
ofthe Year iri 2004. 
Another softball standout is right-hand­ed pitcher Brittney Bargar from Corona High School (Corona, Calif.). She posted an outstanding high school-career ERA of 0.03 and was named a scholar-athlete for each of her academic years. 
Lacrosse 
The recruiting for men's and women's lacrosse also has been very successful. In the early signing period, the Irish have pulled in seven recruits on the men's side and nine on the women's side. 
The men's lacrosse recruiting class features All-American goalkeeper Scott Rodgers from MacArthur High School (Wantagh, N.Y.), All-American attacker Ryan Hoff from Dulaney High School (Baldwin, Md.) and defender Regis Mc­Dermott from Chaminade High School (Amityville, N.Y.). 
"This is an outstanding class, because we got players at each position that we think have the ability to step in and help us right away," men's Head Coach Kevin Corrigan said in an interview on UND.com. 
Thewomen's side also brought in a top­notch goalkeeper in Erin Goodman from Lakeland Panas High School (Cortlandt Park, N.Y.) who is an all-league and an Academic All-American selection. The Irish also signed All-American attacker/ midfielder Jillian Byers from Northport High School (Northport, N.Y.), who has won the gold (2003) and silver (2004) medals at the Empire State Games and has played in the U.S. Lacrosse National Championship Final. 
Other Sports 
A numbei_: of other less-publicized sports at Notre Dame also have talented in-coming recruits. On Jan. 19, Time Welsh, Irish men's swimming coach, announced that freestyle swimmer Jace Hopper from The Meadows High School (Las Vegas, N.V.) signed with Notre Dame. Hopper is a high school All­American and two-time state champion in the 200-and 500-yard freestyle. 
Notre Dame men's and women's golf teams also are having a successful recruit­ing season. Despite a recent coaching change, the men's team recruited Josh Sandman from Southeast Guilford High School (Greensboro, N.C.) who is ranked the 32nd-bestsenior golferin the country by Titleist/Golfweek. The women's team picked up Courtney Sullivan from Sam Barlow High School (Gresham, Ore.) and Lisa Maunu from Parkside Collegiate In­stitute (Ontario, Canada). Sullivan is cur­rently the top golfer in Oregon and the valedictorian ofher high school class. 
The women's tennis team has recruited a deadly duo. Coach Jay Louderback announced that Katie Potts from Di­vine Savior Holy Angels High School (Brookfield, Wis.) and Kelcy Tefft from Chisholm High School (Enid, Okla.) have decided to enroll at Notre Dame. Potts recently won the Wisconsin state singles title, while Tefft won the state title on the doubles side. Both Tefft and Potts are ranked in the top-30 of high school ten­nis players by the United States Tennis Association. . 
3 FEBRUARY 2005 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 33 

• 
News Editor and Assistant 


• 
Campus Life Editor and Assistant 

• 
Political Columnist 

• 
Sports Editor and Assistant 


• 
Entertainment Editor and Assistant 

• 
Humor Editor and Assistant 

• 
Design Assistant 

• 
Photo Assistant 


• 
General Manager (Ad Sales and Marketing) 

• 
Copy Assistant · 



E-mail Scholastic for an application at scholast@nd.edu . 
,published since 1867 

Freshman Fal I All it was made out to be 
SARAHBARRETT reshman year. College. South Bend. 
Indiana. This is what I had been
F
waiting for since we dropped -my sister off at Farley Hall in 1996 when I was only 10 years old. 
· College didn't start off as the magical wonderland my young mind had con­strued it to be. In fact, where was I when I started the greatest four years ofmylife last August? That's right, I was sitting in First Year Composition, kicking myself for only skimming the first two pages of the summer reading assignment. 
This was just one of my many firsts. I can think back to Aug. 20, 2004, the in­famous college move-in day -which is a first that I will always remember. After dragging all four car-loads ofmyluggage and school supplies to my room and saying goodbye to my parents, I realized that, for the first time ever, I was alone on cam­pus. It was an important moment for me. I was not nervous or sad; this campus had always been like my second home. It just seemed natural. With awe and reverence, I walked past the dome, Touchdown Jesus (Which, I might add, I had yet to figure out was the library.) and the stadium. It seemed surreal to think that I would see these buildings everyday without getting in my stomach the ever-familiar butter­flies from my childhood experiences of Notre Dame. For the first time, I was able to walk around campus and call it all home. 
That same night brought many more firsts. It was the first tiine I had conver­sations with kids my own age and felt an immediate connection to them. We talked about everything, and I even questioned if my new neighbors read the dictionary every night before bed. It was also the first time I witnessed my peers starting a political debate outside ofclass. Needless to say, it was the first time my horizons had expanded so rapidly. 
Frosh-O brought the inevitable in­troductions and ice breakers. But who were these people to whom I was being introduced? Were the nerdy scrabble whiz and the next George W. Bush I had just met going to be my new friends? Um, 
· definitely not. I wasn't worried, though. Having moved around a lot in my life, I knew that I would find people to be friends with that were more like me. I just had to be patient. Luckily, I found those people quickly. So, now itwas time to move past the awkwardness, leave the inconsequential small-talk behind, and even learn from the pain I felt the first time I hit my -head on the ceiling in the morning. Not only had I found my place, but I also learned how to slide out of bed while avoiding (most of the time, at least) the hard, flat surface that hovered two feet above me. I got my feet on the ground, readyio embark on a whole new spectrum of firsts. This was a defining transition­period in my life. 

September flew by, but not without consequence, as I took my first shopping­trip to Chicago, which resulted in my first time ever blowing $700 in four hours. I also experienced my first college football season, complete with "Kegs and Eggs," Natty Light parties, keg stands and tail­gates while wearing "The Shirt." Despite an overall sub-par season, I'm proud to say that my first student section experi­ence was at the Michigan game, when I endured four hours on my feet-followed by the race to get on the field -after a rough night and only two hours of sleep. 
The college experience had begun to prove itself wrthy of its lofty reputation, and I realized that my stamina would need to be strengthened in order to balance an arduous course load with my weekends (which now included Wednesday and Thursday nights) of debauchery. 
Itwas even more difficult to balance on the cute, pastel-blue platform flip-flops I had designated as my shower shoes. I can't even begin to explain just how hard it is to walk the 20 feet from the bathroom to my bedroom in wet flip-flops at 8:30 a.m. after showering, complete with a mon­strous headache courtesy of the previous night. Let's just say that is a huge no-no. I bit it pretty hard on the hallway carpet. While it is often unintentionally slept on, its suppleness cannot hold a feather to my down duvet. 
October, thank God, saw the addition of flat flip-flops to my wardrobe. While the flip-flops were the highlight-as you may have guessed -especially consider­ing the slightly dismal football season, my first dining-hall veggie burger was a close second. All of the soccer games and the countless number ofparties -whose themes all rhymed with "hoes" -that I attended kept me going strong until the week of midterms came crashing down on top of me. 
I had never slept as little as I did that week. All-nighters in the library are out­of-control. Ifyou have never experienced this scene, you are definitely missing out, especially ifyou've never caught the bit­ing cold ofa South Bend winter morning after spending 10 hours in a cozy corner of Hesburgh. I really think that a facemask should be included in the list ofthings to bring to college. Either that, or a warning sign that reads: "Enjoy walking 15 min­utes to class with a minus 15-degree-wind whipping violently at your face." 
November and December were just like this violent wind; they sped by and left me red from the beating. I got my first write-up. Yes, it was about time. But, honestly, who really knew that you could get in trouble by standing in the doorway ofan opposite-sex dorm at 12:15 a.m. on a Thursday night? After all, it was obvious I was leaving. Besides, we were only study­ing. Mental note: Study in the library next time. No, I'm not bitter at all ... 
December just was not my month. Having spent a solid 55 hours awake in the library the weekend before finals, in­cluding both Friday and Saturday night, I was a little grumpy, smelly and tired. I really was not surprised when someone decided to call me in the middle of my largest lecture's final exam, blaring my slightly salacious and very embarrassing ring tone: "Magic Stick." Oh, Lil' Kim and 50 Cent ... Both of you really were at your bests in that song. 
Despite the somewhat stressful closure offirst semester, freshman fall was all that I had ever expected it to be, and more. I made awesome friends, had a lot ofmemo­rable nights, and had many more that I think were great, ifonly I could remember what I did. I wish that college was on tape, like "The Truman Show," so I could sit on my futon every Monday and rewind and play over and over again the events ofthe weekend and laugh at all ofthe ridiculous things I did and saw. 
I also learned a lot those first four months. I learned that I should never be truthful when answering my parents' questions about my grade-point average; that I should notschedule 8 :3 0 a.m. classes on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. I learned not to wear sandals outside during a December snowstorm, and thatI should stay away from the veggie burgers at the dining hall. But most ofall and regardless of Notre Dame's quirks -parietals, tlie overwhelming course load, the fake ribs in the dining hall and the harsh winters -I learned that Notre Dame is unique, and that there is no place else I would rather be. . 
SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 35 

The Scholastic Interview 
... -----. 
. ' 
~­
·/. ~ '. 
'i.: ·_." 
::,; .. .,,., 
;_: ;.:: 
Whom do you admire most? 
I suppose I admire people in different categories: Intel­lectually, Thomas Aquinas, ofcourse. Among writers, probably TI·ollope, not least because he was so diligent and productive a writer, while always conveying so much more than a good story. To say that one admires Dante seemspresumptuous, but then so does saying that one admires Saint Thomas. 
I would like Notre Dame to be more ... 
Notre Dame; that is, confident in its own traditions and criteria for excellence. 
Ofwhat contribution to the Notre Dame 
community are you most proud? 
It is what Notre Dame has done for me that induces something like pride -the Michael P. Grace professor­ship, being director ofthe Maritain Center for over a quarter ofa century, receiving the faculty award ... 
What would make your job easier? 
Job? Ifyou like what you do, it's not a job. IfI didn't like what I do, I would be vegetating in Florida. 
What is your greatest regret? 
Asfor regrets, those are between me and my confes­sor. 
RALPH MCINERNY 
Ralph Mclnerny is in his 50th year as a professor ofphilosophy at Notre Dame. Ad­ditionally, he is the director of the Jacques Maritain Center and has been the Michael 
P. Grace Professor ofMedieval Studies since 1978. He is the author oftwo dozen scholarly books, as well as over 50 novels, including the Father Dowling mystery series. He has lectured in over nine countries on three continents, and he was recently appointed to President George W. Bush's Committee on the Arts and Humanities. 
What is your favorite Notre Dame 
memory? 

The first time I came along the walk toward 
O'Shaughnessy in August 1955 [as} the newest 
member ofthe philosophy department. And then 
there was the commencement Mass said on the quad 
by Father Hesburgh, the altar facing toward Notre 
Dame Avenue, [and}, when looking out on that Av­
enue, he gave a little impromptu account ofthe first _time he came down it onto campus. Very moving. 
What or who is the greatest love of your 
life? 

My greatest love was my wife, Connie, with whom I enjoyed nearly SO years ofmarriage. 
What was the inspiration for the Father 
Dowling mystery series? 
Father Dowling? It's a long story. My agent sug­
gested I try a mystery serirs featuring a priest. I did, 
and the series still goes on: 
What would you like your legacy to be? 
My legacy? I will borrow from Belloc: "When I am gone I may it be said, his sins were as scarlet I but his books were read." · 
36 SCHOLASTICINTERVIEW 3 FEBRUARY 2005 






Free Internet Means More t:tf2 For.Prescript· 1 
listen@· www.nd.e 
from 8am to 1:30am starting Jan. 24th

Drugs.* 
*wvfi loves the elderly 

I I ! 1.1 
upcq~1,ng Is li ••·1 
1 
rr
j j ! 
l 

s~bl.I
mqv1 1e 
deBartolo ,01 
I I i J I
3 0 I 
, 
~Op.~t~u s~oy 
i 
BP,m ~d 10:30 mfri 1oy i 
4:30 ni ondl7.Jlm soJu\dOY, l.!I
FE RUAKY 4fnLbfo 
11111 1 11 I 


ril~~t~i.:dr:to
I "ffl; I 'U 'I..!ll(IIJ1 mor,e 0Ho"1 
~is1yP. &fl'~'~µ f~r at 
ww ls 
el 
1th 
co 


s b. de 
I 


rqu ht fy u

YJh st de t 
~ -•
l 
) 
·r~ 
·:r 












