Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 14, 1882.	No. 6.
Sonnet to Clifford.
AFTER READING HIS LINES ON MY “ PARTING WITH ROME.”
Thy name comes o’er me through the mist of rears, Dear Clifford, sweetest of my early friends, Hallowed with tenderest memories:—it appears
Upon my mind’s horizon, which extends Back on the by-gone past, so dim and far Encircling my pained fantasy; for star
Hath been extinguished after star—and joy Hath vanished after joy—thou wast a boy, When last I saw thee, in the prime and bloom, Of beauty and of innocence—the gloom Of many a chequered year hath come between But still thy memory is dear and green:
I loved thee, thought of thee, when, far from Home, I sang my farewell to the towers of Rome.
C. C. P.
Ruins.
“ I’ve seen in twilight’s pensive hour The moss-clad dome and mouldering tower In awful ruins stand.”	—Osborne.
In ruins! how few, but how expressive the words! how much sadness and disappointment do they convey! how sorrowful the retrospect they present, and yet they contain, as it were, a condensed history of the grandest monarchies and most extensive empires that ever graced the civilized world. Those powerful nations that to-day sway the sceptre over land and sea may read in these words the prophecy of their inevitable doom. Yes, since first the prospect of perfect happiness on earth was blighted in Eden, decay and oblivion await all, even the most perfect of the works of man.
What has become of that empire, the most magnificent the world ever saw, whose banners floated victorious from the icy waters of the Artic ocean to the blue waves of the Mediteranean; into whose coffers were paid the tribute of every people in the known world; whose armies left the marks of their triumphant passage even in the midst of the trackless desert? Where is now that proud Roman empire once hailed as mistress of the
world ? Let the numberless petty kingdoms that arose on its wreck tell the tale of its downfall, and speak the mournful words—in ruins!
The traveller in the historic regions of the Old World is filled with admiration when he beholds the ivy-clad towers and moss-covered walls of numerous ancient strongholds, remnants of a bygone grandeur which even in ruins loudly proclaims what they have been. But if it is sad to view those wrecks of human glory, how much-sadder is the sight of human wrecks, and yet are such uncommon? Alas! no.
Look at that charming boy, the pride of his parents and the hope of his family. With care they superintend his education and surround him with all that can inspire him with noble thoughts and lofty aspirations. He arrives at the years of manhood and goes forth into the world prepared to act an honorable part; but false friends invite him to evil, and he, perhaps deeming himself strong, tampers with the danger, and before he is aware of it, is overcome. The downward path is seldom a slow one, and, ere long, he fills the grave of the inebriate or suicide. Ask those parents where are now the hopes they so fondly cherished, the plans they so carefully laid for the future of their son; well mav they answer, “ in ruins! ”
There are other ruins which never fail to call forth the tenderest pity and deepest sympathy. We seldom see them, not that they are rare, but because they are hidden in the doubtful seclusion of asylums: I speak of ruined minds. What more mournful sight than that of a man once noted for profound erudition and wonderful powers now become as a child before the dawn of reason. Truly such ruins are of all the saddest.
“ Nor dome, nor tower in twilight shade. Nor hero fallen, nor beauteous maid, To ruin all consigned.
Can with such pathos touch my breast As on the maniac’s form impressed—
The ruins of the mind.”
It has been said that we are surrounded by ruins, and that we ourselves are only wrecks of what God intended us to be; but the blessed promise of a glorious hereafter, held out to those who valiantly struggle for the truth, gives courage to the fainthearted, and, no longer terrified by the appearances of death and decay, we joyfully remember that there are no ruins in Paradise.
M. A. H.
82	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Longfellow and Emerson.
Twin suns that long illumed this land of ours, Gilding the weary paths in which we plod ; With rays of poesy, and from the sod -Of cold and sordid hearts alluring flowers Of fair philosophy, have set; and o’er us lowers The dark. And though a tearful trust in God Upheld us while as yet the bright ones trod The west of life and fashioned fairy bowers From cloud-banks by the magic of a glow, Then potent even as at highest noon, The aching breast no-M every balm defies Of consolation;—now we fear to know The falling night, and can but sit and croon: “ Ah! When will two such other suns arise ? ”
T. W. Coakley.
{.From the Catholic Reviezoi) Pierre Girard.
As we go to press, a brief telegram reaches us, saying that “ P. Girard is dead.” To millions whom he instructed and edified by his writings in explanation and defence of Catholic truth—all truth is Catholic and'was deeply and doubly so to him— this sad news, which pains us beyond expression, will bring little news or pain. Yet it tells of the passing away of a noble, Catholic gentleman, who in his life-time lost no opportunity in doing good, and often risked by his brilliant and timely defence of Catholic principles, the favor which he might readily command, as a prince of journalists. Among the newspaper men who make newspapers, either in London or in New York, he stood one of the very foremost in the very highest ranks of the profession, whether as editor, writer or correspondent. American by birth and training, Catholic to the heart’s core, his surpassing ability opened to him almost every avenue of newspaper work. Extracts from letters of his, written from Mexico and various cities of America to the London Morning Post, more than sixteen years ago, are now going the rounds of the world, as if written yesterday; a tribute to the permanency and interest of truth. His letters and articles in the New York World marked a new departure in American journalism, showing that American newspapers might be induced to admit just views of Catholic questions to the columns which were freely opened to the disciples of Comte or Brigham Young. His work for the same papers in London, where as “ Piccadilly ” he was for many years its special correspondent, was of the highest order, bringing, him into relation with men of the most opposite characters and positions, Manning and Bradlaugh, Gladstone and Maguire, Prince Napoleon and Prince Bismarck, etc. It was one of his • keen characterizations, produced after a whole night’s interview with Bismarck, that first gave the American public its true insight into the characters of that brutally frank diplomat. On his return to New York, he prepared for the Catholic World, a series of papers on the prominent public
men of Europe whom he had met. Readers of that ^magazine will readily recall their strength, vigor and grace. For many years past he was editor of the New York Graphic, a work on which he left his mark, as he did on everything which he touched. Some months ago he contracted a severe cold which developed into pleurisy and pneumonia combined. He then received the last Sacraments, and through their strength; as he told us, he again rallied. Last week he went away for a brief vacation, hoping that change would restore him to health and strength; but the severe weather proved fatal to him, and now he is, we trust in peace. And that we may state the reason why we wish to recommend him warmly, affectionately and hopefully to the prayers and remembrance of the good and pure souls that will read these lines, we have reserved for the last a brief mention of our own relations with him. To know him, as we knew him through his work, was to love him. In the service of secular journalism, we were thrown together many years ago, and having much in common as Catholics, it is not strange that we should have had many common sympathies. When The Catholic Review was started he became its London correspondent, writing to us under the signature “ Pietro ” for the few years he remained in London, and on his return he continued for a long time, in one form or other, to instruct and edify our readers. It did him good, as he often told us, to have a chance to be able to tell the truth without being hampered by the enemy. . His great desire was to make non-Catholics honestly uneasy about their souls. If they were once disturbed, he believed that they would, under God’s grace, reach the logical conclusion of their uneasiness. To do this, he sought a Catholic outlet for his thought, somewhat hampered as it always was by the limits of his secular service. One evening, talking over some of his really great journalistic achievements, we asked him what was his most notable work, that of which, if he were proud, for he was the humblest of men, he would be proudest. Was it that Gladstone had been in-terpallated in Parliament during the Alabama controversy by Disraeli concerning a journalistic achievement of his, previously unparalleled in England? His answer was to show us a letter of three sentences, saying that “ wherever the English language was spoken or read his service to the Catholic Church was effectively felt.” It was a tribute which might well have electrified a Catholic writer, and may have been well pleaded by him ’ in his palliation, in his judgment hour, for it was signed “Henry Edward, Cardinal Archbishop of Westminster.” If space, or time, or our own sorrow permitted us now, we might say many things that would commend this dead, Catholic gentleman to the prayers of his brethren; but need we • add a word to that pregnant praise from one who himself is entitled to speak for Israel and its warriors? “Pierre Girard,” by his pen did such service to the cause of truth, as merited that praise. May he rest in feace.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Front the Cincinnati Gazette.
Signor Luigi Gregori.
A FAMOUS ITALIAN ARTIST AT THE EXPOSITION—HIS OPINION OF THAT “TITIAN.”
Having received intimation that a famous Italian artist, at present engaged upon a contract in this country, would visit the city and Exposition yesterday, a Gazette man met him immediately on his arrival here from Indianapolis, about noon yesterday. Signor Luigi Gregori, the gentleman in question, has four pictures on view in the Art Department at the Exposition, which have excited a good deal of general admiration, several bids for purchasing them, and some curiosity as to the career of the genuine artist who painted them. They are all oil-paintings; one a life-like portrait of a man with long auburn side-whiskers and mustache, his head covered with a slouch hat, surrounded by a gold cord, about which a good deal of speculation has arisen. It is a likeness of Dr. Conti, a resident physician of this city. Another picture is the “ Morning Hour,” a pleasing study of Italian peasant life; a mother and child are seated at a doorway, with a tambourine, and a curiously-shaped stringed instrument. A delightful “ bit ” of a similar kind is “ Rising,” a mother playing with her child just risen from bed, dressed in a single garment; young chickens are playing about the little one’s feet. The fourth picture is the “ Fisherman’s Wife,” again a woman and a child; they are seated on a doorstep, the mother holding out a fish, taken from the basket at her feet; a charitable passer-by, apparently as poor as themselves, puts his hand into his pocket to purchase the fish and thereby relieve their necessities.
The master is a man of small stature, but of distinguished appearance, and polite and cultivated deportment, the result of a long association with the most imposing and dignified of European court circles. His hair and mustache are quite gray, but he is as active and simple as a youth. Signor Luigi Gregori was born in the city of Bologna, Italy, some sixty-two years ago, and has devoted himself exclusively to the fine arts since his early boyhood. He first studied in his native city, proceeding thence to Palermo, Venice, and Florence, adding to his art education in each city. In 1840, he went to Rome, and his talent was speedily recognized by Cardinal Barnabo, a well-known connoisseur, who held a high position at the Papal court.. His Eminence introduced the artist to Pope Gregory XVI, then, and for many succeeding years, King.of the Papal States. Signor Gregori was given several important commissions in the Vatican, arranging and repairing the world-famed works of art in that most magnificent of all collections. In 1856, Signor Gregori sent a grand historical oil-painting to the Accademia Reale, at Bologna, which carried off the large premium gold medal, worth a considerable sum of money. In 1868, the Academy of his native city granted him a full diploma, and elected him honorary professor. He continued to work on at Rome, chiefly
painting altar-pieces, and superintending the internal mural decoration of the various Roman basilicas and churches. During this time he painted a full-length portrait in oils of Pio Nono, for which his Holiness gave him several sittings. This work of art, which is a faithful likeness of the late Pope, is now at the Catholic University of Notre Dame, near South Bend, Ind. During his long career the Signor has attained wonderful accuracy in deciding the date and authenticity of works ascribed to the old masters, owing to the number of originals which have passed through his hands. Recognizing this fact, a wealthy Italian nobleman, a great lover of art, the Marchese Campana, engaged him, while at Rome, in compiling a 'very • learned work—the “ Raccolta,” a catalogue of specimens of art from its origin until our own time. This is a bulky volume, published as a large quarto, and containing a mass of valuable material; it is a perfect mine of art lore, as described by Prof. Edwards, who accompanied the Signor, and had seen the single copy now at Notre Dame.
In the year 1874, the Very Rev. Father General Sorin, of the Congregation of the Holy Cross,’ was in Rome, and was introduced to Signor Gregori by Cardinal Franchi, who had then been his patron for many years. The Father General was in search of a real Roman artist,, who would accompany him to America, and take charge of the Art Department at the Catholic University of Notre Dame, near South Bend, Ind. Signor Gregori was strongly recommended for this position by the reigning Pope, who knew him personally, and by. Cardinal Franchi, Cardinal Barnabo, and Mgr.' De Merode, who had patronized him liberally during his long stay at the Vatican. He consented to the proposal, and, eight years ago, came to this country with Father Sorin. He immediately commenced to decorate the church at Notre Dame, and continued until three years ago, when the buildings were burned down; but his work was, fortunately, not destroyed. During the rebuilding of the University he lived at Chicago,-but returned to his college-home two years ago. Since that time he has been engaged upon a series of historical paintings, frescoed on the walls of the corridors of the new building. Scenes from the life of Columbus will occupy ten pictures,- each twenty feet long by ten feet in height. This completed, he will commence scenes from the lives of the other Catholic pioneers of America, and to fresco the lofty dome of the University with allegorical representations of the sciences of colossal size. A short time since Queen Margherita, the reigning sovereign of Italy, sent Signor Gregori. a valuable gold watch, with her royal cipher set in diamonds. The present 'was accompanied by an autograph letter from the Royal Majordomo, expressing her Majesty’s high appreciation of some minatures of the late King Victor Emmanuel, the present King Humbert and his son, the Prince of Naples, which Signor Gregori had painted in this country and sent to Queen Margaret. Since he has been at Notre Dame the Professor has discovered a genuine Vandyke ,under a painting
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
which was given him to clean. When at the Exposition the Gazette man asked him to look at the Titian, and, after carefully scrutinizing it for some time, he said, in Italian, for he does not speak a word of English: “It is not a Titian at all, but a Sassoferrato. That is the name usually given to Giovanni Battista Salvi, because he was born there. The date of the picture is fully 100 years later than Titian’s time. But you were not so far wrong in supposing it to be his, for Sassoferrato studied and copied the works of Titian, and adopted some of his mannerisms. This picture belongs to the School of the Caracci. I have no doubt of it whatever.”
Of course this opinion carries considerable weight, considering the long experience and careful training of such a veteran Italian artist as Signor Gregori, nor will it lessen the value of the picture, painted, as it is now declared to be, by a great master who has works in every great European gallery. Signor Gregori was loud in his praises of the manner in which Mr. Harvey Anderson had hung the pictures in Art Hall, and declared, despite all protestations to the contrary, that he must be a professional. The Signor was introduced to President Peabody and Commissioner M. Ryan, and warmly congratulated them on their enterprise in arranging an Exposition he would not have missed seeing for anything. He said in such matters Chicago and Cincinnati are not to be named in the same dajr.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—A public memorial has been erected over the grave of the distinguished Gaelic scholar, John O’Donovan, in Glasnevin cemetery.
—A monument has lately been erected to the memory of Roujet de Lisle, the composer of the Marseillaise, at Choisy-le-Roi, the town in which he is buried.
—A type foundry of the Burmese character is about to be established at Rangou, to meet the demand arising from the increased amount of printing in the vernacular.
—The Cathedral of Berne is soon to be put into the hands of the restorer, who is to carry out the original plan of this edifice as designed in 1421, and among other things finish the tower.
—It is reported that the Madras Government will bear the expense of bringing out a Konkani-English dictionary, compiled by one of the Jesuit Fathers attached to the Mangalore Mission.—“AveMaria”
—The death is announced of Hen- J. de Hal-big, of Munich, sculptor of the colossal group of the “ Descent from the Cross” erected on the mountain near Ober-Ammergau. This artist was sixty-nine years of age.	a
—Queen Victoria has • accepted a copy of M. Gounod’s new Oratorio, “ The Redemption,” her majesty having already allowed the work to be
dedicated to her. This copy was magnificently bound, and printed on large, hand-made paper direct from the engraved plates.
—Among the latest acquisitions of the Egerton Library of MSS. in the British Museum are a Liber Prosarum in use by the Dominican nuns of Poissy in the fifteenth century; a Missale Parvum, of the same date, which belonged to a convent in Ghent; and the four Gospels in Greek, with illuminations of the twelfth century.—“Ave Maria?
—Adelaide Phillipps, the famous contralto, died at Carlsbad, on the 4th inst. She was born at Stratford-on-Avon, in 1833, and ten years later made her debut as an actress in Boston. She attracted the notice of Jenny Lind, and funds were raised to give her a musical education. She first appeared in opera in New York in 1856, and in Paris in 1861.
—The fourth centenary of the birth of Raffaelle is to be celebrated by the erection of a monument of the “ Divino Pittore,” in the Piazza Maggiore at Urbino, in front of the Ducal Palace. There is to be a competition for the commission, and an exhibition of models is to be opened at Urbino on the four-hundredth anniversary of the birth of Raffaelle, March 28th, 1883.
—Needle-painting is the latest contribution to the decorative art. By this novel method a lady in an Eastern city has already completed a large number of landscape pictures, which are said by connoisseurs to be remarkable productions with the needle, equalling in effect, if not surpassing, the finest oil and water-colors. Several artists and prominent society people are making an effort to have them exhibited, so that ladies who have a penchant for embroidery and house decoration may see how easy and inexpensive it has become to beautify their homes with their own handiwork.
—Hon. E. B. Washbume has had his collection of letters, which extends over a period of twenty-five years of public life, classified and bound in six large volumes. He presented them lately to the Historical Society, but will retain them in his possession until the society provides fire-proof vaults in which to keep them safely. The collection is a valuable one, many of the letters being from the graphic pen of Mr. Washbume himself while he was an eye-witness to many of the most stirring and eventful scenes during the war of the rebellion and the siege and reign of the commune in Paris.—Chicago Times.
—Signor Pacifico Manganelli, of Rome, has the prospectus of a work which has been honored with the special approval and encouragement of the Holy Father, in the form of a letter to its promoter from' the Latin Secretary, Mgr. Nocella. It is the periodical publication, under the auspices of the Sacred Congregation of the Propaganda, of hitherto unedited compositions of great masters of the Palestrina School of Sacred Music. Each number will contain 24 pages (200 large pages in 8vo) of music, to which will be added, from time to time, some leaves of printed text, notes abridged from the life and the works of the authors. They
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
are to be sent carefully rolled on wooden cylinders, or, if subscribers prefer it, bound in one volume at the end of the year. The annual subscription is 12 francs for Italy, 13 frs. 50 centimes for the rest of Europe, and 15 frs. out of Europe.
—The oldest newspaper in the whole wide world is the King Pau, or « Capital Sheet,” published in Pekin, and, since the 4th of last June, issued in a new form prescribed by special edict of the reigning Emperor, Quang-soo. - It first appeared A. D. 911, but came out only at irregular intervals. Since the year 1351, however, it has' been published weekly, and of uniform size. Until its reorganization by imperial decree it contained nothing but orders in council and court news, was published about midday, and cost two kesh, or something less than a half penny. Now, however, it appears in three editions daily. The first, issued early in the morning and printed on yellow paper, is called Hsing-Pau (Business Sheet), and contains trade prices, exchange quotations, and all manner of commercial intelligence. Its circulation is a little over 8,000. The second edition, which comes out during the forenoon, also? printed upon yellow paper, is devoted to official an-' nouncements, fashionable intelligence and general news. Besides its ancient title of King-Pau, it owns another designation, that of Shuen-Pau, or “ Official Sheet.” The third edition appears late in the afternoon, is printed on red paper and bears the name of Titani-Pau (Country Sheet). It consists of extracts from the early editions, and is largely subscribed for in the provinces. All these issues of the King-Pau are edited bv six mem-bers of the Hanlin Academy of Sciences, appointed and salaried by the Chinese State. The total number of copies printed daily varies between 13,000 and 14,000.—London Telegraph.
Books and Periodicals.
—The Harf, comes to us supplied, as usual, with interesting articles on various subjects and is, altogether a pleasing and instructive magazine. It is published monthly by Cornelius Donovan, Hamilton, Ontario.
—The October number of the Musical World furnishes attractive and pleasant reading and the music is varied and excellent. “ The Home of the First Piano,” a biography of Candidus, the Tenor; “ The First Piano in the Mining Camp”; “How to Become a Pianist”; the Letter Box; Editorial Briefs, and musical news—all these combine to make the World interesting, amusing and instructive. The music this month consists of the following: “All that Glitters,” a ballad; “Biddy McGee,” a humorous song; “Patience Waltz”; “Poet and Peasant Waltz”; “Morning Dew Schottische.” The subscription price of the Musical World is $1.50 per annum; single copies 15 cents. S. Brainard’s Sons, 341 and 343 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland.
.—The North American Review for October
opens with an article on “ The Coming Revolu- • tion in England,” by H. M. Hyndman, the English radical leader, giving an instructive account of the agitation now going on among the English working classes for a reconstruction of the whole politico-social fabric of that countiy. O. B. Frothinghamwrites of “The Objectionable in Literature,” and endeavors to point out the distinction between literature which is per se corrupting, and
, that which is simply coarse. Dr. Henry Schliemann tells the interesting story of one year’s “Discoveries at Troy.” Senator'John I. Mitchel, of Pennyslvania, treats of the rise and progress of the rule of “ Political Bosses.” Prof. George L. Vose, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, contributes an article of exceptional value on “Safety in Railway Travel”: and Prof. Charles S. Sargent, of the Harvard College Arboretum, contributes an instructive essay on “ The Protec- . tion of Forests.” The Review is sold by booksellers and newsdealers generally.
Catholic Grievances in Relation to the Administration of Indian Affairs. Richmond, Va.: Catholic Visitor Print. 18S2.
This is a report' which' was presented to the Catholic Young Men’s National Union at its Eighth Annual Convention, held in Boston, Mass., on May 10th and nth, 1882, and now published in pamphlet form. The report treats first of the success that attended the Catholic Missioners when the Government, in accordance with the spirit of American institutions, recognized it to be a duty to treat the missionary labors of all Christian denominations on the reservation with equal, consideration; then are mentioned the names of Fathers De Smet, and Chirouse, Bishops Salpointe and Lamy. A striking contrast may be seen between the state of the Indians then and their condition either under the Quakers or the men distinguished for their eminent standing in their respective churches, or Young Men's Christian Associations. Whatever rights the Indians have they owe to the army Officers over the agencies. General Sherman said, writing to Henry Ward Beecher, that if the army had the legal custody of the Indians “ every religious denomination, professing ‘ peace on earth and good will ’ should have a fair chance to establish schools, churches and chantable societies among each and all the tribes, and that the present system of ‘letting out’ each tribe or subdivision of a tribe to some special denomination which has a monopoly of the business should be brought to an end. There is no other remedy. But shall this be applied? Apparently no; for, in the appendix of the pamphlet before us is an extract from a W’ashington paper of June 15th of this year, headed—‘Lo! the poor Indian!’ giving an account of the consolidation of the Tulalip Indian Agency heretofore assigned to Catholics, with the Puyallup and S’Kokomish Agencies, and all given into the hands of a nominee of the Congregational Church.”
Farm statistics state that the population of the Tulalip agency is 1000 more than the other 21 combined. All the Tulalips are Catholics, and
86
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a large number of the others are also of the same faith. Now, was it fair or just, that the Congregationalist agent should have been appointed over the consolidated agency?
Sadlier’s Excelsior Studies in the His-
tory of the United States. By the Author of Sadlier’s Elementary History. New York: William H. Sadlier, u Barclay Street.
We have received a copy of this work from Mr. Kirwin, the agent of the publishing firm. It is used as a text-book in the College, and is very highly spoken of.by the Professor in charge. The following extract, from the “ Introduction,” gives a good general idea of the plan of the work:
i.	The work is divided into jive sections, each, except the first, embracing the events of one century. Each Section is divided into as many Studies as may be necessary, care being taken not to make any study too long.
2.	Each section is followed by “ Biographical Sketches ” of the principal personages mentioned therein; by tables of American and European Chronology, and Contemporary Popes; and by a Geographical Index. These matters, at the will of the teacher, may either be committed to memory, or simply read over by the pupil.
3.	Where there is sufficient material, each study is concluded by a description of the manners, customs, etc., of the country or time.
4.	The last or fifth section contains an account of the inventions, discoveries, etc., of the XIXth Century; also a Study giving some idea of the state of our literature.
5.	Interesting anecdotes are freely interspersed, that “ the useful and the agreeable” being thus intermingled, the pupil may, even in spite of himself, be won to study.
6.	To this end also, appropriate poetical and prose quo-. tations from standard authors are, to a limited extent, introduced.
7.	The Revolution and the Civil War, the details of which teachers find it so difficult and well-nigh impossible . to impress upon the memory of their pupils, are, as far as possible, condensed. A crystallizing process is thus promoted in the mind of the student, whereby accessories and details group themselves around the main facts and ideas of the narration. The true glory of a nation lies, after all, in peace and true moral progress rather than in war.
8.	Catholics, so far as could be in this brief outline, are assigned their proper place in the annals of our land.
9.	Lastly, to lead to a more independent use of the book, as also to the topical mode of study and recitation, questions have been placed at the close of the work, rather than at the bottom of each page.
'	' College Gossip.
—About $50,000 have been subscribed towards the library fund of the Law School.—Harvard Herald.	•	.
—Harvard College has formed a temperance society, on the total abstinence basis, with a membership of over fifty.—Ex.
—The oldest Baptist college in Iowa, the Des Moines University, has suspended with an indebtedness of $15,000.—Cornell Sun. . .
—Carroll College Academy, at Waukesha, Wisconsin, has received during the vacation the sum of $20,000 as the basis of a permanent endowment fund.—Ex.	.
—By the will of Hannah Richardson, of Philadelphia, $100,000 is given to charitable and educational purposes, $30,000 to the Women’s Medical College, and 15,000 to the Women’s Hospital.—
Ex. ■	’	.	•
—The largest university is .Oxford, in Oxford, England. It consists of twenty-five colleges and five halls. Oxford was the seat of learning in the time of Edward the Confessor. It claims to have been founded by Alfred.
—The memorial window, dedicated by the Harvard Class of i860 to their fellow-students who fell in the rebellion, will soon be in position. It represents a host advancing to battle, led by two persons, one holding aloft a standard and the other poising a lance.
—“When did George Washington die?” asked an Austin teacher of a large boy. “ Is he dead ? ” was the astonished reply; “ Why, it is not more than six months ago that - they were celebrating his birthday, and now he is dead. It’s a bad year on children. I reckon his folks let him eat something that didn’t agree with him.”—Ex.
—The faculty of Purdue College, this State, decided that the Greek-letter societies wielded an evil influence over the students, and accordingly demanded from them a pledge to withdraw from membership, on pain of dismissal. The boys refused ; a test case was made in court, and the students were upheld on the ground that the faculty had assumed unwarrantable authority. It is said that the faculty will take the case into the United States Supreme Court.
—President Potter, of Union College, has been requested to resign by the trustees of the institution on account of his poor management. It is stated that the college run behind the last year over ten thousand dollars. Out of the 200 students present, only 47 paid their tuition. The only objection a majority of the trustees have to Potter is, that he is a poor financier, but he cannot see the point, and as yet has not signified his willingness to go.—Badger.
—It was reported some time ago that Prof. Evangelinus A. Sophocles, the well-known and venerable Professor of Greek in Harvard College, was prostrated from an epileptic attack, and was lying very ill at his rooms in Cambridge. We have not received any late news as to his condition. Prof. Sophocles is a native of Greece, but has been a resident of this country for many years, and is widely known as a profound scholar. After the foregoing was in print, we learned from the Harvard Herald that Prof. Sophocles was getting better.	.
------According to the information furnished by recent numbers of the Fcrhan^ the journal of Ispahan, civilization is making considerable prog; ress in Persia. A large college, which was completed last year with Government aid, has now commenced its work in earnest among the upper classes of Persian youth, who will have the advantage of tuition at the hands of professors who, if not Europeans, have at least graduated at the principal seats of learning in Europe. Further signs of progress are to be found in the increased employment of Europeans in connection with railways, telegraphs, etc., and in the recent decree for
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	87
the assimilation of weights and measures throughout Persia.	.
—“ I don’t see how I’d git along without Mary, nohow,” Mrs. Blucher observed, pausing to wipe the perspiration from her aged features, and put another ladle of soft soap into the steaming suds, while her daughter’s voice at the piano could be distinctly recognized, floating out from the adjoining parlor. “ I don’t sec how I’d get along without that gal, nohow. Al’ays on these days, when I hev the tir-ingest work, she just picks out her nicest pieces, like ‘ Sweet Rest By and By,’ and ‘ Mother’s Growing Old,’ and sings ’em fur me afore she goes out on the lawn to play croquet with the other young folks. ’Taint every gal as ud be so thoughtful, I kin tell you. Now, most on ’em ud just bang away with ‘ Jordan is a hard road to travel,’ or ‘ Whoop ’em up, Eliza Jane,’ but she ain’t none o’ that sort. She’s a pile o’ comfort,” and Mrs. Blucher fanned herself with her apron, preparatory to running the clothes through the second water.—Toledo American.
— The Sydney Herald gives some samples extracted , from books exported from Great Britain for the use of the young antipodeans, which are not over-flattering to the British nous in the matter of learning. A Geography, published in Glasgow, says of Australia that “ much of the greater part of New Holland is unknown to Europeans, but there are British settlements on the coast. It is inhabited by a race of savages who-are among the lowest and most degraded that are to be found in the world.” In another place the Australian school-boy is told to remember that “ the country he lives in is called Ireland, and that it is an island because it has water’ all aro.und it.” An easy method for finding out the points of the compass . is also given, as follows: “If at 12 o’clock you look at that part.of the sky where the sun is shining, that part is called the south; then turn and look behind you, where the sun never comes, and that part is the north.” The Australian schoolboy who carries out these directions will be considerably mixed in after-life as to his geography.
Exchanges.
■—The Philomathean Review is a neat 16-page paper published monthly by the Young Men’s Philomathean Society, of Brooklyn, N. Y. Its matter consists of essays, journalistic and sporting notes, society gossip, etc.
—The Oberlin Review has, we see, left the Strong position it occuppied on the editorial chessboard last year, but has Castled in the hope, probably, of securing as good a one. The Review supposes the reason the Cornell men petitioned for phonography as a regular study was for its convenience in annotating cuffs.	.
—The Harvard Daily Herald begins its second year in an enlarged form and with a new heading. The general arrangement of the matter is much
the same as last year. The Harvard men are determined to make the Co-operative Society a success. The new plan seems to be a good one. There is a salaried superintendent, who is directly responsible to the managers.
—We hope “Booby,”in The College Message^ will give the public some more of his adventures. “ Booby ” tells a pretty good story. If the Message men have any more “boobies” of that sort they will do well to trot them out. Having read some of Mark Twain’s writings, we are inclined to think that “ Booby ” is a brother of his, or a cousin, or something of that sort. He is surely one of the “ Innocents^Abroad,” but which one?
—Graham? s Student's Journal\&gwa.?*ri&L the August number a series of illustrated articles on some of the older systems of Stenography, beginning with Macaulays (1747). The September number gives an exhibit of Byrom’s (1720—1767). The engraved pages of “ The Lady of the Lake,” in Graham’s modification of the. Pitman system, are continued; also the Reporter’s List, in the same method. The Student's Journal contains much interesting matter for Graham writers.
—The Cornell Era starts out with a lively number. The Cornellians are disappointed at finding no gymnasium ready for winter use, but are delighted at the change of recitations from Monday to Saturday. Saturday has heretofore, it seems, been the free day at Cornell. ■ A correspondent writes to the paper in the interests of Electrical Engineering, in which he says great fortunes. have been and may still be made, and that during a recent trip to- Europe he found many young men and educated women studying it.
—With commendable energy, The Clerk for August added to its former courses on TripleEntry Book-keeping and Phonography a course of Telegraphy in six easy lessons, well-written and practical, a series of articles on Mythology, and a department of Home Gymnastics adapted from the dumb-bell instructions of Prof.. Amrees Closs, of the Royal Saxon Gymnastic Institute of Dresden. To make room for the additional matter, The Clerk has been enlarged from eight to sixteen pages, the price of subscription being still kept at the low figure of $1.
—The Pennsylvania University -Magazine wishes the University represented in the regatta of the Bi-Centennial Association on the Schuylkill (Oct. 26), and also desires a return to “the good old custom of chapel speaking”—similar to what-we have here at the Archconfraternity meetings. It says: “ The idea seems to be popular with the majority of the students at present in college, and some such practice is necessary in order to give our speakers at Commencement confidence enough in themselves to enable them to make themselves heard at some little distance from the stage.” The Magazine denounces Columbia’s action in boating matters last spring, and thinks it possible the Columbia men were afraid to row. The University of Pennsylvania crews have been engaged in 35 races and have won 24 of them.
88
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WK SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, October 14, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, • above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
St. Edward’s Day, ’82.
The annual recurrence of Notre Dame’s great festal day, is an event which always brings joy and gladness to the heart of every inmate of this home of Religion and Science. The 13th of' October—Feast of St. Edward, King and Confessor,—is the name-day of Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and Founder of Notre Dame. It is, therefore, a day upon which is presented a fitting occasion for manifesting those sentiments of love, admiration and respect which all here feel towards him who has now, for more than forty years been the guiding spirit in the affairs of Notre Dame, and whose directive mind has, with the blessing of Heaven, raised her. to. the proud position she now holds among the institutions of learning in the land. We need not here recount the story of those years of toil and labor, it is well known; suffice it to say, that the greatest, grandest proof thereof lies patent to all in the magnificent structures that here everywhere meet the eye,—in the noble, devoted body of re
ligious, zealous and faithful co-workers with him in the cause to which he has devoted his life, who carry far and wide throughout the United States the fruits of the mission which he himself has here inaugurated.
But a few years more, and Notre Dame shall celebrate her “ Golden Jubilee sincere and heartfelt is the wish we express, that her venerable Foun-der may live to see that day, and for many years thereafter continue, by his wise counsels, to perfect the good work which he has thus far so success-fully carried on.
The celebration of
The Festival
began on Thursday afternoon at four o’clock, with an entertainment in the “Academy of Music,” presented by the members of the Euglossian Association. A large and appreciative audience there assembled to do honor to the Very Rev. Father for whom the entertainment was gotten up, as also to encourage the youthful performers. As the Vener-able Father Sorin, accompanied by the Rev. President and many of the clergy, entered the hall, the Band struck up a grand entrance march. After this was concluded, Mr. F. A. Quinn came forward and, in a clear, bold tone, delivered the Latin address. He was followed by Mr. H. Arnold in a well-written and fairly-delivered Greek address. The German address was given by Master J. Courtney, of the Junior department, whose correct pronunciation and fine delivery were commended by all. Then followed a beautiful morceau by the String Quartette, whose playing speaks for itself; they are above criticism; the mere mention of the name is to all at Notre Dame a sufficient guarantee of its excellence. After this came what always proves to be the great feature of the first part of the programme, and was so on this occasion, namely,—the address from the Minims, the “ little favorites of Father General.” The address was read in a clear, ringing voice, and with distinct articulation by Master J. J. McGrath, who had with him as aids on this trying occasion, Masters R. V. Papin and B. Roberts. We cannot, of course, attempt any review of the beautiful address, but we must say that the Minims display commendable solicitude about securing that Parisian dinner, prior to the departure of the Chef. May their wishes be fully realized, as they deserve to be. Master L. Gibert delivered the French address, and acquitted himself with credit, although at times he spoke too fast.
The Junior address, the superior excellence of which was remarked by all, was read in good style by Master A. A. Browne. The address of the Senior department was made by Mr. Albert Zahm,-the production itself was an excellent one, but the delivery, though in the main good, was not altogether faultless, as at times the voice of the speaker was too low. This closed the addresses, of which in general it may be said that though numerous yet this time they possessed one redeeming characteristic,—brevity. The first part of the programme concluded with music by the orchestra
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
89
The members played in an excellent manner, an “overture” entitled “Enchantment” by Herman. The new feature of piano accompaniment added greatly to the general effect. The Orchestra promises to be very successful this year.
The second and principal part of the entertainment consisted of the play:
“ The Upstart,”
a translation and adaptation of Moliere’s great comedy, “ Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme ”—which was given by the members of the Euglossian Association.
The play was very acceptably rendered, though but a short time had been devoted to its preparation. Mr. W. S. Cleary, as Mr. Jordan the Upstart, was the star of the evening. He personated the ignorant, excited upstart to perfection, and received frequent applause. Old Mr. Jordan, the father, found worthy personation at the hands of Mr. E. A. Otis. Mr. T. W. Coakly as Doranto^ was particularly good. Messrs. McCarthy and Burns filled the roles of Covielle and Cleon very acceptably. “Signore Profundo” the Professor of Philosophy, was grandly personated by Mr. Solon, while Messrs. Bailey, Morse and Larkin took the parts of “Figaro,” “Jeronimo” and “Signor Cris-pino,” respectively, all of them doing well. Mr. F. A. Quinn was particularly amusing in his role of “Nicholas” the privileged servant, and Messrs. Saviers, Johnston and Castanedo as “Dorimenes,” “ Ali Bey ” and “ Leone ” contributed not a little to the success of the entertainment. Masters Metz and Wile as “Cullud Pussons” walked the boards with great eclat, and were the observed ' of all observers. During the play, a “ Song and Chorus” was given by the Vocal Class which produced a great sensation. A solo, “ Ah I my Child,” was creditably sung by D. Saviers, and Mr. Jas. McGoffin rendered very acceptably an exquisite Spanish song entitled “ El Amor.”
Altogether, the exhibition was a success; in the play, as a general thing, the parts were well sustained, showing the correct judgment and painstaking instructions of Prof. J. A. Lyons, under whose charge the various dramatic and literary associations are placed, and who for years has been the manager of the various entertainments at Notre Dame. In our local columns, the Programme will be found in full. Aftei' the play Very Rev. Father Sorin arose and briefly returned his thanks to all who took part in the exhibition and complimented the performers upon the success they had met with. All then retired to “ Music by the Band.”
’ On Friday, the 13TH,
Mass was sung at 8 a. m., by Very Rev. Father Sorin, assisted by Rev. Fathers Letourneau and Franciscus, as deacon and subdeacon. During the Offertory, Mercadante’s beautiful Ave Maria was sung in an artistic manner by Mrs. A. Maguire, of Chicago. Her pure, rich soprano voice filled the large church and completely entranced the listeners. At 9.30 the members of the Facuity met and were received by Father Sorin, in the parlor of the Presbytery. Prof. P. F. McSweeney spoke in the name of
the'College officers and Professors, and in abeauti-ful address gave expression to the best wishes of- all towards the venerable Founder. Father Sorin responded very feelingly, and spoke of the great hopes he had of the future of Notre Dame, exhorting all to continue as earnest and devoted as they had hitherto proved themselves. At noon, Father Sorin dined with the President and Students in the Seniors’ Refectory, which was handsomely and artistically decorated for the occasion. It is to be regretted that what was to be dur great feature of the day’s festivities, namely, the Regatta and Field Sports, was marred by the rain. However, they have been simply postponed—or as a- friend of ours would say—there has been a special transfer. No doubt some fine day in the near future this part of the programme will be fully carried out.
Apart from the bad state of the weather on Friday, every thing passed off pleasantly, and made the Festival a happy and joyous one to all.
Obituary.
It is with feelings of sincere regret that we announce the death of Master Guy Woodson, of ’81, which sad event occurred at Ft. Laramie, Wyo. Territory, on the morning of the 7th inst. The deceased was the only son of Capt. A. E. Wood-son, U. S. A. He entered the Minim department here in 1879, and the year following became a Junior. He had not been in the latter department long when he contracted pneumonia, which caused his death. His sufferings during his illness of -more than a year’s duration were great, but patiently, even cheerfully borne. Guy was a general favorite with students and Professors here, and had numerous friends who will read these lines with as much sorrow as they are penned. We extend to the family of the deceased our sincere condolence. May he rest in peace.
Personal.
—Jos. McManus, ’79, is at St. Joseph’s Seminary, London, Ontario.
—Joseph Quinn (Com’l), of ’80, is engaged in . a prosperous business at Danville, Ill.
—J. G. Baker (Com’l), ’69, rejoices in a prosperous lumber trade at Ft. Wayne, Ind.
—George T. Tracy, of ’82, is studying Law at Iowa City, Iowa. George has our best wishes for his success.
—Mr. W. Morris, of ’75, is in Denver, Col., whither he has gone to carve out his fortune. Success, Willie!
—Herman Korty, of ’78, is in business in Leadville, Col., and doing well. He thinks there-is no place like Colorado.
—Frank Hastings, of ’76, is book-keeper for one of the largest wholesale houses of Leaven
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
worth, Kansas. Everyone has a good word for Frank.
—Mr. A. J. O’Reilly, of ’68, paid us a flying visit last Sunday. We were sorry we could not see more of him, but business of importance required his presence in Denver, Col., where he is now stationed.
—Hon. W. H. Calkins, our Representative in Congress, was among the visitors on the 13th. Mr. Calkins has in many ways proved his friendship for Notre Dame and his visits have always met with the heartiest welcome.
—Geo. E. Clarke, ’82, has returned to the University to make a post-graduate course, and takes charge of some of the phonography classes. To do so, he has relinquished a promising situation as stenographer in a banking-house in his native city.
—Mr. Jno. McGinnity, of ’69, is now one of the first and most successful business men of Denver, Col. He is the same quiet, gentle, genial “ Mac ” that he was as a student at Notre Dame, and as popular wherever known, as he was here with Facuity and students.
—Rev. Mr. P. J. Moran, C. S. C., one of our esteemed Professors, received the first of the Major Orders, last Tuesday morning, at the hands of Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger. We congratulate the Rev. gentleman upon his promotion and beg leave to express the'wish that many days may not pass before he shall have attained the grand object of his desires, the sacred Priesthood.
—The Rev. James E. Hogan, of ’75, is at present the popular and energetic pastor of St. Patrick’s Church, Lemont, Ill. A few weeks ago he had the solemn dedication of his new church, the ceremonies of which were conducted by VicarGeneral Conway, of Chicago (also a former student of Notre Dame), assisted by many priests from other cities. In referring to the event, the Joliet Herald thus speaks of the good pastor:
“ The parish of St. Patrick’s, of Lemont, in former days was not a particularly promising or encouraging one, and never has been considered self-supporting until about two yearsago, when-there came from Galena, where he had officiated as assistant in St. Michael’s, to take charge of the “poor” parish, a live, energetic young man of religious fervor, a zealous, ambitious pastor, and a good student of human nature, then comparatively unknown, but now most favorably known as Rev. Father James E. Hogan, a graduate of Notre Dame, Ind., and also of St Mary’s Seminary.”
Father Hogan has the best wishes of his many friends at Notre Dame for his continued success.
—We had a very pleasant visit this week from Don Juan Terrazas, the son of- his Excellency Sr. Don Luis Terrazas, the present Governor of Chihuahua. Sr. Terrazas came to place his younger brother, Alberto, in College. He examined the grounds, buildings, etc., in detail, and expressed himself as most agreeably surprised at all he saw; he was particularly interested in the departments of Art and Science. He left on Friday for his distant home, but with the intention of returning soon. He will always be a welcome visitor.
—In the large audience that attended the Enter
tainment of Thursday afternoon, we noticed the following friends of Notre Dame. Rev. J. A. B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka; Rev. J.Capon, of Niles; Rev. M. Condon, Mapleton, Wis.; Rev. Mr. Williamson, Mr. C. Studebaker, Mr. and Mrs. W. Miller, Mr. and Mrs. L. G. Tong, Mr. and Mrs. Howard Stanfield, Hon. Judge Hagerty, South Bend; Mr. and Mrs. Wile, Laporte; Madame and Mrs. Carevoc, Chicago; Mrs. and Miss English, and John English, ’75, Mrs. and Miss Brandon, Chi-cago;Mr. Kitz, Mrs. Rhodius, and niece, and Mrs. Gall, of Indianapolis; Messrs. Lyons, of The South-Bead Tribune, and Fasset, of The Register, and many others whose names we did not learn.
Local Items.
—Fair!	:
—How fair!
—Who got the ten-dollar check?
—Oars! Ready!—Do get stroke!
—He laughs best who laughs last. -
—“I won’t give you away, Johnny.”
—Monthly Bulletins were sent off last Thursday.
—St. Edward’s Hall was elegantty decorated on the 13th.
—“ What’s in a name? ” said the “ Bostin Cute.” Only ten dollars.
—The addition to the Minims’ play-hall should be veneered with brick.
—The riders of the burros return thanks to Mr. Aaron Jones for favors received.
—The reports from the various societies should be handed in before Wednesday evening.
—Work has been begun upon the grading of the sand-bank in the Juniors’ Campus.
—« The new departure prior to the mid-day repast ” meets with the approbation of all.
—The study-halls are filling so rapidly that it has become necessary to order new desks.
—Those that wish a description of the comet are requested to call on Johnny and Frank.
—The Gymnasium is now completely roofed in, and will soon be ready for its destined use. .
—We have as yet received no definite information in regard to that letter. “ How is it, George ? ”
—A new feature in prospect is the Electric Tower, which will be built in-the Seniors’ Campus.,.'	,	. , . .	,	. „ _ .	.
—Class notes, were read for the'first time last week, and will be continued regularly for the future.	. "
—All have now settled down to work, and the vast majority seem to fully appreciate their advantages.	,
—Several interesting games of football, hand-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	91
ball and racket were, played during the week by the Juniors.
—We would advise the public readers in the Junior department to pattern after the one that read on the 7th inst.
—A young Virginian has invented a machine called the “lung destroyer.” It turns out 150 cigarettes a minute.
—Signor Gregori has added some new and 00	e
pleasing features to his grand mural painting of “ Columbus’ Reception at Court.”
—Messrs. F. E. Kuhn and M. T. Burns were made happy by that ten-dollar check for the burrorace, though they took no part in it.
—We have a waiter here who can “ sling hash ” in seven different languages. How is that for high ?—or rather, is it not this the cake takes ?
—“I don’t want any of the money; but as I spent two days in practising and caring for the burros, you might divide.” Yes: but we won’t.
—The following new instruments have been purchased for the Band: 1 E b Cornet, 3 B b Cornets, 2 Altos, 2 Trombones, a Baritone, a F rench Horn.
( —We have been requested to remind the students that the office should not be visited except during recreation. The hours are fixed, and are well known.
—The Chef's term of office is about to expire. Can he not have an encore? Certainly, in this case we are not opposed to second, or third, or any number of terms.
—To-morrow, the 20th Sunday after Pentecost, and Feast of the Purity of the Blessed Virgin, Missa de Angelis will be sung. Vespers, Common of the Blessed Virgin.
—The N. D. U. Baseball Club, were beaten badly on the Sth inst. Some of the members feel as though they didn’t care a continental how soon that comet strikes the earth.
—A critique of Gregori’s last mural painting, and a report of the students’ visit to the Fair, have been unavoidably crowded out this week. They will appear in our next.
—The Professor of Greek acknowledges the receipt of four new subscriptions to the Greek paper, published at Athens, to which attention was called in a previous number.
—Judging by the Notre Dame Scholastic, Father Zahm is beginning to walk and talk Spanish in a very lively manner. He is a greater, man to roam than Humbert.— Catholic Columbian.
—Signor Gregori has produced a splendid portrait in oil of Father Kroeger, of Logansport, Ind. It is declared a perfect likeness, and, what is remarkable, the whole was completed in two hours.
—The profusion of brilliant flowers which adorned the statue of St. Edward on the 13th, was the gift of Mrs. Clement Studebaker, and a beau
tiful token of esteem to Very Rev. Father General on his feast-dav.	’
—In honor of the feast of Very Rev. Father General, their venerable patron, the names of all the Minims appear this week on the Roll of Honor. To please him they decided to win this privilege, and they have succeeded.	■
—Many of the Preps, are writing novels based upon incidents that occurred during the progress of the late Fair. One of the effusionsis said to bear this novel and startling title: “Memphis Frank, the Parasol Jerker.”
—Notwithstanding the large attendance, measures have been taken to have no class number more thirty. These efforts have, to a great extent, been successful, there, being but two or three classes containing more than that number.	.	-
—The electric light is now in full blast. On several nights during the week, when the weather was propitious, the grounds were beautifully illuminated, and the boys entered with zest into their various sports as though it were mid-day.
—Rev. A. B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, when attending the Diocesan Retreat, left his testament at Notre Dame. Not his last will and testament, however, we rejoice to say; from all indications, it will IfD.v?) be many years yet before he need think of that.	’
—A new overcoat was left in the Juniors’ trunk-room before last vacation, and remains there uncalled for. It would seem the owner has not returned to the College. If this meet his eye, he can have his overcoat by sending word to the Students’ Office.	.	'
—A meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held last Sunday evening. Addresses were delivered by Rev. Father Braemer,^rector of the Cathedral at Fort Wayne, and Rev. Father Dinnen; of Crawfordsville; both of the reverend gentlemen were listened to with deep attention. Papers were read by Messrs. G. E. Clarke, E. A. Otis, and M. E. Donahue.	"
—The Curator of the Museum gratefully acknowledges the receipt of a fine collection of minerals from Tingley S. Wood, Superintendent of the Silver Cord Mine, Leadville, Col. Among the minerals in the collection is a large and rare crystallized specimen of embolite, or chlorobromide of silver. Mr. Wood is not only a practical miner but an accomplished scientist, and has one of the finest mineral cabinets in the West.
—The following were the crews for the boatrace oh the 13th, F. E. Kuhn-and F. Gallagher Captains:	.
.	EVANGELINE.	MINNEHAHA.
E.	Otis, i; T. Flynn, 2; M. T. Burns, 3; F.	Garrett, 4; F. E. Kuhn, 5; W. Arnold, 6; R. Anderson, Cockswain.	C. Tinley, 1;	. F. Gallagher, 2; J. B. O’Reilly, 3;	. J. Kelly, 4;	. W. Bolton, 5; T. Marlett, 6;	- J. McIntyre, Cockswain.
92
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—At the Thirty-Ninth Annual Festival of St. Edward, at Notre Dame, Indiana, Patronal Feast of Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C., SuperiorGeneral of the Congregation of the Hol}7 Cross, and Founder of Notre Dame University, on Thursday, October 12, 1882, at 4 p. m., the following programme was carried out:
PART FIRST.
Music—“13th Regt Quickstep,” (Cogswell) N. D. U. C. B.
Latin Address...........................F. A. Quinn
Greek Address.........................W. H. Arnold
German Address........................J. S. Courtney
Music......;......................N. D. U. Quartette
Minim Address.......................... - J. J. McGrath
French Address............................L. Gibert
Song and Chorus.......................Hunters’ Bowl
D. Saviers, F. Quinn, J. O’Neill, W. Bailey, J. Larkin, Jno. McIntyre, M. T. Burns, F. Kuhnj. Marlett, C. A. Tinley, Prof. F. B. Devoto.
Address from Junior Deparrtment......A.	A. Browne
Address from Senior Department............A. J. Zahm
Music—“Overture Enchantment” (Hermann) Orchestra PART SECOND.
THE UPSTART.
(A Comedy in Three Acts, Translatedfrom the French by a Member of the Faculty, and arranged for the Euglossians^
Mr. Jordan (the Upstart)....................AV.	S. Cleary
Old Mr. Jordan (his father).....••• •..........E. A. Otis
Covielle..................................W.	J. McCarthy
Cleon.......................................-M.	T. Burns
Doranto (a Count).......................T. AAr. Coakley
Dorimenes (Marquis)...........................D.	Saviers
Signore Profundo (Professor of Philosophy).J. Solon Signore Bassillio (Music Professor).............   J.	Grever
Fiorello (his pupil)............■.............D.	Saviers
Figaro (Instruutor in Calisthenics).....AAr. AAr. Bailey
Jeronimo (Fencing Master).....................H.	Morse
Nicholas (a privileged Servant of Mr. Jordan) F. A. Quinn Signor Crispino (a Merchant Tailor)...........J.	Larkin
Ali Bey (a Muphti).....................AV.	H. Johnston
Leone (1st Asst Tradesman)..............G.	L.’Castanedo
Giacomo (Assistant)....,......................A.	Coghlin
~	...J. Cole
.. AV. Bolton . .J. Browne T. F. Flynn
Beppo “ Kamyl (Turk) Francesco “ Selim “ Bachaisard “ Abdel Kish ) Alraschid j Rigoletto A Philippo > Prestolo ) Alvind A Fenail I />T.
(Musicians)
E. Yrisarri
C. Kolars
J. Marlett ’ F. Wheatley J. Guthrie
Rigolo f Lorenzo J Baptista (Footman).
W. Eaton O. Spencer D. Claffey E. Munice _	.. E. Bailey
Carlo “	........................AV. Ayers
Pompey (Cullud Pusson)....................H.	Metz
Cuffey “	“	. .,................E.	AVile
Closing Remarks...................Very	Rev. E. Sorin
Music—“Emmett’s Lullaby” (Bowman) N. D. U. C. B.
. Roll of Honor.
| The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. 'Ashford, Anderson, E. Bailey, Brady, Browne, W. Bailey, Bolton, Blackman, Cavanaugh, Cleary, G. Clarke, Conway, Campbell, Clements, Craig, Carroll, J. Donohue, M. Donohue, Delgado, Jas. Delaney, Jno. Delaney, Deinhart, Eisenhauer, N. Ewing, Eaton, Fogerty, Fitzgerrell, Fitzgerald, Fan-ell, Freese, Gall, Gray, Guthrie,
Golonski, Grange, J. Gallagher, Godfroy, Gooley, Hofstetter, Hausberg, Jones, Johnston, Kane, Keller, Kolars, Kimmell, Koehler, Lease, H. McCarthy, McEniry, Monoghan, McErlain, AV. McCarthy, J. McNamara. T. McNamara, Molloy, Mullen, -McIntyre, C. Murdock, Morse, ’ Magoffin, Metz, Noonan, O’Dea, O’Connor, O’Neill, Otis, O’Reilly, O’Brien, Pour, Parrott, Peery, Piefer, Peaslee, Rogers, Ruger, Rhodius, Reid, Ryan, Sullivan, Sturla, Solon, Stover, Smith, Steele, Seitz, Stull, Spencer, Tinley, Veale, AA’endell, AAralsh, Wheatlev, A\rhalen, Whitman, Yrisarri.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Armijo, Auston, Ackhoff,* Browne, Berthelet, Bacon, Bush, Curtis, Coghlin, Caveroc, Chirhart, Cain, Droste, Dolan, Dickerson, Dorenburg, Dillon, De Haven, Dunn, Collier, M. Foote, H. Foote, Ferguson, Fishel, Flynn, Goldsmith, Grathaus,* Gerlach, Hibbeler, Hess, Halligan, Hellebush, Hannavin, Holbrook, Hagen, Hegen-berth, Jeannot, Kahman, Kerndt, Kengel, Kelly, Livingston, Lund, McCawley, Mug, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, Mulkern, Metz, McGordon, McDonnell, Murphy, Morris, McCartney, D. O’Connor, O’Donnell, Ohnick, Peery, Pick, C. Porter, Robb, Roper, Rothschild, Ryon, Ryan, Reach, Schott, Schillo, Smith, Schaeffer, Sanford, Seegers, Talbott, Taggart, Taylor, Ariolette, Warren, Walsh, AVor-cester, AVaggoner, AVilkenson, Zaehnle, Zeigler, J. V. O’Donnell.
* Omitted last weeek.
.	MINIM DEPAR TMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Adams, Beall, Bunker, Burlingame, Bannantine, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Chaves, Chirhart, Cummings, Colwell, Cain, Coad, Devereux, Dirksmeyer, G. Dunford, F. Dunford, IE Dyer, J. Dyer, W. Devine, A, Devine, Harris, Hynes, Hopkins, Huestis, Johnson, Kellner, Keeffe, Kelly, Kraus, Luther, Landenwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Lare, J. J. McGrath, Moss, McNaughton, Morrison, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, Masi, McGordon, Metz, McPhee, McGuire, Nester, F. Otis, A. Otis, T. Otis, Pick,- Papin, AV. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Rebori, Roberts, Rea, Roper, Studebaker, Stange, Spencer, Smith, Schmitz, Sommer, F. Stamm, G. Stamm, Thomas, Unger, AVarner, E. AYalsh, A\r. AA’alsh, Whitney, Welch, Windsor, Wright, L. Young, C. Young, Quinlin.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. A. Peery, W. AVhalen, Mullen, J. Rogers, Celia, Pour,Parrott, Garnett, Brady, Armijo, Keller, J. S. Courtney, Ackhoff, AVorcester, Jeannot, Mug, AValsh, Kengel, Dillon, Hess, Taylor, Dolan, Zeigler, Smith, M. Foote,
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—Messrs. Neeson, Brady, T. McNamara, Murphy, Fogarty, Celia, Drover, Ludwig, Dean; Grammar—Messrs. White, Violette, Muhlke, AVhalen, Eisenhauer, T. McNamara, AVarren, E. Bailey, Celia, Golonski, Peery, M. Foote, Mug; Geography— Messrs. Celia, Stull, Drover, Zeigler, Peters, H. Foote, AVilkenson; United States History—Messrs. Celia, Drover, H. M. Foote, AVilkenson, Zeigler; Arithmetic—Messrs. Celia, Bacon, Bowers; Book-keeping—Messrs. Kavanaugh, Morse, Brice, Dillon, Grange, Katz; Penmanship—Messrs. Smeeth, J. S. Courtney,1 M. Keegan, Henry, Spencer, Magoffin, Clements, Fishel. From last’ week: Algebra— Messrs. Marlett, Murdock, Ruger, Brady; Latin—Mr. J, Browne.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
93
Saint JFlary's Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The Ave Maria at High Mass on Sunday, the Feast of the Maternity of the Blessed Virgin, was charmingly rendered.
—The members of the Graduating- Class are manifesting a lively and intelligent emulation in preparing their charts for Lithological Geology.
—The rare treat of listening to a High Mass sung in the clear, strong, musical tenor voice of Father L’Etourneau, was enjoyed on Sunday. The same zealous and indefatigable friend of St. Mary’s preached an eloquent sermon on the mystery of the day.
—Rev. Father Roach and Rev. Father Rade macher, of Lafayette, Rev. Father Meisner, of Peru, and Rev. Father Dinnen, of Crawfordsville; W.B. Fowler, Esq., Earl Park, Ind.; Mr. Hindes, Lewistown, Ill.; Mrs. J. S. Birdsell, South Bend; Mrs. Devereux and Miss Devereux, Denver, Col.; and Miss Mary Sullivan (Class ’81), of Plymouth, Ind., visited St. Mary’s last week.
—On Monday, at five o’clock p. m., the interesting .ceremony of reception of members into the Society of the Holy Angels took place, Rev. Father Shortis, C.S. C., presiding. Agnes and Jessie English, and Mary and Martha Otis were received to full membership; and Mary Coyne, Annie Duffield, Belle' Snowhook, Margaret Sullivan, Ellen Donnelly, and Ellen Dignan were received as aspirants.
In Memoriam.
AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED TO THE PARENTS AND SISTERS, AND THE NUMEROUS FRIENDS OF Miss Catharine Hackett.
i.
No step was there lighter,
No smile was there brighter,
No heart was more true,
Than those of the treasure, Whose worth beyond measure Not one of us knew.
ii.
Not one of us knew her;
For now as we view her, And think of her worth; We find that her Maker To His blest home would take her, As too good for earth.
hi.
Her voice, clear and thrilling, The holy dome filling, Rose calmly on high;
• - ‘ While the angels above her - In joy learned to love her, . . As the chant floated by.
IV.
Without break or falter, It breath’d round the altar
With music sublime;
Then the angel hosts drew her To life that was truer
Than gross life of time, v.
But now she is sleeping Where mourners are weeping
The soul that is fled;
And the brow wears a grandeur To poor earth a stranger:
Dear Katie is dead.
VI.
Her clear voice no longer Is heard; but still stronger ' Our hearts burn for heaven: They rise with deep yearning, To dear Katie turning, •
Where hopes are not riven.
VII.
Oh, weep not, nor sorrow, But think on the morrow
When loved one’s shall meet; Their mourning requited, Fond hearts united
At our Blessed Lord’s feet.
[Essay read at the Commencement Exercises of Morris, IU., under the care of the Sisters of Holy Cross?) .
Entertaining- Angels Unawares.
As the most subtle of the physical forces are the most powerful—as, for example, heat, light, and electricity—so are those mental, moral, and spiritual influences most momentous in their results, which are most frequently unrecognized. A long, silent memory suddenly awakened; a chance paragraph arresting the eye at the opportune moment; a whisper of encouragement; a glance of reproach or of approval, a smile, a tear, a sneer even, a tone, a voice, an inspiration unknown to any but to God and the soul, each and any one of these may change the course of life’s career, just as the will of the pilot at the helm changes the path of the huge ocean steamer.
So delicate, so ready to respond to the power of mind over mind, is the human heart, even at maturity, that we find every day entire communities swayed, calmed, or thrown into commotion, by trifling causes; some rumor,- perhaps without a foundation; some report, it may be devoid of reason, some event insignificant in itself. If this declaration be true of the mind, after the experience of a lifetime, what must be the susceptibility of youth, of childhood, of infancy?
“The child that hides within its breast the germ of heaven, May take a tarnish from the breath of love
And bear the blight forever.”
To one devoid of faith -this power of apparent trifles brings, when it is recognized, a fear like
94
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
that produced by snares which we know are concealed along our pathways, but which we are unable to detect or avert; but to one who has received that unmerited gift, which is the “ sight of angels,” these subtle influences but add fresh o »	_
motives for trust. Thev give a greater confidence in Him to whom there are no trifles, to whom “a day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as but one day.” They teach us to rely upon Him who guides with minute and tender precision, the immense systems of planetary order, just as quietly just as faithfully, but no more securely than He watches the fall of the sparrow.
But however startling, however momentous the knowledge that the influences of which we speak are leal, we cannot deny that thej' are exerted by each and every one of us. From morn till dewy eve, from hour to hour, we are either aiding the benificent angels of light, or giving countenance to the malicious emissaries of darkness.
Cain said, when called upon to answer for the life of his brother, whose sacrifice was acceptable to God, “Am I my brother’s keeper?” The insolent evasion did not alter the truth, nor did it silence the voice of that brother’s blood calling from the ground for expiation.
Are we careless of the example we set? then in our own case it is the same. We are responsible for our influence, and no one can excuse us. That we blind our eyes does not palliate our neglect. We must sway those about us, whether we will or not. This is in the order of Providence. To edify is one of the strongest injunctions of the holy Church of God.
The grandeur of ecclesiastical supremacy arises from the truth that everyday-life comes with its trifles under the pale of its jurisdiction. Present opportunities for doing good are the “ Angels unawares” which throng our path in life. They glitter and sparkle along our way, just as the pearly rain-drops dimple the stream in the summer shower. If lovingly embraced, they form the sum total of our earthly happiness; if neglected, they plant regrets in our course, which time with its sorrows, or eternity with its justice, will never fully eradicate. .
Let us live that no shadow be cast on the lives of others by thoughts, words, or actions of ours—; then when the last hour shall come the “ Angels unawares” of life will be made visible, and, as our reward, they will receive us to their everlasting companionship.	M. K.
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS^ NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Clarke, Dillon, Feehan, M. Campbell, C. Campbell, Donnelly, Johnson, Laffer, M. A. Ryan, • Sullivan,-Shickey, Walsh, Todd, Barlow, Beal, Bathrick, Call, Dunn, Duffield, Gove, M. Heneberry, N.
Keenan, Knott, Mohl, Owens, O’Connor, Richardson, B. Semmes, E. Slattery, Ramsey, Van Patten, Crawford, Rulison, Lancaster, Sawyer, Adderly, Munger, Wallace, Heckard, Stacker!, Danforth, Daily, Dickson, Coakley, Williams, Clifford, Pick, Madole, Hunt, Cox, O’Connell, Harrigan, Leydon, Black, Anderson, M. Hawkins, M. H. Ryan, King, Fenlon, McCoy, Murphy, Adams, Chirhart, Kolb, Durphy, T. Slattery, Hunter, Rettig, Harris, McCauley, G. Legnard, Donahue, Hughes, Dolan, Donners-berger, Hagan, McCarten, Newton, Pampell, Commerford, A. Gavin, L. Hawkins, Eldridge, Shull, Drover, Maginn, Mooney, McGuire, Gallagher, Kirkham, ad Tablet— Misses Wiley, Wright, Fendrich, L. English, Pease, B. English, Castanedo, Foster, Myers, Hintz.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Dignan, Dillon, Morgan, Coogan, Nevius, Howlett, Donnelly, Richmond, Gale, Ewing, M. Schmidt, Shephard, Johnston, Hibben, Moshier, Van Horn, B. Haney, Halsey, Best, Chaves, Mary Otis, Sullivan, T. Haney, B. Snowhook, Spencer, ad Tablet—Misses Spangler, M. Ducey, Morrison, C. Ducey, Considine, Grist, Fisk, Hetz, McGrath, English, Coyne.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Sawyer, J. English, McGrath, Martha Otis, Prescott, McKennon, Lindsey, Westfall, Paul. '
Class Honors.
[The following list includes the names of pupils who have received 90 and over as an average in their studies during the past week.]
Graduating Class—Misses A. Dillon, Wiley, Clarke, Feehan, Fox.
ist Senior Class—Misses Johnson, Todd, M. A. Ryan, C. Campbell, Fendrich, C. Donnelly.
2D Sr. Class—Misses J. Reilly, Keenan, Barlow', Gove, Dunn, Semmes, Call, Slattery, Duffield, Mohl, V. Reilly, Pease, Richardson, O’Connor.
3D Sr. Class—Misses Heckard, Daily, McCoy, Clifford, Hunt, Dickson, Pick, Madole, Taylor, Fenlon, Stackerl, Williams, Unger, Cox, M. Hawkins, Dignan.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses H. McCauley, M. Chirhart, Pampell, B. English, G. Legnard, Foster, M. Dillon, C. Ducey, Coogan.
2D Prep. Class—Misses Moshier, Hibben, Van Horn, Schmidt, Rodgers, Richmond, Haney, Fehr, McGrath, Fisk, Mooney.	..
Junior Prep.—Misses M. Coyne, Campau, Sullivan, ' Chaves, Best, Mary Otis, Sawyer.
ist Junior Class—Misses Snowhook, Martha Otis, Barry, Lindsey.
. FRENCH.
ist Class—Miss M. Feehan, C. Lancaster.
2D Div.—Misses J. Reilly, A. Castanedo, M. Campbell.
2D Class—Misses Barlow, Clarke, Leydon, Semmes, Fox, Morgan.
3d Class—Misses Call, Wallace, M. A. Ryan, K. Donnelly, Beal, Taylor, L. English, Shickey, Walsh.
4.TH Class—Misses Richmond, Otero, Chaves, Brown, Barry.	-
5th Class—Misses Bathrick, Dunn, Coakley, C. Slattery, H. Hicks, Mohl. ' ‘	-	■
2D Div.—Misses Campau, Robinson, Paul.
.	•	GERMAN.
ist Class—Misses A. Dillon, E. Mohl.
2D Class—Misses H. Van Patten, Todd, Keenan, Unger, Pick, M. Chirhart, Fehr, Grist. -
3D Class—Misses L. Wallace, C. Ducey, M. Ducey, Drover, Coogan.
4TH Class—Misses Johnson, Dailey, Black, Richardson, Bathrick, C. Sawyer, Heckard, Dickson, King.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
95
Michigan Central Bail way
Time Table-Nov. 1«, 1879.
	•Mail	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 ** 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 13 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515. p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 10 pm 1130 “ 12 48 a m 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	•Mail	•Day Express.	•Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo --“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago		7 00 a. m 10 20 “• 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55 p.m 4 50 a. m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	9 50 p m. 12 45 a.m. 2 43 “ 415 “ 5 30 “ 8 00 “	810 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 330 “ 4 55 “ 7 30 “
Niles and Soixtlx Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 7O p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	6 15 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715“
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m.
“ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted.
O. W. Ruggles,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen’l Manager, Detroit. Midi.
-	G L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Chicago and Alton R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Gars, Day Cars, Smoking Cara, Palace Reclining Chair Cara and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cara, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seats in the finest declining Chair Palace Cars m -	the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cara of any Class between CHICAGO and KAN SAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tire Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the Worth and, South, and, to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
Jambs Charlton,	J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Manager.
90 Dearborn st, near cor. of Adams, Chicago.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
By MAURICE F. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Price, postpaid, ....	$1.00
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON, Philadelphia, Pa.
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome of the New University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal Statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars.
Price, -	-	- gilt, $1.25; plain, $1.00.
Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 7, 1881, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Mun Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.30 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.05 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m ; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.27 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m ; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12.38 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10p.m.; Buffalo, 4 am.
6.35 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.48 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
7.40 a.m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, 8.44 a.m. Chesterton, 9.40 a.m.; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.17 p.m, Special Mich igan Express. Arrives at Laporte
2.15 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m ; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4.26 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup’L, Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l Manager, Cleveland.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC:
University of Notre Dame.
St. Joseph’s Co., Ind.
'This UNIVERSITY was founded in 1S42, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana, in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the great Western and Michigan Central ; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students. *
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS, MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE,
LAW, MEDICINE, MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.	-
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers-and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President.
THE MINIM DEPARTMENT.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	.	.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev T E WALSH, C S C.,
.	Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
St. Mary’s Academy.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC, AND SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE. (Notre Dame P. O., Indiana,) Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough In the Preparatory, Academic. and Classical grades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition.—A large Musical Library in French, German, English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English. French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design. Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
Wabash, St. Lonis & Pacific Rwy.
The Popular Passenger Route of America !
Smooth Track, Steel Rails, and Elegant Equipment serve to make a
TRIP OVER THE WABASH
Safe, Raped, and Pleasant !!!
*+* Special Tickets Sold to Students attending Notre Dame University.
Tourist Tickets to all Summer Resorts throughout the Country, at Greatly Reduced Rates, for Sale by all Agents of the Great Wabash Route.
J®* Special inducements offered to Colonist, LandSeeking, and Emigrant Parties.

IF YOU ARE CONTEMPLATING
A JOURNEY IN ANY DIRECTION you should apply either in person or by letter to the nearest Agent of
The Great Wabash Route
and obtain full information, Tickets, etc.
Rates always as Low as other Lines, and facilities for ease and comfort far superior.
F. A. Palmer, Pass, and Ticket Agent, Indianapolis,
40 W. Washington St.	-
J no. C. Gault, 2d Vice-Prest., St Louis, Mo.