Vol. XXXII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 12, 1898.	No. 10.
In Memoriam*
A Reverie.
The Catholic Element in Public Life.*
FRANCIS X. MCCOLLUM.
FRANK EARLE HERING, LITT. B., ’98.
Cy PED with the spirit of the night, Borne on the music of the coming day.
As the bleak November day crept on The maples whispered, “He is gone”;
And the reed-grass hangs low i’the lake
To bid the turquoise waves awake
And roll,—and roll their plastic might—
Unceasingly upon the shore,
And whisper, “ never, nevermore.”
Music is the breath of God;
The dawn-sky hears the vibrant notes
And flushes deep with joy; the fluted throats
Of larks swell with its might;
The scarlet sumach gladdens on the sight And tints- the yellow on the golden rod.
There is a sadness creeping through the soul
That feels the breath of God, and can not tell
Its joy; ’tis like a bell
That promises sweet sounds and hides within its throat
A flaw that jangles every note.
. He felt, and he could tell;
And on us yet there is the rhythm’s spell
Of what he saw; he heard the music of the golden-rod,
And played the cadence in a fitting.key;
He touched the cloud-flush in a-, reverie, And knew that music is thev breath of God.
* Prof. N.-A. Preston, died Nov. 9, 1898.
INCE the days of the Ref-ormation society has been J	constantly separating along
two principal lines. Two W ^distinct warring elements have been observed in the social world which have actuated and shaped the progress of the universe; the one Catholic, the other Protestant. For nearly four centuries these divisions of the civilized world have been striving for the mastery. Bitter enmity and prolonged strife between them are manifest on nearly every page of history. But today the bright sun of peace and unison is high on its triumphant march, the weary enemies lay aside their aged weapons and proceed hand in hand to victory.
In view of this fact, why is it that the Catholic element in public life is still so weak. It can not be that there is difference of ability; for it is a matter of common knowledge that • there is no distinguishable difference between the intelligence of the Protestant and the Catholic. Men of profound knowledge, great statesmen, brilliant orators, famous writers have been known and honored in both these . creeds, and to testify to this they have left their imperishable monuments as an undeniable proof.
But while there are, and have been, Catholic . men in every position in life, while these men have distinguished themselves in all. the refined professions; .while their influence has been the most inspiring and elevating, that ■ wish could, claim,• yet it ' is a lamentable, regretful truth that they , are not occupying
* Oration delivered at the annual Oratorical Contest, June 1, 1898.	-	•
i78	NOTRE DAME
the position of dignity which their intelligence demands.
No one will say that we are justly represented in public life. All the positions which demand honor and respect, all the cultured professions, all the elevated occupations in the land show a deplorable deficiency of Catholics. Can this direful condition be accounted for in any satisfactory manner? A few reasons may be advanced; but, Catholics, we are to blame for this deficiency, upon our shoulders rests this egregious fault, and we must answer for it. The ban of social ostracism is no longer a barrier to the Catholic. The old sores existing between Protestantism and Catholicism are fast healing, and we are invited, we are begged, by the voices of the dissatisfied multitude to come to the front. We have a field of labor spreading out before us which borders only on infinity, a deed of charity to perform which will live in history until the consummation of time. And shall we yet be dormant? Ought we not awake to a high sense of our duty? Should we not discard the false mantle that has been shrouding us and appear before the world in our proper position? Our conscience demands it, and our God sanctions it.
Not only have you this opportunity to enter public life, not only have you this right, but you are needed there, for the glorious preservation of the flower of nations. Society today is disunited, the distant rumblings of rebellion are already audible on the breeze, and our Waterloo is not a century distant unless the . tide of affairs is somewhat reversed. Class is arrayed against class, party against party, until the peaceful and industrious people that we were are gradually deteriorating into an aggregation of Shylocks and Catilines.
Why are Catholics the best qualified, to. set aright these dangerous perils? Because they “are pillars of strength which can not be subverted; because they have unity and fixity for their weapons; those two principles that have characterized and conditioned the greatest system of government which the world has ever known—the Catholic Church. They have guided it through the smoke and din of conflict for nearly two thousand years to resplendent victory. And today, like a being of superhuman power, it marches onward, exploring all, understanding all, leading all captive behind its triumphant chariot of progress. Unity and fixity are to the Catholic what armor is to the r knight, and, like the latter, he would carry them - into the storms and battles of life well pre- .
SCHOLASTIC
pared to subvert the greatest and fiercest difficulties. Hence we see the necessity of the Catholic element in public life.
Division is always a fore-runner of- ruin and destruction; consequently, we are nearing the verge of a mighty precipice. Shall we fall into the black pit of endless night? Answer this question, young Catholic men. On you depends in a superlative degree the destiny of the United States. You are needed at the helm to set a price upon honor; you are needed there to place your virtuous power against the on-sweeping pest of corrupted morals; you are needed there, that when father Time grows weary of his work of demolition, and sits down and looks out upon the wrecks and ruins of nations and governments, he may see the great temple of American liberty looming forth more prominently than do the pyramids from the sands of the desert.
Then grasp the sword extended to you, and, with unceasing, untiring energy, drive back the enemies unconsciously pushing us to destruction. It is your duty, as Catholics, to show an absorbing interest in the affairs of state and assert your influence in such a time of impend-ng peril. Let us don the armor of honor, and, with the Crucified as our watchword, enter the the noble conflict with a firm determination to leave it with victory.
Catholics should stand second to none. Their mighty influence should be felt in every city and town and village of this great land. The United States Senate and Congress chambers should ever reverberate with the voices of Catholic statesmen. From Catholic pens literature should be honey laden with the sweets of diction, and every art should find its master in the Catholic.
Why not be a credit to Church and country? Why not. leave a biography on the pages of history? You can do it. There is no impediment today that bars the Catholic any more than the Protestant. The ways to success, the paths to glory, are all open, and you have but to enter and say.with a decisiveness of character,! will conquer, and you shall. The Catholic Church would have her sons ascend to the very loftiest summits. She would have them become so famous that their names might be enscrolled among the stars of heaven; all she asks and reasonably demands is that they be meh; that, when a person is looked up to by his fellows, when the eyes of a nation are. centred upon him, by his honesty, manliness, and integrity, he will influence from centre
NOTRE DA ME SCHOLASTIC.
V9
to circumference the whole circle in which he moves.
Then acquire education. This is the initiating step. Education is the ornament of man; it is indeed his true prerogative, his sceptre and his crown. But remember if we embark on this course we shall need stout hearts conjoined with invincible minds. We must bid adieu to sloth, to vice, to flattery and ease, and “live laborious days.” Know that we may add virtue to virtue, strength to strength, knowledge to knowledge, and yet fail and soon be lost and forgotten in that mighty and soul-testing struggle, in which few come off conquerors and win an enduring and imperishable name. Assiduous and persevering labor must correct all defects, must transform weakness to power, and make a productive, fruitful garden of that soil which is by nature encumbered with stones and thistles. All home triumph and initiatory efforts are chaff unless zealously perpetuated. That which is really great, commanding and lasting, must be acquired by stubborn energy, by patient industry, by unwearied application and by indefatigable zeal.
Let every young Catholic man aspire to become a power. Let him have an elevated ideal around which the actions of his life shall be centred. Let him labor perseveringly before the public, not for praise, not for wealth, not for distinction, but to fulfil the will of his , Maker. Live to leave after you a lingering incense of virtue which, when inhaled by your followers, shall instil itself into their every vein. Live to influence character. Live to reap the reward of life. Live that it'may be said of you
“His words are bonds, his oaths are oracles, His love sincere, his thoughts immaculate, . His tears pure messengers sent from his heart, His heart as far from fraud as heaven from earth.”
Our Chances*
PAUL JEROME RAGAN.
. It is a common thing , for men, especially young men, to look back a decade or two and prosaically comment on the good times gone by. One would suppose that our forefathers .were born at the most fortunate aeon * of our world’s existence. Legends are told of how common laborers rose to pre-eminence, and of how success awaited anyone, no matter in what
* Oration delivered in Washington Hall;
walk of life he started. Tradition has woven a golden veil about the lives of each generation . last preceding. Demosthenes eulogized the fortunes that made heroes of the early Greeks; the Romans made demi-gods of the men that lived when Romulus settled on the Capitol hill, and Anchises was thrice more blessed than jfEneas. This same spirit has crept into our own times, and today we hear talk about the good chances- men had to start in life _ after the rebellion.	.
Yet, it seems to me, that this is a narrow view. It is taking away from our own age the lustre that belongs to it. We have opportunities just as good as those of any other generation. The appearance of good chances in the past is like the mirage in the desert. When we look for the real chance it is not there. No man that believes in the future will be deluded by it, but will turn to the time that lies ahead of him, and in this see the making of brilliant men. There never was such a future as we are facing, and there never were so great opportunities for good men. When I speak of men here I do not mean persons that are men in name only, but real men, men of courage, of principle and firm character, of strong brain and will-power, educated men, and men that can be leaders. The world needs rulers and legislators just as much, as it ever did; but the world that is to be ruled now is not the one that Alexander conquered, nor the one that bowed before the Roman sceptre. Our legislators must be men . of the finest mould, for they have a wonderful work to accomplish. Might ruled in pre-historic times, but it does not rule today.
Our late struggle with Spain should show the rising jurist unlimited possibilities. People are tired of carnage. They realize that they that take the sword perish by it, and they will hail the time, distant though it may be, when the war of blood will be a thing of the past. Let reason and intellect supplant powder and ammunition. The day must come when law and arbitration will settle international difficulties. To bring about this happy state < of affairs is the work of future lawyers, future , jurists and future statesmen. When it comes ’ to preserving the peace there should be no Spain and America; no England and Russia and Germany fighting over China; no Turk " trampling on Greece and Armenia. The house that is divided against itself will fall, and so \ will the world. If nations are divided among themselves they are like individuals. In sep-' ' r aration there is discord arid weakness; in unity
t8o	NOTRE DAME' SCHOLASTIC.
there is all strength and harmony. Nations can not advance unless they go up hand in hand and altogether; no quarrelling, fighting countries dragging each other down, but a solid, united world, where the tri - colors of France, the red white and black of Germany, the Stars and Stripes of America, and the ensigns of all countries float from a single standard, that shadows a peaceful and God-blessed universe.	.
What is needed most in social and political life is a band of conscientious leaders. The confidence of the people has been shaken in them that now pose for our representatives. So many men pretending to have the interest of the community at heart have proved false, that we are growing tired of them. Doctrines as anarchical as those of Prudhon, Rousseau and Voltaire have been preached to an unsuspecting public so long that the wiser ones are now looking for something more substantial. Our politicians must soon realize the words of Lincoln that, “You can fool all the people some of the time, you can fool some of the people all the time, but you can not fool all the people all the time.” A cry for better government has gone up from the multitude, and it can not be unheeded.
Business complications have grown so intricate that the commercial world offers a serious and difficult problem. Years ago each man conducted his own little enterprise without infringing on the rights of his neighbor. Now moneyed corporations are organizing all over the world, causing a complete revolution in business and labor circles. Profits are going to the few. The rich grow richer, the poor poorer. Monoplies,are trampling on the rights of individuals; trusts are clashing .with the single honest shop-keeper, and the grasping capitalist pulls the last plank from the sinking laborer’s hold. Who will say that there is no chance for intelligent, fair-minded men to work here? Who can look at this selfish, , crunching despotism on one side, and innocent suffering on the other, and feel that conditions can not be bettered? If ever there was opportunity, if ever there was need of good men, it is right here.
Bacon has said “A little philosophy inclines . men’s minds to atheism, but depth in philosophy brings them back to religion.” To tray; esty this. we. might say “A little learning .	inclines. men’s minds to foolishness, but depth
.of learning brings them back to good common t \sense.”. The high-school graduate goes out.to
teach the world, while the sage retires to his study to learn. A marked tendency of the age is to tear down principles as old as the eternal hills, and set up in their place doctrines born of prejudiced minds. This is the way of our vain world; of persons we have too many, of men too few. Much is to be done here. The people are only starting toward knowledge since inventions, such as the printing press, have made it possible to spread education. Give a man money, give him comfort, and, as Shaks-pere said, you give him trash that can be stolen from him; give a man learning, give him enlightenment, and turn him aside from the false to the true, and you have given him something above valuation. You have given him something that he can not lose; for truth, as Father Robert puts it, will live when the stars above are faded, and the'sun and moon grown dim with age.
One thing I will admit. There is, perhaps, not so much chance to make money now as there was when the country was new. Yet money is only one of many elements in success. I would not be one of those that decry money-making so long as it is honorable; but that we should make riches the sole aim of life, and call the acquiring.of wealth successes putting man’s faculties on a plane too low. No student of Notre Dame should ever content himself with working at such a task, for we have been taught differentlv. Go over to the little .cemetery on the hill.and there learn a lesson of ideal success. In one end of this quiet spot are three graves; no marble columns, no costly monuments are reared above them, but instead, three iron crosses. No pageant followed the coffins that were laid there, for in them were men that worked far from the madding crowd. Yet that these men were success-'* ful, brave and great, no one in this audience can gainsay. In them was the origin, life and history of our University, and to deny their success is to deny Notre Dame.
To sum up, my remarks amount to this. Although we have made rapid advancement in statesmanship, we have far to go until we reach the a.cme of all legislature—arbitration. Our political halls.must be purified of the.cor-ruption that exists, in them. Religious preju-.dices, that are fast waning, must be reduced until they are as, harmless as th.e bigots that possess them. Free schools have 'supplanted the old system of studying by .candle-light in dingy offices. The time has come when business and social complications have placed every man to
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	181
succeed on his own merits, and on.these alone. Such are the conditions that we are facing.
What more chances than are presented under these circumstances do we wish, especially we Americans? With a country that affords unlimited resources and a future that holds unbounded possibilities and untold opportunities, all that is necessary for our success is that we be men of sound metal. Standing, as we do, midway between the past and the future, in us are realized the hopes of our fathers, and to us will turn the dreams of generations yet to come. Now, then, is the time for us to build. Raise up democracy, the true democracy, and establish a republic that will last. Gather together the legacies that have been left to us,-and hand them to following generations, enhanced with three-fold value. ' Lift up the eternal principles of right and justice that have been so often trampled in the mire. Stretch a helping hand to the poor man; educate him, and let him talk through the pages of- history and philosophy with his brethren of centuries ago. Help our academies to further improvements in literature, in politics and in science. Grasp the chances that are before us, and let the possibilities that are , ahead of us be turned to reality. Make the twentieth century exceed all those of the past, and establish a precedent for others yet to come. Be the leading, men in an age of advancement, the learned men in an age of ' culture, the greatest men of the greatest century, the bravest Greek in a world of Greeks, and then you have success, — the true and genuine success, one that is not measured by money, one that will not perish with the hearts, nor minds, nor history of men, but will last . when that pendulum that marks the passage of time, shall have stilled on the hither side of eternity’s gate.
Young men of this University, in two, three or, at best, six years, we of the present student body will take our places in the busy world. Let no one of us join the cry of men that say that we have no opportunity. The kind of opportunity that they speak of never made anything but a thief. It is the pessimist's watchword, the* lazy man’s cry. Ambitious persons, find all too ,much to do. Remember : what Allison said of Napoleon: that “ he was not a great man because he was a great general, but he was a great general because he was a great man.” So it is with us. We will never be , meh because we are-successful; but we will ’ be successful if we are men.
A Slip of the Hand.
JOHN F. FENNESSEY, ’99.
The band had played “The Girl I Left. Behind Me” for the last time. The last button had been torn from the jackets of the boys, the last promise had been made; the last kiss exchanged. The red-faced adjutant had ceased running wildly about with orders, and was removing his wilted collar with one hand while his wife clasped the other. The soldiers straggled reluctantly into ranks, arid were standing at rest when the command of the captains came sharply: “Company, attention!” A few minor orders were given, and then the command, “ Forward—march!”
With a rustle of leggings and a clanging of rifles, the 39th swung down the gang-plank of the Meenah. A moment’s hush came over the crowd until the boys filed out and gathered along the rail. There were a few parting shouts, the bell rang, and the Meenah backed slowly away from the pier. The crowd cheered wildly and the women waved their hands as their pet regiment sailed for Cuba. When the transport passed the light, an incoming liner saluted, and . the boys gazed back along the wake of the steamer to their fast-fading homes.
The sun sank low in the western sky, and crimsoned the ocean with its last, faint rays. The crimson turned gray, a few stars twinkled' in the sky, and night on the ocean had begun. A faint murmur of voices from' the vessel frightened a few dolphins frolicking in the star-light.
Joe Wharton had enlisted in this particular regiment when the excitement was highest. He was fortunate, or unfortunate, enough to be sent to the front before delay could cool his spirit. Joe was like most of the men that have lived since Adam; in one respect he was like Adam,—he was interested in a woman. Before he joined his regiment he had an interview with Louise. The result was perfectly satisfactory—to him. She was at the wharf ; when the boys left and at the last moment, as he1 stooped to whisper to her, she took his face' between her hands and kissed him. No one had seen it; they were only two out of a thou- ■ sand enacting the same scene from the drama ' of life. Still he thought that it was the most -remarkable act-ever performed. Despite the magnitude of this thought he lit his pipe?.. . Before he turned in, however, he looked at -:

182	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
- »
her picture. Life just then seemed rosy. It always is bright if we look in the right direction; the sky behind us may be overcast with clouds of gray; but when these move life becomes dark if we do not also turn.
The regiment landed on the 12th day of June and were encamped near Siboney. The mail came when it was least expected—the men expected it all the time. Joe had not heard from Louise, but he contented himself, as his comrades did, by complaining at the rations, growling at the daily rains and the scarcity of tobacco and matches. On the morning of July 1st the mail came.
Among the few letters he received was one from Louise. He tore it open joyously, but the moment he saw the heading Jie turned white. A letter for another .man had been placed in an envelope addressed to him. It was evidently to an acquaintance and began:
“ Dear Frank:—I was much pained at what you said in regard to Mr. Wharton. You accuse me of flirting with him ! Why we are almost brother and sister. I took a little more interest in him since he was enlisted in father’s regiment, and—”
This much had burned itself on his brain before he realized what he was doing. A handful of crumpled paper fell at his feet..
On the 2d the regiment went to the front. It took part in the two day’s battle, and shared in the fight at San Juan Hill. A newspaper despatch published in the Star of the 7th, ran: “One- man, a private in Co. E. or F. of the 39th, attracted my special attention on account of his reckless daring. He seemed to seek death and finally was shot before the. block-house.’
Louise opened the Star on the morning of the seventh at the society notes. She scanned the column for a moment and then, exclaimed: “Oh! mamma, here it is!” and read, “The engagement of Miss Louise Gilsey, the daugh- " ter of Col. and Mrs. I. Frederick Gilsey, to Mr. Francis. S. Baun-Ellis .of Louisville, Ky., has been announced.” She smiled and handed the paper to her mother who turned anxiously : to the war news. Louise was toying with a ; ring. Her mother at length turned to her and said: “ Here is a man in our regiment killed! Wharton, private, Co. E. 39th. Shot.in the head. Poor-fellow! Did you know him?” .
1 “ Joe Wharton dead ! —.Yes,” Louise sighed, . “I.knew him.”	.
Looking down at her military belt, “ Poor ' boy! He gave me so lovely a buckle too!— ; When did you say . .Fran cis w^	”	'
Varsity Verse.
SUNLIGHT AND. SHADOW.
MOMENT’S joy, a lifelong strife— k>ss and a broken heart;
The tears of pain that can not start From aching eyes. And this is life, A moment’s joy, a lifelong strife.
A peaceful heart, a gasping breath;
One last faint word to those we love
And the soul has fled to One. above Who waits for us. And this is death,— A peaceful heart, a gasping breath.
A. M. C.
TO MY DIAMOND RING.
My dear old friend, we, now must part, Our ways lie not together;
It is not that I have no heart, ’Tis the biting, chilly weather.
Many’s the jolly time we’ve had
In the balmy days of old;
Alas! this parting makes me sad, But I fear the winter’s cold.
You’ve shone on many a finger fair All through the summer days.
They thought I was a millionaire ' And loved my dashing ways.
Now in “ my uncle’s ” safe you’ll stay, ■' ’ O’er you he’ll grin and gloat,
Till I come back again next May And then “hang up” this overcoat. :	T. J. D.
’ MEMORY.
A well-worn path that turns from broader ways To lead the wanderer on the steep divide, Where he can see the forms of bygone days x . Pass through the mists upon the other side.
.	.	'	. E. A. D.
;	. AN AUTUMN WISH.	' -	'
1 wish like the monkeys we could be!
It would save much money and precious time; Those beasts the sunny side of the tree
Seek when in need of a warmer climb.
, < :	.	:	T. j. D.
-	.	IN CHURCH. ’
The chorister with downcast eyes, - 3 The grand Te Deum sings,	.
But all;the while with wistful sighs	..
The chorister with downcast eyes , .
> . Looks where a .window’s warm light lies '
-, ' On Lou. But when the. church-bell rings Thechorister with downcast eyes	.
> The grand Te Deum sings. .
;	> ' - > IN MEMORIAM. .	. .	:
.	: -■	;. -. ,. ' . To N-. a. p..	-	. ■-
\ , Well,'friend, thy .ways are walked; \	■
Y ! a rTHy idays are donefand how ’tis-best ' ;-Fof."us;that ,wal^ .apace with thee, ,	.
' > A“Godgrant thee rest" O; .eOJOS-RS	< : •--j.R J-• r;
NOTRE DAME 'SCHOLASTIC.
' The Fall of Willie Dempsey.
JAMES F. MURPHY, ’99.
Willie Dempsey was going out of the front ‘ gate on his way to school when a voice from the kitchen window called him back.
“ What do you want, mamma?” asked Willie, as he alighted on the porch.
“ I want you to promise me that you’ll go in swimming today, do you hear?”
“ Yes’m.”
Now mind, I don’t want you to go near water.” .	-
not
the
“I won’t,” said Willie, easily and indifferently as he ran down the walk to join some of his friends who were just passing the house.
At the morning recess the boys started off to a creek near by to take a swim. Willie, true to his promise, remained behind. Not wishing to let the boys know that he was forbidden to join them, he tried to get back of the schoolhouse unobserved, but failed.
1 “Come on, Dempsey!” shouted one of the boys.”
“ Naw, I don’t want to go,” answered Willie, as he dug his heel into the cinder path.
“Come on; what’er you,afraid of?” cried the crowd'
“ T aint afraid; don’t want to go, that’s all.’*
“ Aw! he’s afraid,” cried one of the boys.
. “You’re another, I’m not,” returned Willie, as the tears came to his eyes.
“Leave him alone,” exclaimed one of the boys, “he’s nothing but a cry baby, anyway.”
“ Cry baby! cry baby! ” cried half a dozen of the smallest boys, as they hurried to. the creek.
Willie sauntered into the school-house, sat
down in his seat, and began brooding over his equally vile names, that small boys despise.
misfortune. He pictured the boys down at the . , creek swimming, “ having a good time,” and
himself sitting there in the corner crying, not let him do what they were allowed to do. . ‘ He decided that-he would, go in and show
. laughed at by all that saw the scene out in the
. yard a few minutes before—and all on account them that they were wrong. He stripped and of . mother. She’ll suffer for this some day. plunged into the water, but the crowd paid no . _ ' Sopn the bell rang, and the childrens were .more attention to him.	*
. called in. The boys all smiled contumeliously, After school he ^talked and laughed with the
. and .pointed their fingers at Willie as they boys as if nothing had happened. He had passed his seat; some even slapped’him on the regained his former place in their esteem.
j head. :His pride had received a deep wound. When he arrived home his mother was sit- .. < Afier .dinner Willie made it a point to. arrive ting by a window mending his second coat.
at<the. school-house a few minutes late so as “Come over here, Willie, and try this coat
;to avoid meeting , the boys in the yard. He on,” said Mrs. Dempsey.	: '
' went in and took his seat without attracting Willie went over and put the coat on. / • < much attention, and he was: congratulating > “Turn around until I see the back of it.”
himself upon his success, when the teacher called him up and wanted his excuse for being tardy. Only a few of the boys giggled, but-he didn’t mind them. He was surprised that the whole school did not burst out laughing.
Shortly Johnnie Hickey, sitting a few seats ahead of him, turned around and held up his first and second fingers—the masonic symbol of all boys, meaning, “ will you go in swim-
ming?” Willie understood the sign and: unthinkingly nodded assent. Then he remembered his promise. Well, he could go down to the creek and sit on the bank. There would be no harm imthat. He thought it over and oyer, and his only conclusion was that he was. an ’ ill-treated boy.	.	;
At half-past two the boys started for the creek. Willie did not intend to go into the water. He would only sit on the bank and watch the rest. Soon they were all splashing around in the water except Willie; he was . sitting on an old log. Finally be stood up and went down to the edge of the water to wash • his hands. One of the boys seeing him cried: “ Come on in, Dempsey.”
“ Naw, I don’t care about swimming,” answered Willie.	« •	.
“Come'on—what’s the matter with you?” yelled three or four others.	.
■ Willie shook his head. .
“His mother won’t let him,” said a little . rascal that was wading around near the shore.
Willie started in after him, but the little fel- . low picked up a handful of mud and stood ready to throw it. •
“ I’ll fix you when you come out,” said Willie as he turned to climb the bank. -
The crowd was laughing and j'eering at him, , calling him “ mamma’s boy,” and many other A
Willie could stand it no longer. He hated to have them think that his mother would
184
NOTRE DAME SCHGLAS'llC.
“Why, what’s the matter with your hair?” she asked severely.
“ I dunno,” he answered with a sinking heart.
“Have you—been—swimming again?”
“ No’m.”
“Willie, you’re telling a story! Come over here.” She opened the coat.
“Why,Willie Dempsey! do you mean to tell me that you haven’t been in swimming? Look at your shirt.”
He glanced down at his shirt, and sure enough it was all spattered with mud. That settled it.
“ Now you just climb up on that lounge, and don’t let me hear another word out of you this evening.”
He did as he was told and his mother continued sewing.	"
Willie’s mind was filled with thoughts of revenge. Oh! if he were only a big boy; what wouldn’t he do to his mother. Thus, he began planning some way to get even. He had about decided on running away when a better method of tormenting her presented itself. He would stay at home, but he would starve himself sick.
Supper was soon ready, and Willie was called out. He went slowly and painfully, and sat at the table, but refused to eat. Directly in front of him was a cake, just the kind that he liked. He struggled with himself for some time; but his mother paid no attention to him. Finally she got up and went out into the kitchen. Willie reached over and took a piece of the frosting. It never tasted better. He took a little more, and then he came to the conclusion that his mother didn’t care whether he starved or not. In fact, he thought the best revenge he could get would be to eat the whole cake, because he knew his mother expected company the next day.
' Discarding all rules of etiquette he crammed whole handfuls of the cake- into his mouth in violent succession. He giggled to himself when he left the table, and made ready to go to bed. His mother was somewhat chagrined when she returned and found the cake gone. Willie’s revenge was practical just then, and he jumped into bed quite satisfied with his trick.
About midnight, ’ however, the old witch whose terrible deeds are narrated in his'Christ-mas book, came in and sat upon his little stomach, jumping up and down with eyes aflame, till he awoke in . abject terror, and ran whimpering into his mother’s room altogether humble. .	.	, L	_
A Shake Of the Dide.
kbMUNb C. jiROWN; *99:
" No, thank you, I shall pay for the cigars, but I refuse to shake dice,” said Fred Mote^ land in response to a challenge. “ I haven’t given up gambling—if you. wish to try a game of poker, all right—but I have not touched a dice-box for five years. I shook once too often.”
George Bailey looked at his companion with a look of surprise and interest. Fred had plenty of money and was one of the worst gamblers in the club. He-frequently played poker all night, only stopping when the others refused to play. Why he should be so scrupulous in regard to dice was more than George could understand.
“I have heard,” said George, “that you and Frank Messer once had a game of dice that resulted very disastrously, but the report was very vague. Come in here and tell me about it.”
“Well,” said Fred, when they were seated in an out-of-the-way corner of the club room, “ the incident you referred to took place five years ago. As you remember, Frank Messer, Ralph Woods and myself, having grown tired
• of the city, went North to spend the winter in hunting and trapping. An old trapper had told us of a lake in northern Minnesota, called Bear Lake, where the trapping was very good. The remoteness of this place—it was thirty miles from the nearest town—prompted us to camp there.
“Bear Lake was an ideal place. It was fully ten miles long and five miles wide. From one .end flowed a small creek which connected it with the Red River. All around were pine forests which were so dense that we had difficulty in driving our wagon through them. Years before, a hunter had brought his family to this lonely place. He cleared ten acres of land and built a home; but he quarrelled with the. Indians, and they murdered him and his family. Since then no one, excepting zan occasional trapper had occupied the house, and as it was then vacant, we took possession of it.
“We were kept busy during the day hunting and trapping, and in the evening we were never
-at. a loss for something to do. Ralph and I . used to gamble for hours. Sometimes Frank 4 would join us in a game of cards, but he spent most of his time in reading or singing. I did not like to.hear him sing; he was a sentimental
NOTRE DAME
soft of fellow with a sweet tenor voice, and the songs he sang made me homesick. After hearing him 1 would stay awake most of the night listening to the wind moaning through the trees and resolving to go home the next day. In the morning Frank would accuse me of being love-sick and I would soon forget my resolutions.
“The time passed pleasantly enough until the middle of November. Then we found that it would be necessary to replenish our supply of provisions. This was no easy task, for we. had been driven to camp by a farmer who had taken his horse and wagon back with him, and if would be necessary to make the trip on foot. 1 volunteered to go, but Ralph, would not listen to such a thing. He was a strong, well-built fellow whose grit had won him a place on the college football team. It was he that did all the hard work about the camp, and he scoffed at the idea of anyone else going to Alton. He was so determined, that I submitted, and on the next morning he- left the camp.
“I welcomed the change, for the additional work kept us both busy, and. Frank had; little time to sing. A week passed; buf although Ralph should have made the trip in less time, we were not alarmed; for there was about a foot of snow on the ground, and the sled he had: taken, was very heavy. At the end of. the second, week, I began to be uneasy, and I resolved to go to meet him on the next day. Toward evening, however, it began to snow, and* by seven o’clock, the storm was raging with all the fury of a western blizzard. I sat up late-that night hoping that Ralph would come; and even when I did go to bed I could not sleep. I chided myself for not having gone in search of him before; and I waited anxiously for the morning. When* it did come a strange sight met my eyes. The storm had almost ceased, but there was snow everywhere. In some places it was piled- up in huge drifts-, which were fully fifteen feet high. For us to reach Alton would be impossible, and it would be equally impossible for anyone to reach us. The temperature was falling, and there was little prospect of a thaw before spring: We both realized our- situation, and we ate our breakfast in silence; At last Frank said:
“ Well, Fred, I guess we are in for it,” and then he picked up his guitar1 and sang some popular song; I was tempted to throw-something at him; but I knew he was singing only to’tonceal his fear, so I merely advised him.
SCHOLASTIC.	185
to pray instead. After that we were both silent:
“It was two-hours before:either of us^spoke again, and the suspense was awful. More snow fell, and the temperature dropped to zero. Each day the supply of provisions decreased and death came nearer. Several times I had my hand on my revolver, but I could not murder Frank in cold blood. I spent most of my time thinking and- became more desperate. Frank appeared to be writing a letter, and in the night I frequently heard him mutter “ Maude, Maude.” At last he said:
“ ‘ Fred, I can stand this no longer. Let us try some remedy. If one of us were out of the way, it is possible that the other might be saved. We have both shaken dice for money; let us increase the stakes and play for life.’
“It was a terrible choice to make, but death was almost certain, so I agreed. Oh! the excitement of that contest. The only light we had was a small candle, but I could see that Frank was deathly pale; and my blood seemed to freeze in my veins. I tried to speak, but I could not, so I took the dice-box. On the first shake I turned an ace; on the next one I got nothing; but on the third I turned two more aces. Frank could not beat me; but the next time he won easily.
“As I took the dice-box for the last time, my past lifestood before me; My .brain reeled, and suddenly all was blank. When I regained conscionsness, Frank was bending, over me.
“L guess, old man, that you lost your grit; but- come it is your turn,” said he.
“I took'therboxagaim I trembled so violently that.Frank remarked that.it was not necessary for me to shake it. I first turned a pair, of trays; another tray, and lastly two fours. Then Frank tried; in the first, two shakes he got three fours. A cold sweat stood out on my brow as he shook, the dice for the last time. He paused a minute, and.then rolled them out on- the table. He’had turned afive and a six, and'I: had won. Throwing aside his cigarette, Frank gave me at letter and drew a revolver. In vain I begged, him not to. shoot himself^ He had made a promise and' would keep it: I tried to take the revolVer away froni him, but he* threatened to shoot me; and then he placed the muzzle in his: mouth and pulled the trigger..
It was much worse for me to. be here alone with the corpse, than, to have him alive and face starvation. However, I-made upimy mindito wait: for. thebest: A week later there, came a thaw; and; as a crusUofacewas formed on1 the snow,,Ii easily escaped: to Alton.”
186
J
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, Aovember 1~. 1898.
JSublfstjcTirbcrn .Saturbaoduring Jurat Same at B- S- Sntbrretfj.
done is to rub the person that is hurt, and if more services be required, we can easily secure a doctor. Give your attention to this, fellows; we were instructed by an able physician to insert this notice, and have a dangerous and nonsensical custom abolished.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
An Hour of Fun and Music.
Address:	THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
It is seldom that we can lay aside our books for so pleasant an hour as was spent in Washington Hall last Tuesday evening. The Imperial Quartet of Chicago, all good singers, assisted by Mr. Frank Winters, violinist, and Mr. C. A. Grant-Shaefef, pianist, took their places on our stage, and for awhile the students lost themselves in laughing at their funny songs or applauding their musical selections. The voices in the quartet blended nicely together and their songs, a medley of old favorites, mother goose, stories neatly arranged, and one or two very good numbers, were just the kind to find favor with a young audience. Classical music is beyond the,appreciation of many but humor reaches all.
Mr. Swift’s fine tenor won the house, and Mr. Winter’s violin solos gained, him much favor. He puts his whole soul into his playing, —Football players and all athletes; femem- and the tones he produces.from his instrument ber this: whenever a player has a.linib, a finger are very clear and sweet. Mr. Grant-Shader or an arm injured do not pull it; -This is proved himself an excellent accompanist, his extremely dangerous and may result in-serious work in this line being better than his solo-consequences. It has been noticed-That as : playing. Aside from, their clever singing, Mr. quick as a man is in any way hurt about the Rice and.the basso have a fine appearance and arm or leg, a couple of his companions'willf get a good=natured look that pleases the audience, around him, take hold of his arm or leg, asithe The “Invocation” and encore that followed case may be, and pull. it. Whatever the inten- were, the best received of Mr. Winter’s selection of so doing may be, we do not know; but; tions. After the first number, the “Vocal March,” be. it what it may, the practice should, be • the quartet was called back-by prolonged ap-stopped. As ive said above, it is very ...dan- ’ plause, and/the house roared while they told gerous, and for these reasons: If a man has a about the wondrous wise.man that jumped into bone broken it requires a‘skilled physician to . the. bramble bush. “Lily .Dale” and “Sweet pull it into its proper place. Even experienced Belle Mahone ”; carried us back to the olden doctors have made great mistakesr- in this , days, when the first minstrels that we rememoperation. An ordinary person, and: one that ; ber, came to our town and.sang love songs that knows nothing about setting a bone, will .only: made our; young hearts feel’ for the fellows aggravate the case by pulling the injured mem- that-had lost their sweethearts.: The “Lover’s : ber. Moreover, this may lead to a compound , Lament’’ is a very; humorous^ selection, and fracture of The bone, and result inthe loss of Mr.Rice was not the only man "to. give his4 ;
?a limb or arm if.ndt in death, as:has often been “ customary smile ” -when the - song was ren-the case.; At any rate it is harmful,;and should dered. : T	; j, ;
be stopped.- If- a member of the,: body is - On the whole, the j entertainment was splen- 7-' twisted or, as we say about the gridiron, if. it is. did. . Should ; the gentlemen of the Imperial
“ knocked but,” you .may completely/dislocate - Quartet.and their two able assistants, visit us-: ?'■/ it by pulling.oh it. The only thing that-can/be - again, they may.be sure of a pleasant reception? .
The Board of Editors.
PAUL J. RAGAN, ’97;
SHERMAN STEELE, 97; RAYMOND O’MALLEY, ’98; JOHN F. FENNESSEY, ’99; EUGENE A. DELANEY, ’99; JAMES J. TRAHEY, ’99; JAMES F. MURPHY, ’99; JOSEPH F. DUANE, ’99; LOUIS C. M. REED, I9OO; THOMAS J. DILLON, I900;
THOMAS A. MEDLEY
F. HENRY. ..WURZER,
JOHN . J. . DOWD, EDMUND ,C. BROWN, MAT. A. SCHUMACHER, JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND,
LOUIS
T.
WEADOCK,
98; ’98: ’99; 99; 99; ’99; ’99;
FRANK O’SHAUGHNESSY, I900;
ST. JOHN O’SULLIVAN, I9OO.
F. X. MCCOLLUM, H. P. BARRY, HENRY S. FINK,
Reporters.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	187
The Death of Professor Preston.
Early Wednesday morning the sad news reached the University that Prof. Preston had passed away. For years he had been a constant sufferer from a complication of disorders, but it was hard for those who witnessed his fidelity to ’daily duty and met his cheerful morning greeting to realize that his life hung by so slight a thread. All that medical skill could do for him availed not to stem the tide of . disease, and it became apparent to his friends during the past summer vacation that h e would not be able to meet his classes in September.
At his own request he was removed to St. Joseph’s Hospital, South Bend, and for a time there were hopes that he might still enjoy at least'a partial recovery. He was within ten minutes’ walk of the University gates, and the visits of Professors, students and friends cheered and brightened him. But new complications arose, and reluctantly physicians and friends were convinced that Prof. Preston’s death was merely a matter of weeks or even days. His weakness increased, breathing became labored, until early Wednesday morning wheu he peacefully and painlessly breathed forth his soul. .
Newton A. Preston was born in Norwich, England, about forty-two years ago, and. his natural love for music was nurtured and strengthened by the sweet melody for which-his native town
is famous. Norwich is the only city in the world where church bells are really rung, and-till the day of his death, Prof. Preston grew ; lonesome and homesick whenever the chimes of Norwich were recalled. He received a.good education and enjoyed the advantages of travel. It was while knocking about Europe that he paid a casual visit to Lourdes, the wonderrspot
of the world. The* miracles which he
. himself witnessed at'	.
• • the famous shrine made a deep impression on his soul, and shortly afterward he ■	"
visited a priest and asked to be received • into the Catholic ’ . Church. His steadfast faith and . his .	.
loyalty to the duties-which it imposed -upon him were a constant source, of edification.	-
- ^Professor Preston . taught music in Eng-	.
-land for many years	.
with-great’’ success.	-
In 1881 he came to' ' . -
■ America, however,'	,
and accepted a posi- .	.
- tion as Professor of: -music in St. Francis’ ■ »	*
College, Quincy,. HL. • When Prof. Liscome. ‘	.
was compelled to give up his music classes in our . University . on account. , ; of failing health. Prof. Preston was chosen to ; succeed’ him, and no one who5 . .<* has observed his ? fidelity .to duty and • .	,
his singular success. ;
. as teacher and musi- -
cal conductor need be’told how fortunate was. ' our Aiwa Mater in her choice.	. . . :
' Of an even, placid temperament, Prof. Preston won the affection and regard of all whom he met.- There were no quirps or complexities in; his character, none of the “ queernesses .with ; ’y . which the popular mind associates the musi- :
188
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
cian. Frank, helpful, companionable and patient he speedily attached to himself the pupils who attended his classes, and much — his pupils would say all—of the success of our bands and orchestras was due to the cordial understanding and intimate relationship which existed between the Professor and his students. His memory will always be to them the memory of a good friend as well as of a skilled instructor, and the lessons of his uncomplaining, conscientious life will be not the least valuable lessons which they learned from him.
THE FUNERAL.
The last rites over the remains of Professor Preston were held in the church at ten o’clock, Thursday morning. All the students and several friends from South Bend were assembled there, and the solemn ceremonies began at the appointed hour. Rev. President Morrissey, celebrant of the occasion, met the casket at the vestibule where the corpse was blessed, and then the pall-bearers—Professors Ewing, McCue, Edwards, Ackerman, O’Malley and Hoynes— carried it to the catafalque. After Mass, Father Cavanaugh preached a very touching and beautiful sermon, taking for his text’ the words “lam the Resurrection and the Life; hethat believeth in Me, though he bei dead, shall live.” When this was finished and1 the last blessing, of the Church had been administered, the students and friends filed around' the- church to take a last look at their, departed' friend. A few minutes later the University band headed the long procession of students, toward: the avenue, playing the Funeral March’ of its own beloved leader. On the casket lay a. beautiful wreath of roses, carnations and. ferns, a token from the band. At half-past eleven, while the students and professors stood on either side of the avenue, with bared and: bowed: heads, the funeral cortege passed through the gates, and he that had been the central figure in all our musical circles for the past .six years, was gone, from Notre Dame forever. The body was taken to New Orleans for burial.
- '
Resolutions ef the Faculty.
After an illness of years, borne manfully, with no petty complaint, no impatience, Mr. Preston has been released from his suffering. He never shirked'work; he would-not take’rest legitimately due Kim, but until his final illness he" fulfilled every duty scrupulously. He was an amiable gentleman, lacking enemies, although
strong and just, never lacking friends; a con scientious Christian man, kind, true, modest, simple-hearted.
He has been freed from the pain of ill health, but we most heartily regret that we have lost a friend we held in no ordinary esteem. He went fortified' by the sacraments of the Church, and with faith and confidence we humbly beg God to grant him eternal rest.
In the name of the Faculty.
James F. Edwards, William Hoynes, Austin O’Malley.
One too Many.
While the students were all comfortably resting in-their cots last Friday night, a small party of husky young men from the southern part of the State quietly made their way into our grounds and brought with them a big surprise for Notre Dame. Their coming was no surprise, for that was expected; what occurred before they left was what took us off our feet. Indiana had played only one hard game this season and that resulted in a tie. Hence our men- that had. gone through battles with Illinois, Michigan and DePauw had expected to secure a victory from the Bloomington players. Saturday afternoon our team, minus its captain, went out' of their training quarters and made ready to meet their rivals. At 2:30 the Indiana players filed out of Sorin Hall, all clad for the game, and wended their way toward, th’e gridiron. When the heavy linemen and stocky little backs appeared, the crowd pressing against the side lines felt a shudder passing along/ their spinal columns, and it was evident that our men were up against a hard game. Captain'. Mullen was sadly missed, though we would not say that his presence might win’the-game. One or two fumbles and a blocked kick: proved very disastrous to our side, and tothis-:and the superior weight of the opposing team- is due the defeat that we sustained. The Indiana line, averages up in weight better and more evenly-than any line we faced this year. Murray retired in the second half in favor of Winter; Hayes filled Mullen’s place at right end. Few end plays were tried, the visitors preferring to get their heavy guards back, and hurl them at our line.
The ’ ball was kicked off at three o’clock, going through-'Hayes and Eggeman’s hands oh dur twenty-five yard line where I. U. secured

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	.	189
it on a fumble. In three minutes it was carried to our five-yard line and there lost on downs. On the first play Macdonald punted fifty-five yards to Hunt who had returned eight yards when Bennett brought him down. Youtzler, Hunt and Halley kept pounding away at our line assisted by Hubbard and Neizer until the ball was only three yards from our line. Hunt took it o.ver in two downs, and Hubbard kicked goal. Score, 6-0.	.
On the kick-off, Macdonald sent the ball over the goal line. From the twenty-yard line Hubbard kicked thirty to Hayes who made ten. Lins made three through Hubbard, Monahan four through centre, Farley six around left end, and Monahan two at right guard. Notre Dame got ten for off-side, and on the next play Farley went around left end for a .touchdown. Macdonald missed a difficult goal. Score, I. U., 6; N. D., 5. I. U. kicked twenty-five yards to Hayes, and our men worked the ball to the centre of the field when time was called.
In the second half Macdonald kicked off, sending the ball over the goal line against a
ONE YARD FROM THE LINE.
Personal.
stiff wind. Sparks took the ball at the twentyyard line and kicked forty-five to Kuppler who regained thirteen. We were forced to punt, an Macdonald sent the ball thirty yards. Hubbard, Neizer, Youtzler and Hunt, aided by and offside play by Murray moved twentyeight yards toward our line, and then Youtzler made the star play of the game, going 65-yar.ds for a touchdown. No goal. Score, 11-5.
On a kick off of fifty yards, Captain Youtzler came back fifteen before he was tackled by Eggeman. Halley got a yard through Fortin; McGovney passed Hayes for four, and Halley went through the line for thirteen. Notre Dame got the ball on a forward pass by Foster. .1. U’s. line was too firm for our backs to gain much and a punt was resorted to. I. U. was thrown back on her second down so that she was Forced to kick. Notre Dame had the ball
in the middle of the field. Farley made four at left end, Hayes and Lins each one, MacDonald four through right tackle and Farley three more at end. I. U. braced up and held for downs. Youtzler made three, and then the ball went to Notre Dame on a fumble. Our men went through the line for seventeen yards in six plays, and then MacDonald’s try for place kick from the forty-five yard line was blocked, and I. U. secured the ball. Notre Dame got it on downs a second later, and after one play time was called. I. U. won by good clean playing, and can count it .a hard but well-earned victory.
Notre Dame	The Line-up:	Indiana
Farley	Left End	McGooney
McNulty	Left Tackle	Neizer
Bennet	Left Guard	Sparks
Eggeman	Centre	Hurley
Winter Murray	Right Guard	Pike
Fortin	Right Tackle	Hubbard
Hayes	Right End	Dodge
Mcdonald.(Capt.)	Quarter Back	Foster
Kuppler	Left Half-Back	Youtzler (C.)
Lins	Right Half-Back	Hunt
Monahan	Full Back	Halley
Umpire, Moore, C. A. C ; Referee, Wagner, C. A. C. 25 min. halves.
—Mrs. M. Naughton, of Chicago, spent several days at Notre Dame the guest of her sons.
—Dr. Flynn, a former Notre Dame student spent a day or two of this week at the University and renewed his acquaintances among the Faculty.
—The Rev. John Kearns of Chicago, a former student of the University, was a welcome visitor at Notre Dame last week.. Father Kearns was but recently ordained, and the best wishes of his friends here go with him on his career.
—The Rev. J. F. Mullaney, of Syracuse, N. Y., was a recent caller upon the President. Father Mullaney .lectured here before the students several, years ago, and like his brother, the late Brother Azarias, he is an accomplished scholar. .	'
190
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Exchanges.
Local Items.
' Several of our exchanges copy in whole or in part the letter written to the Freeman's Journal by Dr. O’Malley in reply to certain communications upon the subject of Catholic colleges published in that paper.
# -
The Acta Victoriana from Victoria University, .
Toronto, remarks that the “ Notre Dame Scholastic is a highly literary production from St. Mary’s Academy.” Were this not such a busy time of the year we should certainly encase our chivalric self in armor, go to Toronto and like dear old Don Quixote avenge this affront thus carelessly offered our Dulcineas over the way. Of course, the Aeta's ex-man has never been favored with a copy of the Chimes or he would not have made the blunder. Consequently, the young ladies themselves partly are to blame, and we leave it to them whether or not the Canadian shall be forgiven.
*
Several of the technical schools publish very excellent papers.
The Troy Polytechnic contains an article on bridges that a layman can enjoy and that is . thoroughly: interesting and instructive to an engineer. The writer does not believe in pin-connected, bridges, and,:judging from the article, I wonder that anybody- believes in them, for their sole accomplishment seems to be to fall to. pieces with but little provocation.
The papers from' the Case School at Cleveland and the Polytechnic Institute at Brooklyn contain no article on bridges, but they do contain some very good literary matter. “A 'Disciple of Constantine” in the Brooklyn Poly-_ technic is especially worthy of mention.
■ , #
* .
The Harvard Lampoon materially aids in lending, variety: to the exchanges. For the most part college papers take life seriously, but the Lampoon does, not, and many.-of its trifles, though light as air, are apt and clever.
The paper in the first number on the “ Snob at Harvard ” is filled with touches of ' deli-
that he had a right to vote in a manner strik-			 ___________________ ingly his own. Tie says: “If Jim Maginnis’s cate humor. The writer, though, should have conscience will allow him to cast a ballot, I dropped the joke long enough to have given -certa.nly ,have^ luc.d prevdege before.me .£• - ■	. t -=	.___1 i r	—In Moot-Court this afternoon the trial of
. : the . genuine., snob arsenous poke. But, - of Mrs- charlotte Brooks, who is /charged with course, the Lampoon does not believe in being murder/is orii She is prosecuted by Prosecut-serious. The verse and drawing on the cover is ing-attorney Ragan and his, assistant, Mr. R.
' good,and:doubtless-will have more effect upon O’Malley. The defense- is represented by : . the; , Freshman - than all!theeditorial advice Messrs, Weado'ck and Hoban.	-
; that -could <be written.. , .. ..	?—Rt. Rev; P;J. Hurth,JD. D., Bishop of Dacca,
—Found. — A sum of money. The owner may have it by applying’ to Brother Albeus, Carroll Hall..	.
—Do not be seen on the “ Pike” after 10 p. nj. or you may have an opportunity of taking an early vacation. ■
—The baseball men are to be congratulated on the selection of Angus McDonald as captain of next year’s Varsity.
—Capt. Kelly and his men were defeated by the Anti-Specials of Carroll Hall in an interesting football game, Nov. 6, by a score of 16-0.
—Davis says Mr. Heller charged him 75 cents for a shave, that is 50 cents for finding something to shave and 25 cents to shave it off.
—The Anti-Specials defeated Captain Kelly’s team Thursday in a well-played game. Score, 17-0. Moxley, Kelly and Davis were the stars.
—In the opinion of the cultured few, it is
- not the very best form to extend an urgent invitation to7 members of visiting vocal clubs to sing “Get your money’s worth.”
—Mr. Daniel Mahoney has just completed , his new song, “How Teddy saved the Day.” Those who vyish to get a copy should apply to him at once, as the number is limited.
—“Ah me,” sighed Reed as he rubbed a snowball over his whiskers, “ how this reminds me of my boyhood days! Just the kind of Johnnie and I used to like for., coasting down hill. . ; ' v	:	■_
—Captain. Weidmann’s eleven' defeated a . Minim team- in an1 interesting contest. Score, 16-0. Captain Weidmann’s goal from the field was a feature, and Clark, Kasper and Cunea played nicely.
—We take this means of informing the billiard enthusiasts'-that they should not use that whittled broom stick of Paul’s without his permission. There are other cues which are not estimated so extremely valuable.
—“Viateurs” is shaken to the..very core. Imagine common election officers doubting the advisability of allowing “his honor” to execute that privilege of which every citizen -of the United States is. so truly proud. .
—Tom Medley arrived at the conclusion
A/CTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	191
India, has given to our Historical Museum several objects of interest brought from Bengal. Among them are two antique lances used by Ka Chin Soldiers; two primitive looking swords of strange shape used by Ka Chin chiefs; an artistic ^hort sword with ivory handle and scabbard of ebony and exquisite chased silver, used by Boh Hhoon, one of two Shan leaders who held the Ruby Mines in Burmah against the English, killing many of the latter; a stiletto; several shell bracelets; specimens of curiously woven garments worn by the natives ‘ of Bengal and several Burmese horoscopes traced on palm leaves and bamboo.
2—Theeighth regular meeting of the Philopa-trians held last Wednesday, Nov. 9,. was a very interesting, one. The debate, “ Resolved that the United States should annex the Philippine Islands was very well contested. The judges . decided in*favor of the affirmative side. Mr. Swan, and Mr. Weber spoke for the affirmative, and Mr. Groogan and Mr. Stewart spoke for the negative. Mr. Higgins recited a choice recitation. Mr. Mahoney sang a song which he composed. Messrs. Miksak, McDonald, Miller and Askansas were admitted to the society. Before the meeting adjourned a very interesting program was arranged.
—An important meeting of the Athletic Committee, managers and captains of the different teams was held last Thursday afternoon. The monogram question was decided and agreed upon by all. It was decided that none but the athletes who have taken part in championship college games, or won a point in an intercollegiate track meet shall be allowed to wear a monogram on his sweater or cap. It is to be hoped that all students will realize the importance of. this rule, and help to take a step that will give our athletes the same recognition allowed to those in other big colleges and universities. The monogram, on cap or sweater should be worn only by the men that work to defend our colors, and it is the only recompense and recognition they receive. At present there are many students wearing the N. D. on their .caps that never had an athletic uniform on. This is unjust to the members of the teams. We hope the students so wearing the monogram will join in the ranks, and do away with .them at once. If they do not do so of their own accord, steps will be taken to enforce them to obey the rule. The men thus far entitled to wear the monogram are as follows: Of the track team; J. F. Powers, J. Eggeman, Foley, T, Corcoran, Farley, and - B. Maloy ; of the baseball team, Gibson, M. Powers, Follen, McDonald, Donahoe and. Fleming; of the football team: Mullen, Lins, Schillo, Kegler,
_ down; that multitudes bend their necks and
. Monahan,’Fennessey, Murray,, Bau wens, Me- say: “There goes little Cupid;” that the untir-.Donald, Farley, Bennett, Eggeman, Fortin', ing Minim delights in swinging on your prolific : . McNulty, Fleming, Kuppler, Hayes and M. head, and then ;wants you to walk under.his = ^Powers.. Our boat, crews do not row against huge legs to see; Kb w; tall; you.really are? It is Other colleges, and therefore are barred:,.Basket , certainly , not your fault that Providence has :
ball is yet to be considered. If it be an intercollegiate game, why then basket-ball players may wear the monogram; if not, they are excluded from this privilege. There will be a . meeting, of the men above named as entitled to monograms in the commercial room on Sunday evening after supper. Other students wishing to wear the N‘ D. should secure pins.
—The new parliamentary organization for all students who have arrived at their freshman year is a decided step in advance, and must be considered as an invaluable assistance to every student. Under the efficient and pleasing1 guidance of Prof. Fl X. Carmody, who will make the society a success or fill an early grave in the attempt, there is not the least doubt but that Notre Dame will have a parliamentary club which shall be the pride of every member and an honor to this institution. The intention of the society is to extend to .every student that knowledge of parliamentary law, debating and extemporaneous speaking that is almost indispensable in after years. The society holds out to every student equal advantages, and in the end' almost equal gains. Remember that those who are now the leaders had the same embarrassing trials to underg which you may have; but bear in mind that true success is the.appreciated product of indefatigable zeal. Omnia vincit labor. Then let every student • enter the society with that determination and good will, characteristic of the sons of Notre Dame, and let them know that they are preparing a foundation there which is to support the tempest-tossed structure in . after years. K .
—The fiercest and toughest inter-hall game to be played this year was that between the eleven of Sorin and Brownson Halls last Sunday. Brownson Hall had_the better of it in weight and experience and the Sorin Hall men went on the. gridiron expecting defeat. The playing on both sides was full of grit, and ginger. By stubborn defense and hard rushes Sorin Hall kept her opponents from scoring ■ and had the game lasted two minutes longer would have won.
	The Line-up:	
Sorin Hall		Brownson Ha
Holland	Left End	Glynn
Davila	Left Tackle	Stephan
Ragan	Left Guard	McCarthy
Meyers	Centre	Burke
Diskin 1	Right Guard	Snyder
Brown	"	Right Tackle	- O’Shaughnessy
Neville	.	Right, End	,	O’Neill
Geoghegan	. Quarter-Back	McNichols
Cornell	Left Half-Back	Becker
Rahe	Right Half-Back	Dillon
Fox	Full Back .	McCallen
—Poor
. _______little “‘Runt!” Is it your fault that nature has been stingy.to you and held you
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
stationed you near that little Errins boy. We take your part, Runt and meaningly- declare that that Errins boy should be refused the privilege of begging any tobacco for a whole day as a reparation for his mischief. ,
The other day. while Runt was on the gridiron vainly endeavoring to make the public believe that Sorin Hall was- not an absolute nonentity, athletically considered, which, by the way, has much of the impossible in it, this ingenious child by a process unknown was favored with a thought. So joyful was he at this occurrence that he fairly roared his idea at his friend, and together they concocted the following plan of action. They gained access to Runt’s room, and straightway began to remove the rich brocaded silk coverlet from his trundle bed. Now Runt being a lover of famous men has his room decorated with the busts of notables from Judas Iscariot down to Steve Brody. The beautiful mould of Steve stood in a conspicuous position on his study table, and this the children used to form the head of this ghostly production. The rest of the make up was comparatively easy, and when they completed this child-like undertaking it must be admitted that their work produced the required effect. There it lay clothed in a solemn black garb, a moistened white fragment of linen thrown over the face and presenting the cold appearance of withered stiff. The pretty playmates arranged a table near the awful figure and placed lighted candles thereon. Then pulling down the curtains they awaited the appearance of Runt. It was early and they grew impatient for the fun. After leaving the room they met “Shag” and told him Runt- wanted him in his room immediately. “Shag” thinking there was a feed in it, relaxed his countenance until it resembled the expression on a hungry urchin’s face who is about to be feasted. Foaming with delight he burst open the door of Runt’s room, and—and—and—when he recovered he was measuring his length on the corridor floor. It took some time for his hair to come “ down off its perch ” and his eyes to assume normal proportions. The children danced around like demons and laughed and roared alternately, while “Shag” declared in the most emphatic terms that it never plagued him, that he slipped and that was how it all happened. Many others received unexpected shocks and among this number was “Spikes” who betook himself to the Infirmary shortly afterwards.
At last the unmelodious whistle of Runt was the signal for the fellows concealed in the room across the way. Silence for once was at par. The firm, decided step of the victim fell more heavily on the ears of the impatient waiters as he neared the top. Quickly he opened the door, grew white, gazed frantically, threw up his arms, and “ Big John ” saved him from the extra trouble of picking himself up or brushing his clothes. (Curtain).
List of Excellence.
COLLEGIATE COURSE. ■	j:
Advanced Christian Doctrine—Messrs. St.John O’Sullivan, E. C. Brown, T. J.JMurray, J. Farley. Moral Philosophy— Messrs. T. J. Trahey. Logic—Mr.-F. O’Hara. Latin—Messrs. Nieuwland, St. John.O’Sullivan, Krug, G.	J
Marr. Greek—Messrs. Marr, Oswald, Schawb. Analytical J Mechanics — Messrs. Steiner, Dorley. Graphic Statics— i Messrs. Atherton, Kegler, Neville. Mechanics of Mater- > ials—Messrs. Delaney, Neville, Steiner. Hydraulics— Messrs. O’Hara, Steiner. Civil Engineering—Messrs. Delaney, Neville. Descripive Geometry—Mr. Dorley. Railroad Surveying—Mr. Johnson. Calculus—Messrs. Mullen, Stuhlfauth. Analytic Geometry—Mr. Dominguez. Chemistry Advanced—Messrs. Gibson, Kachur, Baer. Physics Advanced-^h&ssxs. O’Hara, Dorley. Electrical • Engineering— Messrs. Nast, Van Hee. Trigonometry—	j
Mr. Schwab. Mechanical Engineering—Mr. Pulskamp. | Kinematics—Mr. Stuhlfauth. Shop Work—Mr. Pulskamp.	|
A dvanced Human Anatomy—M r. W. Grady. Histology—	|
Mr. Krost Microscopy—Messrs. Lins, B. Maloy. General | Biology—Mr. Lins. Materia Medica—Mr. Gibson. Phar- | macy—Mr. Nies. Phamacognosy—Mr. Gibson. Belles- s Lettres—Messrs. E. Brown, Trahey. Criticism—Messrs.	|
Dwan, O’Sullivan. Literature—Mr. Baldwin. Rhetoric—	|
Messrs. Ahren, Locke, Schwab, Krost. Economics—	1
Messrs.E. Brown, Dowd Niewland, Schumacher. English g His.—Messrs. O'Neil, Tierney. Modern History—Messrs.	|
McKeever, J. Monahan. Greek History—Messrs. Heiser, | Murray. Law—Messrs. Pickett, Steele. German—Messrs.	g
Roesch, A. Krug. French—Messrs. Garza, O’Hara, H. I Brown. Drawing—Messrs. Folomir, Stephan, Rowley, 1 H. Revels, A. Dorley, Delaney, Arce, Welker. Algebra— Messrs. Warner, Guerra.
PREPARATORY AND COMMERCIAL COURSES.
Christian Doctrine—Messrs. Stephan, Neeson, Trent-man. Latin—Messrs. Sutton, DeWulf, Maurus, Dorian, Kelly, F. Barry, Kellner, Euart, McCarthy, Fogarty, J. Kelly, Nies, F. M. Winter, Graham. Greek—Messrs. T. Murray, F. Barry, Furlong, Petritz, Sinnott. Geometry— Messrs. Graham, J. Fahey. Algebra—Messrs. DeWulf, O’Reilly, Warner, Quinlan, Nies. Elementary Law— Messrs. McKeever, Bohner, Fogarty. O’Neill. Conlposi-tion—Messrs. Stephan, Nies, J. Kelly, B. Clement, B. Bernard, Quinlan, T. Murphy. Modern History—J. A. Clyne. Physics — Messrs. Baer, Folomir. Chemistry— Messrs. Krug, J. Lilly, T. Murray, Oswald. Physiology— Messrs. Krug, Krost. Botany—Messrs. Lins, Nies. Grammar— Messrs. Hubbell, M. Cooney, Arana, Cartes, Far-ragher, Sullivan. Blume, M. Crowley, A. McDonnell. Penmanship—Messrs. John Svensden, Ladislaus A. Wie- : czorek, W. Irwin, Heinze, F. M. Ward. Book-keep.ng— Messrs. Kasper, Elitch, Fortin, Stephan, Poulins. Spe-ci 11 Orthography—Messrs. Ferstl, Best, S. Macdonald, * Willard, Wieczoreck, F. W. Winter, Herbert. Reading —Messrs. Walsh, Vennett, Phillip, Plunkard, Manion, Lockwood, Graham, Groogan, Crowley, Brehmer, Britt, Althoff,'McGoff, Cunnea, Henehan, C. Garza, DuVore, Curran, Madden, Schott, Svensden, F. M. Winter. Spelling— Messrs. McGoff, J. Brown, J. Walsh, Graham, J. Claffey, Hermann, Greesheimer. Geography—Messrs, Zimmerman, A. Brown, Moore. United States Hittory— Messrs. L. Zimmerman, S. Trentmah, W. Moore, R. Ryan. Arithmetic—Messrs. Trentman, Nissler, Althoff, Willard, Wilson, F. M. Winter, Sweeney, Rush, Stewart; Warner, Clement, Ernst, Moxley, Hinze, Fortin, M.- Cooney, Block, Bellinger, Eigelsbach, Friedman, Hubbell, Man-derfeld. German — Messrs. Baldwin, Brogan, Maurin. French—Messrs. Baldwin, Carlton, Krug.
SPECIAL COURSES.
German—Messrs. Drejer, J. Bouza, Bittner. Elocution— Messrs. Wimberg, Swan, Duperier, Brucker, Murphy, . Weadock, Ragan, Walsh, Schwab. Music—Rush, Krug, J. Bouza, Nast, Rowley, Richon, _E. Werk. Spanish— Messrs. Medley, Johnson, ^orbing. Telegraphy—Messrs. Fetherston, Herbert, Block. Typewriting— Fetherston.