NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 25, 1890.
Vol. XXIII.
No. 42.
Acadia’s Exiles.*
BY J. B. SULLIVAN,’gl.
Acadia was the fairest of the provinces. Long before Columbia had welcomed the storm-cossed pilgrims to her kindly shores, Acadia’s forests resounded with the woodman’s ax, and the glistening steel had seered the virgin earth. If English enterprise was pushing westward, Gallic zeal was not idle. While the former’s hopes first found reality in the establishment of Jamestown, the latter, buffeted by gales of ocean, had crept along the sinuous St. Lawrence, treating with the natives and forming colonies until they had an unbroken chain of posts from Fundy's Bay to the great Mississippi. Acadia was a fertile valley, watered by the Minas and the Ananopolis, and possessed of every advantage which nature could provide. The rugged headland thrust its frowning crest far out into the deep, and the soft breezes from the sea kissed the grim features of the sturdy toiler, or caressed the happy children as they shouted in thejr play. Capacious harbors bid fair for future commerce; wide-extending forests, filled with game, invited the hunter to the chase, and a genial soil well repaid the swain’s industrious efforts. ’	;
And there, in autumn time, the brawny hus- ■ bandman and the rustic youth and maid gathered to garner in the season’s harvest. Pros-perity smiled upon them; peace and plenty reigned; fidelity and honor, virtue and truth “claimed allegiance whole not strained to suit desire,” and the tenor of their lives was as calm as the summer seas.
Attached were these simple people to their
* Delivered at the Oratorical Contest Monday, June 23.
lowly homes; there were kindred and friends; there were clustered memories of happy days, and there were interred the mouldering ashes of their honored dead. They were French in birth; they were Catholic ip creed, and for this, they suffered.
For religious freedom the rugged Puritan had dared the dangers of the Atlantic’s broad expanse and all the perils of a distant land; but what he wished for himself he denied his neigh-bor; and as each colony grew—Plymouth and Acadia—religious intolerance and section ha-tred increased. America’s domains were wide; but clashing interests and conflicting claims in-tensified historic hatred. Briton and Gaul met upon the virgin soil of the New World only as implacable foes. Years elapsed, ’tis true, before their differences and fancied wrongs were sub-mitted to the arbitrament of arms; but that contest finally came, and Acadia, guiltless and unoffending, bore the brunt of war’s uncer-tainties.
The treaty of Utrecht consigned fair Acadia to the tenderness of British mercy. A small garrison maintained allegiance to the realm. The inhabitants, peaceful and unambitious, submitted to this change of masters upon one condition—they were averse to war and unused to its hardships; the language, the customs and the religion of their, fathers were deeply implanted in their nature—never should they bear arms against their countrymen. This solemn treaty was pledged, and this was all they asked. Ties of kindred and racial sympathy had bound their hearts to France, yet England claimed their allegiance.
Nigh forty years had now been reckoned in the past since Acadia had become a British province. Apparently the busy world had forgotten them: no royal officer gathered the
662
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
tithes; no judge convened the court, for there existed the nearest approach to common brotherhood. Disputes were seldom, and never serious. A word from their beloved pastor quelled the slightest move towards dissension. The parish priest was governor and judge and bailiff. In him were vested all the rights and duties of manifold offices: he kept the records, gathered the taxes, and counselled in affairs of business. At first his was only a spiritual mission; but as confidence grew and authority widened, sage advice and well-directed counsels bespake the interest he felt in their temporal welfare. But England, ever covetous, ever regardless of principle, could view these simple people with naught save envy. English colonists began to settle in Acadia; reports of its fertility were circulated, and numbers flocked thither. The ancient yeomanry of the soil were aroused and began to fear, and they had cause. They were surrounded by their inveterate enemies; religious freedom, their sweetest consolation, might soon be.denied them. The security of their homes and the peace of their firesides were menaced. The timid counselled to cross the Isthmus and seek homes in new France; but they were loath to leave their beautiful hamlets and lowing herds, their well-stocked granaries and fields of ripening grain, the reward of patient industry. The bloody struggle for the supremacy of the Northeast territory was but begun; religious bigotry was not yet satisfied; the greed for worldly possessions not yet satiated. The dark acts in this fearful drama were yet to come. Fate’s ominous clouds, dark and foreboding, overhung and obscured the faintest rays upon the horizon of their hopes.
Tyranny’s oppression had transformed those homes of peace and plenty into abodes of misery and desolation. In the unguarded hour of night the sleeping inmates would be roused from their peaceful slumbers by the crackling of burning timbers, the flash of musket or the boom of cannon, and, rushing from their burning homes, the only warning the victims would receive of their approaching doom would be the gleam of the sabre in the ghastly moonlight. The sturdy Puritan gloried in nightly massacres, fire, sword and slaughter of helpless women and unoffending children.
Ignorant of English laws and customs, they had no means of defence. Unscrupulous military masters had usurped the functions of the civil power, and they had no redress! “ The records of their inheritances and titles to their - lands ” were demanded from them, and in their simplicity they dared not refuse. Conscious of
their innocence, they submitted to the most shameful tyrannies without a protest. They were compelled to become the servants and do menial offices for the haughty British redcoat.	.
It was their daily task to supply firewood for the garrison, and whenever they were remiss in their duties the Governor threatened to confiscate their homes for fuel. Day by day, fresh insults were heaped upon them and newly-invented cruelties applied. A groundless fear that the Acadians might aid the French with arms and provisions, or try to escape to Canada, veiled the pretext for demanding the surrender of their boats and fire-arms, and thus they yielded their only hope of flight, their last means of defence. “The gloom of their despond was thickening.” Like another Carthage, they were helpless, and their iron masters knew it well. England, conscious of her power, could afford to exert it without reserve. Oppression’s yoke is ever irksome; but doubly was it so as borne by innocent and unoffending Acadia.
An order was promulgated from the Governor’s headquarters: “If the Acadians behaved amiss, punish them at discretion; if the troops were annoyed, inflict vengeance upon the nearest, whether guilty or not.” There was a sample of English justice, of English honor. And thus the season waned; and as the warbling birds and the tiny blades of grass and the fragrant flowers proclaimed the approach of the yearly morn, France and England were buckling on their armor to meet again in bitter conflict. But why delay in details? The trained veterans of Louis went down before the hardy legions of King George, and Britain received a new hold upon the Northeast territory. The deserted homes of the French were burned, and loyal subjects of the king took possession of the soil. Now the Acadians were reduced to the sorest straits. Further resistance was imprudent; “they cowered before their cruel masters,” promising fealty, and begging mercy in most abject terms.
Their homes were dear, and these simple people clung to them as clings a shipwrecked mariner to the last floating fragment, of the gallant bark that bore him. The iron heart of the English oppressor knew no mercy;, nothing short of extermination could satisfy his savage hatred of French extraction. They were his hereditary enemies; they practised a religion he hated; they owned and cultivated lands that he coveted. To him these were crimes for which no punishment could be too severe. The English were the undisputed lords of earth and main
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and could exercise mildness or severity as elemency moved or caprice inspired.
. The dark clouds of the approaching storm Were gathering fast; the most atrocious outrage in the annals of time was soon to be perpetrated; the merciless decree had gone forth and received the sanction of the highest authority: Acadia’s settlers were to be divested of their lands and scattered broadcast among the colonies of the New World. Thus far did religious bigotry blind men’s judgment. In vain did these unhappy Acadiaris appeal to their oppressors, ' offering to subscribe allegiance under any con-■ ditions which'might be imposed. The cruel mandate had gone forth, it was irrevocable. A general proclamation was issued to the inhabitants to assemble at various places. In early September, as the summer had begun to fade away behind the glowing colors of a luscious autumn, many of them gathered in the beautiful village of Grand-Pre. They came unarmed and marched into the church; then its doors were barred and they were prisoners. A guard of British red-coats prevented any escape. The ’ commander Winslow then briefly explained the i pleasures of his royal master, he said: “Your lands and tenements, cattle of all kinds and live-stock of all sorts are forfeited unto the crown, and you yourselves are to be removed
; from this province.”
•	The imprisoned people were stupified with
j	terror; their grief had dazed them; they could
-	scarce realize their appalling fate; the severity
•	of their punishment sufficed to unnerve the stout-
<	est hearts. They could bear the confiscation of.
x	their goods, but to be driven homeless from the
,	land of their fathers—surely they had not de-
£	served this. There were seven thousand souls—
?	men, women and children. This new cruelty
>	was as sudden as it was undeserved. They had
I	left their homes in peaceful compliance with
the royal order, little suspecting the pitiless 3	treachery to which they were to be the unwary
1	victims. Their firesides were deserted, their
|	herds unfed, and the grain unharvestedTn the
J	fields. They had bidden adieu to their homes,
I	and that forever! And they might have heard
i“ The never, never, whispered by the phantom years,
And a song from out the distance in the ringing of their |	ears.	.
It was the tenth of September. A mild autumnal breeze, laden with the perfume of a far-off Southern clime, wafted a grateful odor o’er I the scene. The sunlight mingled its golden rays with the tear-drops as they fell from the swollen eyes of husbands and fathers, wives disconsolate and innocent children gathered
upon the seashore. Now and then, the vagrant rays gleamed from the church-spires and housetops nestled among the hills, and caught on the bayonets of the guard and the gilded trimming of the soldiers, and played hide-and-seek in the folds of the sails, and sparkled in the wavelets of the rippling waters. I f nature was conscious of the approachingoutrage, she gave no external sign.	'
A command was given—a command which meant to Acadia’s people desolated families, blasted hopes and dismantled firesides. The closing act in the darkest tragedy in human history was well-nigh done. At the point of the bayonet the young men were forced upon shipboard. Their sluggish blood was fired and their hearts quickened; but they were powerless. When one brig was filled and freighted with its human cargo it sailed out upon the mournful, misty Atlantic, bearing its weeping, throbbing charge to unknown climes afar. Instead of embarking father, mother and children together, the men were sent first and the women afterwards. Thus the most sacred family relations were wantonly violated. Four long and weary months did these cruel expulsions' occupy. Every English colony received its quota of exiles; but there they experienced naught but persecution and distress. Everywhere they were pursued with the same relentless cruelty that had characterized their treatment in the past. What a change! Once they had been prosperous and happy; but now they were starving and homeless—strangers in an alien land. The poet has woven a pretty narrative of their wanderings and called it “Evangeline.”
The Acadians longed fortheir ancestral homes; they yearned for kindred and friends. Scarce a day passed but some English colony would be visited by these unhappy people, searching for lost ones, or wending their way to beloved Acadia. Husbands sought fortheir wives; heartbroken mothers mourned for their children. Now and then there was news of loved ones, and confidence swelled in their bosoms; but, like a Will-o’-the-wisp, it eluded them and was far away:	.
“ Hope rose and fell and fleeted Upon life’s troubled sea;
, A wave that swells to vanish
■	Into eternity.”
The homes for which they longed and sighed were now in mouldering ashes; the fire-brand of the incendiary had done its work: their herds had been confiscated; their fields ravaged; their cabins burned, and the fruits, of toiling years laid low at one fell stroke:
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“ Waste are those pleasant homes and the farmers fore’er departed.”
England had prevailed. Bigotry and intolerance had triumphed; but succeeding years have learned the infamy of that past. Posterity has condemned this unexampled outrage in stringent terms; its justice none will affirm; its cruelty none can palliate, none can deny. Wherever throbs a heart that despises tyranny there will you find sympathy for lost Acadia. The unhappy victims have left retribution to that God ’ whohassaid: “VengeanceisMine! ” Thehistory of the past is the philosophy of the present. There is a retribution for nations as well as individuals. England’s crimes shall not go unpunished. The same Power that suffered the savage hordes from the North to sack and burn the destroyer of Carthage will avenge the wrongs-of fair Acadia.
On the Color in Tennyson and. Shelley.
BY WILLIAM 1. MORRISON, ’go.
I have often wondered why our language, so full of words to express every thought, should yet be wanting in proper terms to set forth the peculiar characteristics of the fine arts—theii technical perfections. There are just a few words —expressing originally mere generalities—that have come to have a special significance, and are used indiscriminately, in painting, music, sculpture and poetry. Color is the most abused, perhaps, of all.
Gerome colors beautifully one might say; so does Tennyson. Bouguereau is characterized by great depth of feeling; so is Mozart. Michael Angelo exhibits in his work the perfection of form; Pope was a master of form.
This makes manifest what I wish to say. better, perhaps, than I could otherwise express it. There is-one great painter in England:.who carried this-;evil to excess (?) when he called one of his productions a “Symphony,” and another an “Arrangement in Four Flats”; but his case is probably an exaggerated exception. lam about to write of the color in poetry.
Color, either in poetry or prose, means the aptness and truth that a poet, or other writer, evinces in copying after nature. First and foremost all unite in placing Tennyson.
I.
* Tennyson places nature before us as no other poet ever has. Eyen Ruskin, standing quite alone as a prose colorist—who complained that readers skipped the argumentative parts
in his books and dashed at the description,— says that no picture of his is worth four lines of Tennyson’s. Ruskin is a good judge, and we may safely accept that opinion; but he was possibly prejudiced when he placed his own name amongst the only three of those who understood color in landscape painting. There is as much art in one of Tennyson’s bits as there is in the finished picture of a master. He represents a scene so graphically that the imagination seizes it at once without any unpleasant exertion or waiting, and he does it in half a hundred different places. Briefness is a cardinal tenet. Notice:
“ When the long, dim wolds are ribb’d with snow, And loud the Norland whirlwinds blow.”
How much there is in that couplet! how it sets one’s fancy agoing. Every person sees a different picture, perhaps, but all see nature.
Tennyson knows that months of labor and folios of writing could not produce an effect equal to that given by a single bold brush stroke; he understands perfectly the limitations of his art; in a word, he knows just what to say and what to leave unsaid.	'
“ With blackest moss the flower-pots . Were thickly crusted, one and all; The rusted nails fell from the knots That held the peach to the garden wall. The broken sheds look’d sad and strange; Unlifted was the clinking latch, Weeded and worn the ancient thatch Upon the lonely moated grange.”
Who has not read that charming poem, and has anyone failed at first sight to make for himself a “ lonely moated grange ” ? It presents the scene almost as perfectly as a painted picture; no one but Tennyson could have produced it, or the following:
“ With one black shadow at its feet, The house thro’ all the level shines, Close-latticed to the brooding beat, And silent in its dusty vines.”
I can only find one objection to that bit: it is so real, so suggestive that every time I read it I feel the closeness, the oppressive heat of a still August afternoon, even though I be in midwinter.
Tennyson’s pictures are all the result of closest observation, unwearied search. Unlike Wordsworth, he describes a scene so that the reader has not to exercise his powers of memory and imagination in order to arrive at its full meaning, but in such a way that the finished picture stands before one in all its beauty, all its freshness, all its reality, at once. He knows well enough that the imaginative reader will make for himself a very good poplar	.
“All silver green with gnarled bark,”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
665
while the dull, apathetic, too practical one would cast aside a long-drawn description. He is too much an artist to waste words; ah! yes, well does he know the value of every syllable, and he makes every shade of meaning do him service. Like the sketches of the great masters only a few lines, but what grand ideas they contain! Just a little verse—but so full of nature:
" Almost a stone cast from the wall
A sluice with blackened waters slept;
And o’er it, many round and small, The cluster’d marish mosses crept;
Hard by a poplar shook alway,
All silver green with gnarled bark; ' For leagues no other tree did mark
The level waste, the winding gray.”
What desolation was there!
Tennyson catches the expression of a spot, and records it in the most exquisite poetry. Not alone the scene, but the poet himself, is made manifest in his verse; it reflects his present mood:
" Break, break, break!
On thy cold, gray stones, O sea!
And I would that my tongue could utter The thoughts that arise in me.”
I have never seen the sea, but I must confess I have a better idea of it after reading these few lines than after looking at a grand waterscape; there is so much force, such suggestiveness there.
Rules guide everything and everybody; but the fewer the poet follows, the better his poetry. One canon in the art of word-painting is: record as few facts as possible in order that tedium and weariness may be avoided. Does Tennyson observe that rule in this charming bit ?
“ Willows whiten, aspens quiver, Little breezes dusk and shiver Thro’ the wave that runs for ever, Flowing down to Camelot.
Four gray walls and four gray towers Overlook a space of flowers, And the silent isle enrbowers
The Lady of Shalott.”
It seems to me that he does not. There are at least a dozen facts told in those nine lines; but who can say it grows monotonous or prosy? “Willows whiten”—just a hint of color, but what a world of thought it suggests! And the last two lines, who is so dull that he cannot see in his mind’s eye that silent, that overpower-ingly still island that embowers
“ The Lady of Shalott ” ?	.
Tennyson is a delightful lyrist, and his most beautiful lyrics abound in color. Perhaps the best example is the “Brook”:
“ By thirty hills I hurry down, Or slip between the ridges; By twenty thorps, a little town, And half a hundred bridges.”
It is so clear cut, so full of sweet words that are just brimful of meaning that it casts a sort
of spell over the reader; and he cannot leave it until he has read it through more than once or twice.
It is hard to say which of the many pictures Tennyson has painted is the best, probably because they are all best. I fancy each person has his own favorite—the one that appeals more * to his sense of beauty, his idea of nature, than any other. It is so with myself. I always felt a sort of companionship for CEnone, for it recalls to my mind so many scenes I knew, so many impressions I received in early childhood.
“ There lies a vale in Ida, lovelier
Than all the vallies of Ionian hills;
The swimming vapor slopes athwart the glen, Puts forth an arm and creeps from pine to pine; And loiters, slowly drawn. On either hand The lawns and meadow ledges midway down Hang rich in flowers, and far below their roars The long brook falling thro’ the clov’n ravine In cataract after cataract to the sea.”
That presents a picture to my mind of many widely separated, well-remembered bits. The glen is a reminiscence of long ago, a gathering in the heat of a vertical sun, of wild grapes; sweet are the remembrances of
“ The lawns and meadow ledges,”
in the quiet old town where I lived, more especially after a long day’s tramp, when, weary and exhausted, they afforded such pleasurable rest. And
“ The long brook falling thro’ the clov’n ravine ” leaves fresh in my memory old, old college days, the first year I was away from home. There was a “clov’n ravine” that ran with sparkling waters in “cataract after cataract”—not to the sea—but to the picturesque Kankakee, where oft we rushed on conge days to enjoy a pleasant walk or, perhaps, a stolen swim. But the bottom of the shallow river was sharp rocks, and all the pleasure we obtained was probably regretted in the evening, when consolation was looked for, but just the opposite found.
CEnone teems with descriptions beautifully wrought; it is steeped in color; it overflows with the most beautiful expressions:
“ The purple flowers droop: the golden bee Is lily-cradled.”
That would have done honor to any poet; .
“ The folded leaf is woo’d from out the bud With winds upon the branch ”
is worthy the pen of Shakspeare.
The following is a purely Tennysonian expression:	.
“ And round her neck
Floated her hair, or seemed to float in rest.”
Percy Bysshe Shelley—synonymous with the most perfect spirit of beauty, with pure poetic rapture—indeed wert thou a poet of nature! He
666	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
would wander for hours in the solitude and stillness of some wide, wild wood, communing with his love. His poetry is airy, changeful; and his cloud and sky pictures are the most exquisite in the language. He seemed not to write—for his pen was too slow for his wonderful imagination—but to pour forth his full heart
“ In profuse strains of unpremeditated art.”
Poetry gushed from him unbidden, as a clear ' spring of sparkling waters that has burst. its barriers. Notice the last stanza of the “ Cloud,” how it images, in a way, his own mind: “ I pass through the pores of the ocean and shores,
I change, but I cannot die.
I silently laugh at my own cenotaph,
And out of the caverns of rain,	.
Like a child from the womb, like a ghost from the tomb, I arise and unbuild it again.”	.
Shelley in poetry was not unlike Turner in painting: restless, mutable, a lover of clouds and water and mystery. It is even said that had he given his time and talent to painting instead of poetry, he had rivalled that great landscapist in his own art. But, happily, he didn’t; for the world needs but one Turner, and Shelley could never be replaced.
The “Spirit of Solitude” is extremely beautiful; woodland and river scenery especially are painted with such a wealth of tropical luxuriance as to insure the poet a place next Tennyson. His description of the rivulet, wanton and wild, is a very happy effort:
“ Then, through the plain in tranquil wanderings crept Reflecting every herb and drooping bud
That overhung its quietness.”
The whole poem is a most delightful reading.
Oh! the beauty, the grace, the sweetness of these poets, whom but to read is to love. They never grow old; they are just as fresh the hundredth time as the first time they were read. Like the melancholy scenery of the grand old Emerald Isle, such beauty is there that one could live on a spot for a lifetime and wake to new beauties each morning. Like the “Last Supper” of Leonardo, or the “ Moses ” of Michael Angelo—
’ “Their loveliness increases,
It will never pass into nothingness.”
Patrick Henry.*
On the green bank of a placid Virginia River lay a youth of some twenty summers, watching for hours the motionless cork of his fish-line— watching, without any encouraging indications of success and without any apparent enjoyment, unless, perhaps, the ease of his position and the illusions of hope were a source of pleasure. There in that verdant solitude, where no sounds, save the complaining hoot of the lonely owl and the distant blast of the hunter’s horn disturbed the stillness,, lay the youth who in a few short years was destined to cause the proud
* Delivered at the Oratorical Contest, Monday, June 23.
est king in Christendom to tremble on his. distant throne, and to tear from the British crown its brightest jewel. As we approach him he gazes at us for an instant through a pair of small, piercing eyes, and then resumes his listless watch. But one glance is sufficient; we recognize in this uncouth lad one of freedom’s noblest sons and the grandest pillar in our temple of liberty—Patrick Henry.
Wherever there beats an American heart, in native land or foreign clime, the name of Henry is cherished. Noble, generous and brave, with the genius of Shakspeare and the eloquence of Demosthenes, he burst the bonds of obscurity, and came forth in the hour of danger to guide the council and arms of a nation in its glorious struggle for freedom.
00
He came not clad in glittering armor like Philip’s warrior son; he came an humble patriot, “girded with truth and justice,” bearing the shield of genius and the sword of eloquence. No man ever saw him hesitate when his country demanded his service; he implanted in the hearts of his countrymen the seeds of revolution; and when the storm clouds of .oppression were darkest, he guided them on the sea of strife till Freedom’s banner, raised on high, shone through the smoke of battle as through the night of storm some tall, strong lighthouse sends its lurid rays into the murky darkness.
Such was the man and such the task that God gave him to perform; and
“ Long shall the good States’ annals tell, Her children’s children long be taught,
■ How, praised or blamed, he guarded well The trust he neither shunned nor sought.”
This great man, who, by his patriotism, genius and eloquence, drew upon himself the love and esteem of a nation and the admiration of half a world, was born on the 29th'of May, 1736, in Hanover County, in the Colony of Virginia; the son of an humble planter. In youth he showed no signs of future greatness; he was an idle child of Nature, and Nature was too proud of him to permit the art of man to perfect her work.
He was tall and strong; his countenance was grave, thoughtful and penetrating, and his face was deeply furrowed—the effect of a life of rigorous mental toil. His forehead was high and straight, and his small, piercing eyes, set deep in his stately head, overhung by dark, heavy eyebrows, gave his countenance the ap’pearance of severity. Yet “such was the power which he possessed over its expression that he could in an instant shake off all the sternness of winter, and robe it in the brightest smiles of spring.” His power to observe and understand the human heart seems to have been his strongest forte; it enabled him when hexspoke “to touch the springs of passion with a master-hand, and gave him unbounded control over the minds and hearts of his hearers.	-
As a man, he was the embodiment of all that was noble and good. He regarded government as an institution erected solely for the benefit
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	60]
and happiness of the people; and the people themselves he considered the basis of society and the fountain-head of all power. He was the poor man’s friend and the tyrant’s scourge; and in his eyes oppression was an unpardonable offense.
As a lawyer, Mr. Henry was successful; but he did not owe his success at the bar to a profound knowledge of the law; he was far too indolent to dredge its voluminous works for the opinions of his peers. His own sense of justice, combined with the infallible laws of God and Nature were his unvacillating guides. But had he not had the weapon of eloquence with which to fight his adversaries, his prominence at the bar could not have been attained. But as an orator he had few equals, and none were superior. Let not the lovers of antiquity rebel at my placing the name of Patrick Henry with those of Cicero and Demosthenes; it can be no degradation to the orator of either Rome or Greece that his name stands enrolled with that of Henry. He was the “Orator of Nature,” and Mr. Jefferson has justly said: “He was the greatest orator that ever lived.”
When he, as an orator, appeared in 1763, no one had ever heard him speak, and the audience, which had gathered to hear him expected nothing remarkable from such an unassuming man. He arose awkwardly, and faltered some in his exordium; but when the spirit of his genius awakened, his countenance shone with nobleness and grandeur; his gestures became graceful and commanding, and no impeding rock disturbed the stream of his eloquence. The spectators sat in silent admiration, “their eyes riveted upon the speaker, listening intently, as if to catch the last strain of some heavenly visitant”; while Henry’s eloquence fell upon their enraptured senses with all the thunder and majesty of Niagara’s torrent. Such a burst of eloquence was never before heard in the land. The sun of Patrick Henry rose with radiant splendor, and never afterwards did he disgrace its glorious rising.	.
When the passage of the famous Stamp Act was announced, the Colonies were stunned from Massachusetts to Virginia; all ranks of society were confounded; men who on other occasions had been noted for their courage and decision held back—too manly to submit, yet lacking the courage to stand forth and boldly resist the tyranny of the mother-country. But it was at this moment of suspense and despondency that Patrick Henry rose from his seat in the Virginian Assembly, “gave the ball of revolution its first impulse,” and fortified the hearts of his fellowmen for the coming strife. The elements of his character were well blended for the great struggle at hand; his views of the existing differences were true and reasonable; and his convictions were supported with such boldness and energy, that even the tyrant king and ministry of England wavered when the shell of his defiance burst within the halls of Parliament.
He pierced the clouds of battle with the eyes of a prophet, and long before the whispers of “independence” were heard in the Colonies, he saw the storm of Revolution sweep over the land, carrying death and desolation in its track; and when it had spent its fury, he beheld the people exalted among the nations of the earth. And when the roll was called in the Convention of 1775, Patrick Henry was there to answer to the call; indeed, the eloquence, genius and patriotism of the land was represented— such men as Washington, Jefferson, Randolph and Lee stood forth to champion the cause of liberty; but not one in that brilliant galaxy made a more heroic stand for freedom than Patrick Henry.
Some of the leading men of the time were so deluded as to believe that reconciliation was yet possible; others saw that the halcyon days of peace had passed and nothing remained to them but revolution or submission; yet they too remained inactive; but it was not for a soul 'like Henry’s to hesitate at this crisis. Although his co-patriots believed as he did, he alone had the courage to rise in that memorable conven-’ tion and denounce in the boldest terms the tyranny of England, and exhort them to make an heroic resistance. When he resumed his seat, no sounds of applause were heard; a deathlike silence pervaded the assembly—to be broken a moment later; the cry “to arms, to arms!.” arose from every lip and flashed in every eye; and soon from Bunker Hill and Lexington, “ Echoing back our Henry’s cry, came pulsing on each breath
Of northern wind, the thrilling sounds of ‘ Liberty or Death! ’ ”
Patrick Henry lived to see the consummation of the noble work for which he so ardently toiled—the liberty of his countrymen and the freedom of America. But just as the sun of the dawning century was shedding its effulgent light over the broad, free lands of America, the gifted soul of her son ascended to its Maker, and the friend of liberty and of man was no more. Thus died one of the brightest ornaments and noblest benefactors of our country. Had he stood in the Senate of Rome and uttered, with all his impressive eloquence, Cato’s “Delenda est Carthago,” his name would have been enrolled by some immortal pen among the wreath-crowned heroes of the Republic; grand monuments would have risen in his honor to bequeath his memory to future centuries. But no memorial, not even a stone—“raised by the hand of national gratitude.”—points us to his obscure grave.
But his fame is ours to cherish still; the world that counts our jewels o’er shall longest pause at Henry’s name. And as long as the Flag of Union shall wave over the land he loved so well,
“ The lifted sword above her shield
With jealous care shall guard his fame; The pine tree on her ancient field
To all the world shall speak his name.”
F. E. Lane (Zaw) ’90.
668	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ISubHstjctJ t&trg 5aturtian tiurnuj Emn Eime at X. S3. Enibcrsitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, In d
Notre Dame, June 25, 1890.
Staff.
J. W. Cavanaugh, ’go,	H. P. Brelsford, ’gi,
J. B. Sullivan, ’gi,
J. E. H. Paradis, ’go,	C. T. Cavanagh, ’gi,
F. C. Long, ’go,
Joseph E. Berry, 'gi,	W. Morrison, ’go.
The St. Cecilians’ Banquet.
The twenty-first annual banquet of the St. Ce-’ cilia Philomathean Association on Thursday last was a memorable event. Under the able and efficient management of their genial director, Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., the Cecilians of ’89-90 have maintained, nay augmented the reputations so gloriously made in times past. Numerous invitations had been issued—for the Cecilians are nothing if they are not hospitable,—and promptly at 4 p. m., the company assembled in the Juniors’ capacious dining-hall. There were the venerable Father Sorin, master of the feast, Rev. President Walsh, many members of the Faculty, visitors and students to the number of several score. The refectory was tastily decorated with flowers and gay festoonings. The papal white and gold were intertwined with the national colors, and the soft breezes, as they floated through the hall,ruffled the folds inErin’s green. The repast was perfect in all its appointments.
When the inner man had been satisfied, Mr. Fred Wile, ’92, who was chosen to officiate as toast-master, announced the toasts as follows:
Our Holy Father, Pope Leo XIII—The support and defender of Christian truth amid the assaults of a materialistic and skeptical age. May he live to behold the complete triumph of Christianity over the enemies of religion and virtue!
Very Rev. Father General, on being called upon to respond, said: “I beg leave to be excused. However, let me substitute my Parisian confrere, Rev. Father Walsh in my stead. But I cannot let this occasion pass without thanking the many friends who have honored this feast with their presence, and especially I wish to commend the press of our neighboring city. To say the least, they are courageous and manly defenders of the right, and I am proud of their friendship.”
At Father General’s request, which, President Walsh remarked, he always took in the light of a command, he arose to respond to the toast “ Our Holy Father.” The reverend speaker said that he had hoped that upon the occasion he would be a listener and not a speaker. His speech, however, was a happy effort. The Pope has been the central figure in all modern history.
He has no fleet; he commands no armies;i n fact, if attacked he would be entirely defenseless. Yet no government, however strong, can afford to overlook the influence of the sovereign upon the Tiber. He represents the oldest living dynasty. Other lines have come and gone; but the papal succession has been uninterrupted and unimpaired. In mythology Atlas is represented as holding the earth upon his shoulders. The papacy, as it were, bears the weight of the Church, and never has it found itself unequal to the task. Storms may come, they have come, but they have always left her strong in faith and numbers. Never was the papacy stronger than to-day; never was it venerated more. The speaker then went on to say why the papacy was so venerated, and its influence so wide-felt. The Pope is the Vicar of Christ; he was divinely commissioned to guard the Church, and it was promised that “the gates of hell should not prevail against her.” Leo XIII. stands preeminent among the great men of the world, as a scholar, statesman and saint. To-day we mingle our prayers with those of two hundred and fifty millions of Catholics, which daily ascend to the Most High beseeching wisdom and blessings for our Holy Father.
Our Honored Guest—the Very Reverend Edward Sorin—the venerable Founder of Notre Dame and Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross. May many more years and still greater triumphs be added to the noble life made glorious by the golden diadem of a sacerdotal jubilee and the successful issue of devoted labors in the cause of education.	‘
In response to this toast, the Hon. J. B. Stoll, Editor of the South Bend Times, spoke substantially as follows:
“Gentlemen:—In responding to the toast just read, paying a high but merited tribute to Very Rev. Father General Sorin, I am not unmindful of the fact that his noble deeds and splendid achievements have on many similar occasions been the subject of the eulogies of poets and orators; and that it is therefore no easy task to say anything that has not already been presented in poesy and prose. Yet, as we never tire in expressing admiration for the beauty and splendor of the rising sun each recurring morn, so the great work of the venerable Father General rises before our vision each recurring year, as we gather at this far-famed seat of learning and contemplate with feelings of gratitude and reverence the great blessing conferred upon this part of our glorious commonwealth, in this—that a half century ago kind Providence directed the steps of a dauntless missionary to this garden spot of the St. Joseph Valley, and impelled him to lay the foundations of Notre Dame.
“I cannot attempt to trace the sacrifices and the wondrous work of the untiring young priest of fifty years ago and the revered patriarch of to-day. The time allotted bids me to generalize—to be content with a hasty glance at the enchanting panorama.
“ What a glorious period of our common country’s history the activity of Father General Sorin covers! It embraces the most gigantic territorial settlements ‘ which the world had ever beheld to bless the homeless children of men.’ Within it was wielded the log-wood axe that cleared a continent of forests. American hospitality and love of liberty caused an exodus in the Old World, and ‘dotted the New with log cabins, around the hearths of which the tears of the aged and the oppressed were wiped away, and cherub children were born to liberty, and sang its songs, and have grown up in its strength and might and majesty.’ The generous policy of the American Republic, as was once eloquently said by an

3
£
£
5-Vr-£
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	669
•eminent Virginian, ‘ brought together foreigners of every •country and clime—immigrants from Europe of every language and religion—and its most wonderful effect has been to assimilate all races. Irish and German, French, Scotch, Spaniard and English met on the western prairies, in the western woods, and have peopled villages and towns and cities — queen cities, rivalling the marts of Eastern commerce; and the Teutonic and Celtic and Anglo-Saxon races have in a day mingled into one un-■distinguishable mass—and that one is American—American in every sense and in every feeling; in every .instinct and in every impulse of American patriotism.’
“ Now that we may boast of an indissoluble Union of forty-two indestructible States; now that we are a Republic in fact as well as in name; now that we can point with pardonable pride to a matchless temple of American law and liberty, whose ‘ spire reaches to heaven while its shadow rests on earth’; now that we constitute a nation that can muster and maintain an army outnumbering and excelling the strength of any invaders, of any foe from within or without, making a ‘ host of freedom which is the host of God,'—now that we can point to all this as the result of a great people’s heroic devotion to Right and Justice, what higher meed of praise can be bestowed upon the subject of this toast than to say, in truth, that no individual in this broad land has contributed more toward making happy the homes of the frugal and the industrious, or erecting schools and colleges and preparing the rising generation for the faithful and intelligent performance of the duties of citizenship; and that'no one has applied himself more assiduously to heighten the genius, or the grace, or the glory of American institutions than the Very Rev. Father General Sorin.”
The University' of Notre Dame — Our Alma Mater—Yearly growing in beauty and magnitude. May her progress be attended by the same cheering success as attended her rise.
Response by Prof. William Hoynes, who spoke substantially as follows:
“ Notre Dame may look to the past for encouragement and rejoice in the promise of the future. The honored guest of this happy occasion had grown to the years of active and vigorous manhood before the carpenter’s saw or hammer or the woodman’s axe had rung out over the waters of yonder lake the cheering notes of advancing civilization. Here dwelt the Indian, independent in his isolation, and brave and proud in his independence. Here was the beautiful lake, there spread out the primeval forest. In this charming spot—rich to gorgeousness in the beauties and attractions of nature— a humble log cabin was built; and the spirit that would have vied in missionary zeal with the Hennepins and the Marquettes of an earlier day settled down to the quiet and prosaic work of instructing the youth. Hardships innumerable, but discouragements never, marked the experience of the zealous pioneer priest that, with a few devoted associates, began to teach almost in the wilderness. Duty was his northern star. No matter how dark the day, no matter how stormy the night—no matter how fierce the tempest in the day or in the night—his star shone brightly, and from it he deY’iated not. It was the light of conscience; it was the inspiration of God; and high in the firmament it held its place immutable and uneclipsed. As has been said:
“ ‘ Powers perish, ' Possessions vanish, and passion holds a fluctuating rein; But ’midst the storm of circumstance unchanged, And subject neither to eclipse nor wane, duty exists,
Immutably survives.’
“ Succees ever has a crown for those Yvho labor consistently and devotedly to accomplish a specific object worthy in itself; and she came wfith a smile of approbation, and placed her magic crown upon the labors of him who founded Notre Dame.
“And what changes from the humble beginning on the shore of yonder lake! The log hut gives way to a substantial frame building, with several ancillary structures. That gives way to buildings of brick and mortar. And these have multiplied in numbers that would elude the mathematical grasp of some of you if you were back in Minimhood. Nevertheless, the sentiment is, ‘Onward
and Upward, still Onward and Upward! ” In other words, we have buildings and buildings, solid and substantial, but the cry is, ‘Still they come!’
“However, vain would be the Yvork of the founder of the University and the devoted and self-denying members of this community if nothing had been accomplished but to erect buildings, increase material possessions, and beautify this ‘ garden spot of the St. Joseph Valley,’ as it has justly been characterized by the gentleman last on the floor. Ah, but these buildings are devoted to the noblest uses to which the human energies can be directed, to which the human mind may be turned! They are devoted to the cause of education. Word talismanic! By education man is raised from the savage state—from the level of the brute—to the highest standard of human development, to the civilization which takes its character and inspiration from the great Exemplar Himself. By education all human powers and capacities are drawn out into intelligent exercise. Education, thy magic wand is reached out, and the veil of futurity is lifted, showing us the things to be in the mirror of the past! Education, thy guiding hand makes nations great and peoples free! Handmaid of Truth, I hail thee as among God’s greatest gifts to man!	.
“We pity the blind, and well Yve may. God’s blessed light never shines to aYvakening consciousness on their leaden orbs. The beautiful floYvers that come and go Yvith the seasons never gladden their vision. For them the sublime mountains are but the distorted creations of untrained fancy. To them the attractive landscape is as bleak as the sand-shifting Yvastes of the Sahara; and the mighty, Yvave-tossed ocean, Yvhich in the distant horizon mingles Yvith the blue of the sky, is as the fabric of a dream. The poor soul that lives in the dark bears affliction in the hope of finding light beyond the impenetrable darkness of the tomb. Few' pleasures have the blind. They Yvho see most, know' most, and most enjoy life. And this is as true of the educated man Yvhen compared Yvith his illiterate brother as it is of the man of strong and accurate vision Yvhen compared Yvith the blind. He Yvhose reasoning mind possesses the treasures of knoYvledge learned from the study of the nations and the ages finds a poYver and pleasure unknoYvn to illiteracy in the contemplation of his precious stores of learning. For him pass in review' the notable events of all time and the great characters that lived in the past; for him all the known experiences of mankind rise to guide or admonish; for him every continent, every ocean and every island of the ocean, is an open book; for him every lake, sea and river has its OYvn peculiar beauties. Such panorama never passes before the mind of the illiterate man. To him the Yvhole Yvorld is comprehended Yvithin the range of vision.	•
“ All agencies that promote education are beneficial to man. As such they are praiseYvorthy. And Notre Dame has done her full share in the great Yvork of promoting education. Her Yvork has been blessed Yvith happiest results. Her children are everyYvhere in the land. In every line of business they acquit themselves Yvith credit. In every profession they do honor to themselves and their Alma Mater. Notre Dame is proud of the ‘Old Boys.’ When the Roman ladies exhibited their jeYvels to the mother of the Grachii, by ivay of showing their Yvealth and social splendor, she produced in return her attractive and promising sons, and it Yvas acknoYvledged that her treasures Yvere more precious than the silver and gold of the others. So Notre Dame points to her alumni and children in every part of our common country; and of them, their good citizenship and true manhood, she is prouder by far than of her stately buildings and beautiful grounds. She envies not other institutions of learning Yvith their endowments and abundance of material wealth, for she has greater treasures in the proved fidelity, patriotism, usefulness and honor of her sons.”
Our Sister Societies — Each useful in its oyvh sphere, and each croYvned with its meed of praise. May the spirit that has animated their past preside Yvith renewed vigor over their future.	.
In response to this toast, Mr. H. P. Brelsford said:	•
6^0
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“ The sister societies of the University assemble as your guests this afternoon, to yield the homage of just praise to the glory of your past, to congratulate you on the present happy occasion, and to felicitate you upon the bright promise of your future.
“ Each society represented here recognizes itself as a component part of a great factor in the educational work of Notre Dame, and that factor is the literary spirit fostered and developed by the literary organizations of the institution. Each has its particular sphere of action, each its particular design; but diverse as are their purposes and aims, they are united in their desire for intellectual and moral betterment, and are one in their ambition for Alma Mater.
“The Thespians could put Booth and Barrett and O’Neill to shame—and undoubtedly would; the Columbians are mighty in debate: the Philodemics can play base-ball—some of them, and the others wish they could; but for you, St. Cecilians, is reserved the proud distinc-• tion of providing a literary spread, or a feast of more material good things with equal profuseness and eclat
“We offer you our greeting this afternoon in a spirit of well wishing that is neither embittered by envy nor restricted by narrow jealousy. We are jealous of your fame, but it is the innocent jealousy of honest emulation; we. are your rivals, but our contention is the healthful and happy competition of friends. We do begrudge you the prestige of your proud past, but we begrudge it only in an honorable ambition some day to merit the praise that is now your due.
“And,’finally, we come not here alone to rejoice in the festivities of this happy event, but we come as well to mingle our tears with yours as we mourn the memory of your late president and our late friend—Prof. Joseph A. Lyons; for if he devoted himself particularly to the interests of the St. Cecilians, he none the less aided by his counsel and stimulated by his example, every other society of the University.
“The flowers that once lay seared and withered in winter’s icy clutch, now bloom forth in all their bright beauty under the genial rays of a summer sun; and so his memory, now that time has tenderly soothed the rude pain of his death, shines forth in fond remembrance as a benediction and a joy. And now, in closing, St. Cecilians, let me say that it is the earnest wish of your sister societies that your organization, under St. Cecilia’s fostering care, may long exist—a splendid part of splendid Notre Dame.”
Our Late President—Prof. Joseph A. Lyons—
“ Green be the turf above him, Friend of our happier days;
None knew him but to love him, None named him but to praise?’
This toast was responded to by Mr. G.T.Weit-zel, ’92, Vice-President of the St. Cecilians, who, in eloquent words and pleasing manner, spoke as follows:	'
“ With each recurring June time, as regularly as that glorious month brings to us its beauties and its joys, the St. Cecilians have held their annual banquet, and nothing has ever marred the festivities of these occasions till last year, when we were obliged to celebrate it without the cheery presence of him who was founder, and whom we will always remember as the ‘gentlest of men.’ For such was Prof. Joseph A. Lyons.
“ Scarce two years have passed since the words ‘Prof. Lyons is dead ’ were, to his friends, freighted with a sadness that went deeper than their love for the man; for this good, Christian gentleman of the old school was one of a class that we see with pain is now rapidly passing away, but will long be remembered. He was quiet, unobtrusive, kind, and his alms-giving was free-handed, but unknown save to those nearest to him. A gentle, never-failing courtesy gave a peculiar tenderness to his manner. A spirit of harmony and sweetness pervaded the society of which he was the head; and the most casual observer could not but notice in the tone and manner of the St. Cecilians towards him evidence of unusual reverence and love. To him friendship was sacred. He loved to talk of other days and of former members
whom he is now gone to meet in that land of bliss. His dignified humility and modesty were ever the marks of his true wisdom; and we, as St. Cecilians, can bear witness to the many acts of genuine courtesy which bound us closer than the mere relations of President and members. His mental characteristics were notable and admirable, and like the soft noonday light, which plays in shifting cloud shadows upon the prairies and undulating hillsides was the ever-changingglow of his expression: now melancholy, now gay; now piquant, now inquisitive; but always pleasing in every phase. His traits of character were all in the line of his well-doing. His wonderful patience, his good-nature, his genuine interest in each one of us, and his great solicitude for our personal welfare have endeared his memory to us and never will be forgotten so long as recollections last.
“ Founder, benefactor, and friend of the St. Cecilians, would that words of mine could portray to others that loveliness of character, that sweetness of manner that never failed to send us from thy presence feeling that there is still truth in the human heart, and that true friendship is not yet gone from among men! ’ ”	•
When the toasts were ended, Father Morrissey said that it was the custom of Very Rev. Father General at the end of each annual banquet of the society to present each member with a small cake in one of which a gold ring had been placed. There were twenty-one members, and as each passed, Father Sorin presented him with one of the cakes. These were broken open and the lucky one found to be in the possession of Charles Fleming, of Denver, Col. This closed the festivities, and all unite in pronouncing it one of the most enjoyable and interesting banquets ever given by the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society. ---------------------------------
Local Items.
—Commencement!
—Good-bye, '90!
—Home, sweet Home!
—“I’ll get one next year, sure!"
—'Rah, 'rah, 'rah, Nostra Domina!
—We’ll see you later (we hope).
—What’s the matter with that race?
‘—The “old boys” came with great eclat.
—George T. came out with flying colors.
—The baggage-demolishers are in high glee.
—The St. Cecilians’ badges are very pretty.
—The railroads are well represented. All aboard!
—The Colorado contingent will leave this afternoon.
—The Crescent Club Captains look brilliant in their badges of gold.
—The Minims had a grand picnic in the woods on the Feast of St. Aloysius.
—’92’s latest pugilistic encounter was a grand exhibition of the manly art.
—Thanks to Fred. Wile, ’92, for valuable assistance to the Local Editor during the year.
—The musical organizations certainly have cause to feel proud of their latest achievement.
—The Junior Elocution Contest was very exciting. Tennessee and Kentucky were the favorites.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

—The game commences at 2 o’clock this afternoon at “Greenstockin£f Park!” Cheer on the gold and blue!
—Adler Bros., the well-known Merchant Tailors of South Bend, again come to the front with a fine medal for the Team.
—Mr. S. Livingston, of the firm of Livingston & Sons, South Bend, has again donated a fine medal to the B. B. A. for this year.
—The princes had the honor of having Very Rev. Father General, Rev. President Walsh and Col. Otis, U. S. A., in their board of examiners. Their examination was a splendid crowning of the work done by them during the year. They were examined by the Graduates.
—Frank H. Dexter, ’86, of Kansas City, presented a medal to be given to the football association in his name. Frank is, just as he was years ago, always taking great interest in athletic sports. He was one of the most brilliant students in his time, taking several literary medals and the elocution medal; he was a great sport and an ardent admirer of the manly art. Frank is now one of the leading lawyers in Kansas City, being the prosecuting attorney.
—A telegram was received from Dr. F. J. Combe, Brownsville, Texas, the “Aby” of old days, presenting to the B. B. A., and to the ’Varsity Team a grand gold medal. “Fred” was ' Captain of the Senior champions of ’86; he was a player, and no mistake, and this last act of kindness shows that the art has lost none of its interest for him. Fred was also Captain of Co. “A,” H. L. G., and was one the greatest sports of a few years ago. The B. B. A. return their acknowledgments to “Doc.”
—The exercises by the Elocution Classes of the University on the evening of the 22d inst. were conducted according to the following
Programme :
Overture “Martha”—Floiow. University Orchestra Recitation—“ Caoh the Piper ..........R. Healy
Recitation—“ The Execution of Montrose,” M. Prichard Song—“We Meet again To-night”.........Quartette
Messrs. L. Monarch, J. McPhilips, F. and C. Schillo. Personation—" Rienzi ”................S. Martin
Recitation—“The Chieftain”..........J. Cudahy
Song—“The Sailor’s Prayer”.......   C.	Ramsey
Personation—“ Bernardo ”............M. Quinlan
Personation—"Catiline”.   .......   L.	Monarch
Song—“Star of Descending Night”.......Quartette
Messrs. Jewett, McPhee, Schaack, Lahey. ’ Recitation—“The Felon”.................G. Paris
Recitation—“ Over the Rapids ”......H. Schwarz
Song—“The Grapevine Swing”............E. Mock
Recitation—“Scene in the Roman Amphitheatre”
W. Ford. .
—The Oratorical Contest and closing exercises of the Thespian Society were held on Monday evening. The following is the
Programme:
Waltz “ Pres de Toi Waldteufel, University Orchestra Oration—“ The Lincoln of the War Period,” T. J. McKeon Tri0—“The Mariners” W. McPhee, B. Tivnen, W. Lahey Oration—“The Exiles of Acadia”....J. B. Sullivan
Quartette—“We’re Rowing Swiftly down the Stream,”
Messrs. L. Monarch, J. McPhilips, F. and C. Schillo.
Oration—“Daniel Webster”..........J. S. Hummer
Trio—“Protect Us through the Coming Night,” Messrs. H. Jewett, W. McPhee, W. Lahey.
Oration—“Patrick Henry’and the Revolution,” F. E. Lane
PART 11.
“THE RISING OF THE MOON.”
A Dramatic Episode of the late War. Written especially for this Occasion by Prof. Maurice Francis Egan.
Scene: On the Potomac River, near Arlington, Va. Time: During McClellan’s Campaign Before Richmond. Dramatis Persona.
Captain Arden.............................W.	S. Ford
Captain Tom ...........................W. E. Lahey
Ted.......................................J.	E. Berry
Sentinel............................J.	R. Fitzgibbon
Soldiers.....................C.	Schillo and F. Schillo
—A very pleasant event, and one that was a fitting inauguration of the festivities of the Commencement week, was the reception and dinner to the Class of ’90, tendered by Very Rev. Father General Sorin on last Sunday evening. The hall of the presbytery was handsomely decorated for the occasion, the rarest natural flowers sending forth their rich perfumes, whilst the tables were laden with an abundant variety of the choicest edibles of the season, served in artistic cut-glass and earthenware dishes. The guests, chaperoned by Rev. President Walsh, assembled at five o’clock and were received in the parlor of presbytery by the Very Rev. Father General. Those present were, besides the gracious host, Rev. Fathers Walsh, Zahm, Morrissey, Fitte, Stoffel, Kirsch and Prof. Edwards; Messrs. C. D. McPhee andL.Sherrer,of Denver, Col.; and the members of the Class of ’90.
After some moments passed in pleasant converse, Father General escorted his guests to the dining hall, where they sat down to the bounteous repast prepared for them. Before leaving the hall Mr. Paradis, in the name of the Class, made a very appropriate address, expressing their acknowledgments to the venerable host and the pleasant memories which they would ever retain of their Alma Mater which owed so much to his wise direction. Father General responded in words of good counsel to the students, and complimented the Class upon the excellent record which they would leave as the memorial of their college life. Appropriate remarks were also made by Rev. President Walsh and Father Fitte. All then retired, well pleased with the kind attention shown them by the venerable Founder of Notre Dame.
Premiums.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Adelsperger, E.—2d Premium in Moral Philosophy; Mention in 1st Latin; 2d Premium in ist Greek; 2d Pre mium in Astronomy; ist Premium in Surveying.
Ahlrichs, A.—ist Premium in ist Geometry; ist Premium in ist Algebra; 3 Premium in Literature; 2d Premium in English History; ist Premium in Modern History ; ist Premium in Physiology; ist Premium in Zoology; ist Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Allen, H.—Mention in 2d Geometry; Mention in 3d French.	.
Berry, E.—Mention in Logic; Mention in 2d French.
Brookfield, C.—Mention in 2d Geometry; 3d Premium in Rhetoric..
672	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Bovett J-—3d Premium in Sth Latin; Mention in Physiology; Premium in Microscopy.
Bronson, R.—ist Premium in 3d French.
Bronson, II.—1st Premium in Architectural Drawing.
Bachrach, B.—Mention in 6th Greek; Mention in 1st Algebra; Premium in Phonography.
Burns, J.—4th Premium in Logic; Mention in Literature. Brannick, H.—Mention in Logic.
Barrett, D.—Mention in Moral Philosophy; Mention in 1st Latin; Mention in 1st Greek; Mention in Geology.
Benz, F—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 2d Grammar.
Burger, C.—2d Premium in Logic; 3d Premium in Trigonometry; 2d Premium in 2d Chemistry; 2d Premium in 2d Physics; 2d Premium in Botany; 5th Premium in Physiology; 1st Premium for Piano.
Brelsford, II.—3d Premium in Logic; 2d Premium in Criticism; 1st Premium in 2d Chemistry; 1st Premium in 2d Physics; 3d Premium in Botany; Premium in Phonography.	-	.
Blackman, W.—2d Premium in-Sth Latin; 1st Premium in Literature; 2d Premium in Freehand Drawing.
Combe, J.—2d Premium for Piano.
Carroll, H.—2d Premium in Architectural Drawing.
Campbell, S.—Mention in Trigonometry; 2d Premium in Architectural Drawing.
Cavanagh, C.—3d Premium in Logic; 3d Premium in 3d Greek; 1st Premium in Criticism; 1st Premium in 2d Chemistry; 2d Premium 2d Physics; 4th Premium in Botany.
Cavanaugh, J.—1st Premium in Criticism.
Chute, L.—1st Premium for Piano.
Cooney, J.—Mention in 3d Algebra; 4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Clayton, J.—Mention in 3d Greek; 2d Premium in 2d Geometry; 1st Premium in English History; Mention in Modern History.
Coady, P.—2d Premium in 3d Algebra; Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Cartier, D.—Mention in Botany.
Crall, D.—2d Premium in Sth Latin.
Dacey, C.—Mention in Physiology;
Dela Pena S.—Mention in 4th Algebra.
Dillon, W.—3d Premium' in 1st Grammar; Mention in 4th Algebra; 1st Premium in 4th German.
Delany, J.—Premium in Metallurgy; Premium In Mineralogy; 2d Premium in 2d Chemistry; 1st Premium in Mechanical Drawing-
Dennis, J.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Davis, L.—2d Premium in Architectural Drawing
Dyer, J.—2d Premium in 6th Latin; 2d Premium in Composition; 4th Premium in Ancient History; rst Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
- Darroch, H.—Mention in 1st Orthography.
Dinkel, W.—2d Premium in 4th German.
Doherty, J.—2d Premium in 2d Geometry.
Fitzgibbon, J.—1st Premium in 6th Latin; 1st Premium in Literature; 1st Premium in English History; 1st Premium in Modern History; Mention in Botany; 1st Premium in 3d French; 3d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Flynn, C.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1 st Grammar; Premium in Spanish; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Flynn, F.—3d Premium in 1st Grammar; Mention in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 1st United States History; 1st Premium in 4th Algebra; 2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Flynn, A.—1st Premium in Sth Latin; 3d Premium in rst Geometry; Mention in Ancient History; 3d Premium in 4th German; 5th Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Fleming, P.—Mention in German.
Ford, W.—2d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in. Rhetoric; 4th Premium in Ancient History; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Fisk, W.—2d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping.
Fehr, F.—2d Premium in 1st German; 1st Premium in Architectural Drawing.
Guillen, M.—Premium in Spanish; Mention in Penmanship.
Galen, H.—3d Premium in 2d Geometry.
Garfias, AI.—Mention in Astronomy; 2d Premium in Descriptive Geometry.
Green, T.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Houlihan, P.—3d Premium in English History; 3d Premium in Modern History.
Herman, L.—3d Premium in Logic.
Heard, C.—5th Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Composition.
Hummer, S.—1st Premium in Moral Philosophy; rst Premium in Trigonometry; 1st Premium in 1st Geometry; 2d Premium in 1 st Algebra; 2d Premium in Physiology.
Hempier, P.—Mention in 2d Geometry.
Hoover, E.—Mention in Metallurgy; Mention in Mineralogy.
Hayes, W.—Mention in 1st Book-Keeping; Mention in 1 st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium in Telegraphy.
Hepburn, J.—1st Premium in Rhetoric.
Jewett, H.—Mention in Logic; Mention in Civil Engineering (Theory); 1st Premium in Civil Engineering (Execution).
Kearns, J.—1st Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Premiumin 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in Sth Latin; Mention in Composition.
King, J.—2d Premium in 5th Latin; 2d Premium in 5th ‘Greek; Mention in 1st Geometry.
King, R.—Mention in 4th German.
Krejnbs, F.—2d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Kunert, C.—1st Premium in 2d Geometry; Mention in 3d Algebra; 1st Premium in M- chanical Drawing.
Lair, B.—Mention in Literature;-2d Premium for Piano.
Lancaster, G.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; Mention in 1st Arithmetic. •
Long, G.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in Composition.
Larkin, A.—2d Premium in Logic; 2d Premium in Civil Engineering (Theory).
Larkin, W.—Mention in Moral Philosophy; 1st Premium in 1st Latin; 1st Premium in 1st Greek; 1st Premium in Astronomy; Mention in Geology; Mention in 1st French.
Lane, F.—1st Premium in Literature.
Lahey, W.—Mention in 3d Algebra: 2d Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium in Vocal Music.
Long, F.—Mention in Physiology; 1st Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Latson, W.—1st Preinium 4th Algebra.
Mock, E.—Premium in Phonography; Premium in Vocal Music.
Mulroney, J.—Mention in Composition.
McWi'liams, J.—3d Premium for Piano.
McKeon, T.—4th Premium in Logic; 2d Premium in Literature; 1st Premium in 4th German.
McAulift', J.—Mention in 6th Greek; 1st Premium in Rhetoric.
McKee, J.—Mention in 4th Latin; Mention in 5th Greek; 4th Premium in Rhetoric; Mention in Modern History.
McAlister, G.—3d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 1st Premium for Piano: Premium in Penmanship.
McPhee, W. —Mention in Descriptive Geometry; Mention in Mechanics; 2d Premium in Geology; Premium in Vocal Music.
McConlogue, T.—4th Premium in 1 st Christian Doctrine.
Mackey. J.—2d Premium in Civil Engineering (Execution); 1st Premium in Descriptive Geometry; 1st Premium in Mechanics.
Metzger, C.—Mention in 1st Grammar: 1st Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 1st United States History; 1st Premium for Piano; Mention in Penmanship.
Meehan, A.—1st Premium in Literature; Premium in Phonography.
Maudrue, J.—1st Premium in 1st Reading.
Morrison, W.—4th Premium in Logic; 1st Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Murphy, F.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
McConnell, T.—Mention in Penmanship.
Newman, J.—1st Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium for Piano.
Newman, W.—Mention in 1st Reading.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
°73
O’Neill, H.—2d Premium in 6th Latin; 3d Premium in * Ancient History; 2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
O’Shea, J.—Mention in 4th Latin; 3d Premium in 5th . Greek; 4th Premium in Modern History; 1st Premium in 3d German.
Parker, D.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography.
Powers, F.—4th Premium in Physiology.
Philips J.—2d Premium in Sth Latin; 4th Premium in Composition; 2d Premium in 3d German; 2d Premium for Violin; Premium in Penmanship.
Paquette, C.—1st Premium in Logic; Mention in Mechanics; 2d Premium in Zoology; Mention in Geology; 1st Premium in Architectural Drawing.
Prudhomme, E.—Mention in 2d French.
Paradis, J.—1st Premium in Moral Philosophy; Mention in Astronomy; Mention in Criticism; 1st Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Pim, L.—Mention in Botany; Premium in Phonography.
Rebillot, J—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 1 st Orthography.
Ramsey, C.—Premium in Vocal Music.
Rothert, 0.—Mention in English History; 4th Premium in Physiology, 1st Premium for Violin.
Reynolds, M.—Mention in Logic; 1st Premium in Civil Engineering (Theory); Mention in Civil Engineering (Execution).
Schwarz, H.—Premium in Phonography; Premium in Penmanship.
Sinnott, N.—2d Premium in 2d Latin; 2d Premium in - 3d Greek; 2d Premium in 1st Geometry; 3d Premium in Literature; Premium in Modern History; 1st Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Schaack, E.—Mention in Physiology.
Scherrer, L.—2d Premium in Mechanics; 1st Premium in Geology.
Sullivan, D.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; Mention in Penmanship.
Sinclair, C.—Mention in 2d Book-Keeping.
Standard, F.—Mention in 2d Grammar; Mention in 1st Orthography.
Sanchez, J.—Premium in Spanish.
Sullivan, 0.—1st Premium in Linear Drawing.
Sanford, L.—Mention in 1st Geometry.
Tivnen, B.—Mention in 4th Algebra; Premium in Phonography.
Talbot, J.—4th Premium in xst Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; Mention in 4th Algebra; 2d Premium in Mechanical Drawing.
Wade, T.—Mention in 4th Algebra; 1st Premium in Architectural Drawing.
Wright, J.—1st Premium for Piano.
Youngerman, F.—4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Zimmerman, V.—Premium in Type-Writing.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Adler, Max.—Mention in 3d Grammar.
Aarons, H.—5th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; Mention in 4th German.	*
Bates, B.—Mention in 1st Grammar.
Brady, J.—Mention in 5th Latin; Mention in Surveying; Mention in English History; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in Architectural Drawing; 1st Premium in Literature.
■ Brady, T.—Mention in 1st Book-Keeping.
Brady, W.—3d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Bruel, S.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in 1st Orthography.
Boyd, R.—Mention in 4th Latin; Mention in Trigonometry; Mention in Modern History.
Bradley, J.—Mention in 1st Book-Keeping; Mention in 1st Arithmetic (1st Div.); 3d Premium in 2d Algebra. 3d Premium in 1st Geography; 1st Premium in 1st United States History.
Bos, G:—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 1st United States History; 2d Premium in 2d German; Premium for Piano.	.
Barger, E.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium
in 2d Reading; Mention in 2d Orthography; Mention in Penmanship.
'	Burke, V.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Barclay, J.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; Mention in 2d Orthography; 1st Premium in 2d Geography; 1st Premium in 2d United States History; Mention in Spanish.
Burns, W.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 4th Algebra; 2d Premium in.ist Arithmetic (2d Div).
Crandall, E.—5th Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; Mention in 1st Arithmetic (1st Div).
Cunningham, J.—Mention for Piano; 1st Premium in ikrchitectural Drawing; Mention in Penmanship.
Bergland, O.—Mention in 3d Grammar.
Conroy, D.—Mention in 1st Reading; 2d Premium ini 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium in Phonography.
Covert, W.—2d Premium in Architectural Drawing.
Cudahy, J.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in< 2d Christian Doctrine.
Coll, J.—3d Premium for Piano.	'
Collins, J.—4th Premium in 2d-Reading; Mention ire 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine,
Connors, J.—1st Premium in Penmanship.
Campbell, A.—Mention in 4th Algebra; Mention in 1st Arithmetic.
' Coilman, W.—4th Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography.	■
Cheeney, H.—Mention in 2d Orthography; Mention in 2d Geography; Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Coe, H.—4th Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d United States History. .
DuBrul, E.—2d Premium in Literature; Mention in English History; 3d Premium in Physiology.
Dion, P.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; Mention in 1st French; Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Davis, L.—3d Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Premiun in Architectural Drawing; 3d Premium in 2d Algebra.
Deutsch, N.—4th Premium in 2d Reading.
Delany, J.—2d Premium in 3d Algebra; 4th Premium in Composition; Mention in Penmanship
Dempsey, J.—Mention in 4th Algebra; Mention for Piano.
Dorsey, E.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; Mention in 2d Geography; Mention in-Penmanship.
DeLormier, B.—Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Flannigan, J.—4th Premium in 1st Book-Keeping.
Fitzgerald, J.—1st Premium in 5th Latin; 2d Premium in 6th Greek; 2d Premium in 2d Geometry; 1st Premium in Rhetoric; Mention in Modern History; Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Fitzgerald, C.—Mention in ^th Latin; Mention in Tri<r-onometry; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Premium in Modern History; Premium in 1st Christian'Doctrine.
Funke, A. W.—3d Premium for Piano.
Funke, A. M.—2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 2d Premium for Piano.
Fleming, S.—Mention in 2d Algebra. © >	_©
Gibert, P.—3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Gerlach, W. —2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d German; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium for Piano.
Garrison, E.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 4th German; Premium in Phonography.
Girsch, J.—1st Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Gross, R.—3d Premium in.2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Galen, A.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic; Mention in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.	.
Grund, O.—Mention in 2d United States History.
Hull, H.—Mention in 3d /Yrithmetic; 1st Premium in 2d Reading; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Geography.
Hannin,. M.—Mention in 7th Latin; Mention in 1st Geometry; Mention in 1st Algebra; 4th Premium in Ancient History.
Hack, J.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography; Mention in 3d Grammar.
Hahn, G.—Mention in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in 2d German; Mention in Penmanship.
Hesse. B.—Mention in 1st Book-Keeping: 1st Premium in 3d Algebra.
Healv, R.—Premium in Rhetoric.
Higgle, A.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Mention in 2d Reading: 3d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Halthusen, W.—Mention in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine: Premium in Type-Writing
Heller, A.—4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; Premium in Penmanship.
Hagus, J.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; Mention in ist Reading: 3d Premium for Piano.
Jacobs, P.—2d Premium in 3d German; .Mention in ist Arithmetic.
Jewett, E.—3d Premium in 3d Algebra; Mention in Ancient History.
Kearnev/J.—3d Premium in 7th Latin; 2d Premium in 2d Geometry; 3d Premium in Composition; 3d Premium in Ancient History; Mention in Penmanship.
Keough, F.—2d Premium in 7th Latin; 1st Premium in 2d Geometry; 1st Premium in Composition; 2d Premium in Ancient History.
Kehoe, V.—Mention in 2d Grammar.
Kellner, F.—3d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Kutsche, W.—1st Premium for Piano.
Leonard, A.—Mention in 2d Grammar.
Leonard, J.—1st Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; 1st Premium in 7th Latin; Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine. -
Lenard, R.—4th Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d United States History.
Lansing, E.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 1 st Reading.
Loewenstein, H.—Mention in 2d Reading.
Lorie. W.—3d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d United States History; Mention in 1st Orthography.
Murphy, P.—2d Premium in Surveying; Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Freehand Drawing; 2d Premium for Literature.
Maurus, E.—1st Premium in 6th Latin; Mention in ist Geometrv; Mention in Literature; Mention in Ancient Historv;'ist Premium in 1st German; Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Linear Drawing; ist Premium in 2d Algebra.
Maher, W.—4th Premium in ist Book-Keeping; Mention in ist Arith. (ist Div.); 2d Premium in 2d Algebra.
Monarch, L.—Mention in 7th Latin; Premium for Vocal Music.
Monarch, D.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Merz, C.—1st Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium for Piano. •
Mitchell, W.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in ist Orthography.
Martin, S.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Reading.
McCartney, E.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; Premium in Penmanship.	.
McPhillips, Jas.—Premium for Vocal Music.
McPhillips, P.—3d Premium in 4th Algebra.
McDonnell, F.—Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
McNally, F.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography.
McIvers,E.—Mention in 7th Latin; Premium for Piano.
Neef, F.—Mention in Surveying; Mention in English History; ist Premium in 2d French; ist Premium in Architectural Drawing.	.
Neef, A.—ist Premium in Sth Latin; ist Premium in 4th Algebra; Mention in ist German; Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.	.
Nester, A.—2d Premium for Piano.
O’Brien, G.—Mention in Physiology; Premium in Microscopy; Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
O’Rourke, F.—Mention in 2d Grammar; Premium for Piano; Mention in Penmanship.
Otis, A.—Mention in Composition; 2d Premium in Linear Drawing.	-
O’Mara, J.—Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Pre mium for Piano.
Putnam, F.—3d Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in ist United States History; Mention in 3d Grammar.
Pomeroy, W.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Prichard, A.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in Sth Latin; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 2d Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Quinlan, M.—Mention in 4th Latin; 1st Premium in 5th Greek; ist Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Premium in 3d German; Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Quill, D.—Mention in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Reading; ist Premium in ist Orthography; Mention in 4th German; Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Rarig, W.—Mention for Violin.
Stanton, W.—Premium in Telegraphy.
Schillo, C.—Premium in Phonography.
Schillo, F.—ist Premium in ist Book-Keeping; Premium in Phonography; Premium for Vocal Music; 2d Premium in Architectural Drawing; 2d Premium in ist Arithmetic (1st Div).
Scott, S.—3d Premium in ist Grammar; Premium for Vocal Music.
Seerey, J.—ist Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in ist United States History; ist Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium for Piano.
Snyder, J.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Orthography.
Scherrer, C.—3d Premium in ist Geometry; Mention in Physiology; Premium in Microscopy; ist Premium in 3d French.
Sutter, L.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium for
Vocal Music.	_
Stapleton, B.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in ist Grammar; Mention in 2d Geometry; Mention in 4th Algebra; Mention in 4th German.
Treff, H.—3d Premium for Piano; Mention in ist Arithmetic; Mention in Penmanship.
Thorn, F.—3d Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Tinsley, C.—Mention in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Piemium in 3d Arithmetic.
Walsh, J.—ist Premium in ist Grammar.
Welch, A.—Premium in Phonography.
Weston, W.—2d Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in ist United States History.
Wile, F.—2d Premium in 4th Latin; 2d Premium in Trigonometry; 2d Premium in ist Algebra; 2d Premium in Literature; Mention in Physiology; 3d Premium in 5th Greek.
Weitzel, G.—1st Premium in 5th Latin; 1st Premium in Trigonometry; ist Premium in 2d German; Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in Architectural Drawing.
Ward, J.—Mention in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Geography.
Whalen, E.—2d Premium in 2d Reading; Mention in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d United States History.	"	.
Whalen, T.—2d Premium in 2d. Reading; Mention in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar.
Wolff, E.—2d Premium in Sth^Latin; 2d Premium in Composition; ist Premium in 3d.German; Mention in Penmanship.
Wertheimer, A.—3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; Mention in Penmanship.
White, J.—Mention in ist Geography; ist Premium in 3d Grammar.
Zinn, W.—Mention in ist Reading.
'	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Adler, R.—2d Premium in 5th Reading; 3d Premium in 5th Orthography; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Allen, W.—Premium for good conduct.
Ayres, J.—ist Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Ball, R.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium for Piano; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography; 2d Premium in 4th Penmanship.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	675
Brown, 0.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium for Piano; 4th Premium in 3d Grammar; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography.
Brown, F.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium for Piano.
Blake, S.—2d Premium in4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 4th Geography; 4th Premium in Orthography.
Burns, T.—ist Premium! n 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Grammar.
Barbour, J.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic 55th Premium in ist Grammar; 2d P emium in Orthography; 7th Premium in ist Geography; 3d Premium for Piano; 4th Premium in Reading.
Browning, Roy.—ist Mention in ist Arithmetic; 5th Premium in Geography; 3d Premium in istGrammar; 6th Premium in ist Orthography.
Bixby, G.—ist Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Cornell, F.—ist Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine: 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; ist Premium for Piano.
Crandall, W.— 2d Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography, 5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Penmanship.	'
Connor, C.—ist Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 4th Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium in ist Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium for Piano.
Connor, W.—ist Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography 5th Premium in 2d Reading. .
Covert, G.—2d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Crawford, W.—ist Premium in 3d Reading; ist Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium for Piano.
Crawford, A.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Geography; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Premium for Piano.
Crane, J.—4th Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in Penmanship; 7th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 6th Premium in ist Gram.
Croke, F.—ist Premium in 5th Orthography; 2d Premium in 5th Reading; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Coon, E.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography; 5th Premium in 3d Geography.
Durand, H.—2d Premium in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Geography; 4th Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium for Piano; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Drant, C.—3d Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in 5th Orthography; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Elkin, E.—ist Premium in ist Grammar; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Geography.
Ezekiel, E.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Orthography.
Finnerty, T.—ist Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Finnerty, W.—ist Premium in 6th Reading; ist Premium in 6th Orthography; ist Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Fisci er, A.—4th Premium in 3d Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Geography; 7th Premium,in 3d Grammar; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography.
Frankel, W.—2d Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in 5th Orthography; 3d Premium in 5th Arithtm tic.
Falvey, E.—ist Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; ^th Premium in ist Grammar; 6th Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Fuller, W.—ist Premium in 5th Penmanship; Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in •5th Orthography. -
Furthmann, E.—3d Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 3d Geography; Premium for Piano.
Furthmann, C.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium for Piano.
Furthmann, W.—ist Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; ist Premium in 4th Geography; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Funke, G.—2d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Penmanship.	‘
Flynn, J.—ist Premium in 4th Arithmetic; ist Premium in 4th Reading; ist Premium in 4th Geography; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Girardin, W.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Greene, A. 6th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in ist Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Orthography;. 7th Premium in ist Geography.
Gilbert, H.—ist Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 4th Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Geography; 5th Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in Penmanship.
Gilkison, D.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium for Piano; 2d Premium for Penmanship.
Gilkison, A.—ist Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in Orthography; 3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 4th Geography; 2d Premium for Piano.
Grant, C.—ist Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in .d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th Premium in 2d Geography.
Griggs, J.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Geography; ist Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography. ‘
Griggs, C.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; 6th Premium in 2d Reading.
Girsch, C.—istPremium in 4th Arithmetic; istPremium in 4th Orthography; ist Premium in 4th Geography; 2d Premium in4th Reading; 2d Premium in4th Penmanship; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine;
Hill, F.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Henneberry. M.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Reading.
Hoffmann, W.—ist Premium in 5th Penmanship; ist Premium in 5th Arithmetic; ist Premium in 5th Reading.
Hamilton. W.—ist Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium for Piano.
Hendry, H.—ist Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography; 2d Premium in 4th Penmanship; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 4th Geography.
Holbrook F. —2d Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 3d Geography; 5th Premium in 3d Grammar.
Jonquet, E.—2d Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Krollman, C.—ist Premium in 4th Reading;2d Premium for Piano; ist Premium in 4th Geography; ist Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Keeler, S.—ist Premium in 4th Penmanship; 2d Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium in 4th Geography; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
King, E.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Geography; -4th Premium in 3d Orthography.
Kuehl, E.—3d Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography; 3d Premium in Penmanship; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
676
THE NOTRE DAMS SCHOLASTIC.
Klaner, G.—2d Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Grammer; 4th Premium for Piano.
Kern, C,—1st Premium in 4th Penmanship; 2d Premium in 5th Arithmethic; 3d Premium in 4th Rea ing; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography; 5th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Longergan, A.—1st Premium in 3d Reading; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 4th Orthography.
Londoner H.—1st Premium in 4th Reading; 1st Premium in 4th Geography; 3d Premium for Piano; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 4th Orthography.
Lonnsbery, J.—1st Premium in 4th Penmanship; 2d Premium in4th Reading; 2d Premium in qth Orthography; 4th Premium in 4th Geography.
Lamberton, C.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Reading.
Lamberton, H.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium in 4th Geography.
Levi, M.—2d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Loonie, f.—3d Premium'in jst Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 6th Premium in 1st Geography.
Loomis, B.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic; Premium for Piano; 2d Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 1st Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in 4th Geography.
Montague, H.—1st Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d . Premium in 3d Geography; 2d Premium for Piano.
Maternes, J.—2d Premium in 3d Geography; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; 5th Premium in 3d Reading;
• 6th Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium for Piano.
Marr, W.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography.
Mattas, A.—2d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Mestling, E.—1st Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium for Piano; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 5th Premium in 4th Geography.
McPhee, Raymond.—Premium for good conduct.
Mestling, H-—-d Premium for Piano; 1st Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography; 3d Premium in 4th Geography. ’
Mvers H.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Pre mium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
McGuire, S.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Geography; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic.	-
McPhee, C.—1st Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Geography.
McPhillips, F.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; 2d. Premium in Penmanship.
Morrison, B.—3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 6th Premium in 1st Ari'hmetic; 4'h Premium in 1st Orthography; 7th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in first Geography; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Marre, j.—1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Reading.	'	-
.	Mosier, W.—4th Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium
m sth Orthography.
Nichols, W.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3 Premium in id Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Geography; 5th Premium in 1 st Orthography.
Nichols, C.—2d Premium for Piano; 1st Premium in . 5th Penmanship; 1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 5th Reading. .
O'Neill, J.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar 54th Premium
in xst Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Chistian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 1st Geography.
Oatman, D.—3d Premium in 5th Reading; 4 Premium in 6th Penmanship.
Priestly. M.—2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Geography.
Paul, C.—1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography; 2d Premium in Penmanship.	.
Packard, J.—1st Premium in 5th Orthography; 2d Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in 5th Arihmetic.
Packard, C.—2d Premium in 5th Reading; 3d Premium in 5th Orthography; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Roberts, F. - 41b Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in Penmanship.
Ronning, A.— 1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 3d Geography.
Ryan, J.—1st Premium in 5th Orthography; 3d Premium iu 5th Reading; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Stone, L.—4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 5th Premium in 1st Orthography; 6th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 4th Geography;4th Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Scherrer, G.—1st Premium in 4th Reading; 1st Premium in 4th Penmanship; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 3d Premium in 4th Geography; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Scherrer, W.—1st Premium in 4th Reading; 1st Premium in 4th Orthography; 2d Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in 4th Geography; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Stephens, P.—1st Premium in’d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Reading	■
Swan, F.—3d Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography; 5th Premium in 3d Geography.
Thornton, D.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Reading; 5th Premium in Orthography; 2d Premium for Piano.
Trujillo, P.—1st Premium in Piano; 1st Premium in 4th Reading; 1st Premium in 4th Geography; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 1st Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 1 st Premium in Penmanship.
Vorhang, H.—1st Premium in 4th Penmanship; 2d Premium in 4th Orthograph- ; 2d Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Geography; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Vandercook, G.—4th Premium in i.-t Grammar; 5th Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Washburne, V.—2d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium for Piano.
Wilcox, D.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d.Grammar; 4th Premium in Orthography; 2d Premium for.Piano.
Wever, F.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 3d Geography; 4’h.Premium in 3d Reading.
Weber, W.—2d Premium in 5th Reading; 3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 5th Orthography.
Wilson, L.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 3d. Penmanship; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Wolf, F.—2d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 4 Piemium in 2d Geography; 6th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Zoehrlaut, C.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 3d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Zoehrlaut, G.—ist Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Reading.
Ziegler, G,—2d Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in ist Geography; 5th Premium ,in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in Penmanship; 4th Premium in ist Grammar.