
You’ll want to get up for “tourist” classes!
Mortarboards are shuffleboards... 10 o’docks are deck-sports ... 5 o’clocks are teadances... or sleep through your 11 o’clock in a deck chair. You’ll want to stay up for masquerades, bierabends, jollifications, dances, concerts, dinners with de-liciousfood, bridge tournaments,ordoingabsolutelynothing and doing it very well. Sign up now! It’s schooners aweigh to Europe... in the Tourist Class of Lloyd Express and Cabin Liners...and the "tuition” fee is extremely modest in price.
ENGLAND • FRANCE • IRELAND • GERMANY
*Go abroad to study this summer at one of the great foreign universities. The Lloyd will take you there!
32 to 52 Day Tours
The zest of travel and the bright eyes of adventure! 5 to 7 countries in Europe.. .great cities, old-world scenes, and local color...of Germany, France, England, Italy, Switzerland, Austria, Holland, Belgium, Czecho-Slovakia. Convenient sailings on Lloyd liners. A remarkable bargain arranged by Student Pleasure Tours, Inc., and the Open Road. The price includes round-trip passage, hotels, meals, sightseeing, transportation, baggage, and other incidentals. $195 up.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD
130 West Randolph St., Chicago, III. or your local agent.
Let’s smoke a MAN’S SMOKE!
WHEN the girls begin to cut corners in our cars and do back somersaults in our planes and borrow
our cigarettes— then it’s time to take to a pipe!
Call it the last stronghold of masculine defence—or the one pet diversion our little friends keep their fingers off. Call it what you will— there’s something downright satisfy-
Her smoke— a cigarette!
ing, understanding, companionable about a friendly, mellow, MASCU-
LINE pipe! It’s a real man’s smoke! And a pipe’s at
A pipe's a man’s smoke
its best when you fill it up with Edgeworth. There’s a rare, mellow flavor to the Edgeworth blend of fine hurleys that
simply can’t be touched. It’s cut long—to give you a cool, slow-burning smoke. And
you’ll find it the favorite with smokers in 42 out of 54 colleges.
You can get Edgeworth wherever good tobacconists sell smokes. But if you’ve never tried it, we’d like the fun of treating you to that first satisfying pipeful. Just write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKINO TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edge-
3

Patreaize The Advertisers, They Deserve It
worth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —EdgeworthReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes, 15 pocket package to £1.50 pound humidor tin.
April 22, 1932
One
Why Is The Scholastic a Good Advertising Medium?
Because-
1.	It has a guaranteed circulation of over three thousand copies. Every Friday the Scholastic is delivered to the door of every student.
2.	It is not only circulated but it is read. Every issue is an account of campus happenings; news, features, sports— everything of interest to students.
3.	Your advertisements are placed next to interesting read' ing matter in the section of universal appeal—sports.
4.	Our representatives, who know students and their desires, will assist you in planning your campaign, and the use of our free mat service will add life to your copy.
5.	Finally, our rates are so low that the smallest business can afford to contact this live market. A call to 3-1121 will bring a representative.
The Scholastic
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Two
The Scholastic
SPRINGTIME!

April 22, 19-32
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- ■■■■	k I	|	|	B
Ine INotre Dame scholastic
scripts may be addressed to	.	_
the scholastic, Pubu- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
cations Office, Main Building.
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 23, 191S.
Neil C. Hurley__ Henry B. Asman_ William W. Corr.
____Editor-in-Chief ____Managing Editor Departmental Editor
Associate Editors GRANGER WEIL LESLIE RADDATZ MYRON CRAWFORD
News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN..........News	Editor
PATRICK CORCORAN. Assistant News Editor MITCHELL TACKLEY. Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY	ROBERT DILLON
BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM DREUX
LARRY DUNDA	MICHAEL WIEDL
JOHN McELLIGOTT RAY WATERS PAUL FOLEY
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN WILLIAM FLYNN
■	Department Editors
JAMES CARMODY...............The	Week
JOHN PICK...............College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY..............Campus Clubs
JOHN RYAN.............Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER.............Staff	Artist
Sports Staff JAMES S. KEARNS........Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER PAUL HOST	JOSEPH MORPER
JAMES PICK	EDW. VAN HUISSELING
JOSEPH KURTH	'
Features Staff WALTER JOHNSON........Futures Edtior
HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST	TIGHE WOODS
EDWARD J. O’BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN ROY SCHOLZ	LOUIS HRUBY
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN............Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER. .-Iss’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER. JR........Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS. -Iss’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS..........JOSEPH SIMON-
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN. F. STOECKLEY... .Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII.
APRIL 22, 1932
Number 22.
SUMMARY
NEWS
Owen D. Young, national political and financial leader, will deliver- commencement address; will be awarded honorary Doctor of Law degree__________ 5
Law school’s mock Democratic national convention organized; George A. Higgins chosen temporary chairman--------------------------------------- 5
Heartly “Hunk” Anderson, head football coach who will judge the Blossom Festival beauty contest, gives his views on beauty qualifications_______11
Notre Dame debate team gives decision over Purdue-13 Campus politicians begin their spring activities; -junior class quiet-------------------------------1-:_ 7
FEATURES
Tighe Woods—“He’s a likeable guy, gets around plenty . . . John T. Werner . . . “his story may be written in three words: aspired, perspired and retired”; Men About the Campus_______:___________12
William Karl, special correspondent for The Scholastic, continues his series of articles on Germany, written from that country----------------------13
SPORTS
Bill Redmond advances to No. 1 position as golf team prepares for Loyola invasion tomorrow__________20
Louis Chreist, Carl Meyer, and Dick Kelly ranked as first three on varsity tennis. team; open season . tomorrow ___________________________________'— 20
. Charlie Palt returns to form as Irish blank Chicago_21 The Scholastic announces plans and rules for handi-
cap golf tournament____________________________22
Vince Fehlig shoots best card as N. D. golf team overwhelms Valpo_______________________________24
Coach George E. Keogan sights flaws of new rules adopted by basketball rules committee; flays them for favoring defensive team too strongly_______26
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, April 22—Scholastic staff meetings: editorial board, Publications’ office, 6:30 p. m.; news and sports staffs, Publications ’office, 7:00 p. m.—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Law club formal, Palais Royale, 9:00 p. m.—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. South Bend league team, 3:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, April 23—Golf, Notre Dame vs. Loyola, Burke Memorial course, 9:00 a. m.—Tennis, Notre Dame vs. Western State, Notre Dame courts.—Movie, Jackie Cooper in “Sooky,” Washington hall, 6:45 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, April 24—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.—Applications for admission to the Wranglers closes.—Interhall golf matches.—Interhall playground ball, 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, April 25—French club meeting, Main building, 6:30 p. m.—Academy of Science meeting, 104 Science hall, 8:00 p. m.—Meeting of the Bookmen, Law building, 8:00 p. m.	.
TUESDAY, April 26—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard “rec,” 6:30 p. m.—Educational Confraternity meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, April 27—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. University of Chicago, Cartier field, 3:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, April 28—Spectators’ meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
From the amount of criticism which we received after our jibe at the engineers last week we are beginning to think with a certain amount of pride that we are not liked by any except our small circle of friends. That is very pleasing, to say the least. If the lads are not going to give this little sheet a hand for its being good, we’d rather that they give it a hand for being slightly annoying. At any rate, even if it is only because the thing occupies the first page, this weekly mess is not being disregarded. In answer to those who question the fact that we are in favor of anything, we may say that we have a very good connection in Chicago, and that we like draft beer with shrimp. And we know two engineers at least who are smart, one of them almost too much so. As we said before, we are moderately pleased.
V
The announcement that the glee club is to sing at St. Mary’s again brings to mind the very enjoyable concert they gave there last year. It was enjoyable not so much for the excellence of the rendition, or the choice of numbers, as for the hearty laugh it provided for the feminine sophisticates and for the hitherto confident young men. The proceedings started off with a titter from one of the girls at the start of that eminently serious bit, the Volga Boat Song, and culminated in a burst of laughter that is seldom associated with customers at girls’ schools when Bill McAleer, who will be remembered as one of that company who wrecked cars at the Ball, came out with a big “Fight!” during the softer moments of the best campus songs.
V
We note with amusement an article in the dailies to the effect that Hunk Anderson is to be a judge of the forthcoming beauty contest
in connection with the blossom festival. The amusement is provided by the contrast between the type of judging he is about to do, and the type of judging he does every day from 4:00 to 5:30. We have a mental picture of him viewing the assembled pulchritude of Baroda and Niles and Galien, with a smile spreading over his face as he thinks to himself what a scene it would be if the receivers of the laurels were some of his crew, Butch Piv or The Moose or the Kingfish. The funny thing about the whole business is the connection between double spinners and cutbacks and the weighing of female attractiveness in the balance. It is all a little bit like Marie Dressier's taking the blindfold test.
V
E have surprised, during the past two days, a pair of campus personalities, athletes, who are breaking tradition among athletes so far as to read, quietly and without any fanfare, books; nor are they textbooks. Stump Cronin, who is the candy store’s most consistent purchaser and user of chawin’ tobacco, is almost an authority on Irish history, and is deep in Shakespeare at the present moment. His modesty has always been such that no one even knew he had a book until we caught him at his brain-feeding. And Paul Host, who has gained some fame as captain-elect of football, reads up on the history of surgery, takes side trips into Plato, and is interested in American social development. Evidently the days are past when there was a common fear that dat ole debbil education would hit the camp of the athletes and render them forthwith softies. We don’t doubt that even now some of their brethren will frown on them for knowing anything more than the signals ; but there will come a day when halfbacks and forwards will laugh at McGuffey’s Reader rather than puzzle over it.
$ £ £
April 22, 1932
Five
TICKETS FOR SENIOR BALL PLACED ON SALE
OWEN 0. YOUNG, NOTED FINANCIER, WILL GIVE COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS
Plans Nearing Completion; Price Will Be $12.50.
Following is the budget for the Senior Ball as approved by the Faculty Dance Committee:
Proposed Income Tickets, 225 at $12.50...$2,811.50
Commencement Invitations ...	150.00
Total .......................$2,961.50
Proposed Disbursements
Orchestras for Ball and Tea Dance ......................$1,000.00
Favors, 250 at $3.25........... 812.50
Programs, 250 at 35c............ 87-50
Rental of Palais Royal........	300.00
Chain o’ Lakes Country Club.. 130.00
Ball Invitations ............... 50.00
Printing ....................... 25.00
Publicity ...................... 25.00
Decorations ................... 200.00
$2,630.00
Sinking Fund, 10% of pro-
posed disbursements ......... 263.00
Total ...........’...........$2,893.00
The Senior Ball committees made known today that all advance arrangements have been completed.
Chairman Frank Donalty of the ticket group announced that ducats for the ball are now available and may be procured from the following men: Andrew McGuan, Corby; Leo Fagan, Sorin; Red Jackson, Walsh; and Herbert Petzel, Off-Campus. The price, as in past years, will be $12.50.
George Cullinan, chairman of the Tea Dance, announced this morning that the Chain O’ Lakes Country club has been obtained for the Tea Dance. The charge of the Tea Dance is included in the regular Ball price, which, as mentioned above, is $12.50. Cullinan promises a good orchestra and a few surprising attractions.
Co-chairmen Dick Oelerich and Jack Geddes of the decorations committee announce that the Palais will be done “something in white.”
The favor committee, under the direction of Gabe Moran, has selected the Ball gift. It is customary that it remain a secret until the week of the dance.
Joe Judge, of the invitations committee, stated yesterday that the invitations may be procured upon the purchase of the ticket.
Higgins to Sound Keynote for Mock Democratic Meet
By Patrick Corcoran
George A. Higgins, a freshman in the College of Law, was this week elected temporary chairman of the
George H. Higgins
On him the Democrats pin their hopes.
mock Democratic national convention to be held in the Law School, May 5.
The rest of the pre-convention organization was named and includes Robert Markland, temporary secretary, Raymond Reardon, sergeant-at-arms, and Robert Purcell and John J. Orzechowski, doorkeepers.
Regular Procedure to be Followed
Committees appointed are as follows: Credentials, Joseph Deeb, chairman, Walter Bernard, and William Weir; permanent organization, William T. Hall, chairman, Kenneth Konop, and Joseph Glass; platform resolutions, James Rohl, chairman, William Darrow, and J. M. Barrett; rules and order of business, John Fetzer, chairman, Alan Foley, and John Leddy.
The mock convention will follow as closely as possible the procedure of the regular Democratic national convention, which will be held this year at Chicago late in June.
The chairman of the national committee, Harry Busscher, will call the convention to order and will then relinquish the chair to Temporary Chairman Higgins, who will deliver* (Continued on Page 12)
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
Announcement Made At New-York Banquet Last Monday Night.
By Edmund Stephan
Outstanding in the address delivered by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, to the Notre Dame club of New York last Monday evening was the announcement that Owen D. Young, nationally known figure in American politics and finance, will be the principal commencement speaker here Sunday, June 5.
The choice of Mr. Young to fill such a role is altogether in harmony with the general policy of securing some distinguished personage for the occasion. At the present time he is chairman of the board of the General Electric, but is perhaps best known for the part he played in the formulation of the famous Young plan, basis for the payment of World War reparations.
The commencement speaker is being boomed in many parts of the country for the Democratic nominee for the Presidency of the United States.
During the exercises Mr. Young will be awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Law by the University.
Commencement invitations are still obtainable from the representatives in the three senior halls. Announcement of the class valedictorian orator and poet will appear in next week’s Scholastic.
Handicap Golf Tourney
A handicap golf tournament will be sponsored this Spring by The Scholastic. Details of the event will be found on page 22 of the sports section.
The competition will be open to all students of the University, according to the regulations set by the Golf Editor.
Six
The Scholastic
Offices Plas Politicians, And The Same Old Story
JOSEPH DEEB ELECTED LAW CLUB PRESIDENT
TICKETS REVEALED
Officers For Coming Year Are Chosen At Club Meeting.
Rohrs, Fiss, Maybe Lukats Hop Into Senior Race; Underclassmen Organize.
Addonizio Is Elected New Jersey Prexy
Joseph Deeb, a junior in the College of Law and former president of the Presidents’ Council, was unanimously elected to the presidency of
By Peter Jensen
Political activity opened up in earnest this week, with most parties emerging from the veil of secrecy that has characterized their efforts thus far.
In the fight for the senior- offices, • where enthusiasm should be the strongest, a distinguishable dormant air prevails. Three tickets are obviously in the field, but no outward manifestation has been made.
Presidential Nominees
For the presidency of the seniorclass, early indications point to a struggle between Nick Lukats, George Rohrs, and Charles Fiss.. No authentic information concerning the remainder of the tickets could be obtained up to last night.
Lukats, whose eligibility is underquestion in some quarters, is being backed by a group led by Joe Kurth.
Fiss’ campaign is understood to be managed Ed Dailey, former sophomore president, Pat Crowley, and Howard Douville. Rohrs is the regular organization candidate, with Finneran lurking behind the ticket.
In the junior class elections, where tickets have already appeared in full length, the battle for the presidency is centered about John Venables, Joe Condon, and Hugh O’Neill.
Ffrench Backs Venables
Venables, who has the strength of John Ffrench, Ed Krause, and Larry Licalzi with his candidacy, is having his campaign managed by Al Smith, chairman of the Cotillion ticket committee.
As the organization leader behind the Condon forces is Jimmy Dunnigan. The O’Neill group, composed of a conglomeration of forces, are at present working jointly without any definite manager.
The Allied-Hall ticket of the Freshman classes have selected Joe Flynn, of Brownson hall, to carry their initial party standard.
(Contniued on Page 14)	'
Sabby Addonizio, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of the New Jersey club at the annual election of officers held last night in the Law building.
John Newbauer and James Fagan were chosen vice-president and secretary respectively. Robert MacDon-ough was elected treasurer to succeed Addonizio, who acted in that capacity during the present school year.
The elections were supervised by Edward Kosky, president of the Metropolitan club, and by John Kolsky of the Chicago club.
Following the elections important business was discussed at length by the members. At the close of the meeting Kosky spoke to the members, urging them to continue their spirit of cooperation for the betterment of the New Jersey club, and for the success of the newly elected officers.-
Large German Club Meeting Hears Turnverein Songs
The German Turnverein of South Bend entertained more than a hundred and fifty members of the German club and their guests in the auditorium of the Law building last Tuesday evening.
Directed by their leader, Professor-Mathes, the South Bend organization sang a variety of German folk songs and American favorites in a varied musical program. Mimeographed copies of the songs were distributed throughout the enthusiastic audience which was composed of both students and South Bend people.
This was the first time that the German club, under the leadership of Professor Menge, brought these singers to the University. At the close of the meeting the presiding officer-expressed the desire that the two organizations co-operate to their mutual advantage in the future.
Joseph Deeb
A unanimous election at Notre Dame!
the Law club at a meeting of the club Wednesday.
Other officers elected for the next year are Leo Cook, vice-president, Joe Foley, treasurer, and Thomas Mc-Kevitt, secretary. Frank Brown opposed Cook for the vice-presidency and was defeated by but a small majority of votes.
The officers who have served the club during the past year and who will continue their positions till June are Edward England, president, John Harrington, vice - president, Daniel Lencione, treasurer, and Norbert Christman, secretary.
HISTORY NOTICE! |
The written comprehensive exam- I ination for seniors majoring in his- I tory will be given on Wednesday, May | 4, from 10:00 a. m. to 12:00, in Room I 202 of the Commerce building.	|
John M. Ryan, C.S.C.	I
April 22, 1932
Seven
ORATORY AND FEASTS FEATURE N. D. NIGHT
Father O’Donnell Speaks To New York Alumni.
Wirry Named Head Football Manager at Annual Banquet
OTHERS GET POSTS
By Roy Waters
Last Monday night gatherings throughout the world marked the observance of the ninth annual Universal Notre Dame Night.
On this same occasion the various city clubs were addressed by members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the faculty, and by other men prominent in Notre Dame activities.
Speaking before the Notre Dame Club of New York City, the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, defended Notre Dame from the charge made against the University in the London Saturday Review which asserted that Notre Dame is “a place of no particular intellectual pretensions.”
Cites Achievement
In refuting this charge Father O’Donnell cited a long list of achievements to offset the slur.
In addressing the members of the Saint Joseph Valley Alumni club, the Reverend Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., former president of the University, and honorary president of the club, dwelt uopn the purpose of an organization such as the Notre Dame Alumni.
Professor Charles Phillips, in his address to the alumni of the Calumet District, urged the support of the alumni in the scholastic as well as the athletic activities of the undergraduates.
Must Have Cooperation
In his talk he stressed the point that a university, to be successful in producing leaders, must have the interest and cooperation of its alumni in the academic work of the institution. He suggested active correspondence between alumni and students as a means to help the future alumnus prepare himself for the trials awaiting his departure from school work.
Announcement of the plans for the forthcoming commencement program was also made during the meetings of the various clubs. These plans are discussed in another article appearing in The Scholastic.
Carey Defeats Room-mate To Win Election
The Navy game is to be played in Cleveland in 1932. A student trip, possibly, will be held on the same day. Presidency of next year’s Cleveland club accordingly will carry considerable responsibility.
Cleve Carey
- Too bad it was his room-mate.
In an election that was marked by careful planning and crafty maneuvers, Cleve Carey was last night balloted into the control of that organization. John Penote, another- Junior, was elected vice-president. John Venables and Ed Carey became treasurer and secretary respectively.
Carey, in his inaugural pep talk stressed the ordinary thing of greater-club activity. Plans are already under way for a farewell banquet for the departing senior members.
A bit of pathos crept into the Cleveland club election this year. Strongest of Carey’s opponents for the position was Jim Uprichard, his room-mate. Little was there to talk about during the nights of the past week as each lay in bed counting votes.
Other candidates defeated for the presidency were Frank Slough, Leslie Raddatz, and Allison O’Brien.
A radio actor shot three of his fingers off last week in a gun scene.
Sherman, Kenny, Shinners, Martin, Buhl, Baker, and O’Keefe Appointed.
By Paul Foley
Anthony Wirry, a junior in the Arts and Letters school, was named by Athletic Director Jesse Harper to succeed John Grams as senior manager of football. The announcement was made last night at the annual Managers’ banquet, held in the lay faculty dining hall.
In addition to the appointment of Wirry, Harper announced the selection of Frank Buhl as stadium manager, and John Sherman as detail manager, who were to be given the title of Associate Managers of football.
Other Major Sports
The managerial positions in the other majoi- sports were given to Burton Shinners, and John Kenny, Shinners being awarded the basketball post, while Kenny was allotted the position of track manager.
Donald Martin as manager of baseball, along with Andrew O’Keefe, golf manager, and James Baker, who was awarded the dual role of tennis and cross-country manager, make up the rest of the 1933-34 staff.
The seven positions allotted to the Junior class of next year, will be filled by Managers Fisher, Hanley, Kelley, Lewis, Mulvihill, Quinn, and Sullivan.
Coaches Address Group
The diners at the managers’ banquet were addressed also by George Keogan, basketball and baseball coach, and John Nicholson, track mentor. The talks by the coaching staff were followed by speeches on the part of the retiring senior managers, and their newly apointed successors.
In addition to the Senior and Junior appointments, it was announced that the Sophomore managerial staff will be made up of Bringardner, Broeman, Burkhart, Coll, Demetric, Gerrits, Gorman, Hill, Keating, Kirley, Mc-Elligott, Oakes, Pillera, Thompson, Van Etten, Walsh, Weber, and Williams.
Eight
The Scholastic
WHITMAN GIVES VIEWS ON LAW DEVELOPMENT
Explains Evolution of Legal Schools To Local Club.
By Paul Foley
The Pre-Law club of Notre Dame were addressed at their meeting last Tuesday night,, by John Whitman, Law librarian of the University.
The speaker, in the course of a talk entitled "Methods of Studying Law,” traced the development of law schools, from the early method of apprenticeship in a lawyer’s office, up to the present systematized course of university study.
The Case Book, or Harvard system was explained at length, the speaker pointing out how such a plan evolved from the text-book course. In this phase of his talk the lecturer traced the development of American legal literature, and explained the proper method of drawing up and presenting a legal brief of a case.
After the principal speech of the evening, current business of the club was discussed. Tentative plans for a smoker were debated, and the meeting was concluded with a consideration of adopting a club pin.
Favor Girl For First Post on Boston U. Golf Team
By Intercollegiate Press.
Boston, Mass., Apr. 21. — Everything seems to favor placing Miss Dorothy Hunter at No. 1 post on the Boston University golf team. Nine of the men golfers at the university object, and Miss Hunter is willing "if I make the team.”
The university’s student manager asserts there is no rule that can be invoked against the appointment.
For two years Miss Hunter was women’s junior golf champion of this state, - and was for two years women’s champion golfer of Hawaii. She won her first tournament at the age of 14.
“Painless” Dentist At Last
By Intercollegiate Press.
Pittsburgh, Pa., Apr. 21. — Three University of Pittsburgh dentists last week experimented successfully in pulling a patient’s tooth with the aid of no anesthetic except that the patient, a youth, was hypnotized. The patient felt no pain.
SPEAKER
Librarian Paul Byrne, who will hold the floor at the coming Bookmen meeting. His topic is to be concerned with book collecting. Librarian Byrne is the second of a group of faculty men to talk to the local club.
Science Students Return From Indianapolis Trip
Reverend Francis Wenninger, C. S. C., dean of the College of Science, and thirty seniors of the college returned yesterday from a two-day trip to Indianapolis, Ind.
They were the guests of the EliLily Company, producers of biologi-cals. They made a scientific inspection of the plant and viewed practical demonstrations of the manufacture of various sera.
Science Notice!
Registration in the College of Science will be continued for sophomores on Monday and Tuesday, April 25 and 26, and for the juniors on Wednesday and Thursday, April 27 and 28.
Academy Will Meet Monday
The regular meeting of the Academy of Science will be held Monday evening at 8:00 p. m. in Room 104, Science hall. Papers will be presented by Charles O. Kronke and James P. Danehy, senior and junior respectively, in the College of Science.
All members are urged to attend since important business will be discussed following the reading of the papers.
FORUM HEARS RIORDAN
William Gorman Gives Paper; Kosky Is New Director.
At the third weekly meeting of the Press Forum, Wednesday morning, William Gorman presented a paper on the advantages of “Newspaper Work as a Preparation for Fiction Writing.” Robert R. Riordan, registrar of the University, was the faculty guest.
In his paper Gorman defined modern journalism as literature in action. “Tne public,” he said, “is always desirous of knowing the latest news and it is necessary for the reporter to write interestingly, not for one, but for many.” The necessity of having to write something every day Gorman believed to be a very valuable prerequisite to fiction writing.
Mr. Riordan, in the discussion that followed the reading of the paper, pointed out two advantages for fiction writers to be gained from journalism. First, cub reporting teaches one to observe all things and distinguish the important from the nonimportant. And secondly, the discipline of having to write, keeps the writer from constantly putting things off.
Professor Cooney, head of the department of journalism, announced Wednesday that Edwin Kosky has been chosen Director of the forum. Although the Forum is but three weeks old keen interest is evidenced by the fact that thirty-eight students were present at the last meeting.
Arizona Law Graduates Want Their Diplomas Much Larger
By Intercollegiate Press.
Tucson, Ariz., Apr. 22. — Students of the College of Law at the University of Arizona have presented to President H. L. Shantz a petition asking that graduating seniors of the college be presented with diplomas of a larger size and more suitable nature than those which have been given in recent years.
The petitioners complained that the diplomas have been too • small and insignificant for purposes of framing as is customary with' professional men who display their certificates on the walls of their offices.
The diplomas of other law colleges are as a rule approximately three times the size of that given by Arizona.
April 22, 1932
Nine
"JEFFERS IS A PRIMITIVE”
Kenneth Kreps Says So at a Bookmen Meeting.
“Jeffers is a primitive,” said Kenneth L. Kreps in a paper entitled “Robinson Jeffers, the Carmelian Colossus”, read at the meeting of the Bookmen last Monday evening. “He likes to flee from society to the solitude of the natural world; he loves the unchanging aspect of rock, mountains, and sea. His people are those who have never known conformity to culture or have escaped from it.”
Kreps’ appraisal of this contemporary American poet included a short biographical sketch, and a summary of several of his important works. Cawdor was said to be Jeffers’ greatest production up to the present time.
The speaker concluded by saying that because of the poet’s unconventionality of theme and technique he is able to portray man vividly and un-derstandingly. His rare talents will undoubtedly assure him first place in the rank of American poets.
The next meeting of the club will be held in the library where Mr. Paul Byrne will give a talk on book collecting. This is one of a series of talks being given by faculty members. The last guest speaker was Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady who stressed the value of a scientific background for time literary accomplishment.
Dictator’s Wife Cited
By Intercollegiate Press.
MOSCOW, Apr. 21.—Mme Joseph Stalin, wife of the Russian dictator, was recently cited publicly both for cutting classes in the technical institute which she is attending as a student of artificial silk manufacture and for failure to return library books at the end of the time limit. Mme. Stalin, whom most of the students do not know is the wife of the dictator, is 30 and the mother of two children.
Peppiest Co-ed Selected
By Intercollegiate Press.
Iowa City, Iowa, Apr. 21. — The peppiest co-ed at the University of Iowa is the title of the crown conferred on Miss Ruth Rodamar at the pep jamboree of the university. Miss Rodamar is from Waterloo, Iowa.
SLUGGER
Billy Sullivan, whose hit in the final inning of the White Sox baseball game last Sunday sent him soaring right back into the big leagues. Ball Player Sullivan saves his cuts in the Notre Dame law school and journeys to Chicago for week-ends.
Engineers’ “Ball Modernistic” Is Acclaimed by 225 Couples
The first Engineers’ Formal in the history of the University was held last Friday night under the auspices of the Engineers’ club, in the ballroom of the Knights of Columbus clubhouse in South Bend.
Approximately 225 couples attended the Ball Modernistic, as the dance was named by those in charge.
The music by Glenn Stoneburner and his Kilties was of the highest order and received only praise from those in attendance.
The decorations, as the name of the dance would imply, were modernistic, with the black and silver colorscheme enhanced by vari-colored electric lights which revolved or flickered as the embryo-engineers who arranged and wired them so desired.
The important feature of the decorations, however, was the fact that they were designed and erected in their entirety by students in the College of Engineering.
All-in-all the dance was a success from every standpoint, and in addition set a precedent for low admission charges for formal dances at the University.
MUSICAL GROUPS PRIME FOR AN ACTIVE SPRING
Casasanta’s Boys Have Many Concerts To Give.
By Mitchell Tackley
Notre Dame’s Concert band and Glee club are scheduled to present several engagements during the Spring season. This year’s band of seventy-five pieces, and the Glee club of forty voices are classed as the best musical organizations the University has produced.
An invitation has been extended to Professor Joseph Casasanta, director of the band, to bring the entire personnel to St. Joseph, Michigan on May 7 to partake in the annual blossom festival parade. Notre Dame will be one of fifteen schools to send a band to the festival.
Sunday evening, May 1, the concert band will present the spring concert, playing from the veranda of the Administration building. The concert is regularly an annual affair, but was not held last year because of the death of Coach Knute Rockne. The concert is scheduled to begin at 6:15 o’clock.
Members of the University Glee club will give a concert to the students of St. Mary’s college on Wednesday evening, April 27. Rehearsals for the affair are now in progress. The Glee club will also appear on the program for Music week at the Mishawaka high school May 4, at 10:30 a. m.
Co-eds Rate Higher Here
By Intercollegiate Press.
Berea, Ohio, April 21.—Women students at Baldwin-Wallace College are 25 percent brighter than the men students, according to Dean Fred Roehm.
With 3 as the perfect grade, girls averaged 2.009, while men rated 1.581 for the first semester. The average grade was 1.796. The number of men and co-eds is about equal among the 575 students.
Bureaucratic Australian Radio
By Intercollegiate Press.
SYDNEY, Australia, Apr. 21.— Plans are under way here by the government to take over all broadcasting facilities in the country and to include in the daily programs a series of high class educational and entertainment features.
Ten
The Scholastic
Winners In National College Comic Poll Are Announced
DR. WALSH LECTURES ON MAYAN FINDINGS
‘JUGGLER” SCORES
College Editors Select Juggler, Punch-Bowl, Pelican,- and
Longhorn As U. S. Best.
By Mitchell Tackley
The Notre Dame Juggler was today acclaimed winner in the mid-west division of the National College Comic poll being sponsored by The Scholastic. Other winners are the Pennsylvania Punch-Boicl, for the East;
Robert Gorman
Other Funny Felloivs voted for his “Juggler.”
California Pelican, for the West; and the Texas Longhorn for the South.
Announcement of the winning comic publications was made by Editor Neil C. Hurley, who is in charge of the contest. The ballotting was carried on with the authorization of the National College Comic Association.
The Wisconsin Octopus received the second award for the mid-west division and the Minnesota Ski-U-Mah, third. In the East, the Cornell Widoiv received the second largest number of votes and the Dartmouth Jack O’ Lantern, third.
Patterson Will Judge
In the South and West divisions, the North Carolina Buccaneer and the Alabama Rammer Jammer, and the Stanford Chaparral and the Washington Dirge rated first and second places respectively.
The above winners, chosen by the editors of each of the humor periodicals, will be sent to Russell Patterson, nationally known artist; John (Continued on Page 14)
Wranglers Will Wear Tuxes At Banquet May 9th
The Wranglers, honorary forensic society at the University, will banquet May 19th in formal attire. This was voted unanimously last night at the regular Thursday evening meeting of the organization.
John Wilson, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, was appointed chairman of the affair.
Other business of the evening included the selection of plaque for the official Wrangler emblem, which will be presented to each member before the conclusion of the year.
James B. O’Shaughnessy, president of the group, delivered a talk on the subject of the Romanticism of War.
He declared that it was noble and a fine thing to die for a cause, and contended that should a bugle blow’ the notes of war on the campus, there would not be a single individual who would refuse to answer the call.
He touched on the more dazzling • effects of war-time battling, stressing the glamor and fine spirit of soldiers, as popular fiction writers and imaginative orators would have it.
His contentions were stoutly debated, with the Wranglers rising to a man to decry his views.
“There is going to be another war,” maintained James Boyle in rebuttal. “There can be little doubt of that. But that it will be a fine, glorious, romantic thing, I do not believe. War has grown up. There are no longer hand to hand encounters, but dismal, dirty, aching fighting from trenches and planes, which are located miles from the enemy.”
O’Shaughnessy, rising to his own defense, acquitted himself ably with a flow of oratory that wound up the evening’s defense.
• French Club Notice!
President De La Vergne announces a meeting of the French club for next Monday evening at 6:30 o’clock in Room 2, Main building.
Eminent Physician Describes Explorations In Yucatan.
By Patrick Corcoran
Describing the state of the Mayas in Yucatan during the thirteenth century as “the culmination of American civilization,” Dr. James J. Walsh, M.D., delivered a lecture in Washington hall last Friday evening upon “The Mayas of Yucatan.”
In a highly interesting manner with several witty sallies and sage comments upon present-day subjects, the venerable doctor told of the discoveries that have been made in the ancient Mayan ruins.
Dates Back to 68 B. C.
The oldest identification that has been made dates back to 68 B. C., while trees growing in the debris that covered the ruins were as old as four hundred years, he declared.
These people were the first to make use of tobacco, snuff, chewing gum, and chocolate candy and drinks. They played a game similar to both football and basketball in a stadium seating more than 12,000 spectators. This was more than 1,500 years ago.
They invented a calendar which was far more accurate than the Julian calendar in use in Europe during the same period. These people were also the first to employ the zero in mathematical calculations. In 1200 A. D. their principal city contained 400,000 people, which was much greater than any of Europe at that time.
20,000 of Them Left
The Mayas who survive today are a cross between Indians and Chinese. There are about 20,000 of them left and their ancient language has been lost.
In discussing several theories in regard to their origin, the doctor stated that one of these is that they came from Asia across the Bering Straits and another is that they were one of the Lost Tribes of Israel.
Doctor Walsh received the honorary degree of doctor of science from the University in 1910 and was awarded the Laetare medal in 1916. He is a Knight Commander of St. Gregory the Great, and has written numerous books upon medicine, history, education, and science.
April 22, 1932
Eleven
HALLINAN AND FALLON SPEAK TO SPECTATORS
“Hunk”, Beauty Critique, Talks About Pulchritude
Architecture and the Far East Are Subjects Discussed.
SHE MUST BE SLIM
“Architecture on the Run” was the subject upon which Paul J. Hallinan, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, spoke at the last meeting of the Spectators.
He characterized the log cabin and the skyscraper as the only distinct architectural contributions the United States has made thus far, but voiced the opinion that in time this country will develop a truly national scheme of architecture all its own.
The other talk entitled “The Sino-Japanese Situation” was delivered by Francis X. Fallon, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters.
Fallon went into the underlying causes of the present conflict to some length and expressed the belief that the Japanese people as a whole do not want trouble with China.
He declared that the Jpaanese army and navy are responsible directly to the emperor, being independent of the parliament and cabinet, which partly accounts for the situation at present. He stated that Japan cannot afford the heavy cost of this trouble much longer, and will not be able to continue it to much greater length.
John Pick, secretary of the club, informed the members that applications for membership may be obtained during the next two weeks from himself, 344 Alumni hall, or President Edmund Stephan, 236 Alumni hall.
Several Positions Are Open To Graduate Assistants
There are for next schoolyear a number of positions as assistants to professors at Notre Dame (outside the classroom) open to college graduates who may wish to take courses in the Graduate School of the University, for advanced degrees.
These positions will pay between $150 and $300 for the schoolyear. In the appointments the graduate of a college of the University will be given preference over those from other schools.
Anyone interested in securing one of these appointments should make application at once to the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University. -
29 Dartmouth Boys Are Still Unkissed--Ha !
By Intercollegiate Press.
Hanover, N. H., April 21.—A recent review of the likes and dislikes of the class of '32 at Dartmouth gives a rather clear cross section of a certain type of collegian philosophy.
The lack of girls in the town of Hanover is the greatest regret of the class, but the installation of artificial ice in the indoor hockey rink was considered the most pressing need in the school.
Women were voted the favorite topic of conversation, with the Lindbergh baby running a close second.
Twenty-nine seniors admitted they had never been kissed by a girl. The class in general revealed a rather materialistic outlook, however, one hundred and thirty-two men declaring that they would willingly marry for money. Sixty-six maintained that no fortune on earth could tempt them.
Two hundred declared that they drank?and favored the repeal of the eighteenth amendment. Beer was the favorite drink of the class, with milk following.
Galsworthy is their favorite prose author and Browning their favorite poet. Marlene Dietrich was acclaimed as the most popular actress of 1932.
French Law Students Kick
By Intercollegiate Press.
PARIS, Apr. 22.—P rotesting against a new law lowering the requirements for licenses to practice law in France, students of law in fifteen French universities voted to strike. They said the new law made their diplomas of less value to them.
W. F. Payton, editor of the Varsity, daily publication of the University of Toronto, expressed himself as being surprised at the freedom with which men and co-eds mixed in campus activities in western Canadian universities which he visited recently.
Anderson Wil] Pick Queen of Benton Harbor Blossom Festival on May 7.
By Mitchell Tackley
“The way her face is chiseled” is one of the outstanding qualifications that Heartley Anderson, head football coach, attaches to modem American beauty.
Heartley Anderson
The color of her eyes wouldn't worry him.
Anderson’s statement came this week as the result of being appointed one of the four judges to preside at the annual blossom festival to be held in St. Joseph, Mich., on May 7.
Twenty-five of the most beautiful girls of Benton Harbor will compete in the contest.
Mr. Anderson declared that this was his first experience at judging a beauty contest. When asked what his conception of an ideal beauty was, he replied: “She must be rather slim, weigh about 115 or 120 pounds. ’ Her height about 5 feet, 4 or 5 inches.”
The Scholastic reporter then asked Mr. Anderson what he thought of “make up.” His answer was that he approved of its use in a moderate amount.
Her complexion is immaterial, he
(Continued on Page 14)
Twelve
The Scholastic
"■ .. .. . ...	——
- Men About the Campus -
Because of the short time left until graduation, and because of the many Seniors deserving of a position in this column, The Scholastic this week begins the policy of running two students each week.
By Roy Scholz
[Picture on Page 15]
John F. Werner occupies a double room on the fourth floor of Walsh hall. The multi-shelved desk is packed with books, some dusty but others bearing the earmarks of well thumbed pages. A picture adorns the desk proper, and it’s whispered about Walsh that the musical selection “Marjorie” fits the picture.
Active in Prep School
Jack is a senior in the College of Science and a pre-med. A few weeks ago a list of the senior averages were posted, and it was found that John F. Werner has a qualitative average of 90.6% which, for a pre-med student, is really something.
His prep days spent at Amsterdam Prep in Amsterdam, New York (where he was bom) were marked by monograms in track and football, by acting as circulation manager of the school paper and yearbook and, paradoxically, by a flunk in chemistry.
Interested in Sports
Football was spelled in capitol letters when Jack arrived at Notre Dame with a prep school history. He reported for frosh football, and his story may be written in three words: aspired, perspired, and retired.
Not discouraged and determined to partake in some sport he played on the Brownson interhall baseball team. He was appointed to the Blue Circle, of which he has since been a member.
It was a big day in Jack’s life when, as a sophomore he received notice that he had been admitted into the Academy of Science.
At the beginning of this scholastic year Jack was elected president of the Academy of Science and general chairman of the Met club dances. He attends all the meetings of the Presidents’ council, spends his spare time reading mystery stories, playing golf, and practicing track.
A short time ago he received a letter of admission from Columbia Medical school which puts him on the last leg of the journey to fulfilling his ambition to be a surgeon.
By Joseph Degnan
The urbane gentleman with that smiling yet singularly aggressive face is Tighe Woods—of Chicago on week-ends—of South Bend on Wednesday afternoons and various evenings—and of the “Con-Don-Woods’’
Tighe Woods
He liked Buster Browns and All-day Suckers.
suite on the third floor of Corby between classes. •
Mr. Woods first spread his rare smile over this campus in 1919, when he registered as a minim, and the following year the authorities of a nearby institution announced that their enrollment had increased doubly.
Tighe was then, in the potent words of melodrama, but a mere boy. Perspiring under the discomforts of a Buster Brown and pausing between laps on his all-day-sucker, the youth peered, wondered, and at times gathered scraps of vital information.
Writes Many Features
Stories of early discipline, escapades, and athletic conquests pour weekly, from Tighe’s pen to take the shape of features in this sheet.
President of the International Relations club, Woods gives a lecture now and then at the Y. W. C. A. In the back row at these lectures an array of highly serious, even care-worn faces encourage the speaker. Just a few of the Perone-trained Corby-men; young men intensely interested in the subject.
Just lately Mr. Woods returned (Continued on Page 16)
GRADUATE EDITS WEEKLY
Charles Grimes Gets Job To Issue “Catholic American.”
Last week, the first edition of the Catholic American was issued from Worcester, Mass., by the Grimes Publishing company. The Catholic Amer-can is a weekly edited by Charles A. Grimes, who was graduated from the School of Journalism in 1920.
Grimes’ home is in Central Falls, Rhode Island. As an undergraduate he contributed not only to the campus publications, but also was employed by the News-Times in South Bend. He was editor of the Dome of 1920.
He delayed his graduation two years by going overseas in the World War as an aviator. Since graduation he has constantly been employed in the field of journalism. Grimes spent several years in Washington, D. C., as pamphlet writer fox- the Catholic Syndicate of National Welfare.
HIGGINS OPENS MEET
(Continued from Page 5)
the keynote address. The roll will first be called by A. A. Bontempo, secretary of the national committee.
The national committee in charge of all arrangements, in addition to Busscher and' Bontempo, is made up of the following: John Bittner, Edward Hart, Thomas Cannon, Herbert Giorgio, and T. A. Morawski. Dean Thomas Konop and Judge William M. Cain of the law school are faculty advisors.
Dr. Kuntz In Speaker Role
“The Elements of Citizenship” was the subject Professor Leo F. Kuntz, head of the Department of Education, spoke about to a meeting of the Parent Teachers association at LaPorte, Indiana, last Saturday.
Wrangler Membership
Applications are now being received for admission into the Wranglers, honorary forensic society of the University.
Participation in some form of oratorical activity is a prerequisite for membership.
Applications should be given, written or verbally, to James Boyle in Badin hall before Sunday evening.	-	-
April 22, 1932
Thirteen
N.D. DEAN GUEST SPEAKER
Universal Notre Dame Night Observed With Banquet.
Universal Notre Dame night was observed by the Ghicago club of the alumni association by a banquet given in the dining room of the Blackstone hotel in Chicago. Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., was the principal speaker of the evening.
Using as his subject “Stable and Variable Elements in Education,” Father Miltner gave an account of the material and academic progress of the present generation. .
Other speakers on the program were Bishop Shiel, auxiliary bishop of Chicago, Jimmy Crowley, member of the immortal “Four Horsemen” of Notre Dame, and Byron Kanaley. Among those in attendance at the affair was John F. Cushing, donor of the new Engineering building, and Roy McKenna, a member of the board of lay trustees.
Sociology Major Exam To
Be Given Tuesday, May 3
Comprehensive examinations for arts and letters students majoring in sociology will be held Tuesday, May 3, at 2:15 p. m., according to a recent announcement by the department of sociology.
The examination will be held in Room I of the Administration building. Unless for reasons of serious illness or authorized absence from the University, failure to be present for these examinations will prevent the student from graduating in June. Further details concerning the examinations are posted on the sociology bulletin board in the Administration building.
Dr. Nicolas Metalnikov of the Pasteur Institute at Paris has successfully tested a new type of water filter which has been found to confer on the filtered water the power to destroy living bacteria.
Spectator Membership
Applications are still being received for the Spectators’ club, organization devoted to discussion of developments in the arts, sciences, philosophy, economics, and current events. Blanks are obtainable from John Pick, Secretary, 344 Alumni hall.
Avis Mac Wins Campus Acclaim In New Juggler
The “Girls’ Number” of the Juggler met with considerable student approval if the circulation department’s records are any sort of criterion.
After an impressive advance sale Jerry Conway, circulation manager, announces that there are still several copies on hand.
The cover, drawn by Avis Mac, Chi
Miss Avis Mac
“Juggler” readers liked her girl.
cago artist, was judged to be the best submitted foi- any “Girls’ Number.”
New Books In Library
Through the courtesy of the Italian club of the University the publications listed below have been placed on file in the library. These magazines and books have been donated by the foreign office of the Italian government, the publishers, and Mr. Pasquale Pirchio.
“11 Legionario.”
“Nuova Antologia.”
“Pegaso.”
“Popolo D’ltalia.”
“Atlantica.”
“Facism a Challenge to Democracy.”
“Strenous Italy.”
“World Minerals and World Politics.”
Canada has 23 colleges and universities. The largest is Montreal university with 7,268 students. The oldest is the University of King’s College at Halifax, founded in 1789.
N. D. DEBATERS ABLE TO OUT TALK PURDUE
Becek, Meehan, and Kirby Impress Capacity Audience.
Before an audience that filled to
capacity the new Engineering build ing auditorium, the Notre Dame nega tive debating team, composed of Jo
seph Becek, James Meehan and William Kirby, were awarded a ■ decision last Friday evening over the University of Purdue squad. The question read: “Resolved, that the United States should adopt a compul-s ory nationwide plan of control by production and dis
William Kirby
; . . Would the an-
tribution in the gelic old Doctor were major basic in- here tonight.” dustries.”
Purdue laid particular- stress upon the fact that there is an indisputable trend towards monopoly in big business today, and, that although the latter is the most efficient type of enterprise, governmental control is indispensable if the public is to be safeguarded.
Emphasized also were the evils resulting from unbridled competition and the impressive results which have been effected by planning in Germany today.
Monopoly-Question Probed
The negative attack was centered chiefly around the monopoly question, claiming that the latter was in many instances not the most efficient form of business, and that the law of diminishing returns would protect society when trusts had reached a certain stage of development.
Germany’s prosperity under her planning system was called into question with the observation that general economic conditions in that country are as bad as they have ever been.
In answering the objection that government control would amount to confiscation a Purdue man quoted St. Thomas Aquinas as saying that pri-
(Continued on Page 29)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
FAIR AND WARMER IS FORMAL PREDICTION
Favors and Programs For K. of C. Dance Ready May 1.
Fair and warmer is the weather predicted for Friday, May 6, date of the annual formal presented by the Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus.
Favors and programs, according to Charles Fiss, chairman of the invitation committee, are being made, and will be ready for distribution about May 1. They may be obtained in room 253, Alumni hall on any day after May 1, between the hours of 12:30 to 1:30 in the afternoon or any time after 6:30 in the evening.
Jan Garber and whis band who will play for the party are at present on tour; the Formal is to be one of their stops enroute. This band has been particularly popular for college dances, having played for affairs at Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cornell, Colgate, Princeton, Dartmouth and other schools.
John Cahill, chairman of the ticket committee, has distributed tickets to all his assistants. Those wishing to purchase one are asked to see a member of this committee or a member of the council.
No Desserts For Co-eds
By Intercollegiate Press.
Madison, Wis., Apr. 22.—Members of the Delta Gamma sorority at the University of Wisconsin have voted to forego desserts at dinner once each week for the rest of the college year, and present the total of ?75 thus saved to the student loan fund of the university.
HUNK DISCUSSES BEAUTY
(Continued from Page 11)
said, providing that she has fine features, technique in the dressing ef her hair, a good physique, and mental poise, he must have a certain amount of stage presence and personality, he said.
When questioned whether or not he approved of the manner in which the modem girl dresses, he answered that he acclimated his tastes to the trend of the style.
The color of her hair, or size of her eyes', are entirely dependent upon the rest of her features.
AUTHOR
Professor Thomas Bowyer Campbell, of the Department of History, whose recently written novel, while not as yet a best seller, is being acclaimed by campus critics.
Mootz, ’30, Contributes Chief Article for April “Catalyzer”
Frank J. Mootz, Ph.D. ’30, is the contributor of the main article in the April issue of the Catalyzer, which came out this week.
The article is entitled “Creep of Metals at Elevated Temperatures,” and deals with the severe requirements that are being placed by industry on the ability of metals to withstand heavy loads and high temperatures. A considerable amount of data concerning the subject is presented in a careful, detailed manner.
Mr. Mootz was assistant editor of the Catalyzer in ’26-’27 and is now working as a research metallurgist at the Reilly Laboratories of the Reilly Chemical Company in Indianapolis.
An interesting discussion of the new Unit Process laboratory now being installed in Chemistry hall as a part of the Chemical Engineering department is given.
The need of extreme care and a sense of responsibility in the field of chemistry is pointed out and stressed in the editorial column of this issue. The recent activities of the Chemists’ club, the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society, and the Notre Dame group of the American Society for Steel Treating are recorded. There is also a column telling of the success of- the first Engineers’ Formal to be held in the history of the University.
PLAN DETROIT BANQUET
Scheduled For April 27; Plan Amusements.
Plans for a banquet, open to any one, to be held Wednesday, April 27, at the Rose Marie Tea room will be completed at a meeting of the Detroit club to be held at 6:30 this evening in the Walsh hall basement.
At a previous meeting of the club Kenneth McLeod, president, appointed John Wittliff general chairman of the banquet.
Special entertainment has been arranged for including Ray Doyle, soloist, some feature comedy acts and other numbers to be announced at the meeting tonight.	.
Tickets for the dinner may be procured through Walter Dupra, Morrissey hall, Edmund Moriarty, Off-Campus, Granger Weil, Alumni hall, President, McLeod, Walsh hall, or chairman Wittliff, Sorin hall. The tax will be one dollar.
Akron, Ohio, Apr. 22.—Conscientious objectors will be exempted from military drill at Akron university, but training is to be ocntinued on the present compulsory basis otherwise, the board of university directors have decided.	.
The campus revolt against required drill for men students of the freshman and sophomore year broke out several months ago with the formation of a League Against Compulsory Military Training.
“JUGGLER” TAKES LEAD
(Continued from Page 10)
Lansinger, publisher of College Humor; and George Eggelston, editor of Life. The final victor will be picked by this group, and will be presented with an original drawing by one outstanding American artist.
ELECTION PLANS GIVEN
(Continued from Page 6)
opposed by Walter Brown, boomed by John Van Etten.
Dillon hall, however, threatens to be the steam-roller of the election and a campaign to have this group organized is being led by John McKean.
The primaries will get under way this week and the victorious parties will ballot at the polls on May 9 for the final election.
i
। I i
April 22, 1932
Fifteen
SOVIETS ARE DISCUSSED
Russia Will Never Equal U. S. Industrially, Says Speaker.
Declaring that Soviet Russia will never succeed in equalling the United States industrially, “because Russian communists have no initiative, and will not work without direction and then only after long discussions,” William Heath, of Niles, Michigan, addressed the Economics Seminar in the Law auditorium last Wednesday evening on “The Present Condition in Russia.”
Engineers In Russia
Heath, who spent the years of 1929 and 1930 as a consulting engineer for the Russian Grain trust, in and around Moscow, described that city as “bleak, cold, drab, and poverty-stricken.” Its hotels he claimed to be almost untenable, due to their infestation with bed-bugs. The people there, he said, are living on war rations. Meat is rare, and ordinarymeals consist of black bread, bits of vegetables, and tea, which they drink out of glasses only. Butter is not used since it is all shipped out of the country in furtherance of the Five-Year plan.
Government Controls Food
The fact that all food is controlled by the government gives it almost absolute control over the workers, and the latter are usually paid in checks that can be used only at government stores for the purchase of clothing and food. Due to this, there is little chance of saving enough money to enable a dissatisfied worker to get out of Russia. Labor is in the condition of virtual slavery, the speaker said, and all individual enterprise is discouraged. He added that although communism is intended to make all men equal, it does not in Russia.
Speaker Cites Example
As an example, he cited the wayin which “farm” directors live in single five-room houses while the laborers and their families live, as a rule, five families in one small room.
The members of the seminar showed keen interest in Russian affairs and asked the speaker many questions in the open discussion which followed the talk. Mr. Heath’s appearance was made possible through the efforts of Professor William H. Downey, of the department of economics.
MAN ABOUT
John Werner, man about, who has a ninety average, intends to be a doctor, and likes a girl named Marjorie.
Former Graduate Speaks To Members of A. I. E. E.
V. E. Plante, a former student of Notre Dame, was the principal speaker of the evening at a meeting of the A. I. E. E. held Monday evening in the Engineering building. Mr. Plante is now employed by the Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing company in the capacity of design engineer. His subject was “Synchronous Machinery.”
Phil Darmody, a member of the junior class gave an interesting talk on “Radio.” Ronald Bugni, a sophomore, spoke on the subject “Tests of Dielectric Strength.” Mr. John Scanlon read a paper on “Current Engineering Achievements.”
Seventy-five members were present. Refreshments were served at the close of the meeting.
Hunter Girls May Smoke
New York, Apr. 22.—As “an experiment” Hunter College authorities have at last granted women students at the college the right to smoke in one building on the campus, but nowhere else about the campus, or in the surrounding streets.
The staff of the Hunter College Bulletin resigned two months ago when cigarette advertising was banned in the student pubilcation. College authorities, asked if the new smoking rule means that such advertising can now be carried in the newspaper, said they hod not yet decided this point.
CHICAGO CLUB VOTES DOWN ELECTION PLAN
Afraid That One Group Would Propose All Candidates.
By John Conley
The proposed amendment to the constitution which would keep the two candidates for office unknown until the night of the election was overwhelmingly defeated at the meeting of the Chicago club last Tuesday evening.
The move to enact such a measure was met by opposition on all sides for the simple reason that the majority of the members put forth the argument that this law would place the decision into the hands of a select group who might put both candidates in the field and thus assure themselves of a victory at any cost.
Considering the spirited proposal, both pro and con and the rebuttals offered by both factions, the meeting was the most interesting of. the year, despite the fact that the decision was postponed to a future date.
To conclude the gathering and once more restore peace among the ranks, refreshments of a novel and edible type were served.
Carelessness, Professor
By Intercollegiate Press.
Cleveland, Ohio, Apr. 22.—Leaving a chemical mixture in a glass retort while he stepped for a moment from-the laboratory in the Western Reserve Medical building, Dr. Theodore T. Zuch of the Medical School faculty returned to find the room in flames. He called the fire department.
A “ brilliant flash” which set off the fire did damage estimated at S2,500. Firemen wearing gas masks fought the blaze.
Wesleyan Calls Off Its Prom
By Intercollegiate Press.
Middletown, Conn., Apr. 22.—Failing to report the necessary cash-in-hand to meet the budget when the time appointed by the faculty arrived, the Wesleyan university junior prom committee was forced to call off the dance this year.
William A. Swett, chairman of the committee, said that he hoped the abandonment of the prom would not affect the classes of future years.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Choice of Courses Is Left To Students In Germany
PATRICIANS TO BANQUET
Geiger Is Appointed Committee of the Whole.
This is the second of a series of articles on German student life written by William Karl, former news editor of The Scholastic, who is at present studying aeronautics at the Berlin Technical college.
By William Karl
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENCE
To the Notre Dame Scholastic News Dept. Copyright 1932, by Notre Dame Scholastic.
• BERLIN, April 15. —One is not bound by rules in regard to the number of hours of courses he must choose in the German system of education. Certain courses, of course, are required for a diploma; that is, they must be entered in the “belegbuch” and paid for, but attendance is obligatory only for laboratories.
In previous years one had to have his “belegbuch” signed by each of his instructors at the beginning and end of the semester, but during the last year the Berlin Technical college has abolished even this, and educational authorities are now predicting that other institutions will soon follow suit.
No Preliminaries Used
The professor rarely enters the classroom until it is time to begin, but when he docs enter, he plunges without any preliminary remarks into the subject and continues uninterrupted until the period ends.
His entrance into, and his departure from the room are marked by the students stamping on the floor. Stamping is the audible sign of approval, while “scraping of the feet” is the equivalent of the American “birdie.” This latter is used particularly when a student comes in late, when the professor makes a mistake, or when he absent-mindedly lectures over-time.
Recitations and discussions are held only in the seminars, which are attended by comparatively few. In the science courses, one must pass but two examinations before receiving a diploma—one given usually at the end of the second year, and then the final examination.
Such is the character of the academic freedom that it allows the student to take the examinations whenever he feels that he is ready, be it the seventh semester for the first quiz, or the thirteenth for the final.
Such freedom is typical of the German university system — its advan
tages and disadvantages obviously dependent upon the individual.
School spirit as it is known at Notre Dame does not exist here, principally so because the essentials
William Karl
He compares German schools to those of America.
which build up a school consciousness are lacking. Dormitories are practically unknown, although some of the fraternities here have houses of their own.
There is no organization into classes chiefly because there is no academic division. This, of course, excludes all class functions.
Another contributing factor for this lack of group spirit is that a large number of students spend one year at one university, a year or two at another, and finally finish at a third. Too, there is no sport which holds universal interest or fosters loyalty to school, such as rowing in England, or football in the United States.
Many Societies Found
In place of these we find “Stu-denten Verbindungen,” or fraternities, and the numerous societies covering everything from mountainclimbing to singing. These are social units only.
It might be mentioned in passing that the University and Technical college of Berlin each give one dance during the year, at which attendance averages 5000, at which five orchestras play until 5 a. m., to the apparent satisfaction of all concerned.
The so-called student activities cover a different field and serve a purpose foreign to us. Practically every university and technical college has an incorporated organization (Continued on Page 29)
Plans for a banquet, to be held about the middle of May, were discussed by the Patricians at their weekly meeting last Tuesday night. Ray Geiger has been appointed General Chairman. Negotiations are being carried out for a suitable place to hold the affair, which will be open to members only.
Edgar Melchione read a paper on “Ancient Philosophical Systems.” The methods of Plato, Aristotle, and Democritus were discussed.
“The Greek Poems of Robert Browning” was the subject of a talk given by President Frank O’Malley. In speaking of Browning’s classical poems and his status as a translator, O’Malley said: “Browning was not merely a servile translator; he was too noble, too strong, to fully alive to be just that. Browning’s original writings and commentaries upon subjects of a classical nature are instructive and profoundly erudite.”
MEN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 12)
from a collegiate convention on International Relations held at McMurray college in Illinois. Discussions were fine, the people interesting, but to his way of looking, Tighe admits, the representatives from Butler led the convention. Just where, we don’t know.
Tighe is responsible for the “Keyhole Portraits” that have been brightening the Juggler. Terse, easily read, impressionistic to a powerful degree —Woods is to be congratulated.
Try to get blackmail material by visiting some of his senior friends: Hitzelberger, Gorman, Reilly, Hurley, McCabe. Inevitably comes the summary: “He’s a likeable guy, gets around plenty, capable in class and out, and is wise enough' to keep his opinions pretty much to himself.”’
Some day one of these campus rumors is liable to be true. And if the one which has him pursue his interest in journalism at Columbia next year is on tap for a change, then the occasion of intense glee, which makes Tighe’s college life the enviable one that it is, are pretty much at an end. He’ll still have his pipe and his memories though.
April 22, 1932
Seventeen
Harry A. Busscher
LEGAL A TMOSPHERE PER VADESLAWBALL
Judge Perone To
Hold Court
Edward J. England
Late Comers Will Pay Fines
By Granger Weil
Judge John Perone and his able assistants, Benjamin Mikes, John McCarthy and Robert Nesbit, will preside tonight at the annual Lawyers’ ball being held at the Palais Royale ballroom. Dancing is to be from 9:00 to 12:30 o’clock, to the music of Ace Brigode and his fourteen Virginians.
The feature of the ball this year is its strictly law tone. Invitations were issued in the form of “Subpoenas Duces Tecum,” requesting that the guest “lend her lovely self to the making of this Lawyers’ ball a bigger and better dance, rout, washout, flop, or what you will, than in any previous year.”
Ball Begins at 9:00
The hour for the beginning of the ball has been set for 9:00 o’clock but anyone arriving later- than 9:30 “shall,” according to the subpoena, “be judged in contempt of court and shall become liable for a fine of fifty cents, payable upon entrance to the Keeper of the Pouch or his assistant.
John Perone, as judge, will preside at the door during the period immediately following 9:30 and then he
will move his court to the ballroom and will there conduct trials between dances. The court will be old English style, under the direction of John D. Voss, member of the Law club.
The invitations, according to Harry Busscher, general chairman of the dance, will be of black leather- with the seal of the University and the key of the Law club stamped on the cover in silver.
Patrons and Patronesses
Patrons for the dance will include Colonel William Hoynes, Dean and Mrs. Thomas F. Konop, Judge and Mrs. Dan Pyle, Judge and Mrs. J. Fred Bingham, Judge Elmer Peak, Dean and Mrs. James McCarthy, Mr. and Mrs. William Klein, Mr. and Mrs. Homer Q. Earl, Mr. and Mrs. Eldon E. Richter, Mr. and Mrs. William Rollison, Mr. and Mrs. Orlo Deahl, Mr. Clarence P. Manion, Mr. John Whitman, Mr. Paul Fenlon, and Mr. Paul Byrne.
Miss Josephine Pries, of River Forest, Ill., will be the guest of General Chairman Busscher, and Miss Jeanne Bready, of Winfield, Kansas, will be the guest of Edward England, president of the Law club, and who has assisted Busscher in preparations for the dance.
Ace Brigode To Play
Ace Brigode and his band, furnishing the music for the evening, are at present broadcasting from WCFL in Chicago and from that city will come to South Bend. Their specialty is novelty numbers, but they are known throughout the east and the south for their dance music. They recently made a number of records for both the Columbia and Brunswick recording companies.
Decorations for the affair will be limited to the bench from which Judge Perone and his cohorts at pseudo-law will preside ovei- the lawyers and their guests.
Harrington Heads Ticket Sellers
John T. Harrington, chairman of the ticket committee, announced this week that the sale of tickets would continue until just before the dance. They may be procured at the office established for the ball on the first floor of the Law building, or from any of the following: Raymond J. Reardon, Walsh hall; Lawrence Johnson, Off-Campus; John Manley, Walsh hall; Joseph F. Deeb, Off-Campus; Lewis R. Gentili, Sorin hall; or Carl M. Cronin, Sorin hall
Chairmen of the other committees assisting Buesscher are John A. Bitters, publicity; James , W. Halligan, arrangements; Anthony W. Kegowicz, programs; Joseph Glass, music; Joseph A. Moran, invitations; Malcolm E. Trombley, decorations; and John D. Voss, reception.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
CCLEEDE PARADE
COACH MORTALITY
Approximately 20 percent of the colleges and universities in the East have new football coaches for the 1932 season.
QUANTITY
At the University of Minnesota (Meeneesotah to you and me) chemists use five miles of rubber tubing, six tons of acid, 50,000 bottles, and half a million matches a year.
SCHOLARS
The prize boner in a long list compiled by a Chicago university professor was attributed to the co-ed who translated “Arma virumque cano” as “I cry for the arms of a man.”
1940
All the college graduates have to do is to wait until 1940. Such information is according to the official publication of Akron university. They printed a statement made by the Personnel and Office Management Conference which said that the demand for college graduates would be dull until 1940 and after that the college trained student would hold 57 per cent of the important positions in industry.
FORBIDDEN PING PONG
One of St. John’s College’s star boxers was recently kayoed in a game of ping pong. He slashed his head with the racket, at the same time slipping and crashing into the wall. He was out for some time, and was unable to appear for a boxing bout that evening. The boxing coach issued strict orders that none of the team was to play ping pong before matches.
MODERN
With the hope of making coures more comprehensive, Harvard university is planning to. teach physiology with the aid of talkies.
COLLEGE DOGS
Not because the college was going to the dogs but because the dogs were going to college was the occasion of a science instructor at Midland college stepping into the picture and hastily scattering the members of the canine family with bird shot.
EXTRA REVENUE
Because of the number of students who fill their pens with ink at the library counter at the University of Kentucky a special counter has been set aside for this purpose and one cent charged for the service.
THE UNANSWERABLE
A freshman at the University of Chicago, in a fit of desperation, wrote on his examination paper: “Only God can answer these questions.” Imagine his surprise when the paper was returned with the following note: “God gets an A, you get an F.”
PRO
How much is a college education worth? From $56,000 to$112,000 according to statistics compiled by the U. S. Bureau of Education. Only 80 percent of the boys of today go through high school, and only one percent go through college. Of American men earning $10,000 a year or more, about 75 percent of them come from the one percent who went through college. The total earnings of the high school boy, from the time he goes to work at the age of 18, to the age of 60, are about $88,000, on the average. The total earnings of the college graduate, from the time he enters the business world at the age of 22, to age 60 are about $144,000 to $200,000. This increase of $56,000 to $112,000 over the former’s earnings represents the cash value of four years of college, or $77 to $155 a day for every day spent in college. It is rumored that several graduates are trying to cash in their diplomas.
CON
Charging those possessing an A.B. with being unable to cope with the problems of the world, Cornelius Vanderbilt, Jr., indicated that he has little use for the present educational system in a recent interview in the Denver Clarion. He stated that college was “pure poppycock.” Except for the social contacts one makes in college, the college student doesn’t accomplish anything worthwhile, he stated. An A.B. degree is a hindrance in getting a job in his opinion. Vanderbilt is a member of a prominent . American family and a popular playboy.
April 22. 1932
Nineteen
n noi'f i A( r
THE HANDICAP GOLF MEET
Details of The Scholastic’s Handicap Golf Tournament will be found in the sporting- section of this week’s issue. Cups have already been ordered and will be placed on display shortly.
If the golf event provokes as much response as did the tennis, swimming, and boxing tournaments The Scholastic will feel that its sports promotional program this year has been an unprecedented success.
Since the erection of the Burke Memorial course, golf at Notre Dame has assumed an aspect of major importance. A handicap meet, catering as it does to the best and the worst, and offering opportunities to all, seems very much in harmony with the interested attitude of the student body.
The Scholastic, not a little optimistic in sponsoring the tourney, watches its promotional activities draw to a close.
V
HI, BOY!
Another one of Notre Dame’s traditions seems to be losing its grip.
No longer is the democratic “Hello” passed freely as students meet on the campus. Formal x introductions, or friendships bred through long associations in the classrooms or in the halls are apparently essential to familiarity.
Notre Dame is not going “snobbish,” and The Scholastic is not utopian enough to attempt to excite any notions of a “one big happy family.” But it is not breeding good will and fellowship when the undergraduates fail to realize that the greatest of the University’s traditions is the one of democracy.
When one drops a friendly greeting to an unknown student under the present regime, he is branded as a “glad-hander,” as a politician or office-seeker.
Calling attention to this fact may have the unfortunate effect of making the individual self- . conscious as he bursts forth with many a spontaneous greeting. It may, but The Scholastic recalls that it is Spring and that with the warm weather usually comes a batch of ardent student politicians.
With the vote-getters canvassing the class,
the student need not fear for company should he decide to manifest a bit of Notre Dame fellowship.	'
V
MR. YOUNG AND HIS ADDRESS
Owen D. Young, boomed in many parts for the Democratic presidential nomination, will come to Notre Dame this June as the commencement speaker.
This announcement was made Monday evening by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
The selection of Mr. Young is timely and appropriate. The news is greeted on the campus with sincere enthusiasm.
Mr. Young will have something to say this June when he addresses the outgoing Seniors. As chairman of the board of the General Electric company, he understands the depression and its vast effects. His advice, will have a ringing note to the graduates, which will carry an air of authenticity with his message. ‘
The senior class could ask for no better commencement speaker.
'	V
ATHLETIC MANAGERS
Last night in the lay faculty dining hall Coach Heartley Anderson announced the appointments for the 1932-33 athletic managerships.
To a certain small group the banquet meant much. It was the termination of three years of grimy, hard apprenticeship in the toughest and most difficult of Notre Dame’s competitions. The winners deserve the plaudits of the entire campus.
Notre Dame’s managerial system, installed not many years ago by Coach Rockne, has grown to supreme importance in athletic history. It is a mark of true distinction to boast of a small blue “M” in the corner of a monogrammed sweater.
To Anthony Wirry, whose selection as head football manager was the climax of the banquet, The Scholastic extends its sincerest congratulations and wishes to him the best of luck. Not less deserving of commendation are the other recently appointed athletic heads. The Scholastic, as well as all Notre Dame, is unstinting in its unqualified praise.
Twenty
The Scholastic-
SPCKTS
Loyola Golfers Here Tomorrow
Captain Redmond Plays Number One As Irish Seek 18th Straight Triumph
TENNIS SQUAD PICKED FOR MEET TOMORROW
N, D. Leader Beats Vince Feh-lig; Large Gallery Expected to Follow Close Matches.
With Loyola University of Chicago furnishing the opposition, the Notre Dame varsity golf team will seek its 18th consecutive dual meet victory here tomorrow. Doubles will be played in the morning with the singles rounds scheduled for the afternoon.
Loyola Dangerous
Loyola rates as one of the best golf teams played by the Irish in the last few years. In last year’s clash at Chicago, Notre Dame swept to a shut-out victory but the team members were unanimous in declaring the Loyola squad the hardest they had faced.
In that match a year ago, the Notre Dame squad turned in the best golf they displayed all year but were forced to go almost to the limit to win every match. Fran Beaupre and Bill Redmond shot a best ball of 64 but required 17 holes to down Cavanaugh and Morrissey of Loyola. Beaupre later established a course record with a sparkling 69, three under par.
With Don Cavanaugh and Julian D’Esposito leading the team, it is expected that Loyola will present the strongest battle front to appear on the home links this year. Both the men are nearing the completion of their college golfing career and are experienced match players.
Redmond Advances
The Notre Dame team ranking has changed considerably since the Valpo match a week ago. Captain Bill Redmond moved into the No. 1 position Tuesday by downing Vince Fehlig, sophomore ace, one up. Redmond led
for the greater portion of the match, carding a 78, with Fehlig totalling a 79.
Bill Veeneman, ranked at No. 4 a week ago, moved up a notch Tuesday at the expense of Johnny Montedonico.
Capt. Bill Redmond
Faces Loyola As No. 1 Man.
Veeneman defeated his fellow sophomore, 4 and 3, and gained the right to play Fehlig on Thursday for the No. 2 place. Montedonico was to face John Gostisha Thursday for fourth place. Gostisha defended his ranking as fifth man with a decisive victory over the sixth place challenger.
It is expected that the first three men will be used in both singles and doubles tomorrow with Gostisha and Montedonico alternating at the No. 4 place. In view of the fair-sized gallery that followed the players during the Valpo meet last week, a large crowd is expected to witness the clash tomorrow.
Chreist Ranked No. 1; Lukats Abandons Net Plans.
Louis Chreist, winner of The Scholastic’s fall tennis tournament, was placed at number one position on the varsity tennis team this week by virtue of his victory in the elimination tournament including all the candidates for the squad. The team will open the season with Western State Teachers college here tomorrow.
Meyer No. 2
Carl Meyer, runner-up to Chreist last fall, and Dick Kelly, a semifinalist in the meet, also won places on the squad. Meyer will play No. 2 and Kelly No. 3. O’Hanlon, Power, Staley, Vogelheim, and Regal, complete the varsity roster.
Other developments along the tennis front this week included the arranging of a match with Northwestern for April 29 on the local courts. The meet will offer an opportunity for the Irish netmen to avenge the overwhelming triumph scored by the Purple at Evanston last spring.
West State Strong
The Western State squad which will open the season tomorrow is regarded as one of the stiffest opponents that the Notre Dame court team will face. Last year Skinny Byrum and Ray Sorenson of the Teachers squad won the C. I. C. doubles crown and Byrum copped the singles. The squad won all but one match on their long schedule last spring, dropping a 4-3 match to Oberlin. Byrum and Sorenson won the Michigan intercollegiate titles.
This season Byrum is back at the Kalamazoo school in the capacity of tennis coach and Sorenson is captain of the squad. In their opening match of this -season, they defeated Grand (Continued on Page 24)
April 22, 1932
Twenty-one
They May Call It “Anchor”...
PALT RETURNS TO FORM TO BLANK CHICAGO 3-0
But there's nothing immovable about the blond flyer above. Alex Wilson anchored the greatest two-mile relay team in the country for Notre Dame two years ago, and he will pick up the assignment with this year’s quartet at the Kansas Relays tomorrow.	’
McCormick, Two-Mile Team Compete At Kansas
Captain Bill McCormick will lead Notre Dame’s track squad at the Kansas Relays tomorrow afternoon in the opening meet on the 1932 outdoor season. McCormick, together with a two-mile relay team composed of Alex Wilson, Eddie King, Joe Young, and Clyde Roberts, and Coach John P. Nicholson, will leave this afternoon for Lawrence.
McCormick In Century
McCormick is scheduled to compete in the 100-yard dash, and will meet some mighty stiff competition for so early in the season. Bill is not yet at top form and although he will probably face the gun tomorrow as a favorite, it may be asking too much of the Blue and Gold captain.
The two-mile team will no doubt suffer from a lack of experience. The four men have never run a relay race together before in competition, and three of the four have not yet completed their first year of varsity competition.	•
Alex Wilson, who will, no doubt,
anchor the team in tomorrow’s race, can be counted upon to turn in his usual excellent performance. Wilson has held down the anchor position in most of its races during the past three years. In 1930 he was a member of the team composed of Joe Abbott, Joe Quigley, Brant Little, in addition to himself, who traversed the two miles in 7 minutes and 48 seconds to chalk up one of the best marks ever recorded for the distance.
At Drake Next Week
Coach Nicholson has been pressing his athletes rather hard of late in attempting to round them into shape for the Drake Relays on April 29 and 30, and the subsequent dual meets early this month.
There is a strong probability that Notre Dame will be represented at Drake by both a mile and two-mile relay team and possibly also by medley and sprint relay teams. If the condition of the field performers at that time warrant their taking part, they, too, will probably compete.
Stops Maroons With Three Hits; Russo Adds Irish Punch.
By Joseph Morper
Captain Charlie Palt flashed all his old time form last Saturday when he pitched a remarkable three-hit game against the University of Chicago and the brilliant Roy Henshaw to win the second game of the Notre Dame season, 3-0. It was the first Notre Dame-Chicago game in over twenty years.
Record Crowd
The largest crowd ever to witness a home game on Greenfield field were rewarded with the spectacular pitching duel of Palt and Henshaw. Charlie fanned eig’ht enemy batsmen, while Henshaw struck out fourteen Irish batters.
Chicago’s first hit didn’t come until the fifth inning when Henshaw caught one of Palt’s twisters for a single. The next hit off Charlie came in the seventh inning when Temple, a pinchhitter, made good.
The Ramblers scored their first run in the sixth frame. Denny O’Keefe was safe on Johnson’s error and scored on Al Russo’s rousing blast that hit the left field stands for a double.
Joe Sheeketski added another run to the Notre Dame total in the next inning. He reached first when catcher Twirp Howard lost his high pop-fly in front of the plate. He then proceeded to steal second, took third on a wild pitch, and counted a moment later on a passed ball.
Russo Scores
Russo, who made the first run of the Irish possible, scored the third and final run of the game in the eighth canto. After singling to right, for his second hit of the game, he stole second. On the play at second the ball hit Johnson’s glove and Russo scored as the pellet rolled out into center field.
The box score:
NOTRE DAME AB R	H	CHICAGO AB	R H
Kane. 2b	-1 0	1	Buzzell. rf 4	0 0
O’Keefe. 3b 4 1	1	Johnson, ss 3	0 0
Russo, If	4 1	2	Mahoney. 2b 4	0 1
Kozac. rf	3 0	1	Offil. lb	2	0 0
Sheeketski. c 4 1	1	Beeks, lb	1	0 0
McGrath, cf 4 1	1	Page, cf	4	0 0
Cummings, lb 4 0	0	Howard, c 3	0 0
(Continued on page 23)
Ticenty-tioo
The Scholastic
“Scholastic” Sponsors
Sixty-Four Players To Be Matched On Handicap Basis; Rules Announced
First Eight Varsity Men Are Barred; Deadline For Three Qualifying Rounds Is May 1
By Henry B. Asman
The Scholastic, in carrying out its policy of promoting all forms of athletics in the interest of the entire student body, announces plans today for a Handicap Golf Tournament.
The tournament will be open to all students of the University with the exception of the first eight ranking varsity golfers.
Three Cards Needed
In order to give all an equal chance, those in charge of the meet have decided to make the tourney a handicap affair. This places all men on an equal footing at the start of Play.
A special committee has been appointed by The Scholastic to compute handicaps, and this will be done on the basis of three 18-hole cards which must be in the box provided for the purpose in the clubhouse by 6 p. m. on May 1.
Suitable trophies will be awarded to the winner and runner-up in the tournament. Each contestant must pay his own greens fees. .
Handicaps will be limited to sixteen strokes. The sixty-four men receiving the lowest handicaps will be placed in the bracket for match play elimination. Handicapping will be completed before May 6, and the first round pairings and schedule of play will be published in The Scholastic of that date and posted also in the clubhouse. Tournament play will start immediately after that date.
Cards Must Be Signed
All cards turned in as qualifying scores must bear the name and address of the contestant plainly printed on the outside of the card.
Those men who already have three cards available in the hands of Father Murch may apply these cards towards (Continued on Page 30)
Official Rules t Are Announced For Tournament
1.	The tournament will be open to all students of the University with the exception of the first eight ranking varsity players. Bankings as of April 23 will be used in determining the ineligibile players.
2.	Handicaps will be given to all competing players. Handicaps as given by those in charge must be accpeted as final.
3.	Handicaps will be computed on the basis of three 18-hole cards which must be turned in on or before May 1, at 6 p. m. All cards must be attested by at least one witness.
4.	A separate card must be turned in for each round of each contestant. Each card must bear the name and address of the contestant plainly printed on the outside.
5.	No handicaps greater than 16 strokes will be given.
6.	The sixty-four players receiving the lowest handicaps on the basis of the three rounds will qualify for the tournament. In case of a tie for the final place in the bracket, the names of the tying men will be posted in the clubhouse on Monday, May 2, at 8 a. m., and each of the men must turn in an additional 18-hole card by Tuesday, May 3, at 6 p. m.
7.	First round pairings and schedules will appear in The Scholastic of May 6.
8.	All matches must be played as scheduled and cards turned in immediately at the clubhouse. A box will be provided in the clubhouse for all cards. .
9.	Each contestant must pay his own greens fees.
10.	Semi-final and final matches will be thirty-six holes; all other matches will be eighteen holes.
Golf Meet
NOTRE DAME DEFEATS
SOUTH BEND TEAM 4-2
Central League Outfit Falls Before Twirling of Lagger.
Behind the excellent twirling of the sophomore find, Lagger, Notre Dame won the first of the three game series against the South Bend Central League team, 4-2, Wednesday on the home lot.
The big sophomore struck out ten of the South Bend batsmen while allowing only seven scattered hits.
South Bend’s two runs came in the first inning. Phehn. walked. Dragger was also given a free transportation to first. Dunham hit a single to right, filling the sacks. Felber was out a fielderman’s choice, Prehn scoring. Dragger scored on Powell’s wild throw to first of Eleager’s infield tap.
Notre Dame countered with two runs in the fourth stanza. O’Neill, first batter up, drew a pass. Powell singled, placing O’Neill on second. Both runners advanced on a passed ball. Lagger went down, swinging. Kane died out. Denny O’Keefe sent a hot single over short, O’Neill and Powell scoring.
In the eighth the Irish shoved over two more runs. Al Busso opened with a single to left. McGrath batted for Kozak and laid down a bunt to pitcher Fremont, who threw wild to first, Busso cantering home and McGrath taking third on the misplay. Lomasney singled, scoring McGrath with Notre Dame’s fourth marker of the game.
Score by innings:	rhe
South Bend 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0—2 7 3 Notre Dame 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 2 0—4 6 2
Batteries: Notre Dame, Lagger and O’Neill; South Bend, Hermanson, Fremont, and Leslie, Witmore.
11.	The regular rules of handicap match play will govern all matches in the tournament. The only exception to this rule will be in the case of stymies. Stymies will not be played.
12.	Address all inquiries to: Handicap Golf Tournament, The Scholastic, Publications Office, Notre Dame, Indiana.

April 22, 1932
Twenty-three
Thursday's Sports
The South Bend Central league team evened the series with the Notre Dame varsity yesterday afternoon by overwhelming the Irish in a 14 to 1 victory. Notre Dame had won the first game of the series Wednesday afternoon. The third tilt will be played today.
Bill Veeneman, long-hitting sophomore, moved into second place in the varsity golf rankings yesterday by defeating Vince Fehlig, 4 and 3. Veeneman shot eleven consecutive par holes in compiling his 77 total. Fehlig’s score was 79. It was Veeneman’s second win and Fehlig’s second defeat in the weeks’ challenge matches.
In the play for fourth position, Johnny Montedonico shot a 77 to defeat John Gostisha, fifth place challenger. Montedonico had lost to Veeneman in the first challenge round played Tuesday.
As a result of the week’s matches, the varsity lineup for tomorrow’s match with Loyola will be as follows : Bill Redmond, No. 1; Veeneman, No. 2; Fehlig, No. 3; Montedonico, No. 4; and Gostisha, No. 5.
and Bed Warmers
have gone . . .
Interhall Golf Schedule, 1932
SUNDAY. APRIL 24
Group I: Lyons vs. Corby, Sophomore vs. Alumni, Sorin vs. St. Edward’s, Morrissey, bye.
Group II: Howard vs. Off-Campus, Brownson vs. Dillon, Carroll vs. Badin. Walsh, bye.
SUNDAY, MAY 1
Group I: Lyons vs. Alumni, Morrissey vs. St. Edward’s, Corby vs. Sorin, Sophomore, bye.
Group II: Brownson vs. Badin, Howard vs. Dillon, Carroll vs. Walsh, Off-Campus, bye.
ASECENSION THURSDAY, MAY 5
Group I: Lyons vs. Morrissey, Sophomore vs. Sorin, St. Edward’s vs. Corby, Alumni, bye.
Group II: Howard vs. Walsh, Brownson vs. Off-Campus, Dillon vs. Carroll, Badin, bye.
SUNDAY, MAY 8
Group I: Sophomore vs. St. Edward’s, Morrissey vs. Corby, Alumni vs. Sorin, Lyons, bye.
Group II: Howard vs. Badin, Brownson vs. Cai roll, Off-Campus vs. Walsh, Dillon, bye.
SUNDAY, MAY 15
Group I: Lyons vs. Sophomore, Corby vs. Alumni, Morrissey vs. Sorin, St. Edward’s, bye.
Group II: Dillon vs. Walsh, Howard vs. Carroll, Badin vs. Off-Campus, Brownson, bye.
SUNDAY, MAY 22
Group I: Lyons vs. Sorin. Alumni vs. St. Edward’s, Sophomore vs. Morrissey, Corby, bye.
Group II: Walsh vs. Brownson, Badin vs.
Dillon, Carroll vs. Off-Campus, Howard, bye.
SUNDAY, MAY 29
Championship match. •
TIME WAS when the winter season brought out the old red flannels, the bed warmers — and a switch from fresh, crisp foods to hot, heavy dishes.
We’ve said good-bye to flannels and warming pans — thanks to modern steam-heated homes, closed cars and well-heated schools. However, a lot of folks still think that cool weather makes it necessary to eat heavy foods.
But a change is taking place here too. More people every day are enjoying crisp, ready-to-serve cereals like Kellogg’s Corn Flakes. And what a delightful difference it makes! Meals as crisp as summer itself! Delicious and healthful.
Try Kellogg’s tomorrow for breakfast. Enjoy them with milk or cream and sliced bananas. Splendid for a bedtime snack. These crunchy flakes are so easy to digest they encourage restful sleep.
Get your favorite eating place to brighten the menu with Kellogg’s.

Twenty-four
The Scholastic
Fehlig Leads Golf Team to One-Sided Win From Valpo
WIN EVERY MATCH
Score 1714 to As Irish Sweep Five Matches; Fehlig Low
With 76 In Singles.
Sweeping to five top-heavy victories and one bitterly contested triumph, the Notre Dame golf team won all six matches to beat the Valparaiso links squad, 17% to % in the season’s opener here last Saturday. Vince Fehlig, No. 1 man on the Irish team, carded the lowest score of the day with a 76 in the afternoon round.
N. D. Takes Long Lead
Notre Dame moved out to a lead of 5% to % at noon by virtue of wins in the two doubles matches of the morning round. Captain Bill Redmond, No. 2, and John Gostisha, No. 5, teamed to defeat DeGrazia and Shook of the invaders by a margin of 7 and 5. The Notre Dame pair won the out nine five up, and completed their slam in the point-getting by winning the back nine, 4 and 3.
Fehlig and Johnny Montedonico, sophomore golfers, dropped the lone fraction of a point to Valpo when they halved the first nine of their doubles match with E. Nath and George Christy. Squaring the match on the sixth, where Fehlig holed out a fifteen-yard approach, they reached the turn all even.
One Up On Tenth
The Notre Dame pair went one up on the tenth, lost it on the 12th, and came right back to regain the margin on the 13th. A par and a birdie by Christy on the next two holes gave the Valpo combination its first advan- ' tage of the second nine. Montedonico of Notre Dame came through in the final two holes, however, to win the match with a pair of pars. The locals’ best ball total showed a 77 for the round.
In the singles play of the after-,. noon, Fehlig shot his 76 to win from Nath, 5 and 4, taking all three points. Captain Redmond turned in an 80 to measure Christy by 4 and 2 . The Irish leader was out in front from the first green, reaching the turn two
up and ending the match with a birdie foui- on the 16th.
Montedonico coasted to a fairly easy triumph over Shook of Valpo by a 5 and 3 margin. Two up at the end of the first nine, the Notre Dame entry played the back nine in 42 for a card of 82. The final three points of the Irish total were garnered by Bill Veeneman, long-hitting sophomore, who played the No. 4 position.
Gaining an advantage at the third hole, Veeneman didn’t yield a single hole to his opponent and won by the widest margin of the day, seven up and six to play. His card for the round totalled an even 80.
Fehlig’s card for his leading round:
Out—
Par________4 4 4 4 5 3 4 4 5—37
Fehlig_____3 5 4 5 5 4 4 4 6—40 In—
Par 5 4 3 4 4 3 5 3 5-36-73 Fehlig __4 5 3 4 4 4 5 3 4-36-76
TENNIS SQUAD IS PICKED
(Continued from Page 20)
Rapids junior college, 6-1.
The exact lineup of the Notre Dame squad has not definitely been decided, but the announcement was made that Nick Lukats has been forced to abandon his plan to join the net squad because of the pressing nature of his other athletic activities.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
ROUND TRIP EXCURSION
South Bend to Chicago
$3.90
Week ends, Fri., noon thru Mon. Leave South Bend station, Michigan and La Salle streets, any train Friday noon to Sunday noon. Return on any train up to and including 11:30 p. m. train, Monday. For information phone South Bend 3-3111, or see Chas. Woods, 222 Lyons Hall.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
University Objects To Politics So Professor Brough Resigns
By Intercollegiate Press.
Fayetteville, Ark., Apr. 22.—His ire aroused by the action of university authorities in denying its professors the right to engage in political activities, Dr. Charles H. Brough has resigned as a lecturer at the University of Arkansas and has announced his candidacy for the United States Senate to succees Senator Hattie Caraway.
Dr. Brough was governor of Arkansas from 1916 to 1920. He declared that the right to participate in politics, either as a candidate or as an elector, “is an elemental right of every American citizen.” For an “alleged university to dogmatically seek to nullify the constitutional rights of its faculty bespeaks official cowardice and intellectual corruption,” he said.
Tradition To Be Broken
By Intercollegiate Press.
Oberlin, Ohio, Apr. 22.—Illumination night, the pride of Oberlin college commencement exercises since 1908, will not be held this June because of the depression, college officials have announced.
On that night each year since, 1908 the college has hung thousands of Japanese lanterns about the campus and about the town, and an alumni parade with colorful floats has wended its way through the streets near the campus.

April 22, 1932
Ticenty-f,ve
IRISH DROP OPENER TO WISCONSIN, 10-3
Pacetti Stops N. D. Hitters; Loose Play Mars Game.
Notre Dame lost the opening baseball game of the season to Wisconsin last Friday on the home diamond, 10 to 3.
Captain Charlie Palt was the opening Irish hurler but the Badgers sent him to the showers early after pouncing on him for two runs in the first stanza and filling the bases with none out in the second. Here, Charlie Mannix came to the rescue and retired the enemy without a score.
Badgers Score Three
But the boys from up north maltreated Charlie in the third and pushed over three markers on some not-so-good fielding and erratic pitching before he could get the situation in hand.
Nel Pacetti, Wisconsin pitcher, allowed only one hit out of the infield until the seventh inning when the Ramblers put on their interesting but vain rally.
Cummings, batting for Mannix, opened hostilities with a single; Russo, who replaced O’Connor, rapped a sizzling double to left, putting Cummings on third. Hayes, a third pinchhitter, was given a pass, filling the bases.
Cummings Scores
Denny O’Keefe, next man to face the now-worried Pacetti, hit a slow bounder to short and Cummings raced home with the first Irish score of the game, on the put-out at first. Seidel then sent a sharp single through second, Russo ana Hayes registering. Seidel was out trying to make second. Kozak singled to right, but Sheeketski ended the rally on an infield out.
Maloney replaced Mannix on the mound to open the eight and the Cardinals got to him for four runs on two hits and a like number of walks. They added another score to their total in the ninth on a pass, two infield out, and a single.
The box score:
WISCONSIN
AB K It
Schendel, ss 5 1 1
Blankly, 2b 6 1 1
Olson, If 3 2 1
Cuisner, 3b 4 2 2
NOTRE DAME
AB R II
O’Connor, ef	1	0	0
O’Keefe, 3b	4	0	0
Seidel, ss	5	0	1
Kozac. rf	5	0	2
Smilgoff. c 6 2
Schneider, lb 4 2 2
Ross, rf 4 0 1
Wickman, cf 4 0 0
Pacetti. p 3 0 0
Sheeketski, c 3 0 0
Kane, 2b 4 0 2
Cummings, lb 2 1 1
Stemper, lb 1 0 0
Palt, p 0 0 0
Mannix, p 2 0 0
Maloney, p 10 0
Russo, If 2 11
Hayes, cf 0 10
Totals 41 10 11 Totals 33 3 7
Errors — McGrath. Cummings. Stemper. Two-base hits—Russo, Cuisiner, Olson. Struck out—by Mannix. 2. Base on bails—off Palt. 1 ; Mannix. 2; Maloney, 3 ; Pacetti. 6. Hits— off Palt. 3 ; Mannix, 5 ; Maloney, 3 ; Pacetti, 7. Double play—Ross to Schneider. Hit by pitched ball—by Palt (Cuisiner, Pacetti) ; by Mannix (Olson). Stolen bases—Kane Schendel. Cuisiner. Wickman. Umpire—Con. Daly.
PALT BLANKS MAROONS (Continued from Page 21)
Pal’sani. ss	3 0	0	Henshaw, p	3 0 1
Palt. p	3 0	ft	Zimmer. If	2 0 0
			Decker. 3b	3 0 0
			’Temple	10 1
	— —.	—			 —. 	
Totals 3	13 3	6	Totals	30 0 3
’Batted for	Offil	in	seventh.	
Notre Dame .	...0	0	0 0 0 1 1	1 0—3
Chicago 		...0	0	0 0 0 0 0	0 0—0
Errors—Johnson. '2 : Howard. 2 ; Kane. Bases on balls—Henshaw. 2. Struck out—by Henshaw. 14 : by Palt, 8. Hit by pitcher—by Palt (Zimmer, Johnson). Wild pitch—Henshaw. Umpires—Naperstek and Ray.
Matinee Dance
SUNDAY, APR., 14 Featuring Duane Yates Band
Prices for Sunday afternoon and nite: Ladies 25s, Men 50c. Free Dancing.
COMING APRIL 29th
DON PEDRO
, Advance 75c; Door $1.00
Saturday, 25c Admission—Park Plan
Pala is Royale
BALLROOM
Men’s $8 to
$10 Oxfords
Formerly Sellin;
$8 to $10
Crawford—
Csteo-Patik
others we
cannot
advertise
$4-85
Practically all sizes and widths in lot. You’ll probably buy 2 or 3 pairs. For the young man as well as the older man.
All sizes in others at $1.85, $2.95 and $3.85.
GIL-BRO’S
330 S. Michigan St.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
ALLERTON HOTEL.
Coach Keogan Views Rule Changes as Harmful to Game
make this your Chicago Headquarters
Get full enjoyment out of your visit to Chicago by coming here. Billiard and card rooms, gymnasium, indoor golf course, 8 tennis courts, library. R-C-A Radio speaker with choice of stations in each sound-proof room.
A year-round social program with something doing every night if you want to join in.
Overlooking Lake Michigan. Quiet surroundings. All rooms are outside rooms. A short walk to the Loop. Two blocks from the Cathedral. For a week-end or a month, or a year, you will be glad you chose the Allerton.
1932 RATES
Single—$10.50 to $25.00 weekly
Double—$8.50 to $12.50 weekly, per person
Transient—$2.00 to $3.00 daily, per person
Philip E. Cobden, Manager
ALLERTON HOTEL Chicago
701 North Michigan Avenue
PkNOR DEFENSIVE
Scores Alterations In Playing Code For Failure To Effect Cure For Game’s Ills.
By James S. Kearns
Sports Editor, The Scholastic (Copyright, 1932, by Notre Dame Scholastic)
Pointing to the failure of the rule alterations to effect the cures that were their ultimate aim, Coach George
Coach George E. Keogan
“The rules committee has acted ivith-out giving much thought to the welfare of the game.”
E. Keogan this week designated the recent changes in the basketball playing code as thoughtless and detrimental legislation.
All Favor Defensive
“The entire legislation of the two rules—conveniently called the ‘ten second’ and the ‘three second’ rules— has been made in favor of the defensive team,” Coach Keogan stated. “The idea which motivated their adoption was to speed up the game, to increase action, scoring, and interest from a spectator’s point of view. In brief, they were to cure the ills of basketball.”
Holding that the ills of basketball were originally caused by the defensive team, Coach Keogan pointed out the futility and injustice of attempting to cure them by legislating in favor of the defensive team. “A year ago,” he said, “definition was
drawn which defined ‘stalling’ as ‘the refusal of any team which is behind in scoring to play aggressive basketball.’ Thus, when a trailing defensive team refused to come down the floor to force the play when the leading offensive side chose to hold the ball in back-court, it was the defensive team which was guilty of stalling.”
Ignore Logical Cure
“Now, to remedy this, they have given the offensive team 10 seconds in which to bring the ball into the stalling defense. The logical cure for the fault would have been to give the defensive 10 seconds in which to go out after the offensive team with the lead.”
Showing the so-called ‘zone defense’ to be the original cause for the creation of a delayed offense which would spread the defending side, Coach Keogan pointed out how the new rules have added further difficulties to the offensive team by forcing them to go through the defense.
“The ten second stipulation is fair enough, for most teams bring the ball upcourt at least that fast. But they have forced the offensive team to penetrate the zone defense by allowing them to retreat across the center line with the ball only once before they attempt a shot.”
Will Decrease Scoring
Coach Keogan saw this rule as productive of less action and scoring because of the fact that the defensive team will invariably settle back and refuse to come out of their backcourt, knowing that the ball must be brought to them in 10 seconds. “It will mean,” he declared, “less scoring, less action, and certainly, since it eliminates all clever ball handling by the offensive in their backcourt, less interest to the spectator.”
“And then,” hec ontinued, “to make it more difficult, they have passed the ‘three second’ rule to limit the effectiveness of any team using a pivot man at the foul line. Under the new rule, when a ball is passed in to this man, he must either pass, shoot, or j dribble out from that spot within : three seconds.	i
Explains Pivot Play	j
“The idea of the pivot play is to I use the man as an actual ‘pivot’ 1 around which to build an offense em- | bracing feeding, cutting across, feint- ] ,	(Continued on Page 30)	!
April 22, 1932
Tieenty-seve:i
*25,000 IN PRIZES!
and may the best*Blurbswin
464 cash prizes each month—2 first prizes of $500 each
oalmOUVE S
Colgate Users
HERE
ARE
Come on you shavers—Get in on this $25,000 argument
Walt wants you Palmolive users to say your say. Bill says "Stick with me, you Colgate users." If.you don’t use either, start now and take a shot at this teal money And, don’t forget, give your dealer's name!
1TELL YOU IVE TRIED
'EM ALL, AND FOR
QUICK, LASTING
LATHER IN ANY KIND
OF WATER-HOT OR
COLD-HARP OR SOFT-
noihing, absolutely
nothing - COMPARES
WITH PALMOLIVE '
Shaving cream
A MAN EVER USED
DARDON me
coo BRaGGinq,
AGAIN WALT—
COLGATES for ME
F<«ST, LAST AND
ALWAYS YOU CAN
HAVE ALL THE REST
AS YOURS. AND I
NEVER KNEW WHAT
YOURE WRONG
DONT BE SO
COCK-SURE* MV
BEARDS as TOUCH
A CLC5E SHAVE WAS
TILL I USED COLGATE'S
Palmolive Users
GET into this shaving cream ’blurb" contest, men! Who are you for —Walt or Bill? Palmolive or Colgate’s?
We've discovered that men are rabid on the subject of shaving creams. Just try to tell a Colgate user there’s anything better! Or try

to convert a Palmolive user to anything else
THE CONTEST RULES
You’ll soon find out!
These are the two leading sellers among all shaving creams Think of that—in a field of 176 competing brands! What we want to know is—why do you like Palmolive? Or why do you swear by Colgate’s? Tell us!
Hence this little contest. There’s money in it—lots of money Get some of it! Help Walt out. Or help Bill out. Notice the two empty ’blurb’ spaces in the picture at the right In ONE of these spaces (or on a separate sheet of paper) write what you'd say in favor of Palmolive—or what you'd say in favor of Colgate’s, Write it now! And note! Menton your dealer’s name. Then if you win, he’ll win a prize, too.
Hire are the prizes for each	
month—464 in all!	
For B^st Colgate	For Best Pahnobre
“Murbs”	“Murbs”
1st. . . .$500	1st. . . .$500
2nd. ... 125	2nd. . . . 125
3rd. ... 50	3rd.. ... 50
9 next... 25	9 next. . . 25
20 next . . 10	20 next . . 10
200 next . .	5	200 next . .	5
MAILyour "blurb ’with name and address to Contest Editors, Dept, cn-iss. p.o. Box 1133, Chicago, Illinois.
The prize money (totaling $25,000) is divided into six sets of monthly prizes (each set totaling $4200) At the end of each month prize’s are awarded (see list at right) for the best "blurbs’ received during that month, as follows:
Feb. 29, $4200 Mar. 31, $4200 April 30, $4200 May 31,$4200 June 30, $4200 July 31, $4200
{Contest closes July yi, 19321
Contest is open only to residents of the United States and Canada. Employes of the manufacturers and their families are not eligible to compete.
In event of a tie, each tying
contestant will be awarded full amount of the prize tied for. Decision of the judges shall be final.
Some hints to help you wtn
Here are some facts about the world’s two largestsellingshaving creams—Colgate’s and Palmolive. Here are some of the reasons why men prefer these famous shaving creams
PALMOLIVE
1.	Multiplies itself in lather 250 times.
2.	Softens the beard in one minute.
3.	Maintains its creamy fullness for 10 minutes.
♦. Fine after-effects due to olive oil content.
COLGATE’S
1-	Breaks up oil film that covers each hair.
2.	Small bubbles get down to the base of the beard, hold water against each hair at skin-line and soak it soft where the razor works
3.	Gives a dose, skin-line shave due to small bubble action.
4.	Gives a lasting. 24-bour shave.

Free Samples
Men! A beautiful gift box con-taining generous trial tubes of
both Colgate’s and Palmolive Shaving Creams, as-well as other useful toilet products, is being distributed. If you fail to get yours, ask the business manager of this paper why.
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING a Charlie Mannix
MORRISSEY TIES ST.
ED’S IN SOCCOR TILT
James S. Kearns, Sports Editor, The Scholastic. Dear Jim:
When you sent me out to interview Charles Mannix, one of Notre Dame’s right-hand pitchers, it seemed that the assignment would be just one of the ordinary kind. But it turned out differently.
Lives In Sorin
After watching Mannix throw his slants up to the plate against Wisconsin a week ago, I should have been prepared. He threw underhand with a peculiar delivery, and then came back with a side-arm swipe that seemed the best of all. But he had another trick in the bag. He finally threw one over-hand.
He lives in 125 Sorin, which used to be Dean McCarthy’s office. However, since Mannix and his room-mate have moved in it has lost some of its ail* of dignity. They have it rather nicely furnished with two small desks, a green rug, some books, and two beds —both lowers.
When the questioning for vital facts in the life of tliis pitcher was begun, they were hardly asked before the answer, “I don’t know”, was given. After much difficulty these facts were learned:
Charles Mannix was born in Washington,-D. C.
He prepped at St. Johns in Washington and was active in all branches of sports.
He likes dancing and has a favorite dancing partner.
He belongs to the Monogram club.
His list of friends includes Joe Cronin and Bump Hadley. (Bernie Heitz told me that and said to be sure and include it in the write-up. So here it is.)
He has two years more in law school.
“Write It Myself”
While I was getting all this, Heitz, Frank Murnane, and John Laughna were setting up the bridge table and getting a few rubbers under way before they began studying for the evening. They seemed to be able to do a couple of things at once for they tried to put in a lot of stuff but Mannix didn’t seem to like it so you can’t print it.
After the assistants became a little too much excited, Mannix offered to
write the story himself. As that would make it a lot easier for me, I told him to go ahead. Here it is:
“Born and live in Washington, D. C. Prepped at St. John’s College of
Washington, D. C.
Charlie Mannix
He introduces himself.
“Have roomed with Jack McGrath for two years because he is one guy I’ve found around Notre Dame who doesn’t snore.
“My tensest moment was relieving Lisicki two years ago with the bases loaded and none out, and again last Friday under the same conditions relieving Charlie Palt.
“Palt and I have never successfully relieved one another. We hope to sometime this year.
“Father Farley thinks I visit St. Joseph hospital a little too much. Am training harder this year than ever before, for Charlie Palt, captain of the squad, and for other reasons that
Interhall And La Raza Booters Increase Plans For Games.
The second game between St. Edward’s and Morrissey, played last Sunday morning, ended in a tie, 1-1, both teams scoring their point in the second half. St. Edward’s, eager to avenge their defeat the previous Sunday, were the first to score, but a short while later Brias evened the count for Morrissey. The game was evenly contested, both teams showing good defensive work but somewhat disorganized forward lines.
The lineups:
Morrissey: Reilly, Roche, Tompkins, Harrington, Crnkovic, Hendricks, Hoffmen, Singson, Melian, Brias, M. Yriberry.
St. Edward’s: C. Yriberry, O’Neil, Nanovic, Gilooley, Meyers, O’Dea, T. Hiegel, A. Hiegel, Hallauer, Kalman, Yarr, Gleason, Hoeschler, Kenefake.
Next Sunday morning at 10 o’clock, Morrissey will play Lyons, and St. Edward’s will “take on” Sophomore. Both these games promise to be interesting, as both pairs of contenders are neighbors.
The La Raza team had a practice game last Sunday afternoon with the Worker’s Sport club of South Bend, and next Sunday afternoon, at 2 o’clock, will engage with the South Bend Vikings. The Vikings is an excellent ball club, at present champion of the city, and possibly the best team in northern Indiana, if not in the entire state. Last fall they defeated the former state champions. The games between La Raza and the Vikings have always been bitterly contested, and next Sunday’s game should be no exception.
space will not permit me to mention.”
That should be a pretty good introduction of Mannix for The Scholastic, Jim, because Mannix wrote it and he ought to know what he is writing about.
Sincerely,
Bill Flynn.
For the first time in the history of Wellesley college dramatic productions, men’s parts were taken by men when members of the Harvard Dramatic club took part in the Wellesley play, “The Man of Destiny.”
April 22, 1932
Tzventy-nine
DEBATERS BEAT PURDUE
(Continued from Page 13)
vate property might well be seized if it were not contributing to human welfare. Replied Kirby, one of the blessed of Professor* Coyne’s proteges: “Would that the angelic old doctor were here tonight to hear his words so used.”
Critic judge for the evening was Professor J. H. McBurney of the University of Michigan, who awarded the debate to Notre Dame after analyzing the presentation of both teams.
At Lafayette, on the same evening, the Purdue negative team was given the decision over the affirmative Notre' Dame squad.
INDIAN AGGIES STRIKE
By Intercollegiate Press.
MEXICO CITY, Apr. 22. —When the entire student body at the government’s Indian agricultural school at Chapingo went on strike as a protest against new methods of study, the university immediately advertised for a new student body.
The more than 400 students declared they would not return to their classes unless the reforms were abolished.
Idaho Co-ed Wants To Study
Alaska Interior Decorating
By Intercollegiate Press.
Moscow, Idaho, Apr. 22.—Two coeds at the University of Idaho are students in a unique language course. Under the instruction of Dr. J. G. Eldridge, dean of the faculty, Mrs. Edna Florell and Miss Hildagarde Wanous are studying Icelandic.
Mrs. Florell plans to go to Iceland to study the country’s interior decorating and needs to know the language for her work. Miss Wanous has “always wanted to know the language.”
The class will study both the modern Icelandic and the Old Norse, since Mrs. Florell wishes to be able to read the ancient inscriptions as well as the daily newspapers.
Dean Eldridge believes that the Old Norse language is the best preserved of any language, because the Icelandic is almost identical to the Old Norse. At any rate the dean said it is the only ancient language now used by a nation.
St. Paul, winner of the American association pennant last year, lost its first seven games this spring.
KARL CONTINUES STORY
(Continuer from Page 16)
known as “studentenhaus,” which is a member of the association of “Stu-dentenhauser.”
This group deals only with the economic side of student activity. It owns the dining halls, the laundry, the store for students’ supplies, and the shoe repair shop, and makes every effort to reduce the costs for the students.	'
Theatre tickets are also supplied in limited quantities to students at a reduction. The business manager of the “studentenhaus” is usually a well-known alumnus, who is assisted in his work by several representatives and faculty members.
It also (and particularly here at the Technical college) supervises the publication of a modest -twenty-five page monthly paper, which all students receive free, as everyone automatically becomes a member of the “Studentenhaus” upon matriculation.
The work that this body has accomplished for student welfare is to be highly commended, particularly in view of its comparatively recent founding.
Hello Men!
Smith 5 Cafeteria 11! E. Jefferson Blvd. ■
Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
Refined Atmosphere---Courteous Service-—
Sanitary Equipment- --
And an honest desire to please, gain and hold student trade
The Oliver Hotel Barber Shop . 205 West Washington Avenue
1
Thirty
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
KEOGAN SCORES RULES
(Continued from Page 26)
By Irvin B. Halper
St. Edward’s, Howard, Dillon, and Alumni are the four teams that are still undefeated in the Interhall Baseball league. The “Minims” is the only nine in Group I that has not been forced to taste defeat. Inasmuch as
Kewpee Hotel Hamburg ' 328 N. Michigan
We are always open and ready to serve our specialties—	,
Excellent Hamburgers and Rich Creamy Malted Milks
□ '
Drop in after the games or shows.
□
PHONE 3-0405
Yard Service
only the teams have but wto games this is a bit unusual. In the second group the other three teams have won their games.
Last Sunday saw Lyons defeat Corby, 4 to 22, in a fast and interesting game. Sophomore swamped Badin, 16 to 2. St. Edward’s downed Sorin, 7 to 2. Morrissey drew a bye.
In Group II, Alumni defeated Carroll by the close score of 5 to 4. Dillon won from Brownson, 8 to 4. Off-Campus forfeited to Wlash, 9 to 0.
STANDINGS
Giioup I	w	l
St. Edward’s ................2	0
Corby .......................1	1
Badin .......................1	1
Lyons .......................1	1
Sophomore ...................1	1
Sorin .......................0	1
pct.
1.000 .500 .500 .500 .500 .000
Morrissey ....................0	1	.000
Group II
w L PCT.
Howard____ Dillon ____ Alumni ____ Brownson . Walsh .... Carroll ___ Off-Campus
1 1
0 0
0
■ 0
0
0
1
1
2
1.000
1.000
1.000
.500 .000 .000 .000
2
GOLF
Sunday marks the first day of Interhall golf matches. At 8:30 in the morning members of the teams from Lyons and Corby will tee off for the first match.
The teams this year will be composed of four men, who will have qualified by 6:00 o’clock this evening. The matches wil be played in foursomes. Doubles and singles will be played simultaneously. The “Nassau” system of scoring will be used, allowing nine points to be obtained in each foursome.
A match will be defaulted by the team which is not ready to start within five minutes of the scheduled starting time.
Sunday’s matches are as follows:
8:30 a.m., Lyons vs. Corby.
8:40 a.m., Sophomore vs. Alumni. 8:50 a.m., Sorin vs. St. Edward’s. 1:00 p.m., Howard vs. Off-Campus.
1:10 p.m., Brownson vs. Dillon.
1:20 p.m., Carroll vs. Badin.
ing to one man and passing to another, rapid passing out to the guards and back to the pivot player, and, occasionally, a feint and a spin to free the player for a shot. It is impossible for a pivot man to work a play with any sort of deception in three seconds.”
Since the play has been one of the most popular and effective weapons with which to combat the zone defense, Coach Keogan sees the three second regulation as another addition to the defensive strength of a team employing the zone. “The Rules committee,” he stated, “has taken it upon itself to legislate out of basketball with the introduction of this three second rule, the very backbone of a play employed by probably 90% of the teams in the country.”
“At the meeting of the National Basketball Coaches Association, nothing of this nature was suggested. Rather, it seemed to be the consensus of opinion that the play should be left strictly alone.”
In summarizing his views of the new rules, Coach Keogan concluded: “The committee has legislated out of basketball two distinctive and popular types of offense—the delayed and the pivotal. There is little left for a coach to adopt but the fast-breaking, or crosscourt styles of attack.
“The rules were formed and adopted without much thought being given to the welfare of the game as a whole, or the desires of the coaches employing the offensives legislated against.”
HANDICAP GOLF MEET
(Continued from Page 22)
their qualifying scores. A list of these men will be posted in the clubhouse on Saturday, April 23. Any contestant may waive these scores, however, and substitute other cards.
All matches in the tournament will be governed by the regular rules of handicap match play except in the case of stymies. Stymies will not be played.
The decisions of those in charge of the tourney must be accepted as final. Contestants are asked also to observe the rules of the course as printed on the score cards.
All inquiries and complaints maybe addressed in care of Handicap Tournament, The Scholastic, Publications Office, Notre Dame, Indiana.
April 22, 1932
Thirty-one.
Splinters From The Press Box
By James
The golf team, according to figures brought to our attention, really merits a blow for the excellent scholastic averages attained by its leading members.
The averages for the first ten men range from 93 for the highest to 83.6 for the lowest. Few groups of varsity athletes in any school can boast of a class ranking of such a high standard. The mashie - wielders have definitely eliminated, in the one sure way, all danger of ineligibility upsetting their victory cart.
FIRST AND LAST
Sixteen major league ball clubs have finally managed to get their season launched. Weather conditions in about half of the cities involved in opening day schedules, makes the use of “launched” advisable. Rain and cold marred at least 50% of the celebrations.
Last October 10, as we treaded water to maintain our position in Row 120, Soldiers field, we were interrupted in our persevering attempts to see something of the Northwestern game by announcements of the status of the Cardinals and Athletics in the World Series final. Our neighbors spluttered that it was “kinda late for baseball.” We thought so too. In view of the perrenial avalanche of postponed games at the start of the season, and the danger of cold weather and conflict with college football at its close, it would seem advisable that the major league bosses do something about shortening the season.
Of course it’s their toy, they can play with it as they like, but it seems a bit foolish to have four or five games postponed by a single team in the first ten days of the year. A week off at the end of the season and a week off at the start would do a lot to avoid the apparent difficulty.
FORE
Page 22 of The Scholastic carries a story on the latest development in the program of sponsoring sports by this weekly of yours and mine. There is every reason to believe that the handicap golf tournament will be the most successful event undertaken in this program.
S. Kearns
The officials in charge of the tournament are prepared to go to considerable trouble to guarantee its success. It shouldn’t be too much to expect the army of club swingers that, works out daily to lend some cooperation. Close adherence to the rules, especially to the deadlines, will be the major share of the competitors’ responsibility.
SUGGESTIONS
The golf tournament reminds us of a request that we’ve been wanting to make for some time. Inherent in the policy of sports-sponsoring adopted by The Scholastic, is the desire to please the student body as a whole In view of that, we’ve been meaning to ask the student body to contribute their ideas of possible events that might be handled by The Scholastic.
A golf driving contest, and a lake swim are among the events under consideration. Opinions on the merits of these, and suggestions on additional possibilities will be greeted with thanks by the sports department. Communications may be addressed to the Sports Editor, “The Scholastic,” Publications Office.
Fellows »
Be sure to stop in and see the new
Cooper Olympiad
sweaters which were popular at Palm Beach last winter.
They’re at
Spiro’s
Imagine Being Bald!
By Intercollegiate Press.
Auburn, Fla., April 21.—Alabama Polytechnic Institute men students probably never have looked so ton-sorially perfect as in the last few days during which a barbers’ war in town has dropped the price of haircuts to 10 cents each. Only a few of the boys are waiting for the price to drop to a nickel.
LOOK WHO’S COMING!
IN PERSON SATURDAY-SUNDAY MONDAY
April 23-24-25 The Famous WENR MINSTRELS and
WLS STARS
AL
and
PETE
Heading a . GALA RKO VAUDEVILLE PROGRAM and On The Screen “The Cock-Eyed World” of the air
"SKY DEVILS" with William (Stage)	Spencer
BOYD	TRACY
RKO
PALACE
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
WANTED
A STUDENT CRUISE DIRECTOR
WE want one student in this university to organize air-tour groups. Generous financial return to the man who qualifies. Also opportunity for interesting travel.
Cruises are made in giant Pan American multi-motored air-iiners. Cool, luxurious travel in the upper air at 117 miles an hour. The West Indies, Centi al America, South America out of the tourist season, in all their native charm. Night life in gay Cuba. The drums of magic Haiti, throbbing in the’ distant hills. Panama, crossroads of the world. The ancient Mayan ruins at Chichen Itza in Yucatan Mexico City, that mile-high metropolis where bullfights still flourish. Or Rio de Janeiro, sparkling Buenos Aires and Montevideo, Peru, Chile. To these exotic places and a hundred others in the30 countries of Latin America covered by Pan American, largest air transport system in the world, on 20,000 miles of airways.
This year these student group tours will be offered at 40% reduction from standard passenger rates, between June 1 and September 1. For example: this discount brings air trips from Miami to Havana down to $16.80. From our Texas terminal to Mexico City, $36.60. From Miami to Panama, with overnight stop at Jamaica, luncheon stops in Cuba and Colombia, only $108. Same student reductions to any point on our lines.
If you feel that you have the personality, the social position and collegiate standing to qualify as representative of our company on the campus, write immediately. Please give full particulars as to your personal qualifications and responsibility. Address: Mr. V. E. Chenea, General Traffic Manager, Pan American Airways System, 122 Bast 42d Street, New York, N. Y.
The Hoffman Hotel
announces that
Carl McMann (14 years with Oliver Hotel
Barber Shop)
Has been appointed manager of the
Hoffman Barber Shop
On Down the Line
With Joe Morper
EOY EWEY of Purdue and New York A. C. won ten Olympic championships . . . All track officials at Allegheny college wear tuxedos when officiating . . . “SMOKEHOUSE” KLAEENEE, Eice Institute pitcher, is credited with the first no-hit, norun game of the season . . . Baylor was the victim . . . PEINK CALLISON has been named head football coach at Oregon, succeeding Dr. Clarence Spears, new Wisconsin coach . . . GAE WOOD’S speedboat mark of 111.712 has been recognized as a world record . . .
V _
VINCE FEHLIG, N. D. varsity golfer, used only 25 putts on 17 greens in his singles match against VALPO last week ... He picked up on the other hole . . . STANLEY KECHEL scored 44 knockouts . . . 21 of them in succession . . . Candidates for HARVARD POLO teams practice riding on wooden and electric mounts before using the real McCoy .. . NICK ALTROCK once had a season batting average of 1.000 . . . He made one hit out of one time at bat. . . .
.	V •
Attendance at the opening baseball game was 50 percent under the 1931 figures . . . CLARENCE DE MAR, ancient marathoner, three times a member of the U. S. Olympic team, made his 1932 debut in the annual Boston A. A. race ... In the season opener the Albuquerque DONS defeated the El Paso TEXANS, 43 to 15 . . . JOHN McGRAW, starting his 30th season as manager of the Giants, declares that baseball “isn’t what it used to be” . . . The annual PENN relays will be held April 29th and 30th at Franklin field. ...
V
Wall Street -quotes the Boston RED SOX and the Philadelphia PHILLIES at 100-1 to cop the league flag . . . Why stop at 100? ... VAL PICI-NICH has caught 3 no-hit games in the big leagues . . . WALTER JOHNSON, JOE BUSH, and HOWARD EHMKE were the hurlers ... CHARLEY TRUCKS, noted bowler, has rolled 27 perfect (300) games . -. STEVE DONAGHUE has won the English Derby six times . . . Three of- the victories were in successive, years, 1921, *22,’ and *23.. ..	- ...
NOTICE
All Crew Members, Supervisors, Team Captains and Student subscription salespeople who wish to avail themselves of the opportunity for free scholarship made possible through the courtesy of the leading Magazine Publishers again this year are requested to apply to the national organizer, M. Anthony Steele, Jr., Box 244, ■ San Juan, Porto Rico, stating qualifications fully.
Tennis Raquets Restruns
Golf Equipment
Full value given for American Trust Accounts on any merchandise in our store.
Berman's Sport Shop
126 N. Michigan
JUGGLER REPRINT SERIES, No. 8
“How would YOU like a brand new Chevrolet?**
There’s no wasted advertising copy in the JUGGLER. You know you are talking to students, you can use their language, and you can get results. And that is what makes the “Juggler” a really economical medium.
The Juggler
At the University.,	Notre Dame, Indiana
A»io UiiiwunoiAi ujiutiu
-LEMKO?UEH LI3RARY-NOTRE DAME, LOCAL
Ask the nearest
Chester
smoker
Chesterfield Radio Program
MON. & THU*. TUE5.&FRI. WED. & SAT.
Boswell Alex RUTH
Sisters Gray ETTING 10^0p.m.E.S.T 10;30p.m.E.S.T. 10p.tn.E.S.T.
SHILKRETS ORCHESTRA every night but Sunday Norman BROKENSHiRE, Announcer COLUMBIA NETWORK
ft 1932. Iaggitt * Mms Tobacco Co
They’ll tell you -they're milder, they taste letter