Volume 73
MAY 24, 1940
Number 26
THE Baccalaureate Commencement sermon for the 96th Sunday, June 2 Annual Commencement will be delivered by Archbishop Cantwell, of Los Angeles. The Honorable David Worth Clark, senior senator from Idaho, and a Notre Dame graduate in the class of 1922, will give the Commencement Address.
(See page 5) ♦
TO ALBERT P. Funk, Four Receive William C. Fay, Ger-Dome Award* ard K. Donovan, and
Gerald J. Flynn went the Dome Awards for 1940. The awards are presented as recognition of extracurricular achievement at Notre Dame, and are given to those four men who are outstanding in this special endeavor.
(See page 7) ❖
WILLIAM C. McGow-Name Editor*	an, Felix Pogliano, and
for 1940-41	Neil McCarty were
named editors of campus publications for the 1940-41 schoolyear, the Rev. Leo L. Ward, speaking for the University Publications Board, announced at the recent Publications banquet.	’	(See page 8)
♦
THE IRISH baseball Badgers Here squad starts on the for Two Game* final lap of its 1940 season today and tomorrow with a brace of games against Wisconsin’s Badgers on Cartier Field. Monday, the Klinemen will entertain Michigan’s Wolverines, and Saturday they will meet Michigan State in the annual Commencement Day game.
(See page 12)
Archbishop Cantwell — who will address the Class of ’40 in Sacred Heart Church, June 2. (See page 5)
The Notre Dame Alumnus
PROGRAM
of the
NINETY-SIXTH ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT University of Notre Dame May 31, June I and 2, 1940
(All - vents are scheduled on Central Standard Time.)
Friday, May 31
Registration of Alumni in the Alumni Office. Main Building fBecause of the early Commencement, no rooms will he available until Friday. May 31. on the campus.)
Opening of the General Alumni, and the Class, Golf Tournament Play. The 18-Hole William J. Burke - University Golf Course
Reunion Classes for 1940 are’ 1935 — 1930 — 1925 — 1920 — 1915 — 1910 — 1905 — 1900 — 1895 — 1890	'
6:00 P.M. Reunion Dinnei of the 25-Year Class. Lay Faculty Dining Room
7:00 P. M. Concert, University Band, Main Quadrangle
7:00 P. M. Reunion Dinner, the 50-Year Class of 1890
8:00 P. M. Entertainment, Washington Hall
8:30 P.M. Smoker of the 5-Year Reunion Class of 1935
9:00 P.M. Informal Reunion Smoker, 10-Year Reunion Class of 1930, Hali Reunion Headquarters
Saturday, June I
Continuation of Registration of Alumni
Continuation of Alumni and
Class Golf Tournaments
9:30 A. M. Last Visit of the Class of 1940 to Sacred Heart Church (A Private Ceremony, Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C., presiding.)
10:00 A.M. Class Day Exercises and Awarding of Prizes, Washington Hall
11:00 A. M. Softball Game, Class of 1930 vs Class of 1935. Badin Field
12:00 M. 15-Year Reunion Luncheon, Class of 1925, Lay Faculty Dining Room
2:00 P.M. Baseball, Michigan State College vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field
0:00 P.M. The Alumni Banquet — featured this year by Most Rev. John F. O'Hara. C.S.C.. Auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy; Raymond J. Kelly, National Commander of the American Legion; Lewis J. Murphy, National Commander of the Disabled Veterans of the World War, and Very Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Acting President of the University, in a program based on the vivid living of the slogan on the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart Church. “For God, for Country, and for Notre Dame." Prof. Clarence E. “Pat” Manion, will serve at Toastmaster.
(In the East Hall of the University Dining Halls.)
6:30 P.M. Concert by the University Band, Main Quadrangle
8:00 P.M. Concert by the University Glee Club, Washington Hall
9:00 P.M. Notre Dame Smoker for All Alumni, sponsored by the Class of 1930, in
the Brownson Hall Rec Room, Washington Hall
Sunday, June 2
8:30 A.M. Academic Procession, Main Building to the University Gymnasium
9:00 A.M. Solemn Pontifical Mass, University Gymnasium	'
Baccalaureate Sermon, Most Rev. John J. Cantwell, D.D., Archbishop of Los Angeles
Music by the University Choir of Moreau Seminary
The American Flag, presented to Notre Dame by the Class of 1940 on Washington’s Birthday, will be blessed immediately after the Mass.
10:00 A.M. Reunion Mass, Class of 1930
11:00 A.M. Raising of the Flag on the Main Quadrangle, after a procession from the Gymnasium to the Flagpole
11:15 A.M. Open House, Faculties of the Colleges (Demonstration, Biological Building, Prof. Reyniers, Class of 1930.)
12:00 M. Monogram Luncheon, University Dining Halls	'
2:00 P.M. Eleventh Annual Council, Local Alumni Clubs, Court Room, Law Building
4:00 P.M. Awarding of Degrees to the Class of 1940, University Gymnasium
’	Commencement Address,
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE By JACK WILLMANN
Maybe he could set them- straight on the fact that the term “ultimate end” has a univocal meaning for all students and all men.
Into the Main Tent
That’s where the Parade is headed to-
ward this week, side shows—many
There will be some of them impromptu.
The barkers have some more novelties to pass off on freshmen — still unhardened by a year in the academic ring. The pink tea is still served at the Howell’s watering place. A few formalities remain to be execut-
Jack Willmann	ed—and we do not
write literally. When the Big Scene is set in the Field House, there will be no vendors selling tickets for a Wild West show afterward. Mac will not have his crew of huskies dismantle the main tent, but each of oui-individual tepees will be lowered and then the general migratory exodus will begin. Some of you ■will come back. Some of us will go on. The Parade will carry on without us. Keep it moving, lads, and don’t spare the horses.
Just a Word About
.... those men with the cameras, the kleig lights, the wardrobes, the autographs, the student stars, the weather, and Pat O’Brien. Therein was the last big act on the greenward. Quite a show those Hollywood boys can put on, too. Unofficial rumor around Walsh Hall has it that the cinema is here to stay. Registrar Riordan is non-commital about reports that all prospective students will have to take screen tests before gaining admittance to the University. So goes Hollywood, Notre Dame, and the rumors —round and round.
♦
Hecklers, Attention!
This is your week. For many months there has been a group of campus boys who by subtle threat or canny innuendo have expressed a desire to have their names mentioned on this page. Patiently, I referred them to Wemhoff the Week who contrary to all Dome publicity did not come out second best to Corey the Corny in that battle between the Fourth and Fifth Estates. But the we-want-a-blow-boys will have their inning for by special arrangement with Joe the printer, the SCHOLASTIC has arranged to have
their names on this page. It is not done with mirrors, but with a new type of ink recently perfected by the Quack Club. There is a blank space reserved below for each individual student. Merely breathe on it with your usual musty breath, untie the shoe-string on the left shoe, and unless Joe was kidding, your name will blossom out in red ink. This offer is not guaranteed, so in case of failure remember that movies are your best entertainment. The space:
❖
An All-American Press Team
This is admittedly and wittingly an infringement on the prerogative of the ASCP whose sacred thrust it is to evaluate the college publications of the nation. However, for twenty-six weeks we have faithfully perused and sheared enough papers and magazines to paper the inside walls of Cartier Field. In the course of such reading it is a human weakness to adjudge one pulp better than a competing slick. Here’s our starring line-up:
Daily most susceptible to clipping
...................Ohio	State Lantern Magazine most humorous in the
humor field..........Cornell	Widow
Best women’s college papei-
....................New	Rochelle Tatler Best Women’s college humor mag-
azine ..............Randolph-Macon
Most readable serious magazine
..................Princeton Sovereign Most editorially volatile paper
..................Daily	Northwestern Best all-around publication
............................Navy	Log Biggest exchange disappointment
...............Missouri	Daily Student Finest ait and photography
.........Northwestern	Purple Parrot
Crying to Heaven
. . . for an editorial pants-spanking was the feature in the Temple News. It was a survey of student opinion on that question, utterly undebatable—“Is Life Worth Living?” The answers were supplied by characters who spoke their lines from the play of the same name. Of course, it was satire and we recognize it as such, but there might be a need for Mr. Simon to include some of those Eastern schools on a speaking tour.
❖
And a Final Report
... on Varsity Magazine, the cause of Miss Gallagher’s letter ... ad infinitum. With its fourth issue on the newsstands Varsity is taking the lissome shape that we predicted for it. Varsity and Notre Dame should regret that it is not on our Caf magazine rack, because there is a blow for the new bust of Rock and a picture of two N.D. men and their St. Mary’s dates at the Kentucky Derby.
And So—To Work
The last-chapter, the final paragraph, fond farewell, a closing message, or just plain 30; but this is it. It was our second columning experience; the first being a bit done in imitation of our first hero, the late Oscar Odd McIntyre. That was in Junor College at Williamsport, Pa. Now in this fade-out from our Scholastic post there is the same nostalgia that ever haunts the sentimentalist who looks at life and wonders at the score. Radios and press dispatches are ominously foreboding a career in uniform, but we would rather see the Parade, College or National, from an editorial post behind a typewriter. Better to get letters from Miss Gallagher, Miss Wilson (whom -we thank publicly for a fine May Day week-end at her MacMur-ray), and Mr. Connell than to open a draft notice from the War Department.
Chemistry Club hold* picnic
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WEEK By FRANK WEMHOFF
CAMPUS OPINION
Top of the Week
The Dome....
Let's end it all
Since this is the tallyho issue of The Scholastic, the Week would like to toss a few snapdragons for the last time this year ... a blanket ha-ha to those who say the “weak Week” ... a big blow to those who gave this column humorous stories that weren’t used . . . and a jar of Shinola for all persons whose toes were trampled and took it in the light manner in which it was meant ... to the Radio Club, the managers, Mr. Connolly’s hash house, Eddie Corey, the campus men-about, the Dome.... it’s. a shame they were so deserving . . . and so we say farewell to the beautiful old Scholastic, garden spot of journalistic endeavor, nestled on the flat bounding plains of the historic old Midwest, to you, aloha . . . and our apologies to the Fitz travelons . . .
Ah yes, the Dome
We apologize, they did lift the Dome from the Index . . . and placed it on the bill . . . for those of you who may have contemplated laughing at the Juggler section the credit for those sharp captions belongs solely to editor Carty . . . (Credit is purely ambiguous) . . . The Tweek, which was the Dome’s prize critique of The Scholastic and with which Editor Carty threatened us for days was not written by Juggler Editor Pogliano.... Instead, it was written by the Week to relieve the terrific pressure on the Dome staff and to give a purely impartial viewpoint.... there were also a few mistakes in the Carty album.... a snapshot of the four saxes in Karl Hunri’s band captioned “all brass”.... a portion of a band commonly called the reed section._Another snapshot, allegedly of Alumni’s mailmen, actually were Dillon’s... Evidently Editor Carty never saw an old Juggler.... the pictures of the dining hall “as it once was” were taken in the “caf”. . . The cartoon labeled “Any hall at 11:00 P. M.” and showing a student yelling for lights . . . a call generally heard after night prayer
. . . And the assumption that Eddie Corey, Notre Dame’s only talcum powder salesman, bested the Week in their bloody feud . . . Who lost the alumni groups in the Juggler section? . . . Ray Kelly, most clubby man on the campus, and Jerry Flynn bested Tom Carty in the annual Editor’s Picture Derby . . . tradition has it that this race is usually won by the editor himself, strange as that seems . . . Kelly and Flynn each had seven official pictures listed while Editor Carty had only six . . . over-confidence and the inability to count are the main reasons for the defeat . . . Carty will long be remembered as saying that the editor of The Scholastic published a weekly mistake while the Dome only appears once.... but there is a great difference in that the editor of The Scholastic doesn’t have to face his mistakes the next year . . . from the Dome pages it was also evident that most of the juniors live in Howard. . .
In retrospect
The recent bumper crop of photographers left a lot of students snaphappy .... Warner’s hairdresser attracted as much attention as Pat O’Brien . . . Overheard in front of Lyons: “They sank another battleship today.”. . . .“Which one, the Monitor oi' the Merrimac?”. . . Then there was the fellow who never missed a class, not in the least ... In Alumni: “The main thing to watch in his exam is the fellow behind the fellow in front of you.” . . . Don Tiedeman, prima donna of the glee club, went shopping for a girdle this week to arrest profile protrusion . . . result was that the Teidle couldn’t find one large enough . . . The Sorinites worked in shifts to hold the Sorin porch for the movie scenes . . they even went so far as to hire fifteen extra-extras from Walsh to hold the seats when they became tired . . . payoff came when the scenes were shot while some of the Walsh gentlemen -were still pinch-hitting.
❖
Ode to Monday
Finals, finals, everywhere With drops and drops of ink And never a prof who’ll leave the room And allow a guy to think.
Last of the Week
Parting is such sweet hypocrisy . . .
Question of the Week: Are you in favor of a varsity swimming team at Notre Dame?
Brownson—Ed Hanrahan: “We have a good start toward a varsity swimming team with the intramural system organized in the Rockne Memorial during the last year. If it is followed up, a good varsity team can be developed within two or three years. Even if it started out as a minor sport, it would give many more fellows a chance to participate in an intercollegiate sport and earn a monogram; all this besides added interest in athletics would result from such a move.”
Zahm—Joe Marcin: “Besides being a lot of fun, swimming is a good exercise. It develops just about every muscle in the body. If a varsity swimming team were added to the program here, interest in the sport would be stimulated and more fellows could participate. With such excellent facilities, swimming should and could be developed into a leading sport.”
Cavanaugh—Kenneth Schoen: “The addition of swimming to the list of intercollegiate sports at Notre Dame would provide another form of recreation for the fellows to participate in. Most large schools have varsity teams, and with the good swimmers we have here there is no reason why we couldn’t have a good team. The enthusiasm of the students has grown considerably, so why not inintroduce varsity competition in this sport.”
Breen-Phillips—Paul Pfeiffer: “Every important school, if it has ample facilities, has a varsity swimming team. Until the last two years Notre Dame has not had a pool in which to practice and hold their meets. But since the Rockne Memorial has been completed there is no reason why we shouldn’t maintain the pace set by other large universities. Swimming is a great national pastime, so we shouldn’t have any trouble in getting material.”
Morrissey—Richard Peter Donnelly: “There is an added interest in swimming here at Notre Dame, shown by the increased number that came out for intramural meets this year as compared with last year. ’ Every other large school, Michigan and Yale for example, participates in this sport. Notre Dame is noted for its outstanding teams in almost every other sport and I think we should add this activity to our inter-collegiate schedule.”—Ray Donovan
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z188
Volume 73
MAY 24, 1940
Number 26
PAGING MR. FLYNN — AND A CHEER FOR ’40
Archbishop Cantwell Will Deliver Baccalaureate Sermon to Class of ’40
Commencement Speaker Will Be David W. Clark
The 96th graduating class will receive diplomas in the University Gymnasium on Sunday afternoon, June 2, after three days of traditional reunion, festivity and ceremony which will begin with the registration of visiting alumni on Friday, May 31.
The Seniors will take their last exams tomorrow. The 662 graduates will have the coming week free in observance of the annual “Senior Week,” spending their final week at Notre Dame with really nothing to do.
For the Class of 1940, Saturday will bring their last visit to Sacred Heart Church in a private ceremony presided over by Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C. Following this will be the Class Day Exercises and the awarding of prizes to outstanding students, in Washington Hall.
Sunday will be the day the seniors
have anticipated for four years. Ceremonies will begin with an academic procession from the Main Buillding to the Gymnasium where a Solemn Pontifical Mass will be celebrated. The Baccalaureate preacher xvill be the Most Rev. John J. Cantwell, D.D., archbishop of Los Angeles, Calif. This will be followed by blessing of the American Flag presented to Notre Dame by the graduating class at the Washington Day exercises this spring. Then there will be a procession from the Gymnasium to the flagpole on the main quadrangle where the flag will be raised traditionally accompanied by cheers led by an exuberant senior atop one of the nearby cannons.
At noon on Sunday there will be a reception in the University parlors in the Main Building for the parents of the 1940 graduates and also a luncheon for members of the Monogram club. At four o’clock the Awarding of Degrees will take place in the Gymnasium. The Commencement address will be delivered by the Honorable David Worth Clark, senior senator from Idaho and Notre Dame
graduate in the class of 1922. Because of the extremely grave international situation the Hon. M. L. Duplessis, former premier of Canada and present minority leader of the Quebec legislative assembly, was released from an earlier commitment to address the graduates.
Alumni activities will be interspersed throughout the Commencement week-end. Alumni from the classes of every fifth year beginning with the class of 1890 are expected to return to the campus for anniversary gatherings.
An alumni and Class golf tournament will begin on Friday, followed by dinners for the 25 and 50 year classes. On Saturday Walter Hagen, Sr., one of the most colorful figures in American golf history will stage an exhibition match with his son Walter, Jr., captain of the 1940 Notre Dame squad.
Another Saturday event will present the men of 1930 versus the 1935 grads in a soft ball game on Badin field, which was probably a “bog” back in their days, too, and in the afternoon there will be an Intercollegiate game, Michigan State vs. Notre Dame.
The Alumni Banquet will be held Saturday evening, featured this year by the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy; Raymond J. Kelly, T5, national commander of the American Legion; Lewis J. Murphy, ’26, national commander of the Disabled Veterans of the World War; and the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., acting president of the University, in a program based on the vivid living of the slogan on the Memorial door of Sacred Heart Church, “For God, for Country, and for Notre Dame”. Professor Clarence E. “Pat” Manion, of the University College of Law will serve as toastmaster.
On Sunday there will be “open house,” sponsored by the faculties of the colleges, with a demonstration in the Biology building by Professor James A. Reyniers ’30, head of the bacteriological laboratories of the’ University.
Other Alumni activities will consist of outdoor concerts by the University Band and Glee Club, smokers and other gatherings plus entertainment in Washington Hall that will probably revive memories of seat-savers of other days. -
—John F. Dinges -
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
REMINDER OF PAST EVENTS THAT ARE STILL WITH US
Notre Dame to Observe Memorial Day, Sunday
and carrier pigeons on entering Ghent. They seized the carrier pigeons to prevent the Belgians of Ghent from sending information to the Allied forces and the bicycles were given to certain German army units to speed up their advance. Some of the boys in Ghent ran away rather than have their bicycles taken. Some men who ran away from the city were mistaken for fleeing Belgian soldiers. There was no fighting during this occupation of Ghent and little destruction was done in the city.
During their captivity the people of Ghent neared starvation. The Germans seized all farm animals and produce and sent them up to their army at the front. Anna De Meulenaere remembered that they even stole the children’s rabbits for food. The people did not have food staples, like butter, at any time during the war. From 1914 to 1918 no citizen of Ghent could leave his city for even a day without a pass from the German army. A violation of this rule resulted in imprisonment. There were no serious outbreaks of violence during the German occupation as the German soldiers and the native population left each other alone.
Sunday morning at 8:30 o’clock, campus time, the University of Notre Dame will pay her respects to her gallant World Wai- dead in the 19th Annual Memorial Day services.
Celebrant of the Mass which will start the day’s ceremony will be Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., acting president of the University. It will be a Field Mass.
The parade to the cemetery will begin at 9:15 o’clock. Ranks will be formed at the war memorial tympanum, the east entrance to the Sacred Heart Church. The procession ■null consist of the war chaplains; the Notre Dame. Band under the direction of Joseph J. Casasanta; the Military Detail, including the Color Guard and Firing Squad of the 113th Engineers, Indiana National Guard, in
Recalls First German Invasion of Belgium
There will be more poppies blowing in Flanders fields this year. Once more the armies of Germany have tramped over the cobblestones of Brussels and turn to face their ancient foes in East Flanders.
Anna De Meulenaere was a girl of 14 in October, 1914, when the gray-clad advance marched into her native Ghent, capital of East Flanders. She recalled that there was no resistance to the German advance into Ghent; the Belgian forces had left on the Sunday before Ghent was captured. On the following Tuesday morning at 11 o’clock the manager of the factory where Anna worked
the charge of Major Robert Riordan; members of the Fourth Degree, Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus; and University students and visitors.
At 9:30 o’clock the ceremony at the graves of deceased members of the Notre Dame G.A.R., and the World War chaplains will begin. Graves will be decorated with wreaths by students from Holy Cross Seminary.
The returning of the colors after the firing squad’s salute will take place in front of the Administration Building at 10 o’clock, and the termination of the program will come with the playing of the “Star Spangled Banner,” by the Notre Dame Band.
told the workers to leave as Ghent was now in German hands. The Belgian people watched this great military machine file through their city while their bands blared and their battle flags fluttered in the Belgian breeze. They would watch it straggle away in four years, a shattered dynamo.
Anna De Meulenaere remembered the four year rule of Ghent by the German army. All the factory workers were forced to work for the German army. Every family was required to billet German soldiers in their homes. She related how the Germans had seized all bicycles
She recalled the night the Germans left Ghent. At 11 o’clock on the night of Nov. 10, 1918 the soldiers who were billeted in her house were suddenly ordered to leave. At 3 o’clock on the morning of Nov. 11 firing could be heard in the city. The German artillery fire damaged the western part of Ghent but did not strike any of the beautiful medieval buildings in the center of the city. At 5 o’clock a.m. the Belgian forces reached Ghent and by 7 o’clock a.m. the populace had turned out to welcome the returning Belgian army. At 11 o’clock a.m. the Armistice was signed and peace returned to Belgium for 22 years.
Anna De Meulenaere, pausing from her work on the fourth floor of Howard Hall for a few minutes, related her story and expressed her gratitude for living in a land over which the four horsemen of War, Destruction, Death, and Famine do not ride.—John Considine
The Editor of the DOME is interested in interviewing any men who have had experience in pho-. tography, and who would like to do photography work for next year’s DOME. Interviews will be held Saturday afternoon in 459 Morrissey. Candidates are requested to bring examples of their work.
Neil J. McCarthy, Editor, 1941 DOME.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
Knights Elect Sullivan;
Give Memorial Trophy
In election held in the Knights of Columbus club rooms on May 14, Robert E. Sullivan was elected Grand Knight, to succeed Timothy R. King. John O’Loughlin was elected deputy grand knight, and Raymond Kelly, chancellor. William Gagan went into the treasurer’s post unopposed. Pat Gorman retained his position as warden, while James Bmtz and Edward Doyle were elected to inside and outside guards, respectively.
At the same meeting presents were given to out-going officers by the council in appreciation of the services they had rendered in the past year. The newly elected officers assumed theii’ posts near the end of the meeting.
The Knights will also donate a memorial trophy in the memory of Coach John Nicholson. The trophy will be awarded annually at the Central Collegiate Conference Outdoor Meets, the first presentation taking place June 2.
In the form of a large loving cup, the trophy will be given to the outstanding competitor of the meet, his name, the events he competed in and the year being engraved in one of the 15 plaques at the base of the cup. The trophy will be a traveling award, going to the school of the athlete who wins it for that year. The athlete himself will receive permanently a medal.
The trophy is a large loving cup rising off a black base which is surrounded by the 15 shield-like plaques. Dominating the top is a small track shoe, while grouped around the base are statues of athletes in various poses. It is 28 inches high.
Robed Sanford Named
'40 Alumni Secretary
Robert G. Sanford, Sorin Hall, Commerce senior from Milwaukee, was this week appointed secretary of the class of 1940 by James E. Armstrong, executive secretary of the Alumni Association and editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus.
Mr. Sanford’s duties will consist largely of gathering and writing the news of the 1940 class for the Alumnus. He is already engaged in recruiting a corps of voluntary assistants from all colleges of the University and all sections of the country who will assist him in preparing copy for the October issue and subsequent issues. Senior engineers have named David W. Sprafke, of Alumni Hall and Meriden,. Conn., to represent them as assistant to Secretary Sanford. It will be Mr. Sprafke’s particular assignment to report on the activities of the engineers in the class.
Dome Award Winners
Al Funic, Jerry Flynn, Bill Fay elected by
The Dome Award winners, highest recognition of extra-curricular achievement at Notre Dame, were announced by the Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C., in the faculty dining hall Wednesday evening, May 15, at the annual Publications Banquet. Albert P. Funk, Gerald J. Flynn, Gerard K. Donovan and William C. Fay were granted the reward as the four seniors most outstanding in this special endeavor.
“Dome” Winners Funk, Fay, Flynn, Donovan
Al Funk hails from LaCrosse, Wis., and graduated from Aquinas High. He debated there for three years and edited the year book. Here his tastes have run to debating, because he has been for three years a member of the Wranglers and the varsity debating team, and was president of the Wranglers • and the Bookmen in his senior year. He intends to study law at Northwestern University. Debater Funk is drawn especially to reading, people and controversy. He says he was “tackle or something” on a football team once because the two fellows ahead of him broke their legs or their wrists.
Jerry Flynn honors Rochester, N. Y., as his home town, and he too graduated from an Acquinas High. He began his cheerleading and dramatic career there, as well as business managing the yearbook, and graduating as valedictorian and vice-president of his senior class. His Notre Dame record in the Dome is a long one and reads, “President of the Rochester Club, Wranglers, Varsity debating, secretary of the sophomore class, Monogram club, drama (wherein he hit a peak in “Brother Orchid”), Radio club, Dome, head cheerleader and chairman of the Junior Prom.” He prefers golf and Kay Tierney, though not in the order named. When he was two he went
Named at Banquet
Jerry Donovan and prominent Junior group
to Ireland for four years, which explains everything.
Jerry Donovan, hard to locate as a treasurer, was bom in Champaigne, Ill., and has lived in Tulsa, Okla., since he was two months old. He footballed and tennissed at Marquette High and graduated the president of his senior class. He is a member of the fencing team, the Patricians and the Radio club, president of the Student Council, vice-commandant of the Military club, and was vice presi
dent of his freshman class. He intends to
join the Kemper Insurance Company in Chicago. Jerry announced allegiance to fencing, Betty Joe and Kevin (a pooch).
Mt. Lebanon, Pa., and Mt. Lebanon High give us Bill Fay, who went for tennis before he came here. He graduates as editor in chief of the Scholastic, with which he has been associated since the last two weeks of his freshman year. He is captain of the tennis team, Indiana State Singles Champion, and a member of the Dome staff. He is going to work for a Pittsburgh newspaper, so naturally the Pirates are one of his passions. He also goes for punctual columnists (mentioning one Willmann in particular) and the Ave Maria Press where, he says, he met some awfully nice people.
These four seniors were chosen by a committee of 20 of the most prominent juniors who comprised Harold J. Barres, Bernard N. Brockman, John E. Burke, Lawrence A. Burns, Charles E. Dillon, Robert J. Doran, Charles J. Farrell, Ralph A. Gerra, Raymond J. Kelly, Robert J. Marbach, Clarence W. Marquardt, William C. McGowan, James G. Newland, John W. Patterson, Milton J. Piepul, Ralph R. Pinelli, Charles E. Reynolds, John M. Ryan, Robert J. Saggau, and John P. Shafransky.—Bill Keenan
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Name New Editors of
Campus Publications
William C. McGowan, Felix Pogliano, and Neil McCarty were named editors of campus publications for the 1940-41 schoolyear, the Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., speaking, for the University Board of Publications, announced at the annual Publications banquet in the University Dining Halls.
Announcement of the annual poetry and prose award winners provided $25 checks each for Donald D. Connors, of Warren, Ohio, and John M. Broderick, of Allentown, Pa., respectively. They con-trtibuted to Scrip. Father Ward, adviser for Scrip, stated that Neil McCarty of Kaukauna, Wis., was appointed editor-in-chief of the 1941 Dome. His associate editors are Samuel J. Boyle, Lansford, Pa.; and Matthew A Byrne of New York City. Sports editor is James P. Burke, New York City; and the campus editor is John J. Garvey of New Rochelle, N.Y. All editors named are members of the class of 1942, since juniors will edit the book.
Editor of Scrip is Felix Pogliano, a junior' from Denver, Colo., his associate editors are Erwin Mooney, Clarksdale, Miss.; George Miles, Brooklyn, N. Y.; and Joseph Carr, Gary, Ind.
For the Scholastic, William C. McGowan, a junior from Oakville, Conn., becomes editor-in-chief and John Patterson from Pittsburgh, Pa., was appointed managing editor. James G. Newland, sports editor the past year from Washington, Ind., becomes director of promotions. Three sophomores were appointed -to the remaining positions of news editor, literary editor and sports editor. In order they, are: William E. Scanlan, of La Crosse, Wis.; Edmund Butler, of Saalem, Mass.; and Thomas Powers, of Enid, Okla.
The Rev. Cornelius J. Laskowski, C.S.C., faculty adviser of Scholastic; the Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., adviser of Dome; and Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism, spoke during the program in addition to Father Ward and William C. Fay, toastmaster and retiring editor of Scholastic.
Editors McGowan, Patterson, Pogliano, McCarty
LAETARE MEDALIST
Lieut. Gen. Hugh A. Drum
Awards to Scholastic staff members included: James Newland, Francis Aubrey, Francis Wemhoff, Clarence Sheehan, William McGowan, John Patterson, John Willmann, Richard Fallon, Ray Kelly, Vern Witkowski, William Mooney, William Geddes, Edward Huff, Harry Penrose, Robert Fitzpatrick, John Quinn, Thomas Ferneding, John Ferneding, John McDevitt, William O’Hem, and James Brugger, and William Fay and Donald A. Foskett.—John Casey
Army Extolled As Drum
Receives Laetare Medal
Reprinted from New York HeraM-Tribune, May 13, 1940.
The United States Army was extolled as a force that has “never marched against liberty nor ever retreated before tyranny” yesterday in a University of Notre Dame citation of Lieut. Gen. Hugh A. Drum, commanding officer of the 1st Army and the 2d Corps Area. The citation was in connection with the presentation to Gen. Drum of the University’s
Laetare Medal, one of the foremost awards given each year to an outstanding Roman Catholic.
The Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, Archbishop of New York and Apostolic Vicar of the United States Army and Navy chaplains, bestowed the medal on Gen. Drum at ceremonies in the Papal Room of the Archbishop’s residence at 452 Madison Avenue. The ceremony, at 12:30 p.m., followed a pontifical high mass at St. Patrick’s Cathedral at which the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, D.D., Auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy chaplains, blamed in part, at least, .the reparations exacted at Versailles for the present war in Europe.
The citation of Gen. Drum was read by the president of Notre Dame, the Rev. Dr. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C. Father O’Donnell said that the Laetare Medal, the highest honor the University bestows, was intended not only personally but also as “a recognition of a man’s calling.” He said Gen. Drum was the first military man to receive the award since 1896, when Brig. Gen. William S. Rosecrans of the United States Regular Army in the Civil War was the recipient.
Army Guards an Ideal
“You are a soldier of the Army of the United States,” the citation added. “That Army, with our Navy, is our protective strength. We are a peace-pursuing people established upon the Christian concept of human rights. We cherish that ideal. Our Army and Navy are notice to the world that we mean to preserve it. We will not surrender it; we will not change it; we will not bargain with it in any commerce of international exchange.”
Commenting on the freedom and rights of Americans, the citation said the Army and Navy were maintained “because we all love these things with our whole souls, cherish them beyond what ambitions, calculating or visionary men and women can promise us in exchange for their surrender.”
Remarking that the general was a Catholic, the citation said he was the leader of his men “in camp and on the fields, in the confessional and at the altar-railing.”
Praised by Gen. Bullard
Lieut. Gen. Robert Lee Bullard, retired, who was the leader of the American troops in the second battle of the Marne and later commander of the Second Army, was another speaker. He said that Gen. Drum, several years ago, was the person responsible for arousing the people and government of the United States to preparing in a military way because of forces in Europe to which
(Continued on page 17)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
Wranglers Elect O'Dea;
Bookmen Choose Williams
John F. O’Dea, junior from Brooklyn, New York, and newly elected president of the Wranglers for 1940-41, speaking at the Wrangler banquet last Wednesday promised a year “in which the Society shall be dedicated to the service of the University.” William Meier, sophomore varsity debater from Faulkton, S. Dak., was elected secretary of the organization.
Five departing members attended the final banquet and meeting of the group at the Oldenberg Inn. Those leaving
Al Funk and Milt Williams
school in June are: William Mahoney, former Wrangler president, “Tex” Bar-reda, Jerry Flynn, Daniel Sullivan, and Albert Funk, this year’s president.
The Wrangler season just completed has been one of the most successful in the history of the organization. Meetings have been marked by thoughtful, well-qualified discussion, and outside activities, such as the autumn interhall debate contest and the spring Mid-West high school oratory meet, were conducted on a larger scale than ever before.
The Bookmen, campus literary society, concluded its activities for the year with a dinner at the Hoffman Hotel on May 16. Chief purpose of the banquet was to formally induct next year’s officers. These new officers are: Milton Williams, president; Joseph Huber, librarian; and Neil McCarty, secretary.
Following brief remarks from the outgoing seniors and from Professor T. Bowyer Campbell, faculty moderator of the Bookmen, Emmett Griffin presented a paper on “The Reform of Education in America.” Griffin described the growth of empiricism in the American schools and the subsequent decline of classicism and speculative thought. He advocated separation of education into two categories: the first to consist of classical and speculative courses of study; the second to compose of tech-
THE STUDENT FORUM
"A CASE FOR THE CLASSICS"
By Paul C. Bailey, C.S.C.
When Horace told the world that in his poetry he had left a “monument more lasting than bronze,” he meant exactly what he said, not as a boast, but as the statement of a fact of which he was convinced. For a brief moment he was a prophet speaking not only for himself, but in the name of all the great writers of Greece and Rome whose achievements still endure today, polished rather than worn by the rub of time. There is no doubt about it — Horace’s prophecy has been fulfilled. The monument of the Classics still stands unshaken. Where it stands, however, is quite another matter.
In most of our modern colleges the Classics have been shoved into an obscure corner, back out of the way along with the old ice-box, since literature has become enlightened and refrigerators are electric. The claim is that there is too much to learn about our own times, our practical sciences, our own language and other modern languages, to be wasting time studying books that were old-fashioned when Newton discovered the law of gravity. “We are modems! We don’t want to be chained to the past!” is the common cry. “Let’s leave antiques in the attic where they belong!” This, however, is an old-fashioned argument. Listen to what Nicholas Murray Butler says: “Only the scholar can realize how little that is being said and thought in the modem world is in any sense new. It was the colossal triumph of the Greek and Romans and of the great thinkers of the Middle Ages to sound the depths of almost every problem which human nature has to offer, and to interpret human thought and human aspiration with astounding profundity and insight. Unhappily, these deep-lying facts which should be controlling in the life of a civilized people -with a historical background, are known only to a few, while the many grasp, now at an ancient and well-demonstrated falsehood and now at an old and well-proved truth, as if each
nical or vocation schools for specialized training in the various practical sciences and trades. Griffin expressed his dissatisfaction with the present hodge-podge system of combining technical education with culture courses in the arts and letters field.
had all the attractions of novelty.” Dr. Hutchins, of Chicago University, expresses the same point of view: “Every educated man should know the colossal triumph of the Greeks and Romans, and the great thinkers of the Middle Ages. If every man were educated — and why should he not be? — our people" would not fall so easily a prey to the latest nostrums in economics, in politics, and, I may add, in education.”
We must be chained to the past whether we like it or not; the connecting link cannot be broken. Those who lived before us were human beings just as we are and had essentially the same problems. The Greeks and Romans solved many of them, and it is only sensible that we should look to them for an answer. The Republic of Plato is necessary for a complete understanding of law. In Aristotle’s Politics are indicated the foundations of most just governments of today, as well as the principle of separation of powers into judicial, legislative, and administrative bodies — a vital factor in the maintenance of a democracy, and an essential characteristic of our own government today. The Physics of Aristotle is very fundamental, and is valuable, even necessary, not only to the student of science, but to anyone confronted with the changing world, in other words, to everybody. Cicero’s De Officiis and De Legibus are source books of many of our modem ethical treatises. Every scientific text on oratory refers constantly to Quintilian’s De Oratore. If we are chained to the past, it is only to keep us from falling into empty space in the future.
A firm footing in the classics is essential to an understanding of the world’s literature. Dante stutters without Virgil, Milton stumbles blindly without Homer, Shakespeare often beats an empty kettle without the great Romans and Greeks. Shelley writes with Sophocles and Aeschylus at his shoulder. Today, Edna St. Vincent Millay is hailed as our modem Sappho. In a word, we are indebted to the Latins and the Greeks for the cultural traditions from which have flowed almost all of the great and enduring sciences and arts that we know. Much of our knowledge is merely enlarged colorphotos of the Greek originals. To be a fully educated man is necessarily to be well grounded in the classics.
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
Bernard Longo Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Adress manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Goodbye, Maurice
OMETIME within the next half-hour this Wednesday evening—whenever
John Betz Albert Wilhnann halts his last “Parade” under Mr. Foskett’s copy-pencil—we shall turn out the lights, say goodbye to Maurice, and shut the door on the seventy-third Scholastic. Maurice, if you have not met already, is a rat, the pet of the office. He lives three feet down the drainpipe by the door and a nicer rat would be hard to find anywhere.
In experience and length of tenure Maurice outranks every member of the staff, having worked his way into the organization early in the Foley regime, in ’36. Subsequent editors have been kind to Maurice—Mr. Foskett, for example, often leaves choice slices of Swiss by Maurice’s front door. We suspect Roquefort as a parting gift tonight.
In these perilous times, when the air is filled with talk of a new Ave Maria building, with a special Scholastic editorial room — equipped with heat and ventilation and everything—we strongly recommend to next year’s editors—McGowan and Patterson and Newland — that they find some spot for Maurice in the new order of things.
Maurice deserves that much. There is ■ yet room for sentiment in the newspaper business. And we should dislike to see economic insecurity mar Maurice’s happiness, now that his favorite, Mr. Foskett, has made good in an extra role with Warner Brothers. Maurice predicts Donald’s supporting work in the “Life of Knute Rockne” will earn Academy Award mention, or as Maurice himself
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
John Patterson Promotion
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
puts it: “Watch for the kid in the red turtleneck and the four-button pants with the patch in the zone of intense resistance. He’s a natural.” Of course, Maurice invariably is prejudiced where a good newspaperman is concerned, and then again, the cheese may be talking.
John Betz Albert Willmann is another of Maurice’s favorites. Even in the dark days when John Betz was reporting “Dome” activities Maurice had him marked down as a comer. There were violent dissenters who claimed, with some reason, that no one as lazy as Willmann would ever get anywhere, but time has proved Maurice a prophet. Today Wilhnann occupies a unique position. Over the year he has received seven fan letters (one favorable) and his agile wit is known, and appreciated, in such out-of-the way places as Emmitsburg; Maryland, and St. Mary’s of the Woods College.
But, sad to say, Maurice’s regard for John Betz does not carry over to brother columnist Frank Aubrey, Old Splinters himself. Maurice’s worst suspicions were confirmed early this spring when Mr. Aubrey came out strongly for the Brooklyn Dodgers, and nothing which Francis has written since—for instance, listing the Pittsburgh Pirate infield fourth best in the National League— has changed Maurice’s viewpoint.
However, Maurice has nothing but praise for Pete Sheehan, the pride of printer Joe Guentert, who claims the length of a Sheehan column does not vary three leads over three issues. Incidentally, Joe also has been known to remark—after putting up 12 pages, cutting here and swapping there—that it
was a pity some of the other writers— of the editorial page for a good example —couldn’t learn the Sheehan technique.
Yet the year has been fairly serene. Occasionally, Maurice has been snappish in regard to some of the Thursday morning maneuvers of the advertising solicitors but, on the whole, he has been content to watch over the editorial room; Joe Guentert, “Red” Early, “Mr.” Collins, and the Brothers Mark and Anselm have been very patient compositors; in the pressroom Dick and Heinie and Charley and Eddie have always smiled when they said it.
Within a few weeks, bound volume 73 will be placed on the long shelf. Maurice is undecided—he may go south for the summer vacation.... but as the staff mascot, before he beds down in the drainpipe tonight, he would be a rat indeed if he did not say thank you to Father Lawrence Broughal and Father Cornelius Laskowski, two very kind and helpful faculty advisers.... Goodbye, Maurice.—William C. Fay
Bengal Finals
EARLY next week a check for $439.27
—proceeds from the Ninth Annual Bengal Bouts — will be mailed to the Most Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., superior of the Holy Cross mission band in Bengal. Despite much greater expenditures for protective training equipment and awards, and the scaling down of ticket prices to more popular figures, the net receipts average well above returns of the preceding nine years. The Scholastic editors, and Promoter Louis DaPra believe the additional promotional expenditures—for instance, the presence of the light heavyweight champion, Billy Conn—greatly increased downtown and campus interest in the Bouts, will yield additional benefits in succeeding years.
INCOME
Income Balance from 1939 $ 10.00
Program............... 350.00
Mr. Francis W. Lloyd.... 50.00
Advance Income........ 249.80
Bengal Finals......... 568.97
Concession ............. 5.00
$1,233.77 EXPENSE
Incidental Expense ......$	87.26
Printing Charges......... 86.73
Boxing Equipment ....... 109.66
Departmental Charges .... 27.85
Promotional Expenses..... 174.50
Bengal Finals Charges.... 79.65
Trophies and Awards...... 228.85
$794.50
Proceeds to Bengal Mission......$439.27
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
Hitler Versus Christianity
Mr. MacCauley’s paper presents one of the opinions current on the -campus concerning the war. In publishing this article, THE SCHOLASTIC does not necessarily subscribe to the argument presented.
The things which concern me in this1 article can be strictly defined. In the first place I want to show that an injustice done to one nation is an injustice done to all, and that no nation is morally justified in being indifferent to the welfare of anothei* nation on the pretext that its own national interests are not directly affected. Having arrived at a cleai* understanding of the moral obligations of nations, it is then my purpose to show that the determining cause which provoked the Allies to declare war on Germany was just, and that the final end, or the kind of peace for which the Allies are fighting is a just one. Conversely, in the development of this argument, we shall see that the National Socialism of the Hitler government is a vicious system which threatens the very existence of a Christian civilization. And this is the extent of my paper, for if it can be shown that the Allies are fighting a just war against a government which is a scourge to civilization and a chal-lege to the very concept of morality, then it is the duty of this nation to lend every effective means of help possible to the Allied governments.
Now nations are nothing more than a multitude of individuals who are united for a common end. There is no essential change when people act as a unit rather than individually. An immoral act when committed by a nation is just as reprehensible as if it were committed by an individual. There may be a question as to the degree of guilt of each individual in the group, but there can be no question about the full responsibility of the group as a whole. If individuals are bound by the precepts of justice and charity, then nations are also bound.
There can be no question that these divine precepts are binding on nations as well as on individuals. What then happens to neutrality? As Christians is it permissable for us to say that it is none of our business what happens to our neighbor? We would all thoroughly condemn anyone who, seeing his neighbor starving, would say, it’s none of my business. It is the pagan who asks with Cain: “Am I my brother’s keeper?” It is the Christian who says with Christ:
“Without charity you are as sounding brass and tinkling cymbals.”
We are not free then to be neutral simply because we are more interested in our welfare than in the welfare of others. We can only be neutral when it is impossible to determine which of the conflcting sides has a just cause. In such a case, since we are ignorant of the justice or injustice of the cause, we would be foolish morally to favor one side or the other. However when one
Wine Remembered
With bright red wine my cup is brimming,	•
Ruby-sparkling in a shell of softest gold.
To you my full heart is singing
This song of years not yet grown old.
For half a star-strewn night I sought
To pluck from their pathless, traceless flight
The fast-fading streaks of thought
Struck from a vision unbearably bright.
But still my voice was mute
Heedless of the surging in my heart. Silenced by the rigid mold of youth
Which only certain truth can part.
And so I find in bright red wine
The words of my song—the gift of time.
John A. Reilly
side in the conflict is very evidently an unjust aggressor we are in conscience bound to use every effective means in our power to rescue the victim of injustice.
Lee us now move to a consideration of the present conflict. To understand the present conflict, we must trace its background at least as far as Versailles. No one will deny that in this treaty were the seeds of anothei’ conflict. Germany was brutally crushed. She had lost Alsace-Lorraine, most of the Posen and West Prussia, all her colonies, 18,000,000 of hei- population, over 1,000,000
square miles of her territory, and a considerable portion of her natural resources. This was post-war Europe until 1925. Then came the historic Locarno treaties. At the conclusion of those treaties the French minister Briand said: “It is ended; that long war between us. Ended those long veils of mourning for the pains that will never be assuaged. Away with the rifles, the machine guns and the cannon! Here come conciliation, arbitration and peace!” France could be very smug in saying that. She had treaties with Poland, Belgium, and Czecho-Slovakia. Germany was completely bottled and couldn’t be a menace. Yet Germany and the rest of Europe were recovering from the war, they were becoming prosperous. It was in these days that the Bremen and the Graf Zeppelin were built. Germany’s merchant marine climbed from 400,000 to 3,700,000 tons; her steel production approached the pre-war level in Germany. It is true that Germany was not as well off as she was before the war, but who could reasonably expect that? The World War was no little item. It was natural that years would be required to make final adjustments. It was natural too to expect that the conquered country should suffer more than the victorious allies. I said that the seeds of war were in the Versailles treaty, but it is ridiculous to claim that because of the Versailles treaty war became inevitable, and that now we are witnessing the inevitable. It is very evident to the casual observer that the shackles of Versailles were gradually being loosened from Germany. Whether or not England and France willed this liberation is not my concern. It is enough to know that there was no active resistance. Germany remilitarized the Rhine, seized Austria and then Czecho-Slovakia. If England again duped into believing that Hitler would stop there. The world knows that he did not stop there. Instead he invaded Poland and after desperate attempts on the part of England to reach and France were primarily concerned with holding Germany in subjection there would be no point in allowing Germany to take these liberties. Germany could much more easily be stopped be-
(Continued on page 22)
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SAFE AT FIRST! SUCCESSFUL SEASON DRAWS TO CLOSE
Notre Dame Nine Battles Powerful Wisconsin Badgers in Two Game Series
Play Michigan, Michigan State in Season Finals
The Irish baseball squad starts on the final lap of its 1940 season today and tomorrow with a brace of games with Wisconsin’s Badgers on Cartier Field. Monday the Klinemen will entertain Michigan’s Wolverines and Saturday they will meet Michigan State in the annual Commencement Day game.
The Wisconsin aggregation seems to be a perfect match for the Irish as past and recent records give both squads almost equal ratings. The Badgers have won eight and lost nine this year while the Irish have won eight and lost seven. Both squads have won twin bills from Chicago; they lost both encounters with Western State and both have split their two game series with Indiana. Baseball rivalry between the two institutions dates from 1895 and the Irish hold only a four game margin, having won 29 and lost 26. In these encounters, Notre Dame has scored 291 runs against 270 for the Badgers.
Coached by Art Mansfield who started making Badger baseball history with the varsity of 1929, Wisconsin has a team that is packed with able men, a number of which are newcomers to the squad. In hitting power, Wisconsin has Nello D’Orazio, veteran outfielder, and Captain
Andrew Smith, 3d baseman, who at present holds second and third place among the leading batsmen of the Big 10 with respective batting average of .375 and .363. The pitching staff is not particularly strong. Cyril Buker, husky senior right hander, has won two and lost three this year. Robert Van Sickle who will probably face the Irish tomorrow, has an average of .666 hi three games.
However, against the Wolverines Monday, the Klinemen should find tougher going. Michigan is at present vieing with Iowa for third place in the Big 10 race and has won 7 out of 10 games this year. The Ann Arbor team has won 37 out of the 47 games played between the two schools. The Wolverines hold the edge in tallies too, as the record shows 206 runs for Michigan as against 145 for Notre Dame. From the year 1916 to 1924 Michigan won all their games with the Klinemen. In 1924 baseball relations between the two institutions were broken and a reunion was affected only in 1938. Since then, the Irish have shared a 50 per cent average with Ann Arbor teams.
Michigan State will bring a strong team to meet Notre Dame on Commencement Day. The Spartans nosed out the Klinemen 2-1 earlier this month in a game that featured a pitching duel between our own Rex Ellis and Frank Mekules, Spartan sophomore hurler. For this reason, Coach John Kobs may start George Monroe, a senior who won four and lost one last year.
SENIOR TRACKMEN ENI
With 14 seniors making their final appearances, Notre Dame’s track team travels to Milwaukee twice and Lafayette, Ind., once for the last three meets on the 1940 schedule.
Tonight at Milwaukee, Wis., Mar- -quette entertains the Irish and several ) meet records appear to be endangered f by fast-stepping athletes of both uni- | versifies. Marquette will be seeking its third straight dual meet victory over Notre Dame. The Hilltoppers won last year’s outdoor duel, 77-54, and last winter’s indoor affair, 63-41.
The crack sprinters on the respective teams may lower both the 9.8 century and 21.4 furlong marks. Bob Saggau, of the Irish, holds the latter meet record. George Foster and Bob Shurilla, of Marquette, hold the high and low hurdles records of 14.9 and 23.5, respectively.
Ray Roy, of Notre Dame, ran 48.8 for the quarter recently, which is good enough to equal the Marquette meet record. Curt Hester may lower the mile mark established by Greg Rice, the present time of 4:21.1. Cliff Brosey, 235-pound football tackle, has been nearing the 50 foot mark and might better the standard of 50 feet, 1% inches which is now on the books. Earl Stolberg, who cleared 14 feet, % inch last week-end, may shatter his own meet height of 13
Propeller Club Wins Schol<
Tuesday afternoon on Freshman Field the Propeller Club, led by Joe Mangano, ’ tamed the high-scoring All-Stars from i Dillon hall to win the Scholastic’s First Annual Inter-Club Softball Tournament. The final score of the game was 7-5.
Aided by the batting strength of Jack Donahue, Don Caird, and Bill Foster, the Propeller Club blasted its way to the finals after defeating Memphis, St. Louis, and Indianapolis in earlier rounds. The All-Stars, sluggers of the tournament, defeated Cleveland, Detroit, and Buffalo to reach the finals.
Pitcher Joe Mangano, Walshite, held the All-Stars to five runs, an impressive feat when it is considered that the Dillon boys scored 25 times in their first encounter.
Other men who figured in the Propeller victory were: Mlynsky, Halpin,
The Notre Dame Scholastic
D CAREERS NEXT WEEK
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESSBOX
By FRANK AUBREY
feet, 9% inches. The Irish mile relay team is capable of bettering the present time of 3:22.3.
Making their final appearances under Coach Bill Mahoney are Captain Ted Leonas, high jump ace who has leaped 'll six feet, 6% inches; David Reidy, who | has been the leading Irish hurdler and a top-notch hurdler for three seasons; John Dean, pole vaulter who hails from Milwaukee and holds a mark of 13 feet, seVen inches; Curt Hester, recently developed into one of the best milers in Irish- track history; Bob Lawrence, dependable hurdler and quarter miler; Joseph Halpin, ace middle distance veteran; John Mack, half miler; Dick Mi^er-ski, husky shot putter; Tom O’Reilly, lanky high jumper; Clyde Archer, recently developed into the best javelin tosser on the 1940 squad; John Else, hurdler; Bill Tucker, broad jumper; and John Wilkinson, distance veteran; and Steve Coughlin, veteran sprint ace.
After the Marquette meet, Coach Mahoney will take his squad to the Indiana state meet at Lafayette, annually one of the highlights of the Irish track season. The final performance of the season returns the locals to Milwaukee on June 1, after which the seniors will hurry back to be in line for Commencement activities here on Sunday, June 2.
—Bill Scanlan
THE PRESS BOX PLATFORM FOR 1940
PLATFORM FOR THE SCHOOL
Frank Aubrey
1.	Establish hockey as a minor sport.
2.	Give the school a 150 lb. football team playing an intercollegiate schedule with teams in the nearby area.
3.	Establish the tradition of an annual eastern trip for the “B” team.
4.	Inaugurate a “system” for the distribution of student football tickets.
PLATFORM FOR THE ADMINISTRATION
Permit the Senior Ball to be held as part of graduation week-
end festivities.
At the senior banquet the other night, what we thought was a very timely bon mot passed almost without a ripple. The toastmaster ventured the remark that the baseball team went east to do a little sabotaging. Judging from the record he wasn’t just whistling either, for Jake Kline’s platoon blew up both Army and Navy with gusto. However, we expected as much from what we’ve been reading in the “Tribune” about America’s weak and oud-moded Army and Navy. Now if Franklin had only followed the “Tribune’s” advice about strengthening the military and naval services instead of building “worthless” dams, power projects, financing housing plans, and paying-off farmers for not planting crops — then, we of Notre Dame would have been out of luck. The administration’s theory seems to be “Billions for de-farmers and dam-builders, but not once cent for a good pitcher for West Point.”
lastic Softball Tournament
Sweeney, Lynch, Phillips, Adamonis, Walker, Magner, and Morgan.
| Sixteen teams competed in the tour-p, nament this year, setting it off in a manner which warrants more and better competition to come in future years. Conspicuously absent were such notorious clubs as the Chicago club, the Met club, and even the Academy of Science. The Scholastic’s second venture into the softball promotion field next year will call for at least forty entries as compared to this year’s meager list.
To the clubs who entered teams, but did not reach the final round, we tender a message of regret, and thank them for helping to make the tourney a success.
To the Buffalo, Detroit, Cleveland, Youngstown, Italian, Old Dominion, St. Louis, Pittsburgh, Repetto, Radio, and West Virginia clubs we say better luck next year.
As a dyed-in-the-wool backer of the Cards and Yanks to meet in the ’40 World Series, it behooves us to get busy and do some explaining. Take the Yankees, (and how the rest of the league has been taking them.) As of last Thursday the Phillies as a team were out-hitting the Yanks by 12 points, .232 to .220. Even the White Sox were hitting 40 points higher than New York. It can’t be that all the Yankees are getting old, are feeling cocky, or are not in good physical shape. Perhaps each one of these categories can claim a member or two — but that still leaves the organization which won four championships with a lot of expensive ball-players who are not showing. Crosetti, Dickey, and Knickerbocker are truthfully — not hitting their weight. Rolfe, Gordon, Keller, and Dahlgren are under .240. This condition cannot continue. It is against Gresham’s Law, the Logic of Aquinas, against Galileo’s best theorem, and contrary to the opinions of the best minds of the nation including Jack Doyle, Mushky Jackson, and 90% of the sportswriters. New York is getting adequate pitching and excellent fielding. Come June and July, and you’re going to see them jump up a bracket in the standings every few days.
The Cards? They’re out-hitting every team in either league, getting some gigantic clouting from Johnny Mize, and have in all, eight .300 hitters in the lineup at this writing. Trace their trouble to the pitching, which, except for McGee and Shoun, has been poor. This department cannot be expected to improve substantially, as can the Yankee batting. If it remains inefficient, or nearly so, Mize, Medwick, and company are doing some needless slugging, for the Cards won’t beat out the Reds. In the meantime, the fires are dying out slowly in Brooklyn.
The long-awaited “blows” — in answer to demand. We herein present: Mr. Francis J. Lauerman—‘the golden boy’; Mr. James C. Daner—‘man-about-town’; Mr. Michael L. Hines—‘football man par-excellence’; Mr. Thomas J. Minogue—‘battingpractice tenor’; and Mr. Joseph A. Mangano—‘the spirit of Flatbush.*—And for their timely and necessary inspiration we wish to thank our reading public, Father Grimm, William J. Matson, and Donald Foskett, (ed.). And if the 48 sports-writers and 154 city-editors are still reading, as the SCHOLASTIC says they are, let it be known that your scribe is hereby applying for a job.
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
INTRODUCING By PETE SHEEHAN
Improved Golf Squad
To Defend State Title
Today we are departing from our usual methods in an effort to acquaint you with the men who lead our Golf, Tennis, and Fencing teams. These men have distinguished themselves in the classroom and in extra-curricular activities as well as in the field of athletics.
Walter Charles Hagen, Jr., is 22 years old and has spent at least 20 of those years on greens and fairways. In 1933 he went to England as mascot of the Ryder Cup Team which boasted of such golfers as his father, Denny Shute, Horton Smith and Bill Burke. The high spot of the trip, according to Walt, was their visit with the Prince of Wales and the Duke of York who is now ruling England.
Walt attended Crambrook, University of Detroit High and Manlius Military Academy. Until he enrolled at the latter school he was a very good baseball player and a very poor golfer. He then decided that if he was going to play golf he might just as well learn to play and settled down to a study of the game. The fact that he captained Manlius for two years and was number one man on a team which won 34 consecutive matches is sufficient proof that he did not labor in vain.
At Notre Dame he has won three monograms and played the number one spot last Friday and Saturday. Yes, the “Haig’s kid” has finally arrived and should be at his peak in the National Intercollegiate in June. The last two Summers he has competed in the St. Paul Open with his dad and last year he finished second among the amateurs.
He has been prominent in radio and dramatic activities and after he receives his A.B. degree he may accept an offer to announce a Coast-to-Coast commercial emanating from Chicago.
William Cullen Fay, tennis captain, comes from Mount Lebanon, Pa., where he won fame as Junior Tennis Champion
Introducer Sheehan, Bill Fay, Walt Hagen, Bob Sayia
of Pittsburgh and runner-up in the National Prep School tournament in 1936. He came to Notre Dame a few months later and captured the University Championship as well as the Freshman crown. He was number one man during his Sophomore year and teamed up with Charlie Rodgers to win the Indiana Intercollegiate doubles crown. Last year he defeated his teammate Jack Joyce to cop the singles title. This season he has won nine matches and lost four against some of the leading tennists in the country.
During the Summer vacations Bill makes life miserable for the tennis stars of western Pennsylvania and eastern Ohio. When he isn’t playing he writes sport features for the Pittsburgh Post Gazette and already has had a story published in a national magazine.
This year Bill was honored with a Dome Award which is given annually to the four outstanding men of the Senior Class. Since Bill’s average is above the 90 mark, his efforts on the Dome staff and as editor-in-chief of the Scholastic are known to everyone, and he has achieved fame throughout the Middle West as a tennis star, everyone expected and hoped for his selection.
This week-end Bill will be out to defend his title. After graduation he hopes to keep on playing tennis and enter the advertising field.
Robert Fortune Sayia of Montclair, N. J., led the Irish Fencers through a victorious season this year. In high school his exercising was confined to the piano but when he came to Notre Dame he took up fencing. He must have been an apt pupil because this year he taught the young ladies across the road the art of dueling.
Bob has been a consistent performer in both the foil and epee events. However, he intends to hang up the sword after graduation and go into the Spice Brokerage with his father in Montclair.
After a highly successful season, which saw them win six of nine dual matches, the golf team, headed by Coach Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., will compete in the Annual State tournament, to be held this year at Earlham College, Richmond, Ind., June 1.
Notre Dame will enter the tourney as defending champions, a position they have held for seven straight years. The individual state title champion, Johnny David of Purdue, will not be on hand to defend his crown, in as much as he was graduated last June. Incidentally, while they were vanning nine out of $en team championships, a Notre Dame player also romped off with individual laurels, in eight of ten tourneys. j
4 I
Each school may send a team of five players, four of whom will engage in actual competition. The aggregate four man scores are added togther, thus determining the team total. Last years’ quintet of Captain Tom Sheehan, Walt Hagen, Jr., Sammy Nield, Phil Donohue, and Bill Schaller, captured: the team title, with a total score of 303.*
After a poor start, which saw them drop three of their first five matches, the local golfers turned on the: steam in the latter half of the season; bowling over their last four opponents in a row. This late season spurt, plus the fact that they are defending champions, will make them a tough team to conquer in the coming tourney.
When asked how he thought his team would fare, Father Holderith had this to say: “One can never tell how a golf match will turn out, so I wouldn’t want to go out on any limb about my teams’ chances. I will saay, however, that it is one of the best teams I have ever coached at Notre Dame. No, I haven’t decided as yet on what boys I will take to the tourney, but in all probability the team will consist of those boys who have played most regularly throughout the season. 15iis tourney should really be something to see, due to the fact that most of the colleges entered will present well balanced, and well coached golf teams.. All college teams have improved tremendously in the last four or five years, because high schools are now sponsoring golf teams to a much wider degree, thus giving the boys a fairly good idea of the game before they enter college. Add to this the fact that no college has a monopoly on all the good golfers, and you
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
have a fair distribution of power. I would say that Phil Donohue has played the most consistent golf for us this season, but that Captain Walter Hagen, Jr., is the most improved golfer on the team. He is now playing the best golf of his career averaging around 74.”
—Jim, Clemens
Our Best Wishes to the Class of '40
HOWELL'S CAFE
A Really Cool Shirt!
ARROW AROAIR
It's chock-full of tiny holes!
$2.00 Ellsworth's
Congratulations to the 1940 Seniors . . . . and best of luck to you. And to you undergraduates we wish a pleasant vacation and we'll be waiting to see you next Fall.
Irish Netmen Favored
To Win Conference Meet
Notre Dame’s reviving tennis team which now holds a .550 average for their seasonal encounters, are heavy favorites to take the Indiana Intercollegiate Conference Tennis championship which is in progress at Purdue University today.
Irish Captain Bill Fay is defending champion, having beaten his team-mate Bill Joyce in last year’s competition in four sets. Joyce and Fay, Dan Canale, Red Bowler, Jack Walsh and Joe Garvey are the Irish entrants who are expected to monopolize competition in the singles division. Canale is listed No. 1 man and Fay and Joyce hold respective second and third positions.
Notre Dame is a slight favorite to win the doubles event. DePauw University’s doubles team of Lindsey and Louder which Avon that event last year have graduated. Tentative ranking of the doubles team lists Fay and Joyce, Canale and Bowler, and Walsh and Garvey. Norman Heckler, usual number six man, will be unable to make the trip.
In three of the last four years Notre Dame has collected more points than any other team. This year the Irish will have an opportunity to cash in those points. For the first time in the history of the meet a team trophy will be awarded.
The Irish have brought improvement this year to the usually meager history of Notre Dame net teams by winning four of their seven matches. They opened the season against Wabash with a 6-1 victory, defeated Kentucky 8 to 1, and then dropped a 6-3 match to Western State. Then they swept Indiana 9-0, lost to Chicago 6-3 and to Michigan 5-4.
—John E. Lewis
Semester Examinations
To Begin On Monday
Semester examinations in all the colleges of the University will be held on the Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday morning of May 27, 28, 29 and 30, according to the announcement of the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies at the University.
Examinations for the Seniors were scheduled to be completed by Saturday of this week. For undergraduates, a class taught on any day between 4 pan. and 6 p.m. is to be examined at 7 pan. on Tueseday. A class taught any evening after 6 pan. is to be examined at 7 pan. on Wednesday.
Any examination held at a time other than that scheduled will not be valid for credit. The period for each semester examination is one hour and 50 minutes. “Monday” in the left column of the schedule below means Monday, Wednes-. day or Friday and “Tuesday” means Tuesday, Thursday or Saturday. Students must take their examinations with their proper sections in all instances.
The schedule includes:
Classes taught at	will be examined at
8:00 on Monday	8:00 on Monday
9:00 on Monday	8:00 on Wednesday
10:00 on Monday	10:09 on Monday
11:00 on Monday	10:00 on Wednesday
1:15 on Monday	1:15 on Monday
2:15 on Monday	1:15 on Wednesday
3:15 on Monday	3:15 on Monday
Casses taught at	. will be examined at
8:00 on Tuesday	8:00 on Tuesday
9 00 on Tuesday	8:00 on Thursday
10:00 on Tuesday	10:00 on Tuesday
11:00 on Tuesday	10:00 on Thursday
1'15 on Tuesday	1:15 on Tuesday
2:15 on Tuesday	3:15 on Wednesday
3:15 on Tuesday	■	3:15 on Tuesday
CLUB NEWS
A. S. M. E.
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers held an election of officers for next year at the last meeting. Robert Odenbach, Rochester, N. Y., was elected president; Francis Cross, secretary; Thomas Vincent, vice-president; and Vincent Bernard, treasurer. Mr. Carl C. Wilcox, head of the mechanical department, will again be honorary chairman. Mr. Wilcox was presented with a gift.
An integral part of every college man's education is his wardrobe. When you wear "ADLER-ROCHESTER” clothes you are sure of your appearance because of the rightness of the cut, cloth and color.
PARKER-WINTERROWD (Upstairs Shop)
I 15^- I 1N. Main Street
NEW JERSEY	-
Salvatore Lapilusa, of Bayonne, N. J., was elected president of the New Jersey Club at the last meeting. William Regan was elected vice-president; William Dill-hoefer, secretary; and Robert Matthews, treasurer. Plans were discussed for the Day at the Shore to be held by the dub on June 22. All Notre Dame students are invited to attend the outing. Details are given in posters up on the bulletin boards.
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A New Low Price
for the Same Fine Quality
THE OLIVER COFFEE SHOP-traditional favorite of NOTRE DAME MEN - announces these new prices on a special afternoon and evening menu . . .
SANDWICHES — on toast if desired
Grilled Hamburger on Bun	Baked Ham on Bun_________15c
with Sweet Relish_______10c Cheeseburger, served with
Ham Salad_________________10c French Fries ............. 20c
Egg Sandwich..............10c Chicken Salad_______________20c
Barbecued Beef or Pork____10c Grilled Pork Chop with
Toasted Kraft American	French Fries ___________25c
Cheese Sandwich :......... 15c Bacon and Tomato_________25c
Tuna Fish Salad...........15c Tenderloin Steak, French Fries..75c
Italian Spaghetti and Meat Balls_'..______________________..35c
Chicken Chop Suey with Chinese Noodles..._________________.40c
SALADS — Served in wooden bowls
Cole Slaw_________________10c	Fresh Fruit_;____________20c
Potato Salad ______________10c	Tomato stuffed with Tuna Fish„25c
Chef's Combination ________15c	Fresh Gulf Shrimp Salad___35c
BEVERAGES —
Fresh made CofFee________  5c	Malted Milks ___________  15c
Milk, bottle ____________  5c	Tea, green or black_______ 5c
Buttermilk, bottle________ 5c	Iced Tea, tall glass_____10c
Chocolate Milk Shake______15c	Coca Cola________________ 5c
This menu to be served from 2:00 p. m. to 5:00 p. m. and from 9:00 p. m. to 1:00 a. m.
Stop at the OLIVER the next time you are downtown . . . we have yet another surprise for you!
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
Laetare Medalist
(Continued from page 8) Americans objected on religious and other grounds. Gen. Bullard said the work of Gen. Drum was “one of the finest things I’ve seen done in this country in twenty years.”
Gen. Drum pointed out that he had received medals of many types, including decorations from France, Italy and Belgium, but now, he said, “I have received an honor which to me, from the spiritual viewpoint, is the pinnacle of all I desire.” He said religion and seiwice to. country went hand in hand and that the one insured the success of the other.
Three previous Laetare medalists attended, Margaret Anglin, actress; Charles D. Maginnis, architect; and Dr. James J. Walsh, writer.
Bishop Devotes Sermon to War
Gen. Drum and his wife and Gen. Bullard were among the congregation of 2,500 at the high mass in the cathedral.
At the mass Bishop O’Hara preached from the pulpit a sermon devoted almost entirely to the war.
“If the world in which we are living today, our world, our civilization is set back 100 years as a result of the crisis through which we are passing,” said Bishop O’Hara, who formerly was president of Notre Dame, “it will be because wisdom and knowledge and counsel and understanding have been used without piety and fear of the Lord.
“The exclusion of the Holy Ghost from the councils of the world is nothing new. Perhaps in our day it has been cast into a more concise formula than ever before—at least we see the formula repeated in practice more frequently. If you would have power, you must enslave the people, make them automatons to do your bidding without question. To enslave the people you must first destroy religion, which bids them be free, which bids them judge the morality of the acts they are called upon to perform, which bids them resist evil.
Criticizes Versailles
“It is nothing new for God to be excluded from the meetings of statesmen. In fact, if we were to point out the outstanding causes of the present chaos in Europe we would have to indicate that the rejection by the high commissioners at Versailles of Pope Benedict’s warning that there must be no reparation and no indemnities led directly to the economic breakdown from which has emerged the most terrifying war of all times. Every payment by the vanquished foe closed down mines and factories in the lands of the victors- and disrupted their economic system.
“Our President, although not of our
faith, bids us bring to the work of peace the enlightenment of mind and the goodness of heart of people of all religions. We cannot refuse this Christian duty.”
Bishop O’Hara said that peace was bom in the clear conscience within each individual and was “externalized by good example and by fasting and prayer, not with hatred of any individual or any nation, not with thoughts or plans of vengeance but with supreme Christian charity.”
More Grads Placed This
Year Than Last—Dooley
“Although we have no means of ascertaining the exact figures, we have every reason to believe that the number of graduates placed this year is much greater than that of last year,” Mr. William R. Dooley, head of the University Placement Bureau said today. Several reasons were advanced for the progress of the bureau now in its second year.
First, Mr. Dooley said, was that many more industrial and commercial firms were sending personnel representatives because they could deal with the seniors through the Placement Bureau. “It is much easier for- a firm to arrange appointments with applicants at large through one central head, than to con- |
■»i HOW TO START TOUR SUMMER VAC mi
Just phone Railway Express. We’ll call for your trunks, bags, boxes and bundles. We’ll deliver them quickly and economically direct to your home, without extra charge in all cities and principal towns. Off your mind... out of your way. ..and you can sink into your train seat with peace of mind. If you are returning to school, merely repeat. Rates are low.
* Confidential: You can send your baggage home " collect” by convenient. Railway Express...and the same with your weekly laundry. Just as fast, just as sure.
|	506 W. South St. 'Phone 3-6121 South Bend, Ind. |
I RAILWA^EXPRESS !
H	agency inc.	■
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE ■■■M
tact each student personally.”
Second, the war has stimulated the industry so that more qualified men are necessary to fill vacant positions. Especially is this true in engineering work, and, as a result, almost all of the graduating engineers are either now employed, or have something definite in mind.
Closely cooperating with the Placement Bureau this year were the Commerce Forum and the Propeller Club.
DOME
“Domes” will be distributed for the last times tomorrow morning between 9 and 11 o’clock, and on Monday morning during the same hours.'
Free Typewriter Storage
Have your typewriter serviced by us this summer while you are on your vacation. Pay only service charge when you return to school.
(Stored at Owner’s Bisk)
THE OFFICE ENGINEERS, Inc. 116 South Michigan St.
Phone 3-3119
IIIIIIIIIIWllIIIIHii
£
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE BOOK SHOP
Notre Dame Headquarters for Books	Stationery
Pens Pencils Greeting Cards 130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
QUICK ENERGY for a
QUICK COMEBACK
DISC-CUSSION
Tops among this week’s many good records is Tommy Dorsey’s “Polka Dots and Moonbeams,” the story of a dress,
and “I’ll Be Seeing You.” Tommy, who is one of our most consistent contributors, does a fine job and the vocals by Frank (Who says they can’t replace Le o n a r d?) Sinatra are just as excellent.
Bill Geddes features Harry Cool
Dick Jurgens on “From Another
World” and “Nothing But You” from
Rodgers and Hart’s “Higher and Higher.” Both are up to their composers high standards which is high praise indeed. Jurgens uses the style that made him and is again very effective. Cool is good on both but I prefer the catchy waltz, “Nothing But You.”
The eternally excellent Bing Crosby has the best record of “Devil-May-Care.” If you don’t know the song, you should. The more popular, but less good, “Singing Hills,” is on the other side. John Scott Trotter accompanies nicely but Bing needs very little to put him over.
The refreshing “I Can’t Love You Anymore” has been waxed by the refreshing music of Hal Kemp. More-love-ly-than-talented Janet Blair does the lyrics. Bob Allen does “Where Do I Go From You?” Like Dorsey, Crosby, Jurgens and others, Kemp is usually good and this is no exception. Hal is one of the few stylists that uses real musicians.
Will Bradley comes through again with “O Sole Mio” and “After I Say I’m Sorry.” He swings, not jams, both—and very effectively. The Bradley Brass and Ray McKinley drums set the pace. Steve Jordan sings A side but I prefer the unmarred B side.
Benny Goodman must have picked them out of a hat when he paired “Down By the Old Mill Stream” and “Yours Is My Heart Alone.” Surprisingly, even the latter is not too bad when swung but for idealistic reasons, I like “Mill Stream” better. Benny is on high with his clarinet, the saxes shine and the brass is not too harsh. Helen Forrest does the words on Franz Lehar’s beautiful melody.
DIS and DOT: .... Doris Rhodes, the “Girl with the deep blue voice,” has done “Let There Be Love” and “Sierra
Sue.” She does her part well but orchestral support by Joe Sullivan is too far out of the mood.... Fabrian Andre, with his “Man Who Came to Rhumba” and “Waltz Night at the Savoy,” thinks he’s another Raymond Scott but he isn’t even a good substitute.... Xavier Cu-gat’s “One, Two, Three, Kick” is a very good seller and is undeniably a fine recording but I prefer the other side, “Qui-reme Much,” (“Yours”), with a swell vocal by the rising Dinah Shore.... Try it.... Mitchell Ayers’ “Beginning of the End” and “Your Kiss” is nice listening. ... for a hot drum listen to Cozy Cole on Cab Calloway’s “Parididdle.”... Goodbye.—Bill Geddes
STOP AT
“The Campus"
for
Sandwiches - Refreshments
124 N. Michigan Street
(Look for the Gold and Blue front)
COME
DOWN C. O. D.
and look over our large, complete selection of all that's new in
PALM BEACH
suits
slacks
formal jackets
Just take a cab and we will pay on arrival for any Notre Dame student — from school to GILBERT'S store. All other accessories to complete your outfit for any hour of the day — or night.
THE MODWf
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
SOUVENIR GIFTS—
You don't want to return home without a Notre Dame souvenir or gift for mother, father, sister, brother, or sweetheart. We have a nice selection including:
WALL PLAQUES
RELIGIOUS ARTICLES
PENNANTS
N. D. BLANKETS SOUVENIRS
N. D. BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
Earn During Vacation!
$5.00 and up daily selling article appealing to housewife. One at least and perhaps more for every home. Write for information to Slip-Lok, Inc., 53% West Huron Street, Pontiac, Michigan.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Sophomore D. F. O'Brien Wins History Award
To Donald Francis O’Brien of Tulsa, Oklahoma, an Arts and Letters sophomore, went the Monsignor Francis P. O’Brien History Prize for 1940. The prize, founded in 1917 by the historian, Edwin A. Wood of Flint, Michigan, is offered for special study and distinction in a historical subject. It amounts to §35. The subject of Mr. O’Brien’s essay was “The Battle of Fallen Timbers—The Winning of the Old Northwest.” The committee on the Monsignor O’Brien Prize consists of the following members besides the head of the department; Rev. George Welsh, C.S.C., aand Messrs. T. Boyer Campbell and Matthew Fitzsimons.
The department of history, in announcing the winner of the 1940 prize, wishes also to announce a change in the rules governing the awarding of the prize for 1941. Hitherto, the only limitation on the subject for the competition has been that the essays must be on some phase of the history of the old Northwest. Beginning with next year, the subject for the competitive essays will be prescribed by the department of history, and the essay must be 5,000 words in length. The subject for next year’s essay will be Father Gabriel Richard, the pioneer priest of Detroit.
Father Gabriel Richard was born at Saintes, France, Oct. 15, 1767, and was ordained at Saint Sulpice in Paris in 1791. Driven from France by the Revolution, he arrived in Baltimore in June, 1792, and was sent from there to the Kaskaskia and Prairie du Rocher missions in Illinois. In 1798 he was transferred to Detroit where he continued his work until his death on Sept. 13, 1832. Father Richard founded the first newspaper published in Michigan, the Michigan Essai, he was instrumental in sending Father Theodore Badin to St. Joseph Valley, was a cultural leader as well as civic leader in his community, and his manifold activities and services to the Church and State offer a suitable field for historical study. A figure such as Father Richard will probably bring out much competition for the O’Brien prize next year.
Forum Hears Sponsler;
Elects Foley President
“Young men entering a business should have complete faith in that business,” Mr. G. L. Sponsler told Commerce Forum members at their annual banquet on May 13. “There are many opportunities open to the college graduate of today, and unlimited confidence in the employment of his choice is one of the prime requisites for his success.”
Mr. Sponsler then told of the change of attitudes in financing since the “roaring twenties,” showing how many companies had been over-financed at that time because of the easy profits.
NEir t»e!
NEr sB,bT!
net suit-'
OLD
HAT-I-TUDE^
Spoils the Whole Effect
Yes — it’s your hat that makes the first and biggest impression, so when you’re adding to your Spring wardrobe ...
LOOK AT A SMART, NEW LEE Water-Bloc* HAT
THE TELESCOPE
Looks smart because it has a natural crease. Worn snapped ’way back. Encircled gp by a dub stripe band... **
THE FRANK H. LEE CO.
358 Fifth Ave^ New York
t^Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
DENTISTRY as a Career
Dentistry offers on oppor-tunity in the field of health service for men of / ’	abilityand determination.
/ '	Advanced standards have
cut down dental school “ attendance by 44% in recent years.
The Marquette University Dental School is one of the
X 18 dental schools of the * 7 United States whose diplo-' i mas are recognized in all of
. “ the states.
/t.- The close relationship of the Dental and Medical Schools
X	at Marquette University is
*7	an advantage to students.
Entrance requirements: Two j „ years in a recognized College * of Liberal Arts with satis-' factory credits in biology, ' , chemistry, and physics.
For complete information r concerning opportunities in dentistry, write to the Secre- , : • tary, Marquette University
Dental School, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Sign N. D. Students
A trio of Notre Dame sophomores, all from Carroll Hail, have passed rigid physical and mental examinations and are awaiting recommendations for appointment as United States army air corps flying cadets. The three successful from Notre Dame include: Francis S. Gahreski, 21, of Oil City, Pa.; John T. Waliqr, 22, of Aberdeen, S. Dak.; and Howard K. Petschel, 20, St. Paul, Minn.
The Notre Dame students passed their tests when the army corps hoard of examiners appeared in South Bend recently.
YOUR RELIGION
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
SUCCESSOR TO ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Patronize our advertisers.
This statement seems to be but an echo of the Savior’s invitation: “Come unto me all you that labor and are burdened and I will refresh you.” If so, then it is only another of the innumerable instances of man learning painfully through experience what he might have learned painlessly through Faith.
But how can anybody really be weary of life? Pascal said that “nothing is so insupportable to man as to be completely at rest, without passion, without business, without diversion, without study. He then feels his nothingness, his loneliness, his insufficiency, his dependence, his weakness, his emptiness.” Does it not seem, then, that what one really grows weary of is not life itself, which is effort, which is action, the enjoyment of movement, and the thrill of achievement, but rather of the condition, be it-incapacity of mind or of body, which renders these things impossible? It was another Frenchman who said that “it is the joy of battle, and not the thrill of victory, that cheereth the heart of a brave man.” If they are right, then, since there is no lack of opportunity for constant struggle, life should not be beset with feariness but replete with the tang of high adventure.
But may one not grow weary even of battle? Surely bravery could not thrive on constant battle with never a victory to reward the effort. If one of the tritest of trite sayings is that life is a warfare, the saying remains nevertheless indisputably true. One does not hear that disputed. What dispute there is turns on the relative worth of the things men are fighting for. If for one these things, are science and the benefits it brings to men, for another wealth and the comforts it commands, for a third political prestige and the power it places in his hands, or for a fourth pleasure and the joy which.attends it, why, since the pur- . suit of these things provides both the
exhilaration of battle and, for many at least, the sweets of victory, should one find any weariness of life among them? There is no question-here of those who have been driven to despair and semimadness by the agony of incurable pain or drained of their normal powers by the privations of destitution. What they may do or say lies beyond the range of the normal, and so may not be adjudged by normal standards. They are not weary of life, but only of suffering.
South Shore Trains Now Leave South Bend
30 MIN. WE
from 7:30 A. M. to 11:30 P. M.
The two earliest morning trains leave at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M.
IMPORTANT:
DEPARTURES FROM CHICAGO REMAIN UNCHANGED
Daylight Saving Time
All South Shore trains to and from Chicago are operating on Daylight Saving Time.
NEW LOW RATE TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
For complete information phone
Ticket Agent 3-3111
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21
They do not complain that life no longer holds any attractions for them, but only that misfortune has deprived them of the opportunity of seeking what is attractive.
No the victims of ennui are not those who have walked the humble paths of poverty, and partaken temperately of the good things of life, but rather those within whose power it has been to satisfy without stint the wants which they have felt. It is they who in the end complain of the vanity of things and of weariness of life. They it is who show the listless eye, the jaded appetite, the cynical smile and the scornful face. It is they who yield to the temptation of asking the mocking question: “Is life worth while ? It is they who in the midst of plenty, like petulant children, cry out that nothing any longer satisfies them. Modern Solomons they are who, having drunk deeply of the good wine of life, are left with a feeling of futility and weariness of spirit.
But it is the wine which they find insipid, not life itself to which they cling, that they are weary of. They are weary, as a great churchman once wrote “of labor, of rest, of pleasure, of success, of the company of friends and of their own.” What else then have they but an immense need of God?
This is at once the great mystery of life, the open secret of happiness in it, and the inexhaustible source of strength and courage to fight its battles. It is said that “we are the slaves of our needs, — the fewer they are, the freer we are: the higher they are, the nobler the master we serve.” Humiliating as it may be to acknowledge, it is yet true that our normal and natural condition is one of servitude and of bondage. Independence is the one thing we may not claim. We are of the earth, and upon the earth do we depend for the sustenance of both mind and body. We are bound to it in ways innumerable. It is for our use, our use to satisfy our immediate needs, our use and nothing more. There its power ends, and was intended to end. Were it otherwise our lot would be slavery indeed, a cruel subjection from which there would be no escape. But where spiritual blindness has not already set in, there is none that does not see that his own weariness of created things and of persons and of himself, is but the proof of a benign strategy of the Creator who has embedded in our finite hearts an infinite hunger, that we might not find anywhere but in His own infinite self a surcease of it. In Him alone who is Life itself will all the living find that everlasting rest which excludes all weariness.
—Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
"WANNA TIP ON A SURE WINNER?”
Put $16.75 on the new Paint Beach Suits and you can’t lose. They have perfect form... class aplenty—and they go farther without crumpling than any washable suit you ever saw. The winning colors are white and summery shades of blue, gray, tan and green. See them at your favorite clothier today. Specify
PALM BEACH
And be sure to look for the label. Suits, $16.75. Evening Formats (white jacket, black trousers), $18.50. Slacks, $5.00. Goodall Company, Cincinnati, Ohio.
P-liA m	z
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Hitler Versus Christianity
(Continued from Page 11)
fore the rearmament had a chance to get under way. England knew very well that .it was not in her interests nor in the interests of Europe in general to hold the hammer over Germany. In fact most of the S2,373,000,000 which Germany borrowed in the late twenties for reconstruction came from England. England and France were willing to help Germany. Then on January 30, 1933, Hitler became chancellor of Germany. In an incredibly short time the world was appalled by the news of anti-semi-tism, bloody purges, book-burning, persecution of priests and ministers, etc. What could be expected of this government whose official propaganda minister, Goebbels, bluntly tells the world: “Our mission is to unchain volcanic passions, to cause outbreaks of fury, to set masses of men on the march, to organize hate and suspicion with ice-cold calculation” Hitler could not be trusted. He occupied the Rhine with little trouble. When he seized Austria the Allies backed down the hope that he would stop there. But no! The next move was on Czecho-Slo-vakia. This most certainly looked like war. An historic day passed in Munich when Chamberlain and Daladier were again duped into believing that Hitler would stop there. The world knows that he did not stop there. Instead he invaded Poland and after desperate attempts on the part of England to reach a final agreement war was declared on Germany. That which determined the war for the allies is very clear. It was impossible to tolerate any longer the unbridled enslavement and aggression of the German government. Every possible means "was used to avert war, but to no avail. His Holiness issued a five point peace plan and the Allies were most favorable to this plan, but Germany made no attempt to meet the terms. That the occupation of Poland was an act of unjust aggression is very evident to the world.
But more fundamental than this is the ‘just cause’ of the war. Here we mean cause in the sense of final cause. In that sense the just cause is the final
end of the war, or the kind of peace for which a country is fighting. Now when a country is thrown into a fierce war, it is ridiculous to expect them to have a detailed idea of the peace which they are trying to affect. In such a case the most that a government should be required to evidence is a general purpose tending toward a just and humane peace. The Allies have repeatedly voiced this sentiment. Furthermore in view of the fact that they were so very favorable to the five point peace program of the Pope, it is altogether unwarranted to say that the Allies are fighting for another Versailles. These are the aims of the Allied Governments. They are just aims and they demand our support.	(See next page)
- - - - make your get-away—at
GREYHOUND’S
FILMS
DEVELOPED and PRINTED Film	Reprints
6 or 8	*1	3c ■
Exposure Wm/w Each
Cash With Order
AULT 122 S. Main St. Phone 3-0140 Open until noon Sunday
NOTRE DAME MEN!
FOR THE HAIRCUT THAT “Satisfies”
Cyr's Barber Shop
100-102 S. Main Across from Court House
REDUCED F
Get ready—get set—get going by Greyhound! Whether you’re headed back home for the summer or on a little expedition somewhere else, run, don’t walk, to the nearest Super-Coach. The most profitable way to spend your time as you roll across the map is to figure out just what to do with all the wealth you save on Greyhound’s low, reduced fares. Learn for yourself what upperclassmen learned long ago—the best way to get out of college is by Greyhound!
UNION BUS DEPOT
133 S. Lafayette Blvd. Phone 3-8283 South Bend Campus Agent, Bev. Father John Kelly-
St. Vincent De Paul Society
A R E S
SAMPLE ONE-WAY
FABES
NEW YOBK.....SI J. 75
BOSTON........ 13.05
PHILADELPHIA. 10.50 WASH., D. C.. 9.95 BUFFALO...... 6.25
CHICAGO...... 1.25
CLEVELAND..... 3.60
DETBOIT...... 3.00
PITTSBUBGH.... 5.50 ST. LOUIS.... 5.20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
But there is an even more compelling reason why we should do everything possible to aid in an Allied victory. If a nation is being overpowered by a larger nation and loses its national identity, we look upon it as a criminal act. But how infinitely more serious is it when the small nation loses not only its identity but, what is infinitely more
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Dr. 0. Qran^y
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 434 Associates - South Bend Office Phone 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8889 SOUTH BENO. INDIANA
Drs. Probst and Sinqler
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend Phone 3-1254
4—————————— i
!	SOUTH BEND
I X-RAY LABORATORY
■	825 SHERLAND BUILDING
I L. E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON.
|	M.D.	M.D.
4--------------------
ose an
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269

ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG.. SOUTH BEND
precious, the right of the individuals of that nation to seek their final end by worshipping God. This is the most heinous offense that could be committed against an individual or a nation.’ This is precisely what the German Government is doing. Four years ago the Hierarchy of Germany wrote a pastoral letter in which they objected against the propagation of a new paganism which they said was attacking not only a particular article of faith but the very essence and fundamentals of the Christian religion. Three years latei- another pastoral letter described the persecution as more hostile and violent. And that it aimed at the uprooting of Christianity in general and the introduction of a faith that no longer has the least relation to belief in God and the Christian belief in a future life.
Do we need to go any further to indict the German Government? In every official statement of that Government, in every development that has taken place in Germany under Hitler, who has been characterized by the president of Fordham University as the most pestilential and altogether infuriating character of all times, is reflected the pagan philosophy of soil and blood to which national socialism is forever dedicated. Therefore victory or defeat for the Allies means saving or losing Christian civilization in most of Europe. I base this statement on two conditions: First, that you understand that National Socialism in Germany is equally threatening to the very existence of Christianity as is the Communism of Stalin; and Secondly, that the Christian civilization we are concerned to save must be made over. The first of these conditions is already evident. As for the making over of Christianity, it is useless to say that we have had a lot of time to do that and have not succeeded. It is a million times better to be a weak-willed, contrite sinner than to renounce your God altogether. If we allow Hitlerism to triumph then it is safe to say that Christianity will be formally renounced in the greater part of Europe. If we do all we can to aid in an Allied victory, then we will be in a position to make over a decadent Christianity in Europe. A most bitter and devastating lesson will be foremost in the minds of every Christian. If such a lesson fails to teach men the evils of selfishness and lust for power, then there is little hope for the salvation of Christianity. When men become conscious of the futility of the materialism that leads to deception, excessive nationalism, and war, then there will be real hope for a federated union in Europe. A victory for the Hitler government would be the most crushing blow Christian culture could receive. •
—John S. MacCauley
Come in and "browze" around in our Brand New Record Department. We offer recordings for each individual taste.................
B10665— {Star Dost {Melancholy Baby Glenn Miller
B10701— {Wonderful One	Glenn Miller
{In My Alice Blue Gown
Bl 066 7— (Moment* in the Moonlight {My! My!	Dick Todd
D3098— fl Dream of Jeanie With Her Light j Brown Hair {The Giri With the Pigtails in Her [ Hair	Bing Crosby
D3018—
(With the Wind and the Bain in
{ Your Hair
[You. You Darling! Bob Crosby
Musical Masterpiece
PAGANINI—Concerto in D. Major— Paris Symphony with Yehudi ?,Ienu-hin as soloist—
$10.00
There is something different in this late recording of Boston “Pops” Orchestra, Arthur Fiedler, conductor— TIGER RAG— Yes, you have heard “Tiger Rag” but you have never heard it played by a superb orchestra of 90 instrumentalists! —
$1.00
The Office Engineers, Inc.
RECORD DEPARTMENT
116 S. Michigan Ph. 3-3119
SO YOU SMOKE THE
CIGARETTE THAT SATISFIES
CHESTERFIELD GIVES YOU
Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
poley McClintock
□nd DONNA DAE are
two of the busiest stars on
PLEASURE TIME broadcasts.
Better-Tasting
Definitely Milder Smoke
The one aim of Chesterfield is to give you more smoking pleasure. And no cigarette gives smokers such complete smoking enjoyment as you get from Chesterfield, with its Definitely Milder, Cooler, Better Taste.
The best cigarette tobaccos that grow in Tobaccoland, U.S.A, and in faraway Turkey and Greece are combined right in Chesterfield to give smokers everything they could ask for. If you want real smoking satisfaction ... make your next pack Chesterfield.
Fred Wanna s Chesterfield
AMERICA’S BUSIEST CIGARETTE
BETTER MADE FOR BETTER SMOKING
Every Chesterfield must conform to the one right standard of size and shape for a cooler, better-tasting, definitely milder smoke. Chesterfields are made right tn every detail to give you the cigarette that really satisfies. (As seen in the new film "TOBACCOLAND, U.S.A.")