WEWUtt THEM AU!
Philip Morris u »
br.„d ,o ‘s£
| HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!




r
1 Light up a Philip MORRIS. Just take a puff— DON’T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?



■ »
ci*1
2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip Morris invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you. too, will agree . . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!

NO cigarette! hangover 1
-ea„s MORE SMOKING	18
»Bafe:
&■




E XPHIUP MORRIS
£
2
The Scholastic 3
p MM M Mi MM I^M Mi ^M MM MM iM ^M
Hours Approved
It was with a deep sense of apprecia-	!
tion that I read the notice today on the	j
Main Library’s door, announcing that ■ henceforward the	building	would be	i
open evenings between the hours of	|
6:00 and 7:30 for	“Reader	Service.”	I
While there have always	been many	।
characteristics of Notre Dame that I	;
have praised highly, it has always pre-	!
viously seemed to me that the brief	:
hours the library remained opened at	i
night served as a handicap to those	!
students who relied heavily on library	i
facilities.	।
Let us hope that students who have	I
shared similar sentiments relative to li-	|
brary hours may avail themselves of	I
this service that the administration may realize the students’ need for this time extension. It is a worthy step forward!
Sincerely yours,
Wiliam Klee.
Sorin Hall.
An Open Letter * To Underclassmen
With the advent of Spring, you the student body of next year should begin considering very seriously the coming class and Student Council elections. There once was a time when class officers, particularly the president and vice-president, *i had very little to do. This situation however, does not exist today as these officers now take their place on the Student Council when elected—to represent you.
.	People get very tired of hearing
others urging them to vote wisely, ' but in any democratic society this constant prodding is necessary in or'	der to insure the society’s chance of
success. It is through the judicious exercise of your constitutional pre-■	rogative that you can best further
the aims of student government here *	at Notre Dame.
Therefore,	we	of the	Student
“	Council urge	you	to begin	considering seriously	the	business	of elect-
ing class officers and Council members. Elections should no longer be popularity contests—but a process of > selecting the most capable and efficient. In this regard therefore, we implore only you who are willing to work to seek office. And to you who will be voting—use discretion—as it . will be you—as an individual and as a class, who in the end, will be benefited or harmed.
WILLIAM ANHUT, President, Student Council.
Man! She's just mad about plaid!
Van Heusen
REG. T. M.
sportcheck shirts
Be a bonnie winner with the lassies . . . wear Van Heusen Sportcheck shirts in bright plaid! With their bold, virile colors they’re cheerleaders in every crowd —completely washable and easy-wearing. Sport ’em in a wide range of plaid combinations.. .long or short sleeves. Cotton—$4.50 & $5.50 Rayon-$5.5O & $6.50.
9 Van Hensen i -.
'77ie icorl(Ts smartest”	1111, lu
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP.. NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERTS
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Apr. 13, 1951
3

HEALTH SPOT I
KM MBN WOMUN AIM CH tUNUM 209 West Colfax Avenue
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
BLOCK BROS.
Comet Michigan & Washington
Jewelers to Notre Dame
a Brooks Brothers' exclusive
OUR GABARDINE SUIT
FOR UNDERGRADUATES
Our gabardine suit, cut on our own patterns and made to our exacting specifications of 100% worsted gabardine, is typical of the good-looking sport and dress clothes in our "346” Shop. It is in ' an attractive tan shade dyed especially for us, and has patch pockets with flaps, double-stitched seams, and center back
for more than 25 years.
vent.

ESTABLISHED 1818
$80
Hens furnishings, Hats Shoes
MADISON STREET AT MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
B£TT£R.
4
The Scholastic
by
Top of the Week
MacArthur gets “canned.” . . .
The Show Goes On
Starting Monday, if you have not already heard, the student musical goes on the Washington Hall boards for a three day run. This limited engagement may be too short to accommodate the throngs expected, or on the other hand be just long enough to avoid the embarrassment of empty houses.
Personally, we think the show should be good fare for those that like their dramatic presentations a la campus. But then we were once believing that the Korean war was just a police action, too.
From the looks of this week’s cover, the cast for Mr. and Mrs. B will be amply filled with local frauleins. This should give the usual audiences in Washington Hall plenty of chances for whistling, howling, drooling, and guffawing whenever a female graces the usually bachelor stage. Come what may, we sincerely hope the girls won’t wear those hideous slacks. We had a little trouble picking out the girls from the boys on the cover, but we found out that the boys don’t have the “Tonis.”
We visited a short rehearsal session some time ago and got a big kick out of the “angel” with the German accent and a charming young British Miss whose name eludes us now and we’re sorry. Everybody seemed to be getting a big kick out of the whole thing and as far as that is concerned, what else matters?
We have not heard any of the music from the pen of Messrs. Marshall and Carey, (No relation to Sister) but we ■wait with bated breath. (We’ve been holding back on that cliche “bated breath” long enough, so we used it and may our English teachers all recoil and wince quietly for 17 seconds.)
This year’s musical is a step. Whether or not it’s one giant step we trust you will be the judge. It Ain’t Hay and Meet the Missus of the bygone Ed Cashman era will be hard to beat in our estimation, but we have gotten used to seeing champions dethroned. Good luck, Mr. and Mrs. B.
What Happened ?
There’s no feasible explanation for all the room we have for this column this week other than the kind hearts of our advertising editors—one old and one new.
The new one, G. M. McArthur replaced M. A. Alexander at the turn of the week, for better or worse, incher or poorer, etc. We can do nothing but extend greetings and bid fond farewell to the new and the old, in that order.
Morris Windows
No official communique has been issued concerning the windows of the new Morris Inn and the possibility of their being broken at least three times per day by self-styled ND Hogans and Sneads.
If you’ll notice carefully, the Morris Inn offers no natural defenses against golf ball attack and is situated somewhat like the 38th parallel. The question of the week is: “Who has the window glass contract for Morris?”
We intend to play 18 or so, Morris Inn or no Morris Inn, if we can find that new putter we received last Christmas. It has a felt tip and is shaped like a billiards cue and has a concealed chalk compartment. When using the new putter indoors, we found bank shots the most effective.
On the course, we can always bank a few “birdie” threes off an unsuspecting gopher- or Commerce major. The latter affords a little more resiliency due to their elongated torsos. They are also more numerous than gophers and easier to replace.
Take Me Out
Well, it won’t be long now before the Major League seasons get under way and from the looks of the Grapefruit league standings the Chicago Gold Dust Twins or Cellar Chums, the Cubs and the White Sox, should both win pennants.
There is one thing that most sports writers do about this time and that is tc tell you or hope to tell ycu who the champs will be come next Fall. We are not going to do this. If any team wants
to win a pennant, they’ll do so without our insistence and predictions and since “Happy” Chandler is gone from the diamond scene, we have no idea as to the future of the game for 1951.
We do have some comments baseballwise about a local diamond nine called affectionately, “Kline’s Kiddies.” The ND squad looks good in practice and if Bob Nemes can avoid getting his long legs wrapped up during his windups, the team should be impressive. If the season is disastrous, remember it’s not who won that counts, it’s Hou- you played the game.
Webster Supplement
We were looking through our dictionary the other day and suddenly realized that many of the terms used around Notre Dame are either not represented in the book or not up to date in meaning.
Here are some handy definitions you might like to paste somewhere between A and Zymurgy. Student Council—a body of students surrounded on three sides by budgets. Class—50 minutes devoted to the development of sitting muscles.
Bottom of the Week
. . . he’ll probably run for President now!
Beginners' Specialist at Arthur Murray's
Lola Arnaux is grand with beginners because she inspires them with confidence and enthusiasm right off. “How can people get through life not dancing when it’s so easy to become a good dancer the Arthur Murray Way.”
Phone 2-3339 —10 a. m.-10 p. m.
120 E. Wayne South Bend
Apr. 13, 1951
5

Vol. 92 APRIL 13, 1951 No. 21
<
i
j	APRIL 13
:	PALAIS ROYALE—The Engineers wind up their social year with
I	their annual formal dance. Gene Hull and his reliable orchestra will
:	supply the background music for the sashaying slip-stickers from 9
; p.m. until 1 a.m.
:	COLFAX (through April 21)—Hollywood is still in the middle of
:	its craze for shooting pictures in their native locale. Bird of Paradise
'	(Legion of Decency Rating B) is the latest of this trend and, as with
'	most of its predecessors, claims the beautiful background scenery as
•	its major asset. The plot is rather clap-trappish and unintentionally
'	laughable in spots. Debra Paget, Louis Jourdan and Jeff Chandler
find it hard competing with the Hawaiian landscapes.
AVON (through April 17)—Louis Calhern plays Chief Justice f Oliver Wendell Holmes in The Magnificent Yankee (A-2). It is a ,	quiet, fairly interesting biography with generous overtones of Life
’	With Father tossed into it. Emmett Lavery authored the original
j play and had his finger in the picturization, also.
J
J	PALACE (through April 18)—Marjorie Main and Percy Kilbride
i	were two of the best things in The Egg and I, that comedy of a few
!	years back. Fans throughout the country thought so, at least, so
'	Universal rushed the duo into a movie devoted to them and has fol,	lowed through with several others. Ma and Pa Kettle Back on the
;	Farm is the latest. For some old-fashioned, home-spun comedy the
j	Main-Kilbride team can’t be beat. The movie is run off according to
!	formula but still manages to generate a goodly supply of chuckles.
:	Mystery Submarine (A-l) with McDonald Carey and Marta Toren
;	is pretty far-fetched fare. Adventure bugs will like it, though.
।	GRANADA (through April 20)—Bedtime for Bonzo (A-l), with
i	Ronald Reagan and Diana Lynn, and The Groom Wore Spurs, with
1	Ginger Rogers and Jack Carson, are two comedies that misfired mis-
■	erably. Neither has much to offer except disappointment because
•. they weren’t better.
j	APRIL 14
WASHINGTON HALL—Malaya boasts a large all-star cast. Period. The story is rather murky and gets confused before the final reel, leaving everyone, including that cast, up in the air. Spencer ' Tracy, James Stewart, John Hodiak, Valentina Cortesa, John Barry! more and Sidney Greenstreet are the actors who are led astray on ! this flop.
APRIL 18 i
i	CARTIER FIELD—Coach Kline’s diamondeers make their home
debut against Iowa. Game starts at the regular time. If anyone can i find out “the regular time,” please let us know, t
I	AVON (indefinite)—MGM has learned a knack in putting out
i breezy and bright musicals. Royal Wedding (A-2) is their latest j success. Fred Astaire and Jane Powell play the leads in this highly j	entertaining pic. Good songs, nice color, easy performances, and
I	some unbelievably great dances by Astaire makes this a top drawer
i movie.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors WALTON R. COLLINS '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52___________________News
ROBERT G. FINNEY '53_______Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51__________Features JOHN F. MEANEY '52 Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52________Assistant Sports LEON GARDNER, '52_________.Librarian
WILLIAM H. FRASER. '52______Photography WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51____Advertising G. M. McARTHUR______________.....Advertising ROBERT WILDEMAN '51...._____Circulation
JAMES ROGERS '51 Circulation
DALE FRANCIS____________Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Don Carbone, Pat Carrico, Dick Cody, John Corrigan, Valentine Chun, Carl Eiberger, Tom Godfrey, Dave Hayes, John Kelly, R. O. Murphy, Walt Murphy, Pat O’Malley, John Quetsch, Dave Quinn, Bill Rady, Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Ken Stead, Paul Zalecki and Ron Zier.
SPORTS STAFF: Bill Brien, Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Joe Deiss, Jack Economou, Roger Fernandes, Bob Froelicher, Mort Kelly, Bill Londo, Fran Meaney, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rust and Joe Straub.
FEATURE STAFF: Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan, John Chevanne, Jay Conlon, Frank Haendler, Harry Sicmonsma, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta. PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF: Gordon Brickson. Paul Fitzgerald, John Kinville, Charles Lenz, Harold Munger, Charles F. Murphy, Jr., Al Muth, C. Douglas Powers, Berry Reece, and Jerry Sheehan.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: After an absence of three years, the greatly anticipated student musical returns to the local scene on Monday night. Written — both book and music — by Dick Marshall and Bill Carey, the show boasts a large and talented cast of ND students and girls from South Bend. Gene Hull’s ork , will supply the musical accompaniment. Tickets are going fast — get yours today! Photo by Jerry Sheehan, ’54.	-
The Scholastic
6

' The Show Goes On
On. Monday night the curtain will go up on the first Notre Dame student musical in three years. This annual presentation has been sorely missed. There has nevei* been a show yet that hasn’t been a smash hit. a sockeroo - or a knock-out. They can’t help but be successes.
’ Thev are far from being the greatest bits of entertainment ever produced but try to say just one word against them in front of anyone who has had anything to do with the production and you’ll get a yard of sccn-ery jammed down your critical throat. These people are rightly proud of their show.
It isn’t looked upon by them as being on a par with any Broadway entry. They know that in the long run it is pretty amateurish and perhaps weak on technical polish. But still — it’s their baby and they’re proud of it.
. Everyone should keep these things in mind when they go into Washington Hall next week to see “Mr. and Mrs. Broadway.” Too many of us are hypercritical. We seem to find a strange release when tearing a project apart. In regard to this year’s student musical, we should remember the long hours that have been spent in putting it together. We must remember that the cast members aren’t professionals. The authors have no dreams that their work will be spotted by a big-time producer and rushed to New York before the Spring season ends.
If all who go to the musical go with the primary in* tention of enjoying themselves then they’ll be guaranteed an evening of good entertainment. In fact, it xvill be one of the most entertaining evenings to be had during the entire year at Notre Dame.
The large troupe that is responsible for this year’s musical has put a great deal of time and work behind the show. The efforts of these people should not be minimized. They have re-inaugurated an event on the entertainment calendar that should remain there every year.	*
It will remain as an annual endeavor, however, only so long as the script and music are worthy of production. And here is where some underclassmen can go into action. A musical show is not written over a weekend. It generally takes months of painstaking thought, planning and finally, actual composition.
These productions can continue annually only so long as students are willing to give up lots of time to their
Apr. 13, 1951
creation. Who knows — perhaps next year’s show is already being conceived? If it isn’t, then maybe some of the more talented underclassmen should get busy.
As for now: here’s wishing the entire staff responsible for Mr. and Mrs. Broadway success. The best the players can do ought to be accepted as more than good enough by any of the audience. If the cast accepts this then the rapport across the footlights will be terrific, placing the 1951 show automatically into the winner’s circle.
•
Fore 111	.
Now that Spring has finally arrived — this is written with trepidation, considering the unpredictable weather, of Indiana — one of the campus’ main swarming places, as. usual, seems to be the golf course. Last weekend foursomes waited long and, for the most part, patiently to drive off.
The popularity of the course was and always is evident from the large crowds that use it. Too often we forget that many colleges are not as fortunate as we are. in this respect. We’ve got 18 holes relatively within a matter of steps. And it’s our course. It’s not owned, by any commercial organization. It’s ours and it is up to us to keep it in top shape.
The Burke course isn’t the safest one ever to be laid out. On a few of the holes it’s hard to tell which foursome is playing where. It’s easy for cross-play to become dangerous at times. That’s why the rules of the sport must necessarily be followed at all times. Don’t drive the ball, follow its flight, watch it land next to a group of putters and then yell FORE! Practice the same kind of consideration you’d expect from the duffer behind you.
Then there is also the physical condition of the course. Right now it looks pretty good, considering the battering the winter has given it. The grounds-keepers will be putting it into even better shape as the season goes on. And every man who plays out there should help their work along.
o	w
And this doesn’t mean just replacing divots. It also means wadding up cigarette packages and putting them into your pockets instead of leaving them strewn on the greens and fairways. The same goes for match packets and any other kind of refuse. As for cigarettes — perhaps “field stripping” would be a good idea.
We’ve got something in our golf course to appreciate. Let’s realize it and keep the course in the shape it deserves.
.	’	7
Here is something
you don't know about
1
your own reading ability
What sort of movements do your eyes make when you read? How can more efficient eye-movement cut your reading time in half?
While your eyes are moving along the lines, you see very little if anything. It’s only -when they stop or fixate that you are actually seeing the words. So, the more words you can see at a glance—the fewer and shorter the fixations—automatically, the faster vour reading rate.
Try this with a friend. Poke a tiny hole in the center of the page and peek through it at your friend’s eyes as he reads. Tty to count the number of times his eyes stop. Watch the rhythm, too. Then have him do the same for you. If you’re average readers, your eyes may be stopping about once for each word. Experts at the Foundation for Better Reading can record your eye-movements on movie film. They will show you how easily and quickly you can widen your “word span”—how this helps cut reading time by more than half.
And, by being able to see more words—more meaningful ideas—at once comprehension will improve as reading time decreases. Even technical material can be absorbed faster this way.
There’s a man right here who has helped to develop the modem techniques by which reading skills are first measured and then improved. His name is Father John A. O’Brien.* He says that
the Foundation for Better Reading is admirably equipped to assist you in doubling or even tripling -your present reading capacity. Hundreds of college f students, business men, and professional people have proved this.	'
Doesn’t most of what you learn come from your reading? Therefore, even if you’re a fast reader now, won’t the ability to cover your reading in half ' the time help you to read and learn more—earn better grades—have more time for other activities?
Why, in just a few weeks at college, the dollar 41 value of the reading time you can save may exceed x-the tuition fee for the complete training. Most important, you’ll be able to get more out of your education.	,
Whv wait? The men who are starting the training now will be finished well before final exams. Come in, or call today I
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E. LaSalle	(open’til 9)	Phone 3-0077
P.S. Convenient teims arranged if desired. Nothing to sign, no extra cost.
* Author of Fast, Silent Reading
8
The Scholastic
VOLUME 92, NUMBER 21
APRIL 13. 1951
Show Opens Monday For Three-Night Run
With Miss Jane Sparks, Jack Powell, and Jack Broderick in the leading roles, “Mr. and Mrs. Broadway,” a musical comedy entirely of student origin and production, will open in Washington Hall, Monday night for a three-»iight run. Performances will begin at 8:15 p. m.
Words and music for the show were written by Bick Marshall and Bill Carey, and producer-director is Bud Powers, who is also in charge of chore-graphy, and will do a dancing role in the musical.
DIRECTOR Buddy Powers instructs cast.
The plot of “Mr. and Mrs. Broadway” revolves around a musical comedy star and her producer-husband. They have separated, but while working together on a new7 Broadway show’, reach a reconciliation through the efforts of their agents.
Powell will play the part of the producer; Keith New’ton, and Miss Sparks, a member of the Presbyterian Players of South Bend, w’ill portray his wife. Broderick will handle the male singing lead as one of the stars of the “show within a show.”
Principal • supporting roles will be played by Jack Kissell as the agent, James Goodw’in as the pretzel baker
angel of the show’, and Lou Garippo as the stage manager. A mixed chorus of 20 and a 30-man vocal chorus round out the cast.
Both reserved seats and general admission tickets are still on sale through hall representatives. The reserved seats sell for 80 cents and $1, and general admission tickets are priced at 50 cents.
Baltimore Is Tabbed For 1951 Student Trip
The Student Council at its Monday night meeting voted to recommend to the University administration that the Navy game in Baltimore on Nov. 3 be chosen for the student trip. The Council reached this decision after considering each of the away games on the team schedule.
The members felt that the Navy game would be the best choice because Baltimore it not too far away and yet the game presents a traditional rivalry. It will be played just 30 miles from Washington which as the nation’s capital has many interesting sights. Also there is direct rail transportation from LaPaz on the B & 0 and the trip would not be too long.
Jack Totty, president of the Band, appeared at the meeting and spoke in favor of a long trip. He felt that the University would have a better band because more students would be attracted to it by the possibility of going to an interesting game.
Also at the meeting'the Council decided to hold a meeting of the members of the now-suspended Chicago Club on April 25. The members would organize their affairs and hold an election of new officers on or before May 15. The Club will then be reinstated w’ith full privileges.
At the meeting the St. Louis Club was exonerated from all blame for not having proper authorization for their Easter dance. The required letter had been sent to the Council by the alumni but it had been mislaid in the files.
Also the Council approved the date set for the class elections, May 8, and • the program worked out by the Blue Circle. The WND plan of broadcasting dances was also approved.
Engineers +o Enjoy Annual Ball Tonight
Miss Jill Harris of Hamilton, Ohio, will be crowmed queen of an “Evening of Fantasy” tonight as the Engineers’Ball, traditionally open only to engineering students, gets underway in the Palais Royale Ballroom. Escorted by co-chairman Joe Lotta, Miss Harris will reign from 9 till 1 a. m.
Featuring this year’s dance, one of the few formal dances at Notre Dame open to freshmen, will be continuous music by Gene Hull’s official University
MISS JILL HARRIS
dance band and the Harlan Hogan Quartet, heard daily on radio station WSBT in South Bend. Tables adjoining the dance floor may be reserved upon request before the ball begins.
Car permissions and 2 o’clock privileges have been granted to those attending.
Bernie Lavins is the other co-chairman of the dance. Committee chairmen include Boy Streckfadden, decorations, Fred Kaufman, publicity, Jim Kohn and Chuck Lensenmeyer, tickets, and Tom Moorman, program.
Apr. 13, 1951
9
Carey, Carroll, Cullen and Kirchner Selected For Dome Awards; Six Placed on Honor Roll
Moot Court Finals
View Dean's Award
John O’Brien, editor of the 1951 Dome, announced today the four recipients of the annual Dome Awards. He also named the six Seniors who have been selected for the Dome Honor Roll.
The Award winners are William Carey, Thomas Carroll, Richard Cullen and William Kirchner. The Honor Roll men are William Anhut, Walter Clem
WILLIAM CAREY, THOMAS CARROLL, RICHARD CULLEN, and WILLIAM KIRCHNER.
ents, William Rich, Kenneth Thoren, William Whiteside, and David Yerex.
The ten men were selected, according to the citation in the yearbook, “on a basis of intellectual achievement, contribution to the student body and University, and the embodiment in them of the ideals of moral, responsible leadership.”
WILLIAM ANHUT,
WALTER CLEMENTS, WILLIAM RICH, and KENNETH THOREN.
Editor O’Brien’s selection committee was composed of six members of the Junior Class. Besides O’Brien, who served as chairman, the committee includes James Garvin, Student Council secretary, John Powers, news editor of the Scholastic, James Mutscheller, 1951 football captain, James Mannion,
BILL WHITESIDE and DAVE YEREX
Junior Class president, and Joseph Conlon, managing editor of the 1951 Dome.
While at Notre Dame Carey has been active in debating,. having won the national debate championship in 1950. He has# also been a member of the Blue Circle and is co-author of the student musical to be presented next
week. Carroll is president of the Blue Circle, a member of the Student Council and served as president of his Freshman Class. This year’s Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus, Cullen was editor of the Dome in 1949, chairman of last year’s Bengal Bouts and has also served as photography editor of the Scholastic. Kirchner was
president of the 1949-50 Student Council, and was also vice-president of the regional NFCCS. He established the Campus Charity Chest during his term in Student Council office.
The Honor Roll selectees were all also active in extra-curricula activities. Anhut is president of this year’s Student Council. Clements was managing editor of last year’s Dome and is currently co-editor of the Juggler. Bill Rich is president of the campus YCS. Thoren is editor of the 1950-51 Scholastic. Whiteside is the AROTC president and a member of the varsity football team. Yerex is co-editor of the Juggler and president of the Wranglers.
Of these ten men, three will graduate Magna Cum Laude in June and seven will receive Cum Laude degrees.
Moot court activity in the Law School swings into high gear this month with the Junior semi-finals for the Dean’s Award, a moot court banquet, as well as sham-court competition for first and second semester law freshmen.
The aim of the Moot Court Executive Board in installing competition for the first-year men is to increase the calibre of the debaters in their second and third years. Previously, Juniors . entered the interscholastic trials with no previous experience.
Another recent innovation by the Board rules out interscholastic courts for Seniors, who will now be limited to the usual three-mhn squad for district and national interscholastic -tourneys.
Twelve second semester Freshmen started debate in three courts last week, and courts for the first-term barristers will be held April 17. Both the first- and second-semester Freshmen will be eligible next year for inter- < scholastic competition for the Dean’s Award.
Narrowed to eight competitors in two courts, the junior moot couriers commence arguing in their semi-finals April 23. The emerging four lawyers, in two teams, will match wits in the grand finals trial, which is to be staged in conjunction with the annual Law Association Convention here June 9.
The Junior duos are scheduled to tee off as follows in the semi rounds: Joseph Spalding and George McGuan vs. R. Emmett Fitzgerald and Harold Stanley and John Toddy and William Soos c vs. Robert Stewart and E. Milton Farley.
All courts, both Frosh and Junior, begin at 7:30 p.m. on their respective dates in rooms 100, 102, and 103 of ; the Law Building; the interested public is welcome.	>•
The Moot Court Banquet is scheduled for April 24, tentatively set for the University Dining Hall. Moot Court Honor Awards are to be presented then to Seniors who have participated in competition for two years and fulfilled other qualifications. Cer- A tificates of merit will also be presented to all participants. Both the honor awards and the certificates are to be presented by Dean Clarence E. Manion.
At this time the Executive Board for 1951-52 will be named, this year’s board having previously recommended the members for Dean Manion’s approval.
10
The Scholastic
Neophyte Lawyers Work Hard to Uphold Reputation of 26-Year-Old Law Quarterly
By ED VASTA, ’52
r
The 11:57 dash from the circle to the hall causes anxiety enough to the Notre Dame student who is trying- to make the midnight deadline. But the sight of yellow light streaming through the windows of some remote garret of the Law Building only adds to his frustration. A lighted room at that hour of the night can only mean that someone is working and it seems that the switch is never thrown in the office of the Notre Dame Laivyer.
If the work of the Lawyer staff is endless, however, their reward is endless too, for this magazine has the reputation of being one of the finest legal publications in the country. In just the past year circulation has jumped from 800 to 1200 and the numbers of judges, legal practitioners and libraries who subscribe to the 200-page quarterly is ever increasing. Such a large circulation is no small achievement. It is the product of 26 years of tedious research and reviewing.
It began as a monthly in 1925 and for a time seemed unable to emerge from the closet of insignificance. It remained painfully mediocre until Professor William Rollinson, still teaching law at Notre Dame, offered to help the
students in their project. He changed it from a monthly publication to a quarterly and made it a scholarly work rather than something designed for entertainment. Through his efforts the Lawyer achieved a firm footing and became nationally renowned. Its stability was proven during the war years wjien, reports one aspiring lawyer, there were only about twelve students studying law and throughout the country law reviews were being forced to cease publication. These were the leanest years for the Notre Dame Laivyer but never since its birth has it failed to meet its deadline.
Its purpose is twofold: 1) to present basic legal problems of current interest, and 2) to develop among students the ability to do legal research and writing. Student writing fills about half of the periodical and consists of Notes or discussions of legal problems and analyses of recent decisions handed down from the nation’s courts. The remaining half is'comprised of articles written by outstanding men in the field of law, but even these must be documented and footnoted by the student staff.
The list of non-student contributors to the Lawyer is impressive. In the
latest issue was printed an article by Edward S. Corwin, leading constitutional law expert in this country. Other-issues have carried treatises by Roscoe Pound, Warren Austin, Senator- Mc-Carran and Georgio Del Vecchio, known in this country as “The Roscoe Pound of Europe.” Some of the Lawyer’s contributors are former Notre Dame men; Mr. Scanlan, now with the Department of Defense in Washington, was until recently a professor of law at this University. Tighe Woods, Federal Housing Expediter, graduated from Notre Dame in 1933. These and many others equally as famous have helped to make the Lawyer the distinguished review that it is.
The staff is the largest of any student publication on campus, yet considering the amount of work that must be done on each manuscript the staff members are considerably overtaxed. Mark Berens, well known for his ability as a handfall player, bears the responsibilities of editor-in-chief. His competent assistant editor, Bill Dickson and five other editors comprise the editorial staff, all of them being recruited, as is required, from the senior members. They in turn will appoint their
LAWYER-JOURNALISTS Bill Wenbacher, Pat Coughlin, Bill O’Connor, Bill Dickson (I. to r.) stand behind Editor Mark Berens in producing the N. D. “Lawyer.”
successors, subject, of course, to approval by the faculty advisors.
Thirty apprentice-lawyers constitute the junior staff with 30 more in train
ing. The qualifications that must be met are extremely rigid and propose an enticing challenge to anyone contemplating membership. Proteges must have had at least two recent decisions published and must undergo a two-semester training period consisting of lectures and technical assignments. In addition, an 85 average must be maintained in their law subjects if they are to make the grade. Despite the rigidity of these standards, competition is nevertheless high, this due to the fact that having written for the Notre Dame Lawyer is one of the most influential references a graduate law student can present to a future employer.
The tiny office situated high in the northeast corner of the law building is the National Headquarters for the National Conference of Law Reviews. Comprised of every major law review in the United States, the Conference has distinguished the three-year service of our own Mark Berens by voting him National Chairman. He will hold this position until his graduation in June.
And so the silhouettes we see hunched over a desk when we glance up at the steel-grilled windows of the Laivyer office may be that of someone whose work will affect the courts of the
(Continued on Page 33)
Apr. 13, 1951
11
Air Cadet Club Presents 'Aiuwur' at Palais Friday
Air Cadets will get a chance to do a bit of gliding in the Palais Royale ballroom next Friday night when the Notre Dame Air Cadet Club will sponsor its annual Air Force Ball. Tom Digan, dance chairman, announced that tickets went on sale last week in the vestibule of the dining hall during meal hours. There will also be bid sales by representatives in classrooms and dormitories, Dave Schoen, bid sales chairman, announced.
Entitled "Azuwur,” the affair is to be formal with the regular Air Force uniforms as the appropriate dress. NROTC students as well as airmen are also invited.
Bid price is $3.60, which includes transportation via city busses to and from St. Mary’s College. No corsages and no civies are to be allowed. Dancing will be from 9 till 1, and 2 o’clock permissions as well as car privileges will be granted.
The Palais ballroom is to be decorated in a colorful Air Force motif for the occasion. A date bureau headed by Denny O’Neill will be established to secure blind dates from St. Mary’s College and St. Joseph’s Nursing Home.
Prom Committee Arranges Dance and Buffet Supper
Final arrangements have been announced by the Junior Prom Committee for an afternoon dance and buffet supper at the Erskine Country Club on the day after the Prom. This is one feature of the weekend which is planned for the Juniors and their dates, and will run from 3 p. m. to 7 p. m. April 28.
HARRY JAMES
Students and their dates will have the freedom of the grounds and of the clubhouse, located south of the city on Miami Street. If there is sufficient call for them, busses will be provided for those without other transportation.
Music by Jerry Costello and his quartet is guaranteed to satisfy those who wish to dance. Another important feature of the afternoon’s entertainment is the buffet supper, which will consist of sliced beef and turkey supplemented by salad, rolls, drinks, and the like.
Following the afternoon at Erskine there will be the Student Council Dance at the Palais Royale for those who still want to dance.
Tickets for the affair at Erskine Country Club will be $4.75 per couple. Sales are limited to 150 tickets due to the limited space available at the club.
Lawyers Set Annual Ball For May 4 at Erskine Club
Co-chairmen Bob McGlynn and Ed Duffy have announced plans for the spring Law Ball to be held May 4. The
ED DUFFY and BOB McGLYNN
theme for the dance will be "Mayflower Compact.”
The dance, sponsored by the Student Law Association, will be held at the Erskine Country Club from 9 till 1 a.m. Providing music for the law men and their dates will be Notre Dame’s own Gene Hull and his orchestra.
John Mendoza and Edward Van Tassel are in charge of the bids, which have been set at $4.00. Dress for the occasion will be semi-formal; car permissions and 2 o’clock^privileges have been granted. As an ai^-jlo^ those-men who for one reason or ariotner-are uh-able to obtain dates- -for the r-Ball,- a date bureau has been set up under the direction of Bill Fleming.
Senior Ball to Be May I I,
Last Event for Class of '51
Notre Dame’s Seniors have selected May 11 as the date for their last social function at the University, the Senior Ball. Co-chairmen Jim Hennessy and Hank Madden have announced that
JIM HENNESSY and HANK MADDEN
$8.50 bids for the dance will go on sale within a week.
Some 375 fourth year men and their guests are expected to attend the Ball which will be held in the Rockne Memorial. Johnny Long and his orchestra will play from 10 p.m. until 2 a.m.
On Saturday afternoon, May 12, the Seniors and their dates will see the Varsity-Oldtimers game at the Stadium. This annual exhibition, as before, will feature the current crop of Irish gridmen and an assortment of former stars returned for some football fun.
That Saturday evening the Seniors can attend the Monogram Club dance, scheduled for the Rockne Memorial. Gene Hull and his orchestra will furnish the music.
Sunday morning at 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church, a section will be reserved for the Ball-goers. Following the Mass a Communion breakfast will be served at the Olivei- Hotel. Bill Whiteside is in charge of the breakfast committee.
Prof Publishes Article
■ Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, c. S. c., had * an article entitled "Balance That Mind” published in the March issue of the . Catholic Educational Review. Father Brennan is an instructor in the Program of Liberal Education here at Notre Dame.
12
The Scholastic
Notre Dame Is Scene of Regional Congress
• * As the scene of the Eighth Fort k	Wayne Regional Congress last week
end, Notre Dame played host to more > than 150 delegates from the six other regional colleges.
■'	Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, c.S.c., vice-
president in charge of student affairs, welcomed the visiting students at the i, first plenary session Saturday afternoon. In stressing the importance of
D	the National Federation of Catholic
College Students in this country today,
*	Father Kehoe stated, “I have every
confidence that the enthusiasm shown here will bring nothing but good re-suits.”
In the keynote address, Al DeCrane - of Notre Dame explained the purpose of the congress. Miss Anna Marie Herold of the University of Munich told of the work of the NFCCS Overseas Service Program in aiding Ger-man students. The session was concluded by Regional President Jo Ann
* Madler.
Saturday evening, the delegates were guests at the Student Council’s “Intercollegiate Swing” at the Palais Royale.
,	After their panel sessions Sunday
morning, the Press, International Rela-f tions, Family Life, Science, and Apostolic Commissions presented their reso-
, lutions at the third plenary session that afternoon.
One of the most significant congress x acts was a resolution of regional support for Notre Dame’s bid, through ' the campus YCS, for- the chairmanship of the National Catholic Action Com-r~ mission. The bid will now be presented
at the National NFCCS Council meeting in Philadelphia April 20-22.
Before adjourning, the regional congress gave a vote of thanks to Notre Dame for the University’s hospitality, and to the outgoing regional officers for their work during the past year.
John O’Connell, regional presidentelect, was congress chairman.
BLUE CIRCLE APPLICANTS
Students wishing to apply for membership in the Blue Circle should send a letter of application to 159 Cavanaugh by April 28. The letter should include the student’s qualifications, scholastic average, and disciplinary record.
NFCCS Delegates Name O'Connell Region Prexy
John M. O’Connell, Sophomore class president and NFCCS junior delegate, was elected president of the Fort Wayne Region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students at the regional council meeting here Saturday morning. He defeated Jerry Weigers of Aquinas College, for the post.
O’Connell will assume his new duties at the next regional council meeting, to be held May 13 at Saint Mary-of-the-Woods College.
Other new officers are Miss Terry Hisey of Saint Francis College, regional vice-president; Miss Claire Morrissey, Saint Mary-of-the-Woods, secretary; and Weigers, who was acclaimed treasurer after receiving the only nomination for that position. Miss Cynthia Kelly of Saint Mary’s College was nominated for both vice-president and secretary.
Placement News
Mr. William Dooley, dii'ector of the Placement Office, has announced additional job interviews for next week.
On Monday, Mr. James C. Young of Firestone Tire and Rubber Co., will interview sales prospects. Mr. Joseph Abbott of Federal Radio, Telephone and Telegraph will interview M.S. and B.S. Electrical Engineers and M.S. and B.S. Physics majors. A representative of the Socony Vacuum Oil Co., East Chicago, will interview B.S. and M.S. Chemical Engineers.
On Tuesday, Mr. E. G. Henderson of U. S. Steel, Pittsburgh, will interview Accounting majors. Mr. L. E. Grunde-man of Commonwealth Associates Inc., Jackson, Mich., will inteiwiew Engineering majors. A representative of the Dupont Co., Wilmington, Del., will see Civil, Chemical and Mechanical Engineers.
On Wednesday, U. S. Steel will interview all day. A General Electric representative will speak with Mechanical and Electrical Engineers, as well as Physics majors. The General Electric interviews will continue Thursday. On Wednesday and Thursday, a Kreger representative will interview sales and managerial prospects.
A representative of the G. R. Grace Shipping Lines of New York City will see Accounting, majors and managerial prospects on Friday.
Those qualified for and interested in talking to these company representatives should sign up at once in the Placement Office. Company literature should be read in advance of the interview and is also available in the Placement Office.
NFCCS DELEGATES register attention at regional congress. Insert: Old and new presidents Miss Madler, John O’Connell.
Apr. 13, 1951	13
Zhe KM JmvatKM
General Program of Liberal Education Has Analysis of Great Books as Core
Text by Al LaPorte, ’54
Photos by Hal Munger, ’51
ON Sept. 14 of last year Notre Dame’s College of Arts and Letters gave birth to a new program of studies. On that date some 50 incoming Freshmen and five faculty members of the A. B. school began digging their way through the General Program of Liberal Education.
The General Program—an academic “GP”—has been the ideal of liberal educators for lo these many years. It is an ideal which, once upon a time, was standard operational procedure for all institutions, it then being the only accepted way to offer and receive an education. But an era of specialization set in, even to learning, cutting down the academic horizons and putting definite limitations on what should be studied. Still the graduate of a Liberal Arts college is labeled an “educated man,” a “cultured fellow,” though he has only a smattering of the broad scope of liberal education and has spent half of his college career confining himself to the study of economics, politics or sociology.
A SEMINAR CLASS under Dr. R. Thompson includes the first men to try program.
“In any study or investigation, the humblest and noblest alike, there seem to be two ways in which a person can be competent: He may have either what can rightly be called a scientific knowledge of it and. therefore, be able to judge correctly which parts of an exposition are satisfactory and which are not. This, in fact, is the sort of person we take the man of general education to be. and to be educated is to be able to do this. In this case, however, we expect to find in the one individual the ability to judge of almost all subjects, whereas in the other case the ability is confined to some special science; for of course it is possible to have this ability in one field of knowledge without having it in all.’’—Aristotle, De Partibus Animalium.
Now the pendulum is starting back over its old path, returning to its origin in the General Program. Certain European institutions have long stressed the broad, cultural learning and a few American schools have waded in the pond. But, with the exception of the University of Chicago, St. John’s College in Annapolis, and a few other daring centers, no one has really taken the plunge on a large scale. Last Septem-
DR. BIRD helps class with a classic
ber Notre Dame tested the water. She is still standing only ankle-deep, but neither a Borne nor a reform in educational methods and aims is built in a day.
Scholastic, in taking a look-see at the General Program, is not attempting to judge it. We realize that the Program has not had sufficient time to work out its bugs, to get the kinks ironed out. Less than a year has elapsed since its inauguration and, though the decision to keep it going has to be made on this one year performance, we are hardly competent or foolhardy enough to make any statements along the lines of valued judgments.
We do, however, think it within our capacity to present a picture of what is going on within the Program. Admittedly this picture cannot be complete, due to the limitations in space and this writer’s powers of expression, but most of all due to his limited knowledge of-the subject. We ask that Scholastic’s readers bear this in mind and hope that all concerned will be satisfied with our treatment of the baby in Notre Dame’s educational family.
Great Books the Core
In the public’s eye, the General Program and Great Books movement are one and the same. The association is understandable when it is remembered that Chicago’s Mortimer Adler and Notre Dame’s Father John Cavanaugh have been guiding lights in both fields. But there is a difference, as both educators will be quick to point out.
Great hooks—classics—do constitute the core of the Program, and the Program. has a reading list of almost 200 different hooks for the four-year course, books ranging from the Bible, Homer
14
The Scholastic
►
hr
and Virgil to Newman, Marx and Freud. The emphasis, if it can properly be called such, in Notre Dame’s program is on the Christian classics, though treatment is accorded worthwhile themes by many authors.
The difference between simply reading the Great Books and the way they are read in the General Program is that here they are used as a course of study, read with a definite plan and goal in ihind, discussed not in a haphazard or here-and-there way, but methodically. They are studied with an eye first, to develop the art of reading appreciatively, analytically and critically. The works are read for content, critically, are analyzed and discussed through the use of the Seminar. But they are also read slowly, getting away from the lump and down to its constituent parts, picking apart not just paragraphs but single words, following the ancients in their method of explication. This approach is the tutorial. - ~
The-_purpose, then, of the General Program in its use of these books is to develop the art of reading, for this art includes the arts of the trivium: Gram-mar73or its apprehension of the object through verbal notations; Rhetoric, for interpretation; _and Logic, for following the path -of -ideas. While this training in reading is going on the student cannot fail to absorb some of the meat, the cultural heritage which is on the printed page. This exposition could be termed a natural and intended result of the Program’s first aim, and, therefore, becomes itself a purpose or goal.
That this course of studies is not offered in survey form follows from the general idea of education upon which both are based. The survey or continuous story treatment springs from the conception that it is the educator’s role to cram his students with as much factual information as possible. The students are the passive recipient of their professor’s labor, sitting quietly erect while he feeds them with a silver spoon. His method is that of the lecturer, bringing everything- to his audience, requiring only that his listeners be receptive.
On the opposite side of the picture stands the General Program, basing its whole course of action on the philosophy that the student should take an active part in his own education, taking education in the literal sense of leading out, not jamming in. Instead of presenting the whole meal at once and trying to force down a platter full of food, the Program tosses one item at a time to the student, makes him work not just to save himself from drowning in a vat of wine but rather to earn a second drink from the goblet. “Blocks” of material are covered, but “gaps” are left
to the student to fill. He is no longer the quiet, passive recipient of a welter of facts but rather the eager, searching and very active participant in his own education.
1 The College vs. The University
Critics of the General Program have fired blasts which, to a great extent have missed their mark completely. They have confused the role of the college with that of the university and, as a result, their shots are wild. It is not, essentially, the role of the college to provide means for specialized study. This task falls far more properly to the university, for it is the place of research, advanced knowledge and specialization. The college, on the other hand, exists to introduce the student to the liberal arts, to their skills and understandings, as Newman’s Idea, of a, University states. Specialization does not properly belong to the college until after the student has been so introduced to the liberal arts. Here lies the reason for the General Program’s existence.
To whom would such a course of studies appeal? Let’s take a look at the men presently enrolled in the General Program. On the whole, they fall within the top 25% of their high school graduating classes. (Two of those answering Scholastic’s questionnaire led their classes). Their scholastic aptitude, as measured by the American Council on Education’s Psychological Examination for College Freshmen 1948 Edition,
NOTRE DAME is one of the country’s first universities to adopt the GP education.
ranks the Freshmen of the GP group 8 points above other Freshmen in Arts and Letters, the average of total raw scores being 121.5 for the GP’s and 113.26 for the AB’s. They’re not long haired, starry eyed, emaciated esthetics —some’ were high school football players, one picked up a soccer letter, a few others lettered in basketball, baseball and tennis. They don’t throw down the sport section of a newspaper in disgust' or rip up the comics in arty indignation. -They are, in a word, college Freshmen, a little sharper than most, but still college Freshmen.
They like the Program. Poll returns in which any fears of repercussion were eliminated by the medium of anonymity, turned up one reply which took sharp issue with the phrasing of a question. In answer to the query “Have your expectations (concerning the General Program) been realized? Are you content with the Program?” the student launched into an attack indicating that nothing could be wrong with the Program and who the blazes were we to even think such a thing?
P’s Director Criticizes Program
Revelation of this kind of spirit within their students should bring smiles to the five-man faculty. The Director of the General Program is Dr. Otto Bird, a nationally prominent leader in the Great Books movement, who received his Ph.D. at the University of Toronto in 1939 and has since taught in St. Michael’s
Apr. 13, 1951
College, Toronto and St. John’s Univerity, Brooklyn, New York. Assisting Dr. Bird are the Fathers Brennan, Dr. Richard Thompson, and Mr. Edward Cronin. Three of the five have doctorates—Father Tom Brennan Junior and Mr. Cronin lack the Ph.D.
Just what the opinion of the faculty at this point of the Program’s existence is can best be summed up by the Director, Dr. Bird.
“The Scholastic has asked me to write on how I think the General Program is doing. It is a question, of course, that puts me on the spot. It also seems to me that we address the question, ‘how are you doing,’ most appropriately to a sick person. I am glad to report that • the General Program, far from being sick, is showing every sign of rigorous life.
“The medical analogy is not as facetious as it sounds. The ancients in their consideration of education frequently compared it to the art of medicine, and our language still uses ‘doctor’ to name both the physician and the teacher. The point is, of course, that both physician and teacher perform an auxiliary function. The primary agent is the person immediately concerned, the patient or the student. In both cases the effectiveness of the art is measured by its success in arousing vital activity in that person. In the life of learning that activity is primarily the activity of the intellect.
“The Scholastic’s question, there
MOST OF THE FRESHMEN enrolled in program are hard put to find fault with it.
fore, can be interpreted as asking whether the General Program is succeeding in awakening and exciting the intellectual activity of its students. Let me say at once that I think this is perhaps the most important single question that can be asked of education. It is also one that cannot be answered in a moment. For a full and complete answer you need nothing less than the whole lifetime of the student. With these qualifications, I would say that the symptoms of the General Program are most encouraging.
“The students are gaining an introduction to their intellectual tradition and are engaging with its ideas and issues. I think they are learning to appreciate that it is difficult to read well, still more difficult to speak well, and most difficult of all to think well. If they can live up to the start that they have made, and have the opportunity, they have every prospect of acquiring the liberal arts and intellectual virtues which constitute a liberal education. Speaking for the General Program, may I conclude by saying that we shall do everything in our power to see that the opportunity exists at Notre Dame.”—Otto Bird.
"The crucial task of higher education today is to provide a unified general education for American youth. Colleges must find the right relationship between specialized training on the one hand, aiming at a thousand different careers, and the transmission of a common cultural heritage toward a common citizenship on the other. The purpose of general education should be understood in terms of performance, of behavior, not in terms of mastering particular bodies of knowledge.”—The President’s Commission on Higher Education.
So the return to the old idea of a college education is being made at Notre Dame. Though still on a small scale, hesitant, like an infant taking its first uncertain steps, the General Program strikes out into the bright if confused academic world. How her critics receive her will determine whether she grows: or withers away. Thus far, she shows every sign of becoming a healthy, sound Program, a course of studies which has every chance of making good. At least that’s the way her students and faculty see her.
'Gambling Professor' Speaks Here Friday
Michael MacDougall, “The Card Detective,” internationally famous speaker on dice, cards, and crooked gambling, will speak at Washington Hall next Friday at 8 p.m.
Mr. MacDougall is sponsored by the University Concert and Lecture Series. The “Professor of Gambling” will discuss card-tricks, dice, and why gambling houses never lose.
The speaker is acknowledged an expert on dice and cards by gamblers, police departments, and the Army and Navy. He has been a gambling detective for 20 years, during which he has exposed much crooked gambling and testified as a qualified expert at criminal trials. MacDougall is the authority who broke up a three-million-dollar gin rummy swindle in Hollywood; and who found enough evidence to break up the New York Caplin gang, whose gambling take was reported to be over four million a year. •
Private gambling clubs frequently call him in to investigate the play of certain members who seem to win oftener than the laws of chance allow. Every gambling house in New York has a picture of him on the wall and dealers and stick-men are warned to watch for him. Three bullet scars on one leg and scars around his'chin and~ face ’ are souvenirs from characters with whom MacDougall has made him- , self unpopular.
A radio lecturer and writer of authoritative books on crooked gambling, he is the author of the column, “The Inside Straight,” now syndicated in 100 newspapers. Several of his books are Gamblers Don’t Gamble and Danger in the Cards. Gaming articles by him have appeared in Pic, Cosmopolitan, Esquire, Look, Life, and the 'Reader’s Digest, among others.
Mr. MacDougall will be followed in the Concert and Lecture Series calendar by the Very Reverend Martin C. D’Arcy, on April 23, speaking on “The Catholic Idea of Education.”
16
The Scholastic
Linksmen's Initial Test Monday Against Iowa
The Notre Dame golf team, coached by the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., who is the dean of all Notre Dame mentors, and captained by Tom Veech, 27-5-pound long driving ace from Milwaukee, Wis., will open their season Monday, April 16, entertaining the University of Iowa linksmen on the William J. Burke course on the Notre Dame campus. It will be the fourth meeting between the Irish and the Hawkeyes at golf, and the Notre Darners hold a two-to-one victroy advantage. Iowa’s win was scored last year, at Iowa City, by a 17-13 margin.
Father Holderith began coaching the Notre Dame golf team in 1933. Since that time his charges have won 121 matches, lost but 36 and tied six. He is the veteran of all Notre Dame coaches and has one year seniority on Jake Kline, baseball mentor, who took over in 1934.
The veteran Notre Dame golf coach feels that this may be a fairly good year for the Irish. His hopes are bolstered on the presence of Captain Veech, who was a quarter-finalist last year in the National Amateur tourney and also a recent participant in the Masters tournament. There are also three other returning monogram winners, Preston Murphy, Hammond, Ind., senior; Tom Klett, Alexandria, Va., senior, and Frank Marzolf, Worthington, 0., junior. In addition, Father Holderith rates Tom Matey, Warren, 0., sophomore, and Warren Higgins,
Dallas, Tex., senior, as promising newcomers to the Irish ranks. Matey finished second to Veech in the University golf tourney last fall. Veech had a 72-hole card of 286 and Matey’s stroke total was 291.
The Iowa match will be the first of two to be played next week. On Saturday, April 21, the Irish will meet the University of Kentucky at Lexington, Ky.	-
A.I.Ch.E. Gives Scholarship
The Notre Dame Student Chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers held a dinner meeting at Ramble Inn on Monday evening, at which the annual chapter scholarship award was made to Edward P. Goffin et, Jr., of Louisville, Ky., and Alumni Hall.
The award, which includes a student chapter membership pin, an engraved certificate signed by the president of the Institute, and a two-year subscription to Chemical Engineering Progress, official publication of the Institute, is made each year to the Junior student in each chapter who “attained during his Freshman and Sophomore years the highest scholastic standing of any member of that chapter.” This year’s winner had an academic average of 9-5 per’ cent for his first two years.
Following the dinner, each member of the staff of the Department of Chemical Engineering spoke briefly upon one phase of the training of chemical engineers. Professor Rich, Head of the Department, acted as coordinator.
Key to Peace
In last week’s discussion of Dean Manion’s “Key to Peace” there was an unfortunate omission in the reprint of the review written by Father Parsons. The paragraph was not edited out by the Scholastic staff nor by the printers at Ave Maria, but came through some unexplained error. What made the omission particularly unfortunate was the fact that it was one of the most critical of the Dean’s book. In the paragraph the America reviewer said that the book demonstrated an “over-simplification of history, a fairly complete ignorance of Catholic social teaching, an absolute black and white distinction between ‘Americanism’ and ‘Europeanism’ which verges on jingoism.” All concerned with Scholastic staff—and particularly Dean Manion, who asked that the omission be corrected—regret that the fair presentation of both sides of an important issue was marred by this error.
SUBSCRIBERS NOTE -
You will find Form 22-S in your periodicals. Use this card to notify your publishers to discontinue sending them or if the subscription extends beyond the regular school year, to furnish them with your home address.	•
It requires a period of 6 weeks to effect a change of address so act now.
All publications arriving at the end of May will be returned to the publisher.
—POSTMASTER.
Spring Social Season Gets Off to Big Start
IT’S DANCE TIME again as witness (right) couples gently swaying and clinching at the NROTC Ball last Friday night, and (left) the Palais Royale jammed for the Intercollegiate Swing last Saturday, sponsored by. the ND Student Council.
Apr. 13, 1951
17
Spotlight on Broadway
Text by Dick Marshall. “51—Co-Author of Student Musical
Photos by Jerry Sheehan. ‘51
It was nearly midnight, Monday, Nov. 1. 1948, as the Student rip train pulled out of the P. & L. E. Station in Pittsburgh en route from the Navy game in Baltimore to the Notre Dame campus. Most of the fellows in the quiet coach were asleeep; it had been an enjoyable but tiring weekend.
Towards the front of the car Bill Carey and I were staring reminiscently into the smoky haze through which glimmered an orange flame from the steel mills along the Ohio river. For Bill and I, Pittsburgh, with its noisy mills and perpetual smoggy haze, was home.
As the train pulled ahead into the night and the light from the mills faded in the overcast, I took out a pencil, chewed the end to a point, and began writing. Within a matter of minutes I turned to Bill axd, handing him the paper, said, “Bill, here are the words for a song. I think I have a melody for the release but I can’t find anything to carry the main chorus.”
Bill stared down at the sloppily scrawled words with some amazement. “Not bad . . . but what are you giving it to me for . . .?” I explained that I had written some songs a few years before and got the urge to try it again.
Just then I got up to get a drink from the water cooler at the far end of the coach. As I left I said, “See if you can’t dig up a melody for it. It might be singable.”
When I returned a few minutes later, I found Bill looking closly at the piece of paper and humming to himself. Hr-looked up saying, “think I have something . . . seems to fit pretty well and I think it’s catchy. I’ll sing it for you and then you sing me the release you have.” It wasn’t much later that Bill and I were singing the completed version of “The Story’s Not Over Yet.”
Notre Dame had a new song writing team—Bill Carey and Dick Marshall.
Through the remainder of the Fall semester of ’48-’49, five more songs were written. By April of 1949 there were
A TROUPE of the show’s dance specialists skirt the footlights while strutting their stuff. Many of the male hoofers have never so much as jiggled their feet before.
nine songs. We muse now how Old Lyons used to really rock with rhythm every night long about 12 that year. It was in April of that year that Bill and I decided something should be done with the songs we had. A musical comedy seemed like a good idea but the songs wouldn’t have much relation to a story written after them. ... Or so it seemed for a while.
Then, after looking over several successful musical comedies we saw that 1 the songs in most shows don’t really have much intrinsic relation to the story.
So we decided we could write a show and include the songs, but the book would have to be made very elastic to accomplish this.
About a month went by with no progress. Ideas for such a show just did not occur to either of us—until one night early in May, 1949.
It was after lights out and we were putting some added touches to “The Moon” (the moon wasn’t shining) when r Bill suddenly said, “The show could be one about show business—a famous producer maybe.”
I added, “His wife could be, say, a musical comedy star.”
Within ten minutes the whole idea was blocked out.	.	.
Before the summer vacation came an-
The Scholastic

JI"
1
directing and Don Grobmeyer at piano.
di-
on he
ON STAGE is called as the musical goes into its final rehearsals with Bud Powers
A


other song, “Mr. and Mrs. Broadway” was written as a finale number for the show. Through the Summer vacation the show was written. We met about three or four times every week, alternately at Bill’s or my home. By late August the show was finished.
Upon returning to campus in the Fall, Bill and I took the show to Mr. Eisen, head of the Speech department, and of the University Theater. Mr. Eisen was quite receptive to the idea of reviving the almost forgotten student musical, and he gave us a lot of much needed encouragement.
No definite plans were made, however, until April of last year at which time Mr. Eisen told us that the show, which at that time still had no name, would definitely be presented this year. We revised the show last Summer and the entire package—script, words, and music—wei’e all set to go into production when we returned this Fall.
In October, the Student Council offered to underwrite the cost of production, and Bill and I picked the second week of April as being the best time for such a presentation.
The first problem with which we were faced was that of production. We would need a producer who was experienced enough to piece together the many parts of a musical. Once again we were indebted to Mr. Eisen for directing us to Buddy Powers. After talking to Buddy for half an hour Bill and I knew we
had found not only a producer but a rector and a choregrapher as well.
Buddy is only 23 but he has had years dancing experience; he worked service shows during the three years
served in the Navy, during which time he directed and produced several musicals. He has had screen test, as a result of which he was to take Donald O’Connor’s place when the latter was in the service. To top it all off, Buddy is a
Speech major and knows dramatic staging and has been a professional dance instructor for several years. Needless to say we would have to take a long trip to find anyone more qualified to be our producer-director.
It was only about six weeks ago that we 1103115’ decided on a name for the show. We had been toying with several ideas but none of them sounded quite right. Then it was called to our attention that we had a song called “Mr. and Mrs. Broadway,” which title summed up the whole theme of the show. At long last we had a name.
I won’t even try to give credits to all the many’ people who have helped us with Mr. and Mrs. Broadway—there are just too many of them. But to them all Bill and I wouuld like to formally declare our sincere gratitude. Without any one of them Mr. and Mrs. Broadway could never have been brought to the stage. It’s taken two and a half years to
Apr. 13, 1951
19

It's been a lot of work.
somehow, underneath all the the hours we sweated over a line of music, the times we
many people to can only be de-of Notre Dame and Wednesday
chorus limber up their obligatos in preparation for one numbers. John Broderick and Jack Powell are stars.
THE LARGE AND LIVELY of the big production
get the show written and produced. It’s been a lot of headaches and a few heart
aches.
But work, single
worked most of the night on the script, the times it seemed that the show would never be staged, the hours we spent watching rehearsals—underneath it all Bill and I have had a lot of pleasure seeing Mr. and Mrs. Broadway slowly, sometimes hesitantly, sometimes painfully, taking shape and growing into a full sized musical comedy.
The final result of all our efforts and
the efforts of all the whom we owe so much cided by the students this Monday, Tuesday
evenings in Washington Hall. It’s been a lot of work, the product of which will only be on display for three short nights. The final decision will be made by the students themselves.
If Mr. and Mrs. Broadicay is well received, the student musical may once again be restored to its rightful place as an annual presentation here at Notre Dame. Because this has been one of the motivating reasons for producing the show, Bill and I certainly hope you enjoy it.
We would like once again to thank sincerely those who gave us the opportunity to present Mr. and Mrs. Broadway.
Alumni Give Award to Author Richard Sullivan
Richard T. Sullivan, Associate Professor of English and widely-known author and book critic, was presented the fourth annual Notre Dame Faculty Award of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Club of Chicago Saturday night, April 7, at the Chicago observance of Universal .Notre Dame Night.
The award, which was inaugurated in 1948, is made annually to a member of the Notre Dame faculty for outstanding contributions in the field of learning. Previous recipients of the award include Professor James A. Reyniers, Director of LOBUND Institute (1948), Dr. Eugene Guth, Director of the High Polymer Physics Laboratory (1949), and Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the College of Law (1950).
Professor Sullivan, who has been a member of the Notre Dame English faculty since 1936, is a nationally-recognized novelist. His first novel, Summer After Summer, was published in 1942. He subsequently authored The Dark Continent in 1943, The World of
20
Idella May in 1946, and First Citizen, in 1948. A new book on Notre Dame by Professor Sullivan will be published shortly.
The award winner also is recognized as an accomplished short story writer. The Fresh and Open Sky, a collection of his short stories, was published several months ago. In addition to serving on the Notre Dame faculty, Professor Sullivan is a book critic for the New York Times and the Chicago Tribune.
Theater Announces Casting For May 'Faust' Production
Final casting for the' University Theater spring production, Faust, has been announced by Mr. William Eisen, director of the Theater. The leadingrole will be handled by Joseph Tunney, a Junior from Synwyd, Pa., in the play which is to be held May 13-16. Tunney has appeared in the Philadelphia Little Theater and summer stock in Montreal, Canada.
Featured roles will be played by John Dorkey, Ann Duncan, Jean Rich
ard, and Hildegarde Vargyas, director Leonard Sommers announced. The supporting cast will be composed of Tom Matthews, Joseph Gargan, Arthur Casey, Aldo Scafoti and Thomas Knott, who was also named assistant director to Mr. Sommers. Others in the supporting cast are John Barnett, Thomas Dolan, Vernon Burkhart, James Francis, and Charles Blair. Townspeople, soldiers’ and priests’ parts still remain to be selected.
Scafati is set designer and also has charge of architectural arrangements. Art work will be done by Peter Stavis. Considered the masterpiece of Goethe, Faust will be presented in the modern dress version, the oldest architectural staging device known in the theater.
The play is the portrayal of how Faust, an educated but disillusioned doctor, loses his soul to Mephistopheles, the Devil, who has been granted a soul to seduce as a result of a wager with the angels.
Faust will be the final major production of the University Theater, following two previous full-house performances, The Man Who Came to Dinner, and Harvey.
The Scholastic


>

Workshop in Curriculum Set
For Summer, June 26-July 17
Curriculum problems in and secondary schools will during a Workshop in the to be held from June 26 to
elementary be treated Curriculum July 17 in
rector of the Workshop. Co-director will be Brother William Mang, c.S.O., Assistant Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Dr. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, Head of the Department of Education at Notre Dame, will complete the workshop staff.
Spring Social Calendar
April
April
13: Engineer’s Ball, Palais Royale
16-18: Student Musical, “Mr. and Mrs. Broadway,” 8:15 p. m., Washington Hall
the Department of Education.
The Notre Dame workshop is designed to give teachers, administrators and curriculum specialists an opportunity to work cooperatively on some of the more urgent curriculum problems in both elementary and secondary schools. Principles of curriculum construction, selection of curriculum content, teaching materials, and research in the curriculum are among the problems which will be discussed at the Notre Dame workshop, which is open for personnel in both private and public schools.
Admission to the workshop will be limited, preferably to those submitting some definite problem or project on which they wish to work. An application blank should be sent to the Dean of the Graduate School at Notre Dame not later than May 20. Students desiring credit towards a degree also must send to the Director of Admissions at Notre Dame an official transcript of credits.
Sister Mary Janet, S.C., of the Catholic University of America, will be Di-
Pi Sigma Phi Membership Awarded Commerce Men
Membership in the national honor society Pi Sigma Phi was recently awarded to Seniors James F. Sears and William K. Techner, of the College
of Commerce. The two marketing jors are among some 30 college
university students country that have year.
Sponsored by the
from all over been admitted
ma-and the this
Propeller Club, an
international organization for the development of foreign trade, the honorary fraternity requires, among other things, a three and one-half year scholastic average of 90 per cent.
Sears, whose home town is Utica, New York, is the president of the Notre Dame branch of the Propeller Club. The local organization, in addition to stimulating an interest in for-
eign trade, offers
contacts with na-
tional businessmen for those students planning a career in Marketing.
Frosh Prime for Oratory Contest
listen to a seminarian prepare for speech award contest.
FELLOW CONTESTANTS
Apr. 13, 1951
April
April
April
April
April
May
May
May
May
20: Air Cadet Dance
Michael MacDougall, “The Card Detective,” lecturer at Washington Hall, 8 p. m.
22: South Bend Symphony, Drill Hall.	'	*
23: Lecture; Rev. Martin C. D’Arcy.
Washington
Hall, 8 p. tn.
25: University
Washington
Orchestra Concert.
Hall, 8 p. m.
27: Boy Scout Exposition, Drill Hall Junior Prom, Rockne Memorial
3: Freshman and Law Dances
9: Goodrich-Cavanaugh Speech Contest, Law Auditorium
11: Senior Ball, Rockne Memorial
11-13: Student Art and Hobby Show, Drill Hall
13-17: University Theatre, “Faust,’" Washington Hall.
O'Hara Series to Highlight Industrial Business Factors
Business factors in the railroad and electric utility industries will be featured in two Bishop O’Hara Seminal* Lecture Series, to be held next Tuesday in the College of Commerce.
Speakers at the seminar will be Thomas Duffy and Clarence W. Morton, investment analysts • in the investment research department of the Northern Trust Company, Chicago, Hl. Both men act as advisers to the bank and its customers in the investment of funds, and each is a specialist in his
respective field. The talks will be plemented by the use of charts other visual aids.
The Bishop O’Hara Seminar tures, now in their third year,
sup-and
Lec-are
named for the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., former president of Notre Dame and now Bishop of Buffalo. They are sponsored annually in cooperation with the University’s Advisory Council for the College of Commerce, and are aimed at enlivening classroom instruction by providing contacts with experienced men in various fields of commerce and management. The lectures are attended by seniors in the College of Commerce and other interested students and faculty members at Notre Dame.
21
i
3
i
1
5

S
I
I


I
I
UE
t
1



Two-Week Tour Takes 55-Man ND Band Through Seven Eastern States, 14 Concerts
“Roll ’em!” said Band Director H. Lee Hope, and the two Indiana Motor Busses, carrying 55 musicians, started eastward. The Notre Dame concert band had begun its 1951 spring concert tour. In 11 days it would play 14 concerts in eight cities, passing through seven states.
It was noon of Easter Sunday. Band members had spent Holy Week in concentrated practice, while the rest of the student body was enjoying the vacation. Enough of practice, instruments and luggage were loaded, and the band left. It stopped in Mansfield, Ohio, for the night, and drove to Pittsburgh in plenty of time for a Monday afternoon concert at Mount Mercy College. The two concerts there were highlighted by James Coronna who personally directed the band in his own march, America Forever.
After a fine night’s rest at the William Penn Hotel, the members boarded the busses, wound their way through the smoky city’s hilly, crooked streets, passed the steel mills, and got onto the Pennsylvania Turnpike. There the expert drivers, Dick Gray and Bernie Clifford, could “open her up.” A smooth six-hour ride through the scenic Alle-ghanies brought the band to Lebanon, Pennsylvania, in the heart of the
LOADING EQUIPMENT on buses is routine as band toured seven eastern states.
Text by Jim Carrig, ’51
Photos by Dick Bennett, '54
“Pennsylvania Dutch” district. The mayor himself was on hand to present the key to the city, a three-pound steel momento which was the band’s first souvenir of 1951. . Of more practical value was a huge hunk of bologna, presented as the “pride of the Pennsylvania Dutch.” Between the two concerts in Lebanon the band was served a fine turkey dinner in the George Washington Cafe, so named because the first president once ate there. A reception followed the evening concert, with plenty of food, drink, dancing and entertainment.
The next day the busses got their biggest test of power. The road to Mount Carmel went OVER the mountains, instead of THROUGH them; this was no turnpike. The band was deep in the anthracite coal region and was impressed with the huge manmade mountains of diggings all around it. Many townspeople and a fire engine were on hand to escort the group to the town’s Victoria theater, where a few of the band men remembered playing on the 1948 tour. Mount Carmel citizens remembered too, and
JOHN SHEA gifts DIRECTOR HOPE
turned out in a big way to hear them K play again. The Knights of Columbus sponsored a dance after the evening * concert, and provided plenty of local dancing partners. Also, as three years 1 ago, Thurner’s Cafe was open house as long as the band was in town. r
There was no concert the next day < while the unit traveled through rain and fog to New York City and on to i Bridgeport, Connecticut. A few of the concerters stopped off for some sight- 'I seeing in the big city after they crossed the George Washington Bridge; the rest of the band were accompanied from the Connecticut state line all the way to Bridgeport by a police escort. -♦
P. T. Barnum, of “There’s one born , every minute” fame, wintered his circus in Bridgeport, and the band stayed in _ the hotel that bears his name. At the evening concert it was presented with a picture of the man, and in his honor played the march Barnum and Bailey's x' Favorite.
Bridgeport is also the home town of campus dance band leader Gene Hull, ,.. and it was a happy reunion between city and saxophonist. The Lyric the- stater was packed to hear Gene do a musical job to „ be remembered, as he < J soloed his own arrangement of Jimmy Dorsey’s Contrasts. The band was entertained at Gene’s house following a dance given by the Catholic Lay Or- ~ ganizations of Greater Bridgeport. Sparkplug of the evening was Michael D’Andrea, chairman of the sponsoring -committee. Mr. D’Andrea taught the players a few new song and dance routines and made sure everybody was happy. Everybody was.	'
The band slept late the next morning but boarded the busses in time to wind through the Berkshires to Holyoke,
22
The Scholastic
J
Massachusetts. There the members met John Shea, dear to Notre Dame hearts as the man who, with his brother, wrote the immortal Notre Dame Victory March. Mr. Shea was chairman of the committee that sponsored our concert in Northampton at Smith College. The band presented Mr. Shea with a plaque inscribed with the words to the Victory March and played in his honor the “song number one on the hit parade of college tunes.” To continue the ceremony, Mr. Shea represented the Pioneer Valley Club in giving the band a set of encased dinosaur tracks for its collection.
Following the concert the unit endured its only overnight hop of the trip, arriving in Rochester, New York in time for a special Mass celebrated by its tour chaplain, Rev. John Gallagher, c.S.C. They played two concerts in Columbia Hall, sponsored by the Knights of Columbus, who gave them a reception in their clubrooms after the evening concert. There were plenty of girls from Nazareth College on hand to keep the party interesting. Best news for tired musicians — they stayed in the Sheraton Hotel, generally agreed by the boys to be pure “class.”
Elmira, New York was the next stop, where the band played one concert, in the evening. Here again it was received only too kindly: there was a little “get-together” in the K. of C. clubrooms afterwards with the usual accessories, food, drink, girls, all tha+ “old stuff.”
No concert the next day so the members made their way through mountains and snow to Ashtabula, Ohio. Between the two programs there, the Elks Club gave them a dinner which was, in the words of band social chairman Charley McCabe, “Just about better* than what we get at home from Mother.” They received a plaque there from the Association of Commerce, “because our concert did so much to help the Cerebral Palsy fund.”
After the last concert in Ashtabula Mr. Hope said “Roll ’em” for the last time this year; the band on its way back to the books. Thursday morning, April 5, two bus-loads of worn out banders crawled off to bed saying delightedly, “That was the best trip yet. Cancelled cuts till Friday. Hello sack.”
Music for the tour included, in the afternoon, the overture to Die Fleder-maus, by Johann Strauss; the Symphony in C Minor, by Ernest Williams; and smaller numbers. In the evenings we played La Forza Del Destino, by Verdi; the Frescoes Suite, by Haydn Wood; the finale from Richard Strauss’ Death and Transfiguration; Lehar’s Gold and Silver Waltz; Three Negro Dances, by Mrs. Florence Price, perhaps the leading female Negro com-
Art and Hobby Show Seeks Variety of Student Talent
An Art and Hobby Show will be presented May 11, 12 and 13 in the Drill Hall. Undergraduate and graduate students may enter any product in which there is an element of hand construction. All will be judged, and prizes are to be awarded the best exhibits.
TOM SNYDER and DICK McDONALD
Suggested mediums for the show are oils, watercolors, drawings, graphic arts, photography, sculpture, and ceramics. Also to be accepted are
poser in America; underscore music from the movie Tap Roots; and the old novelty standby, Casey Jones, which reached new performance heights this year.
Soloists for the tour were Bill Missimmer, piano, doing the First Movement from Schumann’s Concerto in A Minor; Charley Hof, who sang Wolf’s Song of the Open Road and Schumann’s Two Grenadiers; Bill MacMillan, doing Leroy Anderson’s Fiddle-Faddle on the marimba; and Gene Hull. A trombone quintet also performed, playing a special arrangement of Eric Leidzen’s The Trumpeters. One of the five, Henry Keating, arranged All the Things You Are for the tromboners to use as an encore. The other members of the quintet were Herb Dir, Eugene Henry, Lee Travis, and Dave O’Leary.
But the band isn’t resting now. They are getting ready for their annual Spring concert to be given in the Drill Hall soon. The program will take some little retouching, because the best audience of all is still the one at home.
hobbies, such as woodcarving, model airplanes, model cars, and whatever other hobbies are submitted.
Tom Snyder has been chosen chairman of the show, which is sponsored by the Blue Circle. Dick MacDonald will handle publicity, Roy Strickfadden the displays, Bill Kelley the arrangements, and John White will head the art students.
New Religious Survey Planned by Prefects
The first religious survey of the student body since 1938 will be conducted next week by the Prefects of Religion. Questionnaires will be distributed to all the students, and it is hoped that a majority of them will be returned in order to get a good cross section of the students’ opinion.
These questionnaires are prepared by the Prefects of Religion to stimulate the students to think of their faith and life, not only in terms of themselves, but in terms of others, particularly in regard to social responsibilities. An added feature of this present survey will be a section devoted to the moral virtues.
It is an attempt to determine what the students themselves think of the religious training they receive on campus, and to receive any suggestions they may have to improve their religious education. The student’s opinion will be asked on some controversial questions, and some personal questions will be asked to determine how some problems should be met.
The questionnaires may be either dropped into the boxes placed for that purpose at the pamphlet racks in Dillon and Cavanaugh Halls'- or mailed to the Prefects of Religion or even slipped under the doors of their offices.
Annual Class Election Day Hits Local Campus May 8
The annual class elections will be held on May 8. At stake will be the offices of president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer, in each class. In addition, the Junior class will be asked to pick two Senior representatives at large, while the Law School and off-campus students will each select one delegate.
Any student who has a clear disciplinary record and a scholastic average of at least 80 per* cent may run for any of his class offices either as an independent or on a ticket. Applications are to be filed with Jim Garvin, the Secretary of the Council, on or before April 23.
Apr. 13, 1951
23
Dr. Hermens Authors New Book on Europe
Despite feverish efforts to protect the North Atlantic Pact nations from an open Soviet attack, we are ignoring the danger of internal collapse in Western Europe. That is the opinion of Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, expressed in a new book, Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy, published this week by the University of Notre Dame Press.
Dr. Hermens, who is a Professor of Political Science at Notre Dame, gathered the data for his latest work during two trips to Europe in 1948 and 1950. Besides making personal observations and studies, he discussed the major problems of the countries concerned with political leaders, scholars and journalists in France, Italy, Austria, Germany, The Netherlands, Belgium, and England.
According to Dr. Hermens, democracy in nations like France and Italy is wedged in between two radical forces — Communism on the left, and Rightist dictator movements on the other side. In the presence of such opposition, the democratic processes are crippled by a complicated election system which creates tiny "splinter-parties”— too stubborn to work together, but too weak to function efficiently by themselves.
Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy argues that a morally united West is needed to combat the common enemy, Communism. Therefore it endorses the recent suggestion of French Premier Pleven to abolish the system of “proportional representation” in elections.
The writings of Dr. Hermens are well-known throughout Europe. Bom in Nieheim, Germany, he was educated in French, English and German universities before coming to this country about 15 years ago. In 1948 the German Chancellor, Adenauer, distributed copies of his lectures to the members of the Parliamentary Council which was engaged in writing the new German Chancellor, Adenauer, distributed one of his articles was used as the basis for an official report by a committee of the French Chamber of Deputies. Professor Hermens has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1938.
Dr. Hermens’ book is the second volume in a series being published by the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame. The first, The Soviet Union, was a detailed summary of the economic, historical, religious, and ideological background of the present Russian regime and people.
24
News For Wallflowers, Will Broadcast Dances
If you aren’t lucky enough to have a date for the dances this spring, you can follow the festivities over WND. The campus network plans to broadcast all the dances on the spot from the Palais.
During the band breaks, WND will present Jerry Costello and his quartet. Jerry is Gene Hull’s arranger and also music director for the station.
Another highlight in the band breaks will be an informal disc jockey, interview show done by Jack Hynes. The show gets underway tonight with a broadcast of the Engineers’ Ball.
The plans for this spring naturally include baseball. WND intends broadcasting all home games starting with Iowa on April 18. The station will broadcast scores of the major league games every half hour starting at 2 p.m. and at 5:45 there will be a complete rundown on the games. As usual all the day’s sport news will be re-poi-ted on the regular 10:00 sports final.
Final Discussion Will Treat Reform of French History
The final history discussion for the year on the general theme of the idea of reform in the various periods of history will be held Tuesday evening at 7:45 p. m. in Room 101 of the Law Building. The topic for the April discussion is “The Idea of Reform in Modern French History.”
The first paper will be given by Professor Leon Bernard of the Department of History, under the title “The Reform Movement in the Age of Louis XIV.” The second paper will be given by Professor Willis Nutting, also of the Department of History, under the title “The Reforming Attempts During the French Revolution.” The chairman of the discussion will be Professor Charles Parnell of the Department of Modern Languages.
After the opening papers have been read the discussion will be open to the public. The general public is invited.
St. Francis Fraternities Hold Joint Meeting and Supper
The Notre Dame du Lac Fraternity of the Third Order of St. Francis held a Benedictine-Supper ■with the St. Mary’s Fraternity in St. Joseph’s Parish Town Hall last Sunday. Nearly 100 tertiaries attended.
Preceding the supper, 47 postulants were formally invested with the scapular
and cord as novice-members in the Order. Reverend Albert Nibith, O.F.M., preached a sermon, “Joy, the Keynote of the Franciscan Layman.” Benediction and the Papal Blessing, given by < Notre Dame fraternity director, Reverend Robert Lochner, c. S. c., concluded the religious exercises held in St. Joseph’s Church.
After services, dinner, prepared by *-the members, was served in the school hall. A joint-business meeting w7as briefly called following the meal, and community singing together with square dancing ended the evening.	„
Special Student Rates
For all coming dances Logan’s offers special student rates to Notre Dame students and faculty members. NO DEPOSIT necessary.
You are invited to come in and inspect our stock. Over 500 suits to choose from in sizes Boys’ 3 to Men’s 56; shorts, stouts, regulars,, longs, and extra longs.
Complete line of accessories Low rental prices Free alterations
Due to the large demand place orders early.
LOGAN’S
107 N. Main	Oliver Hotel Bldg-
The Scholastic
Hawkeyes in Home Diamond Opener
First of Two Games Slated Wednesday
By ROGER FERNANDES, ’54
Starting next Wednesday, April 18, the University of Notre Dame’s baseball team will play the first of four games on four successive days. The Irish will be the hosts to the Iowa Hawkeyes on April 18 and 19. Qn April 20 the ND nine will journey to Bloomington, Ind., to play the Indiana Hoosiers on their brand new Fee Lane baseball field.
Iowa, coached by Otto Vogel, will have another well-balanced team this year. Last season they had an over-all record of 19 wins and 6 losses for a .760 mark, finishing third in the Big Ten baseball pennant chase.
The Hawkeyes will have 13 games under their belts by the time they meet Notre Dame. Coach Vogel’s boys opened their season with a seven-game southern road trip. Today and tomorrow the Hawkeyes play Illinois in their ’•51 Big Ten opener.
Nine lettermen are on Iowa’s 44-man roster. Heading.the list is their ace pitcher, Glen Drahn. Last .year Drahn was the No. 1 Iowa hurler with, an over-all record of. six victories and one defeat. Relief, chucker BruceY-Marsh and Dick Ortli.are the other members of the Hawkeye 'mound corps, who won letters last year. Orth was sidelined . for half of the ’50- season because of> illness, yet managed to win two while losing one.
Team, captain John Dinzole, a two-year letterman, will be behind the plate to handle the catching chores. Merlin Kurt will be back on first base. Last year he played flawless defensive ball, handling 265 chances -without an error. His batting average was only .239 but he is a long ball hitter. Last spring he led the team in runs-batted-in while socking out seven doubles, a triple, and a homer.
Returning at shortstop is Bob Christoph, a poor hitter but a strong defensive man. Three lettermen are still around to man the outfield posts: George Hands, who will be playing his
third year on the Iowa varsity; Rex Vano, the squad’s leading base stealer, and Charles Cebuhar, who hit .267 last spring.
Coach Vogel expects to have a strong bench this season. He has four boys back who saw some action last year, and five minor lettermen. Among the 21 Sophomores he will carry on his roster are some promising prospects — hurlers Dick Doran and James Andrea-son, and infielders Jack Hess and Jack Lundquist.
Indiana’s Hoosiers, who will meet the Irish on April 20 and 21, are not as well stocked with material as Iowa but they should also field a tough ball club. Last spring they won only 11 games and lost 12. In Big Ten play they had a 4-8 record.
The Hoosiers, mentored by ex-major leaguer Ernie Andres, opened their ’51 season with their first road trip since 1947 and by the time they engage the Notre Dame nine they will have played 11 of the 29 games on their schedule. In comparison the Irish will have
COACH Jake Kline looks hopeful as he lines up with his Senior diamondmen on Cartier Field, (l-r) Jim Gillis, Tom Boland, Jean Ferryman, R. Nemes, R. Geidlin.
shown in only four contests prior to their trip to Bloomington, Ind.
Indiana hopes to have a strong defense and a good hitting attack this season. They will have three veteran infielders and" two outfielders to bolster their starting nine. But in the catching and pitching departments they are woefully weak. They have no experienced backstoppers on their roster and of their three letter-winning pitchers, only two saw action last year.
The other, righthander Don Conitis, had a 4-1 record in his Sophomore year, but last year he was injured in an automobile accident, which, prevented his return to school. Bob Bauer, 2-3, a two-year letter-man, and relief ace Bert Weber, 2-2, may have to take over the bulk of the Hoosiers’ pitching chores. Jimmy McGee, a 4-2 winner last season and Western conference strikeout champion has been lost to Indiana through scholastic ineligibility.
In the infield, the Indiana nine will have three two-year monogram winners (Continued on Next Page)
Apr. 13, 1951
25
Fencers Turn Dull Outlook to Brilliant Finish By Polishing Off Opponents for Eight Wins
“The fencing team deserves great credit. The fellows lacked experience, and largely had to coach themselves. However, they accomplished more than was expected of them, and can be justly proud.” This is the opinion of Mr. Walter Langford, fencing coach, on the team which finished with an impressive eight and two record.
At the outset of the season the future looked dismal. Of seven big-name fencers who participated on last year’s team, rated as the best in Notre Dame history, only one worked throughout the ’51 saeson. The squad had to be built around the returning monogram winners, Nick Scalera and Dan Parisi, this year’s co-captains.
After weeks of strenuous training, the Irish started off by winning their first two matches but then dropped the next two. A serious blow was dealt to the group when Parisi became ineligible between semesters. It was thought that the loss of Dan would greatly weaken the team, but capable reserves managed to close the gap and the team went on to win the six remaining matches, including impressive showings against Ohio State, Michigan State, and Chicago.
One of the two Irish losses was suffered at the hands of Illinois. Even though the fencers dropped this encounter, they gave the Illini then- best
and toughest match of the season. The boys from Champaign were unbeaten in dual meets in the regular season, and finished fifth in the NCAA, the highest ranking of any midwestern team.
The end of the season found Scalera ahead in the foil with a 23-5 record, followed by Junior Jim Walsh with 17 wins and seven losses. In the saber- it was Junior Charles Daschle with 19-9. Two other Juniors, Brian Duff and Ernie Franzgrote, tied for honors in the epee division with 20-7 records. Since representatives for the NCAA tournament were determined by these records, a special fence-off between Duff and Franzgrote was held with Duff gaining the berth.
In the NCAA meet held at Illinois March 30-31, the Irish trio of Scalera, Daschle, and Duff finished strong to land in the number ten spot out of 37 schools participating.
Besides those already mentioned, Mr. Langford figures the brunt of the load for next year will rest on the shoulders of Jim Jacobs, foil; Joe Conlon, epee, and Paul Gibbons and Jim Greer, saber. However, there is a good crop of Sophomores and Freshmen who could be helpful, although underclassmen usually find it difficult to break into the regular lineup.
Looking toward next year Coach
Langford said, “Although Nick Scalera will be hard to replace, next year’s team should be very good, barring any interference from the military service.”
During the past four years, the Notre Dame fencers have posted an impressive record, losing only four contests. Of all other Irish teams, only Frank Leahy’s footballers can match it. *•
—Bob Frolicher, ’54	.
Baseball
(Continued from Page 25)
— John Phillips, a clutch hitting first “ baseman who hit .262 in ’50; shortstop Gene Ring, from South Bend and a .294 hitter; and third sacker Johnny	«
Kyle, who had a batting average of .347.	<
Outfield veterans are two-year let-	_
terman Harry Moore, a defensive star, and Ray Pegram, who batted at a .429 clip in Big Ten play last year.
Bob Mygrants, who is 31, won a varsity monogram in ’46. This season, Coach Andres hopes to use him as a utility infielder.
Fighting for the catching berth on the team are Arnold Bowman, who was outstanding in American Legion baseball but who has not been playing ’ for the last three years; Willy Getz, -a Senior reserve, and Junior Don Luft. The best Sophomore prospects are pitchers Bob Heiss and Bob Dobson and a ' good hitting outfielder, Bob Houk.
SUCCESSFUL swordsmen pose: (Front row) Mike Dentino, Chuck Daschle, Brian Duff, Co-Captains Nick Scalera and Dan Parisi, Joe Conlon, Jim Jacobs, Paul Gibbons. (Back row) Manager Ray O’Conner, Jim Hurley, Dave McBride, Bill Lesso, L. Kosse, J. Graham, Coach Langford, L. Doerr, J. Mooney, J. Walsh, P. Mulrooney, E. Franzgrote, Asst. Coach Peck.
J
26
The Scholastic
This week the Press Box presents its annual predictions on the major league pennant races which are slated . to get underway next week.
We don’t make a living predicting ■ the outcome of sporting events. We didn’t pore over the sports pages of -50 newspapers to arrive at our conclusions — just a couple. We don’t influence any odds by coming out and saying r who we think will win. And we don’t know Sidney Brodsen. But just the 1 same, here are our predictions for the ’51 season.
’ In the American League, the favorite for the sixth time in six years seems to be the Boston Red Sox. The reason seems to be because they are the hardest hitting team in baseball, have a much stronger pitching staff than last year, are practically draft-proof, having lost no players so far and don’t have the prospect of losing any, have the league batting champion, the league rookie of the year, the league, runs-batted-in champs — and Lou Boudreau. A That’s good enough reason for us.
In other years when the Sox had been picked to win the pennant, they folded because they didn’t have anyone like the ex-Cleveland manager. Whenever it came down to a knock-’em-down, drag-’em-out pennant race, the Red r Sox were the ones getting knocked down and dragged out. This year should be different. They’ve lost the pennant every way possible; Boudreau should see to it that they don’t lose '> it in ’51.
s The Yankees and Indians should make it toughest for the Red Sox. Joe DiMaggio’s announcement that he might retire at the end of the season gives the tipoff on the Yankee situation. It will be tough to get along without the Jolter, because if he is thinking of retiring, he won’t be play’ ing 154 games. Rookie Mantle has a long way to go before he can take over | that center field slot. He isn’t the only f	rookie who’s looked good in Spring
'	training, but it takes more than a .400
average in the Grapefruit League to stick in the majors.
At Cleveland, Al Lopez inherited a good young team, with enough old hands to steady the squad. Rosen,
Easter and Avila in the infield back up a fairly strong pitching staff headed by 20-game winner Bob Lemon. The Indians should lose out to the Yankees for the runner-up slot, but not by much.
Red Rolfe doesn’t think he has much of a chance of winning this year, and we don’t think so either. His Tigers were the worst team down South, and they didn’t look anything like the team that led the league for the greater part of last season. We pick them for fourth.
At the top of the second division, we’ll put the Chicago White Sox, who have played some fine Spring ball, notably against the St. Louis Browns. After the Pale Hose, it’s the Washington Senators and the Philadelphia Athletics. Holding up the league will be the team that seems to be more concerned about staying out of the red than out of the cellar, the St. Louis Browns.
Over in the> other league, it isn’t such a clear-cut choice on paper. The Phillies are the defending champs, and were the best looking team in Spring training down in Florida.
But many think the New York Giants are the team to beat. They played better ball during the last half of last season than any other National League team. Durocher seems to have finally gotten the type of team he likes and we think it will pay off with a pennant for the Giants in a race as tight as last year’s. This time, though, the Phillies will wind up in second place.
After that it’ll be the Dodgers and the Braves, both of whom need pitching. The Dodgers need any pitcher who can go the route while all the Braves want is someone to rotate with the Big Three of Spahn, Sain and Bickford.
In the second division, the St. Louis Cardinals won’t finish any higher than fifth for their new manager Marty Marion. They’ll be trailed by the Cincinnati Reds, the Chicago Cubs and the Pittsburgh Pirates.
In the World Series, it’ll be another win for the American League with the Red Sox taking it in sjx games.
Sports Shots
Speaking of the Phillies, Curt Simmons, a 17-game winner for the Senior Circuit champs in ’50, was slated to pitch for Camp Atterbury against Indiana U. last Saturday, but the contest was rained out. Simmons, now in the Army, was a big factor in the Phils’ pennant chase and his strong right arm will be sorely missed. Just another reason for picking the Giants for top spot.
Rods, Reels Offered Anglers for Prize Bass
Attention all rod and reel fans’ Fathei- Baldwin is promoting a Spring fishing contest sponsored by the Student Council.
Prizes will be given for the longest bass. If you have lots of patience and a little bait, the prizes, donated by Reco’s Sporting Goods Store of South Bend, are worth an effort. They consist of an engraved trophy, spinning rod, glass casting rod, South Bend casting reel and a tackle box.
The contest, which is for students only, lasts until May 25. If you get something more than a glorious nibble, register it with Rev. George Baldwin, C.S.C., in Corby Hall within 24 hours for your chance at the prizes.
St. Joseph and St. Mary’s Lakes are well supplied with large and small mouth black bass. The lakes are stocked annually by the St. Joseph County Conservation officer. A record catch was made last year in St. Mary’s Lake of a six-pound bass approximately 23 inches long.
Here are a few tips that may help you land a six-pounder. You will not need a boat to try for v large mouth bass, as they are almost always caught in shallow water. They are also found in clumps of weeds near shore. Live bait, such as minnows, frogs and night crawlers, may be used successfully.
The large mouth bass will also strike on all types of casting plugs, such as River Runts, also surface and subsurface baits. Spinners and spoons are also useful.
The small mouth bass may be caught with exactly the same lures and baits as the large mouth, but his habitat is in the deeper water.
To be a keeper, a fish must be at least 10 inches in length; however the small mouth bass in the Notre Dame lakes have not reached this size as yet and it is useless to fish for them. Both lakes have trees conveniently located for the purpose of hiding behind to bait your hook.
Apr. 13, 1951
27
Giedlin Shines on Both Court and Diamond; Rates Jolting Joe DiMaggio Baseball's Best
By BILL LONDO, ’53
“I guess we let the school down last year, but we’ll make up for it this season.” Thus the usually smiling Dick Giedlin solemnly summed up the 1950 baseball fiasco and the hopes for ’51. And should anyone doubt Giedlin’s ability to appraise the diamond situation, an introduction to that gentleman is in order.
The simple fact is that for the past two years Dick has been one of the finest first basemen in collegiate circles. In 1949, playing with a team that won the district four NCAA championship, he was chosen as the third top initial sacker in the country. Last year’s dismal relapse failed to catch up witii Dick, as he hit .317 and was the only dependable defensive infielder.
Bom in Trenton, New Jersey, Giedlin got his start on the diamond at the tender age of ten. Like so many other youngsters he began at baseball’s glamor spot, the mound, in one of Trenton’s recreational leagues.
Dick has nothing but praise for his home town baseball setup. “Trenton has one of the best recreation systems in the East with well organized leagues for each age group from 12 to 19.”
While in high school at Trenton Catholic Dick starred in both baseball and basketball, concentrating on the latter. In his junior year Catholic’s cage squad went to the finals of the Eastern States Basketball tourney held at Glen Falls, New York, and the next year Trenton reached the semi-finals of the Jersey playoffs.
The promising young athlete attracted the attention of many Eastern colleges for both his diamond and court services. But Giedlin picked ND over them all. He says, “Just to have the name Notre Dame attached to you means a lot, and I had heard of the good educational facilities the school had.”
During his freshman and sophomore days here Dick doubled in both basketball and baseball, but last year he decided to devote all his time to the national pastime. Giedlin still is an accomplished basketeer, however, and just recently helped Alumni capture the interhall crown.
Besides his athletic talents Giedlin is an ardent book enthusiast and has a large collection of novels in his Alumni suite. The blond Commerce senior belongs to a book of the month club and devours its offerings as soon as he receives them.
Dick considers the honor of being chosen to the all-American team in
1949 as his biggest sports thrill. Only a sophomore at the time, his outstanding play led the Irish to the NCAA
DICK GIEDLIN
quarter-finals before Wake Forest ended the Klinemen’s championship hopes.
Unable to account for last year’s failure, Giedlin feels that the team tried hard, but could never get started. He looks for a definite improvement this season especially in the defensive department. “All in all it will be a well balanced club that will make trouble for any opponent,” is his hopeful prophecy.
A true Easterner Giedlin picks the New York Yankees as his favorite team and the baseball god to so many fans, “Jolting Joe” DiMaggio, as his individual hero. Dick would like nothing better than to play with the Yanks someday. He does expect to enter pro ball after his graduation in June, but Uncle Sam holds the key to his future plans.
Where ‘Love1 Is ’Nothing,' Yet Hope Springs Eternal
Last Wednesday the varsity tennis team began its preliminary workouts under the direction of Coach Walter Langford. Four lettermen were welcomed back, co-captains Herb Hoene and Pat Tonti, along with Senior class president Jim Hennessy and Tom Overholser. The best of the Sophomores are Ken Angyal and Ray Smith, who are being counted on to fill the No. 1 and 2 spots, vacated, last year by Bob David
and Gene Biittner. Also lost from the ’50 squad was Matt Tuite.
Coach Langford expects to have the squad number cut to about fifteen or twenty by the opening match with Wisconsin on April 26. He predicts a good team but not an all-winning one. The tough schedule of 11 matches in 24 days and the equally stiff opposition will prevent that. However, a better than .500 percentage for the season is anticipated.
A bright light is seen when one looks at the Freshmen. They are expected to give the varsity good competition in informal meets since a number of them have already attained recognition in various sectional competition. Promising Frosh include Jim Farrell, Bill Pope, Dan Crowley, and Dick Simons.—Mike Long, ’54
Knocking Around the Halls
Twenty-Four Teams in Softball League
Under the direction of the Physical Education Department and Mr. Maxwell, the long awaited interhall softball league will get underway this coming Monday, April 16. Provided the weatherman keeps his eyes dry, the league will run up until the week before the final exams. Already a lot of good competition has been furnished, with some 24 teams thus far on the schedule.
In the same manner as previous years, the regular rules will be applied, with the game schedules posted in all the halls. Aside from the standard 12-inch softball league, there is also a 16-inch league being formulated. The same conditions will apply in this league as in the others. Team entries should be handed in as soon as possible, any afternoon at 3:30 over on the interhall fields.
All games will begin at 3:45, but equipment can be had at 3:30 for pregame warmups. There will be two hall leagues and one club league, since many of the campus clubs have signed up. For each contest one or more umpires may be selected from each opposing team.
Following is a list of the teams and respective captains who have submitted their entries:
Zahm blue, Mike Levis; Sailing Club, Bill Bird; Alumni gold, Jerry Nowak; Central New York Club, Floyd Blair; St. Ed’s, Joe Schneider; St. Ed’s blue, Roy Johns; Erie Club, Bob Fries; Sorin gold, Bill Inimey; Sorin blue, Pete Donohue; Kentucky Club, Joe Mueller; Buffalo Club, Pat Neville; Rochester Club,
28
The Scholastic
!>
John Blackwood; Badin Hall, Bob Mortensen; Zahm gold, Ken Oberle; Lyons Hall, Bill Geary; Walsh Hall, R. Taylor; Howard Hall, Jack McGlinn;. Aero Club, David Medvid; Morrissey Hall, Jack Enders; Alumni blue, Terry Brady; Minnesota Club, Fred Schlicht-ing; St. Louis Club, Dan Reardon; Morrissey blue, Dick Reynolds; Milwaukee Club, Tom Huber.
—Jack Sand, ’54
Baseballers Start Play, April 16
After a full week of practice sessions, the interhall baseball league, under the guidance of Mr. Ernie Szekely of the Physical Education Department will roll into full swing on Monday, April 16.
The league will be composed of twelve teams, four of which will play each day. Two diamonds will be set aside for baseball and barring inclement weather, a good month of season play should be gotten in before the exams in late May. The games will start at 3:30 p. m. and finish up about 5:30 p. m. Rosters are to be turned in by the first regularly scheduled contest.
—Bill Noonan, ’54
J New Freshmen Shine In Stadium Workout
A;
Notre Dame Stadium had its face scarred again as the toiling footballers capped another week of gruelling practice with a two-hour Sunday scrimmage. Muddied and torn jersies were the rule as Coach Leahy drove his willing charges over the soggy turf. Yet though the field was slow, speed prevailed as a fully-recovered Bill Barrett shared the headline bill with a couple of first semester Freshmen, Bob Zimmerman and Joe Heap.
Barrett continued to show that the ankle injury that sidelined him most of last season is a thing of the past. With his chunky legs churning, the Chicago Junior was a tough target to bring down. It took six men one time to haul him down after he had dragged them for five yards on the tail end of a 20-yard jaunt. Small satisfaction for the tacklers though, for Billy was well into the end zone for a TD.
A pair of New Orleans backs also put on an eye-catching show for the few spectators. Bob Zimmerman got a good workout at quarterback, and though he looked a little on the inexperienced side working from the new formation, he performed like an old hand on his occasional ball-toting forays.
Joe Heap, the other Crescent City newcomer, chewed up a lot of ground for Coach Leahy’s inspection. His longest carry was for 50 yards, but his
Apr. 13, 1951
most spectacular netted 25. Trying to round left end from his right half slot, he was apparently cut off by four defensemen 15 yards behind the scrimmage line. Quickly reversing his field, Heap tore back toward the right sideline and stepped beautifully down the stripe, shaking off three would-be tacklers before finally being knocked out of bounds.
SONS of Erin all, Jerry O’Groom entrusts shillelagh to Capt. O’Mutscheller
Menil Mavraides, another Freshman, appears to be the solution to ND’s PAT problems. The high school All-American from Lowell, Mass., posted a perfect score for the afternoon with placekicks squarely between the uprights. From the looks of his booming 60-yard kickoffs, it’s a good bet that Mavraides will preside in that department, too.
The Freshman emphasis continued as Mr. Leahy kept using the first year men often on both offense and defense. Art Hunter did most of the offensive centering and Jim Kettles was impressive at guard. In the backfield, John Lattner and Tom McHugh saw some action as did Big Joe Katchick at end. The Frosh figure highly in next Fall’s plans, and it seems as if Mr. Leahy means them to be ready.
—Fran Meaney, ’54
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Apr. 13, 14—BASEBALL, at Ohio State.
16—GOLF, Iowa here.
18,19—BASEBALL, Iowa here.
20, 21—BASEBALL, Indiana at Bloomington.
ND Trackmen Second in Sprint Medley Race
Notre Dame’s trackmen took second in the sprint medley relay at the Texas Relays in Austin last Friday and a fifth in the mile relay the next day at the same meet.
The men on the sprint medley team suffered two tough breaks which probably kept them from winning the race. First, the race was run in two sections on time and Notre Dame had no competition at all as she won her own heat in 3:32.0, while Oklahoma A. & M. was pushed all the way as she won her heat in a time that was a mere tenth of a second faster. Second, after Vai Mus-cato gave the team a lead with a fast 440 yards John Hastings and Jim Bollas built it up with legs that while nominally 220 yards were actually about 270 and 170 respectively, because of an error on the part of the officials. This mistake in measuring which certainly cost the Irish a little time was discovered and corrected before the second heat was run, so that Oklahoma A. & M. didn’t suffer from the same handicap. John Mohar stretched out the lead to 40 or 50 yards with a fast anchor 880 yards.
The mile relay team composed of the same four men hit their best time of the season, 3:20.0, but were only able to take a fifth as Texas A. & M. won in 3:17.3.'
There is no meet on the schedule for the cindermen this weekend, but they’ll get back on the combat trail next week with a triangular meet with Purdue and Northwestern down on the Purdue campus at West Lafayette, Indiana.
—Ted Prahinski, ’51
Noted Harvard Botanist Gives Nieuwland Talks
Dr. Paul C. Mangelsdorf, Professor of Botany and Director of the Botanical Museum at Harvard University, recently delivered a series of Nieuwland lectures for 1950-51 here. The title of the series was “Plants and Human Affairs.”
The first lecture was given at 8 p. m., April 3, in the Biology Auditorium and was entitled “Plants in the Service of Man.” Professor Mangelsdorf showed that plants, either living or fossil, play the principal role in the satisfaction of the necessities of life. The subject of the second lecture was “Plants and the World Food Problem,” and this address was given on Wednesday evening. The final lecture in the series was given last
29
Friday at eight in the Biology Auditorium, and, like the others, was open to the public. The title was “Plants and Human Culture Patterns.”
The Notre Dame Sigma Xi Club was the host to Dr. Manglesdorf Thursday evening when he spoke on “Indians, Corn, and Civilization.”
Professor Manglesdorf is an outstanding authority on the origin of cultivated plants, and particularly on the origin and genetics of corn. He is a member of the National Research Council and a former member of the advisory committee of the Rockefeller Agricultural Commission to Mexico in 1941.
South Bend Turners Bow To Notre Dame Gymnasts
In what was probably the first Gymnastic Meet in South Bend in recent years, the Notre Dame Gymnasts came from behind in the last two events to edge the South Bend Turners, 49 to 47. John Harman of the Turners was high scorer of the meet with 15 points. Harman placed first on the side horse and parallel bars and third on the horizontal bar. Reggie Grimm and Dave Engels each scored seven points for the Turners. Bob Riley was high man for
the Irish with 12 points. Riley took first on the horizontal bar, second on the side horse and fourth on the flying rings. Mike Perino and Neil Vascon-cellos each scored 10 points for Notre Dame.
The individual places were as follows:
Side horse: Harman (T) first; Riley (ND) second; Grimm (T) third; Santini (ND) fourth; McClancy (ND) fifth.
Horizontal bar: Riley (ND) first; Perino (ND) second; Harman (T) third; Gardner (ND) fourth; Engels (T) fifth.
Parallel bars: Harman (T) first; Grimm (T) second; Graham (ND) third; Kealey (T) fourth; DuPraw (ND) fifth.
Flying rings: Patthoif (T) first; Vasconcellos (ND) second; Engels (T) third; Riley (ND) fourth; Gardner (ND) fifth.
Tumbling: McClancy (ND) first; Vasconcellos (ND) second; Patthoif (T) third; Michaels (T) fourth; King (ND) fifth.
Trampoline: Perino (ND) first; Michaels (T) second; Engels (T) third; Vasconcellos (ND) fourth; Kealey (T) fifth.
Hundreds to Attend World Trade Confab
More than 100 businessmen from all	*
parts of the country are expected to	i,
attend the fourth annual World Trade Conference at the University of Notre J Dame on May 10. At the one-day session, representatives from every phase of foreign marketing will exchange i ideas while stimulating an interest in world trade.
The proceedings will begin at 10 a.m. with a round table discussion. At this time, four nationally known authorities on international trade will speak on the problems confronting finance, traffic, advertising, and management.	<
Following the morning meeting, a luncheon will be held in the faculty dining hall. Guest speaker at the noon-day aifair will be Mr. Redington Fiske, editor of	Export	Trade and	1
Shipper.	’
On Thursday afternoon, Mr. J. E. McCarthy, Dean	of the	College of	’
Commerce, will chairman a seven-man panel, which will answer problems di- * rected to them by the assembly.
Also on the day’s agenda is a din-ner, scheduled for that evening. Mr. ।
The BENEDICTINE MONKS of Conception Abbey invite you to attend . . .
Second Annual Summer Session for Brother Candidates
June 19th to August 10th
This Summer Session is open to ALL young men who are interested in the Benedictine Brotherhood.
See Benedictine Life in Action
Instructions will be given on . . .
The Mass and Divine Office Benedictine life in general Benedictine life at Conception
Attendance will be ... Free and Without Obligation
WEEK-END RETREATS
throughout the year
Make a retreat with your family . . . Come in groups—men or women.
Full participation in the Liturgy of the Church — an opportunity to unite your heart and voice with 250 seminarians and a choir full of monks at the daily conventual High Mass and vespers.
t
An intimate union with Christ in a monastic family.

30
The Scholastic
Richard P. Hildreth, Advertising Coordinator for the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, will deliver the principal address.
Open to all those who are already engaged in foreign trade or who are interested in the possibilities of new markets abroad, the annual conference is under the direction of the College of Commerce of the University of Notre Dame. Chairman for the 1951 meeting is Professor Wesley C. Bender, Head of the Department of Marketing.
Pan-American Forum Convenes Saturday
Over 100 delegates from 20 colleges of the Chicago, Milwaukee, and Fort Wayne regions of the NFCCS will arrive in South Bend tomorrow for the seventh annual conference in observance of Pan American Day. The theme for the conference is “Spain and the Americas Today.”
At 2 o’clock Saturday afternoon registration in the Law Building, site of all meetings, will officially open the confab. Featuring the general session in the Law Auditorium at 3 o’clock will be an address concerning the conference theme by Sr. G. De Caso Ri-
daura, Spanish Consul in Chicago.
Conference chairman Thomas Murray has arranged with the Blue Circle to conduct tours of the campus at 4:30. Complimentary tickets to the Student Council dance at the Palais Royale will be given to all visiting delegates.
At a special 8:30 a.m. Mass in Dillon Hall Chapel Sunday, Rev. Jose So-brino, S.J., Division of Cultural Relations, Spanish Embassy, Washington, D. C., will present a sermon on Our Lady of Guadalupe in Spain.
Following breakfast, student panels will discuss “Spain and North America,” “Spain and the Countries of Middle America,” and “Spain and the Countries of South America.” Representing Notre Dame on the first panel, which is being conducted by St. Xavier College, will be John Schneller of Canada.
Two Notre Dame men will take part in the panel on “Spain and the Countries of Middle America” which is being conducted by Rosary College. They are Alberto Salazar of Cuba and Adolfo Calero, secretary of the conference, of Nicaragua. Maximo Fernandez of Argentina represents Notre Dame on St. Francis Joliet College’s panel, “Spain and the Countries of South America.” Each of the three
major panel topics is divided into various sub-topics of contemporary importance.	’
After lunch an executive committee with faculty counselors and student representatives will meet in the faculty lounge. A general session will gather in the Law Auditorium at 1:30 p.m. to hear reports by the panel secretaries and an announcement of schools holding 1951-52 conferences.
The conference will come to a close at 2:30 with a Rosary procession from Sacred Heart Church to the Grotto where Benediction will be offered by Rev. William McAuliffe, C. S. c. Rev. Louis Putz, c. s. c., will deliver a sermon on “The Assumption of Our Lady, Queen of the World.”
PRE-MED TEST
Dean Lawrence H. Baldinger, of the College of Science, wishes to remind all pre-meds that applications for the Medical College Admissions Test are now available in the Dean’s office. These applications, for all desiring to enter Medical school in Sept. 1952, must be filled out and sent in by the office by April 26.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
announces a new important book in the
Committee for International Relations Series
Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy
By Ferdinand A. Hermens
This lucid and penetrating analysis of European parliamentary democracies’ selffrustration has been described by Professor Joseph Dunner (Grinnell) as “one of the most useful books published since the Second World War.” Professor Hermens’ dynamic volume which concludes with a challenging demand for a “Political Marshall Plan” reads like a running commentary on what our foreign correspondents cable daily from the capitals of the world.	Price $4
FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY TO STUDENTS, PROFESSORS, EMPLOYEES — ONLY $3 at the
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
Apr. 13, 1951
31
High Mass Reopens Walsh Hall Chapel In Commemoration of Jack Donahoe's Death
YEARS AGO
By PAUL ZALECKI, ’53-

John Joseph Donahoe, Jr., whose tragic death shocked the campus a year ago, was commemorated in a high Mass offered Sunday in the Walsh Hall chapel. The former Walsh resident died March 26 of last year as the result of fatal head injuries suffered in the Rockne Memorial handball courts.
The Mass also marked the official opening of the redecorated Walsh chapel. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive ■vice-president of the University, was the celebrant, assisted by the Moreau seminary choir. Mr. and Mrs. John J. Donahoe, Sr., and son, Tom, of Chicago were among the fifty family members, relatives, friends, and students of Walsh Hall present at the Mass.
The Walsh chapel has recently been completely remodeled. New liturgical table altars have replaced the former ones, the pews and woodwork have been refinished, fluorescent light fixtures have been installed, and the chapel has been freshly painted throughout. This remodeling was made possible by the contributions of the family and friends of Jack Donahoe, by the donations of Walsh Hall residents, and through the help of the University which supplied the labor and paint.
According to Rev. George L. Hol-
derith, C.S.C., rector of Walsh and supervisor of the entire operation, the furnishings and color scheme in the chapel reflect the most recent trends in ecclesiastical interior decorating. The new wooden table altars are made of white oak with a driftwood finish, the tabernacles are bronze, and the communion rail and credence tables are of the same wood. Rev. Anthony Lauck was the architect who drew up the altar plans, while their actual construction was done by Bert Kunkle, University carpenter and cabinetmaker.
The windows are a wine-colored Danish art glass. A light green carpeting was laid on the sanctuary floor, blending easily with the burgundy draperies used behind the altars, for matching altar coverings and in the canopy over the center altar.
“Dutch” Welling, University chief painter, supervised the color scheme and decorating. The ceiling is done in a cedar rose, the walls in stratosphere gray, while the pews and woodwork are finished in light oak.
The new appearance of the chapel gives a soothing, pleasant feeling, accompanied by the freshness experienced in seeing new furnishings and finishes, but still retains the warmth characteristic of residence hall chapels.
WALSH HALL’S redecorated chapel is dedicated
to the late Jack Donahoe.
Fifty Years Ago
From the April 13, 1901, Scholastic :
• Corby Hall sponsored a dance Easter a. Monday. Mr. Walker and the Sorin Hail J orchestra provided the music. . . . Rev. .4 N. J. Mooney, of Chicago, was scheduled to deliver the baccalaurate address in June. . . . Father Morrissey, presi-dent of Notre Dame, attended a conference of Catholic colleges in Chicago.
. . . The track team planned a meet with the First Regiment Athletic Association <. for the first week of May.
<
Twenty-five Years Ago
From the April 16, 1926, Scholastic:
A piece of the Washington Elm, under 9 which George Washington took command of the American Army, July 13, 1775, was awarded to Notre Dame. ...	:
Jean Goldkette’s Original Victor Re-cording Orchestra of Detroit was scheduled to play for the Senior Ball. . .	*'
The University announced that Bishop W. D. Turner, of Buffalo, would give the baccalaureate speech and that Pro-fessor D. G. Wooten, of the College of Law, would make the commencement ad- . dress. . . . An exhibit from Notre Dame’s collection of signatures and holograph copies included the signatures I of Eamon deValera, Schuyler Colfax, ’ William Cullen Bryant, and James G. Blaine. . . . Walter H. Layne, dramatic editor of the Juggler and literary editor । of the Scholastic won fifth prize in an intercollegiate essay contest sponsored by Theatre magazine.
1
Five Years Ago	q
From the April 12, 1946, Scholastic: Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, president of Notre Dame, announced that the new freshman dormitory, known as “Project F,” would be named Farley Hall. ...	*
Popular records of the day were Frank Sinatra’s “Oh! What It Seemed to Be” and Charley Spivak’s “The Bells of St. Mary’s.” . . . The University Lecture Series scheduled the Fisk Jubilee Singers, from Fisk University, Nashville, Tenn., for a program at Washington Hall. ... 60 students were entered in the Bengal Bout finals. . . . The Amer- » ican Chemical Society Award in Pure J Chemistry for 1946 went to Dr. Charles w Price, head of the Department of Chemistry. . . . The Knights of Columbus planned to award three prizes totaling $60 to the winners of their vaudeville show.
32
The Scholastic
Department of Sociology Expands Program In Marriage Counseling for Summer School
Marriage Counseling, taught for the first time in any Catholic college or university last summer here at Notre Dame, is scheduled to receive even greater emphasis by the Department of Sociology in the expanded marriage counseling program to be held during the 1951 Summer Session.
The eight-week Summer Session, beginning June 18, will offer a streamlined sequence of courses in marriage counseling limited to priests and seminarians in major orders. In addition to this summer session, beginning next fall, a regular two-semester program for training skilled Catholic marriage counselors will be offered to priests, leading to a Master’s degree in sociology.
The program endeavors to supplement the theological and moral background of priests with scientific sociological knowledge and thus develop marriage counselors who are not only able to give spiritual counsel but who are also skilled in modern sociological techniques.
Dr. John J. Kane, director of the Marriage Counseling Program, recently explained, “We feel that the Catholic priest requires scientific sociological background in order to treat more effectively the complex marital counseling problems of modern society.”
Notre Dame is the first Catholic university to offer an extensive program in marriage counseling. Among the few non-sectarian educational institutions offering extensive courses in marriage counseling are Ohio State, Columbia University, and the Meninger Clinic in Kansas.
Members of the Sociology Department participating in the program are the Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the department, Hugh P. O’Brien, and Dr. Kane. Noted outside lecturers will speak, among whom is the Rev. John A. O’Brien, author of numerous studies on Catholic marriage.
Typical of the courses offered, designed to provide information about marriage problems not available in theological seminaries are: Family Problems, Psychiatry, Social Work, Social Biology, Mental Hygiene, and the law of Domestic Relations. These will be supplemented by lectures by members of other departments in the University, in such fields as genetics.
In the 1951 session, the enrollment of the program will be limited to about twenty-five students, because of limited facilities. No lay students are eligible
Apr. 13, 1951
for enrollment, Dr. Kane explained, because facilities are not available to equip the lay students with the necessary background of morals, theology, and the practical experience and direct contact with cases of marital problems that priests have.
Marriage counseling is a rapidly developing field, according to the director. In 1925 there was only one registered marriage counseling agency in the country; there are now at least 25 registered agencies, and probably hundreds more unregistered, apart from the thousands of priests who daily do marriage counseling.
As for Catholic marriage counseling' agencies, there are practically none. The result is a great need today, especially in large cities, for skilled marriage advisers guided by Catholic principles. The problem right now, Dr. Kane continued, is that many Catholics with marital problems no longer go to •their pastor or confessor but go to marriage counseling agencies where there is danger of receiving advice contrary to Christian doctrine.
A study made by Dr. Kane reveals that of those who patronize non-sectarian counseling agencies across the country, 15 to 29 per cent are Catholics. The reasons given are: clients have claimed that the priests did not have the scientific and sociological knowledge and techniques available elsewhere; clients feel that many priests too often take the punitive approach in marriage counseling.
Problems in marital relations and adjustment are unfortunately not uncommon today, Dr. Kane pointed out, in a society where materialism wields such a great influence.
The Lawyer
(Continued from Page 11)
entire nation. This statement is no exaggeration. Only last February we. read of the resolution passed by the American Bar Association which disbarred all lawyers who were either communists or known to be communist affiliated. Little known to us, this decision in large part rose from work done for the Lawyer by Sidney Boher and Jim Moriarity. This and other incidents have attested to the respect received by the Lawyer wherever it may be distributed. And if the Lawyer is respected, so too are the members of the staff, the entire law school — and ultimately the University of Notre Dame.
--------------------------------------Dentist
DR. RALPH BERMAN 408 Platt Bldg., 105 W. Wayne St. Hours'. Mon. 9-12 Thurs. 9-12 & 1:30-5	PHONE 6-3627
Fri. 1:30-5; Sat.-9-12	Res. ph. 7-1409
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
Study and Travel
A RARE opportunity to enjoy memorable experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to
SPANISH STUDENT TOURS, INC.
500 Fifth Ave., New York 18, N. Y.
We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry . . .
We maintain a complete Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
Ill SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Aquinas Library and Bookstore
YOUR CATHOLIC SHOPPING CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
110 E. LaSalle .
33
Music and Drama
At the risk of monotony we are bringing up the Student Musical again. It opens in Washington Hall on Monday night and will play there through Wednesday. If you don’t have a ticket yet, you’d better get one through your hall representative quick. There is a groundswell of rumor that the show will draw heavily. Everyone seems anxious to see what’s to see.
Another production in a more classic vein is slated for the footlights the second week in May. The University Theatre promises an unusual staging of Faust with new lighting and stage action techniques.
In view of the success of the rejuvenated University Theatre during the past year it is now feasible to mention an idea that may have some practical results for the future. In many other universities and colleges, there is a “drama society” to handle the stage presentations.
Such a society is composed of a limited, but as large as possible, group of students who are interested in acting. A drama society would be comparable to a debate club. All those who had the desire and ability to act would have a chance to become organized and to learn something about the art. At the same time, the society would provide a ready cast of more select talent for student presentations.
Such a system has worked rather successfully in other schools. Such a system has the support here of Mr. Leonard Sommer, who has done much work with the current University Theatre. If there are students interested in such a society, who would like to know more about its aims and methods, we suggest they see Mr. Sommer.
Lest there be misunderstanding, we definitely state that the work of the now existing University Theatre has been splendid this year. Our suggestion is in no way a criticism of that body. But we feel that precisely because of the University Theatre’s success the time might be ripe for the formation of a drama society of some sort.
In General
This is a time of comprehensives and dances, of bursting buds and fi h con
tests, of die-hard Winter blasts and tantalizing Spring days. The robins have been around for a long time and the flower beds have been turned and the hall windows are being left open during the daytime.
You can hear the piano ard voice lessons from the Music Hall as far away as Walsh, and the Chemistry building is sending out an accumulation of odors saved over from Winter. The windows in the busses are now stuck open in stead of stuck closed and if you wander too far on a Spring-fever walk you’re liable to be caught in one of those April showers that are always bringing up May flowers.
In short it is the time of Spring fever on campus. Books and classes become torturous, or more so, and the golf course acts like a giant magnet on the. sportsmen. Even at this early date a

JUST IN! . . . the New ARROW Gabanaro America’s favorite gabardine sports shirt. . . $6.50
Gabanaro gives you:
J Amazing new ARA FOLD collar with built-in tie space. Looks perfect with a tie — or open for sports!
]) PERFECT FIT! Available in your exact collar size and sleeve length!
J Rich, solid colors.
11 Fine, washable fabric.
AfEN'S SHOP—Main Floor
few hardys are foraying the roof of the Rock when the sun shines. And baseball is back on the bog.
It’s a hard time and a bitter time from one point of view. When the sun is out and the window is open, a class can become a prison and an endless period of trial. Of course the Scholastic goes on, through rain or shine, but it doesn’t like to.
We guess life is the same, in spite of Spring, but that season makes it a lot nicer. So welcome to Spring, officially, and thank goodness you came. It’s been a hard winter.
The Last Word
The draft situation’s up in the air again.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bldg.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
34
The Scholastic
THE DE PONT
DIGEST
The Brains Behind the "Electric Brains"
How Du Pont Research engineers apply electronics to chemical manufacture
When you hear that a scientist works for a chemical company, it’s natural to assume he is a chemist. Oddly enough, the Du Pont Company employs about as many engineers as chemists for normal technical work. Many are chemical engineers. But when it comes to basic research on instrumentation—a very important activity—both chemists and chemical engineers are in the minority.
This fundamental work is largely carried out in a laboratory of the Engineering Department, where electrical engineers, physicists and other scientists are deeply involved in electronics studies. They have some amazing devices to their credit—devices for monitoring industrial opera-tionscontinuouslyandautomatically.
Some of their ideas are spurred by a need in an existing plant. But the design of a new one may also lean heavily on novel instruments. Take, for instance, a new Du Pont plant that uses cyanides. Of course, these compounds are very poisonous. So
J. Packard Laird, B.S. in M.E., Princeton 1942, operates Dielectric Yarn Gage in order to determine small changes in the denier of synthetic textile yarns.
when the plant was being designed, engineers were aware of the importance of detecting accidental contamination of the cooling water. In fact, the whole question of getting into production hinged on the problem of dealing with plant effluents.
Chemical-electronic watchdog
Once the only way to detect a fraction of a part per million of cyanide
Fred R. Studer (left), B. Met. E., Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 1950, examines a Pressure Strain Recorder with Allen R. Furbeck, E.E., Princeton 1939.
was to raise fish in water containing plant effluents. But this required a staff of experts to check constantly on the health of the fish. It was too slow and inaccurate. So the engineers developed a "chemical - electronic watchdog.” Twenty-four hours a day, it automatically analyzes for cyanide to one part per million. If an excessive amount is present, it rings an alarm bell. Periodically, the machine pumps cyanide through itself to be sure it is registering. AH the plant men have to do is take readings occasionally and fill the tanks with reagents once a week.
This is just one of many electronic devices developed by Du Pont research engineers. Others—ranging
DID YOU KNOW . . .
While Du Pont is the largest manufacturer of diversified chemicals in the U.'5., its share of the total chemi- -
cal business is only about seven per cent. It has one to fifteen major competitors for all its major product lines.
Richard G. Jackson (left), B.S. in Ch. E., Columbia 1942, and Gregory L. Laserson, Ph.D. in M.E., Columbia 1949, test an Infrared Gas Analyzer which may be used to continuously analyze and control any infrared absorbing gas in a mixture.
from ultraviolet gas analyzers and multivariable recorders to nylon denier gages—play a vital part in improving production methods. Many of them not only "observe” continuously, but automatically correct anything that goes wrong.
Research engineers at work
The term "research engineer,” by the way, is a loose one. It may refer to an electronics engineer working on a new photo-multiplier circuit— or a physicist using his optics and spectrophotometry in designing a color-matching instrument. It may cover the activities of a physical chemist developing a continuous turbidimetric analysis—bra mechanical engineer evaluating a pneumatic servomechanism.
For the versatile young scientist, instrumentation research offers a fine opportunity to turn his talents into faster, better and safer production in the chemical industry.
’eg.u.s.pat.off.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEAUSTRr
Entertaining. Informative — Listen to “Cavalcade of America," Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast tu Coast
Apr. 13, 1951
35
A
SERIALS DIVISION
UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
NOTRE DANE IND
^oryou-Proof paMILDNESS
with no unpleasant after-taste
JOAN FONTAINE is just like you and everybody else, today. She wants the cigarette that gives her the most for the money. She makes the Chesterfield Mildness Test and Always Buys Chesterfields.
J
★ Hollywood's favorite photographer, Paul Hesse, and Joan Fontaine enjoy a Chesterfield while he shows her his new Stereo Realist camera.
Chesterfields are Milder
A Paramount Picture
Copyright 1951. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co
They re MY cigarette
Starring in "SOMETHING TO LIVE FOR

si