r 
i 
Keeping Up With Its Tradition Of Bringing You The Very Best The Notre Dame African Students' Association Proudly Presents: 
A GlANT AF~lCAN "10t'1!~N MUSTO 00N01!~T & 
"ANOlN~ 

Featuring: 

Foday Musa Suso and the Mandingo Griot Society 

From The GAMBIA (West-Africa) 
With: Foday Suso on the Kora Abdul Haakem on the Guitar Chuck Hosch on the Bass Avreeayl Raamen on the Drums Koco Brunson on the Keyboard Manu Washing on the Congas 

Date: Thursday October 26, 1995 Time: 7:00 P.M. Venue: Stepan Center Admission: General Admission: $5.00 
Students: ...................$3.00 
Come Enjoy Yourself & Dance to the Rhythms of Suso & The Mandingo As They Daringly Project the Music of Africa's Past into the Music of the World's Future! 
Do Not Miss This Unique Opportunity to Hear The Finest Music From Africa! Sponsored by the Notre Dame African Students' Association & Various Campus Institutions Check it out on our WWW address: http:/ /www.nd.edu:80/~ndasa/suso.html 
\

SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 137, NUMBER 6 FOUNDED 1867 0CioBER 5, 1995 
COVER STORY 
Onward Christian Soldiers 
Notre Dame has the largest ROTC program in the nation, 
and students in uniform are a common sight on campus. 
For these students, ROTC is much more than just · 
preparation for military service -it's a way of life . 
..., ...............................page 10 


Standing Tall 

Despite the loss of 12 se­niors to graduation and a number of injuries, the Notre Dame men's soccer team will not settle for a season of "rebuilding." 
................................page 16 
Join the Club 

The deals and . discounts may sound unbelievable, but the national CD and video clubs are not always all that they're cracked up tobe. 
..............................page 20 
FEATURES Planet Earth ............................................. ~ ................. 4 . 
by Kim Smith 
Save Billy ............ ~ ....................................................... 6 
by Michelle Crouch 
All in a Day's Work ................ ~................................. 8 
byJonathanD'Amore 
Showdown in Seattle ................................................ 14 
by Jake Schaller 
WrongDirection ...................................................... 22 
.by Joe Marchal 
DEPARTMENTS 

From theEditor ..: .............................................. : ......... 2 l,ette_:r:s.......................•... ; ..•.......••..•..•.•.....•......••.•..•••..•..3 Campus Watch ........................................................... 9 Splinters from the Press Box ..: ................................ 19 Out ofBounds.; ........................................................ 23 Comics ...................................................... : ............... 24 OnOther Campuses ................................................. 25 Coming Distractions ................................................ 26 Weekin Distortion ................................................... 27 Parting Shot. ............................................................... 28 
1 


Above and Beyond 

My brother and I recently had a heart to heart. As a sophomore in college, he is now facing thepressure of deciding a major. Until this semester, though, there was no decision tobe made.He wanted to beaMarine. Four years ofcollege, and then ahopeful acceptance to the military elite. Though he was not involved in a ROTC program, he thought he understood the discipline and dedication necessary for such a job. 
His mind changed when he realized the extent of this commitment, and he suddenly began to wonder, "What else is there?" He had honestly never considered any other profession or direction in life. 
The students ofthe Notre Dame ROTC program cover the spectrum ofenthusiasm for the military. Their dedication, however, is unmistakable. This scholarship demands responsibilities beyond those of most other college students, followed by a four-year obligation to one of the services. Our cover story this week examines both the program and its role at a Catholic university. You'll find it on page 10. 

Cleaning Up 

The strange beige of the dining hall napkins is one cluetoNotreDame's efforts toward protecting the environment The omniscient cardboard "aluminum only" boxes are another. Butas an institution serving over 10,000people daily in both working and living environments, how far has the university extended its resources to not only reduce, reuse and recycle, but also to protect and prevent? Freshman Kim Smith writes about Notre Dame's role in the environment on pages 4 and 5. 

Next Week 

Because of fall break, the next issue of Scholastic will come out on October 26. Enjoy the break. 
Collette McKenna 
Executive Editor 

Cover 
Stan Evans 
40 Years Ago... 
Forty years ago, in the October 7, 1955, issue, Scholastic published some advice on dating at Notre Dame. Writer William Malloy defined terms and provided explanations that might be useful for that next SYR set-up: 
In the past, many attempts have been made to acquaint Notre Dame students with the problem ofgetting a date, and to give some pointers on how to solve it. The science that deals with getting awife, oreven adate is, ofcourse, psychology; therefore, myfirst task is to give a sketchy outline ofknowledge needed. First I will define some terms: 
• 
Psychology-The study ofmorbidfears, hysteria, origins ofabnormal trends in childhood, and why people drink. 

•Complex-One 
degree less than a compound fracture usually separated by a dependent clause. 

• 
Claustrophobia-A normal development ofpost-adolescence in freshmen living in a triple. 

• The Unconscious-A colloquial neurosis caused by bartenders. 

•
Maniac-Depressive Psychosis-That's like when you come to a big school and you don't hzow anything and everybody else knows something and they' re all spying on you and everything. 


-:-CM 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 5, 1995 

Dear Editor, As the anonymous author of the Observer ad calling for Holtz' s resignation, I feel that! must reply to the questioning of my school



A Spirited 
spirit in a recent Scholastic article. I do not see this as a lack of 

Debate 
Dear Editor: I read your article last week on the spirit at ND. In some ways, I have to agree that the spirit here has waned in recent years. 
When I was a little girl, my dad brought me over every Friday beforea home game to go to thepep rally. Backthen, the pep rallies were held out at the Stepan Center. Once you were inside Stepan and standing crushed in the packed crowd, you began to hear the rumbling ofthe drum line and band approaching from between the towers. The sound of the band coming up behind you from outside the building built up slowly, energizing the crowd gradually until the excitementwas ata fever pitch. The anticipation was immense as you heard the band finally explode into the victory march as it marched through the door. 
Everyone cheered as they stood shoulder to shoulder, bound by a common love for Notre Dame. Because everyone was standing, you couldn't see the stage or the band from the back, but it didn't matter. You were there, hearing the team, the band, the.expecta­tions and the excitement. I remember students hanging from the rafters with banners, people cheering and everyone being excited. 
These are some ofmy fond memories ofyouth. Now, however, things have changed. For some reason, the pep rallies are now held in the JACC, probally to allow more people to come. I see the justification in this, but I've been noticing how people behaveat the pep rallies today. 
No one stands up except for isolated pockets of students. Everyone seems relaxed and comfortable in their cushy chairs. When the band walks in, there's no anticipation, no building of excitement. Andwhen the team comes out, it feels more like we're at a pro-basketball game than atone ofourpep rallies. I don't know when or where it happened, but we just don't have pep rallies like we used to. 
Yes, the spirit at Notre Dame has changed once you look at it in context However, deep down, ~estill love this university as much as my father and grandfather did when they were here. 
Francie Schmuhl '96 

school spirit. In fact, I think that this ad shows my intense school spirit because I am trying to make the Notre Dame community aware of what our egomaniac head coach has been up to lately. 
After his unfortunate neck surgery that is a terrible ordeal for anyone, Holtz ignored the doctor's orders and returned to Notre Dame on the morning ofthe Vanderbilt game. So I must ask, why did Holtz feel compell~ to fly back before the game and hold his own press conference in the airport? 
It may be because Coach Davie was doing a marvelous job as acting head coach, handling himself with such poise and class during the distracting week leading up to the Vanderbilt game. Or that the players were having a great week of practice in Holtz's absence as evidencedby their play against Vanderbilt. What must have been going through his head when the players gave Coach Davie the Gatorade bath, the ultimate slap in the face for Holtz? Holtz came back that Saturday morning not to help the team, but to mend his fragile ego that has swelled so large it could fill Notre Dame Stadium. 
Once back in South Bend, Holtz goes to practice and sees firsthand how well the players have taken to Coach Davie and Coach Roberts. On Saturday at the Texas game, Holtz once again feels obliged to upstage Coach Davie by being filmed walking up the steps of the press box and then granting interviews. The team once again plays with emotion as they have fun on the field for the second consecutive week. The offense, though, feels the effects of the presenceofHoltz as not a single pass is thrown to the tightends. Despite this, the team has another great win. 
· In the press box, Holtz must be panicking. Maybe he has realized that the team is better off without him, that instead of crumbling when he left as he had probably egoistically hoped, the team is thriving in his absence. In an attempt to halt this, he does one of the most self-centered, fanatical acts ever witnessed in sports. He comes down from the press box at the end of the fourth quarter so that his deflated ego can hear the naive cheers from the student section and so NBC can televise this all across America. 
He is once again trying to upstage another brilliant coaching performanceby Coach Davieand Coach Roberts. Thecheers were his only consolation, though, because once on the sideline,Jew of theplayers and coaches approached him. Therewas no outpouring of sympathy or tears of joy for having the general back on the sidelines. Here was just a desperate man trying to show unsuccess­fully that he is still in charge, iJ' in title only. 
I hope that I have given the Notre Dame community something to think about Take from this what you will, but don't call me a fair-weather fan. I have never and never will give up on this and any Notre Dame team whose players give so much. Sadly, I have given upon Holtz, whose tirriehascomeandgone. Now itisCoach Davie's tum. 
Because ofthe obvious problems that might arise ifI revealed my identity, I ask that you have the courage to print this letter anonymously. 


Planet Notre Dame 

BYKIMSMITH
Empty cup in hand, the Notre Dame studentwalks toward theLaFortune garbage bins. He pauses. He looks at his cup again. He turns it upside looking for a way to identify it Styrofoam? Poly­styrene? Corrugated Cardboard? He has never before given so much thought to trash. After a second of deliberation, he tosses the cup in the styrofoam bin and makes a mental note to look up the word 'polystyrene.' Recyclingmay bethemostvisible, though not the only, way in which the Notre Dame community is actively attempting to join the nationwideeffort to protect the environ­ment. Blue containers placed in buildings around campus are a signal to think twice before just throwing an item away. Eleven materials in all -aluminum cans, plastic, steel cans, glass, polystyrene, newspaper, whitepaper, mixedpaper, telephonebooks, corrugated cartons and wooden pallets ­can be recycled on campus. Freshman Ashley Pinter finds these ef­forts sufficient. "I don't know what else . they could do to make recycling more · available. Students just have to make the effort. The responsibility lies in the hands of the students, not the school," she says. 
JuniorAnne Hickey, who is the environ­mental commissioner in Lyons, believes that more awareness will lead to an even m9re successful program. "People some­times don 'trealize how m~yproducts and materials are recyclable," she says. "They needto recycle things likeshampoo bottles. We need to let them know that." 
Currently, the Notre Dame Recyclin' Irish club recycles approximately 30 per­cent of the solid waste on campus, andin keeping with standards setbyIndianaGov­ernor Evan Bayh, the goal for 2001 is to recycle over 50 percent of the waste pro­duced. 
On campus, perhaps the biggest prob­lem comes in a box. The amount of card~ board accumulated every day on campus is tremendous, according to Alan Bigger, as­sistant director ofBuilding Services, since almost everything that is shipped to Notre 

As ecological concerns increase nationally, students at Notre Dame 
. . 

are voicing concerns and taking action 
Drune comes in a cardboard box. In 1994­
. 95, 705,526 pounds of cardboard were re­cycled, surpassing the number of alumi­num cans. 
Beyond recycling, the university's envi­ronmental policies affect the power plant. John DeLee, director, reports that theNotre ·Dame power plant produces 42 percent of the power on campus, and the remaining differenceissuppliedbyIndiana. Michigan PowerCompany. 'Theplantusesthesteam which the turbine releases and condenses it to produce heating for the dorms," explains DeLee. 
Not ·everyone is so convinced of the university's cox:nmitrnent to the environ­ment,however, orwhetherornot it upholds high standards. Sociology Professor Andy Weigert, for one, is a critic of some of the university's policies and practices. "I'm interested in the idea of a healthy environ­ment for the entire Notre Dame commu­nity," he says. Specifically, Weigert ques­tions the university's practice of spraying pesticides on the grasses across campus. "Students are being exposed to chemicals 
SCH'OLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ _OCTOBER 5, 1995 
~--------­


PUFF OF SMOKE. In order to save 
energy, electricity to the university is 

supplied jointly by the Notre Dame power . plant and Indiana Michigan Power 
company. 
without explanation or warning. It could 
be dangerous," he suggests. "People need 
to assess the risk we are willing to take in 
ordertolookatdandelion-freeyards,"says 
Weigert. 
However, Mike McCaulin, assistant di­
rector of Risk Management, denies any 
harmful effects to students. "In the concen­
tration that weuse them and the application 
rate they are not harmful. We are ex­
tremely selectivein thepesticidesand work 
with Landscaping Services in determining 
the safest materials we can use," he says. 
"Are they harmful to students? No." 
Senior Monique DiGiorgio is one stu­

dent who has been involved in acampaign for the environment here at Notre Dame. As a sophomore, DiGiorgio took it upon herselftoraise$1,800to bringaGreenpeace speaker to campus. The response she met . was mixed. "Some people were open and helpful to my endeavor, but some univer­sity officials pushed my project and me aside." She suggests, "We need more awareness on this campus-people have to realize that environmental issues are important." o"it~way she thinks this aware­
'
ness could be achieved is through bringing 
more ecologically-interested speakers to 
campus. 
Asaninstitutionofhigherleaming, Notre 
Dame is active in educating people about 
the environment both through classes and 
student organizations. For instance,. the 
environmental sciences concentration in 
the Biology Department examines ecology ing to raise campus awareness of environ­

,.j 

mental issues, through their projects ,i EarthweekandEnergyConservationMonth in March. "Lastyearpeopleresponded and really worked to conserve energy. There was a noticeable difference in wattage. Morrissey saved the most of any dorm on campus,"reportsMrukMirabito,vice-presi­dent of SEA. He encourages students to give the group and its projects a try". "A lot ofthe stuff we do is lots offun, and you can make a difference," he says. 
Terra, a group started only last year, is planningseveral field trips around thecoun­try, including visits to a gypsum mine in Michigan and a glacier expedition in south­ern Indiana. Advisor Clive Neal says, "Hopefully the club will grow as it gains visibility across campus." With the help of these groups and their interested members, perhaps environmental issues willalso con­tinue to gain visibility across campus. · . 
· Weigert challenges students to help ex­pand these programs. "Students should get involved in the environmental and health issues on campus. They could really do a lot to nudge the administration to 
action."And DiGiorgioreminds fellow stu­dents how simple and how important in­volvement is. "Anyone could take an indi­vidual stance and really make a difference to the earth." D from a hard science perspective, while the environmental engineering program looks forwaystosystematicallyprotecttheearth in the future. And the Science, Technology and Values concentration also explores environmental issues, laws and policies in the context of sociology, theology, phi­losophy, history and economics. 
Wiegert, though, does not believe that the university is providing enough envi­ronmental education. "On the positive side, with such a beautiful campus, Notre Dame could really be providing a wonder­ful ecological example and lesson. They could be teaching people how to care for the earth." But he says that by continuing to usepesticides, "theyarelosingan oppor­tunity to provide an education for the envi­ronment of the 21st century." 
Students concerned about the future of the environmentcan channel their interests through one of the student-initiatedand run environmental concern groups on campus. Recyclin' Irish is the largest of these orga­nizations, and the group does more than just run the recycling program. Co-presi­dents Kevin McAllister and Karen Cardi­
nal plan to invite environmental speakers and schedule educational field trips in an effort to increase awareness. 
Another campus group, Students forEn­vironmental Action (SEA) is also attempt­

5 

..,________ ---­




Free Billy 
With the recent dismissal ofa Di,Zon Hall assistant rector, Notre Dame cracks down on its 
tailgating policy 
BY MICHELLE CROUCH hat's wrong with this picture:
W 
A group of 26-year-olds hang 
out together before the game 

on a home football weekend, drinkbeer, eat 
some brats and talk about the upcoming 
game? 
It sounds innocent enough. But for Billy Erickson, that scene meant the loss of his job as an assistant rector in Dillon Hall. Erickson was recently dismissed for help­ing to sponsor and then attending a law school tailgater before the Northwestern game. 
Erickson, a third-year law student, says 
he didn't know any better. "My first year, 
I tried to get money from the Law School 
Barfora tailgate, and I was told that student 
organizations weren't allowed to have tail­
gates," Erickson explains. "So I was under 
the impression that as long as a student 
organization was not involved in sponsor­
ing it, it would be okay.'' 
So the week before the Northwestern 
game, he felt no qualms about getting to­
gether with other law school students and 
posting a sign in the law school advertising 
the tailgater for that weekend. 
The Friday afternoon before the game, 
Erickson receivedamessagefrom Bill Kirk, 
vice president of Student Affairs. He re­
turned the phone call, but was unable to get 
in touch with Kirk. 
On Saturday morning, he and about six 
other law students parked their cars in a 
field outside of the JACC and bought beer, 
lots of food and 10 cases of soda. "This 
wasn't just a huge drink-fest," notes 
Erickson. The tailgater was in full swing 
whenDirectorofResidenceLifeJeffShoup 
approachedEricksonandaskedhim to move his car. Because he was not distributing alcohol from his car and crowds of people were everywhere, Erickson decided not to move his car. 

"At that point, I knew something was wrong, that things were bad," recalls Erickson. "But I couldn't drive my car through all those people and I still didn't realize it was against the rules." 
His decision came back to haunt him; the next week, he met with Kirk. A week later, after another meeting in Student Affairs, he was dismissed from his position as assistant rector. 
"I know now Ibroke a rule, that I should have known the rules, and I apologized," says Erickson. "But their concern was my poor judgement and my credibility with the residents of Dillon Hall," says Erickson. 
Headds, "Iunderstand their decision, but I really don't think it was fair. The hardest· thing is that Patty O'Hara told me what a good job I did in Dillon Hall." 
Du Lac is clear about punishment for student offenders of the rule: "Any student involved in a violation of this regulation will receive a maximum fine of three hun­dred dollars." . 
But Erickson, with the·loss of his posi­tion, lost much more: his salary, which helped pay tuition to law school, as well as a place to live. "It was a really tough pill to swallow, especially at Notre Dame, which prides itselfoncaringfor the individual," he says. 
According to Kirk, theofficecannotcom­ment on Erickson's situation. "Assistant rectors are employees of the university.• University policy does not permit me to comment on individual personnel matters becauseofthe privacyinterests of all parties involved.'' 
Erikson, though, was well-liked in Dil­lon, and upon learning of Erickson's dis­missal, the residents immediately began protesting the decision. Hall co-presidents Tim Kerr and Jay Sullivan explained Erickson's dismissal to other Dillon resi­dents, hung a banner which read "Free Billy" outside of the dorm and distributed stickers displaying the same slogan. 
"We think it was an excessive punish­ment," says Sullivan. "It was his first offenseofanykind,andheobviouslydidn't know the rule, or he wouldn't have put his 'name on the sign." 
"They should have kept it internal," he adds. "None of us knew about the tailgater until the administration made a big deal about it. And I think a 26-year-old should beallowedtothrowapartywithhisfriends." 
No one can deny the abundance of tail­gating among Notre Dame students, both at the graduate and the undergraduate level. But Erickson's situation may reveal a need to make more students aware of the university's policy on tailgaters. 
The rule, according to Kirk, is based on the alcohol policy and the university's at­tempt to curb the abuse of alcohol. 
Kirk and other employees in the Office of Student Affairs, with the help ofuniversity security: frequently circulate the fields ad­jacent to the stadium to enforce the policy. "It's fairly obvious when there is excessive alcohol," he says. "It's also fairly obvious when it's a student tailgate, from the age of the people there and from car decals." · 
According to Erikson, th(? case is closed and cannot be appealed. In the meantime, he is looking for housing and renegotiating his loan. And watching as the residents of Dillon protest through the little yellow stick­ers asking, "Free Billy.'' . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 5, 1995 

MULTI CULTURRL FRLL FESTI URL 
CULTURE 
ON THE QUAD October 2-6 Fieldhouse Mall 4:30-6:00 p.m. Performances By: Native American 
Club Hawaiian Club GreekClub.. Filipino Club Troop ND 

Fires.ide Chats 

October 2-6 "Women in the Rrts" Notre Dame Room, Lafortune 12:15-1:15 p.m. . Monday: Professor Lyonga Tuesday: Professor Rlice Cheang Wednesday: Sonya Gernes Thursday: Diana Mythyus Friday: Jill Godmillow 

TASTE OF NATIONS 
Friday, October 6 
8:00 p.m. Stepan Center 
Entertainment by Saber Latino 
SPECIAL EUENTS 
October3 102 DeBartolo 7:00 p.m . 
Eun-Sook Lee 
Octobers 
Ball Room 
7:00 p.m. · 

John Ole Tome 




All in a Day's Work 
FATHER FIGURE. Father Carey enjoys spending time with his students, such as RA Matt Pogodzinski (left) and sophomore Joe Knutzen (right). 
Fromflooding toilets to Student Affairs hearings, ·. there is hardly a dull moment in the life ofRector Fr. Carey 
BY JONATifAN D'AMOREIt's 4:00 a.m. It could be any day of any week. But today happens to be St. Patrick's Day. And a urinal has been pulled off the wall of a Dillon Hall restroom. "Happy St.Paddy'sDay,Fr. Carey!" is the greeting that Dillon's rectorreceives from the residents in his doorway. "Surf's up in the restroom." Rectors and rectresses at Notre Dame might notface situations likethiseveryday,butwiththeFightinglrishstudentbodyonhand, being a rector is a 24-hour-a-day job. Though residents may think otherwise, dorm life is not all fun and beer. There is a considerable amount of business and other responsibities that rectors must tend to during the week. Fr. Joe Carey is on the Campus Life Council ofStudent Government and serves as the assistant superior of Holy Cross Community..But despite these obligations, Carey Says that his relationships with dorm residents are most important. 2:30 p.m. Carey is reviewing some information that the Office of Student Affairs and the Office of Residence life have sent him to pass along to his young men. Someone knocks on the door. "Yes, come in." "Hello, Father, mind if I come in? You needed to see me?" "I aways love to see my boys. But, actually, I really don't need to see you. What gave you that idea?" "You just called and said that it was very urgent and that you needed to see mer-" The studentstops mid-sentenceand realizes what has happened. The infamous Fr. Carey impersonators were at it again. Carey is used to the good-natured teasing about his . trademark voice, rivaled only by Coach Lou Holtz's as the most recognizable on campus. 9:00 p.m. Staff meetings with assistant rectors and resident assistants on Monday nights are vital to the well-being of the hall. Rectors spend a lot of their time discussing problems with their residents. There are homesick freshmen and students who have faced recent tragedy. Carey believeshe does what all parish priests do when theirparishoners come to them for advice. He equates his job as rector to "a pastor who lives with his parishoners." 9: 30 p.m. It's a Friday night. A few of Carey's Dillonites are at 
his door again. They are talking so fast that all he can pick out are some mumblings about a stolen bell, expulsion and Mexican fast­food restaurants. He isn't clear about what has happened, but he knows something must be done. 
Rectors face one responsibility that is not entirely pleasant ­discipline. As the head of any potentially troublesome dorm housing a couple hundred young adults, rectors must take control ofcertain situations. Carey's most common method is community service. After a Sunday night meeting with the head staff, an offender must perform various acts of service for the hall on weekends rather than paying a fine. Carey feels it is important to show Dillon residents that life carries on after poor decisions, and he believes tbat anyone who hurts the Dillon community must help it in return. He explains, <'I have an opportunity to be with people who do things that are bad decisions but that grow from the challenge of these choices to be better young men." 
1: 15 a.m. Another knock at the door. What could have possibly happened now? John Boland, a sophomore from the third floor, walks in, looking for agame ofcheckers at the Night Oak. It is late, butCarey gives in to the temptation offree popcorn and the chance to unwind with one of his residents. 
As in all communities, and perhaps more so in a community of energetic college students, there are times when dorm business is put aside, the ties are loosened, and there is time for fun. Though Carey's greatest concern is the abuse of alcohol he sees at Notre Dame, he is convinced that his young men can and do find ways to have fun without it. 
1:35 a.m. Boland beats Carey at.checkers for the first time. 
Many students feel that their rector's knowledge, friendship and guidance make an important contribution to their happiness at ND. Boland summarizes the feeling that many ofthe men ofDillon feel for their rector: "Fr. Carey has a tremendous intuition and ability to relate to peopl~. Through his experience at Dillon Hall, he pretty much knows it all. He's a remarkable man." 
11:00 p.m. It is Sunday night and Carey is saying the regular Sunday mass in Dillon's St. Patrick's Chapel. He looks around at the Dillonites singing enthusiastically together, and realizes thathe loves these young men, and he loves his job. . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 5, 1995 
;;.,., ..... 
gipper.1@nd.edu 


Attitude, Allegations and Innuendo 
I will not expose the ignorance of the faculty. -Bart Simpson 
NO DECEPTIVE ADVERTISING HERE

Some devoted Campus Watcher e­mailed the Gipp a very curious little tidbit. He brought to the Gipp's attention that outside the loading dock of the North Dining Hall there is a rather large metal barrel, labeled simply, "Inedible." It's definitely an eyesore, but at least NDH is trying to make some sort of effort to weed out vomit-inducing, three-week-old food­stuffs. But having a rusty aluminum spoiled food collector in plain view outside any eating establishment does not put faith in the hearts ofthe incoming patrons. It's just not good protocol. Next, why not try plac­ing bottles of Raid Roach Killer at every table or handing out Maalox and barf bags at every door? No beating around the bush there. The Gipp suggests hiding the barrel. The students know the food at the dining halls is inedible. You don't have to remind them. 

WISH YOU WERE THERE 

Even though he was there, the Gipp was not fortunate enough to gain entrance into the Ohio State game last weekend. As it turns out, however, the real fun and excite­ment happened outside the stadium. Here are a few gems from the latest road trip to the Buckeye State: 
• A group of Notre Dame students took a walk on the wild side last weekend and decided to cross the street even though the neon sign distinctly read, "DON'TW ALK." Well, one officer wasn't going to let such a heinous disregard for the lawgo unpunished, so hegave the public miscreants two choices. Either they would be arrested for "reckless disregardofa traffic control device" or they had to buy a candy bar from the little girl on the comer. They obviously didn't need to talk to their lawyers on this one. In the end, the little girl ended up with five less candy bars, five more dollars and the police officer probably took home 20 percent of the daily profits. What a country! 
• 
Not all the members of the Buckeye police force were so forgiving. On Friday night, the crowd at the popular bar Sloopy's had gotten a little too large. To disperse the crowd in a peaceful and quiet manner, the Buckeye police looked through their handy dandy copy of Hitler's Guide to Crowd Dispersal arid chose to tear gas the entire crowd. Subtle, yet effective. The Gipp has bothacommentandaquestion: 1) Amuch easier and probably more effective way of getting rid of a such a large mob of drunken idiots is the utterance of four simple words: ''The kegs are dry." 2) Why didn't the drunks at the bar get the candy bar ultimatum? 

• 
Who said Irish Catholics are alcoholics? A couple of Notre Dame fans stumbled upon (literally) a bar in one of the most unlikely of places: the second floor of a church. When they entered the bar, it was full of old Irish men and· a collection of Notre Dame and Ohio State alumni. What a novel idea. The Gipp thinks this concept should be put topractical use on this campus. Can you imagine how crazy the Basilica would be on football weekends? 

• 
The Gipp's favorite story from the Buckeye State was the appearance of a certain shameless man sprinting down the field during the game. This man, wearing nothing but his birthday suit and a well­placed palm, zig-zagged his way to the 30­yard line, stopped, did his best impression of the Reisman pose and then disappeared 


into the crowd from whence he came .. Ap­parently, his moves were good enough to elude all security officers. Perhaps we should find this man and sign him up. Uniform optional, of course. 
WHO SHOutD BE PUNCHING WHO? 
Some Notre Dame students were present at a local bar when several members of our · football team entered, seemingly drunk as skunks and raging with testosterone. (The names ofthose present in this not-so-merry band will be withheld to guard against a losing season, but it will be noted that some are famous and most are underage.) They apparentlyrecognizedsomeoneinBridget's who they recalled was "talking @#%*" (expletive sounding like sit) the week be­fore. A few words were exchanged, one player threw a flurry of punches and, just like that, some poor guy ended up with a face only a mother could love. A few minutes later, the pugilist was MIA and the rest of the boys stayed to pound beers the rest of the night. 
It is truly unfortunate, and blatantly obvi­ous, that these guys didn't use up all oftheir aggression on the field in Ohio Stadium. Only afterwards could they truly be called the "Fighting" Irish. And the Gipp is sure that all of you out there are wondering how these well-known underage guys got into the bar in the first place. OK, maybe that sentence speaks for itself, but in case you were wondering, the bouncer let them in the back door. 
That's it for now, Gipp fans. Thanks for all of your support and information. To all those who haven't e-mailed the Gipp, don't think it doesn't hurt. Have a blast this weekend and always remember: keep your eyes peeled and your ears to the ground. You never know what you 'II pick up. 0 
r 
'i 





ONWARD, CHRISTIAN 
SOLDIERS 
A look at how ROTC shapes students' daily lives 

i I ,: BY LISA SCHUL'IZ 
!I 
'I It's5:30a.m.Shufflingaroundtheroom,, the tiredstudentmakes a feeble attempt 
I,i Ii 
to find his clean "Fightin' Irish Battal­

1' 
ion" t-shirt and shorts. It's a long walk over to Pasquerilla Center, but that's only the beginning. The student has arrived just in time for the Physical Fitness Test. 
For men, this means 52 sit-ups, 42 push­ups in two minutes and a two-mile run in under 16 minutes. For women, it means 18 push-ups, 50 sit-ups and a two-mile run in under19minutes. Studentsgrumble. Some­one moans about sleep deprivation. And while there is no stern sergeant barking orders at these young soldiers, the upper­classmen are having no problem running the show. 
Welcome to the Reserve Officers Train­ing Corps, or ROTC, a program which preparesstudentstobeofficersintheArmy, Navy and Air Force. Notre Dame houses the largest ROTC program in the nation, based on the number of participants who receive scholarship money for their partici­pation. 
"Our goal here is to develop capable leaders for America," says Col. Thomas Runge,tommandingofficeroftheAirForce ROTC program. 

Lt. Col. James O'Brien, commanding officer of the ArmyROTCprogram,agrees, "Ispend a majority of my time counseling students on how to be good leaders. I take the skills that they have come to me with and I help them further develop them. I want them to have a toolbag of different leadership styles when they graduate from here and become lieutenants in the United States Army." 
And for the students involved, leadership 

strating effective communication," he says. "I can honestly say that at this point, I would · stick with it even ifI didn't get the money." For others, though, the money is an issue that can't be ignored. "I'd say about three 
•quarters of those involved are in for the money," says Bingham. "The others are in it because they've been army brats their whole life and they want to do it, because it guarantees them a job or just because they love it." 
"I can honestly say that at this point, I would stick with it even ifI didn't get the money.'' 
and responsibility are indeed the largest intangible benefits gained by their ROTC experience at Notre Dame. 
"I've become more responsible," says Bucky Bingham, a junior in Army ROTC. "ROTC puts you in a leadership position right away." 
Senior Tom Donlin, who is also in the Army program, agrees. "It would defi­nitely be almost impossible to do the pro­gram without actually enjoying parts of it, especially as a senior. I can evaluate and teach others using my learned skills, such as speaking in front of a group and demon­
· -Tom Donlin 
But no matter why they do it, all ROTC students must be equally motivated day-to­day as they wake at 5:45 a.m. to go to 6:30 
a.m. physical training, as they finish their studying early on nights before Physical Fitness Tests or as they miss yet another 
, SYR to go on a field training weekend. "You just have to make the best of the situation," says Bingham. "If you get in­volved and are enthusiastic, it makes it more fun. Plus, it's a team effort. You're not just in it for yourself; it affects your peers. If you work hard for them, they'll work hard for you." 
10 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 5, 1995 
ONE, TWO ... To ensure that ROTC participants are in shape, they must take a physical fitness test every semester. 

Donlan adds, "The best thing is the con­sistent encouragement and pressure to de­velop yourself and your capacity to lead. You actually come to a self-realization." 
But not everyone comes to that kind of self-realization. For one thing, the time commitmentinvolvedistremendous. Physi­cal training, drill and certain classes are required each semester and about 15 credit hours are necessary for graduation. In addition, the classes become more difficult with each semester, as do outside time commitments. 
"Freshman year I put about five hours a week into ROTC, and I was fine," says Donlan. "Junior year I was putting in at least 15, and I was struggling to keep my 


... THREE, FOUR. Men must be able to do 42 push-ups In two minutes, while women are required to do 18 push-ups. 
head up.'.' 

But senior Polly Lancaster, who is in Army ROTC, feels differently. "How much time you put into it depends on what kind of person you are," she says. "There are some people who do a lot of extracurricular activities such as drill team or the rifle team. There are also those who spend a lot of time polishing their boots and ironing their uniform. But some people just don't care." 
"I think the general consensus is that we're a bunch of crazy people who love the Army," says Bingham. "One of the hardest parts is feeling different than everyone else when you have to get up early in the morning and put a uniform on and when you have to go to class in uniform.'' 
Junior Ellen Leen, who is in Navy ROTC, agrees. "The worst partisthatldon'treallyfeellikelfitinanywhere,"shesays. ''There are some who are really gung-ho about the whole thing, which I'm not. And you feel weird when you're in uniform in class.'' . 

But Leen says that her experiences have also given her a greater appreciation of her friends and the support they offer her. "ROTC canreally wear you down physically and mentally," she says. "The leaders can really get in your face. I've come to learn how to separate myself from what they say. I have to beable to comehome and tell myself that I'm still a good person. I've learned to take criticism better.'' 
Talbot still has doubts about ROTC' s tough spirit of discipline, though. "I still don't like the attitude of having to break a person down so you can rebuild them," she says. "I just don't think it's all necessary sometimes. We should be serious when we have to be.'' 
"Sometimes [the competition] gets out of hand, and we lose sight of our real purpose," adds Donlan. He believes that students in ROTC are there to become good leaders, but sometimes too much energy is focused on winning and not enough is focused on self-development. 
Overall, though, students in the ROTC program seem to value the camaraderie as well as the discipiine and leadership they've learned. "Notre Dame provides such a well-rounded education to begin with, and ROTC has taught me about discipline and leader­ship," comments Adam Pierson, a senior in Navy ROTC. "I learned things here that most people don't learn until they get out of school.'' O 


SOMETHING TO FIT ANY SIZE APPETITE 
....AND BUDGET 
. . 
. 

.. -:·,_ ,.SIJBWA~ 
· The Place Where Fresh is rheTastl!. · 
54533 Terrace Ln 277-7744 52577 US Rt.31 277-1024 
12 

. SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 5, 1995 
·7dl~7e OJ JVdl7~0JV~ 
FOOD AND ENTERTAINMENT FROM AROUND TH£ YiORLD .. 
Come join lhe lun! Slop 61J 6elore S!JRs and 1ormals! /lick oll lhe weekend in a unique WalJ and 6ring alt IJOUr lriends! 


.,Sponsored bu: LY!)ulticulturAl eXecutive Council 
_Featuring: Sabor Latino, Voices ofFaith, Main Street, Rockerettes, and a great night offun,. dance, food and music!· 
FRUDAY, OCTOBER 6,1995 ~· P~M~-12 A~M~ STEPAN CENTER ADMISSION: $1 




nll--------------------------­

own 



I• n. 



After losing to the Buckeyes in the Horseshoe, the Irish travel to Husky Stadium, where Washington has won 32 outoftheir last 34 games 
BYJAKE SCHALLER Hoying who tied a Notre Dame opponent lack of depth on the team.For just more than five halves, the record with four touchdown passes, two to A major pre-season concern for Head Irish season really seemed to be Terry Glenn. Coach Jim Lambright was how to replace turned around. An old fashioned Special teams, whic.h notched a punt re­speedy all-purpose back Napolean tail-whipping of Vanderbilt, a solid win turn for a touchdown and a blocked extra · Kaufman. The loss ofKaufman, now with over a tough Texas team that included 511 point return against Texas, struggled. · the NFL's Oakland Raiders, took a large yards oftotal offenseand a first half against Emmet Mosely fumbled a punt and Marc bite out ofoffensive production. Kaufman, Ohio State that had "Irish upset" written all Edwards was stopped just short of a first who rushed for a school-record 4,041 yards over it. down on a fake punt. during his career at Washington, led the Then the Buckeyerule of threes changed To make matters worse, Notre Dame Huskies to a 7-4 record last year (4-4 and a everything. Leading seventh-ranked Ohio must travel to Seattle and square off with fifth place finish in the PAC-10). State in the third quarter, the Irish commit­15th-rankedWashingtoninHuskyStadium. · Providing the spark for the running game ted three straight turnovers which resulted Washington, 3-1 this season, has won 32 of this year is surprising tailback Leon Neal. in three straightthree-play Buckeye touch­their last 34 games there. The Huskies 3-1 Neal has rushed for 387 yards on 69 carries down drives. Defensively, the Irish could start has come as a surprise to some. After with a touchdown this season after gaining not stop Reisman Trophy candidate Eddie two seasons, they are offPAC-10 penalties. only 210 yards last season. Quarterback George, as the tailback ran for 207 yards A reduction in the number of the team's Damon Huard leads the Huskies offense. and two touchdowns. The Irish secondary scholarships (25 to 15) during that time, Hehas completed57 ofhis 93 pass attempts was picked apart by quarterback Bobby however, generated some concern about a on the year with four touchdowns and two 
14 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 5, 1995 
interceptions. Last week, Huard went over the 4,000-yard mark in career passing dur­ing Washington's 26-16 win over Oregon State. Huard throws to sophomore flanker Fred Coleman (12receptionsfor 189 yards) andjunior splitendDaveJ anosld. (13 recep­tions for 195 yards). · 
"We watched film ofW ashington against Ohio State and I thought Washington was very close to Ohio State," Holtz remarked. "Neal is a great tailback and Huard is an excellent quarterback ...We're facing prob­ably the second-best team in thePAC-10." 
Clearing paths for Neal are returning offensive line starters Trevor Highfield, Eric Battle and Patrick Kesi. 
The defense, which has allowed just less than 20points a game, is led byjunior inside linebackerInk Aleagaandjuniorfree safety LawyerMilloy,whohaverecorded45tack­les each. Milloy might be the best player on the Huskies and has been compared to former UCLA star Kenny Easley by Lambright. 
There is not much history between the · Irish and the Huskies. For the second straight game, Notre Dame will play a team 


BY GEORGE, ITHINK HE GOT US. Ohio Stat around the Irish defense for.207 yards and tw 
that they have not played for over 45 years. 
The last time the teams did battle was in 1949inSeattle. The Irish won 27-7. Their only other meeting was the year before in Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish dominated that game, winning 46-0. Chapter three is this Saturday. D 
15 



STANDING 
Despite being badly hurt by graduation and . injuries, the Notre Dame men's soccer team continues to fight tough Big East competition during

ii 
their first year in the ii conference 
II
:,
Ii 
!l 
BY RYAN O'LEARYThe mark of a truly great .team has always been its ability to overcome obstacles and defy the odds. At Notre Dame, we expect to find this quality in our teams every year. Some teams, however, face more roadblocks than others. The 1995 Irish men's soccer team has seen enough of them in the past month to last a lifetime. Last year ended in the NCAA tourna­ment, with a heartbreaking 1-0 loss to Indi­ana. The lone.goal was disputed, and an official later apologized for making the controversial call. After the disappoint­mentfrom the loss finally faded,.the Irish had to come to grips with the loss of 12 seniors. Seven of the 12 were starters, including the goalkeeper and most of the defense. Despite another strong recruiting class, it seemed clear that the Irish would need time to reload. Along with the graduation losses, inju­ries this season have taken. out starting sophomore forward Ryan Turner for the season, as well as sophomoremidfielder 


FRESH DEFENSE. Freshmen defender Matt Johnson and goalkeeper Greg Velho mind the net for the Irish. 

Scott Wells for most of September. When Lanza, they took on a well-rested Seton another starter, freshman defender Matt · Hall team and fell, 4-1. "Seton Hall was Mahoney, went down in a preseason scrim-· just a real ugly game," says senior mage, most thought that Coach Mike midfielder Josh Landman. "We've been Berticelli's club was.hurting. playing fairly well, but we've been un­
But the Irish came outsmoking,knocking lucky." Despite playing well on the road, off DePaul, Valparaiso and Syracuse in .the Irish were now 3-2, beaten up and their first three games. Despite their lack of unranked. depth and experience, Notre Dame made a "Early season rankings are insignifi­huge jump in the polls from number 23 to cant," acknowledges Berticelli. "We lost numb~r six, the high­est ranking ever at­tained in the school's history. Expectations for the team immedi­ately became very unrealistic. 
The following weekend, the squad traveled to New Jer­sey, where they lost 5-2to seventh-ranked Rutgers.surrendering an early 2-0 lead. Less than 48 hours later, without top 

scorer senior Bill SHUT 'EM DOWN. Junior Midfielder Chris Mathis harrasses a Loyola Marymount player into another turnover. 

16 5 C H O L A 5 T I C· M A G A Z I N E • 0 C T O B E R 5 , · 1 9 9 5 
seven starters to graduation, and four ofour number of different places. "We don't back in the thick of thing~ down the stretch. ·five starters on defense had never started really haveonego-toplayer," saysBerticelli. "We knew we'd have to make adjust­before this year. Most people don't realize "We've gotten goals from different people ments and take some lumps," Berticelli con­that our captain [Tony Capasso] is 19 years at different times." tinues. "We still haven't been shut out yet. old." The graduation losses and injuries It is not the offense that is the main We're just going to stay positive and take it had a much greater impact than the first concern at this point, however. With an one game at a time. That's the reality of it." three games had indicated. extremely inexperienced defense, the Irish TheIrishcontinued to turnthings around last 
Notre Dame returned home a week later have had to worry about protecting early weekend, with a 2-1 victory over North­to face fifth-ranked Indiana. The Irish put leads rather than continuing to attack. "The western, boosting their record to 5-4. 
.the pressure on early, as goals byLanza and more experience they get, the better they'll By November, Lanza, Mahoney and! freshman Ben Bocklage put the Hoosiers in be," Landman says. "Playing overtime Landman should all be back just in time for a 2-0 hole. The Irish could not stop the games against top teams consistently will the Big East tournament and a shot at an! Indiana attack in the second half, however, definitely helpuslaterin theseason." Lanza automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament. and they fell in overtime, 4-2. agrees: "The defense just needs time to "All you need to do is win three in a row [in With less than two days rest, they had to become a unit and get some confidence." the Big East Tournament to get an NCAA face another tough Big East opponent in Becoming a unit is tough when different bid]," says Berticelli. "We're getting better Boston College, this time without seniors players are on the field every game, particu­every week. We've exposed some ofour Lanza and Landman. Again, the Irish larly in the net "The keeper is lcind of like weaknesses. We just need to make some grabbed a 2-1 halftime lead, but a penalty a coach from behind," says Lanza. "Not changes until we're stronger." kick late in the game helped send the game having the same guy there every game kind "We fully expect to be in it at the end of into overtime, and the Eagles capitalized ofleaves it all up in the air. You almost feel the season," says Landman. "We've had for a 3-2 win. "We've played fairly well," like you can't really depend on them be-bad breaks. I can't really explain it. Ifl had Landman says. 
the answers, we'd "We've just had some be winning." Lanza bad breaks." adds, "Remember, "We're a young we had a tough tealll with a reason-stretch last year, 
. .ableamountoftalent," too," recalling the agrees. Berticelli. loss of5of7 games "When we'rehealthy, in midseason." we'recapableofscor­Regardless of ing on anybody. how this season We've got a good turns out, it's clear amountoftalent. But that this is an up­we've got fewer and-coming pro­scholarships and gram. The move to tougher admissions the Big ,East has standards than any of meanttoughercom­the teams w~ play. petitionand tougher We're not really on a ~ standards. "It's a level playing field." :, [ great situation for 
At this point, many "' us,'' says Berticelli. 
WE'RE GOIN' DOWNTOWN: Junior Brian Engesser, the lone returning defensive 
haveassumed thatthis "It really helps re­
starter from a year ago, clears the ball out of Notre Dame territory. 
will be a rebuilding cruiting, and we're year for Notre Dame soccer. But Berticelli · cause it's always different." playing against top competition every time hesitates to use the word 'rebuilding.' "Our Dark clouds have not covered the entire out." own expectations are very high. We're not season, though. The freshmen, almost out With four straight seasons in and out of going to settle for a 'rebuilding' year," the of necessity, have had an immediate im­the Top 25 and back-to-back tournament coach says. pact, particularly on defense. Greg Velho appearances, the Irish are definitely headed 
At the same time, however, the expecta­has seen agood deal ofplaying time in goal, in the right direction. "Each year we've tions that accompany a number six ranking platooning with sophomore Peter Van de beenbetter,"saysLandman. 'Toeprogram's are unfairto placeon the shoulders ofa team Ven. Defender MattJohnson has moved definitely still moving up." that has enough trouble walking without a rightinandplayedeffectively, andMahoney The Irish hav~ shown they are talented limp. The injury bug has bitten again, with is expected to take over a starting spot upon and confident enough to play with the best. Lanza expected to miss the next couple of his return.· Bocklage has helped keep the "Soccer's a funny game," notes Berticelli. 
.games and Landman out until November. Irish offense going despite the injuries.· "We're capable of playing with anyone in Without Lanza, Turner and Landman, Even through injuries and inexperience, the country. Everything just has to fall into the scoring slack has been picked up in a Berticelli and company fully expect to be place." 




I -------------7 
l Stay in touch with No_tre Dame i 
'I subscribe to · I 
I I 
: SCHOLA·STIC l , 
: MAGAZINE : 
I I 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS .1 I :. I would like to become :I 
YES'• 
1 

1 a subscriber to Scholastic. 1 
I I I Name· I 
I I ===='. I
----1 Address· ] 
TRANSLATED AND DIRECTED BY Rev. DAVID GARRICK, c.s.c. I ! 
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4 ... 8:09 P.M. FRIDAY, Oct. 6 ........... 8:oo P.rvt.1 State· Zip Code:___ I 
THURSDAY, Oct. 5 ...... 8:00 P.M. SATURDAY, Oct. 7 ...... 8:00 P.M.1 · I SUNDAY, OCT. 8 ......... 2:30 P.M. I I 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL • RESERVED SEATS $8. j I STUDENT AND SENIOR CITIZEN DISCOUNTS . , Please don't forget to include a check for $30.00 I TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE LAFORTUNE 
I I 
STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631-8128 
L ----------------~ 
PIZZA

BRUNO'S 
µal­



·trJl 
BRUNO'S SOUTH
BRUNO'S NORTH 
Open for carryout and delivery only Accepting reservations on weekends. 4-1 op.m. weekdays, 4p.m. to midnight weekends. --Available for private parties and banquets. 
• 2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH TWO ITEMS • 2 12-INCH PIZ-ZAS WITH TWO ITEMS. 
OR. OR 
ONE 14-INCH PIZZA ONE 14-INCH PIZZA WITH UP TO SIX.TOPPINGS WITH UP TO SIX TOPPINGS FOR ONLY $10.50 FOR ONLV $10.50 
115 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 2610 Prarie Avenue 
273-3.890 288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVE·RY of our pizza right to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Campuses. 

SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup ofthe week in sports September 27 to October 3 edited by Shannan Ball 
Men's Soccer Racks up Two Wins 

Notre Dame men's soccer team ended its losing streak with two victories last week. On Thursday, the Irish shut out Loyola Marymount 5-0 and followed up with a 2­1 victory over Northwestern. The game againsttheWildcats gave theIrish their first road win of the season. 
Against Loyola Marymount, Tony Capasso, Konstantin Koloskov, Peter Gansler and Chris Mathis all scored goals, while Greg Velho recorded his first career shutout. Velho also had eight saves against Northwestern. Scott Wells and Ben Bocklage each netted a goal for the Irish. 
In the coming week, Notre Dame will host Detroit on Thursday and then resume BigEastplayinagameagainstGeorgetown. The Irish are looking to improve upon their 1-3 record in the conference. 
Big East Debut Successful for Volleyball Team 

After a 3-0 win over DePaul last Tues­day, the Fighting Irish volleyball team em­barked on their first Big East road trip and returned home victorious. They defeated both Georgetown and Villanova by scores of3-0. 
A school record was set when the Irish allowed DePaul only five points. At 40 minutes it was also the shortest game· in 
Notre Dame history. Sophomores Jaimie 
Leeand Angie Harris each have 12matches 
with double-figure kills and have played 
crucial roles in the team's recent wins. 
Carey May, another sophomore, has also 
been instrumental for the Irish. 
Notre Dame, ranked 10th in the polls, 
will play host to Big East opponent West 
Virginia on Friday. The next day they face 
Duke in a non-conference match-up. 
Irish Shutout Streak Comes to an End 

For thefirst time this season, an opposing 
team managed to score a goal against the 
Notre Dame women's soccer team. Infact, 
the Cincinnati Bearcats knocked in two 
goals as the teams battled to a 2-2 tie in 
overtime. Cindy Daws scored for the Irish 
late in the game and in the final minutes 
Julie Maund hit from 20 yards to send the 
game into overtime. Neither team could 
score and the game ended in a tie. 
The.Irish also faced Ohio State last week­end. Senior Rosella Guerrero tied the game at 1-1 and sent the match into overtime. .Cindy Daws scored the winning goal in the 
extra period. · 
In the coming week, the fourth-ranked 
Irish will play 1994 national semifinalist, 
fifth-ranked Connecticut, and then they will 
take on Santa Clara. 
We are ND: Scholastic does not like to spread rumors, but here goes. According to the September 25 issue ofThe Sporting News, a '96 Kickoff Classic matchup may be in the making between the Irish and the Tennessee Volunteers. 
Quote ofthe Week: "According to Coach [Holtz] heis theonlyperson in theUnited States to get less sleep than O.J. last night, so he really didn't feel like the press conference today was something that he could afford to do and then also be out there for practice." -Bob Davie on Holtz' s sore throat, the reason he couldn't be at the teleconference Wednesday. 
Schaller's Schot: The Irish defense makes amends foi: last week by shuting down Leon Neal and the Husky ground attack. Meanwhile, the Irish rushers have a field day. Kinder picks up his fifth straight 100-yard game and Denson breaks the game open with an 80­yard scamper just before halftime. NotreDame takes the ball away from Washington three times, and Powlus is efficient Notre Dame 30 Washington 20 


BY CHrus MYERSYou'veseenthepostersandpamphlets tacked to thepinboards of O'Shaugnessy Hall -JO CDs for the price of.one! Every Sunday, the colorful pull-out slides out from the confines ofParade Magazine -Buy6 nwviesfor 29 cents each! The flyers litter many a magazine and the non-stop mailbox blitz hits every month or so-Join nowfor unbelievable disc.ounts! The publicity plugs for music and movie clubs are virtually inescapable -and they're working. It's hard to resist the tempting offers laid out in such simple tenns. How could a college student refuse the pitch ofgetting 10 CDsfor thepriceofone? Any moviebuffwouldjumpat the chance to get six videos for a penny each. That's the offer, right? Yes. And no. True, you'11 get those "free" CDs or movies, but make sure to read the fine print Impulse shoppers are in for a surprise when theyfind out they've already been enrolled in aclub for threeyears and they have yet to buy aquota amount ofproducts at "regular club prices." · BMGMusicServiceandColumbiaHousearethetwomajorCD/ Cassette clubs (Columbia House also operates a video club and Iaserclisc club). Their initial offers are attractive, but club require­ments are stricter. Once you've joine.d the club, depending on which one, certain restrictions apply. BMG, for example, is fairly lenient Their pitch -10 CDs for the price of one, with nothing more to buy -is actually crystal clear. You get six.CDs for a penny each, buy one at regular club 
Great deals not what you expected? Membership requirements too strict? Discount prices seem too high? 
• 

om the 
lub 
As CD and Video Clubs solicit college campuses~ more and more · students are finding out the program is not what they bargained for 
price within a year and get three more free. Columbia House, the 
stricter of the two, requires its members to buy six selections at 
regularclub price over aspan ofthree years. Sales flyers featuring 
the month's specials are sent on a regular basis and then the deals 
really start to fly. 

Unlimited CDs 40 percent Off! Movies as low as $4.95! Half­
off Bargain Sale! Every month brings a new special -with the 
same catch. You can stockup on as many ofthose special CDs and 
videos as you want, as long as you buy one at "regular club price" 
(R.CP). Those three haunting words have come to haunt new 
members who have just joined a club. 
The monthly specials are attractiveindeed, butthey do not count 
toward your membership quota -only items priced at RCP or higher help to fulfill therequirement For CDs, this means $16.98, .for videos it's $19.95; If you think you can get those CDs and movies cheaper in the stores, you're probably right Regular club · prices are usually the standard retail price, with few exceptions. 
Columbia House Video Club offers exclusive prices on videos 
priced for rental (which nonnally run about $100), though these 
selections cost $29.95 or more through the club. The clubs will 
hook you in with the specials, but get to your pocketbook through 
the RCP clause. 

Another catch is the quota. You must buy those additional items 
over time, but only selections at RCP count towards that number. 
For example, you can buy one CD at the club price and get 
unlimited others for 33 percent off, yet only one quota credit will 
go toward your account. 
20 

SCHOLASTIC lyfAGAZINE • OCTOBER 5, 1995 

The final surprise of the clubs comes when you get the bill. It might seem worthwhile to splurge on adozen discount CDs-but 

shipping and hand!ing. For the video club, the latter charge runs $3.99 for the first selection and $1.99 for. each additional choice. The low price the catalog stated has suddenly swelled on the bill. 
Yet some students have found a way to beat the system. Fresh­man Kieran Hennessey isno stranger to the club business, though he may be a stranger to them. He admits to using fake names and false addresses in order to avoid being billed. ''That is what's so great about college-youmove every year," he says. His feelings are echoed by junior Matt DeGraff whose aliases are names of famous sports celebrities. DeGraffclaims to have received about 60 free CDs from BMG by having them sent to friends' addresses. The bills and notices _come in the mail but, conveniently, the customers never get them. 
.How do students feel about ripping-off the clubs? "I wouldn't say 'rip-off,' it's payback. It's not really stealing ifyou're stealing from a company," says Hennessey. He adds that his older brother has had similar success ''paying back" not only CD and movie clubs, but also getting "free" magazines and even collector plates. 
While these and _others think ih.ey may be on to something, the clubs thinkotherwise. Ifa name oraddress islistedwith badcredit, clubs can warn other organizations about it. Likewise, after so many notices of late payments, the clubs can crack down. Tunji (full1:1ame),acustomerservicerepresentative for Columbia House, 
stealing from a company. 
says the club "is pretty lenient with payments," since customers have theoption ofpaying in smallincrements overalongperiod of ti.me if necessary. "If [the customers] don't pay, there is no alternative," he says, "and a collection agency is called to investi­gate." Afterreceivingnotices from the club, DeGraffagrees, ''You don't want to mess with Columbia House." · Ultimately, students must decide ifthey want to bother with the clubs at all. While the first-glance offers may be attractive, the responsibility of membership can become a financial burden for some overzealous buyers. Likewise, upon membership, your name is added to the mailing lists ofsubsidiary organizations ofthe club; like book clubs and specialty merchandise catalogs. 
Forsome,however,amembershipmaybeworthit. Buyingfrom these clubs can save you money, butonly ifyou buy in bulk. Those with weak checkbooks need not apply. Those looking to try and beat the system are forewarned-it's illegal and the clubs aren't easily fooled. So if you're thinking about '1oining the club'' remember: membership has its privileges -but ask yourself if they're really worth it. · · . 


Morrissey's new 
Southpaw Grammar 
takes the long road to nowhere 





Wrong Direction 

Due to Notre Dame's crushing defeat this past weekend, Justin was wrought with · depression and rendered immobile upon ihe ajfixation ofhis official Lou Holtz "Ex­cuse/or-Losing" neck brace. Because of this unfortunate occurrence, Joe takes over this week's column sans his faithful compadre. 
BY JoE MARCHAL 
It's been a long and prosperous year for Morrissey. His recent release South­paw Grammar comes off the heels of a successful compilation of B-sides, covers, live iracks and '95 originals (The World of Morrissey). The originals on that compila­tion sparkle with theMoz' s ( uri)usualknack for the catchy pop tune. Fool that I am, I expected that his work would not change significantly in a year. Sure, I heard the buzz about a "more rockin" Morrissey, but rock or not, mope or might, Morrissey' s brand of pop is entrancing and has shined through whatever style he's implemented before. First of all, it's difficult to wade through the excessive instrumentation on this al­bum. "Go Ugly Easily"_seems to be his motto for this one, since he wastes an inter­esting tune with excruciatingly long, yet spooky, strings.-Setting a mood for "The Teachers Are Afraid ofthe Pupils" is under­standable, but when he throws in a hard­driven guitar riff midway through the hor­rific I I-minute track (including a repeated chorusforthelastfourminutes),allyoucan ask is why?! 
Apparently, Morrissey has also devel­oped a penchantfor the skins. A superflu­ous drum solo lasting well over two minutes opens the decent "The Operation." Classic lines such as, "fight with your right hand/ and caress with your left hand/everyone here is sick to death ofyou" are defeated by numbed guitar and drum excursions at the end of otherwise excellent songs such as "The Operation," ''The Boy Racer" and "Do Your Best and Don't Worry." 
Tracks such as· "Reader Meet Author" and "Dagenham·Dave" did have me remi-niscing about Your Arsenal, Morrisey's 

successful I992album. Unfortunately, those 
memories were short-lived. 
The final song seems a bookend -to the opening atrocity of "The Teachers." "Southpaw," lasting a :ridiculous 10 min­utes, isn't even lyrically interesting. The vocals fade early and "the band" takes over from there, leading the listener to sheer, unadulterated boredom. The repetitive six minutes are gratefully placed at the end so you can simply switch off the stereo. · Beneath all the baggage there are occa­sional rewards. It might have been more advisable to put out a tight set of six songs on a 20-25 minute EP rather than prolong this experiment gone wrong. Only a true blue Morrissey maven could enjoy South~ paw. Grammar -brilliance too often. squelched by boredom. c . . 
"Go ugly easily" seems to be _Morrissey's motto for this·-one 
SCHOLASTIC ,MAG AZ IN E ¦ 0 CT OBER 5, 1 9 9 5 

23 



SCHOLASTIC !v:(AGAZINE ¦ OCTOI3ER 5, 1995 

BY JOI-IN rnFRANCA 
. A Wild Tuesday 
Four students at the University of Illinois have encouraged their peers to take part in what they call "Flash Tuesday." No, this event is not a celebration of everyone's favorite superhero, Flash Gordon. Instead, in the words of one of its organizers, junior Gregory Fast, the event will hopefully "further the goal of a freer society," by having students run naked across the quad. Organizers have publicized the event through e-mail and are considering making additional announcements. According to Fast, "We hope it will help people to understand each other better." One won­ders if this goal would be better achieved through a biology class than through public nudity. 
Police have warned students that they could be violating two laws and would face a fine and up to one year in prison if they participate. In any event, sources tell us that the naked accordion player from Michigan (see last week's On Other Campuses) has been asked to perform at the event. 
. All ofthe Little Cockroaches are Dying 
For most, cockroaches would be an un­desirable guest But for entomologis,ts (you better look that one up,kids) atKansas State University, these little critters are welcome friends. These entomologists have become quiteirate lately, though, due to the poison­ing of 55 insects in their laboratory. Cam­pus police are investigating this viscous attack,in which most of the two-inch Mada­gascar roaches died. Thus far, the police remain baffled.· According to Investigator Richard Herrman, "We don't have anyone thatwouldhaveamotive,anyonethatwould have a grudge." 
My guess is that Raid has been consider­ing going international and was attempting to test whether they should open a new chain of roach motels in Madagascar. Last night I flew to Kansas State University to investigate on my own. What I found was quite revealing: a shattered ant farm, a strange calendar, an accordion and some discarded clothing. 
. Play Scientist ofthe Month 
What's your favorite subatomic par­ticle? For Brian Scottoline, a researcher at StanfordUni:versity's biochemistry labpra­tory, it's Higgs Bosons. This and other exciting information can be found out by reading the profile of Scottoline, a.k.a. "Dr. January." Scottoline appears on the "Studmuffins of Science''. calendar, to be i;eleased next month. 
Creator Karen Hopkins hopes the calen­dar, featuring 12athletically-built male sci­entists, will destroy the nerdy stigma asso­ciated with their field. While the calendar may surprise many, it is no shock to me. Personally, I have always felt that Albert Einstein'sgorgeous hairandmuscularbuild made him quite a stud. From what I've heard, Dr. March is a physicist whose hob­bies include music. For those of you who are wondering, he will be posing nude with his accordion. 
. Stop that Fighting! 
Next time your parents or roommates tell you that you watch too much T.V. don't worry, you're not alone. Researchers at UCLAspent3,000hoursinfrontofthetube during the last television season, as part of a three-year project sponsored by the major commercialbroadcastnetworks. Theproject concluded that some programs are unnec­essarily violent, while others are not. In­credibly insightful, isn't it? 
Believe it or not, Saturday morning tele­vision programs were said to have some of the most disturbing scenes. That's right, "Teenage Mutant Ninga Turtles" and everyone's favorite colorful crusaders, the "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers," were said to exist solely to portray fighting. (And I thought they were supposed to provoke stirring intellectual discussion.) As the. report said, "It is true that people rarely die . on Saturday morning, but it's not true that they rarely fight." 
In the case of the Power Rangers, it really is a shame they don't die. I don't know about you, but I sure miss the days of Smurfs-they never fought and Gargamel never got to eat them. In addition, my sources at UCLA have told me that the study severely denounced the abundance of nude accordion players appearing on tele­vision. 
. Raffle at Rick's 
Manystudents consider themselves lucky to get into college. And now, a new admis­sions policy at Rick's College will add greater meaning to this feeling. Next year, the school plans to fill its final 1,000 spots by a random, computerized drawing. The charter of the two-year Mormon college calls for an "open door" admissions policy, but the school reviews applications from twice as many students as it can accept. Instead of splitting hairs over merit, the administration has decided to leave the pro­cess up to chance. 
While many may find this system to be questionable, it could be worse. Rumor has it that other ideas included a scratch-off game, closest to the pin contest and "Bowl­ing for College." Besides, I'm sure true talents, such as playing the accordion, can still be enough to separate applicants from thecrowdandearn themacceptance(enough with the stupid accordion jokes). 

•
om1.ng

Distractions 
October 5 

Field, Court & Alley 
Football 

• ND at Washington. Saturday, :2:30 p.m. 
Women's Soccer 

• 
ND vs. Connecticut. Alumni Field. Friday, 7:30 p.m. 

• 
ND vs. Santa Clara. Alumni Field. Sunday, 12 p.m. 


Men's Soccer 

• 
ND vs. Detroit. Alumni Field. Thursday, 7:30 p.m. 

• 
ND vs. Georgetown. Alumni Field. Sunday, 2 p.m. 


Cross Country 

• Notre Dame Invitational. Notre Dame Golf Course. Friday, 4:15 p.m. 
Volleyball 

• 
ND vs. West Virginia. JAAC. Friday, 7 p.m. 

• 
ND vs. Duke. JAAC. Saturday, 7 p.m. 



Cultural Connection 
Lectures and Seminars 

• 
Multicultural Fall Festival. Performance, featuring 

Masai entertainer John Ole Tome. Ballroom, LaFortµne. Thursday, 7 p.m. 

• 
Multicultural Fall Festival, "Fireside Chat," Jill Godmillow. Notre Dame Room, Lafortune. Friday, 


12:15 p.m. 

• Multicultural Fall Festival, "Culture on the Quad." Fieldhouse Mall. Friday, 4:15 to 6:15 p.m. 
· • Multicultural Fall Festival, "Taste of Nations," Saber Latino (Band). Stepan. Friday, 8 p.m. Admission $1. 
Entertainment . 
• 
Play, "The Imaginary lnvalid."Washington Hall. Thursday, Friday and Saturday, 8 p.m. Sunday, 2:30 p.m. Admis­sion. 

• 
Film, "Exotica." Snite. Friday and Saturday, 7:30 and 9:45 


p.m. Admission. 

• 
Film, "Batman Forever." Cushing. Friday and Saturday, 8 and 10:30 p.m. Sunday, 2 p.m. Admission. 

• 
Film, "Quiz Show." Carroll Auditorium (SMC). Fri­day and Saturday 7 and 9:30 p.m. Admission. 


-October 12 

On the Silver Screen 
October 6 to October 12 
University Park West: 277-7336. 
• 
"Too Wong Foo," PG-13, 2:15, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45. , • "Usual Suspects," R, 2:30, 5:00, 7:25, 9:45. 

• 
"Last of the Dogmen," PG, 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30. 


. University Park East: 277-7336. • "Clockers," R, 2:30, 5:30, 8:30. 
• 
"Desperado," R, 1 :30, 4:1p, 7:15, 9:40. 

• 
"Apollo 13," PG, 1 :45, 4:45, 8:00. 

• 
"The Big Green," PG, 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30. 

• 
"Moonlight &Valentino," R, 2:00, 4:20, 7:00, 9:20. 

• 
"Steal Big, Steal Little," PG-13, 2:15, 5:00, 8:15. 


Movies 10 

• 
"Braveheart," R, 8:00. 

• 
"How to Make an American Quilt," PG-13, 1 :20, 4:00, 

7:20, 10:00.. • "Babe," G, 1 :15, 3:10, 5:15. 

• 
"Halloween 6," R, 1 :25, 3:30, 5:35, 7:40, 9:45. ·· 

• 
"Assassins," R, 1:00, 1 :45, 3:50, 4:35, 7:00, 7:30, 9:50, . 10:20. 

• 
"A Walk in the Clouds," PG-13, 7:25, 9:40. 

• 
"National Lampoon's Senior Trip," R, 12:55, 3:05, 5:10. 

• 
"Dead Presidents," R, 1 :35, 4:15, 7:10, 10:10. 

• 
"To Die For," R, 2:1 0, 4:45, 7:45, 10:15. 

• 
"Unstrung Heroes," PG, 1:10, 3:25, 5:30, 7:50, 9:55. 

• 
"Dan erous Minds," R, 1:00, 3:20, 5:50, 8:05, 10:20. 



SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 5, 1995 


~thanol'? (Don't Think ~o.~ 
BY JOI-IN rnFRANCAIt's 7:30 a.m. and I'm already late. I quickly get up and take a look out my apartment window before heading to the shower. "God, San Francisco is a beautiful city," I think to myself. "I sure wish I lived there." The City of Angels is Heaven for any detective, but on this cold and wet Decem­berday the only ground I would be touching would be the streets of South Bend, Indi­ana. After a quick shower I throw on some clothes and grab my briefcase on the way out the door. On it are my initials, ADS­short for Albert David Salvette. As I step out the doorway that familiar smell hits me once again. "I love the smell of ethanol in the morning," I say to myself as I hear the music of Wagner dance deli­catelytowardsmefromasecond-floorwin­dow. Jumping into my car, I rush to the office and arrive just after 8:15 a.m. "Good morning, Al," my secretary says, greeting me with a bevy of messages. As I sit down to read them she runs out to make some coffee. Gloria is a horrible typist, poor receptionist and has no organizational skills, but she makes a great cup of coffee. On top of the stack of messages I find one from Commissioner Scagnetti. It seems the commish wants me to see him at 8:00 a.m. down at the precinct. I grab my coffee and trench coat and head out the door. I'dbe the first to tell you that I'm not the best detective in the world. Fortunately, however, I look great in a trench eoat, and in this business that is often more important than any power of deduction. I pull in front ofthe precinct a little before 8:45. Running into the commish' s office, I find him at his desk. "You're late!" he snaps. "I had an accident on the way," I tell him. "Oh my God, are you all right?" "Yeah, I'm fine," I respond. "I just changed my pants." A bit annoyed at my excuse, he starts to teUme about a new case he wants my help on. ''Letme tell you about a new case I want 
your help on," he begins. "It seems some­thing fishy is going on lately down at the ethanol plant. Strange trucks have been seen driving in and out at odd hours of the morning and we have reason to believe the plant is not actually producing ethanol." 
"What are they producing, air freshen­ers?" 
"We don't know what they're doing, that's what we want you to find out. We want you to get into the plant and look around. What do you say?" 
"Well," I start, "considering that I re­cently lost my flying ability, how do you expect me to get in?" 
"We've arranged to have you make a delivery of supplies. Since you'll be drop­ping them offlate, the plant will letyou park your truck and sleep overnight." 
Never one to shy away from a new case, I agree. After a little more information I head back to my apartment and do a little needlework and fingerpainting, then take a nap. Upon waking up I study a map of the plantandthenheadout. Allgoesasplanned, and soon I'm sitting in the parking lot. 
Now the fun begins. At around 11:30 
p.m. I leave the truck and sneak towards the back of the plant. There, with the aid ofmy map, I find a storeroom window. I break it and enter the pitch dark room. 
"God, why didn't I bring a flashlight?" I think. Luckily I find a door knob and the next momentI'm in a long, empty hallway. Walking down it I pass a door which says "Staff Only." Realizing this is a great place to start, I open the door. I tum the light on and quickly spot a toilet bowl and sink. 
"Oh, a bathroom," I say to myself. Leav­ing this dead end I head further down the hall. The next door is locked, but I quickly pick the lock with some gum and a Q-tip. 
Theinsideisilluminatedonlybythelight from an exit sign. Below the sign I see a strange contraption labeled "Mind Control­ling Unit." Looking down at the floor I spot stacks of mysterious-looking boxes. I go up to one and read the side. "Pork chops," it says. I then check some other boxes out. The next two are labeled "Turkey turn­overs" and "Shrimp Poppers." In small lettering below themI see theletters"NDH." Quickly I deduce the apparent similarity: "My God, this is all food!" 
"Very good, my friend," says a voice behindme. Itumtofindamaninadashirig three-piece suit complemented by a lovely striped tie. 
"Who are you?" I inquire. "And where did you get that lovely suit?" "Ian M. Currubd and Macy's," he answers. 
"You, sir," he continues, «have stuck your nose where itdoesn 'tbelong. It seems you have found out my little secret. If you haven't guessed yet, this plant has nothing to do with ethanol. No, what we do here is burn food. The food in those boxes has more fat and oil than most premium gaso­line. With it we produce energy to fuel alien spaceships. Ifyou haveri'frealized it yet, I am not human, I come from the planet." Just then !jump at him, but to my dismay a box of comdogs falls from a shelf, knock­ing me unconscious. 
I awake hours laterin St. Joseph's hospi­tal. I tell the police my story but they refuse to believe me. They all have some strange lookin their eyes, as ifthey are hypnotized. 
So my secret remains mine alone. My attempts to find the man from theplanthave all proved fruitless. Since I never found out what planet he came from, I have been unable to get his phone number from direc­tory assistance. All I know is that I've found the truth behind the South Bend Ethanol Plant, and every morning when I wake to that smell I know that one day the truth will be known. . 
This isahwnor column. These viewsare not necessarily the views of the editorial · staffof Scholastic Magazine. 
N 
00 
>
Ill 
:r 
~ 
Ill 
iv 
"Cl Ill 
0 
::i: 
C, 
C" 
C 
WIil 
C, Ill. 
3: 
[ z 
2.
.. 
~ 
C
~ 
C, ;::s--3 0 
;­
C) ::I ~ 
~ iD 
C, 
a.

{fl 
Ill 

n ;.
~ 
.....

::i:: 
C") ~ 

0 :r0 
r-' ~ ..C, 
>-IQ~ 
{fl . 
~ 2. ~ 

>-l 
~ 
C,

..... 
c

n ~ 
3 
2. 

>-~ 
0 

C) 
C, 

>-== 
0
:r

N C,
..... 
::I 

:z: :; 
iii'

trl 
. :r 

a :s. 
0 0 
0
...

n 
'<

>-l 
0 
<

0 ~
..

t,::j 
·-1

trl ~ 
><

:,;J 
C, 
!'I 

01 
' 
.... 
\0 \0 01 

. 
six fqriy 
1; ~-~ 
amplitude 



Ii 1'wvfil~

iI IR A o 1 aI motjulation 
fuesday Wiednesd.au fhursd.au. monda11 
7 
dan 
steve 
shannon 
patrick 
o'brien Jodie
&
gasperec 
-perry 
barry 
kranz 
9 

katie
josh

paul ozerskymissy gillard
herbertbyman 
11 
charlie
t j kranz krista
matt nannery 
bogdewic
hynes 
1 
tedjoe 
brent
chad 
•11 chikkenhead" 
dicrescenzo
vivar 
murphy hennessy
3 
esperanza 
kate
holly
rob 
la
short 

dougherty
masterso11
.bajista
s 
ohsv. pickhardcore
j. dorwartc. shaffer 
6 
anne marle 
Bos show 
world music 
meg&mav 

& rose
7 

BR.IT HOUR. 
doug
FUN!<
DEAD 
a. ennis
j. bassett rob adams 
mceacher11 
9 
ryan
jack 
sarah
4uncan
boo 

walser mike & & chad 
sojagallagher 
larmoyeux schaffler
11: 
30 
dave mcmahon 
justin
jim 

erik & jim
christensen 
cote
mcnamee 
iadwisiak 


6:?J, 

~ the specialty shows are in italics! 

Music ~-­
Requests! · ~ lx6400 

;{'·:i:J 
d ..,~ . •,;,

Iir,,'day safurday sun ay 
YN YN YN "VI" -vw--_' YN.'YN V1r )21( )21( 'Vlf "IIIO'"'IQ'"lltlf"VO/ --""'-y;;('"#:1{_~--.r,;-"llOl"VOl"VO/"tlCY)lll;("«L_~ ·---~-.-: 
, Pf:Y1i.'YN Yti "iN "V"r -v.--ow'~ 'Ulf l:ll 

"Oi YJlt YN "V"r "VI'" -v. -vt"".YJI VI' )21( l2C "™
andria ':m'.Y1(Y1('YNYN'"V"r'Ulf"'l:ll"YN'-----l'li-UW-l2J 
"VO/"IIIO'"IIIO'"IIIY~~-----"Ila".-.::
&""°' "'IQ' "IIIO' "YO/ ~y;;c:m:~~ ~ ~ 
8 

& 
kristi 
ron inspirational garcia
chris 
programming
owen jeni 
11 
0 
paulson 

SUB-DJ
jeannine 
co

show.
gaubert· 
alan 

1 -,
smith sadie

steve 
OJ 

davis
'. 
sabo 
dwayne 
3 3 

anthony 
dibbley joe

Hmjuco & dan 
villinslli
dan

connolly 
5 CJ)

reg1na
wolters

wvfi top 20 
rathnau 
.(") 

& ... colleen
r&h: tysus 
andy 
carev 
::T
7

TECHNO 
burns 

spokn word 
CD

r. ruiz 
8 

jp & dennis 
r&h :knneth

j. galvan 
9 a. 
sportssinatra show

wendy 
C
10

emily
INDUSTRIAL

ldare 
anderson
tim hussey & 

& erica 
CD
tracey kijewski 
haavi2 
12

RAP 
dusty rachel

w.edwards caidor
degrande

r. o'leary 
z 



¦




swimmers 
prefer s.u.b. 
aver lye ra because we sponsor events· 
. like Sopohomore Literary 
j/ Fest, Antostal, R.E.M, Colle­giate Jazz Festival, stress relievers, Gerry Adams, Apollo 13, lemonade stands, warm fuzzies, trench kisses, and this week's flic at Cushing Auditorium Batman 4­ever, Thurs & Fri 8/1 Opm and then Sunday at 2 pm. Questions? 1-7757. 
TRY US ON! 




Delivery Deals 
~tom· Th{! 1-fuddlB 
. . 

_Gall l -690·2 ­
' .
. . . 


Order Delivery For Lunch, Evening, or Late Nite 
( or anytime 1 0:30am-2am ) 
r-­

..-----r---------­

I 
$4 
$5 :~'.\$10 
.Deal -"-T-Deal
Deal A
Any 14" ny WO

I 1411 Large 

Unlimited Topping 14" Pizza's 
I 

Cheese Pizza Pizza can and a 2liter ca11 
--. Call 
.. . 1-6902

I . -. 1-6902

1-6902 I 

Coupon Expires 10-24-95 Coupon Expires 10-24-95
Coupon Expires 10-24-95 
----.--__,.

-------~ ------... 












