— Che
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•Dl5Ce:9VASI-SemPei2-VICW -VIVC-OVASl^RASdMORlB^
Vol. XLH.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 13, 1909. -	J	J \	I
No. 19.
The Songs of the Waves. .
George J. Finnigan, ’10.
THE waves, have wondrous secrets, ■ Which their voices speak to me, Gazing o’er the swelling bosom
Of the tireless, pulsing sea.
Oft they rise in fearful grandeur
And their foam-flecked crests leap high, Singing songs of hard sea-battles,
Boasting of the ships that lie Deep within the ocean’s bosom
Masked with sea-weed grown awn*.
Then 'they tell in gladsome rhythm -Of the boats that plow the main;
How they help them on their journey, Else these boats would sail in vain. .
But more oft the strain is sadder, And the billows seem to weep
As they tell me of dear loved ones
Resting in the caverned deep;
Then the sobbing waves just whisper ' Dirges of their endless sleep.
0 the waves have wondrous secrets, Would you know them? Come with me, And we’ll listen to their voices
Echoing from the restless sea.
Abraham Lincoln.*
NE hundred years ago to-day was born. Abraham -Lincoln. The world has already recognized him as one. of its great men. There are many kinds of great men. Lincoln’s greatness
is that of a chief magistrate. The names of men who have been great in this line are comparatively few. Greece had many distinguished men, but of these perhaps not more than three have come - down to us as ’
great rulers. If we name Pericles, Philip of Macedon and Alexander, it will be hard to think of another. In Roman -history we know of Scipio, Caesar and Augustus,— Marcus Aurelius we think of as a philosopher and Justinian as a lawgiver. Modern Italy has left us the memory of no magistrate of the first class, unless it be Leo the Tenth and Lorenzo de Medici; but they were great rather as patrons of art than as rulers. Russia had one ruler of the first rank, the terrible Peter. We might perhaps add the name of the equally terrible Catherine. China has had one such ruler, the woman who has recently passed, after a reign of fifty-two years. Sweden had one, perhaps two, Charles the Twelfth and Gustavus. Poland had John Sobieski. German history abounds in great names, but there are no rulers of the first class, unless it, be Maria Theresa of Austria and Frederick of Prussia. Holland produced William the Silent;, and Spain, Charles the Fifth and Philip the Second, though we linger also upon the name of Isabella. France claims Constantine, Charlemagne, Henry the Fourth, Louis the Fourteenth and. Napoleon. From England we have Alfred the Great, Elizabeth and Cromwell. Spanish America honors the great name of Bolivar. In our own country we have Washington, Jefferson, Jackson and Lincoln.- So few rulers of states have
- reached the first rank. It is well, perhaps; -'that most kings and presidents have been persons of moderate attainments; If a ruler be merely a. great man and not also a good one, it were better that he should be only a man of ordinary talent. Fortunately, therefore, most kings, emperors and presidents are persons of average ability and not
* Address of the Hon. Timothy E. Howard, delivered in Washington Hall on Lincoln. Day, Feb: 12, ’09.
322	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	•	I
men of extraordinary genius. It is estimated that of such ordinary, capable men we have at any time not less than one thousand who could acceptably fill the President’s chair.
On this one hundredth anniversary of Lincoln’s birth, it is fitting that the world . should pause and consider in what consists this growing fame of the great President. To be President is, in itself, no indication of greatness. We have had twenty-five Presidents. Of these there are but tw*o that reach to the full measure of greatness. One of our most eminent men was Daniel Webster; but it was no indication of greatness on his part, rather, indeed, a mark of weakness, that he should have craved the office of President; that he. should have perilled his reputation in seeking to reach it, and that he should have died of disappointment for not having attained to it. Henry Clay, who also strove for the place, though inferior to Webster in greatness, yet struck a higher note when he dared to exclaim that he would rather be right than be President. Thomas Jefferson, himself one of the great Presidents, has left us an indication to show how much greater he was than the office which he filled. W'hen the question arose as to a monument to his memory he passed over the mention of his eight years’ service as President, over the fact that he had negotiated with Napoleon the acquisition to the United States of the vast territory beyond the Mississippi; and asked only that the inscription on his monument should be, Thomas Jefferson, Author of the Declaration of Independence and Founder of the University of Virginia. He thus grasped the thought of his true greatness. He might have been President without being a great man; blit to have written the Charter of Liberty for a free people, to have founded a university for the children of those people— that, indeed, was to have been great, whether President or private citizen.
What then is it that gives greatness to the ■ name of Lincoln? Wzhile not great because President, yet. his greatness is essentially connected with the Presidency, and with the opportunity which that position gave him to show forth his supreme qualities as a man. If he is one of the great men of the world; if he is worthy - to stand beside Pericles and Alfred and Washington, it is as
the great President. That is the field of his 4 o	*	g
distinction; and at the end of this first hun- 4 dred years he is quietly rising to his place as | the greatest of our Presidents. Washington | alone looms grandly as his peer; but we f think of Washington, at least in part, as the leader of the army of freedom, indomitable ' | in defeat, masterful and supreme in victory;	?
and also as the Father of his Country, the	s
one man about whom the nation gathered	f
in a bond of union. Lincoln’s place in history	|
is that of the President who came forth from	I
the bosom of the people and reunited them forever in even a closer union than that r formed by Washington.
Webster, in defining oratory, says that it consists in the* man, in the subject and in the occasion. While the man is in himself the chief element in all greatness, yet there | must be a subject, an occasion, to call forth I the powers within him. Mankind are all	f
of the same clay. Extraordinary union of	=
physical, mental and spiritual powers may ; exist anywhere, at any time; but the theatre for their development and display may be absent. Of every City of the Dead it may be said:	’
Some mute, inglorious Milton here may rest,	j
Some Cromwell guiltless of his country’s blood.	,
Napoleon might have lived and died a	i
Corsican squabbler; but France and glory	I
called to him, and the Revolution became j his opportunity.. Demosthenes gathered | Greece to his soul, and Philip furnished the | occasion for his wonderful oratory. Cicero •	|
had the glorious memories of Rome, and | Catiline roused him to action. Burke might	|
have'continued to talk over the heads of	1
Parliament; but the rights of America, tl^e )| stimulus of the French Revolution, waked i in him the mighty orator. Webster has I linked his glory with American Independ- 1 ence and with the indissoluble union of 1 indestructible States. Dante became sur- I charged with the story of humanity, here and J hereafter; and the first flowering forth of £ the modern world became his opportunity. Is
So for. every other great man; so for || Abraham Lincoln. . The man was there, that II wonderful , combination of; physical vigor If and endurance, of. common sense and sym- fl pathy, enabling him .to .enter into a full understanding of the innermost thoughts, feelings and aspirations .of his countrymen; 8 of moderation and wisdom to know when II
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
and how to restrain passion and indiscretion; of wit, humor, imagination, and lofty religious thought, to draw all men to him and then inspire them with the noblest resolve and self-sacrifice; and with all these, there was for himself almost a divine patience and spirit of self-denial.
That was the man; but even such a man might have lived and died a common person; loved, it is true, admired and trusted by those that knew him, and held up for a.time as a noble example to those that should come after him. But for Lincoln there was something more. Not only was the man 5 there, but the subject also,—the American Union, established by Washington and by the mighty men who labored with him; the home of liberty, the hope of mankind, here and elsewhere. Was that to be preserved for us and for our children and for all the people of the earth ?	'
Although himself a man of the South, he detested slavery from the very instincts of his nature, and he would stand with all his strength against its further extension; but for the sake of that Union to whose preservation was devoted every fibre of his being, he would "yield even to the continuance of slavery, where slavery was already established. Providence had its own designs, and even this man was to be made the instrument of striking down that institution he would save. He would save slavery in order to save the Union; but when satisfied that the saving of the Union required the sacrifice of slavery he rose to the greatness of the occasion. He was content under God’s providence to be the savior of his country; but the same Providence added to this title also that of the Great Emancipator.
The man was there; the subject was there; and there also came the occasion—the Civil War came on. Lincoln was called to be President of the United States, and took the oath to support the Constitution, and to maintain at all hazards the integrity of the Union. He rose fully and grandly to the occasion; he kept his oath; he preserved the Union, not only a physical Union, held together by rude force, but his great heart and wise brain made it a Union of hearts as well. In him were completely united all that goes to' make real greatness— the man, the subject and the occasion. He is the great President.
323
.	The Stars-	_
,	John J. Eckert, ’ll.
L0°K up to the stars when thy life seemeth dreary: They smile sweete? t hope midst the darkness of night.
In glory above thee,
They cherish and love thee, And whisper fond secrets in wondrous delight
Look up to the stars when thy life is all gladness: They know thou art happy, and pride in thy bliss.
They sparkle and shimmer
In rays of soft glimmer, And send thee a tender, affectionate kiss. . '
Look up to the stars, for the stars are but children, Fair children of God who created us all.
In infinite number	■
They watch o’er thy slumber, In friendly embraces thy heart to enthrall.
Abraham Lincoln.*
Otto A. Schmid, ’09.
The span of Lincoln’s life was brief, but its depth, its power and its beauty tend toward the sublime. The story of the struggle from the log-cabin of Kentucky to the White House is one of the most beautiful in American history. His life was honest in the extreme, pure in its straightforwardness, and great in its simplicity. . :	.
Abraham Lincoln was born on February the 12th, 1809. He was raised in the backwoods among the frontiersmen who led a life untrammeled by culture or education. In rapid succession he tried his hand at many trades. We find him . a farm hand, a" writer on temperance, a captain in the Black Hawk wars, a country store-keeper, a forester and a boatman. In 1831 he made a trip down the Mississippi River to New Orleans and saw the horrors of slavery for the first time. Disgusted with the business he said to a friend: “If I ever get a chance, I’ll hit that thing hard.” And. history records the fact that he made good his promise. Three years later he was elected
* Address giving the principal facts of Lincoln’s life, spoken in Washington Hall on Lincoln Day. :
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
324
to the State Legislature of Illinois, and began his anti-slavery mission. Later in Congress he carried on the same work. Always and on all occasions he was ready to fight in the cause of liberation.
In 1858 a United States Senator was to be elected in Illinois. Stephen A. Douglas, the recognized prince of speakers in American public life, and Lincoln, the rail-splitter of the back-woods, were the two candidates. In seven great debates they thrashed out the questions at issue. The result of the campaign was the election of Douglas, but Lincoln had won a victory far greater than the Senatorship. He had out-debated Douglas; he had shown himself a sane, trustworthy leader of his party, and had made himself a national statesman. Two years later the same two men were again riyal candidates— this time for the Presidency of the United States, and owing to his far-sightedness and wisdom, displayed in the debates in the senatorial campaign, Lincoln was elected.
When Lincoln took the oath of office in 1861 he had a harder task before him than any other President had ever had. Civil war was about to break out, but in his inaugural address Lincoln showed his ability to control affairs. “The government will not assail you,” he said to the South; “you can have no conflict without being yourselves the aggressors.” That sentence defined the issues; it defined the President’s position; it declared that Lincoln, though he might be an enemy of slavery, was, first of all, an enemy of secession. “My paramount object isto save the Union,” he said, “and not either to save dr destroy slavery. If I could save the'Union without freeing any slaves, I would do it; if I could save it by freeing all the slaves, I would do it; and if I could do it by freeing some and leaving others alone, I would also do. that.” “The Union must be preserved,” was the burden of his presidential administration.	•
His second inaugural address had the same tone of mastery and manliness. • “With malice toward none,” he said, “and charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right, let us finish the work we are in arid bind up the nation’s wounds.” Lincoln’s whole .career was marked by that one characteristic--“malice toward rione, charity for all.” . His term
as President was fraught with the greatest dangers and difficulties known in the history of the Republic. There were armies scattered all over the country for him to worry about, and there were thousands of officers and office seekers to worry him,. There were months of unending toil and days of defeat when all seemed lost. Yet through it all he preserved an even coolness and tenacity of purpose. He was-th'e master-mind behind the armies on the firing line. He had the military insight and the diplomatic genius of a Bismarck; but he was more than that: he was great enough not to use his greatness and strength as a Bismarck. Quietly, ceaselessly, faithfully, he worked to the end, guided the Ship of State safely through the rock-ridden shoals of rebellion; and his earthly reward was the bullet of a traitor.
“Every great iristitution is but the lengthened shadow of some great man.” The Shadow of Lincoln falls across the whole Western Hemisphere iri his great work of saving the nation and freeing the slave. He was the guiding spirit at the Capital throughout the war. Wherever Lincoln was he was master. His career was nearly blameless; few mistakes can be found in his actions-and few flaws in his character. As we celebrate his centennial to-day, we look back and declare in admiration: “There was a great man' indeed; wherice comes there such another?”
--------------------
Cupid Passes.
Harry Ledwidge, ’09.	.
'JTLL me whithet,'Cupid mine, With that roguish look of thine, ■ Arid half hidden valentine, .
Whither goest thou ?	’
. To a rose that scents the air In my garden fresh and fair Delicate beyond compare, . Whither go I now.
Tell me,. Cupid, have I part .
In; thy blooming rose’s5heart?	-
.. Is; it proof to wile of ? art,.
-. Tell me, Cupid, pray ?. .
Roses.bloom;and fade, my boy; -.. '..Hasten! all‘.your,- art employ
Ere-the phangibg . sun destroy . .. ,	. ;
What is-fair to-da5< -Z - -	:
(:
/
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	325
.Lincoln’s Letter to Mrs. Bixby.*
It is said that the character and ideas of statesmen are best studied through their words. This is remarkably true of the great statesman whose centennial we celebrate to-day. The words of Abraham Lincoln, whether written or spoken, are splendid revelations of the man.
His personal letters were embodiments of the good, true sentiments that made him the best-loved of our great men. His public speeches were evidences of the simplicity and naturalness, the intellectual power and resolute will, that placed him among the greatest of our statesmen, o
There are two extracts from the works of him,—the greatest of our mighty dead— that will ever be found associated with the memory of the man and of his accomplishments. The first is his famous speech delivered on the battlefield of Gettysburg. The second is his letter written to a bereaved mother, Mrs. Bixby. It is a gem of simple and pathetic beauty, a most impressive expression of the nobility of a mother’s self-sacrifice and of the consoling thought to that mother “to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom.” Of it a great writer has said: “It shall move generation upon generation.”
It was through the files of the War Department that President Lincoln learned of the loss that was suffered during the war by Mrs. Bixby. He wrote her as follows:
Executive Mansion, Washington,	•
-	Nov.. 21, 1864.
To Mrs. Bixby, Boston, Mass.
Dear Madam:
■ I have been -shown in the tiles of the TFar Department a statement. of the Adjutant General of Massachusetts that you . are the mother of bye sons' who have died gloriously on the field of battle. I feel how weak and fruitless must be any word of mine which should attempt ~to beguile you from the grief of a loss so overwhelming. But I can not refrain from tendering you the consolation that may be found in the thanks, of the Republic they died to save, I pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your bereavement, - and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost, and the solemn pride that must be yours to have laid so cosily a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom.	.
Yours very sincerely and respectfully, z ---.	.	A. Lincoln.
* Comment prefatory to the reading of the Gettysburg Address and the Bixby Letter on Lincoln Day by Frank C. Walker,. ’09.	.	....
. On Reading Fiction.
- HARRY A. LEDWIDGE, ’09.	.	■
A GOLDEN spectacle, a fleeting show
Of men and women passing on a stage .
The young and old,- the child of tender age, Reveal their hidden motives as they-go To us who wonder at but hardly .know .
The meaning of the pageant on the page—
The brilliant life of .those who gain no. wage, . .
But live in luxury while others sow.	.
’Tis but a shadow, yet it lifts us far .
Above the stupid life of common things, - ' And though we may not know what such ways are,
They give the soul the freedom of great.wings: To soar and soar till life, is but a star, . .
An anchor where the sodden body clings.
College Debating.-
Thomas Cleary', ’12.
. Disputations among scholars were common even during "the Middle. Ages in Germany, France and England, but not until the opening of the Eighteenth Century do we hear of argumentation among the less educated. About the year 1725 we read of debating societies being established at the colleges of Cambridge and Oxford. These organizations, however, were marked more by the social than by the intellectual aspect of the various meetings. The Aufklaruhg, a society established in Germany for the furtherance of disputation, was of a more serious nature, and through its influence the colleges began to take an active interest in oratory and debating. The Speculative Society of Edinburgh; and the Historical Society of Dublin were likewise prominent. factors in the institution of the new movement. Competent writers are unable to trace the connection between the European and American organizations of this character. Yet it is not unlikely that some sort of bond existed between, the societies of the* two continents. .	.
The first forensic association in America was the Crotonia at Yale. The Cfotonia had a brief existence. Its place was taken by the Linonia, the oldest permanent society in the United States. Princeton soon followed the example of her sister college

NOTRE . DAME SCHOLASTIC
by organizin'? the “Plain Dealing” and . o	o	o
“Well-Meaning” Clubs. The operations of these societies, however, did not meet the approval of the faculty, and the argumentations were accordingly suppressed. Yale continued her activities in debating, and about the middle of the Eighteenth Century every student was obliged to participate in syllogistic disputations. The questions disputed were generally of a religious or political nature. As both religion and politics were of vital interest to the people at that time they were abundant sources for disputatious material. Often the questions discussed were of a humorous or trivial nature. For instance, at Harvard were debated such questions as, Resolved, that “Tea-Drinking is a pernicious habit,” or “A tax on hogs is not politic.” There were several causes which contributed to the success of college debating.
The lack of books and newspapers, the absence of theatres, and the dearth of amusements and other such circumstances helped to the development of the various societies! It was not until after the Revolution, however, that the debate assumed a leading role in the college. The stirring times preceding the conflict brought forth all the latent eloquence of the colonies, while the value of keen debate and logical analysis was exemplified in the construction of the Constitution. The public discussions aroused by the events at the Philadelphia Convention stirred the colleges into more decided efforts in the line of forensics. Bowdoin, Dartmouth, Amherst, William’s, Brown, Wesleyan, Virginia, North Carolina and Pennsylvania colleges formed strong debating societies whose greatest prosperity was during the half century from 1790 to 1840. It is a noteworthy fact that with the exception of Yale and Harvard no college supported more than two societies. This was due in large measure to the political ideas of the time. Every student .formed one of two political parties then . flourishing and sided with the society upholding his sentiments.
From this fact it is evident that the debates must have rested for the most part; on convictions. The rivalry between the societies of each college was intense. Every effort was exerted by the - various
leaders to advance the interests of the body they represented. Sub-freshmen were pledged before entering the college and runners were sent to the incoming trains at the beginning of each year. Competition became so fierce that at last each side put forth a statement of facts—pamphlets setting'forth their advantages. Political subjects were chosen for debate, sides being determined by the views of the opposing societies. As class organizations were unknown at that time, the presidency of the debating society was the highest possible honor to which any student might attain and was a distinction greatly coveted. Lobbying was common at election time: all the strategy and craft of the politician was brought into play. The desire for official positions was almost insatiable, and this office-holding instinct the leaders attempted to gratify as much as possible. It is recorded that at one election at Yale forty-seven offices were given out.	•
Athletics were at that time unknown in college life. The distinction of the football hero of to-day was then awarded the champion in debate. He earned the plaudits of admiring associates and commendatory speeches from the faculty, or perhaps more material rewards in the shape of books or prize money. Cliques and factions became stronger as time went on and these helped to bring about the downfall of the society. But while the clique was a cause of the destruction of the debating organizations, it was not the only one. The entrance of the fraternal societies gave a new vent for the energies of the student. There was in the East various classes of students with . correspondingly different tastes. The old debating society no longer appealed to them. In the West to which this differentiation did not extend, debating was still kept up. . A great deal of criticism was directed at the old system of debating, and not without reason. It was contended' that more stress was laid on the manner of speech than on the thought. To a large extent this was true. High-flown rhetoric and bombast was at that time a national disease, and the colleges did not escape its contagion.
It was asserted also that the student debate fostered premature' readiness of speech, that weighty subjects were under
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	327
taken by those incapable of discussing them with any degree of satisfaction. The last contention, .though in some degree well-founded, does not argue against the existence of the student debate. For'if men wish to become acquainted with national questions they must begin by discussions. They must learn first to express thoughts, however inadequate their knowledge of the subjects discussed may be.
The present era of debating did not begin until about 1889. About this time Harvard sent a challenge to Yale. This action occasioned no little amusement and raillery at the time, but finally Yale accepted. In the East the first league was formed among Yale, Princeton and Harvard. Pennsylvania and Cornell imitated their example, as did also Michigan, Chicago, Northwestern and .Wisconsin Universities in the West. On the -Pacific slope a league was effected between California and Standard.	-
The purpose of these combinations was to secure systematic competition in the field of oratory and debating. Contests were arranged between the colleges of the alliances at stated times. Members of the faculty constituted the committees for appointing time, place and manner of the debates. The main speeches of the contestants were usually limited to fifteen minutes, rebuttals to five or six minutes. The teams, as a rule, were composed of four men who were selected from the college they represented by means . of preliminary contests. The judges of the debates could not be graduates of either of the two colleges represented in the contests, and were supposed to be men of position. The subjects chosen usually involved public issues, because the student was able to find plenty of material on such subjects. For months preceding the scheduled debates the teams underwent a systematic course of training. They held weekly or even daily disputes with other students, and trained themselves continuously in gesture, movement and voice.
In the preparation of the material • for debate the team first secured a general knowledge of the subject to be discussed. Then each member took a certain division of the. question and devoted himself to .a particular research on the points selected. A . member . of the faculty, usually the
professor of English or elocution, did the coaching. He pointed out defects in arguments, and suggested telling or effective ones. The system outlined has,' with very little change continued up to the present time. The only great difference is in the coaching. Faculties are now expected to have little to do with the debating teams, whereas several years ago it was contended that the debates were contests between professors rather than between students. With this reform in the matter of coaching, one of the principal objections to the modem system is removed. Various others criticisms are offered, but they are in most cases unmerited. The logical, analytical method of dealing with subjects now in vogue, precludes the possibility of premature speaking or rhetorical displays. The objection often urged that there is not enough originality or individuality expressed in the discussions of to-day is equally groundless. It has been shown time and again that the modem college debate brings out, especially in the rebuttals, all the original or personal elements possessed by the competitors. -
Debates are now at least a very prominent element in, college activities, and such they will continue to be. To all who have paid even the scantiest heed, the value of the debate is clearly evident. It not only makes good speakers, but it helps to develop good, intelligent citizens. Through the discussion of public questions the student takes a live interest in public afiairs. Did debating do no other service it would well deserve the interest that it now receives. .
To a Chronic Borrower.
Harry Ledwidge, ’09.
DESIDE the stream Lethean ever stands
The ancient ferryman of old renown;
Alike to him the ruler or the clown,	.
The lord of nothing or of mighty lands, He takes his .tribute from their spectral hands,
And makes them members of the endless town, Whose lord is Pluto of the gloomy frown, ' Who brooks no breach of his unheard commands.
See to it, friend, that when - he summons you
You have an obal for the ferry pay, Or else the ferryman will make you rue
Your lack of forethought, since you’ll have to stray A hundred years along the Stygian way,—
Not beg from friend? as you are wont to do.

328	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Calderon de la Barca.
Richard J. Collentine, '09.
Calderon de la Barca lived at a time when the Spanish drama was at its best. The generation which preceded him possessed in abundance the material in which a great dramatist would revel. Such was its character that it was able to bring out all the capabilities of a great dramatist, for it consisted of subjects calculated to appeal to him, particularly if he were patriotic.
Spain at that time could glance back through her history and contemplate a heroic battle of centuries against the inroads of the Infidel, made doubly difficult to withstand because of the inborn hatred of the Mohammedan for Christianity. Hers was a record of hard lq,bor, sacrifice and loyalty to the highest ideals. She was now able to rest securely on her laurels, for her treasury was full, her domain was wide in extent and she was highly respected, by her sister nations. The decadence liable to ensue from such a prosperous condition had not become at all marked as yet; there were only the very slightest traces, if any.. The Spanish Cavalier may not have been over-scrupulous in his morals, and Philip II. may have indulged the arrogance engendered by
O	O	O	J
newly acquired power, but these evils were not of sufficient magnitude to pale the lustre of the age. They did not have their influence until later. These minor symptoms of decay were unknown to the nation at large, and thus the people felt their country to have still ages of prosperous existence before it. The vigorous national existence indispensable for the production of a great poet was possessed by Spain.
Calderon was born in 1600 in the mountainous district of Montana. He was nurtured amid the influences of a good family, blessed not only with a careful education in his youth, but with an abundance of natural talents and a taste for study as well. He was. educated in the Jesuit college at Madrid and at the University of Salamanca. In the latter place he delved deeply into the study of theology. So closely did he apply himself to this branch and with such success as his talents would
assure us he met with, that we may suppose he here laid the foundations of his Autos.
His service in the army was of short duration. He was not fitted for life in the camp or on the field of battle. He performed no feats of valor, but this may have been due to the solicitude of Philip for him. Philip was a scholar and a patron of learning, and he was loath to permit Calderon to incur, any danger.
Among Spanish dramatists his position is easily determined. He enjoyed over Lope de Vega certain advantages of time and other circumstances in addition to whatever superior genius he may have possessed, and as a consequence he still stands first among, the dramatists of Spain. His wonderful imagination alone, apart from the lofty sentiments expressed everywhere in his writings, merits for him his position. The meagreness of accounts about him and the palpable unreliableness of the few we have render it difficult to form an idea of him which will satisfy us fully. Vera Tassis and the Schlegels are over enthusiastic in their praises of him, thus not only not informing us of' what we desire most to know, but tending to prejudice us against his merits.
The distinguishing feature of Calderon is, as has already been intimated, his imagination. By the aid of this power he has constructed his works on plots of the most absorbing interest, because of their complexity. Without depreciating his choice of expression and skill in handling, we may safely say that his reputation rests on the quality of his plots. In them there is a rapidly moving action and an originality which leaves us at a loss as to what is to come, and renders us more and more absorbed as we proceed.
In “Life’s a Dream” we have a drama bristling with unusual situations. The opening scene is characteristic of the author. Two characters are approaching what resembles the ruins of a castle, speculating as to what it formerly was. Reference is made in the course of the conversation to the “rude masonry of the wild pile.” As the two draw near the edifice they are very much surprised to hear cries of distress from within. The fact that the scene is an out-of-the-way place with no human habitation in sight, and that human beings
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	329
would not be . expected to haunt that neighborhood, lends an air of grewsome-ness to the place, and we are not surprised at the exclamations of fear heard from the two adventurers. Thus is interest aroused at the outset. We are fascinated ourselves as are the two adventurers who are already curious as to the identity of the ill-starred prisoner within; the two having overcome their fears enough to draw nearer.
Another step and we see already beginning to unravel a plot of the most singular complexity and of the most intense interest. A king’s son is in confinement as the result of a prediction the horoscope made to his father. It prophesied that he would be a cruel man and in addition would be possessed of dauntless courage. His father, fearful of what his son might do when reaching manhood, condemns him to lifelong confinement. The two adventurers who accidentally discovered the place of imprisonment are immediately arrested by the guard and brought to court for trial. It is regarded as a prime for anyone to trespass in this locality. The king, it appears, now that he is old, is disposed to . relent, and instead of punishing the culprits, relates to them all the circumstances. Previous to this the secret was in possession of only two persons—himself and a trusted secretary. The latter is instructed to administer a sleeping potion to the captive, and to bring him in his unconscious state to the palace. The purpose of the king is to'gWe his son a trial and test the validity of the horoscope’s prediction. When he recovers from the effects of the drug, however, he indulges in no jubilation. The secretary who attended him in his captivity now approaches to pay his respects. He is received with scant courtesy, however. The king himself does - not meet with a joyful reception. His entry is hailed with bitter reproaches. They are well-deserved too, for the prince has been most wrongfully deprived of the privileges which were his right. But the king does not view matters in this light, and again the prince is relegated to the dungeon by the same method by which he had been previously removed therefrom. He is not destined to remain there long, however, for the people - have gotten wind of the existence of an heir, the lack-of which they had always deplored. They rise in arms, search for and find The
place of confinement, place the prince at their head and march as a mighty host against the old king. The latter is decisively defeated, and the play ends with the hero’s doingsomething characteristic of the lofty sentiments which animated Calderon. The father throws himself at the feet of his son and sues for mercy. From the fiery nature which the prince had already given evidence of we fear the old grey-haired father will receive no mercy. To our surprise, the prince raises his father and falls at his feet, heightening our estimate of him by his self-conquest.
We feel after reading this that Calderon abundantly justifies his reputation for plot- • construction, and we also perceive how he regards characterization as of minor importance. We pronounce the action admirable, but if we set out to picture the character of the king and his son we perceive only ill-defined, shadowy figures. We have been treated to something very interesting, nevertheless, and however much we. may deplore the lack bf characterization we must admire the bold, creative ingenuity of the great’ Spanish poet,—an element that can be contributed only by genius. ,	.
The noble sentiments which always actuated Calderon are suggested in his “Wonder-Working Magician.” Not detracting from the merit of Shelley’s translation, these lofty sentiments shine out even through it. To translate Calderon’s works into English and do them justice is a difficult, well-nigh impossible task. But the words of Justiana convey a lesson of courage and perseverance against the attacks of the impure spirit even without the expression which only the author himself could impart to them with his own language.
.	'	O O -	-
From the enthusiastic praises _ accorded v Calderon and from the impressions formed of him by the English-speaking world, however imperfect they may be, we can safely . pronounce Calderon the greatest. poet of his time.	.
A Generous Thought.
Frederick Carrole, T2.
It sinks into the heart As seed into the''ground, Finds root in fertile part, And gathers love around. ’
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during T erm T imc at the University of Notre Dame.
entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame. Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
’ Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, Indiana-
Notre Dame, Indiana, February J3, 1909,
Board of Editors.
IGNATIUS MCNAMEE, ’09 OTTO A. SCHMID, ’09 HARRY LEDWIDGE, ’09 PETER E. HEBERT, ’10 DENIS A. MORRISON, ’10 THOMAS A. LAHEY, ’ 11 MICHAEL A. MATEUS, ’10
RICHARD COLLENTINE, ’09 JOHN B. KANALEY, ’09 GEORGE J. FINNIGAN, ’10 EDWARD P. CLEARY, ’09 PAUL R. MARTIN, ’10 JOHN B. MCMAHON, ’09
JOHN J. ECKERT, ’ll
—Despite the disposition which certain nations show to quarrel and spit at one another from time to time, the attitude of the world toward the earthquake sufferers at Messina is assuring to the advocate of peace. After all, we can rely on human nature to sympathize with its own kind when the real test comes. The disaster made
“all humanity -kin,” to use the words of a recent writer. The harrowing sights confronting one in the most stricken parts must certainly have smothered in the breasts of even the most hostile on-looker any spark of animosity.
—Many have wondered at the erect carriage, the fine physique and the stalwart appearance of the men of Germany. The ■ explanation is easy. It is the Military Drill. result of their military training.
Every German youth, as soon as he has reached the age of eighteen years, must enter the army. His period of enlistment is three years. During that time he drills; he has setting-up exercises; he marches and camps, and learns to depend on himself. When his term of service has expired he goes home and he is not a weakling. He is big and powerful. His step is light and free, and he has endurance. He goes to make the backbone of a strong and healthy nation. This condition is becoming more and more manifest in our
own country. While army service is not compulsory, nor would we have it so, military drill is being introduced into our schools. Our national academy is a model, . and the military departments of our public and private schools rank high. A wise government has detailed skilled officers to such, schools as wish their services. Our
young men are offered military training, and the good of the system will eventually be evident.
. —In the issue of the Scholastic for Jan. the 23d there appeared an editorial entitled “The Number of College-Bred Criminals,” the theme of which read: “Some time ago it was reported by the Chicago press that a certain evangelist, E. C. Mercer, during the course of an address to the students of Northwestern University had said that seventy-five per cent of the prisoners confined in Sing Sing were college-bred men.” Our information was second-hand, as alleged, and, as it now. appears, badly inaccurate. As a matter of correction and in justice to Mr. Mercer, we reprint the following from the Purdue Exponent of February the 7th:
The Chicago Tribune seems to be again at fault, and others have taken the Tribune's word as correct. The Notre Dame Scholastic and the Monmouth Oracle have
used the facts about Air. E. C. Alercer and have falsely represented him to their student bodies. The stories have enlarged to unjust proportions. It will be remembered that Mr. Mercer visited Purdue last year and made many friends here. His argument was not, as our contemporaries would have it, that college men are worse than other classes of men, but that education will not keep'a man oiit of the lowest walks-of life. The Intercollegian explains the whole matter in the following editorial:
“On the sixteenth of November, 190S, E. C. Mercer made an address at a joint. meeting of the Northwestern University and .Evanston Associations, which, while free from any aspersions upon college life or on students in general, -was distinctively and emphati-cally a warning to the men present of the dangers of certain lines of conduct. It so happened that in the audience was a correspondent of the Chicago Tribune, evidently immature and with an apparent antipathy to accuracy, of statement, and his report in the next day’s paper was. anything - but. complimentary-, to college men in general and to Mt Mercer’s reputation for veracity and good sense in particular. Mr. Mercer was reported as saying that 113 of the meh who’ came to.the Water Street Mission in New York, were college men; that 400 college men stood in the‘bread line’ in New York last winter; that seventy-five per cent of the men in Sing Sing Prison are college graduates.
“This report was copied by many newspapers in various parts of the country, and as a-result Mr. .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	331
Mercer was most unfairly characterized as inaccurate, intemperate and hysterical. .	-	.
“What Mr. Mercer really did say was that in one month in 190S, according to. a well-known newspaper, over 400 college graduates had applied to the East Side charitable institution for something to eat, a place to sleep and a position of any kind; that, according to an issue of the New York World in 1906 one-third of all the applicants at the Bowery Branch of the Young Men’s Christian Association, New York, held college or high school diplomas; that two years ago five per cent of the men in Sing Sing Prison were said to be college-bred; that in 1907 a score and a half of college graduates wound up, ‘down and out,’ at the famous Jerry McAuley Water Street Mission, and that the best business houses in our largest cities are shutting down on the college meh who come out of college shackled with the habit of drinking and the things that go with drinking.”
Lincoln Centenary at Notre Dame.
The annual celebration of our national . holidays is apt to become mere routine if not properly guarded against, but the ring to the patriotic sentiments that were manifested by the student body when assembled in Washington Hall yesterday for the purpose of celebrating, the Lincoln Centenary was wholesome, deep and true, and marked the occasion as a model celebration of a , national festival. These celebrations, awak-. ening as they do a sensible love of.our' country and its institutions by recalling the glories of our Republic and those men who founded and safeguarded it in timesr of • danger, should be indulged in. by every.? American man, woman and .child.: For these considerations stir up in our-hearts a wholesome pleasure and a' determination to do our share in furthering and preserving liberty for ourselves and posterity.
The predominating note in the program of the day was one of sincere appreciation for that one man of all Americans who in public and private.life stands forth a perfect specimen of the true American, the beloved of . all. Following was the program of exercises:
Overture—“National Airs”.....University Orchestra
Address by the Chairman.............JohnF. Shea
“Sweet and Low”..............University Glee Club
Lincoln’s Life—Qtto A. Schmid, History and Econdin. ’09 “Columbia the Gem of tbe Ocean”.......„.The Audience a. Letter to'Mrs.-Bixby—Francis C. Walker, Law, ’09 b. Gettysburg Oration	-	~
“Slumber Soft”........;.......;.University Glee Club Oration of the Day....The -Hon. Timothy E. Howard “America”.......;„...'.L.7...;.....The Audience
Monument to Father Corby.
High on the walls of the Administration Building of, the University of Notre .Dame there hangs a .painting by an . artist whose brilliant prospects an early and tragic death . cut short,—a painting that found its inspiration in the rare combination of courage and piety that is so peculiarly characteristic of the Celt. It represents the famous Irish Brigade of the Second Army' Corps at the commencement of the great battle of Gettysburg. In the distance is seen the smoke of Confederate batteries, all around are the evidences of the destructive havoc wrought by the shot and shell of the enemy, while above this great concourse of kneeling soldiery, the red, white and blue of the banner of freedom commingles with the green that,—by association, symbolizes an oppressed and long-suffering race that are ‘‘homeless- in the' land of'their nativity.” Before them on a high "rock stands a black-robed priest, bearded, and haggard, braving the dangers of ah exposed position, with his hand extended in benediction over the kneeling group.. The picture , is that of the Rev. William Corby, C. S. C.,-granting the last benediction to the Irish Brigade, just as the battle was beginning. It is a representation,: true not only to life but to a historical fact attested by the few—the very few of those then, present who survived the - war. The artist painted this scene alone—the sequence is beyond any artist to depict or any orator to describe. But while, the brush and words are. alike inadequate to do justice to the bravery and courage of those who thus went forth to battle shrived for the last time by the minister of the Church to which they and their ancestors gave unswerving devotion, the pages of. history chronicle, the fact that only a small number of. them came forth from, that day’s awful struggle without sanctifying the ground with their blood, and at another place in the corridor of the University hangs the silent testimony of the great sacrifice that Irish A.merica. made on the altar of patriotic principle—the smoky, bloody and tattered shreds of what was once the. green flag of Meagher’s- Irish Brigade. .	'
A
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC t
332
With the history of that corps of valiant men is inseparably connected that of the Chaplain, who, trusted by all, cheered the men when on duty, suffered the hardships of camp life with them, followed them into the jaws of death to minister to the dying, and finally, in that last absolution at Gettysburg, mustered them out of the service of the country into the ranks of the “blessed.”
Thus when the tardy gratitude and forced admiration of a later generation seeks an expression it finds none better than in the erection of a monument—a statue commemorating the “last absolution” of the
burg. The measure was voted unanimously. • Gen. St. Clair A. Mulholland, the president of the Gettysburg Memorial Commission, himself a member of ’the Brigade, is making a. determined effort to have the services of these brave men and their courageous Chaplain commemorated by such a monument. In a letter to the Rev. President of the University of Notre Dame, the General states that the movement already has the endorsement of several of the members of the Catholic hierarchy among whom are the Most Rev. Archbishop Ryan and Right Rev. Bishop Shannon. Samuel Murray, an eminent sculptor of Philadelphia,

Brigade, and representing Father Corby in the performance of that solemn rite; for the individual feats of valor, because of great number, are beyond representation, while the absolution is the most significant and memorable incident in the entire history of the Brigade. To commemorate it is to honor alike the Chaplain and the soldiery. In honoring the one the other is honored.
A movement having this as its object is already under way. At a meeting of the Catholic Alumni Sodality of Philadelphia, held Jan. 10, ’09, at St. Joseph’s College, Vice-President H. A. Daily presented a motion that a statue of Rev. Wm. Corby, C. S.. C., be erected on the battlefield of Gettys?
is “preparing a model of Father Corby giving absolution which will be finished in about ten days. The whole cost of the heroic statue in bronze will be about $7000.00.” This amount must be raised by popular subscription. When the appeal for funds is made the large and influential alumni of the University of Notre Dame, the legions of those who derived inspiration, some from personal contact, others from the narration of his accomplishments in the service of his country, will generously contribute to the perpetuation of the memory of this great Chaplain and the warriors whom he served so well.
J. B. McMahon, ’09.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
333
The Lourdes Jubilee Closed.
In the College World.
The close of the Jubilee Year of Our Lady of Lourdes was duly observed at Notre Dame on the 11th. The earnest devotion of all present bespoke the deep religious love in which the great Queen is held at Notre Dame. Solemn High Mass was celebrated in the college Church at 8 o’clock by the Very Rev. Father Morrissey, assisted by Fathers Walsh and Carrico as deacon and subdeacon. An excellent sermon proper to the great feast was preached by Father O’Neill, the import of which may be shown by the following significant excerpts: “In the large view, Lourdes was and is merely Heaven’s ratification of the dogma proclaimed by Pius IX., the earthly, visible transcript of the Eternal’s stamp and seal set upon the Bull Ineffabilis Deus. ... If there be one charge more preposterous than another that can be brought against the clergy, the episcopate, and the Papacy in this matter of Lourdes, it is assuredly that of credulity.... It is abundantly apparent that the cult of Our Lady of Lourdes is not confined to the poor, the simple, the illiterate, the uncritical among Catholics, but is participated in by the highest in rank, the most eminent in scholarship, and, be it added, the most adept in those critical methods by which history has of late years been weighed and measured. . . . Lourdes is a standing, permanent, palpable, and convincing objectlesson in.the supernatural. Did time permit, it would be a labor of love to venture a prophecy as to what it will achieve during its second half-century. Let this much at least be said: Within the past five decades, Our Lady of Lourdes has cured thousands on thousands of France’s children; within the next five she will undoubtedly cure France herself. The philosopher-student of contemporary history, who has convinced himself that Catholic France is in her deaththroes, and that ‘the eldest daughter of the Church ’ is henceforth to be merely a byword for reproach and scorn, has, I am confident, quite misread the signs of the times. I defy any Catholic, however pessimistic, to kneel, as I have done, within that sacred Grotto, and .still despair of France’s rehabilitation in all her old-time Christian glory.”
The University of Toronto has a ladies’ cross-country club.
* * .
The Freshman class of Indiana University have chosen “ a rich green ” as the distinctive color of their class caps.
* *
St. Mary’s College, Kansas, recently dedicated an elegant new college chapel named “The Immaculata,” the gift of the alumni of the institution.
* * ♦
The students of Purdue University are planning a music festival to be held in May. A feature of the occasion will be the rendition of an oratorio in which sixtv students will take part.
* * *
According to the “World Almanac,” 1909, four universities in the United States have an enrollment of over 5000 students. Harvard University has the largest number of volumes in the library—815,636.
* * *
The National Catholic Students’ Association will hold its meeting this year at Iowa City, Iowa, the 12th and 13th of this month. Delegates from each of the Catholic Students’ Clubs of the various state universities will be in attendance. ,
* -* * *
An alumnus of Colgate University has established a prize of $100 to be awarded on commencement day to the athlete who has won his letter three times and has maintained the highest standard in scholarship during his entire course.
* * *
The college editors in Kansas have formed themselves into an association and hold annual conventions at which matters pertaining to college journalism are discussed. -At its last meeting the association decided to petition the Faculties of their respective schools to give credit for work done as a ; member of the editorial staff.	. .:i
334
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Lecture by Mr. Young.
In Memoriam.
Mr. Young, the Leading Man in “Brown of Harvard” Co., entertained the students on Wednesday with a lecture on “Hamlet.” Air. Young believes “Hamlet” to be the greatest dramatic creation in existence and that in the writing of this play even Shakespeare, with all the wealth of his great genius, could accomplish no more than he did. The lecturer said there was a good deal of. useless controversy concerning the mystery that seems to . surround .Hamlet’s existence, his madness and his weakness of-character. All of these discussions, he said, are without foundation, and by very plausible reasoning he showed that there is no mystery in Hamlet, simplicity being his preeminent characteristic, and that Hamlet was neither mad nor weak in purpose.
The thoughts suggested by Mr. Young will be profitable to all students, no matter what their course. The lecturer ended by telling us that he had been given a Notre Dame pennant which he would put on the stage in Brown’s college room in his play, “Brown of Harvard,” and keep it there.
Adrian Newens in “The Message from Mars.”
One of the best numbers in the Lecture Course for this scholastic year was Adrian Newen’s presentation of the popular drama, “The Message from Mars,” on last Thursday. The play is full of interest and good morals. Mr. Newens, as Horace Parker, the richest young man in London, was excellent. As the tramp he did just as well, and in. the role of Aunt Martha, which was certainly a hard one for a man to attempt, he took the house. Mr. Newens is without doubt a splendid reader, and the versatility of his genius for taking roles is worthy of commendation. Besides the three characters mentioned, there are many others,—the Messenger from Mars, Minnie the betrothed of; .Horace, Bella, the maid, Mr. Deecy, a foppy . stock-broker, several poor people, a' stuttering boy, etc. That the students, enjoyed, every minute of the play was shown _ by their close . attention and more than hearty applause. -	;
A telegram from Frank McBride on Feb. 2d announced the death of his revered father at his home in Allegheny, Pa. Though the family had intimation that Mr. McBride was seriously ill, his death was not expected immediately, and the telegram summoning the boys home was followed almost immediately by one saying that Mr. McBride had so far. improved as to be out of danger. His sons had already taken the train for Allegheny, however, and' to this fortunate circumstance they owe the fact that they were present at the end. Mr. McBride was a man :of a simple, upright life, passing through the world without offense, doing much good-in unostentatious ways, and proving in his own life the beauty of the Christian virtues. Needless to say, the sympathy of the University goes out to the stricken family. R. I. P.
. * ’ c ■- ... .	* #
—At the last moment we unlock the files of this issue in order to record the death of Brother Basil, C. S. C., whom all the Notre Dame students of the last fifty years doubtless remember as organist of the University Church. A prayer-is requested of all for the repose of his blessed soul. A more adequate notice will be given in the issue of next week. . R.I. P.	.
- Personals.
—Mr. Frederick Strauss, student for several years in Carroll and Brownson Halls, was at the University for a few days this week. He had the pleasure of seeing the Basketball team in action against the Battery A players during his visit. ;
—Mr. James H. Burris, a student in Carroll Hall in 1880—’!, visited the University a few days ago. Mr. Burns is a merchant tailor in Columbus, Ohio, with the address 73 N. High Street. While here he picked out his old place in the. Carroll study-hall, looked up his picture and those of his old companions in the St. Cecilia Room, met some of the members of the faculty of his time, and in general had the sort of reminiscent visit that ^always delights the old student.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
335
Preliminary Debating Contest.
Shortly after the question for intercollegiate debating was submitted by the University of Georgetown the Reverend Director of Studies called a meeting of all students desiring to compete for the Varsity team, for the purpose of drawing sides and places for the first series of preliminary contests. Owing to the fact that special prizemoney has been offered to a Law team it was necessary to have two separate preliminaries, one for the lawyers and another for the other contestants. The first preliminary contests for the latter took place in the Sorin Law-room on February the 3d,. 5th, 7th, and 9th, which resulted as follows, the decision of the judges ranking the individuals for each contest in the order here given: — Contestants on February the 3d: J. McMahon, G. Finnigan, T. Mannion, R. Coffey, S.Hosinski; on February the 5th: P. Hebert, W. Carey, C. Miltner, F. Wenninger, Mullen, T. Hagerty; on February the 7th: M. Mathis, T. Lahey, J. Quinlan, D. O’Shea and B. Mulloy (tied), J. Donahue; on February 9th: R. Collentine, J. Kan'aley, J. Fox, J. Scullin and J. Rozewicz (tied), and P. Hagerty.
In these four contests the first three were chosen to enter into the semi-finals together with the four lawyers surviving the lawyers’ ' two preliminary contests. These sixteen candidates, who are to enter the semi-finals on next Wednesday and Thursday, will be divided into two groups of eight each. The first four of each group will then be selected to compete in Washington Hall in a final contest for places on the Varsity team which is to debate Georgetown University at Washington, D. C., early in April. '
middle of this half, Vaughan was benched, having made his limit of fouls, and was succeeded by Freeze, whose position as guard was filled by McDonald. Vaughan. and
Maloney were the stars for U. N. D., the former having five and the- latter six goals registered to his credit.
Notre Dame
Maloney Fish
Vaughan. Freeze
Freeze, McDonald
Scanlon
credit.
Line-Up.
Right forward Left forward Centre Right guard Left guard
Field goals—Walter. 1, Lambert,
Wabash
Walter Lambert Bowman
Yount
Stump 1; Bowman, 1;
Young, 4; Maloney, 6; Vaughan, 5; Fish. Foul Goals— Maloney, 7: Walter, 5; Lambert, 4.
Notre Dame, 34; Battery A, 12.
Notre Dame added one more to their already large number of victories by defeating the Battery A team of Indianapolis in a fast game last Saturday night. Although the Varsity was never in any danger, they were forced to their utmost by the Soldiers who repeatedly broke up their passes. The game was close in the first half, but the Notre Dame quintet broke away in the second half, scoring frequently and allowing the visitors only one goal. Scanlon and Maloney were injured in the second half
and forced to retire, McDonald succeeding them.
Notre Dame
Maloney, Fish
Gibson
Vaughan
Scanlon, McDonald
Freeze
Line-Up Left forward Right forward Centre Left guard. Right guard
and Fish
Battery A McCullough Churchill Cochran Reed Cowell
Goals—Gibson, Maloney, 2; Vaughan, 9; Scanlon, 3; McDonald, 2; Churchill, 2; McCullough, 2; Cochran. Time of halves—20 minutes. Referee—Woods.
Baseball.
• Athletic Notes.
'	Basket-Ball.
Notre Dame, 31; Wabash, 23.
For the first time in fiv'e years, Wabash was defeated on February 5 on their home floor in one of the fastest games ever seen in Crawfordsville. Thirty-one to twenty-three tells the tale of the Varsity’s victory over the “Little Giants.” This was the first of a series of two games which have been arranged between the two teams, and the successful issue of this contest gives us a good chance for the State Championship.
The score at the end of the first half was eleven to ten in our favor, Maloney getting this last point of vantage on a free throw just as the whistle blew. But, as is the case in most of our games; we romped away from them in the second half, gaining a lead which they could not overcome. In the
One of the changes in baseball which has caused quite a little surprise among the fans is the shifting of “Foot” Ruell to third base. Herman is showing up well at short, Connelly and Fish are battling for the second station.
Ulatowski and Collins are doing excellent work and promise to give McDonough and Scanlon a hard rub for the receiver’s position. Kelly, Maloney, McGrath and Pick are making a strong bid for the vacant outfield position. Coach Curtis has had the men at bunting and batting practice and is apparently satisfied with the development.
* .
♦ ♦ ‘ : • -
The committee in charge of collegiate-athletics at the Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition wishes to hear from college athletes who may possibly enter the meets. The Exposition opens in Seattle, Washington, on June 1st and closes on October 16th. .
The athletic contests already arranged include a variety of special events, suchuas army, navy, militia and the Y. M. C. A.;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
sports, Marathon race, equestrian events, tennis, 8-oared, 4-oared, and single-scullrowing, swimming, canoeing, lumberman’s sports and tugs-of-war.
A national meet open only to college men will be scheduled- early in the summer at a time most convenient for a majority of the competitors. The committees in charge desire to hear as soon as possible from all those interested, in order to arrange dates which shall interfere the least with the proposed summer plans of students.
The railroads have already announced extremely low rates to Seattle, giving a choice of routes both going and returning. Special rates will" prevail from Seattle to Alaska, the Hawaiian Islands and the Orient.
Correspondence should be addressed, to Dean Milnor Roberts, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.
Local Items.
—It is a pleasure to - announce that Air. John L. Corley (LL. B., 1902) will give his most popular lecture, “The Missouri Mule,” in Washington Hall on March 2d.
—Mr. Ignatius E. McNamee, Notre Dame’s representative in the Indiana State Oratorical Contest, which took place last night at Indianapolis, won first place, and consequently the honor of representing the State of Indiana in the Inter-State Contest, which will be held some time in the Spring.
—M. La Grippe is sojourning at the University these days, and ’insists on being entertained by members of the Scholastic Board of Editors, which preference makes a rather embarrassing situation for some of us when there-is urgent need of copy. The victims of his importunity would do well to shake him off at'Once, if not sooner, as-the inevitable Saturday waits for none of us.
—As the result of a prolonged and energetic campaign carried on by friends of Notre Dame the United States Secretary of War has decided to appoint a military instructor for the University of Notre Dame. Capt. Ronayne, by direction of the War Department, visited the University Wednesday to make inspection of the prospect. Full particulars regarding this matter will be. given in a later issue of the Scholastic.
—Harry Pulliam, President of the National League of Baseball, will visit Notre Dame Feb’. 15. Having met Father Cavanaugh in California a few months ago, he expressed a desire to see the. candidates at work in the?big; Gymnasium. He was extended an invitation, and will probably stop over on his way from Chicago to New York. He
knows Notre Dame as having turned out a great many big league players, with some of whom he is personally acquainted, being a close friend of Powers, Murray and Dubuc.
—“Goofie’s Gun Gang” is the name of a new society recently formed in Sorin. “Goofie” is the prime mover, the leading spirit and head gunner of the “gang.” Shortly after his arrival here, “Goofie” traded a meerschaum pipe for a 22 calibre single shot rifle of antiquated type, borrowed a Winchester automatic from a friend and formed the “gang.” As purchasing agent of the society, he is now contemplating an addition to the arsenal. Anyone wishing to sell, loan or rent, fire-arms of any description will please communicate by postal with ‘‘Goofie,” Sorin Hall.
—A class banquet is the latest innovation at Notre Dame. The class of ’09 started the Junior Prom, the present Junior class of ’10 continued it, and now the class of ’ll goes one step further, and in their sophomore year are inaugurating the class banquet. The affair is to be held at the Oliver Hotel this evening, and frormall reports will be a great success. Class. spirit is a thing greatly to be desired, and we hope that the spirit which is behind this , banquet will incite the .Sophomores to other and better things which will leave a more permanent impression of. their greatness upon Sophomores of future vears.	'
-
—Darkness and silence broken only by snores had reigned supreme over Sorin for several hours. The card game in-----’s room had been finished and had become a matter of. history. To emphasize the lateness of the hour, be it said that even Raymond Coffey had ceased poring over his ponderous volume on “How to Become a Public Speaker,” and had retired to well-earned repose and bright dreams of a glorious political career. Suddenly on the still night air rang out a bloodcurdling shriek. Awakened from their sleep, those who heard it immediately came to the conclusion that the anarchists who caused such terror here last year had returned secretly to perform their evil work. The uproar increased. Groans and cries that would make the howl of a hyena sound like a lullaby rent the air. Then again ominous silence. No one dared investigate in the dark. Well, it was probably too late then to prevent the murder. On Tuesday morning everybody in the Hall was still alive. No traces of bloody corpses were to be found. Excitement was intense until Breslin dispelled the mystery by admitting that it was Havican who made the noise. Havican explained ciway the affair easily by saying that his hand had fallen asleep and he was trying to wake it up.