--~~... ..,-..~ ;.;...;::.;:.;;;;;.,.....,;;;.:::...;. ... ~ .--t'::"~ ...~·..-o_.... ,.,..,..,.•....,..,... 
• 1 ~ ., 1 
.L_ 
½ . "~ 
) 
-•• : t ~ 
~ ' -' 

--------:--­
. ! 

2 
. , SCHOLASTIC· 
Editor 
Dave Satterfield 

Managing Editor 
SCMOL/\STCBob Southard Art ·Director 

Vol. 121, No. 3, October 19, 1979
Jim Hofman 

· Notre Dame, Indiana 
Production Manager 
Theresa Rebeck 

News Editor 
Lisa Hartenberger 

Fiction Editor 
Tom Balcerek 

Copy Editor 
Anthony Walton 

Culture Editor 
Greg Solman 

Sports Editor . 
Tom Westphal 

St. Mary's Editor 
Kari Meyer 

Layout Editor 
Clay Malaker 

Photography Editor • 
Ken McAlpine-

Business Manager 
Pahl Davis 

Advertisement Manager 
Kevin Murphy 

Distribtuion .Manager 
Jerry Murphy 

Undergraduate Advisor 
Bernie Valenti 

Staff . 
John Maddog Muldoon, Don Schmid, Chris Stewart, -Mary Leavitt, Donna Teevan, Cathy Wisniewski, ·Pat Worklan, Jim Sommers, Michael · Diaz, Ken Scarbrough, Maryellen -Bradley, Chuck>Wood, David 
N. Randall,· Keith Caughlin, Steve Burkart, Rick Keppel;'Brendan Brown, Dodee Car­ney, Michaef··Meisch, Ed Wimmer, Rich Marcello, Tim ·Tedrik, Lee· Smoien, . Tom Krueger, Ann Bridget Clarke,. ·cecelia Susan Labriola, , Betsy Spinelli, · Tom Q'Toole, Phyllis Washington, Kev_in,Paulson 

Credits 
Front Cover: ·Ke·n McAlpine. 
Back Cover: Katie O'Meara. · ' 
Illustrations: Jim Hofman,. 9, 21, 23; Paul Monardo, 28. 
Photographs: Eileen O'Me~ra, 3, 11, 12, 24; Ken McAlpine, 5, 30; Publicity Photos, 14, 15, 18, 19; Scholastic Archives, 26. 
Advisory Board . Jim Winters; Mario Pedi/ Edward Fischer: 
OCTOBER 19, 1979 
FEATURES 
5 ·Black Studies: Cloaked in Confusion 
8 In the Heart of the Atom 10 "Why Me?" 12 The Journey Back 23 Women at ND: 7 Years of Struggle 26 Ice-Cold Optimism. 
REGULARS 
4 Perspective 
14. Film 16 Gallery 18 Books 
20 Fiction 28 Music 
30 · The Last Word 
Chuck Wood Phyllis Washington Joe Camarda ·Libby Kennedy Cathy Wisniewski Brian. Beglane 
Steve Hilbert 
Rich Marcello Eileen O'Meara Mark Rust 
Greg Solman Tom· Clark 
Tim Gulstine Tom Krueger John Th(!rnton 
Dave Satterfield 

The opinions expressed in Scholastic: are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and· do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire ·staff and: editorial board of Scholastic or_ the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.. The_ subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. )lease address all manuscripts to Scholastk, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. . . copyright© 1979 Scholastic / all rights reserved/ none. of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. ' . . 


by.Steve H~lbert 
I have -to get this paper done by Well, aren't they automatic if you · No way, what are you, some kind 
tomorrow morning. · · ; · . go to Notre Dame and attend church of Communist or something?·· :· · Why? regularly? What about your duty to your-Well, the professor doesn't accept · They don't have to be any ?JWre self? · · ·­
late papers, and I have to get a good than that? Nothing truly personal? Well, I guess I come before my 
grade in the class. Well ... I don't see any reason country, but you see America is for Why? why I really need them, I still get · the individual. Everyone can go out Well, I guess so that I can gradu­my job ·if it appears that I have·. and pursue his own -happiness. So, 
ate high in my class and go on to them. I think I might have · them . I can take care of myself pretty 
law school.. anywa.y, because l kind of know well. Why? what is right and wrong. Like I Would you go to war? So I.can go out in the world and know -that you're not supposed to No way. I'd go to Canada. 
make_ money and succeed. go to bed with a different girl every What about your country?, Why? . night because you could catch some-Well, I just don't think that there \\Tell; _isn't that what you're sup­thing. Plus, .Mom said it was is any such thing as winning w·a:rs 
posed to do? wrong. I'm supposed to treat girls : anymore. All it would mean is. my l don't know, is it? ·.·like I would want my sister to be death. · · · Well, my father did and now he treated. I also know other things Would you die for something that 
has a nice house and a Mercedes­like you shouldn't murder anybody. you believe in? 
Benz. That is one of the Ten Command-Yeah, I think so. Oh, l see. ls that important? ments. I learned them for a test in Do you believe in America? ' -' : You're confusing. me. Sunday school. Besides, you would You're damn right I do!.... I 
go to jail for at least five years see your point ... but I still think 
I think it would be safe to say for it. · America is great. that the average Notre Dame stu­How far can you take this anal-Don't you ever tire. of chasing dent has never severely lacked for ogy of what is right and wrong? after-things all the time? · . ­physical comfort. I also think that Don't you actually know for your-Yeah, sometimes, but everybody each student has some idea of how self? is caught up in it, and if you stop to -attain that comfort, and that is I guess I do, kind of. to think about whether cir not to some extent the reason why he's Think about it. ls it wrong to · what you're doing is-right, you'li'get here. I, however, want to ask if he have an overabundance of material behind in the chase. I gotta win. -· knows why he strives to achieve goods when you know that there are · Do you? 
·this 'goal. It seems that we are in starving people in the world? ' Of course. What kind of fool ques­an unusual.position in that we have Oh, yes, definitely. . . . tion is that anyway? If you aren't riever lacked for anvthino-rn<>t"..;"1. What about the beautiful house · trying to win all the time, then you It also seems that we are in a posi­and the Mercedes-Benz? Do you won't achieve what you're sup­tion to .Sit' baCK auu ,mu.. ~-vuC really need them? Could you live · posed· to. · · · right and wrong, since we are not ?JWre moderately and perhaps help Are you suwosed -to achieve caught up in the great struggle to out someone who is· starving? · these things? · "give our children all those things But that's different, because I . . Yeah, I guess it is a pretty hyped­we never had."'We have. And to top . would have worked ·for ·that house up,• screw-you. world at times, but 
·it all off, we are receiving the "ulti-and that Mercedes-Benz and I would . \Ve all have toJive in it, right? And mate," the Notre Daine education. -deserve them. . . you might as well. take care of your­. . What. do you :mean, "deserve'' · self because no one-else .is going 
What is the Notre Dame edu-them?· Aren't .there still starving to, right?' Well, isn't that right? cation? _ · people that desperately need some ' (Silence) · -· _­
It's what gives you the know-how _help? What do they deserve? I have to stop this now and get and the proper status fo get a really · · I' don't know. I could still give to .my paper done. It's due tomorrow. good job. _ _ . . ·. . -· Easter Seals and stuff, I usually do. Maybe·-I should tell the· prof ·what But just last ::week weren't· you . How much? .· _ . _ · happened to me wheri I sat. down to taught that the essence of education : -~t least five dollars every time , write this paper. He'd understand is the transmission of values?_ · they come around. Five dollars is a ; (he's a philosophy professor) but . Oh yeah, values, they're like mor-. lot of money when you have to earn . I'd probably still have to take the als and stuff. Those are things you it yourself,· you-know. F. He doesn't accept late papers. hear ab.out in church_on Sunday. But Why not more? After all, he's got to· grade us ·au those aren't.what ,we learn in school.. You. can't give away everything. . objectively and give us a mark:· It's In school.we learn to get things done ..I· mean; it's• un-American. the system. , . ,, . , · on time, to get good grades, and how What do you mean? Kind of a shame; though; I'm fl-to play ''Let's see how drunk w:e Well, isn't the American Dream to · rially philosophizing, and now _I can get" on weekends. All we really,. go . out, regardless of status, · and • have to stop and get my philosophy
0 
have ~to do is create the· illusion -make: it in the world? And what-paper done. Funny, huh? . 0 that we are · learning (i.e.:,-good ever you get, isn't it your "imilien-. -. -· · . 
grades) and to have as much fun as ·. able right" to -keep it? · we can have along the way.:..'.:_right? . Do 'you' mean 'ti:/h-Oard it? Isn't Steve Hilbert is a sophomore in , Doesn't it seem like-something is there something ·more· admirabie the General Program.,. This is , his missing? Like morals perhaps? than the American Dream? . .. first. contribution to Scholastic. . 
4 
,:SCHOLASTIC 



Black Studies: 
by Chuck .Wood 

. . . ·-:..~· . .:. ;; . . . ~ ,. . . .
. ~ -~ . . , , , 
. "Black Studies Program." . , .. 

. Those who have seen these. words on an office door on the.third floor of · O'Shaughnessy have probably won­dered · ·exactly . what this-•· phrase covers. .Mr. Edward Blackwell,· the Interim •.· Director of.· .. the , . Black Studies. Program• and"' Director -of Minority Student Affairs, can answer 
·. such confusion only by, saying, "It does . everything.''. ·Mr; Blackwell readily'concedes that this . definition does not help•much. Such an answer is, he thinks as much a sign. of the confusion that surrounds the pro­gram, as much as· a sign one of-its effectiveness. ·. ·, The-effectiveness of.Black Studies is now. being evaluated by a commit­tee that was ·recently_ established by the; Dean of the College of Arts and · Letters. ·,This·:committee will select a nominee for• the position of. per,. manent ~director .and. address the basic questions·. of what exactly is the nature of. the Black Studies Pro­gram," what is·its status in·the.-Col;. lege of Arts and Letters, ·and what the program should accomplish. These are the same questions ·that were asked when the program was 
. initiated in 1970; the answers de­· proposals made by those who sought veloped then could be used as .the the establishm_ent of such a program criteria for the evaluation to be done here and ·across the nation. More· 
OCTOBER'.19, 1979 
by the,committee.' That these same questions are still being asked after nine _years is. indicative of the con~ fusion alluded· to by Mr. Blackwell. : .. The confusion is primarily ·a . re­sult of, the different ·ways the pro­gram is viewed by different, sectors 
of the,,faculty and Administration. 
Professor Joseph·Scott, who was the 
director of. the program, from· its 
founding until the spring. of 1975, 
said. that the students and faculty 
members: who have .supported the program. are not at all· confused about,,iL ,They ·feel that; a Black Studies Program should enable stu­dents .to become. aware of .the his~ tory,. culture; and .· achievements of Black :Americans. · Such a program should also · address such·. current. issues as race relations, the state of 
urban life, and the continuing strug:­
gle for equality; These ·goals can be reached-., by establishing a .strong; broad curriculum of:courses in the program; and . by nurturing the de­velopment of _research in the area of Afro-American. studies .. 
Professor Scott explained that this. was also the general nature of the 
specific proposals included ,the •hir­.ing of black faculty members, the 
·creation of financial-aid, :packages 
suitable for minority. • students, ,and 
inore aggressive recruitment,_of·-mi'.' 
nority students. . . · . 
.The Administration acted on these 

specific proposals, _and qthers, to the 
satisfaction of those .involved. Many 
departments ·began, to hire, black 
professors, black visitJng professors were ;brought in,, lecture, series. on 
black. issues ,were: funded, _the Black 
Cultural Arts Q:>uncil was founded; ·the list goes 9n. . 
: ' . '" Still,: Professor Scott ,chose to re­sign in 1975. He ,beiieved that, the Administra,tion ; ._.wai;;.· focusing, . .' ~oo much on ,the specifics o( the issue; those items ~hich ·more • correctly came tin~er. the title of '.'Black. Stu­dent Affairs.'.'-The major reaso11 for beginning . the. · progra~ ,;,was;. as stated·above, to foster academic-and intellectual study, __teaching, ..and. re~ search in the area o(Black and other ethnic. studies .. ,. After thos_e first. five 
•years, Scott· did not think the Uni­versity sincerely intended to support this important aspect of the pro­gram's development. As he stated .during a recent interview, "They did not want someone ... who was going 
5 


to expand the program into a serious academic discipline but someone who would manage it." 
Why is there an apparent lack of commitment to the idea of Black and ethnic studies as a valuable and per­tinent academic discipline, especially at a University that speaks so often of broadening students' knowledge of humanity? Professor James B. Stewart, who became the second Director of Black Studies in the fall of 1975, sees the problem as grounded in the way these programs began. "At its outset," he stated, "Black Studies was seen primarily as a way to appease black and other supportive students. In many ways, this view still persists. This view is, perhaps, more prevalent here than at many other universities and col­leges· with similar programs." Stew­art is familiar with the develop­ment of Black Studies on a national basis through· his position on the Executive Board of the National Council for Black Studies. 
Though he has not been content to be "merely a manager," Stewart has not been able to concentrate on nurturing the scholarly dimension of the program. He has been caught up in a vicious cycle in which the pro­gram must show itself to be impor­tant as an intellectually valuable area of study in order to acquire the commitment of financial and aca­demic resources it first needs if it is to evolve into such a program. 
In separate interviews, both Scott and Stewart. agreed that the most acute sign of · this cycle is the dilemma that the Director and Black Studies faculty members face when relating their departmental respon­sibilities to their work with the pro­gram: Scott's op1mons on this matter are very strong. 'He feels that working with Black Studies, at the level required to:help it mature adequately, often counts against these teachers. If they devote ·too 
much time to Black Studies, the de­partment in which they work may see them as being slack in their duties. · 

Stewart concurred, saying, "A teacher's major allegiance must be to his or her department." This is, in part, a matter of pride in one's work, but it is also a matter of sur­vival. · Thus, many teachers are not able ·to spend as much time in de­veloping the program; there is not sufficient internal control of the courses that are cross-listed in the . program. The fact that these courses are cross-listed is a mani­festation of this problem, since the program cannot become a visible area of study. These are all reflec­tions of the present "inhibitive" structure of the program. If there had been steps taken to restructure the program in light of these diffi­culties, it would have supported the rhetoric concerning a broad and pluralistic educational approach which is espoused by the University. All· three directors, Scott, Stewart and Blackwell, agree on this point. In fact, Stewart. decided to resign last year because he ·did not think a commitment to this restructuring was forthcoming. This is a striking parallel to the reasons Scott gave for resigning four years earlier.· · 
Dean Isabel Charles, the Dean ·of the College of Arts and Letters,·dis­cussed these issues at length. She sincerely feels that the College and the University have given :ample support to the program: She has, however, also recognized the. dis­satisfaction of the past directors and many of the faculty members and students involved in the issue. She is concerned with understanding their views; this is why she ap­pointed a committee to investigate the problem as well as to designate a new permanent director. She pointed out,· however, that what may be viewed as an attitudinal lack of 
commitment is actually a result· of 
the very practical issues of a limited 
budget. and student support for the 
program. 
"Notre Dame is not presently at 
the stage ·of budgeting new depart­
ments or radical changes in existing 
departments or programs," she ob­
served. The fact that the program' 
has been continued .as a second 
major while many established major 
programs have been reduced to con­
centrations, like communications, or 
entirely eliminated, like education, 
quite possibly suggests the nature 
of the support for Black Studies. 
Charles also said that the "pressure" 
to create changes within budget con­
straints would have to come from a 
large cross section of the student 
body. "Of course, this may· unfor­
tunately be a 'chicken and egg' situ­
ation in which a large number of stu­
dents may not be· attracted. to the 
program until it has a stronger 
structure and a less· tentative ap­
pearance," Charles admitted. 
At the present time, the Dean and 
all interested parties are waiting to ·see what recommendations come from the Black Studies Committee. Mr. Blackwell cited the criticalques­
tions as being: 
1. 
Does the University want a Black Studies Program that is strong, innovative, and capable of foster­ing valuable research in ethnic studies? 

2. 
If yes, is the University willing to provide the institutional and financial resources necessary? 


Blackwell added that such. full. de­velopment hinges on the person selected as the permanent Director and his ability to act on the existing problems and needs. The importance of this. aspect of the committee's duties .was highlighted by Stewart in his letter of resignation submitted to the Provost in July. He asserted; "The process by which the Univer­sity chooses to appoint ... a perma-
SCHOLASTIC. 


nent Director. ·of the Black Studies Program will provide a clear indi­cation .. :· of the University's stance vis d vis Black-Studies." · 
The process,' as explained by Dean Charles, involves two steps. Because of the present structure, a. place for a candidate must be ·found within one of the departments of .the Col­lege The selection of a new Director is; therefore, · contingent ;upon ·the ability to find someone most able to help the program grow and to fill an opening as a full-time teacher.-While this situation -itself may be neces­sary, it will put the new director in the same dilemma as the past direc­tors. and::,faculty. members have always experienced. Scott states, "The contract.·_ is with one · depart­ment, not,two." While some depart­ments· do take into accountthe needs of Black Studies, many have "little or no concern or ability for evaluat­ing efforts and duties to Black · Studies. This can put. those of us in­volved in.the program at a less com­petitive level , in · relation to other faculty in our respective; depart­ments. This is most severe,at times of tenure.evaluation." . 
Scott was not himself • applying this observation directly to the pros­pects for the new· Director, for per­haps the committee will-recommend that this ambiguity be cleared up for the Director,. if not for all the fac­ulty involved in the program. · Per­haps the University will adopt such a recommendation. -. Whether this or similar .recommendations are made and acted upon, Blackwell is· hopeful that there will be improvements :in the form of a. clearer understanding of the program's relationship to the College of. Arts. and. Letters and its departments-.· and -the program's ability to foster serious:, research and publication in Black ·. Studies scholarship., ·:He. feels that, at this point; anything outside of stagnation would be an:improvement. · 
··-· t· 
When asked about the future of 

the program, Dean Charles stated 
that she prefers to wait and see 
what -proposals the Committee on 
Black Studies submits before she is 
too. specific about the future; Her 
caution , reflects her interest in. not 
damaging the potential for construc­
tive_ proposals and change..The pro:.. 
,gram .is a .valuable part of the Col­
lege. in Charles' eyes; she also al­
luded to the difficulty, however, of 
imposing upon students by telling 
them what is or is not valuable. So, 
her hope· is that the program's 
future structure will enable the stu­
dents to judge it more thoroughly . 
. Scott wonders if the Administra­·tion and the College will be-ready to fully support the development of the program to the state described by · Dean Charles. Obviously, he hopes they will, but based on past experi­ence, he can do little more but wish that the program will be supported iri : becoming "more . viable, more 
visual, and more vital." 
Finally, Stewart thinks .that real 

improvement .may occur, but -he ­
doubts that it will be in the imme­
diate future. He will not be here to 
see what •·. happens firsthand; he 
leaves ·the· University at the end of 
this academic.year to become.Direc­
tor of·Black Studies at a state uni­
versity in .the East; He thinks im­
provement here . will continue to be 
slow because, as·he states, "The pro­
gram here still has to catch up with 
most . such programs. at ., other. in­
stitutions __ that have . effectively 
passed the .survival test." 
··. •"Black, Studies Program." .·• . -.· 
· -Even now, these are more than 
just words on a door for those who 
give : their support to the .idea and 
'value of ·mack· Studies,· as .well as 
ethnic studies "in general.. ffremains ­
to be seen whether these words will 
be given· sufficient support· to mean 
much more to .a -larger. number of 
people throughout this university. 0 


OCTOBER 19, 1979 
7 

Despite the rumors that Notre radiation source was turned off, Dame students generally hear about which in this case happened to be the Radiation Research Building, the Linac, Dr. Schuler opened the atomic bombs are not being made heavy iron door to the experimen­
.. there, radiation does not leak from tation room, pushed away the iron the brick walls, and there are not gates, and assured me that it was thirty-four underground floors. One perfectly safe to go in. He pointed asks, what is going on there? Re-out a few of the instruments and ex­searchers are studying the effects plained the experiment. Then, we of radiation on all kinds of matter, left the room and he closed both ranging from living organisms to doors so that we could watch the metals. They study these reactions researchers perform the experiment. in the attempt to come up with the Bolts of energy at about a billionth energy·sources for· the .future. of· a· second bombarded the chemical 
IN 
Sounds simple, huh! Guess again. sample. Two men recorded. the re­One glimpse .at the elaborate elec-suits of the experiment by using tronic -equipment that the re-electronic devices with information searchers use to test the materials fed into them by computer. The would impress anyone. The Radia-computer:.·actually carried-·out :the tion Research Lab here at ·Notre experiment and analyzed the .data 
. Dame is · noted for· having some-of from it. : A curve appeared on ·the the· most ·sophisticated facilities in computer screen shQwing the results the world for. radiation research. with each point on the .curve repre­Some of -the radiation· facilities in-senting two-tenths of a microsec.;. elude six Cobalt-60 sources, which ond. "That was· a relatively slow are radioactive isotopes of cobalt. experiment," Dr. Schuler remarked.
THE 

These sources are used for gamma "The lab has been .very important radiation studies: One of the Cobalt-for looking at events that occur in 60 sources is a cobalt cave. This cave very short times. .We have speciaf is enclosed by walls four and a half facilities here for examining chemi­feet thick and sheets of Plexiglas cal reactions for times in the order


HEART 
OF 
for observation windows; The radia-of a billionth. of a second." tion level inside the cave is very The lab is perfectly safe to work high, so high; in fact, .that no one in provided that the people using the can enter the·cave~ A control panel facilities take the necessary,precau­outside of .the cave allows research-tions; The instruments . are: not 
ers to control .the· experiments. In hazardous, .but flashing.· red -lights addition to ·the. cobalt sources; .the mounted outside the·labs where the lab also owns six lasers which are experiments are being performed:in­used as:radiation sources.·: dicate when the machines are· on. · .Other instruments used for experi-Thelab also uses an interlock system mentations are.electron accelerators, ·as a safeguard. For example, in the

THE 
among which· are a Linac, a linear room where. the oxidation•. experi­accelerator, and: the -Van de .Graaff ment_ took place, an extremely loud accelerators, spectrometers; spectro-. alarm· goes off when· the iron doors photometers, and a number. of· other and gates are closed in order to warn useful experimental· facilities. One · anyone that may stilLbe ; inside. 


_ATOM 
of the accelerators is painted to look Then, the flashing light goes on. The ·like a•:football. Dr. Schuler, the di-machine can.only be turned·off from rector ·of the· Radiation Research an outside control panel.·, If·some­Lab, says that it is the "biggest foot-one were· to open the door while the ball on campus;'' It measures ten feet machine. was on, it· would· automat­long and it is autographed by the · ically turn itself off~ · · •" .. current tri-captains:of the· football ·Monitoring badges· are also. worn team. Two of the four. Van de Graaff when people working with radiation accelerators· here on. campus. are·Io-sources-are conducting, experim~nts. cated in the Radiation Research Lab. ·The film badges·detect,the presence 
by Phyllis Washington: The other two belong.to the physics of radiation since:it:cannot be seen, department which :was a· "pioneer" smelled or felt~ A'shadow appearing· in the 1930's in the,development· of . on the badge would indicate,~: dan-· 
,; the early accelerators.! Notre Dame gercius level of radiation~J.:.-_:,·,:: ··-'.-,<. has more Van de Graaff accelerators . :, There are all-types of people:work­" than :any. other laboratory in, the • frig-in :the Radiation··Research Lab. 
· "' :country.... . , .About ninety to one. hundred people · During our recent interview, Dr. · make up the total staff there; and 
Schuler and I visited one of the labs slightly over half of . those are re-· 
/1 where an experiment to oxidize Nf+2 search associates and assistants 
!i to Ni+3 was in process. "Ni+3 is .a from various parts of the world, as 
I very unstable oxidize-stated nickel," well as many parts of the United· 
I.I ., he said. First making sure that the States. There are also fifteen Notre 
I 
--:,·"::. SCHOLASTIC . 
!I 

Dame . graduate ..-students., _working there; . Many of the researchers are on short appointments for'a year or.. twofrom places such as Chile, Israel,·. 
. Portugal, Poland, Taiwan; Scotland, Japan, ..Nationalist China; Argen­tina, India. and Paris,.with ·degrees 
.in physical chemistry' organic cheni:., : istry, biochemistry, physics and elec~ ~ trical engineering. . . ._ ...· . . 
. Specialists are also: needed to run the glass shop; where all kinds. of glass . tools. are made ·including spe­cial utensils for ·specific experiments. The lab· also has: mechanical and 
is .jointly funded by the National Bureau of Standards and the Depart-· menfof Energy. "The data center,'' · Dr. Schuler commented, "is the prin­ciple operation of its type in-the <;ountry...We. have -very elaborate computerized systems. within. the 
l 
I ! 
I 
t 
l 
i l 
1 
l' ! ' 
. after the war, to find out more.about radiation by ·studying the effects of it Ol).. all types of matter..It began·. in the basement of the old chemistry building. When it_ became larger, it was moved to.Nieuwlanil Hall. But as· tlie· ~.department expanded, it 
labs, processing the.data as it comes .i needed .. niore room~ The Atomic off the experiment:';'.· · . · Energy Commission took.the respon­. ."Although Notre .. Dame operates. sibility of building a. larger facility and staffs the· Radiation· Research-· . on campus..in1963, not as a reward Lab, U is a govennnent-funded op-·to Notre Dame; but as a move to eration. The lab has been· operating ._ establish a center where growth. and 
on a budget of over one million. dol­la.rs 'a year from the Department of 

electrical shops._as :well-a.s drafting. Energy;_formerly the Atomic Ener­. and photographic,facilities. . gy Commission, .since. October of · The .data. cent~r,_.another area of _,.1977. The $2.2 million building was the lab, is internationally. known for .originally built . on the campus. in 
its collection; storage, evalua~ion and distribution of. radiation chemistry data..The center was established 8.s. part o_f the National Standard Re-. fe_rence Data.Srstem: {~SRDS) and 
.OCTOBER· 19, 1979 
1963, mainly because o(;the :work: that had been done·'in-radiation chemistry hel'.e since 1949. But, the actual. radiation chemistry depart-· ment wa~ fol!11ded in the_ late 1940s, 
knowledge: of radiation chemistry could be furthered. Notre Dame was the first ·university in ::America to provide formal training.in the are~ of radiation chemistry and when the : building was· put up, it ·held'. the reputation for being the biggest cen­ter. in the world for resear~~ Today,· with; the help of the· Department of Energy, itremains the largest center of·its type_ in the WQrld<. 0 
---•..:....
-··· 


"Why 

Me?" 
by Joe Carmarda 

Finally, the paper was finished. It ·in five minutes ·the police were there. was ten o'clock and I decided to First there were two, then five, then read my psychology in the comfort twenty. ·The · paramedics arrived of my room. Normally, I would next. have remained downstairs and lis­By this time it began to hurt and tened to the stereo while I read; but painkiller was out of the question that luxury disappeared about two until . my condition stabilized, so months earlier, in the middle of the they said. The questions started night. And since I was sick and tired coming: . ''Who was it?'' "What did of listening to Billy Joel on FM, I he look like?" "What kind of· gun decided I would get more accom­was it?" "Who was it?" "Who was plished in silence. I had just read it?" "Who was it?" I just wanted the first paragraph when I heard to fall asleep and wake up to realize the front door creak open and the .· that it was all a terrible nightmare. wind chimes above it start clanging. I couldn't close my eyes for fear "Hmm, who could that be?" . of never: reopening them. As long 
"Who's there?" I boomed as I as I remained conscious I knew I trotted down the stairs expecting was alive. On the way to the hospi­to meet two friends. As I moved tal I asked God's forgiveness and down the stairs and the overhang asked for all the help he could no longer obstructed my view of the give me. living room, I could see a figure Being in the emergency room was scampering out the door. While still just like a scene out of "Emergency on the landing, two steps from the One." Everything was sterile, white floor,· I encountered another figure and stainless steel, and there were about three feet from· the door. Be­lots of people running around get­fore I could react, the figure reached ting things. Given a strong pain­into the · pocket of his knee-length killer, I became very relaxed. It coat ·and produced a small, silver, was then that one of the nurses fold toy-like · gun. He aimed, I ducked, Irie that there was a contingent of he fired. It all happened so quickly, students who would like· to see me: in less than three seconds. While the Wow, I ·thought, I forgot· about shot rang I clutched my throat and everyone, all· of · my friends, · my watched _the man · bolt · .out the family. I was feeling relatively good door. Not quite sure exactly what then but they must have been in a had· just happened and not feeling panic. I was told that Dean Roemer any intense pain, I, with the aid of had called my parents and explained adrenaline, flew up ten stairs. My to them what had happeried. Within housema.te, Rick, and his girlfriend, the next two hours I reassured . Patti, met me at the top of ·the everyone I was fine, extremely stairs. They begged me to remove lucky, but nevertheless I had con~ my hands from . iny:.,. neck fo' see vinced myself I would be out of the what, if anything, · the noise · had hospital in time to finish finals. 
been; · · · · '· 

· I firially dozed · off and woke up ' "Joe,. you have a. hole in your· to find myself flat on my back in the neck," · Rick-· said almost·. ca.lmly . intensive care unit. The pain in my . _ While Patti insisted that I not panic throat was outrageous; As I tried to and -tried to make me comfortable scream for ashot of pain medicine, on the floor, Rick, in-a shocked I realized· that I could not produce frenzy called· the 911 number. With-ariy sound' above ari almost inaudi-• 
10· 
ble whisper. Just as panic was set­
ting in a nurse entered my room 
and reassured me that I would be 
O.K. Another shot of morphine and the pain subsided once again. My mind and eyes were wandering and I began to check out my new quar­ters. Pretty wild, I thought, look at all those electronics! I felt wires attached everywhere, and before I fell asleep I felt confident that if nothing else I· had the advantage of the best technology available. 
Upon waking up some eight hours later, I was greeted by a group of doctors, nurses and interns. They seemed concerned with the swelling in my necJ{. X-rays and blood tests were taken; and before I could relax I realized I couldn't breathe. When one of my monitors signaled this to· the nurses they had me signing a form within moments, ,and soon I was lying face up in· the operating room. 
A tracheotomy was performed and a ¾-inch-in-diameter tube was in­serted into my trachea and the. other end was attached to an oxy­gen pump which enabled me to breathe. . . . . · 
Much of the initial trauma ended when my mom arrived and greeted me with a smile that only a mother could give. All of a sudden I was her little boy again, and there was· nothing the two of us· couldn't over­come. She was there every day for five and a half weeks, sometimes sixteen hours a day. My friends ·a.1so _rose to the occasion, taking care of my mother and insisting on ·getting me · anything and -· everything · I needed. 
As time went on, the staph in~ fection that the bullet wound had caused subsided. The· efforts of the doctors, ·nurses arid countless hos_. pital staff. members· paid off. My prayers and ·those · of · family •-and friends were realized:·r was released· from the hospital smiling and forty­five pounds lighter to recover in Fort Lauderdale for two months. When I returned home I was fat a.nd suntanned. 
Now,' some fen months after my "accident" I still ask, · "WhY me?" After being brutally ·_ attacked · in your own home, it's easy· to become 

' 
very philosophical about life and · even· bitter about some aspects·· of life. Time has· mellowed the bitter~ ness away but' not' the reality ' of what happened. Although the inci­dent now seems' like the nightmare' Ihad hoped it would be, the rea.lities are still all too real. Every tiine I go out to enjoy the social ·life at Notre Daine, I end "up going.through 
SCHOLASTIC 

the same neighborhood, still un­changed, a hub of crime. 
I can't believe students can feel secure there. Apparently, though, the benefits outweigh the. alterna­tives. Because of the housing and social structure at Notre Dame, only off-campus living enables a student to do as he pleases without the threat of being fined or forced from his home : for an infraction of a Du-Lac bylaw. Rules for the resi­dent hall student are agreed upon before the student signs his con­tract, and he is made aware of quiet hours and party procedures. This seems fair enough, because if astu~ dent doesn't agree or can't seem to. follow these rules, he can always move off campus. But what kind of alternative is. that when he has to choose .between living an individual life-style or being secure? 
The crime ·statistics for the stu-. dent neighborhood . off campus are overwhelming..Break-ins and rip~ offs are as:common to an off-campus student as:.blowing .off classes. The reason .is vecy simple: students, be0 cause .'of,. .their . income status, are forced to . live in a low-rent district. Low-rent "districts also attract those individu'als who would rather steal a stereo than buy . one, or steal . , a stereo_ and sell it to suppm:t their µabit. 
Ironically, the solution is just as simple. Many other schools also ex­perience a problem of accommodat­ing off-campus students. They sim­ply and safely solve their problem by providing university-subsidized housing areas where students live among students, in either apart­ment complexes or in blocks where the university has purchased the homes and resold them to landlords who rent only to students. Theoreti­cally, this is not ideal because any affiliation with the university in­fringes upon the feeling of inde­pendence that a student gains when finding and renting his own house 
· completely on his own. It is, though, a much better alternative than being shot because you forgot to lock your door while you were at home: 
Father Hesburgh, while visiting me in the hospital, expressed to my friends and me that there is a definite problem in South Bend and that there should be a solution. The solution he suggested was stricter gun control. This, I suppose, could _ be ·accomplished through lobbying and the implementation of effective legislation..It would seem, though, easier, more _efficient, and swifter to treat the problem as a university problem rather than as a national problem. Father Hesburgh is a fan­tastic 'university president. He was obviously concerned when he visited me. With his ability and the Uni­versity's power, however, the off­campus student should be provided with adequate security. 
After the incident, the University further expressed its concern by providing my mother with a feeling of. responsibility for my well-being. The University set up meetings with students and administrators, acted as a liaison with the county legal office and provided.my mother with a place to stay for three weeks. We always· felt that the school was there to help. Throughout my con­valescence and throughout the sum­mer I was kept informed of Uni­versity happenings. When I re­turned to . school, Dean Waddick aided me in completing my schedule. 
Now that I'm back in school again, I am anticipating gradua­tion. ·The real world ·will be fun and hopefully safer than my last taste of it. On October 15, the of­fender was brought to .trial. If he is convicted, he will spend two to four years in jail. I won't start ram­bling about justice. The courts work in strange ways. I am just thankful that I'm ._ still alive to write about 
it. . 
Joe Camarda is a senior Economics major, now living in Sorin. He will graduate in December. 

0CTOB.ER 19, 1979 11· 
: 
••-­
--· 

on Coliseum Drive to let up a bit. It did for a second and he gunned our new Chevette· across the street.. ButJourney a·second wasn't long enough. · A  
pickup truck was just feet away  
from us when we were only.halfway across.-,Back ... 5 weeks later-·  
July 4, 1978  
· Something was wrong; but I didn't. : · by Lib_by Kenri_edy .quite_ know what. ·1 was in a · bed,  
unable to get. up, and people kept  
coming in and asking me how I was:  
Nurses and doctors seemed·. to be  
omnipresent; constantly .taking my  
temperature, giving ine pills, etc. I  
remember~ • vaguely; ·­being · in a -. wheelchair .. and being. taken ·to ·a  
room where I had to walk betweeri  
parallel bars. I cmtldn'f. do -it~ I  
didn't understand where I was or  
. why I was there.'. SoTwould just go  
to . sleep, thinking that. ·if I ·could,  
I would like·fo .wake· in my·own)>edat home,' arid find this had just been  
a bad dream. · ,, . - 
Three··days_later, I was·allowe·d· to  
go home and my journey· back to ·  
21-year-old sanity began:·.__ . · ·_  
Sounds like a dramatic movie  
script, doesn't it? But it wasn't. It  
did happen last year and it has taken  
these past fifteen months for me to  
· realize it is over.. Since it did· hap­ 
pen, I am so thankful for my_life and  
all the people who are a part of it;  
The accident made· me realize who  
really·-cared about me and (they  
always say it in books and it is true) .. how precious life and all it encom­ 
passes is.' It is a shame that I had to  
be that close to death to really ap­ 
preciate all that I have. Life is short  
and I.was lucky enough to be given  
.the chance to see this. _I'll never stop  
. realizing how fortunate I was>to  
have the family and friends I had.  
(Do ·you get the idea now of the iri".  
· tensity of this experience?)· I have  
, never been one to be very expressive  
;>o( my..:"feellngs, ,but this acciden~  
~~. : mi:tde me much ~ore open, and 11·.lot · :f:};::,,... less_inhibited! with:my feellngs;a~d ··"'··•.·, thoughts. This can be both·bad·.and:--. ·:a. good, but :the benefits of being open· · ..,_:.,,"! • $:~ far outweigh'the 'disadvantages'. _. ·• •_ ~;..J,; . ·: I.got home·from the.hospital and ?n -".M""~-!l ;my x:ecuper~tiorf b~gan. ·, ~he first 2~f~.,2 ._thing .. that ne~ed _work ·was the • -~~ ·•· .· physlcalside of the injury, wlth,the  
-~ nientalinjury slowly mending in the  
months to come; :'.Although Thad·a .. . . . . . . . ; . ~~ . •.  
I  .·_  12  SCHOLASTIC .·  
l I  
:\  

June _1, 1978­

It was ten minutes to 'five on a 
Thursday afternoon. I had to be at work, bartending, ·at 5 :00 and my younger brother was trying his· best 

The' 

to get me there on time through the 
rush hour traffic. He pulled iri the turn lane and waited for the traffic ­broken _pelvis, punctured lung,. and numerous other injuries, the main one was the cut I received 'on the entire right side of my head, which exposed_and_bruised the brain. (Can you imagine going through life tell­ing people. you had, at one time, severe brain damage? Well, that's another story.) 
Because of the broken pelvis and paralysis on'my leftside, I could not walk by myself until the end of August. The doctors said that it was doubtful I would ever walk normally again, but my family and I had other. ideas. ·Even with my messed-up mind, I knew something was wrong when I realized I couldn't stand up to get something unless -someone was in the room to help me. That got to be very frustrating, so I did my physical therapy exercises every 
_day to try .to gain some semblance 
· of normality. It was a slow process but each day I would be able to do something, however slight, that I couldn'tdo ·the, day _before. It can be funny riow, wheri I think of how excited I .was· to learn· to sneeze, cough, and· do aU the' other little everyday things I had always taken for -granted. . • _. 
But because of the brain injury, I never fully realized that this wasn't the way I had always been. (Thank heaven for small favors!). I.was still progressing mentally/but Cfelt the frustration of -a child who' can't do what he wants:· : . · .. -.· 
After two weeks, .~hen' I got out of intensive care; the doctor said it was . questionable whether ·I. would get much of my mind back. (I had an excellent doctor, by ·the way. Head of Neurosurgery at .Bowman Gray School of Medicine. Not bad, eh?) They said I would have to start· thinking as•a child arid slowly pro­ceed ·fo the a·ge I am now; but that I could start with the mentality of 
· any age. (I like to think I'm back now, but my family·still questions that!) When I first began;talking, I was around ten years old .. I would just:ramble on about friends, kids, I hadn't·_ seen· in.. years, so-.whoever was with me would know how .old I was.: Since we hadJived in different states, whoever was with me would ask where I was and they could tell how much I had progressed. I did this for two weeks, talkingto anyone who would listen to me. I had every­one ,who carrie near me at Baptist Hospital knowing everything (and I mean everything!) I did from the time I• was ten years old., It was worse than ''This is Your Life" be­cause I literally• left .nothing _out, good or bad. I had no inhibitions. -As an example,a nurse oncetied me 
OCTOBER 19,l979 
..to my bed. I violently bit her_ on the hand, drawing blood. As a result, she 'quit her job. I was a model patient. · 
It wasn't .until a month after I was home when I started to realize · that some things should not be said · in front of my parents. My older brother and sisters would just look at me,. shake their heads, and say 
-"Just wait." Now I know what they meant. I think I was a bit too loose · with my tongue. I have no more secrets of the past-21 years. n was · in _October, after two ..months at home that things began to -click and I realized that some­thing was seriously wrong by my being there, doing nothing. The doc­tor said then that it would probably be another six months before I could . handle being in a "college atmo~ 
-sphere,". so why didn't I just take it easy, and go the following year. But once I knew what happened, _and realized there was the chance.that I could improve, I was determined to come back in December. So. I . did my exercises and practiced sounding normal and_ somewhat -intelligent again. The end of November I '\vent into, the hospital again for six hours of psychological. testing. Two ·weeks later, I got a letter from my doctor saying I could come back to school conditionally. That was all I needed. I came back for what would have been my second semester of my senior year, but I gotthrough it, and improved greatly in the process. I did have a few handicaps; there were the obvious physical ones, such as, a Ump and double vision, and the not­so-obvious, such as the complete numbness of the right side of my body arid a very poor memory: The one "handicap" that inost kids here couldn't quite handle (for obvious· reasons) was the medication I was required to take for over a year. The stipulation with these pills was 'that I could drink no alcohol while taking them. For some reason, it, took a while for people to realize that I was having a good time even ifI wasn't having a beer.. The inability . to,drink was such a minor drawback after all that happened. -_· .I've got glasses now, I'm off the -medication, my memory·is imprciv­ing, and I can live with everything ·else. This all took -just a little over a year and I really can't end this until I tell what the main reason was, for, .as the: doctors say, ''my miraculous comeback." That reason has to be the people who were with me throughout this whole ordeal. I don't think I can say enough .about· my.--family at this -point.-My·parents and six brothers 
. ~. 

and sisters pt.it aside all their activi­ties and devoted a good portion of their summer sitting at the hospital 
-with me and then helping me get .around and adjust when I got home. There was no question in their minds with what had to be done. One of the family needed _their · support greatly, so everything was put aside to devote all their attention to that one person. Who, at the time, was me. I can't say enough about each person and his -patience, especially, in caring for me. I could go on and on about the time and love that was there for me · when I needed it so badly, but I really can't put it into words. ---­
I• can't say enough about_ my frierids, either. The day after my 

-accident, my parents called three of my friends throughout-the country. By the end of the summer and throughout the fall, I heard from more friends than I ever could have imagined. It was unbelievable,· the number of · people who ·thought enough just to .write and say they were _thinking of me. Most . didn't know the extent, of my injuries but still offered any help ·that was needed. People I had not' seen ·in years sent their love and concern. It's just too bad that it took such an accident to make me realize how for­tunate I was in knowing that people cared. about me. But it did happen and I couldn't help but learn so 
much by.it. _ ·_ · _ · ·. 

_There were _sorne things_ th11t did not turn out for the better~ but they were taken in stride, with' ·the good things outweighing them. ·such as, there were some people, at home and at school,. who really_ couldn't' handle me in any otherway_ than -how I was before the accident~ -They were nervous and really couldn't be 
.around me until I had straightened up a bit. I understood this .but I still couldn't accept it. · -(I· couldn't be all good!) .I_ gained so --many more friends and learned much about those who stayed by me. 
. Now, here I ·am, back -at _school for my final semester in college. Yes, a lot has happened these pastfifteen months, events .that I would .never want anyone to go through, but I can't help -but feel_ that good -has come .from it. -I appreciate _my family, my . friends, and ·my • life, much more than I thought possible. And that appreciation doesn't."less­en; it just grows as ·time goes by. D 
• Libby Kennedy is a senior,· English ­major at St. Mary's. She will grad­~ate with_ a B.A. degree in December. ­
ffilm:· Apocalypse Now. and Brian, Then 

'I 
l 
i 
. The.· movie is finished. And, yes, 
the man and his millions are nowI parted, maybe never to be reunited,
I 
I 
even in eternity. Such is the melo­

i 
dramatic intensity that APOCA­

I 
LYPSE NOW has brought with its 

11 
!I arrival on the screen. I! Francis Ford· Coppola's . 31-mil­
II 
lion-dollar . Vietnam War epic took

ii,, 
four years in the making and gath­ered so much attention along the way, that never· before has the r~ lease· of a movie been so eagerly anticipated. Was the wait worth it? Well, the movie is better than most of the year's 'blockbusters: Moon~ 
raker, The In-Laws, Alien and Dra­cula. just to ·name a few. But in the final analysis, it falls short of being a great movie. · 
The problem is this: Mr. Coppola promised us · a movie about .· the atrocitfos. of ·vietnam through which 

,fflontp ~ptfJon's 

LIFE OF BRIAN 
, Ahem; 
This· is my theory which I am about to relate. . . . · 

· Way back in time, among the flotsam and· jetsam cif the petulant prophets, an·d amid the. people who did feast . upon the lambs .and the sloths ;arid carp •and anchovies and orangutans and · . breakfast cereals and fruit bats, and huge, enormous impressive · bags of pretzels, and blancmanges and small; brown spots of· industrial resin-possibly creo­sote--.:.and vast bowls full of ·pus; in that land of many Spanish In­quisitions . and cheesemakers and Bruce's, there lived a man called. Brian.... . · 
Brian. Brian Cohen, the reluctant 
14 
various scenes and especially the ending are supposed to transcend the "Vietnam issue" and give us a universal . statement on morality. However, what we have received is a 
. conglomeration of visually stunning scenes from which there is great difficulty in drawing. moral conclu­sions. The difficulty arises because, though the scenes are powerful, the characters are not. Not a single character in the movie has any depth. This is especially true of Marlon Brando's character Kurtz ... ah, but I am getting ahead of myself, first a· little background. 
APOCALYPSE NOW is loosely based on_ Joseph Conrad's "Heart of Darkness~ which is· a story. of 19th­century colonialism in Africa.·· It tells of a narrator's journey up a river to find an ivory trader named Kurtz, who succumbs to the tempta~ 

pseudo-messiah of Monty Python's latest film endeavor "Life of Brian," who's only rule is "Why don't you all ·just work things out for your­selves?" 
It's not bad advice, really .. The case against Monty Python, though, has been argued thusly: "But they don't seem to have any reverence for anything."·. Well, that may or may not be true. It may just be that they feel that their jobs as comedians are simply to make people laugh. Which they generally· do. Sometimes hys­terically. 
Their latest film saga is not as funny as their masterpiece "Mority Python and the Holy Grail," but then, theirs is hybrid comedy to be­gin with, and even the • cockney crazies' worst would still rank con­siderably higher than· ·Hollywood's tion to play God ·10' primitive _na­tives. In the movie's original form the narrator and Kurtz were to be played by the same actor.' ... 
The reason is this: the narrator eventually realizes that' he is just as capable of moral savagery as Kurtz. In the words of Cor1r~!I's narrator: 
There· was ··nothing · either above him or below him'. He had kicked himself loos·e of the 
. . earth . ; . his soul was mad. Being alone in the wilderness, it·had looked into itself, and by · heavens! I tell you, it had gone mad. I had-t'or my sins; I sup­pose-to go through the ordeal of looking info myself.' Nci' elo­
. quence could have been so with­ering to one's belief in mankind · as his final ·burst of sincerity. . . ·. I saw the foconceivable 
best.;. 
The movie attempts to find a "bright side. of· life" in a day; when all was seemingly dark; when ston­ings, mass. crucifixions; and· throw­ing people to the lions· were the ·en­tertainment events of. the day. ·His­torians have said that during the life of Christ, over .thirty other "mes­siahs" were being proclaimed· (the quotation marks· are for them, riot Him). With life as ·such,· it's -little wonder people were ·turning to reH­gion . . . but the question; remains why would anybody turn to Brian? 
. A fair question, and one that I'm not certain· I'm prepared to answer; But in any event, the Catholic hier­archy (and other religious groups) don't want you to find out. 
The Bishops (who traditionally have not looked on the bright side 
SCHOLASTIC· 

--·----. ---.. -. --­
mystery of a soul that knew no 
faith and no fear, yet strug­
gling blindly with itself. 

And so with Heart of Darkness as a basis, Coppola and Vietnam Hawk John Milius set out to adapt the story. They turned Kurtz into a renegade Green Beret colonel who operated as a God. to native head­hunters out of an Angkor Wat-style temple against guerrillas. The nar­rator (who is named Captain Wil­lard by·. Coppola) is a special · ser­vices officer who is commissioned to travel up the river to "terminate Kurtz with extreme prejudice." 
APOCALYPSE NOW, like Con-. rad's novel, ·is supposed to be a journey towards some kind of un­derstanding of primeval . passion. Conrad explains to us from the be­ginning that Kurtz is some kind of extension of the narrator and it is this that makes the story work so well. But the film fails to establish any connection whatsoever between Kurth and Captain Willard, and be­cause of this -it seems to move in an arbitrary fashion through those visualiy stunning scenes to an arbi­trary end. · 
If Coppola had made five or six shorts out of scenes in the movie, they all would have been master­pieces. For example, in the movie's most powerful scene, we are intro­duced to Lieutenant Colonel Kilgore (Robert Duvall), who is a flamboy­ant ·air cavalry colonel who leads his chopper against a Viet Cong­controlled village at the mouth of the river. He has • two reasons for doing this. First, Captain Willard's patrol boat needs access to the river. Second, the waves,that hit the beach 

movie. But, remember, it is a very 
independent scene as it stands, 
and the mere combination of many 
great scenes does not make a movie 
great. · · 
The part of the movie that is the 

most problematic is the ending. This 
is mostly due to Brando's interpre­
tation of Kurtz. Brando arrived for 
filming in the· jungle 80 pounds 
overweight. In .order to camouflage 
this, .he requested .that his scenes be 
filmed in the dark. Thus,· his pres­ence is reduced to · a voice which certainly is not _his strong point. His mad scenes are mumbled, lisped and._ just downright _ uninteresting. The· key to the end of the movie is that Brarido is not any crazier or · more. godlike than Duvall's swash­.buckling air cavalry colonel and fanatical surfer, who sacrifices men's lives for absurd reasons like 
surfing. _ 
In effect, Duvall's character is the 

by the village are six feet high and only interesting one in · a movie Lieutenant Kilgore is a surfing nut. filled with emotional zombies. Mar-
He attacks the village in amazing tin Sheen's Captain Willard,· the fashion. He has a loudspeaker sys-.. audience's point of view reactor to tern hooked up in his chopper, and all the violence during the movie, he plays a piece from Wagner dur-has nowhere to go dramatically or ing the attack in order to psyche his psychologically. And let's not even men up. Once the choppers land, he talk about Brando's 1.5-million­orders a few of his men to "hit the dollar travesty. surf" (now remember the battle is And so there is absolutely no still going on). So here are these human development or interaction, guys surfing while everyone else is no growth or enlightenment in getting their brains blown out. And APOCALYPSE NOW. It's as if then, just when you think things someone had spent $31 million to have calmed down, a group of fight-film a circus. But even with all of er planes napalm the village. Mr. its flaws, it is still better than most Duvall's wild colonel reply is, ·"I movies. You should probably see it. love the smell of napalm in· the You might even find that it's all morning , .. the smell of gasoline it's cracked up to be. I wish I smells like victory." This scene is had. . probably worth the admission•to the · -Rich l\farcello 
of·life) you should be forewarned, condemned the movie ( they've been . desperately trying to keep their hands in the condemning business since the end of the infamous Clfor-' 
. bidden books iist" era). I gather · that most of the Bishops who saw · the movie (if, indeed, any of them really did) were probably embar.­rassed at having to hold back their laughter in much the same way that Pilate's guards, in one of the movie's funnier scenes, had •to suppress
theirs. · · . · · 
· · Upon thoughtful·. reflection, Py­thonesque humor might seem overly infatuated with·. surface discrepan­
cies in people (you know, lisps,. stut­tering, hairlips,. nose picking,. mental retardation;-etc.). But, then, who· says that any kind of comedy is supposed to inspire thoughtful re-
OCTOBER 19, 1979 flection? 
In all, "Life of Brian" is a very funny movie. In it, . the Monty · Python clan lynches the standard conventions . of · the "biblical ·epic" film genre in their. usual crazy, in­genious;. sometimes. very silly, way. Believe me, Pontius Pilate never.had it so rough. · 
It is also, I might add, · slightly irreverent, and if you are ·grotesque­ly insulted by the· rather casual 
. use of the more numinous objects . of worship, I would suggest you see Apocalypse 'Now instead.·._. As­suredly, most people.wiHnot be in­sulted or demythologized by this film. You might not even grow hair on your· palms. · Besides, I 'always was a sucker for a movie with a happy ending. D -Gregory Solman 

15 



. SCHOLASTIC 


OCTOBER -19, 1979 



93ooks: 

f 
I 
with his· pen. Chaucer colored the 

Reviewed by Mark Rust Western world's memory of medi­eval times with his tales. Martin drivels. 
by Steve Martin I G. P. Putnam's at the visual jokes solely because And this · is· the second lesson. Sons / 125 pages / $6.95. they are visual; they are funny be-· Words are not meant to be used 
Steve Martin's most recent (and cause they are satire. A courageous injudiciously. There is something only) book to-date, Cruel Shoes ·knight .. may slay, limb · by gory, about reading this book in hard­(Putnam's, $6.95), appeared early · · blood-spurting limb, a medieval back that emphasizes this lesson. this summer: it is a thin volume of . man-monster in Monty Python. But Included in my plans for an ideal short shorts, lavishly bound arid · · the· humor derives from a sense of life is a scenario that goes some­singularly unfunny. What Mr. Mar~ satire in which such Old· English thing like . this: I wake up at the tin does so. well in person and . on < literary characters as · Grendel in · crack of whenever I feel like it, be­television plays weak in the written Beowulf are called .to mind. and come gradually cognizant of the sun medium, and this suggests two very . such heroic qualities as · persever­pouring into my · immediate . sur­valuable lessons to the reader who, ance in .battle are called in for ridi­roundings (a large suite in a posh otherwise, .might . rightfully · feel . cule. In Monty .· Python, the topic hotel),. devour a , room~serviced cheated out of six dollars and ninety-is the subject; with Mr. Martin, the breakfast of eggs Benedict and five cents. . . • . . .. topic is the prop. fresh strawberries, relax with cof­
The first ·of· these lessons --and : · Props ·and artifice do not belong fee, cigarette and morning paper, perhaps the least important -· re-· in the world of. the written word, and then, eventually, pull myself. up fleets on the nature of Mr. Martin's . and we immediately recognize it as to a massive oak desk, choose care­comedy; it is visual .rather than fraudulent. This may be the source fully one finely sharpened pencil cerebral.. The incongruous gags and of. the ·reader's :nagging feeling of · from among the many arranged up­ludicrous mimicry_ titillate on sight di$COmfort as he plods through the right in their marble holder, and but, when written, inspire no more 125 pages. The word is a sacred place its tip squarely to the first than a perplexed interest. Where a _ · thing, and nonsense written for the line of the virginal legal pad, upon group such as Monty Python uses sake . of nonsense, bound and mar­which I write .meaningless drivel visuaf absurdity to simply reinforce . keted in the same way valid literary · that is sure to sell, reinforcing my their satire, Mr. Martin relies en-efforts are shared with the public, expensive hotel habit. All of this I tirely on the visual. He talks about · must be exposed and placed in its shall do, provided I don't fall back 
ji "My Uncle's Metaphysics," or "The · proper category: drivel. God spoke asleep; 
I 
i Gift of the Magi Indian Giver" and light. Homer enshrined heroic deeds Is that normal? D . 
'18 
SCHOLASTIC 
we do not laugh; had he been wear­ing an· arrow through his head, the opposite might have been the case. In Monty Python we don't · 1atigh 

Reviewed by Greg Solman 
by Geoffrey Wolff/Random House 
215 pages/$12.95 
There is but a single prerequisite for utmost interest in Geoffrey Wolff's latest book, The Duke of Deception; at one time, at least, one need only to have loved a parent. 
Wolff, successful novelist and book critic, has done something vogue in a unique way. He has searched his own American "roots" and found, to his dismay and confusion, that be­neath the' bitter, ornate green and rich, fertile topsoil, there lay below roots that were decayed and rotten. 
Wolff's father was a confidence man, and the lies his father told him were. grandiose indeed. Duke Wolff, when : in the right mood, talked of his rather gentile education at Groton and Yale and the Sorbonne's Ecole D'Aeronautiques (which, of course, doesn't exist); then; .. not to be out­done by anyone at 6:ne of the ·posh. country. clubs to · which lie belonged (and joined by virtue ·of borrowed mOney), there were also war stories. The Duke had many times para­chuted behind . enemy lines during World War II. He had been a test pHot arid,' in service to her majesty the queen, had. been a fight~r _pilot . 
for the RAF. 
"A pretty history for an American 

clubman," Wolff reflects. "Its fault 
is that it was not true." 
In reality, Duke Wolff, had he not 

been in many ways so loveable, 
would certainly have been detestable. 
He was · a man constantly in debt, 
and forever moving to stay ahead 
of his creditors. He wrote false re­
sumes and faked and lucked his way 
into sometimes very responsible jobs. 
He was in many ways a remarkably 
good father, but mostly always a bad 
husband. What the Duke was escap­
ing-aside from himself-has very 
much to do with the relationship he 
had with his father, The Doctor: 
How hard it must have been to grow up under the measuring gaze of that father! from the beginning, my father heard talk about the . best of this, the best of that: the best neighborhood, school, auto­mobile, minds, family. And if Jews with educations and without accents were better than Jews with accents and without. educations, . couldn't it follow that best of all was to be no Jew at all? · It's a complex world, the one be­tween fathers and their · sons. In much the same way ,that Bergman examined mother/daughter relations in "Autumn Sonata," Wolff, too, has sifted through the strange psycho­logical menopause that occurs when all 'of ·us find that our parents are 
not deities . . when each of us demythologizes his own ties between parent and child. 
Wolff's criticisms of his father seem acceptable to us because he seems somehow remarkably de­tached and honest when writing about him. Wolff is not preachy or didactic; he neither confirms nor condemns, forgives nor forgets, admires nor admonishes in any rigid sense. There are even shades of re­morse in his having left his father in Europe alone for the last years of his life, and the biography/auto­biography may even be seen as ca­thartic for Wolff. "I had felt betrayed by my father, and . I wanted to be­tray him," he recalls. 
But, above all, Wolff is gentle be­cause he probably can't help seeing some "Dukishness" in himself: 
Then she left me."forever," as she said. I stood on the Ponte Vecchio at three in the morning and contemplated suicide. The fal­lowing morning I skipped out on my bill at the Excelsior, took the sleeper to Paris, met some Ameri­can Pals and had a devil of atime. 
.Then, I spent the spring holidays with them in Spain for six weeks, following the bulls, oj'course,. tell­
;ing the Smith College Junior-Year­Abroaders·we were older than we were, which the girls pretended to believe. . · · · 
. Like father, like son? 

fJrlusic: From Zappa's Studio,... 
Joe's Garage, the fourth Frank Zappa album of 1979, also figures to be the most commercially successful. The album, part one of a projected · three-part· rock opera;. succeeds ·· be­cause •it integrates· the different genres of Zappa's work better than anything else he has done so far. Avant~garde musician; pointed social critic, crude comic, Zappa has pro-· duced a body of work ranging from 
prove the politicians right, Zappa goes at length into the sleazier side of the music business _in the songs · "Crew Slut," "Wet T-Shirt Nite," and the immortal "Why Does It Hurt When I Pee?" Of particular interest · to our community is a number called "Catholic Girls," Zappa's follow-up to Sheik Yerbouti's ·"Jewish Prin­cess"; Zappa suggests that Catholic . girls learn more than. their cate-·· 
comedy music, hard rock and 1950's . chisms at CYO functions. The song's music to modern jazz and classical thrust is lame, however, Jor "Jewish music. All of these genres (with the . : Princess" is a vicious characteriza-. exception of classical music) can be · tion of a specific type, whereas. it is, found living cut-to-cut in surprising. · obvious that a group as large as harmony.. "Catholic' women" defies character-. 
Joe's Garage is a parable warning ization. ·.· of. unscrupulous governments who, The music that holds all of the in an,.attempt to win votes, will .. satire, together is a tasty blend of 
trample upon any rights of the citi: zens; in· this case, they have declared music to be the root of all evil, and _ outlawed · it. Joe, the. leader .of· a· garage band, ·commits· the·crime ·of playing music. Then, almost as if to 
0CTOBER•l9, 1979 · 
jazz, blues, and rock,• with Zappa's . · inventive· · guitar work showcased throughout;· While it retains the com­
•plexity, ·strange time . changes and bizarre · instrumentation that Zappa is famous for, it is nevertheless more · 
accessible and melodic than usual. Whether it is deserving. or not, these . two qualities should help, along with the song titles, to push this album over the top and into ·the collections of non-Zappa cultists. ·,., · O 
-John Thornton 
-~ '_•.__;; •_!., Tt.t; ;•., a • 



-Sch'olastic < :-. :·_ 
: 
·• , ; • ,._ , '. • • .c . ·. •. • ~ I_ . ,,,.'-' .. , ..,. 


, . Music~,~,••;.,_ 

.· . ' ··. ·.. •· . ,·sur,\TfJ}'_
·.. Likes ·an ;old. familiar ·_song, 

. . Scholas.tic Music Survey continues .on:. Con'sultthe_last i,ss~e.of ?cho;. .lastic for instructions ,on· llow you,
can vote; ,._ > :•• •y.~, . :. . ·c 

< Hefe's a lit_t!~ ·i~cent~ve Jo.r_all_ of you'insane·coho lip-types.out there. ',: .< :• :. ,...· ·,.'. •. · . ·: .·.· : ·_. .'At thi~ 'poirit ip. thi{staridings;. disco 'is•_u!i,'.l}ning/\ ,_·>' · · ·. D' 
•' : ..·' :~. <.. : -. ' ' ' ' . ' t _:,. 





fCTOn 


. ; · "Hey Man, what gives?" it was Jim, Uroanski's' . fortunately for both of them, the worker on· the 
foreman. · · · fortieth knocked his lunch box over. He was out one ·· "Not much. How're yoti doing, guy?" . meal, and, after. describing a near-perfect arch ·and · ''Hey man, I'm cool as usual. But what's eatin' you,' sailing end over end down forty floors, his chicken leg 
dude? Old lady giving you a hassle?" struck Urbanski squarely on the head, knocking him · · "Yeah. She had another one of her damn dreams unconscious. last night. This time she dreamed I'd take afall from * * * * * ' * .. the 35th so she made me promise her I'd ask to work · C'Hey Urbanski. Hey man; Hke, wake up:•· It was the ground crew this morning." · the voice of his. foreman calling liii:n. "Like you really 
"Man, that is one weird broad.;' . took a lump on your lid; dude .. Good thing youhad your 
"You're 'telling me? I tell her not to pay attention hard hat on." When he ·opened his eyes and focused, to those dreams, but she won't listen. She says they all he could see was agiant fly head wearing a hard show her·the future or something. I don't know how .. hat. "Are you all right man?" He was amazed, he had anyone can make so much of a stupid dream. It's just .. never seen a fly talk before. But before he could be­her damn imagination." · ... ·.:come frightened; everything began to spin and he was .. . CCWell, dude, you're in luck, anyway. Roberts isn't sucked back into the whirlpool of darkness; coming in today and they need someone to help on the · -* · ·* ·· · * * * *-­ground crew this morning. I'll tell them to take you · "Hey Urbanski. Hey man, like, wake up." It was for today. That cool?" · the voice of his foreman calling him. "Like you really ·· · "Yeah, that's· great. It should shut up my wife, at took a lump on your lid, dude. Good thing you had your least.· Thanks a lot." . · · hard hat on." As he opened him eyes; he could see sev~ 
.. "Hey, it's cool, man. I gotta split, I'm due upstairs. • eral of the men standing over him.-"Are you all right 
Catch you later, dude." · man?" He nodded slowly and they helped prop.him up .. Okay. Thanks again guy." against the side of the trailer: "We're getting the doc­"It's cool." tor.,,. -..· 
· Urbanski didn't mind working-on the ground as·a "I'm okay, I think. cl've just got one' hell of a _charige of pace,. but as a_daily assignment, it got boring: · · headache." He was· beginning to remember · the-fly He would begin to miss ·the feeling of the steel beams ·-· head he had seen. ·. :: under his feet, knowing they were all that stood be-· · "Hey man, what's the matter?" ,,, tween him and·a 350-foot drop. It was exhilarating for ~•Huh ...? · Oh, nothing..: I was just: remembering him. It gave him a· feeling of power to be so far · a dreai:n I had while I was ·unconscious. I dreamed I 
. above· the crowd that it was impossible. to pick out woke up and Jim here looked like a huge fly." · : •· individuals..From up there,. everyone was equally in-"Well, I act like afly sometimes, butLdon't usually signif!cant, just a speck on the pavement; ·look like one." With that he started walking ,up the ; _Working on the ground did have its advantages. side of the trailer. • , · · For one thing" it gave. his nerves a break. Working ·,' "Hey; cut, that out. It's,not funny.'; Then he began 
. day after day up there could wear a guy· down. For to sprout fly·wings. All the men;were turning into flies another, he enjoyed seeing the workers scrambling· on before ·his eyes. Their_ heads': took <on that hideous the girders overhead. Just like human flies, he thought. blue-green metallic sheen and,their.'eyes bulged out in 
His·morning on the ground'went smoothly and un-· all their ·:multifaceted horror::-.,They started flying eventfully. It was at noon that his trouble began. He around him and the last thing he saw was one of .them . :was sitting by. the trailer eating his lunch while forty circling over his head, laughing hysterically. stories up, __another worker was doing the same. Un-.'· * * · * · ·•* * :·,· *·: •· 
SCHOLASTIC 
"Hey Urbanski. Hey man, like, wake up.'' It was the voice of his foreman calling him. "Like· you· really took a lump on your lid, dude. Good thing you had your hard hat on." He opened his eyes and looked around quickly to see several of the men standing over him. "Are you all-right man?" He didn't respond and they helped prop him up against the side of the trailer. "We're getting a ·aoctor." 
"Good." He sat with his back to tlie trailer and his eyes shut tight. 
· "Hey man, something wrorig with your eyes?" "The light hurts them." "That's cool." He didn't open his eyes again until he was safely 
· in the ambulance..At the hospital he was examined· and admitted for tests. He spent most of the afternoon drifting in and out of sleep. He wasn't to be tested until the next day. During visiting hours that night his wife came in to see him. 
· "You look awfully pale dear." "Yeah, I took a pretty good shot on the old bean." "I told you to be careful. I just knew you were 
going to get hurt today." . · "You and your damn dreams! I wish you'd just shut up about them." "Well, I was right though. You did get hurt." 
"You're always saying I'm going to get hurt. You were bound to be right eventually." "I just wanted to warn you." · "I think you have a death wish for me. I've had it with you and your dreams!" "Yeah? Well I've had it with you." She ·suddenly 
produced a chain saw from her purse. 
"Hey, what are you doing?" 
"Cutting you down to size." She started the motor 
and began to approach him. 
"You're crazy! Help! Nurse!" He began frantically 
ringing the call button. 
"It's about time you learned the power of dreams." 
He was yelling at the· top of his· 1ungs, but no· one 
heard. As the chain flashed in front of his face, every­thing went black and he was back again in the peace­ful embrace of unconsciousness. · 
* 
"Hey Urbanski: Hey man, like, wake up." It was 
the voice of his foreman calling him. "Like you· really ·took a lump on your lid, dude. Good thing you had your 
hard hat on;'-' · 
As he opened his>eyes he screamed; "Oh my God! It's starting over again! :My God, no!" "Hey, take it easy, Urbanski. We're getting you·to a· doctor." · 

OCTOBER 19, 1979 
"Stay away from me, all of you." He was backed up against the side of the trailer like a cornered animal. "Just stay back and don't move until the doctor gets
here." ·· · "Okay dude, it's cool. Take it easy." When the· ambulance arrived, they sedated him and took him to the hospital. He was examined and admitted for tests. He slept fitfully all day under the effects of the medication. Whenever he woke up he had attacks of extreme anxiety. After several days, he finally began to show signs of relaxing. Since there was nothing wrong with him physically, he was sent home for bed rest.. · His mental condition indicated that he had had a nervous breakdown. His doctor recommended ·he take an extended vacation as soon as he was stable enough. He and his wife spent a month in Hawaii, and since it was for medical reasons it was partially paid for by his insurance. Upon their return, Urbanski was almost his old self. He was still a little edgy, but not nearly as bad as he had been immediately after the accident. He was finally okayed for ·a return to work. The morning of his return, he seemed a little worse than he had been lately. He seemed especially con­cerned for some reason about seeing his old co-workers again. Naturally, he was restricted to low-stress jobs and he was not allowed to work in the superstructure. As time went on, he became more and more at ease, though he still suffered occasional mild attacks. Even­tually, his boss called him in for a talk. He said that they were glad to have him back at work and they were glad he was doing better and was there any way he could return to working the superstructure. "Well, sir, I'd have to be okayed by my doctor." "Then by all means go see him. You see, we're short of hands up there and we could sure use someone of 
--~-~--~-------.,~------"---···-----_._. ~--7 
f In Re.trospect: -_·_. · · l 
! . 
t o~·thls,the eve of Southerri-CaUfo~nia we;kend, ( In Retrospect offers two pieces of nostalgia; cmicerning · f past g~mes.· The fi:st is ffom·the 1926. pigskin previe\\': 1 ; .The Irisllhad not yet played USC in football:;_ .-·>:,. 'l I ... "So ambitious have the Irish become that even cruel : December holds somethingfo·storefor them.•. Thefirst .,!week·of thatchilly period will findtlie Irish jotizneying 1 ( to· Los Angeles,· where· on December_· 6 · they will··clash.. ·•··.·• i 1 with the University of Southern California/touted as t~e. I 
best on the coast. Many sport experts haye already />i · 
agreed that if _Notre Dame and Californfa winalltheir 1 · games previous to the' December 6 dash/that contesfA!will abs~lutely ~edde the natio:1a1 charnpiori,ship.". ;;':()i . f .· . Proving, as always, thatthmgs change,and yetc::·, ; 
r. they staythe sarne. Theirish won, 13-12: c , ' 
t . 
In '1929, a'Scholastic \Vriter romanticized about a j! scene we were .all later. to see in the movie '!Knute l t Rockne: All-American": "r . ..• < ·< l 
! • .."What Coach' Knute Rockne, who had bJen. brought JIin on.a wheel~cot,Jooking wan and tired, said to his' ; 'l
' . . . . . . .. ·. , , .. . . , . . . . . .· . . . .· . . . •.. . . •. ·. . j
rloyal bandof warriors we do not,knowt' but he must l 
-[ hav.e inspired them \Vith ju.sta few W?rds ~hich sprung .l f from his heart and soul." .·. · .·· •·. ,;<, .i. ·. <\-J \:· ' -Evidently,·one thing that llas<changedJs sports~0,. ,j 
, l writillg. Or~h3isjtr ~ \. ;· : . ~ , . ~ jf<!.: .. --J7I:J 
22 
your experience. That is, of course, if it's all right with your doctor." He made the appointment and the next day he was· standing in the psychiatrist's outer office. _ "Come in, Robert, come in. How are you "-doing these days?" · 
"I feel fine sir." 
"You no longer feel like Dorothy in the Land of Oz?" 
"Pardon me?" _ · . , 
"No more attacks of anxiety? No more fear that the world-will dissolve into a dream? Hm?" 
"Not too much anymore, sir. You see, my b_oss wants me to return to working the gird~rs. I think I'm ready and all I need is your okay." . . . 
"Well, Robert, I think you're fit. But before you go, I'd like to have a Httle talk with you." · 
"All right sir."· 
"First of all, you went through a very traumatic experience. To have all of your conceptions of reality shattered, not once, but three. times-, is something that not many people could even survive, let alone with their sanity. You were lucky, Robert, but you haven't gone through· this without some • psychological scarring. There will always be a fear within you now, though deep in your subconscious, that reality may not be ... well,, real. You wiU have this fear that at any moment the whole thing may break down and you .will find it's been just another dream. This doesn't mean that your dorsal lombard will sclatulate dorfning upnik botfig schuple . .." 
"Stop it!" 

"... lupulata gamnosity tremula..." 
"Please stop!" 
"... sapudortinal castigatus inordavid..." 
The figure of the psychiatrist was melting before him, slowly turning into a puddle on the floor. The whole room was beginning to dissolve. His chair was sinking into the carpet,· the walls were closing in, the ceiling was falling, and he was screaming endlessly. 
* * * * * * 
"Hey Urbanski. Hey man, like, wake up." It was the voice of his foreman calling him. . . . O 
-Tom Clark is a senior ·gov~nment major from Pittsburgh, Pa. This .is his first contribution to Scholastic. 
. ·.AsTlie•on t~ bed: 
gazi'iig' tir1dly _at a. ,.. 
·•·red ,_tack.''!)1.nching _into 
the,wall, my index, .. 
finfiei:conjures yoi,,:jf 
describesc'the gentle curve . 
' of your nose, ... .. . ... . . .. ' , .·. 
the muted softness of your cheek 
fine/del~ate .tracery. · 
likeflW spider silk :.·:; • <,1 
.. . .J 
. whic_1,; sadly fails' to}. .... _ ·· ':J ·.. make flesh your presence i l ·and fal~. slowly/darkening' 1 .ont,o the bed like old cord · .. •... ·. . . . . . ··. ....i. 

-2.:.cJohn Thornton 
ScHOLASTIC 
· .,••, .. •",. \ a,•,·. ~J--·.: · ~. -_:·r;Am'!Jt g9 'I
.s· 
', ,' . :f' . \ ,_. ;tx ··"·L 
·. ~l_/:f.--::·:.· ·,:, · .· )'lh·'-~I .,.'.._ 
· .·:·' :: ·.. 
,\\ 11'· ' .. "'· · .. '-~T\ · -· .
-1/,·-:. : . , .. _,,,, :-'' ,, ,. ·h,_ ... __:_. r.,;;;;ioii,,,i...._,-t 
' ' 
! 
'· 
"You go to Notre Dame? Are you sure you don't mean St. Mary's?"· 
Undergraduate .women of Notre Dame have been sparring with these questions for over seven years. Since women were first admitted as regular undergraduates in Sep­tember of .1972, Notre Dame has undergone a metamorphosis; a transformation that most feel has been one of particular importance in view of the changing role of women in society.•· And, as . society has struggled with a changing view of women, so has Notre Dame; In­the past seven years, women under­graduates and faculty have changed· from a novelty on campus to an in­tegral part of student life at Notre Dame. · 
In the late 1960's and early 1970's, the men of Notre Dame pushed hard 
· for coeducation. College students during this time in our nation's his­tory· were very vocal with their opinions. Numerous articles and edi­torials appeared in The Observer pressing for an end to the all-male Notre Dame tradition. Men wanted women to be a part. of the Notre Dame experience and they were not to be dissuaded. 
The Administration finally. began to take active steps into the pos­sibility of coeducation in late 1970 and early 1971. Coeducation 
OCTOBER 19, 1979 at Notre Dame first began as a.plan to merge St. Mary's and Notre Dame. The. Administration commis­sioned Drs. Lewis B. Mayhew and Rosemary Park to "... examine the relationship betweert" the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's and, in their judgment, to recommend what they thought was best for the two institutions.". The report came out in January of 1971 and among ­its most important recommenda­tions were· the· foll6wing: (lf''St. Mary's College ·should · become St. Mary's College in the University of Notre Dame,, (2) there should.be a sharing in the · members of .the Board of Trustees and (3) most de­partments,should be merged. · · 
Student opinion of.the Park~May­hew report was generally negative. The Student'Body President in office at the time, Dave.Krashmi, summed up general student opinion when he said he was surprised that Park and Mayhew "... ·had the nerve to do absolutely nothing in ·their report." 
Consequently, .. various student proposals emerged; one of the more interesting was one by a · student from Stanford . Hall. It consisted.of "co-exchange residency." This pro­posal set forth the. idea that Stan­ford Hall be converted to a woman's residency hall for SMC students and that the north wing of Regina Hall 
Women at ND 


Seven. Years of 
Struggle 
by Cathy Wisniewski 
on SMC · campus be · made into a 
men's . residence hall for Notre 
Danie students. . . 
In March of 1971, the Trustees of 
both institutions met in Palm 
Springs, . Florida, .to discuss the na­
ture .of coeducation. Their recom­
mendation was the unification of the 
two schools and, in most cases, a 
total merger. . · .· . · Problems arose. soon after the decision: Professors worried. about the effect on their courses through merger of departments.-They were also concerned about their. own pro­fessional status in the new. depart­ment. The financial differences be­tween the two schools was a major difficulty; how to calculate room, board, tuition, student activity fees,· _ laundry, etc. One of the most'nota­
ble differences between the two 
schools .was<in regard to_ the rules 
and regulations. It appeared obvious 
that major changes would. be in­
volved ·and solutions . to these prob,, 
!ems seemed hard to. co.me by. . .. 
As students generally know today, 
the merger between the two schools 
did not materialize. St. Mary's arid 
Notre Dame remained independent 
institutions, each . with .their indi­
vidual identities. Notre Dame, how­
ever, was now steering for a . new 
dimension to the identity-women. 
An Advisory Committee for Co­
______:________:__­

education was formed in 1972 and dents at Notre Dame, there ap­flcult. Sr. John says that · despite was asked to report on_ the introduc-peared an obvious need for addi­these difficulties,' ·efforts are indeed tion of .coeducation. to Notre Dame. tional women on the faculty. Both being made to bring. more women This report became known as the men and women need female pro­to faculty positions: Malits Report, named after Sister fessional role models and · with . Once a woman comes here as a Elena Malits, C.S.C., who chaired women present in the student body, faculty member, there are other dif­the Committee. There were three · this need became quite evident. ficulties involved. The Evaluation major concerns of the Malits Com-· Both the Malits Committee and · Committee surveyed the women on mittee: -counseling and administra-the Evaluation Committee felt there the faculty .and found that .many tion, · orientation, .. and: residence was, and still is, a pressing need for suffered some "... sense of isola_. halls. The Malits Committee niade more women . in professional posi-' tion, frustration, even. anger: Some various recommendations to the tions at Notre Dame. As of this fall, feel a lack of male support for them­University in preparation for wom-there are 99 · women on the faculty selves as persons and . as .profes"'. en coming to Notre Dame. at Notre Danie, approximatelrl2% sionals. There are male colleagues 
There were 125 women in that of the total faculty.· This is a ·slow, who seem neither to· take them seri­first class in September of 1972. but significant increase since 1972_. ously ~ professional equals· nor to According to Sr. John Miriam Orie area ofimprovement is in the appreciate the. vicissitudes of their Jones, Assistant Provost, the first number of women· in ·the Adminis­positions. Accordingly, a number of few months were quite an experi-' tration. As of this SeptPmher.· there women expressed a sense of inse­ence. Sr. John recounts. reports of are · four ,women administrators. . curity about their professional situ-women students being singled out They are Sr. John Miriam Jones; ation." . . . . . . . . ., in class and asked for '.'the woman's S.C., Assistant Provost,. Dr. M. .Tenure has lately. become ·. some-· view" on topics not requiring such Katherine Tillman, . Assistant •Pro-· _what of a problem as well. Present­a view. In an effort to include vost, Dr. Isabel Charles, Dean of ly~ there are.· six tenured women at women in class, sometimes faculty the College · of Arts and Letters, Notre Dame.· Last year five women· members singled women out; at this .and Dr. Kathleeri. Weigert, Assis-. · were among those faculty members . time, Notre Dame women did not tant Dean . of .the College of Arts who were considered for tenure. The want to be singled · out as novelties and Letters. · tenure committee . decided, through or freaks. It was enough to be one Such advances are not so"'perva;. · a system. that is somewhat compli_; of 125 women in a population of sive in other faculty areas. Notre . · cated, not' to. give any of· these : 6,009 men. They ~anted to become Dame employs one woman profes"' women tenure. One of the women . students of' Notre Dame, not a sor,· nine associate professors, arid . refused tenure had already started a woman among men at Notre Dame. 43 assistant professors. The remain-discriminatory . action suit against 
Women were definitely a novelty ing faculty consists of Instructors, the· University; she . added' .•~retali~ ori. campus. Television, . newspaper Library' Faculty, Professional . Spe­and magazine reporters flocked . to.. cialists and _womeri in · Speciai Re-: the campus seeking a woman's view search.. ._ .. _ . . . . ·. on how it felt-to be a -part of a for-There are a number of difficulties :nierly all-male· institutii:m. · Sr. John irdlriding qualified women, bringing feels that as a result 'of ·an this ex-them to ·Notre Dame and keeping posure and 'special attention,· the therri'here. Finding the r.ighfwoman . women became somewhat resentful. .for a specific position Is,..at. best;. a. Women, she said, in .an: effort ·to· difficult problem: The availability of become iess. noticeable and more;."a qualified . women to teach ':iri. the part of Notre Dame,'' became· ag-areas cif°.engirieerin1(and business; gressive and ·began to talk and act . for example,:•is ·extremely low. This more like "the· _guys"/' Women is primarily due _to the tremendous wanted so much to be a·normal part opportunities. available . for·: women 
: of Notre Dame life that' they sim-•. in these areas . immediately. fol-. ply gave up some of the desirable lo'Ying. _graduation . from college. characteristics Notre Dame wanted Women do not generally pursue and. rieeded from them; . . · •. ' . higher . education because of these 
· Since that fateful . first . semester immediately :Jucrative job openings. . o('viomeri on.· campus, giant· steps Consequently, '. the' . availability of· 
· have been taken to normalize stu;. women with Ph.D's iri business and . , ; . dent life/After the Malits. Report in· engineering is' quite low. : .0 ·.· ' . , ., :~ .y:\: i972, the·first formal report'on the . Secondly,_ the ~omen niustbe ·f_J .:·) ; current status ·of· coeducation at . able to ·~1oca~e ·to _t~e South Be~d · ·¼1 .~ ' 
. Notre Dame was published in 1977. area. Often this confhcts with fam-· ·.: · The report froifr :the CommiUee· to · ily ·considerations. such ·as in a mar.; · Evaluate.: Coeducation 'consisted· of . riage ·or with childrE_?n. Many·_ times: .. · surveys; findings .and recommenda'." · a woman must let · a career, oppor_. tions, all-of:. which. concerned the tunity ·slip .by fo~. oth_e~ :··pI1oi:ities 
:·well-being of both.men ana women she has set for herself.· '· . . . . at Notre Dame. . . . . ' . ' ·. For these reasons, 'fimng ·a posi~ :·.with:·the' advent of women. stu:i tion with a woman can be quite dif~. 
··:;_;. . . .. '. 
,.

I 
i 
.. ·.. SCHOLASTIC
I
.•. 
..: 

ation" -after having been re­fused tenure. Whether the women were denied tenure as a· result of discrimination or due to their ·Ia.ck of qualifications, the courts ·· will ultimately decide. 
It should be emphasized that wom­en on the faculty find many positive experiences among their male col­leagues _and students. The report said that women faculty find satis­faction in "... their unique contri­bution to 'normalizing' this tradi­tionally male University.'' : · 
Normalizing the University has been, and still is, a tremendous task. One .way of accomplishing this . task has been to admit more women: undergraduates since 1972. The University now has a quota of 400 women . which it admits every year. Since this quota was estab­lished, the number of women ·. at Notre Dame ·has been •fairly con­
stant. · · · This norm, much to the satisfac­tion of-students and faculty is about to be changed. Beginning with the completion of the two new dorms; 500 more women will be added to the University enrollment over a four-year period. . . Where these women will · be housed has been a concern to both men and women. If only one of the dorms is complete by year's -end,. then women will definitely be housed in the new dorms. These women will be incoming freshmen, transfer · students, and. women who elect to move out of their present dorms. If both new dorms are complete, · however, plans include moving the men housed in one of the towers to the dorms, and women . will be housed in the vacated tower. There are no--. plans to transfer students out .of'their present dorms unless it is of the nature so described. The move to admit more women is of great significance to Notre Dame student life.· Women will be­come more prevalent on campus, a more accurate reflection of the ratio · . in society. The ·gradual · change is beneficial for the University in that alteration in · academic and social life can be made without too much difficulty. . . . . . Progress has definitely been made in terms of accommodating campus life to the addition of women. A gynecologist is now available to the women of both Notre Dame and St. Mary's on a 1;>art'."tiine basis. Cam­
------------~----------------------, 
pus Ministry now includes two women, Ms. Sally Luna and Sr. Jane Pitz, among its staff. · 
Lighting across campus has been drastically improved in many dan­gerous. areas, thanks to the "flash­light walks" of Sr. John and secur-:­ity. There are still areas where more light is certainly needed, but safety has improved since 1972. 
In addition to these small, yet significant, changes, there have been a number of academic changes as well. Course offerings now· iri­clude "Women in Medicine," "Worn­en in the Bible" and many dance classes. These classes are open to both men and women and seem to reflect the need· for students to· see how women have direcUy and in­directly · been involved in vitally important areas. . 
Women's· Athletics has increased astronomically, mainly thanks to the hard work and· determination of the. students and their advisors. The sports page of The Obseroer now includes many noteworthy items concerning women's sports whereas in the early semesters of coeducation, men's sports totally dominated the sport section. · 
Various committees of women have been founded since 1972, only to disband as .their functions be­came unnecessary..Today one com­niittee remains: The Women's Ad­visory Council. Made up of repre­sentatives from different parts of Notre Dame life, these women meet · regularly to advise Sr. John on matters that concern the women of Notre . Dame. She also receives -in-· put from them regarding decisions she must. make. 
One of the most significant changes in the role of women at Notre Dame is perhaps ·the least obvious. In the first few years of coeducation, there was always the "First Girl Admitted to ROTC" or the "First Woman Named to Dean's Post." Women .were, again, singled out on the basis of their sex. Last year, Rosemary Mills became Edi­tor-in-Chief of .The Oliseroer. She • became the first. Notre -Dame woman to hold such a position. She was competent, qualified and obviously willing · to hold such a position. With a minimum of fan­fare, Rosemary Mills assumed a prominence in Notre Dame student life. Hopefully, a sign for our times. 
The improvements at Notre Dame since the arrival of women have 

been significant. Many problems, 
however, still remain. The social 
space available for student inter­
action remains a myth. We need a 
career-counseling program available 
to both men and women. We need to 
be aware of the many compromises 
involved when both partners in a 
relationship have a professional 
career. 
It appears that the immediate 
needs of women have been funda­mentally satisfied. What remains is the improvement in areas of in­teraction between men and women: attitudes, · expectations and stereo­types. . This is true for women as well as men. Women at Notre Dame have_· obviously normalized a pre­viously unrealistic example of stu­dent life. Coeducation reflects societal living; one cannot help but benefit from such an experience. At Notre Dame,· men and women can work together side by side ·in: the laboratory, struggle .together · over philosophy problems and let loose together at a pep ·rally or· dorm party. We see each other as. equals and can enter society knowing each other as equals. We women of Notre Dame no longer· feel so consistently defensive as did the .women . of 1972; we do riot have to prove our­selves worthy of Notre Dame. Per'.". haps . most importantly, meri and women grow here· together. Co­education has come .a long way at Notre Dame and has brought Notre Dame a long way.· Let's not · stop ·here. · · D 
Cathy. Wisniewski, a junior biol­ogy major, would like to especially thank Sr. John Miriam who helped tremendously with the article. The women· of Notre Dame all awe her a great.deal. 
OCTOBER 19, 1979 
25 

. When you watch . Notre. Dame hockey coach Lefty Smith lead his team through practice, you can always be sure to catch him smiling or joking with the players. A quick one-liner or a joke about a missed pass-something to keep things light. 
This season, . however, Smith doesn't need to crack ·any jokes to keep smiling at practice. All he has to . do is look down the lineup, and Smith has plenty of reason to smile. 
Sixteen of the top 20 skaters, in­cluding eight of the nine leading scorers, from last season's 18-19-1 club, return. .That young squad finished fifth in the Western Colle­giate Hockey Association with a 17-14-1 record.. Eight seniors and juniors combine with a host of sophomores to form the core of this season's .club .. The going may have gotten a little rough last year with so many young skaters, but the expe­rience gained should pay ripe divi­dends for Smith. 
·"As we look to this season, we don't face the question marks we did last year," says Smith, entering his 12th year at the Notre Dame helm. "Last season we had to start from scratch at many positions, but this year we· have many players return­ing and know who can do what. 
"Overall, we have excellent speed-our best ever.:._good size and good strength. We should have more depth on offense with a more effec­tive fourth line. The WCHA is a 
by Brian Beglane 
very competitive league, though, and the task we have before us is by. no means an easy one. 
"But let's face it. We had a pretty good year last season and return eight of· our top nine scorers from that club. Improvement will be the key. Our people musf play to their full potential, and we have to avoid the injury jinx. If we do that, we feel it is realistic for us to challenge for the top. We are very optimistic and look forward to this season." 
Half of the goaltending _situation is set. Freshman netminders. seemed to set a trend in the WCHA last year,· and Notre Dame goalie Dave Lau­rion ranked among the best all sea­son. The scrappy, 5-7 native of Inter­national Falls, Minn., finished sixth 

SCHOLASTIC 
among league goaltenders last season 
with a 4.395 goals against average 
while posting an overall mark of 
4.77. In the process he saw the third highest amount of playing time by an Irish goalie, starting 29 games and appearing in 32. 
"We worked the daylights out of Dave last year,"_· says Smith. "He came through in outstanding fash­ion, though, and I really don't know where we would have been without him. He is a very quick stand-up goaltender and we look to him for continued improvement. We hope to be able to spell Jim this year and keep him well rested." · 
The main reason Smith hopes to be able to relieve Laurion is the arrival of freshman Bob McNamara, a 5-10 goalie out of Toronto. Mc­Namara, son of former Toronto Maple Leafs' goalie Gerry McNa­mara, is considered one of the best netminders ever to come· out of the · Toronto area. With his quick. reflexes and knowledge of the game, Mc­Namara will be looked upon to share the goaltending burden. 
One of the strongest positions for the Irish this year could be on the blueUne. No one graduated from the defensive corps, and with John Cox stepping in to replace Don Lucia midway through the .season, Smith actually will have seven experienced defensemen to call upon. 
John Friedmann ranks as the only senior on the defensive corps this· campaign. The 6-1, 200-pound na­tive of St. Paul, Minn., comes off his best year, scoring 22 points, and will be looked upon for continued im­provement. He was voted most im­proved player last year by his team­
mates. 
The probable partner with Fried­mann once again will be junior Don Lucia. Lucia was forced to sit out the second half of last season due to academic difficulties and appeared in only 15 games..With his return the Irish will have one of their most reli­able defensive tandems restored. 
The most recognized of the Irish defensemen is junior Jeff Brown­schidle, brother of NHL defenseman Jack and a veteran ofinternational competition. The . 6-2, 200-pound native of East . Amherst, N.Y., merited honorable mention on· the Denver Post all-WCHA squad· 1ast year and also was voted outstanding defenseman by his teammates. · Scott Cameron rounds out the group of junior defenserrien. The 6-2, 205-pound stalwart blue-liner saw action in 33 games last year and accumulated 83 minutes in penalties, something he hopes to cut down on this season. 
. John Schmidt and Jim Brown saw action in 38 and 37 games, respec­tively, last year as freshmen and were teamed together most of the season. Schmidt led all Irish blue-liners in scoring with 26 points, while Brown ranked fourth with 12. 
John Cox, Paul Gagnon and Greg Kania round out the Notre Dame de­fensive corps. Gagnon, a junior, and Kania, a sophomore, saw limited ac­tion last year while Cox stepped in to replace Lucia and played in 21 games.· He should provide the Irish with vast experience as the seventh defenseman. 
Only one of the top nine forwards from last year's club graduated. That was captain Steve Schneider, third leading scorer. The eight re­turnees scored from 23 to 58 points lastseason. With continued improve­ment the Irish offense could find it~ self one of the most formidable in · the country. 
Senior captain Greg Meredith .will be the nucleus of the Notre Dame attack. The 6-1, 205-pound right wing finished second on .the team in scoring with 28 goals and 22 assists for 50 points .and just missed the WCHA goal-scoring · title. An out­standing student, Meredith is just as smart a player and will be looked upon to provide the overall leader­ship for the Irish this season. 
"With a healthy season we expect Greg to make a serious ·run at the WCHA goal-scoring title," praises Smith. "He is a potential All-Ameri­can. Greg is an outstanding leader . 
with excellent offensive capabilities and is an integral part of our power play. He also is very capable as a defensive forward, though, and plays regularly when we are a man short. We expect big things from Greg this season." · _. 
Centering for Meredith should be senior Ted Weltzin, an out­standing stick handler who tied for fourth in scoring last year with 43 points. The product of Moundsview High School in St. Paul, Minn., tied for the lead in assists with 31 and will be a key to the Irish attack as a playmaker. 
Rounding out the list -of top se­niors will be co-captain Tom. Mich­alek. A master in the face-off circle, the 5-9, 165-pound center tied .Welt­zin last year with 43 points. Michalek· also forms one ·of the WCHA's most effective penalty-killing units with Kevin Humphreys. · 
Humphreys, the top returning junior forward, likely will repeat as a regular linemate of Michalek. Both he and Tom are highly respected by every power play in the league. 

Humphreys, a left wing, led the team in shorthanded goals last year with five, two in one period. 
Certainly a key to the Irish offense last year was the play of the four freshman forwards -Dave Poulin, Jeff Logan, Jeff Perry and Bill Roth-stein. All four skated regular shifts from the opening period of the sea­son and adjusted quickly to the rapid pace of the WCHA. With a year's experience, all four sophomores will be looked to for bigger and better things this season. · 
Poulin enjoyed one of the most outstanding seasons ever for a Notre Dame freshman. The 5-11, 175-pound center tied the record for most 
· points in a season by an Irish fresh­man with 59 while leading Notre Dame in scoring. He finished fourth in the balloting for rookie of the year while also meriting honorable mention on the Denver Post all-WCHA squad. 
Perry is another player who im­proved himself considerably over the summer months. He is most adept at digging the puck out of the corner. 
Logan's greatest asset is his 
· speed. The 5-10, 175-pound left wing is especially effective· on the break and once scored two goals within six seconds last season. 
Rothstein, a left wing, adds s(rength to the Irish forechecking corps and should add speed up front. 
With Dick · Olson leaving for the junior leagues and the graduation of three senior forwards, there will be four openings in the Irish offense. A combination of returning players and freshmen should more than ca­pably fill these few holes. 
Junior Mark Sicoly is a leading candidate for the fourth center posi­tion . while senior Matt Dubois and sophomores Pat Devine and Dan Collard will vie for the wing posi­tions. 
Four freshmen will make their presence felt, however, and two are very likely candidates to see exten­s.ive action on the forward line. John Higgins, who can play on either side, and Kirt Bjork, a left wing-center, should vie strongly for regular duty. Rex Bellomy and Mark Doman may 
-see action as well. "All of our players worked hard conditioning themselves over the summer," concludes Smith. "I can­·not stress enough, however, the im­portance of improvement for our team-we must keep aware of that at all times. We do have the quality and the quantity coming back, but with the WCHA you just can never tell. So long as we remain healthy, we remain very optimistic." D 
OCTOBER 19, 1979 

.SCHOLASTIC 


by Tim Gulstine'-'. 
-As 1979 wears down and the 1980s loom , before us, the overwhelming reaction ofmost people to the demise of the past decade.• is• ."good rid­dance.". This is not hard to .under­stand when one considers that popu­lar generalizations . concerning -the 
_1970s terid to include such endearing phrases as !'the 'me' decade" and "the age:of apathy." · · 
And someone·recently said to me, with horror in .his voice, ."Do you realize that future generations will associate . us· with ,the .advent of disco?'.' As if this should be a source of collective shame; · 
. Although it is true. that the 1970s have· spawned disco music, I do not think it epitomizes · the_. decade in either a· musicalor social sense. It is probably appropriate-that the most 
. prominent -commercial . musician of the decade has been forgotten as completely as we might hope: to forget the.1970s. . -. Who -remembers Elton John? ·.You· might remember him as a gaudy little British · musician .who fizzled as quickly as he:flared in the first half of the decade. ·The pattern of his popularity is not uncommon these days. Lately it seems that any­one who. gains commercial success can't. help ·but become an ultimate failure,•. but this was .unjustly the case with Elfon John•. He seems to have recognized the unfairness of his destiny,· as evidenced by persistent' attempts to .regain popularity. Cur­rently, it's an American tour sparked by his success with Russian crowds. I don't know what kind of music Elton John is making these days, but I'm hoping that he finds the inten­sity of his earlier .music. 
For anyone unfamiliar with ·the full range of his earlier music, there will probably be a good deal less anticipation. This .person is more than likely familiar only with those Elton John songs which were over­popularized · or disliked on an initial basis. I would ,like to mention , a number of less. well-known songs which· deserve resurrection or justify the anticipation .I feel· every time Elton John makes another stab at a platinum album. 
The variety of his music was for­midable. Back in 1976, he had me wondering whether he had "musical direction" : or just · went •in •every direction at the same time. Up until that time, every album seemed a refutation of the complaint.that he always sounded the. same. ,The. dif­

ference· between his• first album~ 
Empty Sky, and Rock of the Westies 
was striking. Empty Sky,. released 
in 1968, was , completely· removed 
from the turbulence of the time., It 
was predominantly -mythopoetical 
material, with lyrics by a young man 
named Bernie Taupin; ·who was evi­
dently· too shy to write about any­
thing remotely· personal. The album 
seems to suffer for that reason, but 
it is by no means devoid of good 
material.· 
Besides "Empty Sky," little of the 
material on this album is.even acces­
sible. Taupin's lyrics .are, often in­
comprehensible · and Elton . John 
croons his way through many of the 
songs in much the same manner that 
Ian Anderson of Jethro-_ Tull· . has 
sung after his group's pea.kin popu­
larity. The lyrics of "Sails," a song 
found on. the second ·side of 'Empty 
Sky, illustrate the inaccessibility. of -the album on the whole: -.. 
Lucy walked gently. _ 
Between the damp barrels 
· And cut ·out my eyes . :-;•'.:· 
With· the,width of her finger. ,-. 
. •. Said she'd guessed the number 
•, • Of bales in the backroom. : · 
Rock of the Westies is by a· trans­formed artists. In ·. the' years ..that 
( continued on page 30F 
____ .::_:>-:_F·oreigner's Latest; Mindless Head Game~~-. 
For those of you wondering _if noteworthy. "Dirty \Yhite Boy," the on. the Telephone"; a~~ thoroughly the multiplatinum successes ·of For.-new single, is· easily the most solid mediocre. _ . eigner's first two ,albums would :go song on the LP; a convincing·cho-"The.Modern Day" is-a third-rate to the group• members' heads, don't rus, solid hooks and a nice pop·feel Cars imitation, which is matched in worry, Head Games, ,their newest work well over. -the typically· relent-feebleness by -Gramm's . wimpy LP, confirms_.what I'd-suspected all less thunk of the:rhythm,section. cries_.of-_"l'll:Get:Even,With You.'~ along-there's ,,_nothing'. in. -their · While not . riveting, .it's certainly But Foreigner.. outdoes :itself :~th heads-at.all, anyway. If you liked pleasant, : .. . .. __ "Women' 'and "Blinded by Science, .. the miµdless drive of•,Foreigner , _The other highlight is the sur-which .are indisputably two of the and Doub'le Vision, you can hear .prisingly ,adventurous . ','Do -What most worthless songs ever recorded, the :Very. same: dull, riffs,. progres-You Like." Imaginative, almost in-In summing up, if you liked For­sions and hooks right here. Ho hum. tricate harmonies and the acoustic eigner's first two -efforts,· you'll : Actually, there has always_ been guitar relief from the. merciless probably like this one-:--although a possibility. that .the talent in ,the heavy metal multiguifar drone help it's not quite as well crafted as its group would overcome Mick Jones' make this the best melody. of the lot predecessors. But if-you liked those cliched, shlocky writing, and Lou (this,· folks, is a left-handed compli-. albums you probably. haven't read 
, · · Gramm's pedestrian· vocals. Unfor-ment, -indeed),. and one of Foreign~ this far (if you can· read), If you tunately,;.despite-their background er's·few tolerable .breaks is thrown didn't·like-.them, this-LP is a con­in the glory days of King Crimson, in ° as well. Yet, they manage, to vincing reinforcement' of your low guitarist-keyboardist;_ Ian-:;McDon-bungle the song with pretentious yet opinion for the group. If you are aid and ,bassist Rick . Wills do;little stupid lyrics · and.; incredibly bored unsure, let me.·assure you that·this to distinguish themselves or the leadvocalsfromGramm. style·of music-is··done,muc:h-more group.. Even the golden· touch of · As for the rest of the record; competently by·other outfits.• Don't producer -Roy Thomas Baker_ (Cars, "Head Games" isn't bad, but is in-waste your time or money~ : ' .· D Queen) :can't free the group from distinguishable from about a dozen ' · their rut. · other.· songs they've ;·done, . while · ~Toni Krueger Two . songs .may be considered "Rev on the Red Line" and <'Love 
. OCTOBER 19, _1979 29 . 

·-------.;=:­
( continued from -page 29) ness. The instrumental at the con-· abbreviated life, with special em­
. ,,.Clusion of.the song is.·somewhat re­phasis on the fact that she was a followed Empty Sky, Taupin adopted moved from this tonal settirig;_ It is lesbian.. This biography is· in con­so many personas that each album reminiscent of "Come Down in · trast to the biography implicit in the involves a -list. of-· characters. ·. His Time," the only difference being the title of the album, that of ·Judy Gar­lyrics had lost any residual tinge of use of mandolin and guitar instead land, which is almost mythical. It mythopoetics, as evidenced on of .the more exotic instruments. De-is also quite different from the sym­"Grow Some Funk of Your Own": spite the fact that Elton John was pathetic account of MarilynMonroe's 
I looked at my watch at a low-ebb when he made this life, titled "Candle in the Wind." It It was a quarter to five • album, and in some ways because is.an isolated case of brutality in the The headlines screamed that of · it, the material is excellent. It music of Elton John. I was still alive. illustrates a desperate ·artist reach-Goodbye Yellow Bric'k Road show­I couldn't understand it. . ing back for anything he can get his cased Elton John at his best. From I thought I died last night. voice on. · · that point on, he seemed to suffer a The lyrics on this album are never Honky Chateau, released only six letdown, perhaps . because he was 
elevated too far above the common-months later, reflects none of the contractually obligated to release place, and the results are much more desperation or frustration _that per­two albums yearly. In 1974, with enjoyable. meated Madman Across· the Water. the release of Caribou, it seemed 
The final cut on the first side, "I Elton John had developed a knack that Elton John's creative reservoir Feel Like a · Bullet (In the Gun of for his craft, and his band had solidi­was almost dry.· The man behind Robert Ford)," is the best song on fled. All of the scings are tempered these songs sounds older; but a sense. the album. · by. a kind of serenity. "Mona Lisas of,· weariness rescues some of the 
· Rock of .the Westies marks ,the and Mad Hatters" depicts a person songs from banality. "Pinky" sounds conclusion of eight years of intense at ease with himself despite the like another piece of female glorifi­musical productivity." Perhaps the adversities which he confronts in a cation until the end of the ; chorus, most comprehensive way to 'encom-chaotic urban world. The "us versus at which point Elton John hits a nice pass music from this period will be them" mentality has never been il­note of resignation in his description. to examine those songs which seem lustrated so well as it is in the of the special girl: to embody the· tone or concept of ·· chorus of this song:. The trial ·and the error · · the album on which they are found. · I thank the Lord there's people Of my master plan; Proceeding chronologically from out there like you . Now she rolls like the dice · Empty Sky, ·one comes to Elton : While Mona Lisas · and Mad In a poor gambler's hands. Jokn, released in 1969. The poetics Hatters . The concept of,an autobiographi­are still there, but· a more pastoral · Sons of bankers, sons of lawyers cal album saved Elton John at this setting . removes this . album from :Turn around and say good morn-point in his career, or at least post~ the obscurity that clouded Empty ing · poned a decline in the quality of his Sky. The opening song of the second To the night. music. Captain Fantastic and the side, Sixty Years On, is emblematic For unless they see the sky Brown Dirt Cowboy, released almost of this album. ·· But they can't and that is.why a year after. Caribou, was infused 
Elton John is a lush album. Occa-They know not if it's dark _outside . with enthusiasm. One backward sionally sentimental, occasionally Or light. .. _ glance enabled both Elton John and turbulent, it is probably a landmark Pretty elaborate syntax for a piece Bernie Tau pin. to find fresh material. in Elton John's music because it was of pop music. . · . . From the· opening of the first song, the last artistic gesture he made I find Honky Chateau and the one is compelled to acknowledge a before jumping_ into the mainstream album that· followed it, Don't Shoot sense of purpose. underlying the of pop. . Me, 'I'm Only the Piano Player, t~ music: · · 
Tumbleweed Connection was re-he almost synonymous wcirks. Bcith For ~here's weak-winged young leased in 1970. Excepting Captain involve a lot of carefree and enter­sparrows· Fantastic and the Brown Dirt"Cow-taining songs. · Elton John and That starve in•the winter~ boy, this album more closely adheres Bernie Taupin were apparently hav­· Broken young children on the . to the "concept" motif than Elton irtg a lot of fun. Thei;r best material . · Wheels of the winners John's other works. It .is the only emerged when they adopted persons And the sixty-eight summer fes­album from which I ·draw a song which were remote from their own . tival wallflowers .· · that, is not emblematic or even personalities, but ·remained believ-:Are thinning. ' · · · vaguely representative. ,"Come Down able. · · Elton John is on the line with the in Time," like many of Elton John's Elton John seemed comfortable in songs I have discussed in this article. best,songs,-involves unusual instru-the niche he had created with Honky These songs .are ·the crux of his mentation. · C1,ateau .and Don't-Shoot .Me, etc._ musical endeavors. :I would love to 
In 1971, Elton· John was a frus-Consequently, Goodbye Yellow Bric'k see him expand this list iri the trated artist striving for the success Road_ was a surprise. A motif that ·· future. He has expressed no less which he has since attained and lost. Elton John had used only once be­dissatisfaction with his recent stag­Madman· Across the Water was not fore, the biograp~ical song; was used nation.than anyone else,'SO I'in sure about former President Nixon: It in three cases on this two-record set. he's trying. If he finds·just a little was about a · multitude of . things These three songs, plus "Funeral for inspiration, I would be anxious to which . did . not revolve , around a a Friend/Love Lies Bleeding," form see the· results. O single concept ..There is, however, a _the core of the album. Although .the general. tone to this albuin;_it con-latter. is Elton John's best work, one.­veys a sense of frustration..Under-of the three biographical songs, "All lying the upbeat tempo and exaltant the Girls Love Alice," is. the most vocals ·of..~'Holiday Inn" is a sense_ interesting. The lyrics convey a sor-· of self-destructiveness and mindless-did and cynical account of Alice's 
. . . SCHOLASTIC 

..........---------



THe LAST \I\OQ[)...;...___--­
It all happened on a sunny summer Sunday in . '70 or '71, I'm not sure, but the time is irrelevant. It __ _ was when we were all younger, when time was quiet •· and much more gentle.. It was when fishing was the• 
subject and the only studying involved worms, when four young brothers were learning things that parents disliked hearing but enjoyed doing. 
My brothers and I fished in· Mud Creek, a _small -creek_ about as wide as a sidewalk and as deep· as the ._·_ library reflecting pool. The creek yielded catches 
that ranged anywhere from four inches to a whopping seven inches. Of course, those seven-inchers were no _ 
·less important than any of Curt Gowdy's seven-footers. We loved fishing arid during the week Mud Creek was our Caribbean. 
But-on the weekends, we went~big-time. One of my uncles has.·four daughters and no sons so whenever ·he needed sons; he borrowed us. And we never 
__-objected because_he took us fishing-at a river.· The Rock River runs·from northern Wisconsin down to the Illinois River which dumps into the Mississippi somewhere_ near St. Louis. On its way south, the Rock 
_runs_ through my hometown. -And, as an added bonus, there is a long concrete dam which keeps the river from 
··flooding during the spring thaw. With the possible _exception of a ninety-foot concrete statue ofBlackhawk, a· Sioux Indian chief, which overlooks· the river, this 
· dam is the most majestic man-made item in our small ·_-community. And to four innocent kids, it's simply 
··awesome. . The power and beauty of the dam are stunning and the noise made by. the crashing, churning water is _
'--·: 
frightening. Below ·me dam, the white-foam and mist . -· hover above the water as the powerful undertow of the .. water unceasingly· and unrelentlessly swirls;. It's quite . · by Dave Satterfield 

we could see flashes of orange amidst the white foam, 
.held captive by the powerful undertow: The orange:, ­flashes were life preservers and there were bodies · attached to those preservers. After about five minutes, 
._ the dam released the powerless, limp bodies. Floating 
_a sight;· And the fish must love it. · _. -. .:,-· -facedown into _the calm, quiet river; it was apparent ­
·-· There is a calm ·pool that sits right off to the side of the dam. The pool is a temporary home for ·many ·;-large and co_mpetitive catfish, carp,;riorthern pike . and an· occasional -walleye. That_ is·why my uncle took_· 
us fishing there.-_· · . _ ·. This particular. Sunday was a gorgeous day; the · ._ ·. skies .were clear, _there was a,clean, cool breeze and 
the fish_:were biting/My 1.Ulcle was a serious fisherman. 
· We were·not. There is more to fishing than just flshirig, just·as there is more to a football game than football; He didn't:understand that; so whenever we· ,. 
· ·--acted up he wouli:I-'yell at us and warn us that we were · -·: wasting valuable -titrie -and he would never take us . . -. .fishing again. So we got serious.-. . -· . . 

..: . As .we fished; ·my older brother noticed two canoes, _with· tliree people in each, heading downriver straight 
. for the dam; It was evident that they could notturn around; they were going to try and shoot the dam. · Our eyes focused on_ the canoe.s; we knew that this would.be quite ari event. . . .. _ . 
.The canoes came over the dam and crashed into the churning water below the dam. Bothcanoes 
. -•··tipped, and for at least thirty seconds we saw-no~ng but _water. Then, a canoe floated out of the.undertow, bent··in the middle at a perfect niriety-degree_angle. · Another foilowed, in.identical shape; But there was-n·o sign of canoeists. Our.entranced eyes searched along . the.:shore arid ·over the'calm~water downstream~they saw ·no canoeists. Upon careful examiriatfon, though, 
. OCTOBER 19, 1979 
, . . . . . . . . 
the canoeists .were dead. My uncle was distraught. He was racing up and 
-down the shore, waving his arms.and screaming some­thing about calling an ambulance or the fire department. Finally; he decided to go call them himself; As he ran 
.off screaming;.rny little brother said "what an_ asshole!" and we laughed. Profanity was very funny -then. ' . -· --­Anyway, the ambulance arrived and the fire department arrived and· a large group of people ·· arrived to check out this_ "tragic_'' scene._ During all the 
. bedlam, my brothers arid I kept fishing. I caught a huge -­carp but threw _it bacl~ because we didn't_ kriow how to. filet a carp. And we got bored so we threw rocks at 
·-_ a turtle. _ _-_-_: _-__ __ __ __ ._ _ . _· _ __. __ ·__ . 
·: .I later heard that four people had drowned and two·.. ­had survived the ·clutches of the dam's swirling·arms. Many people talked about the accident in the ~6llowing · 
. . weeks. Some said it was tragic,-some said it was _. 
: silly and""the authorities talked of "safety ~easures." ·_ · _Some people, who· evidently weren't there, said it was 
• violent. I thoughtit was rather peaceful. But the :-accident dfd·seem to_bother an awful lot"of people._ It.· · never bothered me; It never: bothered ·my brothers, 
either.· In fact, not much of anything bothered us except rainy weather, dead w:orms, people who yelled· too much and fish that wouldn't _bite. · , _. 
And sometimes I think maybe that's:the :way to be~. ----· ., ._, . 0 
31 
· 
;'_'. 





