SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN
WE HAVE iT..

dry shaver l>y WARD
NEEDS: NO ELECTRICITY NO SOAP OR WATER
ZIPPO LIGHTERS
NO MIRROR
Regularly $2.50 . . . NOW
$125
Regularly $3.00 . . . NOW
$150
Here’s the vest pocket sized dry shaver that you can use any time — any place 1 Rolls away between-shave stubble fast; can’t cut, scrape or nick. Keep it in your desk drawer or pocket; use it in plane, taxi, office or locker room.
$3.00 with 10 of the finest razor steel blades.
ZIPPO . . . the Original WINDPROOF Lighter
*Reg. (J. S. Pat. Off.
Patented end Patents Applied For.
m)k
TAXI FREE to the Modern Gilbert’s
GILBERTS
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
ZEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
2
THE WEEK
Comic-page fans will recall that frequently in “The Katzenjammer Kids” the slow-burning, bristle-bearded Captain, club in hand, is often seen roving the hills, and shouting to his hidden offspring, “Hans und Fritz, come home. All is forgiffen!” There was a note of “all is forgiffen” around here last week as Time and Life appeared once more on the cafeteria newsstand. A good many people claim Time to be the best secular newsmagazine on the stands; it appeals to the upper-middle-class intellectual dil-letante, often lapsing into a smart-alecky misanthropic editorial monotone in which nothing is considered sacred. It draws fire from both sides, which is good business. Protestants complain that it is growing more and more Catholic. Catholics feel its skeptic barbs. Some people read it just to see it rip apart Hollywood’s latest psycho thriller; some masochists like ’ its gruesome art. Everybody’s mad at it, but a lot of people buy it. Life, on the other hand, has improved since the old days when it ran at least two nudes an issue to build up the fiend trade. Being mostly pictures, it holds strong appeal for Engineers and Phy-Ed Majors.
Speaking of funny-papers, this fellow Darrell McClure, creator of Little Annie Rooney, is really cramming a lot of philosophy into his strip lately. When the axe chops a few of those moronic cartoonists for dereliction of duty, McClure will stay.
When the technicolor movie “Holiday in Mexico” left South Bend last week, it left a lot of pleased patrons behind. Though it dragged in spots, “Holiday” offered some real entertainment, mainly in the person of a pert little miss, Jane Powell, whose smiling eyes and thrush’s voice are the most refreshing to appear on the screen since Deanna Durbin scored in “3 Smart Girls.” As long as Jane doesn’t go dramatic, a la Durbin, or marry some slob, she’ll be a real top-notcher. We pray too, that she be spared any of those Teen-Age pictures, which offer the greatest aggregation of moronic delinquents ever to be pawned off as entertainers. Incidentally, keep your eye on that red-headed lure who trailed Cugat around; her name is Linda Christian.
New York’s Metropolitan Opera opens
John A. O'Connor
Saturday, the 16th, -with Texaco bringing the performances right into your room via radio. Once the football games are out of the way, the Met’s Saturday matinees will be the best fare on the airwaves.
Bob Wolf, Don Malthaner, and Jim O’Brien are looking forward to their
SALUTE
TODAY Enter This Easy Contest That Gives You WELCOME CASH QUICK!
How would you like to receive $250.00 in cash just for telling about your experiences as a student veteran? ..._ That's all there is to it! SALUIt — the civilian magazine for ex-Gls that is produced by former editors and writers of "YANK" and
"STARS AND STRIPES" — is paying a first prize of $250.00 plus nine other cash prizes, making a grand total of $750.00, for the best letters on "PROBLEMS OF THE STUDENT VETERAN"
Literary quality doesn't matter. What we want is your opinion on what your college is doing to meet your needs ... what it's like | to return to school after years in service . . . how you and other U vets are making out under the educational provisions of the Gl
Bill . .'. what suggestions you have for improving the student veteran program.	’
TODAY TO LEARN HOW YOU CAN ENTER
ACT NOW
buy SALUTE
TH/S SIMPLE CASH CONTEST WITHOUT DELAY!
The contest closes December 31, 1946. So buy your SALUTE at your news-stand today. It has full details on the contest on Page 58. If your news-stand is out of copies, send 250 in stamps
mail your copy
or coin —we'll immediately.
SALUTE
pick of the best dates out of seven (7) girls rolling in from Marquette (that’s a Catholic co-ed college) this weekend. Seems all seven babes are guests at the same off-campus home the three lotharios are occupying. Rumors say a couple of . the campus queens have two big cars, two are models, and the other gets good grades in Analytic Geometry and Metaphysics.
*
Best dressed man of the week: Gerry ’ Cowhig. That big self-conscious smile would make him a standout anywhere. History will long remember the co-cap-tain in the Army game. Quite an honor, Gerry.
Offers
FREE
"L STUDENT VETERANS
*750"w
/0 CASH PRIZES IN ALL FIRST prize _ 5250.00 Second Prize - Si 00.00
_8 Addl, Prizes - S50 00 ea
When You Buy Your SALUTE Be Sure To Read These 2 Absorbing Inside Stories!
The MacArthur Legend by Dale Kramer. The General's communiques were literary masterpieces, they boasted of quick victories, little loss of life. But what's the truth? Ask the War Dept, whose official figures tell a shockingly different story.
Inside Georgia's Klan by Stetson Kennedy. Walter Winchell raved about his book. Southern Expatura, in a recent nationwide broadcast. Now read Stetson Kennedy's equally sensational report on Georgia's KKK.
Only two of the dozens of articles, shortstories, sport features, book and movie reviews and other liberally-illustrated features. Now at your news-stands-
SALUTE"'”5*
The Civilian Maga: -for and by ex-Gls

3
<<11141 DADADE
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
MY HEAD IS BLOODY BUT UNBOWED . . .
The Army game has by now been covered from every conceivable angle. We might add though, as time and again the snorting' Army mule tossed and bucked, only to be stubbornly dashed to the turf, we were more convinced than ever that the Irish have the fightin’est bunch of scrappers this side of nowhere — and nobody — not even the greatest backfield in history (?) — is going to make our lads cry “Uncle.”
EAST SIDE, WEST SIDE . . .
Leaving South Bend Friday afternoon, the students were given a royal send-off by the nuns, girls, and boys of a local grade school. It was drama, such as one doesn’t find even in the movies. A hundred kids cheered and yelled for ‘their” Notre Dame to bring home a victory— and off to the side stood a smiling little nun, her lips forming words of encouragement as she waved to us with one hand and brandished a “Beat Army” sign in the other.
As for the students’ seats at the game, the men in the first three rows were ex
Paris
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE
CLEANING Pressin3 While You Wait DYEING
One of Our Specialties:
Cold weather ahead ... Topcoats and Overcoats beautifully cleaned and pressed.
Conveniently located at	r
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Across the Street from the Sunny Italy Cafe
tremely fortunate in having a good view of the game. With utter disregard for the students behind them, they remained standing throughout the afternoon, one thoughtless individual going so far as trying to climb up on another’s shoulders. The net result was that most of the peasants from the fourth row back considered themselves fortunate if they saw ten plays all afternoon.
New York night spots were filled that evening with Irishmen celebrating the scoreless tie — Zimmerman’s on 46th Street was the scene of one such celebration. Not even the presence of Army kaydets dampened the ardor of the studes, and after hearing the Victory March being sung for the fifth time, even the Gypsy Orchestra was inspired by this spirit (and a little monetary persuasion) to give forth with the Irish song.
One couldn’t make a move in Gotham without being reminded of the “game of the century.” At a 2:30 a.m. Mass at the Church of the Holy Cross, the sermon went “. . . and since so many of you were saved the loss of a great deal of
money by virtue of Notre Dame’s scoreless tie with Army, you can afford to be a little more generous in today’s collection.” And it worked. The congregation took more than a passing interest in the collection.
CAMPUS CAPERS . . .
At the Halloween Dance everyone had a terrific time (so it says here) . . . one Wheel” planned to go as a horse, but couldn’t find anyone to go in the head . . . there were plenty of SMC lassies in attendance, as was evidenced by the number of broomsticks parked outside the Drill Hall . . . the head (or collar, if you wish) on the cider was very misleading it; it accounted for the large line waiting to be served.	.
ON FOREIGN FIELDS . . .
The president of the University of Illinois has defined a college student as “an otherwise qualified individual who has a place to live and can find someone to teach him”—well, we have a place to live and someone to teach us, but they don’t give college credits for our studies with her!	•
An editorial in the Johns Hopkins News-Letter loudly denounces college football. They claim the general public are suckers for “yelling itself into a frenzy ovei' the usual number of most thrilling games of the year” . . . they say they doubt whether “Knute Rockne’s ghost would rip asunder the campus of Notre Dame if 90 hand picked Irishmen fail to stop Blanchard and Davis.” Ho hum!
P.S. Last week 150 students attended their rip-snortin’ pep rally.
P.P.S. They lost the game to Swarthmore, 6 to 0.
Though the grid season is now two-thirds gone, for the benefit of those who haven’t come out of the cellar yet, we print herein a glossary of football terms taken from the St. Mary’s Collegian:	'
Unbowed—Close, but you lost.
Scrappy—Made a touchdown on the opponent’s fourth team.
Outmanned—Almost scored in a lopsided white-washing.
Game—Took the ball to mid-field, once.
Fearless—Racked up a first down.
Daring—Recovered a fumble.
Valiant—Kept eleven men out there at all times.
Gallant—Fielded a team, when you knew better.
4
Dear Editor:
In case you would like to- get the average student’s opinion on the Army game, we are submitting ours, which we think is typical.
First of all, we think the New York Central is a poor judge of coaches if they call those trains their best equipment, which we were guaranteed. However, they did have reclining chairs and excellent service. We also appreciate the fact that they printed special menus for us.
Secondly, we appreciate the warm send-off by the people of South Bend. One woman living by the railroad tracks waved a hearty good-bye from a window decorated with a Notre Dame pennant and a home-made sign reading “God Bless You,” while the whole of the Holy Cross Grammar School, nuns and all, stood by the tracks cheering us on our way. These and similar gestures were very touching, putting us in good spirits to see the game we have been saving for and waiting to see for a year.
But, none of us could see the game even though the seats were on the 50
yard line. We appreciate the location'of the seats, and if the field were on a raised platform we might have been able to see the players’ shoulders (we could see their helmets). The remarks regarding the seats were anything but those of Christian gentlemen (priests included). We think all of us would actually much rather have sat in the stands on the Army side.
We might have known what was going on if each play was announced on the P.A. System, as is the practice at most of other collegiate games. We had to talk to our radio listening friends to find out how the game had gone. We certainly envied the radio listeners, even the people standing on the roof tops of nearby buildings.
South Bend BOOK HEADQUARTERS
BOOKS	FOUNTAIN PENS
STATIONERY	RELIGIOUS ARTICLES
The BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan Street
The average expense for each student was about $50.00 per, and since the purpose of the trip was to see the game we would at least have liked to . . . The Army-Notre Dame game has been held in that stadium many years prior to this, and ... certainly ... it (should have been known) these seats would be unsatisfactory to say the least. Aren’t the sons of Notre Dame as good as the Cadets? We appreciate the effort that was made to obtain the 150 extra seats so as not to disappoint anyone. In our opinion, the disappointment at the game was worse than the disappoinment of net making the trip would have been.
. . . In the future let’s have the stu-
(Continued on Page 21)
Back of the Quality
That's back again . . .
PARKER-WINTERROWD
Tailors and Clothiers
All the refinements of peacetime quality are back again in our custom tailored, made to measure clothes.
Superb tailoring and distinctive styling are again enhanced with the beauty and quality of imported and American finer woolens.
Indeed an encouraging indication of a brightened future.
Home of Adler-Rochester ready-to-wear Suits and Coats
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
115i4 - 117^4 North Main Street — upstairs North of the Oliver Hotel
5
Name. QomeA. to- AdleM.
in fabrics by
In bringing to South Bend this famous line of suits, we consider ourselves fortunate because suits like these are literally doled out to selected stores . . . and they are exclusive with us in this area. We invite you to see these fine worsteds, flannels and worsted cheviots in the rich Kanmak fabrics. '
ON THE CORNER... MKMI6MI ( NASJMNMDIt
6
ST. MARY'S 'COLLEGIAN' STAFF WRITER LASHES AT 'TIME' ARTICLE ON LEAHY
By BERT CALLEN
{The following is reprinted from the newspaper of St. Mary’s College in California.—Editor)
This week in Time magazine a three page spread has been given over to the national football scene in general and to the attitude of the University of Notre Dame toward football in particular. This piece of journalism is advertised with a striking cover picture captioned with a phrase probably realistic but hardly edifying, and this impropriety pervades a great part of what could have been a nicely objective narrative of the sport.
Evidently in setting down his story the writer- unconsciously carried himself beyond the bounds of objectivity. Most of his quotes show an. amazing naivete which one might expect in motion pictures such as “The Bells of S't. Mary’s” but never in a magazine whose style seems at once frank, sophisticated and literary. Because of this it is difficult to determine the relationship—and practically impossible to grasp the reason—for putting the Nun’s radio-side prayer with the coach’s realistic “prayers work better when the players are big” unless we imply that Mr. Leahy has little or no faith in the good Sisters’ petitions or cares not a straw for the intentions of his well-wishers.
I am sure this is not the case and yet the following few paragraphs describe him as a pedant, an evasionist (my own word) and a man crazed with the feai-of losing. And this is only because in some way the reporter himself has failed to determine just how a good man should be described. Anyone as successful as Mr. Leahy in handling more impressionable young men in such a sport as football cannot possibly be any of these things, yet the careless insertion of several following quotations certainly does nothing to clarify the situation. If anything it makes the proof more damning. "
Not enough credit was given to the real cause of Notre Dame’s present popularity. The national feeling of good will is not something that has suddenly sprung up in the last few years. It goes further than Frank Leahy or Elmer Layden or any Notre Dame team. It is found in a sportsmanship personified in the late Knute Rockne and which pervades as strongly throughout the nation today as it had fifteen years ago. This fact deserves more than a passing historical reference. Many people—I for one —would never feel the attachment for the South Bend school if since my young
est day I had not seen nor judged such great men as Marchy Schwartz, Clipper Smith, and our own Jimmy Phelan, who were influenced and taught by the master.
It is therefore somewhat hard to swallow that almost facetious attitude which creeps into the article when the University is mentioned as a place of learning. The whole passage is inserted almost apologetically and sounds more like Johnny Mercer’s summary of facts about Salt Lake City than anything else. The incident of Mr. Leahy’s abandoning the Rockne shift is treated as if he had given up his belief in the Immaculate Conception, and the utterly inconsequential quotation by Fathei- Cavanaugh is remarkable for its pointlessness through misuse. This whole thing is climaxed with another phrase which from one Catholic to another would mean nothing, but as the final statement in this piece of writing sounds anything but a humorous note.
There are very few aspiring football players in all this land who would refuse to play for Notre Dame if given the chance. This is one of many reasons which I found were not adequately interpreted in the narrative. In short, it has no substance; nothing on which the facts and digressions can be based upon. The reader feels like a comic strip character who sits beneath a huge question mark as he looks in vain for the why and wherefore. If the writer intends to write about football as such he should have done so, and if he wished to write on Notre Dame itself, he should have done so; but to fail in an attempt to write about both and leave everybody hanging in the air—he should never have done that.
Attention Students!
BREEN JEWELERS
South Bend’s Newest Jewelry Store	■
30914 S. Michigan St. (Strand Theatre Bldg.)
Offers...
HIGH GRADE JEWELRY.
Diamonds — Watches — Rings at low prices. See our line before you buy — AND SAVE. You can use our lay-away plan.
TYPING DONE
TERM PAPERS. MANUSCRIPTS. PRECIS Typing done ten cents per page (double space). Carbon copies one cent each. Paper furnished.
W. J. WISSEL, 326 Badin
STORE HOURS
Monday — open till 8:30 p. m.
Tues.-Fri. — 8 a. m. to 5:30 p. m.
CAMERAS AND
PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES
Students, we are devoted entirely to your photographic needs. Everything for the amateur and professional photographer.
Ault’s photo service in the Cafeteria
AULT
Camera Shop
Opposite the Courthouse
122 South Main St. Phone 3-5041
7
THE HOTRE DRIT1E SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Viciurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867 .....................iiHmmiMMimmiiimu..
John Defant, Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Ted Weber_______________-H. Smith Keel
..............  •immmuun............
James Clemens---------------News	Editor
Frank Keenan Associate News Editor Joe Cheney -------------—Sports	Editor
Joe Wilcox Feature	Editor
Frank Cacciapaglia—Photographic	Editor
REWRITE
Bob Stock .________________Ed Snyder Joe Doyle
Cover by Jim Ferstel
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
___________________________Faculty Advisor Tom Gargan, Bob Kopf_______Circulation M. E. Varga Advertising
PHOTO CREDITS
Action pictures on pages 14 and 15 by Jim Ferstel; "Scholastic" banquet by Frank Cacciapaglia; team's return by Jim Evans; "Rope" picture by Dave Cowden.
.............................
"Member of Catholic School Press Association, -Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for "national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City__Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
8
Can You Write A Letter?
The preamble to the constitution of the Student Council reads like this: “It is obvious that no student council can properly perform its work unless it enjoys the confidence of the University and the students alike.” We would like to underwrite this statement wholeheartedly, but unfortunately facts force us to a qualification. The legislating body does not have the confidence of the average student. In point of fact most students reek with skepticism upon broaching the subject, and although most know very few facts about the organization and would not know the president or any other member if they saw him, they criticize without being constructive. This is not a healthy situation. It has two causes. First, smugness on the part of students who try to ignore the efforts of the SC by pretending that it is no concern of theirs when they are actually constituents of the elected officers. Second, the failure at times of the Executive committee to place the general good above its petty play of power politics. Correction of the first would naturally follow rectification of the second.
We propose that the organization be brought closer to the students in the following manner. Instead of the election of the top officials being in the hands of a few it should be made mandatory that important post be subject to a general student vote and the casting of a ballot. Groups would then be encouraged to develop with representative candidates worthy campaigns and significant platforms. In order to keep alive the interest so necessary to these groups, elections could be held once each semester rather than only once a year. This would allow the voters to decide who was worthy and who was not. And furthermore, in miniature form this would give the students preparation for discriminating and wise voting in the future.
These suggestions involve the basic construction of the SC and any change must be made in the form of proposed amendments which naturally must be presented to the present Executive committee and passed by them before approval by the Administration. Without doubt any such bill would not even be considered unless public opinion through the various clubs and classes forced the issue. So fellow students with pen and
voice inject your spirit into the torpid heart of the campus.—H. Smith Keel
End the Neck Craning
As the final gun sounded in Yankee Stadium last Saturday, 1200 infuriated and disappointed Notre Dame men climbed down from pyramids of seats, railings, boxes, and other projections. They generally agreed that they had witnessed a great grid classic . . . after a fashion. The seats allocated to the student body were probably the worst in the whole stadium. The students’ gripes were entirely justified. Across the field, the Cadet corps, 2150 strong, lounged in comfort on the 50 yard line in the main grandstand, at an angle to the field, while hapless Notre Dame students craned their necks to see even a few plays of the matchless conflict. The entire elevation of the ramp on which the seats were situated did not exceed a few feet.
This deplorable and inexcusable condition again raises the question, Why cannot the Notre Dame-Army game be played on a home and home basis? No longer are the Cadets hampered by travel restrictions. Contrary assertions find no corroboration in the fact that the Army team journeyed to Ann Arbor this year for the Michigan encounter. In years gone by they have played N.D. at Chicago. If the local amphitheatre is not large enough, does not Soldier Field in Chicago, which seats 110,000 (30,000 more than the Yankee Stadium) still stand? It would be much easier to transport the student body 90 miles to Chicago than 900 long miles to New York. Every student who desired to see the game would be financially able to‘do so.
What seems to have been forgotten is that the Notre Dame football team is the students’ team. The players are students, and as Notre Dame men they are representative of the student body. It could be construed as an insult to the team, as well as to the student body, that the students should be denied the privilege of seeing their team meet their major opponent because of inconvenient seating space. The Cadets at West Point are no more students than we here at Notre Dame. It is only fair that we should be accorded the same treatment. —Edward J. Snyder & Joseph V. Wilcox
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 83, NO. 8
NOVEMBER 15, 1946
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Sign Strong For Final
"V" Dance
Postpone Cotillion; Plan Grid Movies
The Sophomore Cotillion originally scheduled to be held the 29th of November has been cancelled and a new date will be set sometime in the near future. The cancellation was effected by the newly elected officers of the Sophomore class on the basis that they would not have time enough to prepare for the coming event. A conference with the Prefect of Discipline’s Office is planned for this week and a subsequent date will be decided upon.
At their weekly meeting the Student Council passed on a motion to forward a letter to the Administration of the University complaining about the arrangement of seats in the student section at the Anny game. Many students have complained, and rightfully the Council feels, that the seats were not on a sufficient incline to enable all to see the game. Those who were there stood on the chairs throughout the entire 60 minutes and still missed many of the plays. The Council is particularly interested in correcting this situation and making
McLaughlin warns nfccs group OF COMMUNIST STUDENT ACTIVITIES
“The world is ■witnessing the emergence of a newly delineated segment of society—the international student community—to which the Catholic students have a definite responsibility.” This was the message which Martin M. McLaughlin, graduate student in the department of Political Science, had for the InterAmerican Commission of the Notre Dame unit of the National Federation of Catholic College Students at an informal meeting in Room 108, Law Building, Thursday evening, Nov. 8.
Mr. McLaughlin pointed out that the initiative in organizing this international
more satisfactory provisions for next year.
The Council is making arrangements with Coach McArdle for the showing of all away from home games to the student body. A definite schedule will be set up and it is hoped that they will be able to get underway this week. Watch your Bulletin boards and the Scholastic for further announcements.
The Villagers Club will hold a semi-formal dance during Christmas vacation on the 27th of December at the Erskine Clubhouse in South Bend, it was also revealed. Bud Simpson will play and invitations are extended to all members. Morrisey Hall will hold a banquet on the 20th of November at St. Stephens Parish Hall. A full night of feasting and entertainment is planned.
A Victory Dance is planned for this Saturday evening after the Northwestern game. Admission will be $1.50, tax included, and Ray Winters’ orchestra will play. Rules and regulations which have applied at past Victory Dances will be in force again on Saturday.
—John W. Noonan
student community is being assumed by Communist elements in a concerted attempt to capture the intellectual classes of the future. The World Student Congress, held in Prague, Czechoslovakia, was “conceived, planned, executed, and dominated” by a two-thirds Communist majority which exercised the controlling interest even in the delegations of France, Britain, and the United States. The conspicuous lack of Latin-American representation was noted and members of the commission were urged to campaign for greater participation by the student organizations of Central and South America.
Party Will Climax Homecoming Plans
An already crowded Homecoming Weekend, what with the Southern California game, the Sophomore Cotillion and the mammoth hall decorating contest, will be climaxed Saturday evening, November 30, with the Homecoming Victory Dance, featuring “big-name” Bob Strong and his orchestra.
Well known to band fans in cities the country over, long before he ever sets foot in them, Bob Strong has drawn hearty welcomes from the dance happy folks who became familiar with his unusual arrangements and smooth instrumental style through his many radio commercials.
The band, which brings to Notre Dame the outstanding outfit of the Victory Dance season, started in Chicago, broadcasting coast-to-coast on the NBC and later the CBS networks. Requests for personal appearances piled up while Strong was unable, because of contractual agreements, to fill them.
For the past few years, however, Bob Strong and his band have been slowly catching up with the huge backlog of personal appearance requests. Starting in Chicago, Bob soothed the restless feet of the “hep-chicks” at the Sherman Hotel, Edgewater Beach Hotel, Blackhawk Cafe and the Trianon and Aragon Ballrooms. Then, spreading out in the mid-West and gradually moving into other parts of the country, Strong established an enviable record with the critics and public alike at well-known entertainment centers
Organizing his band originally for radio work for the Brown and Williamson Tobacco Company . in Chicago, Bob Strong soon became a national favorite after being featured on “Uncle Walter’s Doghouse” for three years on NBC, besides several programs for Avalon Cigarettes, including Avalon Time with Red Skelton, “Showboat,” and College Humor, all over NBC. Later, Strong went
(Continued on Page 18)
9
Weekend Near the Waldorf
By JOE WILCOX and ED SNYDER
It looked like the Exodus from Egypt. N.D. men, almost 1200 of them, were running like mad for the train. They had SPATNC cards neatly tied to their lapels; they carried everything in the way of luggage from ancient and disheveled furlough bags, left over from unhappier days, to brand new juniorsize steamer trunks. They were running because they were in a hurry; for once no raucous bells were needed to jar them out of their lethargic fog. The trains that were to carry them to the “game of the century” waited on St. Mary’s siding. Some of the more heedless brethren had failed to read the carefully-worded signs posted about the campus, headed instead for the Notre Dame siding. They found only a coal pile, were farther away from their objective than before. Finally, after much tumult and shouting, loss of roommates and fellow members of the Kankakee Club, all were seated either on the Blue or the Gold trains, ready to embark upon the great expedition. To the amazement of everyone, the trains started on time.
• Grammar School Provides Cheers
An unexpected send-off came from a group of enthusiastic South Bend Holy Cross Grammar School children, nuns, and priests, who gathered at the side of the tracks, displayed a “BEAT ARMY” banner, cheered wildly. One nun, especially enthusiastic, waved her clenched fists heartily in an orgy of sisterly cordiality.
Scarcely had the Blue train begun to move on its eastward journey than the Band, conforming to an old tradition, began to initiate its new members who had not made the trip before. Initiates wore large placards proclaiming their identity, native lands, girl friends, and previous conditions of servitude, had to address veteran band members as “Oh most illustrious Sahib.” Failure to comply with madcap regulations resulted in “unpleasantries” which were visited upon the hapless “Gooks.”
Despite the presence of three dining cars, dining on Friday night was a long, arduous process, involving waiting in line for an hour or more. Somehow, a few meal tickets eluded the waiters in the Blue train, and the steward rushed
up and down the aisles all evening looking for the delinquent ducats.
At various points throughout the journey, escapees from state penitentiaries, disguised as train butchers, came on to the train, selling nothing but meat sandwiches (Friday, y’know) and hawking local sheets such as the Toledo Blade for the economical price of ten cents. Despite the tariff, papers sold to those interested in the state of Lu jack’s ankle.
No Sleep on Train
As the evening wore on, ever-present card games gave way to song sessions; in stations, other train passengers were regaled with N.D. cheers. The spirit of revelry gradually grew unpopular with some who, envisioning a week-end of less sleep than usual, agitated loudly and long for the abolition of lights. Darkness, at length, they got, but peace was a different matter. Some cars were comparatively quiet, but in others, Jake had to pick 2 a.m. to tell Clarence all about how the old man helped to win the election. Others simulated nightingales, filling the stale, smoke-filled air with inharmonious warbling. The most obnoxious screamed “Aw, go to sleep” at those who had the temerity to ask for quiet.
The trains were scheduled to arrive in Grand Central Station around 7 a. m., but the millennium came and the Blue train pulled into the big terminal at 6:30. The Gold train followed shortly after.
Immediately after arrival, the N.D. contingent woke up the station with “Go, Irish, Beat Army,” promptly proceeded to E'u Agnes Church where the priests in the party said Mass which the students heard and received Holy Communion for the intention of the team. With Mass over, eveiyone went his separate way until all met in the Yankee Stadium for what they could see of the much ballyhooed conflict which turned into a cataclysmic battle of attrition.
A few voyageurs who waited around in the terminal to meet friends or relatives . saw an old sweeper, making his early morning rounds collecting discarded butts and other junk, pick up a dropped copy of the Scholastic. He thumbed slowly and deliberately through it, examining it page by page, with a perplexed look on his face. He was holding it upside down. Finally, after apparently be
coming convinced that this was a type of junk with which he had had no previous acquaintance, he shrugged, closed it, . threw it into the nearest receptacle, and shuffled off to sweep up another cigar butt. Sic transic gloria Scholastici.
After Mass, students planning on a partial night’s sleep headed for numerous hotels to find rooms or pick up reservations. Most of those who sought rooms were met with dissenting nods by already harried hotel managers. One ambitious student, minus a reservation, accosted a clerk with the question, “Where can I get a room for the night?” and was met with the reply, “You might try Albany.”
The 1:30 p.m. starting time of the game required an early start for the Bronx-located Yankee Stadium, but many visitors found time to take abbreviated sight-seeing tours. Rockefeller Center, St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Times Square — all were viewed with wideeyed awe by all except the blase New Yorkers who spent their morning with friends or in visiting old haunts. The Empire State Building proved an attraction for many who braved overcast skies and attempted to see the big city from the roof of the world’s tallest structure. All overtown the visiting Irish craned their necks to see the tops of New York’s skyscraper skyline, but had they foreseen the amount of neckcraning necessary to see the game from their poorly-located seats at Yankee Stadium, they would have probably settled for a movie.
The SPATNC cards drew many ticket seekers, but all were repulsed either because of a deep desire to see the game, or because of the fear of the retributive finger of University justice had they been caught.
Cosmic Clash
Then came the cosmic clash of the immovable forces at the stadium Babe Ruth built. While the corps of cadets paraded mechanically into their seats, students drifted casually to theirs and were no sooner seated when they began to wish that they could drift casually atop, one of the neighboring buildings, because the overall elevation of the student section was not more than one foot. When the team took its bench and the many sideline pass-holders settled on
10
their roosts, the situation became worse. In order to see the field, and then only part of it was visible, the student section had to stand on chairs or other projections. Many sought to invade the sidelines, but few were able to sneak past vigilant policemen and gain a better vantage points.
The game itself ended in a scoreless tie. To dispel any thoughts of goal-post stealing, the New York Police Department lowered the steel cross bars a good two minutes before the final gun, which must mean that the cops did not figure on any last-minute scoring.
Mad Rush to Manhattan
A mad rush followed the close of the game as 81,000 persons pushed, shoved, and groped out of the huge stadium, clamoring for various forms of transportation. The elevated station across from the stadium was assaulted by a line of patrons a half-block long-. Subways and cabs were mobbed and those who chose to drive found traffic snarled to a halt by streets dense with moving humanity.
By the time the N.D. men had returned to Manhattan, most eating places were jammed with patrons, which fact tempted many to forego the evening meal for an earlier jump on the Manhattan Merry-Go-Round.
Those fortunate enough to get reservations at hotel dining rooms or night clubs consumed their nightly repast in accompaniment with liquid refreshment, stayed on to see the floor show, and dance to a name band or an insignificant combo. Some chose the theatre for entertainment and once again the fortunate got in on the leading stage shows like “Annie Get Your Gun,” “Call Me Mister,” “Carousel,” “Life With Father,”
“Cyrano de Bergerac” and the many other Broadway hits, while the less fortunate settled for a first-run movie or a look at the famous Radio City Music Hall, precision-legged Rockettes.
The older boys, still clinging to bar cards, investigated the dens of New York drinking and found to their amazement that 18 is the legal guzzling age in the big town.
Of course the night moved on too swiftly and what seemed like an hour was actually much longer. The night spots began to sweep out the debris and pile up the chairs. The bars rang the curfew. The Petrillo-conscious orchestras tooted their last notes. It was time to hit the sack, if you had a sack to hit. Some students chose to attend the “early-bird” masses at New York churches, while others deferred their religious duties until later in the morning and wandered off to slumber. A big night in a big city was over.
Return to South Bend
Practically everyone arose late on Sunday. As a consequence, it had disappeared before many of the Itinerant Irish realized it had arrived. Train time, 11:35 p.m., neared and the station was again packed with Notre Dame men, but less than before, since some had taken still longer weekends and planned to catch later, faster trains which would get them into South Bend Tuesday morning. It is rumored that some stayed even longer; some off-campus students reportedly took a week’s cut, savored their seldom-found freedom until Wednesday.
Again the Blue and Gold trains pulled out on time. The consensus, before all the
weary travellers dozed off, was that a major miracle had occurred. There was little noise on the trains coming back; nobody had the energy to sit up all night. The telling of their exploits on Broadway could wait until morning.
This time the meals were not with the tickets, but, finding that breakfast was a big bargain at a buck a throw, many of the impoverished Irish ate it but let a sandwich suffice for lunch.
The Monday morning quarterbacks were in first class condition that Monday morning; the train was filled with second guesses as to what O’Shultz would have’ done in Leahy’s place. Some, trying to be dramatic, said that the scoreless tie was a perfect poetic finish. Most, however, made no effort to conceal their disappointment, planned for next year and hoped that next time they would at least be able to see the game from a decent seat.
When the train arrived at St. Mary’s siding, a cold November rain soaked the familiar landscape. As one man put it, “Good old South Bend, the garden spot of the Universe.” The 1946 student trip was at an end.
There will be a special meeting of all members of the Notre Dame Villagers next Wednesday, November 20, in the auditorium of the Law Building. At this meeting, plans will be announced for the Christmas formal to be held during the Christmas holidays in South Bend. The executive committee is working on a Communion breakfast, and should have something definite to report at that time.
Townspeople and students brave the early morning hour and Indiana weather to welcome the Irish footballers on their, return from New York and the Army game.
11
"ROPE," 3-ACT DRAMATIC PRODUCTION, FIRST OF SERIES IN WASHINGTON HALL
The muses and others who see Leonard Sommer’s production of Patrick Hamilton’s Rope will undoubtedly be tied up with enthusiasm for it when at plays at Washington Hall, December 15, 16, 17, and 18. The play, about English aristocrats, was written in 1926 by Mr. Hamilton for presentation in 1946.
Rope, the first major Washington Hall event since The Mikado, is the first of many University Theatre Productions to be staged in the near and far future. With the dream of a University Dramatics Department in mind, Mr. Sommer finally got through the auditions and reading rehearsals (see cut) in spite of pep rallies, speeches and other interruptions.
Already the producer and director of 50 full-length plays and several (over 50) one-act plays, Mr. Sommer is producing Rope as a Speech Department project. He informed the 85 who auditioned that this was, in no sense, an amateur production and those who thought so were wasting his and their own time. He also stated that part winners would be expected to work. Tn other words: to bound and gag themselves in Rope. The Sommer casting system: the best for the most talented in Dramatics. He was impressed by the auditions, promised to produce more plays with bigger casts because of the talent displayed, said that those who were rejected had to be because of the
The cast of “Rope" tied up in reading rehearsal. Left to right. Leo P. Bressler, John McKeon, Peter Ahrens, George LaBuda, Leon Marinello, John Mahar, Frank DeLeo, Director Leonard Sommer and Darwin Venner	•
few parts (8) in Rope, hoped they would audition for his next production which might be three one-act plays.
After 20 hours of auditioning, Mr. Sommer finally chose the following as the cast: George LaBuda will play the part of Rupert Cadill; Peter Ahrens, Wyndham Brandon; Darwin Vennerd, Charles Granillo; Leo Bressler, Kenneth Raglan; Al McNulty, Sir Johnstone Kentley; Frank DeLeo, Sabot; and John Maher, Mr. Debenham. Stage manager Leone Marrinello has, as his assistant, John McKeon. The only feminine part, that of Leila Arden, has been offered to Barbara Dolezel, but she may have to decline it because of another theatre engagement in South Bend.
Navy Training Director Visits ND NROTC Unit
The Director of Training for the Bureau of Naval Personnel, Captain E. R. Durgin, visited the Notre Dame NROTC unit last week. As Assistant Chief of Naval Personnel, Captain Durgin is responsible for the administration of the 52 NROTC units set up in leading universities of the United States to supplement the Academy at Annapolis.
There are fifteen Naval Aviation Cadets now in college training at Notre Dame, and they are connected administratively with the NROTC unit.
Student Stricken At Army Game Succumbs In Hospital
Death soberly spread gloom over an already saddened Notre Dame student body in New York last weekend. George C. Obermaier, a junior of 252 Dillon Hall died in Mount Sinai Hospital after becoming ill at the Yankee Stadium during the Army-Notre Dame football game.
The student collapsed during the second quarter of the game and was carried to the first aid room of the stadium. Later an ambulance took him to the hospital where he died at 7:00 p. m. of a cerebral hemorrhage. He was attended by a priest at death.
The body was sent to the home of his father at 317 Elizabeth Lake Road, Pontiac, Michigan. Burial was to have been on Wednesday morning after services at St. Michael’s Church in Pontiac. He is survived by his father, G. J. Obermaier.
Two Students Burned' Returning From N. Y.
Two Notre Dame students were victims of a freak accident aboard the Gold section of the special train, returning from New York Nov. 11. Lawrence M. McLafferty, Jr., and Marshall E. Prunty, both of Badin Hall are at Memorial Hospital in South Bend suffering from burns received when sprayed by steam.
A coupling broke between two coaches of the Gold train, second to arrive, as it moved slowly through the station in South Bend causing the cars to separate. Both boys were standing on the platform of the coach, and were scalded by the steam which escaped from a broken pipe, a result of the separation of the cars.
At present there is no apparent danger and both are resting comfortably at the hospital. Prunty is a freshman from Jenkins, Kentucky, and McLafferty is a junior from Butler, Penna.
—Lou Homing
Vet's Problems Topic of "Salute" Contest
Salute magazine, produced by former writers and editors of the service papers, Yank and Stars and Stripes, is sponsoring a letter contest for student veterans. The letters are to be written on the subject “Problems of the College Veteran,” and the contest is open to all veterans attending school or college under the educational provisions of the G.I. Bill of Rights. The first prize will carry an award of $250; the second prize $100, and there ■will be eight third prize awards of $50 each. The letters are to be no longer than 250 words. All letters should be mailed to Salute, Contest Editor, 19 Park Place, New York 7, N. Y. The contest closes on January 10, 1947.
12
Discussion Presented By History Dept.
The second in the series of discussions conducted by the Department of History on the notion of the state in the various periods of histoi*y will be held Tuesday evening, Nov. 19, in the Rockne Memorial. The theme for this meeting will be the “Notion of the State in Mediaeval Times” and the discussions will be held by Professors James A. Corbett, and Gerhard B. Ladner and will be presided over by Father Gerald B. Phelan of the Mediaeval Institute. All three of these men are specialists in mediaeval thought and culture and should provide interesting material for the discussion which will be open to faculty and students alike.
There was a large attendance at the first discussion in which Professors Gur-ian and Chroust criticized the ancient political theories. Besides the history majors, professors and students from other Departments have shown an interest in these meetings and have taken an active part in the discussions.
Professor Corbett, who will lead next week’s discussion, is a graduate of the Ecole Nationale des Chartres, the famous school of mediaeval studies near Paris, and has published books and articles on Mediaeval thought. Professor Ladner, who received his doctorate from the University of Vienna, is a recognized authority on the history of Mediaeval art and through his study of art has acquired an enviable understanding of Mediaeval thought and culture. His books and articles on these subjects have received international recognition. Father Phelan achieved for himself a brilliant record in Mediaeval studies as rector of the Political Institute in St. Michael’s College, at the University of Toronto.
High Prices Caused By Public, Says Prof. Eels
The blame for present high prices was placed on the general public by Prof. LeClair H. Eells, of the finance department of Notre Dame’s College of Commerce, in a talk last Thursday evening before members of the Y’s Men’s Club in the Y.M.C.A. building, South Bend. Everyone is at fault, he told his audience, because the people have bought things they do not need.
Pointing out that the two main factors determining price are supply and demand, Prof. Eels asserted that “the supply is low because production was limited mostly to war materials during the war. Added to this were 10 years of depression before the war. The demand is high because the purchasing power of farmers, labor and even corporations has increased greatly. Even today with produc
tion reaching high peaks, it will take a long time before the supply tends to equal the demand. People with their willingness to buy have sanctioned the higher prices.”—John Waters
Annual Lawyers Ball to Be Held Nov. 22
The annual Notre Dame Lawyers Ball will be held in the Progress Club in South Bend on Friday evening, November 22. The future lawyers and their fair partners will dance to the music of Barney O’Reilly of South Bend and his 14 piece orchestra. Dancing will be from 9-1 o’clock with 2 o’clock permission for resident students. Special permission to drive cars will be given. Bids for the Ball will cost five dollars.
The Law Ball will be strictly formal and open only to Notre Dame law students and patrons who are invited. Notre Dame graduates of the College of Law may attend for all law graduates are honorary members of the Notre Dame Law Club for life.
The gala dance will be in the best traditions of pre-war days for it is the first formal Lawyers Ball to be held since the beginning of the war. The dance committee is working hard to make this year’s Ball a complete success and the best ever held.
Bill Martin and Fred Hoover are cochairmen of the dance. Jerry Feeney is chairman of patrons. John Merriman is chairman of music. Tim Green is chairman of invitations and bids. Joe Farmer* is the ticket chairman.
The "Scholastic” staff relaxes for an evening with good food and a minimum of speakers.
Bach, Wagner, Strauss At Cavanaugh Concerts
Selections from Bach, Wagner, Strauss and Shostakovitch will feature next week’s programs at the Cavanaugh Hall Reading Room concert series. The increasingly popular programs are held three times a week, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, from 12:30 to 1:30 p. m., in an after-dinner setting unusual at Notre Dame. In the deep-seated comfort of the reading room music lovers can relax and listen to the world’s great musical classics, at the hour of the day when man the animal, and man the intellectual achieve perfect integration.
Next week’s program:
Tuesday, Nov. 19
Bach—Brandenburg Concertos, Nos. 2 and 3.
Bach—Passacaglia & Fugue in C Minor. Weinberger—Under the Spreading Chestnut Tree.
Wednesday, Nov. 20
Wagner—Overture to “Die Meistersinger.”
Wagner—Love Duet & Liebestod from “Tristan und Isolde.”
Wagner—Brunnhilde’s Immolation from “Die Gotterdammerung,” (Artists— Flagstad and Melchior).
Thursday, Nov. 21
Strauss—Death and Transfiguration.
Shostakovitch—Symphony No. 1, F
Major.
13
Mr. Outside is stopped on his 17 yard line . . .
as Strohmeyer, Rovai and
Skoglund encircle him
NROTC ORGANIZES RIFLE, PISTOL TEAMS
Although the NROTC at Notre Dame is now on a civilian basis, a rifle and pistol team made up of members of the unit has been organized as in the past. This year Major Bruce Hillam USMCR, the officer in charge of gunnery, is head of the shooting squad assisted by Chief Gunner’s Mate “Mac” McCurdy as coach.
Two members of last year’s team have been named captain of the rifle and pistol team respectively. They are J. E. Eskil-son and R. B. Taylor.
Several promising candidates have been putting in practice time at the range which is located in the stadium. However, Chief McCurdy urges anyone who is interested in trying for either team to report to the range since there
INDIANA DETHRONES IRISH IN STATE MEET
Led by Earl Mitchell, who established a course record, Indiana University dethroned Notre Dame Saturday in the Indiana State Meet run over Purdue’s three and one-half mile course. Notre Dame finished third as Purdue University, whom Notre Dame decisively beat earlier in the season, also edged out the Irish.
Indiana, showing a well-balanced team, scored 29 points to finish a considerable distance ahead of Purdue, who scored 50 markers. Notre Dame’s harriers came
are still vacancies on both squads. The Chief is at the range every morning from 9 to 11 and in the afternoon from 1 to 3.
Thirteen mail matches have been arranged to date with other NROTC units. The rifle team will fire against the University of Michigan, Ohio State, the University of Washington, Southern California, the University of Rochester, Harvard, and Tufts College. The pistol team will engage Duke and the Coast Guard Academy singly besides their combined matches with the rifle team. This week the pistol team fired against Duke.
No shoulder-to-shoulder matches have been contracted because of lack of funds for the maintenance of a traveling squad.
right behind the Boilermakers with 55 points. Notre Dame was represented by the same men who have competed in all the early season meets with one exception. Gerald Johnson, who was bothered by leg trouble, was replaced by Ed Denning.
Notre Dame will compete in the Central Collegiate cross-country meet tomorrow to be held over the Drake University four-mile course. This event is being held for the first time in eight
(Continued on Page 18)
Bill Corum summed up last Saturday’s^ game in the Journal-American Sunday,? morning when he wrote, “Two teams that? won’t be beat can’t be beat.” This stated ment truly supplies the sports fans® across the nation who were listening tog | -the “game of the century” the answem to the scoreless tie. Army was as inspire^ as Notre Dame. The Army reserves were®. J better than most writers and fansl , thought that they were going to be. The® Notre Dame line was superb on defense! but it couldn’t open up the Army defense | when Notre Dame needed those few pre- I cious yards.	| I
Individually, Blanchard and Davis ! were overshadowed by Arnold Tucker, : who played a magnificent defensive game as he intercepted Notre Dame passes when the Irish were rolling toward pay i dirt. The battle of the quarterbacks end- > ed in a tie also. To most of the fans at • Yankee Stadium Tucker was the hero i of the day. I, personally, think that : Tucker, because of his great game against Notre Dame, will be named on ♦ ' the All-American Teams ahead of our own Johnny Lu jack. Johnny played sixty minutes of brilliant ball but his passes ; weren’t clicking for the simple reason 1 that the Notre Dame line wasn’t holding. , Lujack was rushed every single time | that he faded back to let one go. On the i defense, “The Luj” looked as good as ; i Tucker, especially when he brought Doc | ] Blanchard down after he had ploughed i j through all the other green-jerseyed lads. .
Terry Brennan once more proved to be the work horse of the team. He played the best game of his life against Army as did George Sullivan. Sullivan’s line play was magnificent. He brought Blanchard down twice behind the line of scrimmage and he threw Davis for a loss on two successive plays. Incidentally, Davis had never gone down for the count until last Saturday. Jack Zilly and Jim Martin never looked any better. Both got by theii’ blockers and tossed Tucker before he could get off his passes. George Strohmeyer came out of the game three times, was taped up again by Trainer Hugh Burns, and went back into the game.
COACH LEAHY KEPT HIS WORD
Coach Frank Leahy was guest speaker at the Veteran S'moker last March. When he got up to speak, so did about 1,500 other fellows who were wearing gold
14
the. PteAA P&x,
I
'• JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
lapel buttons. He ended his speech by saying, “We are already planning on this year’s game with the team that beat us so badly last year and the year before. And I promise you gentlemen, that .after the game ends in Yankee Stadium on November 9th, Notre Dame men will not hold their heads in shame.” A big roar went up in the east dining room that night and another went up when Tucker was tackled as the game ended. Frank Leahy had kept his promise. Notre Dame men, although a bit disappointed, raised their voices cheering the boys in the green jerseys who had stopped the great Blanchard and Davis.
r | SHAVIN'S FROM THE SPLINTERS
• ’ It was the first time that I have ever ; : witnessed a major sporting event where > ; the Star Spangled Banner- wasn’t played. ; 1 ... Ziggy rested his hip on the bench * ‘ but he made up for it with his yelling, i ♦ Every time that Davis was stopped Ziggy yelled “Show ’em your press clippings, ' q Glenn!” . . . Wonder why .the headlines-> man didn’t call more off-side penalties.
They were evident, especially Foldberg, Army’s left end, on two occasions. . . . I Why wasn’t the public address system used during the game? . . . Ran into Dave i Curtin, Notre Dame’s best cheer-leader | before the war, in the Notre Dame dress-1 ing room before the game. . . . When the Army team came on the field before the t game, Johnny Lu jack glanced over their way and proceeded to boot one 70 yards (bad ankle and all). . . . Clashmore Mike got his exercise chasing the Army mule around the field. Aftei- the game, I asked , one of the Notre Dame students who , sat in the student section how he liked the game. His reply was, “I don’t know, I couldn’t see it!” Poor elevation caused the students to miss much of the game. Their seats stunk. Yankee Stadium is a lousy place to hold a football game be-,i a.cause of the seating set-up. It will hold • more people than any other New York field, but the majority of the people are f unhappy as soon as they see where their seats are located with respect to the playing field.
ARGUMENT AGAINST PROFESSIONALS
The Notre Dame-Army game probably brings more money to both schools than
'	(Continued op Page 19)
J
V'
Hard driving Bill Gompers drives for the goal line . . .
as Cadet Hank Foldberg closes in
NORTHWESTERN ANOTHER 'HUMP' GAME IN SATURDAY'S TRADITIONAL BATTLE
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR
North western’s snarling Wildcats invade South Bend Saturday to take on the Fighting Irish on the home field. Despite a hot-and-cold showing this season, the Wildcats are potentially able to spring an upset, if any breaks fall their way. Always pointing for the Irish, the lads from Evanston have upset the dope bucket on many an occasion in the past, and will probably give a good account of themselves come whistle-time Saturday.
Rambler fans should remember Frank Aschenbrenner, around whom the invaders build their attack. Aschenbrenner led Great Lakes to a win over N.D. in ’45, and was quite a leather-lugging luminary at Marquette before that. He specializes in jabbing the line and every once in a while takes off like a wounded burglar- for a long lonely jaunt. Other big threats of the Purple is Vic Schwall, who doesn’t like people; he just knocks guys down all the time. Schwall was a freshman flash at Evanston in ’43, and is now back in the old groove, which is a smooth one. With Schwall and Aschenbrenner at the halves, N.D. will be getting fire from both barrels all afternoon.
As long as we’re in the backfield we
might as well have a look at the tailback spot. From fullback plunges a cleated locomotive named Everist, no relation to the mountain of the same name, and who is the fastest man on the squad. At starting quarter will probably be Jerry Carle.
But past performances have shown that the Cats have subs even more dangerous than the regulars. Take Art Mur-akowski, talented half, who all but carried on a one-man campaign against Ohio State a few weeks ago, and Jack McKenzie, fadeaway expert. Dick Conners, the team’s leading ground gainer in ’45, is back. Bob Baggott, Don Laser and Johnny Malloy are reserve quarters, while Tom Worthington, slippery-hipped half, came to the Purple highly recommended by a high school league back in Pennsylvania. Other backs include McKinley, Hunt, Seigel and Keefer.
Up in the line Northwestern looks pretty rugged. Stan Gorski and Wiltgen man the end outposts, ably backed by Zuravliff, Farrell, Clary and Holland.
At the tackle spot Ivy and Sawle will probably get the starting call; both are . newcomers, but their showings so far
(Continued on Page 18)
15
Only three weeks remain before basketball returns to the Fieldhouse
All Court Team Positions Still Open As Opener With Franklin Approaches
Paul Gordon, of Baltimore, Md.; Carl Loyd, of South Bend, Ind.; John Hiller, of East Bernstadt, Ky., and Cy Singer, of Jasper, Ind., all former monogram winners. John Lujack, of Connellsville, Pa., who won a monogram during the 1943-44 season, will report at the end of the football season.
La Raza Club Leads Pack In its Own Soccer League
Under the auspices of the La Raza Club, a local soccer tournament has been organized by Mr. Francis R. Maxwell of the Department of Physical Education. Thus far there are four teams: the Dujarie Hall Brothers, the Phy. Ed. Majors I, the Phy. Ed. Majors II, and the La Raza Club.
The La Raza Club team, coached by Luis Clement, is presently in the lead, having won two games. In the first they defeated the Dujarie Brothers by a score ’ of 7 to 2, and in the second whipped the Phy. Ed Majors II in a 3 to 0 triumph. In second place is the Phy. Ed Majors I team which secured a 2 to 0 victory over the Dujarie Brothers.
At the end of the tournament the La Raza Club as a whole will present a trophy to the championship team.
—R. Castiello
All five positions on the 1946-47 University basketball team still remain wide open with less than three weeks of practice before the opening game of the season against Franklin College on Dec. 4, according to Head Basketball Coach Edward “Moose” Krause.
Coach Krause stressed that his chief concern regarding the Irish squad is the apparent weakness at the center post. Vince Boryla, of East Chicago, Ind., who was the regular Notre Dame center for the past two seasons, has enlisted in the Army and the Irish mentor is left with no monogram winners to fill the position.
Leo Barnhorst, 6'3% " sophomore from Indianapolis, Ind., has been shifted to center from his guard berth to bolster the pivot position. The two other leading candidates for the position are John Brennan, 6'4" freshman from Bedford, Ind., and John Foley, Worcester, Mass., freshman who also stands 6'4".
At the forward posts, Frannie Curran, slender sharpshooter from Sterling, Ill., has displayed the same class in practice that he showed during the 1942-43 campaign when he won a monogram. Joe Sobek, junior from Hammond, Ind., is coming up fast and is expected to be in the thick of the battle for a starting po-ition. George Ratterman, of Cincinnati, O., who won monograms during the past two seasons for the Irish, is a quarterback on the football squad and will not
16
be available until after the grid campaign. Also in the midst of the scrap for the forward berths are John Kelly, senior from Utica, N. Y., who led the Camp LeJeune Marine team in scoring last season, Jim O’Halloran, of Chicago, Ill., and Kevin O’Shea, freshman from San Francisco, Calif.
Among the standouts at guard are
WRIER IS A NECESSITY IN MEAL'
PLANNING.JOSEF.UELLEBX THE BEMS TONIGHT/
LOST
A valuable (over $150.00) bracelet, gold with seven diamond-like stones in it. Lost at the Hallowe'en Dance in the Drill Hall or somewhere on the campus between the Drill Hall and the bus stop. See F. F. Hanlon, 259 Cavanaugh Hall.
N. Y. ALUMNI RALLY AT WALDORF USHERS IN ND-ARMY WEEKEND
By ED SNYDER
Recipe for a Notre Dame rally a la New York style: Take an Irish comedian, a dance team, a trumpet player, and a negro act, blend with a blonde torch singer in a black bare-midriff dress and mix in the grand ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria with a $3 per person cover charge.
Sounds fantastic, doesn’t it? Yet the Notre Dame alumni of New York did just that last Friday night and came up with the most unique rally this writer has ever seen.
In fact, had an unsuspecting Notre Dame student wandered into the Waldorf’s grand ballroom (and it is very doubtful that he would be able to, since all entrances were guarded like the U. S. Mint), he would have thought himself to be at a floor show and not a rally. There were no cheerleaders, no band, and most of all, there were no raspy-throated orators screaming for a lopsided victory.
The only faint traces of a campus rally came when the orchestra plowed through the Notre Dame victory march and Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., University president, gave the keynote address. Father Cavanaugh opened the evening’s festivities before a full house by stating that he had just returned from a visit to the U. S. Military Academy. While at West Point, he was asked to make a surprise speech before the cadet corps in their dining hall. It was then, he said, that he became aware that the cadets had something on their mind beside studies and love. This statement of Father Cavanaugh was the only mention of the Army game. He closed by praising the Met alumni for their fine organization.
As the president hurried off to greet friends and leave for another engagement, Ed Sullivan, Broadway columnist of the New York Daily News, was introduced as master of ceremonies for the rally. Then the parade of acts began. An Irish funster named Dean Murphy twisted his old jokes around to fit the coming game. He was followed by a dance team, a tnimpet player, and a negro act. A tribute to Army and Navy nurses was next on tap, as Sullivan pleaded for contributions to the Nurses’ Association Memorial fund. The blonde torch singer, whose costume caused this writer to forget her name, pulled down feature billing and closed the floor show.
Dancing finished off the rally, and the dance floor was jammed with people, most of whom just stood and allowed themselves to be pushed around the floor.
A number of celebrities were in the throng, notably: Frank C. Walker, former' postmaster general and a Notre Dame graduate of 1907; Jackie Coogan, one-time film star, who with a bay window and bald head looked mire like “The Man” than “The Kid”; Maurice Tobin, governor of Massachusetts, defeated by a Republican in the Nov. 5 election.
Though definitely not classed in the celebrity crowd, the Scholastic had five staffers present. Equipped with press tickets, the Scholastic’s found that the rally was devoid of any press table. Since all are ex-servicemen and thoroughly used to coping with emergencies, this oversight was soon remedied. Table No. 128 had its numerical sign replaced by a Scholastic press card. However, as the evening rolled on, the reservers of Table No. 128 showed up and demanded their roost. A minor skirmish ensued and ended with the press table becoming No. 128, and its occupants hurling nasty remarks about the press trying to swindle the American public. However, the press gained its revenge for during their hasty retreat nobody remembered to call for the check and the invading occupants were probably stuck with the bill for the newsmen’s drinks (coke, of course).
Maritain to Lecture
At Institute Here
The world’s foremost exponent of Thomistic philosophy,. the brilliant French philosopher, author, and French Ambassador to the Vatican, Dr. Jacques Maritain, will be guest lecturer on the staff of the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame, some time after the conclusion of his diplomatic duties at the Holy See.
The announcement, issued by the Rev. Dr. Gerald B. Phelan, Director of the Mediaeval Institute, stressed the fact that Dr. Maritain intends to remain at his post as Ambassador as long as the best interests of France require him to do so. The French philosopher has emphasized that it may be some time before he is able to return to the United States to resume his academic and philosophical
career. Father Phelan visited with Dr. Maritain recently.
Since his conversion to Catholicism in 1905, Dr. Maritain has become one of the outstanding philosophers in the world as a result of his important activities in Catholic thought and culture. He has written a number of widely renowned philosophical books, dealing for the most part with Scholastic philosophy, and refutations of the various minor schools of thought that were prevalent in France during the nineteenth century.
Formerly a professor in the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto, Canada, Dr. Maritain previously lectured at the University here in 1935. He has also contributed to the Review of Politics, the political philosophy quarterly edited at Notre Dame.
Pat Trexler Elected to KC Trustee Board
Election of a trustee and the appointment of a lecturer featured Tuesday’s meeting of the Notre Dame council No. 1477 Knights of Columbus, in the Walsh Hall chambers. At the meeting, the council elected Pat Trexler, a sophomore in the College of Commerce and a veteran hailing from Huntington, Ind., as trustee to sit with Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., Brother Meinrad, C.S.C., and Grand Knight James D. Sullivan on the board of trustees. He is believed to be the first student to hold such an office in the history of the council.
Bill Soos, also a Commerce man and a Hoosier, with headquarters in Whiting, Ind., was appointed by Grand Knight Sullivan to succeed Frank Coleman as lecturer. Frank had been forced to resign the office due to the pressure of studies.
Membership Chairman Larry Turner announced that applications for membership in the local council were slow in coming in, and informed the members present that a sizeable class would be required for the first-degree initiation coming up in order to justify a second-and third-degree exemplification around the middle of December.
Recording Secretary Jack Galloway has issued what may be construed as a last call for entries in the approaching KC Vaudeville show, since tryouts begin Wednesday, the 20th, and are concluded the following night. Prospective contestants for these nights are urged to see Jack in 220 Alumni Hall. Finals are set for December 4th and 5th in Washington Hall, with admission free to all students. First prize is $30, second prize, $20, and third prize carries with it a $10 honorarium.
17
|W!Sh*!5«*»5ri^
K	-V
! Christmas Seals I
1946
1 f
I $
... Your Protection Against Tuberculosis

Stamp Out T. B.
BUY CHRISTMAS SEALS
IRISH MEET WILDCATS (Continued from Page 15) this season have been encouraging. Hammerman, Zalenick, Lindemann, Eggers, Young, and Knauer round out the tackle roster.
Buckets Hirsch, formerly a star fullback, has been switched to guard to reinforce the middle of the line. Bracked with the aggressive Hirsch is Vince DeFrancesca, and up and coming junior who likes to mix it. But the starting guard positions are never sure; one reason is that Jim Lecture, 224, mainstay in the Cats’ ’45 line is back plugging for his old berth. Depauw, Thomas, Nemeth and Oldache round out the guards, except for Ray Justak, returned 1944 captain, who will probably see plenty of toil.
Alex Sarkisian at center will probably be the strongest ball-snapper the Irish have met all season. He’s backed by Reichoff, Tourek and App.
Northwestern has the decided advantage of catching ND on the keyed-down rebound from Army. If such psychology is of any help the Cats’ may do a little clawing, otherwise Leahy’s boys will turn them into a bunch of Tabbies.
VICTORY DANCE
(Continued from Page 9)
The arrangements, all personally supervised by Bob Strong, maintain a distinctive touch for every number' the band plays, yet are carefully contrived to eliminate any tendency to become rutted in a single style.
Featured with the Strong crew these days are Jo Ann Tally and Don Bailey, vocalists, and Eddie Cox, a novelty singer.
Jo Ann, a striking brunette with green eyes, has been with the Strong aggregation only a few months, but already has won a reputation as a vocalist of the most listenable and lookable variety. Her interpretation of such all time favorites as “Embraceable You” and “Night and Day” never fails to bring dancers clustering around the bandstand to listen with undivided attention.
INDIANA DETHRONES IRISH (Continued from Page 14) years. Favored to win the C. C.’s is Drake University, national champion for two years and victor over Notre Dame in a dual meet two weeks ago.
Coach Elvin R. “Doc” Handy plans to use the same seven-man squad used throughout the season. Corny Styers, Jim Murphy, Bill Tully, Louis Tracy, Bob Mitchell and John Lyons will definitely compete tomorrow, while the seventh place will be taken by Johnson if he is ready, or by Denning if Johnson isn’t set.
Science Museum Display Includes Uranium Mineral
A special display of uranium minerals, the essential material of the atomic bomb, is being exhibited at the museum in the Science Building. Included in this display is one of the specimens of uranium oxide from the mine at Great Bear Lake in Northwest Canada, the mine which furnished the material for the production of the atomic bomb.
Also on display is a yellow mineral named Carnotite, which is a combination of uranium and vanadium oxides, and which comes from a mine in southwestern Colorado. Until the discovery of the two richer deposits of uranium, this mine was the principal source of the world’s radium supply. Both specimens were presented to Dr. Knowles B. Smith, director of the museum, the pitchblend specimen having been the gift of one of the brothers who discovered the Alaska mine, and who was co-owner of the mine until the government purchased it for the atomic bomb project.
18
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
(Continued from Page 15)
any other game on either schools’ schedules. But let’s forget the money angle for a minute. The Cadet Corps makes this game their annual student trip so they are given choice seats. The Notre Dame students never know from one year to the next which game will be their student trip so they must take what is left as far as seats are concerned. But it seems to me that students of both schools should be given preference over EVERYBODY else. Charlie Callahan, football publicity director, told me that he could only get two press tickets to the game and one of those was for a roving press photographer. It seems incredible to think that the officials of both schools couldn’t put their weight on their right feet and iron out these difficulties. If we don’t want professionalism to seep into our amateur sports, let’s do .something about it while we still can.
THE YELLOW BANANA PICKS
Michigan over Wisconsin, Illinois over Ohio State, Iowa over Minnesota, Navy over- Penn State, Wake Forrest over N.
Carolina, Yale over Princeton, Oklahoma over Missouri, Tennessee over Boston College, Penn over Army, and Notre Dame 21, Northwestern 7.
WHO'S NUMBER ONE IN THE COUNTRY?
Although the statistics show that Notre Dame out-played Army last Saturday afternoon, the writers still rate Army the Number One Team in the country. They are probably following the golden rule of sports writers, “Follow the winner until he is beaten.” But when I saw Army punt on third down last Saturday, I couldn’t believe that a team which has won its last 25 games would be trying for a tie . . . and that’s just what Army was playing for from the last quarter until Tucker was tackled ending the game. Any team that plays for a tie isn’t the Numbei- One team in my book. And after Penn BEATS Army next Saturday, Notre Dame will be up on top.
Penn is waiting for Army this year after- being slaughtered 62 to 7 and 61 to 0 the last two seasons. Penn will be “up” for Saturday’s game and Army should be a bit off after holding Notre Dame to a tie. Army has two games left before “Mr. Inside” and “Mr. Outside” hang up their black jerseys. They want to win these last two games as badly as we wanted to win last Saturday. But with this 1946 season bringing so many upsets in the football world, we will go out on the limb again and pick PENN OVER ARMY.
Full color reproductions of Lynn Bogue Hunt’s "Gome Birds of America”—famous among sportsmen! Vividly portray the beauty of America’s wild fowl in their natural surroundings. See these new Hallmark Christmas cards that bring a far-away look to the eyes of every man who likes the outdoors.
I [ALLMARK CARDS FOR HIM
BOOK STORE — Washington Street Entrance
FOR SALE
2 white Arrow shirts
2 blue shirts, size 14^ neck, 33 sleeve Also
Full dress suit in perfect condition
Call 2-6562 for information.
RU00NERS
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
19
Give Tree-Ripened RsdBlush Grapefruit
A wonderful gift for family and friends. Bushel gift box (50 lbs.) prepaid to most of midwest $9.50; regular bushel $8.00. Oranges or pink grapefruit $5.95. Add 50c to Mich., Minn., Ohio, Wise, and as far as N. Y. State.
Other gifts $2.50 to $57.25. Write for illustrated booklet.
(Paint (Pcn^ Onchand!
San Benito, Texas
Not too early for lay-away gifts for CHRISTMAS
126 N. Michigan Street
PALAIS ROYALE presents
“Music in the Foster Fashion” CHUCK FOSTER AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Saturday Night, Nov. 16 for the Notre Dame - Northwestern game
COMING
WOODIE HERMAN
“The Band that plays the blues”
Saturday Night, Nov. 23
❖ «$♦ & & & & ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
9t
Me QfueicdLf
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ZYGMONT CZAROBSKI ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Reverend Fathers, Beloved Sisters of the Laundry, Honored Members of the SPCA, Friend of a Democratic Baffin Land, and Notre Dame Men:
ATTENTION, U. N. ASSEMBLY ...
When the United Nations Assembly has settled the main problems of world peace (and heaven only knows when that will be), it should turn its eyes and punitive pressure toward the abolition of professionalism in amateur* athletics around this One World of ours. But alas, the Russians would probably be the first to invoke the veto against such a plan, and why shouldn’t they? The Red backyard is full of comrades who do or die for Uncle Joe for a nominal fee. Take, for instance, the soccer team which toured England last year as representatives of the Soviet. Upon their triumphal return, the players each collected a $4,000 bonus. The Reds’ champion shotputtermakes up to $1,600 for a record breaking toss. If a young athlete is so good that he makes All Soviet (something like our All-American), he is fitted out with a nice apartment, a new car and extra rations, which faintly compares with the dole some U. S. colleges are rumored to be giving to their leading halfbacks. Come to think of it, the so-called pro
fessionalism in U. S. colleges might be an underground Communist movement. (Messrs. McCormick and Hearst might take note.)
It is regrettable that the Russians have not as yet been introduced to football (We hear their spies are still working on it). If they were pig-skin minded, Notre Dame might inaugurate a home and home series with some Russian institution of higher learning like Vodka U. But such a series would probably create only strife and disorder among the United Nations as well as at Notre Dame.
Business Manager Herb Jones would be driven balmy figuring out the transportation problems that involve a trip to Russia, and Father Kehoe’s patience would be completely exhausted when the number of cuts taken by each gridder would be tabulated. But far worse than the plight of these two men would be that of Coach Leahy. He would have to hire a company of marines to act as armed guards at Cartier Field. Everyone with a “ski” ending to his name would be suspected as a member- of the pesky MGB (Secret Police). Plays would have to be guarded like the secrets of nuclear fission lest they fall into the hands of un-scruplous Mata Hari’s. And what would all this grief bring? Absolutely nothing. If Notre Dame did beat the Reds at football, the Kremlin would claim foul play and we would have to forfeit the game to avoid an international incident.
Nevertheless, as much as you can say against the Russians, they do have a lot of athletically-minded people in that country ... in particular, some of their statesmen. Indeed, the National League would give away the Philadelphia Phillies if it could hire Molotov and Vishin-sky as umpires. With Comrade Molotov behind the plate and Comrade Vishinsky on the bases, Leo Durocher would have to throw all of his cat calls, pop bottles, and “lip” off the Brooklyn Bridge, because those guys don’t change their decisions for anyone.
JUST A FEW THOUGHTS . . .
With the battle of the century out of the way, all the wise sports writers seem to be of the unanimous opinion that it will be followed by a psychological letdown on the part of both teams. We cannot speak for Army, but, as for Notre Dame, you can wager your $65 that while we may not be as far “Up” for Northwestern as we were for Army, we will not suffer any letdown. The team will be out there at the Stadium doing the best we can and trying to score on every play. Northwestern often gives us the best game of the season, and we cannot afford to take them lightly.
20
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 5)
dents section approved by someone who is familiar* with the stadium. . . .
Edward Nestlerode Tom Murray
Sir:
Last Friday afternoon some 1150 students loaded on the Gold and Blue special New York Central trains, destined to see and cheer Notre Dame on to victory over the Army. Given a rousing send-off by the young pupils of Holy Cross school, they felt as if they had an almost vital mission to perform, representing the many rooters who were unable to see the game in the Yankee stadium; 250 extra tickets had been made available so that all who had subscribed for the trip could be accommodated. They felt quite lucky at being able to see the “game of the century.” Unfortunately, many saw little, if any, of the playing.
The Notre Dame student section was in the field stands, especially constructed for the game. When they first settled in their seats, many voiced the opinion that it would not be an easy matter to follow the game; they soon realized what an understatement this was. Even before the game had started, those in the front, but only slightly lower,- rows stood, blocking the view of those further back. As the game progressed, those doomed to the “higher” rows became progressively depressed.	'
Without much delay, the box-seaters showed their preference for the erect rather than the sedentary position, forcing the band and others to stand on their chairs, though even this gained them little. By the end of the game the stands had been completely renovated, with many of the spectators advancing to the fore of the aisle, some wandering into a gap between sections to shoulder their way close to the field, and others precariously mounting pyramids of chairs in the rear rows. Most of these attempts to better an impossible situation were futile.
These field stands were erected to provide space for a few hundred football fans who desired to see the great spectacle and incidentally to bring a few extra coppers into the total receipts. The latter effect was produced, but not the former. Whether this farce of field stands is continued matters little to the students, but they believe that when their school is engaged in any event, and even more so when it is of such importance, they should be given seats from which they can witness what is happen
ing. Desite the sacrifice incurred by some, the students left St. Mary’s siding in high spirits, but departed from the Yankee stadium sadly disillusioned, almost regretting that they had not sold their tickets in New York.
Shaun McDermott
St. Mary’s College Nov. 10, 1946
Dear Sir:
In your last issue, there was an error made under the picture of the three girls from St. Mary’s. The names were reversed. The girl seated to the left is Helen McAvinchey, and the girl seated to the extreme right is Bernadette Mac-ko.
Sincerely,
Friends.
Sir:
Let’s revive the spirit of Notre Dame. It’s there all right, but it isn’t as loud as it used to be. It is taking a back seat to other things. Now don’t misunderstand me. I’m not saying anything against the school. I’m all for it and I think we can survive the old pre-war standards.
. . . the article on “The Spirit of Notre Dame,” last week . . . very amply defined the true spirit of our school.
But there are certain phases of that spirit that were dropped to the ground during the war years. Now it appears that they are liable ot be covered with
MUTUAL AIRWAYS SYSTEMS, Inc.
fiMtOMteei
CHARTERED TRIPS TO ALL POINTS
Make up your Christmas charter with MUTUAL
Hotel LaSalle	District Manager
2:8868	Miss I. LaRowe
Specializing in the eximination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
Rickety Rickshaw Man
Intermission Hiss
Shanty In Old Shanty Town
St Louis Blues * Star Dust
IATECT TUNES
Copp's Music Shop
122-24 E. Wayne St.
21
dirt and forgotten forever. Let’s uncover them. They’re worth digging for!
Let’s give three cheers for the men . . . that got the students together, after we cheered the team when it returned from the Army game, and got them to march back to school, singing and cheering. . . . Because the cheer leaders and the band were in New York, it wasn’t possible to get players to speak Monday, and it looked as if the students weren’t going to march back to school either. But thanks to the cooperation of the fellows and the incentive of two students in particular, this tradition was carried out. It was only through the leadership of Charles Bauman and Charles Russ, both of Alumni Hall, that this was made possible. These two men deserve a great deal of credit. . . .
. . . Those other things I was talking about—that buried spirit—includes such things as marching down town in a body after a pep rally. It includes snake dances and carrying the players down town on your shoulders after a game. That’s the Notre Dame spirit of pre-war days. Let’s revive it.
I know that the men who marched back to school Monday are behind me. I know that their two leaders are behind me, and I know the team will back us
up. What I want to find out is if the entire student body is behind us, and I feel sure that you will be. So let’s go, men — let’s revive the spirit of Notre Dame.
Fred Tansey.
Sir:
Each day I hear disparaging comment on the steam table delicacies that grace the board of our dining hall. Perhaps it is time we realized that the days of the appetitizing K-ration are over and we are faced with the fare of the "brave post-war world.”
Some students are newly returned to school and do not know the culinary horror that in their absence transpired. They cannot know that what now bubbles in the kettle, outraging the nostrils and turning diners green, is a distinct improvement over recent semesters past. It was not at all unusual for the contents of the lethal ladle to recruit in-firmary patients daily — some victims frequenting the valley of the shadow several times in one semester. Eating was a real adventure then — dangerous, exciting, and designed for only the stout of heart and maw.
But today, the devil may care element is gone. The most serious complaint
arises from the occasional suspicion that a tank of helium has been swallowed. One may blanch slightly when the mess is strewn, writhing, on the tray, but the stuff remains quite docile once packed away.
So eat heartily, gentlemen. The odds are that you’ll survive.
Sincerely,
E. Seger, Alumni Hall
For Sale
Regular Legal Size Brief Case
Zipper Shut — Light Tan Leather Ring-Paper Keepers — Pockets
Call 5-3502 between 8:30- 12:00 — 1:30-5:00
’IcumiA
Excellence in glasses is a matter of precision every step of the way — from examination to the final adjustment of the RX to your eyes.
234 S. Mich. St.
Ph. 2-4405
22

True, the price is a little steep for such a short run but this young fellow is a steady offender. The other night the driver asked him to please put a dime in instead of the penny and the young scamp in question said all he thought it was worth was a penny. It so happened he used abusive language and the driver’s wife who was sitting behind him surely didn’t appreciate the outburst. Let’s break down, Bud, and show that you do have some common sense under those black wavy locks. . . .
A Wonderful Time . . .
This weekend found the usual victory spirit in town. Steaks were the order of the day for those who fared well Saturday and received the gracious bearings of the bald eagle. Bill Meyers looking like a neon sign after receiving the news his bride to be had arrived. Bill Cullen getting ready to preview that new band of his. Jim Flannigan having that steak at the Uptown. Notre Dame boys vowing that Jane Powell is old enough to take out. Bob Shellenberg still trying to buy a 15 cent malted. Joann Higgi-s letting the boys know that the ring on her finger means she is no longer attending the Tea Dances at the Rock. Many SMC girls seen strolling alone and forlorn with the mass exodus of the esudiantes this past weekend. The 30 SMC girls who went to New York learned the cheers ’ so that they could bolster the students ranks. Joe Rattigan showing off his two Army tickets plus the ten inch steel safe he kept them in. The hew system of having more than one bus at the last minute to return the fellows has met with much approval and now we definitely have no excuse for being late. They get us everywhere we turn.
About the Campus .. .
Bob Six giving up gals for work until his orders come through. . . . Look magazine breaking all records for its type on the campus. ... I wonder what its contents contained. . . . Dr. Caton running for office . . . Republican party . . . Western Union pulling up stakes with telegrams due for delivery only thrice daily. A raise in rent. . . . Roast beef at Sunday noon. Erstwhile engineers looking very sad over the construction of the new addition of the archy building.... They say it isn’t sound. . . . Hot news being made in the law building . . . someone left a butt on a reading table. ... Is this arson? . . . Those fancy colored shirts that are setting the style lately. . . . Cook’s tours of local belles on the campus. . . . Those new sack covers that must have been salvaged at Bikini. . . . John Weish finding that chemistry and S.B. don’t mix. . . . Jim Clemens looking
very guilty in the library. . . . Wonder what he said to that gal. . . . Everybody wondering who is Rusty. . . . Suggest you ask some of the boys who were out Oakland, Calif., way during the past couple of years. ... 12 gauge shotguns getting in their shots at the high flying ducks. . . . Please do not use the pond at the Rock for decoys. . . .
This Week's Story . . .
What young gentleman who resides hereabouts has the nasty habit of dropping pennies into the bus coin boxes.
NAME YOUR SPORT SONNEBORN'S has what it takes!
121 W. Colfax Avenue	Phone 3-3702
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan • Street. Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
Elkhart Engineer Speaks
Mr. Thomas Long, development engineer for the C. G. Conn, Ltd., Elkhart, Ind., was the featured speaker at the last regular meeting of the South Bend chapter of the A.I.E.E. in the Engineering building. Mr. Long’s subject was “A Unique Induction Furnace Application.”
In line with the policy of having a featured speaker during each regular business meting, more than 35 members of the South Bend chapter and a guest delegation of students from Valparaiso College heard Mr. Long’s timely topic.
23
The Notre Dame Scholastic Announces The Third Annual FOOTBALL ISSUE for 1946
TO BE PUBLISHED DECEMBER 6
This issue will contain a complete review of all games — pictures and biographies of coaches and players — action shots of all games — large autographed squad photo — newspaper comment — all-American selections, etc. Price 35c. Orders should be sent to: PUBLICATIONS OFFICE, Notre Dame, Indiana.
To insure delivery, orders should be placed before November 28.
ATOM SPECIALIST
TN 1937, after receiving his doctor’s degree as a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford, Herbert C. Pollock came to work in the General Electric Research Laboratory. He knew that at G.E. he would find facilities, opportunity and encouragement to continue his fundamental research into the secrets of the atom.
This was important to Herb. As a senior at the U. of Virginia in 1933, he had studied methods of concentrating isotopes. His doctor’s thesis at Oxford was on isotope separation.
When war approached in 1939, isotopes— specifically the uranium isotope 235—became the subject of feverish study, as men sought to exploit the atom’s enormous energies. Herb put. aside his research into pure science. Working with another G-E scientist, Dr. K. H. Kingdon, he succeeded in preparing a sample of U-235 which was used to confirm the fact that it was this isotope which fissioned under slow neutron bombardment. Later he joined Dr. E. O. Lawrence’s Manhattan Project group which was at work on the atomic bomb.
With the Research Laboratory again today, Herb has resumed the fundamental research he began at Virginia and Oxford. Using such complex electronic “tools” as the G-E betatron, he studies the atom that man may have, not bombs, but new sources of power, new weapons against djpease, new truths about the physical world.
Next to schools and the U.S. Government, General Electric is the largest employer of college engineering graduates.
At Virginia and at Oxford Herb specialized in problems of isotope separation.
Today in the G-E Research Laboratory he uses the betatron in his atom studies.
GENERAL ® ELECTRIC
24
PRINTS OF THE PAST 1905
Jan. 21: The Notre Dame Debating Team began the new year with excellent prospects. Its coach, after hearing his boys, issued the following statement: “There isn’t a team in the country that will out-debate THIS bunch of talkative Irishmen.” . . . Feb. 4: The Commerce Department here has made such great strides in recent years that the administration has assigned it to a room in the Main Building. . . . Mar. 4: Another book was added to the library this week. . . . May 6: The varsity baseball team lost a 6 to 0 contest to the South Bend Greens last week. The shutout was credited to a young South Bend pitcher by the name of Ferris. A double with the bases loaded by the clean up man, Wil-
Zippo
and
Park
LIGHTERS
$2.50
Christmas Cards
with your name imprinted. ORDER NOW!
BUSINESS SYSTEMS
126 S. MAIN
Across from the Court House
liams, put the game on ice for the Greens. . . . May 20: Beloit took its third straight ball game from the Irish. . . . June 10: St. Mary’s celebrated its Golden Jubilee last week. . . . June 17: The SCHOLASTIC explained for the benfit of the freshmen that Golden Jubilee means fifty years in operation. . . . Dec. 22: Literary competition within the Scholastic was at its height all year. Such ambitious young writers as Thomas E. Burke, Charles L. O’Donnell, and Eugene P. Burke were continually scrambling for positions on the Board of Editors.
❖
PRINTS OF THE PRESENT Belles of St Mary's
The belles of Saint Mary’s Are queens among fairies, They’re easy to look at, they’re cultured, they’re sweet;
They’re wonderful dancers And matchless romancers, And some have brothers at ND who can’t be beat.
—Willie from Dillon.
It's Official
Excerpt from “Football and the Fighting Irish at Notre Dame,” Scholastic, Oct. 18, 1946, via Paul Heimann of Morrissey:
. . . there are ... no sororities . . . which tend to destroy unity of interest, oi- erect social barriers on this campus.
They'll Have to Stand for It
If Army comes here after the season to settle the national championship, it would again be appropriate to accommodate both the corps of Cadets and the ND student body along the 50 yard'line. Only this time let us sit in the stands and put them in the trenches.
—THE ORIGINAL “Don Lee”
’Td Be Lost Without You"
Pat Kelly of Dillon claims he caught an engineering student singing this tune to his slide rule.
❖
Somethin? Went Wrong
When I went away to college, my mind was set afire
With the great things I would do with the knowledge I’d acquire.
I would tie all the world in a ribbon of accord,
Make a memory of the rattle and clatter of the sword.
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
BLOCK BROTHERS
The Diamond House of South Bend
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME STUDENTS for over 25 years
BLOCK BROS.
/1 sir/my f ‘ 'A/ /< " /	.
COR MICHIGAN i MSH SO
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-rays and Consultation Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jam Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building L. E. Fisher, M.D. M. J. Thornton, MJ).
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
. Registered Podiatrist . FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
25
I would lobby in the legislature, down the tariff wall,
Make the best produced in every port available to all.
I would balance wits with silly kings and pompous potentates,
And with words of wondrous wisdom melt the sovereignty of states.
With a deprecating smile I’d produce a simple plan
That would solve the scholars’ mysteries from the hour that time began.
Now I’m going away from college to set the world afire,
And I’m sorting through the treasures
■'•I have managed to acquire:
A blanket with an epigram of proper college cheer,
A program from the prom and a pilfered stein for beer,.
A score of colored sweaters, and a batch of brilliant ties,
A beaten pair of loafers, and a third place harrier prize,
A three year interruption to lead a soldier’s life,
A couple stars and ribbons and a shrewish Aussie wife,
A little higher- forehead, horn-rimmed spectacles to see
And the all resolving magic of a Foreign Commerce degree.
—E. R. C., Alumni
Mail or deliver contributions to THE STUDENT PRINTS, 124 Lyons Hall.
Architects Design Crest for New Club
Members of the Department of Architecture at Notre Dame last week turned their designing talents towards a local project—the design of a crest for their newly activated Architects Club. Competition was sharpened when the Club and the Department offered twenty-five dollars in prizes.
Vincent Boyle of Milford, Michigan, executed the winning design and took the fifteen dollar first prize. Ross Dugan, Idabel, Oklahoma; and Robert Raley, Wilmington, Delaware, collaborated to produce the design which won the ten dollar second prize.
Judgment of the entrants was made by the faculty of the Architecture Department and the officers of the Club, headed by John L. Bartolomeo of Chicago. They selected Boyle’s design on the merits of its simplicity—a circle intersected by the draftsman’s T-square.
Honaroble mention went to Luigi Sci-belli, Curtis O’Brien, David Ardito and Patrick Weishapl. About thirty designs were entered in the competition.
26
Another Headquarters for ARROW
• .
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Here—Yow are always a Guest before you are a Customer
Sagitta mea toga gratiosa est (Arrow is my favorite toga)
Your best buys in togas (1946 models) are those summum bonum shirts with the form-fitting Mitoga cut.
A smooth-knotting Arrow tie just below the Adam’s apple and a handsome matching Arrow handkerchief in the breast pocket...
Brother, if you’re a bachelor, cave!	-
MAX ADLER CO.
ON THE CORNER... MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
ARROW MATCHES SETS
Ifs Adler s for ARROWS
MW ORNEK... MKMtAN (MOMMN
“Gallia omnis in tres partes divisa est”*
. the famous first words of Caesar’s Gallic wars...
You’ll find the three part harmony of an Arrow shirt, tie and handkerchief ensemble is the first and last word on what the well-dressed college man prefers for a houseparty weekend.
So if you can’t quote Latin to your girl friend, you can keep her interested in your non-pareil Arrow shirt, your wrinkle-resistant Arrow tie and your Arrow handkerchief— which are paradoxically enough, all matching and matchless!
*All Gaul is divided in three parts.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Rose & Katz
The MEN'S Corner
Home of Nationally Accepted Merchandise
and
ARROW
Shirts. Ties
Handkerchiefs Underwear
•
ARROW
Sport Shirts
Rose & Katz
For Men and Young Men
Main and Colfax * • »
27
Always Better Cooler MILDER TASTING SMOKING >'™>SllESTMELD
RIGHT COMBINATIONS WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS ■ PROPERLY AGED
Copyright 1946, Loctn & Mrm Tomcco Co.