
What can you. buy with twenty 
bucks these days? 
2 All "minor" sports passes 
26 hours and 40 minutes worth of fines at the reserve book room 
3.2 dinners at the dining hall 
27.2% of a season's football pass 
57.14 % of your "miscellaneouS''i'fee" 
OR 
A subscription to •Scholastic 
(your parents will love you) ; · 
,',~ 
Please. send_ years of Schola.sticto:. Name:~;-·----~~------'------,-'--­Address:_··. ----'---,--,---------,--------,----­City : __--'--_____State: ··Zip:_____ 
. '_ __.--,, 
Pl~ase fu~ke check§payablgt6 : Scholastic Magazine 

LaFortune Student Center· Notre Dame, IN 46556 
. ~­

Enclosed is a check for $20;00 x ·_._. years = $__ 
... , . ·-··-· 
,,,,., >,•; ~dltqrJp 9~i;t:;,.·• .· 
. · .. •·. ,;CC'.''. .. ;i Andrew Hilg~r 
.. ·:· . . . . . ~,. -. : , ~--: .: :,:.·.­
""" ... ·· ..Edii6r1a, st~ttL : 
Spc;>,rts: Ji111 Maggio •.· · '' ·NtW~E Derik 'A'eJp911.· •· ..
C~py: Traci Taghon . 
Features: Ian Mitchell . ,fa, 
. . : rJ;pf§~Jct!~~g .......... . 
Sy~jtims Manager: Matt Langie · .... ,c;r~phip A(t~ Mari1:1ge~:;NJyien()~>padilla•.r • · C '''H' '" 

Manuscripts are 
September 14, 1989 
Letters 


A 
eader's Guide 
to 
-Dear Readers: 
I would like to take this opportunity to welcome you to Scholastic and give you a glimpse as to what we're about. As the weekly student magazine, we have served the Notre Dame community with in-depth ar­ticles in the areas of news, features, and sports for over 120 years. 
This year we have expanded our coverage to include Saint Mary's whose heritage has been closely linked to Notre Dame's since the college's inception. As a result, we have hired a full time editor from Saint Mary's. If you have any information on happenings at the college which you feel deserve recogni­tion or inquiry, please feel free to contact Robin Spurr at 284-5092. 
We also extend a welcome to our new comic artist, Greg Delate. The strip, titled Hunch Back, will appear on a bi-weekly basis and will satirize the university and campus life. If you have artistic talent and a good sense ofhumor, please let us know. We would like to extend an invitation for you to join our staff as a cartoonist. 
While I am on this subject, for those of you who have not yet been contacted after show­ing interest in our organization on activities night, please be patient. We have a young and enthusiastic staff who will be contacting you soon. Also, if you missed us at activities night and are interested in writing, please contact Mike or Andy at239-7569, or call us at home. We are always looking for new, talented writers who would like to develop their skills at the magazine. 
One more section of the magazine I would like to call yourattention to is the Final Wox:d. Each week we allow a member of the Notre 


holastic 


Dame/Saint Mary's community to express his opinions or feelings on subjects ofinterest to students. Ifyou would like to write for us in this capacity, Chris Fillio, departments editor, may be able to arrange for you to use this forum. 
To those ofyou who are looking for a cheap and effective way ofadvertising your organi­zation or its events, consider us. Our adver­tising manager, Tony Porcelli, will arrange to place your ad in a prominent position in the magazine where it will be noticed and re­sponded to. He will also negotiate discounts for your first ad and ad contracts .. 
Ifyou need ad design, we will provide it for you at no additional cost. We are currently in the process of selecting an ad designer who will listen to your ideas and present them in a way that will not be overlooked. 
Finally, I would like to take a moment to call your attention to our letters policy also on this page. It should be stressed that although the letters page is not an open foruin to promote your organization, we frequently print letters in response to our articles and editorials. 
Once again, welcome to Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. We hope to hear from you in coming weeks. 
Michael C. Wieber Managing Editor 

Week in Distortion/ Tim Rogers 
SIT 0 
IT! 
Or more literally, sit around, as Tim Rogers invites all to partake in his favorite pastime. 
OK School is well under way. Profes­sors have started professing in ear­nest. Books and assignments are piling up as they will; and you've run out of things to do. Studying, after all, just doesn't seem like an attractive option. You've al­ready hit all your favorite off-campus spots, and probably said to yourself, "I'm never doing that again," a few times. So what to do now? Allow me to suggest that you sit around for a while. Now you might think that an activity seemingly so simple as sitting around wouldn't need explanation, but it does. You might figure the ability to sit around comes naturally -like complaining. Admittedly, some will sit around better than others, but without instruction, you'll never get good enough to show off in front of friends. You might know how to sit, but sitting around requires much more than just natural talent. It takes practice. It takes finesse. It demands unfaltering determination. First, a distinction between sitting around and some other, closely related idi­oms needs to be made. Unlike horsing around, messing around, running around or sleeping around, sitting around demands no movement. Without this distinction, the term "sitting around" could cause some confu­sion. For instance, when people sleep around, they go from one place to another, "sleeping" as they go along. When you sit around, if you first sat in one chair, then got up and sat in another, you would indeed have an opaque understanding of sitting around. To sit around properly, you don't spend energy, burn calories, or move. This doesn't meanyoucan'tdoanything. Butas a rule, the less effort, the better. Besides minimal effort, you should keep several things in mind before you sit around. Most importantly, get a late start. Do not get overanxious and attempt to start early by setting your alarm clock for 7:30 a.m. This may be a great time to start a day of fishing, but no decent sitting time begins that early. Although no easy rule of thumb applies here, quality sitting time begins at about noon. Some studies suggest slightly before noon, others suggest closer to 12:30 or 1:00 p.m. Most experts, however, agree that attempting to sit around early in the morning can cause soreness, headaches and even fatigue. 
Another thing to keep in mind before you begin to deal with priorities-make cer­tain you have them in order. On the day set aside for sitting, have more pressing matters at hand. Once you establish these, ignore them. Ifyou have difficulty arranging some sort of urgent business, at least plan some physical activity and avoid it. Call up the Eck Tennis Pavilion and reserve a court -pref­erably at a peak use time. Affixing a note entitled "THINGS 2 DO" on your refrigera­tor may provide that classy touch which will win over your roommate's respect and admi­ration. The key to this priority concept is sincerity. Sincerely try to dupe those around you into thinking you have every intention of being productive. Should someone discover your trickery, offer no excuse for your ac­tions. 
The last preparatory detail is merely that -a detail. Although not making a hard and fast rule, many sources suggest Sunday as the ideal day to sit around. The Sabbath, men­tioned often in the Bible, has traditionally been a day of rest. In the event that laziness should in any way bother your conscience, you may wish to fall back on the merits of observing tradition. Pay no heed if this does not agree with any of your past actions. 
After making these few preparations, you can get down to the real work of sitting around. Some prefer a brief stretch period before starting, but this is completely op­tional. Pick a couch, chairor even a clear spot on the floor and sit. Get comfortable, but resist the temptation to doze orf for longer than two or three minutes -any longer and you will be napping instead ofsitting around. You should not confuse the two. 
At this point, a complication may arise. · If the telephone rings, do not hesitate to answer it A cordless phone makes life much simpler, and you should always have one nearby when sitting around. Remember that telephone answering by no means constitutes not sitting around. By keeping the conversa­tion short and to the point, you will avoid actually talking on the phone. Ifa friend calls and asks what you are doing, don't say, "Nothin'." Doing nothing and sitting around should not be confused. 
Besides doing nothing, you need to be wary of another activity similar to sitting around. Sitting on the toilet and sitting around share a lot in common, but so long as you use the toilet for its designed purpose, they are different. Put the lid down, and you can sit around. 
Also make sure to have the proper mind­set while sitting around. Don't let pressing matters bother you and don't think about anything of consequence. Entirely clearing your mind is ideal, but only the expert sloths can achieve this. Here area few things to idly ruminate over: people used to poke holes in their heads to let out evil spirits. 75% of · American women wear the wrong bra size on a consistent basis. There are 1,200 kinds of cabbage. 
By musing over these trivialities, by remaining alert for snafus and by preparing properly, you should have no trouble sitting around. However, you should know one more thing: a recent panel of government­appointed researchers has determined that frequent sitting around, for extended periods of time, may cause nothing. lif 
Tim Rogers lives in Fisher Hall (the one with the big "F" on it). He is a sophomore in the true sense of the word and hasn't quite pinned down a major yet. 


On Other Campuses 
Have Llama, Will Travel 
Students in St. Louis seek school funds for a somewhat questionnable expense. 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 
Wanted: Two llamas. That could be the newspaper ad placed by the Outdoor Club of St. Louis Community College last spring. The club issued a petition to the Student Activities Budget Committee for funds to purchase two llamas at a cost of $945. The National On­Campus Report stated that the proposal requested the pair of South American pack animals to aid in expeditions "by carrying the larger loads in areas where acclimatization is crucial, and heavy packs may deteraccess to that area." Needless to say, funding was denied. How­ever, the club has vowed to repeat the request in the future. 
Earning credits the hard way for some students at Lebanon Valley College means flying through the air with the greatest ofease for the Circus Kingdom. According to an article in The Daily Illini, members of the all-student based troupe perform acrobatics, aerial feats and clown acts at locations across the country. Students who work on the tour are paid a salary in addition to room and board. Though the tour is a summer job, the students have the option of earning credit 
How do you interpret Madonna's lyrics? Not everyone seems to be sure what the controversial pop idol is conveying through her music. The College Press Service reported that officials at Pepsico decided that the singer's "Like a Prayer" video was so objectionable that it dropped her from an ad campaign in May, even though it had already paid her $2 million for it. Planned Parenthood thinks Madonna encourages teenage pregnancy. Yet many college students say her song and video, "Papa Don'tPreach" is about areal loser. The students say the video-in which Madonna plays the role of a pregnant, unmarried woman and states 'Tm gonna have my baby"­is misleading. It falsely suggests that everything is going to work out if you love each other. But not all college students agree on the singer's message. Some students said that the song wasn't about teenage pregnancy, but that the "baby" the woman wants to keep is her boyfriend. Researchers are particularly concerned about how younger teens interpret Madonna's videos, and are current! y polling 11-to 15-year-olds for their views of her work. 
Rushing around Wal-Mart won't be allowed at the University of Mississippi this year. In a report published by the National On­Campus Report, it seems that sororities had developed the habit of shopping for pledges at the local Wal-Mart, which apparently had everything the freshman women needed. Sorority members could "just sort of run into them," as if the meeting was by chance, explained one student Though there's no rule against going to the store, Judy Trott, Ole Miss dean ofstudents, has warned the sororities against the practice. "It kind of was a problem last year," she said. "All of them went rushing out _there on Friday and Saturday and started introducing themselves ... " 
Honesty isn't always the best policy at least not for thousands of Venezuelan high school students. According to The Chronicle of Higher Education, between 12,000 to 30,000 students may have jeopardized their prospects for university admission by refusing to take a national aptitude test on the grounds that copies of the test . reportedly were available for purchase in advance. The students also charged that the exam had never been evaluated for reliability or validity. 
If probation arrangements can be made, the University of Wash­ington will soon offer a football scholarship to running back Marc Jones, who was released from a San Diego-area prison last March. According to a recent Sports Illustrated article, the former California high school star was serving a 7 1/2 month jail term for the conviction offelony mayhem. In a telling comment on the lawlessness in college athletics, Husky coach Don James said that he had checked out Jones thoroughly and that "his background is probably better than most players we bring in. He made one mistake." 
The sky is falling at Pierce College (Calif.), in the form offive-pound pods from three bidwillii bunya-bunya trees on campus. In a newsbrief from the National On-Campus Report, gardeners have cordoned off the area beneath the tall Australian trees-nicknamed the "Widowmakers"-to protect passersby from being hit by the bowling-ball size pods filled with sap. 

a
-
Music/ David Holsinger 




The 
id .Are Alright 

A look back at the summer's biggest concert event 
across the nation, and then some.
Despite the relentless talk and pub­notwithstanding the fact that there were five Perhaps no one considered the fact 
licity about this summer's monster benefit concerts included. Some rock critics that the band might be doing this for .. .fun? I
Twenty-fifth Anniversary Tour by seem to loathe these three "old men" who are could be wrong, butitseemedas ifthese three 
The Who, these concerts will remain a dragging out their rusty guitars for one last 40-year-old guys, who can still leap around 
unique gathering of all types of people be­blaze of glory and a few bucks on the side. the stage and bash out music like younger 
longing to the two generations which have But there are several other reasons for this ii kids, must be having somesort offun. All the ., 
I
been influenced by the music. sudden revival, chief among them being the talk about Pete-Townshend's hearing loss
Now that all of the t-shirts, posters great demand for their music. Who fans run and the older appearance of the band has
and tie-dyed bandanas have been sold, those the gamut from thirteen to fortysomething. brought on countless snide remarks. Despite
who were lucky enough to see The Who for People such as my mother were the first to all this, the band still
the first or last time can sounded like it always has, if
look back and reflect on not better. The microphone
the significance of the twirling and guitar wind­
event. There aren't many mills were still there. "My
rock groups which can Generation" didn't sound at
claim two generations of all strange coming from the 
devout followers such as mouth of an "older" guy. In
the loyal constituency of fact, much of the music was
The Who. Among those in improved by a more mature
attendance were young feel, and the technique was
kids, yuppies, residual definitely not lacking.
hippies, The Who faith­Townshend's masterful gui­
ful-the ones whose tar playing-both electric


shreds of an "It's Hard" and acoustic-was still
tour shirt were clinging to there in all its HO-decibel
their bodies-and simply magnificence, while the white-haired Jon
those who justwanted to see whatall the hype pick up on The Who. "My Generation" is Entwistle looked more than ever like some
was about. I saw the concert with my mother, actually their generation. Later fans were kind ofmusical guru with bass lines to match 
another unique occurrence, and both of us attracted by masterful compositions con­any guitar whiz kid. 
could appreciate the display oftalent, experi­tained on "Quadrophenia" and "It's Hard." After twenty-five years of success
ence and plain old good rock 'n' roll that we Then there are the fans like myself, drawn to in rock 'n' roll, The Who have undoubtedly
heard that night. the masses of Who fans via a classic rock carved a place for themselves in rock history. 
The music press has constantly radio station or by association with another One final tour for the fans couldn't hurt. And
houndedThe Who about the vast amounts of older fan. This common tie to the music was with' an estimated $100 million in profits
money to be raked in from this mega-tour, enough to fill all the major sports arenas coming in, the kids are doin' alright. 
September 14, 1989 5 


T TF 
-·~i . 
7 -~~ 
·r· 
~·~, ~~ 
_:··:--:·~•:':. '-'= ... •  --~,  
i..  .POW/MIA1_J DAY  ...  1·POW/MIA __ JDAY  
September 15, 1989  .,_  September 15, 1989  
-THERE ARE STILL 2310 AMERICAN  MILITARY PERSONNEL  

UNACCOUNTED FOR IN SOUTHEAST ASIA 
-THE VIETNAMESE ARE SENSITIVE AND RESPONSIVE TO AMERICAN PUBLIC OPINION 
-FRIDAY, 15 SEPTEMBER 1989 IS NATIONAL POW-MIA RECOGNITION DAY 
SHOW YOUR SUPPORT BY ATTENDING THE POW-MIA RETREAT CEREMONY THURSDAY, .SEPTEMBER 21-4:30 pm SOUTH QUAD FLAG POLE 
*** THEY FOUGHT FOR OUR FREEDOM-LET'S FIGHT FOR THEIRS *** 
-Sponsored by Air Force ROTC and the Arnold Air Society 




SB 
IEF 


Bits and Pieces from under the Dome 
POW/ MIA 

A prayer service for the nation's prisoners of war and its military people miss­ing in action will take place Thursday, Sep­tember 21 at4:30p.m. at the flagpole in front of the University of Notre Dame's Law School. 
Members of Notre Dame's three branches of the Reserve Officers Training Corps, or ROTC, will be present at the serv­ice. Air Force Colonel James Sehorn, a prisoner of war during the war in Vietnam, will speak. All Michiana residents who are former prisoners of war have been invited to the service, which is sponsored by the University's ROTC programs in observance of National POW /MIA Month. 
Also in observance of the month, the POW /MIA flag will fly along with the American flag on the Notre Dame campus through September 15. ************************ 
SAZ'S AWARD 

Howard J. Saz, professor of bio­logical sciences at the University of Notre Dame, has been awarded the first Bueding­Von Brand Memorial Award by the Ameri­can Society of Parasitologists. 
Saz received the award August 9 at the society's meeting in recognition of his contributions to the biochemistry and phar­macology of helminths, which are parasitic worms, and in honor of his 40 years of basic research in the fields of microbiology and parasitology. His research has been sup­ported continuously by the National Insti~ Lutes of Health. 
Saz received his bachelor's degree in chemistry in 1948 from City College of New York and his doctorate in 1952 from Western Reserve University. In 1953 he became a fellow of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis and spent a year at the University of Sheffield in England under Drs. S.R. Elsden and Nobel laureate Sir Hans Krebs. In 1969, Saz began his tenure at Notre Dame in the biology department. 
Ironically, Saz was a prisoner of war in Germany during World War II. ************************ 

ND I SMC THEATRE 

Four selections to be staged for the 1989-1990 Notre Dame/Saint Mary's theatre season have been announced. 
The season begins October 11-15 at Washington Hall with the French comedy Tartuffe by Moliere. This play takes an irreverent and satirical look at the extremes of false piety and excessive devotion. Regi­nald F. Bain, associate professor of commu­nication and theatre, will direct. 
Anton Chekhov's Three Sisters, a comedy-drama showing the frustration and despair of directionless people pursuing impossible dreams, will be presented by Saint Mary's College. Roberta Rude directs the play which runs November 15-19 at O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The Importance of Being Earnest 

by Oscar Wilde will be presented February 28 to March 4 in Washington Hall. None of the sacred values of the Victorian era are safe from ridicule in this popular and hilarious comedy of manners. Frederic Syburg will direct. 
Dance '90, an original and eclectic evening of dance, wit, and visual intrigue, will close the season April 4 to 8 at O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Subscribers will see all four shows for $15-$18, depending upon seat location. Student discounts are available. For more information on becoming a subscriber, or to place Visa/MasterCard orders, call· the Washington Hall office at (219) 239-5956. The deadline for subscribing to the theatre series is September 30. ************************ 

MATH GOD 

Lothar Gottsche, a graduate student in mathematics at the University of Notre Dame, has received a fellowship from the Max Planck Institu_te for Mathematics in Bonn, West Germany and will do research there through the fall semester. 
Gottsche's research project is en­titled, "The Topology of the Hilbert Scheme of Finite Length 0-Dimensional Sub Schemes of Smooth Projective Surfaces" 
Compiled by Derik Weldon 

The High Cost 


of Higher Education 
Tuition increase boosts budget 
BY IAN MITCHELL
This summer the families of thou-· sands of Notre Dame undergradu­ates received aletter from university President Father Edward Malloy. The mes­sage told them some unpleasant news: tuition was going up again. The letter, dated April 17, informed parents that tuition was increas­ing by $990, from $10,325 to $11,315, a rise of 9.6%. Average room and board costs in­creased by 6.5% to $3,275, which made the total increase for an on-campus student $1,190, or 8.9%. While every student is affected by a rise in tuition, the people and reasons behind a price increase remain a bit ofa mystery. How is the decision to increase tuition made, and who makes it? Why is tuition going up? And what can be expected in the future? 
The process of raising tuition in­volves several steps, and it begins with the deliberations of the budget committee. The university budget committee is made up of officers of the administration, including the executive vice-president, the provost and the 
vice-president of business affairs. "The process is actually initiated with the budget 


committeeforthecomingyear," said Provost Timothy O'Meara. "This begins in late September/early October of the previous year." 
The first step of the commiuee's budgeting process is to gather information. "We have a preliminary meeting and the provost gets in touch with all the department heads and finds out what the needs of the university are," O'Meara said. The various vice-presidents of the university also come forward to represent their respective divi­sions. 

The job of the committee is to de­cide how much money each department should be allocated in the next year's budget. This decision requires balancing a number of competing interests against one another. "This group exercises its best judgement. .. . The general philosophy is not to work to­wards your best interests alone," said O'Meara. 
Another part of the tuition-setting process involves taking inflation into ac­count and comparing Notre Dame tuition with the costs of attending other colleges. "We consider inflation, we consider what tuition and room and board are at other schools," O'Mearasaid. "We've got a list of about 35 other schools and we're consis­tently at the bottom." Father Malloy's letter to undergraduate families ranked Notre Dame's 1988-89 tuition at 29 out of the 35 schools, and the overall combined tuition and room and board figure at 32. (A chart com­paring Notre Dame tuition to other schools' appears on page _11). 

The committee's final .budgetary report, which includes a recommended tui­tion level, is presented to the board of trus­tees, who have the final approval over the budget and any tuition increase. The finan­cial statement pr~sented to the trustees for academic year 1987-88 (the most recent available) shows that university revenues outpaced expenditures by $311,727. 
The single largest source of reve­nues for academic year 1988 was tuition, but income was alsd received from interest gen­erated by the endowment and gifts to the university, as well as the revenues generated by what are called "auxiliary enterprises." This category includes money raised by the dining halls, the bookstore, intercollegiate 
Provost Ttmothy O"Mecira Is a membe'f ol the buar!"g:=...~1=•=•,"1•~~;nl.1: committee. 
sports (notably football), the Morris Inn and the student resi­dence halls. (For a detailed breakdown on university reve­nues and expenditures, sec the graphs on pagelO) 
These annual revenues and expenditures are independ­ent of the endowment funds of the university. The endowment increased by $7,403,000 during academic year 1988 despite an erratic investment economy. The university's endowment, however, did grow at a consid­erably slower rate than in earlier years. The endowment in­creased by $68 million between the 1986 and 1987 financial statements, but during the finan­cial year ending June 30, 1988, the endowment increased by only $7 million. 

slower growth in the school's en­dowment is largely due to the stock market crash of October 1987, which hurt the Notre Dame en­dowment invest­ment portfolio. But new funds from gifts to the university and gains in . invested income were more than able to offset those losses. "We recovered all that (money lost in the · stock market)," said Thomas J. Morgan, vice­president of busi­ness affairs. 
During the past academic year, it would ap­1988 are not yet ready for release, "with new appreciation, I would expect the endowment to be close to the one-half billion dollar level," said Morgan. 


With the university's financial standing apparently secure, the need for a tuition increase several percentage points higherthan the rate ofinflation may seem un­clear, but Notre Dame is not the only school this year to announce a sizeable rise in tui­tion. 
University Expenditures Transfers . •·-............• _.,,..__. !Ed:i:..ic<iiuiu,,,eli. and General 68.5% Source: University of Notre Dame du Lac Financial Statements June 30, 1988  Nationally, costs at colleges and universities have been increasing consid­erably faster than the rate of inflation. "Tuition costs have been going up at that level for about eight to nine years," said Joe Russo, director of financial aid. "Higher education, in general, has been taking a lot of criticism for .tuition costs." In fact, while the United States Secretary of Education has criticized tuition in­creases, the Department of Justice has begun an investigation of 23 schools for "rate fixing" in tuition and collusion in fi­nancial aid policies. Notre Dame is not, however, one of the schools under investi- 

University Revenues 
Other 
3.5% 
Tuition 
40.5% 


Source: University of Notre Dame du Lac Financial Statements June 30, 1988 
gation. 

At least one of the factors which has been affecting schools nationwide has contributed to the tuition increase at Notre Dame. A national shortage of qualified faculty members has driven up salaries and benefits packages. ''The reason costs go up as high as they do at Notre Dame ... is to remain competitive for faculty salaries," Russo said. "Education is a labor-intensive industry." Provost O 'Meara, using almost identical terms, agreed that "a shortage of ~ faculty" was developing, but blamed some of the increase on the short-term costs of meeting some long~range goals. 
''There are sometimes long­range needs-the most significant of those has been the need to sig­








Tuition Increases at Notre Dame 
nificantly upgrade the com­
puting facilities on campus," 
12000 

O'Meara said. Notre Dame 
has commfrteed itself to a 
10000 

five-year expansion of its 
computer facilities. 
8000 
C:
Vice-president Ma­

~ 6000
son cited two additional rea­
s 

sons for the tuition increase. 
1­

Inflation in foreign countries 
4000 

has raised the cost of living 
abroad, which increases the 
2000 

operating expense of Notre 
Dame study abroad pro­
0 

grams, according to Mason. And finally, the vice-presi­dent mentioned that general enhancements, such as add­ing a faculty member to a de­partment or purchasing new equipment also affected the 
Foreign Study 
.5%

size of the tuition increase. 
(For a detailed breakdown of 
the tuition increase, see the graph on pagell) 
Source: Thomas J. Morgan 
O'Meara said that 
v1ce-pres1dent

he could not give an official 
of business affairs position on the likelihood of future tuition increases, ex­plaining that he was only one member of the budget com­mittee, and in any case, the decision was ultimately made by the board of trustees. He 

Tuition Costs at Selected Universities 
would, however, make a per­sonal prediction about the future cost of attending Notre Dame: "I suspect rather strongly that it (tuition) will 
ti) 

m II Dukebe going up above the rate of 
LL 


~ Georgetowninflation." 0 'Meara also said 
"C 
C: 
m 
BJ Marquette

that year's increase occurred 
C: 10000
"in part, because this is an in­
l2l Miami
0 
~ 

Notre Dame stitution which is constantly 
::I 
.
I-

Iii Purdue would seem that the smart trying to upgrade itself." It 
9 Stanford money would bet on another letter from Father Malloy appearing in mailboxes next year. II Source: Chronicle of Higher Education 

Total Tuition Increase= 9.6% 
September 14, 1989 

Less Bang for the Buck 
Higher tuition means financial aid money doesn't go as far 
financial need determination. Financial need its limited budget, theOfficeofFinancialAid 
BY IAN MITCHELL 

means a family has to submit a form showing can often meet only a portion of a student's
With every increase in tuition, the they cannot afford the full cost of attendance; need through a total package combining gifts job of the Office of Financial it doesn't mean they're poor." and loans from a variety of sources with a Aid gets a little bit harder, as the 
work-study program. 
program's limited funds are stretched over greater expenses. Notre Dame determines financial need in a complicated process, requiring 
The 21 employees of the financial applicants to fill out a Financial Aid Fonn aid office oversee the distribution of about (FAF), submit it to the College Scholarship $54 million dollars in aid in the form of Service, and designate Notre Dame as one of grants, loans and work-study programs. This the schools to receive a copy of the CSS's figure is misleading, however, since it counts analysis. The CSS takes the information on any money given to any student, including the form and uses a standard formula to athletic and ROTC scholarships, graduate determine the level of financial need, and it fellowships, students who are children of forward this information to the university. faculty and any on-campus job. Joe Russo, director of the Office of Financial Aid, esti­At Notre Dame, however, the proc­mates that of that $54 million about $35 ess does not end with a simple acceptance of million is earmarked for undergraduate stu­the CSS 's recommendation. "We revise dents. about half the reports we receive from CSS," 
Russo said. He estimated that of the half that 
Unlike some other schools, some of had their financial need number adjusted, ap­which grant money to students purely on the proximately as many students had the figure basis of academic merit, Notre Dame re­Even after demonstrating such go up as down. In general, Russo said that quires a student to show financial need in need, a Notre Dame student still is not guar­complicated aid situations require more in­order to receive assistance. "The university anteed an aid package that fully covers the fonnation than just the F AF and are more undergraduate work program has as one ofits cost of attendance. "A good part of our likely to have their CSS figure adjusted by the policies the financial need policy," said philosophy, our policy on distribution of Notre Dame financial aid office. Russo. "Any money we directly administer funds will be based on money: we have in grants, loans or jobs is going to require a limited resources," said Russo. Because of The process used by some schools 

.. 

·· not the condi-
Joe Russo's office distributes about $54 million in aid. ScholasticFilePho10 
September 14, 1989 
in detennining financial aid awards is cur­rently under scrutiny from the United States Justice Department as a potential violation of the antitrust statutes. Under investigation are the procedures of the "Overlap Group." The Overlap Group is almost entirely made up of Ivy league and exclusive women~s institu­tions. This organization ofselective schools meets and compares financial aid offers made to students who have applied to more than one of the schools in the group. 
Notre Dame is neither under inves­tigation nor a member of the Overlap Group, because "we don't share our offer (of finan­cial aid with other schools)," said Russo. Colleges which do share their aid offers with other schools have been accused ofcollusion, since the aid numbers are often adjusted so that the different institutions present similar aid packages to the student. Only 13 schools have admitted receiving inquiries from the Justice Department. These institutions in­clude Amherst, Harvard and the University of Chicago. Not all of the institutions under investigation are members of the Overlap Group. 
Although Notre Dame is not one of the 23 schools whose practices have come under fire from the Justice Department, Russo believes that the investigation is mis­placed, and argues that the process of the "Overlap Group" has the best interests of the 
, applicant at heart. "It's ironical to me that this is an issue.... The schools that share infonnation on overlap admissions ... (are) looking out for the best interests of the stu­dent," Russo said. "The rationale there was: let's remove from the process the buying of students." 
Russo said that the purpose ofsharing finan­cial aid data was to remove the financial consideration from a student's decision be­tween colleges by presenting him with aid packages which meet the actual need of the family. He believes thatinfonnation-sharing among schools is well-inten­tioned, and that without it, finan­cial aid could be­come a process of schools "buy­ing" qualified needy students: "It's a very, very good motive: it keeps restricting the bidding wars between schools which would at some point reach insanity," he 
said. 
Any de­cision to award financial aid must be re­
;ei;;;!l:\~ft,'tl evaluated annu­
ally, making a new round of pa­perwork neces­sary to deter­mine whether or tions leading to the first offer of assistance have changed. Approximately 2/3 of all students at Notre Dame receive some sort of financial aid from the school, but Russo cau­tions that the figure is misleadingly high, for it includes all students who get any money from the university, not just those on need­based aid. 

Although the 2/3 figure has been reasonably steady over his tenure at the fi­nancial aid office, Russo said that there has been a problem as tuitions rise and govern­

ment budgets shrink. "Certainly the scholar­ship component is not keeping up," said Russo. "There has been a definite change in the mix ofaid ... what used to be mostly grant money, especially at the federal level, has now become mostly loan money." And loan money, Qf course, requires eventual repay­ment. When graduates leave school they often find themselves (or their families) in debt 
Naturally, with every increase in tuition, the job of the financial aid office becomes more difficult. "As costs go up, our challenges grow," Russo said. "As costs go up, more students need financial aid." And the steady increase in the cost of a Notre Dame education is not due to any additional funds going to' financial aid scholarships. "We do not charge higher tuition in order to spin offfunds for financial aid," said Provost 
:I 


O'Meara. "Our general philosophy is to use outside funds and money from endowment." 
The university has made increasing the financial aid endowment a major goal of the current "Strategic Moment" fund raising drive. The fund raising drive began with a $300 million dollar overall goal. "When that $300 million figure was set the biggest single component of that was undergraduate schol­arship endowment: about $60 million out of $300 million," Russo said. Although the campaign has surpassed the initial $300 million dollar goal, the undergraduate finan­cial aid endowmentis still underfunded as the campaign continues. "We're working hard and are still optimistic that the undergraduate scholarship component will be achieved," said Russo. 'Tmpleasedat the high visibility that this issue seems to be attracting in the university fund raising project." 
If the university achieves the $60 million mark, the financial aid scholarships 
could do more than just keep pace with infla­tion. "Our goal is not only to stabilize the valueoffinancial aid, but in fact to improve," 

O'Meara said. "I'm not saying it's actually . going to happen (but) ... we are trying our 
best." 
The increase in funding may im­prove financial aid at Notre Dame, but it will still not make it possible for every student to get all the money they deserve. "Realisti­cally, in the near future, we're not going to be able to meet the full financial need of each student," Russo said. "I don't know if the number of students assisted is going to change dramatically.... (But) I hope (the additional money) will have an influence on 

' the quality and socio-economic diversity of the student body. Thereare many, many fine, very needy students. We definitely want to be in more of a position to help them." 
"We do not want this to become a school which only the rich and richer can at­tend," Provost O 'Meara said. "And we know we have significant work to do in that re­gard." With tuition on the rise, the fund raising campaign could not have come at a better time for the Office of Financial Aid. 
II 
Scholastic 


YOUR PLACE TO WATCH 


FOOTBALL! 
WITH 

Surround Sound 

5 Screens 
SAT. SUN. Open Flame Charcoal Grilled 1/2 Lb. Burgers . . . . . . . Bar-B-Qued Baby Back Ribs. Thin Crust 10" Personal Pizza. Giant Wet Burrito. . . . . 

Fun for Everyone In Bloody Mary's Game Room 
Video Football -Pop-A-Shot Basketball -Pool -Darts ­Shuffleboard -Foozball 
10 p.m. -2 a.m. WSL Music Machine Dee-Jay (World of Sound and Light) Open 7 Days a Week / Kitchen open tm Midnight 

Sports: Soccer Preview 

Fighting for an Identity 
With several players from last year's NCAA tournament team gone, Iris~ men's soccer must prove itself all over again 
Wingback Augustyn {left) will help stablllze a young defensive unit. inexperience was to practice, and practice 1.01 goals-againstaverage while stopping70 
A 
BY DAVE TYNDALL 

they have. The team arrived two weeks shots on goal. fter their most successful season before classes began for training camp. The Senior wingback Dave Augustyn will 
under head coach Dennis Grace, grueling twice-a-day practices amounted to have to be the stabilizing force in a young 
the Notre Dame men's soccer almost nine hours ofsoccer per day. To make defensive corps. A two-year co-captain for 
team is looking for a new identity. After matters more difficult, the university's pol­the Irish, Augustyn earned All-State honors losing the top five scorers from last year's icy ofallowing only football players to move during the '88 season while starting for the · Midwestern Collegiate Conference tourna­into their dorm rooms during preseason prac­third straight year. Sophomore Brett ment ·champion and NCAA tournament tices forced Grace's squad to eat and sleep Hofmann will help Augustyn as a starter at 
team, there are some large shoes to be filled soccer in off-campus homes and hotels. the other wingback position. 
and a great deal ofexperience to be gained by Notre Dame will look for leadership in Freshman Jeff Rhodes replaces junior 
a young Irish squad. the team's defense, an area that Grace fo­sweeper Mike Drury. Drury, a starter for all 
"We'll probably have some freshmen cuses on early in the season. Anchoring the oflast year, left the team for personal reasons 
that are as good as those players talent-wise, defense is senior goalkeeper Danny Lyons, after the Detroit game. Rounding out the 
but you can't replace experience," said who returns for his third season in the nets. defense is junior stopper Paul La Vigne. A 
Grace. ''Thai's were we'll be hurting." The Albuquerque native returns from a 1988 starter in all 23 games last season, La Vigne 
The only way for them to counter their season that included seven shutouts and a usually draws the opponent's top scorer as 
: I • ~ , : ,-r ) '-. ....,_ _..-/' • • { • • 
', 
Sports 

his defensive assignment. 
An experienced group of midfielders returns to help ta1ce up some of the scoring slack caused by graduation. Lost in the midfield were_co-captains John Guignon and Joe Sternberg. Sternberg finished the year in fourth place on Notre Dame's all-time scor­ing list. 
The leading returning point scorer is senior co-captain Rolfe Behrje. A starter during most of his career at Notre Dame, Behrje hopes to return, to his sophomore form when he finished fourth on the team in scor­ing. Junior Steve La Vigne and sophomore Mitch Kem also return to their starting posi­tions. Junior Tom Connaghan will fill the final midfield postion. 
The Irish began the season with a big question mark when it came to filling the position vacated by All-American Randy Morris. Morris became the all-time Irish career assist leader last year and led the team in scoring. His running mate up front, Bruce 'Tiger' Mccourt, ended his career as the third-ranked scorer in Irish history. 
In lieu of these departures, junior Dan Stebbins moves from his reserve role to the frontline of the 4-4-2 setup. Helping Steb­bins is highly-touted freshman Kevin Pen­dergrast. A Parade All-American in high school, Pendergrast was also selected as the 

Connecticut player of the year. 
The Irish are looking to gain some expe­rience for a young group of reserves. Out of the six reserves that have seen playing time this year, only junior Mark Crowe has any · prior game experience. Four of the reserves are freshmen. The result has been a lack of consistency throughout the entire 90 minutes of the game and many so-called "freshman 
mista1ces." 
"We've been playing tough, aggressive 

defense and now we need to work on playing 
consistently for the entire game," said Au­
gustyn. "This comes with game experience. 
As we become more confident we will be 
able to pressure on offense without giving up 
easy goals." · 
To compound Notre Dame's problems, 

they were thrown to the lions right away. 
They opened the season with an ·exhibition 
game against top-ranked Indiana in the 
Golden Boot Match in Indianapolis. The 
Hoosiers featured the 1988 National College 
Player of the Year in Ken Snow, while his 
younger brother Steve played on the U.S. 
National Team this past summer. Over 8,000 
fans saw the Hoosiers control the tempo of 
them atch as they produced a 3-1 defeat ofthe 
Irish. Freshman reserve Paul Kaemmerer 
scored Notre Dame's only goal off a header 
on a comer kick. 
The Irish then opened the season with 

the Adidas-MetLife Classic in Bloomington. 
Joining the Irish were the Hoosiers, second­
ranked Virginia and eighth-ranked St. Louis. 
The Irish hung tough throughout the first half 
against St. Louis. -The Billikens scored early 
on a penalty kick after an Augustyn ta1ce­
down · on a breakaway in the penalty area. 
Although_ the Irish never quit, their inexperi­
ence showed on missed scoring opportuni­
ties. The Billikens' second goal came late in 
the second half as the Irish pressed to score 
the equalizing goal. 
Virginia was next-in line to welcome a 

young Notre Dame team to national caliber 
competition. The Cavaliers returned six 
players that participated on national teams 
and had dominated the Hoosiers the night 
before. Once again the Irish played aggre­
sively and at halftime trailed only 1-0 after a 
late first-half goal. However, the Irish were 
again caught pressing in the second half as 
the Cavaliers were able to pad their victory 

Counesy Notre Dame Spans lnformaiion /Steve Navratil 

Notre Dame will count on Behrje to provide some scoring punch. 
with two more goals. 
"It was disappointing to losethe first two games of the season, but hopefully we have shown ourselves that we can play with the best teams in the country," said Behrje. "Now all we need to do is prove to ourselves that we can win." 
The Irish moved into their September 6 game at Detroit still looking for someone to take control and put the ball in the net. With all the inexperience, the Irish needed to get a win under their belts. The first halfsaw Steve LaVigne step forward and score two goals off of crosses while Rhodes moved up to score off a header on an Augustyn throw-in. However, the Irish enjoyed only a 3-1 lead at halftime as the Titans were able to convert their only shot of the first half. 
Once again, the inexperience ofthe Irish showed as the second half began. The Irish defense played over-aggressively, allowing the Titans to get open_shots in the area and tie the game. Notre Dame also missed a golden opportunity when Stebbins hung the goalie out to dry on a penalty kick but missed wide. The Irish were able to pull out the win in overtime, 4-3, as Kern's shot rebounded off of the goalie and Pendergrast followed through for the winning goal. 
Although the Irish outshot the Titans 31­6, Detroit was able to convert half of their scoring opportunities. The Irish will try to learn from mistakes in their aggressive man­to-man defense and prevent opposing teams from being able to take uncontested shots. 
"Thegoals that have been scored against us have not been caused by poor defense but by mental mistakes," said Lyons. 
As for their chances of returning to the NCAA tournament, there are two possible either to repeat as MCC tournament champi­ons and receive an automatic bid or move their way up the Midwest Region rankings. With the strength of competition in this re­gion, the two top-ranked teams have a strong · shot of receiving at-large bids. 
Two teams to watch in the MCC are St. Louis and Evansville. The Irish will not have to face either of these teams again until the MCC tournament, scheduled for the first weekend in November. 
Notre Dame starts the season ranked third in the Midwest Region behind Indiana and Evansville. Playing three of the top five teams in the region at home could help them move up, as the Irish sport a spotless 18-0 record in two seasons of play at Moose Krause Stadium. 
After such a humbling start, Notre Dame will try to step forward and form its own identity. With a strong group offreshmen to help replace graduation losses, it is just a matter of time before the eafly season mis­takes are corrected and the Irish start to assert themselves in the region. If this transition takes place quickly, look for the Irish to be in the hunt for another NCAA bid in November. 


Sports 

COMPILED BY JIM MAGGIO
port w 
k 

Notre Dame will be among 20 teams com­peting in this year's field, which includes In­diana, DePaul, Bowling Green, Purdue and defending champion Northern Illinois. 
The Irish will look for s1rong per­formancesfrom BERTBRYER,ALLISON WOJNAS, KATHY PHARES, HEIDE HANSON and PENDORA FECKO. 
""'"'".,,,..--,-,-.,...___,..---,.,...,,_-----..,,,..,.--,-1 
··•· ME~'SSQpCER'.::tn•··••<··· 

1-------'----.;.....;....a.;.......;_.;......._.;...____-------­
The Notre Dame men's soccer team (see story, p. 16) travels to Marquette on Saturday, Sept. 17 and Loyola on Wednes­day, Sept. 20 for conference matchups. The Irish (1-2) recorded their first win of the season last week as they defeated M CC rival Detroit 4-3 in overtime. 
The Irish were scheduled for a re­match with Detroit yesterday, Sept. 13, in their first home contest of the season. Re­sults were unavailable at presstime. 
Notre Dame opened its 1989 season 

The Irish women's cross country squad will also open its 1989 season on Saturday, Sept; 16, as they travel with the men's team to Georgetown for a dual meet against the Hoyas. They are seeking to avenge last year's defeat at the hands of the Hoyas. 
Notre Dame will be led into the Georgetown meet by veterans THERESA RICE and LUCY NUSRALA. Coach Tim Connelly's squad is entering only its third full season of varsity competition. 
Following a week-long break from competition, the Irish travel to the Illinois• with a fourth-place finish last weekend at the Gonzaga Invitational. The Irish (1-3) started well with a 15-13, 15-6, 15-10 win over Montana before dropping matches to Portland, Idaho and Gonzaga in four games apiece. Freshman JESSICA FIEBELKORN was named to the All-Tour­nament team, tallying 41 kills and 11 total blocks through the four matches. Freshman ALICIA TURNER put on an impressive performance as well, leading the team with 52 kills and eight service aces for the tourna­ment. 
The Irish will host the Notre Dame Invitational this Friday and Saturday, Sept. 15-16. Participating teams include Pacific, Pittsburgh and Western Michigan. 
State Invitational this weekend, Sept. 16-17. ""'"'"=============~ 
Notre Dame senior cross country runner THERES A RICE has been named to the at-large Academic All-American team by the College Sports Information Directors of America. Rice was one of 11 athletes chosen to the first team. 
Rice had a 3.95 cumulative grade point average while pursuing degrees in Modem Languages and Medieval Studies. She is currently seeking her PhD. at Notre Dame in Medieval Philosophy. 
COLLEEN MATSUHARA, for­merly an assistant women's basketball coach at the University of Texas, has been named assistant women's basketball coach at Notre Dame. She replaces YVETTE ANGEL, who left the university to pursue a similar postion at San Diego State Univer­sity. 
Matsuhara, 39, was head women's coach at Nebraska for three seasons (1980­1983) after serving as an assistant at UCLA (1977-80) and Cal State-Fullerton (1974­77). She led the Cornhuskers to a 46-44 record, including an 18-13 mark in 1980-81, the school's best under Matsuhara. 





'-,,-;.;,-: ·• >Y-,«x-·>-. _s-.:z,:YC /:::,-~_-;,-:-::;_;:;.:. ·'.·<_<:-· -0:, ,-.v:,~.-.--.-,,.«-·.·-··:·:·:.:

Lecture and Film 
''Women--for America, for the World," by Vivienne Verdon-Roe. At the HesburghLibrary Audiriu. Sponsored by the Institute for International Peace Stud­ies. 4:00 pm 
Lecture 
"The Truman Administration and the Vatican," by Professor Eugene Schmidtlein, Stephens College. At the Hesburgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by Cushwa Center American Catholic Studies Seminar 
Sports 
All day volleyball. ND invitational. At theJACC 
Dancing 
"Dance Kaleidescope." O'Laughlin Au­
. ditorium. Tickets Required. Sponsored by SaintMary'sCollegePerfonning Arts Series. 8:00 pm 
Lecture 
"The Church and Homosexuality," by Richard McCormick, SJ., John A. O'Brien Professor of Christian Ethics, Theology. Brown bag or Soup and Bread $1.00. 124 Center for Social 
Film 
'The Thin Blue Line." Annennberg Auditorium. Admission $2.00 7:30 and 9:30pm 
-· 
,,1Jt~JF'.ffl] 
SATURDAY, SEPT. 16 
Sports 
All day volleyball. ND Invitational. Atthe JACC 
All day tennis. Saint Mary's College Invitational 
Women's Cross Country. Notre Dame versus Georgetown at Geor­getown. 11:00 am 
Soccer. Saint Mary's versus Wheaton College 1:30 pm 
Football. Notre Dame versus Michi­gan at Michigan 2:30 pm 
SUNDAY, SEPT. 17 
Sports 
All day Tennis. Saint Mary's College Invitational 
Women's Soccer. Notre Dame versus Marquette at Milwaukee 11:30 am 
Men's Soccer. Notre Dame versus Marquette at Milwaukee. 2:00 pm 
Exhibit 
Reception and Exhibit Opening, "Three Universities Collect: 20th Century Works on Paper." Snite Museum of Art 2:00 pm 
Need an event publicized? 
Let Chris Fillio (239-7569 or 239-5029) know about it and your group's happenings can appear in• Scholastic' s Coming Distractions Calendar. 




Thirsting for Change
Water, water everywhere but not a drop to drink." 
-Coleridge 
Notre Dame appears to embrace the same frustrating paradox Coleridge examined some time ago. Alumni constantly pump money into the endowment, and students' families are being faced with tuition increases that are much mote than inflationary. Still, the university fails to distribute an impressive amount of financial support to needy students. Granted, Notre Dame allocates a good portion of its revenue to the needs of students, but the most basic need of all is often overlooked. Computer upgrades and new academic quads are wonderful. Tuition assistance in the form of financial aid is essential. 
Notre Dame should not be "a school which only the rich and richer can attend," accord­ing to university provost Timothy O 'Meara. Unfortunately, the provost's fear is moving closer to total realization each year. It would appear logical that each tuition increase would be accompanied by a similar increase in the budget for the office offinancial aid. By not doing so, the university is digging itself into an even deeper hole than already existed. Financial aid has not been adequate in the past. The substantial tuition increase, since the money does not appear to be directed into the office of financial aid, only serves to highlight the essential nature of assistance and the current deficiency. 
The administration cannot be faulted for alotting a significant amount of money for pressing needs of the campus. Upgraded computer facilities, a new theatre for the performing arts and minority recruitment qualify as such a need. Financial aid has to become a priority ofsimilar magnitude. Until that Lime, the student body will continue 
-Scholastic 

. ,. ~• ~-----r • , ' • -. , • . 
.. 

'
-
Final Word 
The Final Lap 
It's bett~r to burn out than to fade away 
BY PETE LaFLEUR 

s president of Holy Cross Hall, I am faced The plight of the transfers, coupled with with an interesting challenge this year. the imminent closure of the hall, got me to 
For starters, we have a new rector, a 26 thinking about residentiality at Notre year-old law student who has to show his Dame and how many take living in a dorm "rector ID" when· breaking up parties. for granted. Most people would agree that Seconoly, we have 50 or so transfer stu­the dorms are the social hub of the cam­dents instead of freshmen. The reason for pus. The dorms coordinate 
dances, '-------------------1 
their presence is due to the third issue -masses, athletic events, lectures and volun-four years spent in college may only repre 


. the imminent close of Holy Cross follow­
ing this school year. 
So how's the outlook? It's great! In fact, 

the strange circumstances have served 
more as an inspiration to succeed than as a 
cause for complaint 
When it was announced last spring that 

Bill Kirk would be our new rector, some­
body in his old hall of residence (which 
will remain nameless) wrote on his mes­
sage pad, "Isn't that like being named 
captain of the Titanic?" Well, let's just say 
that Bill and the residents of Holy Cross 
(the "Hogs") see it in a little different way. 
We see this year as a great opportunity to 
build the memories and legacy we feel our 
storied tradition deserves. In fact, I would 
hope that other dorms and organizations 
likewise realize· the importance of ap­
proaching every year as ifit were their last. 
But still, the feeling among hall resi­

dents this year is a strange one -one 
obviously not felt before. The seniors (or 
"soon to be alumni") face the grim realiza­. lion that there may not be a hall, in the traditional sense ofthe word, to come back to and visit. One of the joys of being. an alumni is showing your wife and kids your old room. and introducing yourself to the current occupants. 
Uncertainty clouds the future for all non­

seniors, but the transfers ("New Hogs" as 
we call them) are confronted with added 
difficulty. But these transfers have taught 
me and others within the hall a more valu­
able lesson. They are happy just to be 
living on campus, even if it is in the "sub­
urb" of Holy Cross. 
teer involvement; they provide the main ways in which a student is integrated into the Notre Dame community. One makes friends through socializing, worshipping, and com­peting with others in the dorm. 
Some students are willing to give up the amenities of living in the dorm in order to move off-campus, searching for more free­dom away from the alcohol policy and parie­tals. But the transfer student is not always given that option. At least the traditional 
. four-year Notre Dame student is given the chance to develop those bonds which come 
, from living in the dorm, and then he can go "OC." The transfer may never get that chance, instead dwelling on the fringes and really missing out on what Notre Dame is all about-residentiality. Thus, it comes as no surprise that the trans­fer students in Holy Cross are eager to make the most out of their stay on-campus. It's possible they could be forced off-campus again next year, butatleastthey now have the opportunity to build a foundational campus identity . In the same way, Holy Cross Hall as a whole is ready to make the most out of what we have left. Many of the residents have expressed an interest in becoming involved in the hall "because it's the last year and I want it to be a good and memorable one." Nobody likes to reflect on their college days and regret not having done this or that At Holy Cross, we are going to go all out to make sure that the memories are great and the regrets are small. And why shouldn't it be like that for all the dorms and major campus organizations? The 
sent five percent of your lifetime, but wha 
you get out of those four years will enhanc 
the rest of your life. 
College should be a time of living, no simply preparing. That is, just as colleg sports should not be viewed as a farm system for the pro's, so ,too, should college not b seen as a place for job preparation. Colleg is a time for taking risks and for enjoying life, for.learning to live with others and fo learning to car~ for others. If you are her solely for the academic education and th job it will secure you, you are selling both yourself and your classmates short. 
In closing, I would challenge every do and campus organization to approach this year as if it were their "final lap." The atti­tude of "we'll try that next year" or "it'll never work" should not be tolerated. Stu­dents should want to make the year a memo rableone because "it's the right thing to do,' not because "it's the last year." 
In a movie this summer, the ghos of the Titanic and its residents return to Ne York. In many ways the legacy of Hol Cross Hall will have a similar spirit. 0 ship may be sinking, but we're notjumpin overboard. Instead, we're working to buil the memories that will sustain us when return to the old dorm room may not even possible. In essence, those memories can hold more weight than the cornerstone upo which Holy Cross was dedicated in 1889. 
Make the most out of yow year here, because in many ways, they are yo "last" chances at certain things. You owe i to yourself -and the memories will last lifetime. 
23 

! 
I 
r 
i i Hunch Back 
I 
! 
' 
I 


LllfotOJ IJ.iIUllt .Mt fl.Jiff Ml1t0 

( 





' . . . 
I I ~ r r' ~---~ , , 
.. 0 

©\98'113~ G?~~fN6 
!:t 
C. 
V\ 
z. 
~ 
n 
:l 
"' 
® 
:ii 
co 
.I> 
Cl) 
G' 
10 
0 
~ 
;: 
G'\ 


I. 
! 
. j
non-profit organization US POSTAGE 
PA ID 
Notre Dame. lnd,ana Perm,t No. 10 

FOREIG POLICY WEE; EPT0 1 EPT@ 22

m 
MON: Debate between College Democrats and Young Republicans 
THEODORE'S 7:30 PM 
TUES: Lecture by the honorable Robert McFarlane "The Changing Distribution of Global Power" WASHINGTON HALL 8 PM 
·WED: Lecture by Dr. Daniel Ellsberg "Appropriate Responses of Government Officials to Unlawful War" WASHINGTON HALL 8 PM 
THURS: Address by David and Marjorie Ramsom "Making the Dual Family Work: Perspectives from the Foreign Service" 
122 HA YES HEALY 8 PM 
FRI: David and Marjorie Ramsom: Meeting with students interested with foreign service 
307 O'SHAUGHNESSY 9:30-11:30 AM 


Sponsored by 







