The Notre Dame Scholastic
rEnleied a- ■•eeond-elab.s matter at Notie Dame. Indiana. Acceptance fol mail’ntr"] _ Lat .-pecial rate of pixtaute. Section 1103. Octobei 3. 1917. Author ized June 23. 1918.J ,
Volume LXV1II	September 21, 1934	-	■	-	X.x 1
REVEREND JOHN F. O’HARA, C.S.C. IS NOTRE DAME’S NEW PRESIDENT
2632 STUDENTS LISTED AT N. D. THIS YEAR
FR. O’DONNELL VICE PRES.
By » incent A. Gorrren
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., was elected president of the University of Notre Dame on the fourth of July, 1934 as successor to the late Rev. Dr. Charles L. O’Donnell, by the Provincial Council of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He had resigned from the Council the day before it named him president.
Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. Notre Dome's neic president.
To replace the vacancies in the council occasioned by the resignations of Father O’Hara and Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., the Council appointed Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., and Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C. On the morning of July 5, the Council opened its meetings, which extended to July 12. Announcement was made on July 14 of the appointments by Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C. Provincial of the order, to various posts in the administration of the University.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, president of St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas was named to succeed Father O’Hara as vice-president of Notre (Continued on Paste 3)
Five French Scholars
On Tour of America
Visit Notre Dame
A party of five French scholars visited the Notre Dame campus last Saturday in a tour of the leading Catholic institutions of higher learning throughout the United States.
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the university, was host to the delegation in the Administration building, following a tour of the campus. The group, headed by Professor Joseph Le Blanc, of Loyola University in Chicago, later conferred with members of the faculty and discussed the Latin Quarter and the Cite Universitaire of Paris.
The educators praised American university life, particularly the dormitory system at Notre Dame. They maintained that it inspired great improvements in living conditions of European students during recent years.
The group included Dr. Gabriel Remond, honorary president of the French Federation of Catholic Students; Dr. Henri Gremont; Dr. Max LeGendre, president of the French Federation of Catholic students; Maxime de Valleuil, doctor of science; Dr. Oliver- de Lean, diplome de L’Ecole des Sciences Politique and Prof. LeBlanc.
The visitors were entertained during their stay by the Rev. Phillip Moore, C.S.C., Rev. C. L. Doremus, C.S.C., and Mr. Earl Langwell, professor of French here.
Fr. Broughal Returns
Reverend L. V. Broughal, C.S.C., Chairman of the Board of Publications, returned to the University last week. He had been under treatment at St. Joseph’s Hospital for the past two months. While able to resume his duties, he will put in a period of recuperation at the University infirmary.
The total enrollment in the University for the present semester is 2,632, according to a report issued by Robert B. Riordan, registrar. This figure, compiled at the closing date of registration Monday. September 17, indicates an increase of 85 students over last September's enrollment of 2,547.
An upward trend was also evidenced in the number of applications submitted for entrance to the University. 1082 applications were received this year as compared to 941 ot a year ago. In this number of applicants are included freshmen, transfer students, and return students or those who were here at some time previous to last semester. The freshman class totals 895 men, a growth of 94 over last fall's list.
In comparative figures, the college of commerce has had the greatest increase. Last year there were 709 students who were commercially inclined. The present semester reveals an addition of 73 students to bring the total to 782. The enrollment in the other colleges remains about the same.
With the exception of one or two states, nearly every state in the Union is represented at Notre Dame. The geographical representation also includes Canada, the Philippines,, Mexico. Panama, Ireland, Palestine, Colombia, and Spain.
Following is the enrollment in the various colleges: Arts and Letters (including P. E.), 1068; Commerce, 782; Engineering, 346; Science, 272; Law, 112; Graduate, 52. The 112 students in Law do not include those listed in other colleges.
Sympathy
The Scholastic expresses the sympathy of the student body to Thomas Walsh and Joseph Kaley, whose fathers died recently. The managers organization of which Walsh is a member, had a mass said in memory of Tom’s father yesterday morning in Sacred Heart Church. Kaley is a resident of Milton, N. Y. and Walsh resides in New York City.
September 21, 1934
One
Several Minor Changes Effected '.y^i^hyEi^Gtion of New President
PROF. JOHN A. STAUNTON ORDAINED TOMORROW
. » r -c o - * <
change, bixrectorships
.Besides-' the 'four -leading ^dininis-tl'ative'appbin€ments• decided'1 fey the Provincial Council early in July, more than 100 other changes were made among the priests and brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Of the changes many effected the teaching staff of the University.
Seven rectors of residence halls remained unchanged from last year. Of interest is the departure of Rev. Charles McAllister, C.S.C., enthusiastic promoter of the past Linnet Musical Club shows and rector of Freshman hall. He has gone to Columbia University, Portland, as professor. Rev. Thomas Kelly, C.S.C., last year’s rector of St. Edward’s hall, has gone to prepare for his doctor’s degree in classics at Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C.
Replacing the departed rectors are Rev. George Marr, C.S.C., new rector of Walsh hall; Rev. James Fogarty, C.S.C., Freshman hall; Rev. Henry Glueckert, C.S.C., Howard hall; Brother Justin, C.S.C., Brownson hall; Rev. John Reynolds, C.S.C., St. Edward’s hall; Rev. F. Gassensmith, C.S.C., rector of Billon.
New Prefect of Religion
The advancement of Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., created an important vacancy in the Prefect of Religion’s chair. This has been filled ably by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Several notable appointments to the faculty are those of Rev. Joseph Fiedler, C.S.C., to the archive staff to assist in cataloguing the 400,000 documents in that department; and of Rev. James Kline, C.S.C., to the science department at Notre Dame after years spent in the study of Astronomy at the University of California, where he was awarded a doctor’s degree.
Rev. William McNamara, C.S.C., has transferred from Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame to the head of the Department of History. Rev. George Marr, C.S.C., formerly at Holy Cross College at Brookland, D.C., has become head of the department of Religion. Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., formerly editor of the Ave Maria, has assumed the headship of the English department.
Other professors here for the first time include Mr. Emmanuel Chapman, philosophy; Mr. Francis Flynn, sociology; Mr. LaRoy Wilkins, education; Rev. James J. Quinlan, C.S.C., economics; and Rev. William J. Lyons, C.S.C., from Columbia University, Portland. Rev. Hope, C.S.C., located here two years ago, has re-
(Continued on Page 24)
Two
15 Student Guides Show
150,000 Tourists Irish Campus During Summer
From the far corners of the world they came to Notre Dame this summer to see, at first hand, the home of the famed “Fighting Irish.”
Globe trotters from China, Russia, Hawaii, Panama, Porto Rico, the British Isles, Holland, Belgium, France, Italy, Cuba, and Canada along with more than 150,000 American tourists visited the campus during the vacation period and were escorted officially through the grounds.
Mr. E. P. Cleary, assistant archivist of the University, supervised the summer guide system which handled this visiting throng. Under his leadership, 15 student guides hired by . the University took hundreds daily on the official hour and a half tour of the campus, pointing out meanwhile the various places of interest and revealing much of the history and tradition of Notre Dame.
The high tide in tourist traffic was reached on Labor Day when 2,500 people visited the college and were successfully shown through by the guide service.
Tourists Arrive at 4 A. M.
According to Mr. Cleary, the sightseers at Notre Dame this summer represented every type of personality and profession, ranging from members of Parliament and college presidents down to the level of thugs, deputy sheriffs, and walkathon contestants. And the odd types certainly brought some strange ideas about the University with them. For instance, many of the tourists were greatly surprised at the size of the campus, the number and beauty of the buildings, having always imagined Notre Dame to be composed of a few small halls surrounding an all important football stadium and gymnasium.
Four o’clock in the morning was not too early for tourists to arrive ready to see the campus, and twelve o’clock at night was not too late.for others to wish to do the same. The early and late arrivals, for lack of other guides, usually got a police escort through the grounds.
. As to the points of tourist interest the Sacred Heart church seemed to have been one of the greatest attractions on the grounds. Mr. Cleary remarked that the broadcast of Knute Rockne’s funeral must have reached every “jerk water filling station”.and small town in the whole nation, for almost invariably the traveler was especially anxious to see the place where Rockne’s funeral had been . held.
Prof. John A. Staunton, 71, formerly a teacher of cosmology and metaphysics at Notre Dame, will be ordained a priest tomorrow in Sacred Heart Church.
Last year, Prof. Staunton left Notre Dame and sailed for Rome to
Prof John A. Staunton
Will say his first Mass Saturday. spend two years studying theology at the College of the Beda. Failing eyesight, however, compelled him to forego these plans and he returned to the university. Through a special indult recently granted by Pope Pius XI, Mr. Staunton is permitted to become a secular priest and to read a special mass for the partially blind.
The ceremonies proper began last Tuesday when Mr. Staunton received the tonsure and minor orders. He was raised to the order of sub-deacon on Wednesday and to that of deacon, today. These major orders, usually granted at set periods during the theological year, have been conferred in this case through dispensation because of the age and infirmity of the recipient.
Holy Orders will be bestowed upon the former teacher by the Most Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., Bishop of the Fort Wayne diocese.
Prof. Staunton was converted to Catholicism in 1930. Previously, as a clergyman in the Protestant Episcopal church, he was recognized for spending twenty years of missionary work among the head-hunters of Luzon in the Phillippines.
He is a brother of Henry C. F. Staunton, _ head of the sophomore English department at Notre Dame.
Father Cavanaugh Prize
Establishment of the Father Cavanaugh prize, an annual $100 award for the best “biographical skethch of any priest, brother, sister or layman who aided in the upbuilding of Notre Dame,” was announced in June.
Donated by an alumnus of the university who did not wish his identity disclosed, the prize- will honor Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., former president of the University.
The Scholastic
MRS. BRADY RECEIVES LAETARE MEDAL AWARD
Juggler Discontinued by Summer
Action of University Council
In a colorful ceremony at Rome, June 6, the Laetare Medal, Notre Dame’s annual award conferred on some outstanding Catholic layman, was this year presented to Mrs. Genevieve Garvan Brady, distinguished philanthropist.
The ceremony took place in the reception room of the Pontifical North American College. Before a brilliant gathering of Cardinals, statesmen, high Church dignitaries, clergy, and members of the Italian nobility, the Very Rev. George M. Sauvage, C.S.C., (LL.D., ’18), Procurator General of the Congregation of Holy Cross and Rector of Holy Cross College, on behalf of the University presented the Laetare Medal for 1934 to Mrs. Brady.
Also among those who witnessed the conferring of the award were a member of the faculty of the University, the Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., who was in Rome as one of the honorary delegates from the United States to the International Congress of Acetylene, and several former Notre Dame students preparing for the priesthood at the Pontifical North American College. Among the latter were E. Bourke Motsett, ’31, Loras Lane, ’32 and Edward O’Malley.
Former Football Captain
Named Publicity Director
Paul Host, '33, captain of the Notre Dame football team in 1932, is now publicity director of the Catholic Youth Organization in the archdiocese of Chicago, according to an announcement of Most Rev. B. J. Sheil, auxiliary bishop of Chicago, who is in charge of the widespread C.Y.O. work. Paul is also contributing a weekly, sports column to the New World, weekly newspaper of the Chicago archdiocese.
The new position of the former football captain follows his writing activities while a student in the Department of Journalism at Notre Dame and a frequent contributor to student publications and, later, his duties as a publicity writer for the C. Y. 0. organization in Chicago. •
AA Books
. All students who have not as yet obtained their A.A. books are advised to do so as soon as possible.
The closing date for this procedure is Wednesday, September 26. Place: Athletic office, Main Biulding. '	.
New Post Office Will Be Finished By Last Week of October
• The new University post office will be finished about the end of October at a cost of 832,500. No definite completion date was set as construction was held up for ten days because of a mistake in a shipment of interior glazed tile.
The combination of Minnesota granite and Bedford limestone gives the building a Gothic effect. The roof is the same as those of Dillon and Alumni halls. Two outstanding features of the building are its ter-razza floors and fireproof vault.
The structure was begun on August 14, and Thomas Hickey is the contractor.
FATHER O’HARA
(Continued from Page 1)
Dame, and Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., vice-president of St. Edward’s under Father O’Donnell, was assigned the duties of Prefect of Discipline at Notre Dame to follow Rev. Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., who assumed leadership of the Holy Cross Mission Band.
When questioned this week concerning his policies as president, Father O’Hara made this statement to a Scholastic reporter: “No radical changes in the administration are contemplated. I intend to carry out the plans of my predecessors. The organic unity of a religious congregation makes it possible for a change in the administration to be made without any serious disturbance to previous arrangements.”
Born in Ann Arbor, Mich. Father O’Hara received his early education in northern Indiana parochial and high schools. While a junior at the Peru, Ind. High school, he left for South America, where he entered Jesuit college, Montivedeo, Uruguay. He returned to the United States in July of 1908 and entered the University of Notre Dame, January 1909, where he received his bachelor of philosophy degree in 1911.
On September 9, 1911 he was ordained a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross. His studies took him to Catholic University in Washington, D.C., whence he returned in 1917 to succeed Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell as prefect of religion at Notre Dame.
Father O’Hara became dean of the College of Commerce in 1917 and added the foreign commerce subjects necessary for his department to become a naccredited college of foreign and domestic commerce. In 1924
(Continued on Page 7)
DOYLE WAS THE EDITOR
According to a decision made this summer by the University Council, The Juggler, Notre Dame’s humorous monthly, will be discontinued. This decision was premised upon the ap-
Gerry Doyle “The man without a job.”
parent absence of student support of the Juggler as evidenced by an operating deficit exceeding $7,000 in the past two years. Rather than continue the Juggler on a restricted budget, the council decided to discontinue the publication.
Part of the decline of Juggler revenue was caused by a falling off of national advertising. Several other universities have been forced to discontinue their humorous publications for similar reasons. The greater part of the Juggler deficit was, however, caused by reasons foreign to advertising. These are discussed in an editorial on page 14 of this issue.
Juggler Started As Funny Fellow
In discontinuing the Juggler a sudden climax was given to a publication whose traditions belied its comparatively recent origin. Started in the fall of 1919 by three students as a private enterprise, the Funny Fellow impersonated from Moynihan in 1919 to Degnan in 1934—strolled through the school year. He usually started his fun-poking with a football number and finished with that old standby, the Commencement number.
Though in the beginning the covers were more ornamental than humorous and the jokes were of the he-she variety, by 1923, it was rated by advertisers as among the first six in the college field. As the Juggler was developed under student management —the business being entrusted each year to the new editors—the magazine became bolder in its cartooning and subtler in the localization of its humor- Students from the Fine Arts department made cartooning for the (Continued on Page 8)
September 21, 1934
Three
School Year Is Solemnly Opened On Sunday With Distinctive Red Mass
F.E.R.A. PLAN TO AID NOTRE DAME STUDENTS
FR. O’HARA IS CELEBRANT
Notre Dame’s scholastic year had its official opening last Sunday morning in the form of the impressive and inspiring Mass of the Holy Ghost.
Directly preceding the Holy Sacrifice, a procession of lay faculty members attired in caps and gowns, priests and seminarians of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and the celebrants of the Mass walked from the Main Building down the aisles of Sacred Heart church.
With the Moreau choir chanting its most solemn hymns, the celebrant, the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University; the deacon, the Reverend John H. O’Donnell, C.S.C., and the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., sub-deacon, ascended the altar in their red vestments.
The “Red Mass,” or the Mass of the Holy Ghost, one of the Church’s most distinctive ceremonies, is said on such occasions as the opening of councils, law courts, and universities. Notre Dame’s opening service, therefore, carried with it the tradition of ages.
The sermon, most suitable for an opening ceremony, was delivered by the Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science. Father Wenninger outlined clearly and forcibly to the freshmen ■what they might expect at Notre Dame, as Notre Dame men.
Engineers’ Club Introduces
Innovations at Meetings
Innovations characterize the Engineers’ Club this year. Outside of their usual scope of having speakers at every meeting, they will stimulate interest by a weekly Bulletin posted every week in the Engineering Building. This concise edition epitomizes many scientific developments and freaks of mathematics which always excite much thought and discussion; hence, the Bulletin challanges people who , can think “mathematically.” First meeting, Oct. 3; initiation, Oct. 10.
This club has student members in all branches of engineering, ranging from freshmen to seniors. At the meetings held twice a month, the members are informally educated by practical business engineers who relate their. experiences on current engineering problems and their solutions. Occasionally, industrial representatives explain, by means of motion pictures, the manufacture of iron, gasoline, glass, rubber, or asbestos.
New “Scholastic” Positions Given to Prendergast, Bucci, Kennedy, Gorman, and Ellis
During the past week five men have been appointed to editorial positions on The Scholastic by Editor John D. Carbine with the approval of the faculty board of publications.
Joseph A. Bucci of Amsterdam,
Joseph A. Bucci He assigns the stories.
New York, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been named news editor. Bucci has been a member of The Scholastic news staff for three years and last year acted as co-news editor. -
Joseph P. Prendergast of Ware, Mass, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, becomes the new sports editor. Prendergast did outstanding work on the sports staff last year.
“The Week” will be written by William A. Kennedy of Brooklyn, New York. Kennedy has been a member of The Scholastic staff for three years and has been a regular contributor to The Juggler and Scrip.
Vincent A. Gorman of Kingston, New York, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, will conduct “College Parade.” Gorman has done excellent work on The Scholastic news staff.
William Ellis II, has been appointed art editor. Ellis did the cartoons which appeared in the sports section of The Scholastic last year. He will continue his cartoons this ■ year and will also draw the pen and ink portraits which will be run in “Man About Campus.” Ellis, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, comes from Brookline, Mass.
Robert J. Donohue, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been added to the sports staff. Donohue has been a member of the Irish golf squad for three years and will cover all golf meets for The Scholastic. His first stories appear in this issue.
' In line with the program of continued improvements for the University grounds and buildings, is the Federal Emergency Relief Association’s loans to students. They will be employed, according to Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., in work about the campus; in the Archives( the Botanical De partment, in reforestration work, and in the project whereby the exposed telephone and electrical wires will be placed underground. '
During the summer a great deal of landscape work was completed about the campus. Shrubbery on the quadrangle has been cleared of entangling weeds, trees and bushes pruned, lawns seeded, and trees inspected and put in first class condition under the direct supervision of Michael Moser, for eight years head gardener on the A. R. Erskine estate.
During the summer months many of the halls were painted. In the gymnasium apparatus room a $4,000 floor was laid, new showers installed in the team locker rooms and old ones tiled.
The University poultry farm has been abandoned, and the land turned over to reforestation project. Shrubbery and sod will be cultivated there for use in landscaping the campus as soon as the poles and wires have been removed from sight.
Rev. W. F. Cunningham
Heads N.C.E.A. Division
Rev. Wm. F. Cunningham, C.S.C., Ph.D., professor of education at the University of Notre Dame, was elected president of the college department of the National Catholic Educational Association at its recent annual meeting in Chicago. His election followed a year in the vice-presidency of the department and many years of distinguished service in education.
Father Cunningham received his A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1907 and his Ph.D. from Catholic University of America in 1912. He was in-. structor in philosophy in Columbia University, Portland, Oregon, from 1912 to 1918 and vice-president and director of studies in the same institution in 1918-19. He was professor of education and head of the department of education at Notre Dame from 1919 to 1928.
In 1928 Father Cunningham went to St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minnesota, as professor of secondary education, head of the department of education and dean of studies and remained there until 1933 when he returned to Notre Dame as professor of education.
The Scholastic
Four
COMMENCEMENT PROGRAM
REPLETE WITH ACTIVITY
S. A. C. Issues Call For Candidates
Desiring Cheer Leading Positions
A peak never reached by any commencement previous was attained last June by the Ninetieth Annual Commencement Exercises of the University of Norte Dame. In the number of alumni present, in the diversity of entertainment provided for those attending, and in the eminence of the celebrities invited to preside at the exercises it was unsurpassed.
Three Day Program
The ceremonies, covering a period of three days, began with the president’s address to the class of ’34 at 12:45 p. m. on Friday, June 1 and ended with the awarding of degrees at 4:00 p. m. on Sunday, June 3. During the first two days of the exercises various events, including the Alumni golf tournament, varsity baseball games with the University of Wisconsin and Michigan State College, concerts by the University Band and the Glee Club, the Notre Dame National Catholic Interstate Track and Field Meet, the Annual Alumni Banquet, and a musical presentation, “Shades of Notre Dame,” were provided for the entertainment of the visiting friends and relatives of the seniors, and the alumni.
Reverend John A. MacNamara, C.S.C., opened the official Saturday program by celebrating a solemn requiem High Mass in memory of the deceased alumni. Class Day exercises were, held at 10:00 a. m., on the same day. With an address to his fellow class mates, James Vincent Moscow, president of the Senior Class, opened the exercises. The awarding of honors to deserving seniors also took place at this time.
Colorful Ceremonies
Sunday, June 3, Commencement Day proper, witnessed the academic procession of the seniors, a solemn Pontifical High Mass, celebrated in the gymnasium by the Most Reverend Amleto Giovanni Cicognanni, the Apostolic Delegate, the blessing and raising of the Senior Flag-, and the Monogram Men’s luncheon in the University Dining Halls. The beautifully decorated field house was the scene of the awarding of degrees in the evening.
The Honorable Frank C. Walker presented the Commencement Add-Address and the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., gave the degrees to the 517 graduates. Recipients of the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Laws were the Honorable Cordell Hull, the Most Reverend John M. McNamara, D.D., Frank C. Walker, ’09, and Dr. Maurice Goldblatt. Music by the University Band brought the impressive ceremonies to a close.
September 21, 1934
Walker Announces “Dome” Appointments; Walsh Made Managing Editor
At the initial meeting of the Dome staff held in the editorial rooms Wednesday night, Editor John Walker announced several appointments for the coming year. William Walsh of Yonkers, New York, a Junior in Arts and Letters, was made managing editor. Joseph Prendergast of Ware, Massachusetts, also of the Arts and Letters College, received the sports editorship. The photographic art editor will be Vittorio Arcadi of Whittier, California, a Senior in Science. Arcadi did much of the excellent photography in last year’s Dome.
Positions Still Open
Many positions are still open in the make-up,, production, editorial, art and sports departments. Tryouts will be held soon for these places as well as for general staff work. Anyone interested in working for the Dome is requested to see either John Walker' in 424 Badin or William Walsh in 219 Alumni.
Considerable work has already been done on the new annual. Last spring, Walker and his photographer made pictures of the events connected with the Commencement, and started on the elaborate view section which will be featured in this year-book. Walker has also issued an appeal for snapshots of any campus scene or activity.
Junior, Senior, Pictures
Starting Oct. 1, the individual portraits of both the seniors and juniors will be taken. Further announcements concerning these will be made later. Bagby and Company, photographers to last year’s Dome, will again take the pictures.
N. Y. Capitol District Club Will Make Plans For Year
The Capitol District Club of New York will have its first meeting to arrange activities for the year, Monday evening, September 24 at 6:30 p. m. in Brownson recreation room.
Jerry Molinari, president of the club, plans a year of active association. In the first meeting details for the coming smoker and Christmas dance will be settled.
All students living within a radius of 50 miles of the Capitol District are invited to attend this meeting.
STUDENT TRIP UNCERTAIN
By John A. Moran
The S. A. C., under the guidance of President Thomas K. LaLonde has requested that candidates for positions on the cheer-leading squad assemble in Washington Hall Friday
Thomas K. LaLonde He wants cheerleaders.
evening, Sept. 21, at 6:4-5. A large turnout is expected since applicants will be judged solely on the ability they display.
Plans are being made by the S.A.C. for the formation this year of a definite organization from which cheer leaders of the future will be drawn. This should be of special interest to Freshmen and Sophomores.
Seniors should note that there are no members of the class of ’35 who had experience on last year’s squad. Likewise there is a scarcity of juniors versed in handling a megaphone. For these reasons, the S.A.C. has decided on a complete shakeup of the cheering squad and it will sponsor an open competition to select the most promising candidates.
It is customary to award the head cheerleader a monogram in his senior year. All applicants who make the squad will be given the opportunity to lead the cheering section at the various athletic contests throughout the coming year.
The selection of the annual student football trip has not yet been made. However definite announcements reguarding the trip will be forthcoming in a future issue of the Scholastic.
The membership of the S.A.C. for the current school year is composed of: Tom LaLonde, president; Moe Delia, treasurer; Bob Cavanaugh, secretary; Bill Casazza, Phil Purcell, Ed Sullivan, Jim Bacon, Steve Banas, Tom Proctor, Charlie Shill, Jack Morley, Frank Holahan, Jim Shanley, Tom Murphy, Jack DeGarmo, Bill Schmuhl, Hal Miller, Bob Seigfried.
•	Five
REGULATIONS ON ROON CHANGES PUBLISHED
Beginning’ Sept. 21 and continuing until Sept. 29, students will be permitted to change their rooms on the campus by placing their application for the desired change at the Secretary’s office, on the ground floor of the Main Bldg. No applications for room changes will be accepted after Sept. 29, except by special permission of the Prefect of Discipline.
Students wishing to make a change for room within one hall only, must carry out the following steps.
1.	Apply at the Secretary’s office and secure necessary room change slip.
2.	Present room change slip to the hall rector and surrender to the rector all keys held for room vacated.
Students who wish to make change of room from one hall to another, must carry out the following steps:
1.	Apply at the Secretary’s office and secure necessary room change slip.
Missing Keys Charged
2.	Present the room change slip personally to the rector of the hall to be quitted and surrender to the. rector all keys held for room vacated.
3.	Present the room change slip initialed by the rector of the hall you have left to the rector of the hall to which you are moving.
The actual move from one room to the other must be completely effected within 24 hours from the time that room change slip is issued by the Secretary.
Room changes must not be made without the knowledge and consent of Secretary’s office or rector or rectors involved. Any change made not strictly in accordance with this procedure, is a violation of discipline and as such is cause for suspension or dismissal from the University.
Any missing room keys or unnecessary damage done the room vacated will be charged to the student’s account in the Secretary’s office.
CHANGES
(Continued from Page 2)
turned from Portland to assume duty in the Philosophy department. Rev. T. Francis Butler, C.S.C., has come back to teach history again after a year’s absence.
There are many that the students will miss as they recall their priestly acquaintances of the past year. Numbering among these are the Rev. Thomas Crumley, C.S.C., professor of philosophy; Rev. Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., former prefect of discipline; Rev. Leo Heiser, C.S.C.; Rev. Patrick J. Haggerty, C.S.C., former rector of Dillon and education professor who has been removed to Watertown, Wis.
'^|\ibout the comPys S/i1-.
For two years the by-line “by Tnomas G. Proctor” has appeared in issues of The Scholastic. And then, last spring a picture. These are symbols of an extremely active college
career for Tom of Elkhart, Indiana, the president of the senior class of 1935. The Hoosier lad came through in those May elections with Big Time Camille Gravel leading the parade.
Equally as successful as in his writing has been Tom’s participation in debating. His association with the debate squad coupled with his proficiency in written expression forms a splendid background for Tom’s plans to study law.
Talks Himself Into Palace
So old a head on such young shoulders can be applied to President Proctor’s knack of getting places. He can talk his way into the Palace Theater any time; an entire summer on the World’s Fair grounds in which he familiarized himself with every nook and corner until the novelty of a Century of Progress was zero accounts for the ease in which Tom can make friends. Tom has also been known to talk his way in and out of the St. Mary’s reception hall under very trying circumstances.
Tom Proctor is somewhat of a dreamer. You can easily imagine him slouched back in an easy chair before a large open fire, pipe in mouth, and an open book lying loosely in his lap. Tom is always building castles. He imagines himself in far-off Arizona, riding to his ranch after a. hard day on the plains. He sees a golden-red sunset throwing rainbow rays on a rambling white house. That summer three years ago in the golden west changed Tom’s ideas on the advantages of an urban life.
IRISH MUSICAL UNITS LOOK FOR BUSY YEAR
Under the leadership of Professor Joseph Casasanta, Notre Dame’s musical organizations look forward to another year. The band and glee club have already been organized. The other units will be formed within the week.
Despite the fact that twenty-five members were lost through graduation, the University of Notre Dame Band promises a year of delightful entertainment. As in the past the band, under the direction of Professor Joseph Casasanta, will be present at all football and basketball games and will give their annual spring concert on the law in front of the Main building. Tryouts which are open to all are held daily.
It is very interesting to Notre Dame students to know that the band won the first prize at the opening day of the Century of Progress Exposition last May 26. The trophy was a beautiful silver loving cup.
The Band personnel consisting of • ninety pieces is the same as last year’s. Louis Alamann has been retained as drum major. Senior officers are: Joseph Argus, president; Edward Zimmers, vice - president. Paul Guarnieri and George Vessey are the junior officers. The librarian and his assistant are Frank Barbush and Robei-t Trusdale, respectively.
The officers of the Glee Club are William Casazza, president; John Ryan, vice-president; Thomas Flynn, business manager and his assistant, Norbert Hart. The publicity manager and his asssitant are: Roy Scholz and Vincent Gorman.
Both musical organizations function from September to June.
Freshman Convocation
Starting next Monday night, all Freshmen will meet in Washington Hall at 6:45 p. m. to learn the songs and cheers of Notre Dame. Similar meetings 'will be held for the same purpose on Wednesday and Friday evenings also in Washington Hall, and at the same time. All Freshmen are cordially reqested to attend. Tom LaLonde, S.A.C. President, will be in charge of the meetings.
The coming school year will mark the debut of President Proctor in public life as a politician. He will appear in exclusive gatherings on Washington Day, Senior Ball day, and Graduation. Meanwhile the occupants of dear old Walsh Hall will watch over their president, ever proud of their honored hall mate. . A good tip to any senior is to really seek the close friendship of Tom as he spends many weed-ends in Elkhart in his spacious colonial home. A racy Ford roadster always helps to give relief to over-burdened students.
Six
The Scholastic
CASAZZA APPOINTED TO
S. A. C. DANCE POST
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
FR. O’HARA CONDUCTS ANNUAL FROSH MISSION
The appointment of William John Casazza, Albany, N. Y., a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, to the chairmanship of the S.A.C. dance committee has been announced by President Tom LaLonde.
Casazza was elected to the S.A.C.
William J. Casazza He sings too.
for a two year term as a Sophomore, and during his Junior year he was appointed secretary of that organization. He has been an active member of the Glee Club for the past three years, and last season was vice-president of that group.
Casazza and his committee, composed of the three upperclass presidents, will be instrumental in arranging foi' the various dances to be held throughout the academic year.
Frosh Architect Murphy
Given Beaux Arts Mention
When James D. Murphy, a student h in the University Department of Architecture, was awarded First Mention Placed in the Analitique Competition of the Beaux Arts Institute of Design, it marked one of the few times that the honor had been conferred upon a Freshman.
His entry was one of Murphy’s first pieces of actual design and after passing a local board of judges it was submitted to the Institute in New York this summer.
Charles J. Nau, Raymond A. - Marre, John H. McAuliffe, and William T. Morrison wfere others whose work in the same contest was singled out for special attention, each of them receiving honorable mention.
The subject matter foi' the contest was a design for a frontispiece illustrating a volume to be published on the works of Christopher Wren.
Added interest in the Architectural Department during the past few years is expected to increase the number of entries in the future, it ■	• was announced at the Department
this week.
September 21, 1934
One Freshman’s Method
In line with the frisky doings of our “greener” brothers during the past week comes this tale of a romantically inclined Princeton freshman. At one of that U’s proms last year he was introduced to a girl, who so completely inspired him that he tvrote a poem. When completed, the impassioned bard discovered that he had forgotten the name of his lovely one. His zeal was such, however, that he decided to stake all on one grand attempt, and addressed it to “The Most Wonderful Girl in South Orange, N. J.” Two days later the letter was returned unopened and readdressed by an unsympathetic and worldly-wise P. 0. department: “To the Dumbest Boy in Princeton U., care of the Princeton Lost and Found Dept.”
What would a Parade be without a drum major! .But it looks as if our own D. M. did a little too much practicing this past week. Why the flannel Louis — did the baton create a draught when you twirled it about your head?
“Patrick O’Shakespeare?”
The Bard of Avon has been on the stand for so many things of recent years that it will, we hope, cause no affront to his pedagogic patrons when we employ this title. It might well be correct if we can believe the M.I. T. professor who says the pronunciation of English in the time of Shakespeare probably sounded like the brogue of an Irishman.	-
Now some fiery Celts may also take insult from the implications of the professor’s statement, but be calm, lads, M.I.T. is devoted to the science of Engineering, not the art of English Literature!
Subsidizing “Daisy-Chainers”
Four hundred and thirty-seven young women, have been accepted as members of the Vassar college class of 1938. The royalty will be represented by one foreign student, Baroness Elizabeth Dioszeghy of Budapest, Hungry, and grass skirts may take the place of the much-critised “shorts” on the college tennis courts when the two students from the Hawaiian Islands arrive. The American University at Beirut, Syria, sends a single envoy.
The University of Kansas , offers a course in fly-fishing, which, if we heed the drought stories told by Jim Hill, won’t fill the need half so well as will a course in the use of the willow twig—(to find a hidden well, in case you no comprenez). Temple University offers credit for courses in etiquette.
The mission for freshmen, and sophomores of Lyons and St. Edward’s started Sunday night, September 16, and will close September 22 with the Papal benediction. There is Mass and instruction each morning at 6:30, and a sermon and Benediction each night at 7:30. Father O’Hara is conducting the entire mission.
The sophomores of Morrissey Hall and the upperclassmen will have their mission from September 23 to 29, inclusive. The services will be the same as for the freshman mission. Rev. Havey, C.S.C., is to be the conductor. Breakfast time has been changed to 7:20 for the remainder of the services.
FATHER O’HARA
(Continued from Page 3)
duties as prefect of religion became too pressing and he resigned the deanship to Prof James E. McCarthy, the present dean.
Succeeding the Rev. M. A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., in Sept. 1933, as vicepresident of the University, Father O’Hara not only carried on his work as prefect of Religion, but also attended to much of the executive work of the late Father O’Donnell who was suffering with the infection which cost him his life. Before the latter’s death Father O’Hara served as assistant provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and had been acting president exactly a month before his election to the presidency.
Father Steiner, ’99
Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., received his degree in Civil Engineering at Notre Dame in 1899, was engaged in engineering work from 1899 to 1911, then returned to the University. During the school year 1929-30 he served as acting dean of the College of Engineering, being appointed in 1930 to succeed Martin J. McCue as dean.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., was bom in Grand Rapids, Mich. He attended Notre Dame where he received football monograms in 1915 and 1916 while playing at center. He was graduated in 1917, entered the Congregation of the Holy Cross the following year and in 1922 received from Catholic University his Ph.D.
From 1923 to 1930 Father O’Donnell was prefect of discipline at the University, receiving his assignment to the presidency of St. Edward’s University in the latter year. He returned to Notre Dame this summer to serve as vice-president.
Seven
NEW $35,000 LAUNDRY BUILT THIS SUMMER
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
RAY MARTIN TO EDIT KNIGHTS’ SANTA MARIA
Included as a major point in the university’s building program is the new laundry, situated just northwest of the Administration building.
Work on the laundry structure was begun on June 15 and completed August 15 at a cost of $35,000. Thomas Hickey, South Bend contractor, handled the operations.
To take care of the summer students’ laundry, the building was constructed in two divisions. The north half was erected first and machinery from the old building was moved in. The old laundry was then torn down and the remainder of the new structure built in its place.
Fifty-one persons are employed in the present establishment and approximately 1,200,000 pieces of laundry will be taken care of. The building, very modern in structure and equipment, has been visited by representatives of large laundry concerns in this part of the state.
Visitors Amused By Bees
In Science Hall Museum
Eighty thousand bees at work making honey! That is one of the interesting exhibits which thousands of visitors to Notre Dame viewed this summer. A standard beehive made of glass containing the bees was arranged in Science Hall in such a way that every one can easily see the bees at their work. Explanatory material as to the lives and habits of the bees is pasted on the hive.
The whole exhibit is the property of, and was arranged by, Frank M oltman, of South Bend, a member of the special police force which is on duty on the Notre Dame campus. When he came home from the Spanish-American war 36 year ago, Frank brought instead of medals, a hobby that has been occupying his spare time ever since—bee culture. At one time he had 40 colonies of bees. He subscribes to nearly all the well known bee journals and is frequently consulted by biology students in the University. At the invitation of Stephen Bocskei, instructor in biology, he addressed M. Bocskei’s class last year on “The Care and Raising of Bees.” Afte the lectures he answered the many questions of the students.
Wins in Gary
In a track meet in Gary, Indiana, in which former Gary high school athletes were the participants, Don Elser, star Notre Dame shot putter, won his event July 14 with a heave of 48 feet, 5U inches.
Eight
To The Freshmen—
In about three weeks there will be a fresh crop of football heroes; but don’t make any rash guesses and waste three good weeks on the prophesies of the sport writers or your personal nominations. They never seem to come through.
If you can’t wait for some halfback to score three or four touchdowns or for a tackle to block that kick, then get cagey and cultivate the senior managers.
The three managers are a stable and less perishable commodity than the week-to-week backfield man. They are usually willing to discuss the weather and pass the time of the day with even the lowest of freshmen. Here’s a few tips for you men of ten o’clock lights and one-a-month.
The head manager is Demetrio, and an affable man is he. The best method in his case is what is technically known as the direct method. George has no time to waste, so you had better say what you have to say and then let him talk. He will. This procedure has never failed us, and we willingly pass it on to you.
An Exceptional Manager
Thompson is the manager of the stadium and his case is a bit more difficult. The best approach is a casual reference to the Sweetbriar league. If this opening fails there is little hope for success. But, if he does give you a blow on this, he will then chat for hours on any subject under the sun—any, that is, except what happened to him at the dinner dance at last year’s prom.
Last, but far from the least, is Ray Oakes, in charge of those bright green jerseys and the rest of the equipment. Ray is a rare exception to the general run of managers; he is one of those silent men. His mind is always on his business and dance nights across the lake. Except for a personal friendship we have never figured the correct approach for this lad. The editor will award a suitable prize for the best suggestion.
Any further tips would make excellent reading matter for the friends of these three managers, but there are limits and there are editors.
Thoughts While Cutting----
Most professorish man on the campus, Henry Staunton. A word that bounces: blithe. The Izaak Walton league began with a new name for the old stuff last Sunday afternoon. A two word description of Duke Walters: Duke Walters. Suggested sign for Walsh Hall: ‘Through these doors pass the m^'-t beautiful boys on the campus.’ (Corby next week.)
The Santa Maria, publication of the Notre Dame Council No. 1477 of the Knights of Columbus, is now being prepared for its initial appearance of the year. The first issue will
Ray Martin Will make changes.
be ready for distribution about the end of October.
The staff of the Santa Maria, having lost nearly all of its members by graduation, will have an exceptionally difficult task in publishing a magazine comparable to its predecessors. Ray Martin succeeds Walter-Kennedy as editor. Editor Martin will rebuild the staff from Council members.
The Santa Maria is a quarterly publication which reaches other councils in every state of the Union. Notre Dame is represented by the Santa Maria which has a greater off-campus circulation than the other campus publications.
JUGGLER
(Continued from Pa.ee 3)
magazine their hobby and with such success that in 1931, the Juggler was given the College Humor award for the best all-around art work for the year.
In the following year in a nationwide pole, the Juggler was adjudged the best college comic in the Middle West. It was while at the top as a proponent of the brief-gag type of humor that the publication abruptly entered the field of more mature satire, a step which was eventually followed by all the first ranking college humorous magazines. It ended the era of puerile punning and inane wisecracking in the university field.
The next and last year, a modification of the proceeding year produced a balanced magazine which was neither profound nor giddy. In the opinion of many — both on this and other campi—the Juggler had the correct formula: no two line gags, no windy exposition under cartoons, no affection of style. It was rather an easy, witty commentary on Notre Dame life.
The Scholastic


1884 -1934
Reverend Charles Leo O’Donnell, C. S .C., cA. ‘B. 1906 Dh. D., LL. CD.
President of the University of ^otre ’Dame 1928 -1934

Immortality
I shall go down as the sun goes Over the rim of the world— Will there be quiet around me, As of sunset banners furled?
I shall take flight as a bird wings Into the infinite blue— What if my songs come ringing Down through the stars and the dew?
I shall mount, strong as the promise Forged in love’s white, first fire— A soul through the rustling darkness On pinions of desire.
(One of the many beautiful poems by Father O’Donnell.)
£
^£^|i===
September 21, 193 4
Fr. O'Donnell’s Life as a Priest
An Inspiration to All Catholics
FR. O’DONNELL ONE OF AMERICA’S GREAT POETS
Bev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., beloved president of Notre Dame, was bom in Greenfield, Indiana, on Nov. 15, 1884. Gradually he ascended the heights of renown by becoming a foremost educator and author in America.
At the age of 15, in 1899, Father O’Donnell entered the Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame for his preparatory work. At this time the seminarians formed a large part of the Notre Dame student body, pursuing all of their college studies at the University proper, as well as participating in student activities on the campus. Father O’Donnell displayed his outstanding literary activ-ility by becoming the editor of the first Dome ever published at Notre Dame. Besides this he belonged to the Literary Society then existing on the campus, and was an editor of the Scholastic. He climaxed his work at Notre Dame in 1906 by receiving his Bachelor of Arts degree with high honors.
Attended Catholic University
After finishing his studies at Notre Dame he then entered Catholic University at Washington, D. C., to continue his higher theological studies. In 1910 he received the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. At this time he was ordained to the priesthood as a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
His life as a priest began from this time on, and it was almost exclusively spent at Notre Dame, as was much of his time preparing for his God-like life. At first Father O’Donnell became Prefect of Corby Hall and was Professor of English at the same time. After two years he was appointed Associate Editor of the Ave Maria. He then transferred his residence from Corby Hall to the Presbytery, still a member of the Department of English.
Chaplain In World War
Another chapter of his life opened in 1917, when, with five other members of the faculty he received a commission as chaplain in the World war. Father O’Donnell served for five months in the 42nd Division in the capacity of chaplain for the 117th Division of Engineers. All this placed him at the front in France. His second assignment took him to Italy, where he was chaplain of the 332nd Infantry serving then in Italy. For this distinguished service Father O’Donnell was awarded a cross by the Italian government.
An interesting portion of his life is disclosed when he was in France. He accidentally found himself billeted in the same town with Joyce Kilmer,
Ten
Nation Expresses Grief With Over Five Hundred
Sympathetic Telegrams
When news of the death of Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., reached the world, letters, telegrams and telephone messages poured into the University by the thousands, expressing the deep sympathy of people, not only in every corner of this country, but in almost every country on the globe.
Among these condolences was this telegram from Most Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicognanni, Apostolic Delegate, who said: “It is with deep regret that I learn of the death of Father O’Donnell. I sincerely sympathize with the Order and the University in the loss of this great priest and educator.”
Cordell Hull, Secretary of State also paid his respects to the late Father O’Donnell when he sent this message: “I wish to express to you and to the University my deepest sympathy in the loss of Father O’Donnell.”
This partial list of those who sent telegrams shows the almost universal sorrow over the death of our late president:
Cardinal Hayes, Alfred E. Smith, Rev. Charles E. Coughlin, Owen D. Young, Genevieve Gavin Brady, Most Rev. James H. Ryan, Margaret Anglin, Edward J. Kelly, George White, Charles D; Maginnis, and others.'
noted poet and composer of the immortal poem, “Trees.” Having interests in common, the two poets built up a close association in those few days. <
At the close of the war Father O’Donnell returned to Notre Dame where he resumed his old duties in the English Department and as Associated Editor of the Ave Maria. A year later, in 1920, he was elected Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States. In this, position he succeeded the Very Reverend Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., -who at that time advanced to the position of Coadjutor-Superior General. At the end of his term of six years Father O’Donnell, in 1926, was appointed First Assistant Superior General, a position which he occupied until his appointment as President of Notre Dame in 1928.
At this point another chapter of Father O’Donnell’s life opened. His duties and work as President of the University will long be remembered But in the end he lived a saintly, sacrificing, priestly life, a main pil- . lar in the history of Notre Dame.
In 1906 when the members of the Notre Dame Karrenian Literary Association elected Charles L. O’Donnell “Agent of the Muses” they little dreamt how momentous was their prophecy. His writings, both in prose and verse, throughout his term - at Notre Dame as a student gained the recognition and admiration of his professors and fellow-students, and gave some indication of the future position which he would hold in the halo of American literature.
. The first record of his published poetry is found in a short poem titled “Dawn” which appeared in the issue of the Scholastic for April 19, 1902. This was followed in June 14 of that year by “Diana,” a quatrain, hidden far down in the lower right hand corner of page 7.
His first volume of poems was published in 1916 under the title “The Dead Musician and Other Poems” and was immediately well received, considering its small circulation. The following year he was co-Editor of “Notre Dame Verse,” a selected compilation of poems written by priests and laymen, both of the faculty and student body, and which had appeared in the publications of the University over a period of years.
Five years later, in 1922, he gave “Cloister and Other Poems” to the world, which had been raised to an-anticipation by his first volume and frequent poems published in magazines since its appearance.. The response of the critics in welcoming Rev. Charles L.' O’Donnell, C.S.C., to the fold of the preeminent was hearty and genuine. The contests, -some fifty poems, mostly brief lyrics, covered a variety of topics and verse forms. War poems, not of the customary type, sonnets, dainty quatrains and epigrams, and poems “embodying priestly experience in terms of a bold intimacy which only a childlike faith and scorn of wordly doubt could muster” as James J. Daley, S.J. described them, evoked the praise of poets and critics.
His final selection, “A Rime of the Rood” came in 1927 and was greeted with almost universal enthusiasm. The world was turning its gaze toward Indiana and the remarkable poet priest of Notre Dame. After assuming the position of president of the University he; devoted his energies almost wholly to the duties of administration, finding time to write and publish very few poems.
In the summer of 1932 he completed the beautiful tribute, “Notre Dame Our Mother” which was set to music and is now the Alma Mater song of the University.
(Continued to Page 11)
The Scholastic
NOTABLES MOURN AT IMPRESSIVE FUNERAL
Notre Dame Takes Great Strides Under Fr. O’Donnell's Leadership
Following the death on June 14th of our beloved president, Rev. Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., funeral services were held on Wednesday, June 6, from Sacred Heart Church. No sermon was preached during the dignified and solemn rites for the departed.
J-
Bishop Noll Present
Solemn requiem Mass was celebrated by the Very Reverend James W. Donahue, C.S.C., superior general of Congregation of the Holy Cross. Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, acted as deacon and sub-deacon respectively. Rev. Fran-$ cis Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, was the master of ceremonies.
Military splendor lent an impressive touch to the last ceremonies for Notre Dame’s great president. From the church to the cemetery Company D of the Indiana National Guard marched beside the hearse. After the “Memento” the guard fired a salute. The body then was lowered to its final resting place. “Taps” ended the impressive services.
Many clergymen and prelates among whom were Bishop Noll of Ft. Wayne and Most Rev. Edward F. Hoban, Bishop of Rockford, Illinois, assisted in the sanctuary. The church was crowded with a distinguished array of monsignori, priests, brothers and nuns. The pall-bearers, in priestly array, consisted mainly of Father O’Donnell’s classmates.
WSBT-WFAM, the South Bend Tribune station, broadcast the ceremonies.
His Poetry Exalted
The Incarnation was the theme for much of Fr. O’Donnell’s poetry. One reviewer has called him “the poet of the Incarnation” of our day. His realization of the utter humility, of God in assuming man’s estate prompted the artistry of expression by which he extolled God’s love for men. In calling him “A Rimer of God’s Company” Sister M. Eleanore says of the “Rime of the Rood,” “This poem with the other religious poems of the book, gives Father O’Donnell, in my opinion, the foremost place among living Catholic poets—and I am tempted to strike out even the
I word Catholic.”
September 21, 193 4
Will Rogers Pays Tribute To Fr- Charles O’Donnell In Syndicated Feature
The following tribute to Father O’Donnell was paid by Will Rogers on June 5, through his nationally syndicated newspaper feature:
“A sad wire this morning from Vice President O’Hara tells me of the death of a good friend, Father O’Donnell, of the great Notre Dame University. What a fine, plain, human man. What Rockne did with ’em when they got those football suits on, this man did with ’em while they was off the field. And turned out many All-Americans in the game of life.”
POET
(Continued from Page 10)
It is unusual that there should be such general ignorance of his poetry on the part of Catholics, who have failed to appreciate the simple beauty of his lyrics. True genius is never fully recognized while it flourishes, and this has been especially true of Father O’Donnell. For the most part it has been left to non-Catholic critics to give honor and praise where it rightly belongs in his case. A reviewer in the London Times once said “Father O’Donnell is one of the two living poets in America today.” And now it is especially to be lamented that those who enjoyed the benefits of his thoughtful supervision and teaching, failed to give him his rightful due.
When his “Dead Musician and Other Poems” appeared, Rev. Walter Dwight, S.J., writing in the America for July 29, 1916, ranked him with “the choir of melodious poets the Church has taught to sing: Alice Meynell, Katherine Tynan, Joyce Kilmer, Hilaire Belloc, Louise Imogene Guiney, Helen Parry Eden, Conde B. Pallen and Thomas Walsh.” No more glowing tribute to the genius of this poet is found than in the conclusion of this article, “Charles L. O’Donnell and the Simplicity of Beauty,” when Father Dwight says, “In our day . . . when the world is losing the power of discerning spiritual beauty, it is good to find Catholic poets like Father O’Donnell, who, in musical and felicitous verses can describe the Church’s radiant loveliness and convince the weak in faith that there is a higher life than this daily one and a brighter world than this we see.”
At the close of the last century, in 1899 to be exact, a young man entered Holy Cross Seminary here at Notre Dame. Perhaps his classmates, saw in him promises of future greatness, but most likely few of them realized that this young seminarian was destined to become a nationally known educator, poet, and speaker, that he w’as decorated by a foreign government and was eventually to become President of Notre Damp, That day in 1899 when young Charles O’Donnell first came to Notre Dame was the beginning of 3-5 years of hard work and sacrifice for the University over which he was one day to preside. Father O’Donnell’s life story and the history of Notre Dame’s rapid development in the present century are, for the most part, tightly interwoven.
Entered Notre Dame in 1899
His association with the University may be roughly divided into three periods. The first of these stretches from his entrance in 1899 to his graduation from Notre Dame in 1906. Even then his literary talents were recognized, for besides being class poet and an editor of The Scholastic, he was also editor-in-chief of the first Dome published here.
The second period begins in 1910, when Father O’Donnell, having taken his Ph.D. and having been ordained to the holy priesthood, returned to the campus as professor of English and prefect in Corby Hall. He retained his professorship when called to assume the associate editorship of the Ave Maria. The World War interrupted his literary work when he was sent to France as chaplain in the American army. He returned to his beloved Notre Dame after the Armistice but he was not destined to follow again his old academic pursuits.
President of University in 1928
The final period in his association with the University may be said to start with his election to the office of Provincial of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in the United States. This occurred within a year after his return from France. In 1926, after 6 years as Provincial, Father O’Donnell was elected first assistant Superior General and he retained this position till July 13, 1928, when he was appointed President to succeed the Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C.
What must have been the thoughts of the new President as hej harked back over a quarter of a century to that day when he had first come to Notre Dame? What must have been his feelings to realize the great trans-(Continued to Page 12)
Eleven
1 ■
EDITORIAL TRIBUTES TO FR. O’DONNELL
The death of the Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, president of Notre Dame University, removes from the front ranks of Catholic education in the United States one of the sweet, gentle and lovable characters, for which it had deep and sincere affection. He was a saintly priest, a great educator, a talented poet, and an executive of superior ability. His life work was a permanent contribution of Church and State. Knights of Columbus mourn his passiing and will long cherish his memory. May his soul rest in peace.—The Columbian Chicago K. of C.
The right temperament and experience were possessed by Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., in a measure that enabled him to take advantage of every opportunity to distinguish himself as a clergyman, a teacher, an administrator and an artist. He loved and respected God and his fellow men. His native ability, his education, his powerful will and his attractive personality made him “a man among men”; and many of his achievements will endure even though Father O’Donnell has gone to eternal rest.
His career after ordination was not extremely long. He was called back by the Maker less than 24 years after he entered the priesthood. That career however, was many-sided and consistently brilliant. The young priest born in Indian^ and a Notre Dame alumnus, naturally welcomed his first assignment as a professor of English ‘
in the University of Notre Dame. In the ensuing term of teaching which lasted until 1917 his poetic gift won wide recognition. Father O’Donnell’s adaptability was strikingly demonstrated when he became a military chaplain in 1917.
After the war the teacher-poet-chaplain was given another assign-. ment that called for exercise of talents unused up to them. As Provincial of the Holy Cross order he had to show great administrative ability; and again Father O’Donnell served well. He served so well, in fact, that he was elevated to the position of first assistant to the superior-general of the order. In that position he was general administrator of the various Holy Cross activities in different parts of the United States. Then it was but a short step to the presidency of the University of Notre Dame; and the step was taken by Father O’Donnell in 1928. '
—So. Bend Tribune' of June 5, 1934.
The passing of the Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell yesterday will be mourned far beyond the confines of the campus at Notre Dame University,'where he was the idol of faaculty and students.
Poet, scholar, executive and spiritual leader, he had those human qualities which made him beloved in the war camps of Europe and on the football gridirons of America.
He was a young man, counting his 49 years. But he lived long enough
to build the new and greater Notre Dame and to be recognized as one of the great modem educators of youth.
He was Father O’Donnell not only because of his religious order but because he was a father to the thousands who passed through the university hall.
His attitude toward university education and training' was broad and practical. He instituted a well-rounded program of mental development, physical training and spiritual enthusiasm.	'
Father O’Donnell had received many honors. In recognition of his contributions to poetry he was elected president of the Catholic Poetry Society of America. As a tribute to his services to humanity he was made chevalier of the Crown of Italy.—Chicago Herald and Examiner of June 6, 1934.
Genius has a way of pushing itself to the top. The good seed planted deep "in the right soil bear its hundred-fold fruit. Nothing more exemplifies this than the leadership in the Catholic Church, where neither accident of birth or accident of wealth makes any difference. It is results that count. Thus in the death of the Very Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, president of Notre Dame University, a natural bom leader of men, has been removed from the titular chessboard power. — The St. Paul Dispatch of June 6, 1934.
PRESIDENT
Continued from Page 11)
formation that had taken place at the University during that time? .
When September came, he was ready to assume his new role. His sermon at the opening of the student retreat that year revealed both the kind and generous nature of the man and his determination to fulfill his new office to the best of his ability. In the fall of the same year his book of verse, A Rime of the Rood and Other Poems, was published by Longmans, Green and Co. It met with much praise, especially here on the campus, where Father O’Donnell’s other works were widely read.
Honored by Italy ~
It was characteristic of the man that he did not seek the limelight, though he was in the public eye continually as President of the University. He was tireless where the welfare of Notre Dame was concerned, but his labors were not apparent to ■ the ordinary student. Under his leadership the University prospered and save for those on the Faculty, none knew how much he contributed to
Twelve
ward this prosperity. He was always in great demand at banquets, club meetings and other campus gatherings and rarely did he miss an opportunity to attend whenever a student delegation barged into his office with an invitation of this character.
In September, 1930, he delivered a series of important and interesting talks on Catholic Education over the Catholic Hour. He gave these talks on three consecutive Sundays from the National Broadcasting Studios in New York. The National Council of Catholic Men, the sponsor of the Catholic Hour, paid a tribute to the academic prestige of the University and to the scholarly attainments of its President, in asking Father O’Donnell to speak.
On Nov. 8, 1931, he was signally honored by being asked to speak over the Columbia Broadcasting System on the Catholic section of the Church of the Air Broadcast. His topic was a subject close to his heart, namely, “Religion in College Life.”
In 1932 he received the insignia of “Chevalier of the Order of the Crown of Italy,” presented by Cav. Giuseppe Castruccio, Royal Italian Consul of
Chicago in recognition of services performed in the furtherance of Italian culture at Notre Dame. Father O’Donnell was. the only university president in the United States to receive this honor.
Stricken in 1933	'
He was intensely interested in dramatics as well as music, and was honorary president of the University Glee Club and patron of the University Theatre.
Late in the spring of 1933, Father O’Donnell was stricken with a streptococcus infection and was forced to retire from active duty in connection with his office. After commencement in June, he went to a lake in northern Michigan as the guest of Mr. Fred J. Fisher, a trustee of the University. There his condition improved until the early part of July when new symptoms indicated further activity of the infection. He entered the Medical Center in, New York for a thorough examination. The doctors there diagnosed his trouble as toxic labyrinthitis induced by an internal infection. Vaccine was prepared to combat the infection.
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, September 21
Trials for cheerleader, Washington Hall, 6:45 p.m. Scholastic staff meeting, Ave Maria offices: Editorial board, 6:30 p.m.; general staff, 7:00 p.m. Freshman Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a.m. and 7:30 p.m.
Saturday, September 22
Freshman Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 a.m. Fall Golf Tournament, Wm. Burke Memorial Course. Movie, Frank Buck in “Wild Cargo,” Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p.m.
Sunday, September 23
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m. Fall Golf Tournament, Wm. J. Burke Memorial Course. Upperclassmen Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p.m.
Monday, September 2k
Upperclassmen Mission, Sacred Heart -Church, 6:30 a.m. and 7:30 p.m. Capitol District Club Meeting, Brownson Rec., 6:30 p.m. Freshman Pep meeting, Washington Hall, 6:45 p.m.
Tuesday, September 25
Wranglers meeting, Law building, 6:30 p.m. Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 6:30 pan. Upperclassmen Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a.m. and 7:30 p.m.
Wednesday, September 26
Upperclassmen Mission Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a.m. and 7:30 p.m.
Thursday, September 27
Upperclassmen Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a.m. and 7:30 pan. ’
N. D. Photographic Views Will Be Shown in England
Four photographic views of Notre Dame buildings will hang in the International Exhibition of Contemporary Architecture sponsored by the Royal Institute of British Architects, according to an announcement recently made at the University of Notre Dame by Professor Francis W. Kervick, head of the department of architecture.
The Royal Institute is celebrating the centenary of its organization by the erection of a splendid new building in London. It is in this building that the International Exhibition will open next October. The Notre Dame views were selected from a group submitted to the British organization by Professor Kervick at the request of the American Institute of Architects.
September 21, 1934
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Guide Service
The campus guide service, that valiant crew of unsung finger-pointers, is reported to have had a most successful summer,-what with every fortieth person on his way to or from the Fair stopping his buggy at the taxi stand and walking up to see a football game or so. But why the system was changed during registration time and a lot’of strangers put on sentry duty is beyond us. It is probably beyond them, too.
We were conversing with two of these gentlemen, one tagged “Information” and the other merely a “Guide,” when a new arrival approached the desk and asked where he could find Father O’Hara. “Father O’Hara?” said Information, and looked at the guide. “I dunno,” the latter answered. Well, there was much tossing of questions back and forth until the freshman meekly suggested that Father might be in his office. Grudgingly the two men behind the desk admitted he might be. It seems he was, too.
That set us to wondering just how far the service did go, so we politely turned to the man -with a white badge and requested that he guide us over to the new laundry. His precise reply escaped us for the moment, but it was the approximate equivalent of “Nuts.”
Then with all haste we betook ourselves down to the cubby-hole opposite the post office. There was no one inside, but a few yards away a likely-looking fellow leaned against a tree. We asked him was he giving out information and he said he thought so. So getting real nasty, we said when will the new post office be finished. He seemed ruffled. “How should I know?” Then someone came up and asked for a Mr. Willis. “He’s down at the police booth, I think,” said our man. Away went the person in search of the- police booth and Mr. Willis. The guide turned to us. “I send ’em all down there,” he admitted. “I never heard of most of the people they ask for, but I figure the cop on duty will know.”
New Btiilding
The idea of having a new post office seems to meet the approval of most everyone involved except the men in Walsh whose windows face in that direction. They were the ones with low numbers, who got the rooms they wanted, with southern exposure and all, and now, while they were out of town, this thing was rushed over on them. They, didn’t even receive a notice, not one of them, saying
“Starting October 1, or thereabouts, your window in Walsh, will look out upon a blank wall. Yours very truly, The University.” Or something similar. No, they just had to return and find the new building for themselves, rising inexorably, brick by brick, shutting out the life-giving light and air, and, they now hope, rain and snow.
The three of them are taking the blow pretty cheerfully (there is no southern exposure on the fourth floor, and the present incumbent doesn’t think the building will go that high, anyway) and they make funny remarks about being kept, awake by the brothers licking stamps, and all that sort of thing, but underneath the banter lies a broken heart. Three broken hearts. Paggliaccies, that’s what they are.
Incidentally, the rainy weather last week has, to all appearances, slowed up the progress on the building- “Nor wind, nor rain, nor snow, nor sleet—”
Short Short Story
In Howard last week, the first official bulletin, reading, Students are advised not to drink the water from faucets in the rooms. It is not suitable for drinking purposes, was the recipient of some deft professional pencilling, which crossed out the last two lines, leaving only the first six words intact.
Hisses and Kisses
We went over to the freshman movie the first night back to test the theory that it’s the first year men who bring the hisses, boos, and other assorted animal sounds to Washington Hall. It isn’t. There was no hissing or booing, or. whistling, or stamping. There was a bit of cheering, however, at the more romantic interludes. Wednesday night the show was not restricted to freshman and the place was noisy. Saturday night, when presumably, all four classes were represented in the audience, the boys were almost in mid-season catcalling form. One freshman said that it caught him between the eyes at first, but that inasmuch as it seemed the thing to do, he joined right in. We’re off!
Predecessor
Behind the flimsy pretext of seeking something higher in the way of degrees, “Bishop” Stritch is back. Primarily, we feel, to stare at us.
Thirteen
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
John D. Carbine.......................Editor-in-Chief
Edward J. Van Huisseling.............Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY________________________The Week
VINCENT A. GORMAN Jr____________________College Parade
•WILLIAM V. ELLIS, II.____________________Art Editor
Nezus Staff
JOSEPH A. BUCCI__________________________\rcws Editor
ROY O. SCHOLZ____________________ROBERT F. ERVIN
JOHN W. WALKER___________________GEORGE R. LEYES
LOUIS H. HRUBY______________________FRANK KELLY
CLIFFORD F. BROWN----------------IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
CHARLES A. LANDMESSER______________JOHN J. MORAN
J. DICKSON MURPHY.---------------HARRY A. BALDWIN
ROBERT L. GROGAN--------------ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL
PHILIP F. WELSH------------------JOHN A. GILLESPIE
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST-----------------Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER--------------JAMES A. WALDRON
JOHN L. GLANZNER______________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
GERARD SCHAEFER__________________JAMES McMULLEN
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY-------------------Graduate Manager
September 21, 1934
ON TWO GREAT MEN
Notre Dame has been fortunate with its presidents. Ever since the founding of the University, its presidents have been true priests, fine men, real Catholic gentlemen.
It is scarcely necessary to say that the late Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., not only came up to but towered above these standards. Editorials on his death taken from papers and magazines national in scope and character will be found in the special four page insert devoted to his life. Sufficient for The Scholastic to say that while Notre Dame has lost a great president, it may profit from a review of his life.
.Father O’Donnell’s poetry with its beauty of expression and Christianity of content enriched American Literature. As a teacher he rioted indifference to study by the clarity of his expression and charm of his culture. To athletics he gave perfect understanding. He was, as Gilbert Keith Chesterton put it, “a great priest, a great poet, a great president?’
To Notre Dame he gave his life and by the giving of his life, he has left his own memorial — a great University and the influence of a righteous life.
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. has been chosen to succeed Father O’Donnell. The Scholastic does not believe it rash to predict, even before Father O’Hara has well started on his duties, that he will measure up to the high standards set by his illustrious predecessors. When congratulated by The Scholastic on his appointment, Father O’Hara said, “If the students are satisfied, I suppose I should be; but I find it hard to be reconciled to
Fourteen
being separated from the students.” The keynote of Father O’Hara’s character may be" found in that single statement.
As prefect of religion, Father O’Hara became the personal friend and trusted advisor of practically every student on the campus. For years he published his Religious Bulletin which came to be a source of Catholic inspiration from coast to coast. Naturally he hated to give up this work. Any other man would have been forced to leave it when called to the presidency. Father O’Hara however, with indefatigable and apparently inexhaustable energy, has refused to do so. He still calls students by their first names as he walks across the campus; he is still easily reached by students and is eager to talk over their troubles with them; he still hears confessions for an hour each day.
The Scholastic, backed by a unanimity of opinion among both students and faculty feels that Notre Dame has again been blessed with a great president and that, under him, Notre Dame will go on to still greater heights as the great Catholic center of knowledge and culture.
THE JUGGLER
The Juggler is gone.
That is unfortunate. It is likewise somewhat incongruous. It is difficult to believe that the publication which gave us Lopker’s paintings, Prezebel’s caricatures, Doyle’s drawings, the impressions of an English student and Caf Smoke has passed out of existence. We shall see no more of The Juggler to whom the theatre meant the stages of Chicago and New York rather than the showhouses of Michigan Avenue.
The Scholastic hates to see The Juggler go. The Scholastic, however, realizes that the termination of The Juggler was a necessary and wise step. The Juggler, judged by any reasonable set of standards, was a luxury. The Scholastic holds no brief against luxuries.
We enjoy them as we certainly enjoyed the Juggler. We do not think, however, that when a luxury, subsidized by the university for the amusement of the student body, returns to the university only §5,000 of the S12,000 expended in the cost of its production, it is time to discontinue that luxury. To continue such a thing during these times of depression would be chimerical.
A study of the Juggler’s accounts reveals that the publication was supported from all sources to the extent of 70 per cent of its cost of production. Removing advertising revenue to determine the actual support given by the student body, we find it reaches the low level of 14 per cent. An 86 per cent failure of support would seem to justify the conclusion that the student body lacked interest and simultaneously justifies the action of the University Council.
Before the publication of The Jztggler could be resumed, the seven thousand deflect would have to be wiped out. That, in itself is an unsurmountable barrier. Then if the financial slates were, by some miracle, cleaned again, publication could begin again only on a skimped and restricted budget. The Scholastic is glad that this will not be the case. It is better that The Juggler decease at the height of its career — that it come to its end while it ranks as one of the leading college comics of the country. Last year’s Juggler, in the opinion of many, surpassed all previous issues. It is fitting to end it there rather than to let it roll down the other side of the pinnacle, because of financial troubles, after so many have labored long and ardously to place it at the top of the pinnacle. The entire Jztggler staff feels as does The Scholastic in this matter.
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
FOOR captains naneo LAYDEN WAITS TO SEE PLAYERS IN
AS SPRING LEADERS ACjraN jgf0KE mRIRR PREDICTIONS
F
8-
By Cy Stroker
When practice begins for spring sports early in 1935 each team will have for its captain a man who has shown himself to be outstanding in his field, and one who, with good support on the part of his teammates, should show a good record for his respective Irish team.
For instanace, there is Vince Murphy, captain elect for next spring’s track team. Vince comes from Cleveland where he held the Ohio State high school high jump record. At Notre Dame he holds the record in the same event and his work in competition for the last two years has added many points to the Irish score. With the group of excellent sprinters which Nick anticipates for the season, with Don Elser in the shot put event, with Lavicki throwing the javelin and discus, Vince Murphy might make it a banner season for his team.
Dunn, Baseball Leader
Jake Kline’s baseball team was not quite up to par last year but he hopes for an improvement next spring when the new captain, Kieran Dunn, takes his old. position on first base. Last year Dunn was without a doubt the most cosistent player on the team. His work on the initial sack made him the team’s most valuable defense instrument while his batting average far exceeded that of any other man on the team.
The captain-elect for the Irish tennis team is Frank Weldon, one of the four men to receive monograms in that sport last year. Weldon played in every match in last year’s season, several times bringing victory to an otherwise mediocre team. He will be backed this year by two veterans of last season’s play, Joe Waldron and Joe Prendergast.- With these two men to aid his own excellent playing Weldon will probably bring his netmen through a successful season.
If he returns, Johnny Banks will lead the Notre Dame golfers this year in an effort to beat the almost unbeatable record of the Irish teams of the last three years. Banks is without a doubt the best player at Notre Dame this year. Shooting consistently in the low seventies, he was the team’s chief standby last year. A year ago last summer he was a member of the Irish team which won third honors in the National Intercollegiate tournament held in Buffalo.
1934 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Oct. 6—Texas at Notre Dame.
Oct. 13—Purdue at Notre Dame.
Oct. 20—Carnegie Tech at Notre Dame.
Oct. 27—Wisconsin at Notre Dame.
Nov. 3—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
Nov. 10—Navy at Cleveland.
Nov. 17—Northwestern at Evanston.
Nov. 24—Army at New York.
Dec. 8—So. California at Los Angeles.
de Landero Announces Two Fall Tennis Tournaments
Departing from the custom of last year, which allowed freshmen to play in the Fall Tennis Tournament, Coach Pedro de Landero announced that there will be two fall tournaments. One is for upper classmen from whom the varsity will be chosen. The other will be for freshmen only and will give the coach a slant on prospective material. A freshmen team is going to be organized this year and the Fall tournament will have some bearing in its selection.
No definite date has been given for the tournaments because inclement weather has hindered play. Notices will be up early next week giving the necessary play. Notices will be up early next week giving the necessary particulars. Competition in the Upperclass tournament is expected to be keen and spirited because of the fine material on hand. Led by Capt. Frank Weldon we have George Cannon, Joe Waldron and Joe Prendergast from last year’s varsity. Besides these men there are fine players like “Red” McNulty and Bill Fallon to furnish the finest in competition.
Football Ticket Sales Are Heavy For All Games
Football ticket sales are heavy this year and crowds are expected at each game. The public is anxious to see Coach Layden and his aides direct the Irish for the first time.
A large turnout is expected for the Texas game when Jack Chevigny brings his Longhorns to battle against his alma mater. The crowd will be augmented by thousands of boy scouts who are invited to attend the opening hattie of the season here.
LINE PRESENTS PROBLEM
By Joe Prendergast
“It is hard to predict just what the boys will do this fall,” thus spoke Notre Dame’s Director- of Athletics and Head Football Coach, Elmer Layden, in response to the opening
Elmer F. Layden
“. . . . spirit of the students. . .”
question of the interview granted by him to your correspondent. The new head coach of the Irish stated, “I have never seen my players in action, so it is impossible to say how they will act under trying conditions. A prediction on the season as a whole will have to wait until the team is tested.”
The next question asked was, “What is your hardest problem in moulding together a capable eleven this year?”
Coach Layden replied, “There are many weaknesses which will have to be strengthened before the season opens. The line is the biggest problem right now. Outside of our ends the material is untried. In the backfield our problem lies at right halfback. The unfortunate death of Johnny Young was a severe blow to the team. George Melinkovich will get a trial at this position and may stick there.”
The next question was, “What are the outstanding qualities you look for in your men?”
To this Coach Layden replied, “Innate ability as players, sportsmanship and gentlemanliness are the outstanding characteristics for which I look.”
(Continued on Page 19)
September 21, 1934
Fifteen
MANAGERS BEGIN WORK AS 65 FROSH REPORT
Last week sixty-five students from all sections of the United States, and even from Canada and the Philippine Island responded to the call of Head Manager George Demetrio for fresh-
Manager George Demetrio
They came from the Philippines.
man managers. The call, however, is still open, thereby giving all freshmen who desire to try out a chance.
The Manager’s Club, whose purpose is to promote close fellowship among the managers, is composed of seven seniors, nine juniors, sixteen sophomores, and the freshmen. In the spring the freshmen will be cut to seventeen.
Juniors To Go on Trips
The senior managers this year are: Football: Demetrio, Tom Thompson, Stadium, Ray Oakes, Equipment; Basketball, Phil Kirley; Track, Ray Keating; Baseball, Carl Weber; and Minor Sports, Tom Walsh.
The junior managers include Burke, Gillespie, Kelley, Kenny, Manning, Payton, Stillwagon, Torribio, Wirry.
Demetrio wishes to notify the managers that after the football season they will continue on in the other sports. He also wishes to announce that the most competent of the sophomore and junior managers ■will be taken on some of the trips this year. Another new policy is the placing of the higher class in charge of the ensuing class. The senior managers will receive monograms as usual.
Frosh. Football
On hundred freshmen football aspirants reported this week to frosh coaches, Jake Kline, Thomas “Kitty” Gorman, Ed Vizral, and Hughie Devore.
At present the yearlings are occupied in fundamental football. Later they will learn plays of the varsity’s opponents and display them for Layden’s crew.	• •'■ .	.
Sixteen •:
Johnny Banks Absent as Annual Fall Golf Tournament Begins
Melinkovich Returns to N. D. After Year of Vacationing And Extensive Travelling
George Melinkovich, who played frosh ball under the great Rockne, and then went on to be a major cog of Hunk Anderson’s first two teams, has returned to the Campus to help lighten the load of Coach Layden.
In his sophomore year, Mink was sensational as a coming All-American. Then in 1932 he lived up to expectations by being included on the roster of nearly every All-American in the country. Few upper classmen will forget his epic 98 yard touchdown return of Northwestern’s kickoff that year.
Took European Baths
At the conclusion of the ’32 season, Mink suffered the kidney infection that was to drive him from the gridiron wars of last year. Not discouraged, he spent the major part of the winter resting, nursing himself back into condition for the comeback he intended. Spring found him again enrolled, but something, very evidently, was lacking in the Mink of ’32. So this summer he spent in Karlsbad in the company of Dr. Deno O’Connor, taking health cures and baths. Now he’s ready.
Coach Layden intends . to use George at fullback, his old post. . There, alternating with Elser and Ca-rideo, the football world should soon ring again with the name of Melinkovich. '
Coach de Landero Optimistic Over Fencing Team Outlook
“I believe we are going to have a strong team this year,” stated Mr. de Landero when asked about the fencing team of which he is the coach. Two experts, Captain Ryan and . his classmate Martersteck, were lost through graduation las year. Harold May’s fencing talent will be-missed . this year as he did not return to Notre Dame.	- .
Despite these facts Mr. de Landero is. optimistic.' He, places his faith in four or five promising sophomores. As yet no schedule: has been made because of the fact that fencing .season, from the end of January till April, is. too far in advance to make plans.
...--Mr. de Landero wishes to see all students who are interested in fenc-. ing in" the boxing room of the gym-liasiuni on Sept. 24 between three and four o’clock.	: ■
WILL START TOMORROW
Elaborate plans for an extensive fall golfing program have been released by Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., faculty adviser of this sport. Occupying the spotlight will be the Fifth Annual Medal Play Tournament to determine the .fall golfing champion. The defending champion, Johnny Banks, captain of this year’s varsity, has not as yet returned to school, so a new champion will probably be crowned.
Tourney of 72 Holes
The tourney is to be of 72 holes played on four days, 18 each day. Play begins on Saturday, Sept. 22, and continues the next day Sunday, Sept. 23. Play is then suspended until Saturday, Sept. 29 and Sunday, Sept. 30. Former winners of the fall tournament are, Larry Moller in 1930, Joseph Switzer in 1931, Win Day in 1932, and Johnny Banks in 1933. Medals are to be given the school champ and the winners of second, third and fourth places. Contestants must play on the day specified, . and the card turned into the club.
Along with the Fall championship, a handicap tournament is to be run. There is to be two cards of 18-holes each. The winner of the handicap contest, likewise, will receive a medal. These tournaments will help to uncover any talent hitherto unnoticed and to get a line on the calibre of the incoming Frosh. Father Holderith announces the organization of a Freshihan Team this week. They will play the varsity in one or two matches this fall.
Prospects for next year’s varsity-are very promising. Golfers of note who are back in school include Win Day, the Chicago boy who went to the . quarter-finals of the National Amateur this fall, Pat Malloy, Herman Green, Bill Cole and Capt. Johnny Banks, if .he returns. From last year’s . Frosh we have, Kenny Morine who qualified in the National Open, . Harry Baldwin, Lou Fehlig, John Marbach and Tom Doyle.
The-request is made that the men ' play a little faster with so many on the course... If a ball is lost, permit' the. faster players to go through. Aft-’ .er holing out move off the green as quickly as possible.
- Appointed Coach
.' Jim. Harris, former star Irish guard, was recently appointed to the . position of line coach at Holy Cross
College. .	. ’
Scholastic
The
NOTRE DANE FOURTH IN NATIONAL GOLF MEET
Gridmen Begin Daily Workouts In Preparation For Texas Game
By Robert J. Donahue
The 36th annual tournament of the National Intercollegiate Golf Association attracted an unusually fine field to the Country Club of Cleveland last June and introduced to big-time golf many new names which are sure to be heard of in future tournament play. This year’s show was singular in that for the first time in its history the team championship left the East, and was only the second time that it had evaded the Big Three— Yale, Harvard and Princeton—Dartmouth having won in 1921.
The University of Michigan was this years winner with a team total of 614 strokes. Yale, the defending champion, finished second with 617, while Georgia Tech’s four man aggregation scored 618 for third honors. Notre Dame was fourth with 625.
. Banks and Fehlig Advance
Notre Dame qualified five men for the individual championship, more than any other team entered, when Pat Malloy won out in a playoff with-four others for the 32nd position in the rankings. Pat’s par four on the first extra hole was good enough to get him into the match play bracket but lady fortune deserted him the following day and he lost on a 2-1 count to Frank Ridley. The same morning Win Day was engaging Charley Yates (the ultimate winner of the tourney) in a hotly contested match. The southern boy established a one-up margin on Day early in the round and the latter’s pai- golf was not quite good enough to dispose of the advantage. In his .first round match Johnny Montedonico turned one-up on Weatherwax of Yale, then, after shooting nine consecutive pars, found himself on the short end of a one-down score.
Both Banks and Fehlig advanced to the second round, Johnny disposing of Wood (Princeton) 2-1 and Vince winning from Ryden (U.C.L.A.) on the nineteenth green.
The second round matches of the Notre Dame survivors .gave spectators some real thrills. Banks encountered stiff opposition -from Fred Newton (Rollins College) and their match was tied up at the end of 18. A huge gallery followed this twosome away from the clubhouse to witness the play on the extra holes and were rewarded for their trouble .when, on the 21st Johnny holed out a 35~yard recovery from a sand trap to score a birdie and a one up victory.
The crowd, still marvelling at John-ny’s great win, paused on their homeward trek to witness another great Notre Dame finish. Captain Fehlig had played 17 holes with D. P. Seeley of Michigan and came to the 18th
September 21, 1934
Win Day, Twice Winner of Fall Golf Tourney, Gives The Country’s Best a Scare
Winfield Day returned to the campus this week after planting the Irish colors deep in the rankings of the National Amateur Golf Tournament. The slender Elmhurst Illinois junior survived five rounds before bowing to Reynolds Smith, Dallas Texas, one up at the twentieth green.
By tying for medal honors in the Chicago district ‘ qualifying round, Day was entitled to represent that district in the match play at Brookline, Mass. His score over the 36 holes at Chicago was 150.
This latest move by Notre Dame’s number one golfer was well forecast by his record here. Day has captured the Campus fall tournament title for the past two years, and is the only man ever to win the championship twice. His one year record on the Notre Dame varsity also broods ill for unclaimed title cups in the future.
with neither man holding an advantage. Then the Fehlig determination came to the fore and Vinny ran down a 25-foot chip to gain a one up decision on the Michigan lad. By this time the spectators were convinced that the short irons of the Irish golfers were charmed in some magic way, and old golfing heads shook wisely and words were muttered to the effect that nothing is final in golf except the last putt (or maybe chip shot).
In the third round of match play Banks met Ed White of Texas and was forced into extra holes for the second time. At the end of the first nine the match stood even. White was one up at the end of eighteen, Johnny was one up at the end of 27 and the match was squared again at th 36th green. On the extra hole White laid a perfect stymie and the long grind was over.
In the meantime Vince Fehlig was having a most busy day with Frank Ridley of Georgia Tech, but the former’s best efforts weren’t quite good enough and Vince lost out 4-2. Ridley met his conqueror the-next day in the person of a fellow teammate, Charley Yates, who was to go on to the finals and win out over Ed White for the championship.
The Notre Dame scores in the two qualifying rounds follow:
Johnny Banks ---------74 77—151
Win. Day -____________77 .80—157
., Vince Fehlig  ---‘——80 78—158
John Montedonico -----80 78—158
- Bill Veeneman —------S3 -Herman Green — --------—93 S5—178
18 LETTERMEN RETURNED
By Joseph P. Prendergast
Last Monday afternoon to the whirling of newsreel cameras and the flashing of photographer’s bulbs the Notre Dame varsity football squad romped on to Cartier field for the initial practice session of the year. This is the official opening of the football season at Notre Dame.
Elmer Layden, new head coach, and his staff of assistants are faced with a tremendous task in moulding together an outfit that is confronted with another of those “death at first sight” schedules. On the sixth day of next month Notre Dame opens at home against the Texas Longhorns. Then on successive Saturdays will be met Purdue, Carnegie Tech, and Wisconsin—all home games. Pittsburgh, Navy, Northwestern, and Army will then follow with the Laydenmen playing way on these four week-ends. On Dec. 8, two weeks after the Army game, Southern California will be met in Los Angeles to wind up the season.
Veteran Ends on Hand
The coaching staff has eighteen lettermen back, losing twelve by graduation and another by the unfortunate death of Johnny Young last July. A fair season is the prediction of the coaches because of the lack of experienced material in the line, other than the ends.
Tom Conley, end coach, will have four veterans to take care of those posts in Captain Dominic Vairo, Marty Peters, Wayne Millner, and Irwin Davis. All four are monogram men and are not causing the staff any worries.
The tackle positions were hard hit by graduation, both Tom Roach and Ed Krause, All-American tackle, terminating their duties. John Michuta, reserve tackle of last year, is back and battling for a starting assignment. Pfefferle, a monogram winner in 1932, cannot be counted on heavily because of a bothersome trick shoulder which goes haywire under pressure. Bill Steinkemper, a sophomore from Mt. Carmel High, Chicago; will be heard from before the season is over. Other tackle candidates include: Joe Sullivan, Ken Stilley, Frank Kopczak, Harry Becker, Art Cronin, and Carl Esser.
To fill the guard duties there is only one monogram winner, Rocco Schiralli — product of Gary and a tough, fast ball player. Joe Boland, line coach, will have the following players from which to solve this guard puzzle: Dick Shamla, Bill
(Continued on Page 20)
5 event een
By Joseph P. Prendergast
Calumet, Michigan; home of the immortal George Gipp, Hunk Anderson, Ojay Larson; and now Dominic Martin Vairo, captain of this year’s football team.
The present product of northern Michigan is a worthy contribution to cany on the sterling football play which has been set by his predecessors. The captain is a strapping big boy, tipping the scales at 195, and standing six foot one, minus shoe leather. Quiet and unassuming are his ways off the gridiron, but a real
hustler and a fine -leader are his marks once the moleskins are donned.
Calumet High claimed Vi in 1927,, and for the next four years he just about stole the show in everything in which he participated. During these four years he excelled in football, basketball, tennis, track and hockey, and still is rated as one of the greatest athletics produced in those parts.
Vi received his first taste of Notre Dame football on October 15, 1932, when he started at left end for the shock troops against Drake University. Notre Dame walloped the Bulldogs on this particular afternoon, 62-0.
It was in the Northwestern game of this same year that Dom had his greatest thrill of football. The Irish were leading Pug Rentner and his lads 7-0 by virtue of George Melinko-vich’s 98-yard runback of the opening kickoff. It was late in the first
period, with Notre Dame in possession of the ball on Northwestern’s 24-yard line. The forty-odd thousand chilled spectators were bellowing for action. Three times Koken and Shee-ketski tried the line but met a stone wall on each assault. Jaskwhich called for a pass on the fourth down. Koken threw it and Vairo (Continued on Page 20) . .
FOOTBALL MEN FIND VARIED SUMMER WORK
By James A. Waldron
From truck drivers to sun-tanned life-guards at favorite bathing beaches, from ice-men to tax collectors range the favorite summer occupations of Notre Dame football men. These are only a few of the many jobs. The honor of having the only “white collar” job of the group went to Paul Shrenker who held down a position in the State’s Attorney’s Office at Chicago.
The Windy City also laid claim to Mike Layden as assistant Engineer at the Chicago Sanitary District after he had performed, life - guard duties at Davenport, Iowa. At a closer scrutiny one would have seen Harry Pojman, Dom Vairo, and Andy Pilney, conditioning themselves for the coming season by laying pipes for the Pipe Extension Company. Turn south to Bellaire, Ohio and you would have found Ray Bonar performing his dangerous pastime of re. pairing and stringing high tension wires.
Melinkovich Tours Europe
For Notre Dame truck drivers, take your pick: Marty Peters at Peoria, Hl., Wayne Millner at Salem, Mass., and Fred Carideo at Mount Vernon, N. Y. Way up in Waterville, Maine, a keen-eyed observer would have spotted Frank Gaul at his familiar catching position when he wasn’t repairing those Maine roads. On a ranch at Tooele, Utah, the stentorian voice of George Melinkovich sang “git along little doagie, git along” when he wasn’t strolling on the Rue de La Paix in Paris.
Only one man followed in the footsteps of the great “Red” Grange and worked as an ice-man. Matt Themes shouldered his ice at Cincinnati, Ohio. Some distance south that mountaineer, Wally Fromhart, was employed by a gas company of Weston, West Virginia.
Leave it to Bill “the Bard” Shakespeare to pick a job immortalized in poem and song, the Stevedore. Bill made the Proctor and Gamble docks at New York his headquarters for the summer. Across town to Belle Harbor, Rockaway, to find a bevy of girls gazing at the easy-going lifeguard. It is hard to realize that this very same person becomes Joe Sullivan, a real fighting Irishman, the tackle at Notre Dame. Down yonder in New Orleans, Joe Beach sold ads for a newspaper.
Stop off at Louisville, Kentucky, for the “pause that refreshes” and you would have found Harry Becker at the Coco-Cola factory. Many delinquent bill payers at Gary, Ind.,
■ (Continued on Page 20)
Eighteen
The' Scholastic
SILENT JOHNNY YOUNG GREAT LOSS TO IRISH
“Hello Tex."
“Hyuh Boy!”
It made no difference to Tex Young whether you were a dignified senior or a lowly freshman. His genial greeting on the campus was always the same. Quiet, yet affable, he was always the typical southern gentleman. His phenomenal success on the gridiron brought him wide acclaim and publicity, but the idea that he was better than anyone else at Notre Dame never seemed to enter his head. That is why everyone liked Johnny. That is why his death is such a loss to all who knew him.
Outstanding Back Last Fall
Johnny Young came to Notre Dame with a record which stamped him as one of the outstanding athletes of the southwest. As a football man he played practically every minute for three years on the team of St. Thomas Academy in Houston. As a baseball player he was the star pitcher on the team for two years. Tex was also captain of the football and baseball teams foi' two years.
Last year was Tex’s first season on the Notre Dame varsity, but in that one short season he made a name for himself that will be remembered for years to come. The game with Purdue was the first one in .which he figured importantly, making as much yardage as the combined forces of the other* Notre Dame backs. In the ill-fated Navy game, Tex made eighty-eight yards in twenty-two attempts and, although the Irish lost the game, this feat made him the outstanding player on the field that day. He also showed well in the games with Northwestern, Pitt, and Southern California. As right half-back, his blocking was superb and his work on defense was largely responsible for the inability of stronger teams to thoroughly crush the comparatively weak Irish team.
True Notre Dame Man
No man on the squad had a brighter future ahead of him than Johnny Young. In spring practice last year his work was so excellent that Coach Layden said of him, “He was the finest all-around back on our squad. . . . Not only was he a good player, but his morale on the field served to bolster the spirit of the entire squad.”
Gentlemanly, studious, deeply religious, and a good athlete, perhaps no greater tribute can be given to Johnny Young than to say that he was a true Notre Dame man.
Sports Staff
All members of the Sport staff are requested to attend the meeting at 7:00 p.m. tonight in the Scholastic offices.
September 21, 193 4
IdNTCPS
FROM THE
d^RESS BOX
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
ONE VIEW
With practically all Notre Dame football traditions and outstanding achievements relegated to the most remote background, the Irish approach the coming season with a clean slate, the determination to win, and a group of coaches well schooled in the minutest intricacies of the game and how to impart them to the players.
Just what can be expected of the 1934 Fighting Irish has puzzled many, and despite the thorough and sincere gloom that has enveloped Layden and associates, we picture the situation thus: Notre Dame should do no worse than five victories and no better than seven in the nine game card. Purdue, Pittsburgh, Army, and Southern California are the teams that will make or break Vairo and Co., according to our way of thinking. Of these four, the Boilermakers and Trojans appear most liable to administer the skids.
Picking any team to defeat another before even the opening games have been played is rather a risky undertaking simply because too many factors may enter into the picture before the actual play has begun. Not the least of these factors is injury to someone playing a key position. Ineligibility isn’t exactly a novice either as a coach’s dream wrecker. Regardless of any risk which is to be undertaken, we’ll stick to what has been said because we feel the Irish will come through behind The Zipper, in whom Notre Dame has unbounded confidence.
9
StlLL DANGEROUS
A bouquet for the local golf team for its accomplishments in the National Intercollegiates at Cleveland in June. They didn’t bring home the team trophy nor - the individual title, but they did return with tbeir reputation as dangerous golfers intact. No Irish opponent figured on that next round of play until the final putt was holed.
Win Day, varsity ace, kept his clubs polished and in use later in the vacation period. In the. Western Junior, Win was defeated on the twenty-first hole by Bobby Jones of Detroit, conqueror of Francis Ouimet in the U. S. Amateur. The climax came when the Elmhurst youth tied Wilfred Wherle for the Chicago district medal in the qualifying rounds
INTERHALL FOOTBALL SEASON NEARS START
The interhall football season is tentatively scheduled to swing into action on October 7. Lyons will attempt to repeat and gain her second consecutive championship.
With enthusiasm at a high pitch throughout the campus, record squads are expected to report from each hall. It is rumored that Sorin, traditionally dormant, will loom as a dangerous threat for interhall honors.
The league will be divided into two groups, with the winner of each group meeting in the stadium for the interhall championship.
The schedule for the season will soon be posted in the various halls. Games will be played on both Sunday mornings and afternoons. Equipment will be issued to all gridders within the next two weeks.
The coaches of the interhall teams are: Walsh, Wade; Corby, Salerno; Sorin, Velcheck; Badin, Commisa; Howard, Crotty; Alumni, Walker; St. Edward’s, Hughes; Morrissey, Shiel; Lyons, Tancredi; Freshman, Don-nino; Brownson, Hawley; Carroll, Wentworth; Off Campus, Hauser; Dillon, Palkovic.
of the U. S. Amateur. In the match play at Brookline, Day was one of sixteen remaining from a starting field of over 150 when he faltered. Such a performance is hard to equal.
•
PREDICTIONS
Because of the scarcity of opening games tomorrow and for the reason that those which will be played are too simple, we will postpone our first forecasts until next week. A slight innovation will be introduced in this department. We don’t crave to lead with the chin to the extent of picking, or trying to pick, exact scores. We’ll be content to choose the team that should win and pray that it will. Will anyone with a reliable system of predicting please communicate?
LAYDEN INTERVIEW
(Continued from Page 15)
We know the student body will back the team to the limit, as the team reflects the enthusiasm of the student body. The players are the representatives of the student body and the University as a whole on the football field. Some ball games this fall will be pulled out of the fire with victory as the outcome because of the spirit shown by the students. Games have been won against impossible odds when the students showed the spirit and dash — the players caught it and went on to win. The spirit of the students is what counts.”
Nineteen
On Down The Line
By Jim McMullen
Here’s a tip for the wise boys— EARLE SANDE, the famous exjockey, says the only true way to tell a horse’s condition is by a study of his eyes — and Earle has looked into the optics of equines for years. . . . The weather has been playing hob with the sport world recently. Rain caused the fourth postponement of the ROSS - McLARNIN fight, a new record for outdoor cancellations. . . . The English sloop, the ENDEAVOUR beat the American RAINBOW in the first leg of the AMERICA’S CUP, but it didn’t count—the wind was so light, both boats were over the required finishing time. . - -FRED PERRY of England became the second foreigner to win the National Singles Title two times in succession _ RENE LACOSTE did the trick in 1926-27. . . . Railway officials can afford to smile. Coast ELEVENS must travel 71,546 miles this season. . . . The CHICAGO BEARS are robbing the cradle — their new tackle, DICK DAVIS was a student of the Pennsylvania Military academy. He weighs only 270 pounds.
Did you know that ARTHUR “WHATAMAN” SHIRES, generally recorded as a disturber, was praised at a meeting of umpires recently. . . . And that FRANK SHIELDS is known as the most polite of all tennis players, while FRANKIE PARKER, “the child of the courts” has the most poker of all poker faces. . . . Speaking of SHIRES, his brother CARL, now enrolled at NORTHWESTERN, threatens to become a football luminary. . . . LAWSON LITTLE became the third man ever to hold both the British and American Amateur Golf titles in one year. He joins BOBBY JONES and HAROLD HILTON. . . . SCHOOLBOY ROWE, the DETROIT TIGER’S sensational youngster, was the first pitcher to hold victories over each of the other seven clubs in piecing together his 16 consecutive wins.
CHICK HAFEY and JIM BOTTOMLEY, of the Cincinnati Reds, roommates for years, have gone tin pan alley—they are song writers now —and what songs 1 . . . BRYAN “BITSY” GRANT, one of the gamest little fighters in big time tennis, has decided to retire and enter business. Grant Sr. says his son has been wasting too much time. . . . More, than twenty years ago, JACK DALTON SR., admittedly the best back in NAVY history, was breaking lines for the MIDDIES, and now his son is wearing the blue and gold as a plebe. . . . JOHNNY BROACA, of the YANKEES, claims to be the world’s worst hitter. When JOHNNY even touches the ball with his bat, the fans cheer. . . . Add to the names of TROSKY, VOSMIK, and PYTLAK, the name of
Twenty
MILTON GALATZER, and you will have just one more difficult name on the CLEVELAND INDIANS’ roster.
Good news for Coast pigskin bugs! Ten cent football will be seen in San Francisco for the second year when ST. MARY’S and NEVADA play there, Oct. 13. . . . HARRY DUBLIN-SKY, who thrashed TONY CANZONERI at New York in August, has 13 brothers and sisters. ... In 1922 at the NATIONAL AMATEUR, Brookline, Mass. JESSE GUILFORD pulled on high hip rubber boots, used his mashie on the greens and played a round of golf that will never be forgotten. His 70 still stands as a course record. Did you say mud, MR. LITTLE? ... Here’s a queer one-After several famous doctors had professed their inability to remove a corn from the toe of JIMMY JORDAN, of the Dodgers, DOC SLADE, Cincinnati second baseman, amputated the corn with his spikes, following an attempted steal. . . . “NOBE” KIZER’S Purdue Eleven had the best scoring average in the Conference last season, with 12 points per game. . . . Jockey PAUL KEESTER, now one of America’s leading riders, is also a scientific boxer. . . . IRVING KECPCINCH should be a cinch for the All-American this year. He is publicity man as well as a fullback at North Dakota University. . . . More than $1000 was mailed and wired DIZZY DEAN to pay a recent fine assessed him. . . . The DETROIT TIGERS get much mail now that they are on top of the heap. One letter strongly recommended a pitching phenom in WEST VIRGINIA. A scout hurried to the town to sign up the boy. He was pitching softball.
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
(Continued from Page IS)	■
hurriedly changed their minds when they saw as bill collectors, Don Elser and Rocco Schiralli at the door. Realizing the importance of condition, the majority of candidates sought the hardest kinds of labor. Tony Maz-zicti sawed wood; Dan Hanley worked in an iron mill at Butte, Montana; Art Cronin shoveled coal for a company in Detroit; Ken Stil-ley worked in a foundry at Clairton, Pa.; Fred Solari improved roads in Boston.
In contrast to these tough sounding jobs, Dick Pfefferle was a baker for the housewives of Appleton, Wis., Sonny Church worked on a playground in North Plainfield, New Jersey. To prove that New Jersey’s products aren’t all mosquitoes, Bill Smith made cement blocks in a factory at Hackettstown. On coming back to the campus we would find that Michuta and Davis, two promising aspirants for Coach Layden’s “New Deal” team, had done a painting job in the gym that belies their amateur ranking in that field.
FOOTBALL
(Continued from Page 17)
Smith, Jim Martin, Cy Connors, Paul Schrenker, Sonny Church, Joe McMahon, and Fred Weidner.
The center fight shapes up as a three cornered battle. Fred Solari, monogram winner; Harry Pojman and Tom Dunn are the likely looking candidates. If Jack Robinson stellar center of the ’32 campaign returns to school this spot would cause no worry but this is highly uncertain.
The backfield problem is less involved than the line riddle. George Melinkovich is back sound and healthy after his sickness which kept him out of competition last fall. He will have ample opportunity to prove whether he is still one of the game’s leading fullbacks. Fred Carideo and Don Elser, two other great fullbacks are present to do right by Coach Layden.
At right halfback Al Costello, Tony Mazziotti, Joe Beach, and Dan Hanley are the outstanding men. Backfield coach Chet Grant will have Andy Pilney, Bill Shakespeare, and Mike Layden for. left halfback.
Quarterbacks are present in the persons of Ray Bonar, Frank Gaul, Ed Caldwell, Wally Fromhart, George Moriarity and Bill Bruno.
The schedule is as tough as they come, the material is fair with a decided lack of experienced linemen; so a fair season ahead is the only alternative of Coach Elmer Layden and his assistants.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page IS)
speared it, and stepped across the goal line to put Notre Dame out front 13-0. This was the first touchdown he scored for the Irish and was, according to Vi, the biggest kick of his football days.
Vi in 1931 didn’t bother to report for freshman football, not believing he was good enough for the club. In his sophomore year he was persuaded to give it a try, and the result has been two years on the varsity, with the captaincy of the eleven his reward at the beginning of his third straight season.
The past summer saw Dom laboring in an asphalt plant in Chicago. He is 20 years of age, is in the school of Commerce at the University, and has intentions of becoming a coach after graduation.
Rascher to Sox
Norbert Rascher, ’34, prominent in football and baseball at Notre Dame has been signed by the Chicago White Sox and sent to the Dallas Steers in the Texas League subject to recall. Norb played both end and tackle in football and won two monograms.
The Scholastic
Fountain Pens
and Pencils
Made by the Parker Pen Co.
Parkette
Pens
$1.25
Made by the same precision process as the rest of the Parker line, fourteen kt. gold points—“writing tested.” Handsome barrels in latest color effects, including the popular pearl finishes; all mounted in fine gold-filled trimmings. A most outstanding value!
The latest sensation in Fountain Pens!
Vacuum Pen
Regular $2.50 Value
98c
Newest vacuum-fill pen holds 3 times as much ink and will not leak; has no rubber sac to spoil. Writes evenly — fine 14 kt. solid gold iridium-tipped pen. Unbreakable transparent barrel shows constant ink supply. Newest shape barrels in choice of colors.
VARSITY AUTOMATIC PENCILS
“Three-action” automatic pencil—pro-pels, repels, expels. Beautiful non-break- k able barrels in choice of colors.......
Meet and
Eat at
Walgreen’s
^alareen.
DRUG W STORES P]
You’re always welcome at
Walgreen’s
208 N. Michigan
South Bend
L. Newman, Mgr,
September 21, 1934
Twenty-one
K. C. MAKE PLANS FOR COMING SCHOOL YEAR
Formal opening of the Notre Dame Council No. 1477 of the Knights of Columbus will take place Sunday, September 23, with a Communion breakfast. The knights will receive Holy Communion in a body at the nine o’clock Mass which will be celebrated for Brother Joseph J. Locke, deceased, and for the deceased father of Brother Albert G. Phaneuf. Breakfast will be served in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall.
A meeting of the officers was held this week, and extensive plans were formed to make this one of the most outstanding years in the history of the council. The usual plans for entertainment throughout the year have been enlarged upon to include many events which should interest every member. The bi-weekly meetings will be conducted in accordance with new plans which will make each meeting exceptionally intersting.
In the near future, the council will begin a membership drive. Each hall will be canvassed, and the council hopes to double its membership. Officers hope to make three initiation classes possible during the year. Many members have been lost through graduation or failure to return to school.
SUMMER LIBRARY LIST
FEATURES BOOK BY
ROOSEVELT
Miss Marie Lawrence, of the circulation department of the University library, is on a leave of absence for one year to pursue a course of graduate study at the University of Michigan library. Miss Lawrence will be replaced by Miss Gertrude McDougall.
Miss Mabel Reinhardt, formerly assistant cataloguer, is promoted to reference librarian in which capacity she will assist all students seeking particular references.
Throughout the past summer many new books were added to the library, a complete list of which may be found on the circulation desk.
Among the new books Social Studies by Burton Confrey, a former professor of English and Education here at Notre Dame, has been added to the sociological division.
Notable other new books are:
Fiction: Zane Grey, Code of the West; William Rollins, The Shadow Before; Sheila Kaye Smith, Superstition Comer.
Short Stories: Ring Lardner, First and Last.
History: Cecil Fairfield Lowell, A
7 tv enty-tw o
Biography of the Greek People; Franklin D. Roosevelt, On Our Way.
Essays: Alexander Woolcott, While Rome Burns; Leonard Feeney, Fish on Friday.
Commerce: Max Isaac Rubinow, The Quest for Security.
Sociology: Burton Confrey, Social Studies.
Religion: Rev. Karl Adam, The Son of God; William Joseph McGucken, S.J., The Catholic Way in Education.
Biography: William Henry O’Connell, Cardinal, Recollections of Seventy Years.
Painting and Engraving: Rivera Diego, Portrait of America.
Civilization and Culture: Paul Radin, The Racial Myth.
Economics: Fortune (periodical) “Understanding the Big Corporations”; Sheed and Ward, A Sliced and Ward Survey; George Henry Soule, The Coming American Revolution; Frank A. Vanderlip, ' Tomorroiv’s Money.
Medicine and Psychiatry: Edmund Jacobson, You Must Relax.
Physics: Sir William Shaw, The Drama of Weather.
Announcing-— the appointment of “PAT” RIGLEY (’26) as our exclusive campus representative.
Again we bring you a complete line of correct woolens to select from— styled and tailored to fit you.
Hundreds of Notre Dame men are satisfied Nash customers. May we show you our new Fall lines? We shall be glad to call, — or you may choose, at your leisure, from our wide range of patterns and fabrics at our show rooms —
542 Associates Building.
Phone 3-2644
23.50
27=50
33=50
38.50
Some importations at $42.50
GOLDEN RULE
p WASH p
■J	c I N C I N N A.T I - - O H I O '
Ine notion}!kulo’t

9 t
/
I
From the choi 'u tobaccos—on| used in Luckm< leaves—they cin
«E®«n»

Cash Awards To Enhance Collegiate
Digest's 1934-1935 Feature Contests
The Scholastic is pleased to announce the inclusion again this year of the Collegiate Digest, the rotogravure supplement popular with our readers last year.
The first issue besides including its usual “national collegiate news in picture and paragraph,” opens with three new features, “’Tis True,” devoted to unusual things of interest in the college world, an All American Football team to be selected by the students themselves, and “Microguesses,” a series of photographic studies taken under a microscope. The “Report Card, miniature reviews of books, theatre, radio and movies, has been changed. Later men’s fashions, crossword puzzles and cartography subjects of various colleges will be published.
Cash awards will be paid by the Collegiate Digest for material accepted—S5.00 for each “ ’Tis True” item, §10.00 for suitable cross word puzzles, and S1.00 for snapshots of stu
dent or faculty activities suitable for publication.
Material is to be mailed direct to the Collegiate Digest Section and not to the Scholastic. The address is Post Office Box 472, Madison, Wise.
The All. American Football Team to be selected by Collegiate Digest readers will be the first All American to be chosen by the undergraduates of the Institutions those teams represent. '
Each Collegiate Digest reader is permitted to make a selection of his or her Collegiate Digest All American team. In case spectacular playing by some individual or team changes your first choice, you are free to submit another list. One complete team may be selected each week.
To the eleven men receiving the most votes for their particular positions, Collegiate Digest will present gold medals signifying their selection by the undergraduates of the United States as the Collegiate Digest AllAmerican football team for 1934.
Bill the Barber
Bill’s Campus Barber Shop in Badin Hall will be open from 7:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. until the start of the football season. Bill boasts of five experienced barbers this year in addition to an excellent bootblack.
This Year . . .
the doctor in charge of the .
Campus Radio Shop will be
WILLIAM O’SULLIVAN ▼
You’ll find us in Morrissey Hall, temporarily in Room 425. Bring in that ailing set before the rush begins!
CAMPUS CELEBRITY
DO BEAUTIFUL WOMEN RUN AWAY
FROM YOU? /
Are You Dull, Badly Dressed, Slipping Socially? You Need These Amazing New Fun-Treatments!
WHATEVER he does—-he does with style and form. .-Like- Stetson’s, campus, celebrity—.The Bantam;?.Air-light; Two ounces of. quality.felt; Snap the brim down. Shape the 'crown to. your h e a r t ’ s d e s i r e. ?Yo u ’ 11 w e ar < i t. e v e r y wh e re;
, THE STETSON BANTAM $ £ THE STETSON PLAYBOY O
OTHER STETSON’S $5 AND UP
John B. Stetson Company
W Hundreds of men, formerly doomed to unwilling dullness, are now brilliant * raconteurs, gourmets, bon viveurs, beaux, and irresistible conversationalists.
You, too, can become a dazzling cotillion leader this easy new way! Get in the Social Register! Get in the Brain Trust! Get in the money! Thanks to Esquire, even most hopeless cases of dullness, provincialism, mental inactivity, insufficient belly-laughs, now quickly cured. Improvement begins with first treatment; continues each month. Sparkling articles, stories, cartoons, art and design, by authors and artists who set the pace today.
It is an amazing fact about Esquire that the less you need its treatment the more you like it. Try it today and see.
C^q llUuC-
• ns macaIzink rew mbn
AT ALL THE Better NEWSSTANDS
October Ime Now on Salt
Twenty-four
■ The Scholastic