Try king-size Cavaliers! Feel that sands of smokers everywhere who com-Cavalier mildness, so light, smooth and pared king-size Cavaliers with the ciga-easy! See if you don’t agree with thou- rettes they had been smoking. Yes_
See why, among thousands of smokers interviewed...
Enjoy an extra measure of both sides of smoking pleasure — by switching to king-size Cavaliers. Try them! Find out for yourself that Cavaliers give you complete smoking enjoyment. What a pleasure smoking can be when the smoke feels so mild ... tastes so good! No wonder Cavaliers are winning friends so fast!
Yes, join the thousands who are enjoying the extra mildness and superb flavor of king-size Cavaliers. Get some today!
CAVALIERS ARE KING-SIZE
Ask for the Cavalier “100” metal humidor. Keeps cigarettes fresh and flavorful.
yet priced no higher than leading regular-size brands.
B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
8 OUT OF 10 SAID
CAVALIERS ARE MILDER!
; 'Scholastic
Vol. 96
May 6, 1955
e
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized bmr 23. 1918.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor
PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
I JOHN ADAMS .................   News
| ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News ' | PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ......    Copy
: j CHARLES McKENDRICK .....................
............................ Assistant	Copy ' JOSEPH CONNOLLY _______________________Features
• KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager / PETER STURTEVANT ............. Photo	Editor
^JIM FITZGERALD .........................
j	________ Photography Coordinator
,	,	CARL SCHAEFER .............Circulation
|	JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
. ' . ,==
:	|	Member of Catholic School Press Association, As-
. sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national ;	I	advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.,
‘	i	420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
■ THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the :	school year, except during vacation and examina-
! tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-(Adress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185,
. . ^Notre Dame, Indiana.
’ ■ NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Buck Harriss, Jerrold I Hilton., Jack Hugh, Ed Joyce, David Kubal. James 1 Lenox, Jim Loeffler, James McDonald, John Mc-\ Mahon, James Murphy, Thomas Quinn, Jim Stein-trager, Dave Thompson, Paul Underkofler. Ray
J Walsh.
/ SPORTS STAFF: Dave Davin, Bob Early, Kit Eckl, I John Glavin, Jim Goethals, Jack Gueguen, Ray j Lescher, Joe Madigan, Bob McDonald, Vince Nai-I moli, Joe Norton, and Bob Parnell.
fl BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon and Loran j? Sheffer.
; , ^Our Cover: 01’ Sol is back in Northern ' | ™Indiana temporarily and so is the spring ; social season. Our cover depicts a few j | dates to remember — a happy-looking Frosh couple brings back memories of that already past successful “Hawaiian Holiday,” the big Junior Prom tonight and the glorious Senior Ball on May 13. All this means more lovely young lasses
I around to cheer up and dress up the campus. Picture by John O’Brien; artwork by Al Balmer.
No. 21
The ARROW points to
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Headquarters for Your Arrow Shirts
THIS ARROW SHORT STORY MAKES REAL SUMMER SENSE
Here’s a really smart summer combination... getting more popular every day. Arrow gingham shirts and fine Arrow walking shorts. They’ll keep you cool, and give you comfort when you want it most.
The shorts are comfortable, practical, right in style today. We wouldn’t be surprised to see more shorts than “longs” on most any campus this spring.
Get Arrow walking shorts priced from a mere $3.95 in denim ($5.00 in other fabrics). Get frosty Arrow ginghams, too, from $3.95. Broadcloth check, (left), $5.00.
CASUAL WEAR
SHIRTS & TIES UNDERWEAR HANDKERCHIEFS
ARROW
letters
Seniors

YOUR
Headquarters
FOR
AFTER-SIX Formal Wear
buttons and beaus
BMOC and backbench boys—go for AFTER SIX formals. Styling so trim, fit so "natural" "stainshy” finish so safe from spots! For more fun—go
Special kmilry Service Colored Hose Washed FREE UMIIELBTTE 2(18 East JeHersoi Drop OH Service
EDDIE'S for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
Fie!
Editor:
Please permit an outsider to register utter disgust at the cover drawing on the Scholastic of March 25. (They all can’t be as great as the one on the Feb. 25 issue, I know.) It was truly the most degrading cover I have ever noticed on your otherwise fine little magazine. Not only is the drawing of the well-developed gals in the strapless outfits a damaging eyesore for young men, but just stop to think of the (sometimes irreparable) damage it could do to the thousands of teon-age girls who see it. What good do our Catholic “modesty in dress crusades” accomplish when, with one suggestive drawing on the cover of the student magazine of our leading Catholic univei'sity. you boys just as much as tell the poor little girls: “This is the way our dream girl dresses!” One picture is worth ten thousand words. What a terrible responsibility for the dress and actions of young ladies you may have assumed by this one innocently intended (I am sure) cover. If even one young lady were to use this cover as a criterion for her mode of dress—what then?
... It kind of makes you stop and wonder seriously if our young Catholic men of today intend to be followers of the mob or become real leaders for Christ. What good is their Catholic education doing them anyhow?	'
Ironical, indeed, that such a cover should emerge from a school dedicated to Our Lady. Her dear heart, already too much offended, must have broken just a little bit more at the very sight of it. It seems as though you young men, above all others, because you are there on her campus, should strive primarily to thoughtfully please Our Lady in all things. She loves you all so much. Try then, for her sake, to keep your publication wholesome.
My prayers are with you.
Barbara Frach South Bend
Fie! Fie!
Editor:
Wow! We usually have Scholastic on our library shelves but with S.D.S. campaigns going on and Notre Dame being up on a pedestal, so to speak— as far as the High School is concerned —we refrain from putting the March 25 issue out to view. ’Tisn’t exactly what
(Continued on Page 32)
Take Notice
Special Senior Ball offer
Orchid $ . <i with BoiitonHm *4
other corsages from $2.00
Order Early
from
1-
South Bend Floral 114 So. Michigan CE 3-0227

Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving

I
arvin^
J EWELERS
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202 South Bend, Indiana

V

the week
by Jim O'Shea
.Tjp of the WEEK
It sure is good to get out on the golf course . . .
wanted me to plug East of Eden. I do not intend to do this, mainly because the picture has already ©left town, and also because I don’t use this column to plug movies.
I do want to quote paragraph five of the letter, however, which says: “The people who are brought to stardom in “East of Eden” should prove to be welcome news to drama students, for with this release, Warner Bros, are launching a campaign for new and fresh talent.” ' I thought this was an interesting sentence because I wondered how people could suddenly transform themselves in-©to news without suffering any ill effects, and because I thought it might arouse the curiosity of J. Kinnane, G. Baumer, i E. Gorski, and J. O’Donoghue, all of whom should rush right down to Warner Bros, and sign contracts, because they couldn’t do much worse than that "wonderful new Warner Bros, star,” James Dean.
'If you haven’t guessed, I thought “East of Eden” was a pretty bush ®.»movie.
' Flub of the WEEK
They’re trying to grow grass on the Bog.
Which Reminds Me—
The word is that the new shopping center will be finished soon. This new t edifice, as you know, will enable Notre Dame students to spend all their money without even bothering to go downtown, i (|This is the utmost in campus conven-। ience. Pretty soon we won’t even have to leave the hall. Someone will come around on the day you get your allowance and collect it, and this will save everyone a lot of trouble.
At any rate, it is a wonderful thing to see that the ugly old Bog is now graced with such a beautiful building.
Kukla,------, and Ollie
\ I was very happy to see that Fran ^May 6, 1955
Fan Mail
I received a very interesting letter last WEEK from a fellow who seems to be some sort of publicity agent for Warner Brothers Pictures. I thought at first that he wanted me for one of his pictures (I play bit parts in Cannibal movies) but this was not the case. It seems that the gentleman in question
that “brand new” Warner Bros, release,
Allison is going to be the guest speaker at the Junior Prom Communion Breakfast this Sunday. I think it would be a great idea to have Fran bring Kukla and Ollie along. The breakfast could then be moved into Washington Hall for a special performance, complete with all the Kuklapolitan players—even that guy Cecil Bill, who goes “tui-tui-tui-tui-tui” all the time.
Miss Allison’s appearance does worry me a little bit, though. It may be an indication that the Junior Prom Committee is only a puppet committee and that someone behind the scenes is pulling strings.
Mass Vaccination?
Quoted from the Religious Bulletin: “courtesy is contagious. ... it could flare into an epidemic.” . . . Well, it certainly is good to know that the Notre Dame man is immune to something.
Don’t Worry, Ladies
Many moons ago, I promised the St. Mary’s girls another poem. I have been very lazy about writing this poem, and I have received letters from SMC beauties demanding to know when I will publish it. I hereby promise that the poem will appear in my next column. Since my next column will also be my last column, I may get very sentimental and write something nice. I can’t promise, though, since I usually write this page at three in the morning, and it’s awfully hard to be nice to anyone at that hour.
Decorators Wanted
The Senior Ball Committee will need many men to help decorate the Drill Hall for next WEEK’S festivities. Seniors who want to volunteer should see Jim Griffin in 405 Walsh. If enough men don’t volunteer, we may end up dancing before a backdrop of two-by-four studs. This is all right, of course,
if you don’t mind two-by-four studs, but the lumber is unfinished, and guys who like to dance with their eyes closed may end up getting splinters in some pretty odd places. Since I like to dance with my eyes closed, I appeal to all seniors to help the Committee with the decorations.
To Our Teachers:
Our faculty members vie laud in this song.
Their pay has been meagre, their hours are long.
But last WEEK they got something better than praise—A raise.
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . and lie in the sun.
WWU Mike Chatter
At this time of the year the old scholastic cycle starts picking up speed. As that June reprieve closes in, it brings the annual campus organizational overhaulings.
It would seem that those high up in the ivory tower of the very liberal and fine O’Shaughnessy building would be free from this type of maneuvering. However, such is not the case as there has been a turnover in the management of your local nutwork, WNDU. Since the Student Voice is not an organization noted for rapid turnover, or low overhead for that matter, it would appear that there might exist an iota of interest concerning the parties involved in this changeover.
Dick Boeman, a senior speech major from River Forest, Ill., has stepped down from the all-important job of station manager leaving his ulcers to Pat Mc-Cartan, a junior political science major from Youngstown, Ohio. Perhaps no one other person can take as much credit for making WNDU the station what it is today than can Dick Boeman. His efforts have broadened WNDU’s horizon.
Dick has directed the activity of WNDU since it was moved from between two punching bags in the Bengal Bouters room of the Fieldhouse to its new, plush quarters in the O’Shaughnessy Building.
Dick’s aim of having the broadcasting quality of the station meet the physical quality of the equipment has met with more than could be expected in the way of success. Likewise, he has expanded the functional operation of the station from simply the music, news, and sports category into which it had fallen. New and imaginative programming has been the keynote of WNDU’s broadcasting success under Beeman’s management.
—Bill Byrne
5
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
caMst
FRIDAY, MAY 6
STUDENT CENTER (9:30 to 1:30)—“A Thousand and One Nights” will be the setting for some 500 Juniors and their gals at the annual Junior Promenade, featuring Billy May. For those burdened with curfews (now what school across the Dixie would that be?) there will be carpets for couples leaving every five minutes from the circle.
K. OF C. BUILDING (9 to 1)—Local legalities can let loose tonight at the 1955 Law Ball. Chuck Calvert will provide the music while our budding barristers provide the ball.
WASHINGTON HALL (8:15)—They’re dancin’ on the ceilin’, dancin’ on the wall—man they’re dancin’ all over Washington Hall. Father Harvey’s troupe of Seventeen offer their talents for the third night with Jim Kinnane and Gayle Baumer playing the leads. They’ve done a professional job of a terrific show, with very good dancing on the pai-ts of Baumer and a newcomer from St. Mary’s, Merrill Richard. The show will continue through Sunday evening.
i]
in to as
GRANADA (ends May 13)—Fred Astaire and Leslie Caron get together a lilting comedy-dance flicker, Daddy Long Legs. There is no dimension the dance-abilities of the stars in this one; and Leslie is every bit as good in her last Cinderella part in The Glass Slipper.
•	1.000 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $55.50
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
AVON (ends May 17)—Victor Mature and Richard Egan shine in the suspense drama, Violent Saturday (B). The picture is based on the decep- , tively simple idea of how a bank holdup alters the lives of at least 10 private citizens. Thus, there are quite a few stories to keep the viewer occupied, which is about the only drawback to this not-really-so-violent movie.
STATE (ends tomorrow)—Gregory Peck and Susan Hayward return ■with an oldie that really made the circuits, The Snotvs of Kilimanjaro, a Hemingway production all the way. It’s a good movie, but a little too sordid for yours truly to appreciate. The Forty-Niners (A-2), starring that ole favorite, Wild Bill Elliott, takes up the slack in the double bill.
PALACE (ends May 2)—Let’s reminisce about Scarface and Public Enemy; let’s go see that malevolent metropolitan melodrama, The Big Combo. Cornel Wilde and Richard Conte on the gats, rattling out a familiar tune of a determined copper after an equally determined robber, with a moll deciding the issue. Murder Is My Beat gives the twin-show a sing-songey shade.
COLFAX (ends May 13)—The theater must be in a Tight Spot this week, ’cause that’s what they’re playing. Edward G. Robinson and Brian Keith try to get Ginger Rogers to squeal (testify) but she just ain’t sayin’ a thing. All ends well, except for Keith who gets killed in the end, as Ginger baby softens up and let’s go with some important info.
SATURDAY, MAY 7
ST. MARY-OF-THE-WOODS—A full day of festivity, capped with a Senior Ball, is in store for those lucky few who garnered invites to this tradition of Terre Haute. Better check your book on which fork to use when, ’cause there’s going to be a Dinner-Dance, too.
SUNDAY, MAY 8
RIVER PARK (ends May 10)—A tremendous return—Last Time I Saw Paris (A-2) with Liz and Van. Mr. Blandings Builds His Dream House (A-l) also shows. That was Cary Grant and Myrna Loy.
STATE (ends May 10)—Untamed and Captain Lightfoot (A-2), are back, and on the Sabbath, too.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 11
STATE (ends May 12)—Do you feel shut in? Are the walls closing in on you? Do you feel shunned? If so, you can’t afford to miss Women's Prison (B) and The Bamboo Prison (A-2). Guaranteed to be worse than anything that could happen to you. Keep it cool, cats.
The Scholastic
Edi tot's Po^o
Concerning Elections
Thursday of last week the elections of Class and Senate officers were held. The vote was reported as the largest ever submitted here but one thing marred the proceedings. That was the mixup in the voting for next year’5 Junior Class officers. Due to someone’s error the names of the Commoners Party candidates, a post-deadline nomination agreed to by all other candidates, were left off the ballot. The discrepancy was noticed after voting had begun and the election of these Class officers only was held again later in the day. All candidates agreed to stand by the results of this election since it was considered inadvisable by all concerned that the election be postponed to another day. Election officials report that almost all sophomores voted again, though some off-campus students were uninformed and did not re-cast their ballots. Nevertheless, there have been some objections raised. We do agree that the election should have been held another day. However, since it was completed and the officers inaugurated Monday afternoon, the Scholastic extends its congratulations to all the new officers and wishes them every success in the administration of their positions.
Questions Answered
This week a great step was taken toward the creation of better understanding between students and the University administration. We are referring to the new program on WNDU, which was first presented yesterday, on which Fathers Hesburgh, Joyce, McCarragher and Norton answered questions and complaints that you submitted.
Many of us go through four or more years of training at Notre Dame with any number of questions or complaints in our minds; questions or complaints that most often are never voiced to the proper person for answers. This was plainly evident last March 27 at a banquet attended by over 100 seniors, the above-named and other priests of the 'University. Following the dinner, the seniors had the opportunity of firing their questions and complaints at the officials, who answered them as well as they could. Many of the queries were about things that had bothered the student for one or more years of his time here, things that almost any student might wonder about and never find the answer for on his own.
Now the opportunity has been offered to everyone to find the whys and wherefores of policies and regulations or to offer suggestions for improvements around the University. Any question er suggestion, properly put, might very well bring some improvement.
We have long felt that University policies (especially new ones) that’ affect the student directly should have their reasons explained. Knowledge of this sort aids greatly in securing willingness and cooperation from those involved. This is true in more areas of life than merely at the University.
The Scholastic commends WNDU for the institution of this program and urges every student who has something he wants answered to submit it—question, complaint or suggestion—to the station.
Three Suggestions
There are three suggestions for improvement that the Scholastic offers now. They are:
1.	That a different system of checking be devised for use in the Dining Halls next year. The main purpose of this system would be to allow a student to enter any food line he desired. This would eliminate the problem of simultaneous long lines and short lines, keeping the flow of students steady. Too often is a line extremely short or non-existent at one food station, while there is a long one at another food station.
2.	That the South Bend Council be requested to make the traffic light on the Dixie Highway at the entrance to St. Mary’s College a push-button pedestrian light. The light was placed there a few years ago only after the deaths by accident of a St. Mary’s student and her companion from Notre Dame. Despite the caution light there now, cars on the highway seem to approach at undiminished speeds. No one has been killed at the crossing since the light’s installation, but there’s an old saying about an ounce of prevention.	.
3.	That the cinder diagonal path from the Architecture Building to the main quadrangle be surfaced with asphalt before next fall. Used by many students daily, this path’s condition becomes very poor in fold weather.
May 6, 1955
Some brands give you shorts and bits which burn like tinder — fast and hot.
Others give you fine-cut shreds — good for cigarettes, but not so good for pipes.
cl
Only Edgeworth gives you slow-burning "chunks" made for pipes and pipes alone.

PIPE SMOKERS: COMPARE THE CUTS OF TOBACCO AND SEE
Why Edgeworth Smokes Coolest
Edgeworth’s Way with White Burley Has Never Been Equalled
Your true tobacco expert will tell you that white bin-leys are the world’s coolest smoking tobaccos. Edgeworth is a blend of white hurleys only— aged like fine wine, for years.
Of course, other tobaccos use white burley, too—but nobody yet has found out just how to blend and process tobacco to give it the evenburning, cool-smoking character that Edgeworth “Ready-Rubbed” has maintained.
What “Ready-Rubbed” Means to Your Smoking Pleasure
Old time smokers knew the secret of cool, even burning. They carefully
This Amazing Pouch Means Cooler Smoking!
Two Weeks On a Radiator
One friend of ours left an unopened Edgeworth pouch on a hot radiator. When discovered two weeks later the tobacco was still moist and cool smoking.
Edgeworth tobacco leaves our plant with just the right moisture content for a cool, no-bite smoke. You can be sure every pouch will be that way when you open it, because only Edgeworth has the Seal-Pak pouch. Sealed air-and-water tight, it promises you fresher tobacco than any other type of pocket pack. No bulky corners in your pocket either.
“hand-rubbed” their tobacco until it crumbled into chunks of just the right size. Now Edgeworth does all this for you before the tobacco is packaged. An ingenious, exclusive process “ready-rubs” Edgeworth into chunks that pack right in your pipe, giving you a cool, leisurely smoke with never a touch of tongue bite.
FORA COOL MIXTURE TRY HOLIDAY
A “custom” blend of five tobaccos selected for mildness and aroma. The only mixture in the Seal-Pak pouch.
YOU RE SMARTER SMOKING
SPECIAL OFFEH*/5O
Address.
City----
Get this new polished aluminum stem “Park । Lane” pipe with interchangeable imported ■ briar bowl and exclusive “dri-dome” moisture J trap—along with 2 full-sized pouches of I EDGEWORTH tobacco. If your dealer can- I not supply you, use this handy order blank. । Name______________________________________ I
Edgeworth
AMERICA’S FINEST PIPE TOBACCO FOR OVER HALF A CENTURY L
State.
Mail with $1.50 to Park Lane, Larus & Brother Company, Inc., Richmond, Virginia.
CM-5
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 96, Number 21	Notre Dame, Indiana	May 6, 1955
• ALADDIN WEAVES SPELL ON PROM TONIGHT
Billy May's Orches+ra To Provide Melodies
The Junior Prom, social highlight of the year for the third-year men, claims the campus spotlight tonight as 500 couples will dance to the melodies of Billy May’s orchestra under the baton of Sam Donahue.
Miss Lois Youngem, date of Dance Chairman Dave Granger, will reign as queen over the festivities. Miss Youngem, a senior at Kent State University, resides in Leroy, 0.
The Prom will be held at the Student Center from 9:30 p.m. until 1:30 a.m.
Nick Mavigliano and his committee have provided decorations that will cast a spell of “A Thousand and One Nights.” Palms adorning the front steps will greet the dancers. Inside, simulated beaded curtains and gold walls at the top of the main stairway will add further to the desert look. The most novel of the decorations will be the genie who has come from the huge Aladdin’s lamp near a window above the patio.
An oasis in the newly renovated basement will provide refreshments for the Prom-goers. Photographs will be taken before a backdrop designed by Ed Kelly.
The high point of Saturday’s activities will be a dinner-dance at the South Bend Country Club. Sunday morning a Communion Breakfast will be held for the juniors and their dates at the Morris Inn. Principal speakers ■will be Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and television star Miss Fran Allison.
The committee chairmen aiding Granger besides Mavigliano are: Dave Collins, tickets; Bob Welsh, refreshments; Karl Martersteck, publicity; Walt Penney, business manager; Jerry McPart-lin, hotel accommodations; Bill Warren, Communion Breakfast; and Denny Powers, dinner-dance.
Weekend car permissions and 2:30 a.m. residence permissions have been granted. The latest hour for admittance will be 10:30 and midnight will be the earliest hour of departure.
1
MISS LOIS YOUNGEM One in a Thousand
Chairman Granger emphasized that there would be no corsages, but that carnations would be provided for the girls upon their arrival at the dance.
Stolfi Receives Appointment As Sales Head for WNDU-TV
Appointment of Robert F. Stolfi as director of sales promotion and advertising for WNDU-TV, the commercial television station of the University and primary affiliate of NBC was announced this week by William Thomas Hamilton, sales manager of the station.
Stolfi resigns from the CBS Television Network where he began his broadcasting career in 1949. His background while at CBS includes extensive experience in TV operation, production, programming and public affairs. He served at various times as program assistant, program service representative, program co-ordinator and unit manager. In June 1954 he was promoted to TV network sales department as a member of the sales department, planning and research division, the area he leaves to accept his new post with WNDU-TV.
Lawyers Gain Finals In Moot Competition
The semi-finals of the annual Moot Court competition sponsored by the Law School were held on April 22 in the Law Building.
Two cases were heard to determine the teams which will compete in the final round sometime in the near future. Each of the teams survived a semester’s competition to reach the finals.
Edward F. Broderick and William P. Fagan were awarded the decision over David J. Earley and John L. Rosshirt in the first case which concerned damages from a breach of contract.
Judges for this case were the Hon. Luther M. Swygert, U. S- District Judge, Northern Indiana; Hon. John W. Pfaff, Judge, Appellate Court of Indiana; and Prof. Edward F. Barrett, Notre Dame Law School.
In the second trial case Ronald P. Mealey and Edward J. Griffin gained, the verdict over Carl A. Eck and J. Patrick O’Malley. This case concerned segregation in a cemetery burial case.
Judges in this simulated case were the Hon. Isadore E. Levine, Associate Judge, Indiana Supreme Court; Hon. Wilbur A. Royse, Presiding Judge, Appellate Court of Indiana; and Hon. F. Kenneth Dempsey, Superior Court No. 2, St. Joseph County, Ind.
The executive board of this year’s Court has been comprised of George E. Lang, director; Armand P. Deatrick,; executive director; Robert J. Eveld, director of public relations; Andrew C. Walsh, chancellor. Prof. Barrett has served as faculty advisor.
The executive board which will direct the Moot Court activities during the 1955-56 school term was announced recently. The following men received appointments: Ronald P. Mealey, director; William P. Fagan, assistant director; John E. Roberts, secretary; and David J. Eardley and Edward J. Menard, codirectors of public relations.
May 6, 1955
REVIEW-
'The Trojan Women’
Last weekend, the poetic drama of Euripides graced the rafters of Angela Hall, as St. Mary’s College presented the moving tragedy entitled The Trojan Women. One of the great tragedies in the whole of Western literature, this play embodies the full force of Greek tragedy at its best. Under the able direction of Edward Warren, the play was presented for four nights, running from Wednesday through Saturday.
The story presents the situation that followed the end of the Trojan War. Troy has been sacked by the Greeks, the warriors and leaders have been killed, and none remain in the fallen city but a handful of women. As part of the spoils of war, these women of Troy are now the captive slaves of the Greeks. They are being taken from their ravished homeland, to become the servants and concubines of the victorious Greeks.
Hecuba, the queen of Troy, was played by Louise Warnicke, who performed splendidly at times but who seemed to lack the over-all ability to express the totality of emotion and grief necessary for the part. Her crazed and passion-driven daughter, Cassandra, was competently handled by Joan Lynch.
Barbara Brady as Andromache, the widowed wife of the glorious Hector, adequately portrayed the overwhelming emotion of a mother who sees her child taken from her arms and thrown to his death. Helen, the Greek beauty whose abduction provoked the ten-year war, was sensitively played by Jeannine Berner.
JUNIOR PROM COMMITTEE MEETS TO DISCUSS FINAL PLANS
. . . for “One Thousand and One Nights”—Notre Dame style, of course!
Thomas Kiernan forcefully played the role of Talthybius, the sympathetic Greek herald given the task of setting fire to the last vestiges of the Trojan City and dispatching the women to their wretched enslavement.
Menelaos, the one-time husband of Helen, was given meaningful interpretation by William Le Vison.
Technical direction and lighting were excellent, and greatly enhanced the overall effect of the production. Edward Garzero, Maureen McCormick, and Carol Neff deserve commendation for their artful handling of this work.
It is regrettable that outside noises distractingly found their way into the theater, where they became curiously mixed in with the fabric of the play. Little could be done to remedy this, however.
An undertaking of this sort probably presents more obstacles to a theatrical group than any other type of drama. There is a minimum of action throughout. Rather, we have an intense examination of the emotions of the characters, and the responses they make to their pitiable situation.
At several points, there were intervals as long as five minutes when barely a motion was made on the stage. Many of the speeches ran for as long as sixty lines, thus making the actor’s task of faithful and realistic interpretation all the more difficult.
As in all Greek tragedy, The Trojan Women presents us with human grief and suffering at its peak, but it is never
theless the suffering of those who suffer I nobly. This severe emotional tension is W. maintained unabated throughout the QX" play. There are no moments when the	■
actors and audience can relax into the	1
more ordinary sensibilities of comic relief, for instance. As a result, this work demands the ultimate in emotional re- , sponse and feeling.
Because of this, any group is to be
commended for attempting this type of drama. The St. Mary’s production, though not faultless, was certainly an admirable effort, and could rightfully be v called nothing less than a successful achievement.
The Greeks have left us with the greatest in tragedy in the Western world, and it would indeed be unfortunate if their masterpieces were neglected, simply through lack of the courage necessary to undertake them.—Richard C. Clark.
AB College Will Offer Science-Arts Degrees
Students in Notre Dame’s liberal arts school may major in one of the physical oi- biological sciences beginning in September, Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, has announced.
Students who will be sophomores this fall may elect to major in botany, chemistry, geology, physics, or zoology, Father Sheedy said, while still benefiting from much of the content and method of a liberal education. A program of pre-medical studies also will be offered for the first time in the liberal ai-ts school, he said. A mathematics major, offered in former years, will be continued with some revisions. The bachelor of arts degree will be awarded
at the conclusion of the gram.
Traditionally, science been available at Notre
four-year pro-
majors have Dame only in
the University’s College of Science whose curriculum will remain unchanged. The curriculum for science students in the liberal arts school will differ from the traditional curriculum in content, sequence and method.
Included among the changes are an intensive foreign language course which will be taught six days a week for a year instead of over a two-year period. Students also will take a year-long social science course embracing economics, sociology and political science. In their junior year science majors will take a two-semester seminar in the masterworks of literature. The sequence of other courses will be changed so as to harmonize simultaneous training in the liberal arts and natural sciences.
The Scholastic
10
(Blue Circle Announces Addition of Members
The Blue Circle announced 25 new appointments to its organization last week. The 25, selected by boards com-1 prised of Circle members from the Senior and Junior Classes, were chosen from 160 applicants. The selections of the boards were unanimously approved tby the present members of the Circle.
The new men will be formally wel-। corned into the regular group at the Circle’s annual banquet next Wednesday. These new members will begin their duties with the Freshman Orientation Program next fall.
John O’Meara, this year’s Circle chairman stated, “The decision that had to be made was the hardest in the history of the Circle. A great number of good men had to be let go, but we wish that they would apply again next year.”
Six juniors and a senior were appointed. They are John Adams, John Engler, Dave Lockwood, Silvio Resciniti, Bill Shannon and Peter Sturtevant. Ellis Joseph, the senior, will be in graduate school here next year.	■
The eight sophomore appointees were H	Jim Kennedy, Gene Kopp, Emmet Mal-
R	loy, Jerry Murphy, Joe Safko, Tom
Is Schriber, Jim Skulski and Tony Yurchak. HL The freshmen, with ten appointments, 1 were Dave Baker, Charles Clesi, Jack Doyle, Walter Huurman, Will Kil-Iff bourne, Bernard McGowan, Gerry i JP Meyer, John Riley, Jerry Slater and iff Paul Underkofler. ■ -------------------------
|	St. Mary's Will Stage
|	Centennial Ball May 21
! w “A Hundred Years at St. Mary’s Col-j If lege” will be the theme of the Centen-'A nial Ball on May 21 when a hundred i By young couples will dance to the music K of Eddie Kay, a local ensemble. The V Ball will be held from 8:30 till midnight
. Ai in the Stapleton Lounge. Joan Kershaw, J' chairman of the ball, will reign as ff queen. The girls and their dates will at-■ tend a full participation Mass the fol-U lowing morning followed by a Com-||; munion Breakfast in the Dining Room. ■ Jeanne Jenk is responsible for the 11 color background and Betty Jane Stada-
• fore for the musical surroundings. Mem-I ories through photography have been ff organized by Lora Pagliari, photog-C raphy chairman. The entire arrange-iJ11 ments have been coordinated by Mary 11 Miles.
If Mollie Maloy will act as hostess for if the occasion. Others who have helped in li the arrangements are Jane McCormick,
■ refreshments; Jean Ritcey, invitations;
1 Mary Jo Carmody, bids, and Sue Cann, ■ , Communion Breakfast.
JLaMay 6, 1955
'Daddy' Gels Bows Out as ND Bandleader;
Pistey to Guide 'Lettermen' During 1955-56
Don Gels, trumpeter par excellence, will play his last note for Notre Dame audiences this month. The maestro of the official University Dance Band graduates this coming June, leaving behind a flourishing organization which has captivated Notre Dame dance-goers for the past two years.
To take over the leadership of the band Gels has nominated Edmund Pistey, a sophomore in AB from Bridge-
ED PISTEY
The Dad Fades Away
port, Conn. Pistey has been a saxophonist in the band for two years. As a partner with Ed in directing the group for next year is Gene Bertoncini, a guitarist and freshman in Engineering from the Bronx, N.Y.
Pistey has hung the tag of the “Lettermen” on next year’s band. The size of the organization will remain the same, 15 musicians and a vocalist. Butch Hickman will be retained as vocalist and business agent for the 1955-56 school term.
One of the major difficulties of operating a college band, Pistey emphasized, is the fact that so many replacements must be made each year to fill the spots vacated by graduating seniors. This problem is facing the band again this year. As a result anyone desiring to audition with the group for next year is requested to contact Pistey in Room 102 Lyons sometime before the end of the school year.
Pistey in commenting on the general aim of the dance band for next year said, “We are attempting to make the band ‘new’ in all respects, and as pro
fessional as can be expected of a college organization.”
The new leader also commented on the type and style of music that the band will offer to Saturday night dance-goers during the coming year, “We are going to try to meet the public taste in all our numbers. Most of our repertoire will depend on our audience. I have contacted an arranger in New York who is going do some work especially for us next year. That way we will be better able to esta-bish a definite personality for the band, as we will get away from the regular stock arrangements that have been used in the past.”
Pistey also said that the band has several tentative dates set for various colleges in the surrounding territory.
In taking over the reins from Gels, and as a member of Don’s orchestra for two years, Pistey commended his former boss, “Don really made the dance band an institution here at Notre Dame. It was through his effort that the band was recognized here on campus. I only hope that I can do as well in the future as Don has done in the past two years.”
WNDU Program Initiated To Answer Student Queries
Everyone has a particular gripe, a pet peeve, the unanswered question of many a conversation, or a good idea. Now, everyone has an opportunity to express it to willing ears. Question boxes for this purpose were recently placed near the side doors of the Cafeteria. The answers to these “whys” will be given by various members of the Administration: the President, the Prefect of Discipline, or anyone else to whom the “why” is directed. The replies will be broadcast over WNDU.
The campaign began at a banquet held for campus leaders by the Administration. At that time the guests fired questions to the Reverend Fathers and officers of the Administration. The session proved so successful that regular question periods are now on the appointment lists of Father Hesburgh, Father Moore, Father McCarragher and others.
The radio program “Front Office” will be dedicated to answering complaints every Thursday at 7:15 pan. beginning yesterday: The program will be produced by the combined cooperation of the Administration; Jerry Hornback, program director of WNDU; and Joe Safko, representative selected by the Student Senate.	-
11
'Seuetiteen':
Fresh, Friendly, Funny
Murray Named Editor Of 'Lawyer' for '55-'56
Staff appointments for the 1955-56 Notre Dame Lawyer were made recently
by F. X. NEWMAN
There are nay-sayers about the campus who will deny that any play about the puppy loves of a group of teen-age Hoosiers could possibly amuse them. But these cynics are in for a surprise in the University Theatre spring musical, Seventeen, which turns out to be a fresh, friendly and completely charming show.
Adapted from the novel by Booth Tarkington and set in Indianapolis in 1907, Seventeen details the raptures and despairs of love as that curious passion stirs in the breast of a self-proclaimed woman hater, aged 17. Most campusites are still close enough to the golden age to be able to sympathize with young Willie Baxter’s trials—and those dewy freshmen who aren’t yet able to look back to age 17 should be interested to see how they appear from the outside.
Performance Dispels Misgivings
It was with some misgiving that I went to the show, for I had seen the original Broadway production and had my doubts whether the University Theatre could handle the thing. Seventeen is a pretty little bubble of a musical that won’t stand much rough handling. Neither its book nor its score will earn it immortality in the history of the American drama, but done with a light sure touch, it makes a very enjoyable evening at the theatre. If treated clumsily, however, it could be desolate.
But these doubts were soon dispelled by a production, which, while of course lacking some of Broadway’s slick finesse, is remarkably polished and which more than makes up for any technical deficiency by a generous measure of the un-professional virtues of youth and enthusiasm. I certainly enjoyed it as much, maybe even a little more, than the original production, and I enjoyed that one a great deal.
One of the big reasons for the show’s success is a set of very competent performers, particularly the principals, Gayle Baumer and Jim Kinnane. As Lola Pratt, the baby-talking, saucer-eyed coquette, Miss Baumer adds another to her string of excellent performances in the University Theatre. She has alreadv demonstrated a formidable acting skill in Detective Story and Cyrano de Bergerac, but she here displays, in addition, a very pleasant singing voice and surprising dancing ability. Her witty ren
12
dition of a 1907 version of boy-girl relations— the song “Reciprocity”—is extremely well done.
Kinnane does an equally competent and ingratiating job as Willie Baxter. His version of the 17-year-old—happy one moment, sad the next, but always taking himself with utter seriousness— is a very creditable job.
Whole Cast Merits Praise
The rest of the cast is so uniformly good that it is difficult to single out .people for special mention. Gene Leyval, a clever performer who has done some other fine things for the University Theatre this season, is very good as Charlie, one of Willie’s friends. His dance at the end of the first act is one of the high points of the show. And Merrill Richard is cute, blond and very funny as Emmie Martin. She and Peggy Maher contribute some very energetic and accomplished dancing to the show.
As Willie’s parents, Bernie Lyons and Mimi Scanlon deserve notice for their assured performances. Phil Donahue, Frank Manning, Marilyn Chapleau, Jerry Dodge and Dave Shanahan also merit a word of praise.
But most of the credit for so polished a production as this should doubtless go to Fr. Harvey, the show’s director. The dancing and singing of the chorus as well as of the principals show evidence of a firm and skillful directorial hand. Though occasionally the dances were somewhat cluttered, on the whole they were surprisingly good. Fr. Harvey deserves a compliment, not only for this play, but also for the two previous productions of the Theatre this season. The plays selected may not be landmarks of the drama, but they have been given very satisfying and skillful productions. This has been a good season for the University Theatre.
‘I’m Going Back Again’
Seventeen is a good example of what Broadway calls a “summer show”,— sprightly and full of friendly, happy people singing friendly, happy songs— just the thing to take the mind off New York’s summer heat. But it makes a pretty good spring show, too.
If this column sounds more like a publicity release than a review, that’s only because I had a great time watching the show. Any faults I found with it aren’t even worth mentioning. If you don’t believe me, go and see it. I’m going back again.
at a banquet honoring the 1954-55 staff, the men of the Moot Court, the members of the Law Association, and the law seniors. Held in the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel LaSalle, the Law Banquet also featured the Hon. Stanley N. Barnes, Assistant Attorney General in Charge of the Anti-Trust Division in Washington as guest speaker.
Eleven-Man Staff Appointed
James E. Murray was picked to head the Lawyer staff next year as the editorin-chief. Assisting him will be Peter H. Lousberg, associate editor; Edmund L. White, articles editor; James M. Corcoran, Jr., managing editor; Anthony J. Deutsch, research editor; George N. Tompkins, case editor; John L. Rosshirt and J. Robert Geiman, assistant case editors; Joseph B. Joyce and Patrick J. Foley, note editors; and Lawrence J. Dolan, book review editor.
0
Members of the new Laivyer staff
were selected on the basis of legal writing ability, facility in research, cooperativeness in work assignments, and considered in the selection were the satisfactory completion of an extensive training course, the publication of at least two articles concerning recent law decisions. The student must also have one long essay printed on some law topic, must display high scholastic ability and possess fine character; also, he must be a senior law student.
Achievement Keys Given
Also at the banquet the members of this year’s Laivyer staff were given keys of achievement. They were given to Robert D. LeMense, John A. Vuono, W. L. Pollard, John P. Coyne, Norman H. McNeil, Robert J. Hepler, Richard E. Shipman, Harry D. Snyder, Michael C. Dionise, Allan C. Schmid, Paul R. Jack-iewicz, and David N. McBride.
As a tribute for his 25 years of seivice on the law school faculty, William D. Rollison was presented a smoking set by the men of the Law School.
The 24 seniors who participated in the Moot Court this year also received their traditional certificates and gavels at the banquet. George Lang and
Armand Deatrick of the Moot Court re- . vealed their successors and staff replace- ; ments for next year. Ronald Mealey will ; be the director, William Fagan, the ex- | ecutive director, John Roberts, the secre- I tary, and Edward Menard and David | Eardley, co-directors of public relations. |
The Scholastic f l
I
Faculty Members Attend Conference on Education
T Five faculty members represented ' Notre Dame at the National Catholic
Education Association Convention at Atlantic City, N. J., held from April 12 to 15, according to information recently reI leased. They are members of the College and University Department of the Association.
Those attending from the University were Rev. John Walsh, C.S.C.; Rev. Paul ' Beichner, C.S.C.; Rev. Roland Simon-itsch, C.S.C.; Rev. Bernard Mullahy, C.S.C.; and Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C.	■
The theme of the convention, attended by 12,000, was “Realizing Our Philosophy of Education.” Among the highlights of the affair was an oration by Prof. Vincent Smith of the University’s Department of Philosophy. Bishop Wright of Worcester, Mass., also delivered one of the major addresses. Father Walsh participated in an interview ' treating the relation between science and the humanities in Catholic educa-1 tion. Father Walsh is chairman of the AB College’s “First Two Years” Committee.	'
1 The more general discussion at the 41 convention was broken up among the I five departments of the association.
, The purpose of the 50-year-old organization is to strengthen Catholic education, compare progress in different geographical areas, and plan for the future.
I	University Education Debated
i	At Annual Vermont Conference
“The University Student—Educated for What?” was the question discussed last Thursday and Friday at the fourth annual Vermont Conference.
This year the Conferencce instead of appealing to one or two particular groups on the campus, invited leading personalities from many varied fields.
Dr. Otto Bird of the General Program of Liberal Education at Notre Dame, represented the field of Liberal Education. Dr. Bird spoke on “The Criteria of a Liberal Education.” In his speech he said that, “Theology and religion should be on the same footing in liberal education as any of the other basic types of knowledge.”
Among the dignitaries at the Conference were W. Scott Hill from the field of management; Ernest Van Den Haag, philosophy; Dr. Nicholas Tima-sheff, sociology; Francis B. Butler, labor; Prof. Mark Perlman, economics; Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, former State Department diplomat; and Judge Hila G. Schwartz.
May 6, 1955
Crehan Assumes Student Senate Presidency; Pledges Closer Student-Government Relations
New Student Senate President Tom Crehan called for the establishment of closer ties between student government and the student, and outlined his tax plan for next year in his inaugural address delivered Monday in the Student Center. Crehan’s address was the high-
TOM CREHAN
. . . Optimism and Enthusiasm
light of the formal inauguration of the newly-elected Senators and class officers.
The newly-elected student leaders were sworn in by outgoing Senate Vice-President Dick Burke. They swore to fulfill the responsibilities of their offices to the best of their abilities and “to contribute to the greater good of Notre Dame.”
Crehan advocated the establishment of a “public information system” with men on each floor of the residence halls so that the Senate will be able to truly represent the opinion of the student body to the faculty and administration.
The new Senate president announced that he will favor a continuation of the present tax policy of collecting money at the beginning of each semester. “By making the Senate approach the student body for funds at the beginning of the second semester, the Senate will have to justify its work to the student body. Thus student government will be brought closer to the student body,” Crehan said.
He proposed that the law enforcing payment of the Senate activity fee be altered to allow anyone to pay the fee at any time during the semester provided that delinquent payers be charged ‘ a suitable fine.
Crehan also outlined his concept of student government as a .practical edu
cation in democracy and asked his fellow Senators to look- forward to next year “in a spirit of optimism and enthusiasm.”
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of student affairs, congratulated the -1954-55 Senate for its fine job and asked the blessing of God and Our Lady on the new Senate. , Father Norton termed student government “a classroom in self-direction,” and said that he was “convinced of the value of the experience gained in student government.”
Revise Cour? Constitution
Joe Daley, outgoing Senate president, presided over the inauguration. He reminded the new Senators that student government was based cn the efforts of those who had gone before them and that the new Senate had the obligation to carry on and to grow.
At the final official meeting of the 1954-55 Senate a revised Student Activities Court constitution was approved • unanimously. The new constitution pro- . vides for the establishment of a Judicial ! Commission headed by a commissioner ' appointed by the Senate president with the advice and consent of the Senate. : The judicial commissioner would be re- ! sponsible for the administration of the judicial program. His commission will ; publicize court activities, keep court rec- ! ords, and provide trial and defense j counsels..
Under the new constitution a legal staff of not more than ten, nor less than five members will be maintained to represent parties involved in action before the court. Membership on this legal staff will be restricted, as far as possible, to undergraduates in the combination law program and to students with an average of 85 or above who plan to go into law. However, both parties before the court may choose to be represented by their own counsels.
The constitution was revised by a -committee headed by Hugh Schaefer.
' i
ATTENTION, PHOTOGRAPHERS
The editors of the Notre Dame | ‘Scholastic’ and ‘Dome’ will hold an organizational meeting for all stu- ; dents interested in taking pictures : for these publications next year. The • meeting will be held next Thursday ; afternoon at 4:30 in the basement ' of Farley Hall. Students interested in photographic jobs are urged to attend as photographic assignments will be made at this time.
13
MISS HELEN LYNCH Queen of the Barristers
Lawyers Waltz Tonight At Annual Spring Dance
Ninety couples will dance tonight in South, Bend’s new Knights of Columbus Hall at the annual Law Association Ball from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. The Spotlighters, a campus orchestra under the direction of Chuck Calvert, will furnish the music for the dance. This group provided the music for last year’s Law Ball.
Harry Snyder is chairman of the dance, and he is assisted by Harry Buch, Dick Girard, and Don Buseck.
The queen of the ball will be Snyder’s fiancee, Miss Helen Lynch, a secretary from Saratoga Springs, N. Y.
Additional plans for the weekend include a dinner at Rosie’s preceding the dance. Forty couples are expected to attend the dinner.
Car permissions will be granted. Bids for the dance are §4 per couple.
'Queenship of Mary' Novena Will Begin at Shrine May 22
An outdoor novena in honor of the new feast of the Blessed Virgin, the Queenship of Mary, will be held at the Fatima Shrine on Highway 31 during the month of May. The novena will begin on Sunday, May 22, at 3 p.m. and will continue each night thereafter at 8 p.m.
Last year each of the student residence halls sent representatives who participated in the nightly Rosary processions. The Rev. Regis O’Neil, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame Mission Band, will preach the sermon each night.
The campus ROTC units will participate in the ceremonies closing the novena. An evening Mass will highlight the final services.
14
ND Receives Rockefeller Foundation Grant; $100,000 Will Support International Research
Notre Dame has accepted a $100,000 grant from the Rockefeller Foundation to support its research in international relations during the next five years, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, announced recently. The research, which will be conducted by the University’s Committee on International Relations, will be concerned largely with American foreign policy, Father Hesburgh said. Notre Dame received earlier Rockefeller grants for foreign relations research in 1949 and 1952.
During the five-year period covered by the Rockefeller grant, Notre Dame scholars will study a number of challenging problems including co-existence with the Soviet Union, American policy and eastern Europe, armaments and power politics and ethics in foreign policy. Their first project will be a cooperative study of the “Origins of World War II, the Major Political Decision of Wartime and Its Aftermath,” scheduled for publication in 1956.
Notre Dame’s foreign affairs research also will be broadened to include the Latin American area with the recent appointment of Dr. John J. Kennedy to the Committee on International Relations. Kennedy, a member of the University’s political science faculty, has served for a number of years as a consultant on Latin America and formerly was associated with the State Department’s Office of Intel-national Information and Cultural Affairs.
Since the Committee on International Relations was established in 1948 under the leadership of the late Dr. Waldemar Gurian, it has published ten books and sponsored a number of campus symposia. These symposia have drawn together noted foreign affairs specialists from western Europe and various American universities to study problems arising from the “cold war” and the ethical and religious, as well as political aspects of our relations with foreign powers.
Other members of the Committee on International Relations and their recent publications, include Dr. Matthew A. Fitzsimons, author of The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government and co-editor of The Catholic Church in World Affairs; Dr. Stephen Kertesz, former Hungarian minister to Italy, who has written Diplomacy in a Whirlpool!; Dr. William O. Shanahan,
author of German Protestants Face the Social Question; and Dr. F. A. Her-
mens, author of Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy.
Research 'by the Notre Dame faculty in international affairs has experienced
a steady growth since the creation of the Department of Political Science in I 1935 under the direction of Rev. Fran- | cis Boland, C.S.C., now president of j Stonehill College in Massachusetts. An ‘ j important step in the development of , L this research came in 1938 with the fl founding of the Revieiv of Politics under fl Dr. Guinan’s editorship. While the Re- 'll vieiv is devoted to politics in a broad sense, it has made significant contribu- .fl tions to the foreign relations field. On	■
its pages through the years have ap-	1
peared important studies of European, Asian and Latin American problems i as well as U. S. domestic affairs.
Dr. Niemeyer to Join I Faculty in September < j
The appointment of Dr. Gerhart Nie- 1 meyer as a professor of political science '-jl at the University was announced recent- I ly by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, ill C.S.C., University president. Niemeyer, q who will join the Notre Dame faculty in September, has been a research an- . j alyst for the Council on Foreign Rela- | । tions, New York City, since 1953 and ! currently is a visiting lecturer at Yale University. He is one of a number of scholars being appointed to the Notre ’4.11 Dame faculty under the University’s 'I Distinguished Professors Program. • ’]
An authority on international organ- 'I izations, Niemeyer was a foreign affairs " officer of the State Department from l 1950-53 serving on the planning staff of , 1 the Bureau of United Nations Affairs. I J From 1944-50 he was a political science 17 professor and headed the Division of Z Citizenship at Oglethorpe University in ^.,1 Georgia. There, in addition to teaching courses in comparative government, po- 4 litical theory and international relations, ’L he assisted in the development of the ' 11 “Oglethorpe Plan,” a new type of lib- ] eral arts curriculum. Niemeyer served . | as a lecturer and later assistant profes- - * sor in Princeton University’s Depart- a ment of Politics from 1937-44.	I
Niemeyer, a native of Essen, Ger- 11 many, studied at Cambridge University, Munich University and Kiel University x/l] where he received a doctor of laws de-gree in 1932. He left Germany when the ‘J Nazis came to power in 1933 and went to >4 Spain where he lectured and conducted research until the outbreak of the Span
ish Civil War in 1936. Niemeyer became an American citizen in 1943. He is a
member of the American Political Science Association, the 'Southern Political 'Science Association and the National Geographic Society.
The Scholastic
Seniors Invited to Attend • Alumni Association Dinner
All seniors graduating this June or August, or January of 1956 are invited to attend a dinner sponsored by the Alumni Association Tuesday night, May 17, in the east wing of the Dining Hall. All those attending the banquet are asked to be at the Dining Hall no later than 6:45. Coats and ties are required.
£ Tickets for the dinner may be picked up individually at the alumni office in the Main Building from May 9 to 14. August and January graduates are also asked to pick up their tickets at this time. No charge will be made.
. The banquet is being sponsored jointly by both the Alumni Association and the Senior Class. The purpose of the dinner is to acquaint seniors with the work of the Alumni Association and is a intended as a social project for the en-w joyment of the members of the class.
A short program is being prepared for the entertainment of those attending. Officers of the Senior Class are handling the arrangements for the dinner.
O'Brien Named to Post j Of Personnel Director
The appointment of Joseph F. O’Brien as Director of Personnel at Notre Dame ,^was announced recently by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president. Since 1952 O’Brien has been associated with the Whirlpool Corp, at its plants in St. Joseph, Mich., and La>, Porte, Ind.
| O’Brien will supervise personnel mat-| ters for more than 1000 non-academic ; employees of the University. In announcing the appointment, Father Hesburgh said that “the University recog-B nizes its rapid growth in recent years and its status as one of the larger employers in this area.”
A native of Philadelphia and a 1949 Notre Dame graduate, O’Brien has been serving during the past year as salary i administrator at Whirlpool’s St. Joseph v plant which employs 3,500 workers. He was responsible for maintaining the company’s basic wage and salary policies and directed the plant’s salary reM view and position evaluation programs. iP Earlier O’Brien was personnel services administrator at the LaPorte Aircraft Division of the Whirlpool Corp. In this capacity he organized and dii rected a variety of personnel services, ■j supervised the company’s recreational J program, and assisted in public relations i activities. Following his graduation | from Notre Dame, O’Brien served for | three years as personnel assistant at the * Oliver Corp. Plant No. 1 in South Bend.
L May 6, 1955
Earl Spicer, Popular English Ballad Singer, Performs in Concert-Lecture Series Monday
Earl Spicer, nationally known New York baritone and ballad singer, will appear on the Washington Hall stage as part of the Concert and Lecture Series on Monday at 8 p.m.
Spicer has sung with many of the leading symphony orchestras in the United States and in England. High-
EARL SPICER
Sprightly on the Keys
lighting his career have been appearances before English nobility, the Governor-General of Canada, the White House, and for three years has been feature soloist on one of the leading NBC programs with Donald Voorhees and his orchestra.
Unlike most ballad singers, Spicer is a thoroughly trained concert soloist who has sung Bach, Handel, Mozart as guest soloist under such distinguished Symphony and Oratorio conductors as Henry Wood, Fritz Reiner, and Alfred Greenfield.
Spicer was born on a farm in Acadia, Land of Evangeline, poetry and romance. As a boy he sang in church
PUBLICATIONS BANQUET
The annual Publications Banquet will be held at the Club Normandy in Mishawaka next Thursday night, beginning at 6:30.
The main speaker of the evening will be James E. Armstrong, executive vice-chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation.
Over 100 are expected to attend the banquet honoring members of the several Notre Dame publications: ‘Dome,’ ‘Scholastic,’ ‘Juggler,’ and ‘Technical Review.’
choirs, and at college found time to study voice, piano, organ, as well as singing in glee clubs and college quartets. He later studied in London and New York.
Spicer is especially popular as a college personality, having appeared at over 1,000 universities and colleges in the United States. Featured in his appearance is a Shakespeare “quiz” that has proven to be most entertaining in past college performances.
While a student in London he became interested in ballads and folk songs and made a collection just as a hobby. Thanks to the music critics of New York, London, and Boston who suggested that he specialize in the singing of ballads, the hobby has become his profession.
Architects Sponsor Lectures By Noted Authors Saturday
The Notre Dame Student Chapter of the American Institute of Architects will sponsor talks by two architects on Saturday, May 14. Messrs. Richard J- Nue-tra and Robert Allan Jacobs will deliver addresses in conjunction with the 1955 Engineering Open House.
Mr. Nuetra, prominent author, lecturer, and architect, will speak at 8 p.m. May 14 in the Engineering Auditorium. IMr. Jacobs, of the New York firm of Kahn and Jacobs, will also speak at 8 p.m. in Room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. The same afternoon Mr. Jacobs will be the featured speaker at the Indiana Society of Architects’ spring meeting.
The Student Chapter of the American Institute of Architects has recently elected officers for the 1955-56 school year. The officers are Dave Gallagher, president; Kay Alexander, vice-president; Bob Erdmann, secretary; and Ed Kelly, treasurer.	-
Commerce College Holding All-Day Seminar Today
An all-day seminar for majors in Journalism, Art, and Commerce is being held today by the College of Commerce.
The seminar will give these majors an opportunity to talk to three nationally recognized advertising authorities. Mr. Vincent R. Bliss of the Earle Lud-gin & Co., >Mr. Dik Warren Twedt, a research supervisor, and Mr. H. E. Christiansen of Christiansen Advertising are present at the seminar. The three men represent the American Association of Advertising Agencies.
15
Irish Debaters Aim High ....«
By NORRIS J. BISHTON
THE DEBATING TEAM of the University of Notre Dame recently topped its most successful season in seven years by taking fifth place in the National Debate Tournament held at West Point. The National Debate Tournament is the “World Series” of debating. A team’s showing there is the basis for its national rating. Just to reach the National Tournament is a feat in itself. Of the five hundred debating teams in the country, only thirty-five go to the Nationals. The country is divided into regions usually encompassing five states. Each of these regions sends five teams to the Nationals.
Notre Dame was first at the regional tournament held at Purdue with a perfect score—six wins against no losses. This is the usual performance turned in by the debating team which has the unusual record of 229 wins against 35 losses for this year, and the extraordinary record of 1292 wins against 286 losses for the past ten years!
Red China Question
Representing Notre Dame at the Nationals were two of the top debaters on this year’s team, Chuck Doherty, president of the debating team, and Allan Riley. Doherty and Riley debated the much publicized question on the extension of diplomatic recognition by the United States to the Communist government of China. Making the question doubly difficult for the team at the Nationals was the fact that Doherty and Riley had to debate both sides of the issue.
A debate proceeds in this manner. One two-man team, termed the “affirmative,” argues in favoi- of the resolved question; another two-man team, termed the “negative,” argues against the resolved question. The members of each team give a ten-minute constructive speech, alternating affirmative then negative, to open the debate. Then to close the debate the members of each team give a five-minute speech in rebuttal alternating negative then affirmative. These speeches total up to a round. In the course of a day a team will debate from four to six rounds, depending on the tournament. Each round is judged separately on a basis of presentation, adaptation, defense, analysis, and evidence. When Notre Dame had a perfect score at the regionals it meant that it won six rounds and lost none.
Depending on the tournament, either a two-man team or a four-man team is
16
Coach and Officers: (left to right) President Chuck Doherty, Coach Leonard F. Sommer, future President Dick Schiller, and Novice Instructor Allan Riley.
sent. On the four-man team two of the members debate affirmative while the other two debate negative. Even though a team debates affirmative in one round and negative in the next, no man on the four-man team has to debate both sides of the issue. This is not true of the two-man team which must debate the affirmative in one round and the negative in the next. Such was the fate of Doherty and Riley in the Nationals which found them arguing forcibly one minute for the recognition of Red China and arguing just as forcibly a minute later against recognition.
The Nationals was not the only tournament the team debated at during the past year. Members attended some 12 other tournaments, traveling as far as Mobile, Ala., for the tournament at Spring Hill College. Notre Dame won six of these 12 tournaments, namely those at Bradley, Butler, Illinois at Navy Pier, Illinois State Normal, Purdue, and the North-South Tournament at the University of West Virginia.
Forty-Man Squad
It would seem that debating here at Notre Dame is somewhat of a two-man show. This couldn’t be farther from the truth. In the fall some 90 men went out for the debating team. From this original 90 was formed a squad of about 40 men. The coach of the debating team is Leonard F. Sommei- of the Department of Speech. Professor Sommer has been at Notre Dame for the past ten years and is greatly responsible for the
record the debating team has turned in 1 during that time. He is a graduate of Marquette University where he majored in Drama.
Chuck Doherty is president of this year’s debate team. A native of Pittsburgh, Chuck is a senior in the College of Commerce and has a dean’s list average. He is an NROTC regular, a member of the Blue Circle, and a member of the Pittsburgh Club. At each tournament an outstanding speaker for the negative and the affirmative is chosen. ' Chuck was outstanding affirmative speaker at the Purdue, the North-South, j and the William and Mary College tour- J naments. He also won the Indiana State Extemporaneous Contest and received a prize of $25.
Schiller New President	>
Dick Schiller, a junior in the College j of Commerce, has been elected president j of next year’s debating team. Dick, a na- * tive of Aurora, Ill., held the only othei-office in the debating team—that of novice coach—during the past year. Dick is also regional president of Tau Kappa Alpha, a national honorary de- ™ bating fraternity, which Dick says, “. . . is the only fraternity with a chapter on the Notre Dame campus.” Though there are only three members of the fraternity on campus, four sophomores will become members soon. They are Allan Riley, John Bure, Pat Curran, and Jerry Garvey.
Allan Riley, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected , i
The Scholastic
I novice coach for next year. Allan, a native of Chicago, is a staff announcer A for WNDU and a member of the Chicago Club, as well as being one of the top debaters on this year’s team.
• Allan received the outstanding nega-‘ tive speaker award at the William and . Mary tournament, and was second in . the Indiana State Oratorical Contest, winning $15. He received superior ratings in debate, discussion, and oratory C at the Bradley tournament. Allan has ' also had numerous parts in theatrical a productions here on campus.
Pat Curran, a sophomore in the Col? lege of Commerce, comes from Oska-!=. loosa, Iowa, is a two-year member of the debating team, and sports a dean’s list average.
Rick Ninneman, this year’s outstand-• ing freshman debater, is from Toma, Wis. Rick is carrying out somewhat of । ’ a tradition as a member of the debating I team in that two of his older brothers a were debaters during their careers at Notre Dame. Rick received the third, best-speaker award at the North-South Tournament.
Debater-Television Performer
Jerry Garvey, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, is from . Chicago, Ill. Aside from being a member of the debating team, Jerry can be seen on a nation-wide television program on i Sunday mornings over NBC. Jerry is also a member of the Student Senate and the Chicago Club, besides having a dean’s list average. Jerry received a ’ superior rating in debate, discussion, . and oratory at the Bradley tournament.
Jerry Brady, a freshman in the Col' lege of Arts and Letters, is also an out’ standing freshman debater. He is a staff announcer for WNDU and comes from Idaho Falls, Idaho. Jerry was recently elected president of next year’s A sophomore class.
These seven men, along with the other members of the 40-man squad, do more
Meeting a few of the 40-man Debate Team.
than just speak at debating tournaments. During the past year they gave more than 40 exhibition debates, including one in Washington Hall against a team from Oxford of England. The team also held a series of debates with the University of Pittsburgh. Two of the 14 debates that made up the series were on television. The rest were before audiences in Pittsburgh that totaled 15,000 people. The Notre Dame team, led by Chuck Doherty, who is from Pittsburgh, won this seines of debates.
Notre Dame Invitational
The Notre Dame debating team also played host this year to teams from all over the country that came to the campus for the Third Annual Notre Dame National Invitational Tournament. This tournament was won by Wilkes College of Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
The debating team has its own room in the Student Center dedicated to Joe Conwell, a debater during his career at Notre Dame, who died while in the Marines.
Upperclassmen will remember a long
list of outstanding debaters. Two of last year’s team leaders are now in the service, Bill Hank and Don Dowden. Al DeCrane, top debater .in ’53, is also in the service. Going back a few more years we can recall Bill Carey, a prominent debater as a student at Notre Dame, who is now with the Notre Dame Foundation. Other past greats include Frank Finn, who will graduate from the University of Texas Law School this year, and Bill Dempsey who will graduate as valedictorian from the Yale Law School this year.
What good is debating? To best evaluate debating is to look at the use debaters make of the training they have received. It is estimated that nearly two-thirds of the graduating debaters go into fields where there is a premium on public speaking and debating ability. One such field, law, claims nearly all of this two-thirds. But whether or not a debater plans to make special use of his training after he graduates makes no difference; he still has developed an ability that will be an asset the rest of his life.
GIVEN: The Notre Dame Invitational Award is presented by Father Norton to the Wilkes College team.
RECEIVED: A few of the many awards won by the Debate Team this season.
| May 6, 1955
17
ROLLICKING FROSH
Dance Photos by JOHN O’BRIEN
“Dreams come true in Blue Hawaii.”" That’s a line from one of the more famous songs of the Islands, and seems to be an apt description of last weekend’s annual Freshman Frolic.
The long-patient Freshman class finally got a chance to show up rival upperclass socialites; needless to say, they took full advantage of the opportunity. There is a long-standing tradition around campus that claims the Frosh outshine all others in selecting attrac-™ tive dates for their yearly twirl. Certainly, this spring was no exception.
Decor and Music Praised
Over 350 local and imported beauties graced the LaFortune Student Center at last Friday night’s fun-filled Frolic. Its theme—“Hawaiian Holiday”—apparently brought out their imaginative best from both Bob Duffy’s decorations com-KJ mittee and the seldom-reliable South ' Bend weatherman. Many dance-goers could be heard praising the light, colorful decorations that established a sunny , atmosphere indoors; and everybody was ; happy about the clear, blue sky and \ warm breezes that continued throughout the weekend.
Couples danced under a make-believe ; outdoor pavilion and palm trees ... a strolling troubador twanged out relaxing Island melodies on his guitar ... (3 refreshments were served in the “Cocoa- .1 nut Grove” and “Hawaiian” rooms. It ; all added up to a miniature Waikiki • sans grass skirts and foaming waves, t
The all-important music—ranging in ; scope from torrid tropical rhythms to J cool jazz harmonies—was provided by | Fred Dale and his Collegians. Perhaps | those unfamiliar with Dale’s music were startled to see this band leader soloing on the vibraphone. But they soon
A touch of old Hawaii . . .	King and Queen for a day.	Answer to “Who is Fred Dale?”
learned that this blending of vibes with brass and reeds creates the unique sound that has led many critics to acclaim Dale’s crew as the nation’s top college dance band.
Highlight of the evening came just before midnight when Miss Mary Lee Laughlin was crowned “Queen of the Frolic.” The Queen was the date of Dance Chairman Dave McMahon. (For a day, at least, the Irish ruled Hawaii!) Miss Laughlin hails from Bellport, Long Island, and is now a senior at Seton Hall High School in Patchogue, N. Y.
Festivities continued unitl 1 a.m. when the Frosh and their guests bid each other Aloha Oe (farewell to thee) at the close of a perfect “Hawaiian Holiday.”
“Drink to me only with thine eyes . .

: i
Chairman Henry McCarthy opens Communion Breakfast.

Naturally, the spirit of the Freshman Frolic continued throughout the whole weekend of activities without diminishing. It was evident everywhere . . . sight-seeing couples strolling across campus . . . girls watching their dates parade during Saturday afternoon’s ROTC Presidential Review . . . the reunited couples sailing about the Navy Drill Hall at that evening’s Champions’ Ball.
But nowhere was it more evident than at the Sunday morning Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn. After attending 8 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church, couples crowded into the Im where Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University, gave the welcoming address. As Father Hesburgh remarked, there could be no more fitting way to close a delightful Holiday at Notre Dame!
ft
May 6, 1955
19

2
EDITOR JOHN ADAMS CONFERS WITH ASSOCIATE EDITOR PAUL LAFRENIERE
Organizational Changes Made in Next Year’s Editorial Staff
Adams to Succeed Brehl as 'Scholastic* Editor; Associate Editor's Post Given to LaFreniere
The announcement of the appointments to Scholastic posts for the forthcoming school year was made this week by Mr. John P. Def ant, faculty moderator for the publication.
Receiving the top assignment is John Adams, who will take over as editor-in-chief from Larry Brehl. Adams is a junior journalism major who comes from Elmhurst, Ill. He began his work on the Scholastic as a news reporter during his freshman year. After having served as assistant copy editor during the first semester of his sophomore year, he moved up to copy editor in the second semester. During the past year, Adams has held the post of news editor.
Paul LaFreniere will fill the position of associate editor, which has been held by Fred Eckart. Hailing from Marquette, Mich., LaFreniere is a junior, majoring in accounting, who started with the magazine as a reporter in his freshman year. After gaining experience as assistant copy editor while a sophomore, LaFreniere has handled the duties of copy editor this year.
Moving into the post of news editor vacated by Adams is a sophomore in accounting, Charles McKendrick. Coming from New Orleans, La., McKendrick was a copy writer during his first year and assistant copy editor this year.
Succeeding LaFreniere as copy editor is Ed Joyce, a junior majoring in journalism. A resident of Elgin, Ill., Joyce
20
has previously served on the Scholastic staff as a reporter and copy writer.
Dave Davin, a junior, who was a sports reporter during his first two years and the assistant sports editor during the second semester this year, will handle the job of sports editor, which has been held by Paul Fullmer. Enrolled in the Department of Journalism, Davin is from Rochester, N. Y.
A newly-established position this year will be that of production assistant. It has been set up to handle all graphic ends of the paper and to develop coordination between the different departments. The man who will assume this new responsibility will be Bob Kaufman, from Manitowoc, Wis., a sophomore in the Program for Administrators. His previous experience on the Scholastic includes being a copy writer last year and assistant news editor this year.
Jim O’Brien will become one of the two feature editors next year. A junior philosophy major from Elgin, Ill., O’Brien has been a member of the news staff for three years.
Working with him as the other feature editor will be John Gueguen, who has moved up after three years’ experience in sports writing. He is a junior journalism major from Lexington, Mo.
Two AB freshmen, Jim McDonald from Cincinnati, O., and Dave Kubal from Lombard, Ill., and an AB sophomore, Dave Thompson from St. Joseph,
Mo., will be the new assistant copy editors next year. Both McDonald and Kubal have acted as copy writers while Thompson has been a reporter.
John Glavin, an AB freshman reporter from Scottsville, N. Y., was awarded one of the assistant sports editor posts. The other one will be manned by Joseph Norton, an AB sophomore from Rockford, Ill. Norton has previously been a sports reporter.
The office of business manager of the publication will be filled by Ken Wood-; ward. He is a sophomore in AB from Rocky River, 0., who held the same position this year.
Norb Radziwon will undertake the management of circulation. Coming from Wyand, Pa., Radziwon is a junior in engineering.
Scriba Takes Second In ASME Competition
John Scriba, sophomore in Industrial Engineering, was awarded second prize of $25 for his paper on “Sales Engineering” which he presented April 28 at the Student Branch of Mechanical Engineers held at Peoria, Ill.
Scriba’s paper dealt with the problems that face an engineer when designing a display rack for merchandise. He used the example of the display racks used by the Wrigley Company in selling gum. He explained how the engineer must use information other than his technical knowledge to design a rack that will be accepted by the firm. Among the factors to be considered are the whims of the consuming public and the store managers. His talk was illustrated, using one of the racks, and pictures of others.
Accompanying Scriba to the conference were Mr. Robert Egry, Chairman of the Committee on Student Branch Activities in Region VI, Jim Mason, Harold Alwan, and Michael Ahern.
Prof. Smith Elected President Of Catholic Philosophy Group
Prof. Vincent Smith of the Department of Philosophy was elected president of the American Catholic Philosophical Association at its convention in Philadelphia during Easter week.
Professor Smith will be in charge of the activities of the organization for the year 1955-56. The association is a learned society which boasts a membership of philosophers from throughout the world. The purpose of the 30-year-old organization is to promote Catholic philosophy and to encourage research in philosophy.
Professor Smith has been editor of the association’s quarterly journal, New Scholasticism, since 1948. It has the largest circulation of any such journal in the world.
The Scholastic
Kertesz Named to Head World Relations Group
Dr. Stephen Kertesz, professor of political science at Notre Dame and former Hungarian minister to Italy, has been appointed head of the University’s Committee on International Relations, according to a recent announcement by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. He succeeds the late Dr. Waldemar Gurian who a headed the Committee from the time it was established in 1948 until his death last May.
During the next five years the Committee on International Relations will conduct research dealing largely with American foreign policy. This research will be supported in part by a $100,000 grant which the University recently received from the Rockefeller Foundation. Since 1948, the Committee has published ten books and conducted numerous campus symposia.
Dr. Kertesz, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1950 after a distinguished diplomatic career, is the author of Diplomacy in a Whirlpool. He resigned from the Hungarian diplomatic service in 1947 when it became apparent that his country would be entirely Communist dominated and cut off from the West.
Prior to the Communist seizure of power, Kertesz served as secretary-general of the Hungarian peace delegation that went to Paris in 1946. During the following year he was Hungarian minister to Italy. One of his final activities in the foreign ministry was to direct the publication of postwar diplomatic documents entitled Hungary anti the Conference of Paris. Three volumes were published in English and French before the Red coup.
W Kertesz has studied at several universities including Budapest, Paris, Oxford, Geneva and Yale. He is a member of the International Free Academy of Science and Letters.
HELP, SENIORS!
The Senior Ball Committee requests help in the decorating of the Navy Drill Hall beginning next Monday night.
The committee expressed a great need for help in this project and asks that as many as possible be on hand for the work.
Decorating will be done every night next week from 6 until 12. Those interested should report any time after 6 p.m.
6, 1953
Crehan Named President in Record Vote; Entire University Party Balloted to Victory
Tom Crehan, AB junior from California, is the new president of the Student Senate. Crehan was inaugurated last Monday afternoon in the main ballroom of the Student Center climaxing his April 28 victory at the polls over Dan Devine, Commerce student from Michigan.
The turnout for the voting in this yeai-’s elections was the highest in the history of Notre Dame student government. The loser in the presidential race, Devine, gathered as many votes as last year’s president, Joe Daley, did in winning. “The interest in the Student Senate presidential election was shown by
H. LEE HOPE
Regrets Leaving Notre Dame
Lee Hope Resigns Band Job; O'Brien Returns to Old Post
H. Lee Hope, band director- of Notre Dame’s famed Marching Band, last Thursday resigned the post he has held for eleven years, according to information recently released by the University.
Robert F. O’Brien has been named as Hope’s successor and will assume his duties when classes begin in the fall. O’Brien is not new to Notre Dame, for he directed the band for two years while Hope took a leave of absence to obtain his Ph.D. at Indiana University.
Hope has resigned his position here to take over as a co-owner of a new percussion division of the Conn Band Instrument Co. In commenting on his many years at the University Hope said, “It is with a great deal of regret that I leave Notre Dame and the many fine years I have spent here. But this opportunity is one that I can’t afford to pass up.”
an increase of 600 voters over last year,”" said Jim Broughton, head of the Blue Circle Elections Committee. “This points to a good year in Student government-for the 1955-56 school year,” he added.
Besides the election of Student Senate president, balloting was also conducted, for class officers, college senators and an off-campus-village senator.
The results in the Senior Class elections showed a possible trend in student elections. Previously, party politics has failed badly in gathering votes. But in this year’s election Bill Warren, a Commerce student from Oklahoma, led the University P.arty to a clean sweep of offices as he was elected class president over Jack Casey. Taking the vice-presidency for the University Party was Joe Bill while Al Vitt and Dave Austgen captured the secretarial and. treasury posts, respectively. All the members of the University Party won by large margins.
The closest race occurred in the voting for Junior Class president where Frank Pedace, present Sophomore Class president, was elected by a precarious six-vote margin over Pat Logan. Running third in this race was Ray Miller who headed the Commoners’ Party. Due to-this party’s late nomination acceptance-by the Senate, its candidates’ names had not appeared on the afternoon ballots. But with the approval of all the candidates, new ballots were made up for the evening voting. WNDU announced the-mix-up and many men had to vote again. Rounding out the results of the Junior Class, elections were Bud Freidheim who won the vice-presidency, Roger Bennett, the class secretarial post, and Bill Kigali who took the treasurer’s job by a large margin.
The presidency of the Sophomore Class was taken by Jerry Brady who comes-from Idaho Falls, Idaho and is in AB. Brady won by a comfortable margin from Jerry Slater and Bob Marr. Joe . Bride, Brady’s running mate, also won in his bid for the vice-presidency. Tak- . ing the secretarial post was Dave Baker, . and Jack Doyle captured the treasurer’s-office by a very close margin.
In the voting for the college senators, Robert O’Malley was elected over Bill Weldon and Gordon DiRenzo in the AH school. Winning the Commerce senatorship was John Engler who narrowly de- . feated Walter Peeney. The new Engi- ; neering Senator is John Gschwind who ! won from Al Karnath, and in the Science- , school Jim Kennedy defeated Phil Boh- ; nert. In the race for off-campus-village senator, Phil Twigg was unopposed. i;
<3
2t i
q
The Showcase
ORANGE-COLORED SPATS
By RICHARD GERBRACHT
Thirty years ago the University of Zurch had given its sanction to Montmorenci Tweak; it had given him a profound slap on the back and an illegibly written piece of parchment with which to face the world. But Montmorenci wasn’t ready to face the world then, and dressed in his rugged tweeds —such an early vintage of which that they bloused almost to his ankles and buckled just below his knees—he set out to record the number of times per year that it was necessary to clean orange-colored spats. This was, he felt, the correct time to find such things out —“before I become too engrossed in life,” he would remark.
The large single room which he had taken on graduation provided suitable wall space to hang his collection of junk. It -was a square room with large and high •walls; in fact so high that they seemed to become smaller ■when looked at from just floor level. Up, up, up, Montmorenci would look and only the disappearing width of his huge square ■walls was noticeable. On the South side a gargantuan slit of a -window peeked out on the street. Down its narrow length hung a shade—a tongue of light fabric like the white rollers used at fashionable ■weddings and on which the bride and groom leave the church. People said they actually had seen Montmorenci pacing up and down on his window shade as though he were eagerly awaiting the church doors to open—he paced and dreamed, no doubt, of love and marriage; the chances of which, of course, were nil. Huge belts of burlap covered the floors, keeping draught and beetles from his threshold. But it was the high ceilings and the long window shade whose gradual disappearance really made Montmorenci so pinched. For as the perspective of the top of the room became narrower and narrower, so also did Montmorenci’s head.
Long hours would be spent by Montmorenci sitting behind his rain-spattered window recording the movements of the day. He looked peaked and pinched and as his head became smaller and
smaller, the numbers of cars and people who passed his residence, it became clear by his chronicle, increased. But his most famous experiment was discovering the number of times that orange-colored spats must be cleaned.
He trudged down the street one day carrying loads of imitation feet—the kind used to model stockings—and a bundle of orange spats on all sorts of feet. And. then he would wear a pair each day, switching about with meticulous regularity, and after each day’s wearing, rearranging it on the model and taking notes on the day’s wear of dirt—on his orange-colored spats.
This experiment lasted for seven and a half years and by the time he had completed it the world had changed fashion; no one was wearing orange- £ colored spats any more. Devoted servant w of humanity, unsung hero of culture! Man of the universe—and really trying to help!
The experiment did have its good effects, though, for his iron-willed land- > lady—the	fat beast—realizing that '
Montmorenci could never become famous for his treatise on the cleaning bills per > yeai- of orange-colored spats began setting her sights for him. She started £ filling his every non-orange-colored-spats-thinking time with pleasant whiffs of herself. Montmorenci was impressed; after all, no one else gave him any ; attention and if grown-up people never | eared for him, then at least he might j capture his landlady or some little chil- j dren. But with his landlady there was | the added attraction of free rent. I
By the time he was fifty he was still checking the bus schedules to see if buses ran on time, and counting the cars £ that passed his house each day—this way he could tell if more were being ! made each year. And of course, he was the sole owner of the unpublished treatise, “The Number of Times Per Year j That Orange-colored Spats Must Be ! Cleaned.”	I
Weekly, he carried the third carbon | around with him when he collected rent g for his devoted wife. She wouldn’t let | him wear spats, though, ever.
The Scholastic
j
22
| Admen's Rapid Growth Since Birth in 1954 l*Provides Campus With Public Relations Unit
By RAY WALSH
Every topic from soup to nuts goes to make up the subject matter for the barrage of posters that bedeck most campus bulletin boards.
The Admen, a campus club founded in January of 1954, is the group pri-£ marily responsible for these posters. The i group, as the name suggests, is comprised of men who possess a genuine interest in the fields of advertising and public relations. Unique and different from most campus clubs, their purpose consists primarily in rendering services to anyone in need of promotional assistance.
Since its inception in 1954, the club, under the leadership of Dick O’Donnell, £ has grown rapidly until presently its value as a commercial group affording students practical experience is greatly recognized. At present the Admen function as a relatively small, though compact, group of 25 students ranging from freshmen to seniors.
The Admen’s broad purpose points toward giving those students interested in advertising or its allied fields an opportunity to increase their knowledge of the advertising field by working in an 0 organization patterned after a commercial advertising agency. This simulated experience will further the student’s ability in his chosen field and will also I afford him a greater understanding of the vital role that advertising and public relations play in the overall scheme of modern American business. This experience might consist in selling, that is, real contact with prospective clients, or in the actual preparation of appeals to W consumers via the various advertising media. In view of the increasing range and complexity of the advertising field in general, the club has accomplished the necessary specialization by dividing itself into four departments: sales, copy, art and layout. This division enables a student to become proficient in his specialty and at the same time gain valuable appreciation of the inter-action of the various departments contributing to the business as a whole.
™ Recent encouragement from the AdI ministration has prompted President O’Donnell to express hope that some day the Admen might handle all advertising directed to the campus public, in much the same manner as a commer-j cial advertising agency handles a large ' company’s entire promotion program.
O’Donnell says, “The Admen could serve as the intermediary between persons or groups who are trying to present a good
May 6, 1955
or service to the Notre Dame campus public and the public itself.”
The Admen are particularly interested in freshmen and sophomores who have an interest in advertising and extend an invitation to apply for membership. O’Donnell expresses the club’s potential value to students this way: “It gives
DICK O’DONNELL
Puts ‘Know-How’ on the Line a student an opportunity for an insight into meeting people and interpreting their needs in the fields of advertising and public relations.”
Father Conway, Noted Jesuit, To Address South Bend Group
Rev. Edward A. Conway, S.J. professor of Political Science at Creighton University and one of the foremost Catholic authorities on international affairs, will speak in South Bend at the Indiana Club’s main ballroom on May 10 on the subject of “The United Nations Charter Revision Year.”
Father Conway is a vice-president of the Catholic Association for International Peace. From 1948 to 1954 he served as international editor for the Jesuit weekly publication, America, and was influential in revising the Dumbarton Oaks proposal, which culminated in the publication of the Goals for San Francisco, a prominent document at the San Francisco Conference.
A dinner in conjunction with the speech is under the sponsorship of the United World Federalists and will be at the Indiana club at 6 p.m. Notre Dame students are invited to attend the dinner and the address.
Symphonette to Perform Classical Fare on May 17
Notre Dame’s Symphonette will give a concert Tuesday, May 17, at 8:15 pan. in Washington Hall, according to an announcement by Dr. Charles Biondo, director. Selections by the Symphonette on the program include Symphony Number Five by Schubert, and Cavatina by Raff. Freshman Tim McGee will perform a clarinet solo and will be accompanied by William Gibbons on the piano. The selection will be Brahm’s Clarinet Solo. Gibbons, an associate graduate conductor, will also conduct the Symphonette in Seraylio by Mozart. Guest soloist for the evening will be violinist Esther Rosenfeld, a member of the South Bend Symphony. She will perform Mendelssohn’s Concerto in E Minor.
Dr. Biondo also announced the inauguration -of a program promoting string instruments in South Bend. This program is being promoted in five of South Bend’s parochial schools. Dr. Biondo said that the National Catholic Music Educators Association, of which he was recently elected president, will promote the use of string instruments in the nation’s Catholic schools.
Father Fitzgerald Appointed To Federal Arbitration Post
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., associate professor of economics at the University, has been appointed to the roster of arbitrators of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, according to an announcement by its director, Joseph F. Finnegan. Federal arbitrators are selected on the basis of their background in the field of industrial relations, their specific experience in labor arbitration and upon the recommendations of representatives of both unions and management.
Father Fitzgerald is the chairman of Notre Dame’s annual Union-Management Conference, attended by more than 500 Midwest industrial executives and labor leaders. He is also the author of the forthcoming book, Britain Views Our Industrial Relations. Father Fitzgerald is a member of the national panel of arbitrators of the American Arbitration Association. During World War II he served as a public panel member of the National War Labor Board for the Midwest region.
Father Fitzgerald holds degrees from Notre Dame, Harvard and the University of Chicago where he received his Ph.D. in economics in 1950. He is a member of the American Economic Association, the Catholic Economic Association, and the Industrial Relations Research Association.
23
ANY Door! .
Here’s a preview of Gilbert's Campus Shop, one of America s finest University Clothing centers, and featuring famous brand names like Hickey Freeman, Society Brand, Botany 500, GGG, Alpagora, Eagle and Burberry clothes . . . MacGregor Sportswear . . . Arrow, Wilson Bros, and Stradivari shirts . . . Florsheim shoes . . . Dobbs hats and many, many more! Open next semester . . . right on the campus!
24
• Scholastic Sports
ND SEEKS MID-SEASON DIAMOND SPURT
Carideo Safe as Throw Pulls First Baseman Off the Bag
Kline Juggles Lineup to Strengthen Hitting As Slumping Irish Open Four-Game Road Trip
The Notre Dame baseball nine will open a four-game road stand tomorrow _ afternoon against the Great Lakes Naval " Station. On Sunday afternoon, the Irish will be out to make it two straight victories over Glenview Naval Air Station, the Irish winning the first game 15 to 2 in their home opener.
On Monday and Tuesday of next week the team will play the University of Wisconsin at Madison. Wisconsin is currently in the cellar of the Big Ten with a record of one victory and five defeats.
। Last Tuesday the Irish ran into r trouble down at Lafayette -with the Purdue nine. The Irish came away on the short end of a 3-2 count.
The Boilermakers got to starter-loser Ron Mottl fol’ nine hits, four in the first inning, one a homer by Jack Enrieto.
Notre Dame tallied in the sixth when ' Jim Cusack doubled and Bill Teschke singled him home.
The other Irish marker came from Don Sniegowski’s single and Dan Nes-
) May 6, 1955
po’s triple in the ninth. Boilermaker winner Ron Teunis then put out the fire.
Against Indiana on Wednesday the Irish club couldn’t get two more runs and lost another tight one, 5-4.
Dan Nespo teeed-off in the fourth with a home run. In the sixth Bill Teschke singled and Jack O’Drobinak doubled him to third. Joe Yeager then offered a pinch-hit single for two more runs. The final tally came from a sacrifice fly.
Notre Dame’s Dick Bunker was the loser, being lifted in the sixth.
Coach Kline expressed his disappointment over the lack of hitting which has marred some fine pitching by Irish hurl-ers, especially Dick Bunker and Ron Mottl. Kline has juggled his lineup in an attempt to find some offensive punch in the past few games, giving everyone a chance to solve the run production problem.
Lefty Dick Bunker lost another heartbreaker to the University of Michigan, current Big Ten leaders, 2 to 1, with
both of Michigan’s runs being unearned. Bunker engaged in a tight pitching duel with Marc Ferrelli and Jim Clark of Michigan, giving up three singles and striking out ten.
The Irish took a one-run lead in the sixth on back-to-back singles by Jim Cusack and Bill Teschke. Michigan came back with their two runs on two walks, a hit batsman, and third baseman Don Eaddy’s single to center. This game left the Irish with four wins and seven defeats at the half-way point of their season.
Kline worked his charges hard over the past weekend, attempting to pack a little more punch into his lineup.
He has tried Steve Johnson and Steve Rebora at third, but neither showed enough to replace Don Sniegowski.
Johnson, Rebora, Tom Russell, and Hal Lavelle have also drilled at shortstop after Jim Carideo experienced a few spotty performances.
Kline has been especially dissatisfied with his outfield’s performance. He had Jim Twohy, Joe Yaeger, and Bob Nowakowski patrolling the outer gardens in intersquad games. Teschke, Jack O’Drobinak, and Dan Nespo have been starters so far, but Kline expects to pick his spots for newcomers from now on.
The inter-squad contests also gave Kline a chance to get a further look at his pitching staff. The Ii-ish have faltered in recent games when Bunker and Mottl leave the game. Kline is searching for dependable second-line hurlers for the grind this week.
Second-Line Hurling Weak
Paul Besser, Angelo Capozzi, John Hammett, Bernie McClory, Bill Roth, and Gerry Spaeth have shown flashes of form, but have received their lumps on other occasions. Instead of depending on these hurlers to go the route, Kline has been working them in three-inning stints in an attempt to increase their effectiveness over a shorter route.
Catcher Elmer Kohorst has become a fixture behind the plate. Ed Hurley has performed well in his first season and shown good form at bat.
Jim Cusack has been an adequate replacement for injured Mike Lesso at first. Lesso’s ankle injury has proved more serious than expected and he may forego baseball until next year.
25
Alumni Landry and Walsh Tutor '55 Gridders; Brennan Dissatisfied With Spring Progress
“We’re very glad to be back!” This was the statement voiced in complete accord by Notre Dame’s newest football coaches, Jack Landry and Bill Walsh, as they enthusiastically put the current crop through its paces last week. It was evident, by the way they went at their new jobs, that they were certainly telling the truth.
Landry, a star halfback in his days at Notre Dame, has been working for the government since his graduation in 1951, but that hasn’t weakened his taste for football and he looks like he’s right at home out on Cartier Field’s gridiron. At present, he is handling the “B” team, but he will take up his duties as Freshman coach in the fall.
Coach Bill Walsh is also well-known to Irish football fans and to those who have followed his career in the National Football League. After leaving Notre Dame, he played regular center with the Pittsburgh Steelers for six years. Walsh’s main occupation under Terry Brennan next season will be with the centers, although at the present he is helping to get all the linemen in shape.
Impressed With Spirit
Both Walsh and Landry expressed enthusiasm over the hard work and growing spirit of the team in spring practice.- Walsh stated that, “there is a lot of depth in the line, but it may be tough to round out a polished first team.”
Coach Landry has been teaching the “B” squad a few tricks of the trade and says that, “With enough polishing of their techniques, some of these boys may develop into varsity material.”
Next Saturday Brennan will wind up the spring drills with the annual Old Timers game. Last weekend he pushed his squad through rough scrimmages and was not pleased with the results.
“The offense didn’t look good at all and if they don’t shape up all the way around, we’ll be in hot water next year. Injuries could really raise havoc with us next fall.”
Freshmen Aubrey Lewis and Dick Wilkins continued their campaign for a varsity berth with sensational broken field running. Both ripped off long gains during the “brutal” scrimmage.
Jim Morse and Don Schaefer, two veteran backs, also wrere consistent gainers. Paul Hornung, who Coach George Dickson is working hard at quarterback, couldn’t move his first team effectively. Larry Cooke, second string signal caller, connected on a TD aerial to Ziggie Zajeski.
Dick Lynch, Dean Studer, and Dick Fitzgerald also worked extensively on offense.
Unheralded defensive performers, however, have caught the coaches eyes this spring.
Sherrill Sipes, Frank Pinn, Carl Hebert, and Chuck Lima have looked good on defensive chores.
Other defensive standouts include Len Barbarisi, Pete Noznesky, Joe Bosse, Joe
WALSH AND LANDRY “Glad to Be Back”
Bihn, John McGinley, Tom Hughes, and Frank Kuchta.
Bob Scannell, Jim Munro, George Nicula, George Groble, Al Francis, Pat Bisceglia, and Jim Mense comprised the first team line at the injury-riddled scrimmage last Saturday.
Injuries have hit Brennan hard with Wayne Edmonds, Gene Martell, Paul Reynolds, John McMullan, Dick Prendergast, and Bob Witucki being shelved this spring.
Three Teams Pace Chi Club
The Chicago Club Softball League moves into the last half of its schedule with the league title still very much in doubt.
Including games of May 3, there still remain three undefeated teams. Bob Wing’s club has four victories and no losses. Junior Stephens’ team and Dick Beeman’s outfit have three wins apiece.
Frank Lolli, Chicago club president, announced that there will be a four-team playoff May 16-19. The final will be a two-out-of-three series.
Irish Open Outdoors With Missouri Tigers
The Notre Dame track team, fresh from a very impressive showing in the Drake Relays, invades Columbia, Mo., tomorrow for the season’s first outdoor dual meet with the Missouri Tigers.
Last week at Des Moines the Irish
took a first and a second, and generally looked “pretty good” as Coach Alex Wilson put it. The relays, dominated by Oklahoma A. & M., brought together the finest track competition in the country.
Bernie Allard soared to another first place in the high jump with a leap of 6 feet 7% inches, the third straight time he has cleared 6 feet 7 inches. His effort, however, was a quarter of an inch short of the all-time Notre Dame
mark, but Coach Wilson thinks Bernie will eventually rewrrite this record. “Of course, he’s pretty close right now; I think he might make it,” wras his comment.
In the distance medley relay a team of Dick O’Keefe, Al Porter, Al Schoenig, and Bill Squires finished second to a strong UCLA team in a close race that saw the Bruins squeeze out the win in the last 100 yards of the race. Asked if the second-place finish wras expected, the voluble track coach replied, “We knew' w'e had a pretty good team. You can’t tell just w'hat you’ll do when" you’re up against the best teams in the country. We were very pleased with oui- showing.”
Tomorrow the Irish -will be opposing one of the strongest teams in the Big , Seven conference as they take on Missouri. The Tigers have a well-balanced team and should be especially tough at ■ home, Wilson added.
All of the events that were run in- £ doors will be included in the outdoor meet, but the hurdles will be run at ; 100 yards. The added outside events are the 100 and 200-yard dashes, the discus, ;j and javelin.	'
The shot put will present a problem ■ for Coach Wilson since Byron Beams ; will not be able to compete due to foot- '
ball practice. Frank Kauffman, a i sophomore from Santa Barbara, Calif., I will substitute for Beams. His best ef- rt fort to date is 47 feet 2 inches.	9
Coach Wilson expects Jack Soranno, a 4’
tw'o-time letter winner to provide the spark in the discus throw. Soranno has . been a consistent point-getter for the I past two seasons, and Wilson expects 4 him to hit his peak in his senior year, f Soranno’s best distance is 147 feet. Wil- t
son hopes to reclaim Ben Zajeski from Terry Brennan’s football outfit to strengthen the Irish in the shot put.
The Scholastic.
26
> WEEKEND MIDDIES SET SAIL
By JACK GUEGUEN
> Back in the fall of 1947, six Notre Dame juniors got together and discovered they had one common interest— sailing. Being from the Boston area, (^each had spent many hours piloting i small craft during summer vacations.
After discussing their maritime experiences, one of the juniors, Dick Burke, suggested that the group form a sailing club at Notre Dame.
That was over eight years ago. Since then the Notre Dame sailing club has reached the front rank in collegiate sailing and has compiled an impressive string of victories.
A With Burke as its first commodore, the club was organized and began its first season in spring, 1948. A few meets were scheduled with nearby small colleges, and that fall the ND sailors reached for the big time.
To their surprise and to the surprise of the University, the new sailing club I finished second in the fall finals for the midwestem championship, the squad’s first major regatta. Yale, the first-place team, went on to win the national collegiate title.
When they graduated in 1949, the six charter members of the Notre Dame sailing team left their successors two 10-foot single mast boats called penguins.
Although they also left behind a group of enthusiastic club members, the
Sailors Take a Break—Standing (left to right): Lou Morgan, Bernardo D’Almeida, Mike Cleary, Tom Burke, Frank Dwan, John Chomeau. Seated: John Sheehy, Pete I Raffetto, Ron Meissner, Ray Nelson, John Tutle, Harry Murphy.
team slipped downhill after the graduation of Burke and company.
Two years later Don Matthews and Ed Rodgers gave new life to the sailing club. It took them three years to develop the team and bring it the high rating it now enjoys.
Their largest enterprise was borrowing $2,500 in the fall of 1952 to buy four M. I. T. dinghies for the team. The old penguins, a popular class of dinghy for college sailing back in 1948, were outdated by 1952.
The sailing club is still paying off its debt for the tech dinghies. Some of the club members who work in South Bend contribute their earnings, and club dues are another source of revenue. The club expects to finish repaying the loan next fall from profits garnered through the summer storage concession.
The team-building efforts of Matthews and Rodgers paid off in the 1954 season when the ND sailing club won all four of its regular season regattas. In competition with 16 other colleges and universities from the East and Midwest the Notre Dame sailors came through the season undefeated.
Rodgers completed his studies last year, and Matthews graduated in February, 1955. Both men are past commodores of the team.
Present officers are Ray Nelson, New Rochelle, N. Y., sophomore, commodore;
On a Sunday Afternoon
Bob Sargent, Menominee, Mich., senior, vice-commodore; Gilles Gallant, Woonsocket, R. I., junior, secretary; Ron Meissner, Racine, Wis., freshman, treasurer; and Pete. Raffetto, Ridgewood, N. J., sophomore, fleet captain.
Paul Miller, South Bend senior, is chairman of the alumni committee; John Chomeau, Kirkwood, Mo., junior, heads the finance committee; and John Sheehy, Chicago freshman, is publicity chairman.
Sheehy plans to launch a large-scale radio and TV campaign locally next week to acquaint Michiana residents with the sailing club, to try to interest a sponsor in the team, and to publicize
Waiting for the Decision
the squad’s final meet this spring, the Notre Dame snipe regatta on May 7-8.
This regatta, which will bring together eight college teams, is unique in that it is the only intercollegiate regatta in the country that uses boats other than dinghies. Snipes are 16-foot boats with two sails.
Among the 35 men on the team’s present roster is Bernardo D’Almeida, a freshman from Lisbon, Portugal. Bernie had much sailing experience at home and is a definite asset to the ND squad, according to Commodore Nelson.
The team’s home meets are held on Diamond Lake, 30 miles north of the campus near Brownsville, Mich.
The sailing club holds the status of a minor sport at Notre Dame, and Father Francis Nealy, O.P., serves as faculty moderator.
The club meets every Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Room 209, Engineering building. All students, regardless of experience, are eligible to join the club.
A Long Lead, but Watch Out for That Buoy, Boy!
Alumni Gold, Morrissey Blue Pace Leagues T©ward Campus Intramural Softball Wind-up *
With nearly two full weeks of intramural softball competition already completed, a total of ten teams in the five-league circuit yet remain undefeated.
In the Gold League, the Alumni nine, managed by Joe Madigan, lead the rest of the pack, sporting a 4-0 mark. After easily stopping three straight opponents, the Alumni squad clashed with previously unbeaten Farley in a thriller, winning 11-7 to keep their record clean. Sparking the hard-hitting Alumni nine have been speedy shortstop Tom Marko, Owen Dugan, Ted Bintz, and Jack Fitzsimmons.
Walsh and Farley hold down second and third places in the league with 2-0 and 2-1 records, respectively. The Walsh ball club found it easy going ■with two straight forfeits while Farley defeated Morrissey 17-5, and gained a forfeit, before dropping one to the league leaders. Eddie Austin, Frank Moore, and Chuck McGill led Farley’s offensive attack.
A strong Morrissey team leads the Blue league. Managed by Gerry Smith, Morrissey has a perfect 3-0 record. In keeping a clean slate, Morrissey beat Sorin by forfeit, Howard 8-6, and Alumni 22-3, the latter of which four double plays in four innings were turned in by Morrissey. Those who fattened up their batting averages during these games for the Morrissey cause were Jim Maloney, Ernie Kleezly, and George O’Donnell.
Also, bolstered by the hitting of Jack Murray, Bob Fleming, and Dick Groner, the Walsh Blues remain close behind Morrissey with a 2-0 record. They
scored their wins over Lyons, 13-2, and by forfeit over Sorin.
The Green League, similarly, is headed by a Morrissey team with a like, 3-0 record. This squad, managed by Art Kiddoo, has gained victories over Vetville, 15-10, Howard, 9-3, and Badin, 7-6. Outstanding players contributing to the Morrissey cause have been Jerry Jones, Joe," Paul, and pitcher-manager Kiddoo. **
Sorin, with a 2-0 mark, holds down second place in the Green League. One of their decisions came at the expense of Vetville, 15-6, while the other was picked up by forfeit.
In the Club League, the Italian and Irish Clubs have shown the greatest efforts with 2-0 records. The Italian Club gained a first place tie by tripping up a good K of C squad, 18-11, and the In-^' dianapolis Club, who scored a triple play in the game, 16-8. Hitting stars for the Italian Club were Jim Pavis, Wayne Aicroth, and manager Don Sileo. The Irish Club grabbed their victory by defeating the A.C.S. Club, 11-8, and a forfeit win.
Milwaukee and Detroit are leading six I other teams in the State-City League with 4-0 and 2-0 records, respectively. The biggest weapon for Milwaukee has been Norm Haney who hurled a no-< hitter, during which only one man* reached first base,	that on an error,	।
enabled Milwaukee	to defeat Buffalo,	j
11-0, while Haney’s	other pitching feat	1
permitted them to	beat Canton, 18-2.	'
They trounced Texas 23-3 for their third victory. Players contributing greatly to I the routs were Tom Mulcahy and Charlie Shane.
Fine pitching by Don Dugmavitch and good clutch hitting by Vince SheerantL and Mike Horae helped Detroit topple j Buffalo, 7-2, and Minnesota, 13-12, for their standing in the league.	• I
Kalamazoo, Big Ten Teams	I
Next for Samson's Netters	j
Notre Dame’s tennis team meets De- * troit’s Titans here this afternoon and ; then tangles with Kalamazoo College on i the home courts tomorrow afternoon at I i 1:30.
Wisconsin will be here Tuesday for a- 1 crucial match, and then Coach Charlie I Samson’s squad journeys to Ann Arbor next Friday to face Michigan.	j
The Irish split two Big Ten matches j this week. Indiana’s Hoosiers nipped the . Irish, 5-4, on Monday on the home . ■ courts. The defending Big Ten champs ; took four- out of the six singles matches, ■ but ND fought back to cop the first two £ doubles matches to knot the score. £
The Scholasti^ \ u
T
28
Dean Richards and Jim Rich, however, ^dropped the final doubles clash and In-Wliana took the match.
Tuesday the Irish came out on the long end of a 5-4 count over Purdue. In contrast to the Indiana duel, ND took four of six singles matches, but dropped two of the doubles matches.
Wally Clarke and Captain Maury Reidy captured their singles and then went on to take another doubles victory. Their doubles win clinched the Irish factory.
w Harry Smith and Jim Rich also copped singles wins against Purdue.
Notre Dame trimmed Tennessee A. & I., 6-0, last Friday and continued the shutout string against Marquette on Saturday with a 9-0 count.
Captain Reidy had a perfect slate in these four matches, taking all his singles competition and then combining with Clarke in the doubles for four more ^avins.
Clarke had a 3-1 record, Smith a 3-1, Bill Reale a 2-2, Dean Richards a 2-2, and Jim Rich a 2-1 in these four contests.
Smith and Reale took two out of three doubles matches, while Richards and Rich took one out of three. Smith and Tom Guilfoile won a doubles duel from Marquette on a default.
I*Sailing Club to Host Novel Snipe Regatta
As advertised on local radio and television stations this past week, the Irish will introduce a new type of race to the collegiate ranks this weekend in the Notre Dame Invitational Snipe Regatta.
The regatta will be held at the Diamond Lake Yachters Club, Diamond ^Lake, Mich., starting at 10 a.m. Satur-^lay and Sunday. Bernardo D’ Almeida and Joe Corcoran are expected to start at the helm for the Irish.
The Irish sailing club kept traveling through smooth waters this past weekend by taking first place in the area “B” eliminations at Ann Arbor, Mich. The middies now qualify for the midwestem championships at Ohio State, May 13 and 14, which will determine the midwest representative in the national championships at Kings Point, N. Y., in June.
Notre Dame scored 104 points out of a possible 120 to edge the second place Wolverines by eight tallies.
For the Irish, skippers Ray Nelson and Tim Rice split the “A” division competition, each gaining two first place victories. The most encouraging performance of the weekend, however, was turned in by freshman Ron Meissner, who scored five firsts in eight “B” division races.
tMay 6, 1955
splinters from., , r the pressbox
by Paul Fullmer
Economic experts fear that the dust storms in the Southwest may cause a famine. They do not bemoan this fact any more than Coach Jake Kline does the dearth of base hits on his Irish nine. The diamond outfit anni-
hilated Glenview in the home opener and now can’t buy a hit. It’s been all
ELMER KOHORST Has All the Tools
defense, no offense so far.
Kline has juggled his outfield and experimented with new infield combinations, but still the punch doesn’t seem to be there. The batting order has been shuffled and reshuffled in an effort to pick up enough counters to reward Dick Bunker and Ron Mottl with well-earned victories.
Bunker and Mottl are as potent a one-two punch as you can find in the Midwest, but it doesn’t do any good to pitch a low run game if your teammates can’t pick up a few runs. '
Sophomores have come to Kline’s rescue in early games. Catcher Elmer Kohorst and second baseman Ed Hurley have shown real class in the field and at the plate, although Hurley’s boot was costly in the Michigan loss. Kohorst could develop into the big man that Kline needs if he continues his
hitting improvement. Kohorst has all the tools of a good catcher—a strong arm, good hitter, smooth handler of pitchers, determination, leadership, and size. He looks and plays like a real prospect and could become one of the top backstops in ND histoiy. Hurley has the best eye on the team, rarely being outfoxed at the plate. He has been robbed of many “sure” hits by excellent fielding plays, and would have a higher average if he had picked up a few breaks along the line.
Shortstop Jim Carideo and first baseman Jim Cusack have also shown well for sophomores. Carideo is a good all-around player, who has the utmost confidence in tight spots. Cusack is a strong pull hitter who will improve with experience.
Another Front Heard From This Week
Certain groups of the 5,000 athletes around here have been wondering why some of the sports facilities for the average student are in poor condition. The softball and baseball leagues provide a full card for the average guy, but some of the playing fields are bad. The lots are chewed up and the ruts don’t make for a good game. There have been some twisted ankles and split fingers resulting from the playing conditions. The diamonds should be rolled to provide a decent playing surface for the thousands who use the facilities.
The basketball addicts have inadequate court facilities. The Rock has only two courts that can accommodate about 20 players at a time. This is it. There are no outdoor courts for those who are used to playing outside for about nine months out of the year. The Rock is too hot at this time of the year for basketball, and that cuts off basketball until fall.
Some work has been done to fix up the outdoor clay tennis courts, but it could be stepped up. Again the tennis facilities are quite inadequate. The tennis team usually occupies the courts with either practice or matches, and there is no place for the non-team member to play. If the other courts were reconditioned, another acute problem would be remedied at a nominal cost.
29
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
☆
Our Specialty “Chicken In the Rough” Golden Brown Fried Chicken
Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.30
Joe Nabichl’s
Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Rasmussen
MEN’S SHOP
Main and Washington Sts.
Has Your
AFTER SIX Formal Wear
more men wear
rmals combined!
WHITE DINNER JACKETS OF
ORLON-RAYON BLEND FABRIC
32.50
University of Detroit TUYERE John W. Skelley
POWERFUL IRISH LINKSTERS LOOK FOR FOURTH WIN Left to right: Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., John Foley, Bob Filipiak, Lee Matt, Charlie Gordon, Tom Kinsler, Bill McGuire, Sam Merra, Joe Mulflur.
Golfers Visit Northwestern; Glenview Third Victim, 16-11
The Notre Dame golf team will seek its fourth win in five starts when they visit Northwestern at Evanston tomorrow afternoon. The 18-hole match against the veteran Wildcat team will give the Irish, coached by Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., a chance to sharpen up their games for the Indiana Intercollegiate Championships to be held on the Burke Memorial Golf Course May 14. Purdue and Indiana will vie with the Irish for honors in the 36-hole match.
Last Saturday, Glenview Naval Air Station became the third victim of the Irish as it dropped a 16-11 decision. CoCaptain Bob Filipiak came in with a 73 for the day’s low honors, Ken Kubitz of Glenview was second with a 76 while Notre Dame’s John Foley and Sam Merra tied with Bob Brower with 77’s.
Filipiak’s 73 included 13 pars, two birdies, two bogies and a double bogie. After 12 holes, he was one under par but he ran into trouble on the 388-yard 13th hole. His second shot caught the trap to the right of the green. His first blast out of the trap failed and his second put him off the green on the other side. He chipped on and sank the putt for a six which undoubtedly prevented a near perfect round.	’
The freshman team knocked off Culver Military Academy, 21 to 5, last weekend. Lloyd Syron shot a 72 and Stan Lorens followed with a 73 to pace the Irish. Tom Garside added a 75 to the effort.
SINGLES
Bob Filipiak (73) defeated Barney Heidt (79) ND; Sam Merra (77) tied Ken Kubith (77); George
Saich (79) defeated Joe Mulflur (79) G; Bob Brower (77) defeated Felix Park (84) G; Leo Matt (79) defeated Jim Saich (87) ND; John Foley (77) defeated Karl Thompson (79) ND.
DOUBLES
Merra and Filipiak defeated Kubitz and Heidt ND: Brower and G. Saich defeated Park and Mulflur G; Foley and Matt defeated Thompson and J. Saich ND.
KEEP ALERT FOR A
BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Don’t let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake . . . alert! Your doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coflfee.
Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
“Plil-Beta” pack 35 tablets la handy tin
69c
'noqoz
AWA KE NE RS i
The Scholasti^
r 1
30
Professor Ryan Is Given Faculty Fellowship
Mr. Alvan S. Ryan, associate professor of English at the University, has been awarded a Faculty Fellowship from the Fund for the Advancement of Education, according to information recently
released.
Prof. Ryan plans a year of study at Princeton University, as well as a visit to Yale University. His project will he the study of the liberal arts program
• ;
Spring Practice to Close; Guard Position Still Open
With spring practice coming to a close, Coach Johnny Jordan appears very pleased with what he sees in next year’s Irish cage squad. “The boys are looking good,” commented Jordan, “especially some of the freshmen.” Ed Gleason, Bob Devine, Don McNeill, John McCarthy, ^and Jim Williams are the freshmen he
had in mind and all have been showing up very well in the spring drills.
The Irish eagers seem to be adjusting well to the new 12-foot free throw lane and Coach Jordan says that it won’t require a change of offense.
I Coach Jordan has been experimenting with various combinations in an effort to find the smoothest operating quintet. John Fannon, Lloyd Aubrey, Bill Wei-man, and John Smyth form the nucleus >of his first team with Lee Ayotte, who is being run at both guard and forward, or either Gleason or Devine filling in at the guard spot vacated by Junior Stephens.
Joe Morelli, Jack Bedan, Williams, and McNeill are running with the second team.
Father Joyce, 'Moose* Krause •Talk at Minor Sports Banquet
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., University vice-president, will be the featured speakei’ at the spring sports banquet on May 11. Father Joyce is chairman of the Athletic Board for the University. The annual affair honoring the spring । athletic teams will be held at 6:30 p. m.
on Wednesday in the Faculty Dining Room in the Dining Hall.
Director of Athletics Edward “Moose” ^Krause will also speak to the team mem-™bers and University guests.
Spring team coaches Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., golf; Jake Kline, baseball; Walter Langford, fencing; Charles Samson, tennis; and Alex Wilson, track, will also speak.
The student managers of the five sports will be present as invited guests.
This fete is to honor the respective teams in appreciation for the jobs they have performed.
/^May 6, 1955
at Princeton. The courses composing this program are: Special Program in Humanities, Creative Arts Program, The Christian Gauss Seminar in Criticism, and the Honors Program.
Prof. Ryan received one of 138 such fellowships granted in the United States this year. Nobody from the University has received the award during the two years previous to this.
The position of faculty moderator of the Bookmen has been held by Prof. Ryan in addition to his other duties.
Prof. Ryan did his undergraduate work at the University of (Massachusetts; received his MA degree at Harvard University; and gained his Ph.D. degree at the State University of Iowa. Before coming to Notre Dame, hetaught at the State University of Iowa, the University of Massachusetts, and lectured at Wellesley College.
Always Welcome at ROCCO'S
Pizza Our Specialty SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI
STEAKS and CHOPS Open 11 a.m. to 12 midnight Open Sundays 5 to 9 p.m.— For Student Convenience. 537 North St. Lewis
QUETICO-SUPERIOR Canoe Trips Only $5.50 per person per day for complete camping equipment, aluminum canoes and food supplies. Write:
Bill Rom, Mgr., Box 757C, Canoe Country Outfitters, Ely, Minn.
FILTER TIP TAREYTON
with the Pearl-Gray Activated Charcoal Filter
31
Flamiago Waorant 610 N. Mich. Open Sundays
Tuesday and Thursday SPECIAL ON T-BONE STEAK
AQUINAS LIBRARY aid BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Letters
(Continued from Page 4) the doctor ordered as a follow-up to this modesty campaign. Raise the level back to normal, fellows!
Students
St. Joseph Seminary Kankakee, Ill.
Fie! Fie! Fie!
Editor:
Out of interest in Catholic education and Notre Dame University, which many think is the outstanding Catholic university in the country, this letter is written to raise two points of objection regarding the March 25 issue of the Scholastic.
First, it was surprising to see the layout of the cover. We find, unfortunately, such layouts of a lesser type
THREE
Ask for
As adverthed in
-7X-7	Ajorfvertied In Ervicb	WrK.XW Style W-699
( w _________
WESBORO
Ask for Style W-658
Mi spice to your life with a swank variety of new spring and summer shoes to fit every occasion—everyday, dress-up and casual.
SAtract precious little from your cash reserves! BUY ALL THREE STYLES FOR ONLY $23.85'-a price you'd expect to pay for a single pair! $6.95, $7.95 and $8.95 per pair. Ask your dealer for FREE moneyfold!
THE VERY NEWEST IN YOUNG MEN'S SHOES
Ask for Style W-625
*
of magazine. Not only were the figures suggestive, but also the layout seems to be a poor imitation of a cheap comic" strip.
The second point of objection is with regard to the article, “Pigeon’s Eye-View of Fort Lauderdale.” Because it was persuasively written, with appealing pictures, it sei-ves to attract your readers to the prospect of spending Easter vacation there. This, of course, is not wrong in itself. However, it seems obvious that, since most Easter vacations include the better part of Holy Week, a magazine for Catholic students would not play up a place for partying.
Do you think that it is highly proper for a magazine, which no doubt is written in the name of Notre Dame, to condone — even encourage — Catholic students to pass the most solemn time of the Church year in seeking pleasure
and merry-making?
Hoping that you will receive this ter in the right spirit, I am,
Sally Kernan Maryville College St. Louis
Editor's Note: We printed these
let-
let-
ters because they are the honest expression of opinion of several of our readers. There is food for thought in them because there is definitely a need for a return to decency in some forms of dress, and literatzire too. The point regarding the observance of Holy Week in a proper fashion is very well taken.
However, we do not agree with them regarding our March 25 cover, though we do respect their opinions and apologize for any offense they drew from it.
Our feelings on the matter are that the cover was a harmless, humorous cartoon with nothing immoral or suggestive about the figures or the dress, especially because of the simple way in which the matter was handled by the^ cartoonist. In many other publications and in real life itself such things are often displayed in a fashion worthy of the greatest criticism. As for the possibility of any girl using the Scholastic as a criterion for dress, we feel that , very unlikely.	i
Through the years the Scholastic has ? striven to maintain a high standard of ( taste in pictures, cartoons and written content. We feel and hope that the March 25 cover did not in any way low er Q this standard.	'
In brief mention of the feature about j Florida, this was run strictly for the 1 informative value to the many Notre Dame students who were planning an Easter vacation in Florida; they were setting their own dates for their stay there. We were not there, so we cannot venture even a guess as to how many । might have been there during either ' Holy Week or the following week.
The Scholastic
32
Air ROTC Squad Performs j•At VFW Parade in Plymouth
The Notre Dame AFROTC drill team displayed their skills in Plymouth, Ind., on Sunday, May 1, at the Veterans of Foreign Wars parade. The drill team, which is also the color company for the AFROTC, marched through 16 precision movements and the traditional “Queen Anne’s Manual.”
Comprised of 24 men, the group holds Q promise of having a successful future in view of the fact that all but two of its members are freshmen or sophomores. On April 4 the drill team was cited as the best marching unit here at Notre Dame.
A proposal for next year is a trip to Chicago, Ill., for a performance during the half-time intermission of a professional football game.
• Successful Run of 'Seventeen' To Continue Through Sunday
The University Theatre’s production of Booth Tarkington’s play, “Seventeen”, which started last Wednesday, is currently enjoying a successful run on the Washington Hall stage. The play will continue through Sunday. Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., director of the University Theatre, announced last week that the advance ticket sales were good, but attendance on the first two nights of the presentation surpassed previous anticipation.
Jim Kinnane, a junior from Wayne, Ill., plays the lead role of Willie, and his co-star, Gayle Baumer, a junior from St. Mary’s, in the role of Lola Pratt, combine their talents with the rest of the outstanding cast, and the result is an evening of top flight entertainment.
Plenty of tickets are still available A for all remaining performances. Regular ticket prices are $1.50 for orchestra and $1 for balcony seats. Reduced prices of $1 and 75 cents for the same seats are available for students, faculty members, and University employees. Ticket orders may be made by mail, phone, or at the ticket booth in Washington Hall.
Pistey's 'Lettermen' to Play Tomorrow at Senate Dance
Tomorrow night, Saturday, Eddie z Pistey and his ‘Lettermen’ ■will entertain Notre Dame men and their dates in the Student Center from 8:30 until 11:30 p.m.
Recently, the ‘Lettermen’ have been featured several times on Saturday afternoon over the campus radio station, WNDU.
Pistey will take over Gels’ regular Saturday evening performance on campus, as “Dad” will travel to play for the
^May 6, 1955
Look for the Spalding “Tennis Twins” Wherever Top Tennis Is Played
There are good reasons why Spalding’s tennis twins are used in more major tennis tournaments than all other tennis balls combined.
Top players want a tennis ball that can take rough treatment... and give uniform performance set after set. They pick the Spalding and the Spalding-made Wright & Ditson over all others for uniform wear and better bounce qualities.
Put the best ball in play for your best game. The pick of top tennis men ... Spalding’s famous tennis twins.
Your dealer has them now.
Spalding
SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition
“Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles Avenue
Juniors’ Dinner Dance at the South Bend Country Club.
The dance is a regular’ Student Senate promoted affair, and tickets for the dance may be procured at the door.
33
the Mt page
by Don Yeckd
to avenge an indignity? Where on earth
does a code of honor like this come from?
Huck Finn
Kids have talked about revenge for a long time. For an example, take a look at Huckleberry Finn sometime:
“ ‘Now, we’ll start this band of robbers and call it Tom Sawyer’s Gang. Everybody that wants to join has got to take an oath and write his name in "blood.’ Everybody was willing. So Tom got out a sheet of paper that he had wrote the oath on, and read it ... if anybody done anything to any boy in the band, whichever boy was ordered to kill that person and his family must do it, and he mustn’t eat and he mustn’t sleep till he had killed them and hacked a cross in their breast, which was the sign of the band. . . . And if anybody that belonged to the band told the secrets, he must have his throat cut and then have his carcass burnt up and the ashes scattered all around ...”
Sounds pretty bloodthirsty, doesn’t it? There’s a code of honor that will match anything today’s gangs can think up.
A Way of Life
Of course, there is one small difference—today’s gangs follow their rules right down to the last letter. Maybe their codes of honor aren’t quite as stringent, but they surely do obey them. It used to be a game, but now it’s a way of life.
Now why should this be so? Why should a game become a way of life? The answer isn’t comic-books, or television, or any of the stock answers. I’m neither a juvenile court judge nor a sociologist, but it seems to me that the
34
An Accident
On page 7 of last Monday’s South Bend Tribune there was a picture of two young kids, one 17 and one 16, riding in a New York Police patrol wagon. The 17-year-old was charged with murdering a 15-year-old honor student and high school football star. The younger boy had been shot by mistake because the other thought he “was a member of the ‘Golden Guineas,’ a gang feuding with his ‘Nava-jos’ over the use of a similar ‘uniform’—a black-and-yellow zipper jacket with a picture of an Indian on the back. Sanatana said he had been roughed up last week by members of the ‘Golden Guineas,’ and that he was carrying a gun to avenge the indignity.”
It really makes you wonder. I can almost even understand a “thrill murder,” but something like this I just can’t figure out. Since when do we have to carry a gun
answer has something to do with the family.
It seems to me that these gangs are a kind of replacement for the family. The reason why a gang isn’t a game anymore, but a real, closely knit society, is that there is no other society in competition. Tom Sawyer’s Gang didn’t really take itself seriously because all of its members knew that there was another more important gang—their own family. And, if they forgot which was the most important and put the gang ahead of the family, they knew darned well that they’d get their bottoms warmed. Maybe sometimes there isn’t any family anymore. Then a gang rushes into this social vacuum and takes over as the really important social unit. Then look out!
The War
I suppose there are lots of reasons for a lapse of family life. One could attribute that to everything from television to the automobile. The second World War and even the Korean War had a lot to do with it. The Chicago Tribune had an article last fall in which the following comments were made:
“Well, it seemed none of us had much idea of what we were talking about, except the attorney, who made an astute observation. He told of several court cases of young delinquents. Not content with examining their recent family history, he studied the record of 11 or 12 years ago, during the young offenders’ formative years.
“ Tn every instance,’ he said, ‘I could trace the beginning of trouble during World War IL These children were lodged with one person after another,
while mother, aunt, and probably grandmother were working in war plants. The 1 children had no security. They belonged ® (( nowhere. No one had authority over ; their lives and training. And right now, we’re seeing the sad aftermath of war.’...”
“Amid such confusion and post-war hardships of families doubling up, with meager privacy and little calm control of children, no serene family circle with kind and guiding hands—is it to be wondered that we are in an era of youthful lawlessness? Psychologists agree that W the years up to 5 are the important ones in determining a life pattern.”
Monkey See . . .
Of course, the kids follow what their parents do. Nowadays, that can really j lead to trouble, too. Any faults that the * parents have are liable to be much more acute in their children. The same article in the Chicago Trib had this remark: “And surely the young son of a wealthy® father who drove his car recklessly, showed his family colors by informing the police, ‘My fathei- will fix this.’ The lad had heard of ‘fixes’ before.”
The primary function of the family is to assist in the education and the salvation of souls. It certainly would be a lot pleasanter world to live in, though, if the family also got rid of guns and switch-blade knives. City, state, or Federal government can’t really do it: the family has to.
So —
Maybe this shouldn’t bother me. Maybe it doesn’t have any particular relevance to campus life here. Someday I’m going to have to go out and live in that world out there, though, and I’d like to understand what I’m getting into. Someday I’m going to have children, and I’d like to understand what they’re getting into. Perhaps someday we’ll have to answer for our action or lack of action.
COLUMNISTS SOUGHT
Any student who wishes to be considered for the positions of writ- > ing either ‘The Week’ or ‘The Back I Page' in the 1955-56 ‘Scholastic’ j should submit sample manuscripts no later than Friday, May 20. They i should be approximately 1200 C'" words in length.
All manuscripts for ‘The Week' should be written in a humorous vein, while all essays submitted for : consideration for ‘The Back Page' i should be done on a serious, high-level plane.
All papers should be addressed to either Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind., or John Adams, 41 Sorin.
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
A Campus-to-Career Case History

Here Ed Chandler reviews Long Distance facilities between Atlanta and Lincoln, Georgia. He is working from a layout that shows all Long Distance lines in the state.
“My classmates
talked me
out off a job”
Ed Chandler had a good job all lined up long before he graduated from Georgia Institute of Technology as an Industrial Engineer. But then he changed his mind . . .
• • •
66 When I got out of college in ’50,1 was all set to go with a company I’d worked for during a previous summer.
64 But then I got called up by the Army. During the next two years I heard a lot of good things from my Georgia Tech classmates who’d gone to work for the telephone company. As far as I was concerned this was the best recom
mendation any company could get. 44So when I got out of the Army I stopped in to talk with the telephone people. When I saw an outline of their development program, I was sold.
44My first year took me through every phase of handling and estimating costs on telephone equipment from warehouse to installation. I drew up plans for several projects, then went out in the field to see how they were carried out.
44Now I’m helping develop next year’s multi-million-dollar construction program for Georgia. I’ve found it an interesting and rewarding job.”
In the engineering department of Southern Bell Telephone & Telegraph Company in Atlanta, Ed Chandler is moving along in his career. Your Placement Officer can give you details about similar opportunities with the other Bell telephone companies like Southern Bell—also with Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
of Chesterfield’s smoothness
—mildness—refreshing taste.
You’ll SMILE your approval
CHESTERFIELD
today!
In the whole wide world no cigarette SATISFIES like Chesterfield
of Chesterfield’s quality — highest quality—low nicotine.