Horizons Unlimited
In March, 1953, the Department of Defense disclosed the existence of the Chance Vought guided missile, the Regulus, designed under the sponsorship of the Navy Bureau of Aeronautics for launching from submarines, surface ships and shore bases. In May, 1953, the Navy Bureau of Aeronautics announced that Chance Vought had won a design competition for a new Navy Day Fighter, it being selected as the design best suited for Navy requirements from designs submitted by eight aircraft manufacturers. This engineering work was added to the current Chance Vought projects, the F7U-3 Cutlass and the attack
airplane, the A2U-1. Moreover, other research and development programs which will shape the aircraft designs of the future are being carried out at the present time
These engineering projects offer excellent long range employment opportunities in many fields of engineering and science as Chance Vought enters its thirtyseventh year designing and building military aircraft Newly graduated engineers and scientists from the Bachelor to the Doctor’s level will find interesting futures awaiting them in the design and production of these aircraft
If you
are receiving a degree in:
Dallas, Texas
Aeronautical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Electrical Engineering Civil Engineering

Chance Vought Aircraft
CHANCE VQUCHT
... we invite you to discuss your career opportunities in the aviation industry with us. Contact your Placement Director today for an appointment for your interview with Peter J. Wacks, Notre Dame, Class of '30, Chance Vought Aircraft, Personnel Manager, who will visit your campus December 3-4.
DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
November 20, 1953
3
“Great On Dates” Men Say Of Arrow Shirts in White and Tints '
Congratulations, Engineers
Editor:
How about a pat-on-the-back to the Engineers for their annual ball last Friday? Jack Nashert, the ball chairman, deserves a lot of credit for coming up with one of the finest dances on campus in a long time.
For the low bid price of $4.50, dancegoers got many surprises and extras, including an orchid corsage and refreshments, in addition to the very popular orchestra. From the doorman (who in comparison with the one at the Morris Inn would find the latter a poor second) to the miniature slide rule' favor, it was an impressive evening. Financially it was a success, too; the 260 bids were all sold out long before the dance.
Let’s say congratulations for a job well done.
Jon A. Baker
Campus Consensus: Arrows get top date-rating... because Arrows really keep a fellow looking his best. The new Fall and Winter line of Arrow shirts (said to be the “smoothest line on campus”) can now be seen at all Arrow dealers.
For free booklet, “The What, When and Wear of Men’s Clothing,” write to: Cluett, Peabody and Co., Inc., 10 East 40 Street, New York 16, N. Y.
ARROW^SHIRTS
»»---- —
TIES * UNDERWEAR * HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTa
Not “Boot Camp”
Editor:
This note is intended primarily for that person who draws up the' “Calender,” to inform him that there is no such term as Infantry “boot camp.”
If he had ever put some time in the oldest, and best branch of the Armed Forces, he would know that the' term is Infantry “basic training.” His ignorance can be excused, as undoubtedly he is probably affiliated with the Navy in some fashion. ■
GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
As far as realism goes in the show, those parts which did enjoy it were in the minority. The scene in which the trainee shot through the legs of Sgt. r I Ryan, is fantastic in this new Army.
The range officer would be' court mar-tialed for allowing such an incident to occur, to say nothing of the sergeant.
James F. Walsh Sergeant, USAR *'
i
/■
Just to keep the record straight, there aren’t any typographical errors in the I reproduction of this letter. Hence, we	,
don’t run a column entitled the “Cal-	J
ender.” Fair enough . . .—Ed.
The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the Week
No Bottom this WEEK . . .
WNDU’S Answer To a Wherefore
Anytime you want to get anything done around here, all you have to do is write about it. Like for instance last WEEK when we voiced our indignation over not being able to get WNDU on the old Admiral. So what does the local station do?
They wait until two days before the magazine hits the street, after it has already gone to press and it’s too late to do anything about it, and they start coming in louder and
clearer than ever. In fact, it’s so loud now that you don’t even have to turn the radio on to hear it. Oh, well.
Quote of the Week
“Not drunk is he who from the floor, can rise alone and still drink more.”
—T. L. Peacock
Swing Your Partner
' We meandered over to the local quonset hut the other Saturday eve, hayseed between teeth and jug of cider in hand, to see what this here Kenosha Corn-husker hoedown was all about. Well sir, by cracky, it was all right, let me tell you. Learned all sorts of new-fangled » dances like “Open Oyster,” “Hide and Peep,” and . . . let’s see ... oh yeah, “Turkey in the Haystack” ... er, “Rooster in the Straw,” ... or something like that. Yes sir, by cracky.
The head Husker put somewhat of a damper on the whole affair, though, । ■ when he announced that the guest star I and singing rooster, Vigoro, was indisposed and consequently couldn’t make the shindig. In his stead was a duck by name of Melvin, who surveyed the goings on from high atop an empty milk can. Melvin didn’t do any singing, though . . . nor did he do any talking for that matter. In fact, now that we * think about it, Melvin seemed rather bored with the whole affair.
One of the highlights of the evening was the performance by guest-caller George (Sold Aaamericans) Tomlinson. * He sort of put those amateur vocalists who have been auditioning for the position with Don Gels’ aggregation to shame. You’ve got our vote for the job, George.
Along about 11:30 or so, somebody asked the Huskers if they knew “Sentimental Journey.” They evidently took it
the wrong way, because they promptly packed up and left. Oh well, we were getting sort of tired anyway.
The Week's All-American Team
It’s getting about that time of the year when everybody who is anybody starts picking his All-American football team. Not to be outdone, the WEEK, after having carefully scanned every one of Gene Kessler’s columns since the beginning of the season, hereby advances its 1953 All-American football team.
Pos.	Player	School
LE	Dan Shannon	Notre Dame
LT	Frank Varrichione	Notre Dame
LG	Ray Lemek	Notre Dame
C	Jim Schrader	Notre Dame
RG	Minnie Mavraides	Notre Dame
RT	Art Hunter	Notre Dame
RE	Don Penza	Notre Dame
QB	Ralph Guglielmi	Notre Dame
LH	Joe Heap	Notre Dame
RH	John Lattner	Notre Dame
FB	Neil Worden	Notre Dame
An Open Letter to Mary
Dear Mary:
I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your very fine letter of the 13th. I was beginning to wonder if anyone besides my father ever bothered reading my column. But I feel better about the whole thing now—it makes me feel that, somehow, it was worth it all, or something dramatic like that. It gives me a sort of tingly feeling all over to know that someone is actually reading the stuff that I write.
Gee, I really feel great, almost like leaping into the air and clicking my heels together. I would, too, except that I’m not in very good condition. You
see, the only exercise I’ve been getting of late has been climbing stairs.
But that, as they say in journalism, is neither here nor there, and much as I hate to bring this to a close, I fear that I’ve already used up much too much space. In closing, just let me thank you again, Mary, for taking the time and trouble to labor through my answer to a column.
Sincerely,
K. M.
P.S.: Keep off the front steps of the
Main Building. -
Whodunit of the Week
Wonder what it is that one man tells another about Gilbert’s?
Bottom of the Week
.... Whaddya lookin’ down here for— we told you there wasn’t any Bottom.
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquets and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
November 20, 1953
5
NOVEMBER 20
FIELD HOUSE (7:30 p.m.)—After a two weeks absence, GO!-GO!-GO! again rattles the walls of ND’s antiquated arena of sport. It’s the preIowa pep rally, and the way the Hawkeyes have been going, the Irish might need that traditional student support to keep their record unblemished.
STUDENT CENTER (9 p.m.)—We hope the title “Bankruptcy Ball” doesn’t serve as an omen for the Commerce men come Sunday night. In any case, a great time should be had by all, dancing to the music of Hal McIntyre and his orchestra.
SOUTH BEND COUNTRY CLUB (9 p.m.)—Seems this is a week-end for special dances. The future Lawyers have a ball too, called the “Barrister’s Interlude.” Don Gels and his orchestra do the musical honors.
GRANADA (indefinite run)—We heaped praise on The Robe (A-l) last week, so there’s no need to say any more, except to repeat that it’s really great. It’ll be in town long enough so that everybody should have an opportunity to see it.
AVON (indefinite run)—Mogambo (B) has scads of color, adventure and . . . Ava Gardner. Oops, almost forgot. It also has that grand old man of the cinema, Clark Gable.
COLFAX (through Nov. 25)—Calamity Jane isn’t up to the usual Doris Day standards, but all D.D. fans should still enjoy it. Howard Keel adds nothing but a good voice as a tame Wild Bill Hickock.
PALACE (ends tomorrow)—Two vets of the screen, E. G. Robinson and Paulette Goddard have the leads in Vice Squad (A-2). Topeka, the co-pic, is nothing.
NOVEMBER 21
STADIUM (1 p.m. CST)—Iowa’s vastly improved Hawkeyes have “upset of the year ideas” as they meet the Irish in what could well be ND’s highest hurdle of the season.
STUDENT CENTER (5 p.m.)—Mr. & Mrs. Joseph A. La Fortune, donors of the center, are guests of honor at the formal opening. The building will be closed to students till 8:15 p.m.
WASHINGTON HALL (6:35 and 8:40 p.m.)—Rosemary Clooney contributes her classy voice to a none too classy production called The Stars are Singing.
DRILL HALL (8:30 to 11:30 p.m.)—The Student Senate presents the “Hawkeye Hop” with Herb Germann and his Aristocrats.
NOVEMBER 22
SACRED HEART CHURCH (9 a.m. and 11 a.m.)—Two High Masses commemorating the Golden Anniversary of the Motu Proprio of Pius X. Solemn vespers will be held at 4 p.m.
STUDENT CENTER (1 to 5 p.m.)—Senate party featuring the Hawaiian Club.
WASHINGTON HALL (8 p.m.)—Concert of Sacred Music by the Moreau Choir.
PALACE (three days)—Seems the management hasn’t heard the ruling on two platoons. The Vice Squad just left town, and is replaced by Combat Squad (A-l). Gun Fury is an appropriate co-feature.
RIVER PARK (through Nov. 25)—For those who missed it, Stalag 17 is back, bringing along with it, The Girl Who Had Everything.
NOVEMBER 25
■ PALACE (three days)—The Moonlighter and Champ For a Day (both A-2).
NOVEMBER 26
COLFAX (ten days)—The screen production of Kiss Me, Kate in 3D, which we hope won’t conflict too much with the coming University Theatre production of the same show.
STUDY IN EUROPE NOW
Again the Institute of European Studies offers students an economical European study and travel program.
Student groups live and study in Vienna, Austria, taking the English taught courses at the University of Vienna. They spend eight weeks travelling through nine countries of Europe and North Africa.
The Second Semester group sails Feb. 6,1954, on the Ryndam and returns to the U.S. in July 1954. Entire cost of program is $1035.
Price includes:
Room and board for 5 J/a months. Round trip ocean transportation. Travel expenses through 9 countries. Tuition at University of Vienna. Special field trips and lectures.
Application deadline — December 1, 1953.
If you are interested please fill out this coupon and you will receive complete Second Semester information. Mail to:
THE INSTITUTE OF
EUROPEAN STUDIES
A non-profit corporation
7325 South Maryland Avenue Chicago 19, Illinois
name
College
address
city	zone state
GLASSES FITTED
SATISFACTORY OPTICAL SERVICE IN SOUTH BEND
FOR OVER 50 YEARS
Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
4
The Scholastic
Scholastic
Vol. 95 November 20, 1953 No. 9
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate, of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ..................  News
FRED C. ECKART ..................Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS _________Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE....Assistant Copy JOHN E. SLAVICK _______Features
ROBERT B. FROLICHER .........  Sports
JERRY D. BAIER ----..Advertising B. JERRY CAMPBELL ........Circulation BOB FOWLER---------Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE------Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
Congressional Fads and College Students
Many people now believe that the implication of former President Harry Truman and some of his old proteges in the recent Harry Dexter White case was another one of those political stink bombs that explodes every time congressional or presidential elections are at stake. Few people, however, have recognized the fact that—regardless of whether or not the charges were true— it has also left an indelible stain that can’t be washed away even if the charges are proven ill-founded.
At least 17 presidents, beginning with George Washington, have refused to heed congressional subpoenas or demands for various types of information. But Brownell’s charge and Representative Velde’s subsequent subpoena mark the first time in the country’s history that a new administration has ever delivered such an attack on an outgoing president.
We feel j'ustified in using at least this portion of Mr. Truman’s address which he delivered to the American public Monday night as true, and most worthy of serious consideration: “It is . . . the abandonment of the ‘due process’ of the law. ... It is the spread of fear and the destruction of faith in every level of our society.”
The short, but explosive development of the case may put a sharper focus on the issue. Brownell started the ball rolling in Chicago when he charged that Truman had promoted White, then an assistant secretary of the Treasury, to position of U. S. executive director of the International Monetary Fund, knowing that the same man had been tagged as a Russian spy by the FBI.
President Eisenhower himself later told a press conference that it was in-
NEWS STAFF: Bill Burnett, Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Paul Clemens, Dave Cohen, Dick •- Connelly, Mark Connelly, John Cusack, George Dailey, Tim Devereux, Bob Dunseath, Jack Flynn, Gerry Gates, Jim Gibbons, Jim Healey, Jerrold Hilton, Ellis Joseph, Robert Kaufman, John Mannion, James Mason, James McIntosh, Charles McKendrick, Ronald Michaud, Roy Moxley, Francis Newman, Dick - Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Tom Quinn, Dick Rust, Pete Sturtevant, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, Ken Woodward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Phil Bolin, John Cywinski, Dave Davin, Dave Kilkeary, John t Phelan, and Bob Ruhl.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during _ vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
conceivable” that Mr. Truman had knowingly fostered Communist espionage agents.
Truman, in his radio report Monday night, acknowledged receipt of both FBI reports on White, but stated that the nature of the reports was such that “it would be practically impossible to prove the charges with the evidence at hand.” The former president then justified his action by saying that he was keeping White on unsuspectingly while other evidence was gathered. In the meantime (Feb. 6, 1946), White’s ap-
pointment got congressional approval as Truman was, so he says, sending a note to Secretary of State Byrnes for reconsideration of the facts at hand.
OUR COVER: The cauldron’s boiling and, though the good padre might veto the makeshift Thanksgiving Dinner, the resourceful students who stayed on campus are doing their .best to celebrate the holiday with what’s at hand. Even to replacing the traditional turkey with a swan purloined from St. Mary’s lake. Whatever happens, fellows, happy Thanksgiving!
—Cartoon by Bob Fowler
Regardless of who is right, however, the use of the presidential subpoena is another example of legislative power overstepping its bounds. The incident is a milestone in a trend that continues to dent our basic freedoms, trampling upon the traditions of democratic government and undermining the principles upon which it is founded.
We, as future leaders, cannot accept such practices blindly without questioning their validity. To do so is to assume an immature, incompetent attitude which thereby jeopardizes the privileges which we will want for ourselves and our children in the future.
November 20, 1953
7
smart
RANGE—widespread soft collar with stays
smart and neat
BLAIR—new shorter point collar, medium spread
Check these low fares—
SOUTH BEND to:
smart and neat and casual
Destination
Chicago, III . Columbus, O.
One	Round
Way	Trip
$2.10 $3.80
6.15 11.10
No one offers such a wide variety of collar stylestailored for these times. No one offers such a wide choice of fabrics and such a wide range of patterns as...
CREW—Rounded spread button down
© 1953 THE MANHATTAN SHIRT CO., 444 MADISON AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y.
Cleveland, O. ...... 5.95 10.75
Cincinnati, 0......... 6.05	10.90
Detroit, Mich._______ 4.65	8.40
Louisville, Ky ...... 6.55	11.80
St. Louis, Mo........ 6.70	12.10
Toledo, 0............ 3.60	6.50
(Add U.S. Tax to All Fares)
4sk us aboot similar dollar-saving fares from here to your hometown, and rehmd
GREYHOUND TERMINAL
117 Western Ave. Tel. 7-6611
GREYHOUND
The Scholastic
The Scholastic
Volume 95, Number 9
Notre Dome, Indiana
November 20, 1953
BARBARA KOENIG
Regent of the “Barristers’ Interlude”
Lawmen Take Interlude At Country Club Tonight
Tonight, Miss Barbara Koenig of Saginaw, Mich., will preside over the Fall version of the 1953 Law Ball, as prospective lawyers and their dates enjoy a “Barristers’ Interlude” from 9 to 1 at the South Bend Country Club.
Miss Koenig, the date of Chairman Jack Bradshaw, graduated from St. Mary - of - the - Woods College, Terre Haute, Ind., in 1953, and is now employed by the Saginaw Civil Service.
Don Gels and his “Men of Note” will provide the music for the formal affair in the rear ballroom of the Country Club. Car permissions and a 2 a.m. curfew have been granted.
Climaxing the evening’s festivities, Joseph O’Meara, dean of the Law School, will crown Miss Koenig “Queen of the Ball.” Don Bebenek, entertainment chairman, promises several funmaking schemes for the ball-goers. He states “Things have progressed nicely.”
A unique feature of the dance will be the bid, an Old English Writ of Subpoena. The writ reads in part:
“. . . being desirous of the glorie and advancemente of our joint and several amusements, and of an INTERLUDE from all wileful, wanton and malicious treatmente, accordingly we now . . . combine ourselves into a frolicking Body
November 20, 1953
Joyous, for our bettei- beguiylement and merriemaking.”
As is traditional with Notre Dame dances, the favors will remain secret until the night of the dance.
The Senior Practice Court tomorrow morning and the Notre Dame-Iowa game in the afternoon will provide additional entertainment for the Barristers and their dates.
Among the guests of honor who will attend the affair are: Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., vice-president; Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Hon. Luther M. Swygert, federal judge for the Northern district, state of Indiana.
“Preparations for the dance have entailed a lot of work,” reported general chairman Jack Bradshaw, “but it is always a pleasure to work with cooperative committee heads. We are all looking forward to our ‘Interlude.’ ”
Othei- committee heads who have prepared the dance are: Tom Hanrahan, tickets; Bill McFadden, bids; Barry Reece, publicity; and Tom Maley, game tickets.
NO ISSUE NEXT WEEK
There will be no issue of the Scholastic next week, Nov. 27 because of the Thanksgiving holiday. The 52-page football review will appear on Dec. 11.
Activities Court to Regulate Functions of Student Clubs
The Student Senate, realizing the need for a judicial body to work in conjunction with the legislative and executive branches, approved at its meeting last Monday night the formation of a Student Activities Court.
The Court will be made up of three judges, one of which shall be a senator. All judges will be appointed by the president of the Senate, Jim Richards, and must secure the approval of the Student Senate. The term for each judge shall be one academic year.
The Court will deal with all extracurricular and co-curricular activities sponsored by any student organization or club.
BERNADETTE FIEDLER	|
Queen Amid a Court of Orchids	I
Hal McIntyre to Play	|
For Commerce Dance	|
Hal McIntyre and his orchestra will	|
provide the melodies for the second | annual Commerce Ball tonight in the	|
Student Center from 9 to 1. Miss Ber- ; nadette Fiedler, a St. Mary’s junior, will reign as queen of the “Bank- j ruptcy Ball.”	I
Miss Fiedler, a 19-year-old junior majoring in education at St. Mary’s, comes from Hammond, Ind. She is the date of | Ball Chairman John Grosspietch.	|
Abetting McIntyre’s melodies will be | his lovely featured vocalist, Jeanne Me- | Manus.	|
Entertainment during intermissions | ■will be provided by the Glee Club Octet. j Talented student violinist Leo Michuda | will also play a few selections in the | anterooms of the Center.	|
The dance will be a semiformal affair, I and no flowers will be permitted. How- | ever, Chairman Grosspietch and his j committee are having a shipment of I baby orchids flown in from Hawaii. I These orchids will be presented to the ladies as they arrive at the dance.
Depicting the theme of the “Bankruptcy Ball,” a 15-foot silhouette of a I man attired in a tattered tuxedo has I been set up behind the orchestra’s plat- < form. The silhouettes of two young | (Continued on page 33)	1
9
MEN BEHIND THE CHAMPIONS’ BALL
“A Fitting Reception for the Team and Coaching Staff”
Gels, Basie Will Share Drill Hall Bandstand At First Champions' Ball Honoring Irish Dec. 5
ND, SMC to Sponsor Orphanage Yule Party
Christmas parties for the local orphanage, St. Joseph’s County Home for the Aged, and the Northern Indiana Children’s Hospital are being planned by the Student Senate of Notre Dame and the Student Council of St. Mary’s.
The parties for the old age home and the Children’s Hospital will be given on Saturday afternoon, Dec. 12; while the party for the orphanage will be given on Sunday afternoon, Dec. 13.
Jim Sherer and Mimi Doherty are the co-chairmen of this affair. Further information will be disclosed when plans are completed.
During the first week of December the social committee of the Student Senate is sponsoring a campus-wide survey to determine whether the students are receiving an adequate social life.
The results of this survey, according to Dance Chairman Phil Bolin, will be helpful in planning the social calendar for the second semester.
Although the plans are still in the tentative stage, the Student Senate and the Student Council of St. Mary’s are going to sponsor a Christmas sing for the people of South Bend on Saturday evening, Dec. 12.
Tom McNeil and Rosemary Murphy are the co-chairmen of this project.
The orchestras of Count Basie and Don Gels will provide the music for the Champions’ Ball, which will be staged to honor the football squad and the coaching staff on Dec. 5 in the Navy Drill Hall.
Both orchestras will alternate in providing the dance music. The Count, however, will give a 20-minute jazz exhibition which will include “Stompin’ at the Savoy.”
“It’s the first time,” said Phil Bolin, chairman of the Senate’s social committee, “that anything like this has been done at Notre Dame, and we’re going to do our best to give the team and coaching staff a fitting reception.”
The Art Guild, which is composed of junior and senior art students, will decorate the Drill Hall in a football motif, and favors will be given to all the girls.
At 9 p.m. a private party will be given for the' team and their dates in the Student Center, then at 9:30 they will proceed to the drill hall where other dance-goers will receive them in an appropriate championsliip welcome.
On the main platform, special ceremonies will honor the Irish griddets.
This will include gifts for all the members of the team and their dates, and speeches by one of the coaches and some celebrities, to be selected later, and by Don Penza, captain of the team.
Climaxing the ceremonies, Miss Joanne Braun, the date of Don Penza, will be crowned queen of the ball. “Since' this dance,” said Phil Bolin, “is honoring the team, it is only fitting that the team’s captain have his girl reign as queen. Thus we are not keeping, at this dance, with the original policy of crowning the chairman’s date.”
After the coronation, a special dance will be played for the team and their dates. The ball will end at 11:30.
The men in charge of the various committees, which were appointed by the social committee of the Student Senate, are as follows: Phil Bolin, chairman; Bob Fowler, decorations; Ray Kramer, favors and special gifts; Bob Hanley, personnel; Jim Deline, publicity; Tom McNeil, entertainment; and Jim Sherer, special arrangements.
Price of admission is $2 for those who have paid the Senate fee, and $4 for those who haven’t. The attire will be informal with no corsages.
Deadline For Preregistration In College of Law Wednesday
Wednesday will be the deadline for all applications and pre-registration in the College of Law.
Seniors who will graduate in January, 1954, and veterans who have a minimum of three years of college credits, all applicable to their degree, are eligible to enter the College of Law. Juniors in the combination courses, and who have their required semester hours in the College of Arts and Letters, College of Science, and College of Commerce should register immediately.
Sophomores who will complete their second year in January may also enter the College of Law now. During their fifth and sixth semesters, in addition to their regular courses, they will take 12 hours of selected courses which must be approved by both deans.
The fact that many states require filing of certificates with either the Court or the Bar Examiners before one’s Law studies begin, is called to the attention of those who plan to register.
More information can be obtained in Room 108, Law Building.
10
The Scholastic
i
•
Cast Concentrates on Songs, Choreography, With Eye on Dec. 1 Opening of 'Kiss Me, Kate'
■d-
'f
( »-■
i i
i
rs7’
j
<
I
With only ten days remaining before the opening perfonnance of Kiss Me, Kate on Dec. 1, Washington Hall is the scene of intense activity. Cast and crew are busy putting together all the elements necessary for the University Theater’s successful production of the Broadway musical hit.
With their eyes set on the first night, the staff is concentrating on the music and dancing in the show. Buddy Powers, a ND grad who has returned to the University Theater after an absence of two years, is in charge of the dancing. Powers directed and produced the first student musical, Mr. and Mrs. Broadway, in 1951. He has just finished the successful production of the play, Down in the Valley, in South Bend.
Dudley Birder is putting the chorus and singers through their paces. Having directed many Gilbert and Sullivan operettas for St. Joseph’s parish, Mr. Birder is experienced in appraising vocal talent.
Backstage the production crew is making every effort to duplicate the scenery used in the original Kiss Me, Kate. The costumes, too, are to be reproductions of the Broadway version.
Overseeing the whole show is Prof. John D. Tumpane of the Department of Speech. John Kirby is assisting him as technical director.
The original Kiss Me, Kate was written by Sam and Bella Spewack and was produced by Cole Porter. Featuring 14 of Porter’s best songs, the play ran on Broadway for three years. The motion picture adaptation of Kiss Me, Kate has recently been released and will be shown in South Bend at the same time as the play.
In the play, the lead characters, Fred Graham and his wife Lilli Venessi, combine in the production of Shakespeare’s The Taming of The Shrew. Just before opening night Lilli decides that she is through with the show. Fred is hard put to get her to return. But he does and the play ends on a happy note.
Because the show is a play within a play, many of the actors have both Shakespearean and regular roles. One song “I Am Ashamed That Women Are So Simple,” has both lyrics and music by the bard of the Avon.
Eugene Gorski, who is making his first appearance .in the University Theater, has the male lead, as Fred and Petruchio. Gorski is a baritone soloist in the Glee Club. Opposite him will be
November 20, 1953
Billie Baum and Ginny Myler who will alternate in the role of Fred’s wife Lilli and Shakespeare’s Kate. Alfred Drake and Anne Jeffreys starred as Fred and Lilli in the Broadway play.
In the supporting roles, Charles Spic-ka and Dalis Ann Yoder portray Harry Trevor and Lois Lane, two night club entertainers making their first appearance in a big show. Lois and Harry, Bianca and Baptista in the Shrew, were played by Lisa Kirk and Harold Lang on Broadway. Ward Mercier and William Hamel are double cast in the part of Bill Calhoun and Lucentio.
Kiss Me, Kate will run six days, Dec. 1 through Dec. 6. All seats will be reserved.
Tickets and publicity are being handled by the Marketing Club.
Tickets for students, faculty, and University employees are priced at 75 cents. Other general admission seats are $1.50. Tickets may be secured in advance by writing: University Theater, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Yule Band Concert To Feature Old Carols
The 60-man concert band of the University will bring a Yuletide atmosphere to Washington Hall Tuesday, Dec. 15, when it presents its annual Christmas Concert under the direction of Mr. Robert O’Brien.
Light and semi-classical presentations will comprise the evening concert with selections from Hansel and Gretel, Christmas carols, and several well-known marches on the program.
Director O’Brien states, “The music will be in the Christmas spirit. There will be some novelties and several popular tunes. Opera glasses will definitely be out of place. The Christmas concert is intended as relaxation not only for the audience, but also for the band. It gives the boys their only chance to perform indoors during the Fall.”
This year the Christmas concert will be the band’s only presentation in the local area before the Christmas holidays. In past years the band has performed in several neighboring cities prior to the Yuletide vacation.
The Glee Club will not perform with the band at the concert. However, Mr. O’Brien is attempting to secure an Irish tenor to sing several traditional favorites with the Irish band.
Eiberger and Helling In Court Eliminations
Representing the Notre Dame LawSchool, Carl Eiberger and Joe Helling, left yesterday for Chicago to compete in the Seventh District Moot Court eliminations. The eliminations are being held today and tomorrow to determine the Seventh District’s representative in the national finals to be held in New York City on Dec. 4 and 5.
Other schools competing in the Seventh District are the University of Chicago, Marquette, Indiana, Chicago Kent, • and Loyola.
Eiberger and Helling won the right to represent the University by winning the Notre Dame Moot Court competition last year.
Eiberger is editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer and co-director of Moot Court. He entered Notre Dame in 1948 in the combined science and law course. He received a B.S. in physical sciences in 1952, graduating magna cum laude.
Helling served as editor of the Lawyer until recently when he resigned to take a position as research assistant with Crumpacker, May, Beamer, Leny, and Searer, one of South Bend’s leading law firms.
The national moot court topic for this year concerns the right of a professor to refuse to testify on the grounds that his testimony might tend to incriminate him. The imaginary Professor Caveat is suspended from the university because he refuses to answer the question concerning his communist affiliations. When he dies, his wife files for a pension claiming that her husband was unjustly fired. The Notre Dame team will argue for the university.
MOOT COUNTERS AND ADVISORS
Off to Chicago Competition
11
SES5555S555SS55SSSSS5SS5SS555SS5SE5SB555S555S5SS5S5SSSSX
Capsule Corner
ND in Tribune Sunday.
Notre Dame will be the subject of picture coverage by photographer Andrew Pavlin in the Sunday issue of the rotogravure section of the Chicago Sunday Tribune.
An article titled “Notre Dame Festival Salutes the Arts” by Eleanor Nagle will accompany the photos which are part of the Tribune's “Youth on the Campus” series now in its 15th year.
Among the University students whose pictures will appear are Duke Rank, Francis Meaney, John Gschwind, Chas. Collins, and John L. Doherty.
Civil Service Exams Changed
New examinations have been announced by the United States Civil Service Commission for engineer and for aeronautical engineer, naval architect, marine engineer, and welding engineer. The positions to be filled pay from $3,410 to $10,800 a year in various federal agencies in Washington, D.C., and vicinity.
To qualify for these positions, applicants must show appropriate education or experience in the field of work for which application is made; no written test will be given.
Information on examinations may be obtained from the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D.C.
ROTC Riflemen Defeat Loyola
The Army ROTC rifle team upped its season’s record to two wins against one loss this week beating the marksmen of Loyola of Baltimore.
Cadet Alois Welzenbach, a freshman military science student, led the ND sharpshooters with a score of 379 points out of a possible 400. The total score of the five-man team was 1,827 points.
On Dec. 10, the unit will observe the third anniversary of its inception here. A regimental parade and review are the order for that day.
Maj. Gen. Harry Collins, commander of the 31st Infantry Division, will be on hand to inspect the cadets. Gen. Collins- commanded the 47th Infantry Division during the last war, and is presently stationed at Camp Atterbury.
Organize Interhall Basketball
An organizational meeting for interhall basketball will be held in Room 1 of the Rockne Memorial building at 7:30 p.m. next Tuesday.
Managers of both hall and club teams wishing to play should attend.
-The- clubs- must .be recognized, campus organizations. Mr. Szekely will present details at that time.
I
Confraternity of Christian Doctrine Program « Aims to Refresh South Bend Catholics' Faith
By JIM O’BRIEN
“Are Catholics different from other people? Does the Pope know who will win the 1954 World Series?”
These and many other questions serve as the impetus for discussions on various aspects of religion, conducted by the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine.
The discussion leaders are not priests or theologians; they usually have had no training in education or public speaking, and they have had little experience in organizing social and educational groups. Still, their subject is religion, their purpose is to educate by lecture and discussion, and they must organize their class without outside help.
This somewhat unusual situation is commonplace to members of the CCD.
The CCD is an organization of Notre Dame students, established in 1950, which has conducted classes and dis-
NOTRE DAME MEN IN ACTION
Confraternity Opens Discussion Series
cussion groups in South Bend parishes for almost four years. It has two primary objectives. First, it plans to bring religious instruction to those people in the South Bend area who need it, particularly high school students.
Focus On High School Students
In South Bend, where Catholics comprise 30 per cent of the population, only about 40 per cent of the Catholic students are' able to attend Catholic schools. The CCD first turns its attention to the pressing need of students whose only education in their
faith has come from grade school or attendance at Sunday school classes.
Second, the CCD hopes to train the student teacher for lay leadership in his own parish, by participation in activities of this type.
To further these ends, the CCD is divided into four groups. The high school teaching groups mentioned above have already begun their work, and are conducting classes in five parishes. Other parishes have made arrangements for classes, but teaching has not started as yet.
The adult inquiry classes have not yet begun, but will be taught by upper-classmen, and are open to both Catholics and non-Catholics. A long range project of the CCD is the' establishment of mission teachers, to work in outlying districts or in special local areas not covered by the regular and high school adult groups.
All the teaching groups need reference material, from which to prepare outlines and discussion questions. The reference committee undertakes to read and approve books and gather material for use by the teachers, and to file this material where it will be readily available.
Confer With Pastors
The CCD depends on the pastors of the various parishes to decide whether the parish needs a group, and which group or groups are needed. The pastors provide a meeting place and determine the most suitable evening for the class. They also help publicize the class, and provide transportation for the teachers.
The course for high school students includes discussion of the Apostles Creed, the theological and moral virtues, the sacraments, and the liturgy of the Church. A syllabus has been drafted by the officers, but teaching conforms with student requirements rather than following a set pattern. Beginning of the year tests determine the class weaknesses.
The CCD requires its teachers to have completed the two freshman religion courses, Life of Christ, and Christian Virtues, as these courses cover most of the material handled in the CCD program.
“In addition to its teaching functions, the CCD is interested in becoming an active group on campus,” said CCD president Griffin, “having many of the activities of other campus clubs. We urge any student who is interested to contact an officer of the CCD.” Griffin lives in 336 Dillon Hall. .
12
The. Scholastic
Golden Anniversary Ceremonies Sunday
The University will commemorate the Golden Anniversary of the Motu Proprio, the famous Papal Document on Church Music written by Pope Pius X, this Sunday, the Feast of St. Cecilia, Patroness of Church Music. Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs, and Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., prefect of religion, are supervising the celebration.
The Motu Proprio of Nov. 22, 1903, explains the importance of music in the liturgy of the Church. It strikes directly at the main problem existing today in divine worship: the need of a conscious fellowship among worshippers and a lack of dignity, attention, and devotion in the Church’s public ceremonies.
Ceremonies will commence at 9 a.m., with a High Mass, the propers being sung by the Moreau Seminary Choir and the ordinary sung by the congregation. At the 11 a.m. High Mass the propers will be sung by the faculty-student choir while the congregation once again will sing the ordinary.
At 4 p.m. in the Church, there will be Solemn Vespers with the antiphons sung by the Moreau Choir and the psalms sung by the congregation. Rev. Bernard Mullahy, C.S.C., assistant-provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, will preach the sermon.
In Washington Hall at 8 p.m., the Moreau Choir will present a Sacred Concert, illustrating the various types of music approved by the Motu Proprio.
Pius X considered sacred music paramount for two reasons: it enhances the beauty of liturgical services and it enables the people to take active part in the services. He emphasized the fact that music is an integral part of the liturgy, and as such shares in the general object of the liturgy, the glory of God and the edification of the faithful.
Sacred music, therefore, must possess in the highest degree the qualities which characterize divine worship—holiness, goodness of form, and universality.
These qualities, said Pius X, are most perfectly found in Gregorian chant, the official music of the Catholic Church. His Holiness recommended the chant very highly, not only because it is the Church’s own music, but also because it is artistically beautiful and appropriate to the religious service. Pius X further asserted that active participation of the faithful in the public prayer of the Church attained through Gregorian Chant is “the primary and indispensable source of the true Christian spirit.”
Coalition Party Scores Smashing Victories As Candidates Capture Top Freshman Posts
The Coalition Party scored a sweeping victory last Friday in the freshman elections as party candidates captured all of the class officers and three of the four hall presidencies. A record 977 ballots were cast to climax nearly a month of vigorous campaigning.
Terry Conway, Coalition candidate for freshman class president, received 514 votes under the preferential ballot system to beat his closest opponent, Bert Millen, by 236 votes. Conway, a student in the College of Commerce from Cleveland, Ohio, had three years’ experience in student government at St. Ignatius High School in Cleveland where he served as class president three times.
Bill Rigali, three-times class president at Fenwick High School of Chicago, easily outdistanced his nearest rival, George Strake, in the balloting for vice-president of the freshman class. Rigali is enrolled in the College of Engineering.
Moore McDonough and Chuck Grace,
CHOICE OF THE FRESHMEN
Conway, Rigali, McDonough, Grace
Coalition Party candidates for secretary and treasurer respectively, also were elected by wide margins. McDonough, an engineering student, is from Galveston, Texas. Grace is a student in the College of Commerce from Kokomo, Ind.
Runners-up in the voting for class secretary were Tom Edwards and Joe Manzo. Mike Ahern and Mark Maley trailed Grace in the race for class treasurer.
Jack Moynahan was elected Farley Hall president. Ron Francis, Jack Casey, and Edward Robinson complete the hall council.
In the Zahm Hall balloting, Butch Hickman, only major office winner not a member of the Coalition party, edged out Joe Costello, Coalition candidate, by two votes. Others elected to the hall council were David Burns and Bob Dun-seath.
Jerry Garvey was elected to head the Breen-Phillips hall council. Also elected to the council were Robert Bayuk, Tom Schriber, and Dick Pollenz.
Cavanaugh elected Joe McMahon over John Slevin. Jerry Murphy and Charles Vatterott round out the hall counci]. Cavanaugh achieved the highest voting percentage, racking up 91 per cent.
The Coalition Party, a relatively late entry into the election contest, relied upon a well managed party organization for its overwhelming victory. “Precinct captains” were selected on every floor of the freshmen residence halls to campaign for party candidates. Presidential candidate. Terry Conway personally visited every freshman room on campus. In addition to the usual mimeographed advertisements, penny suckers, and posters, the party publicized itself by stringing a large sign between Farley and Breen-Phillips Hall. “A great deal of credit for our party’s victory goes to Bob Miller, our campaign manager,” said newly-elected President Conway.
“Work For Whole Class” .
The party, under the leadership of Conway, plans to live up to its preelection promises “To work wholly and entirely for the freshman class.” Freshmen can expect a “greatly improved” freshman formal, a freshman retreat, a class trip to Chicago for a basketball game, and an advisory committee to aid class officers in attaining these ends, according to the platform of the Coalition Party.
“We wish to thank the whole class for their support in this election,” said President Conway.
The elections were held in the residence halls under the supervision of a Blue Circle election committee. George Carhart and Don Gels were co-chairmen of the committee.
The class president will serve on the Student Senate in addition to his duties as leader of the freshman class.
The hall presidents will also take seats on the Student Senate immediately to bring the governing body up to full strength. .
The hall councils will meet in the near future to select hall vice-presidents, secretaries and treasurers- from their own memberships.	'
November 20, 1953
13
KC Opens Preparations for March Bengals; Indian Missions Will Again Be the Winner
The 1954 Bengal Bouts are still a thing of the future, but the planning stage for the annual affair has already begun.
With Senior Commerceman John Snakard at the helm this year, the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus has begun promotion of the annual bouts now in their 23rd year.
The bouts are held each year in March at which time students take to the four corners of the ring in the field house to display their pugilistic skills. The proceeds from these bouts are sent to the Bengal missions in India, whose inspiration to the Notre Dame students make the Bengal Bouts such a spirited affair eacn year.
Two men whose unselfish efforts make the Bengal Bc.uts possible are Bev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., and Mr. Dominic Napolitano. Father Brennan has been the chairman of the bouts and the guiding hand behind its workings year • after year. Mr- Napolitano has been the coach of the ooxers si.'„2 1931, and to him is given the credit for turning out fine exhibitionists in these bouts.
Rockne Organized Boxing
The history of the bouts is traced back to 1923 when Knute Bockne set up inter-collegiate boxing at Notre Dame. From then to 1926, Notre Dame was represented in inter-collegiate boxing. After Eockne’s death, competition was limited to .intra-mural matches. The Student Activities Council sponsored an inter-campus tourney in 1927 in the field house.
In 1931 the Scholastic took charge of the tourney and charged admission, the profits going to the Holy Cross missions in Bengal, India. The tournament was a success from the start as 2,000 fans donated $500 to watch the matches.
The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus assumed responsibility for the tournament in 1946, and have been running the show ever since.
Every year the Bengal Bouts produce exciting evenings of boxing, and trophies are awarded to the winners in each weight division. . Also, there is awarded a “Sportsmanship” trophy, which can be merited by any one of the boxers whether, he becomes a class champion or not. These trophies are awarded by various clubs on the campus.
A feature of last year’s bouts was the introduction of the Father Ryan
Trophy for the outstanding boxer in the preliminaries, presented by an anonymous donor who is a friend of the late Bev. John M. Byan, C.S.C. Father Ryan was the rector of several halls and an enthusiast in student athletics. Other individual fighter awards are also presented by different campus clubs.
At the finals, the Bengal Bout Award is given to the “Man who has done the most for boxing during the past year.” Last year “Chuck” Davey, popular welterweight boxer, received the award. The award winner will referee the championship bout in his weight class.
JOHN SNAKARD
The ‘‘Mike Jacobs” of the Bengals
Six Classics Will Be Shown In '53-'54 Faculty Film Series
Six films will be shown this year in the faculty film series, Prof. B. W. Bauch, chairman of the club, recently announced.
The films will be chosen from such greats as the older Chaplin films; W. C. Fields and Marx Brothers comedies; George Arliss historical works; Astaire and Kelly musicals; documentaries and unusual shorts; British films; art and music subjects; unusual productions of the past by such masters as Lubitsch, von Stroheim, DeMille, Ford, and Capra.
The Film club plans to show these movies at time's when they will not interfere with other campus activities. Since reservation of Washington Hall cannot be made very far in advance, it is impossible to announce a complete schedule of dates and movies in ad
vance. Each movie, however, will be shown twice: when possible, on Thursday and Friday evenings, at 8 p.m.
The dates and the titles, the time and the place of each program will be announced in the University Calendar and in the weekly calendar published in the Scholastic.
Formal Center Opening To Be Held Tomorrow
Campus visitors will join guests of honor, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. LaFor-tune, Tulsa, Okla., and University notables tomorrow at 5 p. m. in formally opening the new LaFortune Student Center. Mr. LaFortune is a Notre Dame alumnus and trustee, vice-chairman of the Warren Petroleum Co., Tulsa, and currently is serving as deputy director of the Petroleum Administration for Defense.
Among those who will attend the building’s formal opening are Bev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University; members of the University’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees who are holding their semiannual meeting on the campus this weekend; members of the University’s three advisory' councils; and the President’s Committee of South Bend. Bep-resentatives of Notre Dame’s Student Senate, headed by President James Eichards, will serve as hosts.
Generous Gifts Made Center Possible
The transformation of the interior of old Science Hall into the new Student Center was made possible by Mr. and Mrs. LaFortune’s gift of $135,000 and an earlier bequest of Elmore Smith, a 1951 Notre Dame graduate killed in action in Korea. The furnishing and decoration of the building was supervised by the' Women’s Advisory Council of the University, led by Mrs. E. M. Morris of South Bend. The Council engaged the professional services of Laura Jenkins, New York City, who chose contemporary furnishings and deep-tone modern colors for the building. Special gifts of Mrs. George W. Strake, Houston, Texas, and Mrs. O. J. Caron, Bochelle, Ill., helped underwrite the project.
Included in the building, which was designed by Frank Montana and Eob-ert Schultz of the architecture faculty, are a general lounge with adjoining patio and a dance floor which will accommodate 500 couples. The building also provides a game room, coffee bar, and a number of meeting rooms and offices for the Student Senate and other campus organizations.
The Scholastic


SENIOR LAWMEN PRACTICE IN LOCAL ’COURT’
‘‘Oyez, oyez! Superior Court, County of Marion, State of Hoynes, Law Court in Session.”
ND's Lawmen Practice Chosen Profession Under School's Simulated Court Conditions
“Oyez! Oyez! The superior court, county of Marion, State of Hoynes, is now in session, Judge Luther M. Swy-t gert presiding . . .”
These words note the climax of weeks r of senior Law students studying client’s statements, arguing points of law and evidence, preparing briefs, and selecting witnesses. This is the senior practice court where, every Saturday morning, v embryonic lawyers hold legal battles under simulated court conditions.
The trial court, a newly developed idea in teaching court practice, uses every possible means to reproduce exact court conditions. The cases to be argued each week are prepared by Professor v Edward J. Barrett, the faculty coordinator for the court, and cover every - type of trial situation.
This year trial cases will include arguments concerning auto accidents, disputed suits, insurance policy suits, first degree murder, breach of contract, 4 and slander suits.
The trial court is distinguished from the Moot court, and the moot court required for freshmen, by the fact it has a jury and only one judge. The moot courts are appellate courts, with three judges and no jury, and are for the purpose of arguing points of law only. Each Senior is required to argue one
case in the trial court before graduation.
The arguing attorneys select the jury for their trial in a special session held Friday afternoon, and presided over by Professoi- Barrett. Jurors, who are drawn from freshmen in the Law school, are assumed to be citizens and of age. The lawyers trying the case are permitted to question the prospective jurors to determine whether they might be prejudiced with regard to the case, in which case they may be excused from jury duty. Each lawyer is allowed one pre-emptory discharge in which he may excuse a juror without stating a reason.
Judge Swygert Presides
Hon. Luther M. Swygert, federal judge from the Northern District of Indiana, presides at the regular sessions of court. Judge Swygert received his degree from Notre Dame Law School in 1927.
Faculty members and students not connected with the Law school and laymen from South Bend provide witnesses for the trials. Every eifort is made to obtain witnesses who are in real life what they will represent in the trial. Already this year a policeman, banker, and a nurse have donated their time to appear as witnesses.
Professor Barrett prepares the test
imony for the witnesses, but testimony on the stand is given from memory. This allows for the personal element in the testimony.
The plaintiff and the defendant are each represented by two seniors. Thus the first step in the trial begins when the attorneys representing either side receive statements from their clients concerning their side of the case. After study of the statements, the attorneys may present motions concerning the introduction of witnesses or evidence before a special session of court held Thursday afternoons. The judge makes his decision concerning the motions and the lawyers then prepare their briefs. After the selection of the jury, the trial takes place.
After the case has been tried, the judge discusses errors in procedure before the court. Then Judge Swygert, Dean O’Meara, and Professor Barrett discuss aspects of the case with the participating lawyers privately.
Provides Practical Experience
The development of the court is in keeping with the present policy of the Law school to provide practical experience through simulation of actual conditions under which the graduate must work. Professor Barrett draws an analogy between the law student and an intern in medical school, who spends more time studying under actual conditions of practice than in class.
The trials begin at 9:30 on Saturday mornings, except on football weekends, when they begin at 8:30. Visitors are welcome. The trials are held in room 100 of the Law Building.
“The purpose of the course,” continued Professor Barrett, “is to give all students before graduation, the experience of trying a complete case from pleading to judgement. The student learns from his mistakes, and the rules of law become living things as he sees them in action. The trial court is still in the experimental stage, but we are happy with the results obtained thus far.”	‘
The trials also provide practical demonstrations of court procedure for the freshmen, and the case's are coordinated with their texts. Another objective of the trials is to make the layman familiar with court procedure through participation as a witness. To further this objective, the Law school hopes to secure interested witnesses from the South Bend area.
As Judge-'Swygert'hears'the last argument, he pounds the gavel and an- । nounces , “The court is adjourned.” j
November 20, 1953

Galleries Offer Modern Kermes Collection, Medieval Religious Italian, Russian Primitives
By FRANK NEWMAN
A combined painting exhibit of the contemporary American artist Constantine Kermes and a selection of primitive Italian and Russian religious art is now on display in the galleries in the Liberal and Fine Arts Building.
The Kermes exhibition will run until Nov. 30, and is scheduled to be followed by a Marian exhibit which will be shown throughout the season of Advent.
The' purpose of the current Kermes show is to afford gallery visitors an opportunity to compare the treatment of similar subjects by a modern American artist and medieval and early Renaissance painters of Italy and Russia.
According to Mr. Eugene Sessler, head of the Department of Art, Kermes’ interest in religious subjects is unique in America today and his approach to these subjects is in many ways very similar to the primitives featured in the exhibition.
Many One-Man Shows In Past
Kermes’ paintings have had several one-man shows. Among these have been exhibitions at Rutgers University, Dayton Art Institute and the New York State Museum. His work is in the permanent collection of the Everhart Museum in Scranton, Pa., as well as many private collections.
The Italian and Russian primitives featured with the Kermes paintings are a loan exhibition from the collections of John F. Cuneo of Chicago and Richard E. Berlin of New York. They date from the 13th to the 15th century. The earliest of the group is the “Virgin and Child Enthroned” of Guido da Siena, the founder* of the Sienese school. This exhibition, which opened Oct. 15, will run until Dec. 31.
Constantine Kermes is 29 years old and works from a shop which he built in rural Crafton, Pa. His paintings of religious groups in modern-day America include the Pennsylvania Dutch, the New England Shakers and the Spanish and Indian peoples of the Southwest. His most recent sketching trip was to the mountain villages of New Mexico and several of the paintings on exhibit in the galleries are a result of the' icon-like art of the Southwest Indians and the genuine primitive icons which are part of the showing.
The galleries will mark the opening of the year of Mary, 1954, by an exhibition of Marian paintings to be held during Advent. The' paintings to be
shown are part of the permanent University collection. They include a number of Madonnas, as well as depictions of various scenes in the life of the Blessed Virgin. This exhibition is under the direction of a committee of which Rev. Francis Nealey, O.P., is the chairman.
Future' plans for the galleries include a possible showing of lithographs by Georges Rouault, contemporary French religious artist and a definitely scheduled exhibition of working models of some of the inventions of Leonardo da Vinci, the great Italian painter and sculptor. The latter exhibit is planned to run from April 25 to May 23.
Besides the major gallery exhibits, the Department of Art is currently sponsoring an exhibition of drawings by students of New Trier High school of Winnetka, Ill. The young students’ work is now on display in the lounge of the O’Shaughnessy Hall.
Between semesters the- Department of Art will sponsor a showing of work done by the art students in the current semester. This exhibit will be' held eithei* in the lounge or in the corridor display cases of the building*.
STUDENT CENTER
The Student Center will not be open Saturday until 8:15 p.m. There will be two showings of “Hawaiian Interlude” in the Center Sunday afternoon and 7:30 p.m. in the
Stanford Prize Essay In Nov. 'Tech Review1
Tlie first issue of the 1953-54 Technical Revietv will make its appearance this afternoon. Featured in the November issue of the official magazine of the College of Engineering, are the Stanford Prize Essay and a new center-fold pictorial section, entitled “Wealth of a Nation.”
This year’s co-editors, Jim Harrington and Harvey Newquist, are alternating in editing the issues of the magazine. The November magazine was directed by Harrington. Aiding him in this issue were Frank Florian, managing editor; Bill Carson, business; Mike Celeste, circulation; Tom Stahl, art
and layout; and Hank Burke, administration.
Future issues of the Technical Review are scheduled for publication in January, March, and May.
The cover, designed by James Mitchell, a sophomore architect, is a semiabstract, black and white design, depicting engineering and humanity. In this same theme the editorial stresses the need for engineering students to participate in campus-wide activities.
Appearing in today’s issue is the essay, written by Harrington, which won the second annual Stanford Prize last Spring. The prize is offered by Leland V. Stanford to the student who submits the best essay on the subject “Liberal Education in regard to Technical Education.”
In a special message Mr. Karl E. Schoenherr, dean of the College of Engineering, welcomes the engineering students for the year 1953-54.
Bartholomew's Annual Student Trip to Capital Set for Jan. 29
The annual student trip to Washington, D. C., conducted by Dr. Paul Bartholomew, will officially begin Jan. 29, 1954. Since Jan. 29 is the last day of semester exams, Dr. Bartholomew asks that any student who desires to make the trip, but has an exam on that day, see him in room 346 in O’Shaughnessy Hall before Jan. 21. He will try to move the examination to an earlier date in order that the student will be able to make the trip.
The scheduled date for returning is Feb. 3, two days aftei* the second semester begins. Single cuts will be given for the missed classes. This will not harm anyone since the University has banned triple cuts at the Easter vacation period.
The tour of the nation’s capital is open to all those interested. Busses will leave the Circle on Friday, Jan. 29, taking the students to the Baltimore & Ohio railroad station in LaPaz. The train will arrive in Washington on Friday night. That night there will be a boat ride to Norfolk, Va., and the touring students will spend the next day at such famous places as Williamsburg, Jamestown, and Yorktown. Saturday night they will return to Washington and spend three days visiting such places as the Pentagon, the Supreme Court, and many other places of interest.
The students will stay at the DuPont Plaza Hotel during their stay in Washington. The hotel is the newest in the nation’s capital. The train will leave Washington on Tuesday night to return the students to the campus on Wednesday morning in time for their regular classes.
16
The Scholastic
Living on the St. Mary’s campus gives Jim Brennan and Bill Manca permission to use the college library—both they and the girls find it distracting.
ST. MARY’S MEN!
Eight Notre Dame men live and work on St.
Mary's campus
November 20, 1953
With five thousand Notre Dame men constantly sniffing for good deals, it takes a sensitive nose to discover the one which eight of them have—residence in St. Michael’s Hall across the Dixie.
Andy Bauer and Tom Campbell are the seniors responsible for this discovery, which came from two years of part-time work at St. Mary’s. During that time they cleaned the main church and worked in the college kitchen, but were never able to devote extra time to the odd jobs which plagued Sister Berno, the maintenance supervisor of the convent. Needing someone to do part-time tasks, she offered them room, board, and laundry for fifteen hours of weekly work. After they accepted, word spread to six others who signed for the same terms.
Their “new life” began in September, and complications set in the moment they reached South Bend. Bill Hawkesworth, of Salt Lake City, and Doug Taylor of Ogden, Utah, asked a taxi driver to take them to St. Mary’s College. He looked at their luggage and said, “Where?”
“St. Mary’s College.”
“You Freshmen?”
“Yes.”
“You want Notre Dame!”
“No, St. Mary’s!”
“OK, if you say so, but you’re wasting your money—that’s a girVs school.”.
*7
Doug Taylor mops up kitchen floor every night before getting down to studying.
Window-cleaning is only one job that Bill Hawkesworth and other St. Mary’s men have to do.
Two other Salt Lake City freshmen, Jim Brennan and Bill Manca, startled the receptionist at Holy Cross Hall when they carried their trunks into the lobby and asked her, “Do you know where our rooms are located?’”
“Boys, you’re on the wrong side of the Dixie.”
The receptionist was only one of many bewildered SMC girls. “The freshmen were the most puzzled when they would see us,” says Tom Campbell, “but after we worked here a few weeks they became as friendly as the upperclassmen.”
Their work, which gives them spacious singles and home-style meals, is varied. Jim Kramer, a commerce senior, is the general handyman. “He paints, sweeps, and sleeps.” Vince Campbell, Tom’s freshman brother, works .in the convent kitchen with Doug Taylor—“We do everything but cook.”
Farmers Brennan and Manca feed hogs, deliver milk, and protect the rabbits and pheasants on the SMC property. They also played policemen the night they chased a prowler from the campus. Bill Hawkesworth claims he keeps the cleanest school in the country, and he should know because he’s broom-captain at the campus grade school. Andy and Tom still clean the church.
Besides room and board, the “SMC boys” have othei’ advantages. They are permitted to study in the College library, may attend movies and theatrical presentations in St. Angela’s Hall, and have use of the tennis courts. ' They also get the first chance at the girls. And they make the most of it. Andy’s engaged to a girl from home, Valley Stream, Long Island, but his seven buddies try to compensate for that.
At St. Michael’s Hall they observe the same regulations which apply to other off-campus students. They also enjoy the same compensations, including midnightplus lights.
With all the niceties of living at St. Mary’s, the boys note several disadvantages. Getting to and from Notre Dame is a problem which they’ve alleviated with the purchase of bicycles, but Bill Manca complains of the telephone facilities. “We don’t have any phone in the Hall, and it’s difficult receiving messages.”
But all in all, the boys like it. Jim Brennan sums it up by saying, “Going to Notre Dame is a boyhood dream come true; but living at St. Mary’s while attending Notre Dame is the fulfillment;of current manhood aspirations.”
V
1
i
18
The Scholastic
Tom Campbell, Vince Campbell, and Andy Bauer find time for a bull-session after studying.
(LEFT) The other guys feel that it's time to get to work, but Tom Campbell doesn't let that stop him from getting a date | for next weekend. (RIGHT) It might be strange to have your letters addressed to St. Mary’s College, but the social ad* | vantages make up for any embarrassment.
IT’S HARD WORK, BUT THE	I
r
SURROUNDINGS ARE PLEASANT	!
Hurrying for that first class in the morning can be fun if you do it with the right people.
November 20, 1953	19
Royalty—Coronation Ceremonies at Engineers’ Ball
AU of This, but.. .
Variety is supposed to be the spice of life, and Notre Dame did its best to prove the point last week. “America’s Smartest Music” by Dick Carlton set the engineers and their dates gliding across the floor of the Student Center Friday night. Baby orchids were flown in from Hawaii for each girl, and everybody was dressed up in his best bib and tucker. And all in all, “Moonlight Bay” was put on with an air of quiet sophistication.
But any sophistication that was left over from Friday was entirely out of place at Saturday’s square' dance. Instead, the Drill Hall was reminiscent of an old barn. Five “musicians” dressed in blue jeans scraped their fiddles and washboards, and dances like the “Grapevine Twist” replaced the foxtrot. Instead of a queen, Melvin, a disgusted duck, was the guest of honor.
The reason for all this woodsy atmosphere? The Kenosha Corn Huskers were at Notre Dame!
But the 150 couples at the old-fashioned hoe-down did have a good time, even though Vigoro, the singing rooster, didn’t show up—they washed down 80 dozen donuts with seven barrels of cider.
Melvin—the duck who wouldn’t talk.
For the hoedown hit parade—“Open Oyster” and “Turkey in the Straw.”
20
The Scholastic
Something romantic about a break from the books.
They Head For The Woods
Two hundred miles is a long way to go for a date, but if you can have a good time by going that far, why not do it? That was the attitude of some 50 Notre Dame men who traveled down to the St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods’ Junior Prom on Saturday. Leaving behind the Kenosha Corn Huskers at the Drill Hall, the boys and their dates danced to the more familiar strains of Don Gels and his Orchestra.
Carl Leitten of Walsh Hall and Olga Leignadier were the king and queen of the dance that started off a wonderful week-end that continued on Sunday morning with Mass and Communion Breakfast. Sunday afternoon the dancegoers were out at the Terre Haute Country Club enjoying a chicken dinner—a particularly unusual time for Notre Dame men because .it was paid for by the girls. The favors, engraved pen and pencil sets, were opened then, and the attitude was that they would get a lot of use over the year.
All in all, it was one of the more pleasant week-ends for the boys fortunate enough to get down to the “Woods.”
The local bandsman and his musical aggregation get a change of scenery in a ball room away from home.
November 20, 1953


XJLre we stretching things a bit? Maybe — but when you find out how mild and sweet and refreshing the Medico pipe can be, you’ll go for Medico, too! It’s the replaceable filter in Medico that makes the big difference. That little filter traps dangerous nicotine and tars, disagreeable juices and flakes.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 2b-Hour Service
309 S. MICHIGAN
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
That’s why countless smokers, beginners and old timers alike, who never enjoyed the pleasures of a pipe, now enjoy the clean mild fragrance of Medico — the pioneer in filtered smoking.
Try a Medico Pipe. See why Medico’s filter has sold over a billion to date!
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
JITE-
rou'U wVE THE thecushion.bit^'}»
V WIN nriily ifstjlti aii sins. Writ»
■eiiMhm,tac,B.T. 8,talNkltt I

<
MEDICO FILTER PIPES
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING BREEN’S Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
☆ GRANADA ☆
CinemaScopE
THE MODERN MIRACLE YOU SEE WITHOUT GLASSES!
NFCCS Offers Trips To Europe During '54
The itineraries for the fourth annnual summer student tours of Europe were announced this week by the National Federation of Catholic College Students. Three economy-designed tours, featuring travel through six European countries — England, France, Switzerland, Italy, Spain and Portugal—are offered. Each tour will be accompanied by a chaplain and a guide.
The tours, priced at $679, $779, and $859, for 30, 40, and 50 land-days, respectively, will include visits to numerous Marian shrines in commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the proclamation of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception.
It is to be noted that ten days seatravel time should be added to all tours.
To Visit Numerous Shrines
Besides extended stops at the famous shrines at Lourdes and Fatima, visits ■will be made at Notre Dame, Paris, Notre Dame de la Garde, Marseilles, Our Lady of Walsingham, London, Our Lady of Einseldeln, Lucerne, Our Lady of Loretto, Ancona, Our Lady of the Snow, Rome, and Our Lady of Montserrat, Barcelona.
In addition to being religious in their theme, the tours are designed to prove educationally stimulating. In line with this goal, plans are being made to divide the student tourists into groups with similar interests, such as art, history, literature, and languages, so as to afford the student the full benefit of the experience.
All tours will originate and terminate at New York harbor. Sea travel will be aboard Cunard Steam-Ship Co. passen-gei’ liners, and will consist of cabin accommodations in tourist class.
Price Covers Everything
Trans-Atlantic and continental transportation, plus hotels, meals, and gratuities, are included in the over-all price. Lodging abroad will be in second-class hotels, and where rail transportation is utilized, it will be at least second-class. There will be no over-night train travel. Chartered motor-coaches will be used extensively on the Continent, since they afford maximum mobility.
Students interested in this NFCCS service may obtain additional information by writing directly to the Catholic Travel Office, Trans-America Travel Agency, Inc., P.O. Box 186, Washington 4, D. C.
22
The Scholastic
St. Mary's Charity Ball To Be Held Tomorrow
“Christmas Through An Open Door” will be the theme for tomorrow night’s annual Charity Ball at St. Mary’s College, Dance Chairman Mary Endress has announced. From 8:30 until 11:30 p.m., some 500 couples will dance to the' music of Don Gels and his orchestra.
Proceeds of the ball will be used to provide the needy throughout the South Bend area with parcels of food during the Christmas holidays.
The theme for the ball originated from an old southern custom of decorating the doors of homes at Christmas time to resemble Christmas packages.
Dancing will be' held in both the Louis XIV Ballroom and the Stapleton Lounge. To accommodate all the dancers, Don Gels will divide his orchestra between the two rooms.
Dress for the ball will be semi-formal. Corsages are optional. Those attending are requested to enter by the east door of LeMans Hall.
Assisting Chairman Endress are Mary Agnes Majewski and Jeanette Trautshold, decorations; Mary Beth Adler and Barbara Mudd, bids; Marie DeMeester, orchestra; Sue Whalen, refreshments; and Carol Verbrugge, house committee. Chaperones for the affair will be Misses Ann Bolgan and Marjorie Black.
Debaters Start Season At Purdue Meet Today
The debate team opens its major tournament season today at the Purdue University Invitational Tournament. The “Arguing Irish” are debating the national collegiate topic, Resolved: The Congress of the United States Should Adopt a Policy of Free' Trade.
Chuck Doherty and William Hank are assuming the affirmative side of the question for Notre Dame, while Gerry Meyer and Bill Fagan will be assuming the negative side.
The tournament is one of the major meets of the Fall season and draws top competition each year. Last year the Irish speakers captured three awards, taking two of the top four speaking posts and a plaque for outstanding team performance.
Prof. Leonard Sommer has announced that the team has already captured an honor, even before the tourney begins. The committee selected Hank, debate team president, to address Purdue’s faculty, assembled coaches and teams on Notre Dame’s interpretation of the topic’s main issues. The address was given last night in the Purdue Memorial Union.
NOTRE DAME f
STUDENTS I
For the Best in Italian American Dishes
For the Best of Service Eat at the . . . VOLCANO
PIZZA OUR SPECIALTY
________The_________
VOLCANO
RESTAURANT
219 No. Michigan
How to save money on trip to EUROPE
You have a special opportunity to save $40 on your European trip if you are one of the first 100 students to apply before December 15.
Write now for FREE information on our low-cost student travel service ... the largest student travel service in Central United States.
3 to 9-week trips all-inclusive prices $295 to $1045
Space Limited!
Write Today!
American Yoitb ibmd
71 University Station Minneapolis, Minn.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildrool Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
"Your hair's no yoke” bellowed Sheedy’s gal. "Those cowlicks look awfuL Why not take the bull by the horns and get yourself some Wildroot Cream-Oil, America’s favorite hair tonic? Keeps hair combed without
greasiness. Makes you look cud-dly. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Relieves annoying dryness. Contains Lanolin. Non-alcoholic. I won’t cow-tow ’til you start using it heifery day.” Paul was udderly stunned, so he bought some Wildroot Cream-Oil for just 291. He told his girl the good moos and now they’re hitched for life. So just steer yourself down to any toilet goods counter for a bottle or handy tube. And remember to ox your barber for Wildroot Cream-Oil too. You’ll be the cream of the campus—and that’s no bull.
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildrcot Company, Inc^ Buffalo 11, N.Y.
aoannme eutnsenE: nma uou

November 20, 1953
23
The gift that will be welcomed joyously by that Notre Dame fan on your Christmas list
Notre Dame
Weekly Student News Magazine
subscription to the
Scholastic
Each issue of every year in
to slick, sprightly
national **	weekly roundup that .
events, humor an	Fighting Irish fan,
sports, social	„„rce o£ pleasure
will be a continual source o p whether teen-ager or oldster.
. -	■ annual Football Review, a
"Xta" e	Irish grid season.
P	'th the Christmas issue, and a
Your gift subscriptions will start	be mailed to arrive
letter notifying the recipien o	Christmas cards with
before Christmas. We will enclose your m the letters i£ you send them to us wrth your
$4.00 for each one-year
Fill in the Order Form below and marl d today.
To: NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, Indiana
Please send gift subscriptions to the following at $4.00 per subscription. I am enclosing $.........for.........
subscriptions.
□ I am also enclosing my own cards which I wish to have enclosed with your letter notifying the following of the gift subscriptions they will receive during the coming year.
My name ...........................
Address ...........................
City .......................... —-
Please send gift subscription to
Address .............................
City ................................
Please send gift subscription to
Address ...........................
City .................-............
Fr. Peyton's Booklet Contains 180Thoughts
Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., well-known director of Family Rosary Crusades and Family Theater’s radio and television programs, recently published a booklet on the rosary and related prayers in Catholic tradition.
The pamphlet, Father Peyton’s Rosary Prayer Book, contains 180 modernday thoughts and reflections on the age-old mysteries of the rosary. It is an attempt to reveal the implications and applications of the mysteries to modern living. Each group of five meditations develops a theme or problem that may confront men, women, or children in today’s work-a-day world.
The unique meditations were written by a Trappist monk at the suggestion of a non-Catholic minister and edited by Father Peyton. Two years of work went into the writing of this 228-page book.
In announcing the publication of the booklet, Fathei' Peyton said, “This prayer book is a direct answer to the appeal made by His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, for special prayers and devotions for the Marian Year—1954.
“It is my prayerful hope that this little book will be a powerful instrument in encouraging more families to fulfill the pledges that will accomplish and surpass our goal of ten million families praying the family rosary.”
An introduction by Father Peyton concerns devotion to Our Lady and the rosary and an explanation of how the book can be useful for individuals, for group recitation of the rosary, and for the family rosary. Included are diagrams for non-Catholics and letters from Pope Pius X1II and Francis Cardinal Spellman.
Architecture Jury Chooses Winners in Freehand Contest
A jury of three students and three professors of the Department of .Architecture were the official decision makers on winning designs in a freehand color drawing contest held last week.
Don Henshaw’s drawing depicting the evolution of architecture through the ages, took first place in the contest. Tony Genovese and Louis Colavecchio won second and third places, respectively.
Using Henshaw’s design, the trio will make a 16 by 40 foot mural in rubber paint to be completed and open for inspection by Nov. 30.
The Department was host to the Round Robin Exhibit Wednesday. This exhibit is a traveling display of architectural work sponsored by the Virginia Polytechnic Institute.
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Iowa Blocks Path of Title-Bound Irish
Evashevski's Eleven Routs GieTs Gophers; SMU Gains Win Over Stubborn Razorbacks
Improved Hawkeyes Field Tough Defense
As the undefeated Notre Dame eleven was routing North Carolina at Chapel Hill, two of the remaining Irish opponents gained well-deserved victories, while the third, Southern California, was idle. Iowa’s Hawkeyes, tomorrow’s opponent, completely outclassed the Golden Gophers of Minnesota by a 27-0 count, and the Mustangs of SMU eked out a hard-fought 13-7 victory over stubborn Arkansas.
In Iowa City, a record crowd of 53,355 Dads’ Day fans sat in on the humbling of the Gophers and watched in utter amazement as All-American Paul Giel and his Minnesota mates were put to rout by the inspired lowans.
The magnificent display of strength exhibited by the Iowa line and the outstanding work of backs “Dusty” Rice and Jerry Reichow were a big factor in holding the Gielmen at bay.
After a first quarter characterized by
UP Telephoto
LEAHYMEN GRIND OUT 34-14 WIN OVER NO. CAROLINA
Heap Tries Desperately To Snatch a “Gug” Pass from Tarheel Defenders
frequent bobbling of the pigskin by both teams, the lowans got their scoring machine into operation in the second quarter. During this stanza the Hawks staged a 94-yard goalward drive highlighted by Reichow’s running and passing. Rice added the final 29 yards on a bit of reverse field maneuvering, and Jerry White converted.
Late in the same period, following an exchange of punts, Reichow intercepted a Giel pass and proceeded to complete two of his own. Rice gathered in the big one and scampered 20 yards through the Gopher defense for the second Iowa tally. The clock showed only 22 seconds remaining in the half. Jim Freeman’s place kick was blocked, and Iowa held a 13-0 intermission advantage.
In the final period, two Minnesota fumbles helped the Hawkeyes to their third counter. Rice went the final six
(Continued on page 28)
By PHIL BOLIN
A highly fired-up Big Ten aggregation from the University of Iowa will charge into Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow afternoon with great hopes of upsetting the nation’s number one football team. The Hawkeyes, whose defense' is rated one' of the best in the country, will be carrying a five and three record into the battle.
Coach Forest Evashevski’s charges hold victories over Washington State, Wyoming, Indiana, Purdue, and Minnesota, while the Hawkeyes met defeat against Michigan State, Michigan, and Wisconsin. -
Tomorrow Notre Dame will be spending their 12th afternoon with the Hawkeye's in a series that began back in 1921 with Iowa coming out on top> 10-7. . Although the Irish haven’t lost to Iowa while Coach Frank Leahy has been at the helm, two ties have occurred during Leahy’s tenure.
Notre Dame will find themselves busy with a strong array of talent led by Captain Andy Houg, a 6-3, 195-pounder who holds down the left tackle position. Commanding the other tackle post is Jerry Clark, a rugged 5-9, 195-pound senior. •
At left end is Frank Gilliam, a speedy 6-2, 177-pound sophomore who has been an outstanding pass receiver. Bill Fenton, last year’s captain and ■ most valuable player, is the right flanker. The 6-3, 205-pound Fenton was a 60-minute man last year, and has a reputation for his rugged defensive play.
Senior standout, Donald Chelf, a 6-3, 215-pounder, holds down the left guard slot, while his teammate at the other guard post is Calvin Jones, another rugged lineman, who is 6 feet tall and weighs in at 210. At the center post is Jerry Hilgenberg, a 6-2, 195-pound senior.
In the backfield Garet Reichow, a 195-pound quarterback, operates the T
November 20, 1953
CAPT. ANDY HOUG
Sparks Hawk’s Forward Wall
for the Hawkeyes with an unbalanced line usually to the right. The 19-year-old sophomore is a good passer and keeps the opponents on their toes by mixing his plays up well. Louis Maty-kiewicz, a seasoned defensive line backer, alternates quite' a bit with Reichow.
At left half is George (Dusty) Rice, who chalked up three touchdowns against Minnesota last week, and is currently the leading scorer and ground gainer for the Hawkeyes. He has scored 10 TD’s, and ranks third in Big Ten scoring.
At the right half post is Ed Vincent, a speedy 170-pound sophomore, who is second in the ground gaining department with 341 yards. Rounding out the backfield is George (Binkey) Breeder, a 5-6 180-pound hard driving fullback.
On Nov. 28 the Irish will travel to Los Angeles to tangle with the Trojans. Southern Cal has a well-balanced offense and defense and has won six, lost one and tied one so far.this season. They face UCLA in a tough Pacific Coast clash tomorrow.
A week ago the Fighting Irish traveled South, and amazed some 40,000 spectators in North Carolina’s Kenan Stadium by crushing a valiant Tar Heel eleven, 34-14.
The green-clad first team, scoring at will all afternoon, marched the opening kickoff 69 yards in eight plays to touchdown territory. Neil Worden took the honors by taking a lateral from Heap and romping the last 15 yards for the initial score. “Minnie” Mav-raides converted the first of his two extra points, and the score was 7-0.
Notre Dame’s second team took over in the second period, and quarterback Don Schaefer scored number two on a
sneak from the one. He then kicked the first of his two extra points and Notre Dame led, 14-0.
Moments later, after an exchange of punts, the Irish were on the move again. A 77-yard jaunt by halfback Dick Keller was called back for clipping. Undaunted, the Irish plunged and drove their way to the two-yard line. From there fullback Tom McHugh bulled his way to the third score' behind the left side of the Notre Dame forward wall.
However, the Tar Heels were not willing to die' so easily. Starting from their own 30, a pass from Long to Lackey downed the ball on the ND 30, and an interference penalty against Notre Dame took the host team to the 15. A pass from Newman to Newton in the end zone clicked and North Carolina had their first score. Adler’s toe was true, and the score was 21-7.
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP
IOWA	NOTRE DAME
Gilliam ...... LE	....Matz
Hall ........  LT	..	Varrichione
Chelf .......  LG	.... Lernek
Hilgenberg .... C ..... Schrader
Jones ........ RG	....	Mavraides
Clark ........ RT	____ Hunter
Fenton ______ RE	..	Penza (C.)
Matykiewicz QB	....	Guglielmi
Rice ........   LH	.... Heap
Vincent ...... RH	.... Lattner
Broeder ______ FB	.. Worden
Kickoff time—1:00 p.m. C.S.T.
Notre Dame took the ball on their 48, and on the' first play, “Bull” Worden crashed through the center of the line, cut to his left, picked up a few green-jerseyed blockers, out-stepped the last Tar Heel defender on the five-yard line and scored his second touchdown.
Again in the final quarter, the Irish struck home. Taking the ball at midfield, with Schaefer again in command, Keller, McHugh, and Fitzgerald worked the ball to the Carolina seven. Tommy Carey went to the one on a lateral, and McHugh bored through the defense for his second, and final Irish tally. The attempt for extra point was missed, and Notre Dame had soared into the lead by a 34-7 count.
In the waning minutes of the last period, Carolina’s Keller was pulled down from behind on the Irish 17. Again a long pass, this time' from Gravitte to Newton in the end zone, accounted for the second Tar Heel score.
BILL FENTON
Classy Pass Receiver
Position Week to Be Tested By Kampus Keglers Sunday
A new innovation will be tested Sunday when the Kampus Keglers hold their first position week, a regular feature in many industrial bowling leagues. It pits the first place against the second place team, the third against the fourth, and so on down the line.
Paul Pfohl, who was elected president of the Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Congress, has announced that the roll-offs to determine the six-man team to represent the school will run from Nov. 16 to Nov. 30. To qualify for the team each bowler must bowl 15 games, those with the six highest averages, handicaps not included, making the team.
Buzz Velotta of the Cleveland Club continued as the outstanding bowler in the Blue League, hitting a 234 game last Sunday, the highest of the season to date. Jack Battel of the Met club set a new high series score for the season, 584.
In the Gold League Bob Rich of the K. of C. set the pace with a 550 series, and a 208 single game, both high for the week.
The Cleveland club managed to keep its hold on first place in the Blue League by taking three points last week, while the Met club moved into second place by taking all four points from the Philadelphia club, which dropped from second to fourth place. The K. of C. is still undefeated in the Gold League, after taking four points from the Detroit club, which dropped from second to fourth place. The Accounting club moved into second place after taking three points from the Aero Engineers.
'	The Scholastic
Sailors Take Second In Ohio State Regatta
Notre Dame’s Sailing team placed a respectable second in the Ohio State University Invitational Regatta at Columbus last Saturday. With moderate winds and ideal sailing conditions prevailing, the Irish finished with 67 points, only six behind winner Ohio State.
The Regatta was held on a Gold Cup course, which was described by ND captain Ed Rodgers as “the best course we have seen this year.” Length of the triangular course (all Gold Cup courses are so shaped) was approximately two miles.
Highlight of the Regatta came in the last race when Don Matthews of ND skippered home the winning boat, enabling the Irish to nip Cincinnati, which finished third with 66 points.
Art Braden, Pete Raffetto, and Jerry Lloyd completed the Notre Dame crews. They were skippered by Rodgers and Matthews.
This Sunday Notre Dame will meet Northwestern on Diamond Lake at Cassopolis, Michigan. Notre Dame will be defending the traveling trophy which goes to the winner of this annual team meet. This meet will mark the end of the fall season for the Sailing team. They will resume competition in the Spring.
Morrissey Edges Prisoners For Second Campus Victory
Morrissey’s interhall gridders scored the second straight triumph by a campus aggregation over the Michigan City prison team last week by a 12-6 margin.
Morrissey threatened in the first period, but no scoring was achieved until midway in the second period, when the prisoners, with a fourth down situation on their own 30, gambled on a pass play for a first down on Morrissey’s ten. From there they went over four plays later.
In the third quarter the prisoners tried another fourth down pass from their own 20-yard line, but Morrissey refused to be fooled twice in a row, and the pass was knocked down. Morrissey quickly drove to the two, and John Rogers took it over from there.
It looked as if the game would end in a 6-6 deadlock until the last few minutes of the game when Morrissey’s George Matt snared a stray prison pass on his own 45 and returned it to Michigan City’s 35-yard line. An assortment of oif-tackle plays and jump passes moved Morrissey down to the four. Yaeger plunged for the final touchdown and the 12-6 margin.
Powerful Alumni Eleven Downs St. Ed's, 13-0 To Capture 1953 Hall Football Championship
Alumni Hall, sparked by the aerial fireworks of Quarterback Marty Vieth and the swivel-hipped running of Fullback Mike Laughlin, won the Interhall Championship last Sunday afternoon on a sun-splashed Cartier Field, rolling over St. Ed’s Hall, 13-0.
Alumni with a collection of tricky backs and glue-fingered ends, ground out 142 yards via the air and 88 on the ground. Their superior offensive and defensive abilities proved too much for the sputtering sophomore attack.
The Alumni line proved too much for St. Ed’s., as it provided a wall of protection for their hard running backs.
The St. Ed’s attack never did get going. Halfbacks Gene O’Connor and Ed Cosgrove were stopped in their tracks, as spotty blocking by the line provided little protection. Coach Tom Meglen’s linemen were consistently out-charged by the Alumni forward wall. Fullback Jerry Ryan and Halfback Joe Kurzeja provided a little light in what otherwise proved to be a dark afternoon for Coach Meglen.
The first period was a see-saw defensive battle which saw both teams’ offensive power bottled up. St. Ed’s took the opening kickoff and was promptly stalled deep in their own territory. Quarterback Pete Fieweger couldn’t get his offense started and St. Ed’s was forced to kick. Alumni’s offense stalled, too, and the first quarter ended, featured only by the exchange of punts.
Early in the second period Vieth hit Mike Laughlin with a beautiful pass on the St. Ed’s 20, but Laughlin couldn’t
ALUMNI DEFEATS ST. ED’S, 13-0, TO ANNEX INTERHAU TITLE Quarterback Marty Vieth Displays Aerial Magic as St. Ed’s Tacklers Crash In.
hold it. Vieth, faking a kick on fourth down, passed to Don Zech for a first down. Another Vieth pass was good to | the St. Ed’s 25, and the Alumni attack started to roll with buzz-saw efficiency. They picked up nine yards on an end sweep to the 16. From there Vieth hit Laughlin for a first down on the 10, and on the next play found Tom Short in the end zone for the TD. Vieth’s attempt for the point was no good and s Alumni led, 6-0.	|
With six minutes left to go in the	।
half, Parsley picked off a Ryan aerial,	j
and Alumni again threatened. Brehm | threaded through the St. Ed’s second- j ary for 25. One play later Kallfelz reeled off eight, and Alumni was deep in St. Ed’s territory. Zech made a beautiful catch in the end zone for what should have been the second Alumni ' score, but an offsides penalty nullified 1 the play.	।
Late in the third period Alumni scored again. With the ball on the four-yard line after a drive highlighted by power, £peed and passing, Larry Kall- ; felz took a handoff and drove to the ' one where he fumbled. The ball was recovered in the end zone by end Don Zech, and Alumni had a 12-0 lead. Vieth added the point and Alumni led, 13-0.
The victory was sweet for Alumni coach, Marty Vieth, as he had been coach of the runner-up team for the last two years, losing to Breen-Phillips last year and to Morrissey the year before. Vieth also had a very profitable afternoon on the field, as he completed nine out of 15 passes for 112 yards.
November 20, 1953
27
by Bob Frolicher
Worden Keeps “Wild Horses” on the Move
Fullback Neil “Bull” Worden strengthened his lead on what seems to be a new three-year record, scoring two touchdowns against North Carolina last Saturday to boost his three-year output to 25. His two tallies also put him back in first place for this year with a total of seven. In
his sophomore yeai' the “Bull” led the team with eight TD’s, four coming in his first varsity appearance, and captured scoring honors again last season with 60 points.
Worden’s latest performance brings back the memories of the 1949 National Championship team. The Irish ripped the opponents’ lines to shreds for large chunks of yardage during the ’49 season, and had some of the most treacherous blocking a team has ever seen. Worden is considered by many as one of the great Notre Dame blockers, and along with teammates Center Jim Schrader and Guard Ray Lemek form one of the most devastating linebacking trios in the country. He also “bulled” his way through the Tar Heel defense last week for runs of 10, 15, 7, 10 and 52, coupled with his other rushes to gain 151 yards. He is also the leading ground gainer
NEIL WORDEN
Power-Packed Dynamite
of the current Irish with 558 yards in 97 carries for an average of 5.8.
Hardwood Nearing Final Workouts
With the cage season only a little more than two weeks away, the Jordanmen have been putting the steam on in preparation for their opener. The Irish face Ball State in their home' opener Dec. 3. State has a well-rounded ball club and carries enough scoring punch to make ND’s first game a tough one. Coach Jordan is counting heavily on two seasoned veterans, center Dick Rosenthal and forward Joe Bertrand, to strengthen the Irish with a potent one-two scoring combination.
One Last Bust for the Hawkeyes
Tomorrow the Iowa Hawkeyes will be carrying a definite advantage when they enter Notre Dame stadium. It will be the final game of the season for Iowa, and there is nothing to hold the Hawkeyes back from going all out to end their season with a bright spot. Iowa is following closely a pre-season remark by Coach Frank Leahy, which stated: “The lowans may start slowly, but by November they could very well be the most improved team in the Big Ten.” Evashevski’s squad lived up to this statement by dumping Minnesota last week in one of the top upsets in the Big Ten this season.
Iowa has one of the top defensive teams in the nation, holding down the number four spot. In eight games they have limited their opponents to an average of 102 yards per game. Last Saturday the rugged forward wall stopped the Gophers’ All-American Paul Giel with 13 yards in 16 carries. The Hawkeyes are also the number one team in the country in punting.
Prediction of the Week
Iowa is always tough and tomorrow’s game will be no exception when the Irish backs begin bucking heads with the country’s fourth-ranked defensive squad. However, Notre Dame will get the points when they need them, pasting the Hawkeyes, 21-13.
Worden Passes Heap In Rushing and TD's
The Irish heavy-duty fullback, Neil Worden, boosted his ground-gaining average to a respectable 5.8 last weekend to overtake the previous rushing leader, Joe Heap, who posted a neat 5.3 total. Worden drove through the North Carolina defenses for a net 151 yards rushing to almost single-handedly rout the hard-pressed Tar Heels.
In the scoring column, Worden also dominates. He scored two of the Irish touchdowns on a 52-yard romp and crossed the goal line again on a 10-yard junket after taking a lateral from Joe Heap.
Halfback Heap raised his total of passes caught to 15 by snaring two of signal-caller Guglielmi’s tosses. Heap has gained 264 yards in pass-catching so far.
In the passing department, quarterback Ralph Guglielmi maintained his .493 pitching percentage by completing three passes. Guglielmi has accounted for 553 • yards by his passes for the first seven contests. Sub quarterback Tom Carey completed his one passing attempt to raise his average to a commendable .600.
Remaining Opponents
(Continued from page 25) yards, and Freeman kicked the extra point.
With less than three minutes of playing time remaining in the game, the lowans struck again, Paul Kemp connecting with Bob Phillips for a 37-yard TD pass.
Down in the Cotton Bowl, the Southern Methodist Mustangs kept intact their bid for the Southwest Conference crown by subduing a surprisingly strong Arkansas crew, 13-7, before a sparse crowd of sun-bathed spectators.
The Razorbacks, led by Lamai’ Mc-Han, struck with a furious passing and dashing attack soon after the opening whistle, with Preston Carpenter going the final distance.
It took the Mustangs only a short time to reorganize their game, however, and after a scoreless second quarter, the host squad shoved across two lasthalf scores for the winning margin.
Duane Nutt was the Methodists’ big gun. The versatile quarterback set up the first tally on a long aerial and heaved another to End Doyle Nix for a six pointer. Nix also scored the other TD, this time on a pass from Hal O’Brien, the “displaced Irishman.” Sam Stollenwreck made good the first extra point attempt.
The Scholastic
ALL CAMPUS, 1953
By ERWIN ALFONSUS
AND JOHN PHELAN
(I. to r.) SHORT, STRAKE, QUEALLY, HOHMAN, MadNNIS, HARRINGTON, ZECH; backs, COSTELLO, q.b., TYSON, RYAN, AND McMULLEN.
Alumni’s 1953 interhall football champions dominated the third annual edition of the Scholastic All-Campus Interhall football team, placing four men on the squad. St. Ed’s placed two representatives on the mythical eleven. The team was selected by the interhall coaches.
Don Costello, quarterback of Joe Sassano’s Lyons aggregation, was the only unanimous selection, while the other choices ran fairly close. Guard Jim Maclnnis of the championship Alumni squad made the team for the third straight year, and was also named the Most Valuable Player in either league. Tom “Goose” McMullen, Morrissey’s left halfback, and Dillon’s right halfback, Jont “Tex” Tyson, were the other repeaters from last year’s eleven.
Champs Win End Slots
Both ends on the All-Campus squad hail from Alumni Hall. Don Zech was placed on the squad as one of the flankers, while his teammate Tom Short was selected at the other. Zech, a 6-1 senior, is a physical education major from Sumner, Washington, and played his high school football at Sumner High. He was a member of the first All-Campus team picked in 1951. Short was an end on the Moberly High eleven for four-years. The 6-2, 190-pound wingman is a law student from Moberly, Missouri. Short and Zech were instrumental in guiding Alumni to its Western league title.
The tackle positions are ably manned by Bill Harrington of St. Ed’s and George Strake of Farley. Harrington hails from Carteret, New Jersey, and had three years of high school football experience. The 6-foot, 230-pound lineman is the heaviest member of the All-Campus squad. Strake, a product of “Stu” Steuerwald’s Farley team comes from Houston, Texas, and had his football training at St. Thomas High in Houston. He is a 6-1, 195-pound freshman in the College of Commerce.
Guards Easy Choice
Jim Maclnnis of Alumni and Tom Queally of Zahm ran away with the race for the guard slots. Maclnnis earned his third consecutive All-Campus selection and the MVP award with his fierce blocking and tackling as guard and linebacker for the interhall champs. He hails from Detroit where he saw two years of action as a guard for Catholic Central. Queally is a 5-11,180-pound lineman from Yonkers, New York. He received his grid experience at Gorton High in Yonkers where he played at guard.
Anchoring the middle of the All-Campus line and completing the rugged forward wall, is Rich Hohman of Alumni. He tips the scales at 185 lbs. and stands 6 feet tall. Hohman did not play high school football, but concentrated on swimming at his alma mater, Fenwick High. The burly center’s home is in Oak Park, Illinois.
The All-Campus “dream” backfield is led by quarterback Don Costello of Wilmette, Hlinois, and Loyola Academy of Chicago. The 5-11,175-pound field general did not play interhall football last season because of an arm injury sustained in high-school, but his arm and his smart signal-calling proved effective enough this season to make him a unanimous choice in the backfield.
“Goose” McMullen, an end on last year’s All-Campus squad and on B-P’s championship eleven, switched to a halfback post this fall for Morrissey. “Goose” comes from Saginaw, Michigan, and attended Gilmour Academy in Cleveland. The 6-2, 190-pound McMullen played three years at end in high school, and captained the squad in his senior year. In the early balloting “Goose” tied with Alumni’s Mike Laughlin for backfield honors, but a re-vote gave the nod to McMullen.
Jont “Tex” Tyson is the squad’s smallest player at 5-7 and 155 pounds, but his dazzling speed, shiftiness, and expert running made him one of the best backs in the Western league.
Jerry Ryan, rugged fullback of Tom Meglen’s St. Ed’s eleven, completes the All-Campus backfield. He and teammate Gene Hawkins provided the scoring punch which led- St. Ed’s to its undefeated season and the Eastern League crown. He weighs 180 poundsand stands 5-11. He played his high school ball at Bunkie High in his hometown of Bunkie, La.
Dance your way
to
popularity
Arthur Murray’s
• Don’t let good times pass you by any longer. Come in to Arthur Murray’s and let one of his experts show you the shortcut to popularity. You’ll find learning the Arthur Murray Way is quick and easy even for beginners. So come in now. Be all set for the gayest season ever. Studios open from 10 A.M. to 10 P.M. dailv.
Arthur Murray School of Dancing
120 E. Wayne 2-3339
NABICHT BROTHERS
Iowa Menu
FRIDAY—Wonderful Selection of Seerfoods
SATURDAY—Steaks, Chicken, Seafood OPEN-WEEKDAYS: 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.
SATURDAYS: 11 A.M. to 12 P.M.
CLOSED SUNDAYS
NOTRE DAME 32 Nabicht Brothers Predict:	IOWA 7
South Bend’s Oldest Catering Family Nabicht Brothers
Private Dining Rooms for Special Parties
1415 LINCOLN WAY WEST	2-3138
I. U. Dean of Business To Speak Dec. 10-11	1
After a short interim, the Commerce ; Lecture Series will continue Dec. 10 and ’ 11 with Dr. Arthur M. Weimer, dean of .
Indiana University’s School of Business,. speaking both days in the Law Audito- J rium at 2:30 p.m. One lecture will deal	<
with a business subject while the sec-	*
ond will concern Dr. Weimer’s special field of study, economics.	|
Dr. Weimer	is a native of Illinois,	f
and received	his A.B.	degree from	k;
Beloit College.	He also	won A.M. and	|
Ph.D. degrees	from the	University of	f
Chicago. In 1950 he was granted the honorary LL.D, by Beloit.	’
Joining the I.U. staff in 1937 as pro- i fessor of real estate and land econom-	।
ics, Dr. Weimer became dean of the	j1
School of Business in 1939. Former ! head of the Department of Economics and Social Sciences at Georgia Tech, ; Dr. Weimer also served as a teaching	>
assistant at the University of Chicago	'
and later on the faculty of Alma College.	j
Currently serving as the president of | the American Association of Collegiate Schools of Business, he is a member of I the American Economic Association, > American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers, and the American Finance Association. Honorary societies in which he holds membership are Beta Gamma Sigma, Phi Beta Kappa, and Delta Sigma Rho.	,
Dr. Weimer has written numerous articles on real estate for business and professional journals and is co-author * of two books, Principles of Urban Real Estate and When You Buy or Build a Home.
Distinguished Dutch Architect To Hold Lecture Series Here
Willem Dudok, distinguished Dutch architect and town planner, will visit Notre Dame the week of Nov. 30.
Dudok has been a leader in his profession for over thirty years and has become internationally known as a pioneer of the modern movement in Holland.	.
Throughout his career he has maintained an extensive private practice as a skilled architect and town planner. He is responsible for the city plans of many towns in Holland and for various structures in the Dutch West Indies, Paris, and Calcutta.
Dudok’s lectures here will deal with his practice and experience as an architect, and he will give a comprehensive analysis of his personal style “with ample illustrations of my own buildings and designs.”
30
The Scholastic
'Who's Who in America' Includes 139 ND Alumni
One hundred thirty-nine alumni of the University of Notre Dame are listed in the 1952-53 edition of Who’s Who in America, according to a survey just completed by the A. N. Marquis Company, publisher of the standard reference volume. Notre Dame is one of the first two Catholic colleges in the number of listings, the publisher reported.
Twenty-three of the alumni listed are priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross, that operates Notre Dame, and 19 are members of the University’s lay faculty. The volume includes biographies of many other faculty members who are not Notre Dame alumni.
Among distinguished alumni listed in Who’s Who are the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., archbishop of Philadelphia and former Notre Dame president; Frank C. Walker, former postmaster general and a University trustee; and former Governor Harry F. Kelly of Michigan.
Four noted journalists with Notre Dame degrees who are included in the volume are Walter W. “Red” Smith, sports columnist of the New York Herald-Tribune; Arch Ward, sports editor, and Walter Trohan, Washington bureau chief, of the Chicago Tribune; and J. P. McEvoy, syndicated columnist.
Other prominent Notre Dame alumni listed are George N. Shuster, president of Hunter College; Albert Pick, hotel chain executive; Raymond J. Kelly, past national commander of the American Legion; Clyde A. Lewis, former commander-in-chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars; and Federal Judges Luther M. Swygert and Harold P. Burke.
The sizeable Notre Dame representation in Who’s Who is remarkable in view of the fact that 53 percent of the University’s alumni have received their degrees since 1940.
Windy City Denizens to Stage Annual Turkey Trot Nov. 25
The Chicago Club will hold its annual Thanksgiving dance Wednesday evening in the Drake Hotel with the music of Johnny Marlowe and his orchestra 'featured.
Bids are priced at $4 on campus, whereas they will be $4.50 at the door.
The French room will be used to house the tables at which the dancegoers can relax and partake of the refreshments which are to be sold at three convenient centers located about the rooms. Although the Grand Ballroom will be used mainly for dancing, some tables will be set up to accommodate the expected crowd.
November 20, 1953
Students!
SPECIAL RATES . *
RENT A BRAND NEW PORTABLE OR LATE MODEL STANDARD TYPEWRITER
Up to three months rental allowed on purchase price if you decide to buy.
All makes of Typewriters Rented, Sold and Expertly Serviced.
SUPER SALES COMPANY
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA PHONE 6-6328	(Next to Sears) 315 W. MONROE ST.
A quick-witted college student decided to add a new sport shirt to his wardrobe. Although broke, he was unconcerned. He walked into the local sportswear shop and said, “Let me see your smartest checked sport shirts.”
The clerk showed him several Van Heusen FIELDWOOD CHECK Sport Shirts. “These are the finest I’ve got,” he beamed. “The fabric is 55% wool and 45% rayon—for kitten’s-ear softness and long, long wear. They can be laundered in lukewarm water. And you can choose from a wide selection of small and medium-size checks... and only $7.95 apiece.”
“Just tvhat I was looking for,” said the student. “I’ll take this one with the medium-size checks.”
The clerk -wrapped the shirt and handed it to him. “That trill be §7.95,” he said.
“On second thought, I’ll take that one with the small checks,” said the student.
The obliging clerk unwrapped the first shirt, tvrapped the second one and handed it to the student, who turned to leave. “Just a minute,” cried the derk. “You forgot to pay for it.”
“I gave you the other shirt for it,” answered the youth.
“But you didn't pay for the other shirt,” continued the derk.
“Naturally! I didn’t buy that one!”
31

Praiseokgy
"He’s keen!" “He’s cute!" “The handsome brute!" We’re quoting Tepee Topics,
’Bout lads that strut in City Club, By gals who use their optics.
And the best part is you feel praiseworthy in City Club shoes. The trim fit, the smart styling, and perfect comfort make you friendly with yourself. The long wear and considerate price help, too!
$8" to *1595
ChyCtub
SHOES OF ■ DISTINCTION FOR MEN
True • Esquire
AS ADVERTISED IN Argosy • Sport American Legion
A wonderful way to eam full college credit and enjoy a thrilling trip through Europe or around the world!
Roam abroad in leisurely fashion seeing all the famous sights and cities... study at an accredited university from 2 to 6 weeks in an educational center such as London, Paris, Rome. You can do both in one glorious trip on a university-sponsored tour via TWA—world leader in educational air travel. Thousands of students and teachers have taken these trips in the past five years, enjoying a fun-filled jaunt while earning full college credit. You can take a tour dealing with a special field such as music, art, languages ... attend tne World Educational Conference in Geneva...arrange a visit to the Orient.
The cost in time and money is surprisingly small. You’ll speed to Europe overnight via TWA. And thrifty TWA Sky Tourist fares stretch your budget. Mail the coupon today!
nans sotiDAitUKii
John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director TWA Air World Tours	cm-no
380 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y.
Please send me information on the Flying Educational Tours to be offered in 1954.
ffyfht finest..
l am interested in: University credits □
Resident study at a foreign university □
Special countries or areas □
(Specify)---------------
Name	Position
Address
City Zone
State	Phone No.
Former Rockne Aide Accepts High TV Post

Dan D. Halpin, a graduate of Notre Dame and former manager- of Knute Rockne’s last national championship | team of 1930, has been named chairman of the sales managers committee of the Radio - Electronics-Television Manufacturers Association, it	was an-	(
nounced recently by Robert C.	Sprague,	1
board chairman.	'
Mr. Halpin held the office of gen- j eral sales manager of the Television Receiver Division, Allen B. DuMont Laboratories, Inc., in addition to serving as president of the Notre Dame Club of New York and director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
Mr. Halpin is a resident of Montclair, N. J. His wide experience over a 13-year span includes a specialized background in television advertising and promotion, as well as sales to key distributors and dealers in major mar- ’ kets throughout the country.
Mr. Halpin is active in industrial circles and is a member of the sports committee dedicated to the promotion of and interest in televised sports events.
Mediaeval Text Studies To Be Published Soon
The Mediaeval Institute has inaugurated a new series of publications entitled “Texts and Studies in the History of Mediaeval Education.” Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the Institute and a specialist on mediaeval universities, will be editor of the series while Rev. Joseph N. Garvin, C.S.C., will serve as assistant editor.
The first publication off the press is “The College of Premontre in Mediaeval Paris” by James John, Browerville, Minn. The treatise is a study of the physical facilities and intellectual life of the 13th century institution. After receiving a master’s degree in mediaeval studies at the University, John attended Princeton’s Institute for Advanced Study, where' he is now a research assistant to Dr. E. A. Lowe, noted mediaevalist.
The Mediaeval Institute has a highly specialized library in the history of higher education in the Middle Ages. Its scholars devote much of their time to the editing of unknown texts of scholastic thinkers at these first universities.
Father Gabriel currently is preparing a history of Ave Maria College, at Paris, as part of the' University’s contribution to the observance of the Marian Year recently proclaimed by Pope Pius XII.
32
The Scholastic
Commerce Ball
(Continued from page 9) lovers will also appear on the front door of the Center to greet the ballgoers.
The usual 2 a.m. and car permissions will prevail. All arrivals must be before 10 p.m. Departure is optional after midnight.
Saturday’s features will include the ND-Iowa game in the afternoon with the usual Student Senate victory dance in the evening.
The weekend festivities for the ballgoers will close with a Communion Breakfast Sunday morning in the Morris Inn following the 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Phil Brehm will serve as master of ceremonies, with Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C. and assistant football Coach Bill Earley as the principal speakers.
Assisting Chairman Grosspietch with this year’s Commerce Ball are Hugh Bray, business manager; Dick Castel-lini, publicity; Tom Steubler, tickets; Phil Brehm, entertainment; and Jim Deline, refreshments.

Boyhood of Bishop F. J. Sheen Reviewed by 'Catholic Boy'
“Sheen,” said the debating coach, “you’re the worst public speaker I’ve ever heard — absolutely the worst.” Young Fulton J. Sheen swallowed hard at the biting comment, answered nothing, but resolved to be not the worst but one of the best. It happened many years ago, “When Bishop Sheen Was a Boy,” and is told by Ken Crotty in the November issue of The Catholic Boy, published by the Holy Cross Fathers here at the University.
Becomes One of Best
Tracing the future bishop’s life through its little known years, the Boston Post writer draws a firm portrait of the youngster who was to become one of the most eloquent spokesmen of the Catholic Church in the United States. “In his television image, a vast world can now see the spiritual fruits of a fine discipline half-hidden 50 years ago in Illinois,” the author writes.
Born in the small town of El Paso, Ill., Bishop Sheen moved with his family to Peoria at the age of five. He was baptized Peter John Sheen but “because he lived close to his mother’s folks—the Fultons—and was deeply devoted to them, he liked to be known as Fulton J. Sheen.” His father alternated between selling hardware and working a farm, but regardless of where the
family was gathered, the Rosary was recited in unison each evening.
The story tells how young Fulton Sheen served Mass at St. Mary’s Cathedral in Peoria where he was to be ordained on Sept. 20, 1919. He has told friends that he could remember no time in his life when he did not have the
desire to become a priest. While studying in Paris, young Father Sheen won his first convert, dramatically saving a young woman from suicide. He has been winning converts ever since, bringing Christian philosophy to millions through his remarkable television program, “Life Is Worth Living.”
November 20, 1953
33
just natural that there was going to be a little social life spring up. ’Course the folks that ran the two places didn’t go for that too much. They came up with a lot of rules and curfews and stuff. Still, these two schools managed to see a little of each other. Just fate, I guess.
’Course there was a bit of a problem in the whole thing. Seems as how there were only about fifty females and five hundred men. Now this used to cause quite a bit of trouble ovei- in the men’s school whenever they threw a real big dance. ’Course, then, there’s always the other side of the picture. Seems as how the girls almost never complained!
The females just had a pretty good thing right there and they knew it. They were real happy with the whole setup.
They used to give real fancy dances on Sunday afternoons and invite all the lucky fellows over. ’Course there wasn’t enough girls to go around, but I never heard one girl complaining. They’d get all the lucky fellows in theii- real fancy ballroom and start looking them over. They’d check the boys over for the few essential things that all those girls wanted in a man—like a car and a sizeable bank account. Now this sort of helped the girls eliminate a lot of fellows from the running right at the start. ’Course that didn’t stop the fellows from going over there every Sunday afternoon—only now they just played bridge with themselves ’cause they had such nice new decks over there.
Yessir, it was just a real privilege when one of the fellows managed to get a date. He’d scrape up all his spare cash and put himself in debt with all his buddies just for a real nice evening. ’Course he had to take a cab always ’cause the girl found out that there just didn’t happen to be any buses at that particular time.
It took a little time to get hold of his date once the follow’d gotten there. A
by Gordon Bergquist
Out in our little town in the Tall Corn State, we’ve got just lots and lots of little red schoolhouses; we’ve even got a couple of real fancy colleges—one for men and one foi' females. And they’re real fine colleges.
The college for men sits way up on a hill just north of town. It’s a real pretty place and all. It’s got statues and fine buildings and all sorts of cultural stuff all around. The college for females is over on the other side of town across the railroad tracks. It’s a pretty place too. It doesn’t have as many statues and buildings, but it’s still pretty fine.
Now since these two colleges were so near, why, it was
lot of young freshmen would get busy with carrier pigeons and telephones and finally locate the lucky fellow’s date somewhere. When she came down, why all he had to do was to get her checked out with the head circulating librarian at a big desk and off they went!
Now these females were real high class, though. They just didn’t go to any dance or movie. They were real cultured so they wanted to go to all the one-night stands of all the famous bands and then take in a meal at one of the real fashionable restaurants. Yessir they really got a lot of culture from those evenings.
Well now, this went along for quite a spell. The fellows that used to take out some of the females kind of thought
that their dates didn’t used to pay too much attention to them. This wasn’t too hard to figure out when you figure that the girls realized that they had to give a chance to everybody, ’cause there was so few of them. There were a couple of females who got to thinking that they didn’t have to be nice to any of the boys, since they had the pick of the lot. ’Course there weren’t too many like that.
This men’s college used to have a real fine tiddley-winks team. They used to have big home games and all the girls would come and wave things and let everybody get a good look at them. They were real thoughtful girls. They figured that maybe there was somebody who hadn’t seen them yet and they wanted to give everybody a chance. Besides there might be some prospects that they had overlooked. They were a real big help in the tough games; they’d wave those pretty colored handkerchiefs and just send the boys into the matches fighting like crazy. Added a lot of color to the matches, though.
Well now, things kept on this way for a long time. But by and by, there were
less and less fellows at the Sunday dances. Some fellows used to say that it was ’cause they ran out of tea, but they were just being sarcastic. ’Course the females still drew big crowds at the start of each year, but then the freshmen always were easily impressionable.
Pretty soon, though, the fellows just stopped coming at all. The females got together and held a big meeting and decided to send out a spy to see just what was what. This spy found out that the fellows were just out of money; seems as how they’d spent it all on some such foolishness as white buck shoes.
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, Nov. 23—Feast of St. Clement I, Pope and Martyr.
Tuesday, Nov. 24—Feast of St. John of the Cross, Confessor, Doctor of the Church.
Wednesday, Nov. 25—Feast of St. Catherine, Virgin, Martyr.
Thursday, Nov. 26—Feast of St. Sylvester, Abbot.
Friday, Nov. 27—Ferial Day.
Saturday, Nov. 28—Anticipated Vigil of St. Andrew, Apostle.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
JlikiGfUf, awl look Shop We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
WE ARE NEW “THE TWINS RESTAURANTS” Prop. by Brother and Sister
Come and Try Our “Pizza and Spaghetti” The Real Italian Way We Also Have Home-Made Chili Just the Way You Like It!
713 E. LASALLE
54
The Scholastic
I
I
"HOW GOES IT?” dials New York-and a building in Illinois answers
Shell Oil Co. wanted a small brick building in Illinois to be able to teletype automatically to a dispatcher in Radio City-more than 800 miles away. The building in Dennison, Ill., is one of four pumping stations on an important oil line. For efficiency, all these stations were to be controlled from New York. Bell System engineers were asked to help.
Now the New York dispatcher operates these stations by using an ordinary telephone dial. By dialing a number, he can make a pumping station automatically report back its meter readings by
teletype! He also dials numbers to open and shut valves, start and stop pumps, and summon an attendant. It’s done through Bell System facilities.
These remote-control installations represent salesmanship, research and engineering skill on the part of many Bell System people. That’s the reason there are rewarding opportunities in many lines for college people in the telephone company. Why not check soon with your Placement Officer on your chances to start with the Bell System after graduation?
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
SMOKERS BY THE THOUSANDS
^CHANGING TO CHESTERFIELD
the ONLYtigarette ever to giveyou...
HIGHEST QUALITY
The country’s six leading cigarette brands were analyzed — chemically—and Chesterfield was found low in nicotine—highest in quality.
Donryo^ with a
PROOF of LOW NICOTINE
want to
A PROVEN RECORD with smokers
Again and again, over a full year and a half a group of Chesterfield smokers have been given thorough medical examinations...the doctor’s reports are a matter of record, "No adverse effects to the nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfields.” A responsible independent research laboratory supervises this continuing program.
CHESTERFIELD BEST FOR YOU
KtfCG^SlZE
usctn i mkrs tobacco co.
LKem A MYERS TOBACCO CO.
Ki*
•


