fSKITJU
BEUEVE IN YOURSELF!
Don't test one brand alone ..♦compare them all!
Remember...
NO CIGAREnE HANGOVER MERRS
MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
Unlike others, we never ask you to test our brand alone. We say . .. compare PHILIP MORRIS...match PHILIP MORRIS . . • judge PHILIP MORRIS against any other cigarette!
Then make your own choice!
TRY THIS TEST! Take a PHILIP MORRIS-and any other cigarette. Then, here's all you do:
Light up either cigarette. Take a puff—don't inhale— and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose.
Now do exactly the same thing with the other cigarette.
NOTICE PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
Lst PHILIP MORRIS
Ed Emeritus Speaks
Editor:
In the April 13 issue of the Scholastic, there are a couple of references to the hope that Mr. and Mrs. Broadway will start annual musical productions. Your editorial calls for student action, but the students have been active since Ed Cashman wrote Let's Get Going in 1943.
After the war, Ed wrote Meet the Missus (1947), and the next year, together with Verne Kelley and myself, he produced It Ain’t Hay. In the fall of 1949 Verne and I had begun to put another show into shape. The idea was dropped, however, when the University forbade the production before it had got a good start.
Since Dick Marshall and Bill Carey produced their show, there is good hope that the University will continue to sponsor such projects. Those who have produced the past shows are sure that the students will always have something ready, if they get the chance.
Such shows will seldom be material for Broadway, but they will always be entertaining to the students and a chance for them to develop in another way. It would be good to see at least one student musical every year.
Joseph Herrington, ’-50
Indianapolis.
Musical Thanks
Editor:
It is with a very deep feeling of pride that we write this open letter to the student body. Mr and Mrs. Broadway could not have achieved the success it was acclaimed had it not been for the wonderful cooperation of the many persons connected with the show. To the numerous individuals and organizations both on campus and in South Bend who gave us a helping hand go our sincere thanks. We are proud to have worked with these people. Good luck to those who do the student musical next year and may the cooperation you receive be as great as that which we received. We know you will have a successful show.
Buddy Powers, Director Bill Carey and
Dick Marshall, Co-Authors
Former Chaplain Recalled To Active Duty in Air Force
Rev. Thomas E. Hewitt, c.s.c., Major, USFR, recently of Notre Dame, was recalled to active duty as a chaplain April 1, and assigned to Walker Air Force Base, Roswell, N. M.
Before he was recalled, Father Hewitt was assigned as chaplain of the 439th Troop Carrier Wing, a Michigan reserve unit. At present he is assigned to the Headquarters Squadron of the 509th Air Base Group.
Walker Air Force Base is the home of the Strategic Air Command’s .509th and 6th Bomb Wings, and the 2nd Strategic Support Squadron. The •509th is known as the “atomic bomb group,” having dropped the atomic bombs at Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
As his first official duty at the base, Father Hewitt officiated at the wedding of a boy he had known well while serving as an assistant at St. Patrick’s Parish in South Bend.
---------------------- —•—Dentist
DR. RALPH BERMAN
408 Platt Bldg., 105 W. Wayne St.
Hours-. Mon. 9-12 Thurs. 9-12 & 1:30-5	PHONE 6-3627
Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12	Res. ph. 7-1409
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
•
OUR SPECIALTY
V2 Golden Brown Fried Chicken Gobs of Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.15
JOE NABICHT'S RESTAURANT “Chicken in the Rough” 213 N. Main Open Sunday
CANOE TRIPS
into Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only $4.50 a day per man for complete camping equipment, canoes and food supplies. For Booklet, write: Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS — Ely, Minnesota.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bld?.
DR" ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis 702 J. M. S. Building So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
Aquinas Library and Bookstore
Your Catholic Shopping Center in South Bend
110 E. LaSalle
BLOCK BROS.
Comer Michigan & Washington
Jewelers to Notre Dame for more than 25 years.
Apr. 27, 1951
3
now ... in colors!
Van Hensen om^shirt
You don’t need a course in nuclear physics to understand why this amazing collar just can’t wrinkle. It’s-woven in one piece (ordinary collars are three pieces) ergo ... there are no linings, no inner layers. Therefore, it can’t buckle, wilt or warp .. . Q.E.D.
Van Hensen
REG. T. M.
"the world’s smartest"
shirts
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERTS
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Special Student Rates r
For all coming dances Logan's offers special •student rates to Notre Dame students and faculty members. NO DEPOSIT necessary.
You are invited to come in and inspect our stock. Over 500 suits to choose from in sizes Boys’ 3 to Men’s 56; shorts, stouts, regulars, longs, and extra longs.

Complete line of accessories Low rental prices Free alterations
I
Due to the large demand place orders early, yv
LOGAN’S
107 N. Main Oliver Hotel Bldg.
4
The Scholastic
Top of the Week .
Harry James at the Junior Prom. . . .
Third Year Flurry
With the coming of another Spring to Notre Dame at long last, comes also another traditional Spring dance, the Junior Prom. The title is misleading to some because prom comes from the word promenade, which comes from the French word promenade meaning walk, walking, promenade, stroll, ride, drive or the French word promener which means to take or lead about, take for a walk.
Everyone knows that proms are not for walking, but for dancing. It is very confusing to us to see this annual dance mislabeled consistently without some reaction from the Department of Modern Languages, but they’re always so busy dreaming up those thrilling departmentals of theirs that they probably do not have time for dances and the like.
' This year’s Prom orchestra is certainly not second-rate. In fact, the Juniors are said to be floating a loan from the R. F. C. to pay for the James aggregation. Instead of handing out favors at the door, the dance attendants will probably line the Rockne Memorial steps with tin cups, smoked glasses, and signs saying “It hurts, but give.”
A lot of the Juniors will be missing the Prom this year for one reason or another, but mainly because there just weren’t enough bids to go around. Those that were ticketless after the last ducat disappeared had more than scorn for the whole affair, since they had sent out invitations and were eagerly awaiting the chance to become V. I. P.’s at tonight’s affair and during the eventful week that follows.
A number of Juniors are planning to go to the Prom without dates in hopes that Harry will bring his wife along with the band. They figure that one night of looking at Betty Grable will more than compensate for not having the hometown girl around for two or three days asking questions like: “Is that really where Bob Williams lives?” or “How do you have any fun if you have to be back at 12?” or “You mean
you live in that place?” or so on indefinitely. They might have a point there.
The Rockne Gym seems to be as good a place for the dance as any other, except maybe Badin Bog. The Phy Ed majors have promised to put away their gym equipment and sweat togs and the dance committee has been thinking of using 25 Freshmen to mingle with the dancers and to carry open bottles and atomizers of Air-Wick.
If it’s warm tonight, the Prom-goers will probably have occasion to stroll or promenade, if you prefer, on the southern sun-deck of the Rock. An assist from the weatherman would be appreciated from all to make this year’s Junior-Prom wonderfully memorable. Our Junior Prom last year was just one of those kind of nights and if you’re one of the lucky ticket holders for tonight’s affair, we hope “you’ll remember April.”
Ex Libris
From proms we turn to poems. We ran across this little ditty the other day, in the pocketbook edition of Christopher Columbus Diary or Why Isabella Hocked Her Pearls. It may not stand the test of great literature, namely being suitable for publication in the Juggler, but it does have something. Just a minute while we open a window . . . ah, that’s a little better. Well, here it is:
The boy sat atop the seven foot fence,
His feet were touching the ground.
—Longfellow
RM MU WOMBN AM OUUMM 209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.
Other Columnists
There seems to be some question as to the merits of certain major league baseball clubs in Chicago, HL, according to comments by a fellow-SCHOLASTlC columnist and fellow-Associate Editor, Walter R. Collins. We would like to challenge columnist Collins and his like, to the duelling field.
We of the Middle West, have come to look with scorn upon provincial critics from the East, especially when they start casting vicious aspersions upon the White Sox or Cubs.
Everybody knows that the Phillies won their National League pennant last season by the skin of their collective teeth. What will happen to the “Whiz Kids” this year is certainly not known, but they probably won’t be first with ace hurler Simmons in the Army. What will happen to last year’s seventh place Cubs is also questionable, but we say they’ll be in the first division, if not on top.
Bottom of the Week
. . . Harry S. on another Potomac cruise.
Apr. 27, 1951
5
APRIL 27
ROCKNE MEMORIAL—Tonight is the BIG night on the Juniors’ schedule — at least for all those third-year men who, were able to grab a bid to the Prom before the supply was exhausted. Harry James will be leading his large combo for the pleasure of the capacity crowd. And in front of the Rock, on the lawn, there will be hordes of oglers. An enterprising young person could set up bleachers and make a killing.
COLFAX (through May 2)—Bob Hope’s Lemon Drop Kid continues to leave them laughing.
AVON (through May 1)—Royal Wedding (Legion of Decency Rating A-2) can now be called the longest wedding on record. Pity the poor joker who’s pulling those bells.
APRIL 28
ERSKINE COUNTRY CLUB—The Juniors and their dates will flock out there for an afternoon dance and buffet supper. It will be held from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. For those who still have any feet left, there will be a Student Council dance at night.
WASHINGTON HALL—Nancy Goes to Rio is a gaudy musical starring Jane Powell, Ann Sothern and Barry Sullivan. On the whole, it is a pretty amateurish effort.
APRIL 29
SACRED HEART CHURCH—A section of the Church will be reserved for all prom-goers at the 9 o’clock Mass.
MAY 2
AVON (indefinite run)—Dick Powell and Rhonda Fleming team up in Cry Danger and with the support of an excellent cast, help to make this an above average mystery.
MAY 3
ASCENSION THURSDAY—No classes.
COLFAX (through May 9)—Valentino (B) is supposed to be a biography of the Great Lover’s life. With Anthony Dexter in the title role and with Eleanor Parker playing opposite him, this technicolor farce is terrible. Be smart and skip it.
MAY 4
ROCKNE MEMORIAL—The Freshmen will enter the flower-scented sanctum left by their Junior brothers, and prepare to swing away to the melodies of Russ Carlyle. The dance will run from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. with 2 o’clock permissions granted.
ERSKINE COUNTRY CLUB—Local solons will head out to Erskine for the annual Law Ball where Gene Hull will provide the background music from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
PALACE (through May 10)—Seeing grown men act like a bunch of characters out of Mark Twain can be silly stuff but because they are so likeable, Stewart Granger, Robert Newton and Cyril Cussick make such stunts believable and enjoyable in Kipling’s Soldiers Three. Walter Pidgeon and David Niven are also in the cast of this light, yet diverting, film.
scho/asfic
Vol. 92 April 27. 1951 No. 23
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101. October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.	'
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN, '51 Associate Editors WALTON R. COLLINS, '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI, '51	"
JOHN J. POWERS, 52__________________News
ROBERT G. FINNEY, '53_____Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE, '51_________Features JOHN F. MEANEY, '52_______Sports
JACK R. VARLEY, '52______Assistant Sports
WILLIAM H. FRASER, 52________Photography LEON GARDNER, '52____________Librarian
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT, 51....Advertising G. M. McARTHUR_______________Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN, '51___________Circulation JAMES ROGERS, '51______________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS___________Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Roger Blatz. Justin Bolger, Don Ctirbone, Pat Carrico, Dick Cody, John Corrigan, Valentine Chun, Carl Eiberger, Tom Godfrey. Dave Hayes. John Kelly, R. O. Murphy, Walt Murphy, Pat O’Malley, John Quetsch, Dave Quinn, Bill > Rady, Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Ken Stead, Paul Zalecki and Ron Zier.
SPORTS STAFF: Bill Brien, Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Joe Deiss, Jack Economou, Roger Fernandes, Bob Froelicher, Mort Kelly, Bill Londo, '”7 Fran Meaney, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rust and Joe Straub.	<■
FEATURE STAFF: Jack Bradshaw, Jay Conlon, Bill Stapleton. Rudy Unger. Ed Vasta,.Dick Cody, Charles Hands and Hugh Schaedle.
PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF: Gordon Brickson, Paul Fitzgerald, John Kinville, Charles Lenz, Harold Munger, Charles F. Murphy, Jr., Al Muth, C. Douglas Powers, Berry Reece, and Jerry Sheehan. "V,
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.	•
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Big Bob Toneff, symbolizing those luckless Juniors who were unable to obtain a bid to tonight’s Junior Prom, sits in his room listening to WND’s direct broadcast of Harry James’ music from the Rockne Memo- Y rial. He silently wishes he could be among the crowd, dancing with a partner as Prom co-chairman Bill Toohey is shown doing. Tomorrow the Juniors go to Erskine Country Club for an afternoon dance. Photo by Jerry Sheehan, ’54.
6
The Scholastic

OUR LADY'S MONTH
The most beautiful month of the year at Notre Dame is May. Spring is late and short in Indiana but when it comes it converts the landscape into a scene comparable in beauty with any throughout the country. The primary reason, however, why May is a special month at Notre Dame is because it is dedicated to Our Lady.
We live under her protection the year round but we are made even more conscious of the fact during Mav. Elaborate plans have been made to start the celebration of her month on next Tuesday. Masses will be held in each hall chapel in the morning. At these Masses the student body will rededicate itself to the Blessed Mother. In the evening a candle-light procession will start from each hall and lead down to the Grotto where special services will be held in her honor.
•
Any man who considers himself a true Notre Dame man will take part in these proceedings. We have all been blessed with the gift of living intimately with Our Lady at Notre Dame. And any student who denies his duty to pay homage to the Blessed Mother is not deserving of the privilege granted him.
Notre Dame men in the past have always been extremely generous in offering acts of thanksgiving. But this year, more than ever before, we ought to redouble our efforts.
Last Summer and Fall there were several world crises that panicked the population to an almost hysterical state. Everyone did the natural thing and turned to Our Lady for aid.
There has been a slackening in this devotion during the past few months. Presently there are no definite signs that the inevitable war with Russia is imminent. Everyone has breathed a big sigh and has relaxed. There has been another postponement of the horrible threat. So, a number of people are saying—what’s the sense of worrying about it today?
Apr. 27, 1951
But there is plenty of sense in worrying about it today. Who can tell when the war will start in earnest? Where does any honest Catholic find the logic in putting off prayer against war until it actually starts?
Right now there are many men living under Our Lady’s protection on this campus who are scheduled to be called into active service within the next few months. Some of these men still scoff at the idea of being prepared spiritually for this new life.
And then there are the Seniors. As a group they will leave Notre Dame in a little more than a month. Whether or not they are going into service is relatively unimportant. What does matter is the breaking of the bond which most of these men have made with the Blessed Mother during their stay at Notre Dame. They have lived in an environment completely permeated by her presence. And now they are getting ready to enter a world marked in every way by secularism.
Some of these men will have the strength to continue the spiritual way of life they have formulated under her guidance while at Notre Dame. Others ^viU not. No one can divide the weak from the strong now. No one knows which he will be. The only certainty presenting itself are the opportunities offered us during the final month.
It would be wonderful to give Our Lady the gifts of dailv Communion and Mass. Also, extra rosaries and visits to the Grotto and other acts of devotion.
•
We can all help to make this month of May one with which Our Mother will be extremely pleased. She has always done so much toward bringing us close to her Son. During her month let us redouble our gifts of thanksgiving and appreciation.
And let us continue our pleas asking for her intercession in making us more Christ-like, now and forever.
'	7
DOLLAR DAY at Farley Hall
?y Hall—the northeast si open Saturday mornin*’
your
OOn f°r yO.r
• Publications need more storage space, so starting Monday there will be a sale of back issue Domes, Usual price for these year books is $8, but for two weeks we will sell the 1947. 1948. 1949 and 1950 Domes for only one dollar each.
• Here’s your chance to get a set of Domes for your Junior Prom or Senior Ball Date. It's the lasting souvenir. For an extra quarter we will pack a Dome and mail it home for you — that's the actual mailing cost.
USed to b.
s in the basement office:, e the last bus stop. The office convenience.
VOLUME 92, NUMBER 23	APRIL 27. 1951
Juniors Dance to Music of Harry James
Sellout Prom Tonight At Rockne Memorial
Sleet or snow, tonight Spring will reign supreme over Junior Prom-goers and their dates as they dance to the . music of Harry James in a springtime parkland setting at the Rockne Memorial.
The Junior Prom weekend activities will be rounded out with an afternoon dance and buffet supper at the Erskine Country Club tomorrow and a special Mass Sunday for prom-goers and their dates.
The evening’s festivities for “I Remember April” will be ruled over by the Prom’s two queens, Miss Mitzi Boehm, University of Wisconsin, and Miss Alice Kent, a senior- at Children’s Medical Center, Boston. Miss Boehm is the guest of Bill Toohey; Miss Kent will be escorted by Chuck McCarthy, both men co-chairmen of the affair.
Rockne Memorial has been transformed into a colorful parkland scene in springtime bloom, complete with park benches, bird baths, lamp posts, and colorful streamers.
Against this backdrop, Harry James and a 16-piece orchestra with Shirley
Wilson, vocalist, will provide the music. The world-famed bandleader’s appearance at Notre Dame follows a series of performances at some of the na' tion’s brightest night-spots. From here, Harry James and company travel to Indiana University. Intermissions will be filled with the dance music of Jerry Costello and his combo.
MISS ALICE KENT
Services at Grotto To Climax May Day
Grotto services, following an 8 p.m. candlelight procession from the campus residence halls, will highlight the May Day celebration here Tuesday, the Catholics’ answer to the mass Communist demonstrations ‘ of atheistic power which • always mark this day.
The festivities will begin in the morning, where one Mass in each residence hall will be dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary. Missa Recitatas will be celebrated in most of the halls, depending upon the available facilities.
The evening program will begin at 9 o’clock with the ringing of the Sacred Heart Church bells, which will announce the beginning of the procession to the Grotto. The procession will be organized by members of religious organizations in the various halls, and the rosary will be recited in common during the march.
Services at the grotto will include hymns, a sermon by Rev. Bernard Mullahy, C.S.C., assistant provincial of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, dedication of the student body to the Immaculate Heart of Mary and re-
(Continued on Page 29)
MISS MITZI BOEHM
Congestion at the entrance to the Prom will be practically eliminated tonight. A system has been worked out to alleviate waiting lines at the door. Favors will not be distributed at the door but will be passed out between 10:30 and 11 during the course of the dance. Escorts are urged to hold tight to their ticket stubs in order to claim their favors. The Prom committee has kept the description of favors shrouded in mystery.
Bids for the Prom were sold in less than four days in an unprecedented show of popular support. Similarly, the supply of tickets for the Erskine Club affair was exhausted in a few days.
Dancing will last from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m., with 2:30 permissions and week-end car grants.
“An Afternoon at Erskine,” the an-k (Continued on Page 33)
BILL HUBERT and DAN COLLINS
Apr. 27, 1951
9
Senior Ball Bid Rush To Start on Monday
Senior Ball bids go on sale in the cafeteria foyer this coming Monday, April 30, at noon. Seniors can obtain bids there either at the noon or evening meals from that date on. Ticket, chairman Tom Wolff advises an early purchase of the S8.50 tickets.' For the Ball 425 • bids have been printed. There are over 600 men in the Senior class.
A Moonlight Cruise will be the theme of the Ball set for May 11 at the Rockne Memorial. Committeemen for the dance named by co-chairmen •Jim Hennessy and Hank Madden include Tom Wolff, bids; Jack Becker and Bob Moriarity, decorations; Randy McNally and Jack O’Brien, publicity; Bill Whiteside, weekend arrangements; Bob Engel, patrons; Bob Klingen-berger, secretary; Frank Muller, finance; Al Guarnieri, hotel reservations; Jim O’Donnell, programs; Tom Digan, favors; and John Worthington, treasurer.
Also going on sale at the same time will be tickets for the Senior’s communion breakfast. It will be held at the Oliver Hotel at 10:30 Sunday morning. Price is S3 per couple. The 9 o'clock Mass Sunday in Sacred Heart
church will be reserved for the Seniors and their guests.
Patrons for the Ball, announced by committeeman Bob Engel, are Dean and Mrs. Lawrence Baldinger, Colonel and Mrs. Melie J. Coutlee, Commander and Mrs. S. A. Bobczynski, Professor and Mrs. Paul Bartholomew, Professor Thomas Bergin, Professor and Mrs. Edward Dodson, Professor and Mrs. Charles Egry, Professor and Mrs. Joseph Miller, Professor and Mrs. Marcel Newman, and Professor and Mrs. Robert Schultz.
Thousand Take Draft Test Here on May 26
Mr. Edward R. Quinn, head of the Testing Bureau, who will be in charge of the Selective Service tests to be given here, advises all Freshmen and Sophomore reservists to take the test along with the rest of the student body.
All those students who are not now 18 and will be before May 26 should, after registering and obtaining their service number, send in forms 106 and 107, which can be obtained from the Office of Military Information. This will enable them to take the test on June 16 or 30. If the student becomes 18 after June 30, he will have
SENIOR BALL COMMITTEE. Front: R. Klingenberger, J. Worthington, co-chairmen H. Madden and J. Hennessey, R. McNally. Row 2: J. Becker, F. Muller, J. O’Brien R. Engels, W. Whiteside. Rear: A. Guarnieri, R. Moriarity, T. Digan, J. O'Donnell.
to take the test later this summer or next spring.
In regard to the forms, the address . on 106 must be your permanent home number. The address on 107 must be your present school residence.
For those who wish to study for the test, Mr. Quinn recommends Hogden’s / Math for Millions for those math reviewers and Opdyke’s Get It Right for English. Both can be obtained at the University library.
Approximately 1,000 will take the test here on May 26; others will take it near their homes and those attend-ing summer school on campus will be tested here.
All questions concerning classification should be referred to the student’s own draft board. Other questions may be answered at the Office of Military Information, 115 Main Building.
J
Civil Engineers Go +o Milwaukee Meeting
Twenty-three Notre Dame Civil Engineers attended the Seventh Annual Convention of the American Society of Civil Engineers, Mid-Western Student Chapters, held at Marquette University April 13 and 14. Highlight of the convention for the ND contingent was the election of Robert Gildner of Alumni Hall and Bloomington, Illinois, to the post of second vice-president of the Mid-Western Region Executive Committee. Bob nosed out a delegate from Wisconsin U. in a close race for the job.
At this same business meeting the ' ' presentation of papers by two ND delegates was given. They were the only ones the Executive Committee permitted to be given because of the lack of time. Jack Urbain gave a paper entitled “Road Test One — MD.” This was a report of the findings of the Highway Research Board in a test to determine the effect of wear and differ-ent loading conditions on concrete pavement. The second p’kper was a discussion of the pros and cons of the proposed Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Seaway as given by Chuck Lin- >. senmeyer. Both men are Juniors in Civil Engineering.	I -
Besides the business sessions the convention held many educational and recreational features. At the top of the educational list came the tour through the erection shops of Allis Chalmers	».
Mfg. Co. where some of the largest hydraulic turbines are constructed. This tour was followed by a banquet at Allis Chalmers Clubrooms at which Mr.
J. Frank Roberts, Manager, Hydraulic Dept., General Machinery Division, of
10
The Scholastic
Allis Chalmers spoke on “Recent Development in Hydraulic Turbines and Hydro Electric Power.” The convention then adjourned to the Engineering Society of Milwaukee Building where a panel discussion was held with men prominent in Milwaukee industry, followed by a smoker.
The Saturday noon luncheon meeting, held in the Circus Room of the Wisconsin Hotel, was highlighted by a talk by Dr. A. Allen Bates, vice-president of Portland Cement Association, who spoke on “The Role of the Engineer in National Affairs.”
Saturday afternoon field trips offered a choice of Milwaukee’s Sewage Disposal Plant, the Bucyrus-Erie Co., Lakeside Bridge and Steel Co., and the Miller Brewing Co.
The convention ended with a dance and a stag party for the delegates.
Kimberly-Clark Renews Economic Research Grant
The Kimberly-Clark Graduate Fellowship in Economics at the University of Notre Dame has been renewed for the 1951-52 school year.
Established in 1949 by the Kimberly-Clark Corporation of Neenah, Wisconsin, the grant carries a stipend of $1,500. Under the terms of the fellowship, the University may select the holder, who will conduct research on theoretical and practical problems in the field of economics.
The present holder of the Kimberly-Clark Fellowship is Francis J. Ortbal, of Kansas City, Kansas, whose study is entitled “Some Aspects of the Economics of Cooperative and Industrial Medicine.”
Goodrich-Cavanaugh Speech Preliminaries Set for May 7
The preliminaries of the Goodrich-Cavanaugh Oratorical contest will be held on Monday, May 7, in the Main Building. Entrants must register with. Mr. Len Sommer at the office of the Department of Speech by noon on May 7. The finals are scheduled for the evening of May 9 in the Law Auditorium.
The subject matter is to be selected by the contestants and must be related to the fundamentals of American government. Each competitor must submit one typed copy of his oration to Mr. Sommer. Students who wish to compete are advised to seek assistance from members of the speech faculty.
The prizes are: first prize—$100, second prize—$35, and third prize—$15.
QUEEN Mary Jane McKeon crowned.
Airmen Fly High in Social Clouds
The wild, blue yonder had ceilings unlimited for last Friday night’s “Azuwur” Ball, staged by the Air Cadet Club in a colorfully decorated Palais ballroom.
Approximately 120 air and Navy ROTC cadets in formal military dress maneuvered their dates to the music of Gene Hull and Company for the four hours of fun and frolic from 9 ’til 1. Officer and enlisted personnel from both units entered the fray in full swing after first serving time in the receiving line.
Highlighting the evening, the crowning of the queen, Miss Mary Jane McKeon, was preceded by an impressive parade of all graduating airmen and dates to the bandstand, which was flanked by a six-man color guard. The crowd thronged about the stand as Col. Melie J. Coutlee, USAF, officially crowned Miss McKeon, the date of Chairman Tom Digan.
The navy blues, the blue-greys, and the forest-greens all swirled beneath a large balloon jet plane fixed to the center-piece above the floor, with red and yellow exhaust streamers of crepe extending to the balcony above the entrance. There was a blue and white creped hangar entrance fronting the first floor stairway; Air Force photos and cartoon posters decked the second floor- landing; and jet silhouettes plummeted across the sky-line back-drop behind the orchestra.
ARO MEN prepare for ‘maneuvers.’
JACK BUSH escorts date from
car to Palais for Air Cadet Club Azuwur Bali.
Apr. 27, 1951
11
ACP Awards 'Scholastic' Top All-American Rating
Notre Dame added another All-American to its ranks this week when the Scholastic received an All-American rating, indicative of ‘‘excellent achievement,” from the Associated Collegiate Press Critical Service for this year’s work. Only six other college publications in the Scholastic’s class in the country received this rating, the highest ’possible.
The newsmagazine was described by the ASP Scorebook as "a good job, with originality throughout . . . the photography and layout work are professional . . . your photo-feature stories are outstanding. . . .” Especially commended were the Christmas editorial, which was called "extremely effective,” the interview of George Sokolsky and the special football issue which "covered the football season with an ’ND’ blanket."
Judging was based on news value and sources, news writing and editing, headlines and makeup, and columns and special features, including sports.
The Scholastic gained 945 points out of a possible 1055 to earn the Superior Rating. The staff will receive a certificate emblematic of its All-American award.
Lawyer Banquet Climax To Law Practice Institute
The third annual Practicing Law Institute will be held May 11 and 12 in the Notre Dame Law Building, according to Dean Clarence E. Manion.
The Notre Dame Institute, designed to assist the practicing attorneys of northern Indiana, will feature speakers well-versed in the Indiana legal field. Speakers for the Practicing Law Institute, which is jointly sponsored by Notre Dame and the Indiana State Bar Association, will be announced in the near future.
Climax of the Institute will be the annual Notre Dame Law Club Banquet on May 12. Arrangements currently are underway to bring a nationally-
prominent figure to the Notre Dame campus as speaker for the banquet, sponsored by the University’s student Law Club. Speakers for the banquet the last two years have been Supreme Court Justice Tom Clark, who then was the United States Attorney General, and Maryland Senator Herbert O’Conor.
ESSENTIALS EXAMINATION
Upperclassmen who have not yet passed the Freshman’s English “Essentials" examination may take the examination in room 252. Main Building, on Monday, April 30, from 7 to 9 p. ni. Please bring your ID cards to the examination.
Department of English
American Students Offered Summer Studies in Denmark
The government of Denmark, in an effort to increase mutual understanding between the U. S. and Denmark, has offered to finance a year’s study in a Danish university next year for three Americans. The announcement was made recently by Kenneth Holland, president of the Institute of International Education, the organization which will select the American students for the Danish Ministry of Education.
Students are expected to arrive in Denmark early in August 1951 - for the orientation courses. Students who can prove they have some knowledge of Danish, Norwegian or Swedish, or medical doctors who wish to take part in specialized studies at a hospital or scientific institute, are not required to participate in the orientation courses. Study at the universities or other institutions will begin early in September and will continue to the end of March, 1952. At the end of his fellowship period each student must submit a written thesis on his studies. Applications may be submitted for half fellowships of four months each if the purpose of the study can be fulfilled in a short period.
Candidates must have: American citizenship; a Bachelor’s degree from an American college or university of recognized standing (or meet this requirement by the time of departure); demonstrated academic ability and capacity for independent study; good moral character and good health.
Applications, on blanks obtained from the Institute of International Education (U. S. Student Program), 2 West 45th Street, New York 19, N. Y., must be filed not later than May 8, 1951.
NFCCS Offers Pins; Rafes Region as Best
The National Federation of Catholic College Students is offering for sale special lapel pins which will mark the wearer as an American Catholic college student. The small, gold-plated pin bears the seven-sided NFCCS emblem in a blue enamel border.
The pins, which can be obtained from John O’Connell in 436 Cavanaugh, are priced at one dollar. Profits from pin sales will be used to support NFCCS activities.
This was one of the matters discussed at the third meeting of the NFCCS eighth National Council, held last week end at Villanova College, Philadelphia.
O’Connell, president-elect of the Fort Wayne Region, attended the Council session as an alternate delegate.
Of particular interest from the Notre Dame standpoint was the region-evaluation rating of “excellent” awarded to the Fort Wayne Region, of which Notre Dame is a member school. This sevencollege region was one of three receiving the highest possible rating, the others being the large New England and New York-New Jersey Regions.
Notre Dame’s application, for the chairmanship of the National Catholic Action Study Commission, to be managed by the campus YCS organization, was deferred until the next National Council meeting in August. Meanwhile, the YCS bid will be reviewed by a special committee.
MAY DAY—1951
(The photo of Fatima on the opposite page is a blow-up of a 35-mm Kodachrome taken by Father Grimm while on last summer’s Notre Dame pilgrimage to Rome. Dominating the picture is the Fatima Basilica. In the right foreground is the Chapel of Apparitions and the oak tree to the left is where the three shepherd children, Lucia, Jacinta, and Francisco, waited for the apparitions. The town of Fatima is a ten-minute bus ride from the Shrine and is a four and a half hour ride from Lisbon. The Fatima shrine is located in Portugal's mountainous region.)
12
The Scholastic
The Future and Fatima
By Thomas F. Field, '53
Uncle Joe Stalin and the Blessed Virgin have been co-operating on at least one thing in the past few years: Uncle Joe, by waltzing about the continent of Europe, has been confirming the statements which Mary made at Fatima in 1917. It almost seems as if the men in the Politburo heard of the Fatima prophecies soon after they were made, and adopted them as their basic plan for world conquest. But whether or not our friends from the Kremlin are familiar with what happened at Fatima, it is manifest that many Catholics aren’t. The words of Our Lady at Fatima are important, and it isn’t hard to correlate those words with the facts of the present-day international situation. (The difficult thing is to re-enforce the correlation with action.)
Fatima Prophecy
Of all the prophecies of Fatima, perhaps the most important for our time and our nation is that made on July 13, 1917. Then it was that Our Blessed Mother showed to the three shepherd children, Lucia, Jacinta, and Francisco, a vision of hell, and followed the sign of the damned with these words:
“You see hell, where the souls of poor sinners go. To save them God wishes to establish in the world the devotion to my Immaculate Heart. If they do zvhat I will tell you, many souls zvill be saved, and. there will be peace. The war (World JFcw I) is going to end. But if they do not stop offending God, another and worse one zvill begin in the reign of Pius XI.”	’
“To prevent this I come to ask the consecration of Russia to my Immaculate Heart and the Communion of Reparation on the First Saturdays. If they listen to my requests, Russia will be converted and there will be peace. If not, she will scatter her errors through the world, provoking wars and persecution of the Church. The good will be martyrized, the Holy Father will have much to suffer, various nations zvill be annihilated.”
The vitally important thing in that prophecy is the last paragraph. Observe that only with the advent of the “Cold War” does it begin to make complete
sense. And only in the last few years have the things which that paragraph foretold become distinct possibilities. On July 13, 1917, the Russia which was to “scatter her errors throughout the world, provoking wars and persecutions” was in no position to provoke even a minoi- war of persecution, having just emerged from the revolution of March, 1917. Furthermore, she was at that time governed by the democratically inclined Kerensky regime—the Communist coup d’etat under Lenin was not to come until November—and hence she was not yet in a position to “scatter her errors through the world.”
After the Communist seizure of the Russian government in November, 1917, she was, indeed, provided with the raw material for war, persecution and terror, but all during the 1920’s and early 1930’s she was too torn with internal dissensions and too concerned with domestic affairs to be a threat to the world. Although she intervened in the Spanish Civil War and waged war against the Finns in 1939, both of these ventures ended in complete or partial defeat for her forces. When attacked by Germany in 1941 she became still less of a menace to the world.
Thus a careful correlation of the statements of the Fatima prophecies and the recent history of Russia shows that until 1944—that is, until the Third Reich collapsed seven years ago— the July prophecy of Fatima was all but impossible of fulfilment.
Red Fulfilment
However, in the light of the events of the last half decade, the words of Fatima ring frighteningly true. Read the last sentence of that final paragraph in the quotation above. The words “(Russia) will scatter her errors through the world, provoking wars and persecutions of the Church—the good will be martyrized— various nations will be annihilated” could easily be drawn from a secular paper’s comments on the present world situation. From this very appropriateness of the quotation the direct fulfillment of these prophecies should be plainly evident.
But is this all? . . . Has the prophe
cy been entirely fulfilled by the Communist advances of the past five years? Lucia of Fatima, now Sister Maria das Dores, was recently asked: “Do the prophecies of Fatima mean, in your opinion, that every country, without exception, will be overcome by Communism unless God’s will be done on earth?” Her answer was an unequivocal “Yes.”
The Final Test
The stage of the world is today set for a further and final execution of the July prophecy. The spheres of influence of the Soviet Union and the United States are almost completely contiguous throughout the world and they grate with such friction as to perhaps generate the fatal spark which can turn our planet into a pseudo-Gehenna. The Atlantic and Rio pacts and the treaties of the Soviet Union with her satellies assure that few if any nations will remain neutral in any future war. The various pacts of the U.S. and U.S.S.R. assure that little of the world will long escape the punishment of any conflict to come.
And so, . the panorama of history should be clear. Until the last half decade, the July prophecy of Fatima had little cogency — at the time it was uttered it made no sense at all. But today it must be an integral part of the life of every Catholic, for its meaning is painfully clear: if man does not honor God, war will follow upon war until man himself is destroyed. Today a realization of what this correlation of the prophecies of Fatima and the facts of history mean for the world should make it almost obligatory that Catholics first acquaint themselves with the prophecies of Fatima and then act in accordance with that knowledge.
Want to know more about “zvhat happened at Fatima?” In the next week, YCS is sponsoring a lecture on Fatima by Father Thomas Lahey, C.S.C., of the Ave Maria (7 p.m. Wednesday, May 2, Room 102, Lazv Building), a half-hour Fatima radio program (WND, 7:30-8 p.m. Sunday, April 29), and a Fatima book display in the University Library. Avail yourself of one of these opportunities to learn more about these vitally important prophecies.
14
The Scholastic
May Day-Heaven Help Us!
By Al DeCrane, ’53
Only 99 years before, a nondescript man with a bushy beard had claimed “a spectre is haunting Europe,” and now, in 1947, two of his apostles are present at a demonstration of the might of this ethereal force which has since winked at oceans and natural boundaries and spread so as to haunt not only Europe but the entire globe. The nondescript was Karl Marx; the keepers of his spectre are Joseph Djugashvili, alias Joseph Stalin, alive and standing in the driving rain atop the massive, granite tomb of the other, Vladimir Vladimir Ulianov—Lenin. It was May 1.
The staccato beats of the troopers’ boots echo throughout Red Square on this, the glorious national holiday of labor, as the “freed” members of the proletariat follow the Party call. For* had not the “Second International” demanded the world-wide observance of May Day? Was not this Labor Day?
The answers are “yes,” but it had not always been so. The polytheistic Romans and Greeks had observed this day in honor of their goddesses of flowers and Spring. And as the legions of the Caesars strode across Europe, their customs traveled with them, and the English adopted the feast to honor the goddess of fertility for the new life bestowed on the soil and vegetative nature. The week-long ceremonies of the gods were soon concentrated in one day, and for no visible reason, somewhere in the passage of history, labor adopted May 1 as its own. Scholars point to self-styled economist Robert Owen’s proclamation of May 1, 1833, as the commencement of the millenium as a possible connection with labor, but no matter how the custom originated, the Paris Commune of 1889 officially dedicated this day to anarchy, revolution and the violent agitation for reform.
Naturally enough then, Moscow presented the most grandiose of demonstrations in 1947. For some five hours more than a million Red soldiers, sailors and workers marched through Red Square, while more than two hundred Soviet warplanes swooped overhead, cavalry clattered and giant tanks clanked. A show of Communistic sinew—a graphic exemplification of Marshal Bulganin’s words: “our armed forces closely rallied around the Soviet government are
a reliable bastion of the Soviet Union’s foreign policy.”
The Red phantom and its Pink nephew also paraded elsewhere in impressive demonstrations. In Parliament, Herbert Morrison wore his red tie; in Berlin there were red banners planted every 50 feet on Unter den Linden; in Warsaw labor marched all day before bayonet-armed NKVD; in Paris the tricouleurs were flanked by red banners; in Manhattan some 30,000 paraded for six hours and lustily sang “Solidarity Forever.” But an antidote was in the air. While cheers and jeers still echoed from the world’s tombs and beer gardens, Catholics gathered all over the United States for special services. At St. Patrick’s Cathedral there were 10,-000; in Washington’s outdoor Sylvan
THE GROTTO, scene of the May Day ceremonies at ND.
Theatre, 25,000. And so in hundreds of other churches and chapels Catholics bowed before God and prayed—for “Communists are human beings.” This was revival, not inauguration.
The French in the sixteenth century had dedicated May 1st to the Holy Virgin; and even the Greeks, Romans and Druids had recognized a supreme being on that day; but these customs had been overshadowed by the sanguinary banners and actions of radical ceremonies. Now, at long last in 1947, an enlightened fold returned to the shepherd although the threat from Styxian darkness still had superiority in numbers. Christians realized that they needed prayer and Almighty help in their struggle against atheism. There could be no (Continued on Page 34)
Apr. 27, 1951
15
Our Eadys Embroiderer
EvERYONE knows the story of the humble juggler who tossed his hats, rings and bells for Our Lady because it was the best way he knew to show his devotion. However, few people are aware that a modern counterpart of this story is being enacted daily on the campus. The gift being offered, though, is not juggling but embroidery.
Our Lady’s embroiderer is Pastor Villaflor, a little, wizened Filipino who came to Notre Dame in 1905 . . . and stayed.
From his room where he bends over the embroidery rack, slowly stitching the beautiful liturgical vestments, Pastor can look over at the flower-covered Grotto and up at the shining Lady on top of the dome. His is a quiet life. In fact, it is so quiet that relatively few on the University campus know he even exists.
Those who have seen him have either caught a quick glimpse of the diminutive Filipino as they passed his groundfloor window in Corby Hall or else have seen him when he comes out occasionally to take a breath of air or work in his small garden.
Pastor doesn’t need to be surrounded by people to be happy. He never attends Saturday night movies in Washington Hall, the Notre Dame auditori-
um, or athletic events in the Fieldhouse. Long ago he gave up going to football games.
As for South Bend, he says: “Oh, no, I haven’t been in the city for many years. Once, though, I go there lately. I almost forget.
“When I hear the plight of my people right after the war, I went, with a Brother, to buy some things. But I get sick in the store and have to come back. Have never been to town since.
“Now Brothers and students go buy the things I want. I send over $2,000 worth of articles to Philippines. My people need things—still, and I have no use for the money.”
But Pastor is certainly no recluse. He likes nothing better than to talk with friends. He is an elfin, pleasant man with an affable personality. His speech still has a heavy trace of lyrical Spanish in it. It is hard to realize he is nearly 70. He is small, less than five feet, but not bent, and he moves with a kitten’s quickness. His fingers are long and he uses them constantly while talk-
By Ken Thoren, ’51
Photos by John Kinville, ’52
ing like a person making wall shadows. < His wrinkled skin is a rich walnut color with an almost electric glow about it < and he has a wide toothy, lip-sucking smile.
His eyes are mere dots behind metal, thin-rimmed glasses but they twinkle brightly—especially when he is reliving < the past. He wears a butcher’s apron with Pastor embroidered in blue across r-the top.
Right after attending Mass each morning he puts on the apron and then spends the day reading papers or letters from the Islands, playing solitaire, -caring for the small garden outside his window—“look out, the crocus they just * bloom”—and embroidering his beautiful garments for Notre Dame’s main church, Sacred Heart.
Like the legendary juggler, he looks upon his work as an act of devotion. Pastor’s craft is an art, handed down in the Villaflor family for centuries. It is delicate work and has restricted him to do less of it during the past few years. He first designs all the vestments —a Latin flavor- permeates them for they are distinguished by bright colors ' and rich patterns—and then traces the drawings onto material. Agonizing hours of meticulous sewing follows.
Right now- Pastor is working on a cover for the class flag to be presented ’■ at June graduation and also on a Benediction veil. He has almost completed a cluster of grapes in the pattern. Each tiny grape is the size of a dime and is shaded in many hues of purple threads. * He hopefully expects to finish the garment within four months. “I can’t do much at a time, any more; tears get in my eyes—I must stop.”	1
Some of Pastor’s vestments have been exhibited at the St. Louis Exposition, ( in 1904, and at the Chicago World’s	A
Fair, in 1933. He has embroidered the ■ most treasured vestments used at Notre ' Dame. As much as $5,000 has been offered for a single piece of work. But he never sells them. “I do not need money y. and more important, they are my gifts to Our Lady.”	V"
When people ask Pastor wfhy he continues to do such painstaking work, his answer is always the same. “Our Bless Mother, She has been very good to me. The only way I can repay Her is by T making these robes. I love w-hat I do. I have good education but I could not be “* happy at anything else. There’s a feeling down here—it tells me She likes my work.”
16
The Scholastic
e-
i *
Pastor lives alone in a narrow, cluttered room on the ground-floor of Corby Hall. Souvenirs and memorabilia stuff the combination living quarters and workshop. Walls, shelves, tables and cabinets are weighed down with things Pastor has collected through the years.
His love for flowers is apparent. They fill the room as much as they fill his pieces of embroidery. Many bouquets shine against the amber walls—velvet and paper flowers and fresh-cut blooms from the Notre Dame greenhouse.
Just enough space is left free to allow passage to a small wooden table near the room’s one window. It is here that Pastor likes to sit and talk or else pass his free time playing solitaire.
Off in one corner is his embroidery rack. Whenever tears make him stop sewing, he rests in his chair and looks about the room. All his mementoes remind him of the past.
One faded picture shows a young college student standing in a frozen pose with arms akimbo. The caption reads: San Vincent College, 1S9S. Pastor was attending San Vincent in the Philippines when the Spanish-American war broke out. It wasn’t long after the Americans arrived that he had become close friends with many of the soldiers and with the Army Chaplain, in particular.
When the war ended Chaplain Father Vattman wanted to bring Pastor back to the States with him. The young Filipino wanted to go so much that he gave up his studies at San Vincent to concentrate on improving his English. Within a few months Father Vattman was able to make sailing arrangements.
“I never forget that trip. We take four months to come across and then when we pull into New York harbor I think I dream. I knew then and keep
on
the Bless Virgin, She
on the Notre
believe that
Pastor chooses to stay
This article is reprinted icith the kind permission of the editor of Notre Dame Magazine.
watch over me.”
That was December, 1902. Pastor was recognized as the first Filipino to become a naturalized American citizen and was caupht up in a round of celebrations. He was taken to the White House to meet President Theodore Roosevelt.
“The minute President see me, he smile. I guess he like me very much; he invite me back to White House several time. Once when I get ready to leave he say, ‘My friend Pastor, this is for you—a gift from me.’ ” It was a profile of Lincoln made from macerated federal bank notes. Pastor points to it proudly on his wall and says: “That is worth $5,000. Look, look here on back.” A note is attached, verifying the value.
He also knew William T. Taft and Woodrow Wilson. He met Franklin D. Roosevelt, but says diffidently: “I never with him much, so didn’t have chance to become good friend.” He has mingled with what he terms “princes, presidents and popes.”
Dame campus today, but his travelling habits weren’t always like this. He has been twice around the world and has travelled extensively in North America, in Europe, and in Asia.
He has studied in Spain, Italy, France and Japan. He paints in oils; he has also studied singing, weaving, the piano, violin, and the guitar. Now, however, he hasn’t much energy for any of these. “I just embroider a little, garden a little, and read a little. The days, they are so short.”
Only once has he ever returned to the Philippines. That was around 1920. Pastor stayed for a few years and came back to the United States in 1926 for
(Continued on page 33)
Apr. 27, 1951
17
HE student does not usually forget his first encounter with the hundreds of paintings, statues and other works of art housed in the upper floors of the library. Perhaps it might have occurred during the Orientation Program, when he became entangled among a tribe of curious Freshmen stampeding up the library steps. By the time forward motion subsided he had somehow become lodged in a room hung with paintings and lined with an array of glass cases and marble statues. Then he realized, to his horror, that he was being unashamedly exposed to great works of art.
At the head of the group was an elderly gentleman, who, as it turned out, was Mr. Byrne, director of the library. He was patiently trying to purvey his services as guide, but his gentle voice could not be heard over the din and roar made by the troup. Thoroughly unamused the student decided to drop back, if possible, and gain a strategic position from which he could plunge through the nearest opening. One of these happened to be a door so he went home. That ended the first visit.

J
Sitting Bull and
The Polish Peasant
Both Hang at the Library Art Gallery In a Collection of Paintings and Statues
Text by Ed Vasta, ’52 — Photos by Al Muth, ’51
Now, years later, is a good time to revisit the art galleries and remove the horror of the first experience among the famed objets d’art. But the sojourn might last all afternoon, since the gallery walls are filled with treasures of profound beauty and wonder. Connected to each work are years of near-forgotten history—history as intriguing as the Russian novel and as exciting as the American romance. Some of these pictures have been in the hands of persons hostile to the Church and have come near destruction or loss. Others have fallen into the possession of individuals who had no understanding of their meaning and therefore failed to enjoy the appreciation due them. They have been gathered from all parts of the world, from the collections of famous people, from the humble halls of the Capuchin Monastery at Benevento, and from old churches and public buildings. Today there are two hundred and twenty-five works filling more than four large rooms. Together they constitute what is known as the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery.
The collection was named in honor of Mr. Charles A. Wightman of Evanston, Illinois, a collector and lover- of beautiful art. Mr. Wightman, in memory of his late wife, Cecilia, donated a total of one hundred and eight masterpieces as a memorial to her lifelong devotion to the Church. These were added to the purchase of a large collection made in Rome by Rev. John Cavanaugh, c. s. C., in 1917. The very core of the University’s treasures, however, consists of the forty-one pieces collected or made by-priests and
18
The Scholastic
professors in the early days of Notre v Dame’s history.
The discovery of many of the more mysterious pictures must be credited to the late Dom Gregory Gerrer, former curator of the galleries. It seems that , Father Gregory had some sort of tool with which he endlessly picked at the * paint on some of the canvases. One day while cleaning a picture of St. Rose of Lima, he began scratching at a neutral part of the painting, that is, a spot that can be easily restored. While chipping he uncovered what seemed to be a painting of a cluster of thorns. This " meant that beneath the surface picture was either another completed picture, a portion of a picture, or merely some doodlings which the artist had neglected to remove. But Father Gregory continued his picking until the picture of St. Rose of Lima lay in a pile on the .	floor. On the canvas, however, was ex-
j	posed the beautiful portrait of St. The-
resa which hangs in the library today.
■ Father Gregory did not stop with the discovery of one hidden picture. Overcome by his urge to pick, he seized what _ is now the portrait of St. Philip, by Dominicino, and again began cutting * through the surface of some neutral corner. Unfailingly, his magic picker exposed another painting beneath the first one. Did Father Gregory, having done his work, step back, admire his new possession and hang it on the wall of the gallery? Of course not. He merely >- resumed his picking. Within a matter of hours he removed the entire second painting and lo and behold! there on the canvas was a third, even more beautiful than the first two. Now any average
Apr. 27, 1951
person would have let well enough alone, but not Father Gregory. Undaunted, he set his picker to work once more and, as he must have suspected, under all three of these paintings wras the brilliant portrait of St. Philip. Satisfied, Father Gregory carefully put his picker away.
Paintings Now X-Rayed
With the advent of new inventions, Father Gregory’s magic picker was replaced by an X-ray machine. Now each picture that comes to the library is X-rayed to reveal whether or not paintings or portions of paintings have been covered over. Many have been found in
which veils were painted over a figure’s nakedness, or in which the background had been painted out. All this extraneous paint is then removed so that the true, unmarred masterpiece may convey its full meaning. One particular work simply defied all efforts of Mr. Emil Jacques, head of the art department, to photograph it. It was discovered, much to Mr. Jacques’ consternation, that nine coats of ordinary house varnish had been painted over it. These were carefully removed and the picture, titled The Madonna, the Infant Jesus, and St. Anne, hung in its proper place.
Among the various collections is a
group of very fine Russian icons, miniature holy pictures painted in the early eighteenth century. One portion of the group consists of those formerly owned by the Russian peasants, while the other portion was once in the possession of Russian nobility. The former are simple portraits painted on a small slab of wood and encased in thick, hand-carved frames. But through their simplicity flows a kind of mysterious reverence and beauty that fascinates even the most unartistic layman. The latter portion, from the mansions of Russia’s aristocracy, are elaborate representations of holy figures which are partly covered by hand-wrought gold or silver. The entire piece is enclosed in a richly decorated frame adorned with symbolic figures wrought in precious metals. The two groups together make up one of the library’s most treasured possessions, both monetarily and esthetically.
Older than the Russian icons, .older than any piece in the galleries, is a little Byzantine painting dating back to 1280. Now drab and grotesque with age it is a simple reproduction of the Madonna and Child Jesus. In contrast to the large, radiant paintings flanking it on either side, this work is encased in a shabby, crooked frame painted over with faded, dusty gold and devoid of any elaborate carvings. Yet it is a striking symbol of Medieval religious expression through the medium of art and as such it is inseparable from Notre Dame’s fine collection.
While this piece is tiny and unimpressive, there is one picture in the show rooms which is recognized as one of the University’s most impressive displays. It is titled Death of a Polish Exile, and depicts the misery and poverty of the Polish peasant under Russian rule. The scene is laid in a barn where a dying woman rests on a makeshift bed. Kneeling by her side is her sorrowful husband while behind him are three more peasants, bound in chains, waiting to be taken away by a Russian officer. A brilliant red light streams in through a solitary window to bring out the utter grief of the exiles.
There is a mystery connected with this work; no one knows how it got to the University’s art collection. In an attempt to discover its origin, Mr. Byrne sent a letter to the artist, Joseph Malczweski, residing in Krakow. The artist replied that he had pamted a series of paintings depicting the troubles of the Polish people, but this particular painting, he said, was lost. Consequently he could reveal nothing about its previous owner or how it came to be at Notre Dame. But everyone concerned is happy that we have it, for the sight of this picture
“FAUST” CANCELLED
The University Theatre presentation of Faust has been cancelled because of the press of studies. It was felt that the student production, originally scheduled for May 13-17, would interfere with preparation for final exams.
alone is enough to make a tour through the galleries worthwhile.
Mystery of Sitting Bull
A mystery is also connected with a portrait of Sitting Bull, painted by the American Artist Louis Betts when he was only fifteen years old. The picture is so realistic and detailed that all agree it must have been painted with the Chief himself as a model. But the big question here is, “Just how did Betts get Sitting Bull to sit still long enough to have his portrait painted?”
From Notre Dame’s point of view, the most prized picture in the entire collec-. tion is a painting of Father Corby giving absolution to the Irish brigade during the Civil War. It was painted by Paul Wood, a former student of Notre Dame who died in 1892. The painting tells a brief but complete story. After two days of battle on the fields of Get-tysburgh, the half-beaten Irish Brigade paused for a moment in one of the rocky valleys. Father Corby mounted a huge boulder and extending his hand over the regiment, gave each man absolution. The next day the Battle of Gettysburgh and the Irish Brigade had played its part in the victory.
One result of this picture was the erection in 1912 of a bronze statue of Father Corby in front of Corby Hall. In order that Father’s memorial would have a fitting pedestal, a mammoth stone was taken from the actual scene of battle and planted in Corby Hall’s lawn. The! boulder is still there, and mounted on it is the bronze statue of Father Corby, hand raised, as if giving absolution to a regiment of Fighting Irish.
The newest addition to the library’s array of fine art is a vivid presentation called The Virgin Reading. It was painted in the late seventeenth century by Carlo Maratti, an admirer and stylist of Raphael. The second gift of Mr. Peter C. Reilly, trustee of the University, this painting has been placed in a special hand-carved frame patterned after an original design by the artist.
These are only a selection of the hundreds of works that are to be found in Notre Dame’s Art Gallery. It is situated on the second floor of the library and is open to students and visitors any time the library is open.
Add Three to Roster Of World Trade Meet
Professor Wesley C. Bender, chairman of the 1951 Notre Dame World Trade Conference, recently announced that a vice-president of one of the 4 nation’s top medicinal firms and two New York City trade executives will be on hand when the fourth annual affaii- is conducted on May 10.
The newly-announced trio includes Luis G. Dillon, executive vice-president of Foote, Cone, and Belding Interna-tional Corporation, New York City; John K. Cunningham, vice-president of the Judson Sheldon Division of the National Carloading Corporation, New . York City; and William E. Koerting, vice-president in charge of foreign sales at Miles Laboratories, Elkhart, < Indiana.
Mr. Dillon, who will discuss the problem of advertising at the World Trade Conference, has been connected with Latin American advertising and -relations since he came to the United States in 1930. The son of former ** Ecuador president Don Luis Napoleon Dillon, he was at one time a member of the Foreign Language Field and Service Bureau. Mr. Dillon became vice-president in charge of Latin Amer- , ican operations for the Foote, Cone, and Belding Corporation in 1949.	4
Mr. Cunningham held the rank of Lieutenant Colonel during the Second World War. Having served on the general staff corps of the United States Army, he later became assistant chief of staff of the Sixteenth Corps of the Ninth Army. During the occupation of the Ruhr, Mr. Cunningham was the principal staff officer for the military government. Mr. Cunningham, a former- practicing attorney in Washington, D. C., joined the National Carloading Corporation as secretary and general v consul following the war, and in 1949	'*
he became vice-president of the export-import division of the corporation. At present, Mr. Cunningham is chief ex- J ecutive for the direction of the corporation’s activities as a foreign freight forwarder and customs broker. At the local conference, Mr. Cunning-ham will speak on foreign traffic.
Mr. Koerting, who has formerly , been employed in Germany and Spain, has been connected with Miles Laboratories for 15 years. As vice-president in charge of foreign sales for the Elk-hart Corporation, he made a complete I trip around the world during the early part of 1950. At the noonday luncheon, which is to be held in the faculty dining hall, Mr. Koerting will preside as chairman.
20
The Scholastic
Council Tags Musical Financial Success; Extra Free Day Sought for Student Trip
By Toni Godfrey, ’54
Hank Madden, Business Manager of the Student Musical, announced that the play had been a financial success at Monday night’s Student Council meeting. He said it had made a gross income of $1,300 which, after all expenses and taxes were paid, would leave approximately $150 for the Council Treasury. The Council voted to send letters to the authors, the producer, and the director of the production commending them for putting on a successful play and thanking them for spending theii' time on it.
Bill Anhut, President of the Council, reported to the members the results of the Conference on Discrimination in Higher Education which he, Tom Carroll, and Jim Gavin attended at the beginning of this month. He said the Notre Dame delegates had tried to make Catholic views on such controversial topics as federal aid to education better understood. He also expressed hope that Notre Dame would live up to the leadership that smaller Catholic schools seem to expect of it. At Anhut’s recommendation the Council passed a proposal to set up an organization to work against discrimination on the campus.
The Council heard a report by the YCS on student storage for next summer. The report recommended the Vet Rec Hall be used for storage this year. It pointed out that the hall has sufficient space, is near fire equipment, and would be convenient to most of the students. The Council decided to recommend the report to the Office of Student Affairs.
Tom Carroll, Chairman of the Blue Circle, gave a report on the progress his organization had been making with reorganizing the Chicago Club. He announced that some time in the near future a general meeting of the Chicago area students will be held. Posters will be put on the boards informing the students of the meeting.
The Council also passed an amendment to its constitution making the NFCCS Senior delegate an ex-officio member of the Council who would not hold office. Previously the Senioi' delegate has been an officer of both the NFCCS and the Student Council and he has not been able to devote enough time to either job.
Also, the Council sent a letter to the Office of Academic Affairs to see if there would be any possibility of getting the Friday before the student trip free. If the trip is to the Navy game at Balti
more, the Thursday before will be Nov. 1, which is a free day. With Friday free the student trippers would be able to take a long week-end.
Tom Reedy reported that the Council’s newly inaugurated tux service has worked out very well. Sixty students have agreed to rent out their tuxes for the major dances and at the Engineer’s Ball, three-fourths of the tuxes were used.
The Council also decided to recommend to the Office of Student Affairs to make men whose marks are between 79.5 and 80 eligible to run in the coming elections. Also if any candidate is rejected aftei- the time for nominations has passed, he may be replaced on the ticket by another man.
A special meeting was called for Wednesday afternoon to consider a new Constitution for the Campus Charity Chest and several other matters.
Rock Becomes 'Terrace* For Frosh Dance Friday
The class of ’54’s first big dance will take place at the Rockne Memorial next Friday. The Freshmen will dance to the mellow music of Russ Carlyle and his orchestra from 9 until 1. With the blessings of the Indiana weatherman, the Frosh will relax on a “Starlight Terrace.”
Co-chairman George Welsh urges the immediate procurement of tickets by all who anticipate attending. Bids are
Chairmen White and Welsh
on sale in the lobby of the Dining Hall for $4.25.
The Freshmen and their, dates will be able to round out their weekend by attending an intra-squad scrimmage Saturday afternoon, and they will be special guests at the Student Council dance that evening.
Almost every service possible has been made available for those attending the dance. Hotel reservations may be obtained and blind dates arranged. Two o’clock and car permissions have been granted for the semi-formal affair.
Prof Names Causes Of Marriage Failures
The most urgent need in American life today is to apply intelligent and systematic efforts to remove the underlying causes of the mounting tide of divorces and separations disrupting family life on such an enormous scale in this country. This was the point stressed by the Rev. Dr. John A. O’Brien, noted author, lecturer, and professor at Notre Dame in an address “Achieving a Happy Marriage,” to the Chicago Catholic College Club at the Lewis Towers. The club is composed of Catholic graduates of colleges and universities, who now reside in the Chicago Metropolitan area.
“The problem,” declared Father O’Brien, “cannot be met constructively by bemoaning the number of broken homes. To be helpful we must get to the causes of marriage failure.”
The priest discussed ten specific causes. In the order of their frequency, they are: intemperance, in-law interferences, infidelity, radical incompatability, selfishness, money difference, sexual maladjustments, cruelty, lack of understanding marriage, and emotional immaturity and instability.
To this he added two overall factors: the widespread secularization of marriage with the decay of religious sanctions for an indissoluble union and secondly the habit of using angry, ill-tempered words which gradually kill love and lead to strife and bitterness.
The professor proposed constructive measures to eradicate these causes of divorce. Where one marriage partner has had difficulty with intemperance he suggested that both take a pledge of abstinence for 15 years. In view of the position of drunkenness as the most frequent cause of divorce, Father O’Brien proposed complete abstinence as rule number one for couples starting married life.
In-law difficulties could be eliminated if parents remember that their children grow up. All young couples should strive
(Continued on Page 24)
Apr. 27, 1951
21
Like all collegians the Notre Dame student is convinced that his is a particularly oppressed life. The rules and regulations under which he lives seem nothing short of sadistically cruel. He would indeed appreciate his present lot if he could but live the life of a Notre Dame student of a century before.
The restrictions placed on the students of Notre Dame in the year 1851 were, some think, more for children than for grown men. As the institution was originally a preparatory school the regulations were changed but little to accommodate the more advanced students. And the founder of Notre Dame, with his French background, had never been associated with a school in which there were many, if any liberties. He had no sympathy for the cause of the student. Freedom and education, he thought, were by their- nature opposed.
The conduct of the students was, in theory, the province of the Prefect of Discipline. Under him were a number of prefects or overseers as they were called. It was under these minor officials that the law was imposed. And their day was a long and arduous one. At 5:30 a.m. they awakened the students and saw to it that they dressed in silence and marched to meditation and study in perfect order. This was followed by chapel and breakfast. The marching of wooden shod feet (leather boots were a luxury) on wooden floors added a certain military air to the proceedings.
Weather permitting the students were allowed a brief period of recreation out of doors before being lined up and marched to study hall. While still deeply engrossed in the usual scholastic probings a very stern Brother appeared in the doorway and called out the classes awaiting them. As his class was called the student marched out. It was all a very tidy and regimental type of existence. But there were compensations. The lectures and lessons were made more tolerable by the abundant chewing of tobacco. This could not long endure though and finally an order appeared which stated that the pupils who insisted on chewing tobacco would be required to pay the servants who scrubbed the class room floors. There were also occasional cases of students striking a lay professor and, needless to say, this contributed much to enlivening the entire day.
All meals were taken in the refectory, the students marching in and
By Jerry Klise, ’52
Drawings by Chuck Lenz, ’51
standing until the venerable Father Sorin entered and blessed the food. The food was of poor quality and the cook was reprimanded several times by the administration for watering down the soup. There were however no deaths directly attributable to malnutrition.
Everything possible was done to keep the students away from South Bend. If goods were needed from town the student was obliged to inform the superior who' appointed the steward to make the purchase upon his next trip. If it was necessary for the student to go himself he was always accompanied by a prefect. But the college men of 1850 had all of the ingenuity of his 1951 successor- and the usual difficulties were encountered.
There was at this time, in the city of South Bend, a saloon by the name of Chafin’s. It was possible here for the student (providing he was of imposing-size and structure) to purchase liquor or beer in unlimited quantities even
though there was a notice in the local newspaper requesting all citizens to kindly report any young gentlemen seen wandering the streets without the rather dubious benefit of proper supervision. Students would frequently report to the infirmary complaining of illness. They were promptly impounded in a remote recess of the building to endure their agonies. But as soon as the good Brother was out of sight the “patient” would escape via the window and end up in Chafin’s for the evening. This was not tolerated by the authorities of the school and expulsions for reason of imbibing were numerous. It was not infrequent that a student would be lodged in the South Bend jail for riotous activity stemming from his drunken excursion.
The rules regarding cleanliness were of an unusual nature. At first, baths were permitted only once a week. Later on permission was extended to twice a week. This extension undoubtedly was a source of untold rejoicing. Shaving was also relegated to certain assigned days and hours. It is not known why bathing was limited but it is obvious why it was made more readily accessible.
22
The Scholastic
The student of Notre Dame in 1850 was by no means wealthy. Frequently his tuition was paid in part with livestock or produce. Hogs were a popular means of payment. The average student then was by no means a Beau Brummel. His Sunday suit was kept carefully in the trunk room to be issued only on appropriate feasts. The usual daily attire-ment was a shabby, patched, assortment of ill-fitting garments.
Even for the younger students corporal punishment was discouraged. This is not to say that it did not occur on particular occasions. But there are as many occasions when a student has thrashed the professor. Fisticuffs were more a part of the student life in that era although it was hardly condoned., or tolerated. If the student was adjudged incorrigible he was sent home, providing his bill was paid. There is one instance of a student, by the name of Willie Ord, who led a singularly riotous life. On foul- occasions he had struck at a professor. Swimming nude in the St. Joseph river and drunkenness were also among his accomplishments. He was retained however until such time as his bill was paid. He was then promptly expelled.
Eecreation was provided in any number of athletic games on the University grounds. These had the tendency of getting out of hand unless closely supervised. Hiking was popular as were fishing and swimming in the lakes. Hunting
was almost a daily pastime. The hikes however were difficult to supervise as the students deployed about the countryside upon leaving University property. Smoking was thereby accomplished
without apprehension by the overseer. Cigars were always a good commodity for campus bartering. Student allowances were meager indeed and they were handled by the prefects who doled out the money in pitifully small amounts. A student with much money in his possession was liable to spend it on frivolities.
No one at Notre Dame had much freedom if any at all. Even the professors, whether laymen or religious, were bound by rules that governed all their movements. A lay professor was required on the college grounds to attend all of the religious exercises. He could not go to town without permission and even had to extinguish his candle by nine o’clock every evening. Under no circumstances could he imbibe. The penalty exacted for such action was a forfeiture of a portion of his salary. There was for him no semblance of a private life.
But life at Notre Dame was not one of constant fear of expulsion. For that era of the 19th century it was not an impossible life by any means. And expulsion was a precarious undertaking for a college which was begging for students and fighting off its creditors. There were the usual underhanded student activities. Revolts arose more than once and these were events to be long remembered. Looking back, a Notre Dame student of today can easily see “the good old days” were perhaps not all they were cracked up to be.
Apr. 27, 1951
23
Marriage Talk
(Continued from Page 21)
to have a home of their own. The priest still maintained that it is nice for the in-laws to be asked to visit, occasionally.
Infidelity will destroy the faith on which love is based. Marriage must have in back of it strong moral sanctions as well as the faith of the husband and wife in one another, Father O’Brien said.
Radical incompatability of marriage partners would be appreciably cut, he asserted, if teachers, clergymen and parents would make earnest efforts to bring congenial young people together. A maximum of congeniality, he declared, is the best marriage bond. This includes similar temperaments, cultures, and social, religious and ethical backgrounds.
The best remedy for selfishness or self-centeredness in a young married person is to have a child as soon as possible. Love of the parents for their child will increase their love for each other.
If married couples make out a budget and stick to it, money troubles are reduced.
Father O’Brien spoke of sex as a means of intensifying love and as a sacred attribute. Mutual candor, he said, can work out the differences of sexual maladjustments.
Cruelty, the priest said, can be eliminated by the practice of the Christian Law of love.
Marriage entails heavy responsibilities. Foremost among these are the duties of the marriage partners to one another and those of caring for the children.
One cure for emotional immaturity is to get a “mama’s boy” away from his mother, the priest said in comment on the least frequent of his listed specific causes of divorce.
Marriage he called a contract between two people and God. Those who swear to love in the presence of God have a firm foundation for their marriage in this time of decay of religious sanctions, Father O’Brien said.
The priest proposed a second vow to be made when a couple marries: “No matter what circumstances arise, I will never speak a harsh, hasty, ill-tempered word to you, my wife, to you, my husband.” Differences between two human beings will inevitably arise, but they can be discussed with calmness and understanding, the speaker pointed out. There are no differences, no matter how large, which cannot be solved if the parties bring to their marriage consideration, good will, understanding, and love.
Debate leam Utters Talk, Travel, Training
By Thomas Griffin, ’53
Notre Dame students supposedly take a traditional pride in their University and its organizations. Yet it has been recently remarked that “one of the most important campus groups, and one'continually in the public eye, has to this point been one of the least lauded and appreciated by the student body.”
The group in question is the University debate team. Mr. Leonard Sommers, director of forensics, stresses the fact that the tremendous and far-reaching influence of the Notre Dame debate team can not be over-emphasized. “As an organization which must travel extensively, the debate team does much to spread goodwill and further the reputation of Notre Dame.”
With this end in mind, students are encouraged to come out for the team. Any student who does so is guaranteed at least four opportunities for debate. According to Mr. Sommers, lack of previous experience in debate is no reason for those interested not applying, as several former Notre Dame debate champions had no experience prior to joining the University team.
A position on the team further affords one invaluable training in clear thinking and public speaking, as well as a chance to meet people, and opportunity for travel, knowledge, and personal recognition.
The Notre Dame team has just completed one of the biggest and most successful years in its history. Using only 24 debaters, the team participated in 170 intercollegiate debates, winning 114 of that number.
This year’s outstanding achievement was the retirement of the Eau Claire State Teachers College Extemporaneous Speaking Trophy, and the Sweepstakes Award, which entitles Notre Dame to permanent possession of these trophies. The team also won permanent possession of two trophies at Boston University, the Spring Hill (Ala.) College Tournament, and twenty-seven citations of Superior and Excellent at Bradley University.
Those teams which came to Notre Dame for debates are: Purdue, Illinois, Western Michigan, California, Pittsburgh, Dayton, and Cornell. Notre Dame traveled to Bradley, Iowa, Illinois, Purdue, Illinois State Normal, Miami U. tournament, Eau Claire State Teachers College, Georgetown, and the
(Continued on Page 32)
“READ / MORE IN LESS TIME-
say N. D. MEN
Whatever your future plans may be, more reading power will aid in your success.
Typical statements made by persons taking Foundation’s reading course:
Robt. J. Moskal
“I was amazed to find that in only 20 hours of instruction I was able to increase my reading rate from 311 words a minute and at the same time to improve my comprehension,” says Robert J. Moskal, N. D. Law Student. “I am only sorry that I did not have a chance to take the
course when I was a freshman.”
“. . . has helped in all forms of reading. My increased reading speed enables me to cut study and outside reading time in half,” says Jack Becker, N. D. Senior in Commerce. “Even the reading of involved and difficult material is made much more enjoyable.”
John J. Becker
GET STARTED NOW
... TO FINISH BEFORE EXAMS
First step is to test your college aptitude, ability to learn and basic skills. This tells you, among other things, your opportunities for reading improvement. This important survey is also available separately at a nominal fee. Then follows the eye-mind training which enables you to comprehend words and phrases faster. All this is done easily and conveniently — day or evening — without advance preparation.
Call, write, or stop in for full _ information today.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E. LaSalle	Phone 3-0077
A
24
The Scholastic



Cindermen in Penn and Drake Relays
Irish Place Second In Triangular Meet
Irish Nine Cards Five Games Next Week; Tackle Purdue Tuesday Before Taking Road
By Ted Prahiniski, ’51
Members of the track team will be competing 1000 miles apart this weekend at the Drake Relays in Des Moines, Iowa and at the Penn Relays in Philadelphia, Pa.
Numerically the strongest representation will be given by the three relay squads Coach Al Wilson is sending to Drake, but the one man “squad,” javelin thrower Jack Murphy, whom Wilson is sending to Penn should draw just as many headlines.
Most likely to succeed among those going to Drake is the two mile relay squad, which on paper at least is spectacular since all of its potential members, John Mohar, Vai Muscato, Jim Bollas, and either Lou Lepry or Con Tetrault have turned in fast times this year. Unfortunately the race will be run on a track instead of paper which means that one or more of the boys may have a bad day and hurt the squad’s chances.
The spring medley squad ran a fine race its last time out when it took second at the Texas relays. Tomorrow with slightly different personnel—John Hastings, Buck Ewing, Norm Feltes or Jim Bollas, and John Mohar—they should be even stronger than they were at Texas, but so will the competition.
The mile relay squad could surprise if everything goes well. Coach Wilson himself probably hasn’t decided on whom to run yet, but the team will be picked from among the personnel of the other-two relay squads.
Returning to home soil will be Jack Murphy, a senior who lives just across the river from Philadelphia, the site of the Penn Relays. He’ll be throwing on the same field where in 1947 one of his javelin flips earned him a spot on the All American high school track squad that Look magazine picks each year. In both of the past two years Murphy has come up with sore arms that prevented him from giving his best, so Coach Wilson has deliberately held him out from
(Continued on Page 27)
Notre Dame’s varsity baseball aggregation will wind up the first half of their ’51 season with five games during the first week of May. They will open the month against Purdue with a contest here at Cartier Field. Then Coach Kline will take his charges into Illinois for a four-game invasion. The Irish will meet Northwestern University at Evanston on May 2. They will then head southward for encounters at Bloomington, Ill., with Illinois Normal on May 3, and with Illinois Wesleyan on the 4th and 5th.
Next Tuesday’s engagement between •Notre Dame and Purdue will be the 70th meeting of the two schools on the baseball field. ND has won 45 of the games with Purdue while the Boilermakers have come out on top only 20 times. Three contests ended up as ties. Last season Purdue came here to
FIRST BASEMAN Jim Gillis tags Ed Foley in intra-squad game on Cartier Field.
Cartier Field and stopped the Irish, 6-4.
Purdue, coached by Henry Strain, had a season record of 12 victories and 14 defeats last year. They finished eighth in the Big Ten Conference race with a 2-8 mark.
Pitching will be one of Purdue’s weakest departments. Only Eldon Nelson, a lanky Senior, had any real conference competition last season. Roman Saliwanchik, a Junior letterman, hurled and played outfield last year. The rest of the staff will be lacking experience.
On the other hand the Boilermakers will have plenty of the old savvy behind the plate. Coach Strain has three catchers who won letters last year. Making up this trio of capable backstoppers are Jack Kaiser, Haldron Graves, and Harold Wallace.
Purdue is two deep at every infield
Apr. 27, 1951
25
position. At second they have Bob Ramussen, who won a major letter last season as a utility infielder, and Bill Hicks, a Senior reserve. The shortstop berth is wide open with Sophomore Phil Mateja and David Coppage the two leading applicants. At the hot corner, Harry Olds, a Junior letter winner, appears to be the pick of the crop although he is getting plenty of competition from Sophomore Ted Rohicki and in the outfield only Senior letterman Dick Becker is back from the ’50 team.
The game at Northwestern this Wednesday could be a wild affair. Last season the Wildcats edged out Notre Dame, 11-10. That was the 20th Northwestern win in the 54 times that the respective nines of the two Universities have crossed bats.
Coach Fred Lindstrom, who is in his third season as the Wildcats’ mentor, has nine lettermen back from last year’s squad that finished fifth in the Big Ten Conference pennant chase. He has only five chuckers on his roster, but the pitching staff shapes up as one of the strongest departments on the team.
Veterans Buster Carlson and Doug Bielenberg will be back. Each has two Big Ten victories during the ’50 season to his credit. Both of them turned in winning performances on the Wildcats’ eight-game southern trip early this Spring. Others on the mound staff are Ed Vanek, a promising Sophomore, Senior John Witous, and Jerry Olsen, a Junior.
Behind the plate the Northwestern nine will miss the services of veteran Hank Schillmoeller. Hank has been sidelined by illness. Leading candidates for the position are Larry Jonesi, a Junior letterman, and’ a hard-hitting Sophomore, Tom Woodworth.
The first base position is cinched by Don Blasius, a Senior who led the team’s hitters last Spring. Ralph Swanson, a transfer from Morgan Park Junior College, is the leading prospect at sceond base.
Senior letterman Wilbur Tucker and Sophomore Bob Busson, brother of last year’s stellar Wildcat shortstop, are making it a two-way battle for the short fielder position. Ed Piacenti, a letter winner last year at second base, and Jim Yamaguchi, a transfer from Wilson Junior College, are the leading candidates for the hot corner at third.
There will be afiHnew faces in the outfield. Newcomers Bob Will, Larry Dellefield, and Dale Swanson, twin brother of infielder Ralph, should make the first team. Seniors Don McAlvey and Ernie Reimann, who saw limited action last year, •will be back for another try.
The Irish’s game with Illinois Nor-
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Apr. 27-28—BASEBALL, Pitt at Pittsburgh
TRACK, Drake Relays at Des Moines
30—GOLF, Purdue here
May	1—BASEBALL, Purdue
here
2—BASEBALL, Northwestern at Evanston
3—BASEBALL, Illinois Normal at Bloomington
TENNIS, Western Michigan here
4—BASEBALL, Illinois Wesleyan at Blooming-
ton
TENNIS, Michigan at Ann Arbor
mal on May 3 •will be the first meeting between the two schools on the baseball diamond. On the next day ND will open their two-game series with Illinois Wesleyan. Last Spring they met the Titans for the first time and took a 4-1 triumph.—Roger Fernandes, ’54
'Will Use Double Pivot Next Season'—Jordan
“We just don’t have that really big man, and that’s going to hurt us.” Johnny Jordan started off on his new duties with the true coach’s spirit — worrying. Sure, he admitted that next year’s court squad looked pi'omising, but without that big man, there’d be nothing but trouble.
“What can you do when five out of every six teams you play have some 6’8” boy in there to clear the boards? If we only had one, just one center, who was tall enough — not too tall, 6’9” or 6’10” would be enough ...”
What did he think of a certain local high school product of the desired footage and of his chances of coming to Notre Dame? “That’d be fine with me, but I don’t know about next year. Even with Freshman eligibility, I doubt if the boy would have enough experience and polish to play varsity ball. But I’d sure like to see him around.”
Since height seemed to be his main concern, did he have anything in mind that could be used to offset the lack of a big man?
“Yes, there’s a good possibility that we’ll use the double pivot quite extensively next year. Fortunately, Notre Dame has an ample supply of first-
rate centers of average size who can be used at the posts. Right now, we have Lewinski, Shine, Rosenthal, and Wray alternating at the position, and they are all doing very well.”
As in football, the Freshhmen are right up there in the race for varsity berths. “Offhand, I’d say that there are six Freshmen who are potential varsity squad material. Dick Rosenthal, Bill Sullivan, Ed McGinn, Johnny Reynolds, Joe Bertrand and Entee Shine all have an excellent chance of making the grade.”
He considers his returnees the nucleus of the ’51-’52 team, but says in all frankness that no one is sure of a position. “The Freshmen can’t be counted out of the picture. They’re good and they’re developing fast. We’ll just sit tight and see what happens.”
Most of the veterans and Frosh are turning out for the drills. Jack Neu-mayr, Don Strasser (ankle healed), Leroy Leslie, “Gootch” Lewinski, Ed Condon, Bob Wray and Jerry McCloskey are doing regular stints on the gym floor. Only Jim Gibbons (baseball), Larry Eaton (golf), and Hughes Wilcox (track) are missing the sessions.
But Coach Jordan is pretty well satisfied with his boys. He feels that Notre Dame will have depth and balance, experience and speed in the coming campaign. By May 2, when he intends to put the lid on spring prac-ticce, the coach expects to have a good line on what he will have to work with next season. On that day, he is planning to have an Old-Timers game between his present squad and departing Seniors, with possibly a sprinkling of recently graduated ND hoop stars.
Turing to the style of play Notre Dame will use this winter, Coach Jordan said the emphasis will definitely be on defense. As he explained it, “You can never tell how your offense is going to be. One night you can’t miss; the next game you can’t buy a basket. But you’re always sure if your defense is strong. You’ve got something to rely on.”
The team will use the usual shifting man-to-man system, but will not aim at “possession” basketball, which in the eyes of the coach only hurt the game by making it dull and uninteresting for the spectators.
But the offensive end of it isn’t going to be ignored. Here passing a la Holy Cross and pattern play •will be the rule — systemized, organized play, not a haphazard rush for the basket. That doesn’t mean that fast break is strictly taboo, though. “We’ll use it whenever a good opportunity presents itself, but I refuse to play ‘pell-mell’ basketball. On our small
26
The Scholastic-
court, I doubt if we’ll have too many chances for it, anyway.”
With a schedule of 25 games and with only nine in the friendly ND Fieldhouse, Coach Jordan couldn’t muster up too much enthusiasm for winter’s game prospects. “Sixteen games on the road is a tremendous handicap to overcome.”
Track
(Continued from Page 25) competition so far this year in order to avoid an early season injury.
Last Saturday the tracksters bowed to Purdue, 77-65, in a triangular meet. Northwestern sent only a few men and finished far in the rear with eighteen points.
High scorer for ND was Bucky Ewing who just missed being a double winner when he lost by an eyelash in the 220 yard dash after winning the 100 easily. Notre Dame won three other events, and Hughes Wilcox tied for another first place in the high jump. The other winners: the mile relay team, sophomore quarter miler- John Hastings, and shot putter Bob Toneff. Both Hastings and Toneff also picked -up fourth places— Hastings in the 220, and Toneff in the discus throw.
One big surprise was the defeat of John Mohar and Vai Muscato in the half mile for the first time this year in a closed meet. The two set a fast pace most of the way, but Shaffer and Rodi-bough of Purdue passed them on the last lap and went on to win in a very fast 1:54.8.
Purdue’s Johnny Stayton won both the mile and the two mile runs, but Notre Dame took all the other places in both races. Stayton outkicked Benny Almaguer to take the two with John O’Connor nipping Bob Fieler for third place in that race. Harry Snyder, Con Tetrault, and George Gross took second, third, and fourth respectively in the mile.
The Irish also gained other points when Lou Lepry, making his 440 debut, chased teammate Hastings across the line to take second. Feltes won the first heat of that race from Irishman Jim . Bollas but was pushed back to fourth place when the second heat was run in a faster time. Dave Fox also hauled in a fourth place—in the 100 yard dash, while Ed Powell took a third in the high and a fourth in the low hurdles.
Going ovei- the field events other Notre Dame scorers were Jack Shay— third in the discus, Phil Carnaggio and Tom Hinkes tied for third in the pole . vault, Tom Hassinger tied for third in the high jump, while Phil Faccenda took a fourth in the shot put.
Apr. 27, 1951
THS wggg
by JACK
Shades of Bill Stern!
There is a possibility that the Notre Dame basketball team will include in their Eastern swing -within the next few years a game with Holy Cross in Boston Garden. An annual basketball game between Notre Dame and Holy Cross has long been awaited by New Englanders, but up to this time, arranging a game between the two has not been an easy job. Schedule difficulties of one kind or another- have blocked the meeting, which New Englanders feel would develop into as great a rivalry as the Notre Dame—NYU game is now.
Notre Dame did play Holy Cross in basketball at one time. The Irish met the Crusaders in a game at Boston on New Year’s Eve in 1934. Incidentally, the captain and star player of that Irish quintet was Johnny Jordan, newly-appointed head coach of basketball here.
But soon after that ’34 game, basketball lost interest at the college on Mt. St. James and it was dropped from the sports schedule.
Then a new football line coach was appointed at the Cross. This newcomer-had made quite a reputation for himself as a player in college football and basketball, gaining All-American honors in both sports. And he decided that in addition to his football duties he would try to bring basketball back to Holy Cross.
Well, he did bring basketball back to the Cross and it slowly started to regain the interest it had lost a few years before. After a three year stay, the football line coach moved on to another school, but the sport he brought back continued to grow. Holy Cross decided to go big-time, went out looking for a basketball coach who would continue to build up the sport. They found him, he did build it up and soon Holy Cross started moving in fast competition.
It wasn’t long before they became the power of Eastern basketball, and the Cross culminated its rapid basketball growth by winning the NCAA Tournament in 1947. And all because an ambitious line coach of football thought the school should have a basketball team. And, oh yes, the name of that coach, if
you haven’t already guessed it, is the present Notre Dame Director of Athletics and former Irish basketball coach, Moose Krause.
And so, Coach Johnny Jordan may bring his Irish eagers into the Boston Garden sometime in the near future to take up the rivalry he himself saw dropped back in 1934—and the possibility of that rivalry might never have happened if it hadn’t been for his predecessor as Irish basketball captain and coach, Moose Krause.
Time Out
Athletic Director Krause announced this past week the all-opponent five selected by his last Irish quintet. The five men are: Bill Garret, Indiana; Ray Ragelis, Northwestern; Ernie Beck, Pennsylvania; Frank Ramsey, Kentucky; and Bato Govedarica, DePaul. . . . Krause also announced the awarding of monograms to team members Dan Bagley, Chicago; Neal Fichtel, Aurora, III.; Leroy Leslie, Johnstown, Pa.; Marty O’Connor, Kewanee, HI.; Jack Neumayr, San Francisco; Bob Wray, Brooklyn; Norb Lewinski, Chicago; Gerald McCloskey, Toledo; and Jim Gibbons, Chicago. Senior manager Fred Curto, Detroit, was also presented a monogram.
The Notre Dame baseball team broke out their new uniforms last week in the second game against Iowa. The new suits are white with blue numerals and lettering on an orange gold background, with orange gold piping down the side. The Irish also have the monogram cap back this year, and the whole outfit makes them look like the 1951 New York Giants. With one exception that is. The lone exception is the old fashioned, low cut stockings, all that are left of the uniform which made the Irish look like the 1920 New York Yankees. . . . U. S. Government officials permitting, Irish track captain Vai Muscato will receive his award for being selected as the outstanding Italian-American trackman for 1950-51 by Unico National at the organization’s national convention at Omaha, Oct, 26-29.
27
Hoosiers Halt Irish Streak; Iowa Beaten
Coach Jake Kline’s young nine managed to gain an even break in last week’s diamond activity as the baseball season swung into high gear. The sophomore-loaded Irish downed the Iowa Hawkeyes twice, 3-0 and 11-10, to run their victory string to three straight. However, Indiana’s Hoosiers surprised the Klinemen at Bloomington and handed Notre Dame its first two setbacks of the infant season.
The Irish baseball team opened their home schedule last Wednesday by defeating Iowa during a heavy downpour on rain-soaked Cartier Field. The game was stopped after the first half of the sixth inning with the Irish in front, 3-0. Stan Konopka, sophomore righthander, went all the way allowing only one hit, while fanning six.
Shortstop Harry Durkin opened the Irish attack wtih a clean single through short. After Bob Manning reached first on an error, Len LeRose bunted safely, and the bases were loaded. Tom Boland, Irish clean-up man, bounced to third baseman Frank Bok forcing Manning, while Durkin came home with the first run. Bok tried for a double play but threw the ball over the first baseman’s head, and the second Irish tally came home.
The final run of the game came in the fourth inning. Joe Ridge took first on a fielder’s choice, moved to second on Konopka’s walk and raced home on Manning’s single.
The following day the Klinemen met Iowa in a high scoring scramble with the Irish coming from behind in the eighth to win 11-10.
Southpaw Jerry Ledwidge started on the hill for the Irish opposing Bob Diehl. Notre Dame hopped on Bob right from the start. Lead-off man Durkin walked and Manning followed with a single sending Harry to second. Jim Gibbons cracked another timely single bringing around one run and putting Manning on third. The third single of the inning by LeRose ended the scoring. In the second inning a walk and two singles produced the fourth Irish run.
In the top of the third, the Hawkeyes jumped on Ledwidge to tie the score but Notre Dame came roaring back in their half to tally five runs and again go ahead. With bases loaded, Harry Durkin stepped up and pounded a triple over the right fielder’s head.
However, Iowa was still in the ball game and after the first two men up in the fifth singled and tripled, Ledwidge was relieved by Bob Hensler. The Hawkeyes collected two runs in the
fifth and three in the sixth and went ahead for the last time in the game. The Irish tied it up for the second time when Jim Cunningham circled the bases through two Hawkeye miscues.
The last ND run came in the eighth. Gibbons walked, was sacrificed to second and streaked home on Jim Gillis’ winning bingle. Joe Durkin, who began pitching in the sixth and tamed Iowa for the last three innings, was credited with the win.
Notre Dame then journeyed to Bloomington to face the Indiana Hoosiers in another two-game series. The Irish came out on the short end of a 6-5 score, breaking their current three-game winning streak.
Captain Bob Nemes started for the Irish, but was relieved by Jack Ruck-elhouse in the ninth who was charged with the loss. The Hoosiers gathered three of their runs in the big foui’th inning. A triple by John Kyle sent, two of the Indiana runs home.
The Irish were two runs in the hole coming into the ninth. Then Don Col-nitis, Hoosier ace right-hander, walked the first three men to face him. A single by Harry Durkin scored the two badly needed runs to tie the game. However, the Irish could not hold down Indiana and the Hoosiers scored an unearned run in the bottom of the ninth to take the contest.
The rain played another important role in the final game Saturday with the Hoosiers, but this time it was halted with Indiana out in front 5-4, enabling them to sweep the complete series.
Jim Gibbons started for the Irish. Notre Dame collected all four of their runs in the third inning on three hits, two walks and three Hoosier errors.
Indiana grabbed the lead in the fourth with two runs. A triple by first baseman John Philips bringing them home. An attempt was made to continue the game in the sixth but the umpires finally called it.
—Bob Frolicher, ’54
Zahm Gymnasts Win Meet
Zahm Hall’s gymnasts, led by Bob O’Brien, won the interhall meet over 11 other teams on Tuesday night. Competition for individual and team honors was keen as 12 teams flipped, twisted and turned in an effort to out-perform each other.
A strong off-campus team fought to the last event only to be nosed out by % a point. The final team standings were as follows: 1st, Zahm, 32 points; 2nd, off-campus, 31% points; 3rd, Breen-Phillips, 30 points; 4th, Farley, 26 points; 5th, Cavanaugh, 22 points; 6th, St. Ed’s, 14% points; 7th, Morrissey, 14 points.
The top individual performers were as follows: Bob O’Brien and Bob Joseph of Zahm, Dave Engels and Bob Hoyer of off-campus, Jim Phenis of Breen-Phillips, Steve Araki and Ed Hannan of Farley, Neil Worden, Dick O’Leary and Dan Marsalek of Cavanaugh, and Bill Hamel of St. Ed’s., and Bob Bick-ert of Morrissey.
Old Timer Tilt May 12; Barrett in Old Form
With the annual Old Timers game only two weeks away Coach Frank Leahy has allowed not even the Indiana monsoons to interfere with his weekly Saturday scrimmage in order to prepare his gridders for the May 12 preview of the 1951 squad.. The game, which will match this year’s graduating seniors, alumnae and reserves against the varsity, will be the first public test of Leahy’s “new team.”
Last Saturday in a downpour, the master precisionist sent his lads through their paces and despite the mud that abounded on Cartier Field the backfield combination of John Mazur, John Petitbon, Bill Barrett and Neil Worden ran wild over the defense. Again the accent was on ground play. Mazur threw only three passes, connecting on two.
The offense was given the ball on their own 40. They picked up a few yards on plunges by fullback Worden. Then Mazur faded back and threw a pass to Petitbon. The defense knocked the ball out of his hands. After a couple more tries at the line, Mazur sent Petitbon through the left side and the New Orleans speedstei- spun and churned his way 43 yards to a score. Menil Mavraides, a freshman, was successful in his conversion attempt.
The ball was brought back to the 40 and after a few small gains the defense turned the tables for awhile and not only stalled the white-shirted offensive team but drove them back 15 yards. Mazur then passed to Barrett. Worden picked up a little yardage through the center and then another pass by Mazur, this time to end Jim Mutscheller, placed the pigskin on the defense’s 25-yard line. From here Petitbon, Barrett and Worden combined their efforts to drive to the four from which Barrett plunged across. Again Mavraides was successful in his extra --point attempt.
The ball was again placed at the 40 and the offense again hammered itself against the defensive line. For awhile the “opposition” held and Mazur and company seemed bogged down. Then Mazur ran the ball, picked up about
28
The Scholastic
five and lateraled to Barrett who ran the remaining 40 yards for another score. Mavraides came in and made his third successful conversion of the rainy afternoon.
Barrett looked especially good. He was as flashy and shifty Saturday as he was during his very successful 1949 season. At the othei* halfback spot, Petitbon demonstrated offensively the speed that has made him such a demon on defense. In his long run that ended in the first offensive team’s score it was just a question of his wiggling his way to right and to left past the forward wall; he just outran and out-dodged the secondary.
Irish Linksmen Defeated
By Kentucky and Indiana
The Notre Dame golf team lost their first two matches of the 1951 season as they fell before the linksmen of Kentucky and Indiana.
Last Saturday at Lexington the Irish golfers lost an 18-hole match to the University of Kentucky by a score of 10-8. Only four men played on each team instead of the usual six. Tom Veech and Preston Murphy of Notre Dame each carded a 76 to tie for low honors.
At Bloomington last Monday, Father Holderith’s charges fell too far behind in the morning play to make a comback and lost the match, 15-12.
Despite the well below par scores of Veech and Tom Matey in the afternoon, the Irish couldn’t overcome the four-point margin the Hoosiers had built up in the morning. Veech shot a foui-under par 68 in the afternoon as did John Hancock and Bill Bartholomew of Indiana. Murphy was the only one from Notre Dame to take all three points in his doubles match.
Campus Sends 11 to Detroit For Regional Chem Confab
Twelve Notre Dame men will journey to Detroit this weekend to take part in the first annual Mid-Central Regional meeting of the Student Affiliates of the American Chemical Society to be held at Wayne University April 27-28. They will be led by Dr. James V. Quagliano, professor of chemistry, and Tom Hinkes, president of the student affiliate at this University.
Approximately 200 students from colleges and universities in Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois will attend, and scientific papers based on library and laboratory research will be presented by undergraduate students from these schools. Field trips to industrial
plants and laboratories in and around Detroit have been planned, as have also a banquet and mixers.
Notre Dame’s affiliate plans to take an active part in all such activities, enabling the students to become acquainted with research work in progress and thereby to gain experience for their professional careers.
Freshman Wins Semi-Finals In Hearst Regional Contest
Notre Dame Freshman Bill Fagan was one of the Chicago regional winners in the semi-final competition for the Hearst Oratorical Tournament last Tuesday night in Chicago’s Opera Building.
Fagan had previously come out on top in the Notre Dame qualification tournament. By virtue of Tuesday’s success, he becomes eligible to compete in the Midwest regional finals which will be held in Madison, Wise., on May 11. The winners of this regional contest will go on to San Diego, Calif., for the National finals on May 17.
Each year an early American patriot is selected as the topic tor the Hearst
“Hey, Steve, seen my bar of laundry soap?”
tournament. This year George Washington is the selected topic.
Twelve colleges competed in the Chicago semi-finals. The prizes for the Chicago regional finals are: first prize, S250; second prize, §100; third, fourth and fifth prizes, §50 each. The grand prize for the winner of the San Diego National finals is $1,000.
This is the ninth annual Hearst Oratorical Tournament.
May Celebration
(Continued from Page 9) newal of the Baptismal promises. Benediction by Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., will conclude the ceremonies.
The May Day celebration is being sponsored by the NFCCS, under the direction of Dan Collins and Bill Hubert, co-chairmen. Different campus organizations have charge of the various phases of the activities. The YCS is handling publicity, the Liturgical Life Club is in charge of arrangements at the Grotto, the Third Order of St. Francis will procure 2,000 candles for the procession, and the Knights of Columbus will manage the procession.
Apr. 27, 1951
29
Italian Colleges Give U. S. Fellowship Awards
Two new opportunities for American students to study abroad next year were announced recently by the Institute of International Education. In Pavia, Italy, the Collegio Ghislieri and the Collegio Borromeo, have each offered through the Institute, a fellowship for an American graduate student for- the academic year November 1, 1951-July 15, 1952.
Both “collegios” have long traditions of high academic standing, and their Italian students are admitted by national competition. Requirements for eligibility for the fellowships are: American citizenships; a Bachelor’s degree by November 1, 1951; knowledge of Italian; demonstrated academic ability; good moral character and good health.
For further information, write the Institute of International Education, U. S. Student Program, 2 West 45 th Street, New York 19, N. Y. Applications must be filed by May 25, 1951.
Placement News
The Placement Office director, Mr. Dooley, has announced two interviews for the next week.
Geology Club Dinner
GEOLOGISTS’ SPRING BANQUET. Sitting D. Brennan (vice-president), R. Gut-schick, (Faculty Moderator), D. Smith, (president), A. MacAlpin (department head), D. G. Jordan, E. Winkler, Standing: W. Grundy, L Reieg, G. Moore, J. Hillebrand, K. Gutschick, Fr. Murphy, W. Haskins, N. Craft, C. Cazeau, K. Hoover. 30
On Monday, Stewart Warner of Indianapolis will be here to interview mechanical engineers, industrial options, electrical engineers and aeronautical engineers.
On Tuesday, the Chicago Motor Club will be here. They have not yet announced what type of interviews they are interested in.
Maritan Concludes Talks For Mediaeval Institute
Dr. Jacques Maritain, noted Thom-istic philosopher, last week completed a series of lectures here under the auspices of the Notre Dame Mediaeval Institute.
Dr. Maritain, who currently is a member of the faculty at Princeton University, delivered a series of four lectures during his visit to Notre Dame. He spoke to graduate students in philosophy and students of the Mediaeval Institute on the subject of “New Approaches to the Philosophical Problems of God.”
The internationally-prominent French scholar, former ambassador from France to the Holy See, also has served during his career on the faculties at the Catholic Institute of Paris and at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto, Canada.
YEARS AGO
-------By PAUL ZALECKI, ’53---------
Fifty Years Ago
From the April 27, 1901, Scholastic: The baseball team defeated Minnesota, 7-6. . . . Bishop Glennon of Kansas City delivered the sermon at Sacred Heart Church the previous Sunday. . . . Mr. William Welch of Cripple Creek, Col., a graduate of 21 years ago, visited his two sisters and reported the discovery of rich gold mines in Colorado. . . . The University’s average weekly consumption of food included ten head of beef, 30 head of sheep, and about 2,100 pounds of veal. . . . The starting nine on the baseball team were Lynch, Morgan, Farley, Donahoe, Bergen, Ryan, Walsh, Campbell, and Duggan.
Twenty-five Years Ago
From the April 30, 1926, Scholastic: James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, represented the University at the annual conference of the Associations of Alumni Secretaries and Alumni Magazines held at Columbus, Ohio. . . . W. R. Dooley, of the class of ’26, was editor-in-chief of the Scholastic. . . . The Chicago Symphony Orchestra was scheduled to appear at the Palais Royale during the second week of May. . . . During the week the girls number of the Juggler appeared. In keeping with the tradition of this issue, only drawings of girls were included. . . . Patrick A. Heney, whose son was a student at the University, was admitted to the Knighthood of St. Gregory by the Bishop of Seattle. Mr. Heney is one of the leading Catholic businessmen and philanthropists of the Northwest.
Ten Years Ago
From the April 25, 1941, Scholastic: 110 paintings of early American bishops, cardinals, and laymen were put on exhibit in the dining hall. . . . The Glee Club returned from its 2,500 mile concert tour through the East. . . . Lieutenant Commander Carlos Fallon, a Colombian naval officer of Irish descent, was to speak to the student body in Washington Hall. . . . Peter C. Reilly of Indianapolis, trustee of the University, added four pictures to the Notre Dame Wightman Memorial Art Gallery. Included among them were the “Duchess of Orainien,” by Peter Paul Rubens and Theodore Van Thulden and “A Mountain Top in Norway,” by A. Diegen. . . . Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, c. s. c., head of the history department, attended a meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical Society in Milwaukee.
The Scholastic

Interhall Softball Opens
The curtain rose on the interhall softball league last week with eight games having been scheduled on each of the first two days. Of these sixteen games only eight were played, the rest being forfeited because not enough men showed up. The probable reason for all these forfeits according to the director, Mr. F. Maxwell, was that the schedules were posted on the same day the first games were to be played, thus giving the teams little opportunity to get enough men together. To rectify this situation, Mr. Maxwell plans to have the forfeited games played at some latei1 date. This plan only holds true for those games forfeited on the first two days of the season.
In the only two opening day encounters played, both Alumni teams gained victories, with the Blue team beating Cavanaugh, 16-13, and the Gold edging Badin, 14-12. On the following day Farley won over Zahm’s blue, 12-10; Vetville outscored Morrissey blue, 13-11; St. Ed’s gold beat Sorin’s gold, 11-5; K. of C. mauled the Minnesota club, 17-1; Fox River Valley, a new member of the league this year, tripped the Rochester club, 13-7, and the Kentucky club bowed to the Sailing club, 6-2.
In the league’s opener, Alumni Hall’s blue outfit came from behind to whip Cavanaugh Hall, 16-13. The contest developed into a comedy of errors, with neither pitcher getting any support in the field.	,
Alumni scored all their runs in the first five innings, with a big five-run fourth turning the tide and putting them in front to stay. Aside from a rough second inning in which Cavanaugh tallied six times, Alumni’s pitcher, Terry Brady, held the Sophs to three runs in the final four frames.
In that six-run second, five of Cavanaugh’s runs were unearned, with the only earned run coming on a leadoff home run by catcher1 Hal Sheahen. This early surge put Cavanaugh ahead, 10-5, but the roof then fell in with Alumni’s four-run outburst in the third and five in the fourth. In that fatal fourth all the runs came with two out, and it was a three-run homer by third-sacker Joe Byrne that sent Cavanaugh to its doom.
In Friday’s encounter between St. Ed’s blue and Sorin blue, it was a case of the frosh dumping the seniors, 11-5.
Apr. 27, 1951
A>umwu!1 the ^aUi
This was accomplished mainly through the efforts of captain Joe Schneider, who smacked out successive home runs in the first, third, and fifth innings.
In the initial frame Schneider hit his first of the three roundtrippers with one on to give St. Ed’s a 2-0 lead they never relinquished. Pitcher Dick Pappan scattered eight hits, and except for a four-run outburst in the fourth, held Sorin well at bay most of the game.—Jack Sand, ’54
Rain Mars Baseball Schedule
Bad weather and numerous forfeits marred the opening of the 1951 Interhall baseball league campaign as only three of the ten regularly scheduled ccontests were played.
After rain and snow cancelled the Monday curtain raisers, Walsh Hall opened the season with a 5-1 victory over Breen-Phillips. There was only one hit in the whole game as Walsh’s Ed Mahoney tossed a no-hitter to put the junior hall into an early league lead.
Rain prevented any Wednesday activity but on Thursday, action was resumed when Zahm’s Orange team staged a late rally to edge out opening day winner1 Walsh, 5-4, in a five-inning game.
Walsh seemed to be well on their way to a second straight triumph as erratic Zahm fielding and wildness on the part of fast-balling Jerry Sweeney, Zahm starter, gave the Walshmen a 4-1 lead. Zahm pushed over two in the fourth with Tom Unzicher’s single being the key blow. In the first, Un-zicher had given the frosh the opportunity to draw first blood by belting a home run to deep center. In the last of the fifth, Glenn Sliger drew a pass. Jim Liberatore smashed a triple, scoring Sliger, and McDonough followed with a sharp single to clinch the Zahm victory.
Al Ryan, hurling air-tight ball in relief received credit for the win.
On Friday, Fred Wallner of football fame turned in the second no-hit performance of the week as Sorin whipped the Zahm Blue representatives, 5 to 1.
Dillon gained a forfeit win over Howard on Tuesday while Morrissey won by the same means over Lyons on Friday. These games are part of the western division schedule.
Mr. Szekely has divided the thirteen-team league into two sections, East
and West. The eastern league contains seven teams: Zahm Blue, Breen-Phillips, Zahm Gold, Sorin, Walsh, Cavanaugh, and Zahm Orange. In the western, Alumni, Lyons, Dillon, Badin, Morrissey, and Howard are represented.—Bill Noonan, ’54
Lawyers, Dates Seal Past at Friday's Ball
With the spring Law Ball just a week away, members of the decoration committee, under the direction of Will Gill and Ed Hafferty, are busy completing plans for converting the Erskine Country Club into a scene befitting the “Mayflower Compact.”
Handling publicity for the climax of the law men’s social season are Pat Purdy and Vince Cunningham. Heading the reception committee are Louis Tracy and Ben Danko. Peter Flaherty and Tom Smith are co-chairmen of the arrangements committee, in charge of plans for the entertainment of the lawyers and their dates over the weekend.
Max Gabreski of the ticket committee reports that the bids, which have been set at §4, are selling according to expectations. Dress for the occasion will be semi-formal, as Gene Hull and his orchestra serenade from 9 till 1 a.m. Car permissions and 2 o’clock privileges have been granted.
Father McAvoy to Study In Europe Through Grant
The Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., Head of the Department of .History at Notre Dame, currently is enroute to Europe to pursue research under a grant from the American Philosophical Society of Philadelphia-
Father McAvoy, who received a §1,000 grant from the American Philosophical Society, will conduct research during his three-month trip to Europe on the European background of American Catholicism. The Notre Dame historian will pursue most of his research in French and Italian archives.
Father already has done considerable work in the field of his most recent research project. He is the author of a book entitled “The Catholic Church in Indiana, 1789-1834,” and also has written extensively on Americanism and the Catholic minority in the United States.
While in Europe, Father McAvoy also will attend the Fifth Anglo-American Conference of Historians to be held July 9 to 14 at the University of London.
31
Army ROTC Starts Here Next Semester
By Pat Carrico, ’54
Notre Dame officials recently announced that the University has been officially honored by selection for the establishment of an Army ROTC unit to be activated next September. Word * was received from Major General Edward F. Witsell, USA, Adjutant General.
Notre Dame will then be among the few universities of the country able to offer its students training in all of the ROTC programs: The navy, Marines, Air Force and the Army.
As a counterpart of the present Departments of Naval Science and of Air Science, a Department of Military Science will be established. The new department will be commanded by Lt. Col. George M. Cookson, USA, Professor of Military Science and Tactics. He will act as Commanding Officer of the new outfit.
As in the Air ROTC, the training program of the Army ROTC is divided into two years basic and two years advanced. The two years basic program is open to all students of the University who can meet the necessary qualifications as established by the unit. To enroll in the basic course, students need not be in the Engineering or Science Colleges.
As presently authorized, the Army program will offer only one advanced course, Engineering. To qualify for the advancement, students must be in Engineering or Science (including Physics, Mathematics, Geology, and Statistics.) In certain cases, the Professor of Military Science and Tactics may admit distinguished students into the advanced program by way of exception.
Although the Army unit will offer for 1951-52 an advanced course, Engineering, if a sufficient number , of students in non-technical fields, such as Arts and Letter and Commerce, apply, the University may petition the Army for the establishment of a non-technical advanced course for which these students would qualify and in which program they might earn their commission in the reserves or in the regular army.
Completion of the two years of basic training and successful completion of at least two years of college qualify a student for Officer Candidate School of the Army leading to an army commission as a Second Lieutenant.
Credit for the basic course will be given for training in the junior division of the ROTC in recognized military high schools and for veterans for service experience. Some veterans may qualify for admission immediately into
32
the Advanced Course with possible commission in two years.
One summer camp of 6 weeks duration is required of advanced students. It is generally taken between the Junior and Senior years. Students at summer camp will receive $75 monthly and mileage to and from the camp at the rate of 5 cents per mile.*
The program is, of course, open to Freshmen who will entei- in Sept., 1951. Students who are to be sophomores next September, will begin the first year basic course and then take the second year basic and first year advance courses in their Junior year, thus completing the entire course by graduation from the University. Students who are in a five year course, Architecture, may enter the program in their Sophomore year, taking two years basic and two years advanced training.
In all cases, applicants must be regularly enrolled students of the University and must be accepted by the Professor of Military Science and Tactics to enter the program. The selection of students for the program is therefore
Football Tickets
On or about June 20th the Football Ticket Committee will mail to the parents and guardians of all undergraduate students enrolled as of May, 1951, a set of football ticket applications for 1951.
In previous years it was necessary for students interested to fill out a request card. This year we will send blanks to all parents whether or not requested by the student.
These application forms are primarily intended for the personal use of parents. They are not guaranteed, but if proper procedure is observed, every effort will be made to accom-date parents in advance of the general public.
Description of privileges and restrictions will accompany these application forms, and the cooperation of all concerned is requested.
Addresses used are those taken from University records. If there has been a recent change in your home address, please advise the Ticket Office in Breen-Phillips Hall.
Seniors who will graduate in June and in August will not receive parents’ applications. Instead they will be included in the alumni mailing list after certain requirements are fulfilled. All seniors should acquaint themselves with their alumni status and requirements through the Alumni Office before June 1st.
—TICKET COMMITTEE.
in the hands of the Professor of Military Science and Tactics.
Pre-medical students may take the basic course and if qualified, may progress into the advanced course. Graduates of the advanced course, if accepted by a recognized school of medicine, will not be called to active duty while successfully pursuing the course of medicine until completion of the course, including internship.
Enrollment in the Army ROTC does not in itself, constitute a deferment. Deferment is based on a quota agreement. However, presently current quotas for deferment permit deferment of about sixty percent of basic course students and of all advanced course students.
Successive lectures on the program will be delivered for the students by Lt. Colonel George M. Cookson, USA, and Lt. Colonel W. Nelson, USA, Professor of Military Science and Tactics at Purdue University. Arrangements for the talks will be made for early May. One of the officers will remain on the campus to interview students who are interested and who may have questions. Arrangements are being made now that Army ROTC films might be shown in connection with the regular “Saturday movies” shown on campus.
Debaters Wanted
(Continued from Page 24)
National Tau Kappa Alpha Tournament.	•
In addition to those regular intercollegiate debates mentioned above, the Notre Dame team has given exhibitions for the following: The Civitan Club, the Perley PTA, the Woodrow Wilson PTA, the St. Joseph PTA of Mishawaka, the Kiwanis Club of Mishawaka, the Optimist Club, and the St. Mary’s Club of South Bend.
Al DeCrane has been appointed president of the Notre Dame team for 195152. Of the 24-man team, Notre Dame will lose the services of only one man, this year’s president, Bill Carey.
Those students interested in joining next year’s team should apply as soon as possible to Mr. Sommers, at room 328 in the Main Building.
May Services Will Include
The annual May adoration will begin next Monday in Our Lady’s Chapel in the rear of Sacred Heart Church. Adoration will be daily from 11 to 1 p.m., with Benediction following at 1 p.m. ,
Another annual custom during the month of May is hymn-singing at the" Grotto. This year the singing will start between 6:30 and 6:45 p.m.
The Scholastic
Father D'Arcy Gives Lecture on Education
The Very Reverend Martin C. D’Arcy, S. J., eminent Catholic philosopher, theologian, writer, and lecturer, spoke in Washington Hall, Monday night, suggesting that although there ’are still problems in higher Catholic education, there are solutions to these problems.
Father D’ Arcy, president of Campion College at Oxford University, is the author of St. Thomas Aquinas, the Mind and Heart of Love and many other books. He spoke on the needs which education must satisfy, and reviewed the various conceptions of education which have been proposed by man.
At first glance, Father D’Arcy said, the problem of education, and specifically, a Catholic education, seems to be one which has been fairly effectively solved in America. On the College and University level, we have the facilities and teachers and there is quite a bit of money at hand for the use of the educators—though this last is never present in sufficient amounts. There are, in normal times, supposedly schools enough to provide a higher education for those who want it. Where, then, is the problem, if there is one?
Both the utilitarian and the propagandistic conceptions of what an education must be, Father D’Arcy said, are unsatisfactory, for they misinterpret the purpose of both the intellect and the education which cultivates it. The utilitarian form of education would neglect the fact that the human intellect is capable of doing more than merely assisting a person earn a livelihood, that the intellect can and should be cultivated with a broad knowledge which will assist it in achieving the fulness toward which it strives, and which will only be fully satisfied by the Presence of God.
The propagandistic type of education, such as the Nazis and the Communists have practiced is unsatisfactory for the same basic reason as the utilitarian: it does not consider the spiritual nature of the intellect, but regards it merely as a tool to be used for some ulterior purpose, in this case, the glorifying of the state.
Father D’Arcy stated that the correct conception of what an education is, must be formed with the understanding and belief that all things have their origin and derive their meaning in God. Realizing this, the educator then has the whole range of human science and knowledge to explore and to understand —and to teach. Such knowledge, rather than being secular, would be Christian, for it would be sought in the realiza
tion that all things manifest the glory of God, and that it is through knowing that man penetrates to the spiritual natures of things, and perfects the most mysterious and unique power he has, the intellect.
FATHER D’ARCY
Father D’Arcy enlivened his difficult and very important subject matter with an easy and enjoyable display of wit, and made his lecture concise and more understandable by use of penetrating analogies.—Walt Clements, ’51
Econ Roundtable Assumes National Bibliography Duties
Glen Haney, representing Notre Dame as a Mid-West voting delegate, attended the National Conference of the Association of International Relations Clubs held at Stillwater, Oklahoma, last week.
In addition to taking part in the discussions on the Great Debate at this conference, Haney was appointed by the Midwest delegation to serve on the club projects committee. At the second session bf this committee, he volunteered the services of the Economic Roundtable of Notre Dame to act as a bibliography committee for the Association of International Relations Clubs. This committee will serve as a clearing house for bibliographies prepared on current topics by the several hundred members of the AIRC. Copies of submitted bibliographies will be kept on file at Notre Dame and may be requested for use by clubs throughout the association at any time.
Haney was chosen at a Milwaukee Regional meeting earlier this year to represent the Midwest. He attended the national conference as a member of the
Economic Roundtable with his expenses being paid by the Student Council.
Junior Prom
(Continued from Page 9) swer to the prom-goer’s usual question of what to do on the Saturday afternoon after the prom, will be held tomorrow from 3:30 to 7 p.m. at the Erskine Country Club. The music of Jerry Costello and his Combo will be available for those who wish to dance. A buffet supper will feature the afternoon’s entertainment.-
Open house will be held at the club, and students and their dates will have freedom of the grounds of the clubhouse, which is located south of the city on Miami Stret. If there is sufficient call for them, busses will be provided for those without other transportation.
For those who still have not had enough dancing, there will be the Student Council Dance at the Palais Royale tomorrow’ night.
Entire arrangements for the Junior Prom and the activities of the weekend are under the direction of cochairmen Chuck McCarthy and Bill Toohey. Other committees are: tickets, John Moran and Tony Critelli; hotel reservations, Hank McCormack and Bill Gorman; car rental, Pat Nevill and Brian Duff; tux rental, Dave Lajoie and Bill Lewis; publicity, Jack Hynes and Ray Earls; entertainment, Jack Lambert and Bob Beh; favors, Ed Goerner and Ernie Messini.
Pastor Villaflor
(Continued from Page 17) the Eucharistic Congress in Chicago. He hurried back to his real love, Notre Dame, after that and has stayed here ever since only because he wants to.
Pastor owns a rice and sugar plantation in the Islands but he prefers his semi-monastic life at th** University. “1 often think I return to my home in San Jose some day, but now life is not good in Philippines, anymore. Why should I go home, I say to myself, when I live here so close to the Bless Mother. Here I am happiest. Here all I do is work and live for Her.”
As you sit by his tiny window looking at the path leading down to the Grotto you can see students passing by. Pastor smiles and waves to them and says: “I know they think I am poor man. They feel sorry for me.”
He gazes out the window. You don’t know whether he’s looking at them or up at the statue on the golden dome. But when Our Lady’s embroiderer turns around he is smiling. “Maybe some day they be as rich as me,” he says.
Apr. 27, 1951
33

Bus Strike
For over a week now (as we write this) the bus strike has been in effect hereabouts. Personally, we find it a distinct drawback.
The strike has had a number of remarkable effects. The few-and-far-be-tween car owners found themselves besieged as they swung past the circle. More shoe leather has been worn down around campus than in any other comparable period in the past 20 years. The circle at 11:55 on Saturday night would never be recognized by a recent grad.
People have been going around saying things like: “You never miss ’em ’till you ain’t got ’em.” This is in place of the more commonplace pieces de resistance like: “How’s things?” or “When’s this lousy weather gonna break?”
There are even those few who have resorted to taxicabs. Most people feel that this is going a mite too far.
But in spite of the hardships brought about by the strike, the valiant men of Notre Dame have gone marching on in-spiringly. There were very few suicides and only a few frustration neuroses. Who says the young man of 1951 has been made soft by luxuries?
Still, it’s probably just as well that the strike took place in the Spring rather than the Winter.
May Day
Continuing an idea that was innovated last year, Notre Dame will mark May Day this year with, a mass Anti-Communist demonstration.
Tuesday will begin with special Masses in the Chapels. The demonstration proper will begin at 8 o’clock in the evening, when processions from the residence halls to the Grotto will be organized. May services and a sermon will be conducted at the Grotto.
Last year, the student body turned out almost to the man for this demonstration. This year it is even more important that the strength of Christianity be made manifest.
In view of the rather alarming world situation, more than mere talk is neces
sary. The Communists don’t talk, they act. Most Catholics talk a lot, but act only upon occasion. This is most definitely one occasion when every Catholic should act. We urge May Day attendance strongly.
Our congratulations to the campus organizations who are active in organizing next Tuesday’s rally. These include NFCCS, YCS, the Liturgy Club, the Third Order of St. Francis, and the Knights of Columbus. The men in these organizations are doing their part and more in this matter. None of us can conscientiously do less.
“The Season”
Major League baseball is under steam again (when it’s warm enough to field a team) and the annual race is on. Around here, as usual, both Chicago outfits are touted for honors galore. The ludicrous note in it all is that all the Chicagoans really believe they will do it.
For a statement like that last, many a better man. has ended up with a shiv between the ribs. So we’re hiring a couple of bodyguards.
Even more interesting than the pennant races are the network announcers. Every city with a ball club has its own eccentric. The thought behind baseball announcers’ eccentricities is probably that baseball is a pretty dull game over the radio unless you get some “life” into it.
The big trouble comes about June when even the eccentricities begin to get dull. Maybe there should be a law that no baseball announcer can remain in the same city for more than a month and a half. Maybe there could be a reciprocal rotation system of some sort worked out between the teams.
But it’s probably all part of the truism “nobody loves a radio announcer” unless he’s from WND, and nothing can be done about it.
The Last Word
Old Prefects never die, they just fade away. . . .
Former Student Writes New Chemistry Textbook
Raymond M. Martin, M.S., who completed both his undergraduate and graduate studies at Notre Dame, is coauthor of a new textbook on organic chemistry.
Mr. Martin collaborated with J. K. Schwenk in the writing of Basic Organic Chemistry. It includes a pertinent section on the relation of organic chemistry to modern warfare and civilian welfare in war and peace.
The author is now a member of the Chemistry Department of Sacramento Junior College.
May Day
(Continued from Page 15) more advantageous and profitable service to interplay with Godlessness than devotion on the first day of May to Mary, the Mediatrix of all Graces and the Queen of Peace. The devilish forces of Communism sought to soil the mantle of Our Lady with their putrefaction, and on bended knee Catholics prayed for the grace to fight for the Son, the King of Kings. ■
Was the lackadaisical attitude of most Catholics nurtured by non-realization that since the close of World War II, eight hundred million had succumbed to Communism? Why did Christianity wait until 1947, when, under the leadership of Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen, they reinstituted ceremonies rightly theirs? It would be foolish to sell the birthright of truth when proper, counter-celebration can be the answer to the paralyzing, plodding of Communist lies.
Christians now more fully realized the expediency of shedding their somnambulistic and patronizing attitude to Communism and turned to God and the Blessed Mother, studiously reading the Introit for the mass of May first. Here, where the only red is that of the vestments, they find: “In the time of their tribulation they cried to Thee, 0 Lord, and Thou heardest them from heaven.”
Comerford Becomes Head Of Economic Round Table
The Economic Round Table has elected John Comerford as president for the coming year. Comerford, a Junior accounting major, succeeds Richard Birmingham. Other new officers of the campus discussion group are Secretary Glen Haney, a Junior majoring in foreign marketing, and Treasurer William Stuhldreher, an A.B. Sophomore.
At the election meeting, Al Linden spoke on the Schuman Plan to pool French and German industries.

34
The Scholastic
The link is strong
The telephone forms an important link In our program of defense.
It speeds the urgent, vital calls Of government, industry, The armed forces and civil defense. And the link it forms is strong. Since the end of World War II, Over thirteen million new telephones Have been added to the Bell System. Billions of dollars have been spent For new equipment of all kinds. The quality and scope of service Have constantly improved.
It’s a good thing
The telephone has grown— It is now better equipped For the big job of defense.
ft
BEU TELEPHOHE SYSTEm
A
TH? U
IV
NOTR
>IER LIBRARY
dame local
Y LIBRARY
orj/ou-ProowMILDNESS
with no unpleasant after-taste
.• i
JOAN FONTAINE is just like you and everybody else, today. She wants the cigarette that gives her the most for the money. She makes the Chesterfield Mildness Test and Always Buys Chesterfields.
★ Hollywood's favorite photographer, Paul Hesse, and Joan Fontaine enjoy a Chesterfield while he shows her his new Stereo Realist camera.
a^b^vHE STERFIELD
Copjright 1951, Liggett & Mi tig. Tobacco Co
proved \ Chesterfields, are Milder They re MY cigarette"
Sfarfing in "SOMETHING TO LIVE FOR" AParamount Picture



!«??