

The Notre Dame 
Advertising Netvvork 
c~@UiJIX{§ 
3rd Floor. LaFortune student center Notre Dame. Indiana 
"Expensive-looking advertising ... at an inexpensive price" 
Posters * Flyers * Table Tents 

Observer Ads * Scholastic Ads 
All orders must be submitted 5 days. prior to the day of distribution 
Office Hours Monday -Friday 2pm-5pm 


Call 9 -ADWORKS (24 hour answering service) 
Contents 

October 2, 1986 Volume 128, No. 4


Scholastic 

Cover Stories 

5 
7 10 14 

The Home Stretch By Frank Lipo 
A New University President Will Be Chosen At The Next Trustee Meeting In Mid-November 
The New Guard By Maher Mouasher 
In The Search For A New President, Some Candidates Stand Out Above The Rest 
The End Of An Era By Frank Lipo The Longest Presidential Tenure In Notre Dame History Ends In May, Leaving A Stronger University Behind 
The Other Half Of The Team By Keith Harrison Jr. 
Finances And Athletics Have Been Joyce's Forte As The Number Two Man In The Administration 

Sports Departments 
18/Bring On The Tide 
By Larry Burke 

Student Life 
22/Business Is Booming 
By Sean Nealon 
3/Letters 4/Week In Distortion: Today's Adventure 12/Calendar 16/Music: Changing Styles 17/On Other Campuses: Alcohol: An Issue 
Everywhere 21/Movies: The Ones To Watch 24/Final Word: Sushi, Anyone? 

Edrtorial 
,• 


Letters 
Editor-in-Chief 
Maher Mouasher 

Managing Editor 
Keith Harrison Jr. Design Editor Alex Peltzer 

Production Manager 
Matthew Bradley 

General Manager 
Phil Coghlan 

Editoria 1 
Larry Burke/Sports 
Catherine Coffey/Departments 
Frank Lipo/News 
Greg Miller/News 
Lucian Niemeyer/Photography 
Aimee Starin/Copy Chief 
Bob Winn/Student Life 
Administration 
Pete Cespedes/Comptroller Matt Dolan/Advertising Mike Hoban/Circulation 


Layout 
Jim Doerfler Kathleen McKernan Susan Serrato 
Art & Photography Sharon Dow Jim Doerfler Mike Napierkowski Joe Ray 

The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire edi­torial board of Scholastic or the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless otherwise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the edi­torial board. 
Scholastic is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertis­ing, Inc. Published weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at The Papers, Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, IN -46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Copyright 1986 Scholastic. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 

October 2, 1986 
Campus Humor? 
Dear Editor, Evidently, you guys are wor­

I think that Scholastic and The ried about a lawsuit or something. Observer do a great job publishing ·I'm not talking about National their respective periodicals, but ... Enquirer-type stuff, but rather off where 1s everyone's sense of the wall articles that are funny humor? while being totally unbelievable. 
Arc Mike Keegan and Kris Everyone always complains Murphy the funniest guys on about the lack of diversity at campus? Personally, I have met Notre Dame. That goes for campus many people who are funny -no, humor also. Why can't you shock 
hilarious -in their own way but us and make us laugh? their brand of humor is "not Scho­
Doug Anderson

lastic or Observer material." Keenan Hall 
If you have an opinion about something in Scholastic, write us a letter clo Scholastic Letters LaFortune Student Center 
Notre Dame IN 46556 
Letters to the editor must be typed and must 
include the author's name, address and phone number. Letters should not exceed 250 words in length. 
OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES ANNOUNCES: 

Stepan Center Court Time Requests For Basketball/Volleyball are due today at the Student Activities Office 3rd Floor LaFortune 


By John Coyle 

Iknow you kids probably haven't stopped laughing since my last "humor" arti­cle but time waits for no one. 
Back when I was a squiddy, back-stabbing, want-to-own-a­Mercedes-by-twenty-five busi­ness major, a supposedly learned microeconomics professor, known for his loud ties, stated that "there is no such thing as a free lunch." But, alas my mistaken fellow, ye of the colorful neckware, there is indeed a free lunch to be had. In fact, it can be found right here on the Notre Dame campus the day of any football game. 

Still have no clue as to what I am referring? Let me spell it out, T-A-I-L-G-A-T-E-R-S. More specifically, it's the mom and pop tailgaters. I'm not talking the stu­
1 dent variety where its eight cases of whatever is on sale at Kings Cellar and a bag of chips. 
We're talking the all-out, "honey did you bring the pate for the crackers?" tailgaters. You know the type. The returning alum pulls up in his R. V. or one of those lunar mobiles and puts out a spread that would make Henry VIII envious. 
Being a lifelong moocher, I feel 
4 





Today's Adventure 
In Search Of The Free Lunch 
qualified to offer some helpful hints for all you novice tailgatec~ out there looking to feed your faces without spending a dime. 
The first thing to do upon approaching a tailgater is to find mom. All mom's arc the same. They love to feed kids and arc only happy when you have a mouth full of food. Therefore, your first move is to get on mom's good side. 
"Oh, yes, Mrs. Escargots, your daughter Sally is a good friend of mine. She's always helping me 
· with my Theology homework in the library after she gets bacK from volunteering at the youth center. From meeting you, I can woman's feelings. 
Now you have mom on the ropes. It's time to go in for the kill. Start laying it on thick. 
"Mmmmm, this is some of the best food I've ever had. Every­thing is delicious. Wow, what a tailgater! This is really living life high on the hog. Gee, those sirloin steaks are almost done. Want me to take those babies off the grill for you?" 
See, it's not really that hard. A couple of well-placed compliments and before you know it, you've been treated to a seven -course · 
feast. 
Before leaving, as you polish 


see why she's such a nice girl. That isn't lobster salad over there on your table, is it? Boy, that's my 
favorite." 
This is when mom makes the fatal mistake of asking if you're hungry. "A little," you say and smile. She'll start offering you everything in sight. Don't turn anything down. The last thing you want to do is hurt the poor off that last brownie, be sure to make a little small talk. You want to keep in good graces for next time. And last but not least, go easy on the brats or you might find yourself spending the third quarter in a restroom. 
So, there you have it. An after­noon of fine cuisine without breaking out your wallet. As an old friend of mine use to say, "There's nothing ugly about free'\ 
Scholastic 

News 



The Home Stretch 
By Frank Lipo 

A New University President Will Be Chosen At The Next Trustee Meeting In Mid-November 
In mid-November the Board of Trustees will meet on the Notre Dame campus, as it does . twice each year. The board faces a special challenge this year, one which it has not yet faced in its 19 years of existence. 
The nominating committee of the board will submit a recom­mendation to the trustees and then, according to the vice­chairman of the board, they will elect a new University president. 
That nominating committee met yesterday to gather data and suggestions from the different constituencies of Notre Dame: faculty, students and alumni. Andrew McKenna, vice chairman of the board and member of the nominating committee, said the nominating committee will make a recommendation for a new president to the \ board. The full board will then vote on that recommendation, making its choice by a majority vote of its members. 
"The nominating committee will not meet again until November 13, which is the day before the Board of Trustees meeting," said McKenna. "At that time, I think, their deliberations will be completed and on the 14th the nominating committee will likely submit a recommendation to the board," he added. "(The board) will vote on it November 



14. Once the election has been made, there will be a public announcement," he said. 
"We're obviously picking a new president. We ought to focus on that and not just 'a successor to Father Hesburgh,' '' said McKenna. "I think we've got some wonderful candidates," he added. 
"The trustees have a very active role . . . and that is very impor­tant," said Thomas Carney, former chairman of the board, pointing to Hesburgh's dedication to the lay control of the University. 
According to McKenna the process is a genuine one. The decision about who will take the reins from University President Father Theodore Hesburgh has not been made yet, he said. 
The search for Hesburgh's suc­cessor was begun by Carney while he was chairman of the board. Although the University's bylaws do not require consultation with anyone aside from the superior of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Car-

October 2, 1986 





News, 


ney invited students, faculty, alumni and members of the Holy Cross order to become involved with the process. Advisory com­mittees composed of representa­tives from all areas of the Univer­sity were set up by Carney to help in the search. 
Carney asked Bill Healy, then student body president, to form a committee to gather information about what students wanted in a University president. Through tributed to members of the nom­inating committee. "You can only be optimistic that the process is · sincere," said Lohman. "I think that's more than likely," he added. "I have my personal favorites (for president). I guess everyone docs," Lohman said. 

Charles Lennon, executive director of the Alumni Association, said the assocrat10n rallied around Carney's call for alumni input rn the process. 


two different surveys and personal contact with students, the commit­tee attempted to gauge student opinion, according to senior Bruce Lohman, one of six students on the committee. 
The student committee submit­ted two separate reports to Carney in May, said Lohman, because of disagreements among committee members about what direction the student report should take. One report described qualities an "ideal candidate" would possess and highlighted some of the issues which a new University president should address, said Lohman. The other was a compilation of survey results, he said. 
Lohman said the reports were given to Carney with the under­standing that copies would be dis-Through the network of alumni clubs, the minority mini-senate, the classes and the alumni board members, feedback was received about what qualities a new University president should pos­sess and possible candidates for the position. 

Joseph Reich, Alumni. Associa­tion president, and Lennon planned to give a slide presenta­tion to the nominating committee. This presentation was to encapsu­late all the information received. A report was also prepared for presentation to the committee. 
Provost Timothy O'Meara sent a letter to faculty encouraging them to write about potential can­didates for the presidency. The faculty committee he headed, composed of the executive com­mittee of the Academic Council who arc not Holy Cross priests, met with elected faculty members of the Academic Council and other groups of faculty. According to O'Mcara, at yesterday's meeting the committee was scheduled to make a presentation of the infor­mation it has discovered. 
"It's been a very . interesting process for me and I'm sure for my associates on the committee, because we've had an opportunity to get to learn quite a bit about the candidates," said McKcnna. 
"We've obviously learned a lot 

about the workings of the Univer­
sity. We had a separate organiza­
tion development committee to 
study the management structure of 
the University. That gave us an 
opportunity to learn a lot about 
how everything works and how 
things have grown up (under Hes­. burgh)," said McKenna. 
"The findings (of the organiza­tion development committee), will be presented to the new president. . . That will be way down the line," said McKenna. 
"It's been a great process for the University. It's been an exciting time," McKenna added. 
The committee, composed of nine trustees, has operated in rela­tive obscurity until now. Hes­burgh, though automatically a member of the committee, has declined to participate in its work. "In fact, he has not attended any nominating committee meetings," said McKenna. But Hesburgh will not remain completely outside of the process. 
"At some point the committee will be asking him (Hesburgh) for some of his reflec:tions. But we're not going to be asking him for his choice," said McKenna. \'I think that he wouldn't come to us with a choice. I think that he thinks the process ought to be precisely the way it's been established." 
Scholastic 


The 
ew 
u rd 
By Maher Mouasher 
In The Search For A New President Some Candidates Starid Out Above The 'Rest 
F associate professor of theology. He or the first time in 35 years, ~ 
was born in I941 in Washingtonthe guard is changing at -~ D.C. and received both hisNotre Dame. The old guard ~ bachelor's and master's degrees inhas lead the University into a new ~ English from Notre Dame between era, one in which Notre Dame is ~ 1963 and 1967. He went on tofinancially healthy and well-~:.... 
obtain a master's in theology inrespected. Father Theodore Hes-o 1969, and was ordained in 1970. 
· burgh and Father Edmund Joyce ~ In 1970, Malloy went to Vander­took over the top two positions at ]
... 
bilt University on a Smith fellow­a small Catholic college in the g 0 ship. He received a doctorate inMidwest in 1952. They received Christian Ethics from that univer­little attention, either from the sity in 1975, ·and went on to teachnational media or from other insti­at Aquinas Junior College intutions of higher learning. 

Nashville before returning to 
But Hesburgh's successor will Notre Dame to teach in the not have the luxury of such peace. department of theology. Whoever is chosen to succeed the 
Malloy has chaired a number ofUniversity president will be 
"-.,.,.~; , ''. , 

committees which brought changes 
'\,'.\a:~:;,;",
placed under intense scrutiny. He in the core curriculum and in thewill take over the controls at an <i;};{L::,-:::. -academic honesty policy. Com-internationally recognized and Father Edward Malloy . bined with his work as associaterespected ·institution of higher provost since 1982, this makes him

cial point in its existence. It has
learning with an endowment of one of the most experienced of the

clearly become recognized one
more than $350 million and an as presidential contenders in terms ofannual operating budget in excess of the top academic institutions in familiarity with academic mattersof $175 million. the country, and the time has at the University. 
come where it can begin to exer­
The search for Hesburgh's suc­cise more leadership in American One possible weakness in cessor is well underway, and the higher education. Malloy's background is his lack ofspeculation has been mounting experience in the administrativesince last spring when former The new guard is poised for the side of the University. While he isBoard of Trustees Chairman Tho­task. ahead. A number of young familiar with the structure of the mas Carney began to solicit opin­members of the Congregation of academic divisions of the Univer­ion at Notre Dame. Carney Holy Cross have moved into posi­sity, he has little, if any, experi­invited representatives of faculty, tions of influence within the ence handling large-scale finances.

stu_dents and alumni to participate University, and many of them Also, some observers believe the more in the selection process. One could be called upon to lead Notre sensitive moral subjects that Mal­thing is clear, however. The new Dame into the next chapter of its loy specializes in, for example sex­president will face chailenges as existence; uality and crime and punishm­formidable, although different, Father Edward Malloy ment, might have hurt his imagethan Hesburgh faced 35 years ago. 
currently serves as both associate among alumni, thereby hurting his Notre Dame has come to a cru-provost of the University and as chances at the presidency as well. 
' 
7 -1

October 2, 1986 I 



News 


Should the trustees decide to stress the administrative nature of the job, then Father David Tyson might be the front-runner. Tyson was born in Gary, Indiana in I 948. He received his B.A. in sociology in 1970, and his M.A. in theology in 1974, both from Notre Dame. He was ordained a priest in I975, and then went to Indiana Univer­sity where he obtained a doctorate in education in 1980. 
Tysbn joined Notre Dame's business faculty in 1980, and also served as the College of Business Administration's sophomore year director from that year until 1982, when he was appointed as the first executive assistant to Hesburgh. In 1984, the Office of Student Affairs was restructured and Tyson was appointed vice president for student affairs, a post which he continues to hold. 


Tyson was succeeded in his position as Hcsburgh's executive assistant by Father William Beau­champ. Born in 1942, Beauchamp earned a B.S. in accounting in 1964 and an M.B.A. in 1966 from the University of Detroit. He also received a juris doctor from. the University of Notre Dame in 1975. 

I 
! He entered Moreau Semi"nary in 1977, received a master's of divin­ity in 1981, and was ordained a priest in 1982. 
Beauchamp assumed his present 
8 


position in 1984, having served as administrative assistan t to Joyce between 1980 ind 1984. Also in · 1984, he chaired the U nivcrsity Committee on the Responsible Use 
of Alcohol. 
That committee set the University's policy on the use of alcohol by students. Despite being met by a wave of student protest at its inception, the policy subse­quently has served as the model utilized by many other institutions in formulating their own alcohol policies. 
Beauchamp taught at Alma Col­lege in Michigan between 1966 and 1971 while also serving as associate director of admissions there. After receiving his juris doctor in 1975, he joined the staff of a general practice law firm in Alma, the city in which the college is located. He currently serves as assistant professor of management at Notre Dame in addition to his position as Hesburgh's assistant. 
One objection that insiders seem to have about Tyson and Beauchamp is that neither of them has experience in running the academic areas of the University. 
It is believed by some that this 
experience is indispensible, and 
t~us preference should be given to 
candidates who have held positions 
in those areas. · ·. 
Some candidates remain from the spc.culation surrounding Hes burgh's planned I98 I retire­ment, postponed until this year. Most prominent among those arc Father Ernest Bartell and Father Michael McCaffcrty. 
Bartell is the executive director of the Hellen Kellogg Institute for International Studies · at Notre Dame, and a profcssor of econom­ics. He was born in I 932 in Chi­cago, and he received his bachelor's degree from Notre Dame in I 953. He went on to get an 
M.A. in economics from the University of Chicago in I 954. In 1961, he obtained a master's degree in theology from Holy Cross Col­lege in Washington D.C. and was ordained a priest. 
Bartell returned to Notre Dame to teach in the economics dcpa~t­men t for a year before studying at Princeton for a doctorate in economics, which he received in 1966. From 1966 un ti! 1971, Bar­tell served in many positions at Notre Dame, including chairman of the economics department and director of the Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society. 
., § ': 
... 
o 
~ ··· 
11
... 
::s 
0 
0 
Father William Beauchamp 

Scholastic 
News 

Father Ernest Bartell 
In 1971, Bartell was named president of Stonchill College in Massachusetts. He held that posi­tion until 1977 when he retired to run the Fund for the Improvement of Post-Secondary Education in the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare. 
Since returning to Notre Dame, 
he has served on the advisory 
councils of several institutions, 
including both the Board of 
Trustees and the Board of Fellows 
at Notre Dame. These latter posts, 
together with the experience that 
Bartell has garnered in the various 
offices that he has held, probably make him the most well-rounded . candidate for the Notre Dame job. 
Another of the names that were mentioned in 1981 and that are still being mentioned today is McCafferty's. McCafferty received his undergraduate, mas­ter's of theology, and juris doctor degrees from Notre Dame between 1969 and 1974. He received his 
LL.M. degree from Harvard Law School in constitutional law in 1978, after he was ordained, at Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame. 
While McCafferty is considered one of the more qualified candi­dates, until recently he suffered from lymphatic cancer. Although the cancer is now in complete remission, his previous ill-health may have placed his candidacy in question for some. 

Even though Malloy, Tyson, Beauchamp, Bartell and McCaf­fcrty arc the front-runners, some other Holy Cross priests also have a legitimate chance at the presidency. Foremost among these is Father Thomas Oddo. Oddo is currently president of the Univer­sity of Portland, a Holy Cross school in Oregon. He got that job in 1982 amid heavy speculation that it was a grooming position for the future presidency of Notre Dame. 
Oddo is no stranger to Notre Dame. He obtained two degrees from the University and also has 

Father Michael Mccafferty 
taught in the department of theol­ogy for a year. Many campus observers doubt, however, that this is sufficient familiarity with the University for him to be able to take over the presidency. 
The task is thought to be formidable enough for a current member of the Notre Dame com­munity; it would be a monumental undertaking for someone unfami­liar with the University. 
Another dark horse is ·Father David Burrell. Currently a profes­sor of philosophy at Notre Dame, Burrell was chairman of . the department of theology from 1971 to 1980. He received his B.A. from Notre Dame in 1954, his S.T.L. from the Gregorian University in Rome in 1960, and his Ph.D. from Yale in I 965. 
Burrell has served on several boa.rds at Notre_ Dame, and his knowledge of the University puts him in strong contention. How­ever, Burrell has exhibited more interest in furthering his academic research than in pursuing adminis­trative duties, which has left his name off the rumor mills for the most part. 
Another person that hasn't been mentioned very frequently but who is a long-shot possibility for the 1pre~idency is Father Oliver Williams. Williams holds· a Ph.D. from Vanderbilt University and is currently co-director of Notre Dame's Center for the Study of Ethics and Religious Values in Business as well as a member of the faculty of the department of management. 

Williams has written and edited several books, including "The Apartheid Crisis: How We Can Do Justice in a Land of Violence," recently published by Harper and Row. He is also a member of the Board of Trustees Ad Hoc Com­mittee on South African Invest­ments, and has had the experience of a research year at the Graduate School of Business Administration at Stanford University. 
The men mentioned have the inside track on the University's presidency, but they are by no means the only possible choices. The trustees have many qualified candidates from whom to choose, and they might pick someone who has been overlooked by most campus speculators. 
No matter who is picked, how­ever, the priests listed above undoubtedly will be influential in the direction Notre Dame will take for the next 20 years. 
October 2, 1986 




News 

The End Of An Era 
By Frank Lipo 

The Longest Presidential Tenure In Notre Dame History Ends In May Leaving A Stronger University Behind 


he Hesburgh era began with the promotion of aT35-year-old priest. There was no fanfare. ...~ 
.,
::
"I was green as grass when I became president ::;i here," said University President Father Theodore Hes-8 burgh, who was chosen by Father John Cavanaugh to A be his successor. Although reluctant to take the job f: 
.... 
because he preferred teaching, Hesburgh agreed and ~ 
>,
immediately appointed Father Edmund Joyce as exe­., 
....
cutive vice president. QJ 
k 
::s 
0 
Hesburgh and Joyce formed the team which has 0 guided Notre Dame since 1952: Hesbtirgh acting as academician and public figure, Joyce handling finances and athletics. 
But the end of the presidency is in sight for a man 
who has directed Notre Dame through an era of tremendous progress. When members of the senior class attend commencement ceremonies in May, they will join the approximately 80 percent of Notre Dame's 78,000 alumni who have Hesburgh's signature · on their diplomas. This startling statistic shows one 
aspect of Hesburgh's impact on the University. 
Hesburgh's presidency has been the longest in Notre Dame's 144-year history and the longest among active presidents of American universities. But his tenure has been more than a test of longevity. It has resulted in tremendous growth for the University both in numbers and in national and international prestige. 
The statistical record of the strides taken at Notre Dame dur~ng Hesburgh's tenure are striking. The phy­sical size of the University, the budget, endowment Four out or rive Notre Dame graduates have diplomas bearing 
and number of degrees conferred all show tremendous Hesburgh's signature. 
growth since 1952 (see accompanying graphic). But 
Hesburgh points first t6 other, more controversial That decision:, made at Hesburgh's urging, ushered 
accomplishments. He said he is especially proud of the iri a new era for Notre Dame. It raised questions about 
fact that the Congregation of Holy Cross turned over whether a Catholic un~versity _should be governed by 
the governance of the University to lay control in clergy or by a lay board. Hesourgh's insistence on lay 
1967. governance has changed the University's administra-_ 
10 
Scholastic 


News 
tion including the selection process for his successor. For the first time, a president of Notre Dame will be chosen by a vote of the board of trustees. 
Hesburgh said he also is proud of the admission of undergraduate women to the University in I972, which brought an end to 130 years of all-male tradition. The admission of women was a gradual process, one which is scheduled to result in a 50-50 male/female ratio, including Saint Mary's College, within the next four years. The equal ratio is contingent upon the construction of two additional dorms, Hcsburgh added. 
Notre Dame's status as a 
University among the nation's 
top-20 in endowment is also 
important to Hcsburgh, he said. 
The current endowment of 
approximately $350 million dwarfs the $9 million endowment which . Hcsburgh inherited. The endow­ment is important if the Univer­sity wishes to maintain what Hes­
burgh calls "superb academic 
facilities," and to draw dis­
tjnguished and talented faculty to 
the Uni~ersity. He said Notre 
Dame now has 100 endowed pro­
fessorships. When Hesburgh took 
over, the University had none, he 
said. 
The University's increased financial aid also is important to Hesburgh, he said. Sixty-five per­cent of the student body receives some sort of financial assistance from the University, he said, which enhances the quality of the student body. In I 952, the Univer­sity offered only $20,000 in financial aid to its students. 
He also has served four popes and guided the University throug_h the churchwide changes of Vati­can II and through the turbulent campus unrest of the late l 960s. He received the Medal of Freedom from President Lyndon Johnson in 1964, the nation's highest civilian honor. One hundred and ten col-

October 2, 1986 

legcs and universities have awarded Hesburgh honorary degrees, a world record. 
He served for 15 years on the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, during which landmark legislation in education, jobs and housing was passed. He was named chairman of the commission in 1969 by President Richard Nixon, only to be fired three years later for criti­cizing Nixon administration civil rights policy. 
Hesburgh was the first priest to serve in a formal diplomatic role for the United States government, as ambassador to the 1979 U.N. Conference on Science and Tech­nology for Development. His most important papal assignment was as ambassador of the Holy Sec to the International Atomic Energy Agency from 1957-70. 
As an educator,. Hesburgh helped redefine the nature and mission of Catholic universities as 
ch::iirman of the International Federation of Catholic Universities from 1963-70. In his role as cider statesman in American higher educa­tion, Hcsburgh has served on numerous com­mittees. 
His volunteer service has brought many other awards from across a spectrum of educational groups, citizens' groups, · educa­tional institution s, governmenta1 bodies and reli­gious groups. He currently is a member or chairman of approximately 40 committees and boards and has served in a similar capacity in numerous oth­ers over the years. 
The wide-range of activities and service he has performed dur­ing his tenure arc an inevitable part of .his job, Hcsburgh said. The University president will inevitably be called upon to volunteer on the national and international scene, he said, because of the visibility of Notre Dame. 
The end of Hesburgh's 35-ycar tenure at Notre Dame won't come quite as quietly as the beginning did. A huge farewell celebration is scheduled for May, with Hesburgh's farewell speech to be broadcast via satellite ·to alumni groups throughout the world. Undoubtedly, other tributes and awards will be given in the coming months. 
Changes Under the Dome: The Hesburgh Era 

' • -':-.--• ~' ,. ':':---·----·-·---•.:~ _J' • ~ ·' ---" 
D~M 0a.2 ~ Oa.(J 
Chica 
"The Pink Panther" IUSB Little Theatre/Recital Hall Oct. 4 at 7:30 p.m. $1.75 
"Adam's Rib" IUSB Little Theatre/Recital Hall Oct. 5 at 8 p.m. $1.75 
THEATER: 
"The Fisherman and His Wife" Colfax Cultural Center 914 Lincolnway West Oct. 2 at 10:00 a.m. 
"My Heart's in The Highlands" Colfax Cultural Center. 914 Lincolnway West Oct. 2-4 at 8:30 p.m. 
"Educating Rita" Brown County Playhouse Nashville, Indiana Oct. 3-4 at 8:00 p.m. 
"Talley's Folly" Bristol Opera House Bristol, Indiana Oct. 3-4 8:15 p.m. 
"I Doi I Doi" Four Flags Hotel Dinner Theatre 404 E. Main, Niles, Michigan Oct. 3,4 8:00 p.m. 
CONCERTS: 

IUSB Faculty Recital Gary Grice, tenor·and John Owings, piano IUSB Recital Hall Oct. 3 at 8:15 p.in. 

News 

The Other Half Of The Team 
By Keith Harrison Jr. 

Finances And Athletics Have Been Joyce's Forte As The Number Two Man In The Administration 

Father Edmund Joyce, who will retire this May with University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, won't be idle next year. Joyce, who has been the number two man in the Notre Dame administration for the past ~5 years, already has made plans for his first year of retirement. For the first few months, he and Hes burgh will be· chaplains on a cruise of the luxury liner Queen Elizabeth II. 
After that, Hesburgh and Joyce are going on the road, touring America in a recreational vehicle. "Father Hesburgh said he's seen all of America from 38,000 feet up," Joyce said. "Now he's going to see it up close, from the ground." 
Taking that cross-country road trip together won't be anything new for Hesburgh and Joyce. They have been working together as the leaders of the University since 1952, when both men stepped into their present posi­tions. "Father Hesburgh had been executive vice president when Father John Cavanaugh was president of the University," . Joyce said. "Then when Father Hesburgh became president, he asked me to be the new executive vice president." 
· Joyce, who majored in account­ing at Notre Dame and later became a certified public accoun­tant, said his backgound in busi­ness has been a great help throughout the years. "I'm the chief financial officer for Notre Dame," Joyce said. "Father Hes­burgh and I divide the duties, although he has the final word on any matter, of course. He concerns himself more with the academic side and my main concern is keep­ing Notre Dame financially solid." 

Raising funds for the Univer­sity is a major part of maintaining that financial security, according to Joyce. "The money we raise is the lifeline of the University," he said. "In 1952 we had an endow-·-.·. ment of about $8 million. Now we have an endowment of approxi­mately $400 million, which is the 18th largest in the country." 
Another one of the executive vice president's responsibilities is to oversee the athletic department. This is one of the reasons that Notre Dame has retained its integrity in college sports, accord­ing to Joyce. 
"The person responsible for the athletic department has always been at a high level of the administration at Notre Dame," he said. "Many athletic departments arc too independent. Some ath­letic directors end up having their own Iittle fiefdoms." 
At Notre Dame, Athletic Direc­tor Gene Corrigan reports to Joyce and together they discuss the operations of University , sports programs. "I'm abk to be in overall charge without getting involved in the day-to-day opera­tions," Joyce said. "We approve schedules and award monogrnms. And I'm heavily involved with coaching changes." 
This involvement brought Joyce under fire for the less­than-spectacular Gerry Faust era. The backlash from that coaching appointment was still evident three weeks ago in a Sports Illustrated story which implied that Joyce's authority in the athletic depart­ment was waning. "Corrigan, not Joyce, selected Lou Holtz to replace Faust," according to the article. 
"I don't know where they got that," Joyce safd. "Gene Corrigan and I discussed the hiring of Lou Holtz together. I wouldn't tell the writer that the decision was mine and I wouldn't tell him that the decision was Gene's. I guess he just drew his own conclusion." 
But such matters will no longer concern Joyce after his retirement this May. Following his year of travel, Joyce will have· an office on the_ 13th floor of the Memorial Library. "Father Hcsburgh and I will be available to help the new 
14 
Scholastic 
News 


administration in any matter, 
although I imagine most of our 
work will be· in fund raising 
because we know so many Notre · Dame families," Joyce said. 
With Hesburgh's retirement just months away, there has been extensive speculation as to who will become the .next University president. But there has been little discussion concerning who -if anyone -will become the · next executiye vice president. 
Without naming any 
candidates, Joyce said that the 
position probably will. exist next . year. "I would assume that there will be a new executive vice president, although that will be up to the new president," he said. 
One of the high points of Joyce's 35-year career as executive vice president was the Ford · Foundation's first fund-raising challenge in 1960, he said. 
"The Ford Foundation prom­ised to give us $6 million if we could raise $12 million in three years," Joyce said. Notre Dame met that challenge. "That really raised our sights as far as fund raising is concerned. It took us up to a new plateau." 

As far as disappointments go, Joyce said he has been fortunate enough not to have very many at Notre Dame. One rough time came during the 1970-71 school year, when the city of South Bend tried to annex Notre Dame. Joyce led the University's battle to remain an independent community. 
"That was a nervous time. We enjoyed our own independence, having our own fire department, our. own police department," he said. "I think it was a political move. The mayor wanted to annex the suburbs around the Roseland area and decided to try to take the University as well." The proposi­tion was eventually defeated with the help of some prominent South Bend citizens, Joyce said. 
But the biggest disappointment for Joyce during his years at Notre Dame is that he never has been able to be a dorm rector, he said. Although Joyce did live in Mor­rissey Hall for one year, time res­trictions forced him to leave the hall once he took his post as exe­cutive vice president. 
"My ambition to live with the students and be a rector was never realized," . Joyce said. "That is probably the saddest part of my life." 
When the new administration steps in, one of its goals should be to keep moving the University in the same direction it is moving in now, Joyce said. "I really don't think there are any huge problems that will have to be solved. There should be a continuing emphasis on fund raising, because that is where we get our strength," he said. 
"(The new. administration) should try to get the best profes­sors and the best students. And they should maintain the moral and spiritual values of Notre Dame, so that this remains a Catholic university in reality as well as in name." 
Looking back on the length of his career, Joyce said he never thought about how long he would remain executive vice president when he first took the post. "I imagine it is extraordinary. I know Father Hesburgh has the longest tenure of any university president. I suspect I have the longest tenure of any vice president," Joyce said. 
Another advantage of his long term as executive vice president is that Joyce can claim that he is the person who has spent the most time under the golden dome of the Administration Building. "After 35 years here, Father Hesburgh is the only one who could rival me," Joyce said. "But because of all of his traveling, I think I beat him out. Besides, I lived m the Administration Building during my freshman year at Notre Dame." 
October 2, 1986 


Changing Styles 
New Releases From The Heads, Costello And DyIan: 


By Melchizedek & Jones 


Everybody knows Elvis is king, but is he still Elvis Costello? Elvis went by his given name of Declan Macmanus on his last album, the acoustic King of America, and on his latest record, Blood and Chocolate, the name under a picture of a scream­ing Elvis is Napoleon Dynamite. 
Changing personas mean changing music. The new album is fast and electric, but it's not This Year's Model, with vocals and instruments falling over each other, going faster and faster. On Blood and Chocolate the instru­mentation has a controlled yet dynamic energy mixed-in under­neath the vocals, somewhat rem­iniscient of Bob Dylan's Blonde on Blonde. 
And unlike · previous Elvis 
records like Trust or Get Happy, 
the lyrics can be easily understood 
due to the slow, enunciated 
delivery that also characterized 
King of America. The psychotic "I 
Want You" and the sympathetic 
"Battered Old Bird" best show 
Elvis' new singing style, while the 
intermittent, foreboding guitar 
notes betray a sublime energy. 
Tension dominates this album. At any moment it seems the con­trol will break, and Elvis will let out a trademark scream or the bass 
16 

Two Successes And A Maybe 
will rip through the speakers in a sudden sonic burst. There are changes here, but EI vis is still the best songwriter in pop music. He can still come through with a great polemic tune like "Honey, Are, You Straight or Arc You Blind?" 
_But Elvis isn't the king of rock and roll anymore: Napoleon Dynamite is Emperor. 
Obviously, Bob Dylan also belongs in pop music's royal court. Don McLean labelled him the jes­ter, and Dylan's new record, Knocked Out Loaded, is funny indeed, considering all the hype surrounding his summer tour with Tom Petty. It appeared that any record coming out of this dynamic pairing would be masterful, but Knocked Out Loaded isn't that good. 
Dylan writes tunes with people_ as disparate as Petty, Carole Bayer Sager, and Sam Shepard and does a few covers as well. But another cover, "They Killed Him" by Kris Kristofferson, collapses when Dylan inserts a children's choir to sing one chorus. The most disap­pointing moment on the record is the Petty-Dylan composition "Got My Mind Made Up," which is a nondescript, steamrolled rocker. 
But the I I -minute epic "Brownsville Girl," written with Shepard, redeems the record for whatever wrongs it commits. This song is like a Shepard work metamorphisized into pop music and decorated by Dylan's gift for verse and his perfect rock and roll voice. The ironic humor of Dylan and Shepard comes through in lines like: "You always said peo­ple don't do what they believe in/ They just do what's most con­venient, then they repent." Too bad it's the only really memorable song on the record. 
Memorable tunes abound, how­ever, on the Talking Heads' newest work, True Stories. With accor­dions, fiddles and twangy pedal steel guitars mixed in, many songs display a decidedly pervasive country influence. 
But this new influence acts more like seasoning on tlie stan­dard Talking Heads sound than anything else. "Wild Wild. Life," the single, is typical of the set. Its thumping beat, cutting guitar, sing-along chorus, and energetic' singing define the group's recent sound. The homey feel of songs like "Radio Head" and "Hey Now" make the album immedi­ately accessible. 
But the real gem may be "Peo­ple Like Us." The song with the most country influence, it also best displays the new, calm David Byrne. No longer the jerky paranoid, Byrne is still interesting as he sings lines like, "We don't want freedom/ We don't want jus-, tice/ We just want someone to I love." Though the group gets a lit-' tie lost on the meandering "Puzz­lin' Evidence," the album is a good one and worth a listen. 
Melchizedek & Jones are the changing personas of Sean Cal­lahan and Tom Szromba. 
Scholastic 


Sports 


~ing On The Tide 

By Larry Burke 
Having Finally Captured That Elusive First Victory Lou Holtz And His Irish Prepare For Alabama 
Twice it had been so close that he almost could have reached out and touched it, only to have it slip through his fingers. But when Coach Lou Holtz finally captured that _elusive first victory at Notre Dame, he grabbed it :with both hands and held on tight.. The first win, a 41-9 pounding of Purdue, was never really in doubt. "I didn't doubt that we would get it eventually," Holtz said. "It was good to win. It was gratifying and I'm happy for the players." 
Heading into last Saturday's game with Purdue, immediate priorities for the Irish were estab­lishing a consistent rushing game, which they had not done the pre­vious week against Michigan State, and mounting some sort of pass rush, which they had not done all season. Both were accomplished. 

Notre Dame churned out 276 yards on the ground and employed · 12 different ball carriers. The Irish ran the ball 60 times, the most since their 1984 game with Penn State. Defensively, Notre Dame was able to put pressure on Boiler quarterback Jeff George, making him rush his passes often, sacking "I think r.11 we needed was to Woodson's direction much of the him twice and intercepting him get a 'W,,,, Beuerlein said. "It afternoon. "I'll match our once. helps knowing that we played well receivers against anybody," 
all-around. Now we know ·an the Beuerlein said. 
Notre Dame's success on the 

hard work and time that we put in
ground meant quarterback Steve "We're not going to change our

has paid off."Beuerlein only had to pass 14 game plan based on. (Woodson.)times. He completed 10 for 174 The Irish certainly did not shy 
There was never any doubt in myyards and one touchdown and was away from Purdue's all-star 
mind that we could move the ball, not intercepted. Milt Jackson cornerback Ron Woodson. In fact, 
it was just a matter of going out caught four passes for 107 yards. Beuerlein was throwing in 
and doing it. We controlled the 


. Scholastic 
Sports 
line of scrimmage from the start. We had them on their heels because we were running the ball so well." 
Mark Green paced the Irish ground game with 73 yards on 17 carries. Freshman tailback Anthony Johnson carried eight times for 34 yards and two touch­downs. 
"He's sort of bruised up," Holtz said of Johnson. "He's the one who busts up the wedge on kick­offs. It's not intended to be that way, but he· just always seems to get there. He's the kind of guy that makes good things happen, but I think we may have to re-evaluate his role on kickoffs." 
Although it was common knowledge that Purdue had been having problems all season estab­lishing a ground game, Holtz placed emphasis on stopping the Boiler rushing attack. "We felt if we allowed them to run the foot­ball and mix it with the pass then they would be difficult to stop," Holtz said. In the first half, Pur­due managed 12 yards rushing on 13 carries. 
For the game, Notre Dame held the Boilers to 54 total yards on the ground. George managed to com­plete 28 passes for 241 yards, but 163 of those came in the second half when the game was already out of reach. "I think we got a lit­tle overconfident in the second half," said Irish defensive tackle Jeff Kunz. 
"Defensively, I thought we played pretty well," said Kunz, 

· who dragged down George in the first quarter for a seven-yard loss and Notre Dame's first sack of the season. 
"We rushed the passer a lot with three men and that worked really well -even better than when we tried twists and stunts, because then their offensive linemen could just drop back on us. It helped that 

October 2, 1986 
(George) is a drop-back quarter­back, but he has a really quick 
release and great touch." 
While Notre Dame had little trouble dispatching with Purdue, its mission this Saturday -unde­feated Alabama in Birmingham ­ranks as much tougher. The Crim:. son Tide will be trying to defeat Notre Dame for the first time, fol­lowing Irish victories during the '73, '74, '76 and '80 seasons. 
Alabama is 4-0 and has had two weeks to prepare for Saturday's game. With an off-day last Satur­day, Head Coach Ray Perkins watched the Irish-Boiler contest from the press box in Notre Danie Stadium. 
Pernell Taylor's two-yard touchdown run got things started. 
"In Notre Dame, we're playing a football team that's trying to find itself," Perkins said after watching the Purdue C6ntest. "They have the ingredients, as far as people are concerned, to be a fine football team. So that's what we have to be prepared for. 
"I do think it's going to take an exerted effort, because something else that has impressed me about Notre Dame is that in all three of their games they have played for 60 minutes. That's a trademark of a Lou Holtz-coached team." 
Alabama quite obviously will 

pose a lot more problems for the Irish than did Purdue. The Boilers came into Notre Dame Stadium last Saturday with a grand total of 33 yards rushing in two games. Alabama's Gene Jelks had more than twice that many yards on one carry -a 75-yard sprint through the middle of the line in Alabama's 42-10 rout of Vander­bilt on September 6. 
Gelks, a sophomore halfback, averaged 133 yards per game over the final month last season, and has carried 32 times for 243 yards this · year. Another half back, Bobby Humphrey, has 298 yards rushing and four touchdowns on 34 carries. 

Sports 



All-Southeastern Conference quarterback Mike Shula heads an offense that returns eight starters from 1985. Shula, son of Miami Dolphin coach Don Shula, was ranked fifth nationally in passing a year ago while throwing for 2,009 yards.,,and setting Tide sea­son records for touchdown passes 
(16) and completion percentage (.603). The senior signal-caller has connected on 47 of 77 passes this season for 502 yards and four touchdowns, but he has thrown six interceptions. 
In Alabama's September 21 game against then-No. 13 Florida, Shula engineered two long third­quarter scoring drives that carried visiting Alabama to a 21-7 victory. The Tide trailed 7-0 in that game, but put together touchdown drives of 71 and 91 yards to take the lead. The latter march included just one pass. 
"I've heard a lot about Shula since I'm from Florida," said Kunz, a native of Palm Beach 
20 

Gardens. "It's always important to get pressure on the quarterback. And that's _especially true when you're playing a team like Ala­bama." 
That might not be easy, because the Irish will be facing a solid offensive line anchored by all-star center Wes Neighbors. That line is a big reason why _the Tide has averaged 25 I yards rushing per game this season. 
Shula's favorite aerial targets are flanker Albert Bell and split end Greg Richardson. Bell had 37 receptions last year · and has IO so far this season. Richardson was the Tide's big-play receiver in '85, 
· averaging 25 yards per catch. This season he has eight catches for 134 yards and two touchdowns. · 
Placekicker Van Tuffin is a model of consistency. He set an SEC record by kicking his 105th consecutive extra point in a 31-17 win over Southern Mississippi on September 14. 
But he said after the game it is a record that "doesn't mean that much, because an extra point is not that hard of a kick. I'm not saying that to be conceited. It's just that an extra point is a 20­yard field goal, like a layup in basketball." Tuffin also has been perfect on six field goal attempts. 
The Alabama defense has been just as tough on opponents, giving up an average of just 11 points per game this season. The Tide has been a lot tougher against the run (82 yards per game) than the pass (207 yards per game). 
Top defensive players include senior strong safety Ricky Thomas (27 tackles), sophomore insioe linebacker Greg Gilbert (26), senior cornerback Freddie Robin­son (23) and senior inside line­backer Wayne Davis (22). All­American Cornelius Bennett leads the Tide with four sacks and three other tackles for lost yardage. Nose tackle Curt Jarvis is another returning all-SEC player on defense. 
"Defensively, Bennett is as good as anyone in the country," Holtz said. "He makes the big plays and he's going to give you 

---· some lost-yardage plays. They've really been tough against the run, so that's naturally a concern. You watch· people like Jarvis and Robinson and some of their other defensive people on film and they're impressive. They've got great speed and quickness as a team and there's no substitute for that. 
"I hope the Michigan game let our players know that they can be competitive against the great teams in the country. Yet, I know this will be an emotional situation because Alabama has never beaten­Notre Daine." 
The Irish will need to play near-perfect football if they are going to keep it that wav. 
Scholastic 

___::.. 
The Ones To Watch 


"The Fly" And "Stand By Me" Are This Season's Hits 
By Alex Peltzer 

The Fly·
Before seeing "The Fly," a remake of a 1958 horror movie, I expected · a · far-f etched rehashing of a B movie. Leaving the theater with my stomach in my throat, I realized how wrong I had been. This is an improvement over the 1958 origi­nal. 
The story centers around slightly crazed scientist Seth Brun­dle, played by Jeff Goldblum, who has devised a machine for the relocation of matter, called a "teleporter." 
The problem develops when Brundle accidentally "teleports" himself and a housefly simultane­ously. During the process, Brundle's genetic material becomes fused with that of the insect . He slowly undergoes a transformation into what he calls the "Brundlefly," a 185-pound half-human fly. 
What really sets this film apart from other horror films is its tragic twist, enhanced by Goldblum's fine acting. Goldblum makes Brundle more than a mad scientist. His eccentnc1ty and sense of humor keep him human and, ironically, this is what enables him to make his crucial scientific discovery. The audience sees the gruesome reduction of a very amiable and loving character to an inhuman, cruel creature. 

The transformation is graphic in every detail, incorporating state-of-the-art special effects to create terrifying grotesqueness. All of this adds up to make "The· Fly" a very complete and entertaining movie. However, it is not recom­mended for anyone with a light stomach. 
Stand By Me 
I would recommend "Stand By Me" to almost anyone. "Stand By Me" on the surface appears to be a very simple movie without a very impressive cast. But it is neither the plot nor splendid acting which makes this film so pleasing. It is 
Rob Reiner's expertise in movie making and story telling that makes it so enjoyable. 
Based on the Stephen King short story The Body, "Stand By Me" is the story of four youthful adventurers who set off to find the body of a child who disappeared from their hometown, and learn the realities of growing up along the way. As in Reiner's last film, "The Sure Thing," most of the action takes place during the jour­ney and it is here that the main characters undergo the most change. 

The movie successfully juggles scenes of hilarity with moments of growing pains, and, in doing so strikes a middle ground. It seems to be saying that while growing up is not easy, it is a time to have fun. The film manages to incorporate its most gut-splitting sequence, a pie-eating contest, as the out­growth of a quiet fireside scene. 
The beauty of this film is that it doesn't try to set an example of what childhood should be. It is· merely a warm-hearted look at the 
problems of four kids and how they help each other deal with them. All in all it was a very enjoyable movie, free from heavy moralizing, yet not without mean­ing. 
October 2, 1986 
Student Life 

Business Is Booming 
By Sean Nealon 

From T-Shirt Salesmen To Disc Jockeys For Hire, Student Entrepreneurs Are Profiting From The Notre Dame Experience 


Asunglasses distributor, a 
group of T-shirt salesmen 
and three disc jockeys. What 
do these three people have in com­
mon? The answer is that they are 
all student entrepreneurs who have 
developed successful businesses on 
campus. 
Scott Veselik, a senior 
economics/CAPP major, is one such entrepreneur. Veselik distri­butes sunglasses and pants with college logos. As far as the degree of success in this endeavor is con­cerned, he sold 500 pairs of sung­. lasses at $10 apiece during the first 
home football weekend. 
Veselik's firm is called SR V and Associates. Currently, his total stock includes 3,000 pairs of glasses for schools such as Notre Dame, Illinois, Indiana, Purdue, Ohio State and other Big 10 schools. But Veselik is not a sun­glass salesman. Instead, his firm develops markets and distributes his products to other organiza­tions, who do the actual sales. 
The idea for SR V came to Veselik over the summer, when he was working as an insurance sales­men in his hometown of Oak­brook, Illinois. "Byron Weiss, an import-export lawyer, showed me the idea. His wife had been suc­cessful with the idea," Veselik said. 

Veselik accomplished the bulk of the groundwork over the sum­mer. "The hardest thing was get­ting permission to sell. More schools were interested and more people would have distributed, but some schools were very particular about school colors and logos," said V eselik. 
Veselik wrote letters to the universities concerned, and also attempted to contact individual campus organizations t0 do the actual sales. Weiss took care of communication between SR V and the producers in Taiwan. Logos must be telexed to Taiwan so that the legal logo is put on the sung­lasses. 
As far as price is concerned, Veselik said, "The price I charge depends on two major factors: the quantity ordered and whether the organization accepts the shipments on consignment or COD." The more a group orders, the cheaper the shipment becomes. SRV must charge more to vendors who can­not . put up the initial capital investment sihce their funds become tied up, Veselik said. 
For example, on campus, Vesclik uses his own dorm as a base of operations. Morrissey could not put up the money to buy the sunglasses but they still recieve a percentage of the profits. In addition, six Morrissey residents do the actual sales. Veselik pays them a commission for each sale. He also o btaincd permission to sell on campus by applying at the Office of Student Activities. 
Veselik could not be cornerr into quoting his profit margi but, he says, "Everyone makes a nice profit." He did reveal that he has recently broken even on his initial investment of $10,000, after sales at Notre Dame and the University of Illinois. To achieve this success, Veselik said he and his two partners have each worked approximately 30 hours a week. 
SR V is still expanding. In the spring, Jay's Potato Chips will market an expected 50,000 glasses with an offer on the back of their one pound packages. "Right now, I have contacts with Sports Illus­trated, Anheuser Busch, · Miller Breweries and Jam Productions, a Chicago-based concert promoter." 
Another successful student-run business had great success last year in T-shirt sales. Students for 
22 
Scholastic 
Student Life .. 
Logan Center, producers of the popular "Hoops Hysteria" shirts was the brainchild of student; Tom McHugh and John Sullivan. The group also included Len Han­
lock,  Dan  Tanczos,  and  Mike  
O'Grady.  
The  group's  name  has  to  do  

with its emphasis on charity. 
These students achieved their goal of $1,500 and donated half of that toward the purchase of a wheel­chair for a young girl at Logan Center. 
While O'Grady admitted that the idea began as a money~making venture, he and his associates soon realized that, "There's more we can do with this than just make money." The students had seen other groups selling shirts for specific games, so they decided to alter that idea by offering a shirt "that could be marketed throughout the basketball season. 
Developing this idea involved finding the cheapest producer of shirts who was capable of handling 
October 2, 1986 


the design. John Sullivan got per­mission to sell the T-shirts on campus from the Office of Student Activities. 
Because the words "Irish" and "Go Irish" are trademarks con­trolled by the Notre Dame Book­store, Sullivan also had to contact Larry Ratliff, associate manager at the bookstore. Initial test sales in Stanford Hall convinced the group that campus-wide sales would be successful. The group also decided !o offer long sleeve jerseys, which mcreased sales in women's dorms according to O'Grady. ' 
The T-shirt business was fairly successful, with one exception. The group produced a "Destina­tion Dallas" shirt in anticipation of a Notre Dame appearance in the NCAA tournament finals which 
. ' 
were m Dallas last year. Demand for the shirts crashed, however, when Arkansas-Little Rock defeated the Irish in the. first round of the tournament. 
O'Grady said the group put a lot of time into their operations. ••If we paid ourselves by the hour, we would have been making 10 cents an hour. Money was the least benefit derived from our busi­ness," he added. "The experience in running a business and seeing the end result of the charity work outranked any financial gains made." 
A third successful student business is known professionally as "The Only DJ's That Matter." Don Seymour, Pat Murphy and Tito Hizon are seniors who pro­vide a disc jockey service for campus formals, SYRs and other class gatherings. 
Seymour and Murphy, who work at student radio station WVFI, st~rted the business during the second semester of their sophomore year. Because both of them had a turntable and a sizable record collection, they invested $350 in a sound mixer. After deciding to rent . speakers and power amps, the business was launched. Since that time the fi;m has expanded to include one new member, a cassette deck, countless new records and their own speak­ers and amps, Seymour said. 
Seymour explained that "as soon as the equipment was paid off the business became pure pro­fit. We do quite well." The trio cover an average of 12 to is dances a semester. This semester the firm entertained at thre; events in the first week of school. 
He attributes this success to professionalism, word-of-mouth recommendations and dedication to pleasing the crowd. "We take pride in our flexibility and have 
the ability to play almost any requests. We adjust to the crowd noting their reactions and th; number of people we attract to the dance floor." 
The business is not only suc­cessful, Seymour said, "We love it. 1:his is the most enjoyable job I've 
ever  had.  I'm getting paid  to do  
something  I love to do."  
23  



Sushi, Anyone? 
By Mike Riegler 

A Student Describes His Unusual Experience On The Foreign Studies Program Trip To Japan 
Today when Americans think of Japan, pictures of short men with funny hairstyles carrying swords, ladies wearing beautiful kimonos and raw fish may come to mind. Many Ameri­cans derive their knowledge of Japan from James Clavell's "Sho­gun," picturing the good samurai fighting the villianous samurai. Yet, Japan has changed, and today's samurai wear pinstripes and carry a baseball glove. 

As a sophomore, I became intrigued with Clavell's descrip­tion of primitive Japan. When the "sameness" of Notre Dame that year hinted at what my junior year had in store, I grew hungry for a change, and took my notions of Japan with me on the foreign stu­dies program. 
Whereas other students chose to become part of Notre Dame's "London quad," the Sisters of Fate lead me to the Orient. I got myself a nice kimono and one of those motivational haircuts, and I was set. Little did I know that my sojourn to the East would open my eyes and give the word "different" a totally new meaning. 
After getting the textbook version of Japan from my classes, I decided to develop my language capacity and my understanding of everyday Japanese life. This deci­sion compelled me to get a job in 

Japan at a restaurant. This experi­ence taught me a lot about the people and afforded me an insider's view of the Japanese work atmosphere. 
Working in Japan is very dif­ferent from working in America. The most noticeable contrast is in the worker-employee relationship. For example, the head cook and the manager at the restaurant were interested in me not simply as a employee, but as a person. I can recall occasions when my . co­workers almost forced me to go home early to study for a test despite the fact that the restaurant was very busy and my assistance was needed. 
Almost ritualistically, the Saturday after payday "the boys" (including the owner) would go midnight bowling. Although the restaurant was a small business, this weekly event is representative of the typical working relations that govern the large industrial operations in Japan as well. The concern shown by my employer sharply contrasted my experiences with American employers, whom I knew only through signatures on my checks. 
My job experience enabled me . to make some good friends abroad and witness the fundamen­tal working structure of a foreign country, but it was my experi­ence living with a foreign family, the Toyamas, that taught me the most about daily life in Japan. Again the Japanese showed an unusual amount of warmth, treat­ing me like a member of the fam­ily. 
Every morning the day started off cordially with a cheerful "good morning." When eating, we all as on c group gave thanks, and aftcr the meal, we thanked Mrs. Toyama for her efforts. 
Before going anywhere, we let each other know we were leaving and cited our destination.Everyone would reply, saying something like, "Goodbye and take care." _When we returned, we announced our presence, and those who were home would welcome us back. Before retiring for the evening, we would find the other family members to say goodnight. Overall, the Japanese appeared to have a great deal of concern for each other. The impact of this environment led me to be more sensitive to how I treat others. 
It is difficult to find the words to describe my wonderful experiences in Japan. The whole idea of reaching into and explor­ing a culture totally different from my own made every day an excit­ing adventure. I was able to move closer to the East without 
permanently leaving the West, 
affording me a glimpse of a world 
very divergent from my own. It 
was a trip I would highly recom­
mend. 



24 

Have An Event You Want The Whole Campus To 
Know About? 
Put It In Scholastic's Calendar 
Brings Items With Times And Dates At Least Two Weeks In Advance To The Scholastic Offices On Third Floor LaFortune 

I 
-=·· 
~.'._J,~ ~e:..i 





