THE METRE KAMI
SCHOLASTIC
---------NDTDE I VHI . IND.-
★	K. of C. Semi-Formal Bids at $3.60
★	V-I2 Weekend One Week Away ★ Examination Schedule Announced
Photo by Renaud
The V-1 2 "Winter Frolics" Weekend Committee Chairmen
Vol. 83, No. 9
Jan. 19, 1945
^he SNotre ^bame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
College Parade
...By Harry Walters
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND -	-	-	- Navy Associate Editor
ROBERT RIORDAN ----- Managing Editor BILL WADDINGTON ------ Sports Editor BOB O'TOOLE ----- Circulation Manager AL KUENZLI ----- Advertising Manager
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY ----- Observations JOHN POWER -	-	-	-	-	- The Green Banner
HARRY WALTERS	-	-	-	-	The College Parade
GEORGE KRAUSER	- Splinters from the Press Box
ART WAGNER	Swabbies Log
CONTRIBUTORS
HARRY SIEMONSMA ROBERT MOLNAR FRANK GRIMALDI JACK McGRANE
ENRIQUE LULLI BOB COCHRAN JACK MILES TOM McNALLY JIM CAREY
RALPH HAYMAN RON BYERSMITH JOE BRESLAW JOHN FEENEY
PHOTOGRAPHY
CHARLES RENAUD
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C.
FRANCIS GUIDO
Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue. New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
2
WE WOULDN'T ADVISE IT BUT—
The Auburn Plainsman lists the following as the proper etiquette for men at a formal dance:
Proper Etiquette at Formal Dance—Men
As every male knows, there are three prerequisites absolutely essential before entering the ballroom. They are, briefly; (1) wear sports clothes, (2) be thoroughly polluted, and (3) fail to bring your bid.
After an uneventful entrance, during which you threaten the doorman and others with your brass knucks, you stroll snobbishly into the crowded area immediately in front of the bandstand and proceed to dance. (Note: in case of stairs, be certain to walk slightly to the rear of your date in order to step on her dress, especially if it is strapless).
At this point it is necessary to go into detail on the subject of Attitude While Dancing. First, always dance slow to fast music and vice versa; second, sing or hum loudly in your date’s ear continuously; third, look miserably at everyone who passes in range. Should anyone bump you, break away from your date and bump him viciously, snarling meanwhile. If the band starts playing a novelty number and everyone stops to gather around, you should begin jitterbugging, never leaving the crowded area and making certain to; (1) kick as many people as possible, and (2) yell and make more noise than the orchestra.
After five pieces, if no one has offered to cut in, you have several alternatives; (1) grab everyone who comes by and introduce him to your date, (2) wave a pack of cigarettes behind her back, (3) pick a fight with someone nearby, (4) pull a sick act and run for the nearest exit, or (5) simply faint temporarily. One of these methods always works, so for the next hour, you merely walk in a straight line back and forth across the middle of the dance floor, hesitating at every couple long enough to catch the girl’s eye. Show no signs of recognition, and if she smiles, simply turn away coldly and continue to walk.
Between the numbers you must ask every girl you see for the next no-break, and after being in the lead-out with the most unattractive girl you can find, be sure to accept the first offer to retire to the local brew mill for refreshments. The rest of the evening will take care of itself.
G.I. STUDY PLAN BIG SUCCESS
From an official U. S. Army Air Corps press release, we learn that—
Officers and enlisted men at a Liberator air base in England, one of the strategic air depots in Brigadier General Donald R. Goodrich’s Eighth Air Force Service Command, are preparing now foi' a successful readjustment to the postwar world!
Technicians and mechanics, whose duties are servicing and maintaining Liberator bombers, are eagerly attending classes, during their off-duty hours, in almost every phase of education.
This schooling is made possible by the Armed Forces Institute, which supplies new, up-to-date, attractive textbooks. Classes are organized by the base Special Service Officer, who arranges classroom facilities, and engages instructors among qualified personnel. There is no cost whatever attached to the courses.
(Continued on page 19)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 83
JANUARY 19, 1945
No. 9
Department of Architecture Wins Medal
Seniors and Juniors
Invited to Parish Dance
The girls of Holy Cross Parish have invited the juniors and seniors of Notre Dame to an informal dance to be held at Holy Cross Church tonight at 8:30.
There will be refreshments and no admission will be charged. Instructions, as to how to reach Holy Cross Church, will be found on the bulletin board in Sorin Hall.
Lieut. Frank Leahy
Here for Short Visit
Lieut. Frank Leahy, head coach and director of athletics, on leave of absence for the duration, arrived in South Bend this week from his post in the Pacific on official navy business, the nature of which he was not allowed to divulge.
Lieut. Leahy made the trip from Pearl Harbor by plane and Navy Air Transport Service. When being interviewed, he was emphatic in the belief that the fighting men of all branches of the service are enthusiastic supporters of sports. He also said that it would be a blow to their morale if it were found necessary to eliminate sports from the scene of war-time America.
He is officially charged with the duty of setting up and supervising athletic programs at submarine bases in the Pacific. He has a copy of the film “Highlights of 1943” which shows the outstanding moments in the 1943 Notre Dame football season, and he shows the film wherever he goes in the Pacific.
In his travels around the area he has often met men who have worn the colors of the Irish under him, and these include men like Marine Lt. Angelo Bertelli and Lieut. Tom Brock.
Lieut. Leahy expects to return to Hawaii in about two weeks.

The Notre Dame casualties to date
number 167 killed in action, 30 missing in action, and 26 prisoners of war. The
following are the latest casualties reported:
★ 165 Pvt. Robert L. Aimone, ex ’45, Leonia, N.J., was killed in action on Nov. 26, 1944. He was attached to the infantry and with General Patton’s
3rd army.
★	166 Chief Storekeeper Angelo De Marco, ex. ’41, Chicago, Ill., was killed in a truck accident in North Africa on Dec. 23, 1944.
★	167 Cpl. Norbert James Spencer, ’40, Indianapolis, Ind., was killed in action on Dec. 15, 1944 in France. He was with the infantry.
Missing in action are the following:
Lt. Louis John Bemish, ’39, Rochester, New York, is missing in action over the European theater of war.
Lt. John Joseph Bishop, ex. ’44, West Brighton, New York, is missing in action. He was in the U. S. Marine Corps.
John Roger Keane, ex. ’45, Garden City, New York, is missing in action according to word received by Father Craddick.
Ens. Jeremiah John Killigrew, ’43, Hobart, Ind., missing in action according to word received by Fr. Craddick.
Lieut. Eugene Robert Killoren, ex. ’45, Appleton, Wis., missing in action. He was in the Army Air Corps.
Lieut. John Harold Tallett, ’43, North Chicago, Ill., previously reported lost in action is now missing in action.
—Harry Siemonsma
Award to be Made at the February Convocation
Winner of the annually awarded University Medal of the Societe des Ar-chitectes Diplomes par le Gouvernement Francais (American Group) is the Department of Architecture of the University of Notre Dame, according to word received at Notre Dame this week from Leopold Arnaud, president of the Societe.
It has been announced by Professor Francis W. Kervick, head of the University’s department of Architecture, that presentation of the medal will be made at convocation exercises to be held at the conclusion of the present semester on Feb. 28.
Expressing his pleasure at the decision of the Society’s committee on Awards, Mr. Arnaud wrote: “I congratulate you and your faculty most sincerely on this achievement, and realize that it was because of good work, together with the whole-hearted spirit of the student body that made this success possible.”
An individual student medal has been awarded to Clayton M. Page, who studied at Notre Dame while a member of the marine detachment of the V-12 unit. Mr. Page, native of Minneapolis, Minn., was awarded the honor for having received the second highest number of Beaux-Arts judgments during the school year 19431944.
Founded by Mr. Henry Schlacks, a Chicago architect, in 1898, Notre Dame’s Department of Architecture graduated its first pupil, Eugenio Rayneri, in 1904. Mr. Rayneri, native of Cuba, later won fame as architect for government buildings, designing among them the federal capitol at Havana. In 1908 Professor Francis W. Kervick joined the faculty, and began expansion of the department.
The Department of Architecture is affiliated with the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture and with the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design. It is in conjunction with the latter that the present awards have been made.
3
Prof. Yves Simon Praised as "Philosopher of Fighting French" in Leaflet Received Here
A leaflet dropped on France previous to the Allied invasion forwarded to the University of Notre Dame this week, praised the work of Yves Simon, now professor of philosophy at the University, for his part in “keeping alive the. light of the French cause in the United States.”
Accord, the fifth edition of the small propaganda magazine, was compiled by the French and English and carried to its destination by members of the RAF. In the magazine, an anonymous article
Schedule of Semester Examinations
University of Notre Dame
February
1945
The examinations for this winter semester of 1944-45 will be held in all colleges and the graduate school of the University on the Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday of February 21 to 27, according to the following schedule:
NO CHANGES WILL BE PERMITTED. PLEASE DO NOT ASK FOR ANY.
Any examination outside the time designated for it in the foregoing schedule will not be valid for credit. — The period of each semester examination is one hour and fifty minutes. — Monday in the first column of the schedule means Monday, Wednesday, or Friday, and Tuesday means Tuesday, Thursday or Saturday.—Students must take their examinations with their proper sections in all instances.
Director of Studies
4
Classes taught at	will ।	be examined at	Date
8: CO on Monday	8:00	on Wednesday	February 21
9:00 on Monday	8:00	on Friday	February 23
10:00 on Monday	10:00	on Wednesday	February 21
11:00 on Monday	10:00	on Friday	February 23
1:15 on Monday	1:15	on Wednesday	February 21
2:15 on Monday	1:15	on Friday	February 23
3:15 on Monday	3:15	on Wednesday	February 21
4:15 on any day	8:00	on Saturday	February 24
Classes taught at	will be examined at		Date
8:00 on Tuesday	8:00	on Thursday	February 22
9:00 on Tuesday	. 8:00	on Tuesday	February 27
10:00 on Tuesday	10:00	on Thursday	February 22
11:00 on Tuesday	10:00	on Tuesday	February 27
1:15 on Tuesday	’	1:15	on Monday	February 26
2:15 on Tuesday	’	3:15	on Monday	. February 26
3:15 on Tuesday	3:15	on Friday	February 23
Any Classes in			
Mathematics			
(except Math. B,	2:00	on Thursday	February 22
8n and 9n)			
All classes in			
Physics 21, 22,			
25, and 26	9:00	on Monday	February 26
Naval Organization	10:00	on Saturday	February 24
Any class taught	7:00	p.m. on	
after 5:00 p.m.	Thursday		. February 22
entitled “French Thought in the United States,” also lauded the work of Jacques and Raisa Maritain, Paul Vignaux, and others who have lived in exile in America.
The author pointed out that Mr. Simon has become known as the “philosopher of the Fighting French,” and that he, Simon, “would not have been happy had he not done more than that which in former years earned him the title, ‘the philosopher for the philosophers’.”
Fr. O'Donnell Appointed to Research Committee
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, has accepted an appointment to a special committee of the government’s Office of Scientific Research and Development, it was announced today at Notre Dame, and will attend the first meeting of the group in New York City on Thursday.
The committee was formed at the suggestion of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, and the appointments were made by Dr. Vannevar Bush, director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development. The primary function of the committee will be to advise the government what it can do, now and in the post war period, to aid research activities by public and private organizations.
The committee will be a small and selected group of men from educational and scientific fields, and its chairman will be Dr. Isaiah Bowman, president of Johns Hopkins University.
Spotlight Band to Play for Navy Tomorrow Nite
The Victory Parade of Spotlight bands, musical program sponsored by the Coca Cola Bottling company and featured Monday through Saturday over 177 stations of the Blue Network will make its first appearance at the Notre Dame Naval School tomorrow in the Navy Drill Hall.
Featured on the Notre Dame edition of the Spotlight will be Sonny Dunham and his orchestra, a new organization which is reported as one of the best young orchestras now advancing toward top-flight rating. The Dunham group has appeared at theaters and supper clubs throughout the East and on the West Coast. Sonny was long highlighted as the featured trumpeter with Glen Gray’s band and later left the Gray unit to form his own band with himself as leader and trombonist.	«
Provisions have been made for each Naval trainee to attend with one or two guests and accommodations have been arranged in the Drill hall for a large turnout. Trainees are advised to contact their company officers and to advise them how many guests they will be escorting.
The Spotlight Band’s program is one of the most popular music programs on the air and features a different name band, each night, from the various Army, Navy and Marine camps throughout the country as well as many of the large war plants. Time, 7:30 p.m.
"Winter Frolics" Nears Grand Opening
The crescendo of ballyhoo surrounding the fifth V-12 ball has reached a maximum as the magic date of Jan. 26 moves closer and closer till it now is only one week away. Preparations have swept past the quarterpole and into the home stretch with all odds pointing toward a stretch-drive that will bring the “Winter Frolics” home in front as the prime social event of the Navy semester, if not in the history of the unit.
The committee is stocking up on aspirin and adrenalin in anticipation of a last hectic 168 hours which now form the prelude to the first bar of “Racing with the Moon.” Ray “The dealer'” Michols after spending a good percentage of his time in an atmosphere of type setters and printer’s ink, finally has the ducats printed and is now engaged in a hot campaign to exchange each ticket for a five spot. In spite of a conspicuous absence of Annie Oakleys and complimentary tickets, sales so far have resembled those of a Sinatra matinee in Brooklyn and a movement is now under way to install elastic walls in the Drill Hall.
Big John Cahill is currently dispensing a quart of perspiration a day in last arrangements for housing and refreshments. John has so far been able to supply lodging for all imports in local inns, but provisions will be made for tents, caves, and trailer camps in case of last minute rushes. “Nothing potent” is John’s motto for the punch bowl and several Athletic Specialists will be on hand to see that the fruit juice does not become lethal.
Link and McConaha have set aside a fleet of busses and cabs for Ball transportation. All busses will drive directly to the Drill Hall on the night of the ball and a limited supply of cabs will be available before and after the Ball. Two special Navy busses will make trips to St. Mary’s to accommodate those dating at the “Rock.”
All those who can possibly procure private automobiles are urgently advised to do so to help relieve the congestion which may well result from over-taxation of local facilities. Wyman’s has a large supply of pogo-sticks, scooters and Irish-mails for all those who happen to get stranded on the big night.
Playwright Gunn is driving his cast through intensive last minute rehearsals for “Sailors on Parade.” Aside from prima donnas in the Floradora Sextette, all preparations have been in order and an extravaganza that would do justice to the Great White Way seeems assured. As mentioned before, the show will be
set in a night club atmosphere with trainees and their guests seated at tables while the show is staged on the floor.
“Silas Mariner” Comstock is dealing in figures usually restricted to Morgenthau in balancing the financial books for the affair. Ticket sales have now placed blue figures opposite all the red digits and the large budget necessitated by the appearance of an outstanding orchestra has now been safely met.
Bill Kornblum, music chairman, having already assured his end of the affair-as a complete success is now relaxing on his laurels with a Doivnbeat in one hand and a picture of Marilyn Duke in the other and that typical Kornblum complacency on his face.
Checking Chairman Kays is hard at work in perfecting precautions that will insure that Mabel’s mink wrap and your full-shaped flat hat come back safe and unruffled after the ball is over and Bob Carter is working on some distinctive and unique favors that will assure that all guests will have some suitable token to perpetuate the memory of an outstanding week-end. Suggestions already rejected by Seaman Carter include an engraved demerit card and a pearl handled slide rule.
Ball Chairman Gene Diamond may be seen at any time wandering about the
Quick, Let's finish our act; I just got an invitation to the V-12 Bail
campus hunting for an available spot to paint the words “V-12 Ball.” Diamond has employed the methods of the Democratic National Committee in making sure everyone knew the Ball was going to take place and WSBT and the Tribune are looking forward to the day when they can go back' to talking about the war again.
Dave Caplan is on Wall Street trying to corner the market on Orange Pekoe for his Tea Dance on Sunday. Dave assures all that the favorite hangout on Colfax Avenue will take on especial grandeur for the final fling of a big week-end.
Overseer and magistrate over all committee workings will be General Chairman Ed Brown who has taken to the black snake whip in driving the group down to the wire. Order has been brought from out of chaos and the well rounded week-end which has been the aim since the inception of plans seems assured. Chairman Brown has received the welcome and essential assistance of Lieutenant Northrup, recreation officer, throughout the campaign which has brought the “Frolics” to maturity.
Reports from New York depict Vaughn Monroe as reconditioning his trumpet and his tonsils in preparation for his premier performance here.
S
Civilians to Camp on V-12 Grounds Next Semester; Alumni First Floor to be "Retired"
BY JOE BRESLAW
Last semester the following was seen in the Scholastic: “Signs of the times; chnlian students picking choice rooms in Zahm and Cavanaugh halls.” This semester the same process is repeating itself, only in a different location. According to Father Kehoe, acting prefect of discipline, the spring term will see the first deck of Alumni taken over by civilians who are in their sophomore year.
Even though Alumni has been the very seat of Navydom on. the campus for the past two years, the V-12s will not feel that their dignity has been encroached upon in the least. They know that this will be a change for the better.
For one thing, those signs “Navy Reservation Restricted” will have to come down. No longer will the authorities be able to keep the swabbies tied down with a ball and chain, since the general public will be admitted. Perhaps the A.S.P.C.A. will come around, and when it finds out how badly the helpless V-12s have been mistreated by the Chiefs, the Chiefs will be put on a permanent E.P.D. list so that they can cause no more trouble. *
The people of South Bend will begin to take a real interest in the trainees when they find that they can come visit them. They will start bringing things that are hard for trainees to buy; things like cigarettes or bottles—of shaving lotion. Also on the week before the V-12 Ball “twelve hundred girls from the Servicemen’s center, 400 from Riley high, 125 from the Service Men’s Bureau, 30 from the Bendix Choral club and one from the Old Ladies Home” will show up to make the fellows’ sacks in the morning.
The fact that the civilians will be living so close will mean that the Navy’s grades will go up. As everyone knows, the civvies do nothing but study all day, and so they will be able to advise trainees just what to cover before a test.
Another advantage to the V-12s in the new arrangement will be that they can always count on one of their friends on the first deck to help them out if they need some extra clothes. If a pea-coat should get dirty and have to be sent to the cleaners no inconvenience will be caused to its owner. At musters he will simply borrow a light blue sport coat, put on a snappy red bow tie, and then consider himself to be in the uniform
of the day. This way no one will say anything about those white socks he likes to wear.
There may be a little difficulty at first for the civilians to get used to the routine, but that will soon pass. They will have to get over the feeling that there is a fire drill going on when the 0615 and 0620 bells go off. If it is hard to control the impulse they should leave the windows open so that they do not shatter the glass as they jump through.
It will not be long before they learn to love the gentleman known as J.O.O.D. After the V-12s leave for chow in the morning, he will come around and ease them out of slumberland. He will probably knock on the door and murmur sweetly “May I come in?” He will open the door without waiting for- an answer and quietly tiptoe in. He will then say “It’s time to get up now Willie. Please don’t make me ask you twice.”
When no answer comes from Willie J.O.O.D. may become somewhat aggravated. He will in fact step over to the washbowl, turn on the water, and fill up the glass he carries for just such a purpose. With a gleeful chuckle, he will empty it on Willie as many times as is necessary. After he accomplishes this good deed he will be off to the next man’s room.
Such will be life in Alumni hall next semester. Everyone will have a good time, and relations will be very cordial.
Semi-Formal Success
Last Saturday evening the Progress club witnessed one of the best planned semi-formals of the season. Many Notre Dame students were seen there, dancing to the music of Chuck Eaton.
This semi-formal was put on by the Juniors of the St. Joseph’s Academy, Miss Mary Joe Lahey being chairman, and Miss Marylin Brady, co-chairman.
Of special commendation was the painstaking efforts of the decoration committee in putting out a novel winter scene as the general motif. Three young ladies, Marian Schultz, Loretta Sabo, and Rose Marie Walsh are to be congratulated on an enormous volume of work well done. The dance was attended l:y 150 couples.
Aeros to Hold Dinner
The Aero club, local chapter- of the American Institute of Aeronautical Sciences will hold a meeting on Thursday, Jan. 25, in room 309 of the Engineering building at 7:30 p.m.
The last session was a record one at which 33 members were present. It is to
be noted that the room in which the meeting is being held is changed from No. 304 to 309 of the Engineering building.
The meeting will consist of a brief business discussion on the coming dinner to be held at the Hoffman Hotel. This dinner is scheduled for Tuesday, Feb. 13.
After the business meeting, Mr. Brown, head of the department will speak on his recent experiences in China.
All aeronautical engineering students are welcome regardless of year now attending.
Garry Addresses Forum
Members of the Commerce Forum met in regular session, Jan. 11, in the Lounge room of the Rockne Memorial building to hear Michael Garry, junior Commerce student from Fairmont, Minn., talk on “War and Post-War Financial Problems.” The Forum was honored with the presence of Mr. R. P. Kent, Ph.D., professor of finance, who gave many helpful comments following Mr. Garry’s speech.
“Some increase of our money supply during the war is unavoidable, since the war expenditures are so much greater than any attainable revenue,” said Mr. Garry. “Therefore, the only thing the government can do is to keep down the creation of new money to the lowest possible level. This plainly means borrowing as little as possible from the. commercial banks.
James Donnelly, Forum president, presided, and Mr. E. A. Smith was faculty moderator.
6
NROTC Books Eddie Stone for Ball Feb. 9;
Seventh Navy Event Tops Graduation Term
Notre Dame’s Naval ROTC’s Seventh Nav.al Ball will have the refrains of Eddie Stone and his celebrated orchestra playing for their semesterly event, Feb. 9, at the Service Mens’ Center. Stone, who has formed his band very much along the lines of Buddy Franklin, employing strings to form a well-balanced background, has just completed successful runs at the Aragon and Trianon Ballrooms in Chicago and at the Indiana Roof in Indianapolis.
With the “Sweethearts of the Strings,” Stone features arrangements that are quite uncommon in dancing circles where the brass has always been a predominant feature. With a definite undertone of brass, there is a more danceable atmosphere created, thus, Eddie Stone’s appearance at the forthcoming Nayal Ball will mark another “grand choice” in the array of various orchestras that have played at the past six NROTC events.
For Many—It's the End
For a goodly portion of the NROTC, it will be their last Ball, for only 20 days later, some 80-odd cadets will be receiving that coveted half-inch of gold braid -as they go out to serve as ensigns in the United States Navy. Many memories will be the goal of this seventh and final Ball for those who are about to leave and cochairmen for the event, John B. Caron and John G. Mack have promised just such an evening foi’ all ball-goers.
Once again, there is emphasis on the date situation. Many have already negotiated with St. Mary’s while others are
making connections in South Bend. Then, of course, there are the “usuals” who are
making the “importation” situation paramount, bringing their one-and-onlys for the affair. Still, there are those who
Co-Chairman John B. Caron
haven’t even thought about getting a gal for the evening—just waiting until the pressure becomes more intense, but boys, time’s gliding by, but fast! The price of the bid for the evening is a mere §5.50, and with the past Balls as criteria, there’ll be no complaints after the ball is over.
The setting for the extravaganza is, as always, a deep, dark secret that lies within the confines of the decoration com
Five Students Place in Beaux-Arts Contest
mittee. All that can be said at this time is that a new and novel innovation will come upon the scene.
Under the direction of Lieut. Anthony E. Coryn, the Ball committee shapes up with John Caron and John Mack as cochairmen for the affair. John Cassidy and John Kramer are in charge of decorations, while Rudy Anderson is handling the orchestra. Frank Gilligan is a general chaiiman and John Kearney is handling the tickets and finances. Bill Waddington fills out the list in the capacity of publicity head.
Story of Notre Dome Aired Saturday, Jan. 20
Radio station WSBT, South Bend Tribune broadcasting outlet will feature the Story of Notre Dame, third of the Victory Valley series tomorrow, Saturday afternoon, at 1:30.
Appearing on the half-hour broadcast portraying past and present Notre Dame will be students of the engineering, science, management and war training program, returned veterans, members of the Navy units at the University, and the octette of the No
tre Dame Glee club. Mr. An-huh Shieh, Chinese professor of engine vibrations and aerodynamics at the University, will also be a guest on the program.
Co-Chairman John Mack
It has just been announced that a number of Notre Dame students in the department of Architecture have received mentions for their work in a contest presented by the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design.
Jose Cardenas is the outstanding member of this University in the contest. For the coveted Emerson prize, the problem was “A Reception Room For The Department Of State.” The room, as designed by Cardenas, would have a floor area of not more than 3,000 square feet and cover the full height of two stories of the building. As the building reflects present tendencies of American architecture, the designer had a greater freedom in designing the number and shape of the windows. Mr. Cardenas ranked high in this problem.
He was also in competition for anoth-
er prize in the same class. Here the problem was “A Church.” The design which won honors for Cardenas had a seating capacity of around 400 people, a main auditorium, with seating entirely on one level, space for organ and choir, preparation rooms or studies for use of officiating clergy, boiler room, organ motor room, and minor service rooms in the basement. Mr. Cardenas also received a mention for his work in this competition.
In class C, several Notre Dame students ranked favorably. Here the problem was “A Workshop For a School.”
Joe Lang headed Notre Dame’s representatives in this class, receiving a mention for his work.
Three other students also received credit. Barney Slater, Wilson Chong, and John Marieth each received a one-half mention for their work on this problem.
7
Student Selections to Highlight Concert;
Bond Members Will Poll Campus Monday
BY OCTAVE EMOND
Mr. H. Lee Hope has announced that the student body of the University will have an opportunity to select the program for the next band concert. This concert, a special performance, will be presented exclusively for the students (both Navy and civilian), their guests, and members of the faculty. .
The band concert of Jan. 10 has provoked a considerable amount of comment and eyebrow lifting. Numerous telephone calls and letters have reflected the local enthusiasm for good band music. University officials have declared this band to be one of the best in the history of the school. Dr. Frank Simon, one of America’s foremost bandmasters, praised the band for its responsive attitude and was very pleased with its performance.
The student participation at this last concert, however, left much to be desired, and was in sharp contrast to the interest displayed by the several thousand residents from South Bend and
V-12's Bill Bacchus is
Appointed to Annapolis
“Have today nominated you as principal to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md.” These were the words that met Seaman Bill Bacchus’ eyes when he opened the letter' he received; it took him only a moment more to read down to the verification signature of Congressman H. Carl Andersen. Bill felt extremely happy and honored with the appointment.
Two months before, Bill had gone down to the South Bend post office to take the qualifying examination. He was competing against all the other applicants in the state of Minnesota since his test was to be sent back home. He knew that he would have to rank with the top four men or he would have no chance. This would be in accordance with the system of designating the highest four as Principal, First Alternate, Second Alternate, Third Alternate.
Had he ranked as an alternate he would have to take the chance that the candidates above him would be unable to meet the physical standards. As it is, Bill will not have to wait; he will enter the Academy in the July ’45 class.
Having this appointment, Bill would have been entitled to become a civilian for a time. He could have received a discharge in order to study for the courses
vicinity who braved icy roads and low temperatures to hear the band.
For this reason Mr. Hope has decided to present a special concert for the students and their friends featuring an allrequest program. Members of the band will conduct a poll of the campus Monday evening, Jan. 22, to determine the musical selections most desired by the students.
Each student may vote for 13 selections—three semi-classical, three modern, three popular, three „ marches, and one novelty. A list of compositions will be printed on each ballot from which the students may choose. However, everyone is free to vote for those selections which he would most like to hear, whether or not they are included on the ballot.
Although the exact date for this performance has not yet been determined, the concert will most likely be presented about the middle of February. Curtain time will be moved up one half hour for the convenience of the students.
he will be given at Annapolis. He has chosen however to remain in V-12, and continue with the deck curriculum until he receives his orders of transfer.
Bill has a brother who is now in his third year at Annapolis. His brother has taken an active interest in extra-curricular activities, for he has become editorin-chief of the school publication, the Trident.
Electricals Hear Hooper
Television was the subject of Mr. R. H. Hooper’s talk Wednesday night as he spoke to the electrical engineering students at the meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Mr. Hooper, a prominent engineer with the Radio Corporation of America spoke on the technicalities, the problems, and the advancement of television, illustrating his points with slides and demonstrations.
The topic was especially interesting for its timeliness since television will offer such a broad new field in the postwar world. Mr. Hooper presented an optimistic outlook as he predicted a bright future for the pictures of the air waves and the ever-increasing potentialities of this new broadcasting.
The bulletin hoards will announce when the next meeting of the A.I.E.E. is to be held.
Novice Boxing Tourney Set For Feb. 12-16
Many enthusiastic fisticuff-goers will have their opportunity to unveil their talent when the Novice Boxing tournament is held the week of Feb. 12-16. Preliminary training in the way of daily physical training periods in the boxing room is all that is required. Any student interested should attend boxing classes daily from now until the time of the tourney. Transfers to boxing sections will be arranged by your instructor if you so desire. Any civilian interested and not registered in a gym class should go to the boxing room and sign up for a daily class at his open period. There are four weeks of preparation still in store for any who desire to test their pugilistic ability.
The caliber of entries expected to perform in the February event will be strictly built around fellows who are eager to learn and who are in a sense “new at the game.” Any man who has
It Doesn't Take Many!
advanced as far as the semi-finals in any open boxing tourney on the campus . or has been entered in an organized tourney elsewhere is not eligible for-entry.
Director of physical training, Dr. John A. Scannell, hopes that there will be a good turnout. Notre Dame has always shown interest and has been well-represented in the boxing shows of the past. To the winners of this Novice tourney, there will be silver medals awarded the winners in each class and bronze awards for the runners-up. The individual abilities at boxing that are uncovered may be well put to use in the Bengal Bouts, Notre Dame’s No. 1 boxing show in the early spring months, sponsored by Scholastic.
The Novice Tourney will be held in the boxing room and no provision will be made for spectators.
8
THE JOY OF BEING A COLUMNIST
Getting out this column is no picnic—
If we print jokes, people say we are silly;
If we don’t, they say we are too serious.
If we clip things from other sources, we are too lazy to write them ourselves;
If we don’t, we are too fond of our own stuff.
If we don’t print contributions, we don’t appreciate true genius.
If we have to change the other person’s write-up, we are too critical;
If we don’t we are asleep.
Now someone in the crowd will say we swiped this from some other paper— Well, WE DID!!!
LIEUT. NORTHROP, MYSTERIOUS MOUNTAINEER, MR. X.
HOW ABOUT THAT?
Last week we came across a noon muster announcement which read:
Wanted: Trainees of the following categories:
21 Farmers, mountaineers and hillbillies.
2 Men with energy left after the week’s work.
26 Experienced square dancers.
83 Extroverts.
5 Exhibitionists.
3 Ex-jitterbugs.
All others who like a riotous good time.
Trainees with any of the above qualifications are .urged to attend a square dance. . . . The dance is under the auspices of the Service Men’s Lounge. Both round and square dances will be featured with a good orchestra. Mr. X, an experienced caller from the Adirondack Mountains, will be on hand to call the changes and to show the neophytes the routines. Refreshments will be served. Admission free.
What more do you want for nothing?
Who is the mysterious mountaineer, Mr. X?
Well, the refreshments and free admission sounded good enough and we couldn’t answer those last two questions. So, after qualifying ourselves by being unnecessarily curious and then squeezing this into the category of the “83 extroverts” we took in the affair. Of course, we didn’t know which way was up to begin with, but with all our confusion we were really petrified to find Lieutenant J. H. Northrop, alias our good recreation officer, alias the famous, mysterious mountaineer, Mr. X. He seemed to be naturally gifted for the job.
All had a swell time, most of us got out of the hall alive and some will completely recover; so this story has a happy ending.
ATHLETIC SPECIALIST NEEDS BUCKET FOR DEMERIT CARDS HE PICKS LIKE BERRIES!
The bulletin board read “Rise and shine!!! At 0614^.” Everyone subconsciously understood the “or else” and knew that the over-400 batter, the guy who picks demerit cards like berries— 93 out of 107 on the last inspection—the one and only “Zeke” Zuckowsky Sp/A 1c had the duty and was bound to it. It seems that in the past he must have had some trouble handling all those loose demerit cards and maybe even lost one or two—perish the thought—because this time he came prepared, aimed with a scrub bucket that would hold plenty of those little blue trouble makers (and he’s just the man who can fill a bucket like that in no time). We all love you anyway, “^eke,” and would hate to see anything happen to you, so be careful of those dark alleys.
UNQUOTABLE QUOTES
“Gangway! Officer material coming through!”
“Geet ’em out!”
“It ain’t necessarily Hummon.” “There will be no. . .
“Fall out for muster.”
“Big test today!”	■
“Gentlemen, I am dismissing you ten minutes early today. Please go out quietly so as not to wake the other classes.”
NO "DATE" SHORTAGE FOR V-12 BALL!
According to a recent noon muster announcement, there will be no shortage of girls for the V-12 Ball coming up a week from today. The announcement stated that anyone not having a date but wanting to go to the ball should contact the Recreation Officer, (your columnist, 148 Dillon, is the local competition) because over 1200 from the South Bend Service Men’s Center, 400 from Riley High School, 125 from the Sei-vice Men’s Bureau, 30 from the Bendix Choral Club and one from the Old Ladies’ Home have already expressed a desire to attend.
TRAINEES FOLLOW LIMPING
CADENCE CALLER
One of our best “Hup, two, three, four” boys in the business slipped on the icy pavement the other day and hurt his ankle. After one loud outburst of what could hardly be considered a desirable cadence, all was silent for a while. Presently the cadence was resumed, but with a characteristic “lame” unfamiliar rhythm—our cadence caller was limping.
A SNAP COURSE ? ? ?
Platoon mustering petty officer: “Squad leaders, report!”
Squad leader: “Two men is absent, sir.”
M.P.O.: “Hm! That must be one of those aero-engineers who is taking a snap course and has his head in the clouds.”
9
Ted Phillips to Play for the Casey's Ball
Dancers at the K. of C. Ball are in for
Brother Angelus With Ui
a thrill when they hear the music of Ted
Phillips and All The Lads the night of
Feb. 9 in the Rockne Memorial. Announcement was made this week that the band had been signed after the general chairman, Ben Mammina, and Grand Knight Rich
ard Sadowski had
heard the available bands in Chicago and selected this aggregation as “tops.” Ticket sales for the Ball will open next week, with bids going at $3.60.
At present headlining the bill at the Downtown Theater in Chicago, Phillips has a wealth of experience behind him in the business of providing smooth dance music for lovers of Tin Pan Alley and the Hit Parade. The band has been selected as the most outstanding to open at the Downtown in modern times.
Having played with Ben Bernie And All The Lads just prior to Bernie’s untimely death, it was a bequest in Bernie’s will which asked that the phrase “And All The Lads” be carried on by Phillips’ own band. Ted has also played with Teo Weems and Lawrence Welk.
The signing of this band assures the dance-goers an evening of rhythm styled the Glenn Miller way. All of the band’s arrangements are especially done for use by this top-flight band. At present, Chicago’s Latin-Quarter is angling to contract this band to take over when Frankie Masters moves on.
The band is composed of 14 men and a vocalist with the instrumentation at six brass, five saxes, and three rhythm, assuring a well balanced organization.
General Chairman Ben Mammina said late this week, “Interest in the K. of C. Ball is already high. If this enthusiasm and support continues to grow as we expect it to, this will definitely be the biggest and best Ball seen on the Notre Dame campus, since the war started. We feel that everything is in our favor, and we can’t fail to give the students a really great time Friday night, Feb. 9.”
McKeever Talks Before
Transportation Club
Last Monday evening the members of the South Bend Transportation club held their monthly meeting in the Rotary room of the Oliver Hotel with Ed McKeever as guest speaker. Coach McKeever illustrated his talk on the 1944 football season with motion pictures taken of the team in action.	'
On visiting the University’s Main building, one is sure to meet a gentleman best described by his geniality and friendliness, who beams forth in his every smile and greeting. It is “efficiencyplus” which tends to keep the affairs* of the Administration building running smoothly.
A volume of Notre Dame history is contained in his extensive reminiscing of his many past experiences. This briefly is a superficial sketch of one of the most beloved and popular personages in the one hundred and three years history of Notre Dame, Brother Angelus, C.S.C., diminutive University guest master, who is always found with a kind word for everyone, save the whistling student whose echoes resound throughout the Administration building.
Brother Angelus, the oldest living member of the Congregation of Holy Cross, has served in his present capacity for more than a decade, during which time he and his student-aides have directed thousands of visitors coming to view the famous Columbian frescoes at the Administration building.
Observes University Growth
Coming to the University in 1882, the same year that the famous Golden Dome was erected over the Administration building, Brother Angelus has become just as much a part of the building as the “Dome.” Being synonymous with the word “Dome,” he has been affectionately entitled “Brother Dome.” During this sixty-three years of association with the University, he has seen the enrollment increase from three hundred students to more than three thousand, in normal times.
It was just six years later, on March 19, 1888, that he made his profession of vows before Reverend William Corby, C.S.C., famed as the heroic chaplain who administered absolution to the members of the Irish Brigade during the Civil War, at the battle of Gettysburg, and for whom Corby hall was later to be named.
Of interest is a comparison of the campus buildings of the time of Brother Angelus’ profession and the campus as we know it today. The campus at that date consisted of what later was to be known as the old infirmary, the newly built Washington hall, the main part of St. Edward’s hall, and a portion of the main building.
it
Affectionately nick-named ' Father Sorin and Fathe Greater Post-
ir
ar

BY RAI
"Scholastic
at
Brother Angelus has the proud distinction of the few living members of the Congregation of Holy Cross who knew Very Reverend Edward' F. Sorin, G.S.C., founder of the University in 1842. He says, “I frequently served Masses for him.” It was at Father Sorin’s request that Brother Angelus was sent to New England as a representative of The Ave Maria, Notre Dame’s
Brother Angelus. C.S.<
Ini
10
iversity Over Sixty Years
')ther Dome," He Remembers )rby; Looks Forward to a
.ar Notre Dame
t JAYMAN
. ature Writer
Catholic Weekly.
Also during intervals of his career- at Notre Dame, Brother Angelus has traveled extensively. He relates many interesting experiences of his trip to Australia with three other Brothers of the Order. Other travels were to bring him to Canada and a return to his native Ireland.
For several years Brother Angelus
—Courtesy South Bend Tribune
Jniversity Guest Master
taught in the school of “minims.” The elementary school was housed in what is now St. Edward’s hall until 1920, when the College of Commerce was added to the University. Another of his assignments was that of prefect at Corby where he served for several years.
Treasure Chest of Memories
When asked to compare the students of yester-year with those of the present, Brother Angelus says, “Although the boys who are here now are constantly getting into mischief they do not ‘pull’ the pranks the lads the early part of the century did.” He relates one of these frolicsome acts when he recalls, “I remember the baseball games the boys of the preparatory school engaged in occasionally. We would invite some of the students of the college to come over and umpire the game. In about the fifth inning a shrill voice would be heard screaming, ‘Out at first base!’ The small boys would gather about the umpire demanding an explanation, but he firmly would deny calling the little fellow out. One day as I watched the game from the porch I discovered that the older students had taught a parrot to say, ‘Out at first base.’ Brother recalls many unforgettable associations with the immortal “Rock” and the exciting games that were played on old Cartier field, and the never-to-be-forgotten ensuing discussions of the game.
Looks Ahead
Although Brother Angelus’ past experiences are innumerable, his accent is on the present—new students, new faces; new names interest him more than the past, and it is only rarely that he will reminisce. He says he is too busy to look backwards. He has observed the transition from a peacetime University to a wartime training center without a falter. In fact, naval trainees who have encountered him while searching aimlessly for various offices or rooms in the Main building will affii-m that he has been invaluable in directing them to their destinations.
In his soft-toned voice, and with an air of pride, the diminutive guest master predicts the greatest expansion of educational facilities for the Notre Dame of the future, and it is not likely that all who have encountered the cheery smile, coupled with a kindly and gracious manner will soon forget one of Notre Dame’s outstanding gentlemen. •
Student Council Will
Sponsor Informal
After the first Student Council informal dance had been tagged a success, council members began preparing for the second such dance, to be held a week from tomorrow night, Jan. 27. This dance will be under- the direction of John H. St. Germain, representative to the Student Council from Breen-Phillips, and a committee of students from that hall.
The only major change in the arrangements will be in the time; dancing will be from 8:30 to 11:30. The dance will again be in the Rockne Memorial with Tony Bristol’s Cavaliers providing the music. Admission will again be §1.20 per couple, and the dance will definitely be open to civilian students only. Those attending the dance must arrive by 9:30 and may not leave before 11:00.
The success of the first dance was due in great part to the work.,of the Zahm Hall committee under Phil Luppi’s direction. A large backdrop was hung halfway back in the Rockne gym, providing a suitable floor- space. A spotlight from each side of the hall lit the patriotic emblem and a Notre Dame pennant in the center of the backdrop. Much of the work in decorating the hall was done by Ernie Zingale who was in charge of arrangements.
The size of the crowd which attended was a result of the concerted effort on the part of the ticket sales committee under the direction of Tom Jackson, with the help of Lou Mangano, Jim Clyne, Ben Muncil, and Frank Guido. -
Regulations governing the dance-goers at the next dance will probably be the same, and student council president, Robert Riordan, has stated that every effort will be made to remedy the transportation problem to St. Mary’s.
Plans are now being formulated to assure the continuance of this series after the Lenten season.
Russ War Relief Success
The recent state-wide appeal for aid to the children of Russia met with a heart-warming response, it is announced by the Rt. Rev. Richard A. Kirchhoffer, chairman of the Indiana Committe for Russian War Relief.
Citizens from all parts of Indiana assisted in the campaign which was for warm gai-ments in good condition, condensed and evaporated milk, tinned babyfood and talcum powder. Many such gifts which will be accepted throughout the year, are still arriving at headquarters here at 143 East Market Street.
11
*Z4e Qneen Qanneb
OBSERVATION:
“Back the Student Council” said the signs—“Let’s Go Notre Dame.” Ah yes, ’twas the first of the Student Council’s informal dances in the Rockne, and a very nice shindig at that. But where were the Council representatives? Were they at the Granada viewing Linda Darnell in “Summer Storm?” Don’t ask us; all we know is where they should have been, and where they didn’t go. If the Council persists in hoisting rah-rah signs and then fail to show up themselves, it is hard to see how they can expect the students to absorb and attend. Bob Riordan, prexy of the Council attended with a very charming young lass from across the Dixie, as did Jim Retter, but the Council as a whole, well!!!!
Credit galore for a solid performance goes to Tony Bristol and his aggregation who were plenty sharp with their fine arrangements. Art May played his usual mellow sax, Pat Wagner blew his usual brains out and Bill Orr was unusual in that he served as assistant electrician in turning out lights besides chiming in with the Cavaliers now and then.
JUST SIGN HERE . . .
Sunday morning, the lads out on the farm in Breen-Phillips rose early to sharpen their pencils and battle the snowdrifts, only to arrive at 10:11. As a result, said one of the Vets as his arm rested in a sling for the next two days, “Sign out for a midnight, sign in at the dance, and sign in late on Sunday, I’m all in. Why, I haven’t signed my name so many times since the army took away my dogtag and gave men a discharge.” A Sorinite’s reply, however, was favorable. Said the Sorinite, “This signing your name so often is good practice for returning from a bad Saturday night at George’s.” Said Ziggy in the Dining Hall, “Good idea! If you forget your dining hall book, sign here....” Said Fr. Carey, moderator of the Scholastic, “We can’t publish this.”
❖
IT'S A BIRD—IT'S A PLANE—IT'S—
The comic strip readers in Sorin are having a field day lately. John O’Rourke is having fits looking for Miss Fury in the Chicago Sun. Bob Snyder goes about in his winter helmet and flying jacket
while everyone tries to figure out whether he is Batman or Captain Jimmy Allen. Personally, I think he is said Capt. Jimmy Allen (no relation to Jack) and Dipper Evans is his “flying cadet.” All this brings back memories of Jim Clynes or Jack Armstrong, as he goes about chanting, “we’re the boys of Hudson High School.” Barney Slater displays his newest Little Orphan Annie decoder pin and claims he will take her to the K.C. Ball.
Columnist’s note: all these lads are normal, sane, and quite happy. ’Tis a combination of marijuana and six or seven consecutive semesters.
RUMOR WE DON'T LIKE TO HEAR:
“Five days between semesters”: absolutely preposterous. How could the same good gentlemen that gave us four whole days at Xmas be so harsh? We could answer that, but we like it here.
"Where do you think you are, at George's?"
REASONS WHY NOT TO WRITE A COLUMN
As the Scholastic goes to press and copy is needed, the editor clammers for the “Banner” as a fill-in. Little does he know that I am in a plight far worse than any which confronted Jim Casey. At least Casey had Dick Murphy, but now oooooh!
1.	Sorin scandal is scanty since the boys are still recovering from New Year week-ends. Even continuous copy such as Harry Ryan and Phil Martin have confined their Saturday night activity to Washington hall.
2.	St. Mary’s threatens revenge if one dares enter the hallowed halls again. Could it be that they will have their campus representatives Chuck Sartore or Red Schaffer throw me down the elevator shaft?
. 3. Editor Al Lesmez says I must be a cultured, refined, collegiate gentleman and then proceeds to censor paragraph after paragraph. So if we can’t write about Sorin ’cause there is nothing new and I can’t write about St. Mary’s ’cause • they are mad and we can’t construe official bulletins cause the editor say “it’s not nice,” then what can we do? Retreat to Rosie’s? Good idea! Let’s go!
12
K SPORTS
Notre Dame, Great Lakes Renew Court Feud
Tomorrow’s lineups.
Notre Dame	Great Lakes
Rntterman -------------F---------------Majorki
Dee ___________________F.______________ Cloyd
Boryla ________________C_____________-__ Budko
Hassett -------;-------G------------------Ajas.
Gilhooley______________G-------------- McGuire
Officials: Peccraro (Dallas). Enright (W. Mich.)
Tomorrow; Irish Striving to Even Things Up
BY BILL WADDINGTON "Scholastic" Sports Editor
Notre Dame’s initial appearance in Chicago Stadium tomorrow night, the first of three, will be against an old time friend and foe alike, Great Lakes. Only two weeks ago, at the home of the Sailors along the lake shore, the Fighting Irish came home the vanquished, but only after putting up a great losing fight, 59-58, a game that was climaxed with guard Dick McGuire’s desperation heave in the closing seconds that put another win on the right side of the ledger for the Bluejackets.
As it now stands, the Navy contingent has the upper hand in a series that started in the ’41-’42 season, “the Lakes” having won four and the Irish three. However, the funny angle to the whole setup is the fact that the Tars have won each of the first games of each season, only to have Notre Dame come back and annex the second.
In the first year, Great Lakes won 52-46 and then fell, 46-43. In the ’42-43 billing, the Blue and Gold dropped an overtime thriller, 60-56 and then returned triumphant in the second of the pair, 44-42 in another extra minute contest. Last year’s bookings found the Irish on the very short end of the score in the number one game, 84-48 until a fortnight passed and then Ed Krause’s boys astounded the cage experts by trouncing the Sailors, 54-51 in a Stadium tussle.
With the exception of the one-sided victory that Great Lakes achieved last year, there is yet to be what may well be termed “a dull contest.” Six points has been the largest margin of victory by either team in a half dozen of the seven games played.
,	Lakes Record Impressive
The boys from the lake shore have only two blemishes on their entire record of 20 games to date, the two setbacks having come at the hands of the Fighting Illini early in the season’s play,' when Coach Ch. Spec. Forrest Anderson, was still feeling his material out in order to find the right combination. Now, he’s undoubtedly got it for his boys have run up a string of 17 consecutive wins.
• Coach Clem Crowe, on the other hand,
has a club that wants to win every time it plays and against Great Lakes, there is a greater incentive for they mean “tops” in cage competition. A record of eight wins and three losses, and those
Coach Clem Crowe
only to the highly rated quintets of Iowa and Purdue plus the loss to the Bluejackets, is nothing that can be breathed off easily. The dangers spelt by Boryla, Hassett, Dee, Ratterman and Gilhooley are enough to make any club fearful, even a widely touted aggregate such as the lakes possess.
With the twelfth game of the season just a little over 24 hours away, it will be another week before the locals get into action again, this time with America’s No. 2 outfit, the Kentucky Wildcats in a game at the Armory in Louisville, Jan. 27. Home play will not be featured on the calendar until Feb. 12 when the Iowa Seahawks provide the evening’s entertainment. Northwestern, Feb. 27 and Detroit, March 6 remain as other home encounters.
In addition to the Great Lakes-Notre Dame game tomorrow night, the second half of the twin-billing will find De Paul’s Blue Demons meeting St. Paul’s Hamline Pipers.
Inferhall Cage Play
Nearing Playoff Stage
Interhall basketball last week was comparatively light, or so the scorebook seemed to indicate. Also, two forfeits were recorded.
In our frantic search through the official records for information regarding games of Tuesday, Jan. 9, we could find nothing save a practice game between The Characters and the Sorin quintet. The Characters triumphed, 33-27.
Wednesday boasted only one game, that between the Dead-eyes and the Harps. The Dead-eyes grabbed the decision 26-21, with Zimmer notching 13 tallies. Joe Gasparella led the losers with five baskets. The only game on Thursday’s docket saw the Mustangs decision the Palookas, 28-12. O'Neill led the charge with 12 points.
Forfeits were the order of the day on Friday. N.D.T.C. and the Commandoes both added victories via the forfeit route. The Zahm Blues and the Carroll Blues were the offending teams.
The Shamrocks and the Lawyers inaugurated Monday’s play with a fairly close affair, the Shamrocks finally gaining the nod, 37-33. Mammina of the Lawyers gained high-point distinction, however, garnering 13 digit?. The second game saw La Raza pour it on the Zahm Golds, 53-31. R. Duarte tossed in 13 baskets and three free flips to lead the parade. At least that’s the way it looked in the book, the scoring being a trifle indistinct.
Due to the Marquette contest Tuesday night, interhall competition was given a one day recess.
On Monday night, Jan. 22, the end of the qualifying round of the civilian tournament will have rolled around. Wednesday, Jan. 24, marks the beginning of championship play. The winners from each of the five week-night leagues of round-robin play will meet each other in a double elimination tourney. One game is scheduled for each evening, beginning at 7:00. The winner of the civilian tourney will then meet the Navy league win-nei- for the campus championship.
13
Scene Changes for John Donnelly as Grad of '40 Takes Over Ticket Manager Job
BY TOM McNALLY ■'Scholastic" Sports Writer
“Well,” Mr. John Donnelly flashed his ready smile, “I’m new at this interviewing business, but any questions you want, just shoot, and I’ll do my best.”
It was all over quickly and painlessly, and I left the office with the conviction that the position of ticket manager is still in very capable hands—Mr. Herb Jones, former ticket manager having been promoted to business manager for the University. The job itself, for those who don’t know, is one of the biggest and hardest on campus, handling the sale of games, home and away, of every Notre
Mr. John Donnelly
Dame sports, event. Besides this, it also has supervision over the Stadium during home football games entailing such a job as the parking situation, reputedly one of the finest in the country. Under its jurisdiction also comes charge of the travel facilities of every Notre Dame competitive team while on the road.
All this—and more—has fallen into the hands of John P. Donnelly, product of Michigan City, Ind., and class of 1940 Law School.
Not New In Athletics
He took up the story. “After graduating, I worked in the ticket office that fall and, following that, as secretary to Frank Leahy until July, ’43, when I became director of students’ accounts until a short time ago.” When asked what changes he planned, he stated that he was just going to try to follow Herb Jones’ methods as much as possible.
While attending school Mr. Donnelly was attached to Elmer Layden as a student helper and a student manager for foui- years. During this time, he and Layden became very close friends, and he recalls one incident in particular which he claims he will always relish. It was during one of the home football games of 1937 and Donnelly was seated on the bench next to Layden. Suddenly an airplane appeared overhead and proceeded to drop tiny parachutes, one after the other, over the stadium. Attached to each parachute was a product of a local bakery. As would be expected, the crowd was stupefied at this advertising stunt to end all advertising stunts and even the officials and the two teams stopped play and gazed upward. Again and again the plane circled while Layden became more and more disgruntled. Finally he turned.
“Donnelly, get that airplane out of here.” Comments Donnelly with a laugh, “I don’t know if he thought I was an anti-aircraft gun or what, but believe me I didn’t argue with him at the time.”
N.D. Goes Over the HillToppers to Get No. 8
BY JOHN FEENEY “Scholastic" Sports Writer
Notre Dame’s battling basketeers, playing at the local fieldhouse for the first time in 1945, shot into an early lead against Marquette’s Golden Avalanche and maintained that edge throughout as they sped to their eighth win in 11 starts of the current season. The final tally was 79-56, giving N.D. a victory margin of 23 points and setting the stage for the return tussle against Great Lakes in the Chicago Stadium tomorrow night. The Sailors whipped Marquette by ten points last week and beat the Irish, 59-58, on Jan. 6.
Spearheaded by the phenomenally accurate set shots of veteran guard Billy Hassett and greatly abetted by the fastbreaking tactics of forwards Johnnie Dee and George Ratterman, the rapidfire, and smooth-functioning Irish offense netted 35 buckets in easily out-pointing the hapless Hilltoppers. After only a few minutes of whirlwind play the ultimate outcome was obvious even though the visitors did manage to stay close until (Continued on page 17)
One of the main reasons our basketball team is doing so well is the steady brand of basketball displayed by Frank Gilhooley. A member of last year’s squad, Frank was given a hearty welcome by Coach Clem Crowe, who was'faced with the prospects of a completely inexperienced team.
Gil calls Toledo, Ohio, home, in which town he attended Central Catholic High school. He played basketball and base-
FRANK GILHOOLEY
ball, winning three letters in each. Upon graduation in 1942, he headed for Notre Dame to major in Business Administration and indulge in athletics on the side. He is now a junior, residing in Sorin hall.
Seeing Notre Dame trounce Michigan, 35-12, in 1943 is Frank’s greatest sports thrill. That, along with seeing Babe Ruth hit a baseball. Incidentally, Frank’s fathei- was quite a ball player in his day. He played with the Yankees, and roomed with the illustrious Bambino for two years. Frank’s ambition is to be a major league baseball palyer or a coach. His sports idols are Charley Gehringer and Joe DiMaggio, while Creighton Miller is the greatest back he has ever seen. He goes even further and declares that Johnny Lujack is the finest all-around athlete he has ever watched in action. Also, Gil rates Fred Waring’s organization as the outstanding orchestra in the land, steak is his favorite food, eating, the thing he likes to do most, and, finally, gives Bing Crosby a decided nod as the entertainer most likely to please Francis Gilhooley.	■
■*4 .
AIR WAVES
THE THIN MAN
“The Case of the Deadly Dancer” is solved by this smooth sleuth of screen and radio, on Friday, Jan. 19, at 7:30. Between clues, we find Claudia Morgan as Nora, Nick’s very interesting wife.
BUG-BRAINED EXPERTS
Tom Howard confuses his trio of bugbrained experts, and vice-versa, on “It Pays To Be Ignorant,” which immediately follows the “Adventures of the Thin Man.” The jittering jury includes George Shelton, Lulu McConnell, and Harry McNaughton.
STATIC
Phil Baker, emcee on “Take It or Leave It,” has finally discovered why pictures of Napoleon show him with one
It's the
Notre Dame
BOOK STORE
•for
Val&KtlweA
You'll want to send Home . . .
CARDS FOR EVERYONE N. D. JEWELRY BOOK ENDS SOUVENIRS PILLOWS
hand inside his coat—“He was hiding a cigarette!”
LAFF-FEST
Danny Kaye pops his side-splitting comedy on Columbia’s “Danny Kaye Show,” Jan. 20, assisted by Harry James and his Music Makers, Eve Arden, and Lionel Stander.
KERN AND PORTER
Favorites by Jerome Kern and Cole Porter are included in the “Saturday Night Serenade” Jan. 20 (8:45). Jessica Dragonette, soprano star of the program, sings Kern’s lasting favorite, “The Touch of Your Hand.” Tenor Bill Perry and the Serenaders round out the program’s talent.
HOPE'S DIGEST
Comedian Bob Hope will be the featured guest on “Radio Reader’s Digest” Sunday at 8:00. Hope’s article in Read-
er’s Digest magazine is the basis of his featured part on the program.
(Continued on page 17)
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Notre Dame
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
A recent impartial survey shows that the four Notre Dame groups represented above spend a total of $4,014,000 annually (a conservative figure) in down-town South Bend. Ask the SCHOLASTIC business staff for further information.
In This Vast N. D. Market, to Reach ’Em and Tell ’Em —
Here’s the Popular, the Low Cost, the Effective Way to Sell ’Em . . .
Aaueniita Im,
The Notre Dame Scholastic
96% Readership Among 4.200 Notre Dame Customers Telephone 3-1121, Extension 255
15
NTEPS
FRO/A TRE
RESS BOX
By GEORGE KRAUSER
In Chicago Stadium tomorrow night the Irish will seek vengeance for their earlier loss to the Great Lakes Sailors when they meet the Bluejackets for a second time. Riding the crest of a 15 game winning streak, the Naval quint has recently been paced by Dick McGuire, whose long shot in the final 20 seconds enabled the Lakes to beat the Irish in the first meeting. McGuire’s 14 markers against the Marquette Hilltoppers was a big factor in their 57-47 triumph last week-end. Previous to the Marquette victory the Glenview N.A.S. was walloped 81-59 by the Sailors, and the Ohio State Buckeyes overcome by 60-50 margin.
Swishing the nets for 94 field goals
MEN!
Here’s where you can get really good American and Italian food.
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED.
Make Sunny Italy a first stop on Your liberty night!
and 51 charity tosses, George Mikan of De Paul university tops the nation’s leading scorers with 239 points in 11 contests. The 6-foot 9-inch, bespectacled Mikan has now scored 996 points over a three year span. Last season he scored 436 points in 26 games as compared with the 271 markers he chalked up in 21 games his first year at De Paul. Trailing George in the scoring race are Bill Henry of Rice and Ernie Valverley of Rhode Island State. Henry has tallied 177 times for Rice in nine contests while Calverley has pitched in 176 points in only seven games for the never-stopbreaking Rhode Island Staters.
Notre Dame’s own, Big Vince “Bullets” Boryla, follows the top three with 167 markers in the first ten contests for the Irish. Two points behind “Bullets” comes Alex Groza of the Kentucky Wildcats, who was inducted into the Army Jan. 15. Groza’s total was accumulated in 11 games.
Speaking of high scorers, any college quint would do itself good to keep Barbara Self of the China Clippers high school girls’ basketball team of China, Texas, in mind. The Clippers who sport an 83 game winning streak, are well on their way to a third unbeaten season. Barbara, the star of the team, has scored 2,488 points in 3% years, and this season is averaging 33 points a game. The average would be still better, but their coach never allows hex- to play an entire game.
The future opponents had another' good week as De Paul and Kentucky coasted to easy wins. De Paul crushed Western Ky. State Teachers 65-37 as Mikan counted for 30 of the victors total. Kentucky rolled to a 66-35 win over Michigan State as they pere paced by their All-Southeastern guard, Jim Parkinson, who flipped in 23 counters.
Two other fiyes whom the Blue and Gold will tangle with in the next few weeks didn’t fare so well. Northwestern took it on the chin from the Ohio State Buckeyes’ to the tune of a 53-46 score and New York University was edged by West Virginia 41-40.
The cutting down "of unessential lighting will not affect night baseball, the war production board announced recently. No limitation of lights is required
under Mobilization Director Byrnes’ latest request which covers outdoor advertising, and ornamental and decorative illumination where electricity is generated by scarce fuels.
Sports value as a morale builder was given a big plug by Lieut. Frank Leahy, the ’42-’43 coach of the Irish eleven, in his recent return from Guam in the South Pacific. Concerning America’s fighting men, Leahy said, “These boys are hungry for sports. Sports events in America actually give these kids a great uplift and we of the navy who have been in the sports world agree that athletics in America represent the greatest morale booster that can be found.”
Michigan’s “Dead Heat Twins,” the Hume twins, Bob and Ross, plan to run the half as well as the mile this winter.
Notre Dame BOOKS for Notre Dame Men
Campus Centenary > Publications
An abiding gift with the flavor of the campus.
NOTRE DAME — 100 YEARS $4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. $2.50
The Set — $5.00 •
These books mailed in an attractive box. Direct orders to: PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
ooo
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
BRUGGNER'S NEWS CENTER 127 W. Washington St. "In the I. M. S. Building"
for those you want to remember: MOTHER, DAD, SISTER, BROTHER .. . and that girl you sort of go for.
16
Incidentally, the Humes, Intercollegiate mile-co-champions, also are the only brothers, in recent years at least, ever to captain a Michigan athletic team. They hail from Canonsburg, Pa., and their best mile is 4:14.6, but their coach, Ken Doherty, sees a 4:10 or better mile in the offing for them this season.
AIR WAVES (Continued from page 15)
Note: Lux radio theatre and screen guild players on Monday, Jan. 22 from 8:00 till 9:30.
❖
IN JUST A FEW WORDS
Bob Hawk, on “Thanks To the Yanks,” pointed out that the average woman has a vocabulary of only 8,000 words—“but,” he added, “it’s the turnover that counts!”
FAVORITE HIT TUNES
Your favorites of the day are heard on the “American Melody Hour,” Tuesday at 6:30. Singing these popular tunes are Jane Pickens, Evelyn MacGregor and Bob Hannon.
FOR AN HOUR AND A HALF
Three programs of drama and mystery hit the air waves Tuesday night. Starting the series will be the “Theatre of Romance” at 7:30 and from there to the “Inner Sanctum” at 8:00, and “This Is My Best” at 8:30.
SORIN IS SYNONYMOUS
Pert Kelton, as the mistreated “Mrs. Bickel” on “Johnny Morgan’s Show,” complained miserably: “the day I met my husband, I was down in the dumps. . . . I should have looked somewhere else.” . . . and speaking of Johnny Mor-
?	Specializing in the. ex-	A
Y	amination of the eyes.	Z
? Dr. E. J. Cain z
X OPTOMETRIST T
gan, he is on at 9:30, Monday, with a new boarder, who introduces new confusion into the frantic activities at Johnny Morgan’s boarding house.
N.D. TOPS MARQUETTE (Continued from page 14)
N. D. spurted late in the first period. At half-time the Irish had the situation well in hand, 40-28.
The Avalanche notched the first five points of the second period to narrow the deficit to 40-33. That, however, represented the losers’ last serious bid and even the loss of center Vince “Bullets” Boryla via the foul route failed to temper the Blue and Gold’s scoring rapidity
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Gifts
For Your
Fragrant Perfumes ______ Dainty Slips _____________
Brightly colored Scarfs .. Cleverly detailed Gloves Costume Jewelry _________
as the winners’ lead readily increased. Subs took over in the closing minutes.
Hassett’s ten swishers—at least six of them made from near center court including five in near-miraculous succession—set the pace for the Irish. He added two gift tosses for an aggregate of 22—his highest total in a single game this season. Dee and Ratterman pierced the cords for 17 each and Boryla hit for nine points before he was removed. His understudy, Bill “Zeke” O’Connor an-
VALENTINE GIFTS for "Her" —
Come in and choose from our fine selection ....
JEWELED PINS BRACELETS COMPACTS LOCKETS
KRAUSS JEWELRY CO.
207 N. Michigan St.
Lovely Lady
Valentine Cues for Cupid
1.00 to 24.00
3.00 to 5.00 . 2.00 to 9.00 . 2.00 to 7.00 1.00 to 25.00
7 Prompt Lens or Frame Repair & ¥ service in our own laboratory, A
7	212 S. Michigan St. A
J	Phone 4-8251	J
<0£ftoortlj’£f
17
nexed eight more while Frank Gilhooley and Paul Gordon, both primarily defensive players, each sank a fielder and a free throw to round out the total.
For Bill Chandler’s quintet, Pedro Prado, flashy forward from Puerto Rico, and center Larry Engbring were high with 14 each. Bill Chandler, Jr., son of the Hilltoppers’ coach, handled himself well on defense and potted ten points.
The triumph was the 29th for N.D. in a series of 39 cage meetings with the Milwaukee school. Last season the two clubs split a pair of tilts.
Handball Tourney on Slate for Jan. 29th
Handball practitioners will be able to demonstrate their skill in the forthcoming tournament which is slated to begin Jan. 29. Entries are acceptable up to and including, four o’clock Friday, Jan. 26. Those desiring to enter should turn in their names to Mr. John Scannell, head of the physical education department or a member of the staff. Both singles and doubles play will be held with interhall medals being awarded for three places in singles and two teams in the doubles event.
Hoop Tourney in 2d Round
The navy basketball tournament has moved into the second round of the round-robin. A double round-robin is being played in Alumni and Walsh halls since there are a greater number of companies lodged in Dillon hall.
The champions of the three halls will enter a playoff for the service championship. Results of early round games are:
Mon., Jan. 8—Co. A 41, Co. D 27; Co. E 36, Co. B 15; Co. G 35, Co. H 17.
Tues., Jan. 9—Co. F 32, Co. C 23; Co. I 40, Co. J 34; Co. B 25, Co. D 23.
Thurs., Jan. 11—Co. G 22, Co. I 20; Co. J 35, Co. H 24; RO No. One 29, RO No. Four 19.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
HARPER
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS* APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP____TREAT THE REAL CAUSE C*F RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
METHOD MEN'S SHOP
406-40* TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-SS74
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661 702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D. D. S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-620 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
Todo marcha perfectamente... Have a Coke
(EVERYTHING’S GOIN’ O. K.),
or enjoying a friendly pause in Mexico
In die famed Xochimilco gardens of Mexico, the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola is an old established custom. Across the border, as in your own living room, Coca-Cola stands for a refreshing interlude, a symbol of good will wherever it is served.
lOTTlH) UNDHt AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
18
Arab Orphan Looks
Forward to Notre Dame
Joseph Gaux, “G. I. Joe,” is 10 years old, a French Arab orphan, from Algiers and mascot of a B-24 Liberator bomber group of the Fifteenth Air Force in Italy.
Joe is strictly one of the boys and a part of their every day existence. He speaks practically perfect English using G. I. slang with ease.
During the fight for Africa Joe’s entire family was killed duiing one of the bombings and the eight year old kid found himself dependent entirely upon himself. Doing pretty much as he pleased and eating only what he could beg or steal Joe was just another war orphan in Africa, but to the kid with the Arab blood this didn’t make a lot of difference.
When the Americans arrived in Algiers Joe picked up English from the soldiers and earned an odd nickel and dime by doing little jobs for them. Before long the boys of a service group attracted to a curly head and a big smile, took him off the streets and out to their camp. Cleaning him up they named him G. I. Joe, and he remained with them until they were ordered up front. They left him in care of an ack ack outfit and when they moved to Corsica Joe went along.
He took part in the invasions of Sardinia and Sicily but found that too easy so he moved over to a Fighter Group then stationed in Sicily. He didn’t like being a ground man so he ended up by flying seven missions over enemy territory, before the official wheels caught up with him and put a stop to it.
When the Fighter Group moved to Italy Joe came along and after a month ended up in the hospital. When he was
Appropriate GIFTS for VALENTINE'S DAY February 14th
discharged he liked the hospital gang so well he decided to stay.
The field hospital moved to service the bomber groups in southern Italy, and Joe came along. Once more airplanes attracted him and he came back to the Air Corps and this time it was heavy bombers.
Joe thinks a lot of the American soldier and wants very much to go to the states when this is all over. School and eventually Notre Dame and their football team is Joe’s immediate perspective. He hopes the boss “President Roosevelt” as he calls him will be able to make it possible.
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from page 2)
Interest is so keen in the Educational Program that all allotted evening time is filled. Subjects taught range from psychology to meteorology, from business management to world history.
The astonishing fact to emerge from this program is the enthusiasm with which the men are seizing the opportunity to study. For the classes are not mandatory; it is simply an opportunity, and the studies must be pursued in off-duty hours. The War comes first; the maintenance of aircraft and the supplying of planes must be accomplished before study or classes begin.
Even though the soldier has his duty to perform first, he is using his treasured leisure hours for study. Thus, he is doing a job now, and at the same time he is getting ready for another — when he comes home.
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
Sixteen years of night class attendance earned a bachelor of business administration degree at Cleveland college of Western Reserve university for Mrs. Millicent C. Boning.
QaamiaaiaaaiitsaataaaaaatiaaaaatasaaaaaaaaataaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaataaaiaiiiaaataaQ
|	Remember	i
1	Your Date	i
CAMPUS DANCES
Let us help you in making a wise selection.
▼
WILLIAMS
:	West of the Oliver Hotel |
1	PHONE 3-5149	|
19
ENJOY CHESTERFIELD’S RIGHT COMBINATION * WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS
Copyright 1945. Liggett & Miers Tobacco Co.
The time is now Start right, swing your partner and catch the beat. ..
ONE — for Real Mildness
TWO — for Cooler Smoking
THREE - for Better Taste
One-two-three and your smoking pleasure’s complete.

