3
.ssfcMMfsssstssssasissMsssssssasstMW., I
It’s your	J
tapered shape	1
K and	your	$
hopsacking look	I
„ that get me...
1	s
I	t
ss> aw sss skj sss ss ssss ssss ,' % *
u
SSSS SSSS SSS MS? SUS SMS MW «S5 SSSS 88S?
sw msb aaa aw «a asa
g	S
|	Mother always	।
s	told me to	i
!	look for the blue	label*	J
Nobody’s really suggesting romance will be yours if you wear U.S. Keds.But it is true that Keds are the best-fitting, the most comfortable, good-looking and long-wearing fabric casuals you can buy. Because Keds are made with costlier fabrics. With an exclusive shockproofed arch cushion and cushioned innersole. In short, with all those “extras” that make them your best buy in the long run. Head for your nearest Keds dealer. Get that Keds look, that Keds fit...GET THAT GREAT KEDS FEELING!
•Both U.S. Keds and the blue label are registered trademarks of
United States Rubber
Rockefeller Center, New York 20, New York
The SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 104 October 12, 1962 No. 3
Discc Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
JOHN McCABE Editor
JACK AHERN Associate Editor
JIM WYRSCH ............. News	Editor
TOM HOOBLER ........ Features	Editor
JOHN BECHTOLD ........ Sports	Editor
JOHN PESTA .........   Layout	Editor
JAY WARD ........... Business Manager
PAT SAXE ................. Art Editor
STEVE ENRIGHT .......... Assistant Art
JIM GALVIN ............. Copy	Editor
RICHARD ROGGEVEEN .................
	 Advertising	Manager TOM DALUM  ...  Circulation
BRIAN BECK...............Photography
TERRY WOLKERSTORFER ...............
................... Assistant	Sports JOE RYAN ..........  Assistant	Sports
DONALD COSTELLO .... Faculty Advisor REV. JOSEPH HOFFMAN ...............
.................. Faculty	Advisor
COPY STAFF: Al Dudash, Dick Notebaert, John Pope, Jack Rowe, Bob Zielsdorf.
FEATURES STAFF: Brian Barnes. Jim Bonnybury, Dick Gibbs. Flank McConnell. Larry Sicking, Carl Wiedemann.
NEWS STAFF: Ken Arnold. John Buckley. Joe Caspar. Dick Connelly. Vince DeCoursey. Jed Kee, Bob Sumpbins. Dick Maher. John McAlearney, Richard Weirich.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame. Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the propel ty of the SCHOLASTIC.
OFFICE OPEN:
Sunday, 7:30-12:00; Monday, 1:30-5:30, 7:30-12:00; Tuesday, 7:30-9:30; Wednesday, 1:30-5:30; Thursday, 1:30-5:30; Friday, 1:30-5:30; Saturday, not open.
4
The Scholastic
EDITORIAL
Now that the traditional all-male cheering section has been infiltrated by women from across the road there is a chance, albeit small, that Notre Dame students will accept complete integration of the stands. An effective mixing in the stands would help alleviate the notable lack of natural, informal relationships among the majority of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students.
To date, the most glaring failure in Notre Dame’s social program has been the absence of opportunities for casual companionship with the SMC girls. Campus social events have tended to be either highly formal ox’ mildly barbaric, leaving no room at all for small, relaxed gatherings necessary to more personal and pleasant boy-girl relationships. In the past, special committees have been appointed to evaluate this situation and to put into effect such changes that might be required to promote a greater range of acquaintances, opportunity for friendships, and congenial mixed groupings. Each investigation came up with the same conclusion: the attitudes prevalent at both institutions among students and administration, must be transformed or the number and quality of informal gatherings will remain severely limited. At present there is only one readily available large scale vehicle fox' such meetings — the fine home games in the Notre Dame Stadium. We recommend that this singulax' opportunity for such contact be expanded to include a more social game atmosphere through integration of the two student bodies.
A change of policy has already somewhat altered the customary segregation of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame students during the years, and further institutional changes seem to indicate that there will be a closer relationship among students in the social area. Though tradition at times seems static, with
regard to football moves, in reality custom is in constant flux. Unfortunately, there is a vocal and active segment of the student body which advocates a maintenance of the status quo. Such a movement can only retard the development towards a more normal special atmosphere.
Integrating the student section would not be a drastic reversal of an entrenched rule-of-tradition, (for tradition is not binding but a basis for growth) but a beginning a long-range improvement of student participation. Temporarily, perhaps, the violent surge of student spirit might be tempered by the presence of 1100 women, but spirit and support shoxild be strengthened when Notre Dame students become accustomed to co-ed cheering. Take for instance, the case of such a stalwart football school as “Ole Miss” whose integrated stands are famous for their spontaneous and lasting exuberance in support of their team. Such mixed seating is a positive step towards the establishment of a satisfactory social climate here on campus at no loss to the traditional student participation in Notre Dame football.
Anothex' area in which informed get-togethers might be promoted is the soon-to-be-completed College Social Center located beneath O’Laughlin Auditorium. For this to be a truly valuable addition to Notre Dame-St. Mary’s social outlets this center will have to more than a substitute Reignbeau, that expansive corridox' between Le Mans and fresh air.
Rather the Center must offer students an attractive, convenient and comfortable place to meet and be entertained. Perhaps the modem decor could be complemented by casual lounge chairs and couches, with an extensive area for dancing. More important, however, will be the atmosphere generated by students in their use of the Center.
October 12, 1962
5
W
WHAT KIND OF MAN HANDLES A BUSINESS VENTURE BEST?
A midwestern college audience recently heard this answer in a talk by A.T.&T. Board Chairman, Frederick R. Kappel
"To us this is an important question because we hire nearlv 3000 college graduates yearly. To get an answer we went to our own files and examined the records of nearly 17,000 people. We checked each man’s compara-tiye success against what he achieved in college.
"As a group, the scholars won handily. Of the men who stood among the top third in salary for their level of experience, more than half were also in the top third of their college class. Only a quarter were in the bottom third.
“And contrary to age-old beliefs, extracurricular activities proved a lesser indicator unless the individual had an outstanding achievement. Mere ‘joining’ was not enough.
“The study indicates, at least as far as the Bell System goes that there’s little opportunity for college students
who practice ‘diplomaship’ — the belief that a diploma automatically leads to job success. Such thinking will not make telephone service what we know it can be.
“The men we want are men with intelligence plus those other attributes that give you the feel, the sense that they will make things move and move well — men who want to excel and are determined to work at it.
“Nothing short of excellence will do.’’
Frederick R. Kappel, Chairman of the Board American Telephone and Telegraph Company
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
6
The Scholastic
Forum
HUZZAH!
Editor:
The reasons for watching SMC cheerleaders are obvious and sensible: a step toward closer ties with our sister school, entertainment, and attenuation of student vulgarity. The cause of recent Student Senate opposition to this measure, however, has been repressed.
Their opposition was an almost religious devotion to football coupled with immature resentment of Administration authority. These Senators imagined the football field to be a sacred precinct that they would save from defilement by women incapable and undesirable of sharing the frenzy of the ND Pigskin Cult. Our Senators are now insulted that the Administration chose to act without the consideration of their devotion to Notre Dame. Poor noble lads!
Kevin Cahill 435 Walsh
Editor:
Your use of the term “admittedly partisan” in describing the remarks of William Higgs is quite an understatement. First of all, his assertion that former President Eisenhower “may have been a personal segregationist” is one of the more preposterous remarks that have ever been made on the campus. He does not produce a shred of evidence to prove this contention (for, indeed, such a task is impossible). This sneaky form of character assassination is only matched by the similarly extremist statement of others that Eisenhower “may have been a Communist.”
Then, to support his equally implausible contention that “any person who believes strongly in civil rights is out of his mind to vote republican,” he cites Eisenhower’s and Kennedy’s record on voting suits. First of all, he neglects to mention that the Eisenhower administration, in the six years following the Supreme Court decision of 1954 outlawing segregation, caused the schools of Kansas, Oklahoma. Texas, Missouri, Arkansas, Kentucky, Tennessee, West Virginia, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, and North Caroline to be desegregated. In other words, after only six years, integration had come to every state but the six of the deep South, where action was beginning.
Also, Mr. Higgs seems to forget the civil rights legislation passed during the Eisenhower administration’s final
(Continued on page 24)
October 12, 1962
On Camp® MsShuiman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
WHAT TO WEAR TILL THE DOCTOR COMES
Now that you have enrolled and paid your fees and bought your books and found your way around campus and learned to hate your roommate, it is time to turn to the most important aspect of college life. I refer, of course, to clothes.
What does Dame Fashion decree for the coming school year? (Incidentally, Dame Fashion is not, as many people believe, a fictitious character. She was a real Englishwoman who lived in Elizabethan times and, indeed, England is forever in her debt. During the invasion of the Spanish Armada, Dame Fashion— not yet a Dame but a mere, unlettered country lass named Moll Flanders—during the invasion, I say, of the Spanish Armada, this dauntless girl stood on the white cliffs of Dover and turned the tide of battle by rallying the drooping morale of the British fleet with this stirring poem of her own composition-
Don’t be gutless, Men of Britain. Swing your cutlass, We ain’t quittin’.
Smash the Spanish Sink their boats, Make ’em vanish, Like a horse makes oats.
For Good
Queen Bess, Dear sirs, you gotta Make a mess of that Armada.
You won’t fail!
Knock ’em flat!
Then ive’ll drink ale
And stuff like that.	.
As a reward for these inspirational verses Queen Elizabeth dubbed her a Dame, made her Poet Laureate, and gave her
* * *
Cardigans or pullovers—it’s a matter of taste . . . And so is Marlboro a matter of taste—the best taste that can possibly be achieved by experienced growers and blenders—by science, diligence, and tender loving care. Try a pack.
the Western Hemisphere except Duluth. But this was not the extent of Dame Fashion’s service to Queen and country. In 1589 she invented the laying hen, and was awarded a lifetime pass to Chavez Ravine. But she was not to end her days in glory. In 1591, alas, she was arrested for overtime jousting and imprisoned for thirty years in a butt of malmsey. This later became known as Guy Fawkes Day.)
But I digress. Let us get back to campus fashions. Certain to be the rage again this year is the cardigan (which, curiously enough, was named after Lord Cardigan, who commanded the English fleet against the Spanish Armada. The sweater is only one product of this remarkable Briton’s imagination. He also invented the glottal stop, the gerund, and the eyelid, without which winking, as we know it today, would not be possible).
But I digress. The cardigan, I say, will . be back, which is, I believe, cause for
rejoicing. Why? Because the cardigan has nice big pockets in which to carry7 your Marlboro Cigarettes—and that, good friends, is ample reason for celebration as all of you will agree who have enjoyed Marlboro’s fine, comfortable, mellow flavor and Marlboro’s filter. So why don’t you slip into your cardigan and hie yourself to your tobacconist for some good Marlboros? They come in soft pack or flip-top box. Cardigans come in pink for girls and blue for boys.
(r, 1962 Max Shulman
Dave Drubeck
I'm in a Dancing Mood
RayConniff
The Way Too Look Tonight
Miles Davis
If I Were a Bell
The Brothers Four
Marianne
Andre Previn
Like Love
Duke Ellington
Perdido
Carmen McRae
Patadiddle Joe
Roy Hamilton
Angel Eyes
Gerry Mulligan
What Is There To Say
TheHi-Lo’s!
Everything's Coming Up Roses
Lambert, Hendri^S
Cloudburst
ks&Ross
COLUMBIA SPECIAL PRODUCTS
A Service pt Columbia

Swingin’Soi
Buddy Greco
The Lady Is a Tramp

Great new record offer (*3.98 value)...just *1.00 when you buy Sheaffer's back-to-school special!
SHEAFFER’S BACK-TO-SCHOOL SPECIAL 1
New cartridge pen with 98« worth of cartridges FREE.
*3.93 VALUE FOR *2.95
Now when you buy your Sheaffer Cartridge Pen for school, you get 98e worth of Skrip cartridges FREE... a $3.93 value for just $2.95. Look for Sheaffer’s back-to-school special now at stores everywhere. On the back of the package, there’s a bonus for you ... a coupon good for a $3.98 value Columbia limited-edition record. It’s “Swingin’ Sound”, twelve top artists playing top hits for the first time on a 12" L.P. This double-value back-to-school offer good only while they last! So hurry, choose your Sheaffer Cartridge Pen from five smart colors... and mail your "Swingin’ Sound” record coupon today.
8
The Scholastic
campus at a glance
* The Scholastic printed in its opening issue an article on the Student Senate’s Mardi Gras operation. That article, written by James Wyrsch and Thomas Schlereth, both documented certain inefficiencies that had occurred within Mardi Gras and recommended certain measures to remedy those inefficiencies.
Happily most of those recommendations had already been enacted by this year’s Mardi Gras Chairman, John O'Connell. Only one of the suggestions was not adopted: a professional was not hired to head the operation.
Items: For the first time, Mardi Gras will engage an accountant, Tom Kirshner, of the University’s accounting department. Kirshner already has the budget, and once it is approved there will be no chance of loose fingers in the cash box. Each chairman will have only $25 petty cash for the entire campaign.
Each check in excess of $50 will be countersigned by Father McCar-ragher and two “high-ranking” student officials. Lesser sums will also be scrutinized closely.
Raffle books will be distributed, as usual, just before the Christmas holidays ; but, this year, each student will be held accountable for any books he takes.
Tickets will be sent to various girls’ schools. Fifty percent of the profit from these tickets will be kept by Mardi Gras with the other 50% going to the girls’ schools on the stipulation that they set aside 13% of their share to go for incentive awards.
Further purity measures:
At every carnival booth, there will be a law student playing guardian angel.
Tim Hadinger, the Student Activities co-ordinator, has been invited to every Mardi Gras meeting.
Weekly and, after December 1, twice-weekly progress reports will be sent to Father McCarragher.
All profits in excess of $30,000 will be turned over to the Holy Cross Fathers for their new Notre Dame College in East Pakistan. (Last year, profit was around $23,000.)
• Last week’s issue of the Scholastic somewhat erroneously reported that our gridiron’s hoofbeats would be tempered by the size 7 tennies of three St. Mary’s cheerleaders. But it seems that a few stout hearts were
raised to wrathful indignation. Petitions flowed like fan mail to Larry Finnegan. Zahm Hall was most emotional when it counterposed: “While the maidens of Saint Mary’s are certainly not unwelcome on the Notre Dame campus, there are certain areas in which the men of Notre Dame should maintain their position. The football field is one of these areas. Today’s sons of Notre Dame will rally around cheerleaders from their own ranks, as have so many before them. Give the co-ed cheerleader idea back to the high school!”
So on the Tuesday night prior to the Purdue game the student senate passed a resolution stating their dismay at the thought of three girls bringing out any sort of thunderous response from our Huns.
But there was yet a spark of hope
for the girls. Some noble soul who decided that the Senate’s outright disapproval would appear too snobbish decided that a referendum might soften the blow to the fair ladies. But Father McCarragher, with a “can’t have your cake and eat it too” gleam in his eye, cancelled the motion. So all the plans of mice and men were swallowed with a big gulp of cake. St. Mary’s comment: Cheerleading cancelled: unfavorable situation at Notre Dame.
• ROTC enrollment of the freshmen is 48% this year. It was felt that, with world conditions, the new ROTC information program, etc., the downward trend of ROTC enrollment would be reversed. Enrollment has dropped from a high of 53% two years ago.
Questionnaires were distributed to
the 52% of the class out of uniform. Six hundred and sixty-seven students replied and gave the following reasons for remaining civilian.
142 Parents advised against it.
46 Dean advised against it.
195 Heavy study load.	.
320 No interest. (At least, an honest answer.)
62 Physically unqualified.
13 Will enroll next semester. (Ha!)
3 Thought application for enroll-■ ment put me in ROTC. (We aren’t land grant, you know.) 108 Will take chance with draft.
(Academic deferments are still available. Get ’em while they last.)
32 In five-year program. Will consider ROTC next year.
37 Was not sufficiently informed or advised.
134 Present course of study will eliminate military obligation. (If you can’t lick ’em, ignore ’em.) 26 Am a non-citizen and do not qualify.
180 Other.
• President Kennedy announced last Tuesday Morning the appointment of James W. Culliton, dean of the college of Business Administration, to the United States Tariff Administration. (The Tariff Commission administers tariff laws, functions as an investigative and informative organization for the Congress, and from time to time conducts hearings into alleged abuses of the tariff regulations. It has taken on a new importance with the passage this year of a liberalized trade program designed to give the U.S. more flexibility in dealing with the prosperous Common Market.)
Culliton was graduated from Ca-nisius College in 1932, went on to Harvard for his master’s and doctorate in business administration. He taught at Harvard from 1944 to 1951 and came first to Notre Dame in 1951 as visiting professor. One year later he was appointed the first director of a committee to develop a new program for the College of Commerce. As head of this committee and later as dean he was instrumental in revamping the college curriculum along more liberal lines. Culliton is a specialist in finance and tax matters, and describes himself as a political independent. No successor has been named as yet.
October 12, 1962
9
Vatican Council 1962
by John Buckley
Today the world is in the midst of a maze of transformations. It is filled with technical advances, with a striving for materials goods. Man in modern times, with his victories over the immense universe and the infinitesimal atom, has in certain ways conquered his material condition, hi these victories many men have adopted a new conception: man needs no further end than this world; he needs no God to explain the powers of nature which he is now learning to control.
But despite these advances there are still problems. Man is in constant fear because of what he has made from the atom and because of the world conflicts it has engendered. And material goods have not brought all things to all men. Social injustice is deeply entrenched throughout the world. South America, many parts of Asia, and Africa have little claim to a good standard of living. Most important, Communism has made use of these failures to erect a social structure so potent that free nations have great difficulty in resisting its spread.
Into this situation the Catholic Church must bring the word of the Gospel; it must make the two-thousand-year-old message of the Crucified Christ relevant to the problems of modern man. Presently the Church is handicapped by a legalized form of religion set up by the Council of Trent, called as a reaction to the Protestant Reformation and the evils it protested over four hundred years ago. The Church has not advanced sufficiently in communicating the Word. The public media, which have so powerful an influence in modernday life, have been affected little, if at all, by the spirit of Christianity. The new conception of life has captured, either in whole or in part, the heart of man.
To renew the Church’s appeal to men and to rectify the imperfections always appearing in the Church be
cause of its human members, Pope John XXIH called the Second Vatican Council, which opened yesterday in Rome.	.
This is the largest of the 21 ecumenical councils in the history of the Church, with 2,800 delegates; for the first time, the representation is worldwide, instead of the usual European dominance. Europe, with half of the world’s Catholics, will have 38% of the voting power of the council, the Americas, 31%, and Asia, Africa, and Oceania, the remaining 31%. The pope has also extended invitations to leaders of the Protestant and Orthodox churches to act as observers.
The council (by definition a gathering of a majority of the bishops in union with the pope to deliberate about matters of faith, morals, and discipline) will examine the Church and try to make it a more effective vehicle of the message of the Gospel.
As at the First Vatican Council a century ago, the Scriptures will be the focal point of the discussions, for the Church’s existence must rest upon a firm basis in Divine Revelation. Behind every action will be the idea of extending the Gospel to the whole world through the flow of missionary effort.
The council was called to renew the life both in the interior of the Church and in its doctrines by their presentation in a form adaptive to modern mentality. But another goal is the deeping of the doctrine—not the condemnation of heresies, but the indication of errors hindering the spread of the Gospel. It is thought that this council will make declarations on the subjects of the Church as the Mystical Body of Christ, the relationship of the Church to Mary, and the relationship of the pontificate to the episcopate.
For many, the main question will be the position the bishop should assume in the Church. With the rise of Catholic Action, the importance of the bishop’s office has increased. Pope
John has said that the total episcopacy, throughout the world, shares with him the responsibility of spreading the Gospel to all men. It is hoped that the council will call for more cooperation between the diocesan and the religious clergy, so that the bishops might take into account the orders’ special abilities, and make the best use of them.
Other anticipated results are the definition of the role of the layman in the Church, his mission in the community, and the definition of Catholic Action.
Under consideration by the bishops at the council will be renovation of the liturgy, of canon law, and of ecclesiastical discipline, so that these will be suited to the needs of the time. Many hope that the Breviary for secular priests will be changed into something more sincere, to be performed less by rote. Some think a more meaningful ceremony for the sacrament of matrimony could be devised. The Index and the whole method of book censorship will probably be examined. Through the council, the Church will also try to institute a modernization of its moral structures; it will try to determine more particular aspects of the natural law.
Of course the council cannot handle every detail, or even matters such as particular Mass revisions (institution of the use of the vernacular, elimination of the Last Gospel, etc.), but it will study the problems on a broader basis, and the minor questions will be answered later in the light of the primary decisions. If the council delegates more power to the bishops, then the question of the vernacular would be better solved by them.
Along with all these proposals necessary for a better presentation of the Scriptures will be the hope that the Protestant and Orthodox churches will be pleased with the Council’s action and will work toward union of all Christians.
How much power will the bishops receive from the Vatican Council? Will the Church afterwards have total centralization in Rome, as it is now, or will all the power rest in the episcopacy, with the pope remaining only to detect and halt heresy? This will be the big debate in the council, with a large faction on both sides of the arguments. There will be need of much compromise in the next months, compromise through which the Holy Spirit, hopefully, will act to lead the Church along the right path. One such settlement is already talked of— national conferences of bishops (as are already being held in a few coun-
( Continued on page 23)
10
The Scholastic
Ecumenical
by Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C.
Thus
in
accord with this
thought
riage of purposes for any however Christ.
these two great ecumenical is indeed the new frontier Christian who understands, dimly, his relationship to
the not but
The following article was delivered last June as an address to Catholic women college graduates of the area.
Dialogue at Notre Dame
Recently Karl Barth challenged American Theology to a new confrontation with contemporary American issues. He said “If I myself were an American citizen, a Christian, and a theologian, then I would try to elaborate a theology of freedom, of freedom from any inferiority complex against good old Europe. You need not have an inferiority complex.” (Chicago Maroon; Vol. 70, No. 88; April 27, 1962, p. 1.)
He went on to ask whether such a specific American Theology will one day arise? He hoped strongly that it would. A particular area wherein American theologians have lacked alertness is in that of the ecumenical dialogue. I have been invited to tell you about recent ecumenical efforts at the University of Notre Dame.
Upon reflection Karl Barth’s challenge becomes meaningful not alone to the professional theologian but to all Catholics, indeed to all Christians who are looking for fulfillment, who are struggling against ignorance and searching for greater intellectual and moral awareness. For each person whose soul is inflamed with such desires this challenge has a very personal meaning.
Perhaps it will be helpful first of all to reflect on the purposes of the coming Ecumenical Council which has given so much impetus to such ecumenical discussions.
For this we may fittingly quote the words of His Holiness himself when he first described the scope and purpose of the Council... “ ‘there will be one fold and one shepherd’ (John 10:16). This irresistible assurance was the compelling motive which led us to announce publicly our resolve to call an Ecumenical Council. Bishops will come together there from every corner of the world to discuss important matters of religion.. But the
October 12, 1962
most pressing topics will be those which concern the spread of the Catholic faith, the revival of Christian standards of morality, and the bringing of ecclesiastical discipline into closer accord with the needs and conditions of our times. This in itself will provide an outstanding example of truth, unity, and love. May those who are separated from this Apostolic See, beholding this manifestation of unity, derive from it the inspiration to seek out that unity which Jesus Christ prayed for so ardently from his heavenly Father.” (Encyclical Ad Petri Cathedram of 29 June 1959; translated as Truth, Unity, and Peace, London, C.T.S., 1959.)
the first intention of the Council is to bring about an inner reform and renewal within the Church. In turn many who are separated from the Catholic Church will be strongly attracted to its beauty and vitality.
In our discussion we are especially interested in the efforts toward unity. We do know that any true progress toward such unity must be the companion of substantial and successful movements toward our own inner reform. Without our own spiritual renewal the dialogue becomes shallow but with the promise of an effective dialogue we are inspired to greater effort toward inner reform. The mar-
At Notre Dame we have been carrying on two different types of ecumenical dialogues in an intensive, quiet, and experimental fashion. In neither of these have we sought publicity. Publicity would have served only to misinform, confuse and perhaps embitter many who are adhering zealously to divergent Christian confessions. Instead we have established a dialogue
among learned men of many of Christian confessions to explore only the things that separate us
(Continued on page 20)
yes, I know
by COLLEEN
Women on Notre Dame’s football field! I think this is carrying the integration of the sexes too far. It may be that I just like the all-male look of the field or that I like the distinction Notre Dame has for having boy cheerleaders, but you are not a co-ed university and until we integrate classrooms let’s not the field. The three girls chosen to join your team did not appear at the Purdue game because of some misunderstanding at Notre Dame as to whether your student body wanted them or not. Saint Mary’s is divided in opinion. Some think it is a good idea, as the freshmen who don’t know what a ND cheerleader looks like; and others are all for maintaining the exclusive masculinity of your game. The mixed card section worked fine at the Purdue game but it only involved the freshmen of both classes who weren’t aware of their novel situation. I only heard one complaint and that was from a freshman who said she wanted an opportunity to sit with the upperclassmen. One suggestion I have is to simply have a date section where either our ticket or yours will admit students of any class up to a limited number.
The whole discussion of our little integration problem is insignificant to that with which we have been concerned these weeks. Thanks to the Academic Commission for following up the lecture by Mr. W. Higgs with an afternoon of talk with the ND boys who were down in Mississippi during the crisis. Our Student Council did a bit by telegramming the Ole Miss student body president expressing our support of Meredith and by supporting NSA’s movement to send post cards to Mississippi students.
Crates and boxes of prints of both recognized and obscure painters have been coming into Moreau Hall in preparation for the biggest art sale on campus. Mr. Larado, an artist in his right, has been collecting prints and touring colleges with them for years. He expressed his doubt that we would have the room to display all that he is bringing with him! Tuesday, October 23 from 1 to 9 and Wednesday from 10 to 9 the boxes will be opened for handling, searching and selection of the art prints you want.
Orders are made and fresh prints mailed to you immediately. The reproductions are said to be excellent and very inexpensive. All of you are invited to come and hunt for your favorite prints. You find it, name it, and it’s yours!
Holy Cross Hall sympathizes with you in the problem that six phones to three hundred girls presents. They want to save your time and dimes by asking you not to call CE 3-0602 any more because that booth has been moved into the entrance way and is reserved for outgoing calls. If you do get through you will only be told to call another number and your money is lost. To alleviate the entire phone probem why not write? It is good for the morale to get mail, it is less expensive and probably takes less time than your dialing and redialing now. Mail usually crosses the campuses the day after it is posted and sometimes the same day if it is mailed in the morning.
Two teachers you m.iy know because they are from your side of the road have joined our faculty this year. Mr. John Logan, your poet, is teaching verse writing two hours a week and Mr. Jack Cahalan, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1961 and received his master’s degree from the University of Toronto, is teaching in our philosophy department. At this rate we should soon have a regular faculty exchange with you, which I am all for. Personally I’d like to hear class lectures of some of your profes
sors more often, like the famed but quiet Mr. O’Malley.
A footnote to all of the succeeding columns is that I am not pretending to be the voice of Saint Mary’s. It is impossible and undesirable to have that many girls agree to anything!
“Pardon me, but I wonder if you’d like some help getting down from this tree.’’
i
KSH HEAR-SAY
It seems appropriate to talk about Ray Charles, since he performed last Friday night and is probably freshest in the collective memory of the demos. It also seems appropriate to take issue with an analysis of Charles which appeared in the last issue of the Scholastic in which he was described as a “violator of souls,” praised as a poet, and compared with Don Quixote.
Ray Charles is a musician, and a very fine one. He is not some sort of touring Bacchante, his music is not a release point for the inhibitions of bright young folk throughout the Republic, and he is certainly at his very best when he, too, realizes this. There is however, a lamentable trace of the entertainer in Charles, and this accounts for both his success and the depths of shabbiness — artistic shabbiness — to which he can descend.
College students tend to sublimate those tastes they share with grownups — with all grownups — because college students are not yet older. So that when a student talks about the profundity of Charles’ celebration of the life of the senses, he usually means he wants to hear “I Got a Woman” or “What I Say” (you know — the unhh! song). Now there is nothing really wrong with this; it lets off steam, it salvages a week of hard work and does no one any harm — especially Charles, who pockets about $2.00 per capita per chorus. But in the name of all that’s holy, don’t try to explain it as art.
When Charles is good, which is quite often, he is a fine piano player — not because of or in spite of the unfortunate fact that he’s sightless, but simply because he’s talented — a highly competent alto saxophone player, and a blues singer of terrific proportions. He knows the trick that all good singers know, that is, like Ella, Sinatra, and June Christy — and also William Warfield — he uses his voice like a horn, so that the words become relatively unimportant, as in decadent church music, and the melodic line and voice texture predominate over the song. The howls and screeches that have become a Charles trademark are an interesting index of the curious Carolingian artist-entertainer duality. They can be used
(Continued on page 24)
12
The Scholastic
time out
The boys in Morrissey basement have requested that we add a new feature called this week’s campus movies. This we are valiantly trying to accomplish, and it would help if those in the know in sundry campus groups would drop a card to 9 or 19 (take your pick) Morrissey about a week or more in advance.
Shying away from last week’s movies, (unless we get different requests) we will say that tonight (Friday we hope) at 6:30 and 9:00 the Detroit Club is showing North by Northwest in the Engineering Auditorium. For Sunday, the movie moves to 127 Nieuwland at 8:00. Good luck.
For music lovers, St. Mary’s is presenting Monte Hill Davis, concert pianist, at 8:00 Sunday evening in O’Laughlin.
The Avon. We have a couple of rather interesting ones at the Avon this week with Love and the Frenchwoman and Primitive Paradise. The first feature seems to exist in order to confuse all of us about the female reaction to life. With this high motive as some sort of an undermining purpose, the movie descends to describe what we may think of as the seven ages of woman. In case you just cannot wait to know, the film is broken into sections called Childhood, Adolescence, Virginity, Marriage, Adultery, Divorce, and Women Alone. The whole thing is explained in English for those who need it. For more laughs, Primitive Paradise goes to New Guinea to see how things are done there. It is rather interesting to see how the natives cope with states three and five.	'
(French: 6:15, 9:25; Primitive: 8:10.)
The Colfax. The Pigeon That Tobk Rome takes the Colfax and takes us back to World War n for some comedy, maybe. Charlton Heston is an American captain for the Anzio festivities. However, he goes to Rome (all the roads lead that way) to work with the Italian underground before the Nazis leave. He does not wear a toga because by this time that would be a little conspicuous even in Rome.
The real meat of the story comes when the Americans eat their own carrier pigeons for Thanksgiving. The Italian underground makes up for this loss by using German trained pigeons who take American information to the Nazis. This turns out all right when one of the Americans gets wise and gives dreamed-up data to a pigeon who then does not go and fool the Nazis, but flies to the American lines. The data, of course, allows the good guys (us) to win at Anzio. The moral is to watch out whose pigeon you’re messing around with.
(Pigeon: 1:15, 3:15, 5:15, 7:15, 9:15.)
The Granada. If a Man Answers answers the bill at the Granada. This one, as everyone must know by now, has Sandra Dee and Bobby Darin if not anything else. The plot is much too difficult to go into and really isn’t worth it. The whole movie is even more complicated by the fact that Miss Dee changes clothes 32 times, off camera of course, and her Parisian mother changes no less than 17 times, also off camera. We should still recognize them from scene to scene, however. Part of the film is taken in New York for those who are homesick, and it is all in color for those who like extravagance. By the way, Bobby himself is responsible for the words and music to the song “If a Man Answers” as if he would let us forget. He also sings it.
(Answer: 1:15, 3:15, 5:20, 7:20, 9:20.)
The State. Here we are confronted with Tarzan Goes to India and The Tartars. The trip to India (not Indiana, luckily for Tarzan) probably won’t compare with the Irish going to Wisconsin, but we will let the Tartars and the Badgers argue over that. If you have ever seen a Tarzan movie, you have seen this one. The only deviation may be the air drop of Tarzan into India so that he can save some elephants from a dam project. The whole thing is damn elephantine. The Tartars is in such demand that we could not even find out if anyone was tarred. We hope you don’t care. We don’t.
(Tarzan: 1:00, 3:50, 6:45, 9:40; Tartars: 2:25, 5:20, 8:15.)
Washington Hall. We go back to World War H again, but in better style, for the Guns of Navarone. Suspense and drama prevail as the Nazi fortress is entered and the guns are destroyed. This one will be fine if you are “shot down” on Saturday night.
(Guns: 6:00, 8:50.)
—Dick Gibbs and Brian Barnes
JACK HILDEBRAND
The Student Senate displayed capacities for endurance and versatility last week as they debated for two
whole nights on topics ranging from the democratic electoral processes of “Stay-Hall” govern
ment to the sex of future cheerleaders at Notre Dame. While the import and consequences of the former cannot even be compared to that of the latter, student interest seems to have been taken
up almost completely with the latter.
Upon the suggestion of the Administration, our cheerleaders undertook the recruiting of three girls from St. Mary’s to assist them in their chores. Students immediately began to discuss the consequences of such a move, and for many it became a question of life or death. It was no surprise, therefore, that a motion was made, recommending that “all cheerleaders for all University functions be male students of the University.” The motion was clearly passed, but before the meeting adjourned a compromise was arrived at in which it was agreed to submit the subject to a referendum. But no one saw the referendum, and no one saw the cheerleaders because the Administration saw fit to end this chapter in the history of Notre Dame as abruptly as it had begun.
Senate debate in a special Thursday night meeting was concerned with the manner of the election of the House Committee Chairman. The Constitution as it was originally proposed called for a general hall election of seven students to the House Committee. Following this election the members of the House Committee were to elect, by preferential ballot, a chairman from their membership. But there were several members of the Senate who questioned the efficiency of this manner of electing the chairman, and they submitted an amendment that called for a “second election by preferential ballot for the chairman in which the candidates will be those newly elected members of the council who so declare themselves eligible.” Those who were in favor of the amendment pointed out that the other electoral process threatened the unity and thus the efficiency of the newly elected committee, and that in order for the chairman to be accepted as an administrative head of a hall it was necessary for him to be elected by the residents of that hall. The amendment passed, 8-6.
October 12, 1962
13
Patriot of the Year
by Francis Fornelli
Notre Dame University’s senior class will elect the Patriot of the Year on Oct. 17 at the Washington Day Exercises.
The Exercises include a Memorial Mass honoring those sons of Our Lady who were killed in the war; the presentation of an American flag by the senior class vice president to the University; and the naming of the Patriot of the Year.
Previous recipients of the Award include John F. Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, J. Edgar Hoover, Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, General Curtis LeMay, Dr. Wernher von Braun, Richard M. Nixon, Admiral Hyman G. Rickover and last year’s winner, Bob Hope.
The week of the election, material will be distributed to seniors with information on each of the ten nominees. Members of the committee which selected the ten nominees are Louis Andrew, Jesse Daffron, Tim Haidinger, Ralph Long, Mike McCarthy and Jack Walker.
Each committeeman submitted a list of ten nominees to the general chairman from which 30 names were drawn up and voted on, using the preferential system. A blank space will be on the ballots for write-in candidates.
Two misconceptions concerning the
elections are prevalent. First, it is not meant to be a “Man of the Year” type of award, but an award recognizing a living American for his patriotic activities over an extended period of time.
The second misconception concerns the definition of a “patriot.” The following definition will be used as a criterion: a patriot is one who loves and loyally supports his country, thus best exemplifying the American ideals of justice, personal integrity, courage of conviction and service to country.
A patriot is a man who, over an extended period of time, has recognized and fulfilled, in the manner he deems best, his obligation to the American community. The voter should be completely divested of all prejudices. It is a vote for an American, and not for an American of a particular faith or political belief.
General Lucius D. Clay, U.S.A.
(retired)
Born in Marietta, Georgia, on April 23, 1897, and graduated from West Point in 1918, Lucius Clay served the nation through the twenties and the thirties in a series of Army administrative posts, and advanced through the grades to the rank of General in 1947. With the outbreak of World War n he became deputy director of the Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion, a fitting prelude to his appointment as deputy chief of the United States Military Government in Germany. From 1947 to 1949, General Clay was the Military Governor of the American Zone of Germany, and during this critical period he directed the operations to thwart the Berlin blockade and executed a currency reform of West Germany. At Soviet reinstigation of the Berlin problem, President Kennedy named General Clay as his personal representative in Berlin to study and direct Allied resistance there.
Hon. Dwight David Eisenhower
A West Point graduate in 1915, and a member of the United States
Army for almost one-half ?- century, Dwight Eisenhower was born in Denison, Texas, on October 14, 1890. Over the years he rose through the ranks to become a General, and held the positions of Allied Commander in Chief of North Africa, Supreme Commander of Allied Forces in Europe, Commander of the U.S. Occupation Forces in Germany, and Chief of Staff of the United States Army. After a brief term as President of Columbia University he once again returned to the service of his country and answered the voters' call to become President of the United States of America. Dwight Eisenhower as a member of the military was devoted to the total success of the war effort and led the combined Western armies to victory. As President he dedicated himself to the cause of peace and prosperity for our nation.
Hon. Felix Frankfurter
Born in Vienna, Austria on November 15, 1882, Felix Frankfurter arrived in the United States in 1894 and won degrees from City College of New York, Harvard Law School, and the University of Oxford. His early career included such positions as Assistant United States Attorney in southern New York, Law Officer of
14
The Scholastic
the War Department in the Bureau of Insular Affairs, and Chairman of the War Labor Policies Board. In January, 1939, Felix Frankfurter was appointed Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. His opinions have consistently reflected what he believed to be the true legal spirit of the Constitution.
Arthur Goldberg	.
■I Born of Russian immigrant parents i, in Chicago in 1908, Arthur Goldberg graduated from Northwestern Law ’ School and began a long career in labor law which culminated in his recent appointment as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. During World War II he joined the Office of Strategic Services and spent the next years in liaison with European labor unions, including those in Nazi-occupied territory performing sabotage and espionage functions. In Washington as general counsel for the United Steelworkers and the C.I.O., Goldberg devised the pension and insurance plans which have been recognized as a labor breakthrough and have permanently transformed American life. Named Secretary of Labor by President Kennedy, he worked with the complex problems of labor, management, and the public interest.
Senator Barry M. Goldwater
Born in Phoenix, Arizona, on January 1, 1909, Barry Goldwater is a graduate of the University of Arizona and a pilot in the United States Air Force. Still active as a pilot, he was promoted to the rank of Colonel in 1941 and later was Chief of Staff of the Arizona National Guard. Since his election as United States Senator from Arizona in 1953, Barry Goldwater has been an active Senate leader as well as the recognized head of the conservative movement in America. As the leader of that faction which stresses the doctrine of individual freedom, he has been called the revitalizing force behind the two-party system.
Lyndon Baines Johnson
Born near Stonewall, Texas, on August 27, 1908, Lyndon Johnson has served his country in various capacities since 1930. Prior to his appointment as State Director of the National Youth Administration, Lyndon Johnson was a teacher in the Texas Public School System. He was elected to Congress for the first time in 1937, filling the unexpired term of Representative James P. Buchanan, and with the advent of World War II he became a Commander in the USNR. Elected United States Senator from
October 12, 1962
Texas in 1949, Lyndon Johnson soon became widely recognized for his leadership. He held the post of Democratic minority leader in the 83rd Congress and from the 84th to the 86th Congresses he was the majority leader for the Democratic Party. His outstanding record in the Senate led to his nomination and subsequent election as the Vice-President of the United States.
General Douglas MacArthur, U.S.A. (retired)
Born in Arkansas on January 26, 1880, General MacArthur was graduated from West Point in 1903, and later was named Superintendent of the United States Military Academy. He has devoted his life to seeing that our nation remains strong and free,
serving as a great leader in three wars, and coming back from retirement to command the American Forces in the Far East during World War n. In this capacity he accepted the surrender of Japan on behalf of the United States and was named Commander of the occupation forces in the Japanese Empire. A tribute to his determination and firm belief in the American way of life was the demonstration that the democratic form of government could be successful in Japan, a nation governed for centuries by Emperor-gods.
Bev. John Courtney Murray, S.J.
Born in New York City on September 12, 1904, Fr. Murray has won degrees from various American and foreign universities. He is a member of the Advanced Commission on International Relations at the University of Notre Dame, a recipient of the Cardinal Spellman Award, and a participant of the Conference on Science, Philosophy, and Religion. He has addressed himself effectively to the demanding moral questions raised
by the use of nuclear weapons, the problems of force in foreign policy decisions, and the thorny intricacies of Church-State relations. His principal contribution to the nation is his lifelong study of the interaction of Western liberalism and Christianity within the context of American History.
Francis Cardinal (Joseph) Spellman
Bom in Whitman, Massachusetts on May 4, 1889, Cardinal Spellman attended Fordham College and won a S.T.D. from the University of the Propaganda in Rome in 1916. He served as the Assistant Chancellor of the Archdiocese of Boston, and in the Attache Office of Secretary of State. From 1925 to 1932 Cardinal Spellman
was the translator of papal broadcasts and encyclicals at the Vatican in Rome. For many years at Christmas he has toured the American troops serving in foreign countries, giving up the comforts of home and friends to bring the spirit of this holy season to young Americans who are far away defending their country.
Adlai Ewing Stevenson
Born in Los Angeles, California, on February 5, 1900, Adlai Stevenson earned degrees from Princeton University and numerous honorary degrees, and was admitted to the Illinois Bar in 1926. He served as Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Assistant Secretary of State, and United States delegation advisor to the Conference on International Organization in San Francisco in 1945. Twice having been his party’s presidential nominee, and twice having been defeated, Adlai Stevenson is still devoting his efforts to the preservation of the United States and the peace of the world as Chief United States Delegate to the United Nations.
15
itjiigsiiijeBKsn
FRANK MINIK TURNS THE CORNER AGAINST PURDUE
Wisconsin:
Big Hurdle for Irish
by REX LARDNER
"Led by All-American end Pat Richter, the University of Wisconsin plays host to the Fighting Irish tomorrow. The game will be held at Camp Randall Stadium in Madison and kickoff time is 1:30 CST. The last time the two teams met was in 1944 when the Irish emerged victorious, 28-13. Notre Dame holds a 7-4-1 edge in the series that began in 1900.
Through seven years of coaching at Wisconsin, Milt Bruhn has compiled a 33-20-4 record; his 1959 Badger team won the Big Ten championship, while last year they finished fifth in the conference with a 6-3 over-all record. Wisconsin has won five in a row. At the close of last season, Northwestern, Illinois, and Minnesota fell victim to the Badger attack; so far this year New Mexico State and Indiana have been trampled by scores of 69-13 and 30-6, respectively.
The 1962 outlook seems bright for Wisconsin, with ten of eleven starters and a total of 18 lettermen returning.
One of their main assets is Richter, a 6-5%, 229-pound senior who is cocaptain of the team. The huge end is
the holder of every pass-catching record in the history of Wisconsin football. Last season, Richter caught 47 passes, second in the nation, for 817 yards and eight touchdowns. He also earned letters in both basketball and baseball, and is a sure bet for AllAmerica. Richter will be the Badger punter: he averaged 35 yards per kick as a sophomore.
Backfield speed will be another asset. Although halfbacks Lou Holland and Gary Kroner are light (they average 183 pounds), both are breakaway threats. Unusual depth, especially at tackle, guard, and halfback will likewise be apparent.
However, Wisconsin has its problems and the biggest of all is at quarterback. The graduation of Honorable Mention All-American Ron Miller will hurt the Badgers badly. With Miller at the helm, Wisconsin had a strong passing attack that could strike from anywhere on the gridiron. The Badgers averaged 188.4 yards per game in the air last season as Miller, now with the Los Angeles Rams, completed 104 out of 198 passes.
To replace this aerial ace, Wisconsin has a few promising seniors and one outstanding sophomore. Seniors Ron VanderKelen and John Fabry have limited experience. Fabry, in two seasons, has completed 22 of 48 passes for 228 yards. VanderKelen is a defensive specialist and played only 1% minutes on offense going into this season.
But the hope for finding a capable replacement for Miller seems to lie in the talents of a tall (6-3, 192 pounds), freckle-faced sophomore, Harold Brandt. A left-handed passer, Brandt was very impressive in spring drills, and against New Mexico State, led the Badgers to three touchdowns, passing for two and running for the third.
The departure of punter and fieldgoal expert Jim Bakken will also hurt the Badgers. A sub-quarterback, Bakken punted for a 41.2 average last season and it was his field goal that beat Minnesota a year ago, 23-21. Left half Kroner is Bakken’s replacement.
Inexperience of the sophomores at tackle and guard is another weak point. Ken Bowman, an outstanding 6-2, 206-pound junior, is the only proven candidate for the center position. Coach Bruhn has already switched Joe Heckl, 215-pound guard, and Mike McCoy, a sophomore, to center in order to add depth to the position.
The Badger squad has its assets and weak points, but is primarily a well-balanced team. To stop them, the Irish must halt their passing attack and wide running plays. The emergence of junior quarterback Denny Szot, who fared so well against Purdue, may help bolster the Irish offense.
PAT RICHTER Badger All-American.
16
The Scholastic
LINEMEN OF THE WEEK
Junior end Jim Kelly’s consistent play may yet merit him a monopoly on this column before the season is over. The Scholastic’s Lineman of the Week last week, Jim this week shares the honor with senior center Ed Hoerster.
It was Kelly who caught a Denny Szot-thrown pass for Notre Dame’s only legal touchdown of the afternoon. Kelly figured predominately in that Irish drive as he snared three passes for 32 yards. Defensively, Jim played his usual exemplary game, making three key tackles, although he played only nineteen minutes.
Ed Hoerster surely had his finest day as a Notre Dame starter. The 6'2", 220-pound Chicagoan made 12 tackles and assumed the team lead in that department. Ed gained valuable experience last year, playing 203 minutes.
IRISH BACKS OF THE WEEK
Sophomore Ron Bliey and junior Bill Pfeiffer are the Scholastic’s Backs of the Week.
Bliey, a speedy 195-pound halfback from New York City, carried nine times for 34 yards and was Notre Dame’s leading ground gainer for the afternoon. Ron’s longest gain was a 13-yard around-the-end scamper on a fourth-and-one situation. “Bye-Bye” Bliey — as the sophs call him — caught Denny Szot’s screen pass and swept down the sidelines foi' 17 yards before he was knocked out of bounds on the one as time ran out.
Bill Pfeiffer, a 195-pound Chicagoan, played heads-up defensive ball in the third and fourth quarters as he cut down Purdue’s rushers nine times. Bill also recovered a Boilermaker fumble in the fourth quarter.
Voice in the Crowd
A “beaten” football team will face the Badgers of Wisconsin tomorrow afternoon. Last Saturday, the Irish were upended by a good, but not superior, Purdue eleven. It will be an uphill, but not an impossible or improbable, battle to salvage a winning and, therefore, successful season.
ERRORS
The simple answer to why Notre Dame lost to the Boilermakers is that they made more errors than Purdue did. They didn’t have the big play when they needed it; they fumbled in key situations; their pass defense was pitiful; penalities and carelessness cost them three touchdowns, at least. “We were not sharp,” explained losing coach Joe Kuharich, “it’s impossible to win when you make the errors we did.”
WHO’S AT QUARTERBACK?
One of the key questions asked during the Kuharich regime remains unanswered going into his 33rd game: Who will lead the team at quarterback, the most important position on any club? The latest in a series of “favorites” is Denny Szot, who performed capably in the final quarter of the Purdue contest. While Szot showed great poise considering this was his first appearance for the Irish, I do not believe that he is in the same class with Daryle Lamonica and Frank Budka. His passing was good but not consistent. Also remember that a satisfactory showing against second stringers in the last seven minutes of a game that had already been decided does not imply similar success under different conditions. However, Szot must be admired for his courage and determination in coming back after fumbling in his initial play. Szot may be a first-rate college quarterback, but he still must prove it.
This leaves Lamonica and Budka. After playing his greatest game against Oklahoma, Lamonica had a bad afternoon last Saturday as he completed only two of ten tosses. Which performance was the fluke? Perhaps we will know after tomorrow’s game. Budka added to his “wrong team” total, making it three out of four for the year. Unfortunately, Budka directed the team for only two series of downs for some unknown reason. Lamonica, obviously, was having an off-day, but Budka remained on the bench. It is hoped that Kuharich gives Budka a chance to amend a critical judgment based on only three passes.
Regardless of whether Lamonica, Budka, Szot or some still unknown flash ends up at the helms, the position of Jim Kelly must be determined. It appears to me that Kelly is a great end who could be a cinch for All-American honors next season. His clutch pass catching and stellar defensive work could make him one of the best in Notre Dame history. However, Kelly only played nineteen minutes against a team that only an effective passing attack could have beaten. Also, all three quarterbacks, realizing Kelly’s ability, seem to look for only him as they fade to pass. This creates two problems: it discourages the other two Irish receivers and it enables the defense to double-team Kelly; this cuts down Kelly’s effectiveness and physically wears him out.
WISCONSIN
The Badgers are the second of four straight Big Ten teams faced in another difficult schedule. Notre Dame’s pass defense, the continued weakest point of Kuharich’s teams, must improve if the Irish hope to attain a winning record. A defense that couldn’t contain Purdue’s ends from breaking open won’t stop Pat Richter, one of the best in Big Ten history.
However, beating Wisconsin is not improbable. If Ron Bliey can break loose against the slower Badger eleven and Mike Lind can return to provide the incomparable power running he is noted for, Notre Dame will notch its second win of the campaign. If one of the quarterbacks can give the squad the lift it badly needs, the Irish will emerge the victors. However, if neither the running nor the signal-calling leadership is provided, a listless team will go down to its second of numerous losses this season.	—John Bechtold
October 12, 1962
17
PVT FORD
Though the Irish lost to Purdue, Denny Szot gave the fans something to talk abou?.
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
The
People’s
Choice
"TV ENNY SZOT perched on the edge of his desk, frowned, U and thought back to that disastrous moment when, on his first play in a college football game, he fumbled the ball to Purdue on the Notre Dame 20: “I thought ‘That’s all for you, Szot. You’ll never see another game.’ ”
Happily, things got better for Notre Dame and for Denny Szot. After Frank Minik returned the ensuing Purdue kickoff 21 yards to the 36, he directed the Irish 64 yards in ten plays for their first score of the game. Said Szot: “I was really surprised when Coach Kuharich put me back in. But I was a lot looser and had the confidence that I could get the job done. At least I knew what it was like to be in there for one play.
“When I went in, all I could think of was getting the ball into the end zone; I guess that’s a quarterback’s job. After my first pass was knocked down, I knew we needed a first down and I tried a couple of running plays. On fourth-and-one, Ronnie Bliey got 13 yards and a first down.
“I went back to the air and hit Jim Kelly for eight, and then Gerry Gray got another first down. After a couple more running plays, I hit Jim again for a first down on the 16. Kelly told me that he was getting open on a diagonal pattern, so after Ronnie Bliey lost a yard, I looked for Jim and there he was, loose as a goose, right down the middle. Jimmy was hit by two tacklers as he caught the ball, and it took a great second effort for him to get the last couple yards into the end zone.”
Szot also sparked the team to another touchdown, negated by a penalty. He scrambled for nine yards himself and threw to Kelly for 18 before heaving a 25-yard bomb to speeding halfback Don Hogan in the corner of the end zone. A clipping penalty, however, nullified the score and gave Purdue possession.
“Jim Kelly was really great,” said Szot after the game. “He was already tired when we started that touchdown drive, and he ran pass pattern after pass pattern, giving it everything he had. He’d come back to the huddle just dripping sweat. And without a terrific second effort he’d never have gotten into the end zone or reached that sideline pass. Having somebody like that to throw to makes it easy for a quarterback.”
A surprising spot performance like Szot’s demands evaluation. As Johnny Lu jack pointed out, Purdue was looking for the long pass, and dropped off its linebackers and halfbacks to cover the receivers. Yet Szot hit his man five of ten times.
More significant than mere statistics, though, is the fact that Szot alone was able to spark the team, that Szot alone gave the spectators a show.
“When Ron DiGravio came over to me after the game, shook my hand, and congratulated me,” reflected Szot, “I figured I must have done something." Even if Denny Szot never plays in another game, he will indeed have done something.
18
The Scholastic
TYLER JR.'S PICKS OF THE WEEK
LSU VS. MIAMI: Miami's unbeaten string will end as the Bengal Tigers upend another of the nation's top ranked elevens in the Game of the Week.
MICHIGAN VS. MICHIGAN STATE: Moo U will once again be paced to a resounding victory by George Saimes.
NORTHWESTERN VS. MINNESOTA: Tommy Myers may find it hard to pass with Bobby Lee Bell on his chest.
PENN STATE VS. ARMY: The best in the East will hand the Black Knights their second straight defeat.
OKLAHOMA VS. TEXAS: The Longhorns have too much of everything for the Sooners.
OHIO STATE VS. ILLINOIS: Woody Hayes doesn’t lose two games in a row, especially to the lllini.
HOUSTON VS. ALABAMA: Will Houston get a first down?
OTHER GAMES:
Pitt over West Virginia Arkansas over Baylor UCLA over Colorado State Kansas over Iowa State Georgia Tech over Tennessee Jowa over Indiana Washington over Oregon State Maryland over North Carolina
Last week: 7-4, 63.6%. To date: 18-7-2, 72%.
STUDENT TRIP TICKET SALE Last Chance! — October 18 From 7 to 9 P.M. in Room 2C, Student Center
October 12, 1962
19
Dialogue o
(Continued from page 11)
the many beliefs which we share.... Our bishop has kept in touch with these efforts. He approves and has expressed the hope that we are truly laying the foundation for the soundest and deepest type of ecumenical dialogue. One of our ecumenical experiments has been in terms of a faculty to faculty relationship with Valparaiso University. Another has been in the broader context of a select group of theologians of varying denominations from top national and international theological faculties.
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan St.
SEE OUR PAPERBACK BOOK DEPARTMENT over 9.000 titles to choose from
VITALIS® KEEPS YOUR HAIR NEAT ALL DAY WITHOUT GREASE! Greatest discovery since the comb! Vitalis with V-7®, the greaseless grooming discovery. Keeps your hair neat all day without grease—and prevents dryness, too. Try Vitalis today.
The Valparaiso Dialogue
Valparaiso University is of Lutheran persuasion. It is principally an undergraduate co-educational institution of deep commitment. The academic daring of its administration has attracted favorable attention. One aspect of this is in its desire to clearly know varying theological positions.
For close to three years now the theological faculties of Notre Dame and Valparaiso have been meeting twice yearly on a home and home basis. This is quite different from a home and home football schedule with Southern Methodist. There is no score and no one is trying to win a game. The participants are only trying to reach a deeper, more profound under-
Welcome Notre Dame Students
■
DOYLE S BARBER SHOP
706 E. Jefferson ■
We specialize in flat-tops and Ivy League haircuts.
Appointment if desired. AT 7-1447
standing which will bring all of them closer to truth and therefore closer to Christ whose banner they carry. A theological paper on a mutually agreed topic is prepared by a representative of each faculty and sent to the other school well in advance of the meeting. Bibliography is also exchanged.
Thus when we actually meet we are prepared for discussion. We have come to know and respect each other deeply. Because of this we are courteous and are afraid neither to agree nor to disagree. Sometimes Lutherans side with Catholics against other Catholics and vice versa. It has been our experience in this that our Catholic convictions have truly deepened, and yet at the same time we have a much clearer understanding of the Lutheran posture. We now present these far more fairly and accurately in our own teaching. We are also truly sensitive to real philosophical differences which separate us. But we now see contrasts as they are, and not in caricature.
The Notre Dame Colloquium
The second important ecumenical dialogue began with a Colloquium which was held last October at Notre Dame. The dialogue will be continued this fall. The purpose of this first meeting is best described from the official record of the planning sessions. Let me quote: “The first purpose of the Notre Dame Colloquium is that Christians of differing creeds and communions, Catholic and Protestant, might sit down together to explore their respective beliefs and convictions with one another. Disagreements and cleavages are not to be winked at or set aside; indeed, it is this disparity of views which can spark irenic discussion. For the Colloquium does not aim at any conclusions or formularies of compromise. That all who follow Christ might someday be brought into one fellowship is, of course, the prayer and hope of us all. But the best approach to such a goal for the present would not consist in any piecemeal, superficial, illusory agreements; what is called for is a deeper and more considered understanding each of the other. Too long have Catholics and Protestants relied upon third- and fourth-hand accounts of what their fellow Christians believe, too long have we entertained the false and deceptive caricature. Joined about one table at Notre Dame, in candid colloquy about theological topics and other considerations of sociology, Scripture, history, etc., which impinge upon doctrine, dedicated Christian scholars will profit by acquaintance and knowledge, and
20
The Scholastic
give common witness to the contemporary world of their Christian faith—all in pursuit of God’s good pleasure.” (Conclusions of the Planning Sessions, February 10-11, 1961.)
To achieve such ambitious goals our meeting would have to bring together distinguished scholars of many persuasions. This we believe was accomplished. The participants: Rev. Barnabas M. Ahern, C.P., Passionist Seminary, Louisville; Mr. Paul G. Barker, National Conference of Christians and Jews; Professor Robert W. Bertram, Valparaiso University; Dr. Cornelius Bouman, Catholic University, Nijmegen; Rev. Bernard Cooke, S.J., Marquette University; The Most Reverend John P. Craine, D.D., Indianapolis; Rev. Francis Cunningham, O.P., St. Rose Priory, Dubuque; Rev. John S. Dunne, C.S.C., Notre Dame; Professor Harold E. Hill, Indiana University; Rev. Joseph D. Huntley, Seamans Church Institute, New York City; Dr. Franklin H. Littell, Chicago University; Dr. John Mackay, Princeton Theological Seminary, formerly President; Dr. Martin E. Marty, The Christian Century; Msgr. Joseph N. Moody, Ladycliff College, New York; Miss Donna Myers, The Grail—Philadelphia, The Ecumenical Center; Msgr. William R. O’Connor, St. John the Evangelist Church, New York City; Dr. Wilhelm Pauck, Union Theological Seminary; Mr. Philip J. Scharper, Sheed and Ward; Dr. George N. Shuster, Notre Dame; Dr. John Fitzgerald, Notre Dame; Dr. K. E. Skydsgaard, Lutheran World Federation, a top authority in Lutherism concerning Roman Catholicism; Dr. John E. Smith, Yale University; Dr. Krister Stendahl, Harvard University; Rev. George A.T. Tavard, A.A., M. Mercy College, Pittsburgh; Rev. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C., Notre Dame.
The topic which was discussed was the theological notion of authority. Our pattern was to first of all present a very orthodox and traditional notion of authority. Then a commentator upon this was to give a variant in interpretation still remaining within the main stream of either Roman Catholicism or Protestantism. This led into the deepest and most interesting discussion. This is recorded in copies of the private record prepared of this Meeting. This report was sent to Cardinal Bea at the request of a Consultor for the Ecumenical Commission for the Second Vatican Council. The purpose for this was so that the Cardinal in his own work as Head of the Secretariate for Christian Unity would have evidence of one of the concrete steps being taken in this direction in the United States.
Our next Colloquium will begin on October 11 which incidentally coincides with the opening of the Second Vatican Council. We shall have as our theme: “The Body of Christ.” Dr. Krister Stendahl of Harvard will discuss this from the Scriptural point of view. Dr. Wilhelm Pauck of the Union Theological Seminary will approach it historically. Dr. Franklin Littell of Chicago University will comment upon this from an existential Protestant viewpoint.
Father Barnabas Ahern, C.P., will be the Catholic Scriptural expositor. Fr. Walter Burghardt, S.J., editor of Theological Studies, will be the Patristics narrator for the Roman Cath-
Back to classes.. prepared for every course with
famous educational paperbacks perfect for learning and reviewing Over 100 titles on the following subjects:
ANTHROPOLOGY ART BUSINESS
DRAAAA ECONOMICS EDUCATION
ENGINEERING ENGLISH HISTORY
Average price $1.50
ON DISPLAY AT YOUR BOOKSTORE
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
olics, and finally Fr. Bernard Cooke, S.J., of Marquette University, will speak of the Body of Christ as Catholics would understand this today.
The Hierarchy has given abundant evidence of the vital importance of the ecumenical work and of the demands which this effort makes upon each member of the Faith. For the May 12 issue of America, His Eminence Cardinal Leger of Montreal was interviewed concerning vital contemporary Christian issues. He said: “ ... I have told the people that they must center their lives on the essential realities of the faith, and not on peripheral devotions. I have explained
(Continued on page 22)
BARNES & NOBLE COLLEGE OUTLINE & SERIES
LANGUAGES MATHEMATICS MUSIC PHILOSOPHY POLITICAL SCIENCE PSYCHOLOGY SCIENCE SOCIOLOGY SPEECH STUDY AIDS
October 12, 1962
21
S Attention SENIOR and GRADUATE MEN Students p
Q WHO NEED SOME FINANCIAL HELP in order to complete their
EDUCATION DURING THIS ACADEMIC YEAR AND WILL THEN COMMENCE z a- WORK.	°
8 Apply to STEVENS BROS. FOUNDATION, INC. f
A Non-Profit Educational Corp. 610 ENDICOTT BLDG., ST. PAUL 1, MINN.
Open only to students of
Viceroy
Football Contest *2
(Closes October 17th)
First Prize.. .$100— Second Prize...$2522 Ten 3rd Prizes...$10™c„
12 WINNERS ON THIS CAMPUS IN EACH CONTEST.
Four contests in all .. . New contest every two weeks . . . exclusively for the students on this campus! You’ll find complete rules printed on Official Football Contest Entry Blanks.
Ballot Boxes and Entry Blanks are located at:
THE HUDDLE and THE CAFETERIA
ENTER NOW AND WIN!

I
i ot
^OY
Not too Strong... Not too Light... :
VlCEI«)YS / got the Taste / that’s right!
© 1862. BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORP.
Also available in new 'Slide-Top" Case
Dialogue
(Continued from page 21) that this means going to the Gospel . and making it the inspiration of our whole lives. Then we will be prophets, that is, speakers for God or preachers in front of the world. Then we will give our fellow men a witness of the divine truth. Then we will show them that the Christian life is, above all, a way of life, a living contact with Our Lord” (p. 229).
In the same week’s issue of Commonweal (May 11) there was commentary upon the formation of Archdiocesan Commission on Christian Unity in Baltimore by Archbishop Lawrence Shehan. (p. 165) This in itself was an excellent example of episcopal leadership, but equally important is the fact that the Archbishop chose two laymen as consultors to the Commission.
Finally just last April Cardinal Bea had this to say about the ecumenical spirit: “... Unfortunately, no one can boast that all Catholics are vividly conscious of, and deeply penetrated by the duty to be concerned with their brothers even if separated from the Apostolic See. There are still countries where large strata of Catholics are more or less indifferent towards the growing movement to promote the Unity of all Christians. Some Catholics are suspicious, even against, this movement. Such attitudes, it seems, stem from an inability to overcome deeply-rooted prejudices or old resentments. There is hope, however, that the coming Council will stimulate and waken the consciences of everyone to a more zealous fervour and wider, truly more Catholic, openness of view.” (Letter read at the N.C.E.A. —Sister Formation Section—on April 25, 1962. Detroit, Michigan.)
Thus there is ample official encouragement to think in an ecumenical fashion. Just how might this relate to you as Catholic college graduates?
There are five things of special importance which can be carried out for reunion (summarized from the article by Father Lawrence Klein, O.S.B., “Has American Ecumenism a Future?” {The Catholic World, March, 1962):
(1)	The first is prayer for reunion. An excellent opportunity for common prayer is the Church Unity Octave every year (January 18-25th). At this time Christians of various denominations unite in prayer for this goal.
(2)	Secondly, we should strive to grow in correct and objective thinking about separated Christians. Thus our thoughts will correspond to our
The Scholastic
doctrine and to the situation in which our separated brothers find themselves. In doing this we realize that these brothers are separated on the whole through no fault of their own. Through this thinking we develop the type of spirituality needed for every ecumenical work.
(3)	Our third opportunity will be to assist in the reform of the Church, this is of special concern to the forthcoming Council that there be a renewal of the spirit of the Gospel in the hearts of people everywhere. This reform will embrace both internal and external things. In a particular way it will begin with the internal. This reform of our ecclesiastical life will as Pope John XXIH has said be received by our separated brothers as a gentle invitation to seek and acquire that unity which Jesus Christ prayed for so ardently to His Heavenly Father.
(4)	Likewise of true importance is positive co-operation with non-Cath-olic Christians in all affairs of public life. This experience will bring us closer together.
(5)	Lastly, interconfessional meetings should be encouraged where there is both permission and competence.
In all of these efforts the well-informed Catholic will have a special talent as a mediator with non-Cath-olics. He will more easily adapt to the newer approaches in the higher cate-chetics. Many of these approaches are person-centered and place stress upon penetrating intuition.
In a unique way the sons of Our Lady can reflect her love and understanding under whose warm glow pettiness, bigotry, and bitterness will dissolve. It is the spirit which gives life. This ecumenical effort will live and grow through an attitude of understanding and love which can be inspired most effectively by those who walk courageously in the shadow of Our Lady.
• • •
Vatican
(Continued from page 10) tries, but with no power) which will exercise over their areas many of the duties presently retained by Rome, subject to the approval of the pope.
Suggested readings on the council:
Looking Toward the Council, edited by Joseph Cunneen
The Layman in the Church, edited by James O’Gara
The Episcopate and the Primacy, by Karl Rahner and Joseph Ratzinger
The Council, Reform and Reunion, by Hans Kiing
The Second Vatican Council, by Henri Daniel-Rops
October 12, 1962
DOING IT THE HARD WAY by
(GETTING RID OF DANDRUFF, THAT IS!)

easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH
Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as 1-2-3 with FITCH! In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one Q rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand- 1
FITCH
LEADING MAN’S
somer, healthier. Your scalp tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover SHAMPOO every week for positive dandruff control.
■4
Keep your hair and scalp
OnAIVirreally clean, dandruff-free! *

We all make mistakes...
r(}\
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Touch-type, hunt-and-peck, type with one hand tied behind your back—it’s easy to turn out perfect papers on Corrasable. Because you can erase without a trace. Typing errors disappear like magic with just the flick of an ordinary pencil eraser. There’s never a telltale erasure
mark on Corrasable’s special surface.
Corrasable is available in light, medium, heavy weights and Onion Skin. In convenient 100-sheet 7
packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper

a

EATON PAPER CORPORATION £E- PITTSFIELD, MASS.
‘Hear-Say’
(Continued from page 12) with surprising and flabbergasting musical appropriateness — as in the song “Sticks and Stones,” released on a 45 single a few years ago. They can also be mere dull punctuation, as in “What I Say,” or “I Got a Woman.”
Charles’ greatness lies in his ability to remain unusually faithful to the traditional blues genre in almost any song he chooses, to recapture the spirit of the early blues: no, not the vague feeling of cotton fields in the postbellum South, but the spare, taut, nearly ascetically simple form of the harmonic challenge and the harmonic reply, which I honestly think is nearer to the definite impression of strophe and antistrophe at the foot of the Greek altar.
The writer of the Scholastic article in question appeared to come too dose to the appreciative grunt and shrimp gumbo school of jazz criticism. One feels that this sort of frenetic ap
preciation tends to obscure the real greatness of a man like Ray Charles — of any good jazz musician, for that matter. Charles has to make a living, so he gives concerts and sings “What I Say”; but he also has the rare honesty to be a fine artist very frequently, and perhaps the critic would do better to ignore the entertainer and concentrate on the artists’s characteristics than to sublimate the whole phenomenon into pseudo-analytical terms.
This is getting interesting; next time I’ll probably talk about Charlie Parker.
— Frank McConnell
Forum
(Continued from page 7) years, which is now bearing fruit in the voting suits. Also, he fails to recognize the political debt that Kennedy has to his party’s powerful
Southern wing. Among these was the personal visit that Sam Englehart, head of the White Citizens' Council of Alabama, paid to Candidate Kennedy at Hyannisport in the summer of 1960.
Far from being out of his mind, a person who strongly believes in civil rights is simply following his convictions when he votes Republican.
John T. Ryan HI 408 Lyons
Editor:
After reading Jack Hildebrand’s column, I was very happy to hear that the Student Senate is still sticking up for what is right and good by voting themselves, once again, free tickets to the Victory Dances and preferential bids to all the big dances. I think it only fair that gentlemen of such superior class and leadership should receive these favors instead of allowing the common ’ole Notre Dame Student to try for the bids in a fair lottery.
Ed.: Name withheld by request.
24
The Scholastic
LAW BOARDS
There will be a brief meeting for persons interested in attending law school.
Time: 7 p.m., October 17.
Place: Room 103 of the Law School.
Save 75%!
Do it yourself at Morrow's Cleaning Center 1015 Corby •
20 Min. Dry Cleaning—8 lb., $1.50 Washing—8 lb., 20c; dry, 10c IRONS & MANGLE
•
Hours: 8 A.M. to 10 P.M. Attendant to help you
AUTUMN SPECIAL
FREE Goodyear Rubber Heels with
MEN’S FULL SOLES...$3.89
MEN’S HALF SOLES...$2.89
•
•	QUALITY MATERIALS
•	EXPERT WORKMANSHIP
•	COURTEOUS SERVICE
o
Washington Shoe Repair Shop 116 West Washington Street
A SHIRT WITH AN OXFORD ACCENT
British inspired, all-American admired . . . Arrow’s “Gordon Dover Club.” Medium-point, button-down collar is softly rolled for unstilted shaping and fit. Tailored with traditional placket front, plaited back in cool cotton Oxford. AllAmerican trimly tailored to look clean-cut, to feel really comfortable. “Sanforized” labeled keeps it that way. $5.00.
FOUNDED 1851
OXFORDONIAN INSPIRATION
Arrow presents a shirt with an Oxford accent... the “Gordon Dover Club.” Smooth softly rolled, button-down collar and placket front looks good all day. Comfortable soft cotton Oxford cloth, in white and solid colors. “Sanforized” labeled for lasting fit.
55.00
^GILBERT'S
^^ampn.s^lio^
October 12, 1962
25
FOCUS
Multiple Theology
by Michael Squyres
In this article a Notre Dame student questions the Catholic educational system which provides no satisfactory instruction in faiths other than its own. He calls for a theological face lifting and offers suggestions to remedy the ‘‘uniform unpreparedness of Catholics” in dealing with questions from other faiths.
“Eight years in a parochial grammar school, four years of the priests in high school and another four at Notre Dame. You never had a chance to be anything but a Catholic. Have you ever done any thinking for yourself?” A round of drinks just ordered was momentarily ignored as the group around the table followed the girl’s
“... I do not believe the gift of faith is seriously tested prior to the early teen years; nor has the young Catholic fully accepted his faith when he first attempts independent thought” .
lead with their own questions: “Why do Catholics all over the world abstain from meat on Friday? and why don’t Catholics in Spain?” Isn’t yours a narrow-minded group which, while seeking universality, recognizes the primacy of a single pope?” “How can a group of men in Rome make a deceased person a saint?” “Why do you let your tastes be dictated by the Legion of Decency and the archaic Index?”
Around the table were some fifteen college students including myself. Late evening hours had often brought us together in the lounge and had
found us talking religion. On these occasions the Protestants and Jews put questions to the Catholics about services, Church laws and practices of discipline and penance. However, no one across the table was attacking Catholicism. They respected our faith for its “concrete precepts” and its necessary regimentation. Their questions reflected an effort to reconcile Catholic logic with their own. Some of the Protestants, children of fallen-away Catholics, sought additional information. Others, recognizing the expansion of Protestantism as prompted by private interpretation of Scripture, questioned the Catholic claim of uniform continuity through two thousand years. Jewish queries con
cerned the symbolism and significance of our services and the explanation of the New Testament. But in each instance they were looking beyond their own faiths.
We found ourselves in a defensive position. Our answers were inadequate and we had no questions of our own on Protestant and Jewish topics. I believe that this- predicament arises from theological training in the Catholic school system.
No one doubts the importance of early instruction in dogma, prayers, and Church precepts. However, I do not believe the gift of faith is seri
ously tested prior to the early teen years; nor has the young Catholic fully accepted his faith when he first attempts independent thought. Never in the fifteen years of Baltimore Catechisms, “fill-in” textbooks, and stereotyped syllabi is there any stimulation toward information on (as opposed to in) other faiths. Never are there lectures directed at a comparative analysis between Catholicism and Judaism and the main sects of Protestantism. Seldom is there direct classroom reference to questions, such as those above, which most often occur to our college set.
The spirit of Pope John’s Ecumenical Council demands an eflfort be made to understand Protestant tenets and logic as a requisite toward bridging the gaps in Christianity. Necessary dogmatic instruction should be coordinated and relegated to our elementary and secondary schools. Classrooms in our colleges (and groups such as the Newman Club on nonsectarian campuses) could then be utilized for seminars guided to topical theological questions. Parish level panel discussions, open to all faiths, are a logical extension of the program.
Is such a comprehensive program possible? In this country one has only to witness the uniform unpreparedness of Catholics to realize that the answer must be “yes.” Most of us memorized the same Catechism and read the texts prescribed by similar syllabi. This uniformity must be redirected, at least in part, to cope with our lack of information. On the college level, there would be no difficulty in shifting the locale of yesterday’s bull session to the classroom.
Father Hesburgh himself has committed Notre Dame to a policy which will give the student “a basis of order that will prepare him to understand.”
26
The Scholastic
Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry it
J. Trethewey, Jeweler ★
For: Hamilton — Elgin Bulova — Longines and Wittnauer Watches
★
104 N. Main St.	CE 2-1756
Confucius say, one day in fun, To a friend and Number One Son, "With my Swingline I'll fuse Your most honorable queues Because two heads are better than one!" SWINGLINE
STAPLER
No bigger than a pack of gum
•	Unconditionally guaranteed!	.
•	Refills available anywhere!	’
•	Get it at any stationery,	;
variety, or book store'	i
•	Send in your own Swingline Fabio Prizes for those used.	.
INC. LONG ISLAND CITY 1, N. Y. ,
The sculptured knit: very in, very “Orlon Sayelle”
HUNTINGDON’S smashing ski-county sweater: a rich, soft, big- ’ stitch knit of 10075 “Or Ion Sayelle’"1... Du Pont's newest luxury sweater fiber. Which makes it rugged, but lightweight, full of bounce. And unusuallygood-looking.Easyto machine-wash, machine-dry. Orwash it by hand and lay on a flat surface to dry. “Mont Blanc” in steel green, curry, nickel, blue, white. Sizes S.M L. and XL. About S16.00. *Du Pont’s reffstered Pademor* for its tl♦co'^po^en: aery? c ‘tbe-. Du Pont manes fibers, not fabrics or clothes. Enjoy the "Du Pont Show of the Week" Sunday nights, NSC-TV.
SPIRO'S
SOUTH BEND, IND.