
The
■d
rCampus Shop
3
J
QUALITY
3'
HRRht?' 155^
OUR FAMOUS MAKE SUITS, TOPCOATS AND SPORT COATS AT SAVINGS OF
SAVE up to one-third now on our famous name suits (including Corduroy suits), topcoats and sport coats. This is your opportunity to select from The Campus Shop’s quality men’s wear at substantial savings. And, you can charge your clothing needs the Campus Shop way.

ir
On Cantus WMman
{Author of “I Jibs a Teen-age Dwarf,” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,” etc.)
’’THE SLOW RUSH”
Illustrated below is the membership pin of a brand-new national fraternity called Signa Phi Nothing. To join Signa Phi Nothing and get this hideous membership pin absolutely free, simply take a pair of scissors and cut out the illustration and paste it to your dickey.
Let me hasten to state that I do not recommend your joining Signa Phi Nothing. The only thing I recommend in this column is Marlboro cigarettes, as any honest man would who likes a filtered cigarette with an unfiltered taste, who yearns to settle back and enjoy a full-flavored smoke, whose heart is quickened by a choice of soft pack or flip-top box and who gets paid every week for writing this column.
It is difficult to think of any reason why you should join Signa Phi Nothing. Some people, of course', are joiners by nature; if you are one such I must tell you there are any number of better organizations than Signa Phi Nothing for you to join—the Mafia, for example.
But if you should join Signa Phi Nothing, let me give you several warnings. First off, it is the only fraternity that admits girls. Second, there is no pledge period; each new member immediately goes active. Perhaps “inactive” is a more accurate term; there are no meetings, no drives, no campaigns, no sports, no games, no dues, no grip, and no house.
The only thing Signa Phi Nothing has that other fraternities have is a fraternity hymn. In fact, two hymns were submitted to a recent meeting of the national board of directors (none of whom attended). The first hymn goes:
Hotcha, boop-boop-a-doop, Mother’s making blubber soup.
* * *
We, the makers of Marlboro, promise smoking pleasure and we think you’ll think we deliver it—both from Marlboro and from our new unfiltered king-size Philip Morris Commander, Welcome aboard!
The second hymn is considerably longer:
A Guernsey's a cow,
A road is a lane,
When you’re eating chow, Remember the mein!
Pending the next meeting of the national board of directors, which will never be held, members are authorized to sing either hymn. Or, for that matter, Stardust.
Perhaps you are asking why there should be such a fraternity as Signa Phi Nothing. I will give you an answer—an answer with which you cannot possibly disagree: Signa Phi Nothing fills a well-needed gap.
Are you suffering from mental health? Is logic distorting your thinking? Is ambition encroaching on your native sloth? Are your long-cherished misapprehensions retreating before a sea of facts? In short, has education caught up with you?
If so, congratulations. But tell the truth—wouldn’t you like to make an occasional visit back to the good old days when you w7ere not so wise and composed
and industrious—wrhen you wrere, in fact, nuttier than a fruitcake?
If you pine for those old familiar miasms, those dear, dead vapors, join Signa Phi Nothing and renew7, for a fleeting moment, your acquaintance with futility. We promise nothing, and, by George, w7e deliver it!
© 1961 Max Shulman
CONTROVERSY
Editor:
The people of Vetville regret that our participation in the Mardi Gras Carnival
t;
is no longer possible. The traditional | Vetville Cake Booth will not be present | at this year’s Carnival.	|
This action was taken as a result the unilateral change by the Mardi Gras |
Carnival Committee concerning the traditional and unique financial arrangement enjoyed by the Vetville Cake Booth. The revenue from the Cake Booth has always been our major source of income and has been used to underwrite playground equipment, children’s parties, Vetville’s religious and social events, etc. The loss in revenue from the new finan-
i,
cial arrangement would drastically cur-kS tail these projects.	|
Further, the lack of courtesy and cooperation on the part of the Mardi Gras g Carnival Chairman in this matter, has t; made any equitable solution impossible.
We wonder if the long standing aims | of the Mardi Gras to finance worthy 1 student projects have been submerged | by the almost fanatical desire to produce g more and more “profits.”	|
We wonder if the time hasn’t come J for the student body and their repre-^ (Continued on page 23)	g
No.
Date
1	Sept.	30	12	Jan. 13 [
2	Oct.	7	13	Feb. 10 t
3	Oct.	14	14	Feb. 17 f
4	Oct.	21	15	Feb. 24 j
5	Oct.	28	16	March 34bl
6	Nov.	4	17	March 10 |
7	Nov.	11	18	March 17 I
8	Nov.	18	19	March 24 I
9	Dec.	2		
	SPECIAL		20	April 21 |
FOOTBALL			21	April 28 I
	REVIEW		22	May 5 1
10	Dec.	9	23	May 12 |
11	Dec.	16	24	May 19 i
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic^
.1


W


The Notre Dame
[SOR3
5 h
Vol. 102 No. 13
FEBRUARY 10, 1961
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief :	~
< CHARLES RIECK
associate editor
ROY RUBELI
news editor . ’ THOMAS WEISS John McCabe
features editor ,. ; <
THOMAS SULLIVAN ■ Thomas Hdobler , -
sports editor .
JAMES KILROY , William Cary .£
John Bechtbld'
copy editor , / <? ? ' >?;;
THOMAS MARCINIAK i Philip Ldrrgbee'‘""s;^^
art ’ editor .	- -' ? .-
- THOMAS HANSEN
photographer ■'%;'	-1■
^WALTER DALY, Jr
business manager 7-
JOSEPH FINNIGAN ; Robert Buckley
circulation manager
JAMESHJCKEY
moderator	_■> -'■?< y
REV. GEORGE BERNARD
news staff
Joseph Caspar Frank Cuiffo
-: > Lawrence. Kavanaugh James Oliver Thomas Scheuring Sieve Stapp Steve Stuecheli
Robert Chiappinelli Thomas Walsh , Terry Wolkerstorfer James Wyrsch
A

4*
V“4
S3
55.4^
i
1
4
4

ONWARD TO EXCELLENCE: It has finally become apparent that excellence is a many-faceted thing. For some time now, we have concentrated too heavily upon our academic boot-strapping, so certain students tell us. Through theii' efforts, however, we have recently come to grips with the slighting of our athletic excellence and have been pushed into a tactical program designed to boost Notre Dame’s national basketball status. To the embarrassment of the basketball team, however, it has been the spectator groups, not the team, that have pointed the way to the futures Through a brilliant and spontaneous burst of sportsmanship, these spectators have seized upon long-forgotten diversionaiy tactics and have met with incredible success. Going upward, however, is a lonesome course, and already we have left such formid-ible opponents as Kentucky and Marquette by the wayside. After our recent encounters, De Paul and St. John’s also seem to be flagging in the energy for a return battle on campus. A lonesome course but not without solace; for there at the top, waiting to challenge our stamina, is Ball State and South Bend Central, brave enough to face our crusade.
AN AFTERTHOUGHT: The University has succeeded well in slashing registration time to a bare minimum, and griping about the system has been reduced to questioning the tactics of certain departments which refuse to list the instructors in the schedule booklet. Several reasons are given for this practice.
First, it is felt that there will be a run on the “easy markers.” To this one might reply “so what?” Very few departments are gifted with more than one or two instructors of this category. Thirty to sixty students are bound to be lucky (?) in this regard anyway. On the other hand, the sincere interest of most students who try to follow every whisper of the department underground is far overriding; can a policy which deprives these students of the better professors be termed anything but silly— and dangerous— red tape. A more common rationale given is that such a listing would simply be impossible to arrange months in advance. The fact that many large departments succeed in announcing the instructors makes us wonder.
SCHEDULES: It was a cold and sleepy student (and prof) that trundled off to his 8 a.m. finals at the end of last semester and although we, as graduating seniors, do not expect to be among the group at the end of this semester our sympathies will be with them. But perhaps, through the kind intercession of Academic Affairs, we need not feel guilty as the early bell rings and we merely turn over and go back to sleep. Why not hold the first exam one hour later at 9 a.m.? It would at least give the morning cup of coffee time to take effect and make an earlier-than-usual breakfast unnecessary. Admittedly, some departmental exams were held at 10:30 a.m., but these could be held instead at 3:30 or 8:30 p.m. on any day except Sunday.
And while discussing schedules, we might say that we are happy that next winter’s Christmas vacation will run until January 4, thus avoiding this year’s mix-up. But once again we must ask why it is necessary that the Christmas and Easter vacation begin on a Tuesday. This year, though it was never officially announced, many students with vacation jobs were permitted to leave early, but this “individual cases” approach leads to abuses and chaos. The Administration has always contended that a Saturday departure would necessitate travel on Sunday and the possible missing of Mass by some students. Yet, since plane riders would arrive home on Saturday night and car drivers could always stop for Mass, it leaves only the long distance train travelers to worry about. Even this ever-diminishing group is small when one realizes that they must travel much farther than New York in order to arrive in the afternoon. As a post-script we note that students must return on a Monday morning on three different occasions during the school year.
APOLOGY: The staff of the Scholastic has decided to discontinue its weekly humor column. To the column’s contributors, friendly critics, and readers, we offer oui- regrets, and ask that humorous material be directed to the Features Department for consideration. The attempt of the Administration to legislate senses of humor, through wholesale censorship of certain writers, has left the staff no alternative.
—R&R

CATHOLICISM IN CONTEMPORARY EUROPE
2 unique travel-study programs
Topics include: the Catholic in European political life, church-state relations, church unity, the world missionary effort.
Itineraries feature: Ireland, England, France, Switzerland, Italy, Germany, Spain and Poland.
61-70 days	from $1,080
Inquire about SCHOLARSHIPS, ACADEMIC CREDIT ★ * ★
40 OTHER EXCITING PROGRAMS
U. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION
Educational Travel, Inc., Dept, ca
20 West 38th Street, New York 18, New York
OXford 5-5070
“ USNSA’s a non-profit organization serving the American student community”
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typing errors never show on Corrasable. The special surface of this paper makes it possible to erase without a trace—with just an ordinary pencil eraser. Results: cleanlooking, perfectly typed papers. Next time you sit down at the keyboard, make no mistake—type on Corrasable!
Your choice of Corrasable in light, medium, heavy weights and Onion Skin. In handy 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.

BATON PAPBB COKPOKATION • JEJ PITTSFIELD, MASS.
BEST BUYS IN
BOOKS
HAWAII
James Mitscher
BANTAM
Brave New World Revisited
Aldous Huxley
IMAGE
Mr. Blue
Myles Connolley
DR. TOM DOOLEY
THREE GREAT BOOKS
The Night They Burned the Mountain
Deliver Us From Evil
The Edge of Tomorrow
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students
Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.)
Special Price $5.85
Notre Dame Bookstore
on - the - campus
4
The Scholastic
I
§
$5.00
210 pp.
♦ •
UNIVERSITY
SOVIET POLICY TOWARD THE CONTROL OF ATOMIC ENERGY
By Joseph Nogee
AMERICAN DIPLOMACY SINCE THE SECOND WORLD WAR By Stephen D. Kertesz, ed.
For Notre Dame Men
NOTRE DAME'S JOHN ZAHM
By Ralph E. Weber Publication Date: February 15

The vital story of a vital man! Father John Zahm, graduate of Notre Dame and priest of the Holy Cross community, was at various times in his career a scientist, an . administrator, an apologist for true science and true religion, and Provincial of Holy Cross in this country. But above all, he was a promoter of the University of Notre Dame. More than any other single man, John Zahm exerted a decisive influence in the molding of this university into a respected institute of learning and a powerhouse of Catholic intellectual effort. Mr. Weber has skillfully woven together a fascinating account of a dynamic priest, the impact of whose presence is still being felt at Notre Dame.
The University of Notre Dame Press is dedicated to a publishing program that will reflect the best in Catholic intellectual endeavor. We urge you to consult a copy of the 1961 Spring Catalog for a complete listing of current and contemplated works.
One example of the direction toward which the University Press is aiming might be the International Studies Series. Two new titles to be published this Spring are:
Other popular titles in the series currently available:
DIPLOMACY IN A CHANGING WORLD and
WHAT AMERICA STANDS FOR
Both edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons
SOVIET POLICY TOWARD THE BALTIC STATES, 1918-1940 By Albert N. Tarulis
THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION AND RELIGION, 1917-1925
Edited and translated by Boleslaw Szczesniak	J
OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
Notre Dame, Indiana	'
^February 10, 1961
i
8
The
AIANUFACTUAINC AND SUFHY KX UNIT OF THE BEU SYSTEM
Is your future up in the air?
As the communications needs of our nation become steadily greater and more complex, the Bell Telephone System is continuing its pioneer work in microwave by “taking to the air” more and more to get the word across.
To this end, Western Electric—the manufacturing arm of the Bell System—has the monumental task of producing a large part of the microwave transmission equipment that knits our country together by shrinking thousands of miles into mere seconds.
In spite of its great technological strides, the science of radio relay is a rapidly-changing one. And new break-throughs and advances are common occurrences. A case in point: our Bell System “TH” Microwave Radio Relay. This newest development in long-distance telephone transmission will eventually triple the present message-carrying capacity of existing long-haul radio relay installations. A full-scale system of 6 working and 2 protection channels can handle 11,000 telephone messages at the same time.
To make microwave work takes a host of special equipment and components: relay towers, antennae, waveguides, traveling wavetubes, transistors, etc. But just as important,
it takes top-caliber people to help us broaden our horizons into such exciting new areas as communication by satellites!
And microwave is only part of Western Electrics opportunity story. We have—right now—hundreds of challenging and rewarding positions in virtually all areas of telephony, as well as in development and building of defense communications and missile guidance systems for the Government.
So, if your future is “up in the air,” you owe it to your career to see “what’s up” for you at Western Electric.
Opportunities exist for electrical, mechanical, industrial, civil and chemical engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. For more information, get your copy of "Western Electric and Your Career" from your Placement Officer. Or write College Relations, Room 6106, Western Electric Company, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. And be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus.

Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, III.; Kearny, N. J.,- Baltimore, Md.,- Indianapolis, Ind.,- Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.; Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.: North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distribution centers in 33 cities and installation headquarters in 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway. New York 7, N. Y.
PALMER OPENS MARDI GRAS FESTIVITIES
Annual Dance Ushers In Four Day Carnival
by Larry Kavanagh
Tonight when Peter Palmer brings his Voices and his Orchestra to the New Dining Hall, the 1961 Mardi Gras will have only started. More than 600 couples will manage to squeeze themselves into the Mardi Gras ballroom and they can all look forward to an especially enjoyable evening. But no one will enjoy the four hours from 9 •p.m. to 1 a.m. better than the five young ladies who have been chosen to reign supreme over the entire Mardi Gras festivities.
Maiy Jo McCauley, the date of General Chainnan Rich Jalovec, will be crowned by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., as “Queen of the Mardi Gras.” Her four maids will be Nibs Madson, the date of raffle chairman Dave McCann; Francine Vitacco, date of concert chairman Angelo Militello; Pat wParnell, date of carnival chairman J. T.
Phillips; and Martha Milks, date of dance chairman Tom Conneely.
A melodic beat. This quintet of corulers will also preside over the Jazz Concert Saturday at 1 p.m. in the Fieldhouse. There Shelly Manne, six-year winner of Downbeat’s All-Star Poll, and Jazz Musician of the Year in 1956, will gather his Men around him and •lash out with over two hours of continuous drumbeats.
From the Jazz Concert, the Mardi Gras scene switches immediately to the Navy Drill Hall, where 34 booths have been set up in an effort to help the gay reveller spend his money as fast as he could on the streets of New Orleans. Here the constant cry of “Hurry, hurry, hurry!” will beckon everyone to make charity the biggest winner of all.
Sunday the mad whirl takes a brief respite; but only to prepare for Monday, which will be South Bend Day. At a luncheon Monday afternoon, Mayor Bruggner will officially declare the day “Mardi Gras Day” in South Bend. Father Hesburgh, members of the Mardi Gras committee, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and the Downtown Council of South Bend, and several other dignitaries will all witness the declaration.
Return of the natives. Monday night the gambling booths in the Drill Hall will especially encourage South Bend residents to partake of their games of chance. There will also be door prizes that are strictly for South Benders, given by the following local dealers: The Frances Shop, Hans-Rintzsch Luggage Shop, Robertson’s Department Store, Rodins, Sonneborn’s Sport and Camera Shop, and Worth’s Women’s Apparel Store.
On Tuesday night the Mardi Gras reaches its climax when, at about 10:30, Father- Hesburgh draws the raffle winners. In' addition to the recipient of the 1961 Cadillac, the winners of the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s student prizes will be picked.
To the lucky ND student goes a Triumph TR-3 and a trip for two to
mary jo McCauley
. . . and she be a fine Irish lass.
Bermuda. The St. Mary’s winner will receive the privilege of a “mad shopping day” at Saks of Chicago, where she may run up a bill of $300 and charge it all to Farbi and the Mardi Gras committee.
Pick up the chips. After all the dancing and the drumming and the gambling and the drawing is over, about $40,000 should have beeen netted for charity and for the students. Of this $40,000, $15,000 will go to the maintenance and the improvement of the Student Center, and this will constitute the Center’s entire operating funds for the year; $13,000 will be put into student government activities, such as the Distinguished Lecture Series, the College fund, and the minor' sports; $8,000 will be spent on various charity projects, which will be administered by the Campus Charity Chest; and $4,000 will be used for scholarships to help needy students, both freshmen and upperclassmen. And when all the money-making and moneyspending have been done, Farbi will certainly have earned 360 days of rest.
MUSICAL AUDITIONS
Singing, dancing, and acting auditions for the spring musical, Richard Rogers’ “Babes in Arms,” will be held Saturday, Feb. 18, from 1 to 4 p.m.; Friday, Feb. 24, from 7 to 10 p.m.; and Saturday, Feb. 25, from 1 to 4:40 p.m. in Washington Hall. Final auditions are set for Sunday, Feb. 26, at 1 p.m. on stage. Rehearsals begin in March with May 4-6 and 11-13 as production dates. June 2 and 3 are graduation performances.
February 10, 1961
9
University Theater Group Presents Othello; Shakespeare Classic to Run for Five Nights
<2
Juniors Broaden Plan j With Future Activities
Spoken by the Moorish general’s traitorous officer Iago, these lines summarize the main themes of Othello, William Shakespeare’s classic study in jealousy and perfidy: “0! beware, my lord, of jealousy; It is the green-eyed monster which doth mock the meat it feeds on . . . ”
Beginning on Feb. 9 at 8:30 p.m. and repeating performances on Feb. 10, 11, 16, 17 and 18 at 8:30 p.m., the University Theater will display, for the first time, its 1961 midwinter production — William Shakespeare’s Othello. Directed by Fred W. Syburg and acted by an experienced cast, Othello is the third Shakespearean drama staged here this year. The first two were: Julius Caesar by the Canadian Players and the Players Incorporated production of The Merchant of Venice. Each of the three groups has brought to Shakespeare a slightly different approach, giving his work a slightly different interpretation.
Return to the bard. This Othello, the University Theater’s first effort at Shakespeare since Macbeth in 1956, is an evenly-paced production with few interruptions for set changes. The acts have been well integrated by a combination of scenes and the use of a mobile, flexible setting designed by the technical director, Owen Klein.
Apart from the values of the play itself, the University Theater interpretation of Shakespeare’s tragedy should be an accurate measure and interesting example of the group’s ability to undergo a complete change of pace. In staging, in language, in acting technique, Othello is a very different play from the ones University Theater has been doing.
Two week ends of passion to test mettle of troupe.
While Hamlet is the tragedy of inaction and Macbeth the tragedy of ambition and temptation, Othello is the tragedy of suspicion and false judgment. The character of Othello is perhaps less believable, less fully drawn, than those of Hamlet or Macbeth; but his downfall is more unjust and less his own doing than theirs. And the playwi-ight skillfully mixed treachery, passion, pride, haste, and unfortunate circumstance into this, one of his most enduring tragedies.
Seasoned cast. The cast as a whole has an impressive record of appearances on the stages of O’Laughlin Auditorium and Washington Hall. James Loula, a junior English major from Rock Island, Illinois, in his first University Theater appearance, plays the title role of Othello, the Moorish general, virile, uncompromising, who “loved not wisely, but too well.” Richard Kavanaugh, a sophomore most recently seen in Holiday, portrays Iago, one of Othello’s officers, who uses other men and every quirk of fate relentlessly in pursuit of revenge against his general and the man promoted over him.
Mary Armbruster, a Saint Mary’s junior who played leading roles in The Hasty Heart and Tiger at the Gates, is Desdemona, Othello’s devoted, virtuous, and finally tortured and murdered young wife. Henry Whittemore plays Cassio, an object of Iago’s revenge and an unwitting tool in his schemes. Senior Diane Crowley, whose Linda in Holiday was one of the brightest spots of a bright play, has the part of Emilia, Iago’s wife and Desdemona’s' attendant. William
(Continued on page 24)
An extensive calendar of activities is in store for the Junior Class this semester.
Of immediate importance is the Mardi Gras booth. The juniors will operate a card booth, but the exact type has not yet been decided. “We’re trying to figure” out which game has the best odds,” commented Chris Buckley, junior class president.
Two big ones. The major items of the semester are the prom and the parents’ week end. The parents’ week end will be held March 10-12 and will give the juniors’ parents a chance to see the campus, talk with teachers and see what their offspring do while away ._ from home.	*2
On the week end of April 28-30, the junior prom, dinner dance and Communion breakfast will take place. As of now, Ralph Marterie is scheduled to play at the prom.
Three movies are to be presented by the class this semester. The first will be the Student Prince starring Mario Lanza on Feb. 26.
Class lectures like the three held last semester are also planned. These lec-^ tures will he general information talks I on any subject. Father Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, will speak at i one of the lectures if possible.
On the other hand . . . Socially, too, the juniors are “in.” Class parties at St. Mary’s clubhouse have been arranged ' and possibly there will be a a trip to St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods.	I
Intra-class basketball and handball J tournaments are in progress and moreG are planned for the spring. The class | paper LXH will continue to be distrib- I uted roughly every other week. Off-1 campus juniors are being sent the paper | this semester.	S
Any money left in the treasury at the I end of the year will provide a scholar- | ship for a deserving junior. The award | will be made on the basis of need and I ability.
Father Dolan To Address! History Club Next Week!
Sponsored by the History Department | and the Herodotians, Rev. John Dolan, I C.S.C., will lecture Tuesday, Feb. 14, at I 7:30 p.m. in the Rockne lounge. The I public is invited to attend. His topic is I the history of the United States High I Commission in Germany after World I War II with particular emphasis on its® religious affairs program.	|
Father Dolan was chaplain to the of- ! fice of the United States Commissioner I
from 1952 through 1957 and holds a , Ph.D. from Bonn University. While overseas, he gave speeches in conjunc

tion with the United States Information Agency. In addition to his many contributions to European journals, Father Dolan had a book on Erasmus published in Germany in 1958.
10
The Scholastic
Senate to Circulate Dining Hall Questionnaire; University Requests Polling of Student Ideas
/ht Q^aham
Do you want an extra pad of butter? 8 Are the vegetables in the dining halls | too cold? Students who think eating . conditions in the dining halls would be ^improved will be given an opportunity | L *to express their feelings. A question-1 naire has been prepared by the Welfare j Committee of the Student Senate for ■ this purpose.
?t Forty-two cent meals. Chris Buckley, chairman of the committee, explained \ that the questionnaire was drawn up at the request of the administration. The | committee worked with Rev. Jerome J.
Wilson, C.S.C., Vice-President for Busi-^ness Affairs who emphasized that a sin-'^cere response to the study may sub-i stantially benefit all students. Hall p senators will distribute the forms late | next week.
In preparing the study, the committee ;: attempted to cover all phases of dining hall operation. Of course, the major part of the questions will be devoted to l menus and food preparation. Food preferences may be indicated. At the present time, according to Buckley, the ♦cost of food alone pel- meal is about forty-two cents. Other incidental questions will also be posed: opinion of the ’ student and regular employees and < whether the food is served and tables t cleared quickly enough. Failure of many I students to attend breakfasts and Fri-i day meals will be questioned.
, Buckley also said that a committee has been formed to meet with the man? agement of the dining facilities several ; ♦times a month. Questionnaire answers
i Pacific Northwest Club To Elect New Officers
Club activities for the Pacific Northwest Club have been completed for the month of February. Joel Haggard, President, has closed the nominations ♦for next year’s officers. Ted Ek is
I running for president, Fred Springsteel • and Brian Kennedy for vice president, S George Maddock and Mitchell Mack for secretary, and George Von Boecklin for •j treasurer. Elections are to be held at I; a special club meeting Wednesday eve; i ning at 7:15 p.m., February 14 in the I; Student Center.
The PNW Basketball team with a 2-2 record is scheduled for games against Central Pennsylvania and the ♦ K-C Gold in the coming week. Brian Kennedy currently is leading the team with an average of 11.4. The giant “Evergreen Queen,” the Pacific Northwest’s Showboat entry into the Mardi Gras Carnival is presently touted as a leading booth. It is planning a special animal attraction in addition to it’s dice games.
To conclude the month of February is the annual Election Banquet to be held on the twenty-first.
February 10, 1961
will aid this group in making improvement suggestions.
Meal tickets requested. The quality of the meat and the present lunch hour have been criticized. Two years ago the lunch hour was 11:30 to 1. Now it is 11:45 to 12:45.
Suggestions which might be possible changes in the future in dining hall administration include making the board fee optional and selling meal coupons for individual meals.
Notre Darners to Host Spring Debating Meet Resolved: “That the United States should adopt a program of compulsory insurance for all citizens.”
Some 50 universities and colleges across the nation will send their crack debate teams to South Bend this spring to answer this controversial question in hope of capturing the several trophies offered in the University of Notre Dame’s Ninth Annual National Invitational Debate Tournament. Activities for the three-day tourney begin on March 2 on campus and run till March 4, when the first four teams receive their team and individual awards.
Butler, Dartmouth, Georgetown, Johns Hopkins, Marquette, Michigan State, Ohio State, and West Point are but a handful of the dozens of institutions represented in this the highlight of the Notre Dame Debate season. Past winners of the event include Dartmouth in 1953, the United States Military Academy in 1954, Augustana College in 1958, the University of Kentucky in 1960, and Notre Dame, a three-time win
ner.
For the first place team, an inscription in the Rev. William A. Bolger Trophy, permanent possession of the Richard D. Schiller Trophy, and one year possession of the Studebaker-Packard Corporation Travelling Trophy is at stake. A 35-inch permanent trophy will be allocated to the second, third, and fourth place team in the debate. Individual speakers will receive nominal prizes ranging from a desk set to certificates of excellence.
As planned at present, registration for the tournament will begin Thursday, March 2, while the first assembly is scheduled for the following morning in the Main Lounge of the LaFortune Student Center. The first six rounds will be held in the Student Center Friday and Saturday and will precede the Debate Luncheon in the Morris Inn, Saturday. Quarter finals commence immediately after the break in the Engineering Auditorium, Law Auditorium, and Nieuwland Science Hall. Semi-finals and finals will take the remaining part of the afternoon in the Engineering Auditorium.
Routine and A Dunking Machine
“I hope you all got 5’s last semester; everyone in the Senate deserves a five,” John Keegan with a । smile of self-satis-I faction, as he opened I the first Senate meeting of -the spring I semester. Keegan was in a jocular mood while conducting I Monday’s routine ses-| sion in which the I most important action was the passing of two dance budgets, passed whereby nomi
nations for spring elections will open on April 11 and close on the 18th, with elections on the 25. Looking ahead, April 25 should pit Colleton against Buckley for SBP.
Two well-prepared dance budgets, the Junior Prom and Freshman Formal budgets, were passed after a thorough going over by the Senators. Mike Connor and Joel Haggard erased any hesitancy for approval by their astute questioning of the respective business chairmen.	.
The Junior Prom Committee was particularly efficient, reducing last year’s budget by $2,000. This was done by the elimination of favors, which were not considered worth the expense.
In an effort to make Notre Dame’s association with St. Mary’s more than a mere coexistence, the Senate has instituted the Informal Relations Committee, headed by Don Rice. Rice reported that Saturday afternoon parties (Open House) will be held in the Student Center during Lent.
The Committee is also working on meetings of an informal nature in professors’ homes, for mixed groups. The first set of meetings is scheduled for February 17, with 24 ND and 24 SMC students participating. This is an excellent idea. The problem is to maintain and expand the program.
In a short meeting held on January 12, John Keegan reported that John Clark was heading a committee to study the newly proposed “Peace Corps.” Dave Sommers reported on the progress of the Jazz Festival and mention was’ made of the improvement in the dining hall situation.
Tomorrow night, Monday and Tuesday, members of the Senate will he given the opportunity of sitting in a chair suspended over a tank of liquid (some say it’s burbon and water). You hit a mechanism with a base ball and the chair collapses. Happy hunting!

When things get too close for comfort*
your best friends won’t tell you... but your opponents will!
<
•	Old Spice Stick Deodorant brings you safe, sure, all-day protection.
•	Better than roll-ons that skip.
•	Better than sprays that drip.
•	Better than wrestling with creams that are greasy and messy.
NEW PLASTIC CASE PRE-SET
FOR INSTANT USE
1.00 plus tai

AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
12
The Scholastic
The Progress of Student Government
“Student government” is a general label for a hodge-podge of activities ranging from hall parties to international symposiums. At Notre Dame, student government extends from the hall level through two levels of more or less combined hall and campus governing bodies — the Hall Presidents Council and the Student Senate — up to the campus commissioners and the student body presi-ient.
Generally, although the work of the jther groups is also important, the most significant activities of student government in the eyes of the average student, are carried on by the Student Senate and ;he campus commissioners, headed by the student body president.
The activities of this branch of student government can be placed roughly into wo main categories: social and aca-iemic. Admittedly, this is an arbitrary grouping; the campus government itself :hannels its project through much more specific — hence, more accurate — com-nittee assignments. Moreover, there are lertain special projects of the campus government which will fit into neither of hese categories. However, for most of he student government programs, the iistinction between social and academic >rojects will be sufficient.
The social life of the student is not,
February 10, 1961
supposedly, his primary concern. John Keegan, student body president, at the beginning of the year pledged his efforts to the “intellectual option,” and has made notable progress in that area. By no means however, have social activities been neglected by student government. The usual Saturday night football dances, coupled with unusual attendance and efficiency, have made enough money to pay for the losses on last year’s dances. Several jazz and pop concerts by outside groups have been scheduled or are hoped-for in the future. Among these groups are the Ahmad Jamal Trio, Shelly Manne and His Men, and the Twi-Lighters. The annual jazz festival, planned for late April, is expected to draw its usual large crowds and loud praise. A previously-expressed hope of President Keegan’s to book such big-namers as Frank Sinatra and Bob Hope has apparently not materialized.
The affair of the Homecoming Queen, as related to this interviewer by SBP Keegan without other comment, in which the queen was supposedly accorded a more glamorous position than merely chairman of the dance, was conceived by the chairman of the Homecoming Dance “to add an extra stimulus to participation in the dance and in the whole week end by the students.” Agreement as to
the merits of such a role for the queen was not unanimous. Nevertheless, improvement cannot be produced without change, and this year’s Homecoming Week End was a definite departure from the past.
The Student Talent Party, chairmaned by Mike Hartnett, was undisputedly a success and plans are being formed for a repeat performance, perhaps of expanded scope, for the second semester. There are several projects simmering in a committee headed by SBVP Don Rice, intended to approach and promote social activities — particularly, in regard to relations with local girls’ schools—on a more platonic level, an unconventional goal with intriguing possibilities.
All in all, the student government’s / social program, though there are some students who refuse to be satisfied, is making steady progress. Whether Notre _ Dame social life has reached or is still approaching a level and type that is . ~ agreeable or even normal is a matter for ' individual interpretation.	_ . .
As stated before, the real goal of the ’ . present student administration is in the .	”
academic area, and here great strides have been made. The strides, however, . -have also left their prints on the Senate'	-7
budget. Examples: the allotment for .
(Continued on page 17)	. 51.7
.	513
3K. 8.
BLOCK BROS.
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 38 YEARS.
Gift-wrapped and Mailed To All Parts of the World
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
At the Theaters
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist • EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED •
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
FEBBO'S
CE 3-0578
224 E. LA SALLE ST. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Famous for Pizza, Spaghetti and Ravioli
This isn’t going to be Be Kind to Theater Managers Week. The regular fare for the past few weeks has been too bad to be praised much. Next week, a review of the Avon’s offerings will be resumed. At present, they might still be showing Hollywood Career, which doesn’t rate a review.
At the Colfax, the movie that has been seen by 16,943,257 people at 286 theaters will continue ad infinitum. The name is Ben-Hur, and when and if they get through with that they will recall the times of the Can-Can. The similarity between the movies stops at the titles, and the rest is history. If you’ve seen Ben-Hur and want to sit through all of its 212 minutes again, good luck. But whatever happens, don’t miss Can-Can.
The Misfits carries more meaning than meets the eye. It is really a misfit. Poor Clark Gable ended his career on a low note, Arthur Miller displayed the second-best part of his talent, and Marilyn Monroe did absolutely nothing. Perhaps Miller divorced her in despair over what she did to his screenplay. The character of Roslyn was written by Miller especially for her, and contained much of her life. When you

£
see what she does with the character, you won’t wonder why she messed up her own
&
a Swingline Stapler no bigger than a
Millions now in use. Unconditionally guaranteed. Makes book covers, fastens papers, arts and crafts, mends, tacks, etc. Available at your college bookstore.
LONG ISLAND CITY. NEW YORK. N. Y.
life. All situations are met alike by her: with a palsied lower lip. Let’s face it, the girl probably has a speech impediment which looks more than cute on screen. Whether she can act or not is not the heart of the matter. In this movie she didn’t even try.
Clark was professional in a part which demanded very little. Eli Wallach and Thelma Ritter were disgustingly wasted on sickly humor and incongruous dialogue. The only person who came out unhurt from this celluloid mistake was Montgomery Clift, not only because his character had some substance to it, but also because he knew where he was going. His performance is the only thing the movie has to offer except, for some of you, a very candid revelation of La Monroe’s figure. And this thing runs until the 15th.
Starting the next day, we are taken to Hong Kong for the story of the loosely-moraled girl with the golden heart, The World of Suzie Wong. Now there’s something. Greater detail on this next week, but for now I want to say some things. It stars William Holden and Nancy Kwan and the character of Suzie is no relation to this reviewer. Tune in next week when I will give you the answer to the burning question: What’s this about a baby?
For any of you who have ventured near the State lately I know you must think that the pictures can get no worse than 13 Fighting Men, which played there the past week along with The Sundowners. I can honestly say that I would have rather sat over in LeMans spying on Joe Pichler and friend than sit through a movie as bad as this. But Joe wouldn’t ride me on the handlebars of his bike and it’s too far to walk, so I ended up in the State. I didn’t think there could ever be a worse double feature until I saw the previews for the twin-gems starting today. The first is Fever in the Blood, starring Efrem Zimbalist, Jr. (lacking Kookie), Jack Kelly (lacking poker), Don Ameche (lacking a telephone), and Angie Dickinson (lacking nothing). Sounds like a great cast, doesn’t it? Too bad I can’t say the same for the movie. Using these actors with this script has about the same effect as having Sir Laurence Olivier recite
The Scholastic
5
f

16
passages from Dharma Bums. The movie is supposed to be based on a book. I think the book came out in serial form in Confidential. The plot is too disgusting to afford the honor of print. I’ll leave it at that.
As if this movie isn’t bad enough, the benevolent management of the State has seen fit to grace its screen with yet another abomination. This one is called ^High Poivered Rifle and brings to the screen such notables as Willard Parker, Allison Hayes, Dan Simmons (like sleeping on a cloud), and John Holland. I have a few well chosen words on the
performance of these newcomers: Willard, Allison, Dan, John; why did you leave your home towns to get in pictures? Just think, if you had stayed at home they might have gotten Efrem, Jack, Don, and Angie to play your parts and then the Rifle might have done as well as its co-gem. And they are playing these as a double feature. I have a suggestion for the management: Why not play both movies at the same time on the same screen? The effect certainly wouldn’t be any worse than playing them separately.
Like I said at the beginning, this
wasn’t going to be a kind column. Also, the higher-uppers at Washington Hall refuse to reveal coming attractions as much as five days in advance, so what can I do about that? Of course, you know this is Mardi Gras week end, and there is little need of going to a movie downtown. If you want to see a movie, Washington Hall will have something which we all hope will be as good as The Magnificent Seven in order to erase the blot of The Captain's Table.
Next week’s news should be better— it can’t be any worse.
Tony Wong
Progress of Student Government
John Kromkowski’s International Com-G mission is this year twenty-four times as much as last year’s $50 token; the Academic Commission’s expenses have nearly doubled; and the notably successful (successful, at least in the objective excellence of the symposium, if not in the enthusiasm it aroused in the student body) “Power and Democracy in America” symposium alone cost the campus government $1275.
The Writer’s Seminar, various speak-G ers in the international field, lecturers in other areas, and the Power and Democracy symposium are some of the results of the Senate’s academic emphasis. Projected for second semester are an International Variety Show featuring thirty to foi-ty students from the University of Michigan and continuation of the various speaker programs instituted in the first semester.
g The question remains, however, as to whether the results justify the increased expenditures. This of course raises the question of what constitutes success and justification. The attendance at most of this year’s Senate-sponsored academic events — with a few exceptions, such as Mortimei- Adler’s popular appearance — indicated a lack of either interest or time on the part of the studentry. Popular successes they were not; a possible indication that the students would prefer | seeing their money spent on projects less intellectually uplifting. Which finally brings us to the timeless argument of the role of an elected official — to reflect the will of the people in his actions, or to serve his constituents as he thinks best. The student government has apparently chosen the latter course, at least in regard to emphasis on the academic.
Finally, there are a few propects which fall into neither a purely academic nor purely social category. Chief among
February 10, 1961
(Continued from page 13)
these is the Mardi Gras. Here again we find the present campus administration departing — for better or worse — from the blazed paths of the past. The controversy of what to do with the money raised during the Mardi Gras week end (this year’s goal: $40,000) is well known. SBP John Keegan says, “We did knock down considerably on the scholarships, but only because of the fact that we felt the more money we could contribute back to student projects which would directly benefit the Notre Dame student would be more in our role than scholarship aid,” a position that seems reasonable enough.
However, as Art Graham pointed out in his Scholastic column, $4,000 is still allotted as a “token” sum to scholarships; why go only part of the way, if student projects are more in the government’s role than scholarship aid? The opposite view was represented by Father Bernard at the Senate session when he asked “whether the Mardi Gras was instituted for charity or as a means of making money for student government.” It might also be pointed out that the pamphlets distributed with the raffle books gave the impression that quite a bit more than $4,000 would go to charity.
The famed card stunt program, which came dangerously close to being a fiasco but was saved by a remarkable about-face and in the end fine co-operation of the students, was organized by Tim Haidinger and the sophomore class. The student government must nonetheless be given some credit, since it provided the money. Presumably the project will be continued next year.
At the end of the list remain two projects that seek to better conditions at ND for learning and eating—changes that sometimes seem to the avei-age student as unlikely as the possibility of stealing the Dome. Nevertheless, the
present SBP managed to achieve allnight lights for the first time in the history of the school; perhaps this bodes well for these other projects.
To be more specific, Tom Colleton, the senate treasurer, heads the Evaluation Curriculum Committee which proposed to set up student boards in each of the different colleges in order to evaluate the curriculum and also some of the teachers. Colleton cites the recent Ford Foundation reclassification of Notre Dame from a second to a third-class university and the refusal of Phi Beta Kappa to accept the University as a member as evidences that academic excellence may require the help and enthusiasm of the second element in the learning process — the student.
Perhaps less visionary are the aims of the welfare committee, which has been discussing the dining hall situation with Father James Wilson, C.S.C., the University vice - president for business affairs. Father Wilson, according to SBP Keegan, has been “very co-operative . . . always has been on the students’ side.” In the second semester, the committee has plans to circulate a questionnaire among the students in an attempt to get objective opinions; perhaps an honest criticism by the students could bring about more than the inevitable immature vituperation.
It cannot be denied that student government has accomplished a great deal this year. Its goals for the second semester are equally high. Some will argue about the wisdom, the benefits, the cost of the projects. There have naturally been failures. But John Keegan, speaking for the entire Senate and campus commissions, stands on the record with justifiable pride when he estimates that student government has made good on 85% of last year’s campaign promises.
17 -
The TOP name in Missile Inertial Guidance—AC SPARK PLUG seeks top talent!
4
AC SPARK PLUG, THE ELECTRONICS DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS, has immediate, permanent positions in Milwaukee, Los Angeles, Boston and Flint. If you have a BS, MS or PhD degree in EE, Physics, Math or ME, you may qualify . ..
You can find a challenge and opportunity for advancement at AC. You will be working on such projects as MACE, THOR, POLARIS, the ultra-sophisticated TITAN system and complex Bombing Navigation Systems.
4
AC and GM will assist your career progress through graduate study at universities in nearby locations. In addition, you will have the opportunity to take exclusive on-the-job course work on the advanced state of the art.
These training programs are now available in Milwaukee:
ENGINEERING PROGRAM—For men whose career aim is design and development of inertial guidance equipment. All recent college graduates will enter this one year career acceleration training program with formalized classroom instruction. This instruction will be in conjunction with rotating job assignments. These assignments, in Manufacturing, Reliability and Engineering areas, will provide a smooth transition from academic learning to career development.
*

FIELD SERVICE PROGRAM—formalized two- to four-month classroom and laboratory training on missile inertial systems and bombing navigation systems. After completion of training program, assignments are to both domestic and foreign sites.

SEE YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICER TO SCHEDULE GENERAL MOTORS INTERVIEW
FEBRUARY 16, 1961
AC SPARK PLUG THE &ECTRONICS DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS
MILWAUKEE 1, WISCONSIN LOS ANGELES, CAUFORNIA HINT, MICHIGAN BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS
18
The Scholastic
1
JERRY FITZPATRICK
Outstanding Notre Dame sprinter
Fitzpatrick Leads Returnees As 1961 Indoor Track Begins
Coach Alex Wilson’s track team will A officially open its home indoor season today when visiting Purdue and Indiana invade the Fieldhouse at 7:30 p.m. The meet will be the first of the season for Indiana while Purdue and the Irish opened their campaign by participating in the Michigan State Relays at East -'Lansing last Saturday.
The Indiana contingent, coached by Gordan Fisher, can be expected to provide top-flight competition for the hope-a ful Irish. Coach Wilson stated that the “ Hoosiers are especially dangerous in the distance events.
Purdue also brings along a formidable group. The Boilermakers are paced by the great Dave Mills in the quarter mile.
J Mills won the 300-yard run last week । in the Michigan State Relays.
j Mike Johnson, one of the top pole ! vaulters in the nation, will be back to aid the Boilermakers against the Irish.
, In the East Lansing meet, Johnson । cleared the bar at 14 feet, four inches, i Notre Dame’s track aggregate will be ; led by eleven returning monogram win-• ners and several talented sophomores, j Leading the monogram returnees are i senior captains Jerry Fitzpatrick and | Ron Gregory. Gregory has run the mile | in 4:10 and the half mile in 1:50 while | Fitzpatrick has been a consistent triple | winner in the dash events and broad ] jump.
< V With Fitzpatrick in the sprints are j juniors Dick Musial and Joe Balistrieri i and sophomores Wayne Javurek and Frank Lucas. The hurdle events will be handled by John Mulrooney, Mike Terry, Jim Sheeler and Bill Benson. Steve Schwartz and Chris Monahan in the quarter-mile; Tom Dempsey in the two-mile; Mike Giacinto, shot put and discus; Dan Rorke in the half-mile and Dick Monjeau in the high jump are also leading returnees.	-
February 10, 1961
■
ND CAGERS FACE HARD ROAD TESTS AGAINST MIGHTY DETROIT, BRADLEY
Notre Dame’s road-jinxed basketball team wanders away from the home environment of the Fieldhouse this week to face highly-ranked Detroit and Bradley. The Irish will face the revenge-minded Titans tomorrow afternoon in a nationally televised tilt from the Detroit Memorial Fieldhouse. The Bradley game will be played at a neutral site, the Chicago Stadium, on Tuesday night.
All-American duo. Detroit is smarting from a 66-62 loss to the Irish in a game played at the fieldhouse earlier this season. The Titans are led by All-American candidates Dave DeBusschere and Charlie North. DeBusschere, who almost came to Notre Dame, was the only player in the nation to finish last season among the top ten in both scoring and rebounding. The 6-5 junior has recovered from an early season slump and has paced Detroit in both departments in recent games.
North, also a 6-5 junior, has been playing top caliber basketball in the shadow of DeBusschere for two seasons. During DeBusschere’s slump, North stepped in and paced the Detroit attack. When both are in peak condition, they probably comprise the finest one-two wallop in college ball.
To complete this rugged front line, Coach Bob Calihan has 6-6 sophomore John Morgan. Morgan is a transfer student from the same junior college that produced North. The jumping ability of Morgan was displayed in the first Irish-Detroit encounter, much to the dismay of Irish fans.
In the backcourt for the Titans are Captain Larry Hughes and Frank Chi-ckowski. If Detroit has a weak spot, this is it. In the first game with Notre Dame, the front line of the Titans controlled both boards, but was not given much outside help from the guards.
On Tuesday the Irish battle one of the top ranked teams in the nation, Bradley. The Braves are led by AllAmerican Chet “The Jet” Walker, 6-6 junior high-point man. Walker has been called by many as one of the best all-around “big” men in the past decade in college ball. He is a good dribbler, a strong passer, a jumping-jack under the boards, and a “dead” shot. Coach Chuck Orsbom calls him the “finest all-round player ever to come to Bradley.”
6-5 sophomore forward Tim Robinson has been pressing Walker for scoring honors this season. Senior Al Saunders is a solid backcourt performer along with Ed Wodka. Rounding out the starting five is 6-5 Mack Herndon. Herndon was one of the top performers in last year’s National Invitational Tournament.
Snap unbeaten streak. After defeating top-ranked Detroit on January 14, the Irish 'beat previously unbeaten : DePaul on the following Tuesday, 61-58. .? Senior John Tully paced the Irish . . scorers with 16 points while Eddie -i Schnurr added 12 points. The game was a fairly low scoring affair with Notre. Dame’s defense, paced by the ball-hawk- ' . ing of Captain Bill Crosby and Schnurr, - : being the difference.	. ,
On January 28 the Irish were edged : by Illinois, 77-62, in the Chicago St*-dium. Armand Reo led the scorers with 15 points in a rugged game.	.	.3
Tully hit for the highest point total of any player this season against Butler on January 30 when he scored 29. Notre Dame won the game, 74-69.
, On February 2 powerful St. Jahn’s . invaded the fieldhouse for a game which was one of the wildest in Notre Dame . history. In a game marked by its listi- ' cuffs, the Irish won, 64-63. Reo and Tully were high point men for the Irish while Crosby used all of his physical resources to hold All-American Tony Jackson to eight points. .	. .
Canisius defeated the Green, 79-7%	~
last Saturday in Buffalo, N. Y. Tully,. . Reo and Roesler fouled out in the loose :: ly played game.
Last Monday night a fired-up Michigan State ball club shattered the 24 game home win streak of the Irish, 89-74. The - : weary eagers played a lackadaisical game and were out-hustled by the in- ; 3 spired Spartans.	/
—John Bechtold . ;.
HOCKEY: THE
AMATEURS
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
That amateur hockey in the United States is rapidly improving both in quality and in quantity is best illustrated by the performance of the U.S. team in the XIV Winter Olympic Games at Squaw Valley. The underdog American team defeated both the Russian and Canadian teams en route to its gold medal.
The United States team was composed primarily of Minnesota players, with a liberal sprinkling of New Englanders and Michigan natives. It is from these three hotbeds of amateur ice hockey that the game has spread.
These three areas have an advantage over the remainder of the country by virtue of the fact that they enjoy weather consistently cold enough to provide natural outdoor ice. This is more of an advantage than is readily apparent, for it enables large numbers of youngsters to learn hockey at an early age, and this is the key to proficiency in the game. Indoor arenas can accommodate the colleges and high schools in most instances, but are unable to handle the six-to-twelve year old players.
SENIOR AMATEURS
In senior men’s amateur competition, the St. Paul, Minn., metropolitan area has nearly fifty teams, with Minneapolis sporting a similar number. The Boston area of Massachusetts is also a stronghold of top-flight amateur hockey, as is the Detroit region of Michigan. The majority of these games are played outdoors, with probably one quarter of them scheduled for indoor rinks. From Minnesota, Michigan, and New England, the game has spread to New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Colorado, Wisconsin, Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, and even as far south as Louisville, Ky. In many of these locations all games must be played indoors, which limits the size of the programs.
On the high school level, competition is still limited primarily to the three prime hockey regions, with more and more games in these areas being played in indoor arenas. The construction of indoor ice plants in other parts of the country is permitting the spread south of high school hockey.
Pee-wee, midget, and grade school hockey programs are at this time limited exclusively to areas where a great number of outdoor, natural ice rinks are
20
Left: St. Paul’s Jacques (The Cat) Marcotte kicks out a shot. Right: High-schoolers play rough, competent game. Here, a high school goalie in St. Paul goes down head first to block a shot.
possible, for only then is there any inducement for the youngster to learn to skate and play hockey nearly as soon as he can walk. It is here where the weakness of hockey in the United States lies, for to develop truly fine players it is necessary that a great number of boys begin playing the game at least by the time they enter grade school: this is the secret of the Canadians’ proficiency.
THE COLLEGES
However, it is with college hockey and its possible advent to the Irish campus with which most Notre Dame students are primarily concerned. The major league of college hockey today is the Western Intercollegiate Hockey League, composed of Denver University, Colorado College, the University of Minnesota, North Dakota University, and three Michigan schools: the University of Michigan, Michigan Institute of Technology, and Irish arch-rival Michigan State. This is college hockey at its best, and with the notable exception of Minnesota, these teams use considerable numbers of Canadian players. Gopher coach Johnny Mariucci has remained steadfast in his determination to use only American players. This year’s Minnesota sextet, with only one non-Min-nesota player on a squad of twenty-five, shows promise of giving all-Canadian Denver a battle for the WIHL title and the NCAA championship.
The other principal collegiate puck circuit is the Ivy League, augmented by a large number of eastern independent schools. In addition, there are numerous small college hockey leagues. The Minnesota Intercollegiate Athletic Conference, for example, includes nine schools with enrollments of approximately 2,500
students, and plays its hockey contests i outdoors.	|
In the immediate vicinity of Notre | Dame, the Ohio Intercollegiate Hockey j Association includes eight teams, among i them Ohio State and Ohio University and j several smaller schools — all potential ] Notre Dame opponents. In addition i there are small colleges in Michigan, numerous Indiana amateur teams, and the team of the Marquette State Prison of Michigan.
Approached on the subject of hockey’s role in the Notre Dame athletic program, Athletic Director Edward “Moose” Krause expressed the opinion that hockey could easily become a varsity sporf at Notre Dame.
ND HOCKEY CLUB
Mr. Krause advocated the formation this semester of a Notre Dame Hockey 1 Club, to be organized along the general \ lines of the former swimming and wrestling clubs. This would enable the club to request funds from the Student Senate, with the probability of playing a handful of outside games next season, all of which would likely be away games.
Mr. Krause offered assurance that once these steps were taken and the interest shown, the Athletic Department would offer assistance. This assistance ~ would probably first take the form of \ an artificial ice outdoor rink and equipment.
There is a distinct possibility that hockey could achieve full varsity stature within two or three seasons, as did swimming and wrestling.
Also under discussion is the proposal to include an indoor ice plant in the new fieldhouse when it is built, although this is some distance in the future.
The Scholastic
Fighters Begin Training For Next Month's Bouts
J. Notre Dame’s Bengal Bouts, one of the most controversial sports on campus, had a bright 1961 initiation last Monday when more than 100 recruits reported for work. Dominick J. Napolitano, a veteran of 27 years here, directs ^he fighters and reports that there is ; “good enthusiasm” pervading the group.
Napolitano has set up a trying obstacle course for his operatives to pass before he considers them ready to enter the mid-March fights. The candidates must jog two miles before practice begins. The men are then subjected to 30 minutes of marrow-slogging calisthenics, 30 minutes of instruction, and 30 minutes of offensive and defensive drills. As the students progress, gthey box a minimum of nine rounds a week.
“Nappy” has a group of fine “belters” reporting again. Included among the veterans are many former champs. The previous winners are Mike Morrow (130), Sam Haffey (147), Joe Srholez (152), Tim Reardon (157), Bob Bio-chini (167), Tom Brennan (191) and Barry Leone in the junior heavyweight class.
Stringent precautions have been taken win the past to prevent injury to the fighters. As a result, no serious in’ juries have occurred in Bengal Bout history (“knock on wood!” says Napolitano). Protective headgear and mouthpieces are required for all participants. In addition, a two-inch thick mat is provided for those wishing some rest after a devastating thrust by an opponent.
I •
’ Wheaton Is Opponent Of ND Matmen Today
Tom Fallon’s wrestling team initiates the second half of its twelve-meet sched-i ule today with a dual meet against ’ Wheaton College in the Fieldhouse.
Starting time is 4 p.m.
, g The Irish, a recent 18-14 loser to a । great University of Chicago contingent, J will be looking for their second win of ) the season against four losses.
Bolstered by the return of team leader , Jim Kane who had been out of compe-'' tition until the Chicago meet with a rib injury, Notre Dame hopes to get back on the victory trail after two successive :l losses. Another welcome addition to the ’ team is Ed Rutkowski, a sophomore back ] on the football team making his first ap-g pearance today in the heavyweight | ranks.
/ Against Wheaton, the Irish will rely f heavily on sophomore Dick Martin, a ; 123-pounder from Pittsburgh. Martin | will face a highly-touted opponent in 5 Clyde Cicciarelli in what promises to be j a veiy good match.
Along with Dave Ames, a sophomore in the 167-pound class, Martin, a 123-pound sophomore from Pittsburgh, is still undefeated in six meets for the season.
| ® February 10, 1961
TIME OUT
Notre Dame’s basketball season, with twenty games now history, is fast nearing its completion. Remaining on the Irish schedule are six more games (barring an invitation to the NCAA or NIT which is unlikely). With a 10-10 record at this writing, Coach John Jordan’s hoopsters will probably have to be satisfied 'with a 13-13 final record. The three games left on the schedule labeled “necessary victories” for the Notre Dame team are against Portland, St. Louis and Creighton, all played here at Notre Dame (and this locality meant victory in 24 consecutive contests before the Michigan State game). With a not-too-pessimistic eye, defeats might be expected in the Detroit, Bradley and DePaul games (each contest being played away from home).
FLASHES OF BRILLIANCE
Although somewhat inconsistent from game to game, it is obvious that there has been a definite improvement in the team’s performances since the Christmas holidays. Beginning with the North Carolina contest on January 7, the Irish have played nothing but fine basketball against their'top-ranked foes, losing only to the Tar Heels while defeating the fine Detroit, DePaul and St. John’s aggregates. But against their lesser-known foes, Notre Dame has been having more difficulty, as witnessed by their performance in the Canisius game. Also to be noted is the difference in the team’s caliber of play when away from the friendly confines of the Fieldhouse. Thus far, Notre Dame has won the sum total of two away games, both of which were played in Indianapolis.
On a squad where there is a relatively even distribution in scoring, juniors Armand Reo and Eddie Schnurr merit special praise for their point production. Reo is currently averaging almost 15 points a game and has been especially productive at vital times in vital games. Schnurr, whose average is twelve points a game, seldom leads the team in scoring. More important, however, is Schnurr’s steady all-around performance which can be relied upon in each game. Noteworthy also is the fact that Eddie has a fine free throw percentage, while most of the other regulars have poor records at the line.
GIVE AND TAKE
Many Notre Dame fans were upset when a bottle landed on the court in the Irish-North Carolina encounter earlier this season. Newspapers chastised the unknown offender, stating that it would be surprising if another Notre Dame team ever played in Charlotte again. Understandably, there was ■ sentiment for the Notre Dame cause here on campus. But what is not understandable is why a similar incident occurred in another Notre Dame game and right here on campus at that. The demeanor of some Notre Dame students at the St. John’s game is referred to here. Admittingly, the officiating indicated a lack of “control.” Still, that emotional group of students who sprayed the court with papers and pennies didn’t add any class to the per-fonnance. Nor will the battlers who descended from the stands to demonstrate their fighting prowess gain any recognition.
The 1960-61 basketball team has done a fine job of representing Notre Dame throughout the United States as have Coach John Jordan, Moose Krause and the many other sports figures here on campus who carry the name of the institution in their travels. Building such a prominent name in the sporting world is the result of the efforts of all at all times. But the sad thing is that such a good name can be lost in an instant. Let us hope that this doesn’t happen at Notre Dame.
NCAA INVESTIGATIONS
Recently, the NCAA completed another series of investigations in which several more colleges were placed on probation. Still other colleges were warned for violations of NCAA rules and regulations. After each series of penalties is imposed, one must stop and think of the colleges that have actually violated the NCAA code and yet have not been detected. Meanwhile, the schools that are detected suffer the consequences. Perhaps there is a need for more clarification and/or stricter supervision of just what is right and what is wrong.
—J. K.
Broncos, Wisconsin Set To Battle Irish Mermen
Within the next few days the Notre Dame swimming' team will face stiff competition when it meets Western Michigan and Wisconsin. The Western Michigan meet is tomorrow in the Rockne Memorial pool. Monday, the mermen are at Wisconsin for a meet with the host Badgers.
Western Michigan has a good team and, while they may not be as talented a group as some of the other Irish opponents, they can be counted on to give the local watermen a stern fight.
Wisconsin will be one of the toughest meets this season for the Starkmen. The Badgers, seasoned by the rugged competition the Big Ten affords, are especially strong in the freestyle events.
Last Saturday, Ohio University overwhelmed the Irish swimmers, 61-34, thus handing the swimmers their initial setback this season after four straight wins. Indicative of the Ohio domination of the meet is the fact that the Bobcats won ten of the eleven events on the program and in the process set four pool records.
The defeat was the first for the swimmers in the Rockne pool since February 11, 1959.
CARY CALLS ’EM
Tomorrow
Oklahoma State over Air Force NYU over Duquesne Dayton over Creighton DePaul over Tampa Kansas State over Iowa State Kentucky over Mississippi Detroit over Notre Dame Niagara over Fordham Indiana over Iowa LaSalle over Muhlenberg Xavier over Marquette Maryland over South Carolina Villanova over Memphis Miami (Fla.) over Loyola (La.) Minnesota over Michigan St. Bonaventure over Boston College Ohio State over Michigan State UCLA over Stanford Seton Hall over Iona Butler over Valparaiso St. John’s over Syracuse
Tuesday
Loyola over Marquette Bradley over Notre Dame
Game of the Week
North Carolina over Wake Forest
Upset of the Week St. Louis over Bradley
Last Week’s Results
18 right, seven wrong, 72 per cent
Totals to Date
58 right, 17 wrong, 77.3 per cent
22
k FRESHMAN CHALLENGE
Notre Dame freshmen track enthusiasts will have the opportunity to demonstrate their skills next Tuesday night when the Freshman Track Meet will be held in the Fieldhouse at 7 p.m.
The meet will feature all of the usual track events with the exception of the mile and the pole vault. Every freshman is invited to participate and there will be individual awards for the best in each event.
Valentine’s day is the time to deflate super-egos, let down your hair, unstuff shirts or, if you’re the gentle type, wax sentimental. In any case, we make it easy to do something, for our gift and card departments have a world of fun and favors you may select for this sweetheart of the day.
^Notre Dame^
BOOK STORE
NABICHT CAFETERIA
!
★	11
1415 Lincolnway West
AAA Approved Cafeteria
*
FREE PARKING
The Scholastic^
j	Letters
(Continued from page 4) sentatives to examine the disparity be-; tween the original goals of the Mardi Gras and the goals today.
'	Residents of Vetville
Donald Rung, Mayor
| ILLUMINATION
^>ear Editor:
< Within recent weeks I have viewed the actions of the student body and the editorial policy of your magazine with
a great deal of disappointment. It seems to me that both you and the students have shown a lack of responsibility and discernment. Perhaps this is due to your situation as students who are somewhat isolated and immature or to the frustrations caused by many pressures that are placed upon you by the world outside Notre Dame. In any case I would like to express the viewpoint of a graduate student-priest (who is also a Prefect) as he views the situation here at Notre Dame. Somehow I feel in the middle of the recent disturbance and I hope
somewhat better able to understand the basis of the recent expression of discontent of the students here at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame is a university — an institution of higher learning. As such it is dedicated to the standards which are appropriate to such an institution. However Notre Dame is also an institution which is rooted in a tradition. This tradition is dominated by a dedication to Catholic truths and devotion to the Blessed Virgin. Hence it was founded and (Continued on page 25)
1
5
IS I'
•VAC£L»N£* IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CH£S£SROUGM»PONO*S
HAIR TONIC
Scalp art :ndru'fl
CMCks fry So* MS
me
Atw
Vaseline
khlieMturai 11*1
how to win by a head
Winning glances that lead to romance (s) are easy to come by if you go buy ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic-made specially for men who use water with their hair tonic. ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic is 100% pure light grooming oil-replaces oil that water removes. ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic won’t evaporate, stays clear and clean on your hair. And just a little does a lot!
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE


DUF* jnc.
February 10, 1961
23
Sophs Share Honors In Hall Debate Meet
Three years ago the Patrick J. Currin Interhall Memorial Tournament was started by the Notre Dame Debate Team to broaden its scope and honor Patrick J. Currin, class of 1956, an exdebater at this University. The inauguration of this tournament was an attempt to revive interest in interhall debating which at one time was very popular at Notre Dame.
This year’s activities included a round robin tournament for seven participating halls and judged by senior members of the team. The winning teams were first place, Martin Gordon and Jim Murray of Howard and Morrissey respectively; second, Jim Haddad and Dick Jaskunas, Farley; third, Jim Nelson and John McGrath. Winning merit for their individual presentations were Jim Murray, first place, Jim Hadad, second place, and Dick Franch, third place.
The Patrick J. Currin Tournament is open to any student and not solely to members of the squad. The Breen Ora-toiy Contest sponsored by the Notre Dame Debate Team is also open to the student body and will be held the week end of March 23. A $100 Gold Medal will be awarded to the winner, and again everyone is invited to participate.
The University team just returned from the University of Miami with a third place after losing in the semifinal in a two to one split decision. The club, however, has many prospects for the future. This week end they will be at Northwestern for the Owen Coon Memorial Tournament, while February 23 through 25 they will display their forensic ability at the University of Maryland. The Ninth Annual Invitational Tournament will climax the club’s activities late in March.
So far this year the team has amassed an unusually fine record, and according to its coach better things can be expected.
Othello
(Continued from page 10)
Flaherty, a senior best remembered as Tommy in The Hasty Heart, plays Roderigo, a soldier used and eventually murdered by Iago. Other principal roles are held by Dennis Shaughnessy (Montano) ; Robert Love, a junior who has had experience in Murder in the Cathedral and Tiger at the Gates (Lodovico) ; Susan Hunt (Bianca); and John Schober (Clown). Hans Hermanns plays two parts (Brabantio and Gratiano) and also stages the several duelling scenes in the play.
Tickets for Othello may be purchased at the Washington Hall box office from February 7 thru 18 between 4:00 and 6:00 pan. and on performance days from 4:00 to 9:00 pan. Student ticket prices are $1.00 and $.75.
24
Fine Arts Student Wins Cash Prize for Painting
Anthony Sorce, a graduate student in fine arts at Notre Dame, has been awarded the Lyman M. Drake, Jr., Purchase Prize of $200 for his painting, “Lonely Pilgrimage,” at the Fourth Union League Art Show in Chicago.
An exhibit of Sorce’s painting and nearly one hundred others will be held in the Newcomb-Macklin Galleries, 400 N. State Street, Chicago from Feb. 13 through 23. Hours are 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. daily and until 1 p.m. on Saturdays. Sorce received an undergraduate degree from Notre Dame at the close of the first semester last week. He is a graduate of Chicago’s Roosevelt High School and lives in Chicago.
Farley Opens Lounge As Ex-Rector Speaks
Last Friday night Farley Hall opened its newly decorated basement lounge in a ceremony which featured Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., as the guest speaker. The program consisted of a brief talk, several introductions, and an enjoyable evening of bingo and refreshments for the residents of Farley and their guests.
Larry Kavanagh, president of Farley, opened the festivities with a few general comments and instructions for the night’s program and then he introduced the always-interesting guest speaker. Father Hesburgh gave a very informal talk, mostly in a humorous vein. He recalled old stories of his reign as Farley’s rector and told of several of his interesting experiences at Farley. In his only serious tone of the night, Father advised the Notre Dame freshman to get a good start while he is still in his' formative years. Father also expressed his regrets that he couldn’t be present on the University campus as often as he would like, but explained that the nature of the duties and capacities he holds often work against his love to be at Notre Dame.
Following Father Hesburgh’s talk, Larry Kavanagh introduced two students, Mama Diallu and Selu Bah, who have recently arrived from Guinea to study at Notre Dame. Both are here with the joint cooperation of their government and the ICA of the United Nations, and they are enrolled in the school of commerce.
In Guinea students usually master at least two languages and this fact provided a very unique occurence for the program. Since neither of the students spoke English well, one would say something in Foulong, the native language, while the other would translate the same into French and then Father Hesburgh would complete the conversation in English. This proved to be quite successful and interesting to the audience.
The evening then concluded with bingo and refreshments.
DATE CHANGE
Postponed from Feb. 14 to Sunday, Feb. 19, the opening session of the 1961 Notre Dame Senior Marriage Institute will be addressed by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hal. Succeeding lectures in the series of five will take place on the first four Wednesdays in March.
ARTCARVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING BINGS . . . JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY *
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
A
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	JM.S. Bldg.
Complete Optical Service . . . t
•	EYES EXAMINED
•	GLASSES FITTED
Broken Glasses Repaired
Fast Service—“Brins the Pieces” o
BURKE
OPTOMETRIST 228 S. Michigan
•	NOTRE
•	DAME * STUDENTS
Eat At
EDDIE'S DINING ROOM
★
1345 Ironwood Drive ★
10% Student Discount
The Scholastic^
Letters
(Continued from page 23)
developed with a somewhat special set of principles. In fact its greatness has come from a close adherence to these special principles. At present the Administration is trying its best to carry these principles further in its develop-ment. Of necessity it is a difficult task wnd at times liable to criticism. However, within recent weeks it sems the administration has been subject to much criticism of a different sort. It seems to have been criticized merely as any American university. What is good at Michigan State or Chicago is good here at Notre Dame. This I think is unrealistic. Furthermore I think Notre Dame will
*
suffer when standards from elsewhere are applied to it. This the Administration is aware of and is advancing the development of Notre Dame along its traditional lines.
This development of Notre Dame will best be advanced in an atmosphere of solidarity. It is the task not only of the administration but also the faculty, lay and religious, and the student body. It would be best to understand and cooperate. It is a perilous path and what is needed is discernment and valid explanation of each phase of its develop-Anent. This is not the character of the
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Letters to the editor should be addressed to the Editor, 309 Walsh. All letters must be signed, but names will be withheld upon request.
^recent action of Notre Dame students, diather both you and the students seem to be participating in a movement which seems to have been initiated by a group of disgruntled students. Objection and changes that have been proposed seem based on petty frustrations which everyone must face in life. All I have heard is all night lights, no morning checks, fewer rules. Perhaps these regulations sting one’s individual tempei'ament, but ^:his will no less be true under any system.
Rules governing the residence halls are designed to insure an order of the day that is conducive to study and to religious devotion. As Catholics the opportunity for daily Mass is a desirable feature. To guarantee this of necessity Masses are scheduled in the early morning hours. The priests have other duties which necessitate this. Therefore it is necessary to be consistent to retire at a ^reasonable hour. 11 o’clock is what the administration has decided as best. It has been found that there is also needed some provision to make all students conform to this simple schedule; so a system of morning checks was instituted whereby those students who live by erratic schedules would find it conducive to retire at an appropriate hour. I do not think this is too burdensome a routine, and I have found that most students find little difficulty in sticking to it. Further-
February 10, 1961
OUR COVER: This week’s cover was done by senior industrial design major Frank Prochaska from Tecumseh, Mich. Frank has his own style of cartooning and I feel he has vividly portrayed it in our cover. If you enjoy his cartooning, be sure to take in the “Mardi Gras” and see more of his work. The cover itself has a Valentine’s theme yet I am sure you can read many other things into it.
more I think it is the minimum the Administration can do to insure that an atmosphere that favors the better student will prevail in the halls. This system is the result of adapting the tradition at Notre Dame to the current needs of student body which is now so much larger in number. The Administration thinks that the spirit of devotion to the Mass and the Eucharist which so long prevailed at Notre Dame can still adequately be fostered under the less regimented system. I find it difficult to outline a bettei- program; the many proposals so far advanced seem to me to be a demand for no regulation —with the ensuing order whereby the worse element of student life become dominant. Naively some seem to think that good order comes with no rules and the undesirable elements simply eliminate themselves or adjust to the conditions that favor the best student. This is foolishness. The tradition here at Notre Dame has demonstrated that a life governed by the routine set by the rules mentioned above fosters the life of a good Catholic college student.
I have looked in the Scholastic for a valid discussion of this sort, but there seems a singular lack of criticism based on the Administration outlook on these regulations. Instead I have found justification for the students and their petty frustrations. Perhaps it is difficult for a student publication to criticize adversely the student body. Or perhaps the Administration’s regulations seem ambiguous from a student’s point of view which has somewhat of a truncated exposure to it. In any event I hope that in the future you assume more of a balanced policy toward the expressions of discontent among the students. Rather than simply reflecting their views, sort out what is petty and try to evaluate their proposals in the context of the tradition that has made Notre Dame the foremost Catholic University that she is.
Rev. James E. Kelly, C.S.C. Prefect, Third Floor Morrissey Hall.
WRITERS
The staff of the Scholastic asks that writers submit material suitable for the tone of Back Page to the Editor, 320 Walsh. Speculative, political, and social themes will be given high consideration, but unusual treatment of other topics is also desired.
Back Page
(Continued from page 26)
that the course of action Russell outlines, based as it is on the dignity and preservation of human life, involves a higher morality than one calling for mass slaughter for more immediate safeguard of its ideals.
The chief gamble unilateralists are taking is that declared neutrality will not sever the present social and, practically speaking, more vital economic bond joining Great Britain to the West, especially the United States. The English to a man are aware of their economic dependence on America and Western Europe: should Standard Oil suddenly become “patriotic” Britain’s transportation system alone would strangle. But unilateralists think it naive to assume neutral Britain would he treated differently from, say, neutral India. Even France got rid of American bombers and Norway rejected nuclear armament, and neither has received economic reprisal. To Americans, on the other hand, it may be no less naive to assume that neutrality is neutrality and not something more when adopted by a nation whose bond with America has the sanctity of tradition and the necessity of a common way of life. Many recall vividly American feeling toward British “reason” in the years just before World War II.
No one says that a neutralist mentality in Great Britain has sufficient life as yet to pull even a large minority of people from support of the Government’s faith in a firm western alliance. Hollywood, television and rock n’ roll, in no facetious sense, have been remarkable antidotes to the indignation that periodically arises over American indifference to Great Britain. But at the same time few deny that strong influences are at work to draw the people away from “tely” and toward discussion of what it now means and possibly will mean to be British. Not least influential, certainly, is a world situation that deteriorates with each new week.
NEARSIGHTED?
Is your vision getting worse year after year? A new method makes it possible to regain normal vision! For further information, write to Dr. D. S. Behm, Ivar Vidfamnes Gata 29, Hagersten, Sweden.
FRANKIE'S RESTAURANT
TRY OUR NEW CARRY-OUT LOUNGE FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE ft THE FINEST IN FOODS.
CE 2-7777
21

british disarmament
After a total split in the British Labour Party at its yearly convention last October, the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, just recently come forth as a serious political movement in England,- seemed to American opinion — that portion having heard of CND — to be in danger of disintegrating. For although the Campaign had gotten its policy incorporated into the Labour Party platform, it had at the same time helped destroy the immediate chance of that body’s once more influencing British foreign policy. What influence the party had was still controlled by Mr. Gaitskill who fully supported Prime-Minister MacMillan’s “multi-lateral disarmament or none at all” policy. The powerful British press, moreover, had ganged up on the Campaign as responsible for reducing the Labour- Conference to a subject for caricature. And this body had been scrupulously noting all along that CND rallies invariably included riots.
BOMBS AWAY
But in fact CND was not disintegrating, and events of following weeks have bolstered its foundation more than Conservative opinion dares to admit. That its policy was adopted by the Labour Party was in itself a victory for the unilateralist movement — as it had come to be called — for now it at least had respectability in the eyes of workingmen not convinced of its sensibility. Even greater impetus has come with news that Germany has a cheap H-bomb process, that DeGaulle wants the bomb for France, and that Red China thus feels it “necessary” to rush development of her nuclear potentiality — all giving credibility to CND’s warning that a nuclear holocaust is not mere pessimistic fancy. The increasing number of Atlas sites in Britain, establishment of an American radar station there, and the startling news that Polaris-carrying submarines will sail from the Clyde River substantiate the group’s further reminder that Britain will be smack in the middle of that’ disaster.
At its simplest, the Campaign’s belief is that Great Britain, either as part of a general nuclear disarmament — altogether unlikely at present — or by herself, must have nothing to do with the production, use, or storage of nuclear weapons. Correlatively, she must refuse
26
all political or military alliance with countries dependent on these weapons — meaning, first of all, withdrawal from NATO.
There are really two lines of reasoning behind this policy and for each line supporters stressing its particular importance. The first can be called, over-simply, the positive line because its proponents, including most of CND hierarchy, stress the positive role unilateral disarmament could give England in the world today. The motivation of this thinking is that since the second world war England has had no major influence in determination of world affairs — witness her recognition of Red China — but that now she has a chance such as history may never again provide. There are two giant powers in the world, each fearing the other and therefore convinced he must outgrow him militarily. Why can’t Great Britain, with her tradition of rational thinking, act as a mediator or counciliator between these powers, working for such policies as disengagement in Europe and disarmament, offering her own example as proof of sincerity? On a larger scale, with the opening up of Africa and the mass emergence of neutrally-inclined nations, why can’t she — assume the role India is no longer up to — work to canalize neutralist influence into a forceful effort to bring East and West to understanding of their present folly and, more basically, each other’s way of life? If this thinking seems naive, there remains the single “practical” alternative of England’s remaining an appendage of the United States.
The second group of unilateralists can not in one sense be called a group since it has no spokesman or precise organization. At the same time it is responsible for the real power of CND as well as its largely informal nature. It includes the thousands of sympathizers throughout Great Britain who are concerned not so much with her influence in the world as with the possibility that ten years hence she may not exist at all, both as a country of which they are proud and as a home for their children. “Great Britain,” they say “unlike the United States, is a small country. If hydrogen or even atomic warfare should come about, there is a real chance that, as we now stand politically, we would be demolished. You
Americans haven’t this fear, for you can not conceive of your country being obliterated before you have had time to cripj^ pie an aggressor. But only a single'* blow, we feel, would be sufficient to destroy us completely. And don’t say that Canada or Australia is close enough to us — in any way — to offer a refuge. We might add, finally, that we have not even the morbid satisfaction of knowing a full-scale war would be necessary to destroy us: we carry your missiles, hence would be the first subject of retaliation for their use — what is to say that we-with part of Russia and part of th*1 United States, would not provide the ‘example’ capable of halting war?”
SURVIVAL INSURANCE
The basic premise of this line of thinking is that by unilateral disarmament Great Britain may at least insure her survival. She could be destroyed even as a neutral, but, weighed against her present position, the chance that sh^ would not make the gamble a reason^ able one. Supposing, moreover, war is
not a matter of Russia and America । bombing each other into oblivion but is I limited, involves the capture and control of land. Assuming she could not remain
neutral, Great Britain would then become a subject of one of these powers. American control would present no great problem — only awkwardness:	under
Russian domination Britain would a^? least be assured of her existence.
On the last possibility there has been much speculation by CND members like Bertrand Russell (who recently resigned from CND over its failure to adopt his , civil disobedience policy). To these men, under Russian control the English people c would practice a quiet asquiescence, ij something like that practiced in Scandinavia during the last war- but carried a *J
step farther. Over a period of generations they would try, by patient example^ to fuse their beliefs and customs with i those of their Russian occupants, until * finally, perhaps, a society would emerge combining the best of each civilization, spelling the end of serious conflict between East and West.
Few unilateralists follow Russell’s thinking on this matter to the end: his ideas are more complex than I have made them. But unilateralists do believe (Turn back to page 25)
The Scholastic
8
S
Every 24 hours, the world’s largest distillation unit separates crude oil into ten different categories which end up as six million gallons of finished products.
This involves continual monitoring of 196 instruments, followed by precise balancing of controls. To operate at peak efficiency, control directions are changed seventy-two times daily to compensate for a multitude of variables.
The IBM computer that recently took over this job now reads the instruments, makes the calculations, and issues the orders for the control changes. It is guided in its work by 75,000 instructions stored in its electronic memory.
Just a few years ago electronic control of such a complex
IBM
You naturally have a better chance to grow with a growth company.
Will Interview March 2
industrial process would have been impossible. But such is the progress in computer systems that in the sixties it will become commonplace.
This dramatic progress means exciting and important jobs at IBM for the college graduate, whether in research, development, manufacturing, or programming.
If you want to find out about opportunities in any one of these areas, you are invited to talk with the IBM representative. He will be interviewing on your campus this year. Your placement office can make an appointment. Or write, outlining your background and interests, to: Mgr. of Technical Employment, Dept. 898, IBM Corp., 590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO C0w WINSTON-SALEM. N C.
-^’’AVor







Ki jj p v ~
Its what's up front that counts
ClGAn
0
IFILTER-BLENDl up front, is the big taste difference, and only Winston has it! Rich, golden tobaccos specially selected and specially processed for full flavor in filter smoking. That’s what makes Winston America’s best-selling filter cigarette. Make your next pack Winston!
A

a